894.797 Other Means Of Communication And Transportation. Carrier Pigeons., Japan, Automobile. Bus Line., February 6, 1934 - May 24, 1939 (File 1102)
ID: 894.797-1102   Pages: 361   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.797-other-means-of-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.797/
894.00 P.R./74
#664
SEE
FOR
Japam
Grew
February 6,1934
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1 .1127
2
REGARDING:
Reports figures for motor cars in Japan and the Japanese
Empire and states effort is being made to develop
motor car industry in Japan.Estimates show that 1500
will be manufactured in Japam in coming year.
esp

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./78
#823
SEE
FOR
894.797
JAPAN
GREW
) DATED Juno 12.1934.
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1137
3
REGARDING: Opposition of the Army to plan which had heen partly com-
pleted for amalganation of the Japan Industry Company
and the General Motors of Japan,Ltd.
12
ESP

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
(0) The Automobile Industry.
According to the "YOMIURI SHIMBUN of May 20, the
proposed co-operation between the General Motors of Japan,Ltd.,
and the Japan Industry Com any has been blocked by the
opmosition of the Army. The tentative greement which
had been concluded provided that the Janan Industry Company
would pay ¥ 4, 000, 000 t buy half the sheres of the Generel
Motors of J. pan,Ltd., capitalized at ¥ 8,o, o0, in return
for which the General Yotors vould buy automobile parts
to be produced by the Automobile Vanufacturing Company
which was recently org nizec by the J: oan Industry Compeny.
Apparently the Army tnt rv neu on the ground that such an
agree.ent rould impede te ef orts of the Ministry of Co eree
and industry to esteblisn the  ut cbile inou: try in J an
inder

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.84)
-40
under the sole control of J:p nese c ncerns.
The JIJI LHIMPO of Way i7 reports that the Ministry
of Conzeree and Industry, b: cked by the Army, ls plunaing
to casle m te the seven le ine J  lese sutomobile
manufacturing c mpenies for the ur ore of ithst onding
foreign competiti n.
CONIAL
The Lmbassy wis infor eo by the Eanaging Lirector
of Gener 1 totor  n, tc., tn t  ar  snt ith the
 n Industry Comm ny nid been re ched, that a signed
contrtet r he r cure of an res hed b n executed.
STFFILY
a tt ort nthe urcheser he ben do
pontted n b nk, whn the e se tif the ar
e. ns ec
est ene r the bole seeeso.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 20, 1934.
Mr. Philltps:
- Mr. Dunn:
Tokyo's despatch No. 1067, dated Novem-
ber 28, 1934:
This despatch gives an account of the
offorts and determination of the Japanese to
develop a Japanese automobile industry and to
offoct an automobile sales monopoly on the
order of the petroleum control plan.  It is
recommended that the despatch be read in whole.
A draft plan for a national motor-car
industry polioy is being considered, which
will control the manufacture and assembly of
motor-cars; develop a stendard Japanese motor-
car; subsidize domestic manufacture; possibly
raise import duties on foreign automobiles
and parts; and require the use of Japanese
cars by government offices.
A report from Mukden states that the
"Manchukuo" Government is considering a
monopoly on automobile sales, which would
reserve the Manchurian market for the Japanese
industry.
American automobile assembly plants in
Japan have seen the hand-writing on the wall,
and

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2-
and are endeavoring to associate themselves
with Japanese interests. Their efforts
are meeting with opposition from the Jana-
nese authorities.
American manufacturers believe that
the Japanese will not be able to develop
an automobile industry that can compete
with American products. The Embassy does
not entirely agree
NTT
WTT/DIY
t0
1.m.u.
894.797/4

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED·STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 28, 1934.
No. 1067.
Subject:
Proposed Control of the . otor-Car Industry
and Trade of Japan and "Manchukuo".
copexin tt
OFFICE OF ECO
FAR EASTEXR AFFAIRS
CADVISE
3
0EC1534
5
RECD
FILE
DEC 17 1934
DEPARTML. STATE
1935
Departinent of State
Wd
894.797/4
JAN 2
10
8941797
MR. DUNN
For
993.7972
/t commbee
NOT FOR PUBLICATION
JAN 121865
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
JAN 5-
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to ref:r t, che recent correspondence
JAN2
between this Embassy and the Department on the subject of
poly Law in "Manchukuo" and to report that & somewhat similar
system for the control of the automobile inuustry and trade
in Japan and "Manchukuo" appears to be gradually aeveloping.
Several months ago the War Department, the Department
of Commerce and Industry and other interested branches of
the

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
一-
he Japanese Government org:nized a committee to investi-
gate and report on the est blishment of a national policy
in regard to the motor-car industry. In August last this
committee appointed a sub-co mittee to formulate a draft
plan for the encouragement nd :ssistance of the domestic
manufacture of automobiles. The araft plan, accordin to
the vernacular newspt ers, consists of the licensing of the
manufacturing or assembling of motor-curs, the develooment
of a standard car to be caileo the "l w Economic Car" vhich
will be built oy the existing Januuese manufacturers, the
subsidizing of aomestic manufacturers, the possible raising
of import cuties on automobile narts, ana the encouragement
of the use by all Government of ici: 1s nd public bodics of
the "New Economic Car".
The Department's attention is lso invited to Vice
83.7'71
(onsul Edson's r port of July :5, 19:4, from Mukden, en-
titled "Manufacture o Automobile Chassis in ukden", in
which it is stated that & company numed the "Towa Jidosha
Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha" (in Chinese the "T'ung Ho" auto-
mobile industrial company) had beer formed to assemble
motor-cars from Jupanese perts at the former Trench ortar
Arsenal at Mukden. Some 96 or 97 por cent of the capital
stock of the company, which was formed in accoroance with
the provisions of an Imperial Ordinance of "nchukuo",
is owned by Japanese interests, including the South Man-
churia Railway and several Japanese automobile manufacturing
concerns. In the latter part of the report referred to
Mr. Edson states that rumors are current to the effect that
the

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
-3 -
the "Manchukuo" government is considering the possibility
of establishing an automobile sales monopoly in Manchuria.
An analysis of these two plans (the licensing system
in Japan and the monopoly system in manchuria) reveals a
striking resenblance to the petroleum control systems
which have recently been apnlied to the tvo countries.
The general scheme, as in the case of petroleum, apparent-
ly is to develop a strong Jananese incustry and to reserve
the manchurian market for this inaustry. This is to be
accomplished, it would appear, by oling cown the American
assembling plants in Janan (Ford ind General otors) by
means of : licensing system, &t the :a time builcing up
a Japanese automobile industry by designing a standard car
which can compete vith the Fora ano Chevrolet, by means of
subsicies tnd higher tariffs, na by copelling the use of
the standard Japanese car by J panere goverrmental org ni-
zations. The manufacture of trucks suited to Japanese con-
ditions will be encouraged in the same way. The cars and
trucks, in parts, will be shi pea to ukon, here they will
be assemulea by the Jananese-controllea Towa Jiaosha Kogyo
Kabushiki kaisha. In orcer to prevent strong competition
from American cars and trucks, & s&les monopoly will be
established, preference being iven by the monopoly to
the cars assembled in "Manchukuo" by the Japanese-controlled
company, and the American cars being put on a quota basis.
This is practically the general scheme adoptea for the
Japanese petroleum industry, except that the anchuria Oil
Company (correspond.ng to the Towa Jidosha Kogyo Kaisha)
does not use Japanese materials but refines imported crude
oi1s.
It

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
It cannot be statec positively that the scheme
as outlined above is exactly the plan which will be
workea out eventually, but there are various inaica-
tions that the Japanese authorities have some such
scheme under consideration.
Various steps, both positive anu negative, have
already been taken toward the fulfillment of the above
or some similar plan. The positive steps consist prin-
cipally of the organization ut Mukden of the Towa Jidosha
Kogyo K bushiki Kaisha, as described above, and the orga-
nization in Japan of the Niss un Jidosha Kubushiki Naisha.
Some months ago an attempt was made to amalgamate the
six or seven existing Japanese automobile manufacturing
companies into one strong company, able to compete with
the American companies. The amalgamation did not matericl-
ize, but two of the largest of the manufacturers, the
Ishikawajima Works and the Dat Automobile Company, amal-
gamated unuer the aegis of the Nippon S ngyo K: bushiki
Kaisha (Kuhara interests) and formeo the Nissan Jidosha
Kabushiki Kaisha. This company has erected a large,
modern automobile manufacturing plant near Yokohama,
completely equipped With American machinery and under
the management of American automotive engineers. It is
at present manufacturing a small car, somewhat like the
"Baby Austin", in fairly large quantities, and is prepared
to manufacture parts in very large quantities. It is
probable that this factory will be the basis of the forth-
coming scheme for Japanese control of the automobile trade
of Japan and Manchuria.
Another positive step toward the realization of the
Japanese

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
apanese plan consisted of the recent change in the
import tariff of "Manchukuo", whereby the duty on complete
trucks and chassis was rcis  to 30 ner cent ad valorem
and the duty on automotive parts was lowereu to 10 per cent
ad valorem. This change woulc not rfect American auto-
mobile distributors were it possible for them to take ad-
vantage of the lower duty on purts and assemble their
cars and trucks in "lanchuiuo". As will b explained
later, however, it aopears tht this step on the part of the
American distributors will meet the o) osition of the Jana-
nese authorities.
The negative steps which have been taken by the Jana-
nese authorities in realization of their nlan of control
over the automobile inaustry of Janan ana .anchuria co sist
of actions which tena to o ce furtner develooment of the
American automobile trade in J.pan and Manchuria. The
General Motors Cor oration h : for s me years had a Japan
subsidiary assembling olant, opratec as General motors
Japan, Limited. Recently the Corporation, reading the hand-
writing on the wall, decided that the nart of wisdom would
be to associate itself  th some Japanese interest and thereby
obtain the partial ranking of a Japanese automobile manu-
facturing concern. It also olanned to have the Japanese
interest manufacture some of the parts used in the assembling
of the cars, in order to attain further ranking as a Japa-
nese manufacturing firm. It arranged, therefore, to sell
one-half of the stock of General Motors Japan, Limited, to
the Nippon Sangyo Kabushiki Kaisha (which also controls the
Nissan Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha), which would use its factory
near

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
near Yokohama to supply Chevrolet parts to General Motors
Japan, Limited. The deal, ho" ver, wes blocked by the
op osition of the military , Who, accord ng to Mr. Kurusu,
the Chief of the Comercial Affairs Bureau of the Foreign
Office, want an "all-Japan" a tonobile industry. The trans-
action was blocked by i refusal to permit the General Motors
interests to export from Japan the funds which it vould re-
ceive from the sale of the shares of General Motors Japan,
Limited. At the time of writing the deal is still hanging
fire.
The Ford Motor Company, lso realizing the future trend
of the automobile trade in Japan, ishes to change its assembling
plant in Japan to a mmanufacturing lant, in order to produce
within Japan as many of the necessary parts as ossible and
thereby acguire the ranking of a Japanese manufacturing concern.
The Company began negotiations for land fo: its manufacturing
plant, but the owner of the lano was anpro chec by an Army
officer, who aavisec hin not to sell to the foreign firm.
While this has not blocked the Company's lans entirely, it
has caused them to hesitate nd make other inquiries before
proceeding with further investment in Japan, especially in view
of the fact that a licensing system ray be imposeu upon them.
Several months ago the agents in Japan and ...anchuria of
Chrysler cars ( including Chrysler, Dodge, DeSoto and Plymouth)
organized a firm to assemble these cars at Dairen. Permission
to erect an assembling plant was obtained from the Government
of the Kwantung Leased Territory and c nstruction of the plant
was begun when the Government was compelled, upon instructions
of the Kwantung Army, to cancel the license for the plant.
The

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
- 7 -
The explanation of the Army was that it did not wish to
have a private concern in Dairen manufacturing or assem-
bling automobiles in competition with the Towa Jidosha
Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha (the comp:ny org nized to assemble
cars from Japanese parts in Mukden). (D:iren's renort to
the Embassy of August 1, 194, & copy of which was sent to
the Department). The Army arrangea to copensate the agents
for the funds already invested in the assembling lant, but
the fact remains that the agents of American cars re not
being permitted to assemble their cars in anchuria, because
such assembling will interfere ith the Japanese Army's pro-
oosal to establish a J:panese notor-car inaustry in Japan
and in menchuria.
Some of the merican motor-car  nuf: cturers' repre-
sentatives in Japan co not believe that the Japanese au-
thorities will be able to acco lish their orogram tnd to
arive out American autorobiles or even seriously to cur-
tail their production in this country. Vith the limited
arket afforued by this country and -anc uria, they assert,
the Japanese will not be able to produce in suf icient cuan-
t:ties to enable them to tnuficture at a price to compete
v. th Fora or Chevrolet, and moreover, lacking the incentive
to progress occasionea by the strong competition in the
United States and Europe, they will always have a car l cking
the latest improvements, while the Japanese market has
been trained to expect and want the latest designs. The
Embassy, however, does not entirely agree with this view.
Experience in other industries indicates that the Japanese
can produce practically anything at competitive prices when
they

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
they are determined to do so, nd their finatical
nationalism and tremendous powers of organization may
carry even a project such as that outlined above to
completion.
If the project is carriea to comoletion, the
Department can xoect that the Open Loor in .inchuria
will be further closed to Americun trade.
hespectfully yours,
Josepn C. Grew.
866.16
ERD:r
Copy to Consulate General, .ukcen.
11
11
1:
D:iren.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.87)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.797/
G
5
SEE14.11/34
FOR
FROM.YO.LOh.
(
..) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING:
Extes of Fore.
r  
re  
. s

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF THE ECONOMIC ADVISER
I do not behere t o to the Amervear
intereat on balonce to gh unterpose
ousehves to the final end that
the anto moduaty in Japian
strenghtened by American
technueal achiume,t
HF

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
女
140
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 12, 1935.
deM:
Ge..c.... m.m.N
Please note a memorandum (attached) of
conversation with a representative of the
Ford Motor Company.
I consulted Mr. Ward this morning in
regard to the question whether American
treaty rights would be violated by the
enactment of legislation to control the
automobile industry in Japan. It was
Mr. Ward's view, in the light of information
now available, that there would be no basis
for representations to the Japanese Govern-
ment in regard to the proposed bill referred
to in the Embassy's telegram 165 of August 10,
noon, for the reason that the second para-
graph of Article 7 of the Treaty of Commerce
stipulates that the question whether a
company organized in one country shall be
permitted to transact its business or
industry in the other is to be determined
according "to the laws and regulations en-
acted or established in the respective
countries or in any part thereof".
He pointed out, however, that a different
question would be raised if the conditions
imposed by the law apon the Ford Company
were such as to make it impossible for the
Company to operate profitably in Japan.
Mr. Ward

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Mr. Ward and I were in agreement in
believing that no action of any kind should
be taken until more information is available
in regard to the proposed law.
/DLY

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.93)
141
xy
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
THE UNER SECRETAR
A6 13 935
1—1836
FROM
MED
GRAY
UEPARIMENI DESIALE
TOKYO
O..y
C3
894.797
Dated August 10, 1935
AUG10
no
Roocived 4:29 a.m.
THAUG 14 1935 WF
Washington, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF SIAIE
Department of stat
FILE
105, August 10, noon.
Cabinot approvod August 9th for submission to tho
894.797/6
A00
OF STATE
noxt sossion of tho Diot a draft bill for tho control
1935
provisions.
Ono. Tho imposition of a liconsc systom for
M
assombling automobilos and the manufacture of parts.
Two. Liconsos will bo grantod only to companios
organized undor Japaneso law and whoso majority of stock
A
is hold by Japaneso subjocts.
FILED
16 1935
Thrco. Companios alroady ostablished will not be
affoctod to tho oxtont of prosont production capacity
but any oxtonsion or oxpansion in oquipmont or output
facilitios will bo subjoct to control undor the now law.
Further details containod in dospatch No. 1431
F
today's pouch.
Ploaso notify Dopartmont of Commorce.
NEVILLE
JS

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
E
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Al
August 9, 1935.
1935 A16 16 4 2 59
CONVERSATION:
Mr. Longley
Counseu for:the Ford Motor Company.
Droartinent of State
Mr. Dooman.
894.797
Subject:
Future Developments in Japan as They
May Affect the Automobile Industry.
Mr. Longley stated that the Ford interests in Japan
began negotiating some time ago for the purchase of a new
tract of land in Japan with a view to the enlarging of
894.797/7
their plant; that some time after they began to feel
forces at work to prevent the successful conclusion of
the negotiations; but that recently the purchase had been
consummated. There were, he said, good reasons to believe
that the Japanese army was opposed to the expansion of
American automobile factories in Japan, and the Ford
Company entertained doubts as to the wisdom of carrying
out the plans to expand its plent in Japan. Mr. Longley
FILED
further stated that the Ford manager in Japan had recently
informed his principals in the United States that a bill
would probably be introduced into the Diet at the next
session for the purpose of regulating the automobile
F/F
industry -- probably to institute some system of licensing.
F
The manager had recommended that the plans for expansion
G
be completed before the bill is enacted, as he expressed
confidence

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
confidence that vested interests "could be protected".
Mr. Longley asked whether the Department had any information
in regard to "the situation in Japan" which would be helpful
to the Company in making its decision in regard to the
question whether or not the plant in Japan should be expand-
ed at this time.
I told Mr. Longley that, so far as I knew, no report
had been received from our officers in Japan in regard to
anactueut
industry. I suggested that if the Ford manager in Japan
approached the Embassy, the Embassy would, I felt certain,
cooperate in every appropriate manner.
Speaking entirely for myself, I expressed the opinion
that the Ford manager in Japan seemed somewhat optimistic.
I asked Mr. Iongley whether he were familiar with the Japa-
nese law for the regulation of the oil industry. Mr. Longley
said that he was familiar with it in a general way. I then
stated that when a law applicable to natives as well as to
foreigners is enacted by a country, and when, by reason of
the circumstances involved, such law operates adversely
against foreign interests and to the advantage of native
interests, the protection of the foreign interests involved
is never an easy matter. In certain cases it was practicable
to remonstrate with the foreign government concerned only on
the basis of equity against the application of such law;
and

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
and that when equity was invoked the government enacting
such law would usually fall back on the argument that
national interests were paramount to private interests.
I reminded Mr. Longley that I was speaking only in a
general way, that I knew nothing of the proposed Japanese
legislation, and that I could not assure him that the con-
fidence of the manager in Japan that vested rights could
be protected was warranted until we knew something more
of what the Japanese had in mind.
Mr. Iongley stated that he had come merely to discuss
the matter informally, and that he was glad to obtain the
expression of my private views, as these views were sub-
stantially those held by officers in the United States of
the Ford Company.
There then ensued a brief discussion in regard to the
advantages and disadvantages of permitting Japanese financial
interests to invest in American industrial enterprises in
Japan. I remarked that it was an interesting fact that
those enterprises with which Japanese were not associated
were encountering difficulties, whereas enterprises operated
both by Americans and Japanese seem to be having smooth
sailing. I referred to the fact that a substantial if not
a majority interest in the Ford enterprise in England was
British, and I wondered why the Ford Company had not in-
vited Japanese to become associated with the Ford plant in
Japan

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
-4 -
Japan, where, as everyone knew, intensely nationalistic
feelings prevail. Mr. Longley stated that he did not
know the reasons for pursuing such a policy in Japan, but
he assumed that it was due to certain technical reasons.
He mentioned the fact that General Motors endeavored to
interest Japanese in their plant in Japan, but without
success.
As Mr. Longley was about to leave, I stressed the fact
that any statements made by me were not to be construed in
any wayas representing the views of the Department.
Mr. Longley stated that he realized the conversation was
purely informal.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 30, 1935.
Tokyo's despatch No. 143l of August 10,
1935, transmits press items in regard to
the contemplated bill for the control of
the automobile industry.
In the light of statements made by
the Chief of the Commercial Bureau of the
Foreign Office to Neville (see enclosure
No. 2, despatch No. 1422 of August 8, 1935,
attached) it is evident that decision has
been taken by the military authorities to
develop in Japan an automobile industry
independent of the plants already estab-
lished there by foreign (American) in-
terests. It is reported by a Japanese
newspaper that (enclosure No. 2 to
despatch No. 1431) only those companies
in which a majority of the shares are
held by Japanese subjects will be licensed
hereafter to engage in the manufacture of
automobiles. It is reported that companies
now engaged in the manufacture of auto-
mobiles, but the majority of whose shares
are not owned by Japanese subjects, will
be permitted to continue operation, but
that "new installations by old companies
will not be recognized retroactively".
Assuming that this press report is correct,
it is apparently intended that Ford and
General

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
General Motors will be permitted to con-
tinue in the manufacturing and assembling
of motor cars at the present volume, but
that they will not be permitted to expand.
This information is somewhat reassuring
in view of earlier press reports to the
effect that Ford and General Motors would
not be permitted to operate at all unless
Japanese were given a majority share in
their respective enterprises.
894.00/550(No. 1422)
894.797/8 (No. 1431)
BEY

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
Ho/
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, August 10, 1935.
No. 1431.
SUBJECT: LICENSE SYSTEM FOR AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURE
tle
894.797
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
22
894.797/8
COPIES SENT TO
ASSISTANT SECRETALY
O.N.I. AND M.I.DK
NOT FOR PUBLICATION
OF STATE
For Distrihurion Check
Yes
No
Grade
Tofiold
For
1 t0 Commerce- not forputlication
In U SA
ONL M+A
SEF
131
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
SEP 13 1935
I have the honor to inform the Department that
FILED
a draft bill to control the automobile industry in
Japan by establishing a license system, under which
foreign automobile firms cannot operate in Japan
unless Japanese are admitted to owmership of a
majority of the stock, yesterday received the approval
of the Cabinet and, according to present plans, will
be submitted to the next session of the Diet. In
connection with this subject the Embassy refers also
to
F

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
894.00/550
to its despatch No. 1422 of August 8, 1935, on the
subject of nationalist tendencies in Japanese in-
dustry.
This information is based upon reports in the
Japanese and English-language press which were pub-
lished this morning. Mr. Kurusu, Chief of the Bureau
of Commercial Affairs of the Foreign Office, confirms
that the newspaper reports are authentic. The Embassy
desires to include this matter in today's pouch, al-
though a thorough treatment of the subject must await
further official information. The Department will
perhaps be interested to know that Mr. Kurusu has
stated to me in conversation, that this plan has been
the subject of lengthy discussions; that it is primarily
a military project, and that its acceptance now by the
Government as a project of legislation is due to fear
of the Ford enterprises. The measure, I am informed,
will not affect automobile plants actually in operation
at the present time, but will prevent additions or al-
terations to foreign controlled automobile plants in Japan.
1/
Herewith enclosed is a clipping on the subject of
the automobile manufacturing licensing plan which appeared
in the JAPAN ADVERTISER of August 10, 1935, and also a
2/
copy of an article in the Okuyama Service for August 10,
1935, translated from today's ASAHI.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosures:
Eim Shvill
1. Clipping from
Edwin L. Neville,
JAPAN ADVERTISER
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
2. Copy of Okuyama
Service article.
800
E:a

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
Eucloour No
to despatch
No1431 of Aug. 10, 1935 from the
hassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Saturday, August 10, 1935.
NEW BILL REQUIRES
crnment has for the past dozen or more
years given encouragement and pro-
tection to its development. In recent
JAPANESE CONTROL
years. particularly, the need has arisen
for creating automobile manufacturing
enterprises to supply automobiles for
the masres, for which the demand has
IN AUTO COMPANIES
become great. Recent defense and
économic requirements have also pro-
duced a demand for more automobiles.
"There arc one or two enterprises
that aim to turn out automobiles for
Cabinet Said to Have Approved
the masses on a considerable scale,
but they hardly merit the name of a
Licensing System for Con-
national automobile industry. Most of
the influential automobile assemblage
trol of Industry
enterprises in the country, moreover,
are foreign. Unless the Government
gives proper guidance, therefore, a
WILL BE GIVEN NEXT DIET
national automobile industry cannot be
established without great difficulty.
When Japanese enterprises join hands
More Than Half of Shares of
with foreign companies, it is necessary
for the Japanese to control manage-
Firms With Foreign Capital
ment rights.
"As mass production of automobiles
Must Be Held by Subjects
designed for the masses must be placed
on a solid basis. uncontrolled establish-
ment of numerous enterprises must be
DEFENSE VALUE STRESSED
prevented. and the industry must be
given stability. Hence the various pro-
visions in the draft bill for the est-
A draft bill for control of the auto-
ablishment of a domestic automotive
mobile industry that establishes a
industry."
license system under which foreign
Measure Outlined
The same paper gives the following
automobile firms cannot do business
outline of the draft bill:
here unless they let Japanese hold
1. The assemb'age of automobiles for
more than half of their stock was sub-
the masses or the manufacture of their
mitted yesterday to the Cabinet by the
principal parts is to be placed under
a license system except in instances
Minister of Commerce and Industry,
where the quantity involved does not
Mr. Chuji Machida, and according to
attain the stipulated volume. In such
Rengo and the Asahi it received ap-
instances, licenses will not be required.
proval and therefore will be submitted
The purpose of the system is to adjust
as it stands to the next session of the
suppiy and demand and to prevent
Diet.
over-production and undue competition.
As with the present law for control
2. The applicants for licenses must
of the oil industry, to which the United
be companies in which more than half
States and British Governments have
the stock is held by Japanese subjects.
taken exception, the aim of the new
They must also be established under
bill is to control the automobile in-
the laws of Japan, thus assuring that
dustry because of its military as well
more than half the rights of control
as industrial importance.
are held by Japanese subjects.
Because of the international signific-
3. Such enterprises as are licensed
ance of the measure, says the Nichi
under the foregoing provisions will be
Nichi, the Ministry of Commerce and
regulated and controlled by appropriate
Industry issued a statement in the form
means from the standpoint of both
of a talk with press representatives
industry and national defense.
regarding it.
4. The rights of companies that are
Statement Given
already established and fulfill the
The paper gives this as follows:
above requirements will be safeguard-
"Establishment of an automobile in-
ed, but companies established after the
dustry is of great significance from the
promulgation of the law or new in-
standpoint of present and future na-
stallations by old companies wil be
as well as industry in
recognized retroactively when the law
ome of the basic indus-
goes into force.
an important position
al field. Thus the Gov-

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
Tuclooure Noto despaich
No 1431 of Aug. 10, 1935 from the
Embassy at Tokyo:
COPY
THE OKUYAMA SERVICE
Saturday, August 10, 1935.
Foreign Auto Companies to Be Affected by New Law;
How Will This Great Whirlpool Be Settled?
Asahi Shimbun, August 10.
As reported in the yesterday evening edition of the
Asahi, the automobile industry control bill is to be
presented to the next session of the Diet, opening in
December, for enactment, giving the first indication
of a time in the future when the big flood of foreign-
made automobiles in Japan will be replaced by Japanese-
made cars.
Because the enactment of the law is for the pur-
pose of economic strengthening of the automobile
industry in Japan, it is naturally expected that there
will occur a certain degree of friction between the
vested rights of the foreign automobile companies
doing business in Japan and the law.
What tactics will the two greatest foreign
automobile companies, Ford and General Motors, employ
to cope with the new situation?
The automobile market in Japan at present is being
actually controlled by these two automobile companies
supplying the Ford and Chevrolet cars, respectively,
the types of cars which dominate the market in Japan.
The Second Item of the Automobile Industry Control
Bill says:
"The Applicants for licenses must be joint-
stock companies in which more than half the stock
is held by Japanese subjects or by juridical person
or persons established in accordance with the laws
of the Japanese Empire."
Thus foreign capital is clearly refused. Some more
trouble is foreseen, for the Ford assembling plant at
Yokohama is about to construct a large factory for the
purpose of manufacturing automobile parts in an effort
to grasp the hegemony of the Oriental market with Japan
as the center. Already the Ford Company, Japan, has
purchased for this purpose a land of 1l0,000 tsubo
(3,000 tsubo is equal to 2.5 acres) at the reclaimed
ground

=== Page 30 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
ground in Tsurumi between Tokyo and Yokohama at a cost
of several million yen.
Sewers along the street have been completed and work
for the erection of the plant is in progress.
The Automobile Industry Control Bill further states:
"The rights of companies that are already
established and fulfill the above requirements will
be safeguarded, but companies established after
the promulgation of the law or new installations
by old companies will not be recognized retro-
actively whenthe law goes into force."
This means that after August 9, 1935 there shall
be no new companies established or any expansion of old
companies.
What will the Ford Company do with the spacious land?
There are four conceivable courses open for
adoption by the Ford:
1. The Ford Company abandon the idea of erecting
the new plant and adheres to its present vested rights,
that is, concentrate on assembling of cars.
2. The company entirely withdraw from the Japanese
market and shift its headquarters to China or any other
Oriental country and thereby menace the Japanese in-
dustries.
3. The Company in accordance with the terms of the
Automobile Industry Control Law cede 5l per cent of the
stock to Japanese financial interests and hand over the
right of controlling the automobile industry to Japan.
4. The Company, considering that in view of the
political conditions in Japan actual enforcement of the
proposed law will be about two years hence, hasten to
establish the automobile parts manufacturing plant, get
as much profit as possible during the ensuing two years
ad thenwithdraw from Japan.
The number one course is hardly possible in view
of the nature of the development of the industry. Number
two course is doubtful of adoption as any businessman
will be reluctant to give up his vested rights so easily.
Number three course is also not likely to be adopted
because Henry Ford is a practical industrialist. This
is against Ford's traditional spirit. Ford will not be
moved only by a matter of profit. Number four course,
even if adopted, will leave only the vested rights after
a few years.
If the Ford company is to remain in Japan, the
company cannot but take the Number three course. If
the

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
the company carries out the third course suggested
against Henry Ford's spirit, the company will remain
and attain development, but the right of control will
be turned over to the hands of the Japanese.
The Ford Company turns out 13,O00 cars a year.
How the company will overcome the present difficult
situation is being watched by all circles concerned.
The Ministry of Commerce and Industry yesterday
afternoon notified the General Motors Japan and the
Ford Company Japan of the contents of the Automobile
Industry Control Bill as decided by the Cabinet
yesterday.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
164.21/354
#111
SEE
FOR
89
4
FROM .....Yokohama
(Boyce
.) DATED ...Au.11.1935
TO
NAME
1-1187
6
REGARDING:
Extension of Ford assembly plant in Yokohama.
Reports concerning -.
rr

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE..B94.QQ.P.R./92
FOR
Despatch #1427
894.797/
FROM ...Japan
Neville
) DATED
August 9, 1935.
TO
NAME
1-1127
Automotive Industry: Possible introduction in the next Diet
REGARDING:
of a bill for the establishment on a firm basis and for the
protection of the manufacture of automobiles in Japan.
O
FRG.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
(2) Automotive Industry.
It is understood by the Tokyo NICHI NICHI of July 30
that the Minister for Commerce and Industry intends to
introduce a bill in the next Diet session for the establish-
894.797
ment on a firm basis and for the protection of the manu-
facture of automobiles in Japan. The principal pro-
visions of thc proposed bill are said to be the follcwing:
the establishment of a system for granting franchises to
persons who dosire to engage in the automotive industry;
the
- 24 -
the granting of special privileges to Japanese manu-
facturers of automobiles; and en increase in the customs
tariff on automobile parts from 35% to 50% ad valorem.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 10, 1935.
Tokyo's fairly lengthy despatch
No. 1440 of August 22, 1935, on the sub-
joct "Proposed Automobile Industry
Legislation in Japan", confirms previous
official and press telegrams from Tokyo
to the effect that the Japanese Govern-
mont will introduce into the Diet at its
next session legislation designed to:
1. Place the automobile manu-
facturing industry on a license
basis;
2. Issue licenses thereafter
only to companies contemplating
engaging in the manufacture of auto-
mobiles which have a majority of
shares held by Japanese nationals; and
contuyplatry thal
 Foreign companies already
engaged in the manufacture of auto-
mobiles will be permitted to continue
production at the present scale.
The present despatch in addition
, brings out the following points:
1. The

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
1. The contemplated legisla-
tion has not as yet been drafted,
but it is the intention of the Govern-
ment that the policy above outlined
is to be made effective from the date
on which the policy was determined,
that is to say, August 9, 1935:
2. The proposed legislation
will cover only popular priced
automobiles;
3. The Ford Company has not
made any decision in regard to its
future plans except for the fact that
it has decided that it will not re-
relinquish control to Japanese
interests;
4. General Motors appears to
have approached Japanese interests
in regard to possible sale to the
Japanese of a share in the Japan.
enterprise; and
5. The Embassy is of the
opinion that even if Ford or General
Motors were to sell controlling in-
terest to Japanese "other legisla-
tion will be introduced to hold the
American firm in check".
In

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
In the concluding paragraph of the
despatch, the Embassy raises the question
of possible contravention of the Treaty
of Commerce and Navigation between the
United States and Japan, Article 1 of
which provides that "Citizens or subjects
of each of the High Contracting Parties
shall have liberty . . . generally to do
anything incident to or necessary for
trade upon the same terms as native citi-
zens or subjects, submitting themselves
to the laws and regulations there estab-
lished". The Embassy believes that
parallel incidents have occurred in the
past in California and it suggests a
thorough study of this phase of the subject
The question of possible violation of
treaty rights will be taken up with
Mr. Ward.
894.797/11
DYDLY

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.91)
FE
52317
1 43
EMBASSY OF THE
ACC
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, August 22, 1935.
fiwke
No. 1440
SUBJECT:
PROPOSED AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY LEGISLATION
IN JAPAN.
894,797
OFFIC:
JAN 31 1938
DEPARI
33
Division of
py in FE (381)
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
12
1935
V..
Gust. to Zolegr
894.797/
AIC
Zho Commrice-pah
EBL
LOe
The
Honorable
NOY 10 1935
en
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
22 1935
Sir:
GELLD
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
No. 1431, dated August 10, 1935, in regard to the proposed
legislation to place the automobile manufacturing in-
dustry of Japan under a system of control by means of
licenses. As this is a matter of considerable impor-
tance to American industry (the only large automobile
manufacturers operating in Japan at present being the
Ford Motor Company of Japan, Limited, and General Motors
Japan, Limited), the Embassy has carefully studied the
proposed legislation.
It

=== Page 39 === (confidence 1.00)
144
-2-
It appears that the determination of the auto-
mobile industry policy was reached by the Automobile
Industry Investigation Commission, composed of offi-
cials of the departments of Commerce and Industry, Army,
Overseas Affairs, Finance, Home Affairs and Railways.
The present policy was agreed upon after the Commission
had considered and rejected plans for the development
of a Japanese automobile industry by either (1) heavily
subsidizing Japanese automobile manufacturing firms,
or (2) attempting to purchase the Japanese plants of
foreign automobile manufacturers. The policy as finally
agreed upon was submitted by the Minister for Commerce
and Industry to the Cabinet on August 9, 1935, and was
approved. The legislation to effectuate the policy has
not yet been drafted, but it is the intention of the
Cabinet that the policy itself is to be effective from
the date of determination of the policy, i.e., August 9,
1935.
1/
There is enclosed a translation, made by the Em-
bassy, of the announcement of policy in regard to the
automobile industry and the essential points of the
proposed legislation, as sent to the automobile manu-
facturing companies by the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry.
The Embassy has carefully examined this announce-
ment but the exact purport of the proposed legislation
not being entirely clear, especially as regards the
position of the foreign automobile manufacturing firms
operating

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
15
-3-
operating in Japan (actually only the two American
firms mentioned above), Mr. Dickover of the Embassy
interviewed Mr. Kurusu, the Chief of the Bureau of
Commercial Affairs of the Foreign Office, on the sub-
2/
ject. A memorandum of their conversation is enclosed.
From this it will be noted that the proposed legis-
lation is aimed primarily at the Ford Motor Company
of Japan, Limited; that it probably will permit the
American motor companies at present operating in Japan
to continue operating at the present rate without
yielding control to Japanese capital; that if the
American companies operating in Japan wish to expand
they will be compelled to yield control to the Japanese;
and that if any of the American companies do yield
control to the Japanese and expand their facilities to
such an extent as to oppress the infant Japanese auto-
mobile industry, the law, in Mr. Kurusu's opinion,
would lose its meaning.
The purport of the law, as far as the Embassy can
determine, is simply to force the foreign companies to
maintain their present status, without further expansion,
and to secure the natural increase in the demand for
automobiles for the Japanese motor manufacturers. There
are as yet no Japanese motor manufacturers capable of
supplying the deficit in the market which would be caused
by the restriction of the activities of the two American
automobile manufacturers (Datsun can hardly as yet be
called a serious competitor of Ford and Chevrolet), but
there

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
there is little doubt that Japanese manufacturers will
be able to rise to the occasion and be able to supply
the market before the proposed legislation comes into
effect, which may be one or two years from now.
The legislation, if and when it comes into effect,
would appear to leave but three alternatives for the two
American motor concerns, i.e., (1) to continue opera-
tions at their present rate without taking in Japanese
capital and yielding control to Japanese interests,
(2) to yield control to Japanese interests and expand
with the market in the future, or (3) to withdraw from
Japan, establish themselves elsewhere in the Far East,
and compete with the Japan-made cars by importing com-
pleted cars into Japan. The two large American concerns
appear to have adopted different alternatives. Accord-
ing to the newspapers, the Ford Motor Company announced
on August 15:
We have not yet had an opportunity of
making a thorough study of the proposed
automobile control law and therefore are
not in a position to make any comments
on same. We can state positively, however,
that our directors have arrived at the
irrevocable decision not to relinquish
full control of our company under any
circumstances whatever.
The newspapers nevertheless report that the Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Company is interested in buying the
controlling interest of the Ford Motor Company of Japan.
General Motors Japan, Limited, for some time past
has been eonsidering the sale of a part of its shares
to the Nippon Sangyo Kaisha (Kuhara interests), retaining
control

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
control, however, of the Company and acquiring an
interest in the Nippon Sangyo Kaisha, which would make
parts for the Chevrolet car. The negotiations for the
deal failed some months ago, however, because of the
opposition of the Japanese military, who wished to
develop an entirely Japanese motor industry. The Em-
bassy has been informed that the Managing Director of
General Motors Japan, Limited, has again approached
the Nippon Sangyo Kaisha on the subject of the sale of
an interest in the Company, but the newspapers report
that the Nippon Sangyo Kaisha, realizing that the sale
would now be in the nature of a forced sale, wants
much better terms than were offered in the previous
negotiations. According to the CHUGAI SHOGYO (trans-
lated by the ADVERTISER), Mr. Aikawa, the President
of Nissan Automobile Company (a subsidiary of Nippon
Sangyo Kaisha and the manufacturers of Datsun cars)
stated as follows:
If General Motors wants the same terms
as last year, the deal will have to be
dropped. It was necessary for Nissan
Automobile to accept the terms last year,
as the company had to sell its parts. Now
we have had a year's experience in making
parts and finished cars. We don't have to
be afraid to stick up for our own interests.
The automobile industry law seems likely
to be adopted by the Diet, and we must work
out a deal for cooperation based on the new
conditions."
The Embassy is not informed, however, whether or not
General Motors will consent to the sale of a controlling
interest in its Japanese subsidiary (the sale of a con-
trolling interest had not been considered in the previous
negotiations

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
148
-6-
negotiations, according to the Managing Director of
the local firm). The Embassy is of the opinion, however,
that if either Ford or General Motors does sell a con-
trolling interest to Japanese, and thereby acquires
the right to expand and compete with the infant Japanese
industry, other legislation will be introduced to hold
the American firm in check.
As was stated by Mr. Kurusu in his conversation
with Mr. Dickover, the proposed legislation is sponsored
by the War Office. On August 9, when the announcement
of policy was made public, the War Office issued a state-
ment on the subject, which was translated by the OSAKA
MAINICHI AND TOKYO NICHI-NICHI of August 1O as follows:
It goes without saying that the motor
vehicle, from the standpoint of national
defense, is as important as the man and
horse. The use of motor vehicles in the
first line of military operations is
common knowledge today, but it may be
pointed out that the army, in case of war,
needs a large number of motor vehicles
for the transportation.
For the latter purpose, it is ex-
pected that ordinary motorcars will be
commandeered in time of emergency. And
moreover, the wartime demand for motor
vehicles has been rapidly increased in
recent years.
"Complete national defense, there-
fore, cannot be attained without develop-
ing domestic manufacture of motor vehicles.
"Unlike petroleum, for which Japan is
compelled to depend on foreign supplies due
to lack of ample resources in the country,
the development of the motor vehicle in-
dustry is merely a question of capital and
skill. Sufficient supply by the domestic
industry must be secured at all cost.
"With

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
山7
-7-
"With this view in mind, we are glad
to hear that the government has defined its
fundamental policy of encouraging an in-
dustry which has vital importance for the
national existence.
"The most important point in the present
bill is the provision that requires Japanese
management of every possible branch of the
motor vehicle industry. Although the Com-
merce Office will take charge of direct
supervision and inspection, as stipulated
in the present bill, the War Office is quite
willing to help the responsible authorities
when necessary. The War Office further
hopes that not only the government authori-
ties concerned, but also the general public
will spare no efforts to help in the estab-
lishment of the national nolicy and complete
national defense."
The proposed legislation has not attracted a
great amount of attention among the Japanese public.
Only a few of the Japanese newspapers have commented
editorially on the subject, and they have advised
caution in handling the matter, because of the inter-
national complications involved. Thus the JIJI on
August 11 gave a luke-warm welcome to the proposed
legislation, because of the stimulating effect the
manufacture of automobiles in Japan would have on other
Japanese industries, but warned the Government that it
should not interfere with the interests of foreign firms
in Japan and should not cause the Japanese industry to
come into rivalry with the foreign industry. There
should be cooperation rather than rivalry, and there-
fore the Government should proceed with caution. The
TOKYO ASAHI on August 13 welcomed the proposed measure
because it would strengthen the national defense and
develop

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
15
-8-
develop industry, but it regretted that the measure
would cause unavoidable friction with foreign auto-
mobile interests. The JAPAN TIMES AND MAIL on August 16
reviewed the circumstances giving rise to the proposed
legislation and expressed the opinion that the legis-
lation would not spell the doom of the foreign automobile
companies in Japan, because the American motor companies
have on their side technical skill, immense resources
and, above all, the tremendous American automobile market,
which permits of mass production and low prices. The
newspaper was also of the opinion that foreign motor-
car manufacturing concerns could look forward to many
years of profitable business in Japan, if they worked
with Japanese capital and control.
Treaty Rights.
The attention of the Department is respectfully
invited to the fact that the proposed legislation might
possibly be considered as an infringement of Article I
of the American-Japanese Treaty of Commerce and Navi-
gation of l9ll. Article I of the treaty provides that
Citizens or subjects of each of the High Contracting
Parties shall have liberty . . . generally to do any-
thing incident to or necessary for trade upon the same
terms as native citizens or subjects, submitting them-
selves to the laws and regulations there established".
The terms under which American firms will be able to
assemble and sell motor-cars in Japan, if and when the
proposed legislation becomes effective, will not be
exactly

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
/51
-9-
exactly the same as the terms under which the Japanese
firms will be able to produce and sell cars. The
American firms will be restricted in their operations,
unless they permit Japanese financial control of their
companies, while the Japanese firms will not be labor-
ing under any such restriction, being already Japanese.
The Embassy believes that somewhat similar cases have
arisen in California in the past, in connection with
Japanese owned or controlled corporations, and it
suggests a thorough study of this phase of the subject.
Respectfully yours,
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosures:
1. Translation of Announcement
of Policy and Essential Points of
Automobile Industry Law.
2.
Memorandum of Conversation,
Mr. Kurusu and Mr. Dickover,
August 20, 1935.
866.16
ERD:a

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
152
Enclosure No. 1
to despatch
No.1440 of August 22, 1935 from the
Embassy at Tdkyo.
C OP Y
TRANSLATION.
Bureau of Industry Correspondence
August 9, 1935.
No. 7338, 1935.
Mr. R. A. May,
Representative of General Motors,
Japan, Limited.
Automobile manufacture on mass production basis.
The automobile industry is one of the fundamental
manufactures and occupies a position of great importance
not only in industry and transportation but also in nation-
al defense. In consideration of the importance of the in-
dustry the Japanese Government, which has made and is making
necessary arrangements for its control, has recently deter-
mined the fundamental policy to govern the manufacture of
ordinary vehicles on a mass production basis, as indicated
in the appended outline which is submitted for your perusal.
This office will be pleased to answer any inquiries
which you may have on this subject.
Shinsuke Kishi, Director of Industrial Affairs,
Department of Commerce and Industry.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 1.00)
153
Enclosure No. /
to despatch
No.1440 of Aug.22,1935from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
ESSENTIAL POINTS OF AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY LAW.
1. Enterprises for the manufacture of principal
parts and the construction of ordinary automobiles
shall be licensed enterprises but permission shall not
be necessary where output does not exceed a specified
limit. The principle of licensing, taking into account
the demand and the supply, shall be to grant permission
only to one or more companies and not to grant permission
to others.
2. The organizations which are qualified to receive
the aforementioned permission shall be limited to corpora-
tions of which a majority of the stock is owned by Japan-
ese subjects, or to corporations which, established as
juridical persons under Japanese laws and ordinances, are
controlled in a majority of their voting rights by Japan-
ese subjects.
3. Regarding the automobile manufacturing industry
which has received the permission referred to in the first
paragraph, such supervision and regulations shall be established
as may be necessary for industrial and national defense reasons.
4. As regards the already existing automobile in-
dustry corresponding to the definitions of the first para-
graph, its rights and interests shall be recognized within
the limits existing at the time of the determination of
this

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
154
- 2 -
this policy, (i.e. August 9, 1935), and the accomplish-
ment of such enterprises shall be permitted; in regard
to new undertakings established thereafter, and extensions,
such rights and interests shall not be admitted when the
law is hereafter enforced.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
155
Enclosure No.  to despatch
No.1440 of Aug. 22, 1935from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
MEMORANDUM
Conversation
August 20, 1935.
Mr. Kurusu, Chief of the Bureau of
Commercial Affairs, Foreign Office.
Mr. Dickover.
Automobile Industry Legislation.
I called on Mr. Kurusu at 12 noon, by appointment,
and stated that I had studied the essential points of
the proposed automobile industry legislation, as an-
nounced by the Department of Commerce and Industry, but
that I could not understand the drift of the proposed
legislation from the summaries issued by that Department.
For one thing, I could not understand exactly what cars
were to be included in the legislation from the word
"taishusha" (great-people-cars) used in the official
summary of the legislation.
Mr. Kurusu said the word - a new one - meant "auto-
mobiles for the people", as an actual translation, but in
fact, in the proposed legislation it referred only to Ford
and Chevrolet, which were produced in Japan in large quanti-
ties. He said that if someone wanted to produce cars like
the Rolls-Royce or Packard in Japan in small quantities, the
law would not be applied to such a manufacturer.
I then asked if the word "kumitate" (set up or construct)
as used in the first paragraph of the summary referred to
assembly of parts as well as to complete construction of
cars.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
156
- 2 -
rs.
Mr. Kurusu said that the word meant "assembly".
I then said that the fourth paragraph of the summary
did not seem to agree with the first and second paragraphs.
The first paragraph provided that anyone producing cars
for the great mass of the people had to have a license to
operate, while the second paragraph stipulated that such
a licensed manufacturer must be Japanese or controlled
by Japanese. The fourth paragraph, on the other hand,
stipulated that the rights and interests of existing auto-
mobile manufacturers would be recognized to the limit of
their present production. I asked if that meant that Ford
and General Motors could go on producing their present out-
put without license and without yielding control to Japanese
capital.
Mr. Kurusu said that that was the way he understood
the proposed legislation. Of course, he said, the actual
law had not yet been drafted, and he could not say exactly
what the provisions of the law would be, but he understood
that the purpose was to let Ford and General Motors continue
to operate on their present basis without giving control
to Japanese capital.
Mr. Kurusu then said that the purport of the proposed
legislation would be clear if one thing were understood;
namely, that the law was intended solely to prevent Ford
from oppressing the domestic manufacture of automobiles.
He said that the military wanted to build up a native
automobile industry in Japan, for national defense pur-
poses. Now, if Ford went ahead with his plan to build a
big

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
157
- 3 -
big factory in Japan and produce cars in still larger
quantities and at still cheaper prices, no Japanese auto-
mobile manufacturing company would have a chance to suc-
ceed for a long time, perhaps twenty or thirty years. It
would be like a child wrestling against a giant. So, said
Mr. Kurusu, the military hastily formulated this proposal
to pass legislation to control the motor-car industry in
order to restrain Ford and to prevent him building his new
large factory in Yokohama. But, Mr. Kurusu said, if Ford
should comply with the proposed law and take in sufficient
Japanese capital to give Japanese a controlling interest
in the local Ford company, the law would be useless and
would not fulfill its purpose. Ford could then expand as
much as he pleased and could continue to oppress the domes-
tic automobile industry. But, said Mr. Kurusu, the military
have been banking on the well-known aversion of Mr. Henry
Ford to letting the control of any of his companies pass out
of his hands. However, it would not be difficult to cir-
cumvent the law, Ford could give nominal control to some
Japanese in his employ, but actually retain the control.
I said that I thought that Ford would hardly stoop to
such practices, as he was known for his straight-forward
and direct methods.
I then said that the apparent intention of making
the proposed law retroactive to August 9, 1935 ( the date
of the announcement of the proposal) would work a hardship
on

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
158
-4 -
In Ford, as the company had just bought a tract of land
in Yokohama for the purpose of extending the factory. Mr.
Kurusu said that he understood that the military had told
Asano, before he sold the land to Ford, that he (Asano)
must warn the local Ford people that restrictive laws were
going to be put into force. He said that Asano had done so,
but that Ford had insisted on going ahead with his project
anyway.
E.R.D.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
159
DEPARTMENTOF STATE
RECEIVED
DFFARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
1935 MOV 18 PM 1 55
October 35, 1935.
ONISION OF
FE:
Mr. Dooman:
Confirming our discussions based on the suggestion
894.797/
of the Embassy at Tokyo that consideration be given to
invoking Article I of the Treaty of 19ll with Japan in
protest against the proposed automobile control law, I
am of the opinion that the article in question reason-
ably could be held to have been violated by the proposed
restriction on the production of motor vehicles by Ameri-
can companies in Japan if that proposal should be made ef-
feotive.
It is not improbable that the Japanese Government will
contend that the rights granted to Americans under the
article "to do anything incident to or necessary for trade
1935.
upon the same terms as native citizens or subjects",oul
问
be given its literal interpretation in the sense that,
ILd
030
since Japanese subjects are not permitted to operate auto-
mobile factories without restriction of output unless they
are financially and administratively controlled by Japanese,
the provisions of the proposed law simply require
American companies to operate on the same basis. It
would appear to be obvious, however, that this interpre-
F/G
tation

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
6
-2
tation is not tenable and could not have been intended
by either of the parties to the treaty. While the
article might have been more precisely phrased, it is be-
lieved that it should be interpreted in the sense that
Americans and Japanese were to be placed on a footing of
absolute equality in all matters pertaining to or incident
to trade, and that such equality would be clearly denied
by permitting Japanese subjects to manufacture and dis-
tribute motor vehicles without limitation as to quantity
while imposing such a limitation on American companies.
The operation of American automobile companies in Japan
appears now to be permitted on a basis of equality with
Japanese companies. Both Americans and Japanese are per-
mitted to operate - without restriction of output - under
their own management without condition as to the degree
of financial control by any nationality or as to the
nationality of any of the administrative supervision of
the companies. Should the proposed law become effective
there would be a material disorimination against American
companies as compared with Japanese, and it is obvious
that the treaty article in question was intended to
prevent just such discrimination.
Clear evidence of this fact is found in the original
proposal of the Japanese as to the provisions of Article I
of the treaty. That proposal contemplated that the
nationals

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
11
-3
nationals of each of the contracting parties should re-
ceive in the territories of the other treatment with
respect to trade on a most-favored-nation basis and not
on a basis of national treatment. That proposal was re-
jected by this Government and the provisions of Artiole I
of the present treaty were substituted in its stead, pro-
viding thereby for national treatment instead of most-
favored-nation treatment. The mere mention of this fact
should be sufficient to establish the validity of the con-
tention that the proposed law would, if enacted, contravene
the treaty provision in question, but adequate support
for that contention is believed to be found in the practical
interpretation of the treaty article independently of any
comparison between the accepted draft and the rejected
Japanese draft.
While it would appear to be undesirable to make any
unnecessary reference to the interpretation of the treaty
article by the courts in the United States in view of the
fact that any consideration of those judicial decisions
involves reference to the disability of Japanese to own
lands in the States which have prohibited such ownership,
it might be feasible to refer inoidentally to the fact
that decisions of the courts in the United States have
definitely recognized the treaty right of Japanese subjects
to engage in trade in the United States on a basis of
fu11

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
full equality with American citizens. Such a decision
was made in the case of Tashiro et al vs. Jordan, decided
by the Supreme Court of California in l927 and reported
in 356 Pacific, page 545. In that opinion the court re-
ferred specifically to twat part of the treaty article in
question and said:
"But the right 'to carry on trade' in the
specifio lines of business mentioned in the treaty,
such as conducting manufactories, warehouses, and
shops and leasing lands for commercial purposes,
is from the very terms of said treaty as extensive
and complete as that employed by native citizens or
subjeots. It would be difficult to frame language
much more comprehensive than that found in the fol-
lowing provision of Article I of the treaty:
'and generally to do anything inoident to
or neoessary for trade upon the same terms
as native oitizens or subjects'.
This language follows the provision enumerating the
different classes of trade or business in which resi-
dent aliens are authorized to engage and must be read
in connection with such provision, and as so read it
gives to such aliens an equal standing with native
citizens or subjects in the conduct of those enumerated
classes of business which may be carried on by such
aliens."
The judicial opinion above quoted is an express recognition
that Article I of the Treaty of 19ll assures Japanese sub-
jeots full equality with citizens of the United States in
oarrying on trade in this country. It would appear to be
clear, therefore, that the Japanese Government is reciprocally
obligated to acoord to American citizens in Japan the same
privileges as are confirmed by the opinion mentioned to
Japanese

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
-5
Japanese subjects in the United States. I am of the
opinion, therefore, that if there is any probability that
the proposed law will be made applicable to American
companies in Japan, it would be proper to instruct the
Embassy to inform the Foreign Office that in the opinion
of this Government the proposed law if made applicable
to American automobile companies in Japan would be a
clear violation of the rights to which those companies
are entitled by the treaty article under consideration.
894.797/11

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.89)
104
NO…F
18 1935
.882
Désim L. Neville, Eequire,
Ameriean Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo.
sir:
Reterense is made to your despateh No. 1440 dated
894.7
Angust 88, loss, in regard to the proposed leglslation
to plase the automobile manufacturing industry of Japam
6
under a system of control by means of licenses. Tthe
7
Departmemt has given consideration to the relatée of
Artiele I of the Treaty of Commeree and Mavigatkme of
1911 betweem the Uaited States and Japep to the proposed
legislatiem, and it is of the opinion that the contemplated
restristion on the produstion of motor vehieles by Americen
matiommls in Japen would, if enacted, be violative of the
terms of that Treaty.
It is mot improbable that the rejoinder of the Jape-
mese Govermment to a comtention that the propesed legis-
latien would be a contravention of that Treety will be
that the rights granted to Amerieam eitiseme wader Artiele I
of the treeky "to do anything imeident to or meeseeary for
twode wam the aame serme as mative eisiseme or eubjeete".
sheule be sivem its literel interpretatiem in the senee
tapt, ns Japanese mubjeete womld not be pevmttted to
be mble fmetorie  bout retlestem of ts
mese sh tsteriee are faamesally and mtntesesiveiy
oustelled bo Japenese, the provsestene of the pooomed las
wombs

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.93)
165
would similarly require Ameriean natiomals to eperate
their fastories on the same basis. It would appear to
be ebvious, hewever, that sueh interpretation would net
be temmble.
Although the Artiele under reference might have been
mere presisely phrased, it is the opinion of the Depart-
momt that the Artiele as it stands lends itself to only
eme reasonable interpretation, and that is that Amerieam
and Japamese nationals are to be plased on a footing of
abeolute equality in all matters pertaining to or ineident
to trade. Ameriean nationals appear now to be permitted
to operate automobile fastories in Japan on a basis of
quality with Japenese nationals, in the sense that both
Amsrieam and Japanese nationals are permitted to operate
their festories without restriction in regard to output
and without condition as to the degree of finaneial con-
trol or of supervision over the factories to be exersised
by amy mationality. Should the proposed law become
affestive, Japanese subjeets would be permitted to mama-
fasture and distribute motor vehieles without limitation
as to quemtisy whereas sush limitation would be imposed
an festeries operated by Ameriean sitisens, and there
weald eomseguently ceeur a denial of the right of
hreaty ef l0ll was intended to prevent diserisiastion
rst.
e videse as the fast ta tond ta the erigtes

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.84)
166
of the harter propod as not oble
e hs Geverement and the present text of Artiele I of the
Treaty providing for nationel treatment insteed of most-
favesd matien treatment, was agreed upon. This siroum-
al should bo ouffieint to establiah the validity
in that any law, ue as the preped la
piesin Arim eitisons in a lees favorable position than
the tresty provisien nder referemes. Hovever
if fwrther suppert for that contention is necessary, it
may te feend in the prastical interpretation of the
Arsiele isdependently of any eomparisen between the agreed
se araft and the criginel Japanese draft.
It would appeer desirable that, in the Emibasey's dis-
 r the matter vith Japanese, the Eabessy retrain
realtely making refeznse to the interpretati
ef spetale I of the treaty by courte in the Daited states,
fue the rem that y ensideretion of sush deciste
e ee eerense to the dissbiity of Jmse

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.90)
167
  e  a. te, ede  the 
Coart of Califormia in l927 and reported in 2se Pasiris,
pase 545. In that opimion the seurt referred spesirigally
to pert of the treaty artiale in fesstion and saids
"Bat the righs 'te earry on trade' sn the
Dowing previslon of Artlele I of the treaty:
'and generally to do anything insident to
sary for trade upen the same terms
This language follows the provision emmmerating the
The judisial opinion above quoted is en express resogmition
that Artiele I of the Treaty of 19ll assures Japanese sub-
jeets full equality with citisens of the United States in
earrying om trade in this country. The courts in the United
states having comfirmed to Japanese subjects in the United
states the right to receive equal treatment with eitisems
of the Umited states in carrying on trade in this country.
t Amerieen Goverment may vith warrant expest that the

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.87)
168
vehieles in Japan are entitled by the
Very traly yours,
Fer the Seoretary of State:
Sumner Welles
804.797/11
A tove coov of
NM
A-S
LetFI/mm
10-90-55
DN
TH
A

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, September 5, 1935.
No. 1462.
LEGAL ADVISER
SUBJECT:
PROPOSED AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY LEGISLATION
IN JAPAN.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.797
OFFICE OF FOO
2
JAN 31 1936
DEPARTMEAT OF SIL.E
A
894.797/12
For Distribuion-Cheek
Grade
For
Tofi
No
In U S A.
NOV 11935
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
N0v 2 1935
CE TLA
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's
despatch No. 1440, dated August 22, 1935, in regard
to the proposed legislation designed to place the
automobile manufacturing and assembling industry of
Japan under a system of control by means of licenses,
in order to promote the development of a native
Japanese automobile industry.
F/FG.
The

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The Embassy has been keeping in touch with the
two American manufacturers of motor-cars in Japan, the
Ford Motor Company of Japan, Limited, and General Motors
Japan, Limited, and has learned that, while General
Motors has not decided upon its future course of action
and is awaiting developments, the Ford Motor Company
intends to proceed with the construction of its new
factory in Yokohama, although it knows that the proposed
legislation is directed primarily at that Company. The
Company does not believe that the proposed legislation
will come into force (if it ever passes the Diet) for
NOT FOR PUBLICATION
at least one or two years, and wishes to present the
Japanese Government with a fait accompli in the shape
of a completed factory at that time, in the belief that
the Government could not refuse to permit the Company
to use a factory already completed. Even if the Govern
ment does not permit the factory to be used to its full
capacity, the Company will have a larger and more ef-
ficient assembling plant than it now possesses, for such
output as the Japanese Government will permit. The local
manager of the Ford Motor Company, moreover, does not
believe that the proposed automobile industry law will
be any more successful than the petroleum industry law
already in force. He thinks that the Army, which spon-
sored the recently announced automobile policy, will
soon find that it cannot obtain an adequate supply of
good cars and trucks from a native Japanese automobile
industry

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
industry; that the Japanese people will object to the
higher cost of cars which will inevitably follow
NOT FOR PO ICATION
manufacturers; that the automobile legislation is being
advocated by the more radical group in the Army, which
is now losing power; and that the Diet itself, with the
lessons of the unworkable petroleum control law before
it, is likely to balk at passing further legislation of
the kind.
Motor Truck Monopoly in "Manchukua".
Reference is made to the Embassy's despatch
No. 1067, dated November 28, 1934, on the subject of
the proposed automobile industry control in Japan and
Manchukuo". According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of
September 3, 1935, which translates an article from the
NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN, the Army is now apparently intend-
ing to follow up its advocacy of restrictive policies
on foreign automobile manufacturing companies in Japan
with a plan for preserving the Manchurian market for
Japanese automobile companies. The plan was decided
upon, according to the journal, by the Kwantung Army,
the South Manchuria Railway and the Ministry of Industry
of "Manchukuo", all of which have administrative powers
over the Dowa Automobile Company of Mukden (the automo-
bile producing company established in the former arsenal
at Mukden). The ADVERTISER translation of the article
follows:
nTWO

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
"Two policies have been fixed. The
first is that all truck chassis used in
Manchukuo must be provided by Dowa Automo-
bile unless the Kwantung Army staff gives
special permission. The second is that
only Japan-made cars may be used in private
motorbus enterprises. Regulations to ac-
complish these two aims are being drawn
and the South Manchuria Railway Company,
recently ordered about 50 Ford and Chevrolet
machines, is reported about to cancel its
contracts.
"Due to these two protective measures,
which are in line with the steps to protect
Japanese motor makers recently decided by
the Japanese Cabinet at the instance of the
War and Commerce and Industry Ministries,
Dowa is to expand. It will call in its
unpaid shares. The company is capitalized
at ¥8,000,000, of which the Manchukuo
Government subscribed ¥2,O00,00 and
¥6,000,000 was supplied by seven Japanese
automobile companies. Of the ¥6,000,000
only ¥1,500,000 has been paid up. The
company intends to call ¥1,500,000 at this
time. Of the money to be obtained, ¥300,000
will be applied to the deficit now on the
company's books and the remainder will go
toward erection of a factory in North China
and back to the subscribers in payment for
finished cars and parts."
Respectfullyyours,
Etim hatle
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
866.16
ERD:a
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.92)
A
AMERICAN CONSUL.ATE
Yokohama, Japan, November 6, 1935.
2il
宏
84-.797
CLASSIFICATION CANCELLED Athority: letter
A
of 5.20.64 fou Donald 1. n, State Dept
BDocley Bale 3/1/c)
Confidontial
NOT F R PUBLICATION
SUBJECT:
PROPOSED AUTOMOBILE INDUTRY LAW
1—1055
No
For Distribution-Check
To fel
Gride
In U S A.
For
THE HONORABLE
S
S
ONT
D
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
5
2
WASHINGTON
C
12
5
L1
R
SIR:
1
935 0E0
COPIES SE NT TO
894.797/1
V
O.N.I.ANDA.I.D
SE
I have the honor to refer to confident ial des-
patch No. 119, of September 6, 1935, enclosing an
article on the proposed automobile industry law of
Japan, and to enclose herewith a newspaper article
from the JAPAN ADVERTISER issue of November 3, 1935,
dealing with the seme subject. The article enclosed
is a translation of an article appearing in the Japa-
nese publication CHUGAI SHOGYO SHIIPO in its issue
DEC 17 1935
FILED
of October 27, 1935, with comments by the editor of
the JAPAN ADVERTISER.
The practical difficulties of establishing a
purely Japanese automobile industry by forcing the
two American assembly plants out of business, as
suggested in the article enclosed with the despatch
referred to above, are already beginning to be appre-
ciated
F/FG

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
ciated by the Japanese business men most concerned.
Very respectfully yours,
Raphige,
Richard F. Boyce,
American Consul.
Enclosure:
As stated.
866.16/865
RFB/rk.
LL

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN ADVERTISER
NOVEMBER 3. 1935.
AUTO INDUSTRY LAW
Foreigners Could Cut Costs
Opponents of the domestic motor in-
dustry idea declare that the foreign
GETS LESS POPULAR
companies, which today generally im-
port parts and assemble them here, if
they wished to do so, could cut their
ers as saying that the company, if the
manufacturing costs in half. which
bill goes through, will not move its
would make things exceedingly hard
plant to Shanghai, but will take ad-
Government Officials and Motor
for native makers if competition
started. Because of this situation, they
vantage of the bonded warehouse law
to manufacture in bond on its present
Men Commence to Find
say. negotiations between General Mo-
site, using both Japanese and imported
tors Japan, Ltl., and the Nissan Au-
parts and shipping not only to Japaty
Flaws in Plan
gres:ing slowly.
(Editor's Note: This appears to mean
This would create a tremendous im-
that the foreign concerns. if oppressed
petus to the Japanese parts making
IDEA MIGHT NOT SUCCEED
by higher duties, would be forced to
industry.
turn to Japanese parts, which are now
not very popular with them. due to
By Using Japanese Parts, For-
uneven quality. At pre:ent they do-
minate the market with their own
eign Companies Could Make
imported parts. but, if forced to do so,
would turn to Japanese parts and cut
Competition Hard
their costs. The realization of this is
what is holding off the Nis: an-General
Motors deal. for Nissan is said to realize
After a good deal of soul-searching
that it could not hope to compete with
and arguing back and forth. according
Genera'l Motors in finished cars if it
to the Chugai Shogyo, Government
gave General Motors the advantage of
its cheap Nissan parts).
authorities and automobile men in Ja-
The Chugai Shogyo says that it is
pan are beginning to wonder if the
highly doubtful whether a mere drive
Ministry of Commerce and Industry's
by the Government to bring pressure
plan for a Japanese motor industry
to bear on foreign capital. with com-
may not be just a trifle premature.
plete disregard of economic principles,
would actually bring a sound domestic
Arrangements have been made to have
automobile industry into being.
the Government present the new Motor
Car Gain Data Given
Industry Law to the coming session
Figures on the annual gains in num-
of the Diet, but already considerable
bers of automobiles in this country
opposition is appearing, the opponents
since 1930 are given below:
arguing that Japan has a great deal to
lore and little to gain by making things
hard for foreign motor makers. Giving
End of
Passenger
cars
—(In per cent)—
Trucks cars
Special
Total
trouble to foreign capital.. they say.
Aug. 1930
8.5
17.9
21.3
10.6
may act as a boomerang. as has been
(decrease)
the case with the Oil Business Law.
These foes of the new legislation
Aug. 1931
Aug. 1932
Aug. 1933
2.0
8.9
4.7
10.5
4.6
5.1
32.0
11.6
1.0
9.9
2.8
4.9
(who include most of the big com-
(decrease)
mercial users' of automobiles in this
Oct. 1934
11.6
17.2
10.9
13.5
country as well as a considerable fac-
The Tokyo Gas and E'ectric Company
tion of Government officials) ):ay that
and the Jidosha Industry Company
ousting foreign cars and establishing
now are said to be confident of their
a Japanese industry may be all right
ability to make the medium-sized
in principle, but it may not work out
"Isuzu" cars according to standardized
so well in practice. In the first place.
designs prepared by the Ministry of
the foreign concerns have had long
Commerce and Industry. For the last
experience in making cars and, unless
fiscal year these concerns were given
they agree to allow Japanese capita?
liberal subsidies by the Ministry to
to control their enterprises here, the
make the car. They have completed
Japanese will not have the benefit of
equipment for making 1,000 of these
that experience. In the second place.
cars a year and are conducting tests of
demand for cars is not especially large
fuel consumption, durability. operation
in Japan and it is hard to found a
and loading capacity which will con-
large industry on the basis of a mode-
tinue until November 14.
rate demand especially when that
The Mitsui interests. which had been
industry is likely to have a good many
planning to embark upon the construc-
companies engaged in it. The foes of
tion of medium-sized passengers cars.
the Ministry's scheme say that Japan
developing the industry from the smal!
had only 109,234 cars a year ago and
Ota cars now manufactured by the
that in recent years the number has
Highspeed Engineering Industry Com-
been gaining only about 10 per cent a
pany, have decided to wait before
year. They figure that it would be
sinking more money into the plan, the
foolish to predicate a national drive
Nikkan Kogyo reports. So much op-
upon this small total of cars.
po:ition to the Ministry plan has de-
(Editor's Note: This may be sound
veloped that the Mitsuis want to be
logic, granting the premise, but the
sure that the domestic industry will
pramise is wrong. The annual de-
be properly protected before they go
mand for cars in this country is some-
ahead. The subsidiary company is
thing like 34,000. Most of the cars,
capitalized at ¥1.000,000 aand belongs
however, become taxicabs, which are
to the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha but, it
run between 200 and 250 miles a day.
the proposed bill goes through sub-
so that they rattle themselves onto the
stantially as drafted, the Mitsui Gomei
Kaisha will assume control and invest
Japan's metor demand by the an-
more money.
al gain in the number of cars is false
Japanese newspapers quote Ford deal-

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.93)
Ke
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
LEGAL ADVISET
FS.
1—1336
FROMGRAY
DEPARTM
Assistant Seeretary
Tokyo
on Stat
DEC17 1935
Dated December 9, 1935
0
MR. SAYRE
Rec1a 50 p. m. 8th
Secretary of State,
STER
Washingt on.
DEC9-1935
L'epartment of State
234, December 9, 10 a. m.
Department's mail instruction 882 of November 18th.
The Ambassador will be in Tokyo a week from today.
894.797/14
In view of the weighty issues raised in this instruction
does the Dopartment desire the matter be put before the
Foreign Office bofore lis arrival? While I am prepared
to initiate the negctiations it would seom advisable
that the Ambassador have charge of the discussions from
the start especially as he will bo herc before any head-
way could be made.
KLP
NEVIL. E
Proposod automobile Control
Law in Japan
0EC 1935
894.797/1
FILEL
F/FG

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.87)
Sno
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Departmmut.at State
PARTAIR
OPARTMENT OF STATE
PLAIN
Washington,
1935 DEC 10 PM 1 24 December 10, 1935.
2P
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AMGIBASSY,
AND RLUURDS
TOKYO (Japan).
Embassy's suggestion defer aotion der]
approved.
894.797/14
Hee
skt
RV
AN AECRDS
COAIIATINS
DIlVISIN UF
DEC 10 1935
894.797/14
a
95 DE'153
WTT
FR:SKH/ZMK
FE
QPAEN O TE
RECnE
M..
O.R.—No.
1-188
U.S. GOVERMENT PRINTING T : 1924

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.94)
LE
VISER
TELEGRAM RECEHE
1-1336
LMS
FROM
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closoly paraphrased bo-
fore being-oommunicated
Dated December 19, 1935
to anyone.AstBtant Sacrtury
Rec'd 9110 a. m.
DEC 27 1935
2l. to Voley
savision of
Seoretary of State
C
A
EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC201935
Washington.
Department of State
247, Dccombor 19, 5 p. m.
894.797
11
Department's 882, November 18, 1935,
proposed Japa-
nese automobile logislation.
894.797/
One. The Embassy is informed that General Motors
are nogotiating with Japanoso intorests in regard to
future ranufacture in Japan. The Goneral Motors men
here are not in a position to disclose the exact na-
ture of the proposition worked out by representatives of
5
General Motors and the Japaneso interests but it appears
to have been formulated to some extent in anticipation
of the proposed legislation. It has not yet received
1585
the approval of Genoral Motors, the Japanese principal
司
U
3
C
The Embassy has suggestod to the local manager of
yen
eral Motors, who is sailing to-day for the United States
the dosirability of the Company taking the Department
F/FG
fully

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.96)
170
LMS 2-10. 247, December 19, 5 p. m. from Tokyo.
fully into its confidenco.
Two. It is my opinion that this plan of General
Motors, oven if carried into offoct, will not soriously
weakon our basic treaty position and thoreforo I propose
that tho Embassy first tako up tho matter informally
with Kurusu in an oxploratory way, requcsting informa-
tion in rogard to dotails of tho draft legislation and
stating that our Govornmont might consider such legis-
lation as violative of troaty rights.
Throo. Doos tho Dopartmont approve?
CSB
GREW

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.89)
171
TELEGRAM SENT
Departueptaf State
Washington, 4
5DEC 24 PM 12 51 I
December es, 1935.
10
BLVISION UF
AMINBASSY,
TOKYO (Japan).
ANDRECORDS
One. The Department has no repeat no objection to
exploratory conversations with Kurusu in regard to details
of the draft legislation.
Two. While leaving the matter to the Embasay's
894.797/15
judgment, the Department inclines to the opinion that, if
the proposed legislation conforms to the Embassy's 1440,
August 22, an oral statement as authorized in the final
paragraph of the Department's 882, November 18, would
be desirable.
Cann, Actg
stkct
894.797/15
614
Bee.
CC
reoaus
.
FE:CC/DLY
sar
19
1-188
PRINTING OPI 1024

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.92)
1936?
172
Jam1b/1935
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF THE ECONOMIC ADVISER
I do not sesn eyectror w estallahing the
gapamese rugat to carry ow "m amfactorves"
in thes county (sulget, ofcouse to the
immigration lows)
However, I donat beheve it to be to
the Americar adwantage to exert
oursehves to facalhtate Ameritan
eapitalrentrefrise bor developing
the antomobrle inodusty in gapan-
the contrarg is true, I thints.
I therefore, would not fress the
malter further
H.F.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.93)
OFFIDE OF FCOMMSER
JAN 31 1936
DEPARTMENT OF ST-TE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
til
AU
Tokyo
This telegram must be
1936
closelyparaphrased
Dated January 9,1935
to anyonc. (A)
Recid 9.25 a.m.
2l.t2kyo
l6.g
Secretary of State
CEGAL AUVISER
Washington
894.797/
DEPARTMEN OFCTATE
6, January 9, 11 a.m.
Denartment's 202, December 24, 1 p.m.
At my direction the Counsellor of the Embassy called
yesterday on the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs and
9
in the course of discussion of the pronosed legislation
to place the autono ile manuuact:rinp industry of Japan
under a system of control by means of licenses advised
him orally and informally of the American Government's
attitude as set forth in the final paragraph of in-
struction 882 of November 18, 1935.
The Vice Minister said that he had as yet received
FES
FILED
no draft of the proposed law a:d was therefore unable to
-35
reply but he observed that the trea ty of l9ll did not
provide for rights of manufacture. The Counsellor re-
plied that irrespective of the specific right of manu-
ascumbly cn& monufacture
to
facture/under present day practice are incidental/and
necessary for the trade in automobiles and that a limita-
tion of the right to assemble motor cars under the same
conditions as Japanese firms wo ld serio sly handicap the
American
G

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
174
AU -2- #6, Jan uary 9, 11 a.m. fram Tokyo
American automobile trade and would clearly be discrimina-
tory in contravention of the terms of the treaty.
The Vice Minister said that he would examine the matter
and would communicate with the Embassy later. I shall be
guided by developments in determining whether representa-
tions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs by myself are
desirable.
Despa tch follows.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.83)
ARTMENT OF STATE
SION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
une 30, 1986
MMHH
To mote dergatich
tranomiting leutomshire
Industey Lar and aler
paqea 5-6 of euclonme.
WTT

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 29, 1936.
Tokyo's attached despatch No. 1631,
January 9, 1936, amplifies its telegram
No. 6, January 9, 11 a.m., on the sub-
ject of Mr. Neville's conversation with
the Japanese Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs with regard to the proposed
logislation to place the automobile
manufacturing industry of Japan under a
system of license control.
On January 9 Mr. Neville saw the
Vice Minister and carried out the
Department's instruction contained in
the last paragraph of the Department's
No. 882, November 18, 1935, in which
the Embassy was authorized to discuss
orally and informally with the Foreign
Office the proposed legislation and to
inform the Foreign Office that in the
opinion of this Government the enact-
ment and enforcement of the proposed
law would be a clear violation of the
rights to which American nationals en-
gaged in the business of manufacturing
and distributing motor vehicles in
Japan are entitled by Article 1 of the
Treaty of 19ll. In the conversation
between Mr. Neville and the Vice Minis-
ter it was recognized on both sides
that

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
that the discussion was limited by the
fact that an exact draft of the pro-
posed legislation was not available,
but the conversation nevertheless took
fairly definite form. The Vice Minis-
ter was interested in knowing whether
Mr. Neville was speaking by direction
of the American Government, and Mr.
Neville acknowledged that he was. Dur-
ing the conversation the Vice Minister
consulted the Treaty of l9ll and re-
marked that the treaty does not provide
for rights of manufacture. He added
that offhand he did not see where the
treaty enters into the subject. Mr.
Neville replied that, according to
press accounts of the proposed legisla-
tion, the right of assembly and manu-
facture, which is incident to and neces-
sary for the trade in automobiles,
would apparently be infringed.
The Vice Minister indicated that
personally he is opposed to the prin-
ciple of the proposed law, and he showed
by his remarks that this is another of
those subjects in which the Foreign Of-
fice may be expected to give the impres-
sion of being unwillingly driven by
other branches of the Japanese Govern-
ment.
The despatch and enclosures should
be read in full.
COMMENT:

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
COMMENT :
In my opinion the Embassy has suc-
cessfully complied with the Department's
authorization of an oral and informal
discussion with the Foreign Office and
has accomplished a desirable result in
letting the Japanese Government know
that we are expecting to stand by the
Treaty of l9ll. In my opinion the sub-
jeot should be kept alive by further
conversations from time to time with of-
ficials in the Foreign Office. It is
probable that the recent dissolution of
the Japanese Diet means that enactment
of the proposed legislation is not immi-
nent at the present time, but the matter
will certainly be brought up later. In
the meantime a persistent reiteration of
our contention should be of advantage.
894.797/17
CC
FE:CC:EJL

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.93)
7E
176
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMER
LEGAL ADVISER
Tokyo, January 9, 193
EI
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 1631.
SUBJECT:
PROPOSED LEGISLATION FOR CONTROLLING THE MOTOR
CAR INDUSTRY IN JAPAN.
894.797
For L
I L S A
111
356 A   17  35
T
心
my
894.797/17
OFFICE OF
JAN 31 1936
DEPARTMENT UF SI-E
The Honorable
A·C/C
The Secretary of State,
RECORDING DESK
FILE - WHB
Washington.
Sir:
16
1/
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's tele-
gram of today's date in regard to the proposed legis-
2861 13
Aation for controlling the motor car industry in Japea
and to enclose a memorandum of the conversation which
the Counselor of the Embassy had with the Vice Minister
For Foreign Affairs on this subject. The Vice Minister
appeared somewhat surprised to learn that the American
Government felt that a treaty question was involved,
and was naturally unwilling off hand to admit that there
was
F/FG

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
17
-2-
was a question, but stated that he would try to obtain
a draft of the proposed law and confer with the Embassy
later.
The conversation was entirely friendly and frank.
The Vice Minister gave the impression that he had been
left in the dark by other Departments of the Government,
and although he betreyed no irritation, he said that he
personally did not like this type of legislation. He had
no copy of the legislative draft, he said, and apparently
had not been consulted by other branches of the Govern-
ment in regard to it. He said that it was quite possible
that the law would not be enacted, as the Diet might be
dissolved before anything could be done, or repeat its
performance of last year when practically none of the
Government's legislative program was adopted. I may add
that the Vice Minister's avowed dislike of the proposed
law appears to be general in Foreign Office circles. It
remains to be seen, however, whether the Foreign Office
will be able to exert effective influence on the rest of
the Government.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
Memorandum of conversation,
Vice Minister for Foreign Áffairs
and the Counselor of the American
Embassy at Tokyo, Jenuary 8, 1936.
866.16
ELN:r

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
115
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1631 of January 9, 1936,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Memorandum.
Conversation
Januery 8, 1936
Mr. Neville end Mr. Shigemitsu,
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs.
Proposed Automobile Law.
I called on the Vice Minister shortly before noon.
(I was delayed nearly half an hour en route by the passage
of the Imperial party returning from the parade ground).
I told ir. Shigemitsu that I had come to discuss the pro-
posed automobile law, and invited his attention to the
announcement made to the automobile interests by the De-
partment of Commerce and Industry on August 9, 1935 (de-
spatch No. 1440, August 22, 1935, enclosure 1), and to
the news items appearing in the press on December 28,
(copy attached) last, which purported to give the gist
of a proposed new law to control the manufacture and as-
sembly of automobiles in Japan. I said that apparently
this law would provide for the licensing of automobile
construction in any form and restrict the business to
Japanese owned or controlled concerns, while foreign
factories and consequently trade in and distribution of
automobiles would be required to remain in the status
they occupied on August 9, 1935. I said that my Govern-
ment considered the proposed legislation out of line with
Article 1 of the Treaty of Commerce and Navigation of
191l because it denied equality of treatment with Japa-
nese subjects to American citizens engaged in the auto-
mobile trade in Japan, and that in the opinion of the
American

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
1
- 2 -
American Government the enactment and enforcement of the
proposed law would be a clear violation of the rights to
which American nationals engaged in the business of manu-
facturing and distributing motor vehicles in Japan are
entitled by the treaty article under reference .
The Vice Minister asked me if I was speaking by direction
of the Government at Washington. I said that I was, but that
the Ambassador wished me to take up the matter orally and
informally with the Foreign Office and find out, if possible,
what form the projected legislation would take. Mr. Shi-
gemitsu then remarked that we were both speeking more or less
in the dark, as there appeared to be no copy of the pro-
posed law available. He said that he would try to get one.
He then consulted the treaty, and seid that it did not pro-
vide for rights of menufacture; that every Government re-
served certain industries to their own nationals and that
off hand he did not see where the treaty entered into it.
I said that I was not able to state exactly where the law
might violate the treaty, as we did not have the law before
us, but that the principle announced on August 9, and the
press accounts of the legislation that appeared on Decem-
ber 28 seemed to discriminate against Americans engaged
in the automobile trade in Japan; that, irrespective of
the specific right of manufacture, assembly and manu-
facture under present dey practise are incident to and
necessary for the trade in automobiles; that without
rights to assemble motor cars, there could be very little
trade in the commodity. To impose such conditions on
Americans would be clearly discriminatory in contravention
of the terms of the treaty. I added that, like him, I was
not

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
8
-3 -
not prepared to argue the matter in detail in the ab-
sence of more information as to the exact provisions of
the proposed law, but I wished to tell him of the Amer-
ican Government's attitude and to ask him whether the
question of treaty rights had been or would be fully
considered. He said that of course the treaty position
would have to be very carefully considered but that he
had not yet seen any draft of the law. He then added that
it was quite possible that no legislation of the kind
would be enacted, as the Diet might be dissolved, but
that he would go into the matter and communicate with me
later. He asked me if I should be willing to talk later
with one of the bureau chiefs. I seid that naturelly I
should.
In the course of the interview, which was friendly
throughout, Mr. Shigemitsu indicated that personelly be
did not like the principle of the proposed law, as what
he felt wes needed was more and cheaper eutomobiles; that
if let alone, Japanese would naturally acquire interests
in the foreign automobile plants, and the industry would
develop as the electrical and other industries had done.
I agreed with him and asked if he could help to avert the
present difficulty. He did not answer directly, but re-
iterated that he did not like this type of legislation.
E。 L。 N.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
181
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Saturday, December 28, 1935
Law To Control
Auto Production
Ready For Diet
Strict Regulations Affecting
Foreign Manufacturers And
Imports Drafted
The draft of the automobile manu-
facture law was drawn up by the
Department of Commerce and In-
dustry at the Departmental confer-
ence held Friday at the official re-
sidence of the Minister of Commerce
and Industry. The draft will be
submitted to the present Diet ses-
don for approval.
Ever sinee last year the Govern-
ment has recognized the necessity
of controling the manufacture of au-
tomobiles, and has been studying the
question from all sides, particularly
with the view to fos'ering the pro-
gress of the industry in Japan.
Main Points Given
The main points in the drafted re-
gulation are as follows:
1. Those desiring to manufacture
automobiles in Japan must obtain
the Government's sanetion.
The
standard production capacity for se-
curing the Government sanetion is
6,000 cars a year.
2. Automobile manufacturing conm-
panies to be sanctioned under the law
should be companies in which a
majority of deciding votes are con-
trolled by Japanese subjects or con-
poration organized by Japanese sub-
jects under Japanese law.
3. Automobile manufacturing com-
panies organized under this law shall
be exempt from the business profit
tax. the income tax and other local
taxes during a specified period.
4. Automobiles companies sanction-
ed under this law may issue
debentures in amounts greater than
those designated by the Commerelal
Code.
. The import of certain automo-
bile parts or machinery may be ex-
empted from import tariff.
May Prevent Imports
6. The. Government may issue to
automobile companies formed under
this law orders based on national
defence nécessities.
7. Accórding to public necessity
the Government may order automo-
bile companies to alter prices or
equipment
8. For protecting the domestic
automobile industry; the Government
may take necessary steps to pre-
vent the import of foreign cars.
. Those who were manufactur-
on August 9. 1985,

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM SENT
tment of State
PARTMENT OF STATE
Washinglon,
31
(a)
1936 JAN 31
AM 10 24
January1936
11am
AMBMBASSY,
DIVISION OF
TOKYO (JP). COMMUCATIONS
14
AND RECORDS
Your 6, January 9, 11 a.m., second paragraph, and
your despatoh 1631,January 9.
For your information the Department considers that
the use of the word QUoTE manufactories UNQUOTE in its/
andI
context/in /Articles I. of the Treaty/confere on American
894.797/17
citisens the indisputable right to manufacture/on terms
of complete fequality with Japanese subjects.
Hall
894.797/16
CR
JAN 81.19387
OW.B.
WIT
m.N.
EAH
FEIWTT/DLY
FE
TD
19.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
RTMENT OF STATE
ON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 3, 1936
Reference:
Tokyo's telegram No. 22,
February 1, noon.
The proposed automobile legislation
in Japan would presumably restrict the
operations of American interests in Japan
by giving substantial advantages in the
automobile industry to Japanese corpora-
tions from the ownership of which aliens
would be excluded. Production of auto-
mobiles in Japan by American interests at
the present time is by companies incorporat-
ed under Japanese law. The Japanese Govern-
ment will apparently take the position that
the exclusion of American c itizens from the
right to own controlling shares in Japanese
corporations which will enjoy full
privileges under the proposed legislation
will not violate the Treaty of 19ll.
Article I of the Treaty of l9ll gives to
American citizens the right generally to
do anything incident to or necessary for
trade upon the same terms as native
subjects of Japan. The s ame article also
assures to American citizens the same
rights and privileges as may be granted to
native subjects in the protection of
property, on submission to the conditions
imposed upon native subjects.
Article VII has to do with the rights
in Japan of companies incorporated in the
United States and is not pertinent to the
rights of General Motors Japan and the Ford
Company of Japan.
CC
CC/DLY

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.95)
121
MG
10
This telegram must be
DEPARTMEN OFATF
closely paraphrased be-
FROM
fore being communicated
Tcky
to anyone. A
Tated February 1, 1936.
894797
Poc'd 3:03 a.m.
C
Secretary of State,
A
T
Washington.
22, February 1, neon.
DEARTMENT OF STATE
894.797/1
Lepartment's 14, January 31, 11 a.m
一
In a recert conversation the Vice Minister on For-
eign Affairs told the Co nsellor of the mbassy that the
attitude f the Japanese Goverrmert towards the Treaty
of 19ll is that Article i applies to individuals; that
8
it is not contemplated that any individuals as such would
te pernitted to cperate automobilo factories under the
proposed law and in that respect there weuld be no dis-
crimination between Japanese subjects and foreigners res-
ident in Japan. Sc far as companies or corperations are
concerned their positicn is regulated in Arti le 7 and
it therefore seems clear to the Japanese ovornmont that
the proposed automobile la would not (repeat nor) be
inconsistent with ths provisions of the Treaty.
He said furth er that while the Foroign Office con-
sider the project unwise there are forces at work beyond
its

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
185
Page 2,
#22 from Tokyo
its control and that there is a movement on foot to put
the bill before the special sssion of the Diet, probably
in the spring, but he did not know whether that ould
be done. Despite its dislike of the project th• Foreign
office would not be in a position to state to other de-
partments that there is a treaty obligation whioh would
stand in the way of the proposed legislation.
Despatch follows.
GREW
GW
CSB

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
Bepartment of State
VIA NAVAL RADIO
187
Washingten,
April 7, 1936.
AMERICAN CONSUL,
SHANGHAI (China).
Pledse send following by mail to Tokyo:
QUOTE Your No. 6, January 9, 1 a.m.; No. 22,
February 1, noon and despatch No. 1659, February 5, 1936.
One. The Department has noted the observation in your
Jammary 9, 1l a.m., by the Vic6 Minister for Foreign Affairs
that the treaty of l9l does/not repeat not provide for rights
of manufacture. The Department is of the opinion that the
specific mention of manufactories in the first sentence of
article I of the treaty taken in its context, refutes the
Vice Minister's obseryation.
Two. The Department has noted in your No. 22, February 1,
noon, a shift to a/different contention by the Vice Minister
in his assertion that the attitude of the Japanese Government
toward the treaty of l9ll is that article I applies to in-
dividuals and not to corporations. The American Government
does not reppat not admit this contention. If the rights
granted to American citizens by article 1 of the treaty should
be deniedthem by Japanese legislation requiring that activities
in Japan included in the scope of that article be restristed
to Japanese corporations from the controlling ownerahip of
M.,
1-128
PRINTING 

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
188
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTY
CONFIDENTIAL OOO
NFIDENTIAL C00E
Department of State
PARTAIR
Washington,
-2-
which American citizens are excluded, then the rights
granted to American citizens by the article would be
nullified. The Japanese Government can not repeat not,
without violating the treaty, exclude American citizens
by reason of their nationality from the right of controlling
ownership of companies established in accordance with
Japanese law to manufacture automobiles, submitting
themselves to the laws and regulations of Japan. Whatever
legislation may be enacted American citizens will have
the right to form companies under Japanese law and engage
in the manufaoture of automobiles with the same rights and
privileges as Japanese subjects so organizing.
Three. The Embassy is authorized to make the contents
of this telegram known to officials of the Foreign Office,
orily and informally, whenever the subject of the proposed
automobile legislation may be brought up by them. UNQuoT.
894.797/20
CC
FE:00/DLY
FE
Le
19
1-138

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 25, 1936.
Noto:
I took up the matter of the Japanese
automobile industry law today with
Mr. Metzger.
Mr. Metsger is familiar with the
matter, as he took part in a conference
in Mr. Hackworth's office, when the ques-
tion was discussed of a possible basis for
representations to the Japanese Government.
Mr. Metzger stated to me that, in the view
of Le, American industrial corporations
have no standing whatever in Japan except
such standing as may be in conformity with
Japanese law, but that American individuals,
whether residing in the United States or
in Japan, have the right under treaty to
incorporate in Japan or do anything else
"incident to or necessary for trade".
I said to Mr. Metzger that in my
opinion the attached telegram drafted by
Mr. Ward did not square with the facts,
which are, in my understanding, that
majority interests in General Motors of
Japan and Ford Motors (Japan) are held
respectively, and notby the Messrs.
du Pont, Sloane and Raskob in the one
case and by Henry Ford in the other.
It is the opinion of Mr. Metzger that
the first thing we should do is to ascertain
the

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.90)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
the facts in regard to the organization and
owmership of the Japanese corporations
above-named. Mr. Metzger then stated that
if the facts are as I understand them to
be the telegram drafted by Mr. Ward should
not go. If, however, it were ascertained
that the Japanese corporations have
American individuals as majority-owners,
he thought that the telegram is satisfactory
and should be sent.
May 26 
I Lasked Phs. hosher, if Com merce, whelhes
there would be availa tle m he, bepartmnit
any mforqu ation twith resunt i the ouner-
Ship Tthe for porateous.'the bliphoned
me latir thal /he Dipt ommeice, reconds
indicati thal General Mh olors Japan
ouned outreghh y General Molors 
Debroil and Itat tond Molor, Jpan
boned outrishh ly The Tird thiolor
Company o) Detrtet.
IN

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
KH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 28, 1936.
Mr. Hornbeck:
Subject: Proposed Japanese
Automobile Legislation.
Herewith a draft of a telegram to Tokyo in
regard to proposed Japanese legislation
governing the manufacture of automobiles in
Japan. The draft has been prepared by Mr. Ward
of Le.
If the telegram is to go, I think it
should be addressed directly to Tokyo (rather
than to Shanghai) and be sent in confidential
oode.
You will recall that there are involved
in this case complicated questions of legal
interpretation. Memoranda discussing the
proposed legislation and the legal principles
involved, prepared by Mr. Coville, Mr. Ward
and Mr. Hackworth, appear immediately under
the draft telegram.
Both Mr. Dooman and I are not entirely
convinced that we are on indisputably clear
legal ground in the attached draft telegram.
If the basis of argument in the attached
draft telegram is sound, would it be consistent
to deny to Japanese (or Belgian) individuals
the right to form Philippine corporations to
engage in public works construction in the
Philippine

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Philippine Islands? You will recall that a
Philippine law does deny this right to alien
individuals. It may be argued that public
works represent a special category outside the
general rights granted by treaties. But if this
Government should use this argument, could not
the argument be turned against us to our
disadvantage by Japan or by countries where
state control of industries is more or less
universal (for example, Soviet Russia or
Italy).
The basis of argument used in the attached
draft telegram might be tenable in the case of
American individuals residing in Japan. If,
however, the Japanese should admit this but
contend that American corporations in the
United States (as distinct from American
Individuals residing in Japan) have no right
to set up corporate entities in Japan, I am
not sure that we would have any sound legal
basis to answer such an argument.
We have had reports to the effect that
the special session of the Japanese Diet which
will be convened in May will give consideration
to the question of enacting automobile control
legislation. We, however, have not been
requested by the American interests concerned
to take any action on their behalf.
I think that the attached draft telegram
represents the best line of argument that the
Department

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 28, 1936.
I have brought this matter
to Mr. Phillips' attention,
recommending that we hold the
proposed instruction in reserve;
and he approves so doing.
SKH
FE:SKH/ZMK

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
Department can put forward. But it is, as I
have indicated, open to question.
After you examine the file, I would like
to discuss the case with you.
3.3.H.
MMH/REK

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 17, 1936.
RCM:
SKH:
The attached draft telegram in regard
to the proposed Japanese automobile law
was prepared by Mr. Ward.
The argument that the rights conferred
by a treaty specifically upon individual
citizens automatically accrue to corpora-
tions, is not on all fours with the con-
tention of Le, as expressed in the case
of the complaint of the Belgian Ambassador
in regard to the terms of a Philippine law
covering contracts for Philippine public
works.
Mr. Ward in explaining this difference
stated that public funds used to defray the
cost of public works are the common property
of a people, and that therefore the people
may lay down any restrictions which seem
to them to be wise in regard to the dis-
posal of such funds; that this doctrine
had been upheld on several occasions by
the courts of the United States. He
therefore saw no conflict between the
position taken by Le in the Belgian case
and the position which it takes in the
Japanese automobile law case.
I am not entirely satisfied with the
argument put forward in Mr. Ward's draft,
but

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2 -
but as this is a legal case I have
accepted it.
There is also attached to the file a
draft telegram prepared by Mr. Coville,
which Mr. Ward did not find acceptable.
Note: I understand from Mr. Vallance
that the Belgian case is being studied by
Mr. Hackworth, who has been having
Mr. Vallance prepare certain materials
for examination in connection therewith.
Mr. Vallance is arranging to have sent out
the draft note to the War Department,
transmitting a copy in translation of the
Japanese law in regard to Jananese public
works.
BD/DLY

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEORAN SENT
Bepartmrnt of State
Washinglen,
May 2, 1936.
AMMBASSY,
TOKYO (Japan).
Your No. 22, February 1, noon, and despateh Wo. leso,
February 5, 1936.
The Department notes from your No. 22, February 1,
that the Vice Minister's original contention, reported in
your January 9, that the Treaty does not repeat not previde
for rights of manufacture has apparently been abandomed emd
replaced by the contentions that (1) Artiole one of the
Treaty applies only to individuals and not repeat not to
corporations; (8) it is unlikely that individuals as such
will be permitted to manufacture automobiles; (3) there
would, therefore, be no repeat no diserimination aseimst
American citizens as individuals as compared with Japememe
subjects as individuals; and (4) that the positiom of
companies and corporations is regulated by Artiele viI or
the Treaty.
These contentions are, in the opinion of the Depert
whelly unwarranted by the language of the Treaty. Artiele
eme of the Treaty expressly grants to Ameriean eitimeme
merm liberty to ewm er lease and eceupy * * * stemes,

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.94)
Bepartment af State
Cherge to
Washinglon.
- 2 -
manufactories, warehouses and shops * * * and gemerally to
do anything incident to or necessary for trade upem the
same terms as native * * * subjects UNquerE of Japem.
Since Japanese subjects are permitted to own and control
Japanese corporations engaged in the manufacture of
automobiles, the denial of a similar right to Ameriomm
citizens would clearly contravene the express provisioms
of Article one. The contention of the Vice Mimister that
the position of corporations is regulated by Artiele vII
of the Treaty is clearly inadmissible and inapplicable to
the situation under diseussion, inasmuch as the artiele
mentioned relates exclusively to American corporations
doing business in Japan or Japanese corporations doing
business in the United States. The Treaty artiele does mot
repeat not and of oourse was not repeat not intended to
refer to Japanese corporations in Japan or Ameriean
corporations in the United States.
You are authorized to make this Govermment's positiom
clear to the Foreign Office in any diseussion of this
subjeet which may arise.
/LY:L
Lo

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 11, 1936
Divirion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Tokyo's attached despatch No. 1650
transmits memorandum of a private con-
versation at a social engagement on
January 2l between Mr. Neville and the
Japanese Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
(Mr. Shigemitsu) in which the Vice Minister
asked Mr. Neville if Mr. Neville still
wished to discuss the proposed legislation
to control the automobile industry. When
Mr. Neville indicated that he would like
to do so the Vice Minister replied that
such a conversation would be of no use
because the law had not been completely
drafted and because there is little
prospect of enactment of that particular
piece of legislation, in view of the
dissolution of the Diet and the expecta-
tion that the spring session of the new
Diet will be necessarily short.
COMMENT:
See Tokyo's telegram No. 22,
February 1, 1936, noon, and memorandum
of February 10, 1936, prepared by Mr. Ward
in Le.
Mr. Shigemitsu is possibly correct
in anticipating that the proposed auto-
mobile legislation will not be enacted
within several months. In my opinion
the

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
present is nevertheless the best
 to make clear to the Japanese Foreign
rfice that the American Government finds
in the Japanese Government's interpreta-
tion of articles I and VII of the Treaty
of 19ll, as stated by Mr. Shigemitsu,
nothing to alter the view of the American
Government that the Treaty of 19ll would
be violated by the enactment and enforce-
ment of the proposed automobile legislation.
The considerations which prompted the
Department to send instruction No. 882,
November 18, 1935, and telegraphic instruc-
tion No. 202, December 24, 1935, 1 p.m.,
have not substantially changed. Sub-
sequently the Embassy has reported (Tokyo's
telegram No. 22, February 1, 1936, noon)
a statement by Mr. Shigemitsu based on
an untenable interpretation of the Treaty
of l9ll. Refutation is desirable.
If we take exception to Shigemitsu's
arguments and it happens that the proposed
automobile legislation is not enacted,
we shall have suffered no loss.
If we take exception to Shigemitsu's
arguments and it happens that the proposed
automobile legislation is enacted, our
position will be the stronger whenever
retaliatory measures may be considered.
Tokyo's telegram is detailed and
clear, and I see no reason for awaiting
an amplifying despatch before issuing
an instruction.
894.797/19
CC
√11
CC/DLY
restatur

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 3, 1936
LEGAL ADVISER
No. 1650.
SUBJECT:
AUTOMOBILE CONTROL LAW.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Co kugm FE
C
894.797
A
sees
(5
894.797/19
Nい
AC/C
MAD
RLCORQING 
FILE-WHB
TREATY DIVISION
The Honorable
MAY 21 1937
The Secretary of Stete,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Vashington.
Sir:
109 8 1937
I haye the honor to reier to the mbassy's despatch
1”
No. 1631/of January 9, 1936, in regard to the proposed
1/
automobile control law, and to enclose a memorandum of a
conversation on this subject between the Vice Minister for
Foreign Affairs and the Counselor of the Embassy. The Vice
Minister remarked that the dissolution of the Diet made it
unlikely that legislation would be enacted, especially if
the elections result in the formetion of a new Government.
The

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
The Embassy will continue to follow the question
and report developments, as press reports state that the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry intends to present the
measure to the extraordinery session of the Diet.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure: Memorandum of Conversation betwcen Mr. Shi-
gemitsu and Mr. Neville on January 22, 1936.
866.16
ELN:r

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1650 dated January 23, 1936,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Memorandum of Conversation between
Mr. Neville end Mr. Srice. itsu,
Minister for Foreign Affairs.
Conversation
January 22, 1936.
Automobile Control Law
I met Mr. Shigemitsu at the residence of the Apostolic
Delegate last evening (January 21, 19Su). He asked me
whether I still Wished to discuss the Automobile Control
Law. I said that I snould like to  his convenience.
He said that while he could explein it at some length,
ne did not see the use of it because t.e lu ned not
been completely draftee, cnd now that the Diet had been
dissolved, t.ere seemed litile prospect of the enactment
of thet particular piece of le islation, as the s ring
session of the Diet would necessarily be short and
probably completoly ccupied with riscal matters. Besides,
he added, if tne el ctions result in a nev covernment,
it is quite possicle that the whole project would be
dropped or taken up on & different basis. In tnese cir-
cumstances, he said, e did not see the need for ime diat
conversations on the subject. It is not, he remerked, an
urgent question like the oil control matter. In that
case, something has to be done soon because of the ex-
istence of a law, with the preparation of which too many
people had had a hand who knew nothing of the subject.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 5, 1936.
LEGAL ADVISER
No. 1659.
MAY
:19:
SUBJECT:
AUTOMOBILE CONTROL LAW.
DEPARTMENEOFSTTE
Copyin FE(381)
894.797
the
Divieon of
A·C/C
1536
RECORDING DESK
FILE - WHB
2l.t
COPIES SENT TO
De
O.N.1. DM.I.D.
SBC
For Di-:r Lu .n Chek
394.797/20
Cond
For
InUSA
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's telegram
No. 22 of February 1, noon, 1936, and to enclose herewit
ED
1/
a memorandum of a conversation between the Counselor of
the Embassy and the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs.
The latter stated that the Japanese Government considered
that Article 1 of the treaty of l9ll applies to individuals,
and that it is unlikely that any individuals as such will
be permitted to manufacture automobiles. Thus there would
be no discrimination so far as individuals are concerned,
F/FG
whilo
LATY DIVISION
JUL 26 1937

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
while so far as companies or corporations are concerned,
there is a special article in the treaty (Article VII)
which regulates their position and sets forth their rights.
The Vice Minister also said that while the Foreign
Office does not like the bill, there are forces at work
beyond its control, and that there is a movement on foot
to have the bill put before the special session of the
Diet in the spring. He did not know whether this could be
done, he said, but the Government is under a good deal of
pressure to have the measure enacted.
From all the information which the Embassy is able
to gather, the Vice Minister appears to have judged the
situation correctly. The "forces beyond the control" of
the Foreign Office are determined to build up a purely
Japanese motor car industry. These forces are, so far as
the Embassy has been able to discover, partly military
and partly industrial. The latter wish complete protection
if they are to embark on motor car construction, and the
former are willing to use their influence in government
circles to that end in order to have a motor car industry
independent of outside influences . The Embassy is in-
clined to the view that legislation along the lines in-
dicated in previous despatches is bound to be enacted in
one form or another without much reference to the attitude
of outside interests. The Embassy has, from time to time,
reported on the rising tide of nationalism in Japan, and
the

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
the proposed legislation is merely another manifestation
of the same spirit.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
Memorandum of a conversation- Mr. Neville and
Mr. Shigemitsu.
866.16
ELN:r

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1659 of February 5, 1936
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Memorandum
Conversation
January 27, 1936
Mr. Neville and Mr. Shigemitsu,
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs.
Automobile Control Law.
I saw Mr. Shigemitsu at noon. I told him that I had
come to ask him about the proposed automobile control law,
an explanation in regard to which he had promised me when
I last saw him. He said that he had looked into the matter
and had discovered that the papers had reported fairly
accurately what the Department of Commerce and Industry
had had in mind to put before the Diet. He said that there
was a movement on foot to have the bill put before the special
session of the Diet in the Spring, but he was not sure
whether that could be done. He repeated again what he had
told me before, that the Foreign Office does not like the
bill, but he added that there are forces at work beyond
their control. He said that the project appears to be a
popular one and that the Government is under a good deal of
pressure of one kind or another to get it enacted into law.
He said that the political situation is uncertain, that our
discussion must necessarily be academic because there is
no actual draft of the law at hand, and that finally, it
is impossible to say what form the legislation may finally
take.
He then came to the question of treaty right, stating
that it had been carefully considered. He said: "Article
1 of the Treaty of Commerce and Navigation of l9ll applies
to individuals as similar article of Treaties of Commerce
and

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
and Navigation concluded between Japan and other countries.
It seems likely that no individuals as such would be allowed
to go into the automobile manufacturing business under the
present automobile law. In that respect there is no dis-
crimination between Japanese subjects and foreigners resident
in Japan. So far as companies or corporations aro concerned,
there is a special article(Article VII) in the Treaty which
regulates their position and sets forth their rights. This
Article specifies that it has no bearing upon the question
whether a company or association organized in one of the two
countries will or will not be permitted to transact its
business or industry in the other, this permission remaining
always subject to the laws and regulations enacted or estab-
lished in the respective countries. It seems, therefore,
clear that the proposed automobile law, by which permission
to go into automobile industry will be reserved to national
companies or corporations, will not be inconsistent with
the stipulations of the Treaty, and that it is of exclu-
sive jurisdiction of the respective countries, as a matter
of administrative convenience, to determine in what condi-
tions national companies or corporations may be permitted
to go into such industry. In this respect, it should be
observed that two automobile companies under American
capitel(viz. Ford and General-Motors) were established and
registered as Japanese companies and, as such, they have been
transacting their business." I asked him if that could be
taken as the Japanese Government's position on the treaty.
He said that it could, so far as informal conversation can be
so considered, and remarked that while he, and the Foreign
office

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.93)
- 3 
Office generally, considered the project unwise, he would
not be in a position to state to other Departments that
there is a treaty obligation which would stand in the way
of the proposed legislation.
E。 L。 N.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./98
FOR
#1693
FROM
Japan
Grew
--..) DATED
Feb 21, 1936
894.797/
TO
NAME
1-1187
Proposed discriminatory automobile legislation.
REGARDING:
2
FRG.
2

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
The Vice Minister observed that the Treaty of 1oll did
not provide for rights of manufacture. In reply, the
Counselcr stated thet assembling and manufacture under
present day practices are necessary for the trade in
automobiles and that a limitation of the rirht to assemble
motor cars under the sane conditiens as Japanese firms
would be a discrimination in contraventicn of the pro-
visions of the Treaty. In a conversation held between
the Counselor and the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
toward the end of the month, the latter stated that in
the view of the Japanese Governnent the proposod automcbile
law would not be inconsistent vith tlie terns of the Treaty
inasmuch as Article I annlied to individuals and not to
companies or corporations, whose position was regulated
by Article VII. The Vice Minister fcr Foreien Affairs
added that althoufh the Forein Office considered the
proposed legislation unwise, it would not be in a position
to advise other Departments of the existence of a treaty
obligation which would stand in the way of the project.*

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.797/
SEE
894.00 P.R./97
FOR
1642
FROM
Japan
(....)Gre....) DATED .Jan.18,.1936.
2
2
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Proposed legislation for the control of the Automobile
Manufacturing Industry in Japan.
Report on -.
b
2
2
894.797

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
(c)
iroposed Le islation for the Control of the
Automobile  mufacturin Iidustry in Janan.
Infornation was received by the Enbassy that Ceneral
97
Motors were ne: otiatin vith Jananese interests concerning
the manufacture of automobiles in Ja an in anticipation of
the pronosed legisletion for the control of the autonobile
manufacturins industry in Janan, vhich legisletion would
prevent the forei n automobile copanies from expanding
further in this country.****
A plan Was worked out by
representatives of the merican and Ja anese interests,
but its nature was not disclosed to the mbassy ner did it
receive
receive the aoproval of General Hotors in the United states,
the heads of the Ja anese cdm anies, or the Jananese
Government during tre month.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGAL ADVISER
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MJP
GRAY
Tokyo
1-1336
FROM
Dated May 23, 1936
Rec'd 8:40 a. m.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
MAY 23 1936
Washington.
A
Department of State
112, May 23, 7 p. m.
894.797
The automobile industry law passed the Diet today.
Despatch follows.
894.797/23
GREW
7C
TREATY DIVISION
2991  NOT
MAY 21 1937
DÉPARTMENT OF IATE
F/FG

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
KC
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 2, 1936.
The outline in Tokyo's despatch
No. 1820 of May 12 of the recently
enacted "Automobile Industry Control
Law", supplies no new information, but
is useful in that it confirms earlier
reports of the control which the Japanese
Government is to exercise over American
automobile enterprises in Japan.
I suggest that you read pages 5 and 6,
wherein it is stated that the Ford Motor
Company is proceeding with the erection
of a new factory, and that the negotiations
between a Japanese concern and General
Motors with regard to a possible merger
of the two concerns are believed to have
broken down.
894.797/24

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OFFIOE OF EDIC AVISER
OF THE
.S JUN 5 103
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 1820.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
FE
Tokyo, May 12, 1936.
SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY CONTROL LAW.
RN
PE  AT
936 U 1 M 1 50
0QMTINS
N RDS
D.VISION OF
NOIELICATION
6
R
JUL14
894.797/24
DIVISION OF
IRADE AGRELMENTS
874.79
TA
COPIES SENT TO
A·CAC
1936
O.N.I. ANDM. I.D.
R
07
PCPDING DESH
FILE-WHB
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
ThepHonorable
2A-C/
The Secretary of State,
103
OF STATE
14
Washington.
Urpartmeru of State
2
have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
FILED
2
No. 1659, dated February 5, 1936, and to previous corres-
1936
pondence on the subject of the proposed legislation for con
trolling the automobile industry in Japan and its pro-
bable effect upon the American automotive interests in
Japan.
It is now reported that the Government intends to
introduce into the present special session of the Diet
旦
TREATY DIVISION
F/FG
DEP'RTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
a bill containing the essential features of the auto-
mobile policy announced on August 9, l935, and described
in the Embassy's despatch No. 1440, dated August 22, 1935.
On May 2, 1936, some of the Japanese newspapers published
articles describing the proposed leislation which, from
their similarity, can be assumed to have been compiled
from a prepared statement issued presunebly by the De-
partment of Commerce and Industry. The gist of these
articles is as follows:
The principal reasons for the proposed le isletion
are, first, to build up a dumestic motor-cer industry
to the point were the local industry can sunply the local
merket for the less expensive makes of automobiles, for
this purpose taking advantage of the present moment
when the low yen exchange rate will give additional assist-
ance to the domestic industry; and, second, to insure
national defense by having available an industry capable
of supplying the needs of the Army for motor transport
and motorized units in time of emergency. Because
of the paramount importance of these reasons, the Govern-
ment has decided to seek enactment of the law for the con-
trol of the automobile industry, "in spite of the delicate
and complex problems of international relations which are
involved."
Although the number of motor-cars in Japan has increased
more than eight-fold in twelve years (to 135,000 in October,
1935), there are still only 16 cars per ten thousand of the
inhabitants

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
inhabitants of the Empire, as compared with 1,895 cars
per ten thousand inhabitants in the United States. 96
per cent of the automobiles in use in Japan are the products
of the Ford Motor Company and the General Motors Compeny.
The manufacture of automobile parts and accessories
in Japan, however, has developed rapidly in recent years,
indicating that Japanese manufacturers are capable of
automobile manufacture, and therefore encouraging the
Gover: ment to propose the law. In 1918 motor-car manu-
facture in Japan was encouraged by meens of military
subsidies to producers of trucks; in 193l a comnittee
was esteblished to study the firm establishment of an auto-
mobile industry in Janan; and in 1934 an inter-departmental
conference was established, composed of officials of the
Ministries of iar, Navy, Railways, Home Af airs, Com-
merce and Industry, Foreign Affairs, Finance and Over-
seas Afrairs and of the Resources Bureau of the Cabinet,
to discuss measures for the establis ient of a nationel
policy for the automobile industry. This inter-depert-
mental conference compiled the basic plan, announced
on August 9 last, for the control of the industry, and
has now worked out the draft of the Automobile Industry
Law, which was approved by the Cabinet on April 28, 1936.
The essential features of this draft law are as follows
(according to the JAPAN TILES AND LAIL):
"1.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4-
"1. Purpose of the Law
The purpose of the law is firmly
to establish the motor car manu-
facturing industry in Japan with
a view to attain completion of
the national defense and to ac-
hieve industrial development.
2. License System
(a) A license must be held by
everyone who assembles motor cars
which are designated by order of
the Government and everyone who
manufactures automobile parts which
ere designated by the Government,
in excess of a certain limit to
be fixed by the Goverment.
(b) Everyone who receives such
a license from the Government
must be a joint stock company
formed under the laws of Japan,
end half or more of the total
stock shares and voting privileges
in the said comnany must be in the
possession of Japanese subjects
or of companies organized under the
laws of Janan.
3. Privileges.
(a) Companies to which licenses
are granted shall be exempted from
certain classes of taxes ror a cer-
tain period.
(b) Special provisions will be
made in the Conmercial Codes in
order that fecilities may be
offered to automobile menufac-
turing companies in regard to in-
creases of canital and the float-
ing of debentures.
4. Protection of .ublic interests
(a) The Government is authorized
to issue to the automobile manu-
facturing companies, whenever
necessary, such orders as are deemed
necessary for supervision of the
industry and for promotion of the
public welfare.
(b) The Government is autnorized
to issue such orders as are aeemed
necessary for the national defense.
5. Regulations Governing Importation
of Automobiles and Parts.
(a)

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
(a) When the prices of impcrted automobiles
and imported automobile parts are considered
sufficiently low to have a harmful effect
upon the growth of the automobile manufacturing
industry in this country, the Government may
restrict the importation of, and impose
higher import duties on, the said automobiles
and parts thereof.
6. Automobile lianufacturing Industry
Commission.
An Automobile Manufacturing Industry Commission
shall be organized to consider matters re-
lating to licenses for automobile manufacturing
companies end to the enforcement of this law.
7. Retroactive Provision.
Those persons who begen the automobile manu-
facturing business, as defined in this law,
prior to August 9, 1935, and who are still
engaged in the same business at the time of
enforcement of this law, will be per.itted to
continue such business without holding the
aforementioned license but vithin the limit of
their business as it existed prior to August 9,
1935.
The newspapers express confidence that the proposed law
will be enacted during the present Diet session.
It will be observed that, accordin to the above
digest of the articles a pearin in the Japanese press,
the proposed law does not differ in any essential re-
spect from the policy announced on August 9, 1935. In
essence, the purpose of the law is to permit the two
American automobile assembling plants in Japan to con-
tinue operations up to the limit of their production on
August 9, 1935, but to secure to Jananese manufacturers
all the natural increase in the Japanese demand. The
American companies can continue to operate without ob-
taining licenses and without conceding control to Tapa-
nese interests but they will not be able to enlarge
their activities in Japan.
Attitude.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
Attitude of Ford and General Motors.
According to statements made to a momber of the
staff of the Embassy by the general ...anager for Japan
of the ord Motor Company, the Company is proceeding
with the erection of its new factory at Tsurumi, near
Yokohama, although the Company is avere that the pri-
mary purpose of the automobile policy as announced last
August was to prevent the Ford Motor Company from en-
larging its facilities in Japen.
. The Company is doing
this in the belief that the Ja anese will not be able
to produce good automobiles in sufricient quantities
to meet the increasing demand, and t at the Govern-
ment will have to fall back upon the American companies
for more cars to supply the deficit. In any case, the
new fecilities will permit cars to be produced more cheaply,
and even if the Company is limited to its present output,
increased profits will be possible.
As was announced last winter, eneral Motors Japan,
Limited, was negotiating with the ippon Sangyo Kabu-
shiki Kaisha for : merger of the two companies in order
to comply vith the provision of the proposed law that
all licensed automobile manufecturers be under Japanese
control. To facilitate the negotiations. officials of
the Nippon Sangyo interests proceeded to New Tork to
confer with officials of the General Motors Corporation.
It is now definitely reported, owever, that the nego-
tiations have reached a deadlock, partly on the question
of the degree of participation by the ippon Sangyo interests
in

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
in General Motors Japan, Limited, and partly on the
question of the retention, should the merger be con-
cluded, of the foreign employees of General Motors
Japan, Limited. It is elso renorted that the offi-
cers of the ivippon Sangyo interests are returning to
Japan, indicating tnat negotiations have been dis-
continued. Local officials of General Motors Japan,
Limited, however, profess to know nothing of the pro-
gress or lack of progress of the negotiations.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph . Grew.
866.16
ERD:r

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 19, 1936.
ROM:
SKH:
The Embassy at Tokyo reports in its
despatch No. 1872 of May 29, 1936, that
the Automobile Industry Control Law was
passed by the Diet, but that as the law
has not been promulgated as yet no
authentic text is as yet available.
The Embassy understands, however, that
the bill as passed substantially conforms
to the terms of the policy announced on
August 9, 1935, with, however, one
important exception-that the duty on
automobiles or parts thereof may be
increased if it should appear that they
are being imported at prices so low as
to injure the domestic automobile industry.
It is the opinion of the Embassy that the
authority granted to employ this new and
additional measure reflects the determina-
tion of the military authorities to
proceed as rapidly as possible with the
development of a national automobile
industry.
Notwithstanding the passage of the
bill, the despatch makes no reference to
any request for assistance having been
made to the Embassy by the American
interests concerned.
No action required.
FB:EHD/DLY

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.94)
66886
fue
3mk
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
FAR EASTERR ALLPIKS
OF THE
Department of State
EA
No. 1872.
AMERIOAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 29, 1936.
SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY CONTROL LAW
07
COPIES SENT TO
RD
S
LL
C.N.I. AND M. I.D
1936 JN 15
(01
C
894.797/25
A·C/C
RECORDING DESK
WH8
-notfor
ASSISIANT SECRETARY
publication
894.797
OF STATE
CATION
A-C/C
N
hSUUL 1 1936
S
ERARTMENT OF STAFE
七
TREATY DIVISION
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington.
Sir:
24
JUL S 1936
With reference to the Embassy's despatch No. 1820
FILED
of May 12, 1936 and in amplification of the Embassy's
23
telegram No. 112, May 23, 7 p.m., I have the honor to
report that the Bill for the Control of the Automobile
Industry passed the lower house of the Diet on May 19
and the House of Peers on May 23. There was no op-
position on the floor of either house. As the law has
not

=== Page 131 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
not yet been promulgated and published in the Official
Gazette the authentic text is not yet available. A
translation thereof will be forwarded to the Department
at the earliest opportunity.
It is believed that the terms of the Bill are sub-
stantially those of the draft reported in the Embassy's
last despatch on this subject. These in turn conform
to the automobile policy announced on August 9, 1935
with the addition of one important provision. This
provision (No. 5 in the draft law) empowers the Govern-
ment to restrict the importation of, and impose higher
duties on, automobiles and automobile parts when the
prices thereof are considered to be so low as to affect
adversely the domestic automobile industry. Whereas
the policy originally announced would restrict the
American companies to the volume of business enjoyed
as of August 9, 1935, the addition of this provision em-
powers the Government to restrict their existing business
at will whenever it is considered that the price of im-
ported products is lower than Japenese manufacturers can
successfully meet. With the competitive superiority of
the American products generally admitted, the addition is
a potential threat to the American automobile interests
in Japan.
Upon considering the situation of the industry
here it seems likely that this drastic change in the
original policy was influenced by the limitations of the
present

=== Page 132 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
present Japanese market for motor vehicles. This market
amounts to roughly 30,000 vehicles annually of which the
American assembly plants can and do provide 25,000. Of
the balance of 50oo several thousand are normally taken
up by Chrysler products and the importation of higher
priced cars. There thus remains to Japanese producers
little more than the natural increase in the market.
It was, apparently, first thought that the natural
increase would be sufficiently rapid to provide a basis
for Japanese industry during the next few years. The
policy of August 9, 1935 ensuring the enjoyment of their
existing business to the American companies seems to have
been predicated on this view. Now, however, it appears
that the authorities are anxious to establish the domestic
industry at the earliest possible moment. The Government
consequently has obtained larger powers than was originally
contemplated, to be used, apparently in case the natural
increase should not be sufficient.
In an interpellation
in the House of Peers by Mr. Kenkichi Yoshizawa, the
Government was questioned as to whether it had any in-
tention of increasing the market for automobiles by
reducing the prohibitive luxury taxes upon them and by
improving roads. The importance and efficacy of measures
in this direction seem not yet to be recognized. There
is instead the evident determination to allocate the exist-
ing market by means of the new bill if it should seem
desirable.
The

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
The fact is that with the American companies in
the field a market of only several thousand cars a year
remains to Japanese manufacturers and this is inadequate
to support an efficient and economic domestic industry.
In the opinion of the acting Commercial Attaché of the
Embassy the privileges and immunities contemplated by
the policy announced last summer would not have proved
sufficient to dislodge the American competitors. More
drastic measures were needed if Japan were determined
immediately to develop an automobile industry of her
own. In default of increased demand the American market
here would have to be largely taken over and the import
duties and restrictions authorized by the new law are
well calculated to accomplish this if necessary.
It must be remembered, however, that the law itself
merely provides the legal framework for the Government's
policy. Upon the regulations for its enforcement depends
the practical effect of the law; the regulations can
determine the fate of the American interests here.
Drastic regulations, operating through the import provi-
sions could eliminate the American interests. On the
other hand there are practical considerations which render
uncertain the adoption of extreme measures. Japan is ac-
customed to cheap motor transportation. Upwards of 90%
of the motor vehicles in operation are in commercial
use as trucks, buses, and taxis. To force this industry
to purchase Japanese made vehicles would seriously
increase

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
increase costs not only within the industry but to the
users of transportation, would deny to Japanese the
advantages of the annual technical refinements incor-
porated in the American makes, and would result in less
efficient operation on the roads. Some days ago in the
Diet the director of the engineering bureau of the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry stated that the results
of the use of Japan-made motor vehicles in Manchuria up
to a recent date have been comparatively unfavorable
(although the manufacturers thereof enjoy a liberal army
subsidy). It is believed that the small Datsun car,
which is by no means inexpensive, is selling below the
cost of production; it is anticipated that the new Toyoda
car will also sell at a loss. Japanese manufacturers
have so far been unable to secure the volume necessary
to cheap and efficient production; whether the enjoyment
of the entire Japanese market would enable them to do so
is a matter of serious doubt.
The practical disadvantages of carrying through the
automobile policy hastily are well known to the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry. Mr. Yoshino, the Vice-Minister,
recently intimated to the Counselor of the Embassy that
so long as he was in office the American interests need
not fear drastic regulations. Nevertheless, whether
Mr. Yoshino and those who feel as he does, can withstand
the pressure of the military which has in so many in-
stances crudely carried through its policies regardless
of

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
of costs, remains to be seen. The nature of the enforce-
ment regulations will be the first clue as to the result
of the conflict between the two opposing viewpoints. Ac-
cording to Mr. Yoshino it is not expected that the
regulations will be made public before the middle of
June.
The Embassy is informed that the Consulate at
Yokohama is preparing a report on the plans of Japanese
automobile manufacturers for expansion and for the in-
troduction of new models.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
866.16
JGP:a

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.94)
LEGAL ADVICER
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARM
ak
74.797
JUL 2 1936
kyo, June 11, 1936.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 1891.
SUBJECT:
AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY LAW.
19936 9 M 1 3
S
S
N DS
C.
5
C
2. Copen commuce
R
ESC
C
C
TREATY DIVISION
894.797/26
JUL 6 - 1996
DET:RTMENT OF STATE
ACH
The
norable
0
CORDING D: SK
The Secretary of State,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Washington.
Sir:
0
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
25
No. 1872/of May 29, 1936, and to previous correspondence
aoncerning the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law and
1/
to enclose herewith a translation, prepared in the Embassy
of the terms of the law as published in the OFFICIAL GAZEITE
of May 29, 1936.
Although the provisions of the new law are in more de-
tail than was anticipated, there appears to be no difference
of principle between the actual text and the supposed draft
bill which was reported to the Department in the Embassy's
despatch No. 1820 of May 12, 1936. As was foreshadowed
in the draft bill, the Government has secured comprehensive
powers
FG

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2-
powers to control and direct the industry in its discretion.
It may be noted, moreover, that the law specifically
provides for inspection by Government officials not only
of the offices and business records of all automobile com-
panies, including the companies which are exempted from
the license provisions of the law, but also the factories,
warehouses and other sites owned by the companies. There
are other specific provisions empowering the Government to
fix prices in the case of any automobile manufacturing com-
pany and to direct companies to manufacture automobiles or
automobile parts for military use.
As mentioned in previous despatches the practical ef-
fect of the law depends on the enforcement regulations and
the Imperial Ordinance relating thereto has not yet been
promulgated. hen it appears the Embassy will report further
and will endeavor to comment thereon.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1/ Translation of the Automobile Manufacturing Industry
Law.
866.16
JGP:g :c

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1891 of June 11, 1936, from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
AUTOMCLILE MAUFAGTURILG L.D STRY LAW.
(Law 1.0. 33, sanctioned May 23, 1936, and appearing
in the OFF1IL GATTE, My 29, 1936.)
Article 1. The object of this law is to strengthen
national defense und pronote industrial progress by es-
tablishing the autonobile man facturing industry in Japan.
Article 2. Automobile manufacturing industry, as the
term is used in this law means industries designated by
ordinance, wich engage in the asseniblying or manufacture
of automobiles or automobile parts.
Article 3. Persons who wish to enguge in the manufacture
of automobiles shall ottain a license from the Government,
unless the volume of utonobiles or automobile parts to be
manufactured or assemoled is less than a figure to be fixed
by ordinance.
The Governmont shall take into consideration the con-
dition of supply and demand for autonobiles and automobile
parts and unless it dee.is that no obstacle to the establish-
ment of the auto...obile manufacturing industry will result,
the Governient shall not crant the license mentioned in the
preceding paragraph.
Article 4. rersons ualificd to reccive licenses men-
tioned in the preceding article, shall be only joint stock
companies orcunized under Japanese law of which more than
one-half of the shareholders, more than one-half of the dir-
ectors, more than one-half the cupital and more than one-
half of the voting rights are or are held by Japanese sub-
jects or juridical persons organized under Jupanese law.
The juridical persons mentioned in the preceding para-
graph must be juridical persons of which more than one-half
of the members, shareholders or officers in charge of con-
ducting business and more than one-half of the amount of
capital or more than one-half of the voting rights are not
or do not belong to foreigners or foreign juridical persons.
If a person who has obtained the license mentioned in
the preceding article has ceased to possess the qualifica-
tions specified in the preceding two paragraphs, the license
granted shall be invalidated.
Article s. An automobile manufacturing company which has
obtained a license, mentioned in article 3, shall commence
operati ns within a period prescribed by the Governnent.
The Government may grant an extension of the period men-
tioned in the preceding paragraph only in case it recognizes
that there is good reason for so doing.
When an automobile manufacturing company fails to commence
operations within the period mentioned in the two preceding
paragraphs, the license prescribed in Article 3 shall be
invalidated.
Article 6.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
Article 6. Subject to the rovis ns of ordinance an
automobile manufacturinc com any sall be exempted from
payment of i cone and uusiness   it taxes on its busi-
ness operations curing the year tnt the license mentioned
in Article 3 is obtained and for a period of five years
beginning the year following the year in wiich that license
was obtained.
Article 7. Hokkaido, prefectures, cities, towns, vil-
lages and similer  ublic bodies snall not levy taxes upon the
business or on a basis of the cu ital, emyloyces, manu-
factured articles or su plies consuicd, motive power used
or income accruine tro n the opovatius of an automobile
manufacturing co..pany exem. ted fro. inco.me tax and busi-
ness profit tax, under t e  rovisio.s of the preceding arti-
cle.
Article 3. When an cuto obile manufacturing cumpany
imports, wit. t..e e iss: on of the covermaent, tools,
machinery or me terluls . ce ssary to its business, it shall
be exempt fro.. the  uyment of import duties, subject to
the provicions of eralu ce, for a  erled of five years
from the dete of the cif reemat of this law.
Artiele . A.  to ile monafacturine copany, when
expanding its taslleee my, wi th the er ission of the
Governaent, hesouse  l to uefrey the cost of
equipment oven t  te vl e ef revie ely iesued shares
is not fally ia.
Apticle lo.  aoobile   pucturis co-p may,
with the perlission of the Gev mn ot, Les e a  tures
to an alotnt beyona the limite  rescribed by otiele 200
of the Co ercial Jode a or te   t st of in-
stallin equiplent necessury t t ee it of its b siness.
The total amoult of sael a ' pes may mot bu router, how-
ever, than twice the teant of the co tiy's paid up caiital.
If the vulue of t e eu ty's assets, as showm in the
lest balunce cluet, ie nst us large as its puid ur cu it:1,
the  rovisi as of the  recedine  aragrapyl sh ell met apply.
Proporty portaining to the onterprise of tho copany must
be mortgaged, in accordance wit t  rovisions of the Factory
Mortgage Law as security for debentures issued in accordance
with the provisions of Paragraph 1 of this article unless
the Goveriment deems that special circunstances obviate the
necessity for ste rtcuges.
Article 1l. If it is feared that the im ortution f uto-
obiles or cutolobile parts will interfere with the establish-
ment of the aatomobilc  fucturig industry, the Government
may issue orders restrictinc, for a fixed period, the im-
portation of automobiles or automobile parts.
Article 12. If it is feared that the price of autonobiles
will be lowered and the establishment of the automobile manu-
facturing industry interfered with, due to the importation
of automobiles or automobile parts, the Government, after sub-
mitting

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.92)
-3-
mittine the matter to the consideration of the Turiff
Lavestlatio. Jommittee, may ies e orders providine for
the levyi of  rt tis, for t fou  e a,  such
a to oliles o. tooile rts of up te rifty percont of
the vulue of t ose import, i a iti  to the i ort
duty thercon syccified in the turiff talle ai exed to t.e
Daport  riff Lw.
Article l.   tomsbile mthuracturine co pany shall
plun its miess  to r to eo ple wi   re  und shull
obtain  e stction of the governient for its b siness pro-
gran or t. e tlbetin of tto
me coveret ay a  on cwtotobile manufe ctoring
co tay to clter its woinuss er if it is deemed
necessary.
Article le. hen cn tute obile menufacturine copany
wishes to tralnefoy, tisse tie or s spend all or part of
its enterprise, it must obtain the peimission of the sovern-
ment, in accordance with the  rovisions of ordinance.
A resolution to amalmate or l i te u automobile
manufactur in co. t  y is hot valid unless the co..pany ob-
tains the  er ission of the soverlle.t in accordahce wit.
the provisions of ordinunce.
Artiele lo. mme goverm eat may ret lre an tutomobile
manufacturing co. pany to sublit u ro ort c. its t siness
and financial co..diti....
The Govermlent may issue hecessary supervisory orders
to auto obile manufactrins co  anies or take measures in
regard to t.eir business affairs or uccounts.
In case it is deemed necessary fe: p r oses of su er-
vision, the Govermaent may order the approprit te ofricials
to inspect the offices or lace of business, fuctories,
warehouses or other sites owmed by an autolobile manufactur-
ing compuny and to conduct exalinations of its business or
financial condition, its books, iu cre, thd other  tters.
Such officials shall be reyuircd to carry a certiricate
indicati.. t.cir officiol status.
Article lo. hen it is deened necessary for reasons of
public interest, the Govermment may order an cutomobile
manufacturing co any to alter the sale price and the terms
of sale of automobilcs or automobile parts, or may issue
orders on necessury matters wit. a view to adjusting the
demand and supply of automobiles and automobile parts.
When it is deemed necessary for reasons of public
interest, the Government y order an automobile manu-
facturing co... any to cxpand or improve its equipient.
Article 17. When it is deemed necessary for military
reasons, the Government may order au tomobile manufacturing
com anies to manufacture automobiles or automobile parts
for military use, to conduct researches on speciel matters
related to automobiles or to install special equipient and
it may issue orders in regard to other necessary matters
connected with military affairs.
Article 18.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
Article 18. In granting licenses under Article 3, in
fixing limitations under artiele 2 or in issuing orders under
Artiele le, the lovermient shall submit the matter in advance
to the considu ution of tne hutonobile Manafucturing Indus try
Committee.
Regul: tions relating to the Automobile Munufaeturing
Industry Comaittee shall be determied by Imperial Ordinance.
Article 19. If an automobile munufacturing company in-
fringes the provisions of t.is law or orders issued under
the authorization of this luw, or violetes the measures
adopted in cofornity with sueh orders, or comaits acts
prejudicial to the public i. terust, the Governnent may
cuspend or restriet its business or cancel tie license
issued under Article 3 or dismiss its directors or audi-
tors, who perform the functions of ireetors.
Article 2o. Persons comine within the  rview of any
one of the followine cute ories shall be assessed a fine
of not to exceed five thosand yen:
1. A person w.o, in violution of the provisions of
Artiele 3 has engaged in te munuract re of auto-
mobiles without obtaining a license.
2. A person wlo iportcu aatomobile or cuto obile
parts in violation of the restrictive irovisions
of Artic e ll.
A ycrson uned in t.e . mufucture of auto biles
who has exceuded the li its (on production) pre-
scribed i. Turugraph 4 of the Supplementary Rules.
Artiele 2l. If an automobile manufact ring co pany has
violated tne orders issued in accordance with Article 10
or Article 17, the directors or auditors, who perrorm the
funetions of directors, shall be assessed a fine of not
to exceed tiree thousand yen.
Article 22. If an automobile manufacturing company comes
within the purviow of any one of the following categories
its directors or auaitors, who perform the functions of
directors, shall be assessed a fine of not to exceed one
thousand yen:
1. When a company, in violation of the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Article 13, has carried out its
business program without obtaining the permission
of the Government.
2. When a company, in violation of the provisions of
paragraph 2 of Article 13, has carried out its
business program without alteration.
3. When a company, in violation of the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Article 14, has acted without the
permission of the Government in matters requiring
such permission.
4.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
4. When a company has acted in violation of the orders
issued and measures ado ted in accordance with
paragraph 2 of Article 1o.
Article 23. Persons coming within the purview of any
one of the following categories shall be assessed a fine of
not to exceed five hundred yen:
1. A person who has failed to file the report pro-
vided for in para ruph 1 of Article 15 or has
made a false report.
2.
A person who has refused, obstructed or evaded
the inspection or examination by the officials
concerned as provided for in Paragraph 3 of
Article lo, or has failed to answer the questions
of such orficials or has made false answers.
Article 24. Automobile manufacturing companies or
persons engaged in other businesses reluted to automobiles
may not evade responsibility for any act of their representa-
tives, head or other me bers of their falily, employees or
other persons connected with their business enterprise,
which act is in violation of oruers issued in accordance
with the provisions of tnis law or such dispositions as
were made in conformity with the provisions of this law,
on the ground that such actions were not made under t.eir
direction.
Article 2e. The penal provisions to be applied in
accordance with the provisions of this law or of orders is-
sued in conformity with the provisions of tis law shall
apply, in case the ptrty to receive the penalty is a juri-
dical person, to directors, managing directors or other of-
ficials in charge of conducting the business of such juri-
dical person; and in case the party to receive such penalty
is a minor or a person adjudged incompetent, to his le al
representative, unless the minor concerned possesses the
same capacity as an adult for the purposes of conducting a
business enterprise.
Additional Rules
The date of the unforcement of this law shall be
determined by Imperial Ordinance.
Persons who are already engaged in the manufacture of
automobiles or have succeeded to such enterprise at the time
that this law takes effect, may continue in business, regard-
less of te provisions of Article 3, for a period of three
months from the day when this law takes effect.
If a person, mentioned in the preceding paragraph, has
applied for a license under Artiole 3 within the period
mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the provisions of that
paragraph shall continue to apply until his application is
either acce ted or rejected.
Persons who began manufacturing automobiles prior to
August 9, 1935, or parties who succeeded to such enterprises
and who are conducting such businesses at the time when
this

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
this law takes effect, may continue to conduct such
businesses even after the lapse of the period prescribed
in the preceding two paragraphns, re uruless of the pro-
visions of Article 3, subject to the provisions of ordi-
nance, within the scale of business conduc ted by them
previous to August 9, 1935.
The provisions of Paragraph 1 and 3 of Article 15
and of Articles 23 to  s, incl sive, shall apply also to
parties enca ed in the munufacture of automobiles by
authorization granted in the preceding paragraph.
If persons who have applied for licenses under
Article 3 within a pe iod of one month from the date of
the enforcement of this law, import, with the permission
of the Governnent, tools, machinery or materials necessary
in the manufacture of automobilcs, they shall be exompted,
in accordance with the provision of ordinance, from import
duties on such imports for a period of three months fron
the date of the enforcement of this law.
In case  ersons wio have been exempted from import
duties, in cccordance with the provisions of the preceding
paragra h, fail to obtain a license under Article S, the
unpaid duties shall be collected from thom.
In cases of exenption fron import cuties in accordance
with the provisions of Iara ru h C, the Government may
require the deposit of sec rity, t the time of importa-
tion, to a value corresponding to the amount of unpaid
import duty.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.96)
143
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
TD
Copy
RR
GRAY
1—1336
FROM
OF
Tokio
A-C/
Dated July 10, 1936
JUL 10 1936
D
JUL 1 D 1936
A-CAC
Received6:18 a. m
RECORDING DFSK
FILE- WHR
Secretary of State,
F
FAR LASTSAN AFFAIRS
Washington!
894.797/27
Department of State
152, July 10, 5 p. m.
Embassy's despatch No. 1891, July 11, 1936,
automobile manufacturin industry law.
One. Imperial ordinance gazetted today fixes
date of enforcement of automobile manufacturing industry
law as July 11, 1936.
Two. At the same time an enforcing ordinance was
promulgated defining automobiles to which the law applies
as those having engines of more than 750 cubic centimeters
FILED
capacity and manufacturers to which the law applies as
15
1936
those producing more than 3,000 cars per annum.
Three. The Department of Commerce and Industry
simultaneously issued an ordinance containing detailed
definitions and regulations of little or no interest to
American manufacturers. Full text by mail
TREATY DIVISION
1r6 Tuhe
Four. Inform Commerce.
C.l.
RR
GREW

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 15, 1936.
RbM:
Tokyo's 1944 of July 14, 1936, sends
forward translations of various ordinances
and regulations for the enforcement of the
Automobile Industry Law.
I think it is necessary merely that
you note that the Law (including those
provisions which require that more than
50 percent of the capital stock shall be
owned by Japanese) is applicable only to
companies producing more than three thousand
units a year. The Embassy thinks that that
figure is somewhere close to the maximum
which any new Japanese manufacturer is
likely to produce for the next few years.
It is reported also that thought is
being given to increasing the duty on
automobiles and automobile parts to 50
percent ad valorem (it is now, I believe,
35 percent). Some people believe that
even this increase will not effectively
protect Japanese companies and that it may
be necessary to impose quotas, which would
adversely affect the American companies.
The Embassy remarks in conclusion that
the Japanese do not seem to be disposed to
act hastily, and it believes that the Law
will be administered for the present at
least in such manner as not to be injurious
to American interests.
The

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
The despatch need not be read.
894.797/29
F/DLY

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
7
July 22, 1936.
CONVERSATION:
1936 JUL 22 PM 12 51
Mr. Charles A. Moser,
FAR LASYE
Department of):Cosoreobe;
COMMUNICATIONS
Mr. Dooman.
AN
Subject:
Japanese Automobile Industry Law:
894.797/
ownership of General Motors (Japan),
Kabushiki Kaisha.
Mr. Moser said that in response to an oral inquiry
made by Mr. Dooman in June last, field agents of the
2
8
Department of Commerce had been directed to make inquiries
894.797
in regard to the ownership of General Motors Japan and
Ford Motors Japan; and that he (Mr. Moser) had telephoned
to Mr. Turner a reply which had been received with regard
to the ownership of the stock of the latter corporation.
The Department of Commerce had now received a letter from
its agent in Detroit with regard to the owmership of
General Motors Japan, and he read to Mr. Dooman over the
telephone pertinent portions of that report, as follows:
"We have just received from the General Motors Export
Corporation, 1775 Broadway, New York, a letter signed by
Mr. Charles Rives Carroll, Counsel of the Corporation,
reading as follows:
'Answering your inquiry of June 26, 1936, you
are advised that the entire outstanding capital
stock of General Motors Japan, Kabushiki Kaisha,
is owned either outright or beneficially by the
General Motors Corporation, and has been so owned
since the incorporation of the Japanese company.
There

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
There are presently no bonds or other securities
outstanding, oxcept the capital stock owned by
the General Motors or its nominees.!"
FE:KHD/DLY

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF FOREIQN AND DOMESTIC COMMERCE
FFAWANENGTONSTAT
Divisidn
FAR FASTS
1936 JUL 22 JpW 124511936.
DIVISION OF
Mr. Eugene Dooman,
COMMUNICATIONS
IN REPLY REFER TO23
Division of Far EasterANarFairsRoom 381,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Dooman:
Copy of reply to your inquiry re. capital stock of the Ford
Motor Company of Japan, Ltd.
Information regarding General Motors has been pronised for
later.
C.K.M.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
July 3, 1936.
To:
Automotive-Aeronautics Trade Division
27-g
From:
Detroit District Office,
Subject: Ford and General Motors of Japan.
With reference to your memorandum of June 22, we are informed
by Mr. R. I. Roberge, General Sales Department, Ford Motor Company,
that the capital stock of the Ford Motor Company of Japan Ltd.,
consists of 160,000 shares, all of which is owned by the Ford Motor
Company of Dearborn, with the exception of 6 shares held by American
citizens.
In turn, Ford Motor Company would like to know whether you
have received any information from Japan concerning the regulations
for enforcement of the Automobile-Monopoly Law recently passed by
the Japanese Diet.
R. L. Whaley,
Commercial Agent in Charge
RLW : wp

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.91)
1343
AINISER
41
18
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
16
OF THE
DEPARTMINI OFSTATE
UNITED STATE
AMERICA
TREATY DIVISION
AMERICAN EMBASSY
AUG 21 1936
CIB
Tokyo, July 14, 1936.
894.797
No. 1944.
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
SUBJECT: AUTOMCBILE MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY LAW.
FE(381)
N PUBLICATION
56
rivision of
S
A RS
S
1936
U.P.I AND Y. 2U.
3mc
894.797/29
J
35
QA.CIC
A4+
RECORDING DiSK
Fl!r
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
EBC
Washington.
Sir:
814.777/27
With reference to the mbassy's telegram No. 152
26
July 10, 5 p.m., and to the Embassy's despatch No. 1891
of June 11, 1936, I have the honor to report that ordi-
nances relative to the Automobile Manufacturing Industry
Law were published in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE of July 10, 1936,
STAE
and that the law went into effect on the following day. The
oginances were three in number, an Imperial Ordinance fix-
i the date of enforcement of the law, a second Imperial
AFA
Orminence regarding its enforcement, and an ordinance of the
Doartment of Commerce and Industry containing further de-
F/FG
fintions and regulations for enforcement. The texts of the
ordinances

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
ordinances, as translated by the Embassy, are forwarded
with this despatch.
As mentioned in the Embassy's telegram referred to
in the preceding paragraph the law does not apply to auto-
mobiles having engines of less than 750 cubic centimeters
cylinder displacement. Such automobiles,including the
Datsun, already receive certain privileges under a separate
law encouraging the production of small cars.
Also referred to in the Embassy's telegram was the
stipulation that the manufacturers to whom the law applies
are those producing more than 3,0oo cars per annum. The
press had reported that the Government had intended to fix
this figure at 5,ooo but that, inasmuch as the foreign auto-
mobile interests had been planning to circumvent the law by
establishing subsidiary companies, each of a capacity of less
than 5,Ooo vehicles annually and hence not subject to regula-
tion, the figure was reduced to 3,ooo.
However, a simpler explanation exists. The law is
designed to assist qualified Japanese manufacturers and,
in the present embryonic state of the domestic industry, five
thousand cars a year is a total quite beyond the capacity of
any Japanese manufacturer. However, two companies which
have lready commenced operations may within the near future
be expected to develop a capacity of three thousand cars per
year. These companies are the Toyoda Automatic Loom Company
and the Nissan Automobile Company. With regard to these
companies the ASAHI and the NICHI NICHI both claimed in
recent

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
recent articles that they had been selected by the Govern-
ment as the basis for the domestic industry, that they had
already filed formal reports of their plans with the Govern-
ment, and that the Government was planning to discourage
reported automobile manufacturing projects contemplated by
the Mitsui and Sumitomo interests on the grounds that the
market will be fully taken care of without them.
The foregoing report suggests a second reason for es-
tablishing the figure at 3,O00. The figure selected not
only determines those manufacturers to be favored but it
also determines those who are to come under the detailed
Government regulation prescribed by the law. By placing
the figure at a lower level the Government has taken a further
step to enable itself to have at all times complete informa-
tion with regard to the state of this industry. Under the
regulations prescribed by ordinance the Government now re-
quires comprehensive reports from qualified companies and
from those established before August 9, 1935 ( the foreign
companies).
The present ordinances are largely devoted to the proce-
dure for exemption from duty on imported parts and materials
for the industry and for the remission of income and business
profits taxes. These are the privileges which, it is hoped,
will enable Japan to establish an automobile industry. How-
ever, the new law provides two further and more drastic means
of encouraging Japanese producers at the expense of the
foreign companies. Import duties may be raised and import
quotas

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
quotas may be established. These provisions have not been
invoked in the present enforcement regulations but it is
believed on good authority that the Government is consider-
ing an increase in the duty upon automobiles and automobile
parts to 50% ad valorem. Most observers do not believe
that it is possible to effect the purpose of the law without
taking this step. Some further apprehend that even this
will not prove sufficient and that in the end it will be
necessary to est blish quotas whic of course would directly
curtail the business of the foreign co.panies.
However, as mentioned above no drastic action has been
taken in the present ordinances. There is manifest in them
no disposition to act hastily and to attempt to create a
Japanese industr over night. Therefore, although an increase
in the duties is probable, ror the present the enforcement
regulations appear to be liberal and not imediately injurious
to American interusts.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
nclosures:
1/ As stated above.
866.16
JGP:g :r

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1944 of July 14, 1936 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation by the American Embassy, Tokyo, of
text in Japanese published in the KAMPó, official
gazette of the Japanese Government, in its issue
No. 2856 of July 10, 1936, beginning at page 293.
h:CC:r
Imperial ordinance.
We hereby sanction the fixing of the date of
enforcement. of the Automobile Manufacturing
Industry Law and order the same to be promulgated.
July 9, 1936.
Imperial Sign Manual.
Koki Hirota, Premier.
Osami Nagano, inister of the vavy.
Count Hisaichi Terauchi, .inister
of Har.
Eiichi Baba, Minister of Finance.
Shigenosuke Ushio, Minister of
nome Affairs.
Gotaro Ogawa, Minister of com-
merce and industry.
Imperial Ordinance No. 169.
The Automobile Manufecturing Industry Law
shall be put into force from July 1l, 1936.
We hereby sanction the Enforcing Ordinance for the
Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law and order the
same to be promulgated.
Imperial Sign Manual.
July 9, 1936.
Koki Hirota, Premier.
Osami Nagano, Minister of the Navy.
Count Hisaichi Terauchi, Minister
of War.
Eiichi Baba, Minister of Finance.
Shigenosuke Ushio, Minister of Home
Affairs.
Gotaro Ogawa, Minister of Commerce
and Industry.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Imperial Ordinance No. 170.
Enforoing Ordinance for the Automobile
Manufacturing Industry Law.
Artiole l. The term automobiles as used in
Article 2 of the Automobile Manufacturing Industry
Law means all automotive vehicles (including chassis)
using internal combustion engines for motive power and
exceeding total cylinder displacement of 75o cubic
centimeters. The term automobile parts as used in
Article 2 of the Automobile Menufacturing Industry
Law means parts for such automobiles and is to be
further defined by later ordinance.
Article 2. The limit referred to in the first
paragraph of Article 3 of the Autmobile Manufacturing
Industry Law shall be, in the case of automobiles, three
thousand per year, and, in the case of automobile parts,
parts for three thousand automobiles per year.
Article 3. Any person desiring exemption from
the payment of income or business profit taxes under
the provisions of Article 6 of the Automobile Manu-
facturing Industry Law shall report to that office
of the Tax Bureau under the jurisdiction of which he
resides, and state the amount of his income or busi-
ness profit in accor&ance with the provisions of
Article 24 of the Income Tax Law or of Article 1l of
the Business Profit Tax Law; and if he receives an
additional income or business profit from enterprises
other than those for which he seeks exemption from
payment of income tax or business profit tax, he shall
affix to the said report a statement of accounts re-
lating to the additional income or business profit
and a separate statement of accounts relating to the
income or business profit from the said enterprises
themselves.
Article 4. Any person who has been engaged in,
or is at the time engaged in, an enterprise for which
he seeks exemption from the payment of income or busi-
ness profit tax under the provisions of Article 6 of
the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law may be granted
an extension of the period of exemption from the payment
of such taxes if the said period be not expired. When
any person who has operated an automobile manufacturing
company or companies obtains a further license under the
terms of Article 3 of the Automobile Manufacturing
Industry Law, the period of exemption accorded to the
earlier enterprise or enterprises shall be taken into
account in applying the provisions of Article 6 of the
same Law.
Artiole 5.

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Article 5. Tools, machines, or materials which
may be exempted from the imposition of import duties
under the provisions of Article 8 of the Automobile
Manufacturing Industry Law are necessary articles for
the automobile manufacturing industry and shall be spe-
cified by subsequent Ordinance.
Article 6. Any person desiring exemption from the
imposition of import duty in accordance with the pro-
visions of Article 8 of the Automobile Manufacturing
Industry Law, shall affix to each import declaration
import permit issued by the Minister of Commerce and In-
dustry.
The import declaration mentioned in the foregoing
paragraph shall be made in the name of the automobile
manufacturing company.
Article 7. If articles exempted from the imposition
of import duty under Article 8 of the Automobile Manu-
facturing Industry Law are not, within three years from
date of importation, used for the purposes for which im-
ported, import duty shall be imposed on such articles.
The foregoing provision shall not govern when articles
are applied, within three years from date of importa-
tion, to other purposes or enterprises which may be erempt
from the imposition of import duty and permit of the
Minister of Commerce and Industry to this effect
is produced and reported to the ustoms authorities con-
cerned. The period mentioned in the first paragraph
may be extended when the Minister of Commerce and In-
dustry deems it necessary.
Supplementary Rules.
The present Ordinance shall be enforced from the day
on which the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law shall
be enforced.
The provisions of Articles 5,6 and 7 shall apply when
import duty is waived under the provisions of paragraph
6 of the Supplementary Rules of the Automobile Manu-
facturing industry Law

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Ordinance No. 6 of the Department of Commerce
and Industry.
The following are hereby made the regulations for the
enforcement of the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law.
July 10, 1936.
Gotaro Ogawa, Minister of
Commerce and Industry.
Regulations for the Enforcement of the
Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law.
Article l. Automobile parts as referred to in the
second sentence of Article 1 of the Enforcing Ordinance
for the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law are the
following:
(1) Engines, cast or finished cylinder blocks,
finished crank shafts.
(2) Clutches.
(3) Transmissions.
(4) Differentials.
(5) Pressed steel body parts.
(6) Chassis.
Article 2. Any person desiring to obtain the license
referred to in Article 3 of the Automobile Manufacturing
Industry Law shall apply in writing to the Minister of Com-
merce and Industry and shall set forth in the application
the following information:
(1) Location of factory.
(2) Quantity of products to be manufactured or
assembled, classified according to type of
automobile and type of automobile parts.
(3) Equipment for manufacture or assembling.
(4) Capacity of manufacture or assembling.
The application shall be accompanied by the papers mentioned
hereunder:
(1) Documents estimating the date of commencement
of

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
of operation
(2) Documents stating the degree of progress in
manufacturing or assembling.
(3) Doouments outlining the source of materials
or parts used.
(4) Prospectus of manufacturing or assembling
operations, accompanied by plans .
(5) Estimate of expenditure invested in the enterprise.
(6) Statement of the total funds invested in the enter-
prise and of means of obtaining required funds.
(7) Prospectus of sale of finished goods.
(8) Estimate of income and expenditure.
(9) Articles of Association, register, balance sheets,
inventories, business reports, profit and loss
accounts, distribution of profits, and list of
shareholders.
(l0)Documents attesting the qualifications of appli-
cants under the terms of paragraphs (1) and (2) of
Article 4 of the Automobile Manufacturing Industry
Law.
(1l) Documents outlining incident&al enterprises if the
applicant is engaged in incidental enterprises
other than automobile manufacturing.
Article 3. A permit shall be obtained from the Minister of
Commerce and Industry to cover any change in the information
referred to in the first paragraph of the preceding Article,
and the application shall state the reason for the change.
Article 4. Commencement of operations by an automobile
manufacturing company shall be reported immediately to the
Minister of Commerce and Industry.
Article 5. With regard to automobile manufacturing companies
the Minister of Commerce and Industry shall give public notice
of the following:
(1) Company's name, location of head office, and date
of issue of license, whenever a license is issued
under Article 3 of the Automobile Manufacturing
Industry Law.
(2)
The company's name, location of head office,
and cause and date of invalidation of license
whenever a license issued under Article 3 of the
Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law is in-
validated under the provisions of the third
paragraph of Article 4 or the third paragraph
of Article 5 of the Automobile Manufacturing
Industry Law.
(3)

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
6
(3) The company's name, location of head office,
and cause and date of change in status, when-
ever an automobile manufacturing company loses
or acquires standing as such as a result of
transfer or discontinuance of business or a
decision of amalgamation or dissolution sanc-
tioned by the Minister of Commerce and Industry
under Article l4 of the Atomobile Manufacturing
Industry Law.
(4)
The company's name, location of head office, and
date of cancellation of permit, whenever a license
issued under Article 3 of the Aotomohile Manu-
facturing Industry Law is cancelled under the
provisions of Article 19 of same law.
Article 6. The goods mentioned in Article 5 of the En-
forcing Ordinance for the Automobile Manufacturing Industry
Law shall be the following:
(1) Such goods as are enumerated in the import
tariff annexed to the customs Tariff Law and are
specified in the table annexed to the present
regulations.
(2) Parts and accessories of tools or machines covered
by the foregoing clause numbered (1).
Prime movers and accessory appliances imported
for integral use with machines provided for in (1).
Article 7. Any person desiring to obtain the exemption
provided for in Article 8 of the Automobile Manufacturing
Industry Law shall apply in writing to the Minister of Commerce
and Industry, and the application shall include the following
information:
(1) Description, type, capacity, nature, quantity and
value of goods to be imported.
(2) Object of intended importation.
(3) Names of manufacturer and exporter.
(4) Necessity for importation.
(5) Port of arrival and erpected date of arrival.
The sanction of the Minister of Commerce and Industry
is necessary in the event of alteration in any of the foregoing
data.
Article 8. Any person who has imported goods under
permit provided for in Article 8 of the Automobile Manufacturing
Industry Law shall immediately report the fact to the Minister of
Commerce and Industry setting forth the following information
accompanied by copy of import permit:
(1)

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
(1) Description and quantity of goods imported.
(2) Date and port of importation.
Article 9. Any person desiring the permit provided for
in Article 7 of the Enforcing Ordinance for the Automobile
Manufacturing Industry Law shall apply in writing to the
Minister of Commeroe and Industry and the application shall
set forth the following information accompanied by a copy of
the import permit:
(1) Description and quantity of the goods and new use
to which the goods are to be applied.
(2) Purpose of the new use of the goods.
(3) Reason for applying the goods to a new use.
(4) Date and port of importation.
Article 10. When goods imported free of duty under the
provisions of Article 8 of the Automobile Manufacturing In-
dustry Law have been employed for the object for which imported
the fact shall be immediately reported in writing to the
Minister of Commerce and Industry and the report shall contain
the following information and be accompanied by copy of the
import permit:
(1) Description, quantity, and object of use of the
goods imported.
(2) Date of using the goods for the said purpose.
(3) Date and port of importation.
When goods imported duty free under the provisions of
Article 8 of the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law cease
to be used for the object for which imported, that fact shall
be immediately reported in writing to the Minister of Com-
merce and Industry. The report shall state the reason there-
for, supply the information called for in sub-paragraphs
(1) and (3) of the preceding paragraph, and be accompanied by
a copy of the import permit.
Article ll. Any person desiring to obtain the permission
referred to in Article 9 of the Automobile Manufacturing In-
dustry Law shall apply in writing therefor to the Minister of
Commeroe and Industry, and the application shall contain the
following information:
(1) Amount of capital increase and amount of first
instalment to be paid up on capital increase.
(2) Means of accomplishing capital inorease.
(3) Necessity for capital increase.
Written

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
Written applioation for the permission mentioned in the
foregoing paragraph shall be accompanied by documents con-
taining the following information:
(1) Explanatory statement with regard to extension
of the enterprise.
(2) Expenditure for equipment to be financed by capital
increase and construction estimates therefor.
(3) Minutes of meeting of shareholders which authorized
capital increase.
(4) Copy of stock register and of record of paid
capital.
(5) Balance sheet for the last business term.
Article l2. Any person desiring to obtain the permission
referred to in the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Auto-
mobile Manufacturing Industry Law shall apply in writing to the
Minister of Commerce and Industry and the application shall
contain the following information:
(1) Total amount of indebtedness.
(2) Rate of interest on indebtedness.
(3) Necessity for further borrowing.
If the authority to borrow is to be sub-divided under the
terms of the Factory Mortgage Law the application referred to
shall contain the information called for in sub-paragraphs (1) and
(3) of the foregoing paragraph and shall in addition contain
the following:
(1) A declaration that debentures are to be issued
in several lots at different times.
(2) Maximum rate of interest.
To the written application mentioned in the preceding two
paragraphs shall be attached the following:
(1) Statement of the expenditures for the construotion
of equipment to be financed by the loan, and de-
scription of such equipment and costs of con-
struction.
(2) Copy of resolutions of shareholders meeting with
regard to flotation of the loan.
(3) Copy of register of stocks of the company and of
paid up capital.
(4) Balance sheet for the last business term.
(5) If debentures are still outstanding, copy of record
of outstanding debentures.
(6) Draft of trust deed.
(7)

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
(7) Inventory of property mortgageable under the
Factory Mortgage Law.
(8)
) Statement of book value of mortgageable property
referred to in the preceding clause, classified
in accordance with the final inventory of assets.
If the company intends to raise an unsecured loan in
accordance with the provisions of the third paragraph of
Artiole 10, the application shall contain a detailed state-
ment of reasons for not offering security for the loan, in
addition to the information called for in the numbered sub-
paragraphs of the foregoing paragraph. The application shall
be accompanied by the items referred to in sub-paragraphs
(1) to (5) of the foregoing paragraph, and by a statement
of the terms of the loan and the manner of its issue.
Article 13. Any change occurring in the trust contract
or in the property offered for security after the issue
of the permission provided for in the first paragraph
of Article 10 of the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law
shall immediately be reported in writing to the Minister of
Commerce and Industry.
Artiole l4. An automobile manufacturing company shall
schedule its business program for each year from January 1
to December 31 in advance, and shall apply to the Minister
of Commerce and Industry for his approval thereof. Appli-
cation for this purpose shall be made in writing not later
than October 31.
Article 15. The application referred to in the preceding
article to be made by each automobile manufacturing company
shall contain the following:
(1) Outline of business enterprise.
(2) Projected extension or alterations.
(3) Outline of operation.
(4) Quantity of automobiles manufactured or
assembled, quantity of automobiles sold, and
quantity of automobiles in stock, at the
beginning of the year and at the end of the year.
(5) Source of parts and materials.
(6)
Quantity of parts and materials used and on
hand, at the beginning of the year and at the
end of the year.
(7) Estimate of revenue and expenditure.
Article 16.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
Article 16. Any person desiring to transfer an
automobile manufacturing enterprise in accordance with the
provisions of the first paragraph of Article 14 of the
Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law shall apply in
writing to the Minister of Commerce and Industry and the
application shall contain the following:
(1) Description of enterprise to be transferred.
(2) Necessity for the transfer.
(3) Price and date of transfer.
(4)
If the entire enterprise is being transferred,
all items referred to in the numbered sub-
paragraphs of the second paragraph of
Article 2 with regard to the transferee.
To the application for permit mentioned in the pre-
ceding paragraph shall be attached the following:
(1) Certified copy of contract of transfer.
(2) Documents in support of the price of transfer.
(3)
If the entire business enterprise is being trans-
ferred, the items referred to in the num-
bered sub-paragraphs of the second para-
graph of Article 2 with regard to the trans-
feree.
(4)
If the entire business enterprise is being
transferred, the written application re-
ferred to in the first paragraph shall be
submitted with the joint signature of the
transferee.
Article 17. When the transfer of an automobile manu-
facturing enterprise has been completed, the transferer
shall immediately so report to the Minister of Commerce and
Industry.
If the enterprise is being wholly transferred, the
said report shall be submitted with the joint signature
of the transferee.
Article 18. When an automobile manufacturing company
is to discontinue business or is to suspend its business
for a period of more than three months it should apply
in writing to the Minister of Commerce and Industry,
stating the reason therefor and the period of suspension.
When

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11-
When an automobile manufacturing company has tempo-
rarily suspended its business for a period not exceeding
three months it shall at once so report to the Minister
of Commerce and Industry. When an automobile manufacturing
company has recommenced its business after a temporary
suspension it shall immediately so report to the Minister
of Commerce and Industry.
Article 19. Any person desiring to obtain the permission
for amalgamation under the provisions of the second para-
graph of Article 14 of the Automobile Manufacturing Industry
Law shall apply therefor in writing to the Minister of Com-
merce and industry, with the joint signature of the parties
to the amalgamation and the application shall contain the
following:
(1) Method and terms of the merger.
(2) Time of merger.
(3) Necessity for the merger.
(4)
Items called for in the numbered sub-para-
graphs of the first paragraph of Article 2
with regard to such company as will remain
in existence after the merger or will come
into existence as the result of the merger.
To the application referred to in the foregoing para-
graph shall be attached the following:
(1) Documents attesting to the contract of
merger.
(2)
Explanation of the conditions of the merger.
(5)
Items referred to in sub-paragraphs num-
bered (1) to (8) of the second paragraph
of Article 2 and in Article 1l with regard
to such company as remains after the merger
or comes into existence as the result of the
merger, together with articles of asso-
ciation thereof.
(4) Inventory and balance sheet of the companies
parties to the merger prepared in accordance
with the provisions of the first paragraph
of Article 78 of the commercial law.
(5)
If one of the companies to the merger is a
company other than an automobile manufacturing
company, its articles of association, copy
of register, inventory, balance sheet, busi-
ness report, profit and loss statement, state-
mont of disposition of profits and list of
stockholders.
Article 20. Upon the amalgamation of automobile manu-
facturing companies, the company continuing thereafter or
the new company created thereby shall immediately report
to the Minister of Commerce and Industry its organization.
The

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
The following shall be attached to the report re-
ferred to in the foregoing paragraph:
(1) Copy of register.
(2) List of stockholders.
(3) Evidence that the company qualifies under the
provisions of the first and second para-
graphs of Article 4 of the Automobile Manu-
facturing Industry Law.
Article 2l. Any person desiring to obtain the Govern-
ment's permission authorizing a resolution of dissolution
under the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 14
of the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law shall apply to
the Minister of Commerce and Industry, and the application
shall state the necessity for the dissolution and shall con-
tain a copy of the resolution of dissolution adopted by the
stockholders'meeting.
Article 22. By January 31 of each year automobile manu-
facturing companies shall present to the Minister of Com-
merce and Industry an annual report summarizing business
and manufacturing operations of the preceding calendar year
and containing a statement of equipment at the close of the
year.
Article 23. Immediately following the stockholders'
meeting at the close of each business term automobile manu-
facturing companies shall submit to the Minister of Com-
merce and Industry an inventory of property, balance sheet,
profit and loss account, statement of disposition of profits,
and list of stockholders.
Article 24. By the fifteenth day of each month auto-
mobile manufacturing companies shall present to the Minister
of Commerce and Industry a business and property report for
the preceding month.
Concurrently with the said monthly report automobile manu-
facturing companies shall submit to the Minister of Commeroe
and Industry documentary evidence of their qualification
under the provisions of the first and second paragraphs of
Article 4 of the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law.
Article 25. The certificates referred to in the third
paragraph of Article 15 of the Automobile Manufacturing
Industry Law shall accord with a form annexed to these re-
gulations.
Article 26. The present regulations shall take effect
on the day of the enforcement of the Automobile Manufacturing
Industry Law.
-13-

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
Article 27. Persons entitled to engage in the
manufacture of automobiles in accordance with the pro-
visions of the fourth paragraph of the Additional Rules
of the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law shall sub-
mit to the Minister of Commerce and Industry a statement
of the quantity of automobiles and parts assembled and
manufactured during the three years prior to August 9,
1935, and shall be examined with regard thereto by the
Minister of Commerce and Industry.
The statement referred to in the foregoing para-
graph shall be submitted within two months from the date
of enforcement of the present regulations, and the state-
ments shall be accompanied by documents containing the
following information:
(1) Location of factory on August 9, 1935,
and at the time that the present regu-
lations take effect.
(2)
Description of assembling and manufactur-
ing equipment on August 9, 1935, and at
the time that the present regulations
take effect, accom anied by a plan of
the same.
If the persons referred to in the first paragraph fail
to submit the statement provided for in the first and second
paragraphs, the Minister of Com:erce and Industry shall fix
the quantity of automobiles and parts assembled and manu-
factured by them during the three years ending August 9,
1935.
Article 28. The scale of business conducted previous
to August 9, 1935, as referred to in the fourth paragraph
in the Additional Rules of the Automobile Manufacturing
Industry Law shall be determined by the …inister of Commerce
and Industry on the basis of the quantity of production
arrived at in accordance with provisions of the preceding
article.
When the Minister of Commerce and Industry has made
the determination referred to in the foregoing paragraph
with regard to the persons named in the first paragraph
of the preceding article, he shall give public notice of
their names or firm names, places of business, and scale
of business.
Article 29. The provisions of Article 22, Article 23,
the first paragraph of Article 24, and Article 25 shall ap-
ply equally to persons engaging in automobile manufacture
under the provisions of the fourth paragraph of the Additional
Rules of the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law.
Article 30. The provisions of Articles 6 to 10 shall
apply equally when imposition of import duty is exempted
under

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
under the provisions of the sixth paragraph of the Addi-
tional Rules of the Automobile Manufacturing Industry Law.
ANNEX
Tariff
number
Names of Articles
No. 462
Iron, excluding special steel otherwise
provided for:
Plates and Sheets, not coated with metals and
not exceeding 3 milli-
meters in tnickness.
o. 462-2
Special Steel: Lumps, ingots, blooms,
billets, slabs, bars, rods, plates and
sheets, containing not less than 0.5%
by weight of nickel, chromium, tungsten,
molybdenum or cobalt, or containing not
less than 1% by weight of silicon or
:anganese (excluding silicon steel sheets
not coated with metal and not exceeding
0.7 millimeters in thickness)
No. 536
Straight rules, squares, measuring tapes,
wire gauges, screw pitch gauges, thick-
ness gauges, micrometers, protractors,
calipers, dividers, levels and the like.
No. 546
Tachometers, ship's logs, stean engine
indicators, anemometers, dynamometers,
cyclometers, pedometers, and the like.
No. 551
Scientific instruments and parts thereof,
not otherwise provided for.
No. 586
Power hammers.
No. 587
Gas compressors.
No. 594
Hydraulic presses.
No. 595
Pneumatic tools and pneumatic machines.
No. 596
Metal and wood working machinery, not
otherwise provided for, including roll-
ing machines, drawing machines, nail-
making machines, moulding machines,
flanging machines, bending machines,
rivetting machines, etc., etc.
No. 604
........ Machinery not otherwise provided for.
No. 605
.Parts of machinery, not otherwise provided
for.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.93)
Ligned
No. 219
5
7-23-33
DEFAMERICAN CONSULATE
ERY
Yokohama, Japan, June 12, 1936.
T T
1936 JUN 29 PM 4 11
TA
Labribition mdaf
SCOHNUNIGATRONS
ou au eont.
ANOECORDB
ASSIST
AILE
JUL1-1938EC
894.797
SUBJECT:
JAPANESE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY
1-1055
LRE
THE HONORABLE
Division of
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
 F STA
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL3-1936
WASHINGTON
Department of State
SIR:
I have the honor to submit herewith a report
894.7971
upon the Japanese automotive industry. Vice Consul
Gregor C. Merrill and I have collaborated upon the
preparation of the report.
Previous Reports
30
The Department is respectfully referred to
previous reports from this office, a partial list
of which, with a brief summary of each, is enclosed
with this report as Enclosure No. ll.
Very respectfully yours,
Bitohiy
Richard F. Boyce,
American Consul.
Enclosure:
Report as stated above.
866.16
RFB/rk
F/FG

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.91)
VOLUNTARY REPORT
CO.FIDE.TIAL
Ih (on
A.C/C
2,
RECORDING DESK
PWHR
JAPAIESE AUTOMOTIVE I.DUSTRY
Ritozigec
From:
Consul
Richard F. Boyce.
and
Hregone lmevinll
From: Vice Consul
Gregot C. Merrill.
American Consulate,
Yokohama, Japan.
Date of completion: June 12, 1936.
Date of mailing : June 12, 1936.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAIESE AUTO. OTIVE
IIDUJTRY
TABLE OF COLTENTS
Page No.
Introduction
1
Market Conditions
Japanese Domestic
market
for
Standard Sized cars
3
Japanese
Domestic Market for
Midget
Cars
8
Market in
"Manchoukuo"
and
North China
10
Export Market
for Japanese
Automobiles
11
Japanese Lilitary Use of
Automobiles
13
Cost of Production
15
Competition Among Japanese
Producers
18
Materials Used in Manufacture
19
Labor
20
Factory Equipment
22
Automotive
Design
24
Quality of
Automotive Proaucts
26
Railroads and
Motor
Hignways
28
Gasoline Cost
29
Measures
Taken by American Assembly
Plants
30
Diesel Trucks
31
Government Assistance and sales
Promotion
32
Enclosures

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
TABLS OF CONTENTS
(Continuation)
Page No.
Enclosures
No. 1. Memortndum: Vises issue to
two officicls of the Hissen Jidosht
Kabushiki Meisha
36
No. 2. Memorandum: Conversotion, Yay
31, 1936, with ir. Tomes elsjoe,
Maneger of Chrysler Corporetion,
Yokohama
37
No. 3. Iemorandum: Conver. tion, June
2, 1956, vith ir. J. Yamamoto,
I aneging Director of the issan
Jidosha Kabushiki isha
40
No. 4. Memorandum: Conversation, June
8, 1936, with Mr. T. s elsjoe,
Manager of Chrysler Coation,
Yokohama
44
No. 5. Duties and Frei he Rctes es
of June 1, 1936
47
No. 6. Excerpts fro the new hutomobile
Industry Lu .....
50
No. 7. Automobile Census end statisti
for Japun
51
No. 8. "Automobile Indust Pill," fro.
JAPA: CHRO1CLE,  7, 1936
53
No. 9. "Gasoline Price Increase," from
JAPA. RC 1CLE, M8Y 7, 1956
55
No.10. "Autonobile Industry in Japan
Growing Gradually" from JAPA :S
A D :AIL, of Tokyo, June 7, 1936 .
56
No.ll. Partial list of Reports on Auto-
motive Industry in Japan ......
57
No.12. Memorandum: Regarding conver-
sations with Mr. Ben jamin Kopf,
Managing Director of Ford Motors of
Japan
58
No.l3. "Automobile Industry," pages
448-451 of the JAPAI-MAHCHOUKUO YEAR
BOOK, 1936
59
*
*
*
*

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
JAPAIMSE AUTOLOTIVE ILDUSTRY
Introduction
The approach of the Japanese to the establishment
NOT FORB CATION
of a purely native automotive industry is not based
upon economics but upon the opinion of the Japanese
Government that reasons of national defense require
such a step regardless of the cost. To this must also
be added the fact that national pride is involved.
Automobiles are an indispensable necessity to the
expanding military forces.
Motor cars and busses are indispensable as
auxiliary means of transportation - trucxs and
delivery vans for fectories end business houses,
busses which feed the municipal railways, and taxis
for a very linited pert of the populetion. Busses
are also the only rapid means of transportation in
outlying districts Where it is not economically
feasible to build railways.
When the above outlets ere exhausted, there is,
practically speakin, no other market for sutomobiles.
Taking the present annual consumption of approximetely
40,000 automobiles of all kinds, exclusive of the
midget cars and three wheeled delivery vens, the
problem of the Japanese is first, to meet Army needs
and second, to produce passen er cars and trucks for a
small market at a price which the market cen afford,
and which will compete in efficiency and design with
American

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
American automobiles. As merican automobiles have
long since driven European cars fron the Japanese
market the issue is strictly between Amer icen and
Japanese producers.
Because of the lov: value of the Japenese currency
in international exchange end because of the relatively
low cost of labor in Japan the Japanese have been able
to accomplish a great deal in certain lines of manu-
facture, particularly steple products such us textiles.
But the manufacture of automobiles in volves other factors
in which Japan is at a distinct disadvantage. a iven
car sells in co petition with other cars only if it has
the same efficieney, durability, and odern desim that
the others have. Its me nurecture rey uir es heavy cutlay
in plant equipment, en ineering staf", and in e peri-
mental worx. Improvements in desi are bound to coe
principally from the place where they are mostly used
and produced. he lostion is therefore: cn the
Japanese, either wit! or vithout Government assistance
to their infent automobile industry successfully manu-
facture with  ut the background the United States has,
and from which the A rican au tomobile has developed.
Japanese

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
Japanese Donestic Market
For Standard Sized Cer
The tables iven below will present  airly
accurate picture of the market in Japan tor  utomobiles
exclusive of midget (such as the DA iti) and the three
wheeled deliver v: ns. It is difficult to et accurate
and up-to-date figures partly because of varietions in
classificetions, partly beceuse of te secrecy which
surrounds such metters, but for purposes of co parison
these figures siven below are ade uete. is stated in
the article (Enclosure Ho. l3 herewit!) in the Japan-
Yanchoukuo Year Book for 1936 "for practical purposes,
the motor-cer trade in Japan is divided into truck
chassis and the taxi service." as the evera e fa ily
in Japan earns only about Yen 100.00 (approximetely
50.00 U.3. currency) a  onth, a otor cer such as a
Ford or Chevrolet which costs over Yen 3000.00 or even
a Datsun midget car which costs over Yen 1500.00 is
entirely out of reach. The consumers &re linited to
the Japanese military forces, other Government offices,
business houses, trans por tation services and taxicab
operators, or, to quote The Japan Times and Lail (En-
closure No. 1o - "Automobile Inaustry In Japan Growing
Gradually"), "in Japan there is only one motor car for
every 1,300 persons."
Classifying  otor car consumers into (a) Govern-
ment, business and taxicab owners and (b) private own-
ers, it can be reasonably expected that class (a)
owners

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
owners will ∞ntinue to provide only a gradually in-
creasing market except in time or war. (see pages 13-14
of this report for military demand for automobiles.)
So fer as business ana industry are concerned, the
tremendous expansion which hes teken place in Japan
since the Great lar has begun to show signs of coming
to the level of diminishing returns. It is true that
expansion into Manchuria and China is epparently still
in progress and the heavy and increasin budgets for
the military forces indicate that the Government will
make increased purchases of motor cars. But in the
long run it does not seem reasonable to suppose that
class (a) will ever be sufficient to support an entire
automobile industry which can compete in price with
American irports.
Class (b) owmers at present represent only 5% of
the pessenger car buyers, which means that only about
4,Ooo passenger cars are ovmed by private individuals
in Japan. (This does not include owners of Datsun and
other midget cars.) It is herdly necessary to say that
such a market is no market at all for en autonobile
industry. The only reasonable justification for
establishing such an in dustry for such buyers, even
with the heaviest Government backing, would be that a
remarkable increase in purchasing power is expected in
a fairly near future. But there is no reasonable hope
that such an increase is going to take place for many
years to come. It is only necessary to remember that
the

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
the extremely low wages of the Japanese laboring and
"white-collar" classes are the most important reason
for Japan's remarkable competitive position in inter-
national trade to understand that the Japanese Govern-
ment and ruling business families have no intention
of raising the general wage scele to any eppreciable
extent.
Higher wages would wipe out Japan's inter-
national trade. Without hi her wages there can be
no important increase in the number of private ovmers
of automobiles, even of the midget cars.
Table No. 1
Motor Car Census in Japan
(Does not include midet
and three wheeled vehicles)
Year
Passencer
Trucks
All others
Totel
Cars
including
including
ambulences,
Busses
fire-fighting
apparetus,etc.
1923
12,709
5,022
474
16,205
1924
17,939
6,394
668
25,001
1925
21,002
8,162
1,051
30,215
1926
26,856
10,619
1,218
38,693
1927
34,074
14,176
1,425
49,675
1928
42,015
17,871
1,825
61,711
1929
54,115
25,218
2,138
81,491
1930
58,690
29,744
1,682
90,116
1931
63,917
32,926
2,232
99,075
1932
66,906
34,531
2,478
103,915
1933
68,224
36,117
2,462
106,803
1934
121,200
Table No. 2
Imports of Cars
Assembled with Imported Iaterials
Year
Number of Cars
umber of Cars
Assembled with
Imported
Imported Materials
1929
28,087
5,018
1930
18,663
2,591
1931
18,908
1,887
1932
13,327
997
1933
14,084
491
1934
36,000 (estimate)
Table

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Teble No. 3
Production of Japanese Automobiles
("Light cars" apparently meen
Datsun and other miaget cars)
Year
Passenger
uses and
Light Cars
Cotel
Cars
Prucks
1930
458
458
1931
434
434
1932
2
694
144
840
1933
11
1,044
557
1,612
1934
14
1,321
1,366
2,701
Table 0. 4
Analysis of Automobile Production
in 1933-1934
(The figures iven in this tt ble do not  ree
with the total Japanese production in 1933
in Table Ho. 3 above.)
1933
1934
Ford and General Motors, coibinedl6,0o0
30,884
Automobile Industry (Tolyo)
880
Nissan Automobile (Osake and
Yokohama) Datsun C·r
230
Kawasaki Car Making (Kobe)
100
Mitsubishi Heavy Incustry (Kobe)
60
Tokyo Gas Denki Industry (Tokyo)
420
Japan Car Making (Tokyo)
80
All other Japanese concerns
100
Total Japanese Production (1934)
*2,701
17,870
33,585
*Figures for current production of individual
Japanese companies are not rocurable.
Note: hile only 230 Datsuns ere reported as
produced, about 2,000 are believed to have
been produced in 1935.
Table No. 5
Retail Prices in Japan
of American Automobiles
(The yen is worth approximately 0.30)
ISSEN NATION ONLY.
Ford (4-door sedan)
Yen
3,750
Chevrolet (sedan)
3,810
Dodge (sedan)
5,850
Chrysler (8 cylinder sedan)
9,000
Plymouth (sedan)
4,600
Hudson (6 cylinder secan)
7,500
Terraplane (sedan)
6,500
Buick

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
Buick (5p. sedan)
Yen 8,220
Cadillac (5 p.)
20,000
La Salle (5 p.)
14,000
De Soto (4-door sedan)
7,300
Studebaker (sedan)
7,800
Morris (8 h.p.)
4,250
Nash (6p.)
8,500
Lafayette (6 p.)
6,500
Lincoln
29,000
Packard (5 p.)
19,000
Pontiac (seuan)
5,650
Graham (seuan)
4,800
Hupmobile (6 cylinder)
7,150
Oldsmobile (6 cylinder)
5,650
Note:
The Japanese import tari f of
35% ad valorem is included in
the above prices.
It is said that the above prices
are naterially reduced to cash
purchasers, the reduction in the
case of Ford cars alountin to
Yen 750.00.
The sources of the above statistics are as
follows:
Table No. 1 - Consulate's Despatch .o. 119,
September , 1935.
Table No. 2 - Table Ho. 107, JAPA -I.AiCHOUO
YEAR 00K, 1936 (page 449).
Table No. 3 - Teble lo. 1O6, JAPA.-MACHCURO
YEAR 00K, 1936 (page 448).
Table No. 4 - Consulate's Despatch No. i19,
September 6, 1935.
Table No. 5 - JAPAL TINES AID MAIL of June
7, 1936.
Japanese

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
Japanese Domestic harket
for Midget Cars
It is impossible to obtain accurate and up-to-
date figures regarding production and sales of Datsun
midget cars. The plant is supposed to have e capecity
of 12,000 midget cars & year and the company has issued
many statements for public consuiiption to the effect
that five or six thousand cars were being manufactured
per year and that the export of their products was
developing rapidly. According to the figures published
by the Bureau of National Resources as of Cctober 1935,
a copy of which is appended in nclosure o. 7, 1,366
Datsuns were produced in 1934, the latest fi ;ures avail-
able. For the same year exports of automobiles from
Japan to markets including Manchurie, which ere believed
to consist entirely of Datsun midget cars, amounted to
349 units.
The manager of the Fora)&ssembly plant in Yokohama
estimates that in spite of the statement of the Datsun
official,
approximately 500 units a month are
produced and sold, he has reliable information indicating
that less than 200 units a nonth ere bein producec and
that a large stock of unsold cars is on hand in the
Datsun factory warehouses.
The Datsun officials and the Fordjofficials agree
on one point at least, - that midget cars and standard
sized cars are not competitors. The buyers of standard
sized cars have no use for midget cers and the buyers
of midget cars have not sufficient money to buy standard
sized cars. The Datsun officials claim that the Datsun
probably

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.96)
- 9 -
probably tends to enlerge the demand for standard
sized cars by encoura ing a class of buyer to went
a standard sized car &s soon es he can attord it.
It seems fair to assume tnat the narket for mid et
cars is not as creat as t e skers hoped it would be,
since they are plannin to buila & standard sized car
which is a more suiteble article for the Jap nese
market even thouh that market is a limited one.
arket

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.94)
- 10 -
Market in " anchoukuo" and orth China
American automobiles mi ht be consiuured es subjeet
to the same disc inination in the ure:s  " unchoukn "
and orth China as in Japan proper. Uniortunately the
writers are unable to obte in any informetion   to the
annual consumption or the current cer us ofotor
vehicles in those erees. The Depertmeut y ble
to obtain the fi ures fron the consul tes in  anc uria
and Jorth China. Unless tnese arer fer an annual
consumption substantially larger than thet of Japen,
the diffieulties of the Jep nese automotive indt
are not materially lessened. Presu: l the finenciel
condition of the gr :t cs of privete ci ticens is no
better the that of tue same cl: ss i Tapau, wiich  old
still confine the purch ase or sut  iles to government
agencies, transportation co a ies and busines inter .
For shipments to " ar cnolto," er tun ana Shina,
reference is made to the tables on exports in inclosure
10.7.
Export

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.98)
- 11 -
Ex.ort i.arket
For the attitude of the Jap nese military forces
toward the Japanese automobile industry, reference is
made to the followin section.
Until Japan has produced automobiles which will
freely compete in Japan, without discriminatory police
regulations, tariffs, and heavy covernment subsidies,
it can hardly be expected that its automobiles will
compete in international markets. Ihe same actors
which handicap competition wi th morican automobiles
in Japan will be encountered in selling its product
abroad. In whatever international arkets it is
economically possible for American cars to be operated
in large numbers, to the extent that European makers
have been forced to ive way Japenes: auto..obiles will
be obliged to meet the american competition on equal
terms. At this stage it does not seem litely that
the Japenese will be able to arket their cars outside
of Japan and such territory in Manchurie &nd China
that may come under her control.
As an illustration of this point it is interest-
ing to note that in spite of the most optimistic re-
ports the effort of the makers of the Datsun mid et
car to develop an export market in China, Australia
and Latin America the Managing Director of the plant
admitted in an interview with the writers that the
company's export projects had failed. This confirmed
reports

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
reports from other sources to the same offect. hile
it may be argued that the export eret for such a
special project as the miacet car is no criterion in
gauging the market for s standard sized car, the fect
that the local incustry cn ot copete on equal terms
with American cars in Japan is a air answer as
conditions exist in international arcets at present.
Figures on exports ere given in nclosure o. 7
of this report.
Japanese

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.96)
∴
-13-
Japanese ilitary Use of Automobiles
It is said that the Japenese my is tue most
influential and insistent su porter of the overiuent's
policy in pronotin a purel Japenose uutomotive
industry. According to the informunt quoted in inclosure
No. 4, the ilitary authorities are concerned only with
national defense; they ae insistin that Jepan be
independent of all forei a meters of uuto.obile trucks
within the next ten years; the, tre not interested in
passen er cars; they are not interested i. eny export
market; they re not interusted i style chan es or
appearance of the trucs but ar considerin the me uter
purely fron the point of view of ilit:ry noecessity in
its most restricted sense. The militory, in other
words, are the only roup of consusers in Jepan that
prefer Japtnese mede cars to reliunce upon uny foreign
source of supply.
It is importent to consicer, therefore, how lurge
a market the militar forces offer to the industry.
Upon a basis of national defense the nilitary roup
must either buy sufricient cars to put the industry
on a payin: basis or subsidize the industry regeraless
of cost. It is impossible to obtain figures as to the
number of automobiles which the Jap nese Army and avy
own, or purchase annually. The operetors of the
American assembly plants do not know, since the actual
output of trucks by the Japanese producers for the
military

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.97)
-14 -
militar forces is uninown. It is generelly adnitted
by interested persons that te statictics published
by the Japanese oflicials &s to the output of military
trucks are not reliable and that the production is
somewhat greater than the figures indicate.
It is known thet the Japanese aray is not ss
completely motorized as the American Army. From
such very unsatisfactory infonmation which is available
it would seem that at present not more then 5,000
trucks e year are purchesed by the military forces.
In time of war this woula be reatly inereased, but
even allowin: for a l00% expansion in military peace-
time neeös during the next five yeers, 10,000 trucks
a year is not & large merket for the Jap nese motor
industry to co unt upon.
Cost

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
Cost of Proauction
The snell output of the Japanese automobile
factories is the principal cause of the high ∞st
of production. The relstively hi h cost of imported
materials and machine tools are contributory factors
but of less importance.
The vriter, a Japanese, of the article a pended
herewith as Enclosure llo. l0 states thet it costs
about Yen 8,Ooo for the Japenese producer to nake a
standard sized car for the present small merket. ic-
cording to the manager of the Chrysler assembly plant
in Yokohama, it cost the Japanese as an experiment
Yen 16,000 in labor and material to copy a Dodge
chassis. The Toyoda truck which is a frank conbination
of the parts of three American cers is sola to the
general public for Yen 4, 500. It is apparently sola at
a loss of Yen 3,5oo, to take the figures of the Japenese
writer referred to above. Ad itting for the sake of
argument that the product compares favorably in quality
with American trucks the difference in cost meles free
competition impossible.
It is a problem not only of meetinc the cost of
the American cars laid down, duty paid, in the Japa-
nese market. It is also a problem of producing a car
or truck which the Japenese consumer can afford regard-
less of American competition. Table o. 5 on page 6
of this report shows the list prices to the consumer of
the

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.97)
- 16 -
the American cars sold in Japen.
The same situatio. upplius te the  amu: cture of
the Datsun or mid et cars.
 merican en ineer who
was employed in the t ctory for sone time stated thet
he was sure that the car was being solu at a consider-
able loss. Practically speaking, trere is no foreign
competitor of the Japanese  id et car in the Jep nese
market. The English baby Austin and the En lish beby
Ford sell a few units aid they are far su erior in
quality to the Datsun. But the Jap: nese ublic does
not take r:adily to a midget car even when it is
priced as low as the Datsun. It woula ave to te
sold for considerably under Yen 1,000 to ind a
substantially lerger arket then it now hs, wich
miht mean a loss of Yen 2, 000 or mor r mit to
the manuf: cturer.
The laber cost is the only fector w ich favors
Japan in the production of automobiles. atericls,
nearly all of w ich are imported, and me chine tools,
which are likewise imported, &re more expensive in
Japan than in the Uniteu tetes. Under the new law
for promoting the Jap nese automotive industry the
cost of materials and me chine tools vi ll be decreased
by the exemption from payment of import tarifes. As
explained elsewhere, the Japanese producers do not
intend to invest heavily in costly, special machine
tools such as are an important feature of American
automobile

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
automobile plants. This results in a lower relative
cost of plant equipment but it likewise reduces the
mechanical efficiency of the plant, and it is a
question whether cheap labor end elementary achine
tools can reduce the cost of production to the point
that the Japanese manufacturers can operate on a pay-
ing basis. American producers think thst the Japanese
costs cannot be reduced in this way.
Competition

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.87)
- 20 -
COn AmnE aRL LedueerE
Besides the dirrieulty of produoing automobiles
fer the very limited market in Japan the Japanese
indwstry is faeed with the problem of dividing the mall
market mong mearly a dozen Japanese producors (a partial
liet is given on the third pege or nolssure No. 13). or
combiming the various companios ins a singlo organization.
s the Governeent has accompllahed, witn rwure or leas
opposisiom, the oontrol of other laree Industrien it
is mot improbable that some measurn of conmolidation
will be foreed upon the Japanese automobile industry.
as it moms likely that sll or the comyanies mre
bound to lome a good donl of money, it may not ne too
aifrloult to arranpe a consolidetion. at preoent,
however, the Toyode interests, w Ioh sunufecture the
automatie loons, are salc to be ruahinf conatruction
of an mutomobilo plant whic" will sowpete with the
Nimsan Jidosha rabushiki ami ana'u projeolou standard-
siseear.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
- 19 -
Materials Used in Manuracture
The materials for the production of uutomobiles
do not present any more serious handicap to the Japa-
nese than is presented in their manufacture of other
metal products. Japan imports a greet deal of its
iron and steel and most of its special steels are
imported. Although much or the le tter is i orted
from the Unitea States, it elso imports from Jurope.
In time of war, however, with the Tnite tates cut
off as a source of supply as a result of neutrelity
laws, it would be necessery for Jepan to proauce fro
its own mines and mills such  etals which it could
not import from urope and el sewher. pecial teels
are produced in Japan althou n some observers (see
Enclosure lo. 4) cleim thet the Japsnese do not now
the secrets of producin the best alloys. In any
case, they can be purchased more conomicelly abroad.
Japanese developments in alloys in their turn, la
behind American anc European reseerch.
so far as rubber is concerned, Japan's rubber
industry is already large nd prosperous with a lare
output o? automobile and bicycle tires which cre ex-
ported to many countries. The raw material is im-
porte mostly fro: British and Dutch colonies in the
NOT EOR PUBLICATION
Far East.
In time of wer the cost of imported material
would rise and εd materially to the cost of
tion.
Labor

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.94)
- 20 -
Labor
Americans Who are i. e ar e or inaustri l plants
in this district say that, enerally speakin , Japa-
nese labor is satisfectory. The reatest adventace
in employing Japanese leborers is, or course, extre ely
low wage costs. In men e ses vorurs in incustrial
plants in Ja un are paic c ly e tonth as muer , in
terms of American currency, are erican leborers.
They e also obedient, ttentive, an  tient.
It is said that Jap nese e plo:mcs i  achine
shops, heving no mechanicel t c  nd such as nerican
laboring classes have with thei otcr cars and house-
hold p. liances, take lon er to leain, and hav 1 ss
initiative and practical i a ictio verconin
routine dif iculties. It s: ie thet the, are
less eccurate in t pocision vo t at is so in
portant i: outo obilo co  riction. his has een
co ented upon by many ericc eployer. in Japan of
industrial labor. If t is i true, it voule sterially
affect the qua lity of the automobiles which the Je e-
nese factories turn out.
Due to the provieie s ot Jepenese lubee lews,
which make it almost i possible to lay off l:rge
groups of laborers durin slac. seasons, the Japanese
factory employers have e very rred tendency to take
only unskilled pprentices s new e uployees in order
to keep the labor cost as low as possible curing slach
seasons

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.77)
-31 -
seasons. This tends to prevent nny audnen inoreese
in produetion by mewon of raluetenne to tneremse
thor o pl eten
of inoreamed output po: the rrsts  Low-peid,
unnelllod reeruits.
Botory

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
- 22 -
Factory Equipment
It is claimed by the Japanese that ny mechine
tool equipment necessary in the production of auto-
mobiles can be manu'actured in Japan. hether or not
this may be true, the lect re ains that the issan
Jidosha Kabushiki Ka ishs, makers of the Datsun mid et
car, equipped their plant ellost completely with
American mechine toolo. This is no doubt partly due
to the fect that American auto motive experts who were
employed have encoura ed the purchase of American
machinery. It is no doubt also cue to tie f: et
that American mechinery is considera ly no e modern
and less expensive in spite of the costs of transport-
ation and import tariffe. fher guestioned re erdin
the equipment of the new plant which the same conpany
is about to erect to produce a "purely Jap: nese" auto-
mobile of standard size, the managin dir ctor stated
that the Americen expert in his employ is now in the
United States arrangin for the purchase of more
American machinery because the Japanese mechihe tool
manufacturers are too busy with orders for the Japa-
nese military authorities to produce the necessary
machines for his new plant in the short space of
time he requires it./ One of the important factors in
the manufacture of autonobiles on a large scale is the
number of special machines for one or two operations
only. Such machines make it possible for American
manufacturers

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.98)
-23-
manufacturers to produce automobiles at low prices
in spite of high wages. With limited funds at their
disposal, the ofricials of the issan Coipany cannot
afford such machines for the small output of their
plant and have avoided buying equipment thet cennot
be used on different mocels and for making different
articles. They must therefore use cheap abor in
place of expensive mechinery. Just how effective
such a sutstitution can be in the manufacture of
automobiles, the writer is unable to state. As an
official of the plant s tated, it takes & lot of Datsun
cars to pay for an American automatic dye cutting
machine that cost the factory Yen 250,0o0 to install.
Autonotive

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.97)
-24 -
Auto:notive Design
The Japanese have not evolved any oririnel features
in automobile construction. Thoir products re copies
of American odels, "edapted" to their ideas of what
they can best produce.
The Toyoda military trucl: which may be purchased
by the public is advertised as usin a ericen car parts.
It uses the Ford frame and rour axle, the Chevrolet
engine and the Dodce transmission and coolin system.
The standard sized car whic the  issan inter sts
(makers of the Datsun mid et cer) areplan in; to make
will follow the suggestions of Americrn suto otive
engineers, accordin to the statement of the cen ral
Hanager of that canpany. Features of the Detsun ni et
car ere taken from the baby Ford which is mede in
England, accordin to the eneral  an er of tie ord
plant in Yokohana. According to the statement cf one
of his American coripetitors, the features are taten
from the English Baby Austin.
New desin, style factors, and envineering i pro-
vements are an inportant factor in lerican autorotive
construction. They have stamped the American car as
the most modern as well as the least expensive of the
world's automotive products to the extent that they
compete successfully in the world merkets. It is
doubtful if the Japsnese producers expe ct to keep up
with the Americen producers in desi n and efficiency
since

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
since they must copy the Anerican products after the
latter are already on the market.
So far as the Jap nese .ilitar. supporters of
the Japanese industry re concerned, matters of style,
pleasing design, refinement or detail, ridin gualities,
etc. do not concern them. Purely utilitarian actors
are to be considered. They want  truc. which will
carry troops and supplies. They re &pparently aim-
ing at a standardized article that can be turned
out year after year according: to their needs. Im-
portant engineerins improvements in truc: desi n would
interfere with their theory, but minor chan es could
be ignored.
The wholesale copyin of Americen automobiles
naturally raises the uestion o: patent infringements.
The best comment upon this metter is i ven on page 2
of Enclosure ilo. 2 of this report. .henever the
Japanese automobile manufecturer wishes to pe tent a
feature belonging to an American car the Japanese
patent law seems to be complied with by iving public
notice of the application for ε etent in en obscure
newspaper published in a distant part of the country
where there are no forei ners vho are likely to be
able to read Japanese. In a matter which is admittedly
so vital to the Japanese Government it is hardly likely
that patent restrictions will be permitted to inter-
fere.
Quality

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.97)
-26 -
Quality of Automotive Products
The automobile industry of the Jap nese is still
in the experimental stege. Up to the present the
Japanese have not shown any special aptitude in the
From opinions of American representatives it may
be concluded that the manufacture in Japan of t utomobile
parts can be achieved only at the sac ifice of either
quality or cheapness. That is, cheap, locally ade,
parts which may be boucht today throu hout Japan are
made of Japanese iron, steel, or elloys enu do not
compare with Americen ade perts in durebility. The
purcheser who seeks aurubility and reater precision
cannot find these ualities el sewhere than in inported
parts. Especially engines und en ine parts, rear
axles and differentials, ears and be: rings which tre
manufactured econo..icelly only upon e lure scale, or
in which alloy cualities tre vital, ere  von the latter,
or imported, parts. im ler parts :nd replacements
are more cheeply produce locally considerin: trns-
portation and teriff cierges.
However sutisfectorily automobile parts mey be
manufactured in Japan, aside fron the factor of cost,
the production of a complet: cutomobile, assembled
with parts copied or ed: ted from different merican
nodels is a different matter. As  ing that the
Japanese may develop ori i mel desi ns of the ir ovm,
the question of cuality is still less certain. It
has

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.97)
-27-
has not been proved as yet that the Toyode truck which
is a combination of Ford, Chevrolet and Dodre parts,
purchesed or manu ectured in Jupan, is us co rouuct
as either of the genuine Amo ican products. The lane ers
of the two Ameri can assembly plants in Yoi oha a c not
think so. Presumably the  enuine merican products
would keep the Toyod roduet completely off the local
narket, excluding the rice rucvor, if the Japunose
permitted free competition.
3o fsr as the Datsun mid et cars are an incieati on
of the quality that Japanese cars may attain, conparisons
are not favorable to the Japenese. Accordin to the
Manager of the Datsun plant the life of & Datsun delivery
van is one year and of the pus senger cars it is three
years. He also mentioneo from 50,000 to 70,000 miles
as bein: the life of  Datsun car. There is everyr euson
to doubt the . anager's  tetements upon this point. tThere
is no convincin evidence to support such claims of
durability and a comparison of the Datsun car vith a
baby Ford or Austin is not favoreble to the Datsun.
More detailed informatio: regardin the quality of
the Datsun car is civen on page 13 of the report of
this office of arch 7, 1936, mentioned in the list of
previous reports i ven in Enclosure o. 1l.
Only time will tell, therefore, the extent to
which the Japanese will be &ble to develop sufficient
excellence in their eutomobiles to compete, reardless
of cost, with the ever-inproving uality of American
cars.
Railroads

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
- 28 -
Railroads and Motor Highways
An important factor in increasin ti e use of
automobiles is the extension of ood btor highways.
of the great world powers Japan has the sl.ortest
mileage of good motor hi hways. In fact the total
mileage of first class highvays in Japan is probably
less than 1,O00, outside of the cities.
Practically speaking, the railways ana coastal
shipping take care of all transportat ion between big
centers of population. Eus lines outside the cities
act only as feeders to the railways. Th.re is no
question of the autonpbile competin: witn the railways
by means of excellent perellel motor hichways. As
the railways, which ere Government owned, contribute
heavily to the national income, it is most unlikely
that the Government vill encourage the buildin of
motor roads where they cen possibly affect adversely
the income of the railays.
Furthermore, as long as
the Government is straining every effort to find money
for its growing military expenditures it is not likely
that money could be found for motor highvas for other
than military purposesd
A more complete report upon this topic will be
forwarded later.
Gasoline

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
Gasoline Cost
Until the general public in Jupan is able to
afford automobiles, the price of gasoline will be a
factor which materially affects only the operators of
taxicabs. Although Japan depends upon foreign sources
of supply, the retail price of asoline has been much
lower than in most £uropean countries. Before the
yen left the gold standard in l932 the price of casoline
was 50 sen a gallon, or about 0.25 in American currency.
Since then it has been as low as 40 sen a allon retail,
which at present exchan e retes is equivalent to about
$0.12 a callon. At present it is 5l sen or &bout
$0.153 a gallon.
Government and business operators are not seriously
affected oy sliht rises in price of casoline. The
taxi operators are the chief sufrerers as they operate
on a very narrow margin of profit. Co petition among
taxi operators is so keen that most of the.. appear to
on
be the verge of bankruptcy most of the time.
i.easures

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.97)
- 30 -
Measures Taken
by American Assembly
Plants
The two American automobile assembly plents in
Yokohama,le., the Ford and Chrysler plants,) are unable
to take any direct action against the new law for the
control of the autonobile industry. /The Ford plant is
plannin to build an extension which is needec, accord-
ing to the General mana er, to  ive roon for a ore
economical arrangement of ecuipment for its present
output. Under the new law it cannot increase its
present production and it is possible that the Govern-
ment may cive it a quota waich reduces its present
production. The . anager states that the addition will
give it room which has ceen desired for some time past,
and in the event that the efforts f the Japinese to
make the ir own cars fail, the plant wi ll be recdy for
any increased production thich may be permitted.
The  anuger of the Chrysler)plant states thet
his company vill do everything it can to sell cars as
long as the Government puriits it to ao so. He also
feels that the Government's stte pt to for ce rouuction
of ε purely Japanese auto obile, except for purely
military purposes, vill feil.
As the eneral otors assenbly plant is in usata,
)
it has not been possible to interview the officials
of that conpany.
Diesel

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.97)
-31-
Diesel Trucks
The  itsubishi inter sts nav sarted tnufecturing
a motor truch with a Diesel engine for wih ich ret t ad-
vantuges in opere tio: ere claimed on the usis of fuel
economies. Hothin: is eid, however, about reple cement
costs which are said to be high in any case and parti-
cularly when the criver is anyone other than a shilled
mechanic. american automobile dealers in Japan co not
seem to be concerned wit!. co petition fro. this source.
In Inclosure o. 4 there is recorded the opinion
that the motor now bein mede by Mitsubishi is si ply
a duplicate of e western model. Operaticn of such
trucks is said to have proved a failure in other orientel
markets such es the :etherlends lest Indies. Only one
Hitsubishi truck is nown to Le in operation in Japan.
Government

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.97)
-32-
Government Assis tance
and
Sales Promotion
The automobiles manufectured in Japan could hardly
have been sold wi thout Government assis tence. The tructs
manufectured for the military authorities have been
produced on a basis of Government subsidy, by the Govern-
ment buying most of the output and subsidizin private
busine ss concerns into buying the rest. .s explained
in Enclosure Ho. 10, the Government provi ded e subsidy
of Yen 300.00 per military motor car of the six-wheeled,
1 metric ton type. It was stated in 1931, when the
above subsidies were provided for, thet the otor in-
dustry would be on a payin basis when an annual pro-
duction of 3,ooo trucks and busses was reached. Al-
though a half dozen factories have been established
since that time only 2,335 trucks and busses (exclud-
ing nidget cars) were produced in 1934 by the severel
factories, of which nearly all the units were presumebly
purchased by the military authorities.
The official ficures iven in this report us to
number of autompbiles actually produced in Japan, the
cost of production, and the anount of the subsidies
given to Japenese pro ducers are, &ccord in; to the
Manager of (the Chrysler assembly plant in Yoiohama,
not to be relied upon. In his opinion as,the actual
4x
experimentel cost of manufacturin  a Dodge, Chevrolet
or Ford exceeded Yen 15,000, it could not be
manufectured

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.96)
- 33 -
manufactured locally at a price the arket could afford.
This agrees with the statements of a Japs ne se writer
given in Enclosure o. 10. The subsidies paid by the
military authorities would amount, in that event, to
several thousand yen per autonobile.
As to the number
produced, he states that the army and the  avy will
not disclose the number of cers wiiich tl. ey h ve pur-
chased, but that he believes it to be for in excess
of the 2,335 trucits and busses i ven in official
published reports.
The manufacturers of the Datsun  id et cars have
presunably been assisted b. covernmert subsilies. It
of the co..pany
is impossible to prove t is since ofici ls/refuse to
say; but one of the Amer ice experts who wes employed
by the co pany stated thet he "us sure of the fact.
Whether or not such assists nee  beer iven, th re
is definite assistance accoraed by she covernment
in grantin speciel clessificetion to ti e idget c:rs
which, to note the Datsu edvertie  ents, offer the
followin vantepes: "no exar ution for driver's
license .. minimum tax ment." s tated
in pr vious reports the exari ttion for driver's
licenses for operetors of ste.rd sized cars is very
rigid and requires almost a proonal chauffeur's
knowledge of me chanic ell as Japanese traffic
laws. To t 3 t verace Japanese this means that the
employent

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.97)
-34 -
employment of a chauffeur is slmost & necessity and
of course akes the operetion or car beyond the
reach of eny but the wealthy clusses or  rosperous
business.
The difference  anual euto obile taxes in
Kanagawe Prefecture is Yen 440.00 for : For cer and
Yen 88.00 for : Datsu..
Business rirms ure urged to buy for patriotic
reasons and those which sell &uto io ile tires tnd
other materials or plant e ui ment pre prectically
forced to buy some of the cars in order tc et orders
from the Datsun plant. One of the ler e  kere of
auto.nobile tires offered to cecuct tle cost of severol
Datsuns from the price of the tires if the batsun
officials would order sufficient tires to make it
worth while, but the Datsun officiels insisted that
the tire company take the Datsuns as part payment.
Such forced methods of sale do not speak well for the
popularity of the id et csr.
The special classificetion of the idget cer
is dependent upon the f ct that it snall not exceed
its present small dimensions. The akers could not
attach front or rear bunpers or put the extre wheel
in the rear in the ordinary way without exceeding the
legel dimensions of e so-called "cycle car." The
problem of the extra wheel was solved by counter-sink-
ing, so to speak, the extre wheel in the back of the
chassis. The Government has since made another con-
cession

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
-35 -
cession, however, by allowing the makers to exclude
from the outside dimensions eny attuclh ents vhich can
be put on and taken off by hand! The result has been
that bumpers and extra wheels are now attached with
wing nuts and the car is still calle a cycle-car al-
though its outside dimensions including the attech-
ments exceed the dimensions specified by the lew.
Finally, under the new law for the "advancement
of automobile in dustry in Japan" the Japanese companies
will be exempt from the payment of all income and
other taxes for & period of five years, and exempt
from paying i port turiffs upon sll tools, m chinery
and materiels imported during the next five years.
The three American assenbly plants will be prevented
from increasing production and face the possible
further handicap of havin the i port tariff on
their imports raised by 50%.
866.16
RFB/GCM/rk.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
35
Enclosure No. 1
MEMORANDUM
OF VICE CONSUL LUDDEN
Yasushi Hatamura and Kyoichi Harashina were
granted visas under Section 3(2) on May 19, 1936.
Both are engineers in the employ of the Nissan
Jidosha Kabusniki Kaisha and are proceeding to the
United States in connection wi th the plans of the
Nissan Company to commence production of a different
type of motor car than the one now produced.
Both men expect to stay in the United tates
for about four months at the Graham-Paige plant at
Detroit. They stated that the des igns for the new
car are being made in the United itates and the first
motor was built at the Graham-Paige plant and is now
being tested.
Mr. A. N. Little is et present in the United
States purchasing machinery. It is expected that
production of the new car will commence about the
end of this year. At present it is planned to
produce a passenger car about the size of the Ford
V 8 and a truck of approximately lt ton capacity.
Both men stated that they wo uld wi tness the
tests of the motor for the proposed new car, but
their primary object in going to the Uniteu tates
was to study American production methods in the
automotive industry. They will be in cherge of
production at the Nissan plant upon their return
to Japan.
RPL
* * * * * * * *

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2
MEMORANDUM
Conversation Between Mr. Thomas Belsjoe of
Chrysler Corporation and Mr. Merrill
May 30, 1936.
So far as the conversation could be directed,
it was toward ascerteining Mr. Belsjoe's opinion on
the factors preventing Japanese motor car producers
from offering substantial competition to Ameri can
automobiles. Something was said, however, about the
new automobile control law which has just been en-
acted, a copy of which with translation, Mr. Belsjoe
then offered to supply.
In connection with the law and its effects, Lr.
Belsjoe pointed out that the assignment of basic quota
numbers to Ford, General Motors, and Chrysler had not
yet been effected but might be in the ratio respe ctively
of, for example, 9:7.5:5; that its interpretation and
application would be more important in its effects
than the law itself; that he had some hopes of raising
the fraction allowed to the Chrys ler Export Corporation;
and that one of the most important espects of the law
so far as American exporters a re concerned is the ap-
plication of the additional 50% tariff on any import-
ations over the eventual quots. For example, Ford
might import the allotted number of, say, 9,óo0 units
under the present tariff rate of 35% but additional
units would be dutiable at 85%.
Illustrating the difficulties which importers
have to meet, he mentioned the law enacted some three
years ago requiring a 2l-inch clearance. He had then
told the Chrysler Corporation to al ter its frame cast-
ings a ccordingly, but found that in a few months fremes
with the requisi te clearance were being manufactured
in Japan more cheaply than they could be exported from
America. On his recommendation frames were then not
included in the exported units.
The reported negotiations of Nissan wi th Graham-
Paige for the design of a larger car than the present
Datsun, could be ignored, even if they were still
ostensibly being carried on. They already possessed
designs for a motor similar to the v8 which they ∞uld
manufacture at any time that it appeared desirable to
do so. (See Enclosure No. 1 and Enclosure No. 4, third
page.)
Competitive

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
38
- 2 -
Competitive Position.
Japanese plants could not possibly produce an
automobile which could compete with American cars in
an open market; but it should be remarked that the
analysis of this inability to compete, which is made
below, is hypothetical, because, having been adopted
into the family of strategic industries, self-suffi-
ciency and not "the buyer's money's worth" is the
object. The Japanese automobile industry is an ideal
case for those who oppose whet has been called "the
autarchy of economic self-containment."
The Japanese industry has neither the advantage
of vertical independence nor the economies of mass
production. That is to say, its raw materials must
be imported in most instances, and, in all instances,
transported a great distance.* secondly, the product
in an output of 2,7ol units could not, even if the
iron and alloy metals and coal gravitated into the
plant from the sky, contain the intrinsic value of
the automobile which is part of en output of 3,000,000
units. The effort and expense necessary to the obtain-
ment of raw materiels and the disadvantages felt,
particularly in the automobile industry, of small
scale of production ren ered economic competition
impossible.
There are other factors including research in
automotive and machine tool desin. The wind tunnel,
field tests, and a staff of draftsmen working on
models that will not see service on the road for a
season or two, are unknown in Japan. The automotive
improvements and machine tool inventions which result
from American initiative are said by Mr. Belsjoe to
be installed in Japan -- within the limits imposed
by the ratio of their cost to available funds -- as
and when either the designs are made available by
the owners, or the car incorporating them reaches
the market in Japan. While the products of research
are therefore all "imported," the time lag between
their introduction and manufacture in America and
their manufacture for use in Japan is therefore at
least one season. The model obtained from the im-
ported car is said to constitute the basis for patent
applications made by Japanese. The applications are
said to be made and patents to be granted after the
requirement for public notice has been fulfilled by
advertisements in inconspicuous newspapers which
seldom, if ever, come to the attention of observers
in the larger cities. Since the Japanese in dustry
appears able to utilize research in this way, the
absence of laboratories in the industry of Japan
appears
This statement is substantiated by the estimate
previously reported that in the drop forge depart-
mont of the Nissan factory, costs may be roughly
divided into labor:l/59, materials:30/59, over-
head:28/59. (See page 4 in despatch No. 105 of
July 11, 1935.)

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
39
- 3 -
appears to be only a secondary factor in the competitive
weakness.
Japanese workers are said to be efficient but not
speedy. Their precision is excellent after the blue
prints have been studied and a few trial operations
performed. When machinery breaks down, repair work
takes time and resourcefulness depends upon experience.
Their normal hours are from 7 to 10:30, 10:55 to 12:00,
1 to 3:30, and 3:55 to 6:00. A mechanic earns Yen 5.00
a day, plus overtime, which Mr. Belsjoe said was too
variable to sum up in a few figures. It is both er-
roneous and misleading to attempt to draw a statistical
comparison between this wage and that of the American
worker. The Japanese worker is provided with rice by
the company and at least semi-annual bonuses. He is
practically assured of continued employment and a
pension under the law. He is epperently content with
the real wage thus earne ana since his family is
more important than his Union, manufacturers experience
few organized interferences by labor organizations.
Apart from factory and plent operations, the
alloys from which tools ana pe rts are menufactured
depend again on laboratories for i provements. In
this field there is elso a time lag.
The above description relates priarily to the
power unit of automobiles, but &lso to dvences in
casting, stamping, etc.
The automobile owner of Japan finds thot parts
for replacement are made largely in Jepan. itandard
gears, shefts, joints, axles, shims, clutch facings,
nuts and bolts, wheels, spokes, hub caps, fenders and
other accessories are locally made, as are upholstery
and interior furnishings. There are still a few
exceptions sucn as ball anā roller bearings which are
all imported.
* * * * * * * *

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
40
Enclosure No. 3
MEMORANDUM
OF CONVERSATION OF JUNE 2, 1936
WITH MR. S. YAMAMOTO, MANAGIG DIRECTOR
OF NISSAI JIDOSHA KABUSHIKI KAISHA
Mr. Yamamoto's replies concerned firstly the
progress on the local market of the present Datsun
car, secondly the company's plans with regard to
the construction of a larger car as reported by the
press and including the purchase of more American
machinery and the employment of American experts
to oversee the initial stages of production as was
done wi th the Datsun. He elso commented on the
anticipated competitive position of the larger car
and the possibility for the general expansion of
the automobile market in Japan.
Progress of the Datsun.
The company wo uld continue with the manufacture
of the small car, having found e steady market for
about 5000 units a year includin pa ssenger cars and
small delivery trucks which compete with the numerous
three-wheel motorcycle vans. Of the elivery type,
Mr. Yamamoto states that his company is making 3600
annually, leaving 1400 passenger cars completed yearly.
The former can compete successfully wi th the motorcycle
vans, seating two on the driver's seat with protection
from the rain, and having a le rger capacity. Mr.
Yamamoto states that monthly sales amount to 20oo in
Tokyo and Yokohama and loo in Osaka area and that
the 1ife of the passenger car is about 50,000 to
70,Oo0 miles or three years as compared with one year
for the delivery vans.
The Datsun has remained the same size although
a spare tire is on the back and a bunper on the front.
Since these two additions are removable by hand (wing
nuts), the car is still a "cycle car" under the law.
The Datsun plant hes expanded, 1600 men being
employed. Many are apprentices. It is difficult to
discharge men. Under government regulations concern-
ing pensions, the number of men must be kept fairly
constant.
The small passenger car market is not competitive.
That is, the Datsun is not, in general, an alternative,
from the purchaser's point of view, to the Tord,
Chevrolet, Plymouth. The larger car which Wissan
proposes

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
41
-2-
proposes to build would compete in their market, how-
ever.
The export of Datsuns hed been abandoned es a
failure.
Proposed Manufacture of Larger Car.
A car of the Ford-Chevrolet type would be made
by Nissan and with regard to the plant for its manu-
facture representatives were now in the United States
to purchase machinery and to negotiate with a company,
the name of which Mr. Yamamoto could not disclose,
for machine tools and to review the motor design for
possible improvements. Mr. Yamamoto stated that the
motor had been designed in Japan.*
The price of the new car, said Mr. Yamamoto,
would be less than that of the Ford, Chevrolet and
Plymouth, probably about Yen 3o00. Every attempt
will be made to construct a car which is up to date
in every respect.
With regard to the manufacture of the new car
and the construction of the plant, Mr. Yamamoto
said that it had not been decided how much of com-
ponent materials, and parts if any, would be im-
ported from the Únited States. For the plant a large
amount of machinery would be bought in the United
States. Mr. Yamamoto said, however, that the al-
ternative of purchases in Germany was a very definite
one in the minds of the directors if, "for patriotic
reasons," American manufacturers showed a reluctance
to sell.
Less machinery would be needed for the new plant
than had been bought for the present Datsun factory,
although all types of machinery were to be purchased
including lathes, milling machines, electric welders,
drop forges, presses, automatic die cutters, radial
driils, etcetera. While all the new machinery could
be obtained in Japan, he said, it was in such demand
by the heavy industries of Japan that a delay would
be suffered. Mr. Little**was now in the United tates
arranging for purchasers.***
Alloy
Other opinion is to the effect that it was so
designed from an American model, possibly a Ford
v8.
**
The only American remaining with Nissan. See
previous reports and despatches referred to else-
where.
***
See Memoranda of Conversations with Mr. Belsjoe.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
42
- 3 -
Alloy steels would be imported in increasing
amounts, mostly from the United States.
Mr. Yamamoto stated that he could not discuss
any eventual royalty arrangements with American firms.
Three or four American experts will be employed
until production is well under way. American experts
employed in the past had always urged the purchase of
American machinery. Of these they had found large,
expensive machines, serving only one or two operations,
to be uneconomical. German machinery salesmen had
been concerned about this and Mr. Gaulard, who re-
presented French "Solex" carburetors had been received
favorably by Nissan. They had recommended his con-
ferring with the Nissan Company's representatives in
the United States.
Prospects for Expansion of the Automobile
Market in Japan.
The present narket for cars of the Ford-Chevrolet-
Plymouth type is considered to be from 20,000 to 30,000
units a year. Of their proposed ler ger car Nissan
plans production of 5000 the first year, 12,000 the
second year, and 24,000 the third year, accordin to
Mr. Yamamoto's statement.
He seemed to be under the impression that quota
numbers under the Automobile Control Law recently
enacted would not* be assigneu until Nissan was
producing its larger car in quantity. Ford, Ceneral
Motors, and others would only be curtailed under
the law gradually so as not to disturb the market.
The Government "and those interested in Japan
becoming self-sufficient in automobile production"
realize the importance of road buildinc, improvement
and maintenance. The impression was gained that al-
though he said this was true, reelization by the
military of the importance of roads does not mean that
they will urge -- or oven approve -- the diversion
of funds for this purpose.
It is possible that eventual expansion of demand
will allow Nissan as well as Ford, General Motors,
Chrysler, etc. (under quotas) to continue in business
without loss to them from present scale of operations.
Roads
*See Memorandum or Conversations with Mr. Belsjoe
who stated quotas would be assigned in August 1936.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.97)
43
- 4 -
Roads are under the Ministry of Comnunicstions
while railroads are under the Ministry of Railways.
He did not feel that the latter could or would actively
oppose road building if it were advocated by the former.
Much freight is already carried long distances
in Japan by truck, but figures - he said - are not
kept.
(Mr. Yonemoto, Mr. Yamanoto's secretary, gave
shorter hours for workmen in the plant than Mr.
Bels joe.)
* * * * * * * *

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
4
Enclosure No. 4
MEMORANDUM
OF CONVERSATION OF JUNE 8
WITH MR. THOMAS BELSJOE
OF THE CHRYSLER EXPORT CORPORATION
Mr. Belsjoe brought to the Consulate a copy of
the "Excerpts from the Automobile Control Law" (En-
closure No. 6 ) and reported on the true nature of
the negotiations between the Nissan Jidosha Company
and Graham-Paige. He also brought a copy of the
catalogue of the Toyoda Truck Company, large suppliers
of the army and almost certainly heavily subsidized
by the army and navy.
The Aim of Self-Sufficiency in the Heavy
Industries and Its Effects on the Importer
of American Automobiles.
With regard to the Automobile Control Law, Mr.
Belsjoe stated that quotas were expected to be
assigned in August 1936. The Law had been "in
effect" since August 9, l935 although it had only
been enacted in May 1936. Those who sought self-
sufficiency at any cost in automobile production
visualized an independence in truch manufacture in
ten years. The law was n useful and elastic instru-
ment for effecting the realization of that end. The
"loopholes" which made it elastic might be exploited
by a person in Mr. Bels joe's position who resigned
himself to doing honor to those really behind the
movement of industrial indepen dence. But anyone,
including the Ford Company in Japan, who objected
to their terms, wo uld find the "loopholes" closed
against him. On the other hand their terms were
bound to rest on their needs of the moment as well
as their aims.
The protagonists of adequate defense were not
interested in passenger cars, ninety-five percent of
which were taxis. They were concerned with the pro-
duction of trucks. The Toyoda Company was the most
important maker of trucks and no one knew how many
they supplied to the services. It was certain that
the Japanese army was less mechanized than the Russian
or the American army. For a standing army of 230,000,
three thousand trucks might be needed from Toyoda
annually. He had no way of arriving at the figure.
You could only guess.
The Toyoda truck is available to the public at
4500 yen. The real cost of production was doubtless
much higher; but if the compeny collected 5o0 yen
"profit"

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
45
- 2 -
"profit" per unit at this price, the company's subsidy
was equal to the di fference between the cost of production
per unit less 4000 yen, multiplied by the number of
units. The army probably paid 2000 to 2500 yen for
each truck it purchased. Merely as an illustration,
assume 30o0 cars a year for the army and a cost of
production of 8000 yen. 8000 less 4000 is 4000 yen
subsidy per unit. At 3o00 trucks per year the army
would pay the Toyoda Company 4000 times 3000 or 12,000,000
yen plus 3000 times 2500 or 7,500,000 yen, a total of
17,500,000 yen.
Whatever the figure, the company's capacity was
thus provided for and the price of parts made by it
or other subsidized firms was proporti onetely lowered
to the army.
The truck consists of Chevrolet-design motors,
Ford frames and axles, and Dodge transmissions and
cooling system -- all made in Japan, according to Mr.
Bels joe.
Given the materials, they can make any part in
Japan. Given the subsidy they can price it at a point
safely removed from the compe tition of the imported,
American-made product. The catch in the puzzie is in
(1) obtaining materials (up-to-the-minute alloys)
which will stand up, and (2) assuring the continuance
of the subsidy.
They take what they can get in matarials. The
subsidy depends on continuing to sell "the need for
defense" to the taxpayer. If sales resistance should
crop up in this field the motor car industry of Japan
would fall of its own weight. As long as subsidy funds
are forthcoming the ob ject of independence in produc-
tion is maintaineu, but at the sacrifice of all con-
siderations of profit. The Nissan could not float its
stock on the open market. The same ma rket had recently
balked at new loans for the South Manchurian railway
to the amount of Yen 8,000,O00. These cases are indices
to the resistance which is met when funds for "strategic"
undertakings must be raised tnrough normal financial
channels. The subsidy funds on the other hand, are
collected from the taxpayer and statistics on the
amount which go es to industry are unavailable. Since
most taxpayers, in contrast to the bankers, are not
concerned with, or are not in a position to judge,
the economic wisdom of government spending, industry
may get its subsidies long after the investing public
turns down its share offerings.
Mr. Belsjoe feels, therefore, that the only
reasonable attitude for a salesman in his position is
to

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
46
-3 -
to seek his Chrysler purchasers in those quarters
where funds are controlled. It so happens, he says,
that direction of the policy of independence for the
heavy industries rests in the same hands. From his
point of view praising the policy costs nothing and
as long as the aim falls short of realization the
opportunities for his sales continue. No advantage
can possibly be gained by voicing resentment at the
measures taken. They may appear to be injurious to
American trade. They doubtless are for the moment.
But the uncertainties include the prospeot of hostil-
ities in which case demand would rise. It is also
not impossible that revenue will fall off,and with
it,subsidies, in which case domestic automobiles could
offer less competition than ever to imports.
Negotiations Between Nissan and Graham-Paige.
Mr. Belsjoe had just learned that Nissan had
sent engineers to the Graham-Paige plant to purchase
obsolete machinery to be used in the production of
their projected larger car. He had been co rrect in
believing that they co uld not be negotiating for
motor or car designs.(See Enclosures No. 1 and
No. 2.)
Diesels.
The Diesel Truck now advertised by Mitsubishi
was taken, Mr. Belsjoe felt, from a representative
western model. It could not offer competition to
gasoline engine trucks because although its fuel
consumption might be low, its operation was un-
certain in that replacement of parts was a high
expense in the operation of Diesel trucks even when
they are driven by a skilled mechanic. His company
was not concerned over any competition offered in
this market by Diesel-powereu trucks or buses.
* * * * * * * *

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
47
Enclosure No. 5
DUTIES AND FREIGHT RATES
AS OF JUNE 1, 1936
A. Import Duties on Automobiles, Automobile Parts,
Alloy Steel Bars, and Machine Tools.
Present Import Duty on American Automobiles:
Tariff No. 563
General tariff ad val. 50%
(In case Certificate of country
of origin is not attached)
Conventional tariff ad val. 35%
(In case Certificate of country
of origin is attached)
Import Duty on Parts of Automobiles:
Tariff No. 564
Parts of automobiles, excluding
motive machinery:
General tariff ad val. 42%
(same as above)
Conventional tariff ad val. 35%
(same as above)
Alloy Steel Bar:
Tariff No. 462-2 3pecial steel:
1. Lumps, ingots, blooms, billets,
slabs, bars, rods, plates and
sheets which contain not less
than 0.5% by weight of nickel,
chromium, tungsten, molybdenum
or cobalt, or containing not
less than 1% by weight of silicon
or manhanese (excluding silicon
steel sheets not coated with
metal and not more than 0.7%
millimetres in thickness).
......ad val. 18%
2. Lumps, ingots, blooms, billets,
slabs, bars, and rods, which
contain not less than 0.7% by
weight of carbon, and not more
than 0.02% each by weight of
phosphorous and sulphur
......ad val. 18%
The duty on metal or wood working machinery
begins at Yen 113.94 per 133 1/3 pounds (100 kin)
for machines not exceeding 25 kilograms in weight
to Yen 10.80 per 133 1/3 pounds on machines exceed-
ing 50,000 kilograms in weight. The duty on a
medium size metal lathe would probably amount to
about

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
48
-2 -
about Yen 910.00 or about $300 (weight 7,000
pounds boxed). On a huge ioo ton drop forge
machine the duty wo uld amount to about Yen
12,600 or about $4,000.00.
Lathe:
Tariff No. 596
Metal or wood
Yen 113.94 per
133 1/3 pounds
(100 kin) for
machines not
exceeding 25 kilo-
grams in weight to
Yen 10.80 per 133
1/3 pounds on machines
exceeding 50,000 kilo-
grams in weight.
Drop forge machine:
Tariff No. 604 Machinery not
otherwise provided
for
ad val. 20%.
Note:- Confirmed by Mr. Yoshio Mori,
Assistant Appraiser of the
Yokohama Customs House.
B. Freight Charges
The freight rates on importations of the
various items from the United tates are frequently
changed. There is keen competition in this busi-
ness. The present rates offer an indication, how-
ever, of the high ∞st of freight on imported
articles. On exported Japanese automobiles, if
and when such exportations become of importance,
the Japanese steamship lines will no doubt grant
very favoreble terms.
Automobiles and
from Atlantic ports, $8.00 per
parts:
short ton or 40 ou.ft.
(Knocked
from Pacific ports, $7.00 per
down)
short ton or 40 cu.ft.
(Completely
from Atlantic ports, 9.00 per
boxed)
short ton or 40 cu.ft.
from Pacific ports, 7.00 per
short ton or 40 cu.ft.
(Unboxed)
from Atlantic ports, ll.00 per
short ton or 40 cu.ft.
from Pacific ports, $7.00 per
short ton or 40 cu.ft.
Note:- Confirmed at
Nippon Yusen Kaisha and Kokusai
Kisen Kaisha.
Alloy

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.98)
4:1
- 3 -
Alloy steel bars,
from Atlantic ports, $5.00 per
ingots, etc.:
long ton or 40 cu.ft.
from Pacific ports, $4.00 per
short ton or 40 cu.ft.
Machinery and
from Atlantic ports, $12.00 per
parts:
short ton or 40 cu.ft.
from Pacific ports, $8.50 per
short ton or 40 cu.ft.
Lathes, iron and
from Atlantic ports, $9.50 per
steel articles
long ton or 40 cu.ft.
(thread,table,
from Pacific ports, $6.75 per
chain,metal,
short ton or 40 cu.ft.
rope, etc.):
With the above rates, the freight on a
partially assembled, creted car, would & verage
about $lio.00 (as for 550 cu. ft. fron Atlantic
ports or $86.75 from Pacific ports). The freight
on parts shipped for assembly amounts to about
half as much.
The Preight on the machinery equipment may
amount to consiuerable sums, reaching several
thousand dollars on very laige drop forge machines
and metal presses.

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.98)
5U
Enclosure No. 6
Excerpts - New Law for the Advancement
of Automobile Industry in Japan
Application for the production of an increased
number of automobiles or parts than allotted may be
made only by a company whose capital, shareholders
and directors are over 50% Japanese.
Five years' exemption from income and all taxes
are allowed to those companies which have been given
permission to operate.
Similarly, all tools, machinery and materials
imported will be exempt from import duties during
five years from the effective date of the new law.
In the event that imported cars or parts cause
interference with the progress of domestic products,
the Government reserves the right to inpose additional
duty not exceeding 50%.
In the event of any new porty starting operation
without securing permit, a fine will be imposed, not
exceeding Yen 5000. Directors of such a party will
likewise be fined, uo to Yen looo. per person.
Any company which has been in operation up to the
9th of August l935 may continue operation without
securing a permit within the limit of its pro duction
up to the date stated. In case, however, its produc-
tion is found to interfere with the advancement of
domestic products, a limit shall be set.
NOTE
In reply to questions put before the
House of Peers by certain Party representetives
on behalf of Automobile and Parts Dealers,
assurance was made that careful consideretion
would be given to the import of automobiles
and parts in case restriotion of such by im-
position of additional tariff or other means,
causes incovenionce to the users of automobiles
such as to affect their livelihood.
* * * * * * * *

=== Page 223 === (confidence 1.00)
51
Enclosure No.7.
NUMBER OF AUTOMOBILES
IN JAPAN
(As of October 1935)
Published by the Bureau of
National Resources.
Total
Japan Proper
Territory (Chosen,Taiwan,
Karafuto,Kwan-
1935
134,859
120,902
13,957
tung Province,
South Seas)
KINDS OF AUTOMOBILES
Passenger Cars
Trucks
Special Cars
Japan Proper
74,275
43,244
3,383
Territory
8,500
4,890
566
Note:- Special cars are as follows:
Motor sprinkler, motor tanker, tractor, fire-
engine, ambulance, etc.
Above figures do not include side car, auto-
flier, motorcyole, tricycle van, etc. (Figures
for motorcycles not a vailable)
NUMBER OF AUTOMOBILES
MANUFACTURED IN JAPAN
1929
347
1930
458
1931
434
1932
840 (including 144 small
automobiles)
1933
1,612 (including 557 small
automobiles)
1934
2,701 (including 1,366 small
automobiles)
1935
Unknown - Not disclosed.
Note:- Number of Datsun automobiles manufactured
in 1935 is unknown, but annual capacity
of the company is reported to be 12,000.
EXPORTS

=== Page 224 === (confidence 1.00)
52
- 2-
EXPORTS OF AUTOMOBILES
FROM JAPAN
Number
Value, Yen
1934
349
613,405
1935
626
1,424,239
1936
January
166
386,666
February
81
200,684
Exports of Automobiles
from Japan
(By destinations)
Number
Value, Yen
Manchuria
15
18,000
Kwantung Province
114
482,890
China
167
49,604
Hong Kong
1
1,000
British India
4
6,870
Ceylon
1
1,500
Dutch India
6
8,187
Philippines
2
3,200
Siam
6
9,000
Other countries
in Asia
2
3,060
France
1
1,684
Spain
2
3,270
Canada
1
800
South Africa
1
1,560
Australia
26
22,780
Total
349
613.405
(The above number of automobiles exported
from Japan were regarded to be Datsun
automobiles.)
(The above figures are quoted from the
Monthly Return of the Foreign Trade of
Japan, published by the Department of
Finance, Tokyo.)
*

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
PRESS EXCERPTS
(ENCLOSURES NOS. 8, 9 AND 10)

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
53
Enclosure No. 8
THE JAPAN CHRONICLE
WEEKLY COMMERCIAL SUPPLEMENT
MAY 7,1936
AUTO INDUSTRY BILL
Government To Have Full
Control Of Makers
The Department of Connerce and Industry will
introduce in the coming session of the Diet a bill
providing for control of the motor car industry. It
has already secured the Cabinet's consent.
In a statement issued immediately after the
Cabinet Council on Tuesday (28th), when final decision
was reached, the Department of Commerce and Industry
says that the establishment of the motor car industry
is necessary not only from the national defence point
of view but also from the point of view of industrial
activity. The latest situetion both at home and abroad,
in fact, renders the need i perative.
The Government seeks mass production of cors, so
that the country may be independent of foreign makes.
The ist of the new bill is as follows:--
Manufacturers of cars and parts, as stipulcted
by the Government order, shall obtai the permission
of the Government.
Applicants must form a joint stock company, more
than haif the share capital end voting rights belong-
ing to Japanese subjects or Jepanese corporations.
(a) Any authorised manufacturing concern shall
enjoy remission of taxes for & certain fixed period.
(b) Any authorised manufacturing concern shall
be given special facilities in connectior: with an
increase of capital, or issue of a loan.
Matters relative to public interest.
The Government shall be authorised to issue to
manufacturing concerns such orders es are necessary
in the interests of the public, and in connection with
official surveillance.
The Government shall be authorised to issue such
orders as are necessary from the national defence point
of view.
Importation

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
54
- 2 -
Importation of cars and parts.
The Government is authorised to restrict imports
of cars and parts, or impose an additional import duty
on such imports, in case imports or a fall in prices
is liable to hamper the establishment of the motor car
industry in Japan.
A special committee called the Motor Car Industry
Committee shall be appointed to study permits for manu-
facturing and other important questions relative to the
working of the measure.
The transitional regulations provide that manu-
facturers 1n existence before August 9th, 1935, or
their successors, shall be ellowed to continue busi-
ness wi thout obtaining the pe rmission of the Government,
provided they are actually en gaged in manufacture at
the time of enforcement of the measure.

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
55
Enclosure No. 9
THE JAPAN CHRONICLE
WEEKLY COMMERCIAL SUPPLEMENT
MAY 7,1936
GASOLINE PRICE INCREASE
Five Sen Rise Permitted
By Commerce Department
Oil traders have secured the consent of the Depart-
ment of Commerce and Industry to raise their gasoline
quotation by five sen a gallon. The new retail price
will be 5l sen per gallon, to be put in force on the
7th instant.
In approving the increase, Dr. Ogawe, the Commerce
Minister, pledged traders against a further rise even
in case of a tariff increase. It may safely be con-
cluded therefore, that there will be no further price
increase for the time being.
In a statement issued on riday (lst), the Depart-
ment of Commerce and Industry said:-- "As the result
of extensive investigations, the Government agrees that
the recent rise in crude oil prices, as well as in
freights rates, renders their business extremely dif-
ficult, and that a price increase is inevitable.
Convinced, however, thet there is still room for
rationalisation, it has decided to allow an increase
of only five sen."
The statement added thet in addition to the pledge
not to request a price increase in case of the project-
ed tariff increase, traders have promised a reduction
should there be a fall in crude oil prices.
The Department of Commerce and Industry naturally
knows the present price increase will affect taxi and
truck operators. In its opinion, however, the dif-
ficulty can be overcome through "a rationalisation."
It is largely from this conviction of officials of
the Commerce Department, the Home Office, the Railways
Department and the other Departments in terested.
It is stated that oil traders are not fully
satisfied with the present price increase, but because
of the public's reaotion accepted the limit suggested.
Taxi operators are up in arms, reports the Japa-
nese press.
In Tokyo, the Automobile Union held an emergenoy
meeting in the Marunouchi building on Saturday (2nd
inst.). To-day they will hold a director's meeting,
inviting taxi operators' representatives from Osaka,
Kyoto, Nagoya, Kobe and other cities in Western Japan.
An opposition movement will be launohed.

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.97)
56
Enclosure No. 10
THE JAPA TIILS & MAIL SUNDAY, JUNE 7, 1936
Automobile Industry In
will be permitted". It is quite clear
that this bill is for the (protection
of the home motor-car industry.
Japan Growing Gradually
The Toyoda Jidoshokki Selsakujo
of Nagoya was the first manufactory,
which tarted to manufacture home
cars for the mass of the people,
when the import of this bill was
published. Needless to say that other
Time When Small-Size Cars Will Be Sold For Less Than
motor-car manufacturing companies
are also preparing to manufacture
1,000 Seen By Writer; Spare Parts Are
cars for the masses. The Nissan
Jidosha Kabushiki-kaisha is tryink
Already Manufactured Here
to manufacture cars for the mass
of the people. hesides the small-sized
Datsun.
The Nippon Nainenki
BY TATSUKICHI TANI
Kabushiki-kaisha.
The Kosoku-
k kan Kogyo Kabushikl-kaisha etc.
It may not be possible to ignore
quake, has fa ilitated their further
are also planning to manufacture
the taxis which come in swerms at
development.
motor-cars for the masses with the
wery corner of public resort when
June, 1923
Number of cars
16.205
support of their powerful capital.
It was the Toyoda J'do-shokki-
we attempt to depict the buses:
June, 1924
25.001
selsakujo. which showed speedy
qcarters of new Tokyo; sc popalar
August, 190
90.116
establishment by completing the
are motor-cars in our medern lf.
October, 1034
135.243
home made motor-car "Toyoda-go"
Is it. not a. disgrace for Nippon.
We can see from these figures that
this January. This manufactory
whose industries all rench un in-
ternational level to hear that 99 pr
cent of these motor-cars are import-
and usefulness of motor-cars was
recognized at the time of that Great
there bas been a remarkable increase
since 1923. In r country the vilue
started to produce cars immediately
after the publication of the import
of the motor-car industry bill.
Though it was a truck. which was
ed from America?
Earthquake disaster, while in foreign
sold as a rst step. its cost was 2.-
Let us investigate the number of
countries this was recognized during
985 against y3,200 or Y3,300 for the
motor-cars, which are now in Japan.
the Great Europenn War.
Ford car.
cycles, tricycles etc. are alt included
in thoso figures. That is why the
1934 showed the figure 135,243.
The statistics of the Department o'
Trucks, fire-cars. water-cars. motor-
Home affairs at the cnd of Oetober
ple. who will be surprised when they
hear that 1! was the motor-cars
which saved France in the time of
crises in the great War. Though it
Is a regret that  have no space here
There may be a great many peo-
cars aro not produced on a large
cost of a itome made car is generally
about Ys.0o0, since at present motor-
seale In Japan. At such a prico we
As 1 have mentioned already, the
Honor of Industrial Japan
number of private-cars, taxis and
to relate the activities of the auto.
cannot use motor-cars as our clugs.
small-sized cars, which a"e used for
mobilo corps. which defended the
and it gives us an idea that motor-
riding purposes will be only about 70,.
fortress of Verdun. we can clearly
cars exist only to be used as taxí.
o00. In other words, in Japan *here
understand what an important role
A great number of small-sized Dat-
is only one (ar for every 1.'00 pw.
was played by motor-cars. when we
uns which were produced by the
fore said to be generalizd as à
ons. Motor-cars are not yet there-
come to know the fact that the two
roads. which connect Verdun and
Nissan Motor-car Compary were
sold since last rear, and at present
means of conveyance for the people.
Paris were filed with motor-cars.
poarly 5 ooo cars are used. The same
What reason can be given fr titis?
company is proud of its large seale
if we study the motor-car taxes. we
When we think of war and motor-
equipm nt for production and it is
learn that a high rate of duty as a
cars we cannot forget the famous
said that It can manufacture 500 cars
luxury duty is still levied or motor-
Tamon Divlsion. which showed bril-
every month. However. since the
cars. This clearly proves tha motor-
liant valor during the Manchurian
fxed price of a car is 1,850 (though
cars'are not recognized s a gon-
Incident. It is said that during the
actually it is sold at v1,500 or Y1,600),
cra! means of conveyance for :he
suppression of Jehol the same divi-
and because of its toy like appear-
masses. Now all the prefetires are
sion utilized mtor-cars as arms, in
ance. it is not appealing to the gen-
attempting a gradual reformetion of
order to penetrate into the enemy's
eral niass of the people. With re-
ths duty. Of cours the funla-
lines by breaking the central line.
gard to snall sized cars, since "Ota-
mental question lies in the frct that
Motor-cars as modern arms-if we
go" of the Kosoku-kikan Kogyo
motor-cars are looked upon es a kind
are obliged to import almost all these
Kabushiki-kaisha, which started to
of luxury, since most o? them are
motor-cars from foreign countries,
producc them at the rate of 100 cars
imported fronm forcign countries, 1 ut
where can we find the prido of indus-
a month. "Tsukuba-go" of the Tokyo
if they should be manefactured
tria! Nippon?
Motor-car Manufacturing Company,
abundantly In Japan, and offered fot
It was the military department
and "Spirit-go" of the Light Motor-
ale at a low cost, the problem of
wh'ch keenly felt the necessity of
car Company may appear in the
high duty will at once be solved.
motor-cars as modern arms that
arena of sell'ng competition by the
Early History Recalled
flrst raised a volce for the establish-
motorcars will be offered before the
coming Autumn. cheap small-sized
There are two opinions a to the
ment of home made motor-cars, say-
general masses thereby breaking the
question of when motor-car tyres
ing that Japan shoull use home
dream of the monopolization of the
first left a mark on Japan's roid.
made cars.
market by Datsun.
One opinion is for 1900. while the
On the 23rd of March, 1918 law
Since the 4p. sedin of "Spirit-go"
other is for 1902. I am accepting
No. 15 (the law to support military
is already offered for sale for 1,530,
the former opinion. At this time
motor-cars) was issued. and in the
I am sure within 2 or 3 years we
Baron Kihichiro Okura, who went to
following May three companies to
can buy it at less than ¥1,960.
the International Exposition held nt
receive support were appointed. They
Generally. motor-cars are actually
Paris, brought a motor-car home as
were the Tokyo Gas and Electric In-
sold at cheaper cost than the fixed
mouvenir.
dustrial Company. the Ishikawajima
price by 20 or 30 per cent, and there
Motor-cars, which were imported to
Motor car Manufactory. and the Dat
i: a difference in prices according
Jepan since 1900 to the beginning of
Motor-rar Manufacturing Company.
to cash sale, monthly instalment, and
Taisho (1912) were British or Freach
However all the motor-cars which
the systems of a shop; therefore, it
cars, most of which were high class
were manufactured, were military
is necessary that we should bear
cars costing about f10,000 or so. 1t
cars and cars which received mili-
this in mind.
was a golden age, for much cars as
tary protection. That is why, though
If a small-sised car can be obtaim
Fiat and Wolséley, which wero made
motor cars were manufactured in
d at about fsoo, it would be co
In Murope, but the Great European
Japan, they were almost unfamiliar
nomical, even if we buy it on condi-
War completely changed the motor-
to the generul mass of the people.
tion, to pay f50c by cash, and y
aare found in Japan.
It is true, however, that the motor-
The center of motor-car manufac-
cars which were manufactured by
turing shifted from Europe to Amer-
these three companies showed per-
lon of gasoline (1 gallon costa si
churlan Incident

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.97)
Early History Recalled
irst raised a voice for the estabn-
There are two opinions an to the
ment of home made motor-cars, say-
motorcars will be offered before th
questlon of when motor-car tyres
ing that Japan should use home
general masses thereby breakins the
first left a mark on Japan's roid.
made cars.
dream of the monopolisation of the
market by Datsun.
One opinion is for 1900, while the
On the 23rd of March, 1918 law
other ds for 1902. I am accepting
No. 15 (the law to support military
Since the 4p. sedin of "Spirit-go"
the former opinion. At this time
motor-cars) was issued, and in the
is already offered for sale for 1,550.
Baron Kihichiro Okura, who went to
following May three companles to
I am sure within 2 or 3 years
the International Exposition held nt
receive support were appointed. They
can buy it at less than ¥1,000,
cars, most of which were high class
cars costing about ¥10,000 or so. 1t
Puris, brought a motor-car home as
a souvenir.
Jepan since 1900 to the beginning of
Taisho (1912) were British or French
Motor-cars, which were imported 1o
cars and cars which received mill-
were the Tokyo Gas and Electric In-
dustrial Company. the Ishikawajima
Motor-car Manufacturing Company.
were manufactured, were military
Motor car Manufactory. and the Dat
However all the motor-cars which
sold at cheaper cost than the fixed
price by 20 or 30 per cent, and there
i.: a difference in prices according
io cash sale, monthly instalment, and
the systems of a shop; therefore, it
is necessary that we should bear
this in mind.
Generally, motor-cars are actually
was a golden age for such cars as
tary protection. That is why, though
If a small-sized car can be obtain-
Fiat and Wolséley, which were male
motor cars were manufactured in
d at about y800, it would be eco
In Europe, but the Great European
Japan, they were almost unfamiliar
nomical, even if we buy it on condl-
War completely changed the motor-
to the generul mass of the people.
tion. to pay Y50c by cash, and pay
cars found in Japan.
It is true, however, that the motor-
the rest by monthly instalment since
The center of motor-car manufac-
cars which were manufactured by
it covers about 30 miles with a al-
turing shifted from Europe to Amer-
these three companies showed per-
lon of gasoline (1 gallon costm 1
lon. und the greatmotor-car fac-
tect service at the time of the Man-
sen). Whenever I put a questlon to
torle of Ford and General Motors
churian Incident. therefore, though
the people I meet "What would be
completoly acquired for America the
the general mass of the people are
the cost of a motor-car which makes
hegomeeny of the worid in moter-
obliged to use imported cars, it may
you incline to buy it?' The answer
cars.
not be absolutely necessary for in-
that I get is "I should like to buy
The following
are the popular
dustrial Nippon to be ashamed of
it when its cost becomes less than
moter-cars and their present prices:
herself.
v1.000." Such small cars are now
Ford (4-door sedan) ..........?
3,750
I have sald that most of the motor-
already under construction.
Chevrolet (sedan)
Dodge (sedan)
8.810
5,850
cars which run on :he roads of Japau
of the Forl arl Chevrolet type of
Here I must return to the story
Chrysler (8 cylinder sedan)..
9.000
are prcduced in America, but the
home cars for the general mass of
4,60J
tyres whtch touch the road surfaco
the people. The "Toyoda-go" truck
La. Salle (5 p.)
Cadillac (5 p.)
Hudson (6 cylinder sedan) ....
Terraplane (sedan)
Buick (5 p. sedan)
20,000
14,000
8,220
7,500
6,509
over, almost all the motor-car parts,
are mostly made in Japan. More-
with the exeeption of some genuine
perts, are made by Japanese hands.
which is now at the market is cheaper
than the Ford truck by ¥300 or ¥400.
poses may appear on the market
This type of car for passenger pur-
De Soto (4-door scdan) .......
7.300
That i: why a great number of motor-
before long. Since the government
Studebaker (sedan)
7,800
rar parts and supplies with marks
is hoping for the appearance of Ford
4.250
tf "made in Nippon" are exported to
and (Chevrolet types of cars from the
Nash (6 p.)
8,500
foreign countries.
standpoint of national policy, the
Lincoln
Lafayette (6 p.)
Packard (5 p.)
Pontiac (sedan)
Graham (sedan)
Hupmohile (6 cylinder)
Oldsmobile (6 cylinder)
What I have mentioned so far is
29.000
4.800
19,000
6,500
5.650
5.650
7.15)
production. With the equipment,
produce motor-cars, but with the
out of Japan ly means of large seale
apit:1 of ¥1,000,000 or Y2,000,000 it
is impossible to drive foreign cars
We do not say thit Japan carnot
san. the Toyoda, the Kosokukikan,
penki ctc. are attempting to plan the
the Kyodo-kokusan, the Nippon Nai-
production of cars for the general
nass of the people in order to realize
various companies such as the Nis-
thi: espectation.
the goneral cost of the standard
which produces only 5 or 20 cars in
sedan, but cach manufacturer has
a month it is not easy to make a
other models such as the phaeton.
motor-car. which costs less than
coupe, roadster. as well as very
Y8.000. Thut Is why with the exeep-
pompous cars. Nearly 70 per cent of
tion of three companies, which are
the motor - cars of Japan are Fords
uanufacturing motor-cars by the
and Chevroiets, but recently Ply-
Fpecial protection and patronage of
mouth and Doge have advanced
the army, there is net even one coin-
into the field of the one-yen taxi en-
pany which is on a paying basis.
terprise. The rest of the cars are
Eut we do not ay that there is io
middle or high class cars, which are
Sapän made car which is like the Ford
ither used privately or which are
or Chevrolet. "Rokko-go" of tno
used by government offices and com-
Kawasaki Vehicle Manufacturing
panies. At any rate even a Ford car.
Conpany. "Fusso-go" of the Mitsu-
which is the cheapest of al! cars
bishi Heavy Industrial Company.
costs 7s.750. At such a cost it is im-
"Atsuta-go" which was manufactur d
possible for the general masses- of
by the joint power of the Nippon
the Japanese to dream of wearing
Vehicle and Company and the Okumi
the "shoes of civilization". about
Iron-works, and "Thivoda-go" of the
which Henry Ford thought of. since
United Llome Motor-car Manufactur-
in Japan wooden clogs are the onl
Ing Company are genuine home pro-
suitable thing for the practical use
duets. Moreover, owing to the ap
of the populace.
pearance of the small-sized Datsun
Motor-cars as new arms of war
of the Nissan Jidosha Kalushiki
It would be proper here tc toch
Kaisha, nearly all British Austins lost
upon the development of motor-cars
their appearance from Japanese mar-
in Japan.
kets.
As I havo mentioned already. it was
It was the Cabinet Conference of
f:1900 that the first motor-car was
imported into Japan, and since :hen
August 10th. 1935. which carried on
they have increased as luxurious
the motor-car manufacturing indus-
vehicles for a certain rich class.
(ry bill which spurred the home
Hawever. when Ford and Chevrolet
metor-car industry.
cars were imported, motor-cars were
The following is the import of the
used as an object of business. It is
Bil':
Indeed a great surprise to hear that
"Construction or manufacturing of
in thoso days people had to pay Y5
moter-cars for the general mass of
for one mile. But they gradually l..-
the people is to be a licenced in-
crousedas a modern means of trans-
durtry, and only such legal persons.
which are established by Japanese
portatich, and in Jure 1923. 16,205
or by Imperial ordinance. or such
cars were running on the roads of
joint-stock compan'es. the majority
Japan. These cars met a trial during
of their decision rights belonging to
the great Kwanto Earthquake. The
the. Japanese, can obtain this per-
préctical aspects of motor-cars, whi:h
mission. No expansion of tactories
was demonstrated in the restoration
for the construction of imported
ofithe capital after the Great Earth-
motor-cars after August 9th, 1935

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.97)
51
Enclosure No. 11
PARTIAL LIST OF PREVIOUS REPORTS
OI
AUTO. OBILE INDUSTRY IH JAPAN
1. Report "The Nissan Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha,"
July 17, 1934. This is the first report
on the Datsun project, made during con-
struction of the plant.
2. Report "The Missan Jidosha Ke bushiti Kaisha,"
March 7, 1935. This is a detailed report
on the Datsun plant and its procuct.
3. Despatch "Proposed Extension of Ford Plant in
Yokohama, Japan," March 26, 1935. This
reports a conversation with the Manuger
of the Ford plant.
4. Despatch "lissan Jiaosha Kabushiki Kaisha,"
Ho. 105, July 11, 1935. Turther inform-
ation regerding the Datsun with detailed
information regardin: costs of production.
5. Despatch "Extension of Ford Assembly Plant,"
Ho. 111, August 1, 1935.
6. Despatch "Japanese Autoobile Industry,"
No. 120, Sept ember 8, 1935. Reports
shipnent of a Datsun to General otors
Corporation at Detroit.
7. Despatch No. 119, September 6, 1935. Enclosing
an article proposed for publication
giving a history of automobile manufacture
in Japan with statements of Japanese of-
ficials as to the necessity of establish-
ing a native industry.
8. Despatch "Automotive Industry in Japan,"
No. 158, December 23, 1935. Reporting
the comments of the Manager of the Ford
plant on the proposed "Automobile
Industries Law," upon Datsun sales, and
upon the proposed merger of General
Motors with the issan interests.
*

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
58
Enclosure No. 12
MEMORANDUM OF
CONVERSATIONS WITH MR. BENJAMIH KOPF,
GENERAL MANAGER OF FORD
MOTOR CONPANY OF
JAPAN
Many conversations have taken place between Mr.
Kopf and myself during the past two years regarding
the automotive industry in Japen, most of which have
been reported in previous communications to the
State Department. I have attempted to convey the
sense of his remarks accurately wherever he is
referred to in this report and it is not believed
necessary to make a fur ther itemized list of his
opinions.
*
*
*

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
5.J
Enclosure No. 13
JAPAN-MANCHOUKUO YEAR BOOK, 1936
PAGES 448-451
AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY
Spread of the Use of Automobiles.
It was in l902 or two years before the Russo-
Japanese War that automobiles were first imported into
Japan. But it is since the great earthquake of 1923 in
the Kwanto district, which was followed by great im-
provements in the roads and high ways in not only the
area affected but all over the country that the use of
automobiles has become very popular. Especially notable
is the growing popularity of the taxi cabs since the
earthquake. Motor buses are al so increasingly favoured
by the public in preference to street cars. As a result,
especially in Tokyo and Osaka and ot her large cities,
the bus service is gradually expanding with occasional
reduction in fares.
Motor trucks are being more and more utilized,
especially for interurban and country-urban hauls of
produce, and the tendency is in favour of heavier
trucks. Truck sales, however, are being cut into a
good deal by three-wheeled motorcycle rear-vans, which
are very popular for small freight transportation in
cities.
In contrast to their growing increase in the motor
service for the public, motor-cars for pers onal use
are still quite limited in number, occupying only a
few per cent. of the number of passenger cars. More
than 90 per cent. of the pas senger cars in Tokyo are
estimated to be in the taxi class. In Osaka the figure
closely approaches loo per cent. Thus for practical
purposes, the motor-car trade in Japan is divided into
truck chassis and the taxi service.
National Production of Automobiles.
It was originally for military purposes that the
Government turned its attention to the encouragement
of the production of automobiles. In Merch, 19l8 a
law for subsidizing the manufacture of military motor-
cars was enacted. The law provided that the manufacturer
with a capacity of turning out lo0 or more six-wheeled
trucks of lt metric tons or more or buses should be
entitled to a subsidy, and that in time of war the
Army acquire the ri ght to requisition the vehicles thus
manufactured. Until a few years ago home made auto-
mobiles in Japan were almost confined to this class of
cars, and their number was quite limited. It was as
late

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
60
- 2 -
late as 1931 that the necessity of setting up the
motor industry as a civil enterprise was recognized
by the Government when an Automobile Industry Committee
was organized by the Department of Conmerce and Industry.
At that time it was observed by the Committee that the
motor industry would pay when it had attained a capacity
of turning out about 5,ooo trucks and buses a year.
A subsidy of Yen 130,O00 was itemized in the Budget
estimates for each of the financial years of 1932-33
and 1933-34 (Yen 300 per car on an average).
The production of automo biles in recent years,
as shown by the returns of the Department of Commerce
and Industry, will be mted from the table appended:-
Production of Automobiles
Passenger
Buses and
Light Cars
Total
Cars
Trucks
1930
458
458
1931
434
434
1932
2
694
144
840
1933
11
1,044
557
1,612
1934
14
1,321
1,366
2,701
Compared with the preceding reer, the number of
vehicles produced in 1934 shows a remarkable expansion.
This is due chiefly to the encouragement by the Army
and the Department of Commerce and Industry. But, the
number is still far less than is ailed at by the autho-
rities, or the 5,0o0 level as referred to above. On
the other hand, spectacular developments are being
shown by the manufacture of light otor-cars, as is
indicated by the fi rures tabulated above. It is
expected that in 1935 these cars will be turned out
to the number of 6,000, which is more than thirteen
times as large as that for 193?. The manufacture of
ordinary motor-cars is still far from competing with
imported vehicles, as may be gathered from the table
appended:-
Import of Motor-Cars
Number of Cars
Assembled with
Number of Cars
Imported Materials
Imported
1929
28,087
5,018
1930
18,663
2,591
1931
18,908
1,887
1932
13,327
997
1933
14,084
491
1934
36,000 (estimateu)
The

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.99)
61
- 3 -
The assemblage of cars with imported materials
is done at the Ford plant at Yokohama and at the
General Motors plant at Osaka. As will be noted from
the above figures, the number of cers thus assembled
reached the peak in 1929 at 18, 087 and began to pursue
a downward course from the following year. But, it is
expeoted that the number of cars imported in that way
in 1934 may have far superseded the 1929 level.
Of late there hes been an interesting new comer
to the market for the imported motor-cars, and that
is the German "Adler" car, a medium sized passenger car
with a front-wheel drive and an independent wheel
suspension.
Output of Parts.
The national production of some parts of the
vehicle has so much progressed that tyrea are already
exported to a considerable amount. The ou tput of
these parts was Yen 17,000,000 in 1931. The figure
increased to Yen 26,000,000 in 1932, and to Yen
36,000,000 in 1933. But, still a considerable portion
of the requirements of these articles has to be met
by imports.
Imports of parts of automobiles in recent years
are as follows:-
Imports of Parts of Automobiles
(Yen 1,000)
1930
19,766
1931
16,653
1932
11,927
1933
12,007
1934
28,945
Motor-car Manufacturers.
Principal motor-car manufacturers in Japan are
as follows:-
Leading Motor-cer Manufacturing Companies
Name of Company
Authorised
Inauguration
Capital
of Manufacture
(Yen 1,000)
Tokyo Gas Electric Industry Co.
6,000
1918
Motor-car Industry Co.
6,500
1933
Kawasaki Vehicle Co.
12,000
1931
Mitsubishi Jyukogyo Kabushiki
Kaisha
55,000
1932
Japan Vehicle Mfg. Co.
10,000
1932
Nissan Motor-car Co.
10,000
1933
Keisan Manufactory
1,000
1932
Toyoda Co.
1935
The

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
The Tokyo Gas Electric Industry Co., Motor-car
Industry Co., and Mitsubishi Jyukogyo Kabushiki Kaisha
chiefly make trucks and pessenger cars, the Kawasaki
Vehicle Co., trucks and pas senger cars and buses, the
Japan Vehicle Co., passenger cars and the Nissan Motor-
car Co., and the Keisan Manufactory light cars.
The workshop of the Nissan Motor-car Co., at
Namamugi, Yokohama is the best equipped of the kind
and of the largest capa city. The vehicles turned out
thereat are known as "Datsuns." They are mostly light
passenger cars. Datsuns are already exported to
Australia and the South jeas.
The number of automobiles in use thr oughout the
country has of late years considerably increased as
will be noted from the table appended:-
End of
Passenger Motor Vans pecial Cars
Total
Cars
August,1930
56,690
29,744
1,682
90,116
August,1931
63,917
32,859
2,220
98,996
August,1932
66,906
34,521
2,478
103,915
August,1933
68,219
36,115
2,454
106,788
0ctober,1934
76,124
42,337
2,731
121,192
of the total number of motor-cars of all sorts
now in use, it is estimated that 75 to 80 per cent. are
General Motors and Ford products, dividing the country,
taken as a whole, fairly evenly between these two great
organizations. The General Motors plant being located
at Osaka, there is naturally a leaning toward their
products in western Japan, while the same holds true of
Ford, whose plant is at Yokohama, in eastern Japan. If
anything there is a slight preponderance of General Motors
cars in use, for the reason that besides Chevrolets and
trucks, they put out a variety of other cars, with which
Ford can not complete. Moreover, General Motors have now
commenced to bring in their Opel cars made in Germany,
low-priced but of good appearance and performance, which
it is planned to assemble at the Osaka plant. The re-
maining 20 or 25 per cent. are largely represented by
Chrysler products and other higher priced American cars.
The status and achievements of the General Motors
and Ford plants in Japan, and their enormous influence
are too well known to mention. However, apart from the
important fact that they practically supply the motor
transport of the country wi th good and serviceable cars
at reasonable cost, the important contributions that
General Motors and Ford otherwise make directly to the
welfare of the country should be recorded, especially
in view of the campaign for "home products."
While

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
5.5
- 5 -
While the engines, chassis, and certain other
parts are imported from America, large quantities of
tires, batteries, upholstery, glass, rubber equipment,
and other materials produced in Japan are used, to say
nothing of the labour employed.
General Motors and Ford have inaugurated instalment
payment system, as favourable as possible under the in-
covenient laws governing such matters in Japan, and have
found them to work out fairly satisfactorily. Losses
through default are reported at well under 5 per cent.
The instalment payment system is taken advantage of
practically only by those buying cars for taxi purposes.
The Bosch electrical equipment organization is one
of the notable features of the automo bile industry of
Japan. Bosch products and service reach every part of
the Empire and of Manchoukuo from the headquarters in
Tokyo and the branch service stations in Kobe, Nagoya,
and Fukuoka, through the countrywide netword of dealers.
The reasons for the outstanding success of Bosch
in a business so difficult bo th technically and com-
mercially are worth recording. The plan fact is, that
Bosch products are recognized in Japan as pre-eminent,
occupying the unique position of setting the quality
standard. This reputation has been built up by the
lifelong spirit of the now aged and revered founder,
Robert Bosch of Germany, as put into practice in Japan
by the agents C. Illies & Co., now established in Japan
for 76 years. Since the beginning of Bosch activities
in Japan the Bosch atch-word "service after Sale" has
been translated into actuality.
Starting with the electric outfits for the auto-
mobiles the Bosch products now cover and dominate the
mot orcycle and three-wheeler line as well, prove their
value in aeroplane ignition and Diesel engine equipments.
Recognizing the great future of automobiles trans-
portation, aviation and of the diesel engine in Japan,
new skillful engineers and experts from the Bosch works
have joined the staff of C. Iilies and Co., intensively
training technicians in both mechanical work and sales,
who now staff all the service stations and branches
in the Empire. It can be said without exaggeration that
the Bosch organization of C. Illies and Co., has proved
to be an indispensable medium for the whole automobile
industry of Japan and has widely cont ributed to its re-
markable progress during the past few years.
Control of the Automobile Industry.
On August 9, 1935 a draft bill for control of the
automobile industry that establishes a license system
under which foreign firm cannot do business unless they
let

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
64
- 6 -
let Japanese hold more than half of their shares was
submitted to the Cabinet by Mr. Machida, the Minister
of Commerce and Industry. The outline of the draft bill,
which was approved by the Cabinet and which is therefore
to be introduced into the next session of the Diet, is as
follows:-
(1) The assemblage of automobiles for the
masses or the manufacture of their prin-
cipal parts is to be placed under a
license system except in instances where
the quantity involved does not attain
the stipulateu volume. In such ins tances,
licenses will not be required. The pur-
pose of the system is to adjust demand
and supply and to prevent overproduction
and undue ∞mpe tition.
(2) The applicants for licenses must be
companies in which more then half of the
shares is held by Japenese sub jects. They
must also be established under the laws
of Japan, thus assuring that more than
half the rights of control are held by
Japanese subjects.
(3) Such enterprises as are licensed under
the foregoing provisions will be regulated
and controlled by appropriated means
from the s tandpoint of both industry and
national defense.
(4) The rights of companies that are already
established and fulfill the above require-
ments will be safe uarded, but companies
establishe after the promulgation of the
law or new installations by old companies
will be recognized retroactively vhen the
law pes into force.
In view of the international signi icance of the
measure, the Departnent of Commerce and Industry issued
a statement in the form of a talk with press represent-
atives, which was to the following effect:-
"The establishment of the automobile industry is
of great significance from the standpoint of present
and future national defense es well as industry in
general. As one of the basic industries, it occupies
an important position in the industrial field. Thus
the Government has for the past dozen or more years,
given encouragement and protection to its development.
In recent years, particularly, the need has arisen for
creating automobile menufacturing enterprises to supply
automobiles for the masses for which the demand has be-
come great. Recent defense and economic requirements
have

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
65
-7 -
have a lso produced a demand for more au tomobiles.
"There are one or two enterprises that aim at turn-
ing out automobiles for the me sses on a considerable
scale, but they hardly merit the name of a national
automobile industry. Most of the influential automobile
assemblage enterprises in the country, moreover, are
foreign. Unless the Government ives proper guidance,
therefore, a national automobile industry cannot be
established without great difficulty. When Japanese
enterprises join hands with foreign companies, it is
necessary for the Japenese to control management rights.
"As mass production of automobiles designed for
the masses must be placed on a solid. besis, uncontrolled
establishment of numerous enterprises must be given
stability. Hence the various provisions in the draft
bill for the establishment of a domestic automobile
industry."
Foreign Firms Notified.
Immediately after the Cabinet Council on Auust 9,
Mr. N. Kishi, director of the Industrial Affairs Bureau
of the Department of Conmerce and Industry, sent a written
statement to the two foreign firms, namely, General
Motors and the Ford Motor Company. The statement runs
as follows:-
"As long as more then half the shares of companies
with foreign capital are held by foreigners, any ex-
pansion or new installations effected by them after
August 9, 1935, must be abolished when the law is en-
acted."
* * * * * * *
4
IN

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.94)
194
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
7
1
Yokohama, Japan, August 25, 1936.
25522406
TREATY DIVISION
OCT 6 - 1936
No
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT:
JAPANESE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTR
11066 GPO
CONTROL LAW
1.
LLSA
nle
For
THE HONORABLE
Just to olegr
FABLARS
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
894.797/3
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to previous correspondence
regarding the Japanese automotive industry and to report
that Mr. Benjamin Kopf, Manager of the Ford assembly
plant in Yokohama, has reported that the Japanese offi-
cials appear to be applying the recently promulgated
Automobile Industry Control Act with even greater dis-
crimination against foreign companies than is provideg
in the act itself.
9
The Ford Company has for some time proposed
build additional facilities for manufacture. When the
control law was put into effect it became impossible
to increase production of automobiles beyond the quota
allotted to the company, but the law does not specify
any limit to increasing the efficiency of the plant
already
F/FG.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.96)
/0/s
- 2 -
already established, nor to changing the plant in any
way. The company wished to make a number of changes
which, according to Mr. Kopf, would increase the ef-
ficiency without any intention of increasing actual
numerical output of units. The additions would in-
clude a foundry and a larger machine department.
The official in charge of the enforcement of the
new law, in the Department of Commerce and Industry
in Tokyo, in a personal conversation with Mr. Kopf,
stated that although the law does not specifically
prohibit changes in the Ford plant, its intention is
undoubtedly to that effect and ne would not grant
permission for the changes Mr. Kopf desired.
Very respectfully yours,
Boihosle
Richard F. Boyce,
American Consul.
866.16
RFB/rk

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.95)
116.
797/31
Ootober 5 1936
—1115
To the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo.
The Seeretary of State encloses a copy of despatch
No. 241 dated August 25, 1936, from the American Consul
at Yokohame in which it is stated that the manager of the
Ferd assembly plant at Yokohama has reported to the Consul
8
that Japanese officials appear to be applying the recently
premalgated Automobile Industry Control Law with even
greater diserimination against foreign companies than is
provided for in the law itself.
It is desired that the Chargé d'Affaires direet the
Comsul to keep the Embasey fully informed with regard to
developments adversely affecting Amerioan eutomobile
interests in the Yokohama Consular District.
The Depertment would appreciate the receipt from the
basey of comment with regard to statements made in the
despateh under reference of the Consul and an expression
of the Embassy's opinion with regard to the questiom
whether any astien in the premises by this Government is
ealled for at the present junoture.
No. 261.
OCT 5
867

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
PAR LASILOA MAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 16, 1937.
You asked about the prinoiples
involved in this matter:
When the question of whether the
proposed autonobile control law would be
violative of the Treaty first arose, the
Embassy was informed that the Department
considered that Artioler I and II of the
Treaty conferred on American citizens
the indisputable right to manufacture
on terms of complete equality with
Japanese subjects, and that therefore
any limitation on that right would be
violative of the Treaty.
After representations had been made
by the Embassy, apparently the Foreign
Office changed its stand and sot
forward the argument that Article I of the
Treaty applies only to individuals and
not to copporations, and that the
position of companies is regulated by
Article vii of the Treaty.
In the Department's opinion these
contentions were unwarranted by the
language of the Treaty. However, as

=== Page 244 === (confidence 1.00)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
2
you pointed out in your memorandum
of April 28, 1936: "The basis of
argument used in the attached draft
telegram (in which the Department's
counter-argument was set forth) might
be tenable in the case of American
individuals residing in Japan. If,
however, the Japanese should admit this
but contend that Amerioan corporations
or individuals in the United States
(as distinot from Aemrican individuals
residing in Japan) have no right to set
up corporate entities in Japan, I am
not sure that we would have any sound
legal basis to asnwer such an argument".
In view of this doubtful legal
basis, the teleg am was not sent and
the Department has since avoided
debating the issue with the Japanese.

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.91)
4.20
LEGAL ADVISER
1/n
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
53
No. 2394.
EA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 30, 1937.
SA
SUBJECT:
APPLICATION OF THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY
F TE
CONTROL LAW - POSITION OF THE FORD MOTOR
97
F T
COMPANY.
OFFICE OF THE AUVISER ON
10
PE
2
INTERNAFFAIRS
JUL 2119379
894
DEPANINIERI
894.797/32
For Tictribor n-Check
InISA
CONFIDENTIAL.
Ior
Ze.
2el. to Joley o th
2
The Honorable
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Deparmer of Stat
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 882,
dated November 18, 1935, in which was examined the question
of discrimination against American motor-car manufacturers
in Japan, and to subsequent correspondence (especially to
27
the Embassy's despatch No. 1659, dated February 5, 1936)
PTLHD
1/
on the same subject, I have the honor to enclose herewith
a copy of a memorandum prepared for the use of this Embassy
by the Ford Motor Company of Japan, Limited, describing
the restrictions which have been placed upon the Company's
activities
F/G

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
activities under the Automobile Industry Control Law.
Before proceeding to an examination of the memorandum
of the Ford Motor Company, it might be well to review briefly
the history of the problem. The Japanese Government (actually
the military) in 1935 decided to develop a domestic auto-
mobile industry and accordingly drafted the Automobile
Industry Control Law, which, however, was not approved
by the Diet until 1936. The law, when passed, was made
retroactive to August 9, 1935. It provided that any pro-
ducer of more than 3,000 motor-cars annually must be licensed
by the Government, and that licensees must be Jar anese sub-
jects, or, in the case of corporations, that the majority
of the stock must be held by Japanese subjects. Organizations
already producing automobiles in Japan, however, would be
allowed to continue operations "within the scope existing on
August 9, 1935". The Embassy believed the law to constitute
an infraction of Article l of the treaty of l9ll between the
United States and Japan, inasmuch as it restricted the operations
of American producers of automobiles in Japan, while per-
mitting Japanese producers full liberty of action. The
matter was referred to the Department, which authorized the
Embassy by instruction No. 882, referred to above, to discuss
the matter orally and informally with the Japanese Foreign
Office. This was done, the reply of the Foreign Office (re-
20
ported in despatch No. 1659 dated February 5, 1936) being
to the effect that it considered that Article l of the treaty
applied only to individuals and that as it was unlikely that
individuals would be licensed to manufacture automobiles in
Japan,

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Japan, no discrimination would occur. Corporations are
controlled by Article VII of the treaty, according to the
Foreign Office, and as such are subject to the laws and regula-
tions enacted in the countries in which they operate. The
stand of the Foreign Office, therefore, was that no question
of discrimination against the two American motor-car com-
panies (Ford and General Liotors) arose under the Automobile
Industry Control Law. Thus the matter stands at present.
The Ford Motor Company of Japan, Limited, points out
in its memorandum that it desired to construct a new plant
in Japan to operate within the scope of the Automobile
Industry Control Law; that it has been unable to obtain
permission to erect the factory; that it has not been allowed
to dredge a part of the basin adjoining its property and to
construct a loading dock; that it has been informed by the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry that it would not be per-
mitted to manufacture cars within Japan up to the limit of
3,Oo0 units per annum (for which no license under the law
is required); that it would not be allowed to manufacture or
to machine parts not covered by the law; and that it would
not be allowed under any circumstances to exceed its quota
of 12,360 cars per annum, even if Jananese producers could
not supply the demand.
These being the circumstances, the local representative
of the Ford Motor Company has requested the Embassy again to
examine the question in an effort to ascertain if another
protest can be filed with the Japanese Government on the
grounds of infringement of treaty rights. In view of the
fact that the Japanese Foreign Office has held that the
provisions of Article 1 of the treaty of l9ll apply only to
individuals,

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
individuals, it is difficult to see on what grounds
representations could again be made, unless the Depart-
ment deems it feasible to dispute the Japanese allegation
in regard to the scope of Article I.
The local representative of the Ford Motor Company
also desires that the Embassy make informal inquiries
of the Foreign Office as to the reasons for withholding
the building permit for the erection of its proposed
factory, which, it is pointed out, would operate within
the limits of the quota fixed by the law, except that it
might also manufacture under bond for the Chinese market.
The Embassy declined to take any steps in the matter
without the approval of the Department, and therefore
both questions are referred to the Department.
While the Embassy fully realizes the problems with
which the American motor-car companies are faced in Japan,
it cannot see that any good can be accomplished either
for the automobile interests or for the prestige of the
American Government by endeavoring to fight against the
present nationalistic trends in Japen. There is no doubt
that the Japanese military are determined to build up a
domestic motor-car manufacturing industry upon which
they can rely for motor transport in time of war, and no
amount of arguing with the Foreign Office on questions
of treaty rights will alter the determination of the
military. It would therefore appear to be the part of
discretion to accept the situation with the best grace
possible.
When the matter was presented to the local representa-
tive of the Ford Motor Company in the above light, he replied
that

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
that he realized that nothing could be hoped to be ac-
complished through diplomatic protests, but that he did
not wish to accept the situation without "putting up some
kind of a fight". Asked why he was so insistent upon
erecting a new factory at Yokohama when the old factory was
adequate for the business which the law would allow him
to undertake, he replied that there were various reasons
for the plan. One was his expectation that in course
of time the Company would be forced to sell out to Japanese,
and that the Company could obtain a much better price with
a modern plant than it could with an antiquated building
and obsolete equipment. Another was that the Company
desires to utilize a part of its Japan profits in erecting
the new factory, thus decreasing its book profits and
avoiding the higher brackets of the income tax and busi-
ness profits tax. Moreover, in the new factory the
Company would be able to manufacture more of the parts
of the car in Japan and would not only be able to make a
larger profit on the cars sold in Japan but could also
supply a part of the Chinese market from the Yokohama plant.
Despite the facts adduced above by the local repre-
sentative of the Ford Motor Company, the Embassy is still
of the opinion that it would be best for all parties con-
cerned to accept the conditions as they exist and not
to attempt to "swim against the current". The American
Government certainly would meet with a rebuff if it
attempted to interfere diplomatically with the plans of
the Japanese military, and it is difficult to see what,
if anything, the Ford Motor Company could hope to gain.
However

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.93)
-6-
However, at the request of the local representative of
the Company, the matter is referred to the Department
for its consideration.
Respectfully yours,
()
Joseph C. Grew.
Endlosure: Copy of memorandum dated April 15, 1937, from
the Ford Motor Company of Japan, Limited.
866.16
JCG/ERD:r
FP
Reooived

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No.2394 of April 30, 1937, from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
YOKOHAMA: Apri1 15, 1937.
STATEMENT FOR THE AMERICAN EMBASSY IN TOKYO
REGARDING THE ATTEMPT OF THE FORD MOTOR COM-
PANY TO EXTEND ITS ASSEMBLY PLANT IN JAPAN.
In 1934 the Ford Motor Company of Japan Ltd found it ad-
viseble to prepare to increase its assembling facilities at Yoko-
hama, the present plant having been inadequate for some time. An
extension of the old plant was considered, but realizing that
in the course of time it would be necessary to do more and
more manufacturing in this country and in any case it was
deemed advisable to install machining equipment for castings
and forgings which could be made locally but for which no
machining equipment was available, it was decided to build
an entirely new plant.
For this purpose, we intended to purchase a lo0-acre
site from the City of Yokohama. hile the negotiations were
proceeding, we were called upon and threatened by various
rightist organizations, who warned us to cease expanding.
Their threats were disregarded and negotiations proceeded
fairly satisfactorily, until the point was reached that the
deal could be completed. At that stage, the City autho-
rities were warned by the Japanese army not to sell the
land. We then looked for another site, and found a suitable
one belonging to the Asano interests. The usual threats from
rightist organizations were received by us and the Asanos,
and later the Army authorities approached the Asanos and
told them not to sell to us. After lengthy negotiations, the
owners of the land secured the understanding of the Army
and we purchased the site.
Soon after, in August 1935, the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry notified us that the Government had decided on a
basic policy for automobile manufacturing, that only organi-
zations having a majority of Japanese capital and with Japa-
nese management could be licensed, but that existing Com-
panies would be allowed to operate "within the scope ex-
isting as of August 9th 1935.
There being at the time no law to justify interference
with our plans, these were proceeded with, and eventually in
June l936 we applied for a factory permit and a building permit.
Up to date no decision has been rendered on these appli-
cations. Innumerable questions have been asked and data re-
quired, but we have been unable to get them to approve or
reject our applications. These have been modified at various
times to comprise only the equipment and operations we are
doing at the present factory, as we were told that RvoVAL was
quite permissible - with no result.
W。

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
We also applied for permission to build a loading
dock as part of our new plant, and to dredge part of the
basin adjoining our property. After nine months, we were
informed that the application could not be granted. The
authorities decline to tell us the reasons for the refusal.
They simply state that various Government departments had
reported on our applications and the majority were opposed.
In the course of various conversations with officials
of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry they were asked if
we could not manufacture within the quantitative limit of
3000 specified by the law, and for which no license is re-
quired. We were told we could not . Asked if we had not the
right to manufacture parts or to machine parts for which there
is no restriction by law, we were informed that we could not.
Asked if it was not true that any party had the right to do
these things which were not prohibited or limited by law, we
were told that it was so, but did not anply to the foreign
assembly plants, who by law were restricted to the operations
they were coing on August 9, 1935. Asked if this was not
discrimination, they informed us that there was No discrimi-
nation.
After the Automobile Control Law was passed and
regulations sanctioned, quotas were established for Ford
and General Motors. Our yearly quota was set at 12,360 and
for General Motors at 9,470. The Ministry of Commerce and
Industry was asked if we would be allowed to exceed this
quota in case the Japanese manufacturers should be unable to
fill the demand. e were informed that under no circumstances
would we be allowed to produce more tian 12,360 units in any
given quota year, even if the Japanese could not supply. They
were unable to say where the buyers would get the units.
In addition to hemming us in as explained above,
the authorities are preparing to restrict our business still
further by other means. Taxi, bus and truck operators are
being encouraged to form guilds, which are to receive assis-
tance from Government institutions on the understanding that
they will buy only Japanese cars and trucks. Bus operators,
who are dependent on franchises, are being "induced" to buy
Japan made units in order to get the franchise.
These facts are being submitted to you in view of the
interest you have manifested in this matter, to show how
American interests are being discriminated against in Japan,
possibly in violation of treaties existing between the United
States and this country. It would seem well for the American
Government to take note of this.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF JAPAN LTD
(Signed) B Kopf
Manager.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 9, 1937
MMI
In this despatch from Tokyo the Embassy refers to
the Department, at the request of the Ford Motor Company
of Japan, the question of the right of the Company under
Japanese law to construct a new factory and to engage in
certain manufacturing operations. The Company desires that
the matter be examined with a view to determining if another
protest can be filed with the Japanese Government on the
grounds of infringement of treaty rights.
You will recall that in November 1935 the Embassy was
instructed to point out to the Japanese Government that
the restrictions on the manufacture of automobiles by
American citizens in Japan, contemplated at that time, would
be violutive of the Treaty. The Foreign Office declared in
reply that the provision of the treaty cited by the Embassy
is not applicable in the circumstances. There the matter has
stood until the present.
The Embassy is of the view that unless the Department
deems it feasible to dispute the Japanese allegation in
regard to the applicability of the Treaty, it would appear
difficult to see on what grounds representations could again
be made. In a memorandum dated February 10, 1936, Le stated
that the contention of the Foreign Office, of course, is
untenable, and advised that the Foreign Office be informed
that

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
that the proposed law is (would be) a clear violation of
the Treaty, and that the reasons advanced by the Foreign
Office are unacceptable to this Government. A draft
telegram to that effect for transmission to the Embassy
was prepared, but was not sent because of some doubt on
the part of this Division in regard to the legal principles
involved.
It would appear that the matter is at present in
exactly the same status as it was in May 1936, when the
draft instruction to the Embassy, above-mentioned, was
prepared and later laid aside. At that time Mr. Hornbeck
recommended to the Under Secretary "that we hold the
proposed instruction in reserve," presumably because of
the questionable legal basis of the Department's argument.
The Embassy is of the further opinion that no good
can be accomplished either for the automobile interests or
for the prestige of the American Governnent by endeavoring
to alter the determination of the Japanese military to
build up a domestic automobile industry by arguing with
the Foreign Office over treaty rights. The Embassy con-
siders that it would be the part of discretion for this
Government to accept the situation with the best grace
possible, and not to attempt to interfere diplomatically
with the plans of the Japanese military. In this opinion
I fully concur. Whatever the attitude of the American
Government toward this matter may be and however just the
contention

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
contention of the American interests concerned may be,
it seems certain that no amount of argument based on
legalistic considerations is likely to swerve the Japanese
Government from its determination to establish a domestic
automobile industry free from dependence on foreign capital
or foreign management. Common sense would therefore seem
to dictate that, in view of the fact that this Government
has already set forth to the Japanese Government its
attitude in regard to this matter, no further representations
be made at this time in the absence of a material change in
the situation.
In considering all aspects of this matter it is believed
that due weight should be given to the view of EA (Dr. Feis):
"I do not believe it to be to the American advantage to
exert ourselves to facilitate American capital and enterprise
for developing the automobile industry in Japan--the contrary
is true . . ."
There is appended an instruction to the Embassy stating
that in view of the circumstances the Department is not
inclined to tace up the matter with the Japanese Government
at this time.
ln
FE:WTT:ZMK
FE

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL C
Department of State
NONCONFIDENTIAL OODE
PARTAIR
'AlE
PLAIN
Washington,
1937 JUL 20 D 3 57
20
Ns cable was sent in confidential Code.
July
1937.
chould be carefully paraphrased belore
5m
ng communicatee to anyene.
CO
AMEMBASSY
894.797/32
TOKYO (JAPAN).
118
Your despatch 2394 of April 30, 1937, 1n regard to the
Automobile Industry Control Law.
The Department is of the opinion that, in the absence
dn.thapostn.t advisob/e
3.m60.
vlews of this Government as expressed to the Foreign Office
by the Embassy (your despatch 1631 of January 9, 1936) and
to'endeavor to 'alter the atti tude of the Japanese Go vern-
ment.
Please explain the si tuation to the Ford Company.
Hell
F
894.797
C
32
V
mmA
FE: WT3: VCI
FE
S
M.,
19
1-1462

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.85)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
N OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Jeb.3,1936.
1.
it of yous weir
o?
m.m.H.

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.94)
821.
DENARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
4
JUN 18 1937
wel
DIVISION CF
February 10, 1936.
894.797
FE
Mr. Hamilton:
The contention of the Japanese Foreign Office,
as reported in the attached telegram from the Embassy
in Tokyo, is of course transparently untenable.
894.797/
Assuming, without discussing, the correotness of the
thesis of the Japanese Foreign Office that Article I
of the Treaty of l9ll applies only to individuals,
it necessarily follows that individual American citizens
C
C1
have exactly the same rights to manufacture automobiles
in Japan as are granted to Japanese subjects. If
Japanese subjects as individuals are not permitted to
operate automobile faotories but are permitted to do so
as Japanese corporations, compliance with the treaty
provision manifestly requires that American citizens
also be permitted to operate automobile factories as
Japanese corporations on a basis of exact equality with
1
all other Japanese corporations. Any other contention
would render meaningless and worthless the provisions
of Article I of the Treaty of l9ll which expressly
grants to American citizens "liberty * * * to own or
lease and occupy manufactories, warehouses and shops
and
7

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
and generally to do anything incident to or necessary
for trade upon the same terms as native * * * subjects"
of Japan. The Foreign Office's statement that the
position of "companies or corporations" is regulated by
Artiole 7 of the treaty and that Artiole I has no
application to the case, is not entitled to serious
consideration. Artiole 7 relates exclusively to the
status of the corporations of one of the signatory
powers doing business in the territory of the other
—1
signatory. It does not and obviously could not be
intended to refer to Japanese corporations in Japan or
American corporations in the United States. Since the
only American automobile factories in Japan are Japanese
corporations, it is evident that any discrimination
against them in favor of other Japanese corporations
would be a clear violation of the provisions of
Article I of the treaty of l9ll. That fact is undoubtedly
well known to the Foreign Office as is indicated in a
practical admission of its helplessness, despite the
feeble deolaration that it does not regard the proposed
law as a violation of the treaty. It is merely an
additional instance of a treaty obligation whioh, if
recognized, would prevent the Japanese from operating
"in the manner to whioh they have become accustomed".
The

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
The existence of the obligation must, therefore, be
denied, however overwhelming may be the evidence of its
reality.
In this si tuation it would seem to be useless to
attempt to enter upon a detailed discussion of the grounds
upon which our allegation of treaty violation is based.
If it is deemed necessary or desirable to disouss the
question further with the Foreign Office, I think we
should briefly and quite categorically declare that
the proposed law, if enacted, would be a clear violation
of Artiole I of the Treaty of l9ll, and that the reasons
advanced by the Foreign Office in denial of the treaty
obligation are so definitely contrary to the applicable
provisions of the treaty as to be unacceptable to the
Government of the United States.
894.797/18
Le:FXW:HWC:SS

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
18837
Febwuary 13, 1936.
C
Mr.Hamilton:
I entirely agree with Mr. Ward's memorandum of Febru-
394.797/34
ary 10, 1936, regarding the apparent contention of the
Japanese Government that Article I of the Treaty of 19ll
does not give American nationals the right to form corpora-
tions in Japan for the purpose of carrying on business in
that country. If the Japanese thesis were correct, it
would be possible to nullify the provisions of the treaty
merely by requiring that all business must be transacted
through corporations and by limiting or denying the right
of aliens to form such corporations or to participate in
their formation and operations.
As pointed out by Mr. Ward, Article VII of the treaty
has no bearing on the situation here in question since it
has to do only with activities in one country of corpora-
2EAL18 701
tions created in the other.
The precise question here presented was passed upon
by the Supreme Court of California May 20, 1927, in the
case of K. Tashiro et al. v. Jordan. Secretary of State,
et al.
F/G

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
et al. In that case Japanese nationals had prepared arti-
cles of inoorporation for the purpose of establishing a
hospital and had applied to the Secretary of State for a
certifioate of incorporation, which the latter had refused
to issue. The court required the issuance of the certifi-
cate stating, among other things, that the right "to carry
on trade" such as "conducting manufactories, warehouses,
and shops and leasing land: for commercial purposes, is
from the very terms of said treaty as extensive and complete
as that employed by native citizens or subjects".
The
court proceeded to state that "It would be difficult to
frame language much more comprehensive than that found in
* * article I of the tteaty" wherein it is provided
that the citizens or subjects of the High Contracting
Parties shall have liberty "to do anything incident to or
necessary for trade upon the same terms as native citizens
or subjects". The court further stated:
". . . It is hardly necessary to call attention
to the extent to which corporations are formed
and used by the citizens of this state, as well
as by those of all other civilized countries,
in the transaction of the various lines of trade
carried on therein. There is scarcely a class
of business of any consequence carried on in
this state in which corporate interests do not
play, if not a leading, at least an important
part in its transaction. The extensive and
widespread use of this means of carrying on
trade or transacting business is convincing
proof of the advantages to be derived therefrom.
Why, then, should this method of carrying on
trade as to the olasses of business enumerated
in the treaty be denied subjects of Japan
residing

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
residing in this state in the face of the plain
provisions of the treaty conferring upon them
as to such classes of business the right to do
anything incident to such business upon the same
terms as native citizens? A corporation, or the
members thereof, in conducting any certain busi-
ness do not thereby exeroise any more extensive
or different right or control over the property
of said business than they would exeroise over
said property if they carried on the business
as individuals."
The defendants in this case contended, like the
Japanese Government now contends, that Article vII negatived
any contention on the part of the Contracting Parties to
recognize the right to transact business through the
formation of corporations. As to this contention the
court stated:
". . . The parties to the treaty evidently
were not prepared to definitely bind them-
selves as to the rights of a corporation
organized in one country and domiciled
therein to transact and carry on business
in the other. Hence they left the question
unaffected by the treaty and subject to be
regulated by the respective countries. They
were, however, prepared to definitely fix
and determine the rights of citizens and
subjects of one country domiciled in the
other, and to this end they set forth these
rights distinctly and comprehensively in
article 1 of the treaty, the terms of which
we have already considered and attempted to
construe."(256 Pac. 545,548)
The situations referred to by Messrs. Vallance and
Murdock, in which the view was expressed that the rights
of American corporations should not be assimilated to
the rights of nationals, where nationals are referred to
in commercial treaties, are not here in point. Corpora-
tions

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
tions in those cases were those created in one country
which desired to have their status recognized in the
other country.
I think that a firm position should be taken by
the Department in this case. If the treaty is given
the interpretation contended for by the Japanese Gov-
ernment, it will be practically a meaningless instrument,
in so far as concerns trade and commerce, and should not
be given effect in this country, as has been done by
various decisions of our courts, including the one
referred to herein.
Le 894.797/18
GHH:AD

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIR
February 29, 1936.
Holicy with Regard to Proposed Automobile Legislation
JUN 18 1937
In Japan.
DIVISION OF
I.
What is the proposed automobile legislation in Japan?
Under date of August 9, 1935, the Director of the Bureau
of Industrial Affairs in the Japanese Department of Commerce
and Industry addressed letter No. 7338 (1935) to Mr. R. A. May,
General Manager of General Motors Japan. The translation of
that letter and of its enclosure, both as transmitted by the
Embassy at Tokyo in despatch No. 1440, August 22, 1935, 1s
as follows:
071
August 9, 1935.
Bureau of Industry Correspondence
No. 7338, 1935.
01
5
Mr. R. A. May,
Representative of General Motors,
Japan, Limited.
Automobile manufacture on
mass production basis.
The automobile industry is one of the fundamental
FTLD
manufactures and occupies a position of great importance
not only in industry and transportation but also in
national defense. In consideration of the importance
of the industry the Japanese Government, which has made
and is making necessary arrangements for its control,
has recently determined the fundamental policy to govern
the manufacture of ordinary vehicles on a mass production
basis, as indicated in the appended outline which is
submitted for your perusal.
This office will be pleased to answer any inquiries
which you may have on this subject.
Shinsuke Kishi,
Director of Industrial Affairs,
Department of Commerce and Industry.
Ti
G
[Translation

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
[Translation of enclosure to the above letter.]
ESSENTIAL POINTS OF AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY LAW.
1. Enterprises for the manufacture of principal
parts and the construction of ordinary automobiles
shall be licensed enterprises but permis sion shall not
be necessary where output does not exceed a specified
limit. The principle of licensing, taking into account
the demand and the supply, shall be to grant permission
only to one or more companies and not to grant permission
to others.
2. The organizations which are qualified to re-
ceive the aforementioned permission shall be limited
to corporations of which a majority of the stock is
owned by Japanese subjects, or to corporations which,
established as juridical persons under Japanese laws
and ordinances, are controlled in a majority of their
voting rights by Japanese subjects.
3. Regarding the automobile manufacturing industry
which has received the permission referred to in the
first paragraph, such supervision and regulations shall
be established as may be necessary for industrial and
national defense reasons.
4. As regards the already existing automobile
industry corresponding to the definitions of the first
paragraph, its rights and interests shall be recognized
within the limits existing at the time of the deter-
mination of this policy, (i.e. August 9, 1935), and the
accomplishment of such enterprises shali be permitted;
in regard to new undertakings established thereafter,
and extensions, such rights and interests shall not be
admitted when the law is hereafter enforoed.
The Japanese press and the English language press in
Japan have also carried reports of legislation proposed to
place the automobile manufacturing industry on a license basis.
One article appeared in the JAPAN ADVERTISER on Lugust 10,
l935. In conversations (on August 20, 1935, and since that
date) between the first Secretary of the Embassy and Mr. Kurusu,
Chief of the Bureau of Commercial Affairs of the Japanese
Foreign

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Foreign Office, Mr. Kurusu has accepted the letter of
August 9, 1935, from the Director of the Bureau of Industrial
Affairs, Department of Commerce and Industry, to the General
Manager of General Motors Japan as containing terms of pro-
posed legislation which is actually under consideration. In
a conversation of January 8, 1935 [Tokyo's despatch No. 1631,
January 9, 1936], between the Counselor of Embassy and
Mr. Shigemitsu, Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Shige-
mitsu remarked that both he and the Counselor were speaking
more or less in the dark as there appeared to be no copy of
the proposed law available. He said that he would try to get
one. In a later conversation on January 21 [Tokyo's despatch
No. 1650, January 23, 1936] between the same two persons the
Vice Minister stated that he could explain the proposed legis-
lation at some length, implying that by that time he had seen
some draft of it. In a conversation with the Counselor on
January 27 [Tokyo's despatch io. 1659, February 5, 1936] the
Vice Minister stated that the newspapers had reported fairly
accurately what the Department of Commerce and Industry had in
mind to put before the Diet.
THE JAPAN TIMES for December 28, 1935, carried the follow-
ing article:
LAW TO CONTROL AUTO PRODUCTION READY FOR DIET.
Strict Regulations Affecting Foreign Manufacturers
And Imports Drafted
The draft of the automobile manufacture law was
drawn up by the Department of Commerce and Industry
at the Departmental conference held Friday at the
official residence of the Minister of Commerce and
Industry. The draft will be submitted to the present
Diet session for approval.
Ever

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
Ever since last year the Government has recognized
the necessity of controlling the manufacture of auto-
mobiles, and has been studying the question from all
sides, particularly with the view to fostering the
progress of the industry in Japan.
Main Points Given
The main points in the drafted regulation are as
follows:
1. Those desiring to manufacture automobiles
in Japan must obtain the Government's sanction. The
standard production capacity for securing the Govern-
ment sanction 1s 6,000 cars a year.
2. Automobile manufacturing companies to be
sanctioned under the law should be companies in which
a majority of deciding votes are controlled by Japanese
subjects or corporation organized by Japanese subjects
under Japanese law.
3. Automobile manufacturing companies organized
under this law shall be exempt from the business profit
tax, the income tax and other local taxes during a
specified period.
4. Automobiles companies sanctioned under this
law may issue debentures in amounts greater than those
designated by the Commercial Code.
5. The import of certain automobile parts or
machinery may be exempted from import tariff.
May Prevent Imports.
6. The Government may issue to automobile
companies formed under this law orders based on
national defence necessities.
7. According to public necessity the Government
may order automobile companies to alter prices on
equipment.
8. For protecting the domestic automobile industry,
the Government may take necessary steps to prevent the
import of foreign cars.
9. Those who were manufacturing automobiles on
August 9, 1935, will be regarded as being sanctioned
by the law.
By

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
By the last item, the increased entrance of
foreign capital in the motor car industry beyond the
amount standing on August 9, 1935, is prevented.
The Japanese Diet was dissolved on January 21, 1936,
for a general election, and possible enactment of the pro-
posed legislation is necessarily postponed thereby.
Several points with regard to the proposed legislation
should be noted. The proposal has to do with "mass cars,"
an expression which has been coined for this purpose and
which means to signify automobiles manufactured on a mass
production basis for general use; the proposed restrictions
would not affect automobiles in the luxury class. The
immediate purpose of the letter of August 9 from the Depart-
ment of Commerce and Industry to the automobile industry was
to serve as an official warning which would thereby lend a
tone of justification to terms of the legislation (which
could not immediately be passed because the Diet was not
sitting) making its terms retroactive to August 9. The
plants and rates of production of Ford and Chevrolet in
Japan as of August 9, 1935, as the limitation beyond which
those companies could not legally expand after the enactment
of the proposed legislation. Ford's interest in acquiring a
large tract of land for expansion of the Yokohama plant was
the immediate stimulus to the issue of the official letter
of August 9. It should also be noted that the proposed
legislation leaves considerable latitude in its administra-
tion

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
tion on account of lack of definition of how the licensing
system would actually be administered -- the familiar point
of uncertainty in so much of Japan's legislation.
Although the Japanese Government has not supplied the
American Government with any definitive statement of what
legislation is being considered for the regulation of the
automobile manufacturing industry in Japan, the above
paragraphs give a fairly specific idea of certain proposals,
and it is these proposals which the term "proposed automobile
legislation" is used to mean in this memorandum.
II. Would enforcement of the proposed automobile legislation
conflict with treaty rights of the United States?
Legislation proposed in Japan would permit expansion of
plant and output, in the production of automobiles, by
licensed companies only. Such licensed companies would have
to be of majority Japanese ownership. The present American
automobile manufacturers operating in Japan would be limited
to their plant and rate of output as of August 9, 1935.
Would the enforcement of such legislation violate American
treaty rights?
If the enforcement of the proposed legislation would
violate American treaty rights, the violation would be of
either article I or article VII of the 19ll Treaty of
Commerce and Navigation between the United States and Japan.
That treaty was concluded in the English language and the
text of those articles is as follows:
Article I.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
Article I.
The citizens or subjects of each of the High
Contracting Parties shall have liberty to enter,
travel and reside in the territories of the other
to carry on trade, wholesale and retail, to own or
lease and occupy houses, manufactories, warehouses
and shops, to employ agents of their choice, to
lease land for residential and commercial purposes,
and generally to do anything incident to or necessaary
for trade upon the same terms as native citizens or
subjects, submitting themselves to the laws and reg-
ulations there established.
They shall not be compelled, under any pretext
whatever, to pay any charges or taxes other or higher
than those that are or may be paid by native citizens
or subjects.
The citizens or subjects of each of the High
Contracting Parties shall receive, in the territories
of the other, the most constant protection and security
for their persons and property, and shall enjoy in
this respect the same rights and privileges as are or
may be granted to native citizens or subjects, on
their submitting themselves to the conditions imposed
upon the native citizens or subjects.
Article VII.
Limited liability and other companies and associ-
ations, commercial, industrial, and financial, already
or hereafter to be organized in accordance with the
laws of either High Contracting Party and domiciled in
the territories of such Party, are authorized, in the
territories of the other, to exercise their rights and
appear in the courts either as plaintiffs or defendants,
subject to the laws of such other Party.
The foregoing stipulation has no bearing upon the
question whether a company or association organized in
one of the two countries will or will not be permitted
to transact its business or industry in the other,
this permission remaining always subject to the laws
and regulations enacted or established in the respec-
tive countries or in any part thereof.
It

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
It is apparent from article VII that, although a company
incorporated in the United States has the right to appear in
the Japanese courts, the laws and regulations of Japan may
without violating the treaty refuse that company permission
to transact business or industry in Japan.
The assembling of automobiles in Japan by American
interests is, however, performed through the operation of
corporations established under Japanese law. The corpora-
tions are Japanese and their ownership is American, chiefly
or entirely. Their rights are therefore not governed by
article VII of the treaty, and a study of article I is
necessary.
Close observation of the punctuation of the first
sentence of article I indicates that it can be read in
several ways, one of which is:
The citizens or subjects of each of the High
Contracting Parties shall have liberty
to enter, travel and reside in the
territories of the other to carry
on trade, wholesale and retail,
to own or lease and occupy houses,
manufactories, warehouses and shops,
to employ agents of their choice,
to lease land for residential and
commercial purposes,
and generally to do anything incident to
or necessary for trade upon the same
terms as native citizens or subjects,
submitting themselves to the laws and
regulations there established.
It

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
It should be particularly observed that the words "to carry
on trade, wholesale and retail" are not preceded by a comma
and therefore do not constitute one of the coordinate clauses
of the statement but simply modify the clause "to enter,
travel and reside in the territories of the other."
It should not be overlooked that a close reading of the
first sentence of article I also permits the following some-
what more restricted meaning:
The citizens or subjects of each of the High
Contracting Parties shali have liberty
to enter, travel and reside in the
territories of the other
to carry on trade, wholesale
and retail,
to own or lease and occupy
houses, manufactories, ware-
houses and shops,
to employ agents of their
choice,
to lease land for residential
and commercial purposes,
and generally to do anything
incident to or necessary for
trade upon the same terms as
native citizens or subjects,
submitting themselves to the
laws and regulations there
established.
The definitive text of the treaty is in the English
language but it is worth noting how this particular sentence
has been officially rendered in Japanese by the Japanese
Foreign Office in a collection of treaties to which Japan is
a

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
a party, published in l925. This standard publication of
the Japanese Government publishes the English text of the
treaty and in a parallel column a rendering in Japanese.
The following is an English translation of the first sentence
of article I as rendered in Japanese in this official publica-
tion:
[Translation from Japanese.]
The subjects or citizens of each of the High
Contracting Parties, submitting themselves to the
laws and regulations established in the territories
of the other, shall, upon the same terms as native
subjects or citizens, have liberty
to enter, travel, and reside in the
territories of the other,
.to carry on trade, wholesale and retail,
to own or lease houses, manufactories,
warehouses, and shops, and make use of
them,
to employ agents of their choice,
to lease land for residential and
commercial purposes,
and otherwise generally to do anything
incident to or necessary for trade.
It is to be observed that in this rendering the Japanese
Foreign Office has ignored the above-mentioned comma and
has given the sentence its widest possible scope.
Sentences in article I which have to do with taxes and
compulsory military service are not in point in the present
matter. The remaining sentence of article I states as
follows:
The

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
-11 -
The citizens or subjects of each of the High
Contracting Parties shall receive, in the territories
of the other, the most constant protection and security
for their persons and property, and shall enjoy in this
respect the same rights and privileges as are or may be
granted to native citizens or subjects, on their sub-
mitting themselves to the conditions imposed upon the
native citizens or subjects.
Although this sentence might conceivably be invoked by the
United States in support of a request for the protection of
the property of General Motors Japan and the Ford Motor
Company of Japan acquired in accordance with conditions
imposed upon native subjects, it is thought that the first
sentence of article I is more inclusive.
Narrowing down the subject of this inquiry, the present
question is whether or not the enforcement of the proposed
automobile legislation in Japan would violate terms of the
treaty which state (in their strictest reading) that the
citizens of the United States shall have liberty to reside
in Japan to own or lease and occupy manufactories and gen-
erally to do anything incident to or necessary for trade upon
the same terms as native subjects, submitting themselves to
the laws and regulations of Japan. American citizens have
the right to reside in Japan to own and occupy manufactories
and have the right to reside in Japan generally to do any-
thing incident to or necessary for trade upon the same terms
as native subjects, submitting themselves to the laws and
regulations of Japan. It is conceivable, speaking only in
terms of grammar, that the right to reside in Japan to do
anything incident to trade upon the same terms as native
subjects

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
-12 -
subjects might be interpreted as a right of residence when
the purpose is trade on equal terms, and not as a right to
reside and trade on equal terms; but the Japanese Government
has not taken this position and is not likely to do so.
Entirely plausible, however, is the interpretation that the
first sentence of article I gives American citizens the right
to reside in Japan and participate in trade without handicap,
but that it does not give American citizens residing in the
United States the right to control an enterprise in Japan.
The possibility that the Japanese Government will adopt this
interpretation should not be overlooked. In the conversa-
tion of January 27, 1936, between the Japanese Vice Minister
for Foreign Affairs and the Counselor the Vice Minister
spoke of absence of discrimination between Japanese subjects
and foreigners resident in Japan. This apparent distinction
may have been deliberate.
If American citizens have rights which would permit
them to assemble automobiles in Japan, does the 19ll treaty
give American citizens rights which would permit them to
assemble automobiles in Japan through the agency of
companies established under Japanese law? In a memorandum
of February 13, 1936, the Legal Adviser stated that 1f it
1s contended that article I of the treaty of l9ll does not
give American nationals the right to form corporations in
Japan

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
Japan for the purpose of carrying on business in that
country then it would be possible to nullify the pro-
visions of the treaty merely by requiring that all business
must be transacted through corporations or by limiting or
denying the right of aliens to participate in their for-
mation and operations. The attitude of the American
Government should be that the Japanese Government has the
right to provide such restrictions as it wishes for the
automobile industry of Japan and if it so desires may
enact a law stating that Japanese subjects have the right
to own a majority of the stock of companies licensed in
the industry, but that the citizens of the United States
(which enjoy a treaty guaranteeing to American citizens
in such trade the same terms as native subjects, sub-
mitting themselves to the laws and regulations) therefore
automatically acquire under such legislation the right to
own a majority of the stock of compenies licensed in the
production of automobiles.
On January 8 the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
observed in conversation with the Counselor of the Embassy
that the treaty of 19ll does not provide for rights of
manufacture. This was reported in the Embassy's telegram
No. 6, January 9, 1936, 11 a.m., and the Department replied
in telegram No. 14, January 31, 1936, 11 a.m., to the
Embassy stating"For your information the Department considers
that the use of the word 'manufactories' in its context in
articles

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
articles I and II of the treaty confers on American
citizens the indisputable right to manufacture on terms of
complete equality with Japanese subjects." The Department's
contention in this respect would appear to be entirely
sound. The first article of the treaty specifically speaks
of the ownership, leasing and occupying of manufactories,
and article II specifically mentions manufactories in con-
nection with the guarantee of respect of premises. There
can be no reasonable doubt that the intention of the treaty
was to include the right of manufacture among the rights
provided; and it is further to be noted that in the Japanese
rendering of the first sentence of article I (previously
mentioned on page 10) the right of manufacture is more
liberally set forth than in the original treaty.
It would be difficult to build up a case to show that,
in spite of the mention of manufactories in article I and
article II of the l9ll treaty, the actual right of manu-
facture was not contemplated.
Several articles in Japanese newspapers discussing the
proposed automobile legislation have taken the position that
such an enactment is necessary for national defense. It is
possible that the Foreign Office, after further study of the
treaty and after noting the legal difficulty of holding either
that article I is not applicable or that the right of manu-
facture is not included, will also conclude that the best
means of meeting any protest by the American Government
against

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
-15 -
against the proposed automobile legislation is to justify
the legislation on the grounds of being necessary for
national defense. Three refutations of this argument
suggest themselves. First, commercial projects which play
a part in national defense are not exempted from the pro-
visions of the l9ll treaty which admit American citizens
to business in Japan on equal terms with Japanese subjects.
Second, the proposed automobile legislation is not necessary
to national defense. Even admitting that the automobile
industry be an industry essential to national defense, all
essential national defense considerations are met by the
location of the industry within Japan under conditions
enforced equally against Japanese subjects and American
citizens. It can be briefly observed in passing that the
law regulating the petroleum industry in Japan contains
provisions designed for the national defense but these
provisions are applicable equally to native and foreign
companies. Third, the last sentence of article I states
that American citizens shall be exempt in Japan "from all
forced loans or military exactions or contributions"; and
a disability imposed for reasons of national defense upon
American participants in the automobile industry in Japan
is a military exaction, consequently violative of the
treaty.
III.Would

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.99)
-16 -
III. Would treaty rights of American interests in the
Ford Motor Company of Japan and General Motors Japan be
violated by enforcement of the proposed legislation?
General Motors Japan and the Ford Motor Company of Japan
have not taken the Department into confidence, and the owner-
ship of those two companies is not definitely known; but it is
generally assumed that a majority of the stock of the Ford
Motor Company of Japan is owned by the Ford Motor Company, a
Delaware'corporation, and that a majority of the stock of
General Motors Japan is owned by General Motors Corporation,
a Delaware corporation. If this assumption is correct the
Department should clearly bear in mind, in arriving at its
attitude toward the proposed automobile legislation in Japan,
that, under article VII of the treaty of 19ll between the
United States and Japan, the question whether or not a company
or association organized in the United States will be permitted
to transact its business or industry in Japan remains always
subject to the laws and regulations enacted in Japan. So far
as the proposed automobile legislation limits corporations
organized in the United States the treaty of 19ll is not
violated.
It is probable that it is the enforcement of legislation
contrary to a treaty and not the enactment of legislation con-
trary to a treaty which constitutes the violation of a treaty.
The enactment of the proposed automobile legislation would in
itself not constitute violation of the treaty of l9ll. Further-
more,

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
- 17 -
more, if the enacted legislation were enforced only against
corporations organized in the United States, it could be con-
tended that the treaty would not have been violated.
IV. What American interests would be affected by the proposed
automobile legislation in Japan?
The Ford Motor Company of Japan and General Motors Japan,
both of which are corporations established in accordance with
Japanese law and presumably owned by American corporations, own
and operate plants in Japan for the assembling of automobiles.
The plants of these two companies operate with American capital
and technical skill and Japanese labor. Some of the parts for
the automobiles assembled are manufactured in the United
States and imported into Japan by these corporations and some
of the parts are manufactured in Japan (chiefly or wholly by
other companies which are Japanese).
It is not impossible that, with the expansion of the Japa-
nese demand for automobiles, other American automobile manu-
facturers may later be interested in assembling in Japan. The
possible future interests of such other companies should
therefore not be overlooked in determining policy at the
present time.
The demand for automobiles in Japan is already of con-
siderable proportions and is expected to increase in later
years. In telegram No. 49, February 10, 1936, the Commercial
Attaché at Tokyo stated that official reports show that at
the end of October 1935 there were 134,859 motor vehicles in the
Japanese

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
-18 -
Japanese Empire exclusive of official vehicles; that of this
total 48,135 were automobile trucks; and that the total of
motor vehicles in the Japanese Empire increased by 13,667 in
the ten-month period January 1 to October 31, 1935. This
figure of 13,667 vehicles increase should not, however, be
taken as the figure representing the number of vehicles sold
in the same period. The market of course absorbed in addition
the number of automobiles required to replace those no longer
serviceable. In Japan the number of worn out vehicles is large
in comparison to the total number of vehicles in use beoause
most passenger automobiles are used as taxis which operate at
a high daily mileage and therefore have a relatively short life.
In the JAPAN ADVERTISER for November 3, 1935, the financial
editor of that newspaper, in an article on the automobile
industry, interpolated an estimate of the annual demand for
automobiles in Japan, fixing the figure at 34,000 vehicles.
It is probable that the financial editor had grounds for this
estimate, and it is further probable that he had consulted
General Motors Japan and the Ford Motor Company of Japan in
arriving at the figure.
Neither Ford nor General Motors have informed the
Department of the volume of their current production in Japan
but would probably be willing to divulge this information in
confidence if desired by the Department.
The retail price in Japan of 30,000 automobiles of
Chevrolet and Ford type at current prices is approximately
one hundred million yen.
v.What

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.99)
- 19 -
V. What should be the policy of the United States with
regard to the proposed automobile legislation?
In 1nstruction No. 882, November 18, 1935, to the Embassy
at Tokyo the Department referred to the proposed legislation
and to article I of the l9ll treaty and concluded by stating:
The Department authorizes you to discuss orally
and informally with the Foreign Office the proposed
legislation and to inform the Foreign Office that in
the opinion of this Government the enactment and en-
forcement of the proposed law would be a clear viola-
tion of the rights to which American nationals engaged
in the business of manufacturing and distributing
motor vehicles in Japan are entitled by the treaty
article under reference.
Shortly after his return to Tokyo the Ambassador telegraphed
[No. 247, December 19, 5 p.m.] reporting the fact of current
negotiations between General Motors and Japanese interests in
regard to future manufacture in Japan, and the Ambassador
stated:
It is my opinion that this plan of General
Motors, even if carried into effect, will not
seriously weaken our basic treaty position and
therefore I propose that the Embassy first take up
the matter informally with Kurusu in an exploratory
way, requesting information in regard to details of
the draft legislation and stating that our Government
might consider such legislation as violative of
treaty rights.
The Department reiterated its above-quoted instruction of
November 18 by again stating [telegram No. 202, December 24,
1 p.m.] that "the Department inclines to the opinion that, if
the proposed legislation conforms to the Embassy's l440,
August 22, an oral statement as authorized in the final para-
graph of the Department's 882, November 18, would be desirable."
on

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.99)
- 20 -
On January 8, 1936, the Counselor of the Embassy called
on the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs and advised him orally
and informally of the American Government's attitude as set
forth in the final paragraph of the instruction of November 18
[Tokyo's telegram No. 6, January 9, 11 a.m.]. In Tokyo's tele-
grams No. 6, January 9, 11 a.m. and No. 22, February 1, noon,
the Embassy reported informal comments by the Vice Minister for
Foreign Affairs, the first to the effect that the treaty of 19ll
does not provide for rights of manufacture and the second to the
effect that article I applies to individuals and not to
corporations.
In reference to the attitude to be taken by the American
Government with regard to the proposed automobile legislation
in Japan the Economic Adviser has stated that he does not be-
lieve it to be to the American advantage to facilitate American
capital and enterprise to develop the automobile industry in
Japan. He inclines to the contrary opinion. It should never-
theless be borne in mind that economic advantage to American
exporters is not the only consideration involved in the question
of the American policy to be adopted toward the proposed auto-
mobile legislation. It is perhaps not likely that protests
by the United States Government will prevent Japanese measures
which will finally bring the automobile industry in Japan into
the control of Japanese interests, and it is probable that the
proposed legislation represents a determination of those in
control of the Japanese Government to bring under Japanese
ownership

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.99)
-21 -
ownership the automobile industry of Japan, by means legal
or illegal (the Embassy has reported, in despatch No. 1659,
February 5, 1936, that the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
said that the Foreign Office is not in position to state to
other Departments that there is a treaty obligation which would
stand in the way of the proposed legislation); but a policy of
protest is nevertheless warranted on other grounds.
In the second section of this memorandum the conclusion
was reached that the proposed automobile legislation conflicts
with American treaty rights. The American Government has a
permanent interest in the principle of the conduct of inter-
national relations in accord with treaties and should not
ignore an unsound effort by the Japanese Vice Minister for
Foreign Affairs legally to justify the proposed legislation;
and if the Japanese Government persists in the matter, the
Japanese interpretation of article I should, by communication
with the Foreign Office, be made unmistakably clear, to the
end that, as opportunity offers, the United States may
reciprocally interpret its obligations under treaties with
Japan in a similarly limited sense.
The courts in the United States [instruction No. 882,
November 18, 1935, to the Embassy at Tokyo, and also the
Legal Adviser's memorandum of February 13, 1936] have con-
strued article I of the l9ll treaty in a broad sense highly
favorable to Japanese; and if the Japanese Government is to
arrive at an interpretation of article I which is less
favorable

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
-22 -
favorable to American citizens, it should be the aim of the
American Government to effect an exchange of notes with the
Japanese Government which might be cited in American courts
as evidence of the restricted Japanese interpretation of the
treaty.
Continued protest should be the policy of the American
Government notwithstanding the following considerations:
(1) The proposed automobile legislation, however
threatening, might perhaps not be enforced to the detriment
of American interests for some years to come. The proposal
would operate through a system of licenses which is permissive
and not mandatory upon the Jananese administrative officials,
and it is entirely conceivable that difficulties encountered
in developing the Japanese industry would result in operation
by the Ford Motor Company of Japan and by General Motors
Japan for a period of years practically without effective
limitation.
(2) Protest against the proposed legislation might
cause the Japanese Government to abandon its present project
and meet the desires of prospective Japanese automobile manu-
facturers by limitations which do not conflict with American
treaty rights and which would nevertheless be more damaging
to American automobile interests. The proposed legislation
might be abandoned and a much higher import tariff imposed
upon automobile parts. Pressure of protest might cause the
Japanese Government to re-study article I of the 19ll treaty
and

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.99)
- 23 -
and come to the conclusion (mentioned in section II of this
memorandum) that American citizens who do not reside in
Japan may legally be excluded from the ownership of Japanese
corporations such as the Ford Motor Company of Japan and
General Motors Japan. Other legal means of handicapping the
companies might be devised. Or the Japanese Government might
choose abrogation. Article XVII of the treaty of 19ll provides
that it continues operative until six months from the date on
which either party shall have given notice of its intention
to terminate the treaty.
(3) Neither the Ford Motor Company, Ford Motor
Company of Japan, General Motors Corporation, nor General
Motors Japan has asked the Department that the American
Government protest the proposed legislation. It is probable
that these companies foresee practical difficulties on the part
of the Japanese before the actual interests of the companies
can be substantially damaged, and it is possible that the
American corporations (Ford Motor Company and General Motors
Corporation) are conscious of the fact that they themselves,
as foreign corporations, are in a vulnerable position. It is
also known that General Motors Japan is considering selling
out to Japanese interests, and its interest in protesting the
proposed automobile legislation is possibly removed by this
faot.
The

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.97)
-24 -
The protest against the proposed automobile legislation
in Japan which the Government of the United States is in
position to make is a protest in defense of the right of
American citizens in general and is not a protest in defense
of the particular American corporations which are presumed
to control the companies now manufacturing American auto-
mobiles in Japan. Assuming the enactment of the proposed
automobile legislation, the American Government will be
able to make out a strong treaty case for the rights of
American citizens resident in Japan to own controlling
shares in companies established under Japanese law to manu-
facture automobiles in Japan, and the American Government
will still be able to make out a treaty case of sorts for
the right of American citizens not resident in Japan to own
controlling shares in companies established under Japanese
law to manufacture automobiles in Japan; but the American
Government will not be able to make out a treaty case for the
right of American corporations to own controlling shares in
companies established under Japanese law to manufacture
automobiles in Japan. Protests must be on the basis of the
rights of American citizens and not on the basis of the
rights of American corporations.
CC
CC/DLY

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 28, 1936.
RCM:
13C
WTT:
SKH
Tokyo's attached despatch No. 1659,
February 5, 1936, amplifies telegram
No. 22, February 1, noon, and adds con-
siderably to the telegram. The subject
matter is a conversation of January 27
between the Counselor of the Embassy and the
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs with re-
gard to the proposed automobile legislation
in Japan.
The enclosure to the despatch, which
is a memorandum of the conversation,
should be read with care. The Counselor
cites as a direct quotation from the Vice
Minister a long passage commenting on the
meaning of article I of the l9ll treaty
between Japan and the United States, with
reference to the proposed legislation.
The Vice Minister anparently states that
(1) the proposed legislation
will not permit individuals to en-
gage in the automobile manufactur-
ing industry, and in this respect
there will be no discrimination be-
tween Japanese subjects and
foreigners,
(2) companies incorporated in
the United States cannot, in view
of article VII of the treaty, object
to being excluded from the industry
by the requirement that the licensing
of

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
of companies in the automobile
industry will be restricted to
companies established under Japanese
law,
(3) as a matter of administra-
tive convenience Japan has the right
to determine the conditions under
which companies established under
Japanese law may be permitted to go
into the industry, and
(4) the Ford Motor Company of
Japan and General Motors Japan are
companies established under Japanese
law.
COMMENT:
In his observations the Vice Minister
makes several statements which are true
and one which cannot be admitted, and he
ignores a fundamental question with re-
gard to the proposed legislation. It can-
not be admitted that as a matter of
administrative convenience Japanhas the
right to determine the conditions under
which companies established under Japanese
law may be permitted to go into the
automobile industry if this right means
also that Japan may exclude American
citizens from majority ownership of Japa-
nese corporations established to manu-
facture automobiles when such American
citizens comply with all other provisions
of the Japanese law. The snecific question
which the Vice Minister ignores is whether
or not the Japanese Government will
interpret article I of the 19ll treaty as
permitting

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.96)
-3 -
mitting the Japanese Government to
kclude American citizens from the right
of majority ownership of Japanese corpora-
tions for the manufacture of automobiles.
In my opinion the attitude of the
American Government on this question should
be made clear by a telegram in accordance
with the attached draft.
894.797/20
CC
CC/DLY

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.93)
EE
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Yokohama, Japan, June 8, 1937.
OFFICE OF THE A
COPIES SENT TO
mJUL9-1937
DEPARTMENTO
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
O.N.L.ADM.LD.
SUBJECT:
JAPANESE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY
A
11006 GPO
AC/C
260
RECOING DESK
THE SECRETARY OF STATUL 6-1937
1961
WASHINGTON.
894.797/36
SIR:
NOT FOR PUBLICATION
I have the honor to refer to previous reports
regarding the Japanese automobile industry, particularly
gu.797/
to Despatch No. 219 of June 12, 1936, enclosing a con-
faential report on the Japanese automobile industry,
S A EN
2061 01111
JO NOTSIAIC
a to report as follows:
opPARMEt
人
Standard Size Cars
On page 4l of the confidential report referred
to above is given a memorandum of a conversation with
Mr. S. Yamamoto, then Managing Director of the Nissan
Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha, in which he stated that re-
presentatives were then in the United States arranging
for the purchase of machine tools to produce a standard
sized car. The arrangements were made with the Graham-
Paige Company. Approximately $3,000,000 worth of
F/FG
machine

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
machine tools and dyes were purchased and American
technicians were employed to set up and operate the
new plant and train the Japanese personnel.
On May 29 to 31 inclusive, the Nissan Jidosha
Kabushiki Kaisha held an exhibition in Tokyo of its
new standard sized car, called the NISSAN. Enclosed
herewith are copies of the newspaper announcement of
the exhibition in which the specifications of the three
models (passenger car, truck chassis and bus chassis)
are given. The show was very well attended and re-
flected the general interest in what is claimed to
be a purely Japanese automobile.
The price of the car has not been announced by
the company but Japanese newspaper reports have pre-
dicted that the car would sell for Yen 5,Oo0 to Yen
5,500, although a Nissan official stated a year ago
that the new car would sell for Yen 3,000. The
Ford car sells for Yen 3,700 to Yen 4,000.
The actual chassis on display were assembled
from parts manufactured in the Graham-Paige plant in
Detroit. Parts for about 500 units were thus sent
out to facilitate the Nissan Company in getting its
cars on display. Although the American experts recently
employed by the Nissan Company to erect the equipment
and initiate production have been steadily at work it
is not believed that actual production of parts has
yet begun.
It is understood that originally the Nissan Company
did not intend to manufacture anything but trucks, but
that

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
that the Japanese Government would not give the company
permission to operate unless it would undertake the
manufacture of passenger vehicles also. As a result the
company has announced a complete line of truck, bus and
passenger models.
The NISSAN car is said to be a 1934 Graham-Paige
design which was not produced in any quantity by the
factory at that time, and which has been slightly re-
designed by the Graham-Paige engineers for the Nissan
Company. Nissan officials claim the car is the 1936
Graham-Paige model.
It is claimed that the Government will not give
cash subsidies to encourage the success of the NISSAN
venture, but that the car will be aided by substantial
import tariff protection, discriminatory taxation, and
other special treatment as against American proaucts.
The company has arranged for the manufacturing
rights in Japan, either on a royalty or lump sum basis,
of a number of American automobile parts, such as
clutches, differentials, universal joints, etc. As
none of these products had been patented in Japan the
company could have manufactured the parts without legal
difficulties. The company chose to make financial ar-
rangements, however, so as to get the benefit of
future improvements in those products.
Although the company announces that it will enter
the export field with the new car it is doubtful if
the company seriously hopes for such activity for several
years

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
years.
It is said that the labor costs in the NISSAN plant
are still very high due to the lack of experienced labor.
The same comment was made by a foreign technician in the
plant three years ago. It is expected that the labor
costs will be lowered when a sufficient force of skilled
laborers is trained to carry on the work.
Expert opinion indicates that there is serious
doubt that the present plans for the NIsSAN car will
succeed. In the first place the market for passenger
cars in Japan is too limited to support a first class
automotive industry. In the second place the company
is endeavoring to manufacture all special parts, such
as clutches, radiators, universal joints, etc., which
has not been found practicable even by the large manu-
facturers in the United States. A third handicap is
the necessity of importing nearly all special steels
used in the car, which adds considerably to the cost.
It is believed that the only practical basis on which
the Japanese can manufacture their own cars is under
some arrangement with an established American manufacturer,
such as the Nissan interests tried to arrange with the
General Motors Corporation two years ago. It is likely
that attempts will be made again to effect an arrange-
ment with an American company, though there is no
evidence of anything definitely planned as yet.
As the NISSAN car cannot be manufactured for such
a limited market as cheaply as American cars can be
imported

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
imported, even with the present import tariffs of 35% ad
valorem on assembled cars and automobile parts, the
Government will have to protect the Japanese product by
imposing much higher import tariffs. This will make
all automobiles more expensive and will presumably re-
tard any tendency toward increased use of motor vehicles.
The Government may also reduce the quotas limiting the
number of units the two American assembly plants (Ford
and General Motors) in Japan are allowed to build. It
may also force the taxicab owners, who represent 95% of
the buyers of passenger cars, to consolidate and reduce
the number of taxis in use. It is possible that the
Japanese authorities hope that restrictions limiting
the activities of the American assembly plants may
force one or the other to come to an agreement, eventually,
for Japanese ownership of Japanese manufacturing rights.
Datsun Midget Cars
Regarding the DATSUN midget car, which the company
manufactures, conflicting reports indicate its present
production as between 600 and 1500 units a month, mostly
delivery trucks which are replacing the three-wheeled
motorcycle delivery vans so widely used in Japan. Its
price has been increased by Yen l00 to around Yen 2100.
The company claims the demand for DATSUN cars is great-
er than its capacity to manufacture them.
Very respectfully yours,
Rraenue
Richard F. Boyce,
American Consul.
Enclosure:
Newspaper announcement of the exhibit of Nissan
Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha.
866.16
RFB/rk

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
TRADE AGREEMENTS
TA
10 1937
The
Announcing the 19$7
Nissan MotorcarE
昭和六年三月廿八日 第三租师便物認可
Nissan Motorcar
NEW FULL-SIZE CAR
The Nissai
PART OF PLAN FOR
AUTOMOTIVE FIELD
Nissan Jidosha Kaisha Enters
Second Phase of Program for
Large Scale Production
TO SUPPLEMENT DATSUN
Small Car Success, Government
Support Assisting Efforts to
Stimulate Industry
ON
DISPLAY TOMORROW
The first public showing of the
new Nissan Motor Car. produced
by the Nissan Jidosha Kaisha. will
be held from May 29 to 31, f1om
1 to 6 p.m. dally. at No. 4. 2-
Ohtamachi. Kojimachi-ku, opposite
the Marunouchi Hotel. A preview
by invitation only will be held to-
day.
After thre, and one-half years of sue-
 ssful automoti e production, th: Nis-
an Jidosha Kaisha today Innounced
its entry into the Jar car field with
4. full-sized. popuiar-priced model. The
step is the secood prise of the com-
pany's program t, estailish tne rootor
car industry in Japan on a arge seale
production basis
"Ne one can deny the fact that the
Nissur Ji losha Kaisha despite its
brief history, is responstble for the era
of snall car poputarity in Japan to-
day." a company spckesman said.
"When the compriy st rted to manu-
facture motor cas in 1033, it was with
the purpose of establishing a domestic
motor car industry. It goes withou:
saying that the initinl mnderiaking was
accompanied by may ditflculties. It was
At a private showing of the new standard size Japan made Niesa
lurgely due to the untiring efforts of
In the two photos upper left and at right a wide view of the new cur
Mr. Yoshiyuki Aikawa, president of
poses accompanied hy movie stars on the initdal tour and try-outs of

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.87)
KE
x
Japan Aduertiser
TOKYO,
FRIDAY, MAY 28, 1937
Takes Place In Jap
Motorcar Makes Its Appearance in Japan's Auto Market
SD1.
old at the factory near Yokohamn May 19, the car models were displayed in a speclal tent for government offcials, 
dopmestic made motorcar.

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
Photos and News
of the Nissan
n Motordom
DRIVERS' RULES FOR
JAPAN TRANSLATED
FROM VERNACULAR
Foreign Motorists Receive First
English Version of License
Requirements
TRAN SLATION TECHNICAL
Peculiarities in Me c h a nical
Terms Present Difficulty in
Obtaining Accuracy
DIFFICULT REQUIREMENTS
The Japan Advertiser begins today
the first of a series of translations of
questions and answers used in exami-
nations of applicants for automobile
driving licenses.
This series may not be taken as off-
cial guidance by woul1-be drivers but
is given as an indication of the know-
ledge required in participating in the
examinations. The translations have
been made from a standard Japanese
book on the subject and in most cases
apply to regulatio.s im most prefec-
tures although there are at times varia-
tions aecording to prefeetural specifica-
tions.
Several attempts have been made in
the past to get the entire set of ques-
tions and answers translated. This is
belheved the first successful result.
When the series is completed the en-
tire set of questions d answers will
be republished in pamphlet form
The task of changing the Japanese
mechanical terms into English without
altering the important points present-
ed many difficulti. The Advertiser
cannot guarantes that even memoriz-
ing the complete detols will asure
prssink the examination. Japanese
chauffeurs memoriz: the entire list.
paper men and auto dealers, shown
The motor editor of The Advertiser.
n areund the city fer display pur-
after driving 120,000 miles in Japan in
5 years with a regular liconme. and

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
NEW SIGNAL HALTS |Boo
tablisked In 1933
Nissan Jidosha was established De-
microscopes and precision instruments
SPEED ON CURVES
are constantly being employed to keep
cermber 26, 1933 with the purpose of
production at a high standard of qual-
establishing the motor car industry
ity. The laboratory is also completely
in Japan and instituting large-scale
equipped with apparatus for chemical
A fou
automotive production. In a little more
tests. It plays an important role in
Device Developed For Strotches
demons
production of the Datsun, a small au-
than three years, the primary purpose of
the company has been achieved in the
the production of both Datsun and Nis-
san Cars.
of Road Where Motorst's
now m
manufa
tomobile which has captured the Ja-
The factory is divided generally into
Vision is Blocked
nakers
10 different sections—blacksmith, weld-
panese sma!l car field.
Today's announcement of the in-
ing, tool, press, heating and tempera-
United
ture, inspection, body, assembling, test-
of the
auguration of full-size car production
Does speed cause automobile acci-
is the second step in providing Japan-
ese-made cars for every purpose and
ing and casting and motor. Appro-
ximately 1,450 kinds of parts and ac-
dents? Where the road is wide, straight
front
locking
purse.
The manufacture of small cars dates
cessories are used in the production of
one car. In the three years of pro-
that his path is unobstructed, the an-
and leve! and the motorist can see
require
back to the earlier part of the Taisho
era. In 1931, production of the Da-
sha, the perfection of factory facilities
duction under the Nissan Jidosha Kai-
and improvement of working technique
swer is, no.
At hazardous crossings, roadends,
This s
necessa
trade
tsun was instituted, being taken over
in 1933 by the Nissan Jidosha Kaisha.
have contributed to a remarkably rapid
narrow bridges, steep downgrades and
To 1
Plans for manufacturing a big car
development in motor car manufact-
curves, fast driving is very dangerous.
present
for Japan's middle classes have been
ture.
Inattenticn, resulting in the failure of
the thr
was placed on the market. and cry-
in progress since the first small car
industry in Japan and the part played
A brief history of the automobile
drivers to reduce promptly the speed
ing do
ing frd
stallized with the promulgation of the
Motor Car Manufacture Law on July
begins with the start of mechanization
in it by the Nissan Jidosha Kaisha
danger zones, is the cause of many
of their cars when approaching these
door;
turning
11. 1936. This law relates to the est-
of national armaments following the
accidents. It is of paramount import-
the ne
ablishment and encouragement of
World War. With the rapidly grow-
ance that means be employed to com-
the ou
motor car manufacturing for the dual
ing importance of the automobile to
purpose of promoting the industry and
military and commertial development
pel reduction in speed at these hazards.
aiding national defense replenishment.
during that period, automotive produc-
A system for this purpose, soon to
On!y the Nissan Jidosha Kaisha and
tion throughout the world gradually
be installed at a dangerous curve near
Toyoda Motor Car Manufacturing
assumed a position of commanding im-
Baltimore, has been developed.
It
Company were permitted to build
portance in industry.
comprises a traffic signal, suspended
under the provisions of this new law.
Nippon Felt Influence
over the center of a highway just in
Rapid Advance Expected
Japan also felt the growing import-
advance of a curve. The signal norm-
Spokesmen for the company say that,
ance of the automobile industry. The
in view of the importance of the Nis-
Japanese government, in 1917, adopted
ally displays the red indication. About
san Jidosha Kaisha from the stand-
a positive attitude toward the industry.
seventy feet in advance of the signal
point of national defense, rapid ad-
In March, 1917 the Japanese war office
is an illuminated roadside sign show-
vances in the development of the new
promulgated a decree granting sub-
ing the maximum safe speed for round-
model and its sale in foreign markets
sidies to the manufacturers and owners
ing the curve.
are expected.
of motor cars, with the purpose of en-
Imbedded in the right-hand lane of
In preparation for the large scale
couraging the development of the mo-
the highway, and adjacent to the sign,
production of its new full-size model
and its present small car. the Nissan
tor industry. The Tokyo Gas Electric
Company started manufacturing auto-
is a vehicle sound detector for the con-
Jidosha Kaisha recently separated the
mobiles in the same year. encouraged
trol of the traffic signal at the curve
manufacturing and sales divisions of
by the government's attitude. The Ishi-
ahead. This apparatus consists of a
the industry. placing the sales, both
kawajima Motor Car Company follow-
rectangular hollow steel unit with the
foreign and domestic, in the hands of a
newly-organized conpany, the Nissan
Jidosha Sales Company.
The Nissan Jidosha Sales Company.
Company in 1920. These companies also
engaged in the manufacture of trucks
ed in 1918, and the Datsun Motor Car
and busses.
top of the chamber level with the sur-
face of the road. The sound of vehicle
tires as they pass over the unit is pick-
Nihonbashi, Tokyo. handles both the
with head offices at 1-chome, Ginza.
large cars. including passenger cars.
busses and trucks. and Datsun passen-
motive indusiry thus established. the
Commerce and Industry Ministry in
1929 requested the committee on the
With the foundation of Japan auto-
conveyed by wires to a timing mecha-
nism. which in turn operates the signal
ed up by a microphone in the interior,
which converts the sound waves into
electrical impulses. These impulses are
at 5,000,000, and has for its managing
ger cars and trucks. It is capitalized
promotion of domestic industry to for-
mulate concrete measures for further
lights.
director Mr. Soji Yamamoto. a mem-
stabilization of the industry. An in-
When a car passes the sound detec-
ber of the board of directors of the
quiry com.nittee was established in
tor. the signal timing mechanism is
Nissan Jidosha Kaisha.
1931. This committee, after extensive
actuated, and, after a delay of several
The factory of the company. located
study, came to the conclusion that due
seconds. this mechanism changes the
at Takaracho, Kanagawa-ku. Yokoha-
to the particular characteristics of Ja-
signal indication from red, or stop, to
ma, covers ground and building areas
panese transportation. the ideal me-
flashing amber, or slow. The dura-
of 65,000 and 19,000 tsubo respectively.
dium for heavy transportation was the
tion of this delay is equal to the num-
The annual production capacity, re-
group of trucks and busses ranging in
ber of seconds required by a vehicle
garded as the largest in the Orient, is
size from one and one-half to two tons.
to traverse the distance between the
about 20,000 Datsun cars and trucks.
This decision was referred to the To-
detector and the signal, if the car is
with an actual production figure of
kya Gas Electric Industry Company.
traveling at the rate of speed specified
10,000, and 30,000 larger cars. In ad-
Ishikawajima Automobile Works and
by the illuminated warning sign.
dition. the manufacture of parts and
the Datsun Automobile Manufacturing
If the driver is alert and volun-
accessories forms &n important division
Company. The companies, in collabora-
tarily reduces the speed of his car to
of the factory.
tion with the Railway Ministry, start-
the prescribed safe limit, the traffic
No pains have been spared, both by
ed production. with the total reaching
signal at the curve will change from
the Nissan Jidosha Company and its
150 in 1933 and 600 in 1934.
red to amber before he reaches it, and
supporters to bring the production of
Trial Period Over
thus permit him to proceed around the
motor cars to the highest possible
The period from the end of the
curve without stopping. However,
pitch. Their spirit is duplicated in
World War to 1934 constitutes the first
should a driver fail to reduce volun-
the attitude of the 3,500 workers in the
stage in the development of Japan's
tarily the speed of his car to the safe
automobile industry, and is properly limit, he will reach the signal before
factory.
The factory itself is well equipped
termed a trial period. In the pesiod that its predetermined changing time has
for the quantity production of both
and mall motor cars. All ma-
followed, progress in the irdustry was elapeed, and he will have to stop and
(Comtinued on Page 10)
-. wait for the signal to changer

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.98)
To Absent-minded Drivers Seen
1937 FALL SHO
ON CONY
In New Four Door Locking Invention
OPENING UNCERTIN
r'ents after
impair ny pro
A four-door car-loking device was
the key in the right front door and
might decide upo
demonstrated here last week, which is
reise the handle on that door. To
lock a car from the inside only one
Labor Troubles Cause Rumors
the industry it al
With an air of
Motoria
now made available to automobile
operation is required, raising upward
of Postponement of Annual
makers will risk
Blocked
manufacturers by one of the large
makers of automotive products in the
the right inside front handle, which
locks all four doors.
Debuts Until November
From all indication
ture on re-tooling
novations contemplat
United States. The simple movement
The locks for the left front doors
have temporarily be
automobile
of the control handle on the right
front door insures a quick, positive
are designed with a tripping mechan-
ism which permits the operator to re-
Universal Service
DETROIT, Michigan.-Fall Automo-
possibility is that
will be carried on
 is wide,
locking of all doors. Less effort is
turn to the car through the door he
bile show openings in the United
but minor chang
motorist
tructed,
required to lock all doors than is now
necessary to open an automobile door.
alights from in the event he forgets
and leaves the key in the dash. It is
States may be delayed this year, due
to anticipated stock shortages brought
TRAILER INDU
This system will be known to the
possible to "free" the inside handles
about by labor tieups.
ERA, COMPAI
sings, roa
trade as "Lok-All-Handle."
in both rear doors when locked from
Although the plan has not yet been
is very dana
downgrade
us.
nd
present practice requires the raising of
the three in side handles or the push-
To lock from the outside of a car,
within to permit children to be lock-
ed in the rear seat and still permit the
officially advanced, it is learned that
there is considerable dissension within
Shortcomings
In the fail
of
ing down of three pins before alight-
front seat occupant to get in and out
the Automobile Manufacturers'Aocia-
forts, Convenk
promptly the
eed
ing from the car, plus the additional
from the left front door. When a car
tion on the possibility of postponing
pointments
the cause of
approaching
many
door; a total of four operations. With
turning of the key in the right front
the new device, to lock all doors from
to lock oneself out. It is also impos-
sible to lock your key in the car from
is locked from within it is impossible
the shows unti! Nove:nber. Original
schedules called for the 1937 opening
paramount inport-
the outside, it is only necessary to turn
the outside.
event to be held in October.
According to N.
employed to com
Had General Motors alone lost pro-
of Silver 'Dome,
ed at these harards.
Heads Sales Organization
duction grounds by the recent wave
manufacturers of 
this purpose, soon to
of sit-down strikes it is doubtful whe-
the trailer industr
angerous curve near
ther the current agitation could have
new era of its dey
n developed.It
shown great progress. However, with
showing in 1937.
signal, suspended
Chrysler, Hudson and Reo shut down
"The trailer indus
a highway just in
for a period approximating the Gen-
says Mr. Wolfe.
The signal norm-
eral Motors layoff the movement to
have the shows postponed has gained
ground of the auton
red indication. About
fresh supprt.
guide, the trailer in
roadside sign show-
dvance of the signal
safe speed for round-
change the show dates argue that even
Motor car executives seeking to
of five short years
i took the automoti
without a shut down of assembly lines.
the demand for 1937 models would have
five years to do.
right-hand lane of
boosted operations to capacity output.
at least with the
adjacent to the sign,
And inasmuch as a month or six weeks
established compant
detector for the con-
have been eliminated from their ori-
actly 'standardized,'
ginal production plans they believe
signal at the eurve
that the present sales impetus will
stabilized than ever
ratus consists of a
carry them at least th:cugh the early
dustry's history. M
steel unit with the
summer months.
on a sound end
level with the sur-
Such a development. if it occurs,
perhaps even more
The sound of vehicle
would be more than gratifying to those
fact that the vast by
over the unit is pick-
companies that have been hit by strikes
only a year or two
hone in the interior,
since it would permit them to amortize
nothing about trai
sound waves into
1937's heavy re-tooliag costs over the
construction, today
These impulses are
volume anticipated last fall.
and knows what to
to a timing n
Concrete evidenc? that the enforced
"I believe that
operates the
shutdowns have not seriously affected
find a far different
the retail demand are given in state-
of prospective buy
the sound
ments that dealers' orders nave con-
recently what the
sistently increased.
when purchasing
ing mechanis
Sales trends on the factory charts in-
foot, low-priced tr
a delay of
sanism changei
dicate that there as been little if any
pactly-built unit 
om red, or st
interruption in the steady climb of
average comforts
business. However. just what the total
Today, comforts an
slow. The
business would have amounted to had
not only taken for
there been no labor dificulties is im-
purchaser is also
unce betwes
possible to estimate.
getting, the luxurio
al. if the
Any proposal to delay the introduc-
which he is accusto
tion of new modcls undoubtedly will
to be found in such
be opposed by the national administra-
as the motor car, r
tion inasmuch as Secretary of Labor
pliances. In this ne
Mr. Soji Yamamoto, managing director of the Nissan Jidcsha Sales
Perkins is generally credited with
ment the trailer m
Company and one of the outstanding figures in the development of the
tringing car makers together for the
minate any shorted
automobile industry in Japan. Sales cf the new standard Nissan motor
purpose of advancing new model dates
living comforts, com
in an effort to stabilize employment.
rious appointments.
car will be under the direction of his organizaticn, which now handles
It is no secret, however, that Miss
Datsun sales. Mr. Yamamoto is also one of the directors of the Nissan
Perkins' viewpoint on :itdown strikes
Lead Conton
Jidosha Kaisha, and was instrumental in bringing about the entry of the
has soreiy rankled the industry and
company into the manufacture of Datsun small cars as the rst step in a
any further suggestions hat the make
will receive very little attention from
cent legal proceèdi
It was stated in
program of development for the automotive industry of Japan. The an-
manufacturers.
States that 70 per
Another vital, fector that will affect
fuel sold in th
the 1938 plans is the expiration of the
proportion of

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
1987 FALL SHOWS
United Automobile Workers' Agree
ed through red tape to take a re
ment with General Motors. This pact
amination for a renewal of his licens
ntion
OPENING UNCERTAIN
will no longer be binding on'either
He failed four times during a period
perty after August 11, and develop-
of eight months before passing the ex-
r'ents after that date may seriously
amination. Such questions as the
läht front door and
might decide upon at that time.
impair ny program iat the industr/
length and width of a Datsun, the wid-
th of the white triangle painted cn the
on that door. To
Labor Troubles Cause Rumors
With an air of uncertainty sweeping
fenders of trucks, and figuring out ten
the inside only one
the industry it also is doubtful that car
rules on how to keep a garage in order,
uired, raising upward
of Postponement of Annual
makers will risk an unusual expendi-
left him without the proper answers
pors.
front handle, which
Debuts Until November
From all indications any radical in-
ture on re-tooling for new models.
the tests.
and accounted for his failure to pass
the left front doors
novations contemplatei for 1938 models
As an example of the rigidness of the
h a tripping mechan-
lits the operator to re-
through the door he
Universal Service
bile show openings in the United
DETROIT, Michigan.-Fall Automo-
have temporarily been shelved and the
possibility is that the present series
will be carried on into next year with
but minor changes.
question in the following list: tell what
you know regarding the construction of
ordinary automobile head-lights. One
written examination, take the fourth
the event he forgets
States may be delayed this year, due
must answer precisely the details given
in the dash. It is
to anticipated stock shortages brought
TRAILER INDUSTRY IN NEW
in this translation. Any variance in
the inside handles
about by labor tieups.
ERA, COMPANY HEAD SAYS
the answer which does not correspond
when locked from
Although the plan has not yet been
to the official answer will be counted
as a failure. Ordinarily three to six
eat and still permit the
It children to be lock-
officially advanced, it is learned that
there is considerable dissension within
Shortcomings in Living Com-
questions are asked and the time al-
loted for answering, ore hour. Each
pant to get in and out
the Automobile Manufacturers' Associa-
forts, Conveniences and Ap-
answer must be written in a separate
ront door. When a car
within it is impossible
tion on the possibi!ity of postponing
pointments Eliminated
paragraph. For cxampic, in answering
the head-light question, 1, 2 and 3 must
out. It is also impos-
the shows until Nove:nber Original
be written as separate paragraphs and
ur key in the car from
schedules called for the 1937 opening
not in one continuous paragraph. The
event to be held in Ocfcber.
According to N. C. Wolfe, President
balance of the answer to this ques-
Had General Motors alone lost pro-
of Silver Dome, Detroit Michigan
tion must be written in separate para-
ation
duction grounds by the recent wave
manufacturers of Silver Dome trailers,
graphs.
The work of nterpreting the rules
of sit-down strikes it is doubtful whe-
the trailer industry enters a brand
was performed by a special foreign
ther the current agitation could have
new era of its development with the
technical translator. and is presented
shown great progress. However, with
showing in 1937.
at the request of numerous foreign re-
Chrysler, Hudson and Reo shut down
sidents who have experienced diff-
"The trailer industry has grown up,'
for a period app:oximating the Gen-
culty in forming accurate conclusions
eral Motors layoff the movement to
says Mr. Wolfe. "With the back-
due to an unavoidable ambiguity in
have the shows postponed has gained
ground of the automotive business as a
many of the questions.
fresh supprt.
guide, the trailer industry in the span
Popularity Growing
Motor car executives seeking to
With motoring in Jaoan enjoying a
of five short years accomplished what
change the show dates argue that even
rapid growth due to the construction
without a shut down of assembly lines,
i took the automotive industry twenty-
of new roads, it has become neces-
the demand for 1937 models would have
five years to do. Trailer engineering,
sary to attempt to codify and simplify
boosted operations to capacity output.
at least with the larger and longer-
the driver's license requirements in
And inasmuch as a month or six weeks
established companies, while not ex-
order that every foreign motorist who
have been eliminated from their ori-
desires to operate a motor vehicle in
ginal production pla's they believe
actly 'standardized,' is decidedly more
Japan may have the fullest understand-
that the present sales impotus will
stabilized than ever before in the in-
ing possible of the motor laws of the
carry them at least th:cugh the early
dustry's history. Merchandising is also
country.
summer months.
The translation will be printed from
Such a development. if it occurs,
perhaps even more iniportant is the
on a sound and definite basis. But
time to time in The Japan Advertiser
would be more than gra:ifying to those
fact that the vast buying public. which
Motor Section.
companies that have been nit by strikes
only a year or two ago knew little or
The first translation follows:
since it would permit them to amortize
nothing about trailer life or trailer
Test Questions and Answers Regarding
1937's heavy re-tooling costs over the
volume anticipated last fall.
construction, today knows what it wants
Q: Describe in detail the various
Automobile Regulations
Concrete evidene? that the enforced
and knows what to look for.
"I believe that trailer dealers wil;
kinds of automobiles.
shutdowns have not seriously affected
find a far different attitude on the part
A: Automobiles are classified into
the retail demand are given in state-
of prospective buyers in 1937. Until
three groups—ordinary, special and
ments that dealers' orders have con-
small. Ordinary automobiles include
sistently increased.
when purchasing for example a 16-
recently what the trailer buyer got
those outside the small class, equip-
Sales trends on the factory charts in-
ped with internal combustion engine.
foot. low-priced trailer was a com-
dicate that there has been little if any
differential gear, two-front wheel
pactly-built unit that embodied the
interruption in the steady climb of
average comforts and conveniences.
steering system, weighing over 360
business. However. just what the total
Today, comforts and conveniences are
kilograms and intended for the trans-
business would have amounted to had
not only taken for granted. but the
portation of persons or goods. Speci-
there been no labor dificulties is im-
purchaser is also demanding. and is
al automobiles are neither ordinary
possible to estimate.
getting, the luxurious appointments to
nor small (A tractor is one type of
Any proposal to delay the introduc-
which he is accustomed and which are
special vehicle). Small automobiles
tion of new modcis undoubtedly will
to be found in such modern necessities
are those having the following maxi-
be opposed by the national administra-
as the motor car. radio and home ap-
mum dimensions: length—2.8 meters,
tion inasmuch as Secretary of Lebor
pliances. In this new stage of develop-
width—1.2 meters and height—1.8
develepment of the
Perkins is generally credited with
trirging car makers together for the
ment the trailer must completely eli-
minate any shortcomings in terms of
meters. Internal combustion engines
used for motive power in small cars
dard Niesan motor
purpose of advancing new model dates
living comforts. conveniences and luxu-
shall have the following total piston
which now handles
It is no secret, however, that Miss
in an effort to stabilize employment.
rious appointments.
capacity: 750 c.c. for 4-stroke type and
500 c.c. for 2-stroke type. Electric
the emtry of the
has soreiy rankled the industry and
Perkins' viewpoint on :itdown strikes
Lead Content in Gasoline
power shall have a normal output per
motors used for small car motive
any further suggestions hat the make
It was stated in connection with re-
hour of 4.5 kilowatts. (Refer to Ar-
will receive very ittle attention from
cent legal proceedings in the United
ticle 2 of the ordinance for the con-
manufacturers.
States that 70 per cent of the motor
trol of automobiles.)
Another vital, fector that will affect
fuel sold in that country contains a
Q: Whet are the regulations regard-
the 193s plans is the expiration of
proportion of tetraethyl lead.
(Continued on Page 11)

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.97)
10
THE JAPAN ADVERTISE
RECORD ACHIEVED
Some Photos of the NissarrT
BY OIL COMPANY
Announcement of 1936 Bus
Transportation Awards Re-
veals Remarkable Record
With the announcement of the 1936
Bus Transportation  awards in the
United States recently, it is established
that the Texas Company, makers of
Texaco Oil products, have established
a new record for efficiency.
Here is Texaco's seven year record:
Since the Bus Transportation awards
were established in 1930, one or more
of the winners each year has used
Texaco products. Every gold award
winner has been a user of Texaco pro-
ducts-six in five years. In 1935, three
out of four winners were Texaco users.
In 1936, four out of five were Texaeo
users. Altogether, Texaco products
have been used by 14 winners in seven
years.
New Full-Size Car
Part of Plan For
Automotive Field
(Continued from Page 9)
greatly accentuated, with the rapid
development of Japanese industry in
general. The result was that the Ji-
panese automobile soon was firmly
established in the domestic and com-
mercial life of Japan. The ph.ro-
menal increase in car repistratior.s over
the last seven years may be sco from
the following table:
Year
Registrations
1930.
90,116
1931
98,996
1932
103,915
1933
106,788
1934
121.192
1935
134.859
1936
Domestie motor car production since
1929 is as follows:
Year
Total
1929.
437
1930
458
1931.
434
1932.
840
1933.
1.612
1934.
2.701
1935
5,355
1936.
9,632
The above includes the following
small car production totals: 1932-144;
1933—577; 1934-1,366; 1935 4.174; 1036 -
6.324 (estimated by Nichiman Kotsu
Shimbun).
The complete fleld of automottve requirements will be met with the production by Nissan of truckd
Taking cognizance of these circum-
lines of the up-to-date units for com merclal purposes and lower center a shot of the passenger car. The Ni
«tances. the Okuda cabinet. at a cabinet
can handle domestie reqtlrements of se veral thousand units a yenr. Four photos ahove show Interlor seene
council meeting on August 9. 1933, de-
cided upon the salient points of a law
which would bring the automotive in-
attitude that the automotive industry
that time president of Nissan, to ein-
panese automobile market was
dustry under the hend of a national
in Japan today is making rapid strides
bark on the production of automobiles
with foreign-made cars and there
policy. This was the first stwp toward
Of all the persons who figured pro-
aus a patriotic enterprise. Many direc-
little opportunity for any domest
the adoption of a conerete govern-
minently in the development of the au-
tors oppwed Mr. Yamamoto's stand.
to break into the fleld, already
mental policy toward the manufacture
tomobile industry in Japan, the tirvless
but Mr. Aikawa decided to put the
polized by outside manufacturer
of automobiles. In inaugurating this
efforts of Mr. Soji Yamameto stand out.
principles he advocated into practice.
was becatse of his activity ing
mensure, the government took varlous
When the establishment of the Nesm
The opporstion of the dhrectors at
connection and hus efforts toward
steps to protect and promote the de-
Jidosha Katsha was contenplated, he
that time was qonte matral. aecording
advancement of the mttonotiee ing
vo'opment of the domustic cur indus-
parsuaded Mr. Yoshiyuki Alkawa, ut
t. urvern. In thome days, the Ju-
try in Jupan thut Mr. Yamamoto
(ry. nd it la under this sovernmental

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
In thome days,
EVER
Stan
requ
ダットサ～
Garg
Simultaneously with the debut
of 1937 Nissans with many new
features, Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company issued a special lubrication chart,
which was approved by the car maker.
Obtain a copy from your nearest dealer and
adopt the lubrication procedure recommended therein.
Stop in where you see the Gargoyle Mobiloil Sign today
and refill with Gargoyle Mobiloil of the rcommended
grades.
BUY PEGASUS GASOLIVE for complete smooth
performance!
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMI
No. 8 Yamashitacho, Nakaku, Yokohama

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
TO, FRIDAY, MAY 28, 1987
昭和六年三月廿八日
第三程邮便物能可
MOTORDOM BOASTS
s, Passenger Car and Factory
NEW REFINEMENTS
Achievement of Well-balanoed
Relationship Hailed as Fea-
ture of Latest Automobiles
N.Y. Herald Tribune
Detailed study of the latest cars 
veals a multitude of desirable improve-
ments—improvements which as a group
were attainable only by painstaking
technical effort and solution of several
complex engineering problems.
Only engineers recognize fully how
easy it is to build into a car almost
any exaggerated characteristic along
any line. The difficult thing is to de-
sign a product in which there is a well
balanced relationship between the var-
ious aspects of performance, style,
comfort, economy, etc. Beyond a cer-
tain point no one of these characteris-
ties can be built into a car except at
the expense of something else.
It is in the achievement of this well
balanced relationship. together with a
notable improvement in practically
every desirable operating characteristic,
that the automotive engineers have
done an outstanding job in the latest
models. It may seem a bit contradic-
tory, perhaps. to talk about weight re-
duction, and larger bodies in the same
breath; to visualize fuel economy and
longer wheelbases as concomitant
trends; to tell of better performance
characteristics as well as less operat-
ing expense. But that is just what has
to be done if one is to describe what
has been accomplished in the 1937 cars.
These improved qualities have been
achieved through a myriad of detailed
refinements in every part of the auto-
mobile rather than by any single major
change either in position or function-
ing of the various units.
As was to be expected, the engineers
again have given serious attention to
the development of safety features—
features designed not only to protect
the occupants of the car in case of ac-
cident, but also to stimulate safe driving
and to make safe operation of the car
normal and natural. Particularly inter-
esting among the new safety features
which have been widely incorporated
this year are devices for keeping wind-
shields clear of frost and snow. This
defrosting equipment consists of warm
air blown from the car heater through
vents in the dashboard to the wind-
shield. The arrangement of the vents
cars, according to state ments by the management. Photos at top, left to right, illustrate the general
differs somewhat from car to car.
Yekohama was equipped at a cost
over ten million yen and is reported so constructed that it
Equipment of this general type is al-
it of machinery used in Nissan pre
most universal on the new models and
should be a really important contribu-
tion to safe and comfortable winter
ing director of the Nissan
state,
the company itself regard-
mestic production.
driving for all car owners who have
Company when it was
ed as
tlonal policy'company. Ac-
The Nissan Jidosha Kaisha and the
equipped their cars with heaters.
February of this year.
cording
reports, the government is
Nissan Jidosha Sales Company are ex-
Car makers have had a growing need
the Nissan Jidosha Kai-
also ple
ing to take measures for in-
pecting to increase their respective
for equipment of this kind for some
ward to greater develop-
capitalizations to expand the produc-
time and the unusually severe winter
the opeñing of production
Nor cars by submitting a pro-
tion and sales facilities of their pro-
which was experienced last year in
Nissan motor car. Their
the Diet for the increasing of
ducts, for the purpose of securing
many parts of the United States un-
foreign cars, in addition to
greater security in the light of national
doubtedly was a factor in stimulatin
ent of do
defense.

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
 foreign cars, in addition tol greater security in the light of national
idustry is now protected by the contri ating to the advancement of do- defense.
such widespread adoption of defröster
GARGOYLE
GOYLE MOBILOIL MEETS
LUBRICATION REQUIREMENT
Mobiloil
FOR THE 1937 NISSAN
1-Vacuum Lubrication Engineers have carefully studied the lubrication
ents of the 1937 Nissan car and truck.
Mobiloil "A" for engine and Gargoyle Mobiloil "C" for Gears are
recommended.
Don't waste money on ordinary oils! Start your 1937 model
right with the correct summer grades of Gargoyle Mobiloil,
made by the Clearosol Process.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
THE JAPAN. -ADVERTISER, TO
SOCONY-VACUUM OIL
Activities of World Transportati
REPORT FAVORABLE
1936 Net Income Listed at
$1.38 Per Share, Compared
With 72 Cents for Last Year
Net income of Socony-Vacuum Oil
Co., in 1936 was $42.909,363, or $1.38 a
share. This compared with 72 cents a
share in 1935.
John A. Brown, president, in his
report to stockholders said that do-
mestic and foreign sales of products
(excluding companies 50 per cent own-
ed) totaled 113,260,000 barrels, a gain
of 11.9 per cent over 1935. The volume
of business abroad, he said, showed
satisfactory increases.
Capital expenditures in 1936, exclud-
ing companies 50 per cent owned, totaled
$76,500,000, of which $43.500.000 was for
crude oil development and properties,
Mr. Brown declared.
Net fixed assets increased $24.202,464
and miscellaneous investments and ad-
vances increased $6,014.697. Mr. Brown
added:
"Cash and marketable securities de-
creased $15,681,933 in 1936. but the in-
creases in receivables nad a small in-
crease in inventories resulted in a net
decline in current assets of only $9.-
787,907. Current liabilities were up
10,779,211, caused by a great increase
in taxes payable at the end of the year,
larger accounts payable, and substantial
purchase obligations. mostly due to
purchases of properties for crude oil
production operations.
Gross crude oil production in the
United States was 48,203.362 barrels
for 1936, an increase of 9 per cent over
the year 1935.
Drivers Rules For
Japan Translated
From Vernacular
(Continued from Page 9)
ing the prevention of unpleasant odors.
gasses and smoke from automobiles?
A: Automobi!es must be so con-
structed as not to be extremely noisy
or emit unpleasant odors. large vol-
umes of harmful gasses or smoke, and
special attention shall be paid to pre-
vent exhaust gas and smoke from en-
tering the interior of the car. (Refer
to articles 10 and 60 of the automobile
control ordinance.)
Upper left: NEW YORK—An aerial view of the new speed plane of Ceptain Frank Hawks, Ameriean
Q: Give briefly the regulations re-
he expec's to set many new speed reco rds. Upper center: HARTFORD, Conn ecticut—Another view of Captain
lative to the prevention of loud noises
right: WASHINGTON D.C.—Mr. Hirosh i Saito, Japanese ambassador to Wash ington, chooses the la'est method
in automobiles.
Founder's Day Celcbration in Carnegie Institute. Lower Jeft: LElPZIG. Ger many—Automotive engineers ree
A: (1) Automobiles shall be so con-
the spare tire cover and said to be abs olutely safe. Lower Center: GLEND ALE, California—Inventor Georgo
structed that they will not create a
way under bo'h conditions. Lower ri ght: INDIANAPOLIS, Indlana—Getting under way for a practice spin
loud noise while in operation. (2)
The two will ride as a team in the sil ver anniversary race on May 31.
Exhaust pipes must be equipped with
mufflers. (3) Horns producing a mild
tone are permited. Fire engines and
gear. Class VI—motorcycles, including
months have not elapsed since it was
five meters, even when wearing
ambulances, however, are exempt from
this ruling. (4) Muffiers must be ef-
those driven by means of one wheel,
three-wheeled motor-cyeles, motor-
discovered that the party in question
was driving a car without a license.
es (d) A person considered unfft
to his being subjected to occasiona
factive and in good working order.
cycles with side-car and motcrcycles
(b) A party unable to, or who finds it
vulsions either mental or physic
fer to artueles 10, 11 and 17 of the
with rear car, not belonging to any
difficult to, distinguish the signal co-
person considered unfit on accoun
of the foregoing classes. Class VII—
lors of red, orange, and greemksh-blue.
defect in the movement of his lim!
other special automobiles. Those not
(c) A party unable, or who finds it
A person who possesses some
belgnging to any of the foregcing
difficult to, distinguish the lefters be-
physical defect apart from th
low. the seventh row of the aterna-
going (Refer to article 41 of th
Qi Tell wheu a driver's Heense re-
tional Eye Test Chart at a disance of
mobile control ordinance and art
guires amending, and the procedure
invelved.
must be in-
A: (1) Whenever any change takes
of the radiator
place regarding the original domicile,
reaidence or name of driver, as well

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
fective and in good working order.
ruling. (4) Mufflers must be ef-
three-wheeled motor-cyeles, motor-
cycles with side-car and motcrcycles
was driving a car without a license.
(b) A party unable to, or who finds it
to his being subjected
vulsions either mental
Rafer to articles 10, 11 and 17 of the
with rear car, not belonging to any
difficult to, distinguish the signal co-
person considered unfit on account of
mobile control ordinance and ar-
of the foregoing classes. Class VII—
lors of red, orange, and greenish-blue.
defect in the movement of his limbs. (f
 of the detailed regulations per-
other special automobiles. Those not
(c) A party unable, or who finds it
A person who possesses some'seriou
mining to the enforcement of the or-
belonging to any of the foregcing
difficult to, distinguish the letters be-
physical defect apart from the for
closses.
Q: Tell when a driver's license re-
low the seventh row of the Taterna-
tional Eye Test Chart at a distance of!
mobile control ordinance and art
going (Refer to article 41 of the
quires manending, and the procedure
involved.
A: (1) One head light must be in-
A: (1) Whenever any change takes
stalled on either side of the radiator
place regarding the original domicile,
in front. (2) They must possess suff-
residence or name of driver, as well
cient power to show clearly all ob-
as any change in naval or rmilitary ser-
stacles 50 meters ahead. (3) The main
vice. (2) Whenever any change takes
CHAMPION
ray shall be not higher than 1.2 met-
place in the geographical name and
ters above the ground at a point 25
house number of the original residence
meters in front of the vehicle. Regard-
due to any change in administrative
ing the use of lights: (1) When driving
zones. All applications for amendment
at night the lights must be turned on
must be filed within five days with the
in accordance with regulations. (2)
chief of the Metropolitan Poli Board
When passing another car the intensity
thiough the chief of the police station
SPARK PLUGS
of the head lights shall be reduced or
nearest the place of residence. Those
the lights must be turned downward.
p ssessing business permits must also
As an alternative, the side lights may
have their business permits amended
be turned on after temporarily extin-
at the same time. (Refer to articles
guishing the head lights. (Refer to
1, 2, 39 and 51 of the detailed regula-
articles 14 and 61 of the automobile
tions pertaining to the enforcement of
control ordinance.)
he automobile control ordinance.)
Q: Describe the conditions regarding
Q: Tell when a person whose driv-
the rear lights of ordinary automobiles.
er's license has expired shall file ap-
are on all the
A: (1) Tail lights and rear license
plication for continued use of his car,
plate lights: The rear lights of or-
and also explain the effects of delay-
dinary automobiles must consist of one
ing such application.
or more red tail lights, of normal
A: A person desiring to continue to
brightness, as well as a light than can
drive an automobile after the matu-
NEW 1937
clearly show the license number by
rity date of his license may aply for
night at a distance of 25 meters. These
a driver's license at any time prior to
lights must be installed in such a man-
six months before the expiration date.
ner that they cannot be switched off
If any delay takes place and the
from the driver's seat. When dr:ving
license expires, it automatically be-
by night these lights shall be turned
comes invalid and has to be returned;
NISSAN
on. (2) Stop lights: Stop lights must
an extension will not be authorized.
be installed cn ordinary automobiles
(Refer to articles 39, 40 and 49 of the
as a substitute for hand signaling when-
automobile control ordinance.)
ever the car is brought to a halt; they
Q: Under what circumstances will
must be orange colored and possess an
a driver's license not be granted, even
intensity of more than 10 candle power;
though the candidate may have pass-
MOTORCARS
they shall be installed at the rear of
ed the examination?
the car, where they can be easily seen
A: Driver's licenses will not be
by cars approaching from that direc-
granted to any person coming under
tion; and they must be so designed
one or more of the following catego-
that they will automaticaily operate
ries: (1) Less than 18 years of age,
when the foot brake is pressed. (Refer
for ordinary and special licenses; less
to articles 14 and 61 of the automobile
than 16 years for small car licenses;
control ordinance and article 9 of the
detailed regulations regarding the en-
(2) Anyone who is mentally deranged,
deaf, dumb or blind; (3) In the event
WANT
forcement of that ordinance.)
of one year not having elapsed after
Q: Classify the various driving
the driving license has been cancelled;
BETTER ENGINE
licenses and their respective qualifi-
(4) Persons unsuited in the opinion of
cations.
A: Licenses are divided into three
the prefectural governor (the chief of
the Metropolitan Police Board in the
PERFORMANCE
classes-ordinary, special and small car.
Qualifcations for possessing licerses:
case of Tokyo prefecture.) (a) A party
guilty of unlawful conduct regarding
?
(1) Holders of ordinary licenses may
the filing of application for license
cles. (2) Holders of special licenses
drive ordinary as weil as small vehi-
or in connection with the examination
for same, or in the event that six
AMPY
may drive any of the special type au-
tomobiles as well as the small auto-
USE THE
mobiles. (3) Holders of small car
World-wide patent.
licenses may drive only small cars.
Japanese patent No. 99,208
SPARK PLUGS
(Refer to article 37 of the automobile
Hairkk
GLALAMI
control ordinance.)
Q: Classify the various type of spe-
DEDNOR
ENGINEERS
clal automohiles.
A: The classifications of special au-
tomobiles, determined by the Home Mi-
An essential article for the seats
CHOOSE
nister, are as follows: Class I—Tractors.
of the Datsun motor cars, air-
These must be equipped with treads
planes, train-coaches, beds, and
and their prinie purpose must be tow-
household furniture.
ing of other vehicles. Class II—road
Catalogue on application.
rollers, graders and automobiles for
førm use. Class III-steam automobiles,
equipped with steam as motive power
and not belonging to any of the fore-
eSe
Japan Sales Agents
going typer. Class IV—Electric auto-
TRADEMARK
mobiles, equipped with electric motors
Shimizu Trading
Dodge & Seymour, Ltd
motive power and not belonging
to any of the foregoing classes. Class
Company, Ltd.
Dojima Building
V-"Hanomag" type automobiles. Au-
tomobiles not belonging to any of the
514, 6-chome. Minami-shinagawa,
TOKYO
Osaka
foregoing clases,, with front two-wheel
Tel. Takanawa (44) 4135, 3712, 2530
system but no differential

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.97)
TO., FRIDAY, MAY 28, 1937
11
article 37 of the detailed regulations
Industry Related in Pictures
pertaining to the enforcement of the
automobile control ordinance.)
Q: What are the regulations regard-
ing a person already possessing a driv-
er's license, who applies for and re-
celves again the same kind of license?
A: (1) person having received a
driver's license can neither apply for
nor receive a driver's license again.
(2) A driver's license obtained contrary
to this rule is invalid. (3) Inva!id driv-
er's licenses must be returned imrie-
diately to the local governor of the
district from where it was issued (the
chief of the Metropolitan Police Board
in the case of Tokyo prefecture). (4)
PAL
Failure to return a duplicated driver's
lieense, whether obtained intentionally
or accidentally. will be punished by
fine or unprisonment. (Refer to Arti-
cles 47 and 82 of the automobile con-
trol ordinance).
Q: When should a driver's licens
or temporary driver's license be re-
turned?
A: (1) In cise of the validity ex-
piring. (2) In the event it is cancel-
led or susper.ded. (3) When a person
stil! possesss a driver's license after
another has been re-issued to him.
(4) When a person having an ordi-
nary or special car license also pe
sesses  small car license. (5) In (he
event thit the owner of the license
dies or his whereabouts become un-
known. The necessary steps for re-
urning the license must be taken by
ither the head or some member of
that person's family. oi his emp'oyer.
(6) When a person possessing a driv-
er's license receives another driver's
license of the same kind. the first li-
cense wil become invahd and must
be returned to the prefectural governor
of the distriet from which it was ob-
tained the chief of the Metropolitan
Police Board in Tokyo). (7) In the
event of aay un'awful act in connee-
tion with the application or the ex-
amination for the license, or the li-
cense becoming invalid by reason of
the discovery that the applicant drove
an autonobile prior to its issuance,
the license in question shall be re-
turned. (Refer to articles 47 and 49
of the autonobi'e control ordinance
and anticle 7 of the examination re-
POVE
gulations).
RING-FREE
(To be centinued in the motor rection
of The Japan Advertiser)
TEXACO
Gives Your Nissan
Beard smarher, as it flew over Battery park recently. giving New Yorkers their first glimpe of the craft in which
Clean cylinders, freedom
Hawks plane, taken at its christening. The plane, named "Time Flies. was christened by Mrs Hawks Upper
asportation when he travels. He is pietured here as he boarded a plane for Pittsburgh to make an address at the
from gummed or car-
resented what they belleve is the solution to the reserve gasoline tank problem in this 20-li er tank. installed in
bonized rings and valves
aplays his combination auto-boat. cqually at home on land or in water. The two views show the craft under
Indlanapolis Speedway are Lou Meyer, three times winner of the Indlanapolis 500-miles auto race. and his brother.
--the first considera-
tions towards economi-
the examination regulations.)
cidentaly inflicts injuries upon some
place of driving. who is guilty of any
cal operation.
Q When doen u driver's icense or
other person or danages property. (3)
unlawful conduet in reg.od to filng the
A person considered unsuited by the
applieation, regarding the driver li-
SALE & Co.,
chief of the Metropolitan Police Board.
cense. un regard to the exunination or
TEXACO
AUnder uny of the following cate-
(4) A person infringing the automobile
a person caught driving a car without
Limited
X
rle the driver's license or tempor-
control ordinance or any orders based
having yet received a driver's license
Tokyo
honse may be suspended or can-
on it. (5) A person having sent in a
notice to the effect that the district
prior to the lapse of six months shall
be suspended from driving untit the
Sole Agents for
the Texas Co.
within the jurimdiction of the Motro-
maturity date. (Refer to artiele 46 of
who elther intentionally or ac-
politan Police Board shall be his main
the an cntl  and

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
prior to the lapse of six months shall
raon who is mentally notice to the effect that the
strict
be suspended from driving until the
Sole Agents for
dumb or blind.. (2) A within the jurisdiction of the
tro-
maturity date, (Refer to article 46 of
the Texas Co.
the automobile cortrol ordinance and
DUNLOP
MATCHES THE PROGRESS OF MODERN CARS
FOR
DUNLOP
FORT
LONGER
NON-SKID
90
MILEAGE
A Dunlop Fort Cover Deserves A Dunlop Tube
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. (JAPAN) LTD., KOBE
SOLE CONCESSIONAIRES:—THE JAPAN AUTOMOBILE CO., LTD.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.98)
12
THE JAPAN 'ADVERTISI
ANNOUNCING
NISSAN
M
國產大眾車
N
Premiere Showing in Special Disp
SATURDAY MAY 29 to
S P E C I F I C A T I O N S
NISSAN
NIS
NISSAN
Passenger Cars
Truck Chassis

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.99)
NISSAN
NISSAN
NIS
Passenger Cars
Truck Chassis
Bus
Engine
"A" type
Engine
Engine
Cylinder
..6 Cylinders, L type
Cylinder ..............6 Cylinders, L type
Cylinder
Cylinder Bore ........82 millimeters
Cylinder Bore
Cylinder Bore ........82 Millimeters
Stroke
Stroke
..114 millimeters
Stroke
.114 Millimzters
Taxable H.P.
Taxable H.P.
.23.35
Brake H.P.
Taxable H.P.
.25.35
Brake H.P.
Brake H.P.
..85
Piston Displacement
Piston Displacement..3.670 cubic centimeters
Compression Ratio
Piston Dlsplacement..3,670 cubic centimeters
Compression Ratio ...6.5 to 1
Piston
Compression Ratio ...6.5 to 1
Piston
.. Aluminum steel
Piston Pin
Piston
. Aluminum steel
Piston Pin
..20.6 millimeters (diameter)
Piston Rings
Piston Pin
.20.6 millimeters (diameter)
Piston Rings
....2 for compression purposes,
each with width of 3.2 milli-
Main Bearings
Piston Rings
..2 for compression purposes.
meters
Driving Camshaft
each with width of 3.2 milli-
Main Bearings .......7
meters
Vibration Dampener
Driving Camshaft .... Ring-belt-chain type
Engine Mounting
Main Bearings .......7
Vibration Dampener . Coi! spring friction method
Lubrication
Driving Camshaft .... Ring-belt-chain type
Engine Mounting .... Rubber
Cooling
Vibration Dampener . Coil spring friction type
Lubrication ......Pressure oil type
Fuel System
Electrical System
Engine Mounting ....Rubber
Cooling
Water
Lubrication
..Pressure oil type
Fuel System
.Pressure pump
Ignition
Cooling
.Water
Electrical System
.Dynamo of 6 volt, 90 watt
V type
Transmission
Clutch
Fuel System
...Pressure with pump
Ignition
.Battery
Prope:ling Shaft
Electrical System
.. Dynamo of 6 Volt and 90
Clutch
.Single
Front Axle
Watt V type
Transmission
.Standard
Rear Axle
Ignition
Battery ignition
Propelling Shaft
...T L type
Clutch
..Single (10 inches)
Tires
Front Axle
I lctter shape beam. Anti-
Transmission
..Standard type sychronized
Eliot type
Steering
Propelling Shaft
.....T L type
Rear Axle
Floating type. Basba cog-
Frame
wheel system
Front Axle
Anti-Eliot type I letter shape
Tires
Front: 6.00 × 20
Springs
Rear Axle
.Semi-floating type, Basba
Rear: 32  6 8 ply
cog-wheel system.
Gasoline tanks
Speed decreasing ratio 4.09
Steering
Worm and sector type
to 1.
Springs
Semi-oval front and rear
Battery
Tires
.5.00 × 16.00
Brakes
Brakes
Foot and hand
Steering
Worm and Sector type
Wheelbase
Wheelhase
12TS type. 2.641 meters (104")
Springs
.Semi-oval shape front and
12TL type. 3.251 meters (128")
rear
Tread
Front 1.664 meters
Brakes
.Foot and hand
Rear 1.651 meters
Tread
Both 1.600 meters
Turning Radius
.7.15 meters
Overall Length
(chassis)
.4.305 meters (169.5 inches)
Overall (Chassis)
Road Clearance
..205 millimeters (8.0 inches)
5.118 meters (201.5 inches)
Overall (including
Wheelbase
..2.794 meters (110 inches)
Overall Width
Single 1.905 meters
Bumper)
Tread
.1.441 meters (56.5 inches)
Double 2.032 meters
(15 inches)
Overall Length
.4.75 meters (186.7 inches)
(80 inches)
Road Clearance
Overall Width
.1.72) meters (67.6 inches)
Turning Radius
5.893 meters (232 inches)
2.641 meters (273 inches)
Overall Width
Overall Height
..1.750 meters (68.8 inches)
Overall (including
Seating Capacity .....5 or 7 persons.
Bumper)
.4.699 meters (185 inches)
2.641 meter's (105 inches)
Turning Radius
Weight
..1.41 tons
Capacity
.5.25 tons
Capacity
MANUFACTURED BY THE NISSAN JIDOSHA CO., LTD., THE FI
SHOW ROOM & MAIN OFFICE:
NISSAN JIDOSH
GINZA
TOKYO

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.96)
TOKYO, FRIDAY, MAY 28, 1937
昭和六年三月廿八日
第三箱师價物面
THE JAPAN MADE
OTORCAR
SSAN
lay Tent Opposite Marunouchi Hotel
MONDAY MAY 31, 1937
Nissan Passenger Car
Standard Type for Taxis
Deluxe Type for Private Owner
SAN

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.98)
Deluxe Type for Private Owner
AN
sis
linders, L type
illimeters (31/4 inches)
illimeters (4½ inches)
Horsepower
wer (3.400 revolu-
per minute)
cubic centimeters
inum steel
illimeters (diameter)
compression purposes,
with width of 3.2
NissanTruck
-belt-chain type
(Cab Over Engine)
spring friction method
104"
Chassis
ure oil type
sure pump
mo, 6 volts, 90 watt,
ry
system
lard
shape beam, Anti-
type
ing type of Basba cog-
system
6.50×20
6.50×20
and Sector type
bed type (chassis ex-
ely for buses)
oval front and rear
he side of the frame,
times the rear)
mperes
Nissan Bus
and hand
(Cab Over Engine)
type. 2.641 · meters
inches)
Low Chassis—128"
type. 3.251 meters
inches)
664 meters
inches)
651 meters (52.9 inches)
neters (169.5 inches)
heters (104 inches)
heters (185 inches)
heters (104 inches)
limeters
neters (75 inches)
wheel
eter (80 inches)
eters (232
inches)
eters (104 inches)
EST AND BEST EQUIPPED AUTOMOBILE PLANT IN THE ORIENT
SALES CO., LTD.
BRANCHES & DEALERS
IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 25, 1937.
The manager of the Ford Motor Company
of Japan informed the Embassy that in re-
sponse to the market's demand the company
had imported about 3,600 assembled units over
and above the quota of 12,360 which was
allowed the company under the Automobile
Industry Control Law. In addition, the com-
pany has sent an order to Detroit for 3,000
more units.
Apparently the authorities are aware of,
and do not oppose, such importations. How-
ever, in the opinion of the manager, as soon
as the present military emergency is over,
the authorities will again apply the policy
of restrioting and hampering the company's
operations.
um
FE:WTTASMJ

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.91)
16011
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1937 A 23 PM 2 00
CFMUNICATICNS
AND RECORB5y0, July 28, 1937.
No. 2517.
SUBJECT:
POSITION OF THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY VIS-A-VIS
THE AUTOMOBILE INDU TAY CONTROL LAW.
11N1
894.797
DE
eut
ASSITANT SECRETARY
MID
商
Ccemmiua
52
OF STATE
NFOR PUB
AUG311937
1037
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
32
Sir:
With reference to the Department's telegram No./118,
F/B
July 20, 5 p.m., relating to the position of the Ford
Motor Company of Japan, Limited, vis-a-vis thc Automobile
Industry Control Law, I have the honor to report that
Mr. Benjamin Kopf, Manager of the Ford Motor Company of
Japan, Limited, called at the Embassy this morning and
the

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the Department's views were fully explained to him.
A copy of the memorandum of conversation between
1/
Mr. Kopf and a member of the Embassy's staff is enclosed
herewith.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
866.16
JFMcG:C
Enclosure:
1/As stated above.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 2517 dated July 28, 1937,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation
July 28, 1937.
Mr. Benjamin Kopf, Manager Ford Company
of Japan, Limited, and Mir. McGurk,
First Secretary of the Embassy.
Mr. Kopf called this morning by request in order that
the Department's views set forth in telegram No. ll8 of
July 20, 5 p.m., might be explained to him. The position
of the Ford Company and the Department's position were
reviewed in the light of the above-mentioned telegram and
the Embassy's despatch No. 2394 of April 30, 1937. Mr. Kopf
said that he appreciated all that the Department and the
Embassy had done in the premises and that he thought it
would be useless again to take up with the Japanese auth-
orities the Company's situation.
Mr. Kopf went on to say that the Company had imported
about 3,6o0 complete units over and above the quota of
12,360 units which they were allowed to assemble in Japan
under the Automobile Industry Control Law. He said that
the number of units imported was in no way contrary to the
restriction on assembled cars and that the authoritie s were
well aware that the complete units had been imported.
Mr. Kopf said that he had recently been approached by
an official of the Department of Commerce and Industry
who inquired whether the Ford Company could double its
present production capacity of l0o units per eight-hour
day. Mr. Kopf said that he replied that by working two
eight-hour shifts per day 2o0 units per day could be produced
but he informed the official of the Department of Commerce
and Industry that not more than loo bodies per day could be
produced

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
produced in Japan at the present time. Mr. Kopf said that
he believed that the inquiry was made on behalf of the
military authorities and he suspected that if the Company
were requested to increase its capacity to 2oo units per day
that the railway shops would be directed to supply suffi-
cient bodies for the extra lo0 units.
Mr. Kopf informed me in confidence that he had a few
days ago sent an order to the factory at Detroit for 30oo
additional units. He said that he could very easily dispose
of them to those whose cars had a lreaay been commandeered by
the military authorities and that in any case he was certain
that in the event he couid not sell them as replacements to
those whose cars had been commandeered the military authori-
ties would take them.
Mr. Kopf said that while for the present the situation
of the Company was satisfactory he had no doubt that once
the present incident was settled the authorities would again
apply t he policy of hindering and restricting the Company's
operations.
JFMCG:C

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 17, 1938.
Reference Yokohama's Despatch
No. 345, December 13, 1937, entitled
"Automotive Industry of Japan".
in, maton
The newe conveyed in this despatch
in regard to the Nissan automobile
venture in Japan is not new. The com-
pany is now making about twenty cars
a day, nearly all being trucks taken
by the Japanese military authorities.
It is interesting to note on page 3,
however, that the manager of the Ford
Motor Company of Japan recently told
Consul Boyce at Yokohama that Mr.
Aikawa "has realized that the Nissan,
and presumably Datsun, venture is a
failure and that he has lost interest
in it. The same informant states
that the Japanese Government also real-
izes the failure of the venture and
also the failure of the Government's
regulations restricting American auto-
mobile assembly plants in Japan. He
states that the Ford company has had
its best year of business this year
and that in a few days the Government
will announce new regulations liberal-
izing the control over the American
plants."
fmg
FE:JMJINN

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.91)
045
1378
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Yokohama, Japan, December 13, 1937.
B
OF SATE
ÉSNARY
jarif
se
ne7
11086
894.797/
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPA
THEHOSORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
NOT FOR PURLICATION
PM
i5
WASHINGTON.
1 
33
SIR
8
I have the honor to refer to previous reports upon
the automotive industry of Japan, particularly to the
confidential report accompanying Despatch No. 219, of
June 12, 1936, and to Despatch No. 308, of June 8, 1937.
An American representative of the Graham-Paige
automobile company of Detroit who has been employed in
the Yokohama plant of the Nissan Jidosha Kabushiki
Kaisha, engaged in setting up the machinery sold by
the Graham-Paige company, is returning to Detroit. He
supplied the following information.
NISSAN production.
JAN 27 1938
FL
The NISSAN is the standard sized car made from
plans and with equipment purchased from the Graham-
Paige Company of Detroit. As reported in the Despatch
of June 8, l937, referred to above the first few hundred
units were assembled from parts sent from the United
States
1

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
States by the Graham-Paige Company. Since then some
of its parts are still imported, such as the wheels
and rear axles. It manufactures its own engines. At
present the production of NISSAN cars is 20 units a
day. Nearly all are trucks and are taken by the Japanese
military authorities. Although the company claims that
the units have performed successfully in military service
it is not explained why efforts are not made to step up
production.
The American engineer stated that some departments
of the plant are ready for a production of 150 units a
day but that others can not produce more than 20 units,
because of lack of equipment.
The engineer says that the NISSAN motor is a 1927
model engine that the Graham-Paige company produced
until about 1934; that the machine equipment bought by
the NISSAN is the same equipment used by the Graham-
Paige plant since that time and that the equipment is
good for several years if properly cared for. He says
that any change in motor design would require new
equipment which would cost as much as that which they
have purchased.
Regarding skilled labor, the engineer says that
the Japanese company employs very young men as apprentices
and that the new men are quick to learn their work and are
satisfactory under the conditions prevailing. He says
that in the NISSAN plant there is an operator and an
assistant for every machine, whereas one operator, single-
handed, would handle three machines in an American plant.
Regarding metals used in construction of the NISSAN
the engineer says that the Japanese have changed some of
the

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.96)
-3 -
the materials used in the American model to materials
available here, but that it will probably always be
necessary to import a considerable quantity of special
steels.
Views of a Competitor of NISSAN JIDOSHA KABUSHIKI KAISHA
In a recent conversation with the manager of the
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF JAPAN the manager stated that he
had reliable information that Mr. Yoshisuke Aikawa,
x
President of the NISSAN interests, has realized that the
NISSAN, and presumably DATSUN, venture is a failure and
that he has lost interest in it.
The same informant states that the Japanese Government
also realizes the failure of the venture and also the
failure of the Government's regulations restricting
American automobile assembly plants in Japan. He states
that the FORD company has had its best year of business
this year and that in a few days the Government will
announce new regulations liberalizing the control over
the American plants.
DATSUN Midget Cars
The production of the DATSUN midget cars is now
35 units a day. These are mostly delivery vans.
Very respectfully yours,
Prziogle
Richard F. Boyce,
American Consul.
RFB/pt.
Reoived.
866.16
X

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
_694111/1
FOR_Report.#
FROM
Osaka
Makinson
) DATEDAug.101938
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.797/
REGARDING: American automobile assembly plants in Japan.
Majority of motor vehicles are of American
origin, European car imports being very small.
Japanese companies have begun to manufacture
3
both cars and trucks and seem to be meeting
6
with fair success.
rr

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
893.154/222
FOR
Letter
894.797/40
FROM
National Foreign Trade
E.P.Thomas
) DATED
September 1, 1938
Council, Inc.
NAME
REGARDING: Mass production of automobiles in Japan. Count Aisuke
Kabayama, in conversation with Mr. E. P. Thomas, said
that the experiment of - had failed. He believes The
Tord Motor Company should expand its present facilities
in Japan, in combination with Japanese capital, to pro-
duce cars for distribut ion throughout Japan, China and
Manchuokuo.
hr

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.91)
es
HECEIVEG
NIONAL ECONOMI
FA
MAR 24 1939939
ULInnINCNI UI UI.L
Reference attached memorandum
of March 2l in regard to thelreport-
ed purchase by Japanese interests of
American-made automobiles .
The situation under reference
was outlined orally to Mr. Charles
Moser of the Department of Commerce
who, after checking on the matter
with the Automotive Division of his
Department, replied by telephone to
the effect that in his opinion and
in that of his associates the report
is wholly without foundation. Mr.
Moser added, however, that it may
be that Japanese interests would wish
to purchase American trucks provided
the transaction could be consummated
on a loan or credit basis but that
it is most unlikely that such facili-
ties could be obtained in the United
States at this time.
ecul
y. m.H
FE:Mackay:JPS
1
IAI LAN AFFAINS
476-193
irm of Stale

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
Memorandumofs Gaaversation
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS DATE: March 21, 1939
AM 10 52
UBJEcT: Rumor of purchase by Japanese interests in Manchuria
of a large number of American motor trucks.
C
NS
ARECORDS
PARTICIPANTs: Mr. Roberts, General Motors,
Mr. Hamilton.
COPIES TO:
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
894.797/41
94.797
not
1—1408
894.24
Mr. Roberts of the Weshington office of General Motors
telephoned. He said that their export division in New York
had just communicated to him a rumor in New York that Dowa,
a Japanese concern in Manchurie, had placed an order with
Asahara in New York for a large number of American motor
trucks; and that the transaction had been financed by some
American company. Mr. Roberts said that he thought that if
this rumored transaction had any basis in fact the Depart-
ment would have knowledge of it. He inquired whether we
had any information in the matter. I replied in the nega-
tive. He said that they had an assembly plant in Japan and
that it would seem unusual for the Japanese to place such
an order in this country rather than to place it with their
G
plant in Japan.
I

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.96)
-2 -
I thanked Mr. Roberts for having brought this informa-
tion to our attention and told him that we would look into
the matter. He asked us to inform him of the results of
our inquiries and I said that vwe would be glad to keep his
request in mind.
3.
FE:MMH:EJL

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 24, 1939.
Reference a report entitled "Japan's
Automotive Industry and the China Incident"
prepared by Consul John M. Allison at Osaka
on March 23, 1939.
The first 8 pages of the report describe
the automotive situation in Japan prior to
1938. The most significant figures are those
on page 5 which indicate that in 1936 there
6,633 were small-sized cars of the Datsun
type),and cars assembled locally from imported
parts numbered 30,997. The Japanese produc-
tion for l936 represented a considerable
increase over production in l935 but most of
the inorease occurred in the small-sized cars.
Since 1936 the Ford Motor Company and
General Motors Company, who have assembly
plants in Japan, have been put on a production
quota. The Ford Company has been allowed a
quota of 12,360 units a year while General
Motors has been allowed 9,470 units a year.
The statistics on page 7 are interesting
in that they show that imports from Germany,
although small in comparison with the total,
increased considerably between 1934 and 1937.
In a latter section the report indicates that
efforts were being made to stimulate especially
imports from Germany.
In

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
In describing the situation during and
since 1938 (beginning on page 8) Mr. Allison
deals principally with hearsay information
(which is about all that is available) and
in my opinion gives too much credence to
exaggerated reports of Japanese production.
The Government's three-year plan calls for
a production of 80,000 motor cars by 1941
and by that time Japan will be entirely self-
sufficient. It is also reported that the
combined production of the two chief Japanese
companies, Toyoda and Nissan, reached almost
20,000 units of which 15,000 units were
passenger cars. It seems to me that all of
these figures are more in the realm of
fantasy than of fact. At the same time I
believe that the report minimizes the
importance of imports to Japan's supply of
motor vehicles. The report mentions only
incidentally and at the end of the report
that imports of completed motor vehicles have
inoreased enormously since the beginning of
the conflict in China, although the produc-
tion allotment of General Motors and Ford
have not been increased and in fact have not
been allowed to produce up to the allotted
quotas.
The Japanese Government is endeavoring
to encourage the use of charcoal burning
vehicles.
The

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The importation of passenger vehicles
has been out down drastically and most of the
motor vehicles imported are taken by the
military.
Mr. Allison is pessimistic in regard
to the future of American automobiles in
Japan.
The report under reference states
(page 23) that "if the American Government
wishes to continue its present policy of
discouraging the granting of credits or loans
by American firms ..... stronger measures
than moral suasion will be needed". This
opinion presumably arises principally out of
the faot that Japanese newspapers indicated
that the Ford Motor Company was selling a
large order of Ford motor cars to the
Manchuria Heavy Industries Company through
some sort of barter arrangement. (The
Department has since been informed that the
Ford Motor Company sells motor cars to Japan
and Manchuria only for cash).
Consul Boyce at Yokohama recently
submitted a report entitled "Japanese Auto-
motive Industry, 1937-1938", dated December
14, 1938. The divergenoe between the
interpretation in Consul Boyce's report and
that in Consul Allison's report is very
large. Consul Boyce emphasizes the fact that
the Japanese Army is to a large degree
dependent upon American automobiles and trucks
but

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
but the local industry is small and
ineffioient and depends to a great extent
upon imported parts. Consul Boyce has
nothing good to say about the Japanese
automotive industry and its prospects but he
is likewise pessimistic about the future of
American automobiles in Japan. In my opinion
Consul Boyce's interpretation is much more
realistio than that of Consul Allison and is
much more critical of data presented.te m.
FE:Jones:REK

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.91)
ORIGINAL
Voluntary
C O N E I DE N T I AL
JAPAN S AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY
ana
STAICTLY CUNFIDENTIAL
THE CHINA INCIDENT
>.
27
8
LSSB
F.5
Fi-C
From
John
Allison
American
Consul.
894.797
89
no
emerican Consulate,
4.797/42
Osaka, Japan.
Date of completion:
March 23
1939.
Date of mailin:
March
1939.
George A. 'akinson,
American Consul General.
G/A

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.92)
TABLE OF CONTENT3
Pege0.
INTRODUCTION
1
HISTORICAL BACK GROUND
2
AUTCN OTIVE 317UATION 1936-1937
4
SIT ATION DURING and JINCE 1938
C
ENCOURAGE ENT OF GER AN AUTC: OTIVE
II PORTS
11
EXPANSION OF JAPANS CFC CA and
PARTS FACTC (JS
13
EXPANSTON OF JAPAI ESE A CO C.IVE
PARTS EXPORTS DURING 1938
15
UTILIZAPTON OF CHARCCA: BURNII.: SA
17
THE AUTOLOPIV: INDUTRY A
: ILITARY
1F
FUTURE OF ANDRICA AUT CTTVE
DNPORTS IMPO JAI
21
CONCLUSION
25

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
INTRODUCTION
Since the outbreak of the present hostilities
in China, considerable pro ress has been shown in
the automotive industry in Japan. Native production
has more than tripled while at the same time restric-
tions placed upon the two American manuracturers who
maintain assembly plants in Japan have increased.
The authorities have recently announced a three year
plan which will aim at makin- Janan self-sufficient
in the automotive field, end at the same time the
local press has announced that the istribution of
Ford and Chevrolet cars will ce prohit ite. after the
1。
first half of 1939.
This report will aiscuss these chanres in Janan's
automotive industry as seen fron csara, the nation's
industrial center and the seat of one of the two
American asser.bl: plants anu comment upon their pos-
sible effect on American exports of autonotive pro-
ducts. There is no attenpt made to treet the subject
exhaustively, as uncer present conditions it is not
only impossible to obtain surricient inrormation but
also inadvisable to make an effort to do so. No
official statistics regarding production or imports
of automobiles and parts lhave been published since
the end of June 1937, ene the information iver telow
has been obtained fror locel press accounts end through
talks with persons engeged in the automotive trade.
HISTCRICAL
1. NIKKAN KOGYO (Industrial Daily News), Japanese,
March 10, 1939.

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
HISTORIOAL BACKGROUND
Before examinin" the present situstion, it may
be helpful to consider brierly the history of Japan's
automotive industry. It va: only efter 1923, that
the use of the motor car became at all widespread in
Japan, though as early as lyle, a law for the sub-
sidizing of military motor cars was enacted by the
Imperial Diet. In 1925, the Ford : otc: Company es-
tablished an assembly nlant in Yokohame end in 1926,
a similar plant was opened in Csake by the General
Notors Export Cornorstion.
jince that tire, accord-
ing to the JAPAN- ANCHUU0 Y BCOk for 1939, from
seventy-five to eishty percent cf the motor cars used
in Janan have been either Ford or General  otors
products. The two chief Japenese concerns enzaged in
the manufacture of motor cars are the Missan otor
Car Conpany of Yokohana, and the oyoda autor obile
Compeny of Nagoye, which were organized in l9ss and
1936 resrectively.
The following table mede up from figures taken
from the JAPAN-NANCHUKUO YHAR EOOk for 1959, showS
the increase in autonotive registraticns in Janan
during the ten year period, 1925-35:
Registered Notor Vehicles in Jepan
1925
1930
1935
Passenger cars
21,002
58,690
82,775
Trucks
8,162
29,744
48,135
Special cars*
1.051
1,682
3.949
Total:
30,215
90,116
134,859
*Includes

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
*Includes ambulances, hearses, water sprink ers,
oil tank trucks, etc.
The above figures show en average annuel increase
between 1925 and 1930 of slightly more than 11,000
vehicles, and between 1930 and 1935, of not quite
9,000.
Imports of finished autoncbiles hove never been
large and have decreased considerabl in recent years,
while the value of imported accessories hassteadily
increased. During 1928 there were importec 7,873
motor cars valued at i13,770,655, which is the largest
amount ever recorded?.
Imports for other recent yeers
were as follows:
Imports of Automobiles and Parts
No. of
Value
Value of
Potal
Year
Automobiles
(¥1000)
Accessories
alue.
(¥1000)
(¥1000)
1926
2,362
5,324
10,398
15,722
1930
2,591
4,8.7
15,178
20,775
1935
943
3,30
29,387
2,589
Above fi ures taken fron "The Japan Year ook", 1938-
1939, page 551.
There are no firures available to this ofrice
showing the production of motor cars in Japen prior
to 192, but the followin table, made up from figures
taken from the JAPAN-NANCHUKUO Y A BOOK for 1939, and
from JAPANESE TRADE AND INDUSTRY published in 1936, by
the Mitsubishi Research Bureau, shows the production,
both of cars made by Japanese companies and those as-
sembled in Japan by the two foreign companies, in
recent years.
NOTOR
2. The Japan Year Book, 1938-39, page 551.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
Motor Cars Made and Assembled in Japan
1929
1930
1934
1935
Home made cars
(1,366)
(4,174)
437
458
2,701
5,355
Locally as-
sembled cars
28,087
18,863
30,456
30,787
Total:
28,524
19,121
35,159
36,142
The figures given in parenthesis refer to small size
cars.
It is only within the last few years that the
export of motor cars and parts has reached any large
proportions and figures regardin: this phese of the
industry will be iven in & later section.
AUTCMOTIVE 3ITUAT1ON 1936-1937
The two years 1936-1937 saw a great sourt in
automotive activity in Japan, registrations increased
by 1l percent and dorestic prouuction in native
factories jumped by almost 80 percent.
Registered Notor Vehicles in Janan, 1936-1937
Official Auto.
Estimated No.*
Net
Census as of
of Autos as of
Increases
Oct. 31, 1936
Dec. 31, 1937
14 months
Passenger**
89,008
95,800
6,792
Trucks
56,082
65,000
8,918
Special cars***
4.545
5.200
655
Total
149,635
166,000
16,365
From
*Estimete made by person listed as Number 1 in
"Sources of Information" at end of report.
**Includes buses, estimated to number 31,000 in
1936 and 34,300 in 1937.
***Includes ambulances, sprinklers, fire engines,
dump trucks, etc.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
From the above table and the one iven earlier,
the following figures are obtained showing the
average annual increase in passenger cars as
com-
pared with trucks since 1925.
Average Annual Increase 1925-1937
Oct. 31
Oct. 31
Oct. 31
Oct. 31, 1936
1925-30
1930-35
1935-36
to Dec.31,1937
Passenger cars
7,537
4,817
6,233
6,792
Trucks
4,316
3,678
7,947
8,918
Total:
11,853
8,495
14,180
15,710
It will be noted thet after 1935 the number of motor
registrations showed a phenomenal increase, and that
this increase continued on throu h l937. It is also
interesting to note that since l935, the rate of in-
crease of trucks has been considerably greater than
that of passenger cars thus reflecting to some extent
the early preparations made by the Japanese for mili-
tary expansion on the Asiatic continent, in which
expansion motor trucks were to play a major part.
No figures are available showing the motor car
production in Japan uring 1937 but the following
figures taken fron the "Japan-I anchukuo Yeer Book,
1939" show the production during l936:
Production of Automobiles in Japan in 1936
Number
Increase over 1935
Locally made cars
9,628(6,633)
4,273(2,459)
Assembled cars
30,997
210
Total:
40,625
4,483
Figures in parenthesis
refer to small size cars.
While

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
While the increase in the production of all
purely Japanese made cars showed an increase of al-
most 80 percent over the previous year, the rate of
increase in the procuction of the large cars wes nore
than l45 percent. Jaranese cmncer  re at last begin-
ning to become e factor of importance in the nation's
automotive industry. That the production or asserbled
cars, those produced in the two American controlled
plants, remained almost stationery is also of si ni-
ficance. It was in 1936 that the Auto obile Industry
Manufacturin- Lew came into effect, with the announced
purpose of perfecting the pational defense and the
industrial expansion of th: country. The law provided
for a licensin systen to ne annlien to the autonotive
industry and also provided that the imnortation of  otor
cars and parts could be restricted or utjected to the
imposition of special duty at eny time such measures
are considered necessary from the stendpoint of improv-
in& the domestic industry. Another feature of the law
was that no automobile factory woul be allowed to
expand its present pro uctive canacity unless t least
51% of the concern was owned by Jaranese interests.
In accordance with the law on October 11, 1936, the
two American automobile factories were notified that
they would be put upon a quota. The Ford .otor Company
was allotted a quota cf 12,360 units a year, while
General Motors was allowed but 9,470. This quota has
not since been changed, although, as will be explained
later, neither company has produced the allotted number
in

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7-
in recent years.
. The passin: of this law by the
Imperial Diet was the beginning of the end of foreign
domination of Japan's autonotive industry.
Importations of motor cars and parts increased
considerably from 1934 but the bi
increase did not
come until 1937. Since Jul: of 1937, import figures
have not been ade rublic, but curing the first half of
that year the value of automobiles an narts imported
into Ja an was almost equal to the total inoorts during
all of 1936. The following table shows the value of
these importations as well as the chief countries of
origin.
For vurposes or com arison, figures for l934
are also given.
Imports of Automobiles an: Parts
by Countries of Origin
1934
1936
1937
6 months
Value
Percent
Value
Percent
Value
Percent
(≠1000)
of total
(£1000)
of total
(£10C0
of total
United
States
31,553
98
34,929
94
27,979
91
Germany
105
.32
810
2.19
1,064
0.46
Great
Britain
401
1.24
674
1.81
667
2.17
Others
243
.44
623
2
971
3.37
Total:
32,302
100
37,036
100
30,681
100
Above figures are t aken from Returns of Trade of
Imperial Japenese Custors, Ministry of Finance.
It is perhaps significent that while the value
of imports from the United States have steadily in-
creased, the percentage share of the import trade
taken by America has decreased. The imports from
Germany on the other hand, while still relatively
small, have shown considerable increase and, as will
be

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
be shown later, these imports can be expected to
increase still further in the future.
At the same time as imports of automotive pro-
ducts were increasing, Japan was developing her exoort
trade in these fields. The value of automobiles end
parts exported 1rom Japan curins 1935 amounted to
slightly more than seven million yen out by 19o7 this
had jurped to almost fourteen million yen, a ain of
more than 93 percent. The great majority of these
exports were composed of narts rather than cars or
chassis. recent indications ere thet this export trade
in automotive parts will increase, and as will be indi-
cated later, may heve an adverse effect upon exports
of American parts. Statisticsregardin exports follow:
Exports of Automobiles and Parts.
1935
. £ 7,186,000
1936
13,00,000
1937
13,897,000
Figures taken from Nonthly Circular of  itsubishi
Econonic Research Bureau,  arch, 1938.
It will be seen that by the end of 1937, the
native Japanese automotive manufactures were beginning
to play a real part in the industry and that the
foreign companies had reached their peak and were on
the downgrade.
SITUATION DURING AND SINCE 1938.
All information about the progress of the auto-
motive industry in Japan during the past year must
be based upon newspaper accounts and interviews with
persons engaged in the industry as no official
statistics

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
statistics have been published since the end of June
1937. The automotive industry is considered by the
Government as one of the key industries in connection
with national defense and actual figures are closely
guarded. However, it has been possible to obtain
enough information to make a close estimate of the
present condition of the industry and its future
prospects.
The Government has announced a three year plan
which calls for the prouuction in Janan of 80,000 motor
3.
cars by 1941,
and it is hoped that by that year Japan
will be entirely self-sufficient as regards eutomotive
production. According to a reliable source,
the
combined production of the two chief Japanese companies,
Toyoda and Nissan, during 1938, reached almost 20,000
units, some 15,000 units being trucks and the remainder
passenger cars. This same source believes that it is
quite possible that these same companies will produce
as many as 25,000 units durin 1939, and that within two
or three years at the most, Japanese companies will be
producing all the motor vehicles needed in this country.
At the same time that this expansion of native
production has been noted there have been increasing
restrictions placed upon the American factories in
Japan as well as a virtual cessation of imports of
American cars other than Ford and Chevrolet. As
stated above the local press announced on March l0th
that
3.
NIKKAN KOGYO, (Industrial Daily News), Japanese,
February 1l, 1939.
4.
Number 1 in "Sources of Informatior".

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
that distribution of Ford and Chevrolet cars would be
prohibited after the first half of l9s9. However, it
is learned on good authority
that this prohibition
applies only to passenger cars and not to trucks.
In addition to the quota anplied to the American
factories the difficulty in obtainin exchange per-
mits has been a limiting factor in production. The
American companies must obtain from the  inistry of
Finance permits for the exportation of funds to pay
for the parts and chasses inported. At the present
time exchange control is so strict that these companies
are findin great difficulty in vettinx sufficient
permits to enable them to produce up to the allotted
quota. During 1938, for examnle, General  otors Japan,
Limited, had an allottment of 9,470 units but due to
6.
lack of exchange permits,produced less than 7,000 cars.
The Ford Company is believed to have produced anproxi-
mately 10,o00 cars auring the same year out of a quota
has stated
that permits have been issued for imnortation of
94 Chevrolet passenger cars so far during 1939, and
that it is not likely that any further peraits will
be issued except for trucks. Ford is said by the same
source to have had 500 sedans of the 1938 model 1eft
over and to have been given permission to dispose of
them but not allowed to import any l939 model sedans.
As
5.
Number 2 in "Sources of Information".
6.
Number 4 in "Sources of Information".
7.
Number 1 in "Sources of Information".

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.97)
- 11 -
As for the importation of other Amevican cars,
it has practically ceased. A representative of a
large American autolotive manuracturer visited Osaka
recently and stated that while nis company lormerly
did a comparatively large business in Japan, there
ξ.
had been no sales for the past eighteen months.
e
stated that his Japanese agents were anxicus to do
business but that they could nct obtain rernits to
export the necessary funds and his c mveny was not
inclined to rant long-tern credits. In this connec-
tion he reports a sionificant interview between one
of his Japenese agents and & hi h official of the
inistry of Finance. The agert was applying for ex-
change permits which vere refused end the following
stetement was seid to have been nade to hir by the
Finence : inistry official:
"Your firm was oranized vhen Jaran
was a capitalist country but this she no
longer is and your company and others
like it should disband".
The agent was told that comrenies which did not serve
the nationel ends would find it difficult to remain
in business. The American manufacturer's representative
was told by his agent that with such strict official
control it would probably not be possible to do any
business with American motor factories for some time
to come.
ENCOURAGENENT OF GERN AN AUTON OTIVE IN PORTS
In the same interview mentioned in the preceding
section the Japanese agent was told by the Finance
Ministry
8. Number 3 in "Sources of Information".

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.98)
-12 -
Ministry official that if his ccmpany still wished to
remain in the autonobile business, it should endeavor
to make some connection with a Gernan company which
would be in a position to surply motor trucks. He was
told thet Japen was negotiating a barter treaty with
Germany which would provide ror the importation of e
limited number of German vehicles, and it was implied
that Japanese firms which made the necessary arrange-
ments to import these mechines woula be actins in line
with nationel policy and  ould receive official favor.
In this connection it is interestin to note that
according to the NIxkAF E(Yo or I erch 2, 1939, General
Motors Japan, Ltd., has despatch a Janenese encineer
to Germany to study in the Opel Iotor Comnany, contrclled
by General I otcrs. The peper oes on to sey that this
is breakins a precedent for in the nast General 'otors
Japan, Ltd., has oniy sent en-ineers tc An rica, but
that under present concitions wren the imrortation of
American cars is strictly limitec, General !otors hones
to compensate itself by the increased importation of
German machines. A srall number of Opel cars have
been imported by General : otcrs in the past but they
have not proved popular because of their comparatively
high price and limited seating capecity which makes
them unsuitable for use as taxicahs, which constitute
approximately 80 percent of passenger car registrations
in Japan.
It would appear from the above that imports of
German machines can be expected to increase in the
future although it is not believed likely, because
of

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.99)
-13 -
of the evident determination to develop a domestic
industry, that the number of these imports will reach
a high figure.
EXPANSION OF JAPANESE L.OTOR CAR AND PARTS FACTORIES
During the first months of l939 the local industrial
press has contained numerous articles telling of the
expansion of productive facilities by Japenese concerns
in the automotive industry. The automobile industry was
included in the list of fifteen industries designated
as essential by the Governnent and it was stated that
9.
the General  obilization Law would not arply to it,
thus givins free scope for exnansion.
It was announced in the press during February that
the Nissan Automobile Company would expand its facilities
for manufacture of parts in an effort to produce a
better quality article than thet being obtained at
present from the many small factories engaged in the
10.
trade.
It was also announced that an affiliated
concern of Nissan Automobile Company had received of-
ficial permission to expand its facilities for the
11.
production of automobile and bus boaies.
During Febuary and March it was reported in the
NIKKAN KOGYO that the Toyoda Automobile Company would
erect a factory in Shanghai capable of producing 100
trucks a year and that it would open a new factory the
end of March near the site of its present one at Nagoya.
On
9.
NIKKAN KOGYO, (Industrial Daily News), Japanese,
Februsry 18, 1939.
10. NIKKAN KOGYO, February 11, 1939.
11. NIKKAN KOGYO, March 4, 1939.

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
On February 22nd, the NIKKAN KOGYO announced
that the Tokyo Automobile Industry Corpany would
merge with the Kokusan Autotobile Tndustry Company
of Korea and that after May lst a large factory
would be constructed alonz the Keijo-Jinsen line
in Korea. In an article concernina this merger in
the March 3lst issue of DIA' ON, one of the leading
Japanese language commercial publicetions, it was
stated that this new factory was to be the base for
future automotive expansion on the Asiatic continent.
At the same time it states that the Company plans to
make considerable enlargement in its two plants at
Cmori and Tsurumi, between Tokyo and Vokohama. DIA-
NOND reports that the total expenditure for the
expansion will be not less than ¥25,000,000.
In view of the fect that the announced purpose
of the three year expansion plan for the automotive
industry is to maxe the "Japan-China- anchukuo econo-
12.
mic bloc" self-sufficient in this field,
it is
interesting to note that the Dowa Automobile Industry
Company of Manchuria plans to erect a 5,000,000
factory for the manufacture of parts to supply all
Manchuria, and that the Manchuria eavy Industries
Company has announced in the press its intention to
establish an automobile plant in Manchuria with a
13.
capital of ¥100,000,000.
This company hopes
event ually
12.
NIKKAN KOGYO, February 28, 1939.
13.
OSAKA MAINICHI, March 2, 1939.

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.99)
-15 -
eventually to be able to supply motor cars to China
and Korea as well as Manchuria. Unconfirmed reports
persist that the Manchuria Heavy Industries Company
has been seeking to enlist the cooperation of the Ford
Motor Company in this enterprise, but according to
the press stories, it has now been decided not to
allow foreign capital in the company, and the Osaka
MAINICHI on March 2nd, went so far as to hail this
fact as indicating that Nanchurian business men are
at last gettin away from the attitude of dependin
upon British and American commercial and financial
circles. The Osaka ASAHI of March ?3rd, renorts that
this company will be established at  ukden curing the
present fiscal year and that the necessary funds will
be supplied by a Japanese banking synaicate as well
as The Central Bank of ! anchukuo and the Industrial
Bank of anchukuo.
In counection with this planned expansion in
automotive production the NIkYA KOGYo announced on
March 15th, that the Government has granted e subsidy
to the Nissan and Toyoda automobile companies for the
production of special steel needed in the manufacture
of motor cars and that a joint research institute has
been set up by the Government and the interested
manufacturers to s tudy methods of improving the quality
of such steel.
EXPANSION OF JAPANESE
AUTOMOTIVE PARTS EXPORTS DURING 1938
According to figures given in the Returns of
Trade of the Ministry of Finance, the value of exports
of

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
- 16-
of automotive narts from Japan during l938, totalled
¥11,694,702, as compared with £6,462,401 dur in 1937,
a gain of over 70 percent.
ven more remarkable is
the gain since l935, the first year for which complete
export figures are given. In that year the value of
parts exports was only 4,129,890.
These exports had
therefore shown a ain of more than 168 percent in
three years.
The press hes, since the first of the year, car-
ried several articles concernin, the expension of
parts sales to Latin America and the South Seas and
even one story tellin& of exports to ! orrocco. A
large portion of these parts are for use on American
makes of automobiles and the press does not hesitate
to say so. An article auneared in the IKKAN KO YC
the first part of Narch which stated that inquiries
had been received by the Osaka Chamber of Commerce
from a firm in Ecaudor concerning the possibility of
importing from Japan parts for Ford, uick anc Chevrolet
cars. The paper interprets this inquiry as evidence of
feelin? amon? Latin American countries asainst the
United States. In an article reportin& the export of
parts to Morrocco it was stated definitely that an
Osaka manufacturer had developed a good business in
14.
the export of parts for Chevrolet cars.
Representatives of General Lotors state that they
know of the imitation parts being sold but hat it is
practically impossible to do anything about it.
The
parts are not said to be "Chevrolet Parts" but are
listed
14. NIKKAN KOGYO, January 25, 1939.

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.98)
-17-
listed as "Parts for Chevrolet Cars", and are hence
not consioered
courterfeit by the courts.
UTILIZATION OF CHARCOAL BU YNTN: CARS
In addition to limitine the number of allons
of gasoline which cen be used per motor car per day,
the Government has t urned te the encouragement of the
use of charcoel as a motor fuel
in an effort to con-
serve the nation's fuel supply.
In accordance with
instructions from the overnment in okyo, the Traf-
fic Section of the Csak refectural Cfrice called
together the truck anc taxi ope.ttors on rebruary 4th
and gave the orders re ardin the conversion of their
15.
present ve icles intc charcoal
burnin achines.
Those possessing more than ten
trucks
ousses will
have to convert 20 nercent of the number intc charcoal
burning machines and th ose operating 50 or more will
have to convert 30 percent.
The conversion is to ve
carried out radually and it is estimated that oy the
end of June 1939, there wil1 oe 1200 charcoal burnins
motor vehicles in operetion in Osaka.
Sinilar measures
are being taken throu hout the country and just recent-
ly it was announced in the press that His  ajesty the
Emperor would use ε charcoal burning cer for journeys
within the Palace compound.
There has been considerable reluctance on the
part of owners of cars to convert then into charcoal
burning machines and it has been necessary for the
Government
15.
NIKKAN KOGYO, February 25, 1939.

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.98)
- 18 -
Government to make special inuucenents to et ther.
to do so. Reduction of the motor car tax for char-
coal cars has therefore been efrected in twenty-one
prefectures throughout Japen, the rate varying in
different sections of the country. In Osake,  voto
and Nara Prefectures there is a reduction of 50 ercent
in the tax levied on operators of such machines.
What the effect of this change over to charcoal
will be is as yet uncertain tut a well qualified
foreign automotive enineer
16.
has stated that in
his opinion the efficiency of the vehicles usin
charcoel will be reatly reduced.
ie states tht
it stands to reason th t a motor made to burn a hih
grade fuel such as gesolin cennot functior as snooth-
ly on charcoal, a low rede fuel.
THE AUTONO IVE IN JUST Y AND LHE LI ARY
From the beginning the influence of the military
has been one of the doninatine factors in the Japanese
autonotive industry. As was ststed in th first
section of this report, the industry received early
encouragement fron the military in the ror of sub-
sidies granted as a result of legislation passed in
19l8. ince the outbreak of the present hostilities
in China, the army has assumed nore and  ore control
over the industry and has attempted in various ways
to improve the quantity and quality of the native
production.
At
16. No. 4 in "Sources of Informat ion".

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
At a time when production in many lines has been
strictly limited the army hes decreed that automobile
production, because of its bearing upon national de-
fense, must not be interferred vith. It is learned
on zood authority that approximately 20 percent of the
production of one of the ierican asseably plants was
taken by the army during 1938 and
the same source
es-
timates that during 1939 at leest 25 percent and
17.
probably more will be taken.
In the article pub-
lished in DIAM OND concernin the merger of the Tokyo
Automopile Industry Conpany ane the Moku an Automobile
Industry Company mentioned above, it is stated that in
the factories of the company located between Tokyo and
Vokohama the production o: armored cars ana special
classes of military machines is keenin the plants se
busy that they are havin  ifficulty keeping up with
ordinary commercial requirements.
As stated above, the nress announced on  areh loth
that the distribution of Ford and Chevrolet cars would
be prohipited after the first nalf of l939.
This was
said to be due to the great strides made by the domestic
industry which gave the Government confidence that it
could cease depending upon foreign makes. It is be-
lieved to be due to military insistance that this
prohibition was confined to passenger cars and not
applied to trucks also. On March 15th, it was announced
in the NIKKAN KOGYO that in spite of the great increase
in productive capacity of the Toyoda Automobile Company,
it would confine its output to trucks and produce no
more passenger cars in response to an order "from a
certain
17. No. 4 in "Sources of Information".

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.98)
- 20 -
certain quarter".
Apparently the army fears that
financial considerations may limit still rurther the
production of merican trucks in Japan, and wants to
have a larger native stock to lall bac: upon.
While the quality of the Tapenese
achines has
steadily improved it is still far behina that of
American automobiles. he arry authorities recognize
this and, if the question of foreign exchange did not
enter into the matter, would nrobaoly confine its pur-
chases to American manes. A reliaole source
18.
has
reported that army officers neve adn ittec that Japanese
makes will not stand up to the rou h use e iven them
by the army, particularl. in  anchuria. Fro personal
observation, the writer can testiry that the Japanese
army in central China travelled almost exclusively in
American trucks and that a large nercentage of the se
were pro ucts of the two assembly  lants in Japan.
This dependence of the army upon American trucks is one
of the chief favorable factors in assessing the future
of America automotive exports to Janan, although, as
will be explained later, it is probably not the decisive
factor.
It has been reported that, in an effort to improve
the quality of replacement parts for trucks, which the
army had been purchasing generally from domestic pro-
ducers, a meeting was called in fokyo within the past
two months by the military authorities, of representa-
tives of Ford, General Motors, Nissan and Toyoda.
19.
The
18.
See Number 4 in "Sources of Information".
19.
See Numoer 1 in "Sources of Information".

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.98)
- 21 -
The meeting was told of the army's desire to improve
quality and each company was requested to turn over
to the army blue prints and specifications for various
parts so that the domestic product coulo be made in
accordance with the original plans. The representatives
of the American assembly plants replied that the blue
prints and specifications used by the were the pronerty
of the parent companies in the United States and could
not be released without their permission. It is under-
stoou that the matter was therefore ropoed and has not
been reopened up to the present.
It is believed that until the present emergency
conditions have passed, the wishes of the military
authorities will eter ine the cirection and the speed
of the expansion of the Japanese autonotive industry
and that inereasing pressure vill probably be brought
to bear upon the Anerican assembly plants in an effort
to make their activicies conforn to the national policy
as envisioned oy the military.
FUTURE OF
AMERICAN AUTONOTIVE INPORTS INTO JAPAN
The value of American automotive exports to Japan
is not inconsiderable, amounting to more than United
States Do1lars 10,000,000 a year for 1936, 1937 and
1938. In 1936, the last year for which complete
American figures are available to this office, the
value of automotive exports to Japan amounted to
$11,609,344, according to the United States Department
of

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
of Commerce reports. This was nearly 5 percent of the
total American automotive exports of 239,147,123.
During the first eight months of l938, American auto-
motive exports to Japan totalled
$8,630,000 as compared
with 12,647,000 during the same period of 1937.
would therefore appear that while there was approximately
a 30 percent decrease in 193e over 1937, the value is
still substantial and any in ication that these exports
may continue to decrease will be a matter of some con-
cern to American manufacturers.
In assessing the probable future course of American
automotive exports to Japan there are several factors
which must be taken into consiieration. The rising
spirit of nationalism in Japan, brin in wi th it a
determination to develon a domestic autonotive industry
however unsound economically and technically, is perhans
the chief unfavorable factor in the outlook for American
cars. The urgent necessity durine this emergency period
to conserve the financial resources of the country which
has caused increasing restrictions to be nlaced upon
the granting of foreign exchange permits is the other
chief unfavorable fector.
. As stated above, the  ilitary
authorities recornize the superiority of the American
product anc in spite of the esire to foster a comestic
industry would probably continue to purchase A erican
makes for use in military operations, providin: financial
considerations did not enter the nicture. It is because
of this desire to have the high quality American product
and at the same time reluctance to part with additional
cash reserves, that Japanese official and semi-official
organizations

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
-23 -
organizations are believed to have entered into nego-
tiations with various American manufacturers for the
granting of credits or long-term loans. Up to the
present time it is not believed tnat any American
motor car manufacturers, with possibly one exception
noted below, have granted such credits or loans be-
cause of the unfavorable attitude taken by the American
Government towards such action. However, representatives
of American manufacturers have indicated in recent pri-
vate conversations tnat they reel considerable business
is sacrificed, particulurly in anchuria, without any
real reason tnerefor, ue to the merican Government's
attitude. It is probable t. at these representatives
will make increasinly stron" recommenuations to their
superiors in the United tates to rant certain racilities
to the Japanese for the purchese of vehicles. In fact
this is possioly bein carried out already, ror in a
report on March 12th tellin" of the sale of 1,000 Ford
motor cars to the  anchurian Heavy Industries Company,
the NIkKAi. kOGYO states that this purchase is being
carried out on a barter arran rement. o confirmation
of this report hes been opteined.
It is the opinion of the writer that if the Arerican
Government wishes to cont inue its present policy of
discouraging the granting of credits or loans by American
firms to enable Japan to continue her advance on the
Asiatic continent, stronser neasures than moral suasion
will oe needed.
In addition to the two chief unfevorable factors
mentioned above, and in fact as a result of them, the
American

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.98)
-24-
American manufacturers represented in Japen h-ve suf-
fered other setbacks. The newsrapers have recently
reported several changes in dealerships of the lead-
ing merican companies. In several cases the Jepanese
deeler is said to have taken on the acency for a
Japanese car in addition to his American agency when
he saw that restrictions were bein placed upon Ameri-
can imports. The merican manufacturer then zave the
dealer the choice of givine up one of the agencies.
In every case reported, the Japtnese dealer ave up
the American agency.
20.
This ill mean that even
should present restrictions on erican in ports be
raised after the passine of the ererrency period,
American manufacturers vill re in the nosition of
having to rebuilc from the round ur their distribu-
tion systen. tepresentetive or she asserbl plants
in Japan have revorted that  ithir the last year or
two they have lost meny of their cnie? native engineers
and other employees wno heve one over to Jananese
manufacturers after navin learned their trade from
21.
the Americen company.
The ain favorable factors in the outlook for
American imports are the same factors which make the
outlook fcr the domestic industry unravoreble. These
are chiefly the poor cuality of the domestic product
and its relative hih cost of production. That motor
cars in operation in Japan receive excentionally rough
usase
20.
NIKKAN KOGYO, March 21, 1939, and KOGYO NICHI
NICHI SHIMBUN, March 1, 1939.
21.
See Number 4 in "Sources of Inf ormation".

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
usage is incicated by the fact reported fron e reliable
22.
source
that although sales of new cars averaged
30,000 a year throughout Japen during the years 1935,
1936, and 1937, the increase in motor car registrations
averaged approxinately 15,000 a yeer.
With the in-
creasing use of charcoal as a fuel, thus reducing the
efficiency of cars, and the contirued denand of the
military for a large percentage of the cars produced,
it may be that in spite c the reat increase in native
production, it will be necessary to denend upon a certein
number of Americen imnorts for some little t ime to come.
Representatives of one of the emerican assenbly olents
23.
have stated thet it is possible the mericen plants will
be permitted to continue runctionins for several yeers
nerely to serve
as a spur to the domestic industry.
Hovever, there i but little real optinisn expressed by
local Americens in the industry.
CONCLUSION
In conclusion it may be said that the effect of
the China Incident upon the automotive industry in
Japan has been to increase greatly the productive
capacity of the native Japanese manufacturers while at
the same time placing more and more restrictions upon
the importation of automobiles and parts for assembly
from the United States. It is probable that this
situation would have come about in any event but it
is certain that the advent of nostilities on the conti-
nent has accel erated the process. The lead which the
dome st ic
22.
See Number 1 in "Sources of Information".
23.
See Number 2 in "Sources of Information".

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.98)
-26-
domestic manufacturers are now obtainin. over their
foreign, principally American, cennetitors will stand
them in good stead after the present hostilities have
ceased and it is believed it can sefely be seid that
the period of don ination of Janan's autonotive industry
by America is definitel: on the decline. Because of
the increased proauction in Jenen of eutomopile re-
placement parts for export, as ind icated above, it may
even be thet American menufacturers will in time lose
much of their presenttrade in such items with the
countries of Asia and perhans Latin merica. Particular-
ly in asia, where price is the d minatin~ factor in
making sales, if the Jenano are sble to produce a
cheeper article it will rind reeoy buyers even if the
quality is not up to that of the American original.
The Japenese are deternined to develop their own industry
and it is believed that, in the acsence of untovard
developments not now rcrseen, they will succeed.
879.7/866.16
JMA/rfh
In quintuplicate to the Depart"ent
Copy for Commercial Attache, Tokyo
Copy for Consul General, Tokyo

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.93)
SOC OS OF I.FO.CTION
STICTLY COIFIDAAPI.L
It cannot be too uronl e hasized that the
folloving sourees of in or bion sh uld be  e t strictly
secret as their disclosure at this tine ould reatly
prejudice the stonding of these persons in Japan.
1. Mr. W. T. Lutz, Mana in Director, General
Hotors, Japan, Ltd., Osaka, Japan.
2. Ir. L. I. lichaelson,  reasurer, leneral Hotor,
Japan, Ltd., Osaka.
3. ir. L. 1. Vandersall, Far Eastern Representative
of Mllys Ex ort Cor oration, Toledo, Ohio.
4. Mr. Sven Dnit er, Sules Manacer, formerly
Production .unager, General :otors Ja an,
Ltd., Osaka.
