894.92 Japan, Science. Philosophy., October 6, 1945 - August 29, 1949 (File 1760)
ID: 894.92-1760   Pages: 247   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.92-japan-science-philosophy
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
OFFICE OF THE
I. 
t to this
unicuion cannot 
irsu in throo dayns
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES U. 
IA
WASHINGTON. D. C.
ark.1094145
Relo.
0CT11 1945
D. EMMERT BRUMBAUGH
Di/k
Member of Congrees, 23rd Disis.: Pu.
YC: REC:CHY
October 6, 194 5
894.92/
Honorable James F. Byrnes
Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
0
0-645
self-explanatory and is referred
to your attention for rerly.
It shall be r cei: tei if
you will reply to me, tnclosing an
extra copy for my use in supplying
my constituent wiih the requested
information.
L
C
Gery respectfully,
S
DEC 27 1945
6
FILED
4.92
D. Emmert Brumbaugh
Member of Congress
23rd District Pa.
-645
BETURN ENCLOSORE

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
In reply refor to
FC 894.92/10-645
My dear Mr. Bruabaugh:
I have received the letter of October 2, 1945 that you
forwarded to my office from Professor Wheeler P. Davey of
Pannsylvania State College.
The information submitted by Professor Davey is of impor-
894.92/10-645
tance to this Department, and I should be most happy to receive
such additional information concerning G. Asahara and Kotaro
Honda as he may have available. The names of Honda's staff and
a copy of "Guide to the Institute of Physical and Chemical
Research" Tokyo dated 1929, would be most useful.
Any additional information concerning scientists and techni-
cians, and the fields in which they were most active, would be
most welcome to the Department if Professor Davey would be so
kind as to forward such information.
Sincerely yours,
s F. Byrnes
Enclosure:
CS
Letter from Frofessor
/LE
Davey.
The Honorable
D. Emmert Brumbaugh,
House of Representatives.
994.92
DOR NE Unil
OR
OCT
121345P..
ed
10-645
Rkdo H L
HL
FC:RECarroll:CMM
10-11-45
JA

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
CSB/evc
21 May 1946
Suject: British Request for Information
To:
Colonel Earnest A. Gross
A-H, Room 278
State Depertnent Building
Washington 25, D. C.
1. I inclose a copy of the letter from the British Embassy
to General McCoy on the matter of the British request for scientific
information in Japan. General McCoy requests that this letter be
Areated with the strictest confidence and desires me to point out
once more that the British interpretation of his remarks to Sir
George Sansom is not correct. What General McCoy said, in effect,
was thet the British should remember that the United States has
always kept them informed of all military information because of
the close cooperation which exists between the military intelli-
gence services of the two armies.
2. I would appreciate any suggestions which you can give
Mutilay
894.921
me in the next week or so concerning a solution of this somewhat
embarrassing problem.
. Stanty Bebeock
C. Stanton Babcock
Colonel, GSC
1 Incl.
15-2146
RM/R
Ana1.
Cat
SECRET

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
COPY/evc
BRITISH EMBASSY
WASHINGTON &, D. C.
Mey 17th, 1946
9!c
Dear General McCoy,
You will recollect that some weeks ago
you discussed with me the United Kingdom Government's
proposal that a Scientific Research Mission should be
sent to Jeren. On that occasion you informed me of
certain objections on the part of the United States
Government to such a Mission, adding that the United
States Government would be prepered to disclose to us
conficentially what information they had on Japanese
scientific resesrch, so far as its potentially
dangerous ap!lication was concerned. I duly reported
in thet sense to London.
Our original proposal for a Scientific
Mission was based upon a decision reached by Ministers,
and has not yet been withdrawn. But I should like now,
without any commitment as to withcrawal, to enquire of
you infcrmelly whether in the event of our withdrawing
the proposal, the United States Government would agree
1) to disclose to His Mejesty's Government
all available information on Japenese
scientific research, without qualification
as to its potential application
SECA
to accept in principle the right of the
Fer Eastern Comnission to send commissions
of enouiry to Japen to investigate any
matter from which it is not specifically
excluded by the terns of the Moscow
Agreement.
Yours very sincerely,
(s) George Sansom
Major General Frank R. McCoy,
2516 Massachusetts Avenue,
Washington, D.C.
Ai

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
A-H - Colonel Gross
DATE: May 27, 1946
HB
FROM
JA - Mr. BortoH
SUBJECT:
With reference to Sir George Sansom's letter to
General McCoy, referred to you, the following comment
1s made:
1) The disclosure to the British Government
of information on Japanese scientific re-
search without qualification as to its
potential application, would appear to be
a question for decision by the Army and
Navy.
2) In principle there would appear to be no
objection to the right of the Far Eastern
Commission to send missions of inquiry to
Japan. The Commission itself, by the Moscow
894.
Declaration, is specifically granted the
right to meet wherever it may choose, in-
cluding Tokyo, and it would therefore seem
to be inconsistent to prohibit a part of the
92
Commission, viz., a mission chosen by it,
to p oceed to Japan. It should, of course,
be clearly understood that such a mission
would report to and be under the authority
of SCAP, and that its activities would not
5
go beyond the terms of reference of the
-2146
Commission as specified in the Moscow Declara-
t,ion. In josactice we woned, I arsunne, diccourage
2uch missins.
AB
JA: JHEmmerson: mp

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
June 5, 1946
MEMORANDUM TO COLONEL LAMBERT, FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
SUBJECT: British Request for Information.
I regret the delay in replying to Colonel Babcock's memorandum
of May 21, 1946, but unfortunately I was called out of town and have
just returned.
The two questions raised by Sir George Sansom in his Memorandum
of May 17 to General McCoy have been informally discussed in the
State Department.On the basis of these discussions, I have reached
the following coaclusions:
The dieclosure to the British Government of information on
its potential application, is a question for decision by
the Army and Navy.
894,92
Contral
b.
In principle there is no objection to the right of the Far
Eastern Commission to send missions of inquiry to Japan.
The Commission itself, by the Moscow Declaration, is
specifically granted the right to meet wherever it may
choose, including Tokyo, and it would therefore be incon-
sistent to prohibit a part of the Commission, viz., a
mission chosen by it, at such time and for such purposes
as would be agreeable to SCAP, to proceed to Japan. It
should, of course, be clearly understood that such a mission
would in any event report to and be under the authority of
SCAP, and that its activities would not go beyond the terms
of reference of the Commission as specified in the Moscow
Declaration. In practice we would, I assume, discourage
such missions.
E. A. GROSS
RM·R
Special Assistant
Anal
Sev
C2t

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
AUG2019
Dear Sir George:
894.92/7-1746
I have considered carefully your letter of July 17 in which you
request that the United Kingdom Government be given the results of
any inquiries made by the Supreme Commamder in Japan iato Japamese
scientific research upon problems other than those of direet military
interest.
Tou will be pleased to learn that the Supreme Commander 1s
condacting inquiries of this nature. Also, that he is aathorized
to honor certain requests for that class of informmtion. You will
realize that the collection and arrangement of Japanese scientific
research is at best a leborious undertaking. However, I feel
certain that requests from the United Hingdom military representative
on the staff of the Supreme Commander will be adequately filled
and that there will be no necessity for action by the Far Bastern
Commission.
Sincerely youre,
CS/A
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary
Sir George B. Sansom,
British Embassy.
894.92
Washington 8. D. C.
A-H:JKC1 BDD
8/16/46
 20
7-1746
.M.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
SED161946
594.92
Dear Sir George:
Daring your absence I received a letter from Mr. N. .
894.92/7-1746
Graves on the subject of scientific researeh in Japan.
In Mr. Graves' letter me requests an ansver in
language identical with, or very similar te, that used
by your foreign Office.
Since my conversations with you on this subjeet I
find that to be more explicit than my letter to yon ef
Angust 20 will require some delay. This matter is under
active consideration and I shall be happy to advise you
further when the problem has been reselved.
Simcerely yours,
J. H. Killdring
Assistant Seoretary
gks.
CS/V
Sir George B. Sansom,
British Embassy,
Washington 8. D. 0.
894.92/7.1746
SEP 16 2
9/13/46
A-H:JKC:BDD

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
A -H
918//46
26th August, 194
Dear General Hilidring,
In Sir George Sansom's absence I am writing
to thank you for your letter of the 20th August about
scientific research in Japan.
I have re-read the correspondence on this
subject and have studied your letter curefully to see
whether it gives us the asis for a reply to the Foreign
Office. We are, as you know, under instructions to
seek an assurance from the United States Government that
they wculd make available to the United Kingdom Govern-
ment all available information on Japanese scientific
research, without qualific tion as to its potential ap-
plication. You were good enough to mention that the
Supreme Commander "is authorised to honour certain re-
quests for that class of inforu tion" but I cannot avoid
the conclusion that the Foreign Office would not regard
that as covering their expression "all available inform-
ation on Japanese scientific research, without qualifi-
cation as to its potential ap lic tion."
I wonder whether I may, in the circumstances,
ask you to consider wheth r an answer on this point could
be given in language identical with,or very similar to,
that used in the quotation from the'Foreign Office
instructions to us?
Sincerely yours,
H. A. Graves.
Major General J. H. Hilldring,
Assistant Secretary of State,
WASHINGTON, D. C.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.95)
ETANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
DATE:
General Hillaring
November 8, 1946
FROM
Er. Gross
SUBJECT:
British Request for Information on Japanese Scientific Research
(8.100 216/4.
Fursuant to informal agreement of Silloc members, the problem
presented by the British request for information on Japanese scientific
research was relerred to a special comiittee consisting of Mr. Rusk,
Captain Dennison, and myself for consideration and recommendation to
SWHCG.
As appears from the attached memorandum of conversation, a formula
has been found on the basis that the British and Anerican Intelligence
representatives would discuss specific items of information desired by
the British and that steps woulu be taken to obtain desired information
to the extent that such infornation was not already available. No
problem of atomic oner y or other war-connected research appears to be
involved. This procedure is acceptable to the British representative,
who, moreover, stated that it was not necessary to reply to his letter
to you dated August 26, 1946.
In line with the foregoing, no further Sricc action appears
necessary at the present time. in view of certain inaccuracies in the
memorandum, such as the statement that atomic onergy is probably the
most important type o! research in which the British are interested, and
in view ot certain  olitical implications in the memorandum which appear
to be irrelevant in the light of the information actuelly desired by the
British Goverrment, it is recomrended that your memorandum of Sept. 16,
ub
1346 (8.. 100 216/+) be w thdrawn ana the copies which nave been distributed
he recalled and destroyed.
894.
0人
846
VHH
A-H/Aiross/mm/cd

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.95)
6.
REF: G.8/-/47
i.
MEMORANDUM
His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom were
550
informed of the United States proposal, made during a dis-
cussion at the War Department on the Sth Novenber last, that
8
British scientists should participate in an American invest
gation into Japanese pure and applied scientific research.
In order that a suitable list of research enquiries might
prepared it was also suggested that the United States Head
of Military Intelligence should confer with the British
Senior Military Intelligence Officer.
2.
His Majesty's Governnent consider that the scientific
reports already received probably cover military requirements
0
adequately but they are of the opinion that much academic re-
H
search, especially on subjects not directly concerned with
6
waging war, must have remained untapped.
. In these circumstances
e
His Mejesty's Government think that a non-military approach to
Cu
the subject would yield more valuable results and they would
accordingly prefer to transpose the matter from a military to a
civil plane. Experience gained in Germany has shown that better
results are obtained from inforual discussions between individual
men of science than from enquiries nade on a different scientific
level.
The State Department may moreover agree that other non-
military missions to Japan, such as the United States Educational
jand Textile Missions, have proved successful both in the manner
of their findings.
His Majesty's Government are mindful of the fact that
any such civilian mission would have to be careful to avoid
repeating, or over-lapping with, the more technological enquiries
made hitherto and to confine itself to academic research. To
ensure/

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
ensure that the Mission would be of the high calibre suitable
to these circuastances and to the nature of the task, His
Majesty's Government propose, for their part, to select two
senior academic scientists, one for the physical and one for
the biological sciences.
4
His Majesty's Government would be pleased to know
whether the United States Government is able to concur in the
formation of this joint scientific mission on a non-military
basis. If so it would be of great assistance if the views of
the United States Government on the date of departure of the
Mission and the duration of the investigation could be com-
municated.
5.
Having in mind the prevailing logistic difficulties
His Majesty's Government would have to rely on the help of
the United States authorities over housing, food and transport
but they trust that, as the British delegation would be small,
no undue strain would be placed on American facilities.
BRITISH EBASSY,
WASHITGTON, D. C.
11th March, 1947.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
DATE: 6/27/47
TO
: IS - Mr. Hall
FROM : ADO - Mr. Schuler
sur: Letter from W.A. Higinbotham, Federation
of American Scientists, dated June 12, 1947
As per our telephone conversation,
herewith letter from the Federation of
American Scientists. Would you give me
what help you can on that part of the
question falling within your bailiwick?
ADO:FASchuler, Jr.:mbv

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
41411
FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS
is
1749 L Street, Northiuest, Washington 6, D. C.
DC/h
Telephone NAtidnal 5818
Officers
Advisory Panel
W. A. HIGINBOTHAM.
D. W. BRONK
Executive Secrctary
WATSON DAVIS
J. H. Rus,
JOSEPH ERLANGER
Secretary-Trcasurer
June 12, 1947
JAMES FRANCK
W. T. NUNLEY.
Business Manager
f
SELIG HET
K. F. MzYeR
Administrative Committee
J. R. OENM
John P. Pts
ROBERT E. MARSAK,
Chairman
OSCAR K. RIC
W. A. HIGINBOTHAM
The Honorable George C. Marahall
HARLOW SHAPLEY
J. H. Rus
JUN 231947
H. D. SMY
P. MORRISON
Secretary of State
Refevedto mi.tall, 1s
Robert S. STONB
M. PHILLIPS
Department of State
LEO SZILARD
L. I. SCHFF
Washington 25, D. C.
HAROLD C. Unsy
A. Novick
ans'd- Abo-Ja Schular, gh.
Dear Sir:
71.147
Shortly after the end of the war in the Pacific, regulations
were set up for control of research in Japan. This, I under-
stand, was to make sure that research would not be direeted
.92/6-1247
toward weapons of wer. Under this regulation, physicists
were allowed to continue using their cyclotrons and doing
other research in the field of nuclear physics. A littlo
later, the order was revoked and the cyclotrons were destreyed.
The outburst of protests from American scientists indicate the
reaction of scientists the world over to this senseless measure.
Since that time, research in nuclear physics in Japan has been
held up. Our scientists, who have studied the situation in
Japan, have repeatedly recommended that this restriction should
be withdrawn. Would you please tell us who is responsible for
the present order and how this organization and American
scientists as a whole can help to get a sensible policy adopted.
2
At present, it is not possible to send scientific periodicals
3
and information to Japanese scientists or for them to come to
this country to work. We would also like to know why this is
so, and what can be done to reestablish the interchange of men
and knowledge which is so important for world scientific
developments.
FILED
Sincerely yours,
w. a: diqinbothn
W. A. Higinbdtham
WAH/mlb
OIC OCCUPIED AREAS DIVISION
(ADO)
JUN 1 9 194
"The Federation of American Scientists is formed to meet the increasingly apparent responsibility of scientists in pronoting
the welfare of mankind and the achievement of a stable peace." —Preamble to the Constitution, FAS
Department of State

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
火
TO
ADO - Mr. Schuler
DATE: June 30, 1947
FROM :
IS - Mr. Hall
SUBJECT:
Letter from W. A. Higinbotham, Federation of American
Scientists, dated June 12, 1947.
In reference to the attached letter, I would suggest the
following course of action:
1. Responsibility for the present order effecting
scientific research in Japen does not rest in this Division.
I would suggest exploring this question with General Hilldring's
office.
FW
?. The question of sending scientific periodicals and
894.92/6-1247
information to Jepanese scientists is also not within the
jurisdiction of this Division. I again suggest General
Hilldring's office.
3. The question as to how scientists can help get a
policy adopted in reference to the study of nuclear physics
in Japan is related to the competence of this Division in the
sense that we are concerned with the international control of
atomic energy. The foliswing facts should be borne in mind:
Jepan is a defeated country and is presently under the control
of armies of occupation. This Government's policy in reference
to Japan. as well as Germany, should be constantly understood in
the light of the security requirements necessary in those
countries until setisfactory peace treaties have been developed
and accepted.
4. The continued support of this Government's program
for the internetional control of atomic enerey would be a
substantive contribution to the development of a "sensible"
policy in Japan end elsewhere. For one of the objectives of
United States proposals for the international control of
etomic energy is the encouregement of scientific research,
particularly in nuclear physics in such a wey that the
beneficial use of atomic energy will be maximized.
5. I trust that the suggestions above will allow you
to prepare an appropriste reply.
CS/JRC
Attachment - Ltr. dtd. 6/12/47
N1947
C
2
47

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.87)
JUL 231947
In reply refer to
ALO
darr.liaboth:
The reoe:t is adknowle igod of y ur letter of June 12.
1947, adressed to the ccretary, with rorard to the oontrol
of alomic reseurat:  Japan. u ask whe is responsible for
the ;resent prohibitlon aral st research in this field 
Japenose sciantists aid "how the edoration of Aaeriem
sctetis a rian acientists   whole n belp to
894.92/6-1247
et a sonsitle policy aopted." Yo alsc ask mhy "it is not
posaihle o sond salantific poriodi cals and information to
Japanese scientiate or for them to co e to the nited States
to work."
14.
The prese : poli y decision with respect to Japanese 
8
soarch ani activity is the field of atomic eneray was appreved
unanimosly n Jamuary 3), 1947, b the eleven natione n the
ar asten: resiasi r, whi ct is e intermnstional bedy reapon-
sihle r deteraining ovor-a'l policiee to be upplied to Japen
u heert c. pution. hether to Lmpos lon
cotrals on Japan se zcience and technoleny would, of oourss,
be conidered in proparing a pacs treaty.
The contirued suppet of this fov rrment's prorrem fee the
intornaticnal control of atomic enerey would be è mabstentive
contribution to the dev lopment of policy in Japen and elseshere,
as cne of the objectives of  nited states  roposals for the inter
national control of stxeic energy is the enoouragmment of scien-
tific revearch, partiarlar y in nuclear physics in much a way thas
the benefialal use of atomic enerry will be waximised
Scientifie
r... Higinbothm,
xee tivo Seeretary,
Foderation of An rican Sodentiote,
wasbinston 6,.
9
S
6
Sub
1247

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-
Seientirie periodicals may be sant to Japan throngh the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. For full information
concerning present regulutions, it is suggested that you get in
touch with Major Ceneral aniel Moes, Chief, Civil Affairs
iLvision, Par Lepartment.
The Far Eastern Commission now has under active considera-
tion the question of interchange of persons between Japen and
other countries ineluding persons in scientific fields. It is
hoped that an early deaision will be reached by the ommission
in this matter.
Sincorely yours,
Prank A. Schaler, Jr.
Associate hief
livision of Occupied Areas
11
gma
ADO,FASchuler, Jr./Jg
7/2/47
A-HiBO'Sullivanilsa
7/16/47
A-H 2201
BOT
5a

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.94)
Pe
Fearey
×3763
Ref. 08/-/26
NOTE
His Majesty's Chargé d'Affaires presents his
compliments to the Secretary of State and has the honour
to enquire whether a reply can now be given to this
894.92/7-947
Embassy's Memorandun of the llth March on the subject of
participation by British scientists in an investigation
YR
intc Japanese pure and applied scientific research.
894.111
2.
His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom
attach conciderable importance to the formation of such
an investigating mission and have instructed Mr. Balfour
to express the hope that the United States Government
can now concur in the proposals set out in the Memorandum
under reference.
68.
BRITISH EMBASSY,
CS/A
WASHINGTON, D. C.
9th July, 1947
fu
IMBL

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION 
ac/k
OCTFY1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Seeretary of State preseats his complimests to His
Exselleney the British Ambassader and has the bemer to refer
his Embassy's
to /theoCheogaodarfatpest/ notes No. G8/-/47 of March 11, 1947
894.92/7-947
and No. G8/-/26 of July 9, 1947 regarding the participatiam by
British seientists in an investigation into Japanese pure and
applied scientifie researeh.
The proposals of the British Government have been given
United States
careful study and the jbe/ Governmemt is generally in sympathy
with them. It regrets, however, that thers now seems to be no
way of effeoting them without a policy decision by the Far
Eastern Commission as was originally proposed by the British
CS/A
Governmant. This Governmest, therefore, intends to submit to
the Far Eastern Commisaion a proposal on this subject for its
immodiate consideration.
the British Ambassador
The Secretary of State wishes to assure/Rixkxakkemey
894.92/7-949
that efforts are being made to expedite this matter and that
the

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.89)
1S86
the British Geversmest will be kept eurrestly infermed ef eny
impertast dovelopments.
Department of State,
Washington,
on
Rm
A
IR:AWWells:oms
nAr
OE: HLBakerJW?
9-18-47
NA
BC
true copy of
the signed erigl
nal.
SEP 24 47

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.94)
GÉNERAL NILLORING
1749 L Street, Northbest, Woshington 6, D. "C.
Telephone NAtidnal 5818
Officer8
JUL 2 1947
Advisory Panel
W. A. HIGNO,
D. W. BRONK
Executive Secretary
WATSON DAVIS
JULY 25, 1947
J. H. Rus,
JOSEPH ERLANGER
Secretary-Trcasurer
JAMES FRANCK
W. T. NUNLEY,
SELIG T
Business Manager
K. F. MEYER
Administrative Committee
YOUR REFERENCE ADO
J. R. OPPENMR
894.92/7-2547
JULY 23, 1947
JOHN P. Pt
RORT E. M,
Chairman
Oscar K. Rics
W. A. HIGINOA
MR. FRANK A. SCHULER, JR.
HARLOW SHAPLEY
J. H. Rush
ABBOCIATE CHIEF
. D. 
P. MORRISON
RobeRt S. STOnE
M. Plli
DIVISION OF OCCUPIED AREAS
LEO SziLaRD
L. I. SCHIFF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
HAROLD C. UrEy
A. Novick
WABHINGTON 25, D. C.
DEAR MR. SCHULER:
THANK YOU FOR YOUR LETTER OF JULY 23 WHILE WAITING
FOR AN ANBWER TO MY LETTER OF JUNE I2TH, I GOT IN TOUCH WITH
THE FAR EASTERN COMMIBBION OFFICE IN THE STATE DEPARTMENT BO
THAT I NOW HAVE COPIES OF THE OFFICIAL REGULATICNS. THEY
WERE VERY KIND IN ANSWERING MY QUEBTIONS. I BHOULD HAVE TRIED
THEM FIRBT, AND AM BORRY TO HAVE BOTHERED YOU.
THE POLICY ADOPTED JANUARY 3O BEEMS TO BE ENTIRELY
BENBIELE AND CONSIETENT WITH AMERICAN POLICY IN THE ATOMIC
FIELD.
THANK YOU AGAIN FOR YOUR KIND ASBISTANCE.
SINCERELY YOURS,
W.G. Higin hothan
CS/A
W.A. HIGINBOTHAM
WAH/MLB
894.92
1.h
2
"The Fedcration of American Scientists is formed to meet the increasingly apparent responsibility of scientists in promoting
the welfare of mankind and the achievement of a stable peace." —Preamble to the Constitution, FAS
75

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.89)
201L
FE
FOR JAPAN
NORTHEAST
SUAN AFFAIRS
00721947
DuR
TOKYO,OCtODEPARTMEN OESTATE
UNCLISSIFI D
No. 1319
UtucT: Transmittal of eport Concerning the Japanese
attitude iowurd cience.
894.92/10-747
The Counselor of :ission has the honor to forward
five copies of a report dated March 21, 1947 concerning
the Tupanose attitude to ard science, prepared by the
Civil Informnt ion und ducation pection of this Head-
quarters.
E
nclosure:
015
Pive coies or u C,
AS
report,
0E
ci meeurch l,
SCP
1947.
ILH
DclR
Crig inal und ozulid to department.
020
RiSushner:mm
1947 OCT 17 PM 12 17
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CS/V
RECEIVED
110/1
K
894.92/10-7
E
A
NOV 241947

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POVERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Media Analysis Division
PUBLICATIONS ANALYSIS, 21 March 1947
No. 96
The Japanese_Attitude Toward Science
Loss of the war and the resultant contact with American equip-
ment and technique have made thougntful Japanese increasingly min-
ful of and dissatisfied with the state of science in their own coun-
try and the abscnce of applied science in their irdustrial and daily
lives. Magazine writers decry their present Government's lack of
interest in science, the absence of facilities for encouragement of
scientific studics, and the failure of industry to apply technical
knowledge. No sense of inferiority is evident, and wiiters seem cnn-
vinced that the problem, if properly handled, can be overcome by the
Japanese themselves. The demand is for a speedy start.
The more visionary writers look into the future to expound on
the wonderful things that may be expected of atomic energy; but the
belief is clear that the first and greatest problem i; to create,
in the Japanese people themselves, an awareness of tre part that
science, properly utilized, can play in their lives.
Japanese Seiencc
Magazine writers are inclined to find the general level of Jap-
anese scicnce distressingly low and to deplore the lack of encour-
agement for scientists and for subsidization projests. Hachiro
Tago, writing in NYUSU, compares the money granted for aid to scient-
ific research in the budgets of the United States and Russia with
that allotted by Japan. "We feel that Japan overlooks something im-
portant. The bucget for scientifie rescarch is about 24 million
ven -- O.O4 percent of the total budget. * * * The fund for scienti-
ric research is always insufficient because of the rising prices of
commodities. Thus the activities of the Rikagaku Konkyujo (Physics
and Chemistry Research Institute) and all other scientific research
institutes and associations are very limited. The reconstruction
of more than 2o0 college buildings is very difficult, and the build-
ing of new establishments to replace demolished research institutes
is entirely impossible." The disappointing Diet appropriation for
scientific technology is said to give evidence that interest in the
welfare of the scientific group is still only perfunetory, and the
writer believes that an extensive rearrangement of the political and
social structure will be required before scientists can take their
rightful place and render proper service to the people.
A staff writer for DIAMONDo, commenting on an address by Dr. E.
A. Ackerman, technical advisor to the SCAP Natural Resources Se -
tion, speaks succinctly of the state of science in Japan. "The poli-
ticians of this country often mention the progress of science, but
this always remains a mere talking point.  They actually attach little
importance to the encouragement of science. Great accomplishpents are
achieved by a few scientists individually, but they represent excep-
tional cases and the general level of scienee is far below them.
1
-1-

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
And, as the general level of science is very low, those few who are
superior are held back. Furthermore, there is no connection between
theoretical science and proper application. This results from the
incomplete development of productive industry. The worst example
of this is in agriculture. * * *Scientific technique must be intro-
duced into agriculture on a large scale. General scientific educa-
tion is also necessary."
Another issue of DAIAMONDO carries an article entitled "Respect
Scholars and Give Engineers Better Treatment," by Kenkichi Ishiyama,
the magazine's editor. The great development of American science
is here cited as a leading factor in the American victory over Japan
and the writer tells of the world acclaim accorded prominent scient-
ists of other nations. On the other hand, Japanese inventors and
scientists are but poorly esteemed. How, asks Ishiyama, did Japan
reward Sakichi Toyoda, who invented an automatic weaving machine
used all over the worid, or Dr. Umetaro Suzuki, who discovered Vita-
min B and vas thereby responsible for the cure of countless numbers
of persons suffering from beri-beri? "Japan cannot reconstruct her-
self and prospor unlers she gives scholars and engineers better
treatment." The writer rofers not only to treatment by employer
or factory, but to the respect and esteem of the government and of
society.
Ishiyama follows up this article with another, in a later issue
of DAI!.OnDO, in which he laments that the native skill and ingen-
uity of the Japanese have not been extendec by application of scient
ific knowledge. During a trip in Aichi Prefecture he came upon an
amateur technician who had developed a new method of making cog
wheels, without knowing the scientific principles enbodied in his
discovery. An authoritative scientist, consulted by Ishiyama,
later confirmed his estimate of the merit of the process. Such
amateur technicians must be found and eneouraged and their works
must be evaluatd scientifically, says Ishiyama. Japanese methods
are still primitive. "The techniques ty vhich the Masamune sword
was forged and the Fambu kettle was manufactured, because of a lack
of scientific stud', remain unimproved." Japan's small manufact-
urers stick tenaciously to tried and true methods. "They depend
too much upon past experience, but if they should combine it with
science, their methods would surely become perfect. I believe that
this is the way tovard the rehabilitation of Japan!"
In an EKOl OMISUTO survey of the current state of Japanese in-
dustry by President Junzo Kurimoto of the Kurimoto Iron Works, there
is emphasis on the need of scientific preparation for the future.
"The encouraging policy adopted toward scientific technology during
the war vas nothing more than governmental ceremony, which included
no concretely beneficial mensures. It was the government policy to
accord kind treatment to scientific technicians, along with industri-
al war Workers, under the name Sangyo Senshi (Industrial Militia).
How are these technicians treated since the end of the war? So far
as I knov, there is no bucget for promoting scientific technology
this fiscal year; the Government has no interest along this line.
Look at the individual factories. How many factories are continuing
scientific study? In nddition, the salary of technicians is so low
that they can barely live. * * * The Asiatic regions will be rebuilt
in the near future by modernized industries under the scientific
leadership of England and America. Then Japan will fall far behind
in international industrial and economic competition and finally
will enter a dark age of culture. * * * Therefore, let me propose
that we establish a national institute to study and promote scien-
tific technology. * * *Labor unions should establish technical de-
partments to serve as intermediaries between research establishments
and the laborers. Technicians should be made conscious of their
mission in reconstructing industrial economy, readjusting enterprises,
and playing a leading role in the renovation of our country."
-2-

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
Scientific Thinking
Advanced scientific thought has been conspicuously absent from
the leading Japanese magazines, where emphasis is more given to the
popularization of science. An exception to this, however, is a
KAIz0 article by Hideki Yukawa, one of Japan's leading atomic physi-
cists, on "Scientific Thinking," which explains the methods utilized
for the advanccment of modern physics. Scientific thinking, Yukawa
declar s, is commonly understood to bc the process of reasoning
based on known facts. Such inductive logic is used to derive em-
pirical laws from many expericnces. Also necessary, says Yukawa,
is deductive logic; the mathematics which is the basis for advanced
physics is a systcm of deductive logic bosed on self-evident axioms.
To explnin the relation between empirical laus and to construct the-
oretical systems, scientists establish a hypothsis, deduce from it
many kinds of conclusions, and apply them to empirical laws to ver-
ify or disprove the thcory. Unsatisfactory hypothescs are abandoned,
and those which meet the test of all known experiences are called
fundamental truths. Around these fundamental truths, new and fur-
ther theoretical systems are v loped deductively. Newton's laws
and Einstein's theory of relativity are cited as cxamples of such
deductive proe: :scs.
In the sphore of theoretical physics at present, Yukowa ex-
plains, there re two great theories, the quantum theory and the
iden of rclativity. There is not yet sufficient harmony between
these two, and they fail to explain some phenomena associated with
cosmic rays and tho nucleus of the atom. A further and more com-
prehensive th oretical system is seen necessary by thc writer. "The
most important progress in scientific theorins is made by the im-
agination. Inductive logic and dcductive logic are not sufficient
in this circumstance. This is the most perplexing obstacle facing
our reseorchers; and it is commonly said that what is needed hcre is
the intuition of a genius." Yukawa concludes by declaring that
there is ? fundamental unity and rationality to all nature -- "no
matter how mysterious a thing seems, it can ultimately be understood
rationally."
In quite a differcnt vein is thc article by Ukichiro Nakatani,
Tokyo Imperial University science profes: or, in BUNGEI SHUNJU.
While Nakatani cmphasizes that he docs not disapprove the methods
used to acqunint younger children vith h bits of scientific and
rational behaviour, he feels that something of the child's natural
wonder toward the mysteries of naturc should be preserved. "One
of the important elements of science is to perccive the wonders of
nature in comron and familiar things." If men become too impatient
to teach factunl scientific knowledg to children, they may decrease
or destroy the child's interess in science. The necd for popular-
ization of scicnec -- which was necessary for the application of
scientific techniqurs during the war -- is said to have passed, and
Nakatani urges that children and persons yet unfamiliar with seience
be taught som thins of the love of nature and the wonder of nature.
Though science secks to explain all things rationally, Nakatani
writes, the mystery of life remains unconquered and hc quotes the
words of a Professor Torada: "The mystery of life is simply trans-
ferred to th mystery of atoms -- and the mystery of atoms remains
unsolvca."
The philosophy of a Icftist scientist, Kunio Oka, appears in an
article on "Religion and Science" in SHIN JOEN. Religion, Oka.says,
is an "cmbellishment" created by man to hide or rationalize class
distinctions and the oppression of the masses. Religion has been th
aggressor against scicnce, he asserts; the church, not wanting to
lose authority, has persecuted scientists. Sciencc docs not persist
in old theories, but values facts, and experience. Religion, de-
clares Oka, has no such courage or humility. "I do not seek the
absolute God," ho explains, "I try to attain the most beautiful hu-
man life through reason rather than through religion."
-3、

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
The Japanese Look at the Advance of Science
It is necessary for the Japanese to put science to daily practi-
cal use or Japan will be left far behind the other countries of
the world, writes Dr. Kyoji Yoshida, Waseda University Engineering
professor, in SEIKATSU BUNKA. "This is not merely a question that
affects the private lives of a few
v . . . but is a matter of rais-
ing the living standard of society." Although some rich people
may enjoy all modern hygienic improvements, truly advanced civili-
zation is not achieved if poor people living nearby have none of
these conveniences. "All people, rich and poor, must enjoy the con-
veniences of civilization," he maintains, by way of introducing a
plea for universal adoption of western improvements. "Science and
daily life have been two different matters. e have not applied
science to daily life." He then suggests such concrete ways of ut-
ilizing science as employing mechanical facilities in the home for
cooking, garbage disposal,, heating, ventilation and lighting. In
particular, he wishes to change the Japanese custom of hiding the
kitchen from the rest of the house, -- "opening up our kitchen"
and "opening up our life itself."
A lengthy consideration in ASAHI GRAPH depicts American progress.
"In Amcrica, where the people are proud of their scientific achiever
ments, not only experts, but even amateurs are absorbed in the study
of television."Almost as far removed from actual circumstances for
the average Japanese is the modern, well-equipped American kitchen.
The New Year's Edition of ASAI GRArH -- in a pictorial presenta-
tion of wishful New Year's dreams -- shows a poor housewife imagin-
ing herself in such a glorious setting.
A group of articles on "Science and Life" gives the feminine
readers of FUJIN ASAHI some idea how the principles of science may
be applied to their personal lives. Tai Tanabe explains that the
Japanese home, with a design now governed chiefly by economic fac-
tors nd simplicity in living arrangements, will be more scientifi-
cally planned and will include scientific devices, whdch he ex-
plains. Matsujiro Oyama writes about electricity, explaining
simple principles so that housewives will understand the purpose
of fuses and be able to prevent electrical accidents. He then dis-
cusses certain modern electric machines, but warns that Japanese
housewives will have to do without such things as refrigerators
and washing machines for : long time to come.
Explanations of the meaning of such terms as calory, nourish-
ment, and vitamins are included in Sadako Nakatani's article on food
preparation and scicntific diet planning. Such planning will enable
familics to gain maximum benefit from their food in these days of
shortage, she writes. Hideo Kumabe issues a plen for preventive
measures before illness is acquired rather than treatment later, and
says, "Hcnceforth the Japanese should leave their fate to heaven
only after all scintific precautions are taken."
Henlth and Hygicne
There seems to be inereasing awareness of Japan's poor status in
regard to public health and scientific sanitary facilitics. DAI-
AMonDo contains an article on penicillin by Yurei Nakano, describing
accomplishments of this drug which became world famous, the author
says, when it cured Winston Churchill of pneumonia in'two days.
American production methods are surveyed, and the vriter notes that
United States scientists already have progressed beyond penicillin
to find an even more effective medicine. Some Japanese companics
are producing penicillin in small amounts, but he fears that his
country never can hope to achieve the production accomplishment of
the United States. "Japanese society is not advanced. The level
is belov that of other nations. There is no understanding of science
There are no materials. There is no contributor of funds. People
makc a fuss only about law and literature. There is no progress.
Things are totally different in thc United States."
7
-4-

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
 The chances of abclishing disease from the earth are slim, Dr.
Tomio Ogata tells a staff member of SANDEI MAINICHI in an interview.
"It is possible to banish sickness caused by bacteria from some en-
tire districts and even some countries." Smallpox is given as an
illustration; it has been overcome almost completely in civilized
countries where vaccination is given. Typhoid and dysentery no.
longer occur in western countries, Ogata relates, but are found in
Japan quite frequently. Preventative injection for typhus is indi-
cated; malaria can be fought successfully with DDT. Fifty years
ago there were almost the same number of cases of tuberculosis in
America as in Japan; now the rate in the United States has been cut
tremendously while in Japan it remains about the same. There is a
preventative vaccination for this too, Ogata explains. But he is
not optimistic over prospects for advancing the treacment of arter-
iosclerosis and mental disorders, and concludes witn philosophical
statements to the effect that good health is onl: one of the factors
involved in a happy life.
Measures for combating winter cold are offereu in FUJIN GAHO by
Hiroshi Maeda, who believes that the most effective method of pro-
tection is the hardening of the body to withstand cold -- and that
this is best accom lished by sun bathing. He gives hints for insul-
ation of floors, windows, and walls; shows the relative effectivenes
of various types of fuel, and points out the importance of maintain-
ing proper ventilation. There are also suggestions concerning the
best types of clothing, and the advice that face masks should be
used only by persons suffering from colds. In a review of 1946,
ASAHI GRAPH stresses the lack of Japanese health and sanitation
facilities. A picture shows DDT being spread in a city street, and
the accompanying caption reads, in part: "There is nothing to boast
about in typhus and itches, which prevail all over Japan. There are
not enough doctors or medicine. There is no DDT of Japanese manu-
facture. There is no ward for the hospital patient. There is no
knowing who will catch diseases, for there is no conception of ay-
giene among the people.* * *There are no rats killed. There is no
cleaning out of the ditches. There is no notice to the authorities
when a person is diseased.* * *There is no halting of infecticr "
Atomic Power
Japanese interest in atomic power scems to steer clear of the
physical cffects of the atomic bomb and to center around hope and
expectation of development of this new source of cnergy for the good
of mankind. Kazuo Ishikawa, former mcmber of Kyushu Imperial Uni-
versity's department of medicine, titlcs his SHUKAN ASAHI article
"Atomic Power Calls for Happiness." He begins with an account of
the visit of the American Scientific Research Mission, headed by
Col. Stafford Warren, to the devastated city of Nagasaki. He then
quotes a note written by thrce American scientist friends of the
Japanese physicist, Dr. Ryokichi Sagane -- which was drcpped from th.
plane that carried the bomb. The letter urged Professor Sagane to
convince the Japanese people and their leaders that continuation of
the war could lead only to demolished cities and great loss of life,
and expressed the regret of the scientists that their achievement
had to be directed toward such an end. Ishikawa then declares that
the work of scicntists aims primarily at "the happiness of mankind,"
and discusses possible uscs of atomic power in the ficlds of medicin
industry, and agriculture, and in producing atmospheric phenomena,
A simply-written tract on atomic power by Taimei Yoshimura appear:
in MADEMOISELLE. This writer follows the lead of others in bewailin
Japan's lack of scientific development: "In th field of atomic pow.
er we have Dr Hidcki Yukawa and Dr Yoshio Nishina. But however
great, they are of little use when there are such a few. America
cannot have many scholars who are better than Dr Yukawa or Dr Nishin:
but thcre are hundreds who are as good as they are. And there are
thousands of Americans who are ready to master and apply the results

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
of their study, and millions of people equipped with ample knowledge
to understand and support it. That is why the atomic bomb was not
invented in Japan, but in America." Yoshimura develops an imagin-
ary picture of the application of atomic energy in civil engineer-
ing, mini'g, fishing, and other fields, and concludes with a fanci-
ful dream of a great atomic power company in which all the people
of the world cooperate, "discarding petty prejudices and jealousies
which has as its purpose "to supply abundant atomic power in order
to devclop civilization and the welfare of mankind."
Another interpreter of the wonders of atomic energy is Jun Nagai,
who writcs in NYusU. There are marvellous new inventions in the
world today, Nagai reports, including Professor Bogomolets' rejuven-
ating serum, a process of making cloth directly from cotton without
spinning, and a boiler which utilizes powdered rather than solid
coal. "The miraculous progress of science will, in the course of
time, prove greater than national boundaries and races, as it moves
ever forward."
ScientificAoplications
By applying imaginaticn and ingenuity, Japan may find much new
wealth to cultivate, a TOYO KEIZAI SHIMPO staff writer declares.
He maintains that there is much room for development of Japan's
natural wealth, and that it is man, not nature, that creates re-
sources. Thus coal or hydraulic pover were comparatively useless tc
mankind in the medieval period, but modern man, through study, has
made them an indispensible part of his daily life. Japan lacks the
type of iren ore possessed by other countries, but has large quan-
tities of limonite. She faces the problem, therefore, of finding
a new way to process this basic iron ore. Likewise, when advanced
and efficient methods of fishing are adopted, yield will be in-
creased and cost diminished. New industries can be established
when systematic methods of plonting and forestation are inaugurated.
"Needless to say," the author explains, "the industrialization of
new resources may encounter various difficulties. But . . . we
must start new peace-time industries as early as possible. Concur-
rently, we must increase the productivity of our mnnpower, of which
we have an abundance. For such purposes, it is absolutely neces-
sary to create an extensive research laboratory, through which the
systematic search for sources of new wealth must be carried out."
A SiUKAN ASAHI article by Minoru Iida and Ichiro Kinimoto de-
scribes the damage wrought by the recent earthquake and accompany-
ing tidal waves, and quotes a seismologist at Kyoto Imperial Uni-
versity as st ting that modern scientific equipment makes it pose
sible to predict earthquakes ccurately. "It is notable that the
damage caused by tidal waves, floods and fires following earthquake
is greater than that caused by the quake itself. * * * In the futur
effective measures to prevent damage from tidal waves must be incor-
porated into our city planning."
An engineer, iasanori liose, discourses in KINGU on the construc-
tion of larg-scale dams for generation of hydro-electric power.
With present coal supply inadequate and future supply uncertain,
"the consumntion of coal for generation of electricity has come to
be considered uneconomical. * * * The construction of a dam may
cause the loss of hundreds of houses and large amounts of fertile
land. * * * This is a serious problem, but the creation of the dam
has been proved to be profitable, warranting even the considerable
sacrifices which are inevitable." Nose explains that -- in addition
to furnisning power -- dams create sources of water, supply irriga-
tion systems, and provide flood control; and urges that because of
the great cost of construction and maintenance, the building and
operntion of dams should be a Government function.
-6

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
 A visionary scientist, Takatsugu Hidaka, offers in SHUkAn ASAHI
the unusual idea of expanding the Bering Strait and diverting the
warm ocean current from the south into the Arctic Sen, thus pro-
ducing a mild climate on the north coast of Alaska. This proposal
(which Hidaka attributes originally to Steinmetz) is not so far-
fetched, he maintains, now that atomic power has been harnessed.
Hidaka also discusses several other ideas. "Although our territory
has been cut in half, we have a boundless ocean. * * * If we work
scientifically, we need not be disappointed at the narrow confines
of our country. * * * Should we fill up the Inland Sea, our land
would be greatly increased at a single stroke. * * * Raising the lev-
el of sciencc does not always cntail the emergence of great individ-
ual scientists, but sometimes an extension of the popularity of
science.
Conclusion
Through all these articles it is possible to see the Japancse
admiration for Am-rican scientific knowledge and application,
and the hope that Japan will be able to absorb some of this knowledge
and duplicato some of the ccomplishments. Examination of the fore-
going articles seems to rcveal a resolution among thinking Japanese
to strive for the advancemont of their country and its people
through scientific nchicvement.
Sources
(Mngazines, Circulations, and Authors)
ASAIII GRAPH (As hi Pictorial NeWs) 7O,CoO; BUNGEI SHUNJU (Lit-
crary Reviow) 70,OC0, Ukichiro Nakotani: DAIAMONDO (Diamond) 90,000,
Kenkichi Ishiy ma, Yurei Nakano; EKONOMfsUTO (Economist) 35,000,
Junzo Kurimoto; FUJIN ASAHI (Women's Asahi) 100,C00, Tai Tannbe,
Matsujiro Oyama, Sadako Nakatani, Hidco Kumabe; FUJIN GAHO (Women's
Pictorinl Nows) 100,O00, Hiroshi Maeda; KAIZ0 (Reconstruction)
80,000, Hidcki Yukawa; KINGU (ing) 200,000, Masanori Nose; MADE-
MOISELLE, 30,O00, Taimci Yoshimura; NYUSU (NeWs) 150,O00, Hachiro
Tago, Jun Nagai; SANDnI M.INICHI (Sunday Mainichi) 20o,O0o, Tomio
Ogata; SLIKATSU BUNKA (Culture of Life) 50,O00, Kyoji Yoshida;
SHIN JOEN (HeW Vom n's Circlc) 19,OOO, Kunio OkA; SHUKAN ASAHI (Asahi
Weekly) 250,O0o, Kazu Ishikawa, Mineru Iida, Ichiro Kinomoto,
Takatsugu Hidaka; TOYO KEIZAI SHHMPO (Oriental Economist) 25,OOO.
-7-

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
DATE: 12/1/47
TO
: A-S
FROM : NA: Mr. Allison
susject: Britisn Desire for Scientific Mission
to Japan.
The attached memorandum of conver-
sation and its enclosure are self-
explanatory. I believe that we have
been at fault in this and that the
British have a legitimate grievance.
While there may be good reasons why
it is not possible at this time to
permit British scientists to go to
Japan and travel freely about the
country, I do feel that the results
of the investigations of the Adam
Group should be made available to the
British. I recommend th:t steps be
taken at once to secure for the British
Enbassy any such reports.
NA:JMAllison/pm

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.90)
DC/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PCIR
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: December 1, 1947
SUBJECT:
Scientific Mission to Jepon
Files
Centrel
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. H. A. Gruves, Councelor, Dritish Eabassy
C
R
Mr. Allison, Chief, Na
8
COPIES TO:
A-S
OE
IR
BC
Mr. uraves cuiled under inotr cticns fren his Govern ent
14-1403
to mo ke vigorous representt tione reg rding the long-standing British
desire to send to J n a small number of British scientists for
the purpore or L.verti auin scientific research.
Mr. Grtves :ec: lled tie history of this problem and left an
unoffici:l memorsndnm outlining the siuuation up to date. A
co y is et cc'ed. Mr. ureves m ce specir1 mention of the recent
iseion to J:  of an Anericen scientific group under the leader-
ship of Dr. Roger Acem. He strted thet ccceraing to information
received fron th British Micsion in Tokyo, this Group went to
precisely the pleces tn c ducted enactly the sort of investi-
t tion which t e British hac in minc at the time of their original
re uest. In vieu of the f ct thet the originsl British paper
s witkdrtn fro concideraution by the Fer Eastern Commission
at the s ecific request of the United St tes end on the understanding
that other metho's would be found to meet British desires, Mr. Graves
seid tht't hir Governmen' bel eved th  there should be made available
to it co ice f a y reports roduced by the Group led by Dr. Adem.
He stated tht whether or not such reports could be m de available,
his Governnent rtill desired to send two or tihres scientists to
Je on for investigstion. With reference to the latest note to
the British Enb sey from the St te Depart ent on this subject
Which pointed out tht the United Ststes Governnent would shortly
1
present
FILED
b
15几
2
i
19
52
O
H

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
一2 -
present a pa er to the FEC covering the use of scientific informa-
tion from Japanese sources, Mr. Graves said that even should this
paper be introduced end pussed in the near future his Government
felt they would receive but little benefit therefrom in view of
the length of time which has passed.
Mr. Greves was told th t his re resentations would be brought
to t e attention of the other Divisions of the De artment concerned
as well as to the a ropriate officisls in the Department of the
Arny, and that he would be informed as soon as possible regarding
het further could be dome by this Government to meet the British
cesire.
Na:JiLallison/pm

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
SCIENTIFIC MISSION
It will be recollected that His Majesty's Government
advocated the adoption of a olicy in the Far Eastern Com-
mission regarding Scientific Research in Japan.
At the urgent recuest of the Chairman of the Commission
this  roposal was withdrawn by Sir George Sansom since it was
made clear to the Uaited Kin don Delegate that prosecution of
the latter wouid rove ombarraving to the United States
Government. At the same time General McCoy assured Sir George
Sansom (as we believe in the utmort good faith) that His
FU
in jesty's Government vould be iven, con identially, what
inform tion was aveilr le on all types of Japanese scientific
research.
So far as urely military uetters are concerned our
wishes have probably been mtecuately met, but in the field of
1
Japanese pure and aprlied seientific research there is a wide
sap. A diseussion was held at the War Department on the 8th
November 1946 on the type of information recuired by His
is jesty's covernment and it wan then sur ested that one or two
British scientists shoid artici ate in an Americn investi-
pation - such as en uiry to be nde under military auspices.
His  jestyIs Government consid orod that the tter should be
transferred from the ilitar to the civil  lane and they asked
for facilities to send two well uali ied British scientists to
Japan to work in conjunct on with Am ricn scientists.
Persistent efforts wore made by the State Depurtment to
vet a roval for nis majeety's Government's proposal but for
reasons which have never heen cldar to this Enb-ssy progress
was olways impeied.
In July 1947 the attention of the State Department was
drawm to a press report that a group of American seientists
was about.to loave for Japan to discuss the reorganisation of
scientific research in Japan.
. This form of investigation
was/

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
was precisely what His Majesty's Government had in mind and
they consider that the opportunity was exactly one which they
might have expected to share. Extensive facilities seem to
have been given to this purely American group during a two
months' tour of the principal scientific establishments and,
to date, its findings and recomnendations have not, so far as
this Embassy is aware, been divulged.
In view of His Majesty's Government's cont inued and
pressing interest in this whole uestion, and in consideration
of the earlier arrangements under which our Far Eastern Com-
mission proposal was withdrawn, this Embassy feels entitled
to expect that His Majesty's Government will be given a full
account of the  rpo an y results cf the investigation
recently ade by the Group led by Dr. Roger Adam.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.93)
DC/R
December 3, 1947
NED &RECEIV
INSWNCC
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY, SANACC
Japanese Teohnology"
The Department of State submits the attached policy paper
entitled "Program for Investigation of Japanese Technology" for
consideration by the Committee. This paper represents the views
894.92/12-347
of the Department of State on this subjeet.
It is requested that this paper be considered by SANACC
directly and without reference to the Far Eastern Subcommittee,
as a matter of urgency, particularly in view of the developments
noted in paragraph 10 of Appendix "A".
CHARLES E. SALTZMAN
State Member
2
BOl
6y305.
TIALAVUE
A-S:BO Sullivan:oe
SANACC:JPGardiner:hmh Cleared by phone/with McDiarmid  OE
Wells IR
Faary NA 

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.93)
December %, 1947
MEMORANDUM POR THE SECRETARY, SANACC
Subjeot: Paper entitled "Program for Investigation of Japanese
Technology"
The Department of State suimits the attached policy paper
entitled "Program for Investigation of Japanese Technology" for
consideration by the Comittee. This paper represents the views
of the Department of State on this subject.
tt
It is requested that this paner be considered by sanacc
without submission to the Jar Eastern Suboommittee.
CHARLES E. SALTZMAN
State Member
wells+
SANACC:JPGaimer:hmh
12/2/47 
NA
IR
OE
AS/ Sullirin
 phe clierare

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
December 2, 194?
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY, SANACC
Subject:
Paper entitled "Program for Investigation of Japanese
Technology"
The Department of State submits the attached policy paper
entitled "Program for Investigation of Japanese Technology" for
consideration by the Committee. This paper represents the views
of the Department of State on this subject.
It is requested that this paper be considered by SANACC
without submission to the Far Eastern Subcommittee.
CHARLES E. SALTZMAN
State Member

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.89)
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY, SANACC
Subject: Submittal of paper entitled "Program for
Investigation of Japanese Technology"
The State member of SANACC herewith submits for con-
siceration by SANACC a policy paper entitled "Program for
Investigation of Jepanese Technology." whih Wpuurt Le
Tank SWesner
Frank G. isner
Deputy to the Assistant Secretery
for Occupied Areas
Tee Dert Sale neegunts that
Rcth Stat mwmtrs
 nogper net be nuemitlewlo
the SFE.
Slae mimber

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.92)
CONELPERXLAL
PROGRAM POR INEERTIGATIOH CF JAPANNER
TECHDSAOOY
Draft Repert by the
State-Army-Kavy-Air Poree Coordimaties Comelttee fer the Fer East
TEE PROEE
1. To determime whether teshaical and seientifie imresti-
gators from all interested Far Bastern Commission goveraments
should be sent to Japam usder the control of SCAp to imvestigate
and report on Japanese teshnology.
VACTS BRARING ON THE PROBLEM
2. See Appendix "A".
DISCUSSION
3. See Appendix "B".
CONCLUSION
4. The following program shall be adopted for the dissemime-
tion of Japanese technology:
A. A limited number of techaical and scientifie iavesti-
gators (not to exceed a total of twenty-five) from all
interested FKC countries shall be sent to Japan.
b. All investigators permitted by SCaP to enter Japan
shall be under SCAP's control.
S. Each investigator shall be obligated to make a full
disclosure to SCAP of all techaical information obtaieed by
him, and no information shall be released by aay iavestigator
until SCAP makes it available for publication or release to
Far Eastern Commission countries.
4. SCAP will make available to Far Eastern Commission
countries all technical iaformation gathered in Japan.
e. The
CONPIDENTIAL

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.95)
CESZIDEERLAL
2. The United States Govermmest will undertake to ceneale
with the goveruments of other Far Fastere Commission coustries
with a view to the salestion of a group competest to investi-
gste all branches of Japanese technieal and ssientifie develep-
meats.
f. The official of the Uaited States Geverameat res-
pensible for recruiting Uaited States personsel and fer
supervising their investigations in Japan shall be Mr. Joha C.
Green, Executive Secretary of the Publication Beard, and
Direotor of the Office of Technical Services of the Depart-
mant of Commerce. r. Green, in cooperation with the
Department of State, shall coordinate the recruitmant of
personmel in this couatry with similar recruitment in other
Far Sastera Comission countries to aohieve most comprehensive
coverage of Japanese techaical and scientifis developments.
The Publication Board will be the agenoy of the Uaited States
Government for dissemination of information on Japanese
technology resulting from the findings of this group.
RECOMENDATIONS
5. It is recommanded that:
SAMACC approve the "CONCLUSION" as stated above.
b. Upon approval by SANACC, tnis report be transmitted
to the Departments of State, National Defense and Commerce
for infermation.
S. Upon approval by SAmaCC, the Departmsnt of State
shall transmit paragraph 4 & through e to the Far Eastera
Commiesion and urge its adoption.
4. The United States member on the Commission be authorised
to accept minor changes in form or wording which do not alter
the subatance or intent of the paper.
COMPIDENTIAL

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.72)
The decumaste trem whlah amappte are qasted La thde
eppeotis keve bess greuped wader tse sestéass.
Sestien I imeludee deommsnte establisting saar and Uited
Statae pellay on the dissssimstion of eessy teskmelogy.
Sostien II ineladee the kistery of the megotlatiome regarding
seading Deperrmsne of Gemmeree teshasesame to Sapen.
2. mmoc 92/7, 1 Novesber 1945, Rasla Rirantine Ist int-
Str Ela m la dans statee thes
"1d. You will Lasure thas all Laberatesdes, veseerch
Lmssitatee, and similar tesknelegical ergeaisatiess are
whenever the regulesions ere vialsted.
"24. You will require the preteetien fron destresties
and the maistensnos far musà dispesition as may be deterainsd
and ressareh asescistsons thet hevs played as iepertent part
in the Japanese mer effort or economy.
2. suncc 369, 12 Mey 194?, Tresteost of depamane Dementla
  Eae ttee st:
"Appeadin
SOHEUNELAL

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
CONTTTPEETTAL
"Appeadix B
"9. The above considerations have prompted the resesmunde-
tiome in paragraph 13, Appeadix "C", whish previde met caly
that the Japenese Patent Office shall, 1a due courase, peblisk
all hitherte mepublished wartime patents, but alse that these
and otker sartims pateat spesifieations and applicatioss
which have mot been generally available outaide of Japes
shall be pablished as expeditiously as pessible threugh other
chasnels in order that the Allied Mations may bemefit mere
fully and promptly therefrom. It is suggested that this
could be done most expeditiously by releasing the files to
the Office of Technical Services to be made available to the
public through its regular facilities for reprodustiom of
documents and sale of copies.
"13. Imposition of sseurity restrictions by SCAP on any
of these patents would uadoubtedly be viewed by certain of the
Allied governments as a measure to limit access to the Umited
States Governweat or other selected governmeats. It is
regarded as inappropriate for SCAP, in its role of agent
'of the prinsipal allied powers acting in the interests of the
United Mations at war with Japan', so to limit access to
Japanese technology to aay select number of governments from
among the member governments of the Far Eastern Commission.
Therefore, it is recommended that all the 'seoret' Japaness
patents be inoluded with the other patents made available for
ganeral publication Land that such of these as may be desigmated
by SCAP as still haviag military importance should be subjeet
to the restriction that they be divulged directly only to the
Far Eastera Commission governmsnts rather than to any other
governmests or to the public generally.
"14. In order that the inventions described in publisbed
Japanese patent specifications may be utilised to the fullest
extest posaible in the United Nations, it will be helpful ie
many cases if additional techaical data related thereto is
obtained and published. It is recommended that steps be takea,
insofar as practical means can be devised by SCaP, to collest
and publish techaology from other aources in Japan. This
should be principally data available in documentary form and
relating to published patents but might include any industrially
useful technology that existed in Japan during the war.
"Appendix C
"13. The Japanese Patent Office shall, as soon as
practicable, resume the publication of official gasettes and
patent spesificatioas ia order to effect disclosure of all
hitherto uapublished pateats and pending patent applications
and proapt publication of all future patent applications.
In order to expedite general access to worthwhile teshaieal
data in hitherto unavailable Japanese patant spocifications,
patent
# It is understood that the Departmsnt of State is proposing that
the section in brackets be deleted on the grounds that limitatios
of access to the Far Rastern Commission countries seems of such
questionable feasibility as not to warrant the establishmsat of
scresning and costrol procedures."

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.74)
patee applistloms, and ser aoes La depen, saar ahall
mutberdse and Land aoslatanse to the Lamedlate publlosttan
es us petens doste and, Lasesar a pressseasle, ay
éen, date ad doemeate y be selested a tse bede of
thmir semereial or wllitary valve cnd stels slremletion by
scap mood wet be atended bayond goeraata wembere of
e Pr Lastera mlsi.
"m to Appeadix C
"16. The prope pabllastion of miserte uapmblied
depesese pelent apesiflestioas d appllestlums, as sslled fer
wuald hare beed iealesed taroagh the preeedure of appliee
tiom for aas srast of pateats a imvemtiaas. Inalusiem of
formerly secret psteat speslfécatiuns and sédilional sssful
teckeelegy in sals proviaiem far peblleetlen will eeskle the
alllod Metions to becofi a fully s pesaible fros the
eslestifis s iasastrial rescareh whieh mas earried on is
Jupam just priar bu au during the war. Theve netione are
regarded as wevins as equitaule clale to fren wm of the
reaults of suck rossaren, since its primsipal parpese was
to als Japem lo ite war aalmt the Alllos. It is com
lamplated tsat availabiliey of a great part of thie pateated
and wapateated date dh be ax,edited by gesral publiea-
W tarough te Sallities of aondapagse ageneles, sush
a   i r I  Uai t pr 
iaoroo.
3. Astabllehment of she Puslieetlon Beard mad the aubnorise-
liee of aparatiune l :le behalf by the ffice f Teonaicel Servlcee,
Deprtt of Coro we effeotd throag Saautive  ler 9
n iv s . The fuil l f  r l
follows:
reviaias Ser cn salesse of aisatifie Lalerantige
(Estenslon and mndms of Rtive Order No. 95)
"y virtue of she authoriy vosted   by the domstitution
 ,  reld  t  t d Cmer
Ln Calef of the Army and Savy, aad in order to provide for
the reloass ams imeomimasiom of cartain sele tilo and
Induotrial Laforeat: sm horstufore or hereefter vbtained from
the saey by any aoparteent or geney of this Governmmnt, to
the ead thes sweh aformatlon may bo of masiann sonefit to
the ub, it ray r  tl
"1o 1a
NND
41716

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.73)
CONLINERIAL
4
1. 16 1  oll o d , 
trere of e  e, 
as weed berada, Le detiaed le ceaprlee all saterastion
Laveéln, mtede, dviove, Lreveste ad ancee
arigin, or La Liborated aress, L8 mmah ateraassan sa as
ameny wrigia or bae boen aogdred or apprepertated by the
eaemy.
"2. The seepe of the atseriy vesed in the areeter
of r Mllsn  verin  iren of 
Publlestien Doard ead Ln the Publlestlem Beard by Someestive
Order M. 956 o2 Jue , 194s, 10  to mlude
esesy slentifle ad Lndestrial infarestien. The preetere
outlimed in Ezeewsive Order No. 9sés, Lmcafar es applieable,
are extonded to the deslacsifleatiem, ralense at alise
lem of emesy sslestifls and ladustrial iaformeties.
"3. Desaiag ia sais orter anall be conssrusd so lims
or moni:y tho pomer of the Seeretery of Wer or the Seerebery
of the Mavy to determive fimally whetier the sational
ailitery poourlty araits t relaare in mnole or lo pert
ur esemy selentifle or indastrial iafermation.
MARRT S. TRUNAN
".
S11
1. Oa Jama e, 19%5, "rosident Trusan, a (xmeutive Order
No. 9, appointed the Direator of aceonveri on to ne hairmme
ef a Publleation Board to rovlen all ssiuatifle and teohalael
iafurmatlon ahoretofore or thereefter doveloped by or for ths
Goverammet, sao to publieh ouen or that iaformetian eo migst net
mave tn be withbeld for remsone of mativaal smourity.
2. n August 23, 1943, reidat Tram, Ln oetive
raer So. P0s, brossmmed t meope o1 rdr 956 u Loldo
soientifle and industrlal iaformation "neretofore or bercafter
sblaimed by amy separtmeat or agamey of thds Govermment ls emy
coustries, regardlees of its origin." As uader the provious
order,
COMPASSTIAL

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.74)
DLAL
areer, the Seareteriee af sar cnd Eevy wore to heve Simsl say
  tr rt pm pis of partuter
ds.
J. La Lsttero of Jaamary 29 aad Pobeuery 1, 19 to
#r. "illard Thorp. *r. Joks C. Green. Emeeusive seeretary of
the Cifiee of the "mblleetien Beare in the Deperteess of Gommeree,
acked r. Therp's easi stease Ln ebealm:ng Departemst of seate
approval for the dimpateh to depem of a mastber of esieatásie
and :aéestrial epealalists es "ferrots" to asesime sad repert
an Japamese leeamleal esvameee. Ho vtated that see projeet
moule be sizilar to tse pregrm of colleetiee f Gerean seleese
and teskmalagy whies the Dapartmemt of Cosserse bad aitisted
wader us, but wold be n a sh ore edest esle.
4. L ni regly of dy 10, 19, u. Thrp mtted tt
the Dapartnt of tat  o jetien n rilple to the 
of such a aiamion, but that "she reswits of ahe mission, ajest
to ereenis for mllitary seourity, mould ve t. be ... mede
aveilable on  quitale bat  i nrd rtie, 
almtiog the goversmmerte of all the antrise ct wer wist Japan.
Provialee will aloo have to be mate to anwar the uestloao of
mar alllee where thair interests asy differ fros ours, eisher
by vi t sprornii to subait pdrie to the d
states Coveremee or by ar-angimg for ake atallable so
thms eppartualries to sead porasanal to dapan similar to shsee
affordes rapresentetives ? che edted "tatus."
3. Tolapram Mo. war 55430 to Tokyo 5 Apr11 3, 194? statoe:
"Xaee eay Jomn C. Grean of Poblication Board, Later
deparsaertel Casrdttee of Cabinet Hant sstabl:aned wader
xee Order 9566, June 1945. as mened by Crcer 960
Angwet ls speel fleally to cover diasemination of teatnical
2080

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.76)
Lafornatien eeeured ia enesy evustriee has besn endeevering
almee daauary 1é obtsia permisslem diapateh seall mmsber
Leall peetallte dee ime 
Japasese teshelogt sad sleslsle adressee boen petested
and maptested. Prejost approved Ls prlesiple y seate
(Ea l9s) bee dieapproved suge to Tar Depertmene m
srounds shat prepesed sleslane muald rales Imasluble problemm
allied rigse and imbereste, sad shat scap ad agreed aseake
and fereard any requested iaferestio.
"Greem hes reseved requset statles tectaiiass apesially
ressuited ners by Comseree frer seremies, mmtallurgieal ead
other prinsipally iatereeted iadustries are alese esmpetesé
to find, valmato sd repors dapeee dlosoveries. Eaphealese
publlestion heard estiraly agresable mahe reperte avall alliee
after cseursty sereesles Lavestlgatore would be diepetated
on retstin beta, ouly à or 7 as me, pesaialy 25 in all,
and coald do pald bo ommeree Dapt. Cres gaoo, 000 frade
already appropriated by soagress speelfseally for dep mervey.
or on basta alallar to Posralomm Miosden. Hoald be ateaabed
your stass uaier your mpervialan and cestral, evall asviss
affiee civil Proporty Custodien if dosired. Oreen states
thore le pesitive ovidesse valuable preeccsne asd dovalep
meate la dapen, his office uader esstlaming preseure Amoriean
Indusery exploit Jap dimeoveries. Projest would be oa far
aealler csale thee in Germeny where similarly ergaaised méeslons
heve abtalmed usee valmable iaformation.
rétate bes eesalcered laterastiemal sad Legal prebleme
involved and poroetres mo carions obeteales. allsed rigeés
and Latereste preteeted to maxiemm fesaible enteat, shreugh
publiestiums if iafermetiom, coasd lering prestical ispesaimlity
mmay mstis artiaipate sosal isressigaslces la dapem.
Matiomn sstivaly partieipating war against Japen mighs later
be sllowed condwet on epot esedassioas, with repereslen and
restitusiea sissics parecasal already in dapes, of egeépeece
ar prosesens in wileh they were partleularly laterected seted
In U.S. 1etigatere publlbed reperte. H eve allie meld
be satisfied, particularly if, ss seems dssirable, pesiflestlon
were givem them prier to doparture of mission to Japam, and
offielally, rather tham tarough subeequent wnofftcial press
reperts.
"Stote and Rar Departmeate requmet your somemats a tale
proposxl soonost."
6. Toyo Tolagrom . 1 of April 8, receivud pril 2.
1967:
"Ths problem of Japasses patont rianses and ssiontifle
diesoveries ahould as a matter of primelple do desided by
all the Allled Powere poncorned. The valmes Invalved may
wall reeon gront figeree. Tho leswe of any xploisatien
amereef, iav lving amag othere the queetien of basie owner
ships, whether private, ueel-pabllo or poblls, comprebeade
ntrionto mattere of Law sé momity. Is viow of the iatermmtiomal
contrel

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.74)
SUMPIONSTIAL
-4
auatral sutabiished with refersnee to the sscupetion by the
Momser roomnnt of laso l9s, aay wailateral action hare
tss Far Sestorn Commi sie, the Allled Joonil and the forlee
mi    fr r s .
"I a   s ustt  lsiese pree
fres prestisally svary algaten head here alens these llese
and mave ar t coate  iy la sh mtere wold
be obeerved :asefar as scsp authority was iavelved.
"I sruagly wrge lhas snie matter so sot basdled
wslisserally bst reccive intoratssal cessieeraties ad
aisl. 1 e ificls rblee of alli rig 
Lstarosts fureseen by the Ser Doparteest la Amguet eam be
asdeasl, usived as trere are s legal impedimemte, se
Laplescatetlea plee preposed monid soem to to céagasse sor
the purpose lateoded.
7. ratlle Ler o0, Gon Caagross, Chapter Sll, Lut sommion,
B.8. so70,   To carry smto effest sertata parte relatlem 
pataats of the sronbior of peace mith Italy, Bolgarie, Heagary
amd Buame, rut1f1 by cam Senate on June 5, 197, and for
other puryoses.
. . l   n   
apply for snd obtaie patucts in she Haited states for tmeir
iswreatiuas is mesordesce with the pat eat lame and aajey
the rights t: privilegee therees: Preyiges haeeeget. Thee
patosts obtald for sumh larentions shall te sabjeet to
an cunltions and liittion w!tn ret to dert,
evatlon, ut::isetien, oseiganest, and Lieeneleg whiem
may be  oed by Jongress, or by ?le Presid la aseordanse
witn the rovlaloam of y pence sreawy murerter erd
Into ith Goraany or Japaar Ad previted Cacther, Thet,
sxeept for patoats besed on applieetions riled le la Umised
State atent sffleo prior to the sate of seterat of tate
iit, pateate may mot be apallad for or abtaleed, or if
abtaieod, small met  valid, for ay isvertlem mede, or
apem wnlon en applleation mae filed by any mwah metiodal,
bofore Janmary 1, 196, 1a Garmmay or Japee or 1n the
tarriteey ef aat stner of aae lxis Powere or is eay tarri-
   .
"pro g 6, 7."
.B   ,l. . 4. (1)
 10 oo. 6, . 7

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.70)
20
" appllastles for a patem or for te regieteatson
of. dsig m be rosees i the aperalles at  tage
desige mas, oring the paried beglaales wdte the thire day
0s sopmr i9, d ime wisn tm tirtr-sire d
of e l, i  s  G  d
or averted ar seaigs by . Jern or dapeee mtial
le yl.
9. Bose  le itis verameet srefted Sept-er 1.
2947:
The r I tte pro  i ll  
Exsellemey the mrities sabesseder ses sas the bease to refer
i   1' m o. 3/-/47 f ah 21, 19
 . -/2 1 J 9, 197 roé  
by British ssiemtiete is sn isvostig=llcn !ato dapamese
pare and apsliod meiarsifle rosearah.
"The propomals of the Briliss lovere mave beum siven
aareful study uad tta U.3. Joverameat is semmrally is eympetly
witn taes. It regruts, hesuver, thet toore sow seems to be
a may as asfeeting thsm vltbeus a palley desiaion by the
Par Sastern Cammleeisn as was originally propesed by Ls
ili Joverumt. Tai Jovrmet, threfere, Ld to
oubit t to Yar xstera Jedsai  propesal u tais jst
for ils imdte comaidertin.
The eerotary of state wiones lo scuure sis sallemay
that efferts are tl do so axpesit sie tter snd that
the rili Gorer will b kopt surretly ierd of a
rtaat devlpos.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.93)
-12
APPERIX F
DIACERSLON
1. The Rasie Dizestive fer Post-Srrender Militarx Gorere
mt Àn dapen Preer (swnCC 52/7) provides that SCAP shall preteet
all plasts, equipmsat, peteats and records of large Japassse
companies and research assosiations as well as laboratories and
research institutes.
2. In swncC 369, whish has not yet been adepted, 1t is
recommeaded that SCAP take steps "to collect and publish teckeology
from other sources in Japan 1.e. other than published Japasese
pstent specificationg7. This...might inelude any industrially
useful technology that existed in Japan during the war... SCAP
shall authorise and lend assistance to the immediate publisation
of...teohaologieal data of value, through any appropriate modia
and in any appropriate languages."
3. Executive Order 9604 provides that "it is the poliey of
this Governesat...that there shall be prompt, public, free and
general dissesination of esesy scientific and industrial iaforms-
tion."
4. Congress appropriated $200,000 to enable the Departmsst
of Commerce to send toahnicians to Japan to inspect and report
on Japanese technology. Representatives of the War Department
and of the Alien Property Custodian testified in bahalf of the
requested appropriations before the Coagresaional Appropriations
Committes.
5. Under Executive Order 9604, mentioned above, the Publica-
tions Board, an interdepartmeatal board of cabinet raak, is
dirooted to publish enemy technology.
6. The
COMFIDENTIAL

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.95)
CEHTNEELAL
-12-
6. The British Gevernmest has èrmelly rogussted persissies
to sead investigators to Japan, and uedoubtedly all other members
of the Far Bastern Comdssion have a similar iaterest im this
regard.
7. The results obtained from the investigations condmated
in Germary justify the adoption of & parallel poliey for Japas.
In view of the highly specialised character of the investigations
in Germany it wes realized that ths Department of Lommerce was
the only ageney of this Government equipped to reeruit a bedy of
highly trained acientists and techaicians who were famillar enough
with industrial techniquss to prepare the type of reperts which
would be of the greatest utility to industry. As is knomm,
technicians from other Allied governments participated in the
investigations of German industry. This progran in Germany
has resulted in the publio dissemimation of a large body of
valuable techaical information. Until a similar policy is adopted
for Japan the world will be deprived of the opportunity to utilise
Japanese industrial technology.
8. The above facts, when considered together, indicate that:
. The Uaited States Government is committed to a
policy of prompt public dissemination of Japanese techmology;
b. Congreas has desided that these obligations san be
met most efficaciously by authorizing the vepartment of
Cosmerce to sond a small number of highly skilled techaical
investigators to Japan;
C. The Publications Board will give Japasese technological
information public dissemination in the Uaited States;
d. Membere of the Par Eastern Commisaion other then
the Uaited States are interested in sending investiaters to Japan.
•. The
COMPIPEHTLAL

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.94)
COEETDSHELAL
1
3. The suscess of the iavestigatioms of Germn
teshealegy justify a similar program fer Japen.
9. There is not as vast a body of industrial informatiom
to investigate in Japan as there was in Germany, but this dees
not nesessarily imply that the task in Japan is less complicated
or that specialists are not required. All that this difference
does imply is that & proporticeately smaller musber of highly
skilled teehaicians will be required for the task.
10. Aay technical invoetigators permitted by SCAp to ester
Japan should operate under SCAP's control.
11. A limited aumber of techaical and scientific investigators,
probably not more than twenty-five, from all interested Far
Bastern Comission governments should be permitted to participate
in the investigation.
12. The functiens of reoruiting United States personmel and
of supervising their investigations in Japan should be entrusted to
Mr. John C. Green, Executive Secretary of the Publication Beard
and also Director of the Office of Technical Services of the
Department of Commerce. The Publication Board should be designated
es the ageney of the United States Government for the publication
of the information on Japanese technology.
13. Adequate guarantees should be given that no unilateral
action will be taken by any Far Bastern Commission government which
would result in giving the industry of that government an advantage
over the industries of other allied nations.
2. This guarantee should be supported by a commitment
on the part of each techaician sent to Japan that he will
report fully to SCAP for sslsge7 on all technical
informstion obtained by him and shat he will not disolose
ay
COMPIDENTIAL

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.89)
COTAL
any of this iafermstion to asy uaestherised pereon befere
SCAP makss it availaile fer publieation or ralesse to
Far Lastern Cemissios coustries.
b. All teshaieal iaformation gathered ia Japan shomid
be givea publie dissesiastion.
14. The great urgeney attaehed to this iavestigation is
not warelated to the suceess of Europeen rekabilitation sinse
prospt disseminatioa of infermation on mem prosesses, imprevesests
and techaiques developed by the Japaaese might play a useful
role in medernising certain segmeats of European industry.
COMFIDENTIAL

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
May 4,1948
CONFIDENTIAL
Dear General McCoy:
The United States Government has determined upem the
894.92/5-448
enclosed polioy statement regarding access to Japanese technical
and scientific information in Japan (SC-280 Series). It is for-
warded to you for your information and use.
The Suprame Commander for the Allied Fowers has agreed to a
policy of this nature, with the understanding that its implemente-
tion will be subject to his regulation and control. The United
States Government has received a communication from SCAP setting
out certain specific conditions whioh he contemplates would be
applied as an administrative matter to investigations under this
policy.
There is enclosed a statement to be made by the United States
Yember in submitting the U. S. position to the appropriate organ
of the Far Eastern Commission. The U. S. Member, in making this
statement, should indicate, should the occasion require it, that
the U. S. regards it as fully within the power of SCAP to lay dowm
such conditions and that the U. S. regards the conditions set out by
SCAP as reasonable and appropriate. The U. S. Member should also
state at an appropriate time that it is the view of his Government
that SCAP should be informed that these conditions of implementation
have been made knowm in the Far Eastern Commiesion.
Yours sincerely,
CS/A
sighenl by cEs 4 May
VVL
Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant Secretary
Enol.
Proposed Statement
Major General Frank R. McCoy,
Far Eastern Commission,
2516 Massachusetts Avenue, X.W.,
Washington, D. C.
Qma
PB8
/P
O:PPClaxton-JFHay:br
INA
FE
May 3, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
84

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
CONMBANTMLL
AGGESS TO JAPANERR TEGHNIGAL ARD SGIENTIFIO
During the peried from July 1, 1948 through Marah 31, 1949,
technieal representatives of the Governments of members of the Far
Eastern Commission should be permitted access to and the right to
take copies of the details of any technical or seientifie processes
of industrial or commercial value whish are of Japanese origin and
owmership and which were developed prior to December 31, 1945.
Technical or scientific information obtained by any representa-
tive of the government of a member of the Far Eastern Commission pursuant
to this policy statement should be promptly and fully disalosed to SCAP
for dissemination to other interested members of the Far Eastern Commis-
sion upon specific request.
CONFIDENTIAL
QONFRECREAL
5.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDEONENL CONFIDENTIAL
STATESENT TO BE HADE BY U.S. BEPRESENTATIVE
BEOAYDING U.S. PROPOBAL O1 80-280.SRIDEB
The United States has communicated with SCAP regarding the implementation
of any policy which may be adopted by the Far Eastern Commission with respeet
to investigations of Japanese technology.
SCAP, in addition to pointing out that implemantation of this peliey
will be subject to SCAP regulations and control, has indieated that, with
respeet to such investigations as may be deemed to require visits by
technical representatives to Japan, he contemplates setting the following
conditions:
1. Specific requests for inspection will be made to SCAP, and a reserd
of suéh requests will be made available in Tokyo for the information of
representatives of all Far Eastern Commission members.
2. Technical representatives will be cleared by SCAp before entrance
to Japan.
3. Technical representatives will be admitted with the status of
individual experts, and will not at the same time be members of missions or
other official agencies in Japan.
4. The number of such technical representatives admitted will not
oxceed twenty-five in all.
5. Dependents, translators, interpreters and secretaries will not be
cleared for admittance.
6. The admittance of technical representatives and the conduet of
their investigations will be coordinated by SCAP to avoid duplication.
CONFIDENTIAL
TOMFSEOREAL
842

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
7. Technical investigations will be condusted in sush manner as
to ensure minimm interferance with current production in Japan.
8. Technical representatives may be assospanied by representatives
of SCaP during their investigations.
9. Logistie support for technical representatives will be provided
through GHQ on a revanue basis.
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFSDCREJAL

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.91)
Date...s/5/41.
SECKEI
may, 1948
MEMOHANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY, STATE-ARMY-NAVY
AIR FORCES COORDINATING COMMITTEE:
894.92/5-548
Subject: Program for Investigation of
Japanese Technology (SANACC 216
Series).
R740.00119 Contiol
(Gr pen)
I attach a memorandum of information for ciroulation
to the members of the Committee and to the Joint Chiefs of
Staff.
aE
Charles E. Saltmman
State Member
CS/ A
Att.
Memo of Info
894.92
0: p.P. Clautou. Jr.
NA
EP
Aury
col. Sopy
5-4-48
R
aE
SECnLI
878

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
GRANDSHL EOE DHEORNATION
There have bosn a mumber of requests over a peried of e year by varlese
technelegy. In SANACC 216/5 the Department of State submitted a program fes 
investigation of Japanese tochnology which contemplated sending a mission to Japes
including personnel of all interested Far Eastern Commission member coumtries. Im
SANACC 216/6 the Joint Chiefs of Staff indicated that the plan was deemed undesirable
from a military point of view for security reasons.
The Australian member of the Far Bastern Commission introduced a poliey
statement providing for right of access by representatives of governments on the
Far Eastern Commission. It became clear from discussions in the Far Eastern
Commission that the substance of the Australian paper had the support of all members
of the Commiasion except the U. S. member, to whom no instructions had been given.
In SANACC 216/7 the Department of State proposed an amendment or counter-proposal
to the Austrelian paper. This proposal was transmitted to SCAP and disoussed with
SCAP representatives by Army Department representatives in the course of the resent
trip to Japan by the Under Secretary of the Army. In C IN
SCAP indieated
approval of this proposal subjcot to certain stated conditions of implementation.
SCAP also suggested the desirability of obtaining a reciprocal agreement on the part
of other members of the Far Eastern Commission for such investigations in areas
under their occupation.
Due to diplomatic intervention by the Department of State, the Australian
representatives on the Steering Committee of the Far Eastern Commission was
restreined for a period of three weeks from pressing the matter to a vote in the
Committee, although he and other members expressed mounting impatience over the
SECRET
878

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
2
U. S. Government's failure to present a position. The matter beeame ene of
urgency when he stated at the meeting of the Steering Committee on April 27 that
Ambassader Nakin would be foreed to make a formal protest upon instruotion of his
Government unless the U. S. could state its position at the meeting on Mey 4.
The Department of Stato was unable to accept SCAp's suggestion as to
reciprocity since the FEc lacks jurisdiction to adopt a policy imposing conditions
on any member country with respect to action within any occupied aree other than
Japan. Also, other occupying countries have a greater degree of legally inde-
pendent authority in other occupied areas than the U. S. possesses in Japan, while
on the other hand Far Eastern Commission countries have certain legal rights in the
Allied occupation of Japan irrespective of policies they pursue in other occupied
areas.
After exhaustive analysis of the problem, State and Army Departments agreed
that the U. S. member of the Far Eastern Commission could accept the Australian
proposal in modified form as shown in Appendix A, subject to the conditions set
out in Appendix A, Annex A, a statewent to be made by the U. S. Member. It was
felt, however, that in view of the inability of the Government to accept the
reciprocity suggestion made by SCAP, that SCAP's final approval should be obtained
for the whole proposal. This was done by telecon between the Department of the
Army and SCAP.
It is believed by the Department of the Army and by the Department of State
that SCAP's approval of the program, subject to the conditions of implementation,
removes the security problem noted by the Joint Chiefs of Staff in SANACC 216/6.
For this reason and because of the extreme urgency involved, the Department of
State transmitted the proposed policy statement, together with the attached
SECRET

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-3
statement of conditions to the U. S. member on the Far Eastern Commission for
use at the Steering Committee meeting on May 4 in connection with the Australiem
proposal. It was made clear that the U. S. member should defend the power of
SCAP to impose the conditions as stated. It was also pointed out that 3CAP
should be advised that these conditions have been brought to the attention of
the Far Eastern Commission.
SECRET

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
Segrin t
SIONED& RECEIVED
NSWNCC
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY,
State-Army-Navy-Air Coordinating Committee.
772/45
Num
Subject: Scientific and Technical Investigations
in Japan (SANACC 216/5, 216/6).
894.92/2-1248
In SANACC 216/5, the Dupartment of State submitted a
program for the investigation of Japanese technology which
contemplated sending a mission to Japan including personnel
of all Far Eastern Commission member countries.
In SANACC 216/6 the Joint Chiefs of Staff indicated that
the plan was deemed undesirable from a military point of view,
and suggested that the proposed mission should consist entirely
of U. S. personnel.
In the meantime, other nations in the Far Eastern Commission
have pressed for direct access by their representatives to
Japanese scientific and technical processes. Appendix "A" to
this memorandum is a proposal submitted to the Roparations Com-
mittee of FEC by its Australian member.
The substance of the Australian paper appears to have the
support of members of the Committee except the U. S. member,
who has not yet been instrueted.
Appendix "B" is a draft counterproposal to the Australian
paper. This Department is inclined to favor responding to the
CS/A
Australian paper either with the proposal contained in Appen-
dix "B" hereof, or with the plan suggested in SANACC 216/5.
ey, it is requested that the subcommittee for the Far
Rastern Commission give immediate consideration to SANACC 216/5,
216/6 and this memorandum, to consult with the appropriate aganey
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and to submit to the Committee an
appropriate recomendation.
1h
92
Charles E. Saltzman
State Department Member
/2-1248
State, Army, Navy, Air Force Coordinating
Committes
BOS
A-S!BO'Sullivan:br
OC
FE
Banath/
2/9/48

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIXA
1. Representatives in Japan of any Governments of
members of the United Nations should be permitted access
to and the right to take copies of the detail of pre
surrender technical and scientific processes of Japanese
origin and owmership.
2. Specific requests for inspection of such details
should be made to SCAP, and a record of such requests should
be made available to the representatives in Japan of such
Governments.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX "B"
Representatives in Japan of any Governments of members
of the United Nations should be permitted access to and the
right to take ∞pies of the details of non-military technical
and scientific processes of Japanese origin and omership
which were developed prior to December 31, 1945.
SCAP is directed to institute procedures to ensure the
following:
(1) That specific requests for inspection are
made to SCAP, and a record of such requests is made
available in Tokyo for the information of representatives
of all United Nations countries.
(2) That all technical and scientific information
gathered by any representative of a member of the United
Nations pursuant to the authority contained in this
directive shall be promptly and fully disclosed to SCAP
who will make it available to all interested members of
the United Nations.
(3) That the investigations of such representatives
are coordinated to avoid duplication and are conducted
in a manner which will ensure that current production in
Japan is not unduly impeded.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
53
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
SANACC
216/5
15 December 1947
Pages 32 - 43, inc1.
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE CCORDINATING COMMITTEE
PROGRAM FOR INVESTIGATION OF
JAPANESE TECHNOLOGY
Reference:
SWNCC 216/1
Note by the Secretaries
1. The enclosure, a study presented by the State Member, is
circulated for consideration by the Committee.
FW
2. The State Member has requected that this paper be con-
sidered by the Committee as a matter of URGENCY without reference
to the Far Eastern Subcommittee in view of the developments noted
894.92
in paragraph 10 of Appendix "A".
3. A copy of this paper has been forwarded to the Joint
Chiefs of Staff for comment from a military point of view as a
matter of URGENCY. These conments will be circulated to the
Committee upon receipt thereof from the Secretary, Joint Chiefs
of Staff.
2
12
W. A. SCHULGEN
V. L. LOWRANCE
48
J. P. GARDINER
Secretariat

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
PROGRAM FOR INVESTIGATION OF JAPANESE
TECHNOLOGY
Study by the Department of State
THE PROBLEM
1. To determine whether technical and scientific investi-
gators from all interested Far Eastern Commission governments
should be sent to Japan under the control of SCAp to investigate
and report on Japanese technology.
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
2. See Appendix "A".
DISCUSS ION
3. See Appendix "B".
CONCLUSION
4. The following program shall be adopted for the dissemina-
tion of Japanese technology:
e. A limited number of technical and scientific investi-
gators (not to exceed a total of twenty-five) from all
interested FEC countries shall be sent to Japan.
b. All investigators permitted by SCAP to enter Jepan
shall be under SCAP's control.
c. Each investigator shall be obligated to make a full
disclosure to SCAP of all technical information obtained by
him, and no information shall be released by any investigator
until SCaP makes it available for publication or release to
Far Eastern Commission countries.
d. SCAP will make available to Far Eastern Commission
countries all technical information gathered in Japan.
e. The United States Government will undertake to consult
with the governments of other Far Eastern Commission countries
with a view to the saleation of

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
PROGRAM FOR INVESTIGATION OF JAPANESE
TECHNOLOGY
Study by the Department of State
THE PROBLEM
1. To determine whether technical and scientific investi-
gators from all interested Far Eastern Commission governments
should be sent to Japan under the control of SCAP to investigate
and report on Japanese technology.
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
2. See Appendix "A".
DISCUSSION
3. See Appendix "B".
CONCLUS ION
4. The following program shall be adopted for the dissemina-
tion of Japanese technology:
e. A limited number of technical and scientific investi-
gators (not to exceed a total of twenty-five) from all
interested FEC countries shell be sent to Japan.
b. All investigators permitted by SCAP to enter Jepan
shall be under SCAP's control.
c. Each investigator shall be obligated to make a full
disclosure to SCAP of all technical information obtained by
him, and no information shall be released by any investigator
until SCaP makes it available for publication or release to
Far Eastern Commission countries.
d. SCAP will make available to Far Eastern Commission
countries all technical information gathered in Japan.
e. The United States Government will undertake to consult
with the governments of other Far Eastern Commission countries
with e view to the selection of a group competent to investi-
gate all branches of Jepanese technical and scientific
developments.
SANACC 216/5
-32 -
Enclosure

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
f. The official of the United States Government res-
ponsible for recruiting United States personnel and for
supervising their investigations in Japan shall be a
representative of the Publication Board. This official,
in cooperation with the Department of State, shall coordinate
the recruitment of personnel in this country with similar
recruitment in other Far Eastern Conmission countries to
achieve most comprehensive coverage of Japanese technical
and seientific developments. The Publication Board will
be the agency of the United States Government for dissemina-
tion of information on Jepanese technology resulting from
the findings of this group.
RECOMMENDATIONS
5. It is recommended that:
a. SANACC approve the Conclusion as stated above pro-
viding the Joint Chiefs of Staff have no objection from a
military po nt of view.
b. Upon approval by SANAcc, this report be transmitted
to the Secretaries of State, National Defense, Army, Navy,
Commerce and Air Force for informat lon.
2. Upon approval by SANAcc, the Department of State
transmit paragraph 4   through e to the Far Eastern Com-
mission and urge its adoption.
. The United States member on the Comnission be author-
ized to accept minor changes in form or wording which do not
alter the substence or intent of the paper.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
APPENDIX "A"
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
The documents from which cxcerpts are quoted in this appendix
havc becn grouped under two sectiona.
Section I includes documents establishing SCAP and United
States policy on thc disscmination of enemy technology.
Section II includcs thc history of the negotiations regarding
sending Department of Commerce technicians to Japan.
Sectior. I
1. SW:CC 52/7, 1 Novomber 1945, Basic Dircctive for Post-
Surrerder Military Government in Japan, states that:
"18. You will insure that all laboratories, research
institutcs, and similar technclogical organizations are
closed immediately cxcept those you deem necessary to the
purposes or the crcupation. You will provide for the
maintenarce and security of physical facilities thereof
when dcemed necessary, and for the detention of such personnel
as are of intcrcst tc your technological or counter-intelli-
gence investigations. You will at once investigate the
character of the study and reacarch conducted in such olosed
organizations and as rapidly as possible permit the resump-
tion of tnose forms of study and rescarch that have an
obviously peaceful purpoce under appropriate regulations
which (1) define the specific type of research permitted,
(2) provide for frequent inspection, (3) require free dis-
closure to you of the results of the rescaroh, and (4)
impose severe penaltics, including permanent closure of the
offendine institution whenever the regulations are
violated.
"24. You will require the protection from destruction
and the maintenance for such disposition as may be deter-
mined by tnis and other directives of all plants, equipment,
patents, books, and records and all other signficant property
of the largc Japanese industrial and finanoial companies
and trade and research associations that have played an
1moortant part in the Japanese war effort or economy."
2. SWN CC 369, 12 May 1947, Treatment of Japanese Domestio
and Foreign Patents, states that:
"Appendix 'B'
"9. The above considerations have prompted the recommenda-
tions in paragraph 13, Appendix 'C', whioh provide not only
that the Japanese Patent Orrice shall, in due course, publish
all hitherto unpublished wartime patents, but also that these
and other wartime patent spegirio

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
APPENDIX "A"
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
The documents from which excerpts are quoted in this appendix
have been grouped under two sections.
Section I includes documents establishing SCAP and United
States policy on the dissemination of enemy technology.
Section II includes thc history of the negotiations regarding
sending Department of Commerce technicians to Japan.
Sectior. I
1. SW:CC 52/7, 1 Novomber 1945, Basic Dircctive for Post-
Surrerder Military Govcrnment in Japan, states that:
"18. You will insure that all laboratories, research
institutcs, and similar technclogical organizations are
closed immediately cxceut those you deem necessary to the
purposes of the cccupation. You will provide for the
maintenarce and security of physical facilities thereof
when dcemed necessary, and for the detention of such personnel
as are of intorest tc your technological or counter-intelli-
gence investigations. You will at once investigate the
character of the study and rescarch conducted in such closed
organizations and as rapidly as possible permit the resump-
tion of tnose forms of study and rescarch that have an
obviously peaceful purpose unuer appropriate regulations
which (1) define the specific type of research permitted,
(2) provide for frequent inspection, (3) require free dis-
closure to you of the results of the rescarch, and (4)
impose severe penaltics, including permanent closure of the
offendine inctitution whenever the regulations are
violated.
"24. You will require the protection from destruction
and the maintenance for such disposition as may be deter-
mined by tais and other directives of all plants, equipment,
patents, books, and records and all other signficant property
of the largc Japanese industrial and financial companies
and trade and research associations that have played an
imoortant part in the Japanese war effort or economy."
2. SW CC 369, 12 May 1947, Treatment of Japanese Domestic
and Foreign Patents, states that:
"Appendix 'B'
"9. The above considerations have prompted the recommenda-
tions in paragraph 13, Appendix 'C', which provide not only
that the Japanese Patent office shall, in due course, publish
all hitherto unpublished wartime patents, but also that these
and other wartime patent specifications and applications
SANACC 216/5
-34-
Appendix "A"
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
which have not been generally available outside of Japan
shall be published as expeditiously as possible through other
channels in order that the Allied Nations may benefit more
fully and promptly therefrom. It is suggested that this
could be done most expeditiously by releasing the files to
the Office of Technical Services to be made available to the
public tarough its regular facilities for reproduction of
documents and sale of copies.
"13. Imposition of security restrictions by SCAP on any
of these paterts would undcubtedly be viewed by certain of the
Allied sovernments as a measure to limit access to the
United States Goverrment or other selected governments. It
is regarded as inappropriate for SCAP, in its role of agent
'of the principal Allied powers acting in the interests of
the United Nations at war with Japan', so to limit access to
Japanese technclogy to any select number of governments from
among the member governments of the Far Eastern Commission.
Therefore, it is reccmmended that all the 'secret' Japanese
patents be included with the cther paterts made available for
general publication /and that such of these as may be desig-
nated by SCAP as stiTl having military importance should be
subject to the restriction that they be divulged directly
only to the Far Factern Commission governments rather than
to any other governments or to the public generally7.*
"14. In order that the inventions described in published
Japanese patert specifications may be utilized to the fullest
extent possible in the United Nations, it will be helpful in
many cases if additional technical data related thereto 1s
obtained and published. It is recommended that steps be
taken, insofar as practical meanc can be devised by SCAP,
to collect and publish technology from other sources in Japan.
This should be principally data available in documentary
form and relating to published patents but might include any
industrially useful technology that existed in Japan during
the war.
"Appenaix 'C'
"13. The Japanese Patent Cffice shall, as soon as prac-
ticable, resume the publication of official gazettes and
patent specifications in crder to effect disclosure of all
hitherto unpublished patents and pending patent applications
and prompt publication of all future patent applications.
In order to expedite general access to worthwhile technical
data in hitherto unavailacle Japanese patent specifications,
patent aoplications, and other sources in Japan, SCAP shall
authorize and lend assistance to the immediate publication
of such patent documents and, insofar as practicable, any
other technological data of val ue, through any appropriate
media and in any appropriate languages. For such publication,
* It is uncerstocd that the Department of State is proposing that
the section in brackets be deleted on the grounds that "limitation
of access to the Far Eastern Commission countries seems of such
questionable feasibility as not to warrant the establishment of
screening and control procedures".

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
data and documents may be selected on the basis of their
commercial or military value and their circulation by SCAP
need not be extended beyond governments members of the Far
Eastern Commission.
"Annex to Appendix 'C'
"16. The prompt publication of hitherto unpublished
Japanese patent specifications and applications, as called
for in paragraph i3, 'Proposed Policy', would serve to bring
up to date the body of information which, under normal con-
ditions, wouid have becn disclosed through the procedure of
application for and grart of patents on inventions. Inclu-
sion of formerly secret patent specifications and additional
useful technology in this provision for publication will
crable the Allied Nations to benefit as fully as possible
from the scientific and industrial research which was car-
ried on in Japan just prior to and during the war. These
nations are regarded as having an equitable claim to free
use of tne results of such research, since its principal
purpose was to aid Japan in its war against the Allies. It
is conte plated that availability of a great part of this
patented and unpater.ted data mignt bc expedited by general
publication thrcugh the facilities of non-Japanese agencies,
such as tre Publicaticr Board of the United States Depart-
ment of Commerce."
3. Ectablishment of the Publication Board and the authoriza-
ticn of operations in its behalf by the Cffice of Technical
Services, Department of Commerce, was effected through Executive
Crder 9568 and Executive Order 9604. The full text of the latter
is as follows:
"EXECUTIVE ORDER 9604,
Providing for the Release of Scientific Information
(Extension and Amendment of Executive Order No. 9568)
"By virtuc of the authority vested in me by the Consti-
tution and Statutes, as President of the United States and
Commander in Chief of the Arny and Navy, and in order to
provice for the rclcasc and dissemination of certain scien-
tific and industrial information heretofore or hereafter
obtained from the cnemy by any department or agency of this
Government, to the end that such information may be of
maximum benefit to the public, it is hereby ordered as
follows:
"1. It is the policy of this Government, subject to the
reguirements of naticnal military security, that there shall
be prompt, public, free and general dissemination of enemy
scientific and industrial information. The expression
'enemy scientific and industrial information', as used
herein, is defined to ccmprise all information concerning
scientific, industrial and technological processes, inven-
tions, methods, devices, improvements and advances heretofore
or hereafter obtained by any department or agency of this
Government in enemy countries regardless of its origin, or
in liberated areas, if such information is of encmy origin
or has been acquired or appropriated by the enemy.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
·CONFIDENTIAL
"2. The scope of the authority vested in the Direotor
of War Mobilization and Reconversion as Chairman or the
Publication Board and in the Publication Board by Exeoutive
Order No. 9568 of June 8, 1945, 1s extended to inolude
enemy scientific and industrial information. The prooedures
outlined in Executive Order No. 9568, insofar as applicable,
are extended to the declassification, release and publioa-
tion of enemy scientific and industrial information.
"3. Nothing in this order shall be construed to limit
or modify the power of the Secretary of War or the Secretary
of the Navy to determine finally whether the national
military security permits the release in whole or in part
of enemy scientific or industrial information.
"HARRY S. TRUMAN
"THE MEITE HOUSE, August 25, 1945."
Scction II
1. On June 8, 1945, Fresident Truman, in Executive Order
No. 9568, appointed the Director of Reconversion to be Chairman
of a Publication Board to review all scientific and technical
information theretofore cr thereafter developed by or for the
Government, and to publish such of that information as might not
have to be witneld for reasons of national security.
2. On August 25, 1945, President Truman, in Executive Order
No. 9604, broadened the scope of Order 9568 to 1nclude scient1fio
and industrial information "heretofore or hereafter obtained by
any department or agency of this Government in enemy countries,
regardless of its origin." As under the previous order, the
Seoretaries of War and Navy were to have final say whether the
national security permitted publications of particular data.
3. In 1etters of January 23 and February 1, 1946 to Mr.
Willard Thorp, Mr. John C. Green, Executive Secretary of the Offioe
of the Publication Board in the Department of Commerce, asked Mr.
Thorp's assistance in obtaining Department of State approval for
the dispatch to Japan of a number of scientific and industrial
specialiots as "ferrets" to examine and report on Japanese tech-
nical advances. He stated that the project would be similar to
the program of collection of German science and technology which
the Denartment of Comm

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
.CONFIDENTIAL
4. In his reply of May 10, 1946, Mr. Thorp stated that the
Department of State had no objection in principle to the sending
of such a mission, but that "the results of the mission, subject
to screening for military security, would have to be.... made
available on an equitable basis to all interested parties, includ-
ing the governments of all the countries at war with Japan. Pro-
vision will also have to be made to answer the questions of our
Allies where their interests may differ from ours, either by
giving them opportunities to submit inquiries to the United States
Government or by arranging for SCAP to make available to them
opportunities to send personnel to Japan similar to those afforded
representatives of the United States."
5. Telegram No. WAR 95430 to Tokyo, of April 5, 1947,
states:
"Excc Secy Jchn C. Green of Publication Board, Inter-
departmental Committee cf Cabinet Rank established under
Exec 0rder 9568, June 1945, as amended by 0rder 9604,
August 1945 specifically to cover dissemination of technical
information secured in enemy countries has been endeavoring
since January 1946 cbtain permission dispatch small number
technical specialists Japan to examine and report on
Japanese tcohnolory and scientific advances both patented
and unpatented. Project approved in principle by State
(May 1946) but disapproved Aupust by War Department on
grounas that propcsed missions would raise insoluble problems
Allied rirhts and intcrests, and that ScAp had agreed obtain
and forward any re quested information.
"Green has renewed request stating technicians specially
recruited here by Commerce from ceramics, metallurgical and
other principally interested industries are alone competent
to find, eveluate ard report Japanese discoveries. Empnasizes
publicatior board rely agrecable make reports avail allies
after security careerins investigators would be diepatcned
on rotating basis, only  or 7 at time, possikly 25 in all,
and could be paia by Commerce Dent. from $2oo, coo funds
already appropriated by Cenpress specifically fer Jap survey,
cr on basis simi ar to Petrsleum Mission. Would be attached
your staff under your supervision and control, avail advise
office Civil Property Custolian if desired. Green states
there is positive eviderce valuable processes and develop-
ments in Japan, his orrice under continuing pressure American
industry exploit Jap discoveries. Project would be on far
smaller scale tnan in Germany where similarly organized
missions have cbtained much valuable information.
"State has considered international and legal problems
involved ana perceives no serious obstacles. Allied rights
and interests protected to maximum feasible extent, through
publications of information, considering practical impossi-
bility many nations participate actual investigations in Japan.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
.CONFIDENTIAL
Nations actively participating war against Japan might later
be allowed corduct on spot examinations, with reparation and
restitution mission personnel already in Japan, of equipment
or processes in which they were particularly interested noted
in U.S. investigators published reports. Believes allies
would be satisfied, particularly if, as seems desirable,
notification were given them prior to departure of mission
to Japen, and officially, rather than through subsequent
unofficial press reports.
"State and War Departments request your comments on this
proposal soonest."
6. Tokyo Telegram No. C-5159l of April 8, received April 24,
1947:
"The prorlem of Japanese patent rights and scientific
discoveries should as a matter of principle be decided by
all the Allied Powers concerned. The values involved may
well reach great figures. The issue of any exploitation
thereof, involving among others the question of basic owner-
ships, whether private, quasi-public or public, comprehends
intricate matters of law and conity. In view of the inter-
national control established with reference to the occupation
by the Moscow Agreement of late 1945, any unilateral action
nere by the United States will unquestionably be challenged
by the Far Eastern Commission, the Allied Council and the
forei. n missions as designed to favor American business
interests.
"I am under the most constant and insistent pressure
from practically every mission head here along these lines
and have assured them complete equity in such matters would
be observed insofar as SCAP authority was involved.
"I strongly urge that this matter be not handled
unilaterally but receive international consideration and
decision. If the difficult problems of allied rights and
interests foreseen by the War Department in August can be
amicably solved and there are no legal impediments, the
implementation plan proposed would seem to be adequate for
the purpose intended."
7. Public Law 380, 8Cth Congross, Chapter 511, 1st Session,
H.R. 407o, An Act To carry into efect certain parts relating to
patents of the treaties of peace with Italy, Bulgaria, Hungary
and Rumania, ratified by the Senate on June 5, 1947, and for other
purposes:
"SEC. 3. Nationals of Germany and Japan may hereafter
apply for and obtain patents in the United States for their
inventions in accordance with the patent laws and enjoy
the rights and privileges thereof: Provided, however, That
patents obtained for such inventions shall be subject to
any conditions and limitations with respect to duration,
revocation, utilization, assignment, and licensing which
may be imposed by Congress, or by the President in accordance
with the provisions of any peace treaty hereafter entered
into with Germany or Japan: And provided further, That,
SANACC 216/5
- 39 -
Appendix "A"

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
.CONFIDENT IAL
except for patents based on applications filed in the United
States Patent Office prior to the date of enactment of this
Act, patents may not be applied for or obtained, or if
obtained, shall not be valid, for any invention made, or
upon which an application was filed by any such national,
before January 1, 1946, in Germany or Japan or in the
territory of any other of the Axis Powers or in any terri-
tory occupied by the Axis forces.
"Approved August 6, 1947."
8. British Patents and Designs Act, 1946, Sec. 4, (1)
∠9 & 10 Geo. 6, Ch. 447:
"An application for a patent or for the registration of
a design may be refused by the comptroller at any stage of
the proceedings cn the ground that the invention or design
was, during the period beginning with the third day of
September 1938, and ending with the thirtyfirst day of
December 1945, invented or designed in Germany or Japan
or invented or designed by a German or Japanese national
in any territory which was then eremy territory."
9. Note to the Eritish Government drafted September 18,
2947:
"The Secretary of State presents his compliments to His
Excellercy the British Ambassador and has the honor to refer
to the Charge d'Affaires' notes No. G8/-/47 of March 11,
1947 and No. G8/-/26 of July 9, 1947 regarding the partici-
pation by British sciertists in an investigation into
Japanese pure and applied scientific research.
"The proposals of the British Government have been given
careful study and the U.S. Government is generally in
sympathy with them. It regrets, nowever, that there now
seems to be no way of effecting tnem without a policy de-
cision by the Far Eastern Commission as was originally
proposed by the British Government. This Government, there-
fore, intends to submit to the Far Eastern Commission a
proposal on this cubject for its immediate consideration.
"The Secretary of State wishes to assure His Excellency
that efforts are being made to expedite this matter and that
the British Government will be kept currently informed of
any important developments."
10. On December 1, 1947, a representative of the British Em-
bassy communicated to the Department of State the extreme disap-
pointment of his government that it had not yet been possible for
the British to send representatives to investigate pure and applied
scientific research in Japan. In this connection, mention was
made of a recent visit to Japan, authorized by SCAP, of a "purely
American" scientific mission, headed by Dr. Roger Adam. The
British representative expressed the "continued and pressing
interest" of his Government in this subject.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
CO NFIDENTIAL
APPENDIX "B"
DISCUSSION
1. The Basic Directive for Post-Surrender Military Govern-
ment
in Japan Proper (SWNCC 52/7) provides that SCAP shal1 protect
ell plants, equipment, patents and records of large Japanese
compenies and research associations as well as laboratories and
research institutes.
2. In SWicc 3o9, which has not yet been adopted, it is
recommended that SCAP take steps "to collect and publish techno-
logy from other sources in Japan 1.e. other than published Jap-
anese patent specifications7. This...might include any industri-
ally useful technology that existed in Japan during the war...
ScAP shall authorize and lend assistance to the imnediate publi-
cation of...technological data of value, through any appropriate
3. Executive Order 9604 provides that "it is the policy of
this Covernment...that there shall be prompt, public, free and
general dissemination of enemy scientific and industriel informa-
tion."
4. Congress appropriated $2c0gc00 to enable the Dopartment
of Commerce to send technicians to Japan to inspect and report
on Japenese technology. Representatives of the War Department
and of the Alien Property Custodian testified in behalf of the
requested appropriations before the Congressional Appropriations
Conunittee.
5. Under Executive Order 9e04, mentioned above, the Publica-
tions Board, an interdepartmental board of cabinet rank, is
directed to publish enemy technology.
6. The British Government has formally requested permission
to send investigators to Japen, and undoubtedly other members
of the Far Eastern Commission have & similar interest in this
regard.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
7. The results obtained from the investigations condusted
in Germany justify the adoption of a parallel policy for Japan.
In view of the highly specialized character of the investigations
in Germany it was realized that the Department of Commerce was
the only agency of this Government equipped to recruit a body of
highly trained scientists and technicians who were faniliar enough
with industrial techniques to prepare the type of reports which
would be of the greatest utility to industry. As is known,
technicians fron other Allied governments participated in the
investigations of German
industry.
This program in Germany has
resulted in the p iblic dissemination of a large body of valuable
technical information.
Until & similar policy is adopted for
Japan the world will be deprived of the opportunity to utilize
Japanese industrial technology.
8.
The above facts, when considered together, indicate that:
2. The Urited States Government is committed to a policy
of prompt public dissemination of Japanese technology;
b. Congress has decided that these obligations can be
met most efficnciously by authorizing the Department of
Commerce to send a small number ci highly skilled technical
investigators to Japan;
c. The Publications Board will give Japenese technologi-
cal information public dissemination in the United States;
d. Members of the Far Eastern Commission other than the
United States are interested in sending investigators to
Japan.
e. The success of the investigations of German techno-
logy justify a similar program for Japan.
9. There is not as vast a body of industrial information to
investigate in Japan as there was in Germany, but this does not
necessarily imply that the task in Japan is less complicated or
that specialists are not required. All that this difference does
imply is thet a proportionately smaller number of highly skilled
technicians will be required for the task.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
10. Any technicel investigators permitted by SCAP to enter
Japan should operate under SCAp's control.
11. A limited number of technical and scientific investi-
gators, probably not more than twenty-five, from ell interested
Far Eastern Commission governments should be permitted to partici-
pate in the investigation.
12. The functions of recruiting United States personnel and
of supervising their investigations in Japen should be entrusted
to Mr. John C. Green, Executive Secretary of the Publication Board
and also Director of the Office of Technical Services of the
Department of Commeree. The Publication Board should be designated
as the agency of the United States Governnent for the publication
of the information on Japanese technology.
13. Adequate guarantees should be given that no unilateral
action will be taker by any Far Eastern Commission government
which would result in giving the industry of that government an
advantage over the industries of other Allied nations.
2. This guarantee should be supported by a conmitment on
the pert of each technician sent to Japan that he will report
fully to SCAP on ell technical information obtained by him
and that he will not diselose any of this information to any
unauthorized person before SCAP makes it available for publi-
cation or release to Far Eastern Commission countries.
b. All technical information gathered in Japan should be
given public dissemination.
14. The urgeney attached to this investigation is not unre-
lated to the success of European rehabilitation since prompt dis-
semination of information on new processes, improvements and
techniques developed by the Jepenese might play a useful role in
modernizing certain segments of European industry.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO. 56
SANACC 216/6
27 January 1948
Page 44
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
PROGRAM FOR INVESTIGATION
OF JAPANESE
TECHNOLOGY
Reference:
SANACC 216/5
Note by
the Secretaries
1. The enclosure, a memorandum by the Secretary, Joint
Chiefs of Staff, is circulated to the Committee for informetion
in connection with the above reference.
2. It is understood that the Department of State is re-
considering the problem presented in SANACC 216/5 in the light
of these comments.
H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
V. L. LOWRANCE
V. F. FIELD
Secretariat

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
Washington 25, D. C.
SM-9515
26 January 1948
ME.ORANDUM FOR THE STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE
COORDINATING COMMITTEE:
Subject:
Program for Investigation
of Japanese Technology.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff have reviewed a study prepared by
the Department of State entitled Program for the Investigation
of Japenece Technology (SANAcc 216/5). While recognizing the
esirability of carrying out the United States policy for the
dissemination of Japanese technology, the Joint Chiefs of Staff
would point out that the method suggested in the study of intro-
jucing foreign investigators into Japan would have serious secur-
ity implications in that, regardless of any pledge or agreement
to the contrary, these foreign agents operating as authorized
technical investigators could obtain for their respective govern-
ments special information outside the scope of Japanese technol-
o y and establish cortacts in Japan which would be inimical to
United States security ir.terests in the Far East.
Ir view of the present critical world situation, the Joint
Chiefs of Staff do not favor the adoption of this method at this
time. The adverse security implications of the proposed inves-
tigation of Japanese technology would be removed if United
States personnel, preferably individuals from the Department of
Commerce, under supervision of the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers were used to collect the technological information,
which could be screened and then disseminated through the Fubli-
cation Board to the interested Far Eastern Comnission governments.
For the Joint Chiefs of Staff:
Jan 26 1948
/s/ W. G. Lalor
4343
W. G. LALOR,
Captain, U.S.Navy,
Secretary.
SANACC 216/6
Enclosure
44

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
DC/R
CONFIDENTIAL
Office of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR 2 2 1948
Memorandum of Conversation
DIRECTOR
DATE: March 19, 1948
SUBJECT:
Australian Paper on Scientific Investigations in
Japen now before FEC
894.92/3-1948
PARTICIPANTS:
The Honopable Alfred Stirling, Minister, Australian
Embassy
Mr. John M. Allison, Chief, NA
COPIES TO:
BC
FE
O
OE
FEC - General McCoy
1-1408
At the suggestion of Mr. Butterworth I requested Mr. Stirling
to come in this morning to discuss the above subject. I referred
to the paper which had been submitted by the Australian Delegate
on the FEC some six months ago which would permit scientific
investigations in Japan by representatives of all the United
Nations. I said that the State Department was very sympathetic
with the desire of the Australians to have their paper promptly
acted upon but that there were certain security considerations
which I wished to call to his confidential attention. I explained
that there was real concern in SCAP and in the Department of the
Army over the possible security dangers involved in allowing
investigators of all countries into Japen even though their work
S
was supposed to be confined to non-military subjects. I further
explained that the United States obviously had no security fears
with respect to Australian investigators but that there were other
nations involved regarding the activities of which this Government
was not so sanguine. I stated that in an effort to do everything
possible to meet the Australian desires an urgent message had been
dispatched to SCAP suggesting the possibility of devising certain
administrative measures which would effectively safeguard security
matters and at the same time permit the Australians and other
8
legitimate investigators to carry on their desired activity.
Mr. Stirling was told that a reply from SCAP was expected within
a week or two and therefore it would be greatly appreciated if
DOR· ND Un
the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
the Australians could refrain from pressing for a decision on
their paper for this short period of time. It was carefully
pointed out that the State Department could give no assurance
at this time that it would be possible to arrive at a satisfactory
solution of this problem but that it was desired to let the
Australians know that every possible effort was being made to do
so and that their cooperation in not pressing for an immediate
decision would be of real assistance. Mr. Stirling promised to
forward this information immediately to the Australian authorities
concerned.
Jpa
CONFIDENTIAL
NA:JMAll1son/pm

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
MAY 2 8 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
894.92/5-2848
SUBJECT: Access to Japanese Technical and Scientifie
Information (SC-280/6).
The United States Government has communicated to
SCAP the various inquiries made by members of the Steering
Committee of the Far Eastern Commission concerning the
United States proposal on the above subject which was
stated 1n SC-280/6.
On the basis of this consultation with SCap, you are
now authorized to transmit to the members of the Steering
Committee the answers to their inguiries which are set
CSAA
forth in the attached statement.
CHARLES E. SALTZMAN
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
894.92
A true copy of
the siged orie-
ina.
.
15.2848
0:JFRJr:oe
5/27/48
0-1198
FILE.A.C./R
Date..5. /2 8/48
CONFIDENTIAL
Initials. 2.7?2
MAY 28 1948

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS REGARDING SC-280/6
With Beference to Enclosure B. Paragraph 4.
1. UESTION - Will each FEC country have a minimum quota of two?
ANSWER
- Yes, for purposes conforming to the proposed poliey,
and subject to the other administrative conditions
set forth in the accompanying Statement by the U. 8.
member.
2. QUESTION - Will technical experts of Far Eastern Commission countries
who are already in Japan, such as experts conneoted with
reparations and restitution teams, who might have access
to technical information, be included within the quota of
257
ANSWER
- Not while they continue on duty in such capacities as
those desoribed in the cuestion.
3. GUESTION - Are there already in Japan United States technical experts,
and, if so, how many?
ANSWER
- Yes, there are technical experts on SCAP staff performing
various occupation duties including the implementation of
FFC-065. There are none assigned in the capacity provided
for by the proposed policy.
4. UEsTION - Would there be any administrative difficulty in permitting
the several FEC countries to alternete their technical
experts, wit the result that the number in Japan at any
time  ould never be over 25, although the totel for the
nine months would be over that figure?
ANSTER
- SCAP's purposes in setting the quota of 25 are to minimise
the administrative problems of implementating the proposed
policy and to minimize interference with current industrial
production in Japan. Any advance notice of specific re-
quests which may be contemplated by member countries of
the FEC would assist in the scheduling of the desired
inspections. SCAP could consider requests for the alterna-
tion of technical representatives on their merits, upon an
adequate showing of necessity, after the total quota of
25 for all member countries is filled.
With Reference to the Terminal Date of March 31. 1949.
5. UESTiON - Since this terminal date is stated to have no especial
significance, would the United States Government have any
objection to an extension of it?

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
ANSWER - SCAP desires the completion of the proposed program in
the period specified in order to minimise interference
with Japanese production, a position which the U. 8.
Government fully supports. A specific request for
extension might be considered by FEC on fts merits in
the light of experience to be gained during the stated
period, and with reference to the progress of related
occupation programs.
With Reference to Enclosure B. Paragraph 3.
6. QUESTION - May technical experts in Japan, not members of missions
such as those connected with the Reparations Technieal
Committee be given access to technical information in
Japan and go into a factory without being included within
the quote of 25?
ANSWER - Technical experts connected with reparations delogations
may perform all authorized current duties outside the
quota of 25. These technical experts may not porform any
functions with reference to the proposed new policy
eycept as set forth in answer to luestion 8 below.
7. GUESTION - If it is found, as indeed seems reasonable, that techni-
cal representatives who are already in Japan and who are
not members of missions will be allowed access to
technical information, then would it not be advisable to
consider some amendment of the phraseology of the actual
policy itself? The policy itself taken at its face value
would permit technical representatives who are already in
Japan to have access to technical information.
ANSWER - The support by the U. S. Government for the proposed poliey
is conditioned on administrative arrangements prescribed
by SCAF such as those specified in the accompanying
statement.
8. UESTION - Provision should be made so that countries having missions
or other agencies in Jepan could detail their men from
such missions and agenciee instead of sending somebody
else from their respective countries. Since this question
has been raised by so many of us cannot some adjustment be
made with the United States Government?
ANSWER - Yes. SCAF is agreeable to the detail by member countries
of representatives now in Japan from present assignments
for transfer to technological inspection duties under the
proposed policy. This would require the submissicn of
specific recuests regerding the desired inspections, new
clearance by SCAP of the individuals detailed, conformity
with all other stated administrative conditions, and the
relinquthment of other duties for the period of service
in this capacity.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
June 8, 1948
894.92/6-848
MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNITED STATEC EMBER,
AR EASTERN COMMISSION
Subject: Access to Japanese Tochnioal and
Scientific Information in Japan
If presseu further b the New Zealand or Soviet
representatives cn their questions raised at the June 1
meetint of the Steering Committee, or by any delegation
on similar questione of cetail, it is suggosted that you
point out that the activities resulting from the proposed
policy constitute a new program which will plaoe an
aduitional administrative burden on SCAP' limited staff
and, unless carrieu out in an orderly fashion could inter-
fere undul/ with SCAf's performance of his existing occupa-
tion responsibilities. SCAP hes, therefore, actd within
his administrative authority to set up arrangements for
this procrem which will facilitate ita execution. It is
clear that SCAr oes not wish to moiify these arrangements
CS/A
as steted in SC 280/t and interpreted in SC 280/7. The
United States Government is of the opinion that no nseful
purpose would be served by audreesing further guestions to
SCAP on such points of detail.
You should emphaslze that insistence on further informa-
tion can only delay action on the policy under considoration
an urge that the Co mittee members decide whethor or not they
wish adoption of a policy on this subject or whother they wish
to postpone aotion by prolonged debate on detailed administrative
matters.
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
β:PPClaxton )
Cleureu s shown on previous draft.
JFRayJr. )

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.91)
-2-
If pressed further by the Soviet momber on the point as to
why new clearance of technical reppesentatives already in Japan
should be necessary, you may state that this provision is intended
to assist SCAf in carrying out the objectives f the oseupation.
Particular importance is attached by SCAP in the current phase of
to domdary
the occupation to maximising current production of goods for peaee-
time needs. SCAP deems It neeessary to scrutinize anew the quali-
fications of any technjcal representatives wherever situated, who
phace
are nominated by any member countried for duties under the proposed
920
ay
new policy, to detepmine their capacity to perform their new
functions with minimum interierence with this objective.
boris
You shoula smphasize that insistence on further information
can only deley dction on the policy under consideration and urge
that the Committee members aecide whether or not they wish adoption
of a policy on/this subject or whether they wish to postpone aotion
by prolonged debate on detailed adminiatrative matters.
Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant Secretary
H
(FE: HBorton
Can Paln
0: JFRayJr:oe
FE
Army
ow?
pha
6//8

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.98)
June 4, 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER,
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
Subject: Access to Japanese Technical and Scientific
Information in Japan
At the meeting of the Steerins Committee on June 1, the
member for Nen Zealand asked why SCap was not willing to allow
technical representatives of missions already in Japan to obtain
information, access to which would be provided upon adoption of
the proposed policy paper (sC 280/6). Upon being asked what
inquiry night be made to SCAP on this subject, the member for
New Zealand repliea, "With reference to question 2, (SC 280/7)
why not?"
The question posed by the member for New Zealand is con-
sidered unsuitable in form for transmittal to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Fowers. As to its substance, it is evident from
previous communications that SCAP is unwilling to give blanket
authority to any and all technicians to have access to whatever
information they may cesire. The United States Government is
therefore of the opinion that no further inguiry should be made
of SCAF on this point.
If pressed further by the member for New Zesland, you may
reply that you are advised that SCAf does not wish to modify fur-
ther at this time his administrative arrangements as stated in
SC 280/6 and interpreted in SC 280/7, and that the United States
Government is of the opinion that no useful purpose would be
served by aduressing a further question to SCAP on this point.
You mey elso suggest that the positive resulte desired by the
members would be more expeditiously achieved by early action on
the FEC policy peper than by extended consideration of SCAP's
administrative arrangements.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
If pressed further by the Soviet member on the point as to
why new clearance of technical representatives already in Japan
should be necessary, you may point out that the activities result-
ing from the proposed policy constitute a new program whieh will
place an additional administrative burden on SCap's limited staff
and,unless carried out in an orderly fashion could interfere unduly
with SCAP's effort to increase Japanese production in order to
reduce the expense of occupation. SCAP, therefore, deems it meces-
sary to set up uniform arrangements for this program inoluding elear-
ance of all persons designated by member countries.
You should emphasize that insistence on further information ean
only delay action on the policy under consideration and urge that
the Com ittee members decide whether or not they wish adoption of a
policy on this subject or whether they wish to postpone aotion by
prolonged debate on detailed administrative matters.
Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant Secretary
(Other clearances per prior draft
(0:PPClaxton:
attached)
.0
JFRayJr:oe
6/7/48

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVISION Or
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFPATRS
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON B. D. C.
25 June 1948
Ly dear Lr. Secretary:
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission provide
that one of the functions of the Commission should be to "formulate
the policies, principles and standards in conformity with which the
fulfillment by Japan of its obligations under the Terms of Surrender
may be accomplished."
It is further provided that when such decisions are made by
the Far Eastern Commission, "The United States Government shall pre-
pare directives in accordance with the policy decisions of the Com-
mission and shall transmit them to the Supreme Commander through the
894.92/6-2548
appropriate United States Government agency."
At the one hundred-twelfth meeting of the Far Eastern Commission
hel at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D. C., on
24 June 1948, the enclosed policy decision relative to Access to
Japanes. Technical and Scientific Information in Japan was approved.
The Soviet Representative abstained from voting.
As Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, I have been
instructed to forward this decision to you on behalf of the Commission
in order that an appropriate directive may be prepared and transmitted
to the Supreme Commander in accordance with the Terms of Reference.
At the time the enclosed policy decision was adopted, a number
of Commission Representatives made formal statements for the record
with regard to aspects of the policy. These statements will appear in
Item 4 of the linutes of the li2th Commission Meeting, and it is the
wish of the Commission that when these minutes are printed and circu-
FLD CS/ A
lated, the statements in question be forwarded by the U.S. Government
to the Supreme Conmander for his inforration in connection with the
terms of the enclosed policy.
The Commission agreed that the text of the enclosed policy should
be released to the press after the appropriate directive has been re-
ceived by the Supreme Commander. In order that we may make our arrange-
ments for release as expediticusly as possible, it would be appreciated
if you could notify me when the United States directive has reached Tokyo.
Sincerely yours,
-2548
Enclosure
Samuel S. Stratton
Acting Secretary General
The Honorable George C. Marshall
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
The attached copy of a document adopted at the
112th meeting of the Far Lastern Commission, held at
2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D. C.
on 2 June l4e, has been conpared with the criginal
text and is lereby certified to be correct.
inn
Sanuel S. Stratton
Acting Secretary General
Washington, b. C.
25 June 1946

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
ENCLOSURE
ACCESS TO JAPANESH TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC
INFORIATICN IN
JAPAN
During the period from July 1, 1948 through March 31,
1949, technical representatives of the Governments of members
of the Far Eastern Comnission should be permitted access to
and the right to take copies of the details of any technical
or scicntifie processes of industrial or commercial value which
are of Japanese origin and ownership and which were developed
prior to December 31, 1945.
Technical or scientific information obtained by any
representative of the government of a member of the Far Eastern
Com ission pursuant to this policy statement should be promptly
and fully disclosed to SCAP for dissemination to other interested
members of the Far Eastern Commission upon specific request.
P-49
PEC-280/9

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
De/R
In reply refer to
June 29, 1948
NA
RESTRICTED
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECR TARY. SANACC
Subjeot:
Draft Directive regarding Access to Japanese
Technical and Scientific Informetion in Japan.
894.9
There is enclosed a draft directive prepared on the
besis of a policy decision approved at the one hundred
twelfth meeting of the Far Eastern Commission on June 24,
1948 under the provisions of Pare. raph II, A 1 of its Terms
of Reference.
92/6-
It ie requested that the enclosed draft directive be
forwerded to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for transmission to
Generel MacArthur for his guidence in accordance with Para-
2548
graph IiI, 1, of the Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern
Commission. It is assumed that if the Joint Chiefs of Staff
heve any question regarding the draft directive they will
refer the matter to the Department of State for olarifioa-
tion before tranemitting a directive on the subject.
At the time that the policy decision on whioh the en 
closed draft directive is besed was adopted, a number of
Commission representatives made formal statements for the
record with respect to aspects of the policy. In accordance
with the wish of the Commlesion it is requested that the
attention of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers be
C
called to Item 4 of the Minutes of the one hundred twelfth
S
Commission meeting which contains these statements and whieh
will be forwarded to him ss soon as possible.
The Seoretary General of the Fer Eastern Commiesion has
informed the Secretary of State that the Commission in
894.
adonting the policy decision regarding Access to Japanese
Technical and Scientifio Information In Japan agreed that it
should be released to the press after the appropriate
92
directive

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
direetive had been recei ved by the Supreme Commander.
Therefore, in accordance with normal prosedure, asknowledg-
ment of the receipt of t he directive by SCAP is requested.
C. V. HULICK
for Frank G. Wisner
Deputy to the Assistant Seeretary
for Ocoupied Areas
Enclosure:
Draft Directive.
10
the
nal.
N291
HmB
6/28/48
FE

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTER
亚星QLQ旦UB星
DRAFT DIRECTIVE REGARDING ACCESS TO
JAPANESE TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC
INFORMATION IN JAPAN
The following direotive prepared by the State Depart-
ment to im lement the policy adopted by the PEG on June 24,
1948 under the provis1ons of Paragraph II, A 1 of its
Terms of Reference has been received from the State, Army,
Navy, Air Force Departments for transmission to you for
your guidance in accordance with Paragraph III, 1, of its
Terme of Reference:
During the period from July 1, 1948 through Maroh 31,
1949, technioal representatives of the Governments of mem-
bers of the Far Eastern Commission should be permitted
access to and the right to take copies of the details of
any technical or scientifio processcs of industrial or
commercial velue which are of Japanese origin and owner-
ship and wh1oh were developed prior to December 31, 1945.
Technical or scintific information obtained by any
representetive of the government of a member of the Far
Eastern Commission pursuant to this policy statement should
be promptly and fully disclosed to SOAP for dissemination
to other interested members of the Far Eastern Commission
upon specific request.
1727

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTION
THE FOREIGY SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
DCIR
for Japan
Tokyo, June 29, 1943
No. 396
UNGLASSIFIED
STATE
YS
09
A
UBJECT:
PH
and Technology in Japan.
g
1948 JUL
894.92/6-2948
The Acting Politicel Adviser hus the honer to enclose
five copies (Nos. 146, 147, 148, 149, 151) of a Report of the
Sciontific Advisory croup to the National Academy of Sciences
(en)
United States of America, entitled Reorganization of science
and Technology in Jupan, duted ucust 28, 1947.
FE(m)
016(em)
( A D fem)
Enclosure:
DClR
5 copies of Report
Reorganization of Science
and Technology in Japan
ARNY
dated August 28, 1947.
Original und ozalid to Department
PILBD
892
JDEdwards:ean
UNGLASSIFIED
2

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.95)
146
REORGANIZATION
OF
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
IN JAPAN
REPORT
OF THE
SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY GROUP
TO THE
NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
RECEV
2 MAY 1018
DIF
S.C
TOKYO, JAPAN
AUGUST 28, 1947

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.97)
UNIVERSITY OF ILJIN DIS
Department of Chenistry
URBAHA
The Williem Albert Hoyes Laboratory
September 29, 1947
Dr. A. N. Rich rds
National Academy of Sciences
2101 Constitution Avenue
Lashington, D. C.
Dear Dr. Richards:
I an submitting herevith three copies of the
report of the Scientific Advisory Group on Science in Japan.
The report contains a review of the present
situation in science in Japan as vell as c proposed plan
for reoreanization. Since the Militory Government has
followed the sound policy of expecting reoreanisation plans
of any sort to be initiated and formulated by the Japanese,
it is suggested by the Scientific Advisory Grou: that print-
ing of this report, if rintins is to be considered, be
delayed until the Japanese Renewal Co mittee has had an
onportunity to  resont its plan of reorganization to SCAP.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ Roger Adans
Roger Adams
Head - Chemistry Department

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
REORGANIZATION
OF
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
IN JAPAN
REPORT
of the
Scientific Advisory Group
of the
National Academy of Sciences
United States of America
TOKYO, JAPAN
.ugust 28, 1947

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
CONTENTS
Page
FOREWORD
. ii
INTRODUCTION
. ix
I.
PRESENT STATUS OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ... 1
II.
IMPORTANCE OF SCINCE AND TECHNOLOGY
FOR RECOVERY AND RECONSTRUCTION
. 10
III. THE RENEVAL COIMITTEE.
15
IV.
RECOLMENDATIONS ON GENERAL REORGANIZATION
OF SCIENTIFIC ADMINISTRATION
18
V.
PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES AND THE
ADVANCE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ......
VI.
COMENTS ON UNIVERSITY EDUCATION ....
VII. OBSERVATIONS ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ..... 39
VIII. CONCLUDING REMARKS
.44
i

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
FOREWORD
In June, 1947, a lctter from thc Sccretary of
War to Dr. Frank B. Jewett, President of tho National
Academy of Scienccs, formally invitcd the National
Academy of Scicnccs to sponsor a visit to Japan of a
group of six sciontists to undertake an Advisory
Scientific Mission. The purpose of the mission was
stated by the Secretary of War as follows:
"To advise members of General MacArthur's
staff concorning the proper evaluation of
plans submitted by the Japanese scientific
groups for the democratization of scientific
research in Japan."
The communication from the Secretary of Var follows:
ii

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
WAR DEPARTMENT
Washington, D. C.
17 Junc 1947
Dr. Frank B. Jewett, Prcsident
Nationel Academy of Sciences
2101 Constitution Avenue
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. Jewett:
The Suprume Commander for the Allicd Powers in carry-
ing out occupational policics in Japan is currently faced
with the problom of democratization of scientific research.
Goneral MacArthur has informed me of an urgent need
for scientists qualificd to organize and direct research
in the ficlds of chemistry, physics, biology, electrical
engineering and the social sciuncus to advise members of
his staff concerning proper cvaluation of plans submitted
by the Japanese scientific groups for the domocratizetion
of scientific rusuarch in Japan.
In accordanco with our conversation on this subject,
the National Academy of Sciences is invited to sponsor the
visit to Japan for approximately thirty days of a group of
six scientists to undortake the advisory mission montioned
above. It is understood this group will serve without cost
to the Government oxcept for transportation from San
Francisco, California to Tokyo and ruturn and as rcquired
in Japan and Korca. Individuals will be subject to theater
regulations while in Japan and Korea.
Lt. Colonel illiam J. Allen, Jr. has been detailed
from General MacArthur's Headquarters to effect close
liaison with tho National Academy of Sciences in the organ-
ization of this scicnce mission and to accompany thom to
Japan. You may contact him directly in tho Civil Affairs
Division of the Mar Department on all mattors pertaining
to the mission.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ Robcrt P. Patterson
Sccretary of Viar
iii

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
The following letter or one similar to it was addressed
by Dr. Jewett to cach mcmber of the Committee:
NATIONAL ACADEIY OF SCIENCES
June 19, 1947
Dr. Roger Adams
Head of Department of Chemistry
University of Illinois
Urbana, Illinois
My dear Dr. Adams:
This is formally to appoint you a member of the
Special Advisory Committee which the American Military
Government in Japan and the Secretary of War have asked
the National Academy of Sciences to sund to Japan this
summer. I am asking you to act as Chairman of the Committee.
For your information I am enclosing copy of
Secretary Patterson's letter of June 17, confirming this
request which originated jointly with the Japanese scicn-
tists and Gencral MacArthur's people; also copy of my
acknowledgment.
As you know from the correspondence and conversa-
tions we have had, the primary purposes of this mission are:
(1) to review with A..G. and the Japanese the plans which
have been formulated for the peacetime organization and
development of Japanese science and technology along demo-
cratic lines; (2) to give such aid to A.iI.G. and the Japanese
as the uxperience of the Committee may suggest; and (3) by
your presence as reprosontatives of the Academy to show the
Japanese that American scientists are interestod in the re-
establishment of their science along lines which will be
permanently beneficial both to them and to the world at
large.
The other members of the Academy Advisory Committee
are:
Dr. Villiam D. Coolidge, Jirector of Research (Emeritus),
General Electric Company, Schenectady, New York.
Dr. Royal W. Sorensen, Professor of Electrical Engineering,
California Institute of Technology, Pasadena.
Dr. William V. Houston, President, Rice Institute,
Houston, Texas
Dr. Herrill K. Bennett, Executive Director, Food Research
Institute, Stanford University, Palo Alto, California.
Dr. William J. Robbins, Director, New York Botanical
Garden, Bronx Park, New York.
iv

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
I am writing similarly to each of them.
Much of such assistance as the Committee is in
position to render will doubtless be conveyed verbally in the
discussions which the members have with the Japanese and the
A.f.G. people. Nevertheless, I would ask that at the con-
clusion of the mission some sort of report be made to the
Academy for its information end file and for transmittal to
the Secretary of Var and to General MacArthur.
The report and recommendations (if any) can be in
any form you prefer and if the members wish can be supplemented
by such personal observations as the individual members may
think of interest. Following established custom, this report
will not be released for publication or dissemination without
approval of the Secretary of Var.
Although the Advisory Committee is an agent of the
National Academy, its operations in Japan will necessarily
have to conform to the general rules established by the Army.
Further, since the members of the Committee will undoubtedly
become acquainted with many confidential matters which affect
American policy or international relations, they will need to
observe caution in any published or quotable observations,
which they may have occasion to make on their return.
Quite aside from the main problems of the Committee
a number of uestions have arisen on the answers to which the
members may be able to give aid. Principal among those which
have come to my attention are (1) the matter of restoring the
flow of scientific end technical information cut off by the
war, and (2) the question of the United States admitting a
limited nunber of qualified students, the conditions likely
to be imposed and the probable attitude of universities toward
such students.
Vhile you will hardly be in position to answer such
questions very definitely, you should be in position to appraise
the Japanese situation and so be able later to assist in
presenting and handling the matter here.
Finally, I would request that on appropriate
occasions you and your associates would convey to Japanase
scientists and technologists the deep interest of the Academy
in and sympathy with their endeavors to restore and enlarge
this sector of national activity. In fact, I think you will
be quite safe in voicing this as the feeling of American
science generally.
V

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
For myself personally, I would ask that you and
the others conyey to the various Japanese scientists and the
members of A.M.G., who have urged me to come to Japan with
you, my deep regret at my inability to make the trip at this
time. Possibly later I may be able to do so.
Sincerely yours, .
/s/ Frank B. Jewett
Frank B. Jewett
President
Encls.
This letter made the official appointments, designated the
Committee as the Special Advisory Committee, and elaborated
on its objectives. (At the suggestion of SCAP, the name of
the Committee was changed to Scientific Advisory Group" and
it is so referred to in the balance of this report.)
The Committee assembled in San Francisco, received
a preliminary briefing from Lt. Colonel W. J. Allen, Jr.,
Executive Officer, Scientific and Technical Division, Economic
and Scientific Section, GHQ, SCAP, and left Fairfield, Cali-
fornia, on July 15, arriving in Tokyo on July 19.
During the first eleven days, the Group remained
in Tokyo and was briefed by the Civil Information and Education
Section; the Civil Communications Section; the Scientific and
Technical Division, Economic and Scientific Section; the
Public Health and Welfare Section; the Government Section;
and tho Natural Resources Section. The Group discussed re-
organization and rehabilitation problems with the faculties
of Tokyo Imperial Univorsity and Keio University and inspected
laboratorics and other facilities at these two Universities
and at the Institute of Physical and Chemical Research (Riken).
It met with the Japanose Reception Committee and devoted a day
and a half at Tokyo Imperial University to a discussion of
the reorganization of science and technology in Japan and
allied questions. In addition, informal but informative con-
sultations were held by members of the Group with individual
or several Japanese. The Group had also the benefits of meet-
ing with General Douglas MacArthur, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, and Licutenant General Robert L. Eichelberger,
Comnander of the Eighth Army.
vi

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
The Group left Tokyo on the evening of July 29
and visited Nagoya, Kyoto, Osaka, Hiroshima, and Fukuoka,
where reorganization problems were discussed with the
Japanese; various opinions, information and questions were
presented and laboratories and other facilities were
inspected. Visits were made to government universities
(Nagoya, Kyoto, Osaka, Hiroshima, and Kyushu), to private
universities (Doshisha), to industrial plants and other
organizations. As a part of its effort to become acquainted
with the cultural and technical background of Japan, the
Group visited also the National Museum in Tokyo, shrines at
Nikko, Nara, and Mijajima, and the Kure naval base.
The Group returned to Tokyo August 9 and spent the
following week in obtaining pertinent information from
various divisions of ESS, in inspections of various industrial
and other laboratories (including the Serilogical Experiment
Station) in the vicinity of Tokyo, and in discussion. On
August 17 the Group left for Sendai, where discussions were
held with the faculties of Tohoku Imperial University and
Hokkaido Imperial University, and university and industrial
laboratories and other facilities were inspected.
The Group returned to Tokyo on August 20 and spent
the folloving week in discussions with the faculty of Waseda
University, in meetings with the Japanese Renewal Committee,
the function of which is to formulate plans for the reorganiza-
tion and development of science and technology in Japan, and
in formulating its report. The Group left Japan for the United
States on August 28.
Following is a partial list of industries and
industrial laboratories visited by the Scientific Advisory
Group or by individual members: in Tokyo, the Institute of
Physical and Chemical Research (Riken), the Mitsubishi Mining
and Metallurgical Company, the Oji Paper Company, the Hitsui
Chemical Company (Central Research Laboratory), the Furukawa
Physical and Chenical Research Institute, the Electro-
Technical Laboratory (Gotanda Laboratory), the Tsurumi
175,000 k.w. and Jshioda 75,000 k.w. steam power plants of
Electric Company, the Central Tokyo Telephone Exchange, the
Heguro Scientific Research Institute, the Dai Nippon Institute
of Fermentation, and the Nippon Columbia Company, Ltd.; in
Nagoya, the Noritake China Factory and the Sanyo Yushi Company,
Ltd.; in Toba, the K. Mikimoto Pearl Company, in Kyoto, the
Nishimura Lacquer Factory, the Shimazu Seisakusho, Ltd., and
 textile factory; in Osaka, the Takeda Pharmaceutical Indus-
tries, Ltd., the Institute of Scientific and Industrial Research,
vii

=== Page 107 === (confidence 1.00)
Sumitomo Electric Industries, Inc., Shionogi and Company, Inc.,
and a textile factory and home weaving; in Sendai, the Tohoku
Metallurgical Company, the Institute of Iron, Steel and other
Metals, and the Institute of Electrical Communications.
In submitting its report, the Scientific Advisory
Group acknowledges its deep indebtedness to the many indi-
viduals who made its work possible. Members of the Allied
Occupation Forces, in particular at the Economic and Scien-
tific Section, GHQ, SCAP, furnished the Group with a quantity
of organized information pertinent to its objectives,
arranged with meticulous attention to detail visits to
Japanese organizations and installations, responded to every
request made by the Group for assistance, and gave every
attention to the comfort and convenience of the Group. The
cooperation of the Japanese with the Group must also be
commended. The organized meetings with the Japanese evidenced
extensive preparation, a desire to present the Group with
information on the status of Japanese sciences, and opinions
on how it might be improved for the benefit of a peaceful
Japan and the welfare of mankind, and an eagerness to answer
any questions propounded by the Group. hatever nerit the
report which follows possesses has resulted in large measure
from the extraordinary cooperation and assistance accorded
the Group by SCAP and members of the staff as well as by the
Japanese.
In the forty days of its mission in Japan the Group
has received an impression that the Japanese are a people
beaten in war and on the verge of economic ruin, but a people
at work rebuilding with the means at hand. On the whole, they
appear happy in their lot, hard though it may be; ill fed but
not starved; anxious for international contacts and acceptance;
eager to remold their institutions and practices to the demo-
cratic ideal of freedom of the individual and of peace, but
handicapped in attaining these objectives by their social
structure and traditions and by the lack of a sufficient body
of citizens who understand the true meaning of democratic
concepts.
viii

=== Page 108 === (confidence 1.00)
INTRODUCTION
The primary purposes of the mission of the Scien-
tific Advisory Group as stated in the letter of appointment
of June, 1947 from Dr. Jewett were as follows:
"(1) To review with the American lHilitary Govern-
ment and the Japanese the plans which have been formulated
for the peacetime organization and development of Japanese
science and technology along democratic lines; (2) to give
such aid to A.lf.G. and the Japanese as the experience of the
Committee may suggest; and (3) by your presence as represent-
atives of the Academy to show the Japanese that American
scientists are interested in the reestablishment of their
science along lines which will be permanently beneficial both
to them and to the world at large."
It will be noted that the Group was requested to
consider science and technology in Japan. The word "science"
as used in Japan has no English equivalent. It corresponds
most nearly to the German word "Wissenschaft" and includes
both the natural sciences ("Naturwissenschaft") and cultural
subjects ("Kulturwissenschaft"). It is highly important to
bear in mind that, to the Japanese, "science" covers the
humanities, social sciences, jurisprudence and law, agri-
culture, engineering, and medicine, as well as the natural
sciences per se, and that the plans prepared by the Japan-
ese for the reorganization of science and technology and
submitted to the Group were not limited to the natural
sciences, pure and applied.
The Scientific Advisory Group wishes to emphasize
its opinion also that a consideration of the peacetime
organization of science and technology in Japan along
democratic lines and the reestablishment of science in Japan
so that it will be permanently beneficial both to the Japan-
ese and the world at large cannot be completely divorced
from the past and present social organization or from the
present and future economic status of Japan.
This is not the place to elaborate on the social
and economic situation in Japan. But some comments are
desirable in order to give the report which follows a
setting, to define the major questions toward which the
report is directed, and to illuminate some of its sections.
ix

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
The social organization in Japan was feudalistic;
controls extended from the top down to the individual in
every part of Japan through a militaristic type of organiza-
tion; even the thoughts of the individual were subject to
the notorious thought-control police. Reverence for authority
in the family and in government was characteristic; independence
of action and freedom of thought were discouraged and for nearly
a generation alaost completely repressed. The social and
educational system encouraged and emphasized obedience to
authority; the people were easily led.
Bureaucracy which flourishes in such an environ-
ment led, at various levels and in various fields, to
domination by groups or cliques which favored their own
adherents and excluded others and sometimes became involved
in bitter struggles between themselves for power. The
ultimate success of the militaristic. clique led to the final
catastrophe.
The characteristics outlined above are not peculiar
to Japan; they exist to some degree in every country and in
every society but in Japan they were dominant.
Another aspect of the social system in Japan is
the regard for ceremony and for form which at times inter-
feres with a realistic approach to a problem. One must admit
that expressions of this attitude result in some of the most
appealing characteristics of the Japanese. At the same time,
they encourage an avoidance of reality, a faith in systems
rather than in actions, and satisfaction with superficiality
instead of a demand for thoroughness.
The loss of the war, followed by military occupa-
tion, resulted in the beginnings of a social reorganization
typified by the new Constitution of Japan witn its inspiring
foreword which reads in part:
"We, the Japanese people, desire peace for all
time and are deeply conscious of the high ideals controlling
human relationship, and we have determined to preserve our
security and existence trusting in the justice and faith of
the peace-loving peoples of the world. Vie desire to occupy
an honored place in international society striving for the
preservation of peace and the banishment of tyranny and
slavery, oppression, and intolerance for all time from the
earth."
X

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
Its Chapter III, which enumerates the rights and duties of
the people and even includes in Article 23 the statement
"Academic freedom is guaranteed", is a model of conservative
liberalism.
Although nmuch has been done to initiate the
democratization of Japan, one would be naive indeed to assume
that the old order has disappeared. To institute the ideals
set forth in the Constitution of Japan will require time, a
sympathetic understanding by the rest of the world of the
difficulties which are being courageously faced by the Japan-
ese, and the intelligent cooperation of those fully cognizant
of the meaning of denocracy and experienced in its practice.
The loss of the war also upset the Japanese economy.
An empire which was self-sufficient was shorn of its overseas
possessions and capital investuents. A population approximat-
ing 70 million was confined to the home islands on an area
meager in natural resources and inadequate to supply sufficient
food even under the intensive agriculture practiced by the
Japanese. In addition, the greater part of her merchant fleet
and numberless public buildings, schools, hospitals, factories,
and other facilities were destroyed. It is estimated that
2,200,000 families lost their dwellings and some 10,000,000
people had nearly all their possessions destroyed by fire.
What remains of the industrial machine is in part subject to
seizure for reparations and to a large degree is out of date
and in poor repair. Imports far exceed exports.
The situation of the average Japanese in 1946, or
perhaps better the urban group constituting somewhat more
than half of the population, is indicated in part by the
following comparisons. Per capita consumption of the main
staple food, rice, was 82 kilograms in 1946 as against 133
in 1930; of sugar, half a pound in 1946, 30 pounds in 1930;
of textiles, 2.6 pounds in 1946, 10 pounds in 1930; of paper,
7 pounds in 1946, 28 pounds in 1930; and of total calories
of f0od, 1,600 in 1946 and 2,150 in 1930.
It seems clear that at least three major domestic
problems face the Japanese people. They are:
1. To establish and maintain a truly democratic
and peaceful state.
2. To re-establish as quickly as possible a
balanced minimum economy for the population in Japan.
3. To consider from the longer view the compli-
cations inherent in an annual increase in population of
a.proximately 1,000,000 people.
xi

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
The Scientific Advisory Group realizes the serious-
ness of these problems. It consideps their resolution not
only essential for the Japanese but of the utmost importance
for the rest of'the world. It regards them as problems that
the Japanese themselves must solve if the results are to be
permanent and effective. It believes that science in the
broad sense as used by the Japanese can contribute substan-
tially to their solution.
On these assumptions, the Group has proposed and
discussed the following questions:
I. What is the present organization and status
of science and technology in Japan?
II. How important is the reorganization and
development of science and technology in Japan for the
Japanese and for the world at large?
III. How can science and technology in Japan
be reorganized and developed by the Japanese so that it
may be democratic and of benefit to them and the world
at large?
xii

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
I.
PRESENT STATUS OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Science in Japan is a comparatively recent impor-
tation from the west, and contains little of an indigenous
nature. The earlier Japanese learning consisted largely of
Chinese literature, art, and medicine. The modern forms of
western learning have been superimposed on this basis so
that scientific research to the Japanese means any kind of
advanced intellectual activity. It includes all fields of
learning, such as literature and law, as well as the
natural and social sciences. This all-inclusive idea of
science and research fits in well with the generel struc-
ture of a university, but it complicates the question of
the overall value of science and technology for the recon-
struction and rehabilitation of the country.
Scientific research is carried out in three
different classes of institutions. The universities are
probably the centers of intellectual activity. Every
university professor is expected to carry on extensive
research in his field, and every faculty must give graduate
work. In addition, various research institutes are associ-
ated with the universities. The members of these institutes
have faculty rank but do no teaching, except to research
students. Second, there are independent research institu-
tions, some supported by the government in special fields
and others supported privately. Third, there are industrial
laboratories closely associated with the various industrial
organizations. The government universities are largely
supported by the Ministry of Education which is advised
concerning the distribution of special research funds by the
Imperial Academy, the National Research Council, and the
Japan Society for the Promotion of Science. Laboratories
such as agricultural and sericultural experiment stations
and telephone and telegraph laboratories are supported by
the appropriate ministries. During the present postwar
period of inflation, many private organizations are applying
to the Ministry of Education or to other ministries for
support to supplement their diminishing revenues.
Research in Universities
There exist in Japan both government and private
universities. The government universities include the seven
formerly known as Imporial Universities, two colleges of
-1-

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
literature and science that seem to be largely teachers'
colleges, and a number of other institutions supported
directly by the finistry of Education or through the prefec-
tural governments. Private universities also exist in a
number of places. The oldest one, Keio University, goes back
to the days before the Meiji Restoration as a school for the
study of western culture. Some private institutions have a
missionary basis. The private universities on the average
are older than the others and even though they are now
smaller in enrollment, they account for about half of the
university graduates in Japan.
The Imperial Universities are of relatively recent
origin. The University of Tokyo is the oldest and was
founded in 1877. Because of its age as well as because of
its location in the national' capital, it holds a position of
great influence. This is probably partly justified by its
quality, but there are many in Japan who believe it to be
artifically maintained on the basis of access to the
national government. The youngest university is at Nagoya,
established in 1939. In external forn the Imperial Uni-
versities are direct copies of American and European insti-
tutions. The emphasis on the scholarly activity of the
faculty and on graduate work, and the nature of the work
required, suggest a strong German influence.
Until about 1919, the different parts of the
universities were called colleges. They are now called
faculties. A complete university has seven faculties --
of law, literature, economics, science, engineering,
agriculture, and medicine. Not all universities have all
seven faculties, but some of them have more than one
faculty of some kinds. In the University of Tokyo, all
faculties are represented and there are two faculties of
engineering. The University at Nagoya has only the facul-
ties of science, engincering, and medicine:
The natural sciences are more heavily represented
in the Imperial Universities than in other schools. This
side of university activity underwent a major expansion
after 1925 and might well be regarded as part of the prepara-
tion for war. In particular, the second engineering faculty
was established at the University of Tokyo in 1942. Medicine
and science were established at Osaka in 193l, and the
faculty of science was established at Kyushu in 1939.
The unit of an Imperial University appears to be
the "chair". A chair consists of one professor, an assistant
professor, and one or more assistants. The establishment of
a chair and its exact composition are suggested by the faculty
-2-

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
for approval by the Ministry of Education. The salaries of
the various members are then paid in accordance with a scale
ostablished by this Ministry. Hembers of the staff of any
government university are employees of the government.
The internal administration of the public uni-
versities appears at present to be very democratic. The
deans are elected by the professors, and the president
cither by all the professors or by representatives of the
various faculties. This democracy is probably more apparent
than real since all of these clections are subject to
approval by the lfinistry of Education, and in addition, these
officers seem to have very little significant authority. The
ultimate decision in all matters rulating to appointments,
promotions, and budget rests with the Ifinistry of Education,
although the extent to which this authority is exercised is
not easy to determine.
There are eleven institutions of university grade
that have never been called Imperial. There are two universi-
ties of science and literature, one at Tokyo and one at Hiro-
shima. These contain only the faculties of sicnece and liter-
ature and apparently have the training of teachers as a
principal function. Others have different special functions
such as Tokyo Institute of Commerce and hobe Instituto of
Economics. These have only one faculty but in this faculty
graduate work is given and the doctor's degree is awarded.
There are also research institutes associated with some of
these universitius, and all of the activity is supported by
the Ministry of Education.
There are numcrous private universities throughout
Japan. Three of the outstanding ones appear to be Keio and
Waseda in Tokyo and Doshisha in Kyoto. These institutions
all have an interesting historical association with the open-
ing of Japan to western knowledge. They appear to put much
less enphasis on the natural sciences and enginecring than
do the Imperial Universities, although Keio University has a
good medical school and a good engineering school. Since,
however, the Japanese idea of scientific research includes
all fields, these universities are also interested in any
plans that provide funds for research.
By executive order the Ministry of Education has
assumed the authority to cstablish regulations governing the
private as well as the governinent universities. The Winistry,
in particular, specifies the number of students that may be
admitted to cach faculty cach year. It also has the power of
limiting the number of feculties. Hence these universities
are private largely in the sense that they are self-financed.
-3-

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
Because of their number and age these private insti-
tutions have provided about half of the university graduates
in Japan even though their present enrollment is less than that
of the government institutions. Many of them were founded or
carried on through periods when western learning was in bad
repute and under official ban. Possibly for this reason, as
well as because many members of their faculties were trained
abroad, they seem to represent a more liberal and democratic
spirit than do the Imperial Universities.
In the development of research in the natural
sciences, numerous research institutes have been established
under the jurisdiction of the various government universities.
These are often established on the initiative of the university
but only with the approval of the Ministry of Education: The
institute is again composed of chairs with a composition
similar to those in the universities proper. Occupancy of the
chair in a research institute involves no teaching obligation
except the personal instruction and direction of research
students. These institutes may get additional support from
outside sources. In particular, the Institute of Science and
Technology associated with Osaka University was started with
a significant contribution of funds from local industries and
the city. A large majority of these institutions were estab-
lished just prior to the war, and some of them took an active
part in the development of weapons.
Huch university research is somewhat esoteric in
character. Mathematicians prefer such things as number theory
to analysis or to work in applied mathematics. The idea of a
cultured class, and of upholding the honor of Japan by showing
its culture to be superior to the rest of the world, seems a
prominent motive in the minds of many university people.
There are a few brilliant, and many competent,
scholars in Japan. True originality is rare, as it is else-
where, and there is much copying of western research, sometimes
with alleged improvements. It seems a point of honor, however,
to make sure that all sorts of research activity are going on,
and that each field kmown elsewhere is represented in Japan.
Following the German tradition, there is a high degree
of specialization in a Japanese university. A student is con-
fined to a single faculty and all general education is obtained
at pre-university level. A graduate student is attached to a
single professor and all his work is research and semi-independent
study under the guidance of this one man.
There is a strong transfer of family loyalty to the
professor. A professor and his students constitute a "family
type" unit that probably exerts an undue influence on the thinking
-4-

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
and activities of many scientific men. This leads to concen-
tration of activity in very narrow fields and to a decided lack
of breadth in training and interest. It also leads to a compe-
tition by the scientists and scientific institutions rather
than cooperation, and probably hinders the general development
and spread of scientific attitudes.
A similar situation appears to exist with reference
to individual universities. llany universities maintain
preparatory schools and a student may spend his whole student
life in one institution. The alumni of such institutions
feel a tremendous loyalty to it, and tend to form a clique
that can see no merit elsewhere. The principal problem for
a student is to be admitted to such a school. After admission
it is expected that he will continue to obtain the highest
degree he desires. No very serious hurdles seem to be inter-.
posed at intermediate stages.
The current postwar inflation has produced the
usual serious economic plight for university people. The
salary of a professor is barely sufficient to provide the
necessities of life for a single person. The assistants
and assistant professors receive much less. These people
must supplement their incomes in any way possible, by teach-
ing in other institutions, by consulting work, or other means.
The physician can practice medicine, the lawyer can practice
law, and these means formerly used for augmenting a fair
income are now used to secure the bare means of livelihood.
Such means are less open to the younger members of the uni-
versities, and their dire economic straits tend to convince
them that their elders are being undemocratically favored.
On the whole the physical damage to university
laboratories, due to the war, is relatively small. A large
part of the university at Nagoya was destroyed as well as a
portion of the engineering faculties at Osaka and Waseda.
Keio University was badly damaged and also the University
at Hiroshima, but many escaped with no damage whatever.
The research equipment seens fairly good but much
of it does not seem to be in use. Many of the laboratories
seem poorly maintained, dirty, and disorderly. It is diffi-
cult to know how much of this is directly attributable to the
war, but it seems reasonable to conclude that some of it is
due to a mental lethargy associated with a mere subsistence
diet. The junior members of the research establishments are
attempting to hang on in the hope that something will save
them from starvation, and in the meantime they are using the
university campus for the purpose of raising vegetables.
This is quite naturally a more important activity than
cleaning up a laboratory.
~5

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
Independent Research Institutions
Entirely apart from universities or industrial
organizations are a number of laboratories supported by the
government or supported independently.
The Ministry of hgriculture supervises a number of
agricultural and sericultural experiment stations apart from
the faculties of agriculture of the universities. The pre-
fectural governments also support experiment stations. The
agricultural work seems to be both practical and effective,
and the results are made available to the individual farmer
about as well as it is reasonable to expect. Although all
of these stations could make use of additional funds they
seem to be making effective, though not strikingly efficient,
use of the funds now availatle.
The Ministry of Communications has developed the
ElectrotochnicalLaboratory which grew out of a laboratory
for testing telephone and telegraph equipment. This labora-
tory maintains the electrical standars for Japan. It has
also undertaken work of a general nature and is now being
split so that the Ministry of Commerce and Industry will
supervise the work associated with electrical power.
For protection against air raids the laboratory
was widely dispersed during the later years of the war and
much of the equipment was saved. Many of the buildings in
Tokyo were destroyed, howeyer, and some 50 per cent of the
current appropriation is for building restoration.
The finistry of Conunerce and Industry also main-
tains a number of other laboratories working on problems
related to principal industries of the country, such as
ceramics, mining, and textiles.
There also exist in Japan several research insti-
tutions that support themselves by the vork they do. Ferhaps
the largest is the Institute for Chemical and Physical Research,
or "Riken". This laboratory has developed a number of products
and has rormed subsidiary companies to manufacture and aarket
them. The income obtained in this way has been used for the
support of the laboratory. It is a little surprising that
this means of support has been so effective, for it suggests
a very skillful business management as well as effective techni-
cal direction. Under the decrces dissolving holding companies,
this organization is being changed.
Many of the staff of the Riken laboratory are also
on the faculty of the Tokyo Imperial University. Perhaps
because of this contact the laboratory has been able to secure
-6-

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
grants from the lfinistry of Education and other ministries to
help tide over its period of reorganization.
The Kobayashi Institute of Physical Research is
another such institution. It has developed a Rochelle salt
pickup for phonographs and has established a company for its
manufacture. This laboratory also is getting temporary
support from the inistry of ducation.
The government and independent laboratories have
close contact with the universities. The scientific men in the
government laboratories are nostly graduates of the universities
while the industrial laboratories use many university pro-
fessors as part-time research men.
Industrial Research Laboratories
fany industrial concerns maintain something in the
nature of a research laboratory. Some of these are very
limited in nature and seom to be essentially devoted to
testing and solving the day to day problems of production.
Others are larger and try to do significant research. Many
of them are not operating at all at the present time because of
uncertainty as to the future, and none appear ever to have
been major research organizations.
These laboratories seem to have little contact with
university science. Few of their research men have taken
advanced university degrces and there seems to be a feeling
on the part of some university people that industrial work
is not worthy of the holder of the university's highest degree.
This may be one of the reasons why Japanese industry does not
seem, as a whole, to be making the best use of the available
scientific knovledge.
Most of these industrial laboratories seem to operate
on the basis of secrecy because of their lack of confidence in
the patent law.
Governnent-Sponsored Central Organizations
For a hundred years there has been present in Japan
a strong anti-western fecling, sometimes open and sometines
merely latunt. Along with this has existed a fluctuating
policy of the governnent for the stiaulation of western forms
of learning. This policy has been expressed in a number of
organizations.
In 1879 at the suggestion of the finister of ducation,
the Imperial Academy was formed. The members of this Academy
were appointed by the Enperor and represented all fields of
-7-

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
learning. Its ostensible fungtions were to stimulate research
by the giving of prizes and awards, to carry on investigations
of its own, and also to provide for the publication of the
results of scientific research. This group of elder scholars
was very close to the government and apparently exerted a
significant influence on the actions of the Ministers. At
one time the Academy was authorized to send several members
to the House of Peers. During the war the activity of the
Academy in the award of prizes and subsidies increased. Al-
though there is no conclusive evidence that this was an effcctive
war measure, many Japanese seem to feel that the Academy is too
much dominated by the older scholars and should be abolished or
restricted in its activities. The Academy itself, on the other
hand, is proposing to increase its membership and activity.
At the suggestion of the Imperial Academy, a National
Research Council was established in l919. It is easy to inter-
pret this as a direct imitation of the organization in the
United States with the same name. The members of the Council
were appointed by the cabinet and served to advise the lfinistry
of Education in the distribution of funds for research. The
National Research Council took a very active part in the
mobilization of scientists for war activity. A committee of
the National Research Council supervised the compulsory assign-
ment of research work to persons throughout the country. At
the end of the war the Council was reorganized again and its
membership reduced from 700 to 300. At the present time, its
president and its two vice presidents are members of the faculty
of Tokyo University. Many in Japan seem to regard this organ-
ization as representative of the undue influence of the Tokyo
University and the Tokyo group.
The Japan Society for the Promotion of Scientific
Research was established in 193l as an independent foundation
to distribute funds for research purposes, and a fund-raising
campaign was undertaken. As time went on, more and more of
these funds were obtained from the government. During the
war, this group was active in attempting to put science at
the disposal of the government. Its membership included
influential army and navy men as well as other government
representatives. After the war, the society was completely
reorganized and its present function is obscure.
Ganeral Comments
In the fields indigenous to Japan, such as agriculture,
fisheries, and sericulture, the Japanese show outstanding skill,
not only in practical methods, but in the application of recent
scientific results. In some subdivisions of these fields they
possibly lead the world.
-8-

=== Page 120 === (confidence 1.00)
In the ficlds associated with manufacturing industries
and physical sciences, they have made remarkable progress, in
the past eighty years, in the introduction of western skills
and methods of thought. They still lag behind the United States
and England in the development of a broad base of scientific
and technical understanding. Science is still regarded as the
exclusive possession of a privileged few, so that its influence
on the life of the country is limited. This is a condition
which time and the democratization of political life will tend
to cure, and which cannot be suddenly changed by any type of
reorganization.
The social sciences, especially as they involve
intcrnational comparison in the fields of history, economics,
law, literature, and government, seen to have suffered greatly
before and during the war from lack of freedom, both of speech
and of investigation. But evidence exists of talent and
training adequate to provide a basis for recovery of lost
ground and future development now that defeat has lifted bans
on free expression and has prompted critical reconsideration
of Japanese social and political institutions.
-9

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
II.
ILMPORTANCE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
FOR RECOVERY AND RECONSTRUCTION
Presently and in the foreseeable future, the
Japanese nation possesses much smaller income-yielding
assets than before the war. At the same time the popu-
lation of the "home islands", because of natural increase
as well as the repatriation of nation:ls, is considerably
larger than before the war. Investments abroad will no
longer yield the income once obtained from them. The
income from sale of shipping services to other nations and
the yield from tourist traffic are at a very low ebb.
Domestically, manufacturing establishnents of all kinds,
whether for export or for the domestic market, have been
seriously damaged though in varying degree, and in addi-
tion much existing equipment has been set aside for payment
of reparations. As of the summer of 1947, imports of food,
fuel, fertilizers, and raw materials, once very substantial
if former colonial sources of supply are counted, are very
small; and exports of manufctured goods have shrunk in
approximate proportion. Oceanic ares open to Japanese
fisheries are now much restricted. Extornal trade in general
stands in so abnormal a condition that the value of the yen
on international exchange is unknown. The agricultural
plant alone remains substantially intact, though it lacks
the fertilizer once imported.
Under present circumstances the general level of
living of the augmented population of the home islands is
therefore unquestionably considerably lower than it was
before the war, even in terms of the basic items of food,
clothing, and shelter.
Elevation of the level of living may be taken as
the equivalent of recovery and reconstruction. It may occur
in the future through development in many directions. Among
these are the possibilities of augmentation of the home-
island farm output of food and fibre, increase of yield from
now available fisherics, and increase of domestic output
from mines and forests. But it must be said that home-island
resources, except for the labor supply, had previously been
so far and so skillfully exploited that further gross increase
of domestic output could be obtained only slowly, espocially
in relation to natural increase of population, and at heavy
-10-

=== Page 122 === (confidence 1.00)
economic costs. Even before the war, the home islands of
Japan had reached a stage of economic development in which
appreciable elevation of the general level of living could
be firmly counted upon (conquest of territory proving
illusory) chiefly through the development of manufacturing
industries serving the export trade and through sales of
services, as in the tourist trade and shipping.
The general characteristics of the pre-war export
and import trade are shown by the following table:
-11-

=== Page 123 === (confidence 1.00)
EXPORTS AND IMPORTS OF HOME ISLANDS OF JAPAN
(Per cent of total values; averages of 1934, 1936, and 1939)
Exports
Imports
Notes
Fabrics
26.3
1.0
Exports include
woven cotton, rayon.
Yarns, Threads, Fibres
14.7
27.0
Exports include raw
silk; imports, raw..
cotton.
Clothing and Accessories
6.3
0.0
Machinery, Vehicles, etc.
9.0
5.3
May largely represent
capital export this
puriod.
Ores and Metals
5.0)
Metal Manufactures
4.0)
17.0
Imports include iron
and steel for processing.
Beverages and Tobacco
8.0
8.3
Includes salt and mis-
cellaneous "comestibles".
Grain and Seeds
2.3
15.3
Food imports largely here.
Oils, Fats, and Ifrs.
2.3
6.3
Include fuel oil imports.
thereof
Drugs, Chemicals,
3.0
5.3
Explosives
Hinerals and ifrs. thereof
2.0
3.7
Pulp, Paper
2.7
2.3
Pottery and Glass
2.3
0.0
All Others
12.1
8.5
Includes imports of
coal, fertilizers.
Total (%)
100.0
100.0
Total (Million Yen)
3,823* 3,570*
* Excess of export value represents capital export (investment)
abroad. The value of net yield of shipping services would be
about 5% of merchandise export and would incrcase excess of
exports over imports.
-12-

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
On the side of imports, the larger items, constituting more
than half of the total, were (a) raw fibers like cotton,
(b) crude ores and metals, (c) fuels, as oil and coal, (d)
fertilizers, and (e) crude foodstuffs, notably grain. In
large degree, the imports were for processing domestically
with subsequent sale abroad of the manufactures. On the
side of exports, the lead was undoubtedly taken by sales
abroad (a) of raw silk, and (b) of woven fabrics of cotton
and rayon particularly. No other single item or group of
items, machinery perhaps excepted, bulked large; the charac-
teristic of the export trade beyond the categories of textiles,
raw silk, and machinery, was dispersion among a very wide
range of items, those mainly manufactured ones. The sum
total of these many items bulked larger than the three major
items of textiles, raw silk, and machinery.
It is with reference to the recovery, reconstruc-
tion, and development of the export trade in manufactured
goods, and in a very wide range of these, that the progress
of seience and technology in Japan (using the word "science"
with emphasis upon the natural sciences) assumes particular
importance. The products of industry competitively salable
by any country on the world market are constantly changing
both in character and in unit cost. The most efficient
nations must and do invent new products, creating new markets;
and at the same time they devise cost-reducing processes
applicable to older products. In the competitive world to
which Japan will presumably sometime roturn, the Japanese must
depend heavily upon their scientists, enginecrs, and tech-
nicians to find the new products early and to launch them
promptly but not prematurely on world markets; and to con-
tinually devise cost-reducing processes both for new products
and for old. Without an alert and progressive supply of
scientists, engineers, and technicians, no nation can hope to
retain its place or forge ahead in the international competi-
tive race for remunerative exportation of manufactured goods.
At a later stage in this report we express our
views on the difficult problem which Japan will face in
allocating limited research funds to their most productive
uses. Here we wish to emphasize our conviction that the
social and cultural sciences ought not to be neglected while
the natural and applied sciences and engineering stride for-
ward. The social and cultural sciences are the domain in
which are nurtured the individual enterprise, the respect for
the individual man, and for the rights of minorities, and the
voluntary cooperative effort which lie at the roots of
democracy. Vithout their development, rungs will be missing
from the long ladder which Japan must climb in achieving a
place among the peace-loving nations of the world. Prosperity
-13-

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
attained through scientific and technological advance cannot
alone win that place for Japan. Equally important is growth
of the democratic spirit; and for this growth Japan must look
for leadership among her social and cultural scientists.
If, therefore, a system can be devised of reorgan-
izing scienco in its brocdest sense, to include the social
as well as the natural scicnces, in such a way as to aid as
much as possible in specdy mobilization and fruitful and
peaceful development of scientific effort in Japan, that
system ought to be suggested. Its effectiveness over the
years can only depend, however, upon the efforts of the
Japanese themselves.
-14-

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
III.
THE RENE.AL CODHITTEE
As the Scientific Advisory Group leaves Japan,
a Renewal Committee composed of Japanese acientists is
considering the problem of the reorganization of Japanese
administration of science and technology. The Advisory
Group had the advantage of meeting with the Renewal
Committee on its first and second days of convocation,
August 25 and 26, but did not enter .into spocific
discussion of the problems to be considered.
The Renewal Committee is the survivor of a
number of efforts, some organized and some unorganized,
to replan the program of Japanese science and technology.
One of the organized groups was a Reorganization Committee.
Formed in March, 1946, it consisted of 30 members, 10 from
each of the three existing top-level scientific associ-
ations, the Imperial Acadomy, the National Research Council,
and the Japan Socicty for the Promotion of Scientific
Research. The objectives of the Reorganization Committee
appear to have becn (1) to eliminate overlapping functions
of the three principal associations, (2) to strengthen the
Imperial Academy by incrcasing its membership, and (3) to
revise or reorganize or integrate the research activities
of Japan. For various reasons, however, the Reorganization
Committee chose to dissolve itself as soon as a successor,
more widely representative, could be estaslished.
The successor, called the Preparatory Comnittee,
included three groups of members, The first group was
chosen from the three top-level associations, the Imperial
Academy, the National Research Council, and the Japan
Society for the Promotion of Scientific Research. The
second group wes chosen from several newly-formed associ-
ations, the Japanese Associations respectively for Scientific
Licison, for Lngineering Liaison, for Agricultural Liaison,
for Medical Liaison, and for Social Science Liaison. The
third group was chosen from the several Ministries of govern-
ment. These three groups, acting together as a Preparatory
Committee, had as their function the preparation and execu-
tion of an election of a Renewal Committee.
The Preparatory Committee's general plan for
elcction of the Renewal Committee was to use as an clectorate
all scientific societies having 50o or more members, of which
some 50 existed; and in the end to have the Renewal Committee
composed of 108 members. Of these, cach of the seven
-15-

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
traditional "faculties" of a full-fledged university - law,
economics, literature, engineering, agriculture, science, and
medicine -- was to be reprosented by 15 members; and the other
three members were to represent respectively The Socicty of
the Science of History of Japan, the Democratic Scientists'
Association, and the Association of Democratic Technologists.
The sole directive of the Renewal Committee was to
reorganize science and technology in Japan; its specific
functions were to be decided by the Conmittee itself.
It was early apparent to the Scientific Advisory
Group that Japanese scientists everywhere exhibited deep
interest and concern in the method and outcome of the election
of Renewal Committee members. As to method, there can be no
question that voting within the individual scientific societies
was not standardized; in some, each member had a voice while
in others the officers made appointments. The Japanese them-
selves have seemed uncertain or not agreed whether the inten-
tion was to elect by individual ballot or by appointment by
society officials. It must be said also that difficulties in
defining eligibility to vote, and shortages of time, of paper,
and of funds for stamps and envelopes to mail ballots, played
a part in the procedures adopted.
In its general conferences, attempts were made by
the Scientific hdvisory Group to fora some idea of the
probability that Japanese scientists would have confidence
in the Renewal Committec as eventually chosen. Japanese
attending the conferences were usually asked, "as the
selection of the Renewal Committee made in the best way
possible, considering the circumstances?" In all instances,
votes when taken were overwhelmingly affirmative and rarely
not unanimous.
Yet criticisms, or perhaps fears of the outcome of
the elections, were comnonly voiced, substantially as follows:
(a) that preponderance of representation from Tokyo Imperial
University might result in close control by that group;
(b) that the broader Tokyo area would have too many members,
geographical representation thus failing; (c) that private
universities would have insufficient representation; and
(d) that some branches of learning would lack representatives.
The actual outcome of the clections confirmed some
of the doubts expressed. Just over half of the members of
the Renewal Committee were from Tokyo University; just over
three-fourths came from the Tokyo region; and less than 10
members were from private institutions. There was, in short,
less regional and non-governmental representation than many
may have hoped.
-16-

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
Despite this outcome, it can be said that the Renewal
Committee represents a genuine break with tradition. Of the
108 members, only 6 come from the Imperial Academy, only
about half from the large and inclusive National Research
Council (and twelve of those are recently-elected ones),
and only 5 from the Japan Society for the Promotion of
Scientific Research. A substantial fraction of the member-
ship thus represents "new blood". Also, a good many of the
members are less than 50 years old. Steps toward democrati-
zetion of the top-level scientific structure are thus in
evidence, even if perfection may not have been attained. It
must further be said that a possibility exists that, in some
degree not determinable by the Scientific Advisory Group, the
preponderance of meabers from the Tokyo district and the
Tokyo Imperial University may have rested upon the relative
quality of those elected and not upon mere prestige, influ-
ence, or manipulation.
If indeed the members of the Renewal Committee
prove to be of a quality to realize their true responsibility
and to place sinccrely the interest of Japan as a whole above
the interest of any region or group, the stage would seem to
be set for fair, intelligent, and effective reorganization,
on Japanese iniative, of the administration of scionce and
technology in Japan. The Scientific Advisory Group expresses
the carnest hope that this quality of disinterested states-
manship will promptly make itself apparent throughout the
Renewal Committee, to Japanuse scientists of every region
and every field of endeavor.
-17-

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
IV.
RECOIMENDATIONS ON GENERAL REORGANIZATION
OF SCIENTIFIC ADMINISTRATION
Introduction
The Scientific Advisory Group has considcred many
Japanese proposals for formation of what is commonly called
a "deliberative organ" composed of leaders in or representa-
tives of science in Japan, of which the outstanding proposed
objective is to "rationalize" or "coordinate" scientific
research and technology, thus assuring so far as possible
the greatest achievement at the lowest possible cost. In
these proposals, the common meaning of "science" is the
Japanese meaning -- higher studies in all fields of learning
ranging through the humanities to the natural scicnces.
Among the proposals which have come to attention of the
Scientific Advisory Group are those of the Japan Association
for Scientific Liaison, the Japan Association for Medical
Liaison, the Japan Association for Engineering Liaison, and
the Japan Association for Agricultural Liaison. But other
proposals have also come to our attention.
Quite generally, it has been proposed that the
"deliberative body" be clected from a group of scientists
which, though a part of the general political electoratc,
is no more than a part of it; and quite generally it is also
proposed that the "dcliberative body" chosen by and from
among this narrow segment of the total political electorate
be accorded administrative authority over the expenditure
of funds collected by the central government of Japan as
taxes levied by the Dict, which represents the total
political electorate. The Scientific Advisory Group con-
siders that the assumption of authority over disburscment
of governmental funds by a group such as the proposed
deliberative body, which is not directly and fully an arm
of government, would constitute a dangerous if not an
illegal precedent in the development of government in Japan
under its new constitution.
In the suggestions advanced below, therefore, an
effort has been made at once to preserve sound governmental
structure and procedure, and at the sane time to provide
ways and means whereby the best scientific talent of tho
country, so recognized by fellow-scientists competent to judge,
might be brought into a position of guiding and coordinating
the development of science and technology in Japan.
-18-

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
Furthermore, it is the opinion of the Scientific
Advisory Group that instruction in the sciences cannot
properly be divorced from research in the sciences. In large
degree the same personnel in institutions of higher education
not only conduct and guide researches, but also instruct
potential researchers. The longer-range problem of developing
research is inextricably cntangled with the problem of train-
ing research personnel. Accordingly, it will be found in the
suggestions offered below that the matters of administering
public expenditures for research and for higher education are
considered jointly. It will be seen that a new administrative
agency of central government suggested below by the Scientific
Advisory Group would absorb certain functions now performed by
the Ministry of Education. Our opinion is that in the longer
run higher education and research, preparatory and technical
education, and elementary education would gain alike from the
separation of authority suggested; and a degree of safeguard
would also be provided against a single administrative
agency's exercising undue influence in molding attitudes
throughout the nation. It is to be recalled that the United
States Education Mission to Japan remarked (p. 28 of its
Report), "The Hinistry of ducation has been the seat of
power for those who controlled the minds of Japan."
Major Aspects of Reorganization
Three principal steps in the general reorganization
of science and its administration in Japan are suggested in
the following pages. They are:
A. Transformation of the Imperial Academy of
Sciences into a purely honorary scientific society.
B. Dissolution of the National Research Council
and the Japan Society for the Promotion of Scientific
Research, and formation of an advisory or deliberative body
(herein termed an Advisory Council on Higher Education and
Research), democratically chosen from a restricted electorate.
This Council, which would not be an arm of government, would
have the principal functions of (1) advising governmental
organizations as to objectives, policies, and principles in
higher education and research, and (2) nominating lists of
candidates for a governmental organization also to be brought
into existence, which would administer higher education and
research.
C. The formation of a Commission on Higher
Education and Research, an arm of government, absorbing
certain existing functions of the finistry of Education.
-19-

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
The personnel of the Commission would be appointed by the
Prime Minister from among a slate of candidates nominated
by the Advisory Council on Higher Education and Research.
The Commission on Higher ducation and Research would be
responsible to the Prime Minister, and would present its
budget to him and thence through the usual channels. The
major functions of the Comnission would be:
(1) To assume jurisdiction over public institu-
tions of higher education (universities or "Daigaku" and
certain "institutes" as distinguished from Koto Semmon Gakko
or Koto Gakko), and publicly-supported research institutions
except those operated by Ministries;
(2) To distribute as it deems wisest for the
welfare of the country such research funds as are made
available to it; and
(3) To advise the Prime ifinister and through him
tho Cabinet and the Jiet on coordination and integration of
research activities conducted by the several Ministries.
The Commission would thus exercise control over
all public (central government) funds spent in furtherance
of education at its highest level; it would directly control
all central government funds aestined to be expended for
research purposes by agencies other than the ministerial
departments; and it would advise upon the use of, but would
not directly control, all public funds for research conducted
directly by Ministries of the central government. In effect,
the Commission would thus be a central clearing house on
research activities supported by the central government from
public funds. Except as the Commission might be empowered
to check or prevent privately-supported researches on sub-
jects barred by SCAP regulations or peace treaty, it would
have no jurisdiction over research supported by private
funds, nor would it have jurisdiction over higher education
supported by private funds, except presumably as to initial
chartering of new institutions.
Transformation of the Imperial Academy of Science
The Japanese scientists whom we have interviewed
seem in general to think well of the existence of some sort
of an honorary scientific society. But they do not seem to
desire a non-democratic organization of any sort, whether
honorary or not, to hold and exercise power. In the past,
the Imperial Academy has unquestionably exercised a great
deal of influence, to the extent that it may reasonably be
said to have had power in fact if not in law. An expedient
-20-

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
and reasonable remedy is to alter the character of the
Imperial Academy chiefly by legal restriction of its functions
and legal severance of it from all access to public funds.
In this way it ought to be possible to transform the Imperial
Academy into a purely honorary scientific society.
Accordingly we suggest:
a. That the name of the Imperial Academy of Science
be changed to something like "The Honorary Japanese Academy of
Science".
b. That it be denied by law access to all or any
public funds and be dependent upon dues of members and/or
private donations.
c. That its functions be limited by law to
(1) publication of books, journals, monographs, pamphlets
and the like, of distinguished scientific character, or
subsidization of such publications, and (2) awarding of
prizes for excellence in scientific achievement.
d. That the present membership remain undisturbed
unless purged for other reasons than membership itself.
e. That the transfonmed organization be permitted
to establish its own rules of eligibility, representation,
elections, number of members, and the like.
It is the view of the Scientific Advisory Group
that if an honorary self-perpetuating association of scien-
tists so shorn of direct connection with government should
continue to exert a dominant influence in competition with
another democratically-elected scientific group having
direct access to government, then nothing genuinely effective
can be done in any way, outside of purging which is not the
concern of the Scientific Advisory Group, toward democratiz-
ing and rationalizing science and higher education in Japan.
Abolition of the National Research Council and the
Japan Society for the Promotion of Scientific Research
It is suggested that these organizations dissolve
themselves, or be dissolved if legal action is required.
They can perform no function which cannot be performed
equally well by the Advisory Council on Higher Education and
Research next considered.
-21-

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
Formation of an Advisory Council
on Higher Education and Research
The Renewal Committee might profitably spend
considcrable time in devising ways and means of securing an
advisory council, democratically elected though from a
restricted electorate, which would represent all fields of
scientific activity and all regions of Japan.
It would seem important first to define the elec-
torate. The Scientific Advisory Group feels that the member-
ship of the nation-wide professional and learned societies in
the United States would, if the same attempt were being made
there, provide a suitable electorate. If such societies were
formed in all fields of science in Japan, there would exist a
suitable elcctorate. The basic criteria of an elector suitable
to choose an Advisory Council on Higher Education and Research
would seem to the Scientific Advisory Board to be (a) sufficient
training in some professional field to establish a reasonable
degree of competence in it, as the ordinary bachelor's degree
would do in the United States, and (b) sufficient interest in
the professional field to pay membership dues to a professional
society. Further comments on the potential importance of
nation-wide professional societies in Japan appear in section V.
Another point important for the Renewal Committee to
consider would be the devising of ways and means of achieving
geographical representation within each professional or learned
society which would elect members of the Advisory Council on
Higher Education and Research. The Scientific Advisory Group
suggests that delegates to the Advisory Council from any pro-
fessional society be in some part elected to represent geo-
graphical areas of the country, and in some part be elected
at large. The nunbers geographically elected might well, in
our opinion, constitutc about two-thirds of the membership,
those elected at large one-third. In this way, it seems
possible that advocates of geographical representation would
be satisfied, while at the same time the opportunity to elect
representatives at large would satisfy the claims of those who
wish to be certain of the election of the most competent
pursonnel possible. Furthermore, election on the geographical
basis would provide a simple way of forming regional branches
of the Advisory Council on Higher Education and Research if
these should prove desirable.
From various sources, opinions have come to the
Scientific Advisory Group that other kinds of organizations
than professional societies, as for example private universi-
ties, labor unions of university or tcaching personnel, ought
-22-

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
to be specifically accorded representation on a deliberative
body such as the Advisory Council suggested above. Our
opinion is that members of private universities, labor
unions, or other groups, would be in a position to receive
appropriate representation through their membership in pro-
fessional societies.
The Renewal Committee may face the problem of
fixing upon an appropriate number of members of an Advisory
Council on Higher Education and Research, and of determining
the length of their tenure. On these matters, the Scientific
Advisory Group expresses only the opinions that membership
ought not to be so small as to fail to give widespread repre-
sentation, as we think would be the case with less than 200
members, or so large as to be unwieldly, as we think would be
the case with more than 500 members; and that tenure without
re-election should obviously not be less than one year and
probably not more than three years. Regularly recurring
elections seem advisable in order to maintain vitality. Nor
do we express opinions upon the necessary officers of the
Advisory Council, or their tenure, or their distribution among
the several fields of science.
Constituted as an advisory organ to a specific
governmental organization, members of the Advisory Council
might reasonably be provided with per diem and travel expenses
from governmental funds budgeted by the governmental organiza-
tion. But election expenses might more appropriately be borne
by the Advisory Council cither from membership dues or from
sums provided by the professional societies which elcct the
Council.
Miscellaneous ond minor functions of the Advisory
Council might be (a) to represent Japanese science in general
in international conferences (a function formerly performed
by the Imperial Academy of Sciences); (b) to engage in the
publication or the subsidization of publication of scientific
writings; (c) to receive and disburse donations from private
sources; and (d) to form from its own membership or other
persons, on its own volition, special committces of inquiry
into specific problems of higher education and research.
More important, the Advisory Council might well be
empowered by law to advise the Prime Minister and through
him the Cabinet and the Diet on problems of higher education
and research, cither on the initiative of the Advisory Council
or on the initiative of the Prime Minister, Cabinct, or Diet.
-23-

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
The Advisory Council might further be empowered by
law to advise the Commission on Higher Education and Research,
hereafter to be described, with respect to general policy in
the administration of higher education and research and with
respect to the budgetary requests of the Commission on Higher
Education and Rescarch. The Advisory Council could properly
be accorded definite authority to review and give advice upon
the Commission's budget, but not the authority to amend or
alter. In this respect, the control of a non-governmental
organization over a governmental one must be advisory or
moral, not legal.
The most important function of the Advisory Council
on Higher Education and Research might be to exercise a sub-
stantial and effective degree of influence over the selection
of the personnel of the Commission on Higher Education and
Research. Vie suggest that the Advisory Council on Higher
Education and Research might nominate initially and every
three years thereafter a slate of candidates for the member-
ship on the Commission on Higher Education and Rescarch, and
that legal action might be taken to confine official appoint-
ment of the officers in question to a choice among those
named on the slate submitted by the Advisory Council. In this
connection, it may be indicated that, as stated below, the
members of the Commission on Higher Education and Research
might be appointed by the Prime Minister. Our understanding
is that such a curtailment of the powers of appointment of the
Prime Minister would not be unconstitutional so far as
precedents are as yet established.
Formation and Functions of a Commission
on Higher Education and Research
If the general educational structure is to be
strengthened by some decentralization of the jurisdiction
of the Ministry of Education, if as adequate a direction
as possible is to be provided to institutions of higher
education supported by the public funds, and if as rational
a guide as possible is to be provided for the utilization of
public funds for scientific research, it seems advisable that
a Commission on Higher Education and Research be formed.
This Commission, if composed of competent persons, might help
greatly to coordinate and focus research activities of the
country undertaken outside of the ministerial research insti-
tutions; and it might help considerably to coordinate and
focus the research efforts conducted by the several ministerial
research institutions.
The Scientific Advisory Group is of the opinion
that such a Commission might reasonably consist of about
seven members, of whom one would act as chairman or director.
-24-

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
In order to assure a degree of representation as between the
natural sciences on the one hand, and the social or cultural
sciences on the other, it would scem reasonable to provide by
law that at least two of the members be drawn from the social
and/or cultural sciences, end at least two from the natural
sciences. Members of the Commission might best, in our
opinion, be appointed by and responsible to the Prime Minister,
who might also appoint the director. Hembers might be drawn
from the Advisory Council, but on appointment to the Commission
resign their membership in thc Council. The Prime Minister
himself might reasonably be required by law to appoint members
of the Commission only from a slate of nominees prepared for
him by the Advisory Council on Higher Education and Research.
This slate would presumably include at least three times as
many nominees as are to be appointed, in order thet the Prime
Minister may have appropriate latitude with respect to the
power of appointment. The members of the Commission would
presumably be full-time government employees, thus fully sub-
ject to governmental discipline and responsible to government.
Ve make no suggestion concerning appropriate levels of salary,
but are inclined to think that probably members of the Commis-
sion might well have status outside of Civil Service, at least
to the extent of being removable by dismissal on order of the
Prime Minister. As to tenure, we would suggest normal 3-year
terms, with incumbents eligible for reappointment, though only
if included in a slate of nominees to be presented by the
Advisory Council on Higher Education and Research every three
years. In this way, possibilities would exist for continuing
in office the most competent men in the judgment of an Advisory
Council, itself composed of men able to exercise judgment on
professional competence, while at the same time climination of
the weak and incompetent would not be blocked. Incidentally,
it may be suggested that an age limit, perhaps 65 or 70 years,
might reasonably be imposed; and that no provision could
reasonably be made for gcographical representation on so small
a conmission.
The Commission on Higher Education and Research
might well be denied jurisdiction over privately-supported
universities or privately-supported research institutions
beyond the act of recommending their chartering or their
recognition as juridical persons to the appropriate author-
ities. We consider that in normal times, and perhaps even
in the immediately abnormal situation, competition between
private and public universities is to be welcomed as provid-
ing the best assurance of general elevation of educational
and research standards and accomplishments.
The Comnission on Higher Education and Research
might well be accorded by law an advisory capacity in respect
to the allotment of public (central government) funds used in
-25

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
research by institutions directly controlled by the several
ministries. Given this advisory capacity, the Commission
would be in a position to make itself aware of the research
conducted in these highly important ministerial institutions,
and it could then provide the Prime Minister, Cabinet, and
Diet with information useful in minimizing duplicetion of
effort and organizations as between the Ministries, and thus
in economizing expenditures of ministerial research institu-
tions.
The Comnission on Higher Education and Research
might well be given complete jurisdiction over all publicly-
financed universities and institutes of "Daigaku" status and
over all publicly-financed research institutions not directly
under ministerial jurisdiction. It would presumably have
authority to promulgate rules and regulations governing the
institutions over which it has jurisdiction, as well as to
found new institutions and to expand or to contract old ones.
It would naturally have powers to review and consolidate the
budgets of the several institutions under its jurisdiction.
So far as concerns matters of instruction, as distinguished
from research, it is to be hoped that such a commission might
act to improve certain cxisting practices, to which reference
is made below under the heading "Comments on Higher Education".
The Commission on Higher Education and Rosearch
might well be accorded by law complete jurisdiction over the
allocation of public funds to be used for research purposes
other than by ministries directly. It might determino research
grants and subsidies, not only to publicly-supported universi-
ties and research institutions but also to all other such appli-
cants as may make application for grants in aid of scientific
research. It is to be expected that there may be at least
three major classes of rescarch disbursements: (a) disburse-
ments in continuance of approved research institutions;
(b) regular annual grants to adainistrations of publicly-
financed universities for distribution at the discretion of
those administrations; (c) grants in aid of research to appli-
cants of all sorts from all kinds of public and private insti-
tutions and even from individuals not associated with cduca-
tional or research institutions.
Disbursements of "(b)", grants to administrations
of publicly-financed universities for distribution at the
discretion of those administrations, would constitute an
innovation so far as concorns Japanese practice. Our infor-
mation is that such grants have hitherto been made directly
to "chairs" within universities, and approximately upon the
basis of the same sum per chair regardless of the merit of
the chair or the type of research. In the judgment of the
-26

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
Scientific Advisory Group, much is to be said in favor of a
procedure which places in the hands of the president or other
edministrator of a publicly-financed university cach year a
fund which that administrator may use, with appropriate
consideration of priority among research projects, within his
own institution in the furtherance of research work. This
would constitute a decentralization of authority not in
evidence in the past.
The Commission's problem of most efficiently
allocating public funds to research will prove difficult not
only in the immediate, but also in the more distant, future.
The nature of the problem is such that a perfect procedure
or a demonstrably optimum result is not in evidence anywhere
in the world. Briefly stated, the problom is one of allocat-
ing to the most important or productive uses, smaller funds
than will cover all justifiable demands upon them. The
fund-distributing agency must establish priorities for the use
of funds. The Scientific Advisory Group is well aware that
its stay in Japan has becn too short to provide a basis for
useful discussion of optimum priorities among general ficlds
of research or among specific research projects. Among other
questions which it has considered and which a Coamission on
Higher Education and Research would surely face will be the
following: Shall "fundanental" researches be accorded a
higher priority than "applied", or the reverse? In the field
of stimulating the export trade, shall research prioritios be
accorded to products made of domestically-produced materials
or to products mado of foreign-produced materials? Should
research directed at larger and more efficient domestic
production of domestically-consumed materials receive a high
priority, in order that import requirements for consumption
be minimized? Shall the projects in natural sicence, applied
or fundamental, be accorded higher priority than projocts in
the social sciences and humanities, considering that the future
participation of Japan in the community of nations may perhaps
depend quite as much upon political and social adaptations as
upon the economic? The Scientific Advisory Group believes
that no aspect of scientific research ought to be neglected,
suppressed, or heavily penalized. It does, however, tend to
think that the inmediate future calls for rather more emphasis
upon applied research than upon fundamental, upon natural
science than social and humanitarian, upon domestically pro-
duced and consumed materials than upon domestically-produced
and exported, and upon domestically-produced and exported than
upon imported materials processed for export or the processes
of manufacturing imported materials for export. Yet the
immediate circumstances may be expected to change, and a wise
Japanese Conmission on Higher Education and Research would
not sacrifice the future to the present. It must be prepared
-27-

=== Page 139 === (confidence 1.00)
to alter its assignments of priority as circumstances beyond
its control, or beyond any man's vision, will indicate.
The importance of selecting men of the greatest
possible competence and vision as members of the Commission
thus becomes obvious. If such men are selected, their judg-
ment of appropriate research priorities will prove much
superior to anything which an advisory commission from a
distant country, most imperfectly acquainted with Japan, can
possibly suggest.
The Commission on Higher Education would presumably
have the function of preparing and submitting the annual
budget to the Prime finister, whence it would pass through
regular channels. But it might reasonably be required by law
to submit this budget in detail to the Advisory Council on
Higher Education and Research or appropriate committee thereof
and to receive and consider the advice of that Council,
valuable because of the professional competence of its member-
ship, before the budget is submitted to the Prime Minister.
One of the items in the Commission's budget might well be the
provision of funds to finance meetings and travel of the
Advisory Council.
Finally, the Commission on Higher Education and
Research might well be required to publish annually a partic-
ularized record of receipts, disbursements, and balances,
and to make this record available to the Advisory Council
on Higher Education and Research.
-28-

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
V.
PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES AND THE ADVANCE
OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Some of the Japanese associations of highly-
educated persons, which in the United States are called
professional, scientific, or learned societies, differ
little from what is common in the United States. Others,
however, seem to be modeled upon the Imperial Academy as
rather small, self-chosen, self-perpetuating groups,
apparently regarding themselves as embodying the elite;
and still others are even smaller local organizations.
The differences between the professional societies in
Japan as compared with the United States aay perhaps be
attributed to the all-pervading influence of government
in university and other affairs, the strong Japanese
tendency to organize societies and create official posi-
tions, and the cohesiveness of groups formed about one
professor or one institute.
The Scientific Advisory Group believes that
professional societies can play an important role in the
development of science and technology in Japan. A profes-
sional society in the sense used here refers to a voluntary
association of men and women of some degree of competence
in a particularized field of science. The degree of compe-
tence cannot be accurately defined but might be considered
to be the bachelor's degree or its equivalent. Membership
in an effective professional society is on a nation-wide
basis and is open to any individual with the necessary
competence and sufficient interest to pay the annual dues
of the society. An effective professional society is not
government-sponsored or controlled, but is a voluntary
association of the individuals concerned.
The main aim of any professional society is to
advance the science it represents -- not the scientists who
are its members. It accomplishes its aim by supporting an
effective publication devoted to the field covered by the
society, by furnishing a free and independent agency which
allows the scientists in a field to become acquainted with
one another and with the problems on which each is engaged,
and by serving to encourage, to stinulate, and to crystallize
research and scientific thought in the field the society
represents.
Effective professional societies aim to hold at
least an annual meeting -- the place of the meeting shifting
-29-

=== Page 141 === (confidence 1.00)
from one center to another from year to year and sometimes
occurring several times a year. The programs for these
meetings include reports of the work of individual
scientists, invitation papers, and symposia or discussions
on major problems. Programs are not exclusively occupied
by the older and established scientists. Opportunity is
furnished the younger scientists to present their results
and opinions.
On occasion joint meetings in which two or more
professional societies participate are found desirable.
If sufficiently large and active, a professional society
may find it desirable to organize local sections or branches,
but these by no means substitute for or replace the meetings
of the entire society.
Examples of professional societies not widely
different from their counterparts in the United States are
perhaps the medical, engineering, physico-mathematical,
and zoological societies in Japan; this, however, does not
exhaust the list.
One example is the Japanese Medical Association.
During the war, it became a semi-governmental body with
compulsory membership. But this wartime organization has
been dissolved, and plans for a new association have been
drawn up. The new constitution is similar in almost every
respect to that of the American Medical Association.
Already the prefectural, city, and town medical associations
have been reorganized along democratic lines. Clearly the
new national association is as yet in the process of forma-
tion, and therefore its final complexion cannot be perceived.
The membership will presumably be both large and nation-wide,
and, so far as is known, will include not only practicing
physicians but also the academic group. The stated objec-
tives provide for general elevation of medical standards,
adoption of a code of medical ethics, and stimulation of
medical research both clinical and academic. To the extent
that the scholarly group participates and exerts influence,
the new association may prove to be a professional society
as the words are understood in the United States, with
advancement of the art and science in the foreground; if
their participation and influence fail, its activity may
tend more toward improvement of the economic and social
status of its members. The outcome remains to be seen.
The Physico-Mathematical Society of Japan appears
very similar to corresponding organizations in the United
States. It has recently been split to separate the
physicists and the mathematicians. The physical society
-30-

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
contains between one and two thousand members, probably
nearly all Japanese physicists. It has branches in the
major university centers which hold monthly meetings. An
annual national meeting is held in the different centers
in rotation. Apparently this is a scientific society in
the usual sense of the word.
The engineering society and the zoological
society in Japan are likewise nation-wide in scope of
membership, and their membership is large and representative.
Un the other hand, as far as the Scientific
Advisory Group can learn, there are few if any nation-wide
societies of large membership representing the various sub-
fields of the social sciences and humanities. Counterparts
of the American Economic Association and the American
Historical Association, to name only two, do not seem to
exist. Although precise information is not immediately
available, there appear to be numerous local groups, in
these fields and others, associated with a single professor
or a single institute that call themselves scientific
societies. They would call for no particular mention except
for the facts that some of them publish journals, many of
them are alleged to operate as political cliques, and it may
be possible that consolidations of some would provide at
least the nuclei for truly nation-wide professional
societics.
It seems to the Scientific Advisory Group that
the development of science and technology, and indeed
higher education generally in Japan, would be aided greatly
by the formation of more nation-wide professional or
scientific societies. It is by way of the journals of such
nation-wide societies and by way of their annual meetings
that the competence of scholars comes best and soonest
before the judgment of their peers; it is through the open
judgment of their peers that scholars come readily to the
attention of administrators; and the judgment of peers,
freely expressed, cannot fail to affect strongly and rightly
the action of administrators in appointment and promotion of
scholars. The prompt formation and development of genuinely
democratic and effective nation-wide professional societies
in fields where they do not now exist may constitute one way
of escape from the procedures still so commonly thought on
the one hand to hamper the ablest men in achieving the posi-
tions commensurate with their ability, and on the other hand
to elevate preferentially those of seniority and privileged
social status.
-31-

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
Finally, it seems important to the Scientific
Advisory Group that nation-wide professional societies,
well covering the many particularized fields of science
and organized democratically and voluntarily to include
as many members as might measure up to a reasonable degree
of competence and as might choose to pay dues, could
constitute an appropriate basic electorate for a national
Advisory Council on Higher Education and Research, as
suggested above. We question whether a more appropriate
electorate, if it is to be in any genuine sense democratic,
would be either as easy to form or as suitable to the
purpose.
-32-

=== Page 144 === (confidence 1.00)
VI.
COMMENTS ON UNIVERSITY EDUCATION
The Scientific Advisory Group, while charged
with the problem of investigating general reorganization
of science and technology in Japan, has necessarily
learned something about instruction within universities,
and has had the advantage of visiting several and observ-
ing contrasts and similarities. The comments which follow,
while not systematically organized, seem pertinent to a
report of activities, especially since we have found
research in science and technology to be inseparable from
instruction.
Private Universities
The Scientific Advisory Group has been impressed
by evidence, perceptible in many directions though somewhat
intangible in its nature, that the private universities of
Japan are and have been leading proponents of liberal and
democratic ideals, inculcating individual initiative and
judgment. Perhaps in part for this reason, perhaps as much
for other reasons, their graduates constitute but a small
fraction of the appointive officials of the country, al-
though we are advised that among all university graduates
those of private universities constitute at least half,
and that the post-occupation Diet consists more than half
of graduates of private universities. Our impression is
that Japan, if it is to become a peace-loving nation
respecting internally the individual freedom of its citi-
zens and externally the rights of other nations, would
profit from development of private universities.
In accordance with this impression, we have
earlier expressed the view that the private universities
might wisely be freed entirely from the control of any
national administrative agency, whether the Ministry of
Education or a new Commission on Higher Education and
Research, except as regards the launching of new institu-
tions. The existing administrative power of granting or
denying the formation of new faculties, or of passing upon
the addition of new departments or chairs within existing
private universities, seems to us a power which might
reasonably be removed, regardless of how wisely that power
may have been exercised in the past or might be exercised
in the future. At the same time we have expressed the
opinion that the members or faculties of private universi-
ties might well continue to be eligible to receive grants
from government funds in aid of research projects.
-33-

=== Page 145 === (confidence 1.00)
It remains to mention an aspect of private-
university finance. Several of these universities have
suffered severely from war damage. Reconstruction will be
difficult, to say nothing of expansion in the fields par-
ticularly of laboratory sciences and engineering, where
the private universities have lagged behind the public.
Our understanding is that the private universities wish to
avoid support drawn from public funds, and that they feel
confident that alumni and friends can be counted upon.
Yet a gift tax exists which, we understand, diverts to the
public treasury 60 per cent of any sizable gift proffered
by a donor. Lacking knowledge of the precise importance
of this tax to national revenues, we nevertheless hope that
the possibility of its removal, at least so far as concerns
non-profit educational institutions, may be carefully
examined. The benefits to private universities and research
institutions would perhaps be substantial. Fublicly-
supported institutions would share in the benefits, however,
since they too may be recipients of gifts.
Incomc-yielding properties of some private univer-
sities, notably at least one lower or preparatory school
(such schools are commonly conducted as parts of private
universities, yielding revennes helping to support higher
cducation and research), are momentarily taken over by the
occupation forces. We express the hope that they may be
permitted to revert to normal uses at the earliest moment
feasible.
International Contacts
In private and public universities alike, the
teachers and researchers are eager for renewal of contact
with other countries. Access to foreign literature and
equipment, ability to send students abroad for training
and professors abroad for research and on teaching assign-
ments, and permission to bring in instructors from other
countries, have been stressed repeatedly by the Japanese
in our conferences.
The subject of renewal of international contacts
is not one in which the Scientific Advisory Group feels
itself competent. We are aware that the movement of goods
and persons to and from Japan must be controlled closely
for a time. The movement of scientific and educational
literature into and out of the country, on a non-commercial
exchange or barter basis, however, seems to us a matter in
which relaxation of existing restrictions might reasonably
be considered by SCAP authorities. When no financial trans-
action is involved, it seems possible that exchanges of
-34-

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
publications between educational institutions in Japan and
abroad might be made more simple, direct, and rapid than
under present regulations. Perhaps the mere registration
of such non-commercial transactions, together with a device
for shipment in both directions through SCAP offices, might
deserve consideration, pending the time when commercial
transactions and direct mailing services become possible.
He feel that controls aimed at withholding published
scientific information from the Japanese, if indeed there are
controls so designed, can serve no useful purpose to the
Allies and would tend to hamper the Japanese in reconstruc-
tion efforts. Additionally, the outside world would benefit
rather than suffer from wider diffusion of knowledgo of
events and of intellectual tendencies in Japan, such as a
froor outflow of Japanese publications would facilitate.
The observation seems warranted that the Japanese,
so long isolated from forcign countries, may not be fully
aware, when they speak of sending students abroad, of the
tremendous pressure upon university facilities which seems
in most countries to have come with the cessation of hostil-
ities. Farticularly in the United States but equally in
Canada, the physical and instructional facilities for higher
cducation are being taxed heavily by an influx of students,
largely veterans. As a consequence, standards of admission
tend to rise. Perhaps for some years to come, admission of
Japanese students will be more difficult than was true between
1920 and 1935. Admission to graduate schools will be
especially difficult. It may be suggested in this connection
that Japanese graduate students, when permitted to apply for
study in the United States, may face the prospect of being
denied admission as much or more for lack of competence in the
English language as for inadequate undergraduate training in
substantive disciplines.
Although we have had neither time nor opportunity
to examine more than casually the museums, libraries, and
scientific collections of Japan, we have encountered evidence
that considerable material exists in both private and public
hands. lie express the hope that effort will be made to insure
that these collections will not be allowed to deteriorate and
that they may be preserved as a part of the scientific heritage
of the Japanese people.
Relations with Government
Whether the administrative functions of the central
government with respect to publicly-supported universities
and attached research institutions are exercised in the future
by the Ministry of Education or by a new commission, the
-35-

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
organization so supported must presumably have budgets subject
to administrative approval and their personnel must be
government employces. Administrative control may therefore
continue to reach deeply into instruction, research, and
general organization in the government universities.
We have not exhaustively considered possible reforms
in administration. It seems fitting, however, to record some
scattered impressions of aspects of administrative control
which seem deserving at least of review and reconsideration.
Already it has been suggested that wider latitude might be
accorded by the governmental administration to administrators
of government universities in the use and internal distribu-
tion of public funds devoted specifically to research. Addi-
tionally, it would seem that serious consideration might well
be given to ways and means of granting to university admin-
istrations wider initiative in the creation of new faculties,
new departments, and new chairs; in the consolidation, curtail-
ment, and discontinuance of thc same; and in the number of
students allowed to enroll. As matters stand, there appears
to be a degree of standardization applied to government
universities which runs counter to the human probability that
among several universities all faculties in a given field
cannot be of equal cuality, and that within any given full-
fledged university having all faculties, their relative quality
changes with inevitable changes of personnel. Higher education
and research rest heavily upon the individual qualitics of
instructors. Any university administration might reasonably
be permitted to capitalize upon excellence in particular
directions by having the latitude to expand in those directions
even at the cost of contraction in others.
A striking feature of higher education in Japan is
the infrequency of exchange of instructors between institu-
tions. Both instructors and students obviously suffer
unnecessary losses thereby. To what extent this immobility
of instructional staff has been due to governmental admini-
stration we are uncertain. It seems clear, however, that
governmental administration is in a position at least to
encourage such exchange of staff. Equally striking is the
infrequency of transfer of students, even thosc proceeding
to graduato work, from one university to another. To what
extent this is the choice of students, to what extent the
existence of administratively-imposed barriers to transfer,
we are not clear. But on the assumption that quality of
instruction in a given field must differ between universi-
ties, we consider that a change of practice might well prove
advantageous to scientific progress.
As has been pointed out by the United States Educa-
tion Mission to Japan, restriction of intercourse betweon
-36-

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
universities extends even to exchange of library facilities.
It is to be hoped that frcer and casier utilization of one
another's libraries, including a system of inter-library
loans, may develop. Similarly, some economies might be
found in the establishment of a few national or regional
service shops, wherein experimental instruments and apparatus
might be repaired or calibrated.
Conceivably, the prevalence of the "chair" system
within the public universities may bc an important factor
in the imperfection of communications both between and within
universities. The idea that a full-fledged university proper-
ly consists of a given number of faculties, that cach faculty
is subdivided into chairs, and that each chair is a little
kingdom in which the professor exercises jurisdiction over an
assistant professor and one or more assistants, is assuredly
alien to American thought. It is difficult to see how the
chair systom can fail to stimulate attempts to monopolize
subject matter, to cstablish laboratories even if they dupli-
cate or overlap existing ones, to channelize students and
hold them at point of initial registration, to retard deserved
promotions and otherwise facilitate the exercise of personal
authority, and gonerally to make for operations "in camora"
and to hamper cooperative effort. Recognizing that drastic
modification of the chair system might prove extromely
difficult, we nevertheless strongly hope that it may be given
careful consideration.
Genural Aspects of Instruction
Aside from the high degree of compartmentaliza-
tion within universitius which was mentioned above, the
aspects of high-lovel instruction particularly noteworthy
to the Scientific Advisory Group were the following. No
attempt was made to survey the subject carefully.
In general, graduate study in Japan seems to
involve attachment to a single professor and work under his
direction almost entirely, rather than exposure in advanced
seminars to the competition with other students or to the
instruction of other professors.
At the graduate and research levels, at least in
the fields of natural science and technology, emphasis seems
to fall upon work in pure sciences to an extent detrimental
to applied science. Such emphasis may reasonably be ques-
tioned considering the present desperate condition of the
Japanese economy and the need to restore it. The appropriate
emphasis in Japan at this stage would seem to be the opposite
of that in the United States, where there may be said to be
overemphasis upon teaching the application of science to
-37-

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
industry. Without abandoning the more romantic research in
pure science, therc appears to be need in Japan for more
study of and instruction in production methods, production
quality control, design and construction improvements, safety
and maintenance methods, and development of a system of
pre-failure testing for such things as machinery, electric
circuits, and apparatus used by utilities.
At the undergraduate level, the relative prevalence
of lectures as compared with laboratory and problem-solving
courses is conspicuous. Wc observed only one university
using laboratories for undergraduate instruction in engineer-
ing, and those were dynamo-machinery and heat-engine labora-
tories about like what would have been found in the United
States in 1900. It may be noted that if some research
laboratories attached to chairs should be abandoned, some
space and a little useful equipment would be made available
for student-instruction laboratories; and growing familiarity
of students and professors with laboratory techniques would
tend to reduce the widespread dependence upon assistants for
the manual work involved in laboratory practice.
-38-

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
VII.
OBSERVATIONS ON SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY
All technology is based upon the results of
scientific research, and the general recognition of this
fact has led to the ever-increasing dependence of indus-
trial management upon the scientific laboratory.
In any free-enterprise society there is competi-
tion, without which industrial progress would be relatively
slow. In such a socicty, rescarch effort is the only
effective insurance which an industrial organization has
against the obsolescence of its product due to the technical
progress of its competitors.
The work carried on in industrial laboratories may
be divided into three categories:
(a) The control function. This includes the con-
trol of the materials and processes used in production and
may also well include the establishment of manufacturing
specifications. The former function involves the making of
chemical and physical tests -- for the most part, repetitive
work carried out by trained techincians. The latter is
closely related to engineering design.
(b) New applications of scientific knowledge to
improve prosent product or reduce its cost or to create
new devices.
(c) Scarch for new scientific facts and principles,
some of which may later be applied to the production of
entirely new devices.
An efficient industrial laboratory owes much of
its strength to having on its staff a group of scientists
with widely different backgrounds end, hence, coming from
various universities where they have been under the influ-
ence of various teachers.
It also owes much to the cooperation of these
scientists with one another, and to their cooperation with
the engineers of the manufacturing organization which they
both serve. The attainment of a maximum of such cooperation
is not casy and will always call for constant effort on the
part of all concerned.
To utilize as fully as possible the faculties of
the scientist in industry, he should not feel hampered in
his mental processes, and this freedom may well result in
-39-

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
his having valuable new ideas in fields outside of the
major interest of the industry with which he is associated.
Such ideas, if carried far enough in the laboratory to put
them into sufficiently concrete form, may well be salable
to some other company in whose field of interest they do lie.
If a good piece of experimental work coming from
the laboratory is to bear fruit it cannot in general safely
be turned over to a factory unless and until it has been
given both very concrete form and searching test. For this
reason, pilot plant production is often imperative; and the
pilot plant will in general best be operated by the labora-
tory, as the gap between the initial experimental work and
the pilot plant stage is much more difficult to bridge than
that between the pilot plant and the factory.
In the United States, a university professor is
frequently retained by industry for his services in an
advisory capacity, a practice which can be of mutual benefit
to university and industry. For the university, it means a
closer contact than it would otherwise have with industry,
onc of the various fields of activity for which it is train-
ing men. It also vitalizes to the pupil the work of the
teacher by showing that this work has practical as well as
cultural value. To the industry, it makes available the
experience of the scientist and his fund of special knowledge.
In addition to this, United States industry fre-
quently gives financial support to a research project to
be carried out in a university. Where the subjcct is one of
wide interest and importance, and secrecy is not required,
this practice can be of considerable mutual value. For the
university, it brings toaching staff and students in touch
with the industry and with a live problem, and the results
of the work can later be published. For the industry, the
research results themselves may be helpful, and the contact
will have resulted in a demonstration of the potential
value to the industry of the university staff members, in
addition to showing the ability of the students involved,
some of whom may later be employed by the industry. This
practice may to advantage be followed later in Japan.
An entire industry can sometimes to advantage be
served by a research institute established for fundamental
research in the ficld of the industry, and financially
supported by the various competing manufacturers cngaged
in this field. The results would be used to supplement
those obtained by cach company in its own private laboratory.
Examples of this type of institution are the textile and
paper institutes in the United States.
-40-

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
The Application of Science to Japanese Industry
In comparison with the products of European and
United States industries, the manufactured products of Japan
have, in general, come to be regarded as of poor quality.
The better application of science to the control of
the materials and methods used in Japanese industry and to
the inspection of the components and of the final product
could readily remove this stigma. Why hasn't it been done?
Visits to factories and laboratories supply much of the
answer. They show science entering Japanese industry to
only a very limited extent, as in general there are very few
scientists in Japanese industrial laboratories.
Apparently but few Japanese scientists are at
present willing to accept positions in these laboratories.
For reasons of prestige, and freedom in the technical con-
duct of their work, they prefer university positions, just
as United States scientists did carly in the history of
organized industrial research in that country. This is a
situation which can be dealt with successfully. The posi-
tion in the industrial laboratory in Japan can be made at
least as attractive as it is in the university. This would
necessitate recognition on the part of industrial management
of the importance of science in industry and a treatment of
the scientist which accords with this. The scientist must
receive at least as much financial recompense for his work
as he would in a university. He must have adequate library
and other material facilities, able and well-trained assis-
tants, as much freedom in the technical conduct of his work
as its nature will permit, and the privilege of publishing
in his ovin name his worth-while new results. He must also
be allowed to attend scientific conferences where ho may
meet and discuss his work with his confreres.
In the past, a powerful deterrent to the applica-
tion of science in Japanese industry was to be found in the
effective artificial control of the prices of manufactured
products which existed due to the influence of control associ-
ations. This greatly reduced the incentive either to improve
product or to reduce costs.
Still another deterrent was the failure of the
patent system, for if inventions coming from the laboratory
cannot be protected, it becomes more difficult to justify
the expense of the laboratory. Patents should contain com-
plete disclosures and the patent laws should be so adminis-
tered that the rights of the inventor are upheld. This is
of great importance, as the patent system of any country has
so much to do with the incentive to carry on research and
hence with the growth and development of its industries.
-41-

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
The help which Japan's industries can derive from
the laboratory in the near future will of necessity come
from the control of materials and manufacturing processes
and the application of scientific methods to the inspection
at various stages of the factory product
Other scientific effort directed to help in the
rehabilitátion of Japanese industry could seemingly best be
concentrated for the present on new applications of existing
scientific knowledge to improve present product or reduce
its cost or to create new devices, leaving largely for the
future the search for new scientific facts and principles.
There will, however, be exceptions to this, as acientists,
like other people, differ greatly from one another in their
interests and their capabilities, and there will be some 
who could not contribute. to industry in the present emergeney
and who could best be encouraged to work on the longer term
and more fundamental type of research.
Laboratories of Zaibatsu Companies
Some of the largest industrial laboratories:of
Japan have been those of the Zaibatsu concerns which are
now undergoing dissolution. (A Zaibatsu company is one
which in any way has come to have excessive power.) Ques-
tion has been raised as to the future disposition of these
laboratories.
In many cases, what is involved is a liquidation
of a holding company, leaving the former subsidiaries as
separate independent companies.
In some of these cases there were several separate
laboratories, each serving one of the subsidiaries. In such
cases it would seem that each laboratory might simply become
an integral part of the manufacturing company which it has
been serving. If for any reason, such as enforced curtail-
ment of the volume of business of that particular company,
it should appear that the laboratory is relatively too large,
a reduction in size might be indicated and might even be
possible without decrease in usefulness.
Where, as in the case of the Zaibatsu brewing
industry, a laboratory has been serving several factories
all employed in the same field, and, under the terms of the
dissolution order, these factories are to be separated, it
would still seem desirable and practicable for the one labor-
atory to continue to serve them all; that is, insofar as the
service required is that of control rather than something
which the individual factory organization would desire kept
secret from the others. The laboratory could simply be made
-42-

=== Page 154 === (confidence 1.00)
a separate commercial company deriving its financial support
from its clients, the separate manufacturing units.
Where the laboratory of a Zaibatsu company has
been rendering service to several subsidiary companies
operating in different fields, it could be split up into
several parts and each of these joined to the appropriate
manufacturing group. This however mignt well involve the
duplication of library and other services and perhaps
machine-shop and glass-blowing facilities, as well as special
apparatus. As alternatives, it might be better to set up a
large laboratory of this kind on a commercial basis as an
independent profit-making unit supported by various industries
(like the A. D. Little Company of Boston), or as a non-profit
making unit carrying out private research for any industry
desiring its help (like the liellon Institute of Pittsburgh).
With the availability of these different methods
for handling specific cases, disposition of the laboratories
which have been connected with Zaibatsu companies would not
seem to present a difficult problem; nor can their continued
existence at anything like their present strength be regarded
as constituting a worrysome war potential. They certainly
should not be eliminated or weakened, especially at this time
when Japanese industry has need of all available technical
skill.
Future Prospects for Japanese Industry
With changed educational methods, designed to
develop rather than stifle originality, with a more extensive
and better use of science by industry, and with the industri-
ousness and manual skill and dexterity of the Japanese people,
there is every reason to predict a brilliant future for
Japanese industry and, with it, a higher level of living than
the mass of the Japanese people have ever known.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
VIII.
CUNCLUDING REMARKS
The members of the Scientific Advisory Group bring
this report to a close in awareness of its deficiencies and
of their own. Six men sojourning for six weeks in a foreign
country of 70 million people whose language they cannot use
are inherently unlikely to be able to comprehend fully even
the restricted segment of Japanese organization and activity
which they scrutinize, however closely. We have suggested
changes in the administrative structure of higher education
and scientific research in Japan and have chosen to express
ourselves as specifically as might be. It is hoped that the
suggestions will be considered with due regard for the limi-
tations of their authors. In particular we regret that time
has not permitted us to draw as fully as the circumstances
indicated upon the accumulated experiences and knowledge of
personnel in the several sections of GHQ, SCAP.
Change in the structure of administration of science
in Japan is in course and will proceed. It will not be
accomplished over night. Its success will ultimately depend
upon people -- Japanese people -- far more than upon any
scheme of organization. It will not succeed in an appropriate
sense if efforts are confined to the natural sciences, pure or
applied. The reconstruction of Japan and her rehabilitation
in the eyes of the world call equally for leadership and
advancement of thought in the social, economic, and cultural
fields, and for change (or continuation of change) in the
attitudes of the people as well. Material and spiritual
reconstruction must move forward on a common front. Progress
depends not alone upon the scientists but upon the collabora-
tion of scientific and political leaders. Their joint efforts
to vitalize the new Constitution and to restore the economy
of Japan will be watched throughout the world.
** * * *
Members of Scientific Advisory Group (see p. iv):
(Signed)
Roger Adams
W. D. Coolidge
Royal W. Sorensen
W. V. Houston
Merrill K. Bennett
William J. Robbins
-44-

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.95)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
OPPICE OF THE SUPREME COMMANDER
APO 500
4 March 1948
This report of the Scientific Advisory Group on
the Reorganization of Science and Tec! nology in Japan
is accepted as a Cocrrent of reference for study and
analysis by interestcd staff sections of Generel
Headquarters and by Japanese officials and Japanese
Cove"nment agencies concerned, to assist in ac!ieving
tle revitalization of scientific researeh and
technology and an improved educational organization.
The vitalization of scientific reserrch and technology
and an enliglitened derocratic eucational system in
Japan are aprroved Occunetion Objectives.
Appreciation is eypressed to the rembers of the
Scientific Advisory Group for the time they so
generously gave sr the contributjons they have wade
In improving reseural in Japan. They have earned the
thanks of the allied Hations for their extrerely
valusble report.
Wayde hfe Aut
LAS CA
STAT

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.96)
meno to sANAce
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
-21948
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1 July 1948
894.92/7-148
My dear Mr. Secretary:
62545
In my letter of 25 June, forwarding to you the
text of a policy decision approved by the Commission relative
to Access to Japanese Technical and Scientific Information
in Japan, I referred to the various statements made by Com-
mission Representatives at the time of the adoption of this
policy decision, uni the esire of the Commission that an
excerpt from the minutes of the meeting be forwarded to the
Supreme Comiander for his information in connection with the
terms of the policy.
At its one hunired-thirteenth meeting today, the
子
Conmission approved the minutes of its one hundred-twelfth
meeting. I am euclosing the text of Item 4 of these minutes,
whiel covers the diseussien en the policy on Access to Japanese
Technical and Scientiric Infcrnution in Japan, with the request
that, in accordance with the wiches of the Commission, this
be forwarded to the Supreme Commander.
Sincerely yours,
C
S
Samuel S. Stratton
Acting Secretary General
Enclosure
The Honorable George C. Larshall
Secretary of State
894.9
Washington, D. C.
2
7.148

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.97)
SANA 
July 8, 1948
In reply refer to
NA
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY SANACC
894.92/7-148
Subject:
Item 4 of Minutes of One Hundred Twelfth
Meeting of the Far Eastern Commission:
Access to Japanese Teohnical end Soientific
Information in Japan.
Heference is made to the memorandum for the Secre-
tary, SAN CC of June 29, 1948 from the Deputy to the
Assistant Secretary for Occupied Areas, in which it was
stated that at the time the policy decision regarding
Access to Japanese Technical and Soientifio Information
in J pan was adopted in the Far Eastern Commission, a
number of Commission represent:tives made formal state-
ments for the record with respect to aspects of the
policy. The Seoretary, S NAcC, was also informed that
5
it was the desire of the Commission that the attention
of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers be called
to Item 4 of the Minutes of the One Hundred Twelfth
Commission mecting whioh contains these statements.
Accordingly, there 1s attached the text of Item 4
of these minutes which covers the discuesion in the Com-
mi sion on the subject of Access to Japanese Technical
CS/V
end Scientific Information in Japan. It is requested
that this enclosure be forwsrded to the Supreme Com-
mander for Allied Powers for his informetion.
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistent Secretary
894.92
Enclosure:
FILE
As stated above.
一
M
603
NA: ALDunning/ggp
7/6/48
FE
21846

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
RESTRICTED
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
memociofted
Washington, D. C.
ALD
SANA-6159
9 July 1948
894.92/7-448
MEHORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mrs. A. L. Dunning - NA)
Subject:
Directive Transmitted to SCAP by the
Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Reference: SANA-6150 (30 June 1948)
Enclosed are four copies of Directive, Serial No. 92,
transmitted to SCaP by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Copy
No. 1 is for transmittal to the Far Eastern Commission,
and Copies Nos. 2, 3, and 4 are for the files of the
State Departnent.
For the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating
Conmittee:
W. A. SCHULGEN
CS/V
Acting Secretary
Enclosure:
Directive, Serial Ho. 92,
Copies Nos. 1, 2, 3 & 4.
V1
WHe..
RESTRICTED
2035

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.96)
De/m
Jaly 16, 1948
In reply refer to
A
RESTRLCTED
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY GENERAL.
PAR EASTERN CONNISSION
In accordence with a memorandum dnted July 9, 1948,
from the Stete-Army-Havy-Air Foroe Coordinnting Committee,
there 1s enalosed a certifled copy of a direotive, Serial
No. 92, to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers re-
garding Aocess to Japanese Teohnioal and Bolentifie Informa-
tion in Japan, to be filed with the Far Enstern Commiemion
under the provisions of paragraph III, 4, of its Terms of
Reference.
C. V. HULICK
Charles E, Seltzman
Enclosure:
Cony No. 1 (certified)
of Direetive to SCAP.
Serial No. 92.
NA:ALDunning/ggp
FE
CR/2K
7/14/48
2033

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTIO
UNITED STATES
340
RSPARATIONS AND ASSTITUTION
TOKYO. JAPAN
DIVISION OF
AY
S.S
NO 3
NORTNFAST SAN AFTARE
0
E
CONFIDENRAL
JU151948
S
oubjeat:
100
DIVISION OF ECONONIC PROPER
POLICY
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
OCV151948
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose original and five
copies of a Memorendum of Conversetion between Dr.
. G. Mout, Chsirman of the Netherlands Reparations
and Restitution Delegstion in Tokyo, and Homer L.
Buker, U. S. Reparations and Restitution Delegation
in Tokyo, on July 3, regarding access to Japanese
technical and scientific inform tion in Japen.
Respectfully yours,
Hge
Charbe J.
Charles L. Hodge.
Chier
0~20190
VvL
Enclospres: (6)
Memorandum of Conversation
File
grm
CONFIDENTIAL
3101

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
FOR DEPARTMENTAL U
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
Tokyo, Japan
PRESENT:
DATE:
3 July 1948
Dr. M. G. Mout, Chairman, Netherlands Reparations &
Restitution Delegation
Homer L. Baker, U. S. Reparations & Restitution Del-
egation
cc:
USRPD, Tokyo
Dept., Washington (IR, OE, A-S, FE; & SEA)
Dr. M. G. Mout, Chairman, Netherlande Repara-
tions & Restitution Delegation, made a brief call this
morning for the purpose of enouiring cbout FEd doouments
on the fuuject of access to Jepanese technical and soien-
tific infor.tion in Jepan. He vas particularly interested
in SC-9c/7, Quest1ons and Answers Hepard1ng S0-280/6, and
in the raft oroposnl for the policy. During the course of
the conv:rmation, Dr. Mout evidenced coneiderable interest
in the noesibility of the investig tion of technical and
ecientiric crocesses in Japan cnd said that his Government
was varticul.rly intorested in fish net manufacturing
processes, fishing tecrniques, and in textile industry
machinery and rocesses. He exoressed the hope that hi
Government vould be able to obtain information of valuo
in these fields.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.93)
In reply refer to
July 16, 1948
894.92/7-948
NA
RESTHICTED
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY GENERAL,
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
In aocordence with a memorandum dated July 9, 1948,
from the Stete-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee,
there is enclosed a certified copy of a direotive, Serial
No. 92, to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers re-
garding Access to Japanese Technical and Soientifie Informa-
tion in Japan, to be filed with the Far Eastern Commission
under the provisions of paragraph III, 4, of its Terms of
Referenoe.
CS/V
C. V. HULICK
for Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Seoretary
Vi
Enclosure:
890
Copy No. 1 (certified)
of Direotive to SCAP.
JUL 16 1948 P.M.
Serial No. 92.
A to
H
the signed or
Am
aeD
Dal.
K/21K
NA:ALDunning/ggp
948
7/14/48
JUL 15 1548 PM.
2033

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
2
RESTRICTED
COPY NO.
Serial No. 92
1 July 1948
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
ACCESS TO JAPANESE TECHNICAL AND
SCIENTIFIC INFORMATION IN JAPAN
The following directive, serial nuaber 92, prepared by the
State Department to implement the policy adopted by the FEC on
June 24, 1948 under the provisions of Paragraph II, A 1 of its
terms of reference has been received from the State, Army, Navy,
Air Force Departments for transmission to you for your guidance
in accordance with Paragraph III, 1, of its terms of reference:
"During the period from July 1, 1948 through March 31,
1949, technical representatives of the governments of members
of the Far Eastern Conunission should be perlitted access to
and the right to take copies of the details of any technical
or scientific processes of industrial or conmercial value
which are of Japanese origin and ownership and which were
developed prior to December 31, 1945.
"Technical or scientific infor.ation obtained by any
representative of the government of a member of the Far
Eastern Comission pursuant to this policy statement should
be promptly and fully disclosed to SCAP for dissemination to
other interested members of the Far Eastern Commission upon
specific request."
RESTRICTED

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.95)
NA
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
Washington, D. C.
DCR
SANA-6197
13 August 1948
MEMCRANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY CF STATE:
(Attn: Mrs. A. L. Dunning, NIA)
Subject:
Directive on Access to Japanese Technical
and Scientific Information in Japan.
5-14.9217-948
References:
a. SANA-6150 (30 Jun 48)
b. SANA-6159 ( 9 Ju1 48)
c. SANA-6160 (12 Ju1 48)
894.92/8-1348
You are advised that Serial No. 92, copies of which were
transmitted to you by reference b, has been downgraded to
UNCLASSIFIED.
For the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee:
N. De. y
Secretary
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Theon- te Fee
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
4/6/48
894.92
9.1349

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.94)
DC/k
Im reply refer to
NA 894.92/8-1348
740.00119 CONTROL
September 13, 1948
(JAPAN)/8-1348
UNCLASSIFIED
MENORANDUN FOR THE SECRETARY GENERAL
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
11
In accordance with memoranda dated August 13,
三
894.92
1948, from the State-Army-Mavy-Air Foroe Coordinating
Committee, it is requested that directive, Serial No.
91 regarding Attendance at Inter-Governmental Comfer-
ences and directive, Serial No. 92 regarding Access to
Japanese Technical and Seientific Information in Japan
be downgraded to UNOLASSIFID.
C. V. HULICK
for
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
Enclosures:
1. Copy of Report on
Attendanoe at Inter-
Governmental Confer-
ences, August 13, 1948.
√2.
Copy of Neport on Access
to Japanese Technical
and Soientific Informa-
tion, August 13, 1948.
SEP 8 1948 P.M.
BPM
UNCLASSIFIED
0
CR/2K
13
gma.
FE:NA:ALDunning: jh
9/6/48
FE
0T2
Sopm

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
FOR JRTHEAST ASTAN AFFAIRS
1948
No. 538
UNCLASSIFIED
DERGRTHENDOPOSTANEgust 19, 1948.
Subject: Access to Japanese Scientifio/and Technical
Information in Japan.
894.92/8-1948
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to ferward
1
herewith five copies of a memorandum for the Japanese
Government by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
dated August 6, 1948 on the subject "Access to Japanese
Scientific and Technical Information in Japan" (ScaPIN
2
1925), with enclosures; five copies of a memorandum from
the Supreme Commander for the Allled Powers, dated
August 6, 1948 on the same subject, addressed to the Chiefs
of the Missions in Japan of the Far Eastern Commission
3
nations; and five copies of a memorandum from the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, dated August 14, on the
same subject, addressed to the other foreign diplomatic
representatives in Japan.
em
According to the memorandum for the Japanese Govern-
ment, the Japanese Government 1s directed to make avail-
rable to the technical representatives of governments of
members of the Far Eastern Commission, from the date of
the memorandum through March 31, 1949, all scientific and
technical processes having industrial or commercial value
or Japanese origin and ownership developed prior to
December 31, 1945.
Japanese organizations or individuals having or
using processes which are not of Japanese ownership or
origin, or which were developed after December 31, 1945,
must present proof that such processes are outside the
scope of this directive. Moreover, Japanese organizations
or individuals are prohibited from divulging or making
available to technical representatives any technical or
scientific information or processes which are not of
Japanese origin or ownership, or to give access to infor-
CS/V
mation or processes having primarily military value.
Enclaures:
5 p1es SCAPIN 1925 dated
S
8//48, with encloaures.
5zeopies SCAP memorandum of
8/48, on the subject
Abpess to Japanese Scientific
QEPART
an& Technical Information in
Japan."
5 copies of SCkP memorandum
of 8/14/48, on the same subject.
892.
CNSp1nks/eg
Original and ozalid to Department
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
:UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 538 of
August 19, 1948.
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 000.91 (26 Jul 48 )ESS/ST
6 August 1948
SCAPIN 1925
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Access to Japanese Scientific and Technical
Information in Japan
1. The Japanese Government is hereby directed to make available
from the date of this memorandum through 31 March 1949 all scientific
and technical processes having industrial or commercial value of
Japanese origin and ownership and developed prior to 31 December 1945
to technical representatives of governments of members of the Far
Eastern Commission.
2. The following augmentation policies are promulgated to define
the official relations of the technical investigators and Japanese
nationals:
a. All technical investigators and their parties will carry
passes admitting them to the area of the factory, shop, laboratory,
pilot plant, etc., in which processes being investigated are located.
These passes will indicate that such investigations are recorded in
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander ror the Allied Powers.(See
Inclosure 1)
b. Technical investigators shall upon their request be fur-
nished with opportunity to make or take copies of specifications, draw-
ings, blucprints, manufacturing data, etc., provided, if permanent
withdrawals are made, they do not reduce the number of copies in
possession of the jpanese below three full sets, and shall be allowed
such time as they dcem necessary within the period of the pass to
inspect shops, machinery, equipment, laboratories, pilot plants, etc.,
which are utilized in the process or processes being investigated.
c. Japanc se organizations or individuals who are using, or
are in possession of, processes that lie outside the limitations of
this directive, i.e., processes which are not of Japanese ownership
and origin or which were developed after 31 December 1945, are advised
that proof that such processes are not within those limitations is
upon them. In the event of dispute, documentary proof will be requested
from the Japinese Government by General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers. Japanese organizations or individuals are pro-
hibited from divulging or in any manner making available to technical
representatives any technical or scientific information or processes,
which are established as of other than Japanese origin or ownership,
or access to information or processes having primarily military value.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
AG 000.91 (26 Jul 48 )ESS/ST, 6 Aug 48 SCAPIN 1925
4. The Japanese Government will give this directive the widest
possible dissemination consistent with the prospective audience it
will ultimately affect.
5. Direct communication between agencies of the Japanese Govern-
ment and interested staff sections of General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers is authorized.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
mmlaory
1 Incl
R. M. LEVY,
Sample pass
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.
2

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Economic and Scientific Section
Scientific and Technical Division
Lample Prss) Date
TO:
(Name of Japanese company, laboratory, individual, etc.)
SUBJECT: Access to Japanese Scientific and Technical Information
1. This pass is to admit
who are technical representatives
and party.
(Name of country)
2. In implementation of SC.PIN
the above named persons
will be furnished with information on the following scientific and
technical processes of industrial and commercial value about which you
or your staff have knowledge.
(Name of investigation being carried out)
Such information will include access to shops, pilot plants, labora-
tories, etc., if neccssary and also may include receipt or copying of
specifications, drawings, blueprints, manufacturing data, etc.
3. The furnishing of such information is subject only to the
following limitations:
a. The processes must be of Japanese origin and ownership.
b. The processes must have been developed prior to 31 December
1945.
4. Proof that the limitations of 3a or 3b arc applicable to your
processes rests upon you.
5. This pass is good only for the date(s) indicated.
LESLIE H. CROSS
Incl 1 to SCAPIN 1925
Samp Pass
Lt. Col., Cav

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 5CO
AG 000.91 (26 Ju1 48 )ESS/ST
6 August 1948
1E4ORA.DUM
SUEJECT: Information of General Application Pertaining to SCAPIN 1925,
AG 000.91 (26 Jul 48 )ESS/ST, subject: Access to Japanese
Technical end Scientific Information in Japan, dated 6 Aug 48
1. With reference to Memorendum SCAPIN 1925, the following clari-
fication is published for informetion of all concerned.
2. The directive as received by General Headquarters, Supremo Com-
mander for the Allied Powers from the Fer Eastorn Commission lists the
following conditions:
a. The Feriod of access shall be from 1 July 1948 to 31 March
1949.
b. The technicel representatives of the governments of members
of the Far Eastern Conmission shall be permitted access to and the right
to tale copies of the details of any technical or scientific process of
industrial or commercial value if,
(1) the process is of Japanese origin end ownership.
(2) the prucess wes developed prior to 31 Decomber 1945.
c. All information obteined by the technical representatives
should be promptly end fully disclosed to General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for further dissemination.
3. Processes having industrial or commercial value is interproted
to include any process in production in Japen, past or present oxcept
those having primarily militery value.
4. To insure compliance with the above conditions the following
policies heve been instituted:
a. All technical investigators must have a pess in their pos-
session issued by General Heedquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, Economic end Scientific Section, Scientific and Technical Divi-
sion, signed by Leslie H. Cross, Lieutenant Colonel, Cavalry, admitting
them to the erea of the plant, shop, laborrtory,etc., in which the
process peing investigeted is loceted. This pass insures that e record
of the investigetion is on file with General Heedquerters, SupremeCom-
mander for the Allied Powers. Investigetors will be edmitted only to
those arees for which they possess passes. Those passes shell be used

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.96)
AG O00.91 ( 26 Jul 43 )ESS/ST, subj: Informetion of General Application
1ct .ininc to ..PIH 1925 AG 000.91 (26 Jul 48 )ESS/ST, subj: Access
to Japanese Technicel end Scientific Information in Jepan, dated 6 Aug 48
by the investigetors to introduce themselves to the Japenese in arees
investigated.
b. In the event thet the Japenese owners or users of processes
have any documentery proof thet the processes lie outside the limite-
tions of the directive, i.e., the processes are not of Jepanese origin
end owaership, or they were developed after 31 December 1945, the tech-
nical investigators and Jepanese have heen advised that eny disputed
claims will be investigeted by General Headquarters, Supreme Commanar
for the Allied Powers end en eppropriate course of action will be deci-
ded on the pasis of the investigetion.
c. Paregraph 2r is included for information ony. Enforcement
shall be the responsibility of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers.
d. Technical investigetors are accredited to Generel Head-
quarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers only in the capacity
of technical investigetors and cennot serve in other cepecities for the
missions of their respective countries while so accredited. Nor will
personnel serving in other cepecities for their missions underteke tech-
nical investigations.
e. In the event that the zeel of the investigetors, in their
"right to take cories of detsils", produces friction with the Jepanese
Nationals, the Jepenese shall be allowed to leep three (3) full sets
of blueprints, specificrtions, menufacturing data, etc., for maintain-
ing their processes and no permanent removels should be permitted below
thet level. Rather deteils should be obtained by copying or other dup-
licating methods at the disposel of the investigators.
4. Technical representatives will coordinate with the Militery
Government Teem having jurisdiction over the aree in which the regresen-
tatives visit whenever outside the Tokyo-Yokohama area.
5. Logistic support will be provided the representatives in a
similar manner to Reparations and Restitution Delegates.
leoy
DISTRIBUTION:
LEVY.
Same as SC.PIN 1925
Coloncl, MD.
less Japancse Governnent
Aljutnt General.
2

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
IICLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's No. 538 of
August 19, 1948.
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED PONERS
APO 500
AG 000.91 (26 Ju1 48 )ESS/ST
6 August 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR:
The Head of the Australian Mission in Japan
The Head of the Canadian Liaison Mission in Japan
The Chief of the Chinese Mission in Japan
The Chief of the French Mission in Japan
The Head of the Indian Liaison Mission in Japan
The Head of the Netherlands Military ission in Jepan
The New Zealand Trade Representative
The Chairman of the Philippine Reparations and
Restitution Delegation
The Acting Soviet Nember, Allied Council for Japan
The Head of the United Kingdom Liaison Mission in Japan
SUBJECT:
Access to Japanese Scientific and Technical Information
in Japan
1. Pursuant to the policy adopted by the Far Eastern Commission
on 24 June 1948 as FEC 280/8 the following administrative instructions
are issued to supplement subject policy.
2. All personnel assigned to this program from cutside Japan
will obtain clearance to enter Japan under provisions of General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, Circular Number
19, subject: Control of Entry and Exit of Individuals, Aircraft and
Surface Vessels into and from Japan, dated 23 June 1948. In no case
will application for entry of dependents of such personnel be approved.
3. All personel at presert in Japan in other capacities, upon
assignment to this program will effect their severance of present
assignment and take necessary action to obtain a new clearance under
the provisions of Circular Number 19 as technicel representatives.
During such assignnent the technical representatives cannot be recog-
nized by General Headquarters, Suprenc Commander for the Allied Powers,
in any other official capacity.
4 Foreign Missions or similar agencies in Japan will provide
logistic support including services of secretaries, interpreters and
translators for all subject personnel from the government which it
represents and this memorandum will not constitute a bacis for a
request for additional facilities. Logistic support outside of the
Tokyo area will be provided in & manner similar to Reparations and
Restitution Delegates.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
AG 000.91 (26 Ju1 48 )ESS/ST, 6 August 1948,
Subj: Access to Japenese Scientific and Technical Information in
Japan
5. All liaison with General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, will be initiated through Field and Reports Branch,
Scientific and Technical Division, Economic end Scientific Section,
Room 403, Pacific Building.
6. The terms of policy edopted by the Far Eastern Commission
are limited to "any technical or scientific process of industrial or
commercial value which are of Japanese origin nd ownership which were
developed prior to 31 December 1945". Under these provisions the
burden of proof that any technical or scientific process was not
developed prior to 31 December 1945, or is not of Japanese origin
and ownership shall rest upon the Japanese. Where such claims are
made, they will be investigated by General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the llied Powers, upon request of technical inves-
tigators. Nothing herein authorizes or will be interpreted to
authorize any technical representative to request or obtain access to
technical or scientific information or processes which can be
established as of other than Japanese origin or ownership. Nor
does anything hcrein authorize technical representatives access to
scientific or technical information or processes having primarily
military value.
7. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers assumes no
obligation for infringement claims arising out of unauthorized
inspection and use of technical and sciontific processes owned by
non-Jap.nese pursuant to the Far Eastern Commission Directive, which
states ". . . access to and the right to take copies of details of
any technical or scientific process of industrial or commercial
value which are of Japanese origin and ownership and which were
developed prior to 31 December 1945".
8. It is requestcd that cach government submit, if they so
desire, to General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, the following information:
a. Names of companies in your country which had prior to
7 December l94l, agreements, patent agreements, licensing or exchange
of information agreements with Japenese companies.
b. Copies of subject agreements.
c. Names of Japanese companies concerned.
Although considerable information of this nature has been obtained
from the Japanese Government, it is possibly incomplete and it is
desirable that interested companies be granted an opportunity to protect
their rights.
2

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
AG 000.91 (26 Ju1 48 )SS/ST, 6 August 1948,
Subj: Access to Japanese Technical end Scientific Informaticn in
Japan
9. Further, under the terms of the policy adopted by the Far
Eastern Commission, "Technical or scientific information obtained by
any representative of the government of a member of the Far Eastern
Commission pursuant to this policy statement should be promptly and
fully disclosed to SCAP for dissemination to other interested members
of the Far Eastern Commission upon specific request".
10. To implement the above policy the following administrative
rules are issued:
a. All technical representatives will request passes five
days in advance from the liaison office to visit any establishment or
individual necessary in pursuit of their investigations. The requests
for passes will give the following information: Place to be visited;
purpose of the visit; i.e., technical or scientific subject being
investigated; personnel of party; date of visit. Where establishments
or individuals to be visited are outside the Tokyo-Yokohama area,
requests for travel orders must be made previous to the l8th day of
the month prior to the month in which the travel is planned. Vhile
outside the Tokyo-Yokohame area, technical investigators will coor-
dinate their movements with the military government teams having
jurisdiction over the area in which they visit.
b. ". . . promptly and fullydisclosed . . ." will be
interpreted as follows:
(1)
Vithin one month after visiting an establishment or
individual a complete technical report will be filed
with the liaison office. This report will be type-
written in three copies, in English and will be
accompanied in like number by any specifications,
blueprirts, photographic reproductions, sketches,
printed materials, utc., obtained during the course
of the investigation from Japenese sources.
(2)
"here a series of visits are necessary to, or where
large amounts of material must be digested for, an
investigation, an interim report will be filed each
month, giving visits made curing the period, summary
of information gained, estimate of percentage of
investigation finished. Where several investigations
are being carried out simultaneously the same infor-
mation will be filed for each investigation.
c. Requests from representatives for reports filed by other
representatives will be honored in the order in which received unless
experience indicates some other procedure is necessary. Such reports
will be loaned for duplication purposes for periods not to exceed ten
3

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
AG 000.91 (26 Ju1 48 )ESS/ST, 6 August 1948,
Subj: Access to Japanese Technical and Scientific Informaticn in
Japan
days and will not be reloaned to the representatives of the same
member nation until all other member nations' requests have been
fulfilled. Duplication will be entirely the problem of the individual
representatives of their missions and may be carried out in any manner
that will not destroy any value of the duplicated material.
1l. All expenses involved in reproductions including copies
furnished General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
will be borne by the investigating country.
12. General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
reserves the right to designcte personnel to accompany technical inves-
tigators at any time.
13. Since the total number of technical representatives allowed
under this program shall not exceed twenty-five at any time, each
member nation of the Far Eastern Commission is permitted two accredited
technical representatives at all times during the period of the
program. The remaining representatives will be divided among the
member nations for periods of time commensurate with'an equitable
distribution. No limit is anticipated on the number of representatives
who may be accredited in sequence from any member nation subject only
to the condition that thcre shall be filed with the liaison office
complete technical reports on all investigations undertaken by any
representative before he is replaced.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
rnlaory
R. N. LEVY,
Colonel, AGD,
Ad jutant General.
4

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 538 of
August 19, 1948.
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 000.91( 2 Ju1 4.8 )ESS/ST
14 August 1948
JEMORANDUM FOR: The Belgian Diplomatic Representative
The Danish Diplomatic Representative
The Italian Diplomatic Representative
AUG 18 194
The Norwegian Diplomatic Representative
The Portuguese Diplomatic Agent
S.C.A.P.
The Spanish Diplomatic Representative
The Swedish Diplomatic Representative
The Swiss Diplomatic Representative
OUBJECT:
Access to Scientific and Technical Information in
Japan
1. General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, has received a policy directive from the Far Eastern Commis-
sion which follows in part:
"During the period from July 1, 1948, to March 31, 1949,
technical representatives of the governments of members of the Far
Eastern Commission should be permitted access to and the right to
take copies of the details of any technical or scientific process of
industrial or commercial value which are of Japanese origin and owner-
ship and which were developed prior to December 31, 1945."
2. The possibility exists that processes, owned or originated
by nationals or companies of your country or countries whose interests
you represent in Japan and being used by Japanese under a recognized
agreement may be exposed to unauthorized investigation due to absence
of complete information on such agreements.
3. It is requested, therefore, and only if. you so desire, that
your government furnish to General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, the following information:
a. Names of all individuals or companies in your country or
those countries whose interests you represent which have patent agree-
ments, licensing agreements, or exchango of information agreements and
the names of the Japanese individuals or companies with whom these
agreements are made.
b. Subjeet of the agreement and as many identifying details
as you care to furnish.
4. The Japanese Government has been forbidden to permit the dis-
closure of any information not of Japanese origin and ownership.
However, the information available to the Japanese Government is
believed to be incomplete and would not give the maximum amount of
protection to scientific and technical information of non-Japanese
origin.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.96)
AG 000.91 (2 Ju1 48)ESS/ST, 14 August 1948,
Subj: Access to Scientific and Technical Information in Japan
5. Member nations of the Far Eastern Commission have been
requested to furnish similar information to that requested in para-
graph 2. In addition, they have been informed that General Head-
quarters, Supreme Co mander for the Allied Powers is not responsible
for infringement claims arising out of unauthorized inspection or
illegal acquisition of information of non-Japanese origin or
ownership.
FOR'THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
mlavy
R. M. LEVY.
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.
2

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
OPY
/GS
August 26th, 1948.
NORVEGIAN EMBASSY
WASHINGTON 7,D.C.
Hon.Nelson T.Johnson,
Secretary Ceneral,
Far Eastern Commdssion,
Washing ton, D.C.
Re: Information regarding scientific and
technical processes in Japan.
Sir,
According to reports in the press, information regarding
scientific and technical processes of industrial or commercial value
owned by Japanese citizens nave been made available to the eleven
member nations of the Far astern Commission.
I have received instructions fron my Government to
approach the Var Eastern Comnission with the purpose of obtaining for
Normmy, us one of the countries that took part in the war against
Japan, the same opportunity as has been given members of the Far
894.92/8
Lastern Comrission to acquire and utilisescientific and technical
information in Japan and to send a limited number of experts to Japan
for that yurpose.
The branches o. Japanese industry that would present
particular interest to Norway in this connection, are the fish-meal,
canning,sea-weed and freezing industries as well as the electro-metal-
lurgical, electrochemical, rayon,textile and garnent industries.
3-2648
I should greatly appreciate your assistance in having
this question submitted to the Comission and would be grateful to be
informed as soon as the Comaission has had opportunity to consider
the matter.
Yours very truly
CSLA
igil Nygaard
Charge d'Affaires a.i.
FEB 28 1948
DOR WE UD
FILED
18-2648

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
/GS
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE N.W.
WASHINGTON 8, D.C.
17 September 1948.
My dear Mr. Nygaard :
I have received your letter requesting on behalf of the Norwegian
Government access to technical and scientific information in Japan similar to
that recently granted to member countries of the Far Eastern Commission.
Your letter has been referred to the Commission and I shall
inform you in due course of any action which they may take.
Sincerely yours,
Nelson T.Johnson (sign)
Secretary General
Mr. Eigil Nygaard
Charge d'Affaires ad interim of Norway

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
894.92/11-2248
November 22, 19h8
LEMORANDUM TO THE UNITED STATES MEMRER, FAR EASTERN CODISSION
Subject:
Policy Towarù Access to Japanese Techieal and
Sclentific Information by Non-F&c Countries
Lich have been at ar with Japan (FEC-315 Series)
You are herety authorised to support the propssed poliey on
the above subject which has been recommended by the Suboomdttee
of coumitteo No. 1 and set forth in C1-315/3.
You are requested, however, to propose the following clari-
fyiru: anendments:
In the first paragraph
(u) At the end of the first sentence, to change the
period to a comma and add "subsequent to 7 December 1941."
(b) At the end of the second sentence, to strike out
CS/A
the words "for dissamination" and substitute the additional
sentence, "Such inforuation should be disseminated by Scap
in response to specific requests."
In the second paragraph
(c) At the end of the sentence, to change the period
to a comma and add "subsequent to 7 December 1941."
The purpose of amenctment (b) proposed above is to make it clear
that the obligation placed on SCAp to disseminate information obtained
be
under this policy Ly representatives of non-FEC countries which have
been at war with Japan is of the sane character as the obligation
5
placed on him to iaseminate information obtained under Fc-280/9
.92
ty reprcsentatives of tc countries, that is, to make such disem
ination onl upon the receipt of specific requests.
Should
14

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.93)
RESTRICTED
-2-
Should the foregaing proposed mendments not be ascepted t
the mombers of the Cummi ssion, you me noverthelom authoried
to support the paper.
W1th respect to paragraph 2 of C1-315/3, 1t is the understanding
of your Government that the inforsation to be made available, upen
specific request, includes any information obtained through investi-
gations concucted in Japan in accordance with paragraph 2 of PEC-
230/9, by representatives of oither FEC countries or non-FEC coantries
which have been at war with Japan.
Your Governnent further understands that the terminal date of
the period of investigations, as stated in FEC-280/9, would not be
affected by the adoption of C1-315/3.
Charles E. Saltaman
Assistant Seoretary
oof
ned crig
P2
Army
A, in substance
oper)
3862
4064

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.96)
SIBNLD & RECEIVED
SDEC 2-9 1948
IN SANACC
Im reply refer to
SA
fectricled
UNGLASSIFIED
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SEORETARY. SANACO
Subject:
Draft Direstive regarding Access to Japanese
Technical and Scientifie Information by Mon-
FEC Countries at War with Japan.
71894.414
There is enolosed a draft direotive prepared on the
bakks of a polioy deoision approved at the 134th meeting
of the Far Eastern Comm1ssion on December 23, 1948, under
the provisions of Paragraph II, A, 1, of its Terms of
Reference.
It 1s requested that the enolosed draft direotive be
forwarded to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for transmission
to General MacArthur for his guidance in accordance with
P ragraph III, 1, of the Terms of Referenoe of the Far
Eastern Commission. It is assumed that if the Joint Chiefs
of Staff have any question regarding the draft direetive
they will refer the matter to the Department of State for
clarification before transmitting a direetive on the subjeet.
The Seoretary General of the Far Eastern Commission
has informed the Acting Seoretary of State that the Com-
mission desires to release the policy decision regarding
Access to Japanese Technioal and Solentifie Information
by Non-FaC Countries at War with Jepan to the prese on
January 4 together with the Seoretary General's Seeond
Public Report on Activities of the Far Eastern. Commieslon.
Therefore, in accordance with normal procedure, aeknowledg-
ment of the receipt of the direetive by SCAP is requested.
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
DEC 7 1948PM.
C
Enclosure:
S
Draft Direetive
Restricted
UNCLASSIFIED
FE:NA:MPMcKenna
12/27/48
FE

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.96)
ENGLOSURE
ACCESS TO JAPANESE TECHNICAL AND SGIENTIVIC INNORMATION
BY NON-FEC COUNTRIES AT WAR WYTH JAPAN
1. SCaP my, insofar as it proves administratively practieal,
and without prejudice to arrangements for FEC member matioms in
accordance with the prinoiples establfshed in FEC-280/9 ("Aceess to
Japanese Technical and Soientifie Information in Japan," approved by
the Far Eastern Commission on 24 June 1948 and forwarded to the
Supreme Commander on 1 July 1948 as Direetive Serial No. 92) permit
investigation of Japanese technical processes by non-FEc countries
at mar with Japan subsequent to 7 December 19l4l.
Any teohnical or scientific informtion thus obtained should
be promptly and fully disclosed to SCAP. Such information
should be disseminated by SCAP in response to specifie requests.
2. Technical or scientifio information disclosed to SCAP
in accordance with paragraph 2 of 280/9 should, upon specifie
request, be made available to non-FEC countries at war with Japan
subsequent to 7 December 1941.
()
P-54
FEC-315/6
Restriuled
4725

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
Washington, D. C.
DIVISION OF
HPAST
JAN 1 0 1949
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATEPARIMENI OF STATE
(Attention: Mrs. A. L. Dunning - NA)
Subject: Directive Transmitted to SCAP by the
894.92/1-749
Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Reference: SANA-6309 (31 Dec 48)
Enclosed are four copies of Directive, Serial
No. 98, transmitted to SCAP by the Joint Chiefs of
Staff. Copy No. 1 is for transmittal to the Far
Eastern Commission and Copies Nos. 2, 3, and 4 are
for the files of the State Department.
For the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating
Committee:
Seongs H. Haselt
A/MJS
GECRGEH. HASELTON,
Executive Secretary
Enclosure:
Serial No. 98,
Copies Nos. 1,
3 & 4
JAN 28 1949
DOT
FILED
12026

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
3
Serial No. 98
COPY NO.
31 Decembèr 1948
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
ACCESS TO JAPANESE TECHNICAL
AND
SCIENTIFIC INFORMATION
BY NON-FEC
COUNTRIES
AT
WAR
WITH JAPAN
The following directive, Serial Number 98, prepared by
the State Department to implement the policy decision approved
by the Far Eastern Commission on December 23, 1948, under the
provisions of paragraph II, a, 1, of its terms of reference has
been received from the State, Army, Navy, Air Force Feoartments
for transmission to you for your guidance in accordance with
Paragraph III, 1, of its terms of reference:
"J. SCAP may, insofar as it proves administratively
practical, and without prejudice to arrangements for FEC
61.
member-nations in accordance with the principles established
in FEc-230/9 ('Access to Japanese Technical and Scientific
94
Information in Japan,' approved by the Far Eastern Commission
on 24 June 1948 and forwarded to the Supreme Commander on
1 July 1948 as Directive Serial Number 92) permit investiga-
tion of Jopanese technical processes by non-FEc countries at
war with Japan subsequent to 7 Deecmber 1941.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
Technical or scientific information thus obtained
should be promptly and fully disclosed to SCAP. Such
information should be disseminated by SCAP in response to
specific requests.
"2. Technical or scientific information disclosed
to SCAP in accordance with Paragraph 2 of 280/9 should,
upon specific request, be made available to non-FEC
countries at war with Japan subsequent to 7 December 1941."

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
4
Serial No. 98
COPY NO.
31 December 1948
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
ACCESS TO JAPANESE
TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC INFORMATION
BY NON-FEC
COUNTRIES
AT
WAR WITH JAPAN
The following directive, Serial Number 98, prepared by
the State Department to implement the policy decision approved
by the Far Eastern Commission on December 23, 1948, under the
provisions of paragraph II, a, 1, of its terms of reference has
been received from the State, Army, Navy, Air Force Departments
for transmission to you for your guidance in accordance with
Paragraph III, 1, of its terms of reference:
"]. SCAP may, insofar as it proves administratively
practical, and without prejudice to arrangements for FEC
member-nations in accordance with the principles established
in FEC-230/9 ('Access to Japanese Technical and Scientific
Information in Japan,' approved by the Far Eastern Commission
on 24 June 1948 and forwarded to the Supreme Commander on
1 July 1948 as Directive Serial Number 92) permit investiga-
tion of Jopanese technical processes by non-FEc countries at
war with Japan subsequent to 7 Deeember 1941.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
Technical or scientific information thus obtained
should be promptly and fully disclosed to SCAP. Such
information should be disseminated by SCAP in response to
specific requests.
"2. Technical or scientific information disclosed
to SCAP in accordance with Paragraph 2 of 280/9 should,
upon specific request, be made available to non-FEC
countries at war with Japan subsequent to 7 December 1941."

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.91)
Fil
DC/R
In reply refer to
NA 894.92/1-749 7
January 14, 1949
UNCLACTFTED
894.9
ORANDTR FOTE SEOFLTARY ENERAL,
FAF LASTERN COMVISSION
2/1
In accordance vith a memorandum dated January 7,
le49, from the tate-Army-Navy-air Force Coordinating
49
Co mittee, there 1e enclosed a certified copy of a
iruntive, erial No. 98, to the Jupreme Commander for
the llied :overs rerarding locess to Jepanese Technical
and cientifio Informntlon by Non-  Countries at Var
vit: Japn, to be filed  ith the Far estern Commission
under the provisione of pararach I1l, 4, of ite Terms
of Feference.
CS
A
C. V. HULICK
21K
for Cherles . Caltzman
eletont ecretery
89492
nelos ure:
Gory o. 1 (certified)
of ireetive to A,
serial o. 98.
aD
FE:NA:ALDunning:clh
FE
CR/2IC
1/10/49

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, January 22, 1949.
No. 47
fil
RESTRICTED (For Department Use Only)
SIATE
03
3
Sumject: Australian Request to Investigate Japanese Acetic
949 JN 28
Sanhydride Industry.
The Acting Political Adviser for Japan has the honor to
rofer to this Mission's despatch no. 538 of August 19, 1948,
entitled, "Access to Japanese Scientific and Technical Informa-
ticn in Japan" and to report recent developments in connection
with CAP's denial of the Australian Government's request to
send two technical representatives to Japan to investigate the
Japanese acetic anhydride industry under the provisions of Far
Eastern Commission aocument no. 280/8 of June 25, 1948.
It is believed that background information on this case
may be of interest to the Department, as it is understood that
the Australian Government intends to make further representations
in Washington.
GHQ, SCAP, memorandum no. AG 000 91 (26 Ju1 48, ESS/ST) for
the chiefs of Tokyo missions of member nations of the Far
Eastern Commission, setting forth the procecure for implementa-
tion of FEC policy decision 280/8 concerning access to Japanese
scientific and technical information in Japan, was despatched
to those missions on August 6, 1948. By memorendum of August 17,
1948 the Australian Mission in Japan requested clearance for the
entry into Japan of Messrs. Charles William Davis and Robert
William Simpson for the purpose of conducting technical investiga-
tions of the Japanese acetic anhydride industry. Mr. Davis was
stated to be "in charge of Experimental Anhydride Plant". Mr.
Simpson was described as "chemical designer and manufacturer of
acetic anhydride."
The Australian Mission's request was forwarded by this
Mission, in its capacity as the Diplomatic Section of GHQ,
SCAP, to appropriate SCAP staff sections. On September 15, 1948,
the request was returned to this Mission with a series of check
notes indicating that Messrs. Davis and Simpson were cleared for
entry as requested. Before the Australian Mission could be
advised of the clearance this Mission was requested by telephone
to return the file to the Scientific and Technical Division of
the Economic and Scientific Section of GHQ, SCAP, which has
primary responsibility for supervising the clearance and work of
technical representatives under the FEC 280/8 progrem.
DILED
The Scientiffe
DECLASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
NND786C69
1945
BYH NARS. DI ZS

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 47,
January 22, 1949.
- 2 -
The Scientific and Technical Division then requested that
the Australian Mission be advised that information available to
GHQ, SCAP, indicated that the major producers of acetic anhydride
in Japan employ the Wacker process, of German origin, Japanese
processes which are obsolescent, or experimental processes
developed in Japan subsequent to December 31, 1945. Under the
terms of FEC 280/8, it was stated, technical representatives are
not authorized to have access to scientific and technical processes
which are of non-Japanese origin and ownership, or which were
developed in Japan after December 31, 1945. It was pointed out
that details of the German Wacker process had previously been
made available to Allied Nations, and that information on this
process could be obtained through the Office of Technical Services
of the U. S. Department of Commerce. This information was
1
communicated to the Australian Mission by a "Diplomatic Section"
memorandum of October 5, 1948.
2/
The Australian Mission replied, by memorandum of October 12,
to the effect that although full documentary information on the
basic principles of the Wacker process had been obtained from
German sources by Australian technical representatives, it had not
yet been possible to observe the technology of the process in
operation. It was therefore sug ested that the limitations of
FEC 280/9 were not applicable to investigation of the "purely
Japanese technology" connected with utilization of the Wacker
process in Japan.
In the course of deliberations within GHQ, SCAP, concerning
the foregoing suggestion, this Mission recommended that the
question be referred to Washington for consideration and, if
deemed appropriate, submission to the FEC, with a view to determin-
ing whether FEC 280/8 might appropriately be extended to include
specifically examination in Japan of Japanese technological
developments of processes of German origin. It was the opinion
of this Mission that such an extension of an FEC directive by
interpretation, which appeared to be contemplated by ESS
Scientific and Technical Division, did not lie within the
province of SCAP. (This Mission has not been able to discover
any indication that the question of extension of investigation
of scientific and technical processes in Japan to processes of
other than Japanese origin or ownership was raised during the
Far Eastern Commission deliberations on the subject. This
Mission has noted, however, that the Austr&lian delegation to
the Far Eastern Commission on several occasions during the
consideration of the proposal emphasized the interest of the
Australian Government in the program, and on at least one
occasion referred specifically to the desire to investigate the
Japanese chemical industry.)
At this point the Office of the Civil Property Custodian,
3
in a check note of December 1, 1948 raised strong objections to
any further consideration of the Australian Mission's request,
on the grounds that German-owned patent property in Japan was
not covered by the provisions of the London Patent Accord, and
that "German-owned patent property (including registered patents
and utility models and applications therefor, inventions,
discoveries, processes, patented or unpatented and any contracts or
licensing
RESTRICTED

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 47,
January 22, 1949.
- 3 -
licensing agreements based on any such right) had been vested
by the German External Property Commission." It was pointed
out that SCAP, as agent for the German External Property
Commission, was required to preserve and administer German
property in Japan, including such patent properties as the
Wacker process, and that "the Civil Property Custodian is,
therefore, obligated . . . in his capacity as SCAP's custodian
of German property in Japan to prohibit exploitation of the
German Wacker process as well as any other technical and
scientific data involving German ownership".
The interested staff sections, in the face of these arguments,
concurred in the Civil Property Custodian's recommendation that
the Australian Mission's request be denied, and this Mission
4
accordingly addressed a "Diplomatic Section" note to the Australian
Mission on December 29, 1948, conveying the substance of the
decision.
It is understood that the Economic and Scientific Section
is preparing to transmit an outline of the Australian request
and of SCAP's position to the Department of the Army by radio.
The Australian Mission has on several occasions indicated
both orally and in writing that the Australian Government
attaches great importance to technical investigation of the
Japanese utilization of the Wacker process for the manufacture
of acetic anhydride. This was most explicitly set forth in that
5
Mission's letter of January 1l, 1949, to the Acting Political
Adviser, summarizing the previous developments concerning the
request to investigate the process, and continuing: "The
Australian Government attaches considerable importance to obtain-
ing the technical information indicated and there is a considerable
degree of urgency for the reason that plans are now in an advanced
stage for the establishment of an Australian acetic anhydride
industry". In view of the SCaP ruling, the Head of the Australian
Mission approached the Acting Political Adviser and, it is stated,
the Chiefs of the United Kingdom Liaison Mission and the French
Mission in Japsn, as the diplomatic representatives of the powers
having joint responsibility for German assets in Japan, on the
subject of a possible recommendation to SCAP that investigation
of the Wacker process in Japan be permitted.
The Director of the Foreign Property Division and the
Director of the Looted German Property Division of the Office
of the Civil Property Custodian, SCAP, informed this Mission
orally on January 21, 1949, that they had no knowledge of any
tripartite responsibility of Great Britain, France and the U. S.
for supervision of German assets in Japan, and that there has
been no change in CPC's function as SCAP's agent for supervision
of such property.
It is understood, on the basis of a conversation between
the Head of the Australian Mission and the Acting Political
Adviser, that the Australian Mission is telegraphing the
Australian Embassy in Washington with a view to approaching the
Department
RESTRIGTED

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 47,
January 22, 1949.
- 4 -
Department of State on the matter.
It is the opinion of this Mission that the objection
raised by the Office of the Civil Property Custodian to
submission of the Australian request to Washington for decision
is principally a question of "military responsibility". The
Civil Property Custodian as the SCAP staff section charged,
under Army orders which have not been rescinded or superseded,
with responsibility as SCAP's agent for custody of German
property in Japan does not consider it appropriate to concur in
instituting action toward securing modifications of such orders
at higher levels. No substantive objection has been raised by
SCAP staff sections to making the desired information concerning
the Wacker process available to Australia.
Enclosures:
11
1.
Diplometic Section, GHQ,
SCAP memorandum to Austral-
ian Mission in Japan, Octo-
ber 5, 1948.
2.
Australian Mission memorandum
to Diplomatic Section, October
12, 1948.
3
Copy of check note from Office
of Civil Property Custodian,
GHQ, SCAP, December 1, 1948.
4.
Diplomatic Sect on note to
Australian Mission, December
29, 1948.
5.
Copy of letter from Head of
Australian Mission to Acting
Political Adviser, January 1ll,
1949.
Original and hectVgraph to Department
Copy to: American Embassy, Canberra
559.76
TWAinsworth:rab
RESTRICTED
lw

=== Page 195 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 47
dated January 22, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
RESTRICTED
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Australian
Request to Investigate Japanese Acetie
Anhydride Industry".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Diplomatic Section
MEMORANDUM
Tokyo, October 5, 1948
Reference is made to the Australian Mission's memorandum of
August 17, 1948, requesting clearance for Mr. Charles W. Davis
and Mr. Robert W. Simpson to enter Japan as technical represent-
atives to investigate the Japanese acetic anhydride industries.
Confirming information previously communicated to the Mission
by telephone, the Mission is advised that this Headquarters has
no objection to the entry of Messrs. Davis and Simpson as Australian
technical representatives.
However, the Mission is further advised that information
available to this Headquarters indicates that the major producers
of acetic anhydride in Japan (a) employ processes which are not of
Japanese origin, i.e., the Wacker process, of German origin, full
details of which are believed to be available to the Allied Nations
through the Office of Technical Services, United States Department
of Commerce; (b) employ processes which are obsolescent; or (c)
attempt to utilize a process, still in an experimental stage, which
was developed in Japan subsequent to December 31, 1945. Inasmuch
as processes not of Japanese origin and processes developed in
Japan after December 31, 1945, can not be made available to technical
representatives under the provisions of Far Eastern Commission
document 280/9 of June 25, 1948, it is felt that the Mission may
desire to reconsider its request for clearance of technical represent-
atives to investigate the Japanese anhydride industry.
To the
Australian Missin in Japan,
Tokyo.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 47
dated January 22, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
RESTRIGTED
Tokyo, on the subject "Australian
Request to Investigate Japanese Acetic
Annydride Industry".
(COPY)
AUSTRALIAN MISSION.
TOKYO
12th October, 1948.
MEMORANDUM for:
Diplomatic Section,
GHQ, SCAP,
Mitsui Main Bank Building,
TOKYO.
The Australian Mission notes with appreciation that there
is no objection to the entry of Messrs. Charles W. Davis and R. W.
Simpson into Japan as Australian technical representatives.
It would appear however that there may be some misunder-
standing as to the reason for the desire of these specialists to
inspect the actual manufacture of acetic anhydride in Japan. It is
true that the Wacker process is of German origin, and that records
of the process in the nature of Patent Specifications and the like
are available from the sources you mention. All such information is
already in our hands and, in addition, an effort was made by our
technical investigators in Germany some time ago to learn as much
as possible of the technology, as distinct from the principles, of
the Wacker process in that country. Although flow sheets, blue
prints of equipment used and similer documentary evidence was
obtained, the German plant unfortunately was not in operation.
It is suggested therefore that the limitations imposed
by the Far Eastern Commission document 280/9 do not apply in the
present case, since all that is German and can be recorded in
documentary form of the Wacker process is already known to us, and
it is our desire to inspect not the Wacker process as such, but
the purely Japanese technology connected therewith. We are not
interested in either obsolescent or experimental processes.
It may be further pointed out that under the present
policy covering investigations in Japan, full reports by all
visiting technical representatives are furnished to SCAP, and these
are available, on request, to all other member nations. It may
be said without exaggeration that Messrs. Davis and Simpson are
sufficiently expert in their subject to make any of their reports
a distinct acquisition to the pool of technical knowledge that is
being accumulated in this country.
/s/ T. W. Eckersley.
Acting Head of Mission.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 47
dated January 22, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
RESTRICTED
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Australian Request to Investigate
Japanese Acetic Anhydride Industry".
(COPY)
RESTRICTED
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMLAND
CHECK SHEET
Mr. D. H. Blake 26-5639
(Do not remove from attached sheets)
File No.
Subject: Entry Clearance of Australian Technical
Investigators
Note No. From: CPC
To: ESS
Date: 1 December 1948
11
1. Reference is made to:
a. Radio W 86177, 13 September 1947, from WAR (WDSCA ECON),
subject, "Disposition of Vested German Property."
b. Radio WAR S8698, 21 October 1947, from WAR (CSCAD ECON),
subject, "Vested German Property."
2. The Civil Property Custodian does not agree that the
Australian technical representatives should be permitted access to
technological assets involved in the German-owned Wacker process.
3. There is nothing in the terms of FEC 280/9 which permits
investigation of German patent technology in Japan.
4. The provisions of the London Patent Accord, signed by the
I.A.R.A. nations does not cover German-owned patent property in
Japan. German-owned patent property (including registered patents
and utility models and applications therefor, inventions, discoveries,
processes, patented or unpatented and eny contracts or licensing
agreements based on any such right) has been vested by the German
External Property Commission.
5. Original instructions contained in reference radios require
SCAP as agent for the German External Property Commission to preserve
and a dminister German property in Japan which includes such patent
properties as the Wacker process.
6. Only where it is necessary to achieve Occupation objectives
is SCAP authorized to release technical knowledge based on German
patent property.
7. The Civil Property Custodian is, therefore, obligated under
G.O. 10 in his capacity as SCAP's custodian of German property in
Japan to prohibit exploitation of the German Wacker process as well
as any other technical and scientific data involving German ownership.
8. Do not concur with DS recommendation to submit matter to
Washington.
9. Recommend denial of the Australian request.
10. The subject
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 47,
January 22, 1949.
-2-
10. The subject request relates to investigation of
German-owmed patent property. It is possible that future
requests may be received relating to German patent property or
to patent property of nationals of Allied or neutral nations,
all of which are under custodianship of CPC. Roquest, therefore,
that all future communications relating to investigation of
patents, scientific processes, technical developments, industrial
applications, and "know how" be referred to CPC first for comment
prior to entry clearance, as these are property matters of primary
interest to the Civil Property Custodian.
1 Incl n/c
/s/ R.C.Y. for
-P.H.T.
RESTRIOTED
RESTRICTED

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 47
dated January 22, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
RESTRIGTED
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Australian Request to Investigate
Japanese Acetic Anhydride Industry".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Diplomatic Section
The Diplomatic Section presents its compliments to the
Australian Mission, and has the honor to refer to the latter's
memorandum of October 12 and aide memoire of December 9, 1948,
and to previous correspondence concerning the investigation by
Australian technical representatives of the Japanese acetic
anhydride industry.
As the Mission was advised by this Section's memorandum
of October 5, 1948, Far Eastern Commission document 280/9 of
June 25, 1948, provides that only processes of Japanese origin
which were developed prior to December 31, l945, are to be made
available to technicel representatives. Full consideration has
been given by this Headquarters to the suggestion advanced by
the Mission, in the memorandum and aide memoire under reference,
that the German-originated Wacker process for the manufacture of
acetic anhydride might be made subject to investigation by tech-
nical representatives in Japan in view of the fact that the
basic German processes have already been made available to Al-
lied nations.
The Mission is advised that, after most careful considera-
tion, this Headquarters has found no basis in the provisions of
Far Eastern Commission document 280/9 for extension of the scope
of technical investigation in Japan to include Japanese applica-
tions of German or other foreign technological processes. It is
therefore regretted that it is not possible for this Headquarters
to consider technical investigation of the Japanese acetic anhy-
dride industry, insofar as its utilization of the Wacker process
is concerned, as authorized under the provisions of Far Eastern
Commission document 280/9.
Tokyo, December 29, 1948.
To the
Australian Mission in Japan,
Tokyo.
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 5 to Despatch No. 47
dated January 22, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
RESTRIOTED
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Australian Request to Investigate
Japanese Acetic Anhydride Industry".
(COPY)
Australian Mission in Japan,
T o k y o.
11th January, 1949.
Sir,
I have the honour to invite your attention to endeavours
which have been made by the Australian Mission in Japan to obtain
access for Australian technical representatives to investigate the
Japanese acetic anhydride industry.
In response to this Mission's memorandum of August 17th,
1948, requesting clearances for two experts to enter Japan for
this purpose, G.H.&., SCAP, in a memorandum of 5th October, 1948,
advised as follows:
"...information available to this Headquarters indicates
that the major producers of acetic anhydride in Japan (a)
employ processes which are not of Japanese origin, i.e. the
Wacker process, of German origin, full details of which are
believed to be available to the Allied Nations through the
office of Technical Services, United States Department of
Commerce; (b) employ processes which are obsolescent; or (c)
attempt to utilize a process, still in an experimental stage,
which was developed in Japan subsequent to December 31, 1945.
Inasmuch as processes are not of Japanese origin and processes
developed in Japan after December 31, 1945, can not be made
available to technical representatives under the provisions of
Far Eastern Commission document 280/9 of June 25, 1948, it is
felt that the Mission may desire to reconsider its request for
clearance of technical representatives to investigate the
Japanese anhyaride industry."
In reply, the Australian Mission in a memorandum of 12th
October made the following points:
"...there may be some misunderstanding as to the reason
for the desire of these specialists to inspect the actual
manufacture of acetic anhydride in Japan. It is true that
the Wacker process is of German origin, and that records of
the process in the nature of Patent Specifications and the
like are available from the sources you mention. All such
information is already in our hands and, in addition, an
effort was made by our technical investigators in Germany
some time ago to learn as much as possible of the technology,
as distinct from the principles, of the Wacker process in
that country. Although flow sheets, blue prints of equip-
ment used and similar documentary evidence was obtained, the
German plant unfortunately was not in operation.
It is suggested therefore that the limitations imposed
by the Far Eastern Commission document 280/9 do not apply
in the present case, since all that is German and can be
recorded in documentary form of the Wacker process is
already
PESTDTAMED

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 5 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 47,
January 22, 1949.
- 2 -
already known to us, and it is our desire to inspect not
the Wacker process as such, but the purely Japanese tech-
nology connected therewith. We are not interested in either
obsolescent or experimental processes.
It may be further pointed out that under the present
policy covering investigations in Japan, full reports by
all visiting technical representatives are furnished to
SCAP, and these are available, on request, to all other
member nations. It may be said without exaggeration that
Messrs. Davis and Simpson are sufficiently expert in their
subject to make any of their reports a distinct acquisition
to the pool of technical knowledge that is being accumulated
in this country."
In response to this memorandum and to an aide memoire
of 9th December, G.H.Q., SCAP, addressed a note of 29th December
to the Mission, as follows:
"As the Mission was advised by this Section's memorandum
of October 5, 1948, Far Eastern Commission document 280/9 of
June 25, 1948, provides that only processes of Japanese
origin which were developed prior to December 31, 1945, are
to be made available to technical representatives. Full
consideration has been given by this Headquarters to the
suggestion advanced by the Mission, in the memorandum and
aide memoire under reference, that the German-originated
Wacker process for the manufacture of acetic anhydride might
be made subject to investigation by technical representatives
in Japan in view of the fact that the basic German processes
have already been made available to Allied nations.
The Mission is aivised that, after most careful consider-
ation, this Headquarters has found no basis in the provisions
of Far Eastern Commission document 280/9 for extension of
the scope of technical investigation in Japan to include
Japanese applications of German or other foreign technolog-
ical processes. It is therefore regretted that it is not
possible for this Headquarters to consider technical
investigation of the Japanese acetic anhydride industry,
insofar as its utilization of the Wacker process is concerned,
as authorised under the provisions of Far Eastern Commission
document 260/9."
The Australian Government att:ches considerable importance
to obtaining the technical information indicated and there is a
considerable degree of urgency for the reason that plans are now in
an advanced stage for the establishment of an Australian acetic
anhydride industry. It is felt that the arguments advanced in the
Australian memorandum of 12th October quoted above should have
formed a sufficient basis for the granting of permission for the
investigation sought by technical representatives. In view,
however, of the firm ruling conveyed by G.H.Q., SCAP, that they
cannot authorise technical investigations in Japan to include what
they regard as Japanese applications of German or other foreign tech-
nological processes, I now wish to approach you as the represent-
ative of one of the joint powers responsible for German assets.
I understand
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.97)
àb 2 ada
Enclosure No. 5 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 47,
January 22, 1949.
- 3 -
I. understand that you, together with the diplomatic
representatives of Great Britain and France, have assumed
supervisory responsibility for German external assets in Japan
and that this responsibility has been recognised by SCAP. I
understand further that provided you and your colleagues
mentioned above are convinced that the inspection of the techni-
cal processes required by Australian investigators would not
result in any diminution of the value of the asset, the United
States Government might be prepared to recommend to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers that the inspection be permitted.
Accordingly, I should be grateful if you would take up
this matter with your colleagues and if agreement can be reached,
inform the Supreme Commander of the nature of that agreement.
I have today sent notes in identical terms to the Heads
of the United Kingdom Liaison Mission and the French Mission.
I take this opportunity to convey to you the assurance
of my high consideration.
/s/ Patrick Shaw.
The Honourable William J. Sebald,
Head, Diplomatic Section,
T o k y o.
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
3XPs
NORTHEAST ASIAL AFRS
United States rolitical Aded
for Japan
No. 169
Tokyo, March 22, 1949
DEPARTMENTI OF STATE
REC'D
MARSK 29
ACTION
Subject: Supplementary Despatch Regar in Australian Request
FE
to Investigat. Jap ese icctic hydride Industry
INFO
FR
DCR
ITP
The Actin: Political Advisur for Japan has the honor to re-
OFD
Fer to this Mission's despatch Mo. 4? of Jenuary 22, 2949, con-
OLI
cerning an official Australien re uese to kave two Australian
EUR
technicians investigat. the Japaness acetic anhyiride industry
under the provisions of Far astern Comaission pol cy decision
M
No. 230/9 of June 25, 1946.
Supplementing the i:formation co tained in that despatch,
this Mission now encloses copies of the follodng: (1) telegram
dated February 8, 1949, sent by General Head uarters, Supreme
894.
Commander for the Allied Powers, to the Department of the Army
stating that the Australian Mission had been denied permission
to investigate the process for manufacture of acetic anhydrids
2/
in Japan for the reasons stated ther in; (2) letter from Mr.
847.
H. H. THCNaS, Financial Advicer, Unit ed irgdom Liaisor Mission
in Japan, Tokyo, re uesting is Eissio's assistanca in the mat-
tor of inducing General Read uarters to recon: iler ite decision;
3/
and (3) copy of a letter ate Farch le, 19, sent  lis Yission
in reply to Ir. Thomas' letter, stating that the coce. ned au-
thorities in this He  lquarters ars of the opinion that the inter-
pretation of F0 28c/9 is the sole prero ative of the Far Lastern
Commission; that the justr ian authorities in ashi gton re-
portedly are talting up this uestio, presurahly in the Far Eastern
Commission; and that th Co. issior is ? conslderiny the exten-
sion of the expiration Jite of F C 2o/9.
4/
Also enclosed ie a cep of a  rondun for the rcord dated
December 30, 194, prupared in the Sci ntifis and Pschidcal Di-
vision, Sconomic and Jcienlific Section of thie Isad uarters, which
accompanied the original version of the telegrrn suhse uently sent
to the Department of the my on February 8, 1949.
Under the circumstances, this ission io: considers this
matter closed, with furthor action, i y, resting dth the Far
Eastern Conmission.
Enclosures:
1. Copy of telegram dated February 3,
1949, from SCAP to Department of the
Army;
DECLASSIFIED
10780069
WZth wen, wn 2Sget: 79
ACTION COPY
ATURN TO DO/& PL WEN 14 DAYS, WETE A

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.79)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 169
March 22, 1949
2. Copy of letter duted Yurch 2, 1949,
from Financial ivi, Uriled  Lde
Liaisor Lissio, .
Cop f letter oe Foroh , 14
Prom chhs Yrssiy
Farcil Aivi
4.
rnl
Dec1er 30, 194.
Parelent Fut bo Dot
Co to American rbessy, antorre
359 76
h: 
h3

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclomure No. 1 to 
dated Varch 22, 1949 nom 
States Political Adviser for
PRSTDTOGER
juest to Investig te Japanes Ab
Anhyuride Industry."
(COPY)
CGENERAL HEADCUARTNS
SUPRTE COMANDER FO TH LIED PCTS
AFC 500
OUE903A0E
SSS/3C F/HOL/LHC/do
DAT: 3 Fabruary 1949
Hastnictad
FROM: SCAP
TO:
DEPT F AY. . . .. ROUT
(C-67687) For J003, Reuva1 Jul W 35022
1. Australian Mission as bean denied permission to inve
tigate the process for nanufacture of acetic anh dride used in
Japan. Reasons for denial follow:
a. F2c 20c/9 perits access only to proceesss of
Japanese prigin and ownerwhip.
b. Frocoss used is of German origin fir shed to Jap-
anese by Dr. Alexander Vacker under patent licens: agreement.
c. Although iustrallun ission states all achnical in-
formation o lacker process was ottained in Germany and desires
to obtiin Jupanese techioloy related thereto, iaves ation of
Japanese tachnoloy involving modifications of a basi: process of
mon-Japanese origin would lhost inevitatly result in allowing ac-
cess to the basic process.
2. For your information, in irplenentatior of E0 28o/9,
ScAP has established procedures which prevent inspoction of Jap-
anese plants in wiich there is beins usa techtolo of pre-war
or present United Naticns and German owmership cbtalued tlrough
assignmemt or patent lice sing agreements. Tiis action was neces-
sary in order to carry cut Slar's respor sibilities in respect to
Uniter ltions and German pro erty rights in Japan.
OFFICIAL:
Approved by:
V F MARQUAT
Major General, U. S. Army
R M LEVY
Chief, ESS
Colonel, AGD
Adjutant General
Copied to:
CC
G-1
c/s
G-2
CPC
DS
ESS
Approved by C/s, 2/7/49

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.91)
Enclosure No. 2 to Deapati
dated March 22, 1949 from Uni
States Political Adviser Per Jay
Tokyo, on the subject "Suppl
Despatch Regarding Australian
quest to Eny riga  Japaneme o
Anhydride Indu stry."
(0CFY)
Unitd KinonaiJiadon
Ref: 5/115/49
In Japen,
sritis: mbasy,
Tokyo.
3ra March, 949.
Dear Yr. Eaymard:
The Head f Diplonatic Sectlon has, I understand, re-
ceived from Ir. Shaw, Head of the ustralian Kission, a note in
identical terms to one dated January ilth aide ssed le the ead
of this ission on the subject uf th: endu urs which the Aus
tralian authorities have been makin to obtain access for Aus-
tralian teclmical representatives to investigate the Japanese
acetic anhydride industry.
2. Although of course Ir. Shaw  as been  sinformed regard-
ing the supposed assumption in Tokyo jointly by tta diplomatic
repreaunt atives of the Uritad State-, France and Cr t Pritain of
supervisory cesponsibi ity for German external as ats in this
countr., it is a fact that our three countries have a ecial in-
terast in und responsibi ity for Jeran assets in t' r' co ntrias.
It ls of coure elsc true that te ertablishrent of Irirtite
supervisory committee ler is currently under di scus  in Hash-
inton and ther. seems svery likellhou that in ths fe rly near
future auch a comritteu vdli come altout.
re uest, tich sems to bo in every way a reasonh le one. As I
under tand it 3oar bae fult  liged to lisallew it on the tuek-
nicslity that be is net autrerized umler be r lev nt F.F.C. ruling
to give tec'nical repres mtatives acces  &rocess ich is not
of Japansss crigin.
L. As the Austral is hav: already xinted ct, they have
had full access in German. o the deteils of th Hecker process
and are in possession fron that surce of li the necessary flow
sheete and blue prints an sLailar locureniary evidence. hat
tl.ey re seeking row totospeponese techni-
colo in applyine the process, not to i vestigat: the process
itself. It seons difnlt to believe that the inuontion of F.S.C.
document 230/9 as to prescril an investilion vch as the Au
tralians have in mind.
5.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.92)
mpatch No. 169,
Parch 22, 1949.
-2
5. de have been in consultrion uith ur Frenoh coll
on tils sut ject and we and they are in rem nt that there no
not posibly be any liminution of the value of the et 
sult of inspection of the technicological rocess and we would
very much hope therefore tat Di lomatic Section dant ses their
way to associatine temselves wd the Ir nclh Misslon and us in
an approaci. to General Lead uartere askin that the matter wight
t. reconsi lered.
6 I understand that th re is sone rgency, since no ur
sher laspections of Japanese rec sses ar: to be allowed after
arch 3lst Given gooivdll, it slould not be impossible to imd
a formula Jich wdll caciely the l-gal pu lits in sit and at tho
seme ti.e allow the ustraliens to et what t wen nd I con
dently invoke rur good offices to that sni. Peri aps we could meet
at an early dite to go into the matter further.
Yours sincerely,
.. 
Finanaiel Adviser
Yr. D. Y. Maynard,
Diplonatic Section,
Economic & Scientific Section,
General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Povers.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.-3 t
dated March 22, 1949
States Political Advi
Tokyo, on the ubject
Suppl
Despatch Regarding Australlen
quest to Investigate Japanese
Anhydride Industry."
(COPY)
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyc, APO 500, c/o Po
San Francisco, Califom
March 18, 1949
Dear Mr. Thonas:
Reference is made to your letter of March 3, 1949, regard-
ing the interest of the Australian Mission in Japan to obtain
permission from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, for the entrance into Japan of two Australian tech-
nical representatives to investigate the Japmese acetic anhydrids
industry.
This matter has been referred by General Headquarters to
the Department of the Army, Vashington, for its consideration.
Additionally, this Mission has also reported on this question to
the Department of State. The concerned authorities in this Head-
quarters are of the opinion that they are not in position to in-
terpret FC 280/9 in the manner suggested by you, and that such
interpretation is the sole prerogative of the Far Eastrin Com-
mission.
Under the ciroumstances, I regret to inform you that there
appears to be nothing that we can do at this end. Heanwhile, it
is understood that the Australian authorities in Washington are
taking up this question, presumably in the Far Eastern Commission,
and that the Commission is now considering the extension of the
expiration date of FEC 280/9.
Yours sincerely,
David M. Maynard,
Economic Counselor.
Mr. H. H. Thomas,
Financial Adviser,
United Kingdom Liaison Mission
in Japan,
British Embassy,
Tokyo.
CHBoehring er:ro

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatth No.169
dated March 22, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan
Tokyo, on the subject "Supplementary
Despatch Regarding ustralian Re-
pue st to Inves i  Japanese acetic
Anhydride Incustry.
(CCPY)
ON D S F STON
Seient ific an? Technical Division
NOL/LRC/de
30 December 1948
MNO FOR RMCORD:
1. Referenees are:
. adic 2022, d 2 2 200/9.
b. Pecorandm from bho b.suralian Hission vo the Supreme
Commander for the Alied Powers, dated 17 gust 1946
c. English tran slation of Licensing agreement between
Dai Mippor Celluloid Co., Ltd., and Hacker lectrcchemical Co.,
furnished by the Dai Nippon Celluloid Company.
2. The Australian Nission sought, under terms of c 280/9,
to clear two teclnical investigators to investigate the acetic
anhydride industry in Japan. Inguiry by this Division has shown
that processes of manufacture of acetic anhyiride employed in
Japan are (a) obsolete, (b) experimental, or (c) of German origin,
i.e., the Wacker process.
3. A second memorandum from the Australian l'i on ack-
nowledges that the Wacker process is German in origi). However,
the Australian Mission says that all information which can be gained
from German sources has been obtained by their investigators and
the investigators wish to obtain the Japanese technology of the
process as distinct from the German originated principles. ESS
pointed out in the rerly to DS the practical iapossibility of sep-
arating the Japanese technology from the German process. However,
in view of the great pressure brought to bear on 3CAP to allow
the entrance into Japan of technical representa'ives of govern-
ments of the Far Eastern Commission, ESS also suggested that a
basis be found for admitting the Australian representatives.
4. DS agreed with ESS that the separat ion of the Wacker
process from its Japanese technoloy is impossible. Further,
DS disput ed the argument f the Australian Mission and said such
an argument could be cited as a precedent for examination of pro-
cesses having their ori ins in Allied or other countries. Ds, how
ever, suggested that SS prepare a radio to Mashington recommend-
ing an extension of the provisions of FC 280/9 to include Jap-
anese technological developments of processes of German origin.
5. CPC
RESTRICTED

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.98)
l83
Enclosure No. 4 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 169,
March 22, 1949.
- 2 -
5. CPC does not agree that Australian technical repre sentatives
should be allowed access to the "German-owned" Wacker process. Fur
ther, CPC sa s, he is "obligated under G.. 10, in his capaodty as
ScApis custodian of Serman property in Japan, to prohibit exploita-
tion of the German Wacker process. . ."
6. EsSs has obtained an inglis. translatien of the contract
between Dai Nippon Cellulsid Jo., Ltd., tre Japanese company, em-
ploying the Macker process eni the ackerc! emie. xarination of
this contract shows the contract was to run for : period of six
years after the acetic anhydride plant was placed in production
(Clause 5). This tcok place on January 20, 1938 so that the con-
tract expired January 20, 1944, a time when the rights of Cerman
interests in Japan were still the concern of the Cerman overnment.
There is no evidence that the period of the contract was extended.
Also, the contract states (Clause 5) that the Dai Hippon Co., Ltd.
retains the right of making use of ail knowledge and experience
gained during the period of the contract.
7. This Division therefore argues that the rights of the
German xternal Property Comnission are non-existent in the
Wacker process, as utilized in Japan. Also, the ex  ience and
knowledge gained during the period of the contract ..& now Japa-
nese. This in no way recognizes the contention of the Australian
Mission that the Japanese technology is separable from the German
principles.
8. This Division desires to avoid executing : Lministering
any policy blindly or absurdly. Therefore, a thoror inquiry was
made into all aspects of the request by Australia to Lnvestigate
acetic anhydride. However, due to the precise wor ing of FEC 280/9,
plus the long period of detailed discussion by persons in authority
from all member governments of the FC prior to the adoption of
subject policy plus the danger of establisiiig an undesirable pre-
cedent, ESS recommended to DS that the Australian Mission be de-
nied access to the Wacker process as operated in Japan.
9. This action informs the Department of the Anny of denial
of reque st of the Australian Mission to investigat: acetic anhy-
dride as operated in Japan, and reasons ther for.
10. This is an administrative matter.
11. Concurrences:
G-1
G-2
CPC
LS
DS
L. H. Cross - 57-8486
H. C. K.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.89)
CONEIDANTIAL
Hil
March 24, 1949
MEMORANDU FO: TH CITD STATAS HUBR FAR LAUTAN GOOTIO
Sub jeot:
RO GO/1A. O TO  T D 
INFGRILATION IN JAPAN.
Roference 1s mnde to Fa0-380/14, a proposal for the extemsiom
of the period of sppl1cetion of Fc-280/9, Aceess to Japemese
Teuhnioul nd sclentifio Informetion in Japan, and VzC-Bls/9, Acsess
to Japaneso rechnical and Scientifio Inforamtion by Man-Yzc Gountries
at ar ith Jupan. Tho nited tates Member is racueated to propes
that the puper be amended to extend the period to July 1. 1949
instead of to Lecaaber 31, lo49 us now provided in the poper.
92/3-2449
. rovided this anend ent is nocepted by the other meabers of the
Fer ston com lusion the United tates menber is authoried to
votu for tno pupur. 1f the Unitod Stutes amendment is not aceeptee,
you are r uust d to oppoue the paper. In this event, homover, you
may inforn the comission that you in an efrort to be as belpful
as possiblc will be willing to ask your Governent to cansider
ro uusting G to allow technicians now present in Jepan to contimuo
their investicutions intil July 1. provided it is feasible.
The united ttos mumber may desire to indicate to tho other
mambers thot it is the view of his Goverzurent, based on the receipt
of inforax tion frem c, that axtension of the period beyend
July 1, 1949 is not warranted by tho ueo maue by the countriee
eliiblo under Fc-o/9 of tho time available to them up to the
present. According to SCAr the percontage utilization offeoted by
the governments eligible under Fac 280/9 is approximately as followe:
France 51%; Indie 33%; Philiprincs, 28%; Netherlands 24; Australie.
5%; ..k., .5. No other governments eligible under this
CSA
direotivo ve utilized any pert of the tino available.
Lequed
NF
.eltan Butterworth
l.iroctor for For aetern Affeirs
Iertifeed
N A. P.2m K
VONETINRIAL
ed
FE:NA:ALDunning1k (3/24/49)
NA
OFT:EP:SGLElH
Nea
aln

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.98)
ASTASIANAFFAIRS
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE NW.
aen
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
TMENT ATE
31 March 1949
894.92/3-3149
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission
provide that one of the functions of the Commission should
be to "formulate the policies, principles and standards in
conformity with which the fulfillment by Japan of its obli-
gations under the Terms of Surrender may be accomplished."
It is further provided that when such decisions are
made by the Far Eastern Commission, "The United States Gov-
ernment shall prepare directives in accordance with the
policy decisions of the Commission and shall transmit them
to the Supreme Commander through the appropriate United
States Government agency."
The Far Eastern Commission at its one hundred and
forty-seventh meeting held at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue,
Northwest, Washington, D. C., on 31 March 1949 approved
the enclosed policy decision entitled "Extension of Far
Eastern Commission Policies on Access to Japanese Techni-
cal and Scientific Information in Japan." In approving
1RF94.60
this policy, several members clarified their positions for
the record. Their comments are included in an appendix to
this letter in the form of an excerpt from the verbatim
transcripi of the meeting.
CS/A
As Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, I
have been instructed to forward this decision to you on be-
half of the Commission in order that an appropriate directive
may be prepared and transmitted to the Supreme Comander in
accordance with the Terms of Reference.
APR291949
FILED
The Commission
7492
The Honorable
Dean Acheson,
Secretary of State,
3
Washington, D. C.
144512

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
The Commission agreed that the text of the enclosed
policy should be released to the press after the appropri-
ate directive has been received by the Supreme Commander.
In order that we may make our arrangements for release as
expeditiously as possible, it would be appreciated if you
coulc notify me when the United States directive has reached
Tokyo.
Sincerely yours,
Keleon Iuslupue
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
FW894.92
Enclosures:
Certified Copy of
Policy No. 58
Excerpts from Verbatim
Transcript
3

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE NW.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
The attached copy of a document adopted at the one hundred
and forty-seventh meeting of the Far Eastern Commission, held at
2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D. C. on 31 March
1949, has been compared with the original text and is hereby certi-
fied to be correct.
Nelos mle
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Washington, D. C.
31 March 1949

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
Extension of Far Eastern Commission Policies on
ACCESS TO JAPANESE TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC INFORMATION IN JAPAN
The Far Eastern Commission decides as a matter of policy
that the provisions of the FEC policy decisions entitled "Aocess to
Japanese Technical and Scientific Information in Japan" (FEC-290/9
approved 24 June 1948)and "Access to Japanese Technical and Scientific
Information by Non-FEC Countries at War with Japan" (FEC-315/7. approved
23 December 1948) are hereby extended until 1 July 1949.
P-58
FEC-280/15
31 March 1949

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
( Exoorpt from Verbatim Record of 147th Meeting of th•
Far Eastern Commission, 31 Mareh, 1949 )
ITEM 2 - ACCESS TO JAPANESE TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC INFORMATION
IN JAPAN (FEC-280/14, FEC-280/9, FEC-315/7)
GEN. MCCOY: You remember that this paper was considered last
week in connection with the time limit on the existing policy, which
expires on this date. There was an expression on the part of mem-
bers at that meeting concerning an extension of the period to the
end of the year. This was expressed by the Indian representative
and the representative from Holland. The United States suggested,
in view of this situation, an amendment to extend the period to the
lst of July, without prejudice to further extension after my Govern-
ment had received the opinions and the expression of the desires of
the other members of the Commission. I think at the last meeting
that the amendment proposed by the United States extending the date
to the lst of July was not acceptable, and I would like to put the
matter before you once more in view of the consultation by my Gov-
ernment with SCAP on the wishes expressed here and the fact that the
deadline date is now upon us. I was wondering if the members of
the Commission would accept what I can offer today, namely, an
extension to the lst of July without prejudice to further consider-
ation of your wishes, which are now before General MacArthur.
Would that be agreeable to you as representing your
Government?
MR. BANEFJI: Mr. Chairman, I take it therefore that the
views that we had occasion to express at the last meeting have been
considered by your Government, but that your Government is not in
the position to state a final position in the matter? I under-
stand the views that we expressed are still under consideration and
probably you want to have some time before you can express the
final view of your Government.
If that is so, Mr. Chairman, I must express my keen
disappointment that it has not been possible for you to take a
definite position on the views that we have had occasion to express
at the last meeting.
Mr. Chairman, you will recall you stated that for admin-
istrative and other reasons considered by the Supreme Commander to
be essential you were unable to approve the extension of the policy
as sugested, that is, to the 31st of December 1949. You were kind
enough to pass on the information which was furnished to your Govern-
ment by the Supreme Commander, that the countries concerned, that
is, countries represented here, have not been able to utilize fully
the facilities that have been afforded by this paper. I had
occasicn to point out at that time that that was entirely due, in
my way

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
my way of thinking, to the inability of the Governments, within the
short period the policy was in operation, to make plans, to assemble
the necessary technical personnel, to arrange for clearance and
transportation, and for those persons to complete their investigations
within that period. I have now received further information from
India and I can assure you, Mr. Chairman, that our plans are now well
underway, and I believe also underway in other countries, as the
Netherlands member had occasion to point out at the last meeting, and
I am confident that if the extension is allowed up to the time desired
no opportunity will be lost by any member here to utilize fully the
time given by this paper.
Mr. Chairman, as you have indicated, we are facing the
deadline today. I believe that we should take some definite action
this morning for the very simple reason that it is preferable to
have the continuity of the policy kept and not broken by a lack of
action today. Prompted by this motive, and realizing, though
deploring, your present inability to approve the proposal as recom-
mended by the Steering Committee, I would reluctantly accept your
suggestion and approve the extension for the present up to the 1st
of July 1949. But I do so with the sincere feeling of regret and
I must make it perfectly clear that I accept this because of the
peculiar circumstance of the case and because of the deadline to
which you have referred. As you indicate, I want to make it a
matter of record that we are accepting this under protest and without
any prejudice to the question of further extension being considered
later on. And furthermore, Mr. Chairman, if it pleases the Com-
mission, I would suggest that the Commission keep on the agenda
the question of further extension, that is to say, we may have this
question on the agenda for consideration at the next meeting or
the meeting after that. That is all, Mr. Chairman, at present.
MR. REUCHLIN: Mr. Chairman, I can associate myself fully
with what Mr. Banerji just said. As today we have reached a
deadline we have to take a decision, and at this moment it seems
possible only to extend the period to the lst of July. This date
is certainly not the date which we wanted for our experts to go to
Japan and we want, of course, to maintain the date of the 3lst of
December.
I think it is up to us to judge how we have used our
time and it is not for the Supreme Commander to express any opinion
as to how we should have used it. When your proposal comes up
for a vote, I will not vote for it. I will abstain. I see no
other way out at the present moment. But I wish that at some
time in

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
P
-3
time in Tokyo, the Supreme Commander and his advisers would bear in
mind that they are the Allied Powers' representatives, and that,
therefore, when representatives around this table express interest
and have certain desires, those desires would be met. I would es-
pecially wish it in a case like this where we have had only a couple
of months to send experts and the United States Government has had
the opportunity of having their experts since the beginning of the
occupation either in uniform or as civil administrators. Therefore,
when we ask for an extension of six months or until the 3lst of
December, which is a very reasonable desire, I don't think we ought
to be answered that we have used our time insufficiently and that
we only can get another few months. I think it is a very reason-
able desire that we should want until the 3lst of December. It
has been weighed —the pros and cons - in our own official circles.
and we definitely must maintain our wish to have permission to go
to Japan for our experts until the 3lst of December.
GENERAL ROMULO: Mr. Chairman, the Philippines reiterates
the statement that I made on behalf of the Philippine delegation
at the last meeting on this question. We favor extension up to
December 3lst. Our representative in Tokyo has asked for that.
He has explained that our representatives — the two allowed us by
the Supreme Commander — did not have all the time they needed, so
he asks that I make representations in this Commission that the
period be extended. For this reason, I reiterate the statement
that I made at the last meeting. We are in favor of extension
up to December 3lst. Therefore, if this question is put to a
vote today, the Philippines will abstain.
MR. MAKIN: Mr. Chairman, on behalf of Australia, I wish to
associate myself with the remarks that have been made this morning.
We also feel strongly that the time should be extended until the
end of the year and feel that sufficient time has not been given
for our experts to have the opportunity of undertaking the duties
that they would wish under the provisions of this paper. We would
vote this morning in favor of the paper but reserve the right to
have this matter raised again so that there can be an extension of
the period until the end of the year. I fully agree with the
expression that have been made here this morning, and I hope that
the United States will be able to see its way clear to agree with
the proposal that have been made so that the time can be extended
until the end of the year.
GEN. ROMULO: Mr. Chairman, may I ask if a vote is taken
on this

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
on this question today the matter of the extension of time be kept
on the agenda.
GEN. MCCOY: I am conecious of your wishes and will contimue
to try to meet them. I hope shortly to receive information which
we can put before you again on further extension. We are able to
make no commitment for the moment beyond that to extend the time
until the lst of July.
MR. BANEFJI: Yes, Mr. Chairman.
GEN. MCCOY: But I am hopeful that I can raise this question
shortly in a way that will be satisfactory to all of you.
Dr. Blakeslee calls my attention to the fact that there
was a suggestion that the paper remain on the agenda until we have
final action on it. This is what might be called a provisional
action to extend the period until the lst of July, and I'm quite
agreeable to that.
MR. BANERJI: That is what I suggested, Mr. Chairman: that
the question should remain on the agenda.
GEN. MCCOY: Is there any other comment, gentlemen, on this
temporary or provisional extension?
MR. FORD: Mr. Chairman, I have noted your statement that
further consideration of a further extension will not be prejudiced.
GEN. MCCOY: No.
MR. FORD: And in view of that important fact, and in view also
of the imminent expiry of the present policy, I would be prepared to
vote in favor of the proposal.
GEN. MCCOY: Well I would assume that there is no reason for
a formal vote on this provisional extension as long as the paper
continues on the agenda. If there are no objections, it will
accepted and the deadline of today go to the lst of July. The
paper will remain on the agenda for future action.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.95)
De/R
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
RESTRICTED
TO
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
DATE:
April 5, 1949
SUBJECT:
Instructions for U.S. Member, FEC, re FEC 280/14, Access to Japanese
Technical and Scientific Infonation in Japan.
Discussion
FEC 280/14 is a proposal for the extension of the period of application of
FEC 280/9, Access to Japanese Technical and Scientific Information in Japan, and
FEC 3l5/7, Access to Japanese Technical and Scientific Infoimation by Non-FEC
Countries at Mar with Japan to December 31, 1949.
On March 31, 1949 the Conmiission agreed to accept provisionally extension of
the period of the application of FEC 280/9 and FEC 315/7 to July 1, 1949 without
prejudice to further action which the Commission might desire to take to extend the
period to December 31, 1949.
In reply to a query from the U.S. Government whether his objections were of such
a serious character as to justify veto of a paper extending the period to December
894.92/4-549
31, SCAP has replied (Tokyo, C68962) that his objections are not sufficiently
serious to warrant use of the veto.
d
In view of SCAP's reply, the attached memorandum suthorizes the U.S. member
to accept FEC 280/14 s:ould a ma jority of the members of the Commission continue
to support the extension of the period during which investigations may take place
to December 31, 1949.
Recommendation
It is reconmended that you approve and sign attached memoranaum.
Thn
2
894.92
CS/H
APR 15 1949
Whm
FILED
20
FE/NA:AlDuhning:1k
4/5/49
4-549
039540
RESTRICTED

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.92)
RESTRICTED
In reply refer to
MA
MEMORANDUM FOR THE U. S. MEMBER
FAR FASTERN COMISSION
894.92/4-549
1th referenee to FEC 280/14, Access to Japanese
Technical and Scientific Information in Japan, the U. S.
Member is authorized to accept this policy should a
majority of the members of the Commission continue to
support the extension of the period during which investi-
gations may take plsce to December 31, 1949.
. Walton Butterworth
Direetor for Far Eastern Affairs
Hhm
CS/H
894.921
ae!
mirs
FE:NA:ALDunning/1kb
4/5/49
4.54
DESTRICTED

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.97)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE NW.
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS<
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
me
APR 01949
7 April 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
My dear Mr. Secretary:
L. 
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission provide
that one of the functions of the Commission should be to "formulate
the policies, principles and standards in conformity with which
the fulfillment by Japan of its obli ations under the Terms of
Surrender may be accomplished."
It is further provided that when such decisions are made by
694.92/4-749
the Far Eastern Commission, "The United States Government shall
prepare directives in accordance with the policy decisions of the
Commission and shall transmit them to the Supreme Commander through
the appropriate United States Government agency."
The Far Eastern Commission at its one hundred and forty-eighth
meeting held at 2516 lassachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington,
D. C., on 7 April 19l49, unanimously approved the enclosed policy de-
cision entitled "Extension of Far Eastern Commission Policies on
YR894.60
As Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, I have
been instructed to forward this decision to you on behalf of the
Commission in order that an appropriate directive may be prepared
and transmitted to the Supreme Commander in accordance with the
Terms of Reference.
The Commission agreed thet the text of the enclosed policy
should be released to the press.
Sincerely yours,
Kelom rusletm
MAY 2
Nelson T Johnson
894.92
FILED
Secretary General
1949
Enclosure:
Certified Copy of
Policy No. 59
The Honorable
Dean Acheson,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 1.00)
FEC-RESTRICTED
EXTENSION OF FAR EASTERN COMISSION POLICIES ON
ACCESS
TO
JAPANESE
TECHNICAL ANL SCIENTIFIC INFOPMATION IN JAPAN
The Far Eastern Commission decides as a matter of policy
that the provisions of the FEC policy decisions entitled "Access to
Japanese Technical and Scientific Information in Japan" (FEC-280/9,
approved 24 June 1948) and "Access to Japanese Technical and Scien-
tific Information by Non-FEC Countries at War with Japan" (FEC-315/7,
approved 23 December 1948) are hereby extended until 31 December 1949.
P-59
FEC-280/16
7 April 1949

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.95)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE NW.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
The attached copy of a document unanimously adopted
at the one hundred and forty-eighth meeting of the Far
Lastern Commission, held at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, North-
west, Washington, D. C. on 7 April 1949, has been compared
with the original text and is hereby certified to be correct.
Fu 894.92
Telosn Iruslephuen
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Washinrton, D. C.
7 Apri1 1949

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.94)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
RESTRICTED
DATE: APril 12, 1949
TO
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
directive regarding xtension of FEC Policies on
Access to Japanese Technical and Scientific
Information in Japan.
to Decambew 1,1949
Attached is a menorandum for the Secretary, SANACC
enclosing a draft directive prepared on the basis of a
policy decision regarding extension of FEC policies on
Access to Japanese Technical and Scientific Information
which was approved by the FsC on April 7, 1949 and requesting
that this draft directive be forwarded to JCs for trans-
mission to SCAP.
It is recomnended that you approve and sign the
attached memorandum.
If you agree, we shall
prepare these pro formae
in NA in future arnd nat
bother yoa with them.
us
OlD
FE:MA: ALDunning: lk
4/12/40
RESTRICTED

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.95)
八
NA
010
DOIR
In reply refer to
APR 14 1949
NA
RESTRICTED
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY, SANACC
894.92/4-749
Subject: Draft Directive regerding Extension of Far Eastern
Commission Policies on Access to Japanese Techmical
and Scientific Information in Japan.
There is enclosed a draft directive prepared on the basis of
a policy decision aporoved at the 148th meeting of the Far Eastern
Commission on April 7, 1949, under the provisions of Paragraph 11,
A, 1, of its Terms of Reference.
It is requested that the enclosed draft directive be for-
warded to the Joint Chiefs of.Staff for transmission to General
MacArthur for his puidance in accordance with Paragraph III, 1, of
the Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission. It is assumed
that if the Joint Chiefs of Staff have any question regarding the
draft direotive they will refer the matter to the Department of
State for clarification before transmitting a directive on the subjept.
The Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission has in-
formed the Secretary of Stste that the'Commission agreed that the
text of the policy decision regerding the extension of FEC policies
CS/A
on Access to Japanese Technical and Scientific Information in Japan
should be released to the press. Therefore, in accordance with
normal procedure, acknowledgment of the receipt of the directive by
SCAP is requested.
. Walton Butterworth
Director for Far Fastern Affairs
894.921
Enclosure:
Dreft Directive
mmk e
FL:NA:ALDunning/ikl
FE
4/11/49
AB 141949
RESTRICTED
1.
tho signed 
mal.
CR/21S

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.97)
POS
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
A 20
No。 125
UNCLASSIFIED
American Embassy
Oslo, Norway, April 12, 1949.
RECID
APRIL 18
Subjeot: Revision of Norwegian Secondary Sohool English
ACTION
Curriculum.
POS
INFO
DCR
EUR
The Ambassador has the honor to refer to the
Department's despatoh No. 12 of February 12, 1949 and
894
acknowledges reoeipt of the books transmitted under
m
shipment notice of December 21, 1948. These books
have been sent to Lektor SKAAR for the use of the
committee now working on the revision of the Norwegian
seoondary sohool English ourrioulum.
Lektor Skaar has prepared a tentative outline of
a revised English ourrioulum, in which the type of
American material to be inoluded is briefly desoribed.
Five oopies of this outline are transmitted herewith,
and it is requested that they be sent to individuals
or agenoies in the United States oapable of giving
advioe and assistance to the Norwegian committee. It
would seem to the Embassy that these individuals or
agenoies in the United States might then communioate
direotly with Lektor Skaar as ohairman of the
committee on revising the English ourrioulum. Mail
3
should be addressed to Lektor Dagfinn Skaar, Kongsberg,
Norway.
f
Enclosure:
5 oopies of a tentative outline
of a revised English ourrioulum.
File No. 620
JJIund/mr
APR 2 1. 1949.00
Lt
UNCLASSIFIED
Str. to . Solibur
CTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.97)
Headed Ts Tan. Bealiap
NORWEGIAN EMBASSY
4/13/49
WASHINGTON 7. D. C.
DIVISION OF
R
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
APR1 31949
ut
AIDE-MEMOIRE.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Information regardiny scientific and technical processes
in Japan.
894.92/4-1349
By a policy decision at the 134th meeting of the
For Enstern Commission on December 23, 1948, countries at
war with Jepan and not members of the Commission were
cranted access to Japanese technical and scientific infor-
mation. The Horwegian Embassy wws informed of this decision
by a letter from the Secretary Generel of the Commission
usted Jenuary 5, 1949.
CS/A
Enterprises of Horwegian industry are particularly
interested in acquiring inforis tion regarding processes in
+1894.60
the Japanese fish-meal, canning, sea-weed end freezing
industries as well as in the electro-metallurgical, electro-
894.92
chemical, reyon, textile and garment industries. As the
acquisition of the desired information by sending experts
to Japan qualified to collect such material inevitably would
141476

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
NORWEGIAN EMBASSY
WASHINGTON 7. D. C.
be connected with considerable technical difficulties and
probably orly would lead to duplication of work already
done by other countries, such as the United States, the
Norwegian Emeassy would te interested to learn whether
information of the category indicated is available in this
country.
Washington, April 13, 1949.
No. 125
KFK/IJR

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.95)
ACR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: Apr11 13, 1949
SUBJECT:
Norwegian Access to Japanese Technical and Scientific
Information.
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Kristen F. Klaveness, First Secretary,
Norwegian Embassy
Northeast Asian Affairs
131949
DIMECTAN
FW 894.9
COPIES TO:
FE
Popartment of Blate
NA
EUR
US POLAD, Tokyo
Department of the Army
d
92/4-1349
Mr. Klaveness of the Norwegian Embassy called by appointment
1-1403
this mornins and left the attached aide-memoire in which the
Norwegian Government requests information regarding scientific
and technical processes in Japen. I informed Mr. Klaveness that
we would be gled to look into the question of what information,
if any, on the subjects in which the Norwegian Government is
interested, is available in Washington; that we would telegraoh
their request to Tokyo with the suggestion that such information
as might be available there be turned over to the Norwegian
Representative in Tokyo; and that we would inform the Norwegian
Embassy of the results obtained.
I reminded Mr. Klaveness that the Norwegian Government could,
if they so desired, send a technical representative to Japan to
seek out this information. Mr. Klaveness said that it was a
question of the expenses involved and of the difficulties of
translation. His Gov rnment, he said, was particularly interested
in finding out what, if any, information was already translated
F.W.894.92
and available in Washington. I assured him that we would do
everything practicable to comply with his request.
CS/A
141475
mM3
FE:NA:MWB1shop/pm
F1U
/4-13
力

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
AIDE-MÉMOIRE
894.92/4-13
The Department of State refere to the aide-mémoire
of the Norwegian Embassy No. 125, dated April 13, 1949,
with respect to information regarding scientific and
technical processes in Japan, and to the conversation of
894.92/4-1349
the eame date between Mr. Klaveness, First Secretary of
the Norwegian Embassy and Mr. Bishop, Chief of the Divi-
s ion of Northeast Asian Affaire in the Department of
State.
Little information regarding Japanese technical
processes in the categories set forth in the eide-mémoire
of the Lorwegian Embessy is evailable in Washington. Pur-
CS/A
euant to the policy approved by the Far Eastern Commission,
such information obtained by other Missions 1s to be
fully disclosed to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
894.92
Powers, and disseminated by him in response to specific
requests. The Department has requested the Supreme
Commander
4-1349

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Commander for the Allied Powers to give sueh information
in the desired categories which he may have to the
Norwegian Mission in Tokyo.
A certain amount of information with respect to
Jananese patents and industry is available to the
Forwegian Embassy upon request at the Reference Section.
Office of Technical Services, United States Department
of Commerce.
Department of State,
Washington.
wut
FE:NA:NHemmendinger:aw
4/14/49
NOE:CER
APR 19 1949
APP 21 1949

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.97)
FORM DS-323
7-18-46
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
DECLASSIFIED
NND780069
Bysept Department of State
RESTRICTED
NO.
Washington,
2250
USPOLAD,
225C
TOKYO.
A-66, Apr. 19, 1949
The Department of State has received the following
aide-mémoire from the Norwegian Embassy in Washington
894.9
with respect to information regarding scientific and
technical processes in Japan:
"By a policy decision at the l34th meeting of the
Far Eastern Commission on December 23, 1948, countries
2/4-19
at war with Japan and not members of the Commission were
granted access to Japanese technical and scientific in-
formation. The Norwegian Embessy was informed of this
decision by a letter from the Secretary General of the
Commission dated January 3, 1949.
49
"Enterprises of Norwegian industry are particular-
ly interested in acquiring information regarding pro-
cesses in the Japanese fieh-meal, canning, sea-weed and
freezing industries as well as in the electro-metallur-
gical, electro-chemical, rayon, textile and garment
industries. As the acquisition of the desired informa-
tion by sending experts to Japan qualified to collect
such material inevitably would be connected with consi-
derable technical difficulties and probably only would
lead to duplication of work already done by other
countries, such as the United States, the Norwegian
Embassy would be interested to learn whether information
of the category indicated is available in this country."
It is requested that the Acting Political Adviser
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
convey the Norwegian interest to the appropriate Staff
OFFICES ONLY)
section of SCAP and suggest that the aide-mémoire be
considered a specific request for information in the de-
scribed categories in the sense of FEC 315/7, and that
information in these categories which is available be
C
given to the Norwegian Mission in Tokyo.
C.
ACHESON
H
RESTRIOTED
CR CLEARANCE
FE:NA:NHemmendinger:aw
OFD
EUR
4/14/49.
NOE:CER
Ja
AP 11

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
DATE: Apr11 29, 1949
To : FE - Mr. Butterworth
FROM : NA - Mr. Bond
SUBJECT :
There is attached a pro-forma
memorandum for the Secretary General,
Far Eastern Commission enclosing a
certified copy of a directive Serial
No. 102 to SCAP regarding Extension of
Far Eastern Commission Policies on Access
to Japanese Technical and Scientific
Information in Japan, to be filed with
the Far Eestern Commission under the
xr
provisions of paragraph III, 4, of its
Terms of Reference. It is recommended
that you approve and sign the attached.
8-1348
2
aeD
FE:NA:ALDunning:clh

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.94)
Dc/R
File
ad
In reply refer to
MAY 3 1949
NA
UNCLASSIFIED
894.92/5-349
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY G NERAL
FAR AST RN COMMISSION
In accordance with a memorandum dated April 21,
1949, from the State-army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating
Committee, there 1s enclosed a certified copy of a
directive, Serial No. 102, to the Supreme Commender for
the llied Powers regarding Exteneion of Far astern
Commission Policies on Access to Japenese Technical
and cientific Inform tion in Jopan, to be filed with
the Far astern Commission under the provisions of
peregraph III, 4, of its Terms of Reference.
CS/
A
W. Walton Butterworth
Director for Far Fastern Affairs
Enclosure:
894.92
Copy No. 1 (certified)
CR
of irective to sCA,
Seriel No. 102
MAY 2 194S P.M
OD
UNCLASSIFIED
A trun copy of
5
the signed artgs-
FE:NA:ALDunning:clh
CR/2IC
-349
4/29/49

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.93)
twB
SECRET
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
N
n
RAF
FAR EASTEON AFI H:
FE - Mr. Alli
DATE-19491949
He
TO
NA - Lr. Bond
DIRECTOR
ALD
Deartme or B
FROM : NA - . Green/
ble
DC
SUBJECT:
: Comments made by r. Harry Kelley, SS
buring a conference yesterday at the entral ntelli ence Agency,
Dr. Harry helley, hief of the scientific and Technical ivision of SS,
commented on the work of his ivision and upon the status of scientific
development in vapan. sriefed below are some of his more significant
observations:
(1) The ecientific and Tecanical sivision recognizes the iaportance
of re-establishing nor al contacts nu excnanges between Japanese scientists
and scientists of the esteri. .orid. the chief obstacle appears to be lack
o: funds, althougn 125,000 has been made available From the GAnI0A and SCAP
Files
Central
DC/R
This
trust funds for the purchase of techinicel manuals, publications, etc., from
the United tates. one of the chier objectives of the scientific and
Technical sivision is to drop rapicly out of the picture as intermediary
Docment Must Be Returned To
between t... and stapan in the scientifie rield.
(2) . plan is now in the draftin) stage for peritting Japanese
894.
co panies te use a certain fractien of their export proceeds for acquiring
tecinical assistance fron abroad.
(3) dapanese scientific development is most marked in the field of
6
sericulture,  athe.atics, chemistry und metallurgy. The Japanese have been
2
prevented fron entering the liela of radar because of an rm0 decision.
br. elley felt, however, that it was important tuat the Japanese be given
5
an opportunity to develop radar pecause or its practical application in
killing silk cocoons, the manufacture of plyvood, and in marine navigation 
If the capanese are not permitted to develop radar they will find themselves
well behind the rest of the orld when resent Fat proscriptions are removed
All atomic development equipment has been destroyed, but no attempt is made 0
to restrain the capanese from studyin nuclear theory. The Atomic nergy
commission is hesitating to send isotopes to vapan because of the rsc policy
decision or January 1947, preventin Japan from all research or development
in the field of atomic energy.
(4) The purge has not seriously affected science and technology in
Japan.
(5) r.  elley was critical or -2's inclination to label as Communists
or fellow-travelers many of the Japanese scientists whom S & T had reconmended
for travel and study abroad. r. akaya is a case in point. r. hakaya is an
outstanding meteorologist who nas conducted detailed experiments in Siberia
C
DC/R
and the
141350
H
CCHET
DECLASSIFIED
Rev
NND750065
6
Cat-
D12ZHH

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
-2-
and the Kuriles. His recent application to visit the United states,
sponsored by SS, was turned down by G-2 merely on the basis that he
had spent several years in Siberia. G-2's action caused ur. Nakaya
loss of face and shocked his fellow-scientists.
cc: .r-r.rea:e
rCo/J - .r. chuler
Green: br
DET

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
→ALDE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
HH
for Japan
NA
Action Assigned to
Tokyo, May 20, 1949
Action Taken
Tile
Neaition
No. 327
BEC'D
MAY 27
UNCLASSIFIED
Actron crrice Syab
ACTION
FE
Nome or ofricer
NA- lett
INFQ
Direction to DC/R
DCR
OFD
Subject:
Inquiry of Norwegian Embassy Regarding Availability
EUR
of Certain Technical Information.
OLI
894.92/4.11+9 42
894.92/5-2049
The Charge d'affaires ad interim has the honor to refer to
the Department's airgram No. 66 of April 19, 1949, forwarding
the text of an aide-mémoire from the Norwegian Embassy in
Washington regarding the availability of certain technical and
scientific information in Japan. In that connection there is
C
1/
enclosed herewith a copy of a note of May 20, 1949, to the
Norwegian Diplomatic Mission in Japan, transmitting information
received from the Scientific and Technical Division, Economic
and Scientific Section, General Headquarters, SCAP, regarding
the availability of the data in question.
Enclosure:
Note to Norwegian Diplomatic
Mission, dated May 20, 1949.
Parchment mat to the Department.
690/301 Norway
EGSeidensticker, Jr.:lee
8
FAP
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 327
dated May 20, 1949 from the Office of
the U. S. Political Adviser for Japan,
UNCLA BSIFIED
Tokyo, on the subject "Inquiry of
Norwegian Embassy regarding availability
of certain technical information.
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Diplomatic Section
The Diplomatic Section of General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, presents its compliments to the
Norwegian Diplomatic Mission in Japan, and has the honor to re-
fer to a communication, a copy of which is enclosed, recently
received from the Department of State regarding the availability
of certain technical information in Japan. In this connection,
the Diplomatic Section has been informed by the Scientific and
Technical Division, Economic and Scientific Section, General
Headquarters, that information on file with that Division is
available to the Norwegian Diplomatic Mission pursuant to the
provisions of a policy statement (FEC 315/7) adopted by the
Far Eastern Commission on December 23, 1948.
Information at present available covers the following in-
dustries: light metals, rayon and synthetic fibers, cotton
textiles, sericulture, tungsten carbide, shoe eyelet, rice,
phosphates, cement, tea, ramie fiber, ceramics, synthetic ferti-
lizers, bamboo handicraft, agar-agar, butanol fermentation, and
fuel gases.
The Norwegian Diplomatic Mission may wish to take up this
matter directly witi: the Scientific and Technical Division,
Room 322, Empire House, Tokyo, where the information in question
is filed.
Enclosure:
Department of State's Airgram
of April 19, 1949.
Tokyo, May 20, 1949

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.95)
RL
GBS
[Roy Hoko Ikeda
c/o Tamotsu Murayama
DECLASSIFIED
OFFICE OF THE COUNSELOR
Nippon Tames]
NND 2800US
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
By T6/cNans, Date 8.23.78
RECEIVED
Tokyo, Jann.
SEP 6 1949
Mr. George F. Kennan,
R
State Department,
130149
D
Washington, D. C.
2
Dear Mr. Kennan:
1FC
May I take this opnortunity to extend you greetings from Japan.
I, Roy Hoko Ikeda, am now in Janan, where I arrived on April 15,
1949. Perhaps, you may be able to find out my past records easily
at the Federal Bureau of Investigations or Army InteRigence Office.
My purrose of coming to Ja an is to inform the Japanese public on
the real world situation and to promote goodwill among nations of
the world. For this specific puruose, I came to Japan to establish
a scientific research institute for the presentation of unbiased
facts.
Since my arrival here, I  as fully convinced that it is necessary
to set up a counter+research institution against the communist net
works, because I found most of the similar research groups in Tokyo
are communistic organizations or communist infiltrated organizatinns
although they seem to be conservative. They are smoothly functi
into various organisation for +he communistic aims.
I am  eking an effort to establish a contact with prominent fi
in Tokko mostly, of whom names and professions are shown on the
attached sheet. Incidentaly, I learned yest rday that a repres
tative of the Carnagie Endo ment for International F ace is her
I am very anxious to meet him, because it is my sincere wish to
obtain some subsidiary fund from that organization. If you ar
kind enough to make an arrangement for metwithin your power an
authority ppior to the denarture of him, I would appreciate ve
much.
My past research materials totali & about tvelve(l2) cubic me
tons are in my home at 152 North El Dorado Street, San Mateo, Calif.
If I were granted some fund from the Carnagie Endoment Foundation,
I wish to bring my v luable me terials to Janan in order to commenee
the research works promptly.
Your particular attention for my work out here is greatly appreciated.
The forthcoming announcement of the United States new policies for
the Far East under Mr. Jessup is anxiously awaited. Any aid you
can extend to me in my project to check communistic activities
in Janan and to democratize the mation is deeply appreciated.
230095
Respectfully yours,
FILED
Ray Hako Okeda
9
Roy Hoko Ikeda
5
PS: Please con ey my best regard to Mr. Dean Acheson and Mr.
Mr. Clark Clifford. Please write Mr. Seabold an introduction
so I may be able to see him for his advise.
RHI

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
1. Mr. Isamu Inouye
Editor-in-chief, Jiji Press
B. Mr. Keishiro Iriye
Director, Jiji Research Institute
Mr. Shinichiro Kudo
General Director of Mainichi Sgimbum
Mr. Tatsuo Iwabuchi
Political Oommentator
5. Mr. Tamotsu Murayama
City Editor, Nippon Times
6. Mr. Kiyoshi Togasaki
President, Nippon Times
7. Mr. Ken Harada
Executive Director, Japan United Nations
Association
8. Mr. Komakichi Matsuoka
Presidont, Japan Labor Federation
9. Dr. Gunji Hosono
Executive Director, Japan Institute of
Foreign Affairs.
10. Dr. Hachiro Yuasa
President, Doshiaha University
11. Mr. Shintaro Ryu
Edi tor, Asahi Shimbun
12. Mr. Ryuichi Kaj1
Publication Director, Asahi Shimbun
13. Hon. Tsuneo Matsudaira
Ex-Ambassador to the United States
14. Hon. Kijuro Shidehara
Ex-Ambassador to the United States
15. Mr. Tatsuo Morito
Former Minister of Education
16. Dr. Toyohiko Kagawa
President, International Peace Association
17. Dr. Soichi Saito
National Director, Japan YMCA
18. Mr. Takeo Naoi
Director, Democratic Labor Association
19. Mr. Tetsutaro Miura
Director, Economic Club
20. Mr. Yoshio Kobayashi
Professor, Sophia University
21. Dr. Kotaro Tanaka
Ja an Academic Society
22. Dr. Iwao Ayuzawa
Former Represert ative to the International
Labor Office Geneva
23. Mr. Katsumi Ono
Director, Political Affairs Bureau
Foreign Office
24. Mr. Shigeru Yosano
Director, Information Bureau, Foreig
25. Mr. Shizuo Saito
Chief, Political Affairs Section
Foreign Office
26. Mr. Kanichi Hatano
Editor, International Economic Daily
27. Mr. Itaru Kaku
Writer and Lecturer
28. Mr. Hyoye Ouchi
Former Professor, Tokyo University
29. Mr. Kanzo Uchiyama
Expert on Chinese Affairs
30. Mr. Yoshimune Abe
General Secretary, Ja an UNESCO
Cooperative Association
31. Mr. Morikatsu Inagaki
League for Establishing the World Fedoratign
32. Dr. Kisaburo Yokota
Professor, Tokyo University
33. Dr. Shinzo Kcizumi
Ex-President, Keio University
34. Mr. Manabu Sano
Director, Institue of Japan Political
Economy
35. Mr. Takeo Takagi
Assistant Mam ging Editor, Yomiuri Shimbun
36. Mr. Masao Kiyokawa
Editor, Hochi Shimbun
37. Mr. Harumi Takouchi
Dirctor, Am rican Division, Foreign Offio
38. Mr. Kotoh Matsudaira
Dir ctor, Research Bureau, Foreign Office
39. Mr. Ki Kimura
Writer

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.91)
ROY HOKO HIDEO IKEDA.
REPRESENTATIVE
INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
-TEMORARY OPPICE
COHAKUGEI HASARY NT
RESIDENCEI
 HOMP KUHYODATOO
B71 YOYOGI-NIBHIHARA-MACHI
TELEPHONE KUDAN (SI
SH:DUYA-KU, TOKYO

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
No.
To the
Acting United Staftes Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo.
The secretary of State forwards for the information
letter from Mr. Roy Hoko Ikeda with regard to his efforts
to establish & research institute in Japan. The following
information concerning Mr. Ikeda, which has been obtained
from the Department's files, may be of assistance in con-
sideration of hisletter.
Mr. Ikeda first made applicationg for an exit permit
to proceed to Japan in  letter dated October 10, 1946
to the Department. He stated that his specific purpose
in proceeding tφ Tolcyo, Japan, was to "join political
movement in Japan with cooperation of the Oceupation
authorities and to establish the Institution of International
The Visa Division on March 17, 1947 and the Division
of Foreign Activity Correlation on April 7, 1947 recommended
that his application be denied. This recommendation was
based on information received from a confidential source
within the Goyernment which reported that according to in-
formation received in 1943 the subject, who was formerly
known as a radical Communist among the West Coast Japanese
and opposed to the militaristic regime, may have changed
nis state to that of an extreme pro- Japanese nationalist.
Investigation at the Central Utah War Relocation Center
at Topaz, Utah, and Salt Lake City reflected that he was
known for his extreme liberalistic view points and was
considered a$ being violently opposed to the militaristic
regime then in control of Japan. Nr. Ikeda and his wife
left the Center in the latter part of August 1943 on in-
definite leave for the purpose of employment as janitor
and nurse's aide, respectively, at the Daughters of 7ion
Nursery, 140l North California Avenue, Chicago, Illinois,
and resided at 1528 North Fairrield Avenue, Chicago. He
received
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
PL
CONFIDENTIL
NO.
To the
Acting United States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo.
894.92/8
The Secretary of State forwards for the information
of the Mission and for appropriate handling the enclosed
copy of a letter from Mr. Roy Hoko Ikeda with regard to
his efforts to establish a research institute in Japan.
The following information concerning Mr. Ikeda, which
has been obtained from the Department's files, may be of
assistance in consideration of his letter.
1
Mr. Ikeda first made application for an exit permit
2
to proceed to Japen in a letter dated October 19, 1946
294.9
to the Department. He stated that his specific purpose
in proceeding to Tokyo, Japan, was to "join political
movement in Japan with cooperation of the Occupation
authoritles and to establish the Institution of International
Affairs to formulate the Foreign Policy on Democratic bases.
C
The Visa Division on March 17, 1947 and the Division
S
of Foreign Activity Correlation on  pril 7, 1947 recommended
1
that his application be denied. This recommendation was
C
based on information received from a confidential source
within the Government which reported that according to in-
formation received in 1943 the subject, who was formerly
known as a radical Communist among the West Coast Japanese
and opposed to the militaristic regime, may have changed
his state to that of an extreme pro-Japanese nationalist.
Investigation at the Central Utah War Relocation Center
at Topaz, Utah, and Salt Lake City reflected that he was
known for his extreme liberalistic viespoints and was
considered as being violently opposed to the militaristie
regime then in control of Japan. Mr. Ikeda and his wife
left the Center in the latter part of August 1943 on in-
definite leave for the purpose of employment as janitor
894.92/8-2949
and nurse's aide, respectively, at the Daughters of Zion
Nursery, 140l North California Avemue, Chicago, Illinois,
and resided at 1528 North Fairfield Avenue, Chicago. He
received
CONFIDENTI

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.97)
COMPIDENTIAL
-2-
received the People's World, Foreign Policy Bulletin,
New Republic, and PM. He was reported to have assisted
In the publication of a radical Communist newspaper on
the West Coast prior to his internment. He onoe sub-
mitted to Dr. Kenneth Colgrove, Professor of Political
Science, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, a
plan for political reconstruction of Japan which calls
ror the creation of sufficient revolutionary feeling
to overthrow the Japanese Government of that time and
establish a new element who truly believe in the demo-
cratic ideal.
Mr. Ikeda was intervlewed in August 1944 and fur-
nished the following information:
He published War of the Classes and a magazine
Public Opinion in California and at the time of this
publication he stated that he was what would be con-
sidered a leftist and joined the Communist Party which
helped the circulation of his publications. He stated
that he remained a member of this party for approximitely
four years when he withdrew because he objected to the
"absolutism" of their doctrines. He stated that he
thoroughly believed in the political philosophy of Karl
Marx but he did not feel it was followed by the Communist
Party.
Mr. Ikeda stated that in 1929 he returned to Japan
where he affiliate himself with the Socialist Peoples
Party of Japan of which Dr. Ikuo Oyama was one of the
leading members. He advised that he actively engaged
in the work of spreading the doctrines of this party's
political ideology in Japan, but that in about i93l be-
cause of the ascension to power of the war cabinet in
Japan, Dr. Oyama was compelled to flee from the Japanese
empire. He stated that he was charged by the Japanese
Socialist Peoples Party with the responsibility of looking
after Dr. Oyama because it was hoped by the members of
this party that upon the ultimate fall of the cabinet and
the war party in Japan, the Socialist Peoples Party might
come into power and if this was the case Dr. Oyama was
looked upon as the most logical man to be the leader of this
new government.
Mr. Ikeda advised that he came back to the United
States in 1932, ahead of Dr. Oyama. He stated that since
his arrival in Chicago he had not affiliated himself with
any group, either of his own race or of any leftist political
movement in the United States. He stated that he had two
friends at the University of Chicago who could verify the
information that he was giving. These men he named as
Joe Koide and Ryoichi Fujii.
OFF
It is understood that additional information concerning
DEC
Mr. Ikeda is contained in the files of the Civil Censorship
Detachment, SCAP, Tokyo.
Enclosure:
A true capy of
From Mr. Ikeda, copy.
the signed ertg-
tmal
bes
CONFIDENTIAL
PA:PL:GRSmith:ETC:md
um
12/2/49

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.96)
Office Memorandux
STATE
Pr1
UNITED STATES`GOVERNMENT
. TO
: PL - Mrs. Carter
DATB: November 29, 1949
Attention:
FROMSY-D. L.Micholso
SUBJEQT:
Roy Hoko Ikeda
1.OV:1949
DEPARTWENT OF STANE
Reference is made to your recent memorandum requesting background
information in regard to Roy Hoko Ikeda for transmittal to the Mission
at Tokyo.
The subject irst male applications for an exit permit to proceed
to Jipan in a letter dated October 10, 194ó, to the Department. The
subject s ated that his specific purpose in proceeding to Tokyo, Japan,
was o "join poli tical movemen  in Japan witn cooperation of the
Occupation authorities and to estaolish the Ins ti tution of International
Affairs to fornulate the Forei n Policy on Democratic bases.
894.92/8-2949
The files of the Department indicate that the Visa Division on
Larch 17, 1,47 ani the Division of Foreign Activity Correlation on
pril 7, 1y47, recomnended that the suoject's apolication be denied.
This recomrendation was based on information received from a confidential
source wi thin the ;overnnent which reported that according to information
received in 1943 the su ject, who was formerly knom as a radical
Communist amon the Jest Coast Japanese and opoosed to the militaristic
regime, may have chan cd his state to trat of an extreme pro-Ja anese
nationalist. Investigation at the Central Utah Nar Relocation Center
at Tooaz, Utah, and Salt Lake City reflected that the suoject was known
for his extreme liberalistic view points and was considered as being
violently op osed o the militaristic regime then in control of Japan.
subject and his wife left the aforementioned Center in the latter part
of August 1943 on indefinite leave for the purpose of employment as
Janitor and nurse's aide respectively at the Daughters of Zion Nursery,
1401 North California Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, and resided at
CS
1528 North airfield Avenue, Chicago. ie received the People's Norld,
Foreign Policy 3ulletin, New Reoublic, and PM. He was reported to have
assisted in the publication of a ra lical Communist newspaper on the
est Coast rior to his in ternment. The suject once submitted to
Dr. Kenneth Colgrove, Professor of Folitical cience, Northwestern
Fu894.92/9-2949
University, Evanston, Illinois, a plan for political reconstruction of
Japan which calls for the creation ot sufficient revolutionary feeling
to overthrow the Japanese government of that time and establish a new
element who truly believe in the democratic ideal.
The suject was interviewed in Au ust 1944 and furnished the
followinginformation:
He published
232721

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
He published War of the Classes and a magazine Public Opinion in
California and at the time of this pbulication he stated that he was
what would be considered a leftist and joined the Comnunist Party
which helped the circula tion of his publications. He stated that he
remained a member of this party for aporoximately four years when he
wi thdrew because he objected to the absolutism" of their doctrines.
He stated that he thoroughly believed in the political philosophy of
Karl arx but he did not feel it was followed by the Communist Party.
Subject stated that in ly29 he returned to Japan where he affiliated
himself with the ocialist Peoples Party oi Japan of which Dr. Ikuo Oyama
was one of the leadin; nemers. He alvised that he actively engaged in
the work of soreadin; tie doctrines of this party', political ideology
in Japan, but that in about 1931 because of the ascension to power of
the war cabinet in Japan, Dr. Oyama was compelled to flee from the
Jaoanese  pire. He stated hat he wa. charged by the Japanese Socialist
Peo les Party with the responsibili ty of looking after Dr. Oyama because
it was hoped by the members of this party that upon the ultimate fall of
the casinet and che war arty in Japan, the Socialist Peoples Party
mi tht come into power an if t is was the case Dr. Oyama was looked upon
as the most lo ical man to be the leader of this : ew government.
The suoject advised that he came back to the United States in 1932,
ahead of Dr. Oyama. He stated that since his arrival in Chicago he nad
not affiliated himself with ny group, either of his owm race or of any
leftist political movement in the U ited States. He stated that he had
two triends at the Uni versity of Chi cago who could verify the information
that he was ivin:. These men he named as Joe Koide and Ryoichi Fujii.
You nay wish also to advise the ission at Tokyo of several reports
contained in the files of the Civil Censorship Detachment, SCAP, Tokyo,
concerning Roy iloko Ikeda.
The letter to the Department from the subject is returned herewith.
Attachment:
Letter dated Au ust 29, 1949.
ON:SY:HGosho:rsh
