894.44 Special Mention Of Citizens Or Subjects Of Japan Not Otherwise Classifiable. Arranged Alphabetically., June 1, 1932 - December 21, 1933 (File 797)
ID: 894.44-797   Pages: 238   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.44-special-mention-of-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, December 21, 1933.
No. 619.
SUBJECT:
Transmitting Translation of Artiole
in January Number of HINODE by the
Foreign Minister, Mr. Koki Hirota.
F/G
JANT5
 EASTRCZE
TATE
MJAN 16 1934
END
894.44/1
Deportment cf Stal
For Distribution-C1
(irade
For
M(D) 902
oN/S
COPIES SENT TO
The Honorable
The Secretary of stAN.I. AND M. I. Dg
Washington.
FER1-1934
Sir:
FILED
1/.
I have the honor to enclose herewith a transla-
tion made by Language Attaché, John M. Allison, of an
koke
article by Foreign Minister Hirota, which was publish-
ed in the January number of HINODE, a popular magazine
with a wide circulation among the lower middle class
of Japanese.
This article consists of recollections of the late
Yamaza Enjiro, former Japanese Minister to China, and
also tells of Mr. Hirota's entrance into the diplomatic
service of Japan. While there is no startling informa-
tion

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
tion therein, it is thought that a reading of the
article gives an insight into the background and
character of the present Foreign Minister which may
be of value.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
1. Article in HINODE
by the Foreign Minister
Mr. Koki Hirota.
844.
JMA:8

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch
No. 619 of December 21, 1955
from the Embassy, Tokyo.
TRANSLATION.
YAMAZA ENJIRO, A FAMOUS DIPLOMAT,
AND MY INITIATION INTO DIPLOMACY.
by
Hirota, Koki, Foreign Minister.
I Meet Him Through Toyama.
During approximately thirty years as a diplomat
I have come tn contact with many men, those the world
calls famous, first rank diplomats, statesmen, and I
have had many close relations with all of them. How-
ever, those who have left an impression on me have
been very rare. Among these the late Yamaza Enjiro,
former Minister to China, is the only one whom I can-
not forget even should I desire to do so. The affability
and generosity of this resourceful and remarkable man
have been so deeply engraved on my memory that even now
he appears before me as if he were alive. In discuss-
ing my relations with him, rather than speak of him as
my senior in the diplomatic service I want to talk of
him as one who was, to me, a revered teacher and a lov-
ing parent. Let us now turn back more than thirty years.
I was about nineteen years old when I graduated
from a middle school in Fukuoka Prefecture and when one
of my early intimate friends, Hirata Tomoo and I came
up to Tokyo with our minds made up as to what we wished
to do and carrying with us all our worldly goods. The
famous Toyama Mitsuru was a former townsman of ours and
we first knocked at his gate and asked for instruction
and advice.
"Well, young gentlemen, why did you come to Tokyo?"
he inquired.
"We hope that by studying hard we can become diplo-
mats."
"Hmm-- I greatly dislike officials and rich men," was
the manner in which he received our plans.
"The world is like a ship. If all the passengers go
only to the left side the right side will be lifted into
the air and then the ship will sink. My responsibility
is to stay on the right side and prevent the ship from
sinking." It was by such examples that he taught us the
road to follow through life.7 Finally he said: "Young
men, if you insist on becoming officials I shall not
hinder you. When you become diplomats go to the Foreign
Office and get advice from Yamaza Enjiro, a very able
man."
We

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
We received from Toyama a letter of introduction
and it was in this manner that I rirst met Mr. Yamaza.
From that time on, in public as well as private affairs,
he treated me with more kindness and love then could
have been expected had he been my owm parent. When we
first called on Yamaza he said; "The heart of our for-
eign policy is China and Russia. If you wish to become
one of the diplomats of the future it will be necessary
for you to study diligently the conditions in those
two countries. Keep this in mind in all your studies."
Sure enough, not long after, the Russo-Japanese war
broke out.
I go to Manchuria Under Secret Orders Still a
student.
In the summer of the 36th year of Meiji (1903) if I
am not mistaken, my friend Hirata and I were freshmen
at the Imperial University. It was a time when the at-
mosphere between Russia and Japan had become very oppres-
sive and when the nerves of the whole nation were on edge
with the question of when hostilities might break out.
One evening Hirata and I, in response to his invitation
went to the official residence of Mr. Yamaza. That night
the usual open hearted and nochalant Yamaza met us with
a strained countenance and said: "Russo-Japanese rela-
tions are gradually becoming more and more critical. Be-
fore anything happens I want you two young men to go, one
to Siberia and one to Manchuria, to investigate the con-
ditions there. You can go as students making a trip of
inspection during your summer holidays. It will be a fine
method of hoodwinking the enemy, wont it?" He then gave
us some money for travelling expenses and about thirty
letters of introduction. Having received these secret
instructions we quickly set out, Hirata crossing from
Tsuruga to Vladivostok and I going via Chosen to Manchuria.
At that time Russia was planning the subjugation of
both South and North Manchuria and already her influence
had begun to penetrate the borders of Korea, and along the
Korean banks of the Yalu river at Ryuganpo there were
lumber companies under Russian management. Making up some
pretext I managed to stay for two nights in this lumber
concession. One midnight I happened to awake and aimlessly
looking out of the window of my room, there in the white
light of a July moon, I could see two Russian guards who
were keeping watch ail through the night outside my door.
In Antung I found Oki Teisuke, who during the Russo-Japanese
war was to do very important work as a military spy and was
finally captured and sot by the Russians at Harbin. In
Yinkou, as consul, was Mizuno Kokichi, later to be Yamaza's
assistant in China. From both of these men I learned much
about the condition of the Russian army and with the facts
I had gathered I returned and reported in detail to Mr.
Yamaza. Whether or not the reports made by Hirata and my-
self had any value, this method of making use of us, who
were still students, to find out the true condition of the
Russian army illustrates the ability of Yamaza to do the
unusual rather than adhere to the example of the conventional
type

=== Page 5 === (confidence 1.00)
type of diplomat.
War Secrets from Russian Prisoners.
The next year, as had been expected, war broke out
and the famous dooument declaring war against Russie was
actually written by Yamaza. As Director of the Political
Affairs Bureau he was in a strategic position in the For-
eign Office and taking part in the inner ∞uncils with the
world famous Marquis Komura Jutaro, who was Foreign Minister,
he showed exceptional skill and ability in conducting the
negotiations with the Great Powers which formed the back-
ground of the war.
Among the troops sent by Russia to Manchuria were many
Poles, as at that time Poland was under Russian rule. How-
ever these Polish soldiers, not wanting to fight for Russia
against Japan, willingly surrendered to our army and many
of them were sent as prisoners of war to a camp in the city
of Matsuyama in Shikoku. Among these prisoners was Marshal
Pilsudsky who was later to be President of Poland after she
gained her independence. As many of these Poles could
speak English I was again sent for by Yamaza and told to go
to Matsuyama and find out from them the military condition
of the Russian army. I immediately left on this mission.
For many years these Poles had clierished a feeling of hatred
for the Russians and they were willing to tell anything and
everything. They told about the pitfalls on the road to
Mukden and they told just where the various hidden strong-
holds were. From them we learned the condition of Russian
munitions, the state of their provisions and even the morale
of the enemy troops. They told everything they knew and
kept nothing back. I reported in detail to Yemaza and he
passed the information on to Brigadier General Fukushima,
later General, who was Chief of the Military Intelligence
Division.
At that time I was still a student at the Imperial Uni-
versity but due to the assistance of Yamaza I had already
received a salary from the Foreign Office, though not on
their regular staff, and thus, though I was very poor, I
never lacked funds for my education.
Yamaza Escapes from Danger by Feigning Drunkeness.
Yamaza, naturally, attended the Portsmouth Peace Con-
ference in the suite of Marquis Komura. The Japanese nation,
drunk with the victory over Russia, were exceedingly indig-
nant at the results of the Peace Treaty and a great national
meeting of protest was held in Hibiya Park which became a
veritable powder magazine. Suddenly the Capital burst into
a mass of flames and it finally became necessary for the
authorities, much against their will, to declare martial law.
Reports of this reached the Peace Conference in America
and Yamaza, realizing the critical condition in Japan, re-
solved to return in advance of the Komura mission.
"What, Yamaza coming back?"
"Komura's assistant returning!"
He

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
"He too is responsible for the failure of
the Treaty."
"We'll never forgive him."
Such were the exclamations heard on every hand at the news
of Yamaza's impending return. While the feeling against the
treaty was still running high the ship bearing Yamaza reach-
ed Yokohama. On the dook were gathered many super-patriots
and ronin who had been waiting since early morning to ex-
press their indignation at the failure of the treaty. As
the ship docked they dashed forward shouting and threatening
him. On seeing this Yamaza staggered toward them completely
intoxicated.
"What, you are angry at the failure of the treaty? I am
also very angry" he muttered as he stumbled toward the row-
dies. The orowd which had gathered purposely to avenge the
failure of the treaty drew back as they could not attack a
drunkard.
"Yamaza is also angry. He has been drinking to hide
his true feelings. Isn't it a shame." Such exclamations
began to be heard and those, who up to that moment had been
waiting to harm him, changed their attitude to one of sympathy
and in this manner he was able to reach Tokyo with safety.
However, Yamaza was not in the least drunk. He had pur-
posely pretended to be so for in the inner pocket of his
coat was hidden the true text of the Peace Treaty. Judging
from the conditions prevailing in our country at that time,
if the Komura Mission had returned in grand style bringing
the text of the treaty with them at the same time, there is
no telling what violence, even to the extent of stealing
the treaty and tearing it to pieces, might not have been done
by the group dissatisfied with the results of the Portsmouth
Conference.
Yamaza had quickly perceived this and so by pretending
to be intoxieated he managed to bring the treaty to Tokyo
safely. We can see in this incident the true resourcefulness
of the man for this was a method which the average official
would not have attempted.
Yamaza Needed by Nation in Present Crisis.
In the meantime I had taken the diplomatic examinations
and entered the Foreign Office. Yamaza said to me; "When
you become a diplomat don't speak about foreign policy for
ten years but simply keep studying." I believe that I really
followed this advice. As a diplomatic attaché I first went
to China but shortly after this, Yamaza, who for seven years
had held the important post of Director of the Political Af-
fairs Bureau, was transferred to London to serve as Counselor
of Embassy under Ambassador Kato Komei, and I went to England
with him.
To be transferred from the very important position of
Director of the Political Affairs Bureau after seven years, to
the comparatively less important post of Counselor of Embassy,
even though there was the vital duty of revising and extend-
ing

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
ing the Angle-Japanese Alliance, ms something of a blow,
but Yamasa without showing any signs of vexation or dis-
appointment calmly proeeeded to his post keeping in mind
only his duty to his country and not his own ambitions.
More than ten years before this Yamaza, as an attaché,
had been some time in our Legation in London. At that time,
when our mission was still a Legation, the Minister had been
the same Count Kato Komei who at this time was Ambassador.
I was muoh interested in finding out what sort of work Yamasa
had done as an attaché so I searched through the old doouments
in the Embassy and examined all of his despatohes. He had
been in charge of the accounts of the Legation and I diseov-
ered a long detailed report on accounts which he had compiled.
When I thought of the apparently care free and open handed
Yamasa who seemingly took no interest in details and then
looked at this report, minute and precise in all respects,
the remarkable ability of the man was evident. Then I com-
pared this report on accounts with the document declaring war
against Russia and through these two documents I found evi-
dence of the true character of my friend.
Tamaza was a very strong drinker and seemingly the more
he drank the clearer became his brain and the sharper his wit.
As he grew older he drank more and more and after his return
to Japan from Lendon it had begun, more or less, to affect
his health. On the advice of friends he consulted Dr. Aoyama,
a famous physician of that time. Dr. Aoyama was one of the
leaders of the medical world and was a man with similar in-
stinots and sympathies to those of Yamaza. He took Yamaza's
pulse and then exolaimed: "Don't worry. With such a pulse
as yours you will not suffer from hardening of the arteries."
The result of this medical examination was most unfortunate
for in the future Yamaza continued being unconcerned about his
health and he did not cease drinking. Finally while in Peking
he died of the very disease which the doctor had told him not
to worry about. His going is a great loss to the nation.
He was a man who did much for others and as he had no
children of his own he liked to gather around him young men
whom he would treat as his own sons. He welcomed people of
all classes and to military men, super-patriots and ronin he
used to say: "Between Japanese there should be no secrets."
With anyone he would discuss frankly and earnestly matters of
state polioy.
This open hearted attitude of Yamaza's attracted many
people to him and how much he did for them and for the nation
we cannot know. Today, when our nation is confronted with
grave external and internal problems I cannot keep from think-
ing what a benefit to the nation it would be if only he were
alive.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./73
Despateh #656
SEE
FOR
894.44/17
Japan
Grew
January 9,1934
FROM
--) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Death of Gount Yamamoto in Tokyo on December 8,1933 at
ago of 81.
esp

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.92)
(a) Daath at Comt Xanamte
Adairal Count Gombel Yamamote, former Prime Minister
and "avy dinister, died in Tokyo on December & at the age
of eighty-one. ad iral Yamamoto, who was one of the fast
dwindling sroup of survivors of those who fought in the
Imperial eause t te time of the Meiji Restor»tlon, was
a oln ea Minister of the Navy in l8a8, it m1er in 191",
and again in Bept mber 19:3, at w :o time he was confront-
ed wit: the gigantic task of post-earthquake rcconstrue-
t'on.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.90)
Dx
Artment of StatE
GN OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 22, 1935.
Tatsa is not a Japanese
name, for the reason that the
combination of consonants
"ts"
is alway followed by the
voweI"u".
ea..

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 21, 1935.
SKH:
Professor Rogers probably refers to
Dr. Sakutaro Tachi, who is regarded as one
of the half-dozen oy so most eminent
authorities in Japan on international law.
He is emeritus professor of international
law of Tokyo Imperial University, and is
now, and has been for many years, an
adviser in international law to the
Foreign Office. He was a member of the
Japanese delegation to the Washington
Conference.
He is the author of two widely known
works entitled (in translation) The
International Law of Peace and The Inter-
national Law of War. I am not familiar
with the work referred to by Professor
Rogers, but I recall having seen a review
of a book by him published last year
entitled (as well as I can remember)
GENKO KOKUSAI-HO NO GENSOKU (Principles
of International Law as in Effect Today)
Do 
MYDLY

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
MASTER'S HOUSE
TIMOTHY DWIGHT COLLEGE
YALE UNIVERSITY
DeR
October 18, 1935
Division of
RECEIVED
Honorable Stanley K. Hornbeck
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Aus'd
OCT 2 5 1935
State Department
OCT 25 1935
ashington, D. C.
DIVISION OF
Benertman nt Sauto
Dear Stanley:
Mr. Whitney Griswold, a Fellow of this College from
the history department who is working over the diplomatic
21935
history of the United States and the Far East, and I have
been talking this morning about what seems to be an in-
teresting and important book which has come into his hands.
The title as we understand it can be translated as the
October
"Theory of International Law Today", and the author, Tatsa
Taro It was published in Tokio in 1934. We understand
Taro is an international law man of achievement, now con-
nected with the Foreign Office of Japan and that the book
represents a thorough-going review of the law theories
behind the present Japanese policy with chapters on the
Manchukuo Affair including others on the Lytton Report,
on the Kellogg Pact, one on the Stimson Doctrine, one
on the Nine Power Treaty, and many others of the same sort.
We have been talking this morning about the possi-
bility of getting it published in connection with a rather
wider idea of collecting the study of Japanese Affairs in
the University on which Mr. Griswold has what seems to me
some very interesting practical ideas of considerable
national importance and value.
Do you know this book, do you know of any transla-
tions of it? Please tell me anything you can about it
or its author's importance or value. I will of course
not quote you unless you give me permission.
With best regards,
$
Sincerely,
Trfyrs
894.44
OCT·25:1935
FILED
JGR:MP
F/G

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
Ootober 23, 1955.
Dear Jim:
I asknowledge the receipt of your letter under date
Ootober 18, 1935, in which inquiry 1s made in regard to
a book entitled in translation "Theory of International
894.44/18
Law Today", by one "Tatsa Taro", who, you understand, is
conneoted with the Japanese Foreign Office.
We assume that there has been an error in the trans-
literation from Japanese to English of the name of the
author. It seems probable that the person to whom you
refer is Dr. Sakutaro Tachi, or, following the Japanese
rule that the surname shall proceed the given name,
Tachi Sakutaro. Dr. Tachi, who 1s regarded as one of
the most eminent authorities in Japan on international
law, is emeritus professor of international law at Tokyo
Imperial University. He has been for meny years an adviser
in international law to the Japanese Foreign Office, and
we understand that he hes recently been appointed by the
Japanese Government a member of the Permanent Court of
Arbitration.
Professor Jemes Grafton Rogers,
Master's House,
Timothy Dwight College,
Yale University,
New Haven, Conneotiout.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Arbitration. He is the author of two widely known works
entitled, in translation, "The International Law of Peace"
and "The International Law of War". We are not familiar with
the beok referred to in your letter under aoknowledgment,
but one of our offioers recalls having seen a review in a
Japanese publication of a book by Dr. Tach1 published last
year on the subjeet of prinoiples of existing international
law.
Would you like to have us address an inquiry tc the
Amerioan Embassy in Tokyo? Might 1t not be well for you
to ask Professor Arakawa (Yale) and Dean Hindmarah (Harvard)
what they may know about the matter?
with ell best wishes to you -- always,
Yours sinoerely,
OCT 26 1935PM
mm.V
FE: EHD/VDM
FE

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.95)
D。
MASTER'S HOUSE
TIMOTHY DWIGHT COLLEGE
RECEIVED
DCR
NOV 2 1935.
CONUNICATIONS 
October 31, 1935
Divisior
Honorable Stanley K. Hornbeck
FAR EASTERNRS
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
NOV-11935
Dear Stanley:
Department of State
Many thanks for your letter of October 23 on the
Japanese book.
The idea of translating this book is part of a
vague general scheme we have in mind on which I want
your advice and suggestions sometime this winter. For
the moment we need not trouble you further.
894.44/19
With best regards,
Sincerely,
T
JGR:NP
1935
F

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
此
THE UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT
BURLINGTON,VERMONT
REOZIVED
AN 7 1936
December 30, 1935.
DIVISION OF
Jole Cnil gon
Division of
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
C
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affair
AJAN 3 - 1936
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Department of State
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
4.44
Major Yoshiaki Nishi of the Japanese Army has
recently given me a copy of the biography of Count
Kato (two volumes), written in Japanese. If this
is the Kato who was Foreign Minister in Japan during
the World War, as I assume it is, it is of consider-
able significance in connection with Japanese diplo-
macy and is something which I have long sought to
20
obtain.
The fly in the ointment is that I do not know
Japanese and I have no immediate prospect of learning
it. This biography, I believe, has never been trans-
lated into any non-Japanese language.
AN 7 1936
Is there not some one connected with the Division
FLE
of Far Eastern Affairs who is eager to develop his
knowledge of Japanese by translating this biography? I
、shall appreciate any helpful suggestion from you in
this matter.
F/FG
Cordially yours,
D.P Carrall
11
Daniel B. Carroll.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
January 3, 1936.
Dear Mr. Carroll:
I have your letter of December 30 inquiring whether
some member of the Division of Far Eastern Affairs would
be in position to translate into English the Japanese
biography of Count Kato.
The office time of the two members of the Division
who are familiar with the Japanese language is more than
occupied with discharge of official duties, and the
894.44/20
tremendous amount of work involved in the translation
which you suggest would be an undertaking too large for
the after-office time of either of them. I regret to
say, therefore, that the translation by a member of the
staff of the Division is out of the question.
Officers of the Division who are familiar with the
biography of Takaaki Kato state that the biography contains
a mass of material addressed to the Japanese public, the
translation of which would hardly seem warranted for
publication
Mr. Daniel B. Carroll,
The University of Vermont,
Burlington, Vermont.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
2-
publication in an American book.
I can appreciate your interest in having the Kató
biography translated and I would suggest that, in case
you care to pursue the matter further, you communicate
with Mr. Mortimer Graves, Seoretary of the American
Counoil of Learned Sooieties, 907 15th Street, N. W.,
Wamhington, D. C., or with Dr. Arthur W. Hummel, Chier
of the Division of Orientalia, Library of Congress,
Washington, D. C. Both Mr. Graves and Dr. Hummel are
acquainted with the prinoipal projects of American
scholarahip in the oriental field, and may be in position
to suggest the names of persons who would be qualified
and prepared to undertake the translation.
Yours sincerely,
Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Jan.
1936
the
CC
FE:CC:REK
FE

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE ....893.44/9.
FOR._....Memorandum
State department
894.44/
FROM ...Far. Baatarn Dixiaion..... (.Ringwalt......) DATED .......Apr..15.,..1938
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Japanese women of prominence in public life:
Submits memorandum giving brief biographical
data concerning-.
aa

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
Div aion or
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 9 -1939
SCR
Department of State
JAN 10 
January 6, 1930.
JAN 9-1389
Mr. Welled:
Yoruhe
DIVISION OF
AND RECORDS
Who's Who sketoh here attached, by Mr. Ballantine; and
on the "human side":
It is my understanding that Mr. Matsuoka spent his
boyhood in straitened ciroumstances and more or less
fighting his way, in Portland, Oregon. To my personal
knowledge, Matsuoka as an adult has been and is of the
comparatively rough and"hard-boiled" type, resembling
894.44/22
in general attitude and manners certain of our typical
political "bosses". I myself once encountered him going
about incognito in Peking half-disguised by the wearing
of a Chinese costume, when going to and from conferences
with Chinese officials. The whole world is familiar with
the dramatic but highly ungracious exit of the Japanese
Delegation from the Assembly of the League, which Matsuoka
lod, in 1933.
In recent years Matsuoka has had the reputation of
being anti-American.
It has several times been suggested that Matsuoka
FILEL
might become Minister for Foreign Affairs. His name has
been mentioned as a possible candidate for the Premiership.
I

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.93)
-8-
I have mever seen any indication of any imminent likeli-
hood of his being made Premier. He is not the leader
of any organized political group. He has no wide follow-
ing. I doubt very much whether he would have the
confidence either of the Emperor or or Prince Saionji.
hoverar,
"Anything may happen". I should want much more than
the mere word of certain go-betweens to cause me to take
stook in any affirmation that Matsuoka was a month ago
the most likely "next Premier".
Stanley K. Hornbeok
Mo. Beeat'j Mno. tahd.
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 6, 1939.
Welles:
In accordance with your
request of this mprning there
is attached a bicgraphical
hi
STATE
FE:Ballantine: VC
RECEIVED
1
DIVISION UI

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
JamuervisSon 1939
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Locuke Mateuoke
Department of State
Mr. Matsuoka is a graduate of the University of
Oregon. He was a member of the Japanese diplomatic
service for some years, his last post abroad having
been that of First Secretary of Embassy in Washington
1n l914 and his last post in Japan that of Chief of the
Intelligence Bureau of the Foreign Office. In 1922 he
became a direotor of the South Manchuria Railway Company
and in l927 he became vice president of that organiza-
894.44/2
tion. In 1930 he was elected a member of the Lower House
of the Japanese Diet. In 1932 he was sent to Shangha1
894.44
after the outbreak of fighting there as the personal
representative of the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minis-
3
ter to advise the Japanese army. Subsequently he mas sent
to Geneva as the chief Japanese delegate with regard to
the Manchuria s1tuation.
In March 1933 he visited the United States on his way
back to Japan from Geneva. At that time he was received by
several of the highest officials here but his conversations
were brief and non-political. Subsequent to his return to
Japan he became in 1935 president of the South Manchuria
Railway Company and after the outbreak of the present con-
F
flict in China he was appointed an advisory counselor of
FILED
959995
the Cabinet.
In

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
In the early stages of the confliot Mr. Matsuoka
figured prominently in the press as a proponent of the
Japanese forward policy in Asia, but latterly he ap-
pears to have gone practically into eclipse possibly
through having become involved in disputes with the
Japanese army which has resulted in the narrowing of
the sphere of action of the South Manohuria Railway
Company.
Notwithstanding these developments it is believed
that Matsuoka still enjoys wide influence among the
Japanese public because of his forceful character and
outspokenness. He is fifty-eight years old.
FE:Baliantine:HES

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
Division of
FAB EASI-HN ALFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STAWAY 2 0 1939
RECEIVED
tment ul Stale
PARTMEDTMSIONOFEAR EASTERN
OF STATE
MAY 11 1939
MAY 11 1939
8
Mr. Segretatr:
NOTED
MR. WELLES
AND RECORDS
Marquld Koichi Kido, mentioned in the
final paragraph of Ambassador Grew's tele-
gram no. 316 of May 10, 11 a.m., as being
talked of as a possible successor to Baron
Hiranuma as Prime Minister, is at present
the Minister for Home Affairs and was in
the preceding (Konoe) Cabinet the Welfare
Minister. Marquis Kido is a close friend
of Prince Konoe and is regarded as one of
the stronger figures of the two Cabinets
under reference and as sounder and more
894.44 /24
realistio in his views than some of his
colleagues.
762.94/342
In commenting on a Cabinet crisis
which ooourred in the spring of 1938 when
Prinoe Konoe was Prime Minister, Ambas-
sador Grew reported at that time that
Marquis Kido was one of the group in the
Cabinet which advocated the urgent need
of bringing the confliot with China to an
early and successful conolusion and whose
conception of strategy, both military and
politioal, was that it should be elastio
and opportunistio, whereas the opposing
group in the Cabinet at that time advocated
MAY2
the steady exertion of pressure on China by
FILED
military operations within limited key areas
and
T: Salhry:s
R/A

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
and by economic and financial measures
894.44/24
which would eventually bring about the
collapse of Chinese resistance. The group
to which Marquis Kido belonged appeared to
be cognizant of the risks of involvement
with Great Britain and the United States
and to the threat to Japan's material well-
being which would be run if the confliot
were prolonged.
Marquis Kido, who will be fifty years
old in July, has held a number of Govern-
ment positions other than the two Ministerial
posts mentioned above. He served for a num-
ber of years in the Ministry of Agriculture
and Commerce and was for some time Chief
Seoretary of the Lord Keeper of the Privy
FILED
Seal, one of the principal advisers of the
Emperor. Marquis Kido is, by reason of his
rank, a member of the House of Peers.
mm.H
R/A
FE:Sal1gbpry:HES

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
SUBJECT
Assassination of Baron Dan,
of Japan.
DATE
Mar.5,1932.
894.44-DAN,BRON
CASE NUMBER
No.
JACKET
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with office stamp or
notations.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.95)
COPIES SENT 
O.N.I.ANDM.LD
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
GRAY
DAONIVND
TOKIO
5 1032
DIVIBIUN UF
Dated March 5, 1932
Rec'd 3:42,a.m.
Seoretary of State,
Diviston of
FAR EASTERN DEFA
Washington, D.C.
MAR 5-1832
Department of State
91, Maroh 5, 1 p.m.
JR
Baron Dap was assassinated today near the Mitsui
Bank. He was shot through the right breast at 11:40
a.m. and died at 13:20 according to reports at hand.
The assailant was arrested and identified as one
Goro Ishinama age 81 from Ibarakiken the same prefecture
AN,BARON/I
as the assailant of Inouye.
The police so far have not identified him with
any partioular group.
FORBES
CIB JS
A1 1 1932
FILLD

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.44-BARON DAN/2
894.00/375 (conf1dential)
SEE
FROM ...
... Japan
(...)orbe.....) DATED .....Mar.9...)932.
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING: details of the marder of Baron Dan on March 7, 1932 in
Tokyo, Japan.
dew
CONFIDENTIAL FILE

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo, Japan, aroh 9, 1932.
Strictly Conridential.
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Dear Mr. Secretary,
There is a great deal of underourrent of things
going on, that I don't seem to be able to cable and yet
feel I should report, that will make rather interesting
but, I fear, rather unpleasant reading.
The day before yesterday at eleven thirty in the
morning as Baron Dan stepped from his automobile in front
of the Mitsui Building, * young man idling in the vioinity
whipped out a pistol and shot him; and he died within an
hour; the bullet, entering the right side, passed through
his body and lodged in a rib somewhere near the heart. He
pitehed forward practically uneonscious and did not regain
oonsoiousness.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.96)
● 8 -
censsieusmess. As I heve written you befere, he seemed
like a very siek man; he was seveaty-feur years ef age
and was cempleining thet he was constantly lesing weight
end maffering from peor digestien. His esseilant wes e
young man whe eame frem the same vieinity as the young men
whe shet Ineuye and he used the same kind of sutematie
pistel. kumer has it that these pistels were obtained
frem some army or navy officer; it 1s of course elaimed
that they were stelen. They now talk of e death gang
said to be composed of five young men who have entered
into a pact to die, each killing one great figure. It
is noteworthy that these are the great conservative leaders:
rumor has it that the other three marked to go are: Baron
Shidehara, Count Makino and Baron and former Prime Minister
Wakatsaki. Baron Dan had received severel threatening
letters and had a personel guard with him who disarmed and
overpowered on the spot the young man who did the shooting.
An interesting side-light on the publio attitude toward
Baron Dan appeared in the paper to-day. It said that the
people in the little town from which the murderer hailed
have compelled his family to move out of town; and the
wife of his brother is applying for a divoree. The
Emperor conferred posthumous honors upon the Baron. The
papers are full of attacks upon the polioe for laok of
activity, as existence of this death band had been known.
They are charged with negligenee in failing to run down
the mombers of the band. I don't doubt but that they are
doubling their aotivities now.
The wildest rumors rece about town about Baron
Shidekere. Baron Bassompierre tells me that the servants
of his househeld and those of the Swiss Legation are cer-
ta1m

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.44
FOR Despatch f 560.
SEE894.00 P. R./52
DAN,BARON/3
(...Hev1ll..) DATED Apr11 ?. 1958.
FROM .....JAm
1-1187
NAME
TO
REGARDING:
Assassination of Baron Dan on Mareh 5th at the
hand of a youthful reactionary by the name
of Gore Hishinuma.
on
bs

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.90)
C. Assassiantion of baron nen.
The publie, frightened by the ansassimation er
Mr. Imouye on p bruary 9th, was shocked b the deeth of
Barem r. fakume an on Mareh 5th at the hend of a
youthful reactionar. by the nome or Coro Hishinwm.
Damn Dan was sonior vn ging director or the Yitsui Comei
Kaishe und the outst njing leader of Japanese industry
and fins nee. The uriere raho was captured on the spet,
proved to be a native ur the sine villoge frou whiah
the ussassin of  r. inouye a me. rhis coinoidencc l ed
to nn inv atigatiun oy the polioo that revenled the ex-
1stenoe of un ore nized blood brotlerhood srorn to kill
m ny r the most rominent per: uns ir. J an. one the
daron coh, Baron ak.tsuki, r. Tokonaml, ti o present
"ini: ter or suilways, nd t leist four other unnamed
persons.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.90)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.44 DAN， BARON/4
Gonhdental File
..94.00/562
FOR .....561
FROM ..... Japn
(..)Hovill...) DATED APr. 7. 1932
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
report that marderer of Baron Dan was a member of the
"blood brotherhood loague".
1.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
SUBJECT
Yuko Hamaguchi, one-time Premier
of Japan and political leader.
DATE
8/27/31.-
894.44-HAMAGUCHI
CASE NUMBER
No.
JACKET
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with office stamp or
notations.
1-1235
U. B. GOVRRENT PRINTIN GFICE: 1000

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.86)
TELEON
02
Angat 87, 1031.
é Repelleney
Eijure shidehara,
Maister for Fereign Affaire of Japem,
Tokye.
I have learmed with distress of the death of formes
HAMAGUCHI/I
Premier Tuko Namaguchi and I assure you of the simeere
sympathy of the Geverament and people of the mited
states in the decease of this distinguished statesmes
amd public leader.
I would be grateful if you would convey to the famit
of Mr. Hamaguohi my personal condolences.
W.R.
aell
Aoting Seoretary of State
CR
Aug.27, 1981.
DISTRIBUTED
J
9
5
10:RB:MEM.
8
8
2
Enciphered by
11
Send by operator.
M.,
19
PWO
M REC
1-186
Indes Bu.—No. 50.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.91)
O
EE
ROEIVED
Tokio
A 31
FROM
Undated
DIVISION OF
Reod August 31, 1951
12:14 a
M13
W
Division of
Hon. W. R. Dastle,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 1 1931
Aoting Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Department of State
Miy I thank you sincerely for your kind and thoughtful
expression of syupathy in the lamented death of Mr. Hamaguohi
-HAMAGUCHI/2
His family is also deeply touched by your personal message.
SHIDEHARA
KLP
HPD
2
LA
ÉEPS
S

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
PLAXN
SEP 1 1931
FROM
Tokio
RECEIVED
A0G 31
Undated
DIVISION OF
Reo'd August 31, 1931
6:06 a.m.
DYSENOF
MB
Aoting Secretary of state,
11931
Washington.
TMENI OF STATE
Hearty thanks for Your Exoellenoy's personal condo-
894.44-HAMAGUCHI/3
lenoes conveyed by Baron Shidehara.
HPD
HAMAGUOHI
1931
FLILED
SEPI

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
SUBJECT
Hanibara
- Japan.
DATE
1934
Doc.21 -
894.44-HANIHARA
CASE NUMBER
No.
JACKET
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with office stamp or
notations.
1--1235

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
O
TELEGRAM REOEIVED
TORYO
Dated December 21, 1984
Roo-d 20th 9:58 pom.
Secretary of Stato.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington, D.C.
December 21 1984
281. December 21, 10 aom.
Eanihara, former Japanese Ambassador to the Unitod
States, died yosterday. I expect to attend the funeral
on Sunday, and to send a wreath from the Embassy.
894.44H
GREW
MAM CIB
TOC
DEG98 1937
DEC 2 7 1934
F/G

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.95)
o. 11
Signal Corps, United States Army
War Department Messag ContoE
RADIOGRAM
Beceived at
Division of
14
Washington, D. C.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
8—0818
1934 DC 22 AM 9 40
DEC 21 1934
14 WVU LV 28 WD 1EX PTY
Department of State
Zita t renl
2.0..
AND RECORDS
December 21 1934.
THE WAR DEPARTMENT
894.44 HANIHARA,
T
WASHINGTON DC
FOR TRANSMISSION TO FAR EASTERN DIVISION SATE DEPARTMENT
REQUEST THAT MY DEEP SYMPATHY
BE EXPRESSED TO WIDOW OF
MY OLD FRIEND HANIHARA BY MOST APPROPRIATE WAY AT YOUR
DISCRETION STOP TRANSMISSION CHARGES BE SENT ME
FRANK
MCCOY
106P
MASANAO/2
EC  1934
PILED

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.94)
Srayt
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE
1-188
TO BE TRANÉMIT
WILL INDIOATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Collect
Department of State
NONCONPIDENTIAL CODE
Charge Department
PARTAIR
RECEIVED
on
PLAIN
Charge to Major General PFanRT Metb9F STATE
Washington.
Omaha, Nebrask54 DEC 21 PM 5 09
December 21, 1934.
8pm
DIVISION OF
AMEMBASSY,
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
TOKYO (Japan).
214
Following from Major General Frank McCoy is/ transmitted 
for appropriate/attention. QUOTE Request that my /deep sympathy
be expressed to widow of my/old friend Hanihara UNQUOTE.
894.44 HANIHARA, MASANAO/3
Huee
w2
JA
m.m.H
FE:MH:REK
FE
时
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1-188

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
December 21, 1954.
Dear General MeCoy:
Your telegram of December 21 in regard to the
death of Hanihara reached us this afternoon. We have
894.44 HANIHARA, MASANAO/4
telegraphed Mr. Grew at Tokyo your request that your
sympathy be expressed to Madame Hanihara.
A statement of the cable charges in this connection
will be forwarded to you in due course.
Sincerely yours,
Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Major General Frank McCoy,
Headquarters, Seventh Corps Area,
Omaha, Nebraska.
m.m.1d
FE:MMH:REK
FE

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.94)
Sray
1-138
TELEGRAM SENT
1-128
TO BE TRANSMITTED
PREPARING OFFICE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Collect
Department of State
PLAIN
Charge Department
RECEIVED
OR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington,
Charge to
December 21, 1934.
934 DEC 21 PM 5 09
70m
AMEMBASSY,
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
TOKYO (JaPan)AND RECORDS
213
Your 201, becember 21, 10 a.m.
The Under Secretary is sending to the Japanese
Ambassador /here/a personal letted expressing his
894.44 HANIHARA,
condolences/and sympathy and that/onf associates here
here inform) Hanp Harals family.
Hule
894.44 Hanchara
MASANAO/5
CRNO
Dec.21 1934 PM
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE
10
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
AA
19
1—138
Index Bu.-No. 50.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.91)
December 21 1954
My dear Mr. Ambassador:
I learn, with deep regret, of the death of your
distinguished predecessor, Mr. Masanao Hanihara. It was
my privilege to know him most pleasantly during his serv-
894.44 HANIHARA, MASAN
iee in Washington and I feel a sense both of publio loss
and of personal loss in the passing of one who possessed
the high girts of mind and personality whioh were his.
Permit me to request that you be so good as to convey
to Mr. Hanihara's family in their bereavement an expression
of my sineere condolences and sympathy together with those
of my assooiates here who knew him.
Very sincerely yours,
NillLAm PhILLiPH
M
His Exoellenoy
Hirosi aito,
Jepanese Ambassador.
L1)2N
WTT
FE:WTT/ZMK
FE
12/21/7

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.95)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
DEC 011924
December 27, 1934.
0E0 28 1934
Division et
EASTERN AFFAIRS
E
My dear Mr. Secretary,
Department of State
Allow me to thank you for your
note of December 21, expressing on behalf
894.44-HANIHARA,MASANAO/7
of yourself and your associates your sincere
condolences and sympathy in the passing of
Mr. Masanao Hanihara.
I have lost no time in conveying
telegraphically your kind message to Mr.
Hanihara's family as you requested.
Very sincerely yours,
Hrisi Laito
The Honorable William Phillips,
The Under Secretary of State,
Department of State,
Washington.
F/G

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
new
894.44 INOUYE,
1517
FOR
894.00.P.R./51
....Mer..10...1932
(....orb.....) DATED
.Japan
FROM .......
1-1187
NAME
TO
J./1
assassination of Mr. Junnosuke Inouye, twice Minister of
REGARDING:
Finance and an outstanding Minseito leader.
1s

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.93)
.
ür. Jumnesuke Inouye, twiee Minister of Vimanse
and an outstanding Kinseito leader whose ecemamie
pelleies formed the baskbome of the Governmems during
the past two years, was ahot dead on February 9. The
assassin, e young political malcontens, fired a pistel
at Wr. Inouye as ho was arriving to speak at a politieel
moesing.
-7-
This outrage recalls the deaths of Mr. Hamaguehl
and Mr. Hare, both statesmen of the highest type, who
likewise werm aseassinated at the hands of misguided
patriots. Publio sentiment 1s ourlously tolerant of
these politioal assassins. Crimes oomaitted with politi-
cal motives are regarded as having extenuating oiroun-
stances. The slayer of Hura 1s about to be released,
after oight years in prison , and the man who shot
Hamaguohi has not yet, sixteen months after the assault,
been convioted.
The death of Mr. Inouye was a severe blow to the
Minseito. Ho was the utstanding leader of that party
and campaign manager at the time or his death.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.44
INUKAI
SEE894.00/388
FOR Tel.f126 10pm
 (...v...) DATED M..15..)932
Jepen
FROM
NAME
1-1187
TO
K1/1
REGARDiNG: attack on Prime Minister Ki Imukai, who was shot
and critically wounded.
1

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
GRAY
Tokio
Dated May 15, 933
Reo'a 10:35 a.m.
Beorotary of State,
Washington
126, May 15, 10 p.m.
I am informed orally by the Foreign Office that the
Prime Minister was shot early this evening and is now in
oritioal oondition. An attack mas also made on Count
Makino's residence but he esoaped injury as he'was not at
home. The attackers appear to have ridden about the city
in several sutomobiles and to have been dressed in military
and naval uniforms. In passing the metropolitan police
office one party discharged several pistol shots causing
at least one fatality. The Seiyukai headquarters and
other places are reported bombed.
I understand that some eighteen attackers have been
apprehended or have given themeelves up. They claim to
be mombers of the young officers' assooiation who are
opposed to weakness and corruption in government and to
capitalian.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.89)
JT
2-#136 from Tokio, May 15, 10 p.m.
capitaliom.
Otherwise the city appears quiet. I have no reason
to antioipate danger to Americans here or to the Embassy,
and no anti-foreign feeling is manifest.
NEVILLE
wwo

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.44
894.00/412
FOR ...#623.
INUKAI, KI/2
FROM .....Japan
(_)Nav1ll..) DATED May 20..1932
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
summary of events in connection with the
assassination of Premier Inukai.
1s
2

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.91)
rokye, Japen, May s0, 1os1.
No. ess
Sub jeet: Summry of Evente - May 15th-le.
he
The Honorable
The Jecretary of tate,
ashington.
31r:
I have the honor to report that at S:30..., on
unday, May 15th, remier Tsuyosh1 Inukai was shot and
fatally wounded by a group of eleven cadets and six young
navel officers.* At the same time attacks in the nature of
demonstrations were made on the homes of Count akino and
Admiral Susuki, the Metropolitan Police Headquarters, the
Headquarters of the seiyukai arty, the Bank of Japan, and
the itsubishi Bank. It wae also learned that simultaneous
ettempts
* Embassy's telegm No. 186 of y 15, 1932, 10 . .

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.93)
● 8 .
attempte were mmde to sut eff the electrie pever statiems
supplying Tokye. Taree er four lndivieuals were woumded
by pistol shets, and eme pelieeman at the heme ef the
rime Winister was killed. The ettacks chierly consisted
of the throwing of small hand grenedee whieh did little,
if any, danage. Immediately fellewing these simaltaneeus
attecks most of the participeting ofricers velmtarily sur-
rendered themselves at the Cendarmerie heedquarters.
ild rumors were imvediately eireulated and all
politieians and important personages conneeted with the
Government cathered at various pleces to diseuss the situ-
ation. Among those who reported to the mperar during
the evening were Lieutenant-General Araki, the Crand
Chamberlain dmiral usuki, and Count akino. An i
promptu meeting of the Cabinet at the Ofriolal esidence
of the Premier ec1:ed to ap oint inance  inister Takmhashi
to the position of  remier pro tem. aron iranumm, the
viee  resl ent of the rivy ounail, called together e
number of thet body; and Lieutenant-Cenerel Araki was re-
ported to have sat up most of the night with e group of
the leading ofrioers of the rmy.
The mext morning, Tuesjay, May 17th, at 1l: 30 o'eloek,
the tamporarily appointed remier, akahashi, called at the
Imperial ialace to tender the resignations of all the
members of the Cabinete*
Diseussione took place durine the day at the Seiyukai
beadquarters, where an attempt was made to sink individual
differences and unite n one candidate for the offioe of
President of the  arty. A meeting of the prineipal
Seiyukmi leaders also took place at the residence of the
pr2o
 Embassy's telegram No. 128 of ay 16, 1932, 4 . .

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.93)
● 8 
Prime kalatster and a declsion was reeehed whereby Dr.
Susnie, the presemt inister fer Heme Affairs, would be
resemmemded fer the effiee of president of the Seiyeisml,
to be imetalled on Friday.
The prineipal groups whieh hed to be censidered in
selving the complex problem of organising a mew sovermment
ware as follews: (1) the Emperer and his advisers; (2)
Primee saienj1: (3) the rivy Coune11; (4) the seiyumi
Party; (5) the army) (6) the inseito Party. Lk of
unity in the eiyukal Party and among the army further
complieated the situation in the preliminary diseuesioms.
It was learned that .rinee Saionj1 had already deeided
to come to Tokyo so that it was unneceseary for an Imperial
messenger to be sent for him.
One of the most active members of the Seiyukai  arty
during preliminary disousaions was r. Kaku Nori, Chier
Beeretary of the Inukai Cabinet. e not only took a leed-
ing part in bringing about a tamporary compromise between
Susaki and Tokonami but attom ted to bring about a reconeili-
ation between the eiyukai and the  ilitary leaders.
ress reports 1ndioated that the prineipal 1ssue was
whether a super-party nationalistic cabinet or a puroly
party cabinet should be formed. The situation during
onday (the loth) was tromendously confused with all of
the various factions mentioned so active thet 1t was im-
posaible to even suess what the ultimate resulting govorn-
mont would be. ild rumors wore oirouleted with little
or no foundatien that assassinations had just begum, that
there was danger of street rioting, that the Emperor him-
self mas in danger of deposition. The oity of Tokyo,
however, has remained remarkably quiet and with hardly a
sign of disturbemee or exoitement.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.94)
On Tueeday, May 1loth, 1t was derinitely mmmeumeed
that Susakd wae the ebeiee of the Beiyaikas party for
their prestident and wms sherefore their candidate fer tmhe
position of remier in case the next eabinet should be
Seiyukai. ith the eiyukai thenselves having wmited en
a more or less definite pollcy they were reedy to emter
Into disoussions with the Army. Lieutenamt-Gemeral
Araki declared his intention to resign in case a Seiyumi
party was formed and was represented to be in favor ef
Lieutenant-General nsaki, Vice-Chief of the General Starr,
for his place as ar Minister. hether or not be did this
merely as a gesturo was not knom.
Durint Tuesday and Wedmeeday eonvereatioms contimued
between the 1litary and the Beiyukmi, while the rivy
Coumeil and the Emperor's advisers remained quiet pending
the arrival of :rinee aionjie The convocation of the
1et which was soheduled for May Eürd was an added com
plication in the discussions.
On Thuraday, ay l9th, the prose reported that the
attitude of the military had sti fened and that they
seemed deterained to force their radical program on what-
ever cabinet might be formed. General Araki emerged as
the spokesman and perhaps as the outstanding leader of the
military faction. Baron Miranuma's name was again man-
tioned as possible head of a supor-party cabinet.
Irinee aionji arrived in Tokyo and immediatoly be-
gan a series of interviews with political loaders of all
factions whioh is expeoted to culminate in s call on the
Emperor to advise him in regard to the formation of the
now
 Embasay' telogram No. 132 of ay 18, 1932, 6. .

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.83)
eabsmet.
Reepeetrally yours,
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'astaires ed interia.
basay' File No. 800.-Japen.
HB/M
aa.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.44 INUKA1, K1/3
894.00/413
FOR .#624.
.....Japan
(...Naxilla.....) DATED May.20..1932
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING: full report on causes, results and repercussions
incidental to the assassination of Premier Inukai.
1s
C

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.89)
Tolge, May 20, 1908.
The Hensrable
The Seeretary of State,
Fashington.
31r1
I have the heser to refer to xy despateh Ne.ezs,
of May 80, l9ss, outlining the events in conneetiom with
the "May l5th affair" in whieh Premier Imakai was essassinated,
and te present herebelew comment on these events.
The evemts ef Suméey evenins, May 1sth, present a
aitustsen whien Westers ebservere heve difrieulty in under-
stending becmese of the extreerdimary ceneepts which actuated
the perpetratese, I have ne defimite kmowledge of their
metives

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.94)
mtaves, but mmay attexpt to present some of the eos-
almsiens te miah I am led by staly of the situatien.
The Japanese peeple pride themselves on a peculiar
feeling of respensibility, the evidenoss of whieh to
Testerners, oftem asume a somewnat ludierows, and in
some eases, tragic aspeet. Japnese history is full
of stories of sammrei who comnitted nuieide in protest
agminst actiens of their superiors, or whe performed
some desperate deed, f tal to themselves, as a warning
to their superiors.
In recent years his somewhat foudal coneept of duty
has been largely re lased by more modern ideas, but among
subordinate officials, partioularly of the armed forees,
it remains strong. This leeds to acts whie are oftem
anti-social and'ac ord ing to estern 1de ls, crimimal.
Nevertheless Japanese underat nd the motive 1s unselfish
and to them ighminded. The la may domand, and seoure
punisnment for the arime, but in the eyes f the eople
the suilt is atoned for oy the good faith with whieh the
deed was comnitted. enoe the tendeney in Japam, con-
demed by foreign observers, to condone acts of violence
by misguided patriots ga inst political leaders who are
considered to have betrayed the country.
only in this my can the assaults of  ay l5th be
explained. The younger fficers, whose activities the
Embassy has noted from time to time, feel with te entire
country that the political leaders heve played the dountry
falee. "uring the past row months, criticim of parlie-
mentary government an exemplified by the Diet and or the
oonduet

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
condmes of the polstéeal parties and the Cabinet hes beem
veeiferems. The laek of probity and patriotimm of the
Dées represemtatives as well as their turbulent conduet
in the Honse, their lack of feeling of ros onsibility
for the welfare of the ountry, their vemality and
erruptien have disgusted and alarmed the eatire nation.
One reeemt example whieh eaused partieular resentmemt among
military men and had, I believe, mo little inflwenee in
creating the presemt state of publio opiniom, was the
attempt to oust Count Uehide from the presidemey or the
Jouth Mancharia Rallwmy parely for reasons of party
polities(See Embassy's deapatoh No. B86, of April 22,
1958).
The etents of Sumday evening, thus, mey be inter-
preted an a peculiarly Jap nese demonstration ag inst
governmental mimanagenent. The conclusion which seems
imevitable 1s that the entire afrair was in the nature
of a gesture in the hope of arousine puolic opiniom
to the eritieal state of afr irs and of precipitating
a golitieal erisis which woul r suèt in the dowmfall
of the Government. Ineidentally, toth of these objeets
have been attained.
The shooting of the  remier was merely a part of
the demonstratiom. He could not have been held personally
responsible for the evils or the Government, but a
sacrifice was nesessary and e saerifice of such pro-
minenee tat his death would serve as a wmnrning to the
whole nation. Hovever mophistical this explanation
may appear, I am oonvinoed that it is true. Moreover,
it is certain that there are many intelligent Japanese
who, although they regret the cruel death of the remier.
conress

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.94)
eemfess that they heve full sympethy with she 1deals
of the perpetraters and are inclined to agree with
them thet a seerifiee wes neeessary to shoek the
matien inte conseiensness of the situntion wh 1ch
eomfronts it.
Bearing out this theory, it will be moted that
the conspirators attaeked(1) the rime Misister, (2)
the Beiyakai Headguarters, (3) the Residenee of Count
Makime,(4) the Metropolitan olioe tation,(5) banking
institutions. In all of these attncks no one of any
political imjortanee was injured except the remier.
The "bombe" thrown at the Se1yukai, the oliee tation
and the banks were small hend gremedes incapable of
doing any material damage. They merely nerved to in-
dicate the institutioms w ich the conspirators com-
sidered eulpable. The ri  inister re presented the
Covermm: as a whole; the seiyukai re resented the
politieal parties and the let, bot guilty or many
abuses. Count unkine hes been oriticized for faulty
adviee tendered to the mperor; the olice nave been
blamed for .laying olities and neglcot ng their roper
duties; the banke have veen attaoked for xo ange opere-
tions at the expense of the nation's finance. The oon-
clusiom seems inesenpable that the attaoks ere erely
de onstrations. Ho otherwise than a gesture could be
interpreted the eot of throving a small hand grenade
against e deserted bonk at a late hour on unday?
The theory 1s further borme out by the faot that
the conspirators surcendered voluntarily to the police
or gendarmes. This is  uite in accordenee with the
Japonose

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.95)
Japemese treditien of rospemsibility for eme's ccmduet.
They mmst have had full knowledge or the pemalty that
that
aweited them, and must heve resolved "the emuse was
wrth the seerifiee of their lives.
There has been much speeulation as to the auaber
of mam involved in this eomspiraey, and as to what backing
they had. It seeme ineredible that a small band of
about twenty mem, however resolute, would at:ampt much
desperete deeds mleas assured of support, morel or
otherwise, from some powerful direetion. fowever, no
imformatiom is available in regard to suoh support.
That military and maval ofrioers should have boem able
to get tgether and plan a eoneerted attack indieates
some degree of organization, art cularly as the two
branehes of the serviee have ittle in oommon in this
distriet, t ere being no naval st tion of importanee
mearer to Tokyo than Yokosuke, fifty miles away. Im
this conneetion the IY I  stated editorially:
" We do not know whct er the terroriste were baoked by
others, out there can be no dispute that wiat they die
bas beem enoouraged by the agitation of men of Fascist
viows. roward the end of the akatsukibinet a certain
plot was engimeered by  certain group(or young offioers)
but it was nip, ed in the bud. ad the authorities made
publie at that time a true version of ne arfair, we
belleve the reoent inoident might ave been prevented .
It is rumored, with crodiole ovidenoe, that all of
these young men were under the influence, if not upils,
of an extraordinary institution, the Aikyojiku(striotio
sehool) of Mito,  town north of okyo. Thie tom  layed
a

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
dsféenms pert in Japamese histort, for it wms here
mas plans fer the Meiji Restoration were hatehed, and frem
this tomm eame the assassin ef Ii Kamen ne Kami, the m
lightemed statesman of the Shogumate and protagonist of
the mevememt to open Japan to foreign intercourse. More-
over, as further evidence that the town has retained its
reactiomary character, it was here and in the surrounding
distriet that the infamous "blood brotherhood" was organized
which, during the past few months, has aocounted for the live
of Mr. Inouye and Baron Dan. In spite of this eiroumstantial
comneetion, I should hesitate to link these slayers with the
conspirators of Sunday except for other happenings on that
same evening. At almost exactly the same hour as the assassi-
nation of Mr. Inukai, a man by the name of Nishida, formerly
a member of the "blood brotherhood", who had turned informer
and testified aga inst the group, was himself assassinated
in the suburbs of Tokyo. Moreover, the press reports that
only quick action by the employees of the electric stations
in Tokyo prevented  attempt to throw the oity into dark-
moss made at the identical hour by a group of men said to
be from Mito. Thus, all of the devious lines of evidence,
when followed, lead back to that historic town with its re-
putation for fanatical patriotism.
Extermally at least the vernaoular press is unanimous
in condemning the aotion of the young officers. Editorially ,
the nowspapers condemn the appeal to foree and deplore that
mistakem ideas have resulted in tragedy. The NICHI NICHI
stated on May l6th: " A patriotio motive does not condone
a murder or any other abuse. There is no good effeot in
direet actiom, however exalted its motive may be. Once
the publio shows a tendeney to regard murder as justified
whon

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.92)
ha impelled by patrietim, all the orves eppesed to
lew and order will get out of nead". There 1s, hewever,
an wneereurrent of sympethy for the e nspirators and their
1dale. Per mple, the YO.:IURI HIMBUN tated  May
17th: " Japan has soen this year a chain of wndesirable
ineidents..... Those who took part were spurred by the
economie do,ression and aotuated by the weakness of the
Covermment's foreign poliey. Ho sup rfioial contrel can
prevent recurrence or these undesiraule inoidents. The
authorities mned to study well the roal onuses of unrost....
and wmless they be remedied, undesiraole events oannet be
1,2/.
prevented". I append herete translations of aome of the
press ditorinls oo enting on the vio enee of unday
ovins.
me
otual o nnection between ts young oi icors
who took part in thi:  1r un the ray in gen ral wil
probubly never be reve led. it 1: sur lcient to may that
any such orgnnization could not xist without the nowledge
of the euperior of icere. However, one y be oortain that
whatever attitude the military dis lays publicly toward the
conspirators, the aims end conviotions of the lutter are
those or the military as well. he army has always stood
as the bulwark orf intonso patriotism, nelf-abnegmtion for
the good of mperor and country and has had saall pationce
with the eynieal solf-interest of party politicians. They
rerd themselves as direct guard ans f the person and
prerogatives of the mperor and have repeatedly douon-
strated that in fulfilling their interpretation of this
duty they will stand no interfer noe from politioians or
eivil government. They have seen the country in a financial
depression

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.93)
depressiemn so severe that ceomomists prediet the virtual
extinetion ef the landed fermer. They have seen wme
empleyment grewine while priees have fallen to a level
where predeetion is umprofitable. At the same time tey
have watehed the large baaking and mereantile institu-
tiems make vast sms out of exo ange manipulntions, while
politieians with seareely comceeled conteapt for natiomal
welfare indulg in endless wrangling and utual abuse.
I xish to mphasize that not only does publie opiniom
to a large dogree sup ort the Army, but  at the publie
vlewpoint coincides wit that of the  i!itary. In many
P peete the rmy soens far more reprosenta ive of uolle
opinion than the tet. There is uci: ovidence t at the
people are quite as dingusted ith arty , ities as con
duoted in reeent years as is the rmy. hey feel that the
only direetiom in whion they an turn for patriotic and
devoted servioe to the country j. te litary. The rmy
reconizes the existenoe or this su ort und is r pered
to diotate torms to the politioians. it is di icult to
avold drawing the c molusion from recent statoents nd
events that parliamentary ovornn nt 'n J  an ie being
weighed in the balanen at t is time. In any event, it
1s uite lain that the rmy 1s pin to lay a larger
part in polities. I uote horebelo fr the influential
J JI0 ofay 1 th:
 at y sterday's oonfer nee of the three heads of
the rmy. n opinion was re ched s to the formation
of the succeedimg oabinet. It was decided to permit
the formation of e party oabinet, viz, the extonsion
or the Selyukai inistry under the resiership of r.
Suzuki on the following conditione:
1. That the new  inistry carry out and effeot
practieal purification of party politics, and as
a proor testifying to ite intention thereor.
exeluding

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.94)
ezeluding such peissiesans as are suepeeted er
despised by the matien.
2. That la the l1ghs er the bad experienee with
the Lendem Mavel Treety, she mew Ministry shall
strietly respees end take eare to avoid later-
ferenee with the Imperer' s supreme sontrel of the
armed serviees, pertieularly beeause the westien
of the supreme commend «1ll necessarily come forth
in connestion with the future polley vis-a-vis
Manohuria.
3. That the new Mimistry shall make a wholehenrted
effort for the oontrel of publie thought.
4. That the now Winistry shall cooperate with the
Army in matters relating to mociel wellfare.
It was also arrenged that the mew war Minister(who
ever may be chesen) shall accept the offer to partieipete
in a new cabinet only after the aforementiomed four con-
ditions shall be agreed to by the organizer of the new
onbinet".
I have no reason to diacount the genuleness of the extra-
ordimary statement. It in cuite in accord sith the spirit
animating the rmy at present.
There hes been mueh talk of Fascisn in Japan, but the word
1s misleading when applied to movements in this co try. It
predieates the personal rule of an outstending porsonality.
No sueh rule would be porsible in Japam,  here all rule is
ontingent upon ray a proval. The ay iteelr is far too
well organized and disciplined to r it any of its members
undertaking a permonal diotatorship. If a dictatorship
results from the present situation it will be with the sup-
port and under the control of the rmy, in the name of the
mperor and dedicated to the welfare of the people. It
will, in view of the statoments of its leaders, have a strong
tinge of state socialism, favoring he agrurian classes and
opposing the dmination of capitalists in politios. It may
be expected to adopt a more resolute polioy to:ard Manohuria.
AB

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.91)
20
Le regnde parlsemestarion, the amy hee nes felleve
the yome errieere in deelarins egeinst representative covesse
mont ne pelstienl perties par n. Aray leadere would
 take e stey whieh would bring then inte s
flsetthe Cometitution. The statement abeve quetes
indiestes that the military are willing te allew the parties
to exist, but insist en sweeping ehanges in methods ef edmimis-
trattem. In this the matien seems to coneur. The powerrul
Osaka MADNIcHI stated editorially on May lsth : " Never befere
have perliamemtary pelities beem placed on the slab for e
more prefoumd and eritieal serutimy than at this time. primee
Selonjs is reperted as desirins to sse constitutiomal peli-
ties pregress meethly. This may be the best course, but
thas far in this coumtry the form is complete but the actual
werkings are rudimentary. Whether parliamontary polities
are to be abelished or whether further united efforts are
to be made to realise the real objoet of thie aystem, is
the paremoumt question now confronting the nation".
As reperted 1n my telegram No. 132, May 18, 6 .M.
Primee saiomji has been called upen by the Emperer, as wsawal,
to sive adviee in appeinting a new premier. The aged Gemro
has met yet, five days later, delivered his opinien, and is
said te be siving elese study to the situation. It is certain
that he is serioualy concermed over a situation whioh has such
Greve pessibilities for parliamentariem. He has alsays beem
a steut pretagomist of constitutiomal party sovermment. on
the ether hend, today's newspapers repert that the military
are evem mere determimed to prevent the formatien of e straight
perty covermemt.
the pressnt situattes illustrates the inherent weakness
of

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.93)
he Sapes Cuien er prene dsme.In
out the nesesesty fer some autherity in the backgreune to
sive the Emperer "sdvice". The Japanese Goverament at present
ls eompesed, for prectieal parpeses, of thres distinet ed-
ministsetive contrels. The eivil administratien, headed by
the Prime Minister, and the Gemeral Staffs of the Army mmd Mavy.
The kintsters of war and Mavy, who are the heads of the ad-
ministretive branehes of their reapestive departments, ave me
direet centrel ever the Gemeral Staff. The latter have direet
aseess to the Emperer, whieh means, actumlly, that they are,
essept in fiseal matters, independemt of the ar and Navy
Mimisters and of the Prime Minister.
Under the mperer Meij1 a group of mem who had built
up the modern state exereimed * coordinating influemee. All
bramehes of the state serviees were represented in this groups
Frinee Yamagata, Army rimee Ito,civil administratiom; rinee
Mateukate, fimance; end so forth. In times of politieal erieis.
this sroap met, debated the questions aissue and gave the
Empeser their colleetive advice. They were men of immense
prestige and great energy and as they as ved as a unit their
views as to personnel and ganeral poliey were bound to prevail.
There are mo men today who occupy their position. This
meams that there is no coordinating organ in the Covernmemt and
the separate branches of the Administration go their more or
less indepemdemt ways. Prinee Saionji, who has been relied
on te fill she pesition onee oscupied by the Elder statemem
er Gemre ef Meiji days, is an old man. He apparently has net
the meray, mer the prestige with the younger mem, needed to

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.94)
-12
cow warring factiene. mtil eome ceerdinatine ergan 1s
develeped, or there is a eonstitutiomal reorganizatien,
Japamese polities must remain subjuet to umeertainties
in times of stress.
Respeetfully yours,
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ed interim.
from Tokyo ASAHI -May 17.
Tramslation of editorial
frem Tokyo R0CHI- May 19.
Embassy's File No. 8co.Japan.
WTT/

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.91)
Bnelosure No.
Doopaton No. 624
Drom axsriian Eaba
Tokyo.
.
maitorial.
Tokyo ASAHI, May 17, 1952.
The sssassimatiem of Premier Imakel at his offieial
residemee in Tokye in brond daylight is an wnprecedently
serious imeidemt in the history of modern Japan. A mote-
worthy fact was that gangs of outlaws attacked the Metrepe-
litan Poliee Offiee; fficial residemse of Coumt Makime,
Lerd Keeper of Privy Seal; headquarters of the Goveramems
Party; the Selyukai; Bank of Japam; Mitoubishi Bank and
eleetrie power stations in the outskirts of Tokyo at almost
the same time. Though sueh an attack might have been a
mere demonstration, yet there is something sufrieient to
justify the eomelusion that it was earried out systematically
in an extansive sonle. These outrageous actions were com-
mitted on Sunday afternoon , May 15, when all officers and
offieials were nearly off their duties. Nevertheless, the
main entrazee of the etropolitan Police orfiee was brokem
through by a gang of outlaws ho fired at the room of Super-
intendemt of the Central poliee and then these outlawe sur-
rendered themselves to the authorities voluntarily berore
either the poliee or gendarmerie could arrest them. This
fast aleme gives the citizens of Tokye a feeling of greet um-
easimess.
The presemt imcident seems to bear one signiricant point
whieh profoumdly appeals to our sense of molicitude. In it
shat the imeidens was an oateome of a well studied plot un-
bedying a mest of mow theary which may amount to a politien)
rovolutsem. mase mothing defiaite is yot km as to mo

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.91)
mmesuee ef the cutlave, it so qutte apperent thes the
imetdeme mae the esteame ef tadigmation et evils attenteme
e the existins perty admiaistration. It is ganerelly
aémitted t at the pelitienl parties as they exiss at presems
are met such as to iaspire the peeple with any confidenee
asd thet evils of a party sovernment as it is operated by
sueh a party emm mo loager be tolerated. However, eay such
direet aetiems as to assassinate a Prime Mimister and atteck
benks, et cetere, with rovolvers and hand gremades will tend
to unéermime the very foumdations of the Constitutiomal
Aémimistratien whieh had been laid by the late Moiji Emperer
himself. We may recall here that the late Meiji Emperer, in
ome of His mdiets, pronouneed that State affairs shall be
comdmeted in accordance with publie opinion. Whatever the
motives of the outlaws, the direet actions committed by them
are unpardomable.
We ardently hope that the appropriate euthorities will
take prompt measures so as to give the eitisems a feeling of
ease and tranquility. At the same time, we advise the authe-
rities to pumish the outlaws rigidly and striotly under the
100.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.93)
Enlore.
Doopatoh No.624
Prom Ameriean Embaseg
Tokye.
Lamtal.
(xaitorial)
Tokyo H0CHI, May 19. 19
The assassination of  remier Inuka1 on Mey 15 hes areused
a grees measation in our fimanciel world. The Tokyo Stoek
Exchange suspended business for two days, while various fumo-
tiems arramged by the Japan Industrial Club and other publie
bodies in Tokyo were postponed indefinitely. All this soes
to show that ea italists of the country were terror strickem
in the extreme by the occurrence of the shocking ineident.
The suspemsion of transoctions t the toek Exohange seeme to
be ehiorly attributable to the fear that uotations w uld fall
considerably, but it is not difficult to conjecture what ideas
the assassins of "remier Inuka1 have enterteined toward the
Stook Exchango.
Whatever the reamon, the assassination of  remier Inukal
at hie ofrieiel remidence in broad dnylight is unpardonable.
The throwing of bombs at the buildings of the Bank of Japan
and other prineipal monetary org ns in Tokyo at the samo hous
as the essassination of the Premier, is also unpardonable.
The Covernment should take apyropriate meesures so as to
prevent the recurrence of such unlawful sction in the future.
Why the Central Bank and other banking institutions were
attecked as above stated by associstes of the sasassins is
worthy or consideration. Undoubtedly the above attack was
due

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.90)
 t ee. In , e u
ee t the prst shi Lscident ae a nttase
tomare eapétaliste as they are tomerd pelitienl parties.
Gapitelsate are apparestly terrer-strieken in the entreme
as already stated. what is the reassn shereet? No ene em
Gamy the feet that capitallete in cooperasion with politienl
parsses have hi therte beem too selrish and toe avarieious to
wesk for the sake ef the state and the people. It is hardly
mecessary to point out that the State wherein me live is eome
pesed ef the ruler, peeple, and land. He trust sat eapátalist
and politieel parties have mo latention whatever to sgmere the
Imperial House and other alasses of people. If eapitalists are
uader the impression thet capitalists and laborers coastitute
the whole of the peeple, and if they should insist upem the
realimatiom of fimaneial and esomemie policies besed on the
prometiom of interests of capitalists and laborers only, it is
bat matural that vari us elasses of the peo le other tham
eapitaliets and laborers would entortain an animosity against
eaptaliets.
Some eapitalists contemd that unless the priees of com-
modisies show un upward tendeney the financial world would not
revive, while othere say that domestie industries will in mo
way astain a develepment unless a high tariff wall is set up.
Capitaliste belonging to the above category urge that if the
fimaneiel werld should net revive and domestie industries not
attain a develepment the number of unemployed would inerease.
This argument seums to be same and reasonable. But the whole
of the people is mot composed of capitalists and laborers only.
Capitalists muss mot ferget that besides laborers there are
other elasses of the peeple who do not derive any bemefit frem
high priees ef sommodisies and a high tariff wall, and whese
living will be threatened more seriouely than mow by such a
po1s-

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.92)
rie blese are alshe tmpeross. this approhensien
ão quate cerrest. however, the people lack preparedmsse to
the ses of sueh danges. The right blee is net n
empétaliets and peliticians is indulgine in lururions living.
mem end wemen belonging to the right blee are working hare day
end might fer a living. They belong to. a seetien of the people
whe will met bemefit themselves from an advanee in the priees of
commedisies and a high tariff mall. With the cccurremee of the
presemt sheeking imeidemt, we hope that capitalists will awake
to the aetual conditions of society and mee that the Japanese
people are met merely composed of oapitalists and proletaire.
In fature, eapitalists should not press the Governmemt with a
propesal to formulate nd carry out sueh finaneial and eeenomie
pelieies as to benefit capitalists and laberers as they did
before. We eagerly hope that the nert Ministry will fully
cemsider these matters in outlining its policies.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.44
894.00/414
FOR _.#1738
FROM .....Garmany.
(_.Sacket_.__.) DATED May.23..1932
INUKAI, K1/4
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
newspaper comment on the assassination of Premier
Imikai of Japan.
1s

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.86)
Borlss, may as, 19ss.
. 1788
The Heserable
the ageretary ef state
Basaingtes.
si5:
I have the homer te repert that the assassimation
of the Japamese Premier by army and savy efficers of
that cesstsy and i to attendant ciroume taseee feusd a
losd reperesssies in the German press which was smesi-
mess is fereseeing greater tessies be tween Japam and
the Seviets as as euteeme. As the Japamese ergasisa-
téen respessible fer the maréer was qui te geserally
identified with the forees ef extreme sstienalism and
ssti-eapitalism, the expmesioms ef sympathy er ef
antipathy cestaised is various ses tiess ef the Germes
prees were the ebviess esss. It was sin ted that Presek
aympathies wemle be en the siée ef Japee, waile Ameriee
woald

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.88)
- 8 •.
weele faver Raseis.
The Semi-OffieSal DEU MOME DIPLOMA TISGE-POLITISO
Künkßaromenz (May 19) eew in the marderins ef the Jap-
eeese Premier a cenfirmeties of thet passage in the
Chenseller's statemest to the representatives of she
Gosmes press (see despateh Ne. 17zs of ey 11, l9s2)
whereis be queried: "Dees one met see that demèm epirits
of segatien and destructiem arise from the graves of
the peeples' wreeked hepee?", aad demanded aoties be-
fore it mas tee late.
me days Later, the KOKkESrOnD said that the
develepment whieh had led to the evest was ef long
stamding in Japas. It mas mainly ef e demestie
politieal charester althengh the Japamese young mill-
tary fectien was esergetie in enfereing fereign pell-
tieal demesds. me uarest after the marder was eradu-
ally siving may to e quieter attitude. It would ap-
pear that beth the Mikade and the Winister of War.
Araki, were met imelised te warlike plams. It was
to be heped that respemsible eireles would retaim the
sapremsey in Japes and frustrate adventurous plame.
"The sitmaties is deubtlees serious, but for that very
reasen ome should met exaggerate it, in order met to
blow the fire" it cemelnded.
Leee dng to the MesÉ VORLKIBOHEH BEOBCH TER
(May 1s), "seves revelutiemaries, eestumed as army
and mavy effisers" had committed the deed.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.87)
● 8 .
Dbe Mas1 GkIF (May 18) remarked that "1n Burepe
è very large sroup of peeple, er even e party, hes sever
dared to appreve a erime eemmitted by eme ef ite fol-
lomere. In Japes, shis publie approval of a deed whien.
seceréing te Xaropean etasdarde mms a erininal ene, is
nething extreerdimary, provided the deed was prempted
by patriotie cesvietione. me unbrokon and still
hesered pereent matiesal will of the peeple is masi-
footed ln tals attitude..... about two yoars age strong
forees, whion may be oalleu hatiomal soclalistie in
our sonse, separated fron tne Japunese souial Demosrats...
Uncertainty as to the fate of Manohuria, wuiun had been
cenquered by Japumese soldiers, utarted the military
rovelt. If these tendeneieu contimue to be effeetive.
the resulte to world polities are hard to prophesy.
espooially in comneotion witn nuasia."
Hugouborg' Lunal d.Iu . (May l) snid that all
the attompte mmde oy Japam simus the war to regais a
leadimg pesitiom in werld p olitios nad been frustrated
by the ümited states und Englund.
Her reuent sucoess
1o Manohuria had been only partial, her position there
was prouarious. at home, over-population snd the
economio orisis were a menmoe. The army folt that
it had been betrayed by the politioiams. If, as 
result of the murder, the militury purty wore to ob-
taim the upper hund iu Jupum. it would attompt to
divert domestio dissatiefaction soto foreiga politi-
a1

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.85)
-  
 ehenels. Inesessed Jegensse ae tivity io Meseke-
ssn might eesily lesd te a eesfliet with the seviets.
"she military party probably eajeys the sympathy ef
Presee...p. : In Warsew, laflsential eireles hepe that
Rmssse will be tied up is the Far Last."
She Sndegendent Metienaliet BR INKR BOKRSEN
ZIme (May 27) aid se: believe that kaseis would
seriemsly resist the esfereement ef a Japasese "Mes-
ree Destrise" in Mascharis.
the Jumimer Kany2 X1zume (May 19) epimed that "the
assematien of Kaseharia, the mais aim of Japasese
matiesalimm, weuld represeat an eztrserdisary iseresse
of streagth for Japes, and alter the balasse of pewer
en the Pesifse at the expemse of the Uaited states ...
In the Far Eaet, Japes is the eppemest of Hassia as
well as et lae Uaited states. rhis fact aleme neses-
sisates a cemmamity of interests between Americs and
äussin, as became apparent at the pease megetistiems
is Portsmeeth which termimeted the Xusso-Japanese war.
Aside frem the diplematie ability of witte, Ruseis
owes it te Ameriee's mediatien that she got eff with
enly a blask eye. me revolutien in Hussia and the
fear ef Belshoviom.....breaght about America's separa-
tiem frem msseis. As a result of the offeets of the
Far Eaetere sesfliet, & gredual rappreehement between
Imeries and the Sevietw is apparent. Ihus a moties
regestly intrednesd is Gongrese for the recegaitien
o8

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.85)
●  -
of the soviet uasen end the prometies of matael eem-
moresal relatiose sigsifiee mere than meroly the
Lmeriesn wien to mave part in the wuseian marzet."
T DEUTCH LLGEIN .KI TU (Xgt wig 
reeple's Purty - May 17) bulleveu that tae example
of Freseh egeimm nad iufluemeed Japun. "If the
roport is true thet the Japamese army has bauked the
cemesde a2 the conspéretere, the Japasese Gevernment
weald be in an extreordimmrily difficult posilion.
If it wisnes te cemply with these demesds, there will
be set ealy è geelaretien et war against chins, but a
confliet with the soviet waiom as well will hurdly be
avosdable." altnongh uussie wes maxious to avoie it.
more wes danger to the peuue of the world.
e trit n (y 17) w of te ii
that the protest of the Japamese "no twpure" was maimiy
direeted mgaimst her foreign pulloy. ihe firut re-
sult might be e delay in the evesuation of phasghai.
Ibe detente in the st mms endangered.
  11 (17) 
that, 1n Japam, the military Fasuists huc uomoimed
with the platooratie oligarony to put down the em-
munint mevemest. after suseeeding iu this, Japanese
natlosaliste bad raised demaude wuius evou the most
aetive foreign pollay coula not satisfy. "ime
spirite of faseism, called by the rulime olass of
Jupaa.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.88)
●  -
Jepes, have tarmed upee them.... Premier Imakai was
shot at a memest when he had reeegaised the seceseity
of intersatiemal cemeiliatios, when the segetiatiess
earriee e et Geneve by the moriean Secretury of
state stimsen with the Fremeh Governmeat and, abeve
all, with the kesslam Foreign Kinis ter Litvimev. had
created è mew siteatien." the slogam of the Bleck
Drages wes: semplete aamezatien of Manohuria and war
gaiest mssin. the questien was whether amy sue-
eesser to Imakai weuld have the pewer to break the
Fasoiet terrer. sar agaimet sussia might be sue-
eessful in the beginming. but wuld destroy Japau.
"The medeetios
of Japam's fo:elgm traue is already
tending temmrds eatestrephe. If merioa uleses
ite harbore to Japamese experte of urtiules of lux-
ary, the uatastrophe is c mplete."
The social Domooratie vna n  (y 17) apoke
bitterly of the hero-worsnip anorn officers in a
There e no oucasion to
militaristie country.
"moralise mmont asiatio cruelty ps urope has just
experienoed the foul murder of the freside t of the
Frenon dopublie and, in another European country, ome
statesmas was killed waile taking a walk in the foreat
and amether was ahot from a purouing mutomobile, the
mureerers being also young officers." (a reference
to Gormany und the killing of rsberger «nd Hathenan).
The

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.87)
 , the ve ed thet e the ls-
teassote esjeged makampered pewer is mye, the woset
eeglsestiens might well be feared. in the Pas Zest.
Zhe weakmese ezhibited by the League ef Batiene wes
respemeible for the tare mattere had takes. war
between Japes asd Zassis threatesed. "the daager
of a werld-wide eatestrephe weule be even greeter
if the Masis were te come inte pewer in Germasy as
well, as the ealy pesitive plask is their foreigs
pelitieal pregram is the usdigmified fawsing upem
the esemies ef Beleheviem is all esuntries."
The Commmmist Rom Fahn (May 1s) caid thet
frem Paris te ekye the capitaliste were iateat en
provesting the up-baildins of sesialism in Rassia -
hesse the aetivity ef the Blesk Drages.
Respeetfally yeurs,
Prederio M. Saekett.
710
S HO AO
A true copy of
the signed origt-
D.M. A

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL.
Seoul, Chosen, May 21, 1952.
SUBJECT: Observanoes of Mourning at Seoul
for Premier Inukai.
Division of
THE HONORABLE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
S
SECRETARY OF STATE,
JUN21 1932
JN2028
WASHINGTON.
894.44
I have the honor to report that on May 16, 1932,
I called on Governor General Ugaki, and upon the Chier
of the Foreign Affairs Seotion of the Government General,
to express the sympathy of the American residents in
Chosen and of my consular oolleagues upon the news of
The Governor
the assassination of Premier Inukai.
K1/5
General expressed his appreciation of the courtesy and
the next day sent a representative to express his thanks.
Upon learning that the funeral of the Premier would
be held on May 19, 1932, and in order to determine for
myself and colleagues whether flags should be half-mastedE
FILED
out of respect, informal inquiries were made of the
1932
Government General as to what would be done here of-
fioially to mark the day. It was learned that the Govern-
ment General would not half-mast flags or in any other
official manner partioipate in the mourning.
The only local observances in Seoul on the 19th,
the day of the funeral, was a memorial service organized
by the Prefeot of Seoul and which is desoribed in the
enolosed olipping from THE SEOUL PRESS. It will be
noted, however, that this service was attended by
Lieutenant

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.94)
Liemtenemt General Seijiro Hayashi, Cemmander-in-Chier
of the Japanese military forees in Chosem, and ether
military officers.
Respeotfully yours,
Cl.dani.
John K. Davis
American Consul General
Enclosure:
Clipping from THE SEOUL PRESS
dated May 20, 1932, as stated.
800.2
JKD-Y

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL, SEOUL, CHOSEN.
"Seoul Prese
Snay 20, 1932
MEMORIAL SERVICE FOR PRE.
KAI IN SEOUL
the Public
May 19 at 1 p.m.,
local note including General Hayashi,
Comamander-in-Chlef of the Army in
Chosen; Major-General Kodama, Chief
or of Keiki Province, Mr. Inouye,
Prefect of Seoul and other per-
soms, both official and private. The
meeting came to an gnd at 2 p.m. Fol-
lowing this Prefect Inouye, on behalf of
the promoters of the Memorial Service,
despatched a telegram of condolence
to the surviving members of the late
Premier's family.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.44
INUKAI,KI /6
SEE ....M4.0O.P..R./s.
FOR ..Despateh...412.
FROM ..Iapar.
(.....Gre........) DATED ..Ime.l..laSS......
TO
NAME
1-1187
7
REGARDING:
On May 17th, the ban of censorship which has
prohibited the publication of news concerning
the assassination of Premier Inukai, commonly
called the affair of May 15, 1932, ms lifted
and the Government's report of its findings
was released to the public.
hs

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.90)
(b) he rrt  he sai  Pir In.
On May 17 the bem of eamsorship whieh has prohibited
the peblieatiom of news e acerning the assassination of
Premier Inake!, commonly called the affair of May 15, 1332,

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.92)
-1-
was lirted and the Government's repert of its findings
was released to the pablie. It was originally plaaned to
make this pablieetion two days earlier, on the anniversury
of the happening. Last minute protests of the Army and
the Navy necessitated revisions, eliminations, and com-
sequemt postpomement. The final repart did net fail to
implicate Aray and Mavy officers but it mentioned no names
of high ranking officers, and attributed the initiative to
civ1lians.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
SUBJECT
Viscount Kikujiro Ishii - Japan.
DATE
1930
Ju2y1 to
894.44-Jo
CASE NUMBER
Vis
No.
JACKET
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with office stamp or
notations.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.72)
2021
erpenial interear ts FE
ar Vicat li 
 The Jain. Saring apren
and ils relation D the"aciatic
hnnror lsitrme"(Encl. 31,
ancde of mimigratin (ruce. 5).
Leusper Thai Le he ashue
to furca a aspy for the
Linay, a an land 5 th
tlirsion for reference.
num.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.91)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 21, 1930.
It is maggested that the Embassy
at Tokye be requested to purohase and send
to the Departmont one (1) copy of "The
Nemoirs of a Diplomat," by Viscount K. Ishii,
zoforred to in the accompanying despatch.
The price is 3 3.80, or approximately $1.90.
D
Aum
RSM: VGD

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, July 1, 1950
(1,2,4)
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 17 1930
1930
MAF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG 5 1930
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMEDDODSTATE
894,44-Jahii,
DEED
Jule
00 1620
DIDEX BUREAU
N
1930
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG
DIVISION OF
2
AUG 7 1930
The Honorable
WESTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
FILED
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
71.
I have the honor to tranamit herewith seven news-
paper clippings, consisting of a series of five reviews
and two editorials upon the recently published memoirs
of the noted diplomat, Viscount Kikujiro Ishii. The
book, which is published only in Japanese, under the
title of "Gaika Yoron" (A Review of Foreign Relations),
can be obtained at a cost of Yen 3.80 in case a copy is
desired for the records of the Department.
I

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.92)
I mave the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Ebint. taill
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
nelesures:
1-7. Clippings from
The Japan Aávertiser.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
znolosure No._/
Deopatoh no. /94
The Japen Avertiser.
Prom Amer1eas Babassy
Tokyo, Tuesday, Jane 24, 1950.
Tosyo.
VISCOUNT ISHII'S
MEMOIRS
The Kaiser's scheme prior to the
ently questioned Hayashi regarding
conclusion of the Anglo-Japanese Al-
liance was entirely successful. But
the mission of Prince Ito in Europe.
Well-known Diplomat Tells of
his fckleness in deserting the Alliance,
Marquis Jutaro Komura, who assumed
which he promoted, offended the Brit-
the Foreign Affair's portfolio after
Anglo-Japanese Alliance
ish. He simultaneously advocated
Ito's departure for America, telegra-
expansion of the German navy
phically appealed to Ito to speed up
for the purpose of depriving Britain
his trip to Russia in order not to affect
Memoirs of a Diplomat" published by
the frst of a series of five articles on
Iwanami Shoten, Tokyo. The firat article
deala with the AngloJapanese Alliance.
Succensive articles wil take up the
Viseount Ishii's new book entitled 'The
The Japan Advertiser prints below
conducted negotiations rapidly for
the conclusion of the Alliance. It
may be recalled that the late Joseph
Chamberlain, British (Colonial Secre-
of her sea mastery.
Meanwhile, Japan and Britain had
avoid exchanging view's with Russian
the London negotiations, whioh could
not be put off very long. Komura also
instructed Hayashi to induce Ito to
leaders in writing.
On his brief visit to St. Petersburg.
Agreement, the League of Nations and
Russo-Japanese War. the Ishii-Lansing
tary, once hinted the advisability of
Anglo-Japanese cooperation in the
ed a very favorable reaction to his
Ito was heartily welcomed and obtain-
the problem of immigration.
By Suyeo Nakano
ner with the late Count Takaakira
Orient while conversing after a din-
proposal for a Russian agreement. On
his arrival in Berlin from Russia Ito
reiterated there was good opportunity
Special to The Japan Advertiser
of St. James. Sir Francis Bertie.
Kato, Japanese Minister to the Court
for an agreement in an urgent dis-
Viscount Ishii, the well-known Jap-
Under-Secretary of Forcign Affairs,
patch to Tokyo. He also declared that
inese liploma: has written a book of
tried to sound out the views of Count
after the conclusion of the British
such an agreement would be impossible
his "Memoirs" just off the press, in
Hayashi more than once after the
alliance and dwelt on the advisability
Boxer Rebellion, the Russo-Japanese
war, the Anglo-Japanese Alliance, the
which he reviews successively the
World War, the Ishii-Lansing agree-
to policies toward Korea and Russia.
North China affair in 1900 in regard
Opposition Developed
concluded by Feld-Marshal Prince
agreement.
of also having Germany join in the
The Russian agreements previously
questions which have come forward
ment and immigration problems, all
Japanese Alliance however developed.
Unexpected opposition to the Anglo-
mura, all proved failures. Komura
Yamagata, Baron Nishi, Marquis Ko-
during his career and with which he
Prince Ito received an honorary
believed that Russia's ostensible will-
has been intimately associated.
degree from Yale in 1901. After hav-
ingness to enter the new agreamnt was
The Boxer rebellion of 1900, he says,
ing personally received the degree in
to alienate Tokyo and London. The
fostered particularly close relations
America, he proceeded to France early
Katsura Cabinet faced a serious
between Japan and Great Britain.
in November. Prior to his departure
dilemma, in view of the strenuous op-
Germany asked Japan to join in an
from Japan, Prince Ito paid a visit
position by Ito and Inouye, leading
agreement with Britain following the
to Prince Katsura, then Premier, in
Genro. against the prompt signing of
lifting of the siege of the Legation
his villa at Hayama.
the British pact.
quarter. This agreement, he says,
Being informed of the inside pro-
Emperor Decides Fate
subsequently proved to be the fore-
ce dings regarding the conclusion of
The Jute Emperor Meiji exercised
runner of the Anglo-Japanese Alliance.
the British alliance. Ito told Prince
-hrewd udgement at this juneture.
The agreement provided for the pre-
Katsura that he was in favor of the
Recollecting that Ito formally approved
servation of China's territorial inte-
Alliance in principle, if it should
the British Alliance in principle, the
grity.
prove possible. Prince Ito also sug-
Emperor declared that he had no par-
Kaiser Started Move
gested the wisdom of entering into
tion. His weighty pronouncement im-
ticu!ar reason to delay its consumma-
By inviting Japan to join the agree-
an agreement with Russia. Prince
mediately led to the conclusion of the
ment, the Kaiser ascertained that
Katsura replied that it would be wel.
epochal alliance between the Island
Japan. Simultaneously, he found that
Britain was willing t, co-operate with
late Marquis Kaoru Inouye another
come, if it could be arranged. The
Empires of East and West.
Japan was desirous of halting Russia's
elder stalesman supported Ito's view.
eastward advance by coordinating with
Ito appears to have believed that
both Britain and Germany or either
the British Alliance was not possible,
one of them.
in view of London's traditional policy
Four months after Japan had joined
of isolation. Prince Katsura could not
in the agreement on China, Baron von
definitely discorrage Ito's idea, as his
Eckardstein, German Counselor in
maneuvers were entirely on his own
London, began to sound Count Tadasu
initiative.
Hayashi, Japanese Minister, as to the
On his arrival in Paris Ito was.
conclusion of a triple alliance with
however, informed by Count Hayashi
Germany and Britain.
that negotiations between himself and
Prince von Buelow, German Chan-
Lord Lansdowne, British Foreign Sec-
cellor, in reply to a question in the retary, were assuming concrete shape
Reichstag. declared that Manchuria following the formal presentation of
was outside of the purview of the the draft treaty by Britain. Ito was
Anglo-German agreement. His dec- surprised on finding that the London
laration in the Reichstag was ap- parleys had mele rapid progress and
parently designed not to discourage had no particular reason to oppose it.
Russia's eastward advance.
He was thus placed in an awkward
A favorite of Kaiser Wilhelm, position, as St. Petersburg already as-
Baron von Eckardstein went over the sured Ito that his proposed trip to the
head of Count von Hatzfeld, his chief Russian Capital was most welcome.
in London, and kept the Kaiser con- Without expressing his viws for or
fidentially informed of his doing. against the British treaty. Ito demand-
His overture for the triple alliance ed that its conclusion he postponed
was made under instructions from until after his parleys in St. Peters-
the Kaiser. Germany's traditional burg. The Tokyo Government could
poliey sinee Bismarck was to weaken not, however. put off formal London
the Russians. Wiiheimstrasse wanted negotiations after the London Cabinet
forthwith to divert the Northern Em- had obtained King Edward's sanction.
pire's energy from Europe to the East.
Prince Ito's Trip
Germany Abstained
Ito's failure to stop in London on
With this object in view. Germany
his way to Paris wounded British sus-
proposed the said alliance. but ab-
ceptibilities. The Marquis of Lans-
stained eventually from taking part
downe and Sir Franeis Bertie persist-
in it, as soon as she found Japan and
Britain were eager to close the treaty.
Kaiser Wilhelm instigated Tsar Ni-
cholas to launch a drive against Ja-
pan's acquisition of Liaotung penin-
sula following the 1894-5 war with
Russia to turn to the East and direct
her attention from Western Europe.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
BRelocure Ne.Q
Doopason no. 194
The Japan MAvertiser.
Prom Amerieam Eabassy
Zokyo, Wednesday, June 25, 1950.
Tokye.
VISCOUNT ISHII'S
Attempted to Check Japanr
The Russians attempted to check
mission will be instructed in a second
MEMOIRS
Japan south of Tatung River instead
dispatch not to give up the claim 
of the Yalu. They also hoped to lease
Saghalien but to demand the southern
Diplomat Played Important Part
in Portsmouth Peace
Russia's eastward advance, and
base. The German design was to fan
Masanpo in Southern Koren as a naval
half of the island.
Prince Katsura was pleased to re-
Prince Katsura Pleased
strengthen Japan's position by induc-
ceive Viscount Ishii's lidings and sug-
ing her to enter into agreement with
gestion, but wanted to know whether
This is the second of a series of
Britain so as to enable her to fight
he had any tangible proof. Viscount
articles transiating and summarixing
Russia. These two German dreams
Ishii declared he was extremely cer-
the "Memoirs of a Diplomat" by Vis-
were realized, but Japan achieved a
tain. Viscount Ishii hurriedly return-
ment will appear in The Japan Adver-
tiser tomorrow.
count Kikujiro lahii. The next article
dealing with the Ishii-Lansing agree-
rapid victory contrary to the Kaiser's
idea.
Nevertheless, the mighty Northern
da, Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs,
ed to the Foreign Ofce, and after
consultation with Count Sutemi Chin-
Empire fell to third class power from
sent the two telegrams of instruction
By Suyeo Nakano
foremost rank. Kaiser Wilhelm failed
to Marquis Komura.
Special to The Japan Advertiser
to be cautious follcwing his diplomatic
In postponing the final conversation
Following the Sino-Japanese War,
victory. He cruised in the Mediter-
ranean, and landed in Morocco. He
to August 29, the Japanese delega-
tion declared that it would give up the
Russia made every attempt to streng-
also offended Japan by his pronounce-
demand for the whole of Saghalien,
then her foothold in China, both the
ments on the yellow peril.
and would be content with the southern
military and civil parties supporting
den and in the Tsushima Straits Mar-
Following Japan's victory at Muk-
half only, in view of the fervent de-
sire to restore peace. The Russians
the idea of annexing both Manchuria
quis Komura proceeded to Portsmouth,
eventually conceded this.
and Korea, Viscount Ishii declares in
to conduct peace negotiations with
General Count Gentaro Kodama was
the chapter of his memoirs dealing
Henry Willard Denison, American
Count Witte. His suite included Mr.
mand peace, although he had deli-
the first leader in Manchuria to de-
with the Russo-Japanese War. Count
legal adviser, General Prince Katsura,
berately championed war with Russia.
Witte initiated the building of the
Premier also assumed the Foreign Af.
He believed in the necessity of war
Chinese Eastern Railway and the lease
fairs portfolio. Viscount Ishii was
made chief of the Telegraph Section
pan's resources were not unlimited.
ahead of others, but knew that Ja-
while Finance Minister Witte and
of the Liaotung peninsula.
pressure brought to bear upon him
Tsar Nicholas soon yielded to the
declined to pay an indemnity and
mercial Bureau in the Foreign Office.
in addition to director of the Com-
The Russian delegates deliberately
churia to the peace commission in
pealed from the seat of war in Man-
More than once he telegraphically ap-
Portsmouth for the immediate cessa-
Count Lamsdorff, the Foreign Min-
ister stood behind him in the back-
panese forces. Japan demanded com-
cede Saghalien, then held by the Ja-
tion of hostilities.
Count Yamamoto Disturbed
ground.
pensation amounting to about Y1,200.
Among Cabinet Ministers Admiral
The outbreak of the Boxer rebel-
Boxer Provided Opportunity
000,000, although she disbursed about
¥2,000,000,000
President Roosevelt who brought the
as war expenditure.
Count Yamamoto, Minister of the
for immediate peace. Field-Marshal
Navy, was the most staunch advocate
lion provided an opportunity for the
Russian military party to dispatch
Japan to reduce he: claims, and simul-
two peace missions together, advised
Count Masatake Terauchi, War Min-
inster, could not demand peace, as
a large expedition to Manchuria and
taneously urged on Russia to comply
belligerent operations were confined to
Tsar Nicholas yielded to the military
with the Japanese demands to ter-
land points at the close of the war.
party by postponing the evacuation
minate hostilities from a humanitarian
It was his statesmanship that in-
from Manchuria after the Boxer up-
standpoint.
duced Admiral Yamamoto to demand
rising, althcugh the civil faction
peace, in view of the Navy's victory
secured his agreement to the im-
Portsmouth Negotiations
in the Battle of the Japan Sea and
mediate withdrawal of the troops.
The negotiations in Portsmouth
in spite of probable public criticism
Bezobrazoff, a typical adventurer.
were actually on the verge of rup-
of his Pacific ideals.
affiliated with the military party
ture, as the Russians refused the
Prince Katsura told Viscount Ishii
started the Yalu Lumber (orporation
above two demands, although they ac-
that Admiral Count Yamamoto was
with the Tsar as one of its big share-
cepted about ten others.
rather displeased with his tidings
holders. (ossacks were employed to
Cabinet Ministers and elder states-
and suggestion as they might wreck
engage in aggressive operations in ad-
men mecting at a conference before
the chances for imimediate peace.
dition to financial maneuvers. Cos-
the Throne on August 21. 1905, re-
Grave consequences would ensue, he
sacks occasionally crossed the Yalu.
solved to forego these two demands.
was told if his, information proved
thereby threatening Japan's position
if the Russians should continue to
incorrect. The Harakiri of such a
not only in Manchuria, but also in
refuse them. On August 21 President
minor official as Ishii then was would
Korea.
Roosevelt despatched a second tele-
not mend matters.
Negotiations between Japan and
graphic appeal to the Tsar for the
Bussia were opened in 1903 for an
immediate conclusion of peace. The
amicable settlement of the situation.
American Ambassador at St. Peters-
Even conservative Britons extended
burg. was rec ived by the Tsar at 4
their hands to espouse Japan's cause.
p.m. un August 23. to explain the
in view of Russia's aggressive atti-
President's dispatch.
tude. The Russian military leaders
Tsar Nicholas reiterated that he
utterly ignored the British Alliance.
would not pay any indemnity or cede
Germany was pleased to note that her
any territory. He added however, that
ideal was achieved, while France had
he might cede one-half of Saghalien.
to maintain her awkward relations
Viscount Ishi: happened to visit a for-
with the Northern Ally with reluct-
eign diplomat on August 27, who com-
ance.
municated to the Japanese diplomat
The Russians concluded that the
the inside proceedings at the Winter
Japanese were financially very poor,
Palace in St. Petersburg.
that they could to nothing definite.
Viscount I-hii rushed to Premier
They also asserted that Britain was
Katsura's official residence. He was
bankrupt of the result of the Boer
taking lunch with his Cabinet col-
war. They insisted that they could
leagues. Prinee Katsura received Vis-
not return Manchuria, as they ob-
count Ishii in an adjoining room who
tained it through military operations.
immed ately related the tidings and
and that China alone had voice in the
sugge tet that instructions be tele-
settlement in Manchuria.
graphed to the Japanese delegation at
Ports nouth to postpone the final con-
versat on with the Russians scheduled
for August 28, taking advantage of the
difference in time of 14 hours. He
also suggested that the Japanese com-

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
Bmeloeure Ne.3
Doopeson no. 194
The Japan Aévertiser.
Prem Amerlean Eabessy
Tokyo.
Tokye, Thareday, Jure 86,1900.
The Ishii-Lansing Agreement
affording me many occasions to ex-
plain Japan's policy toward China and
I did not fail to avail myself of those
pppurtunities to dwell upon the
Viscount Ishii Reveals He Suggested United States Rec-
desirability of the "Open Door" Poliey
or the promotion of Japanese trade
ognize Japan's "Paramount Interests" in China
with China and the hope which Japan
—Lansing Calle d "Pro-Chinese"
placed in this policy. I also discussed,
in the most frank manner, the exist-
ence of a doctrine in the Far East
This is the third of a series of articles on "The Memoirs of a Diplomat"
similar in nature to the Monroe Doc-
by Viscount Kikujiro Ishii. Because of the particular interest in this
trine of the Western Hemisphere. New
chapter, The Japan Advertiser gives a literal translation of it. Suc-
Yorkers gave friendly attention to what
ceeding chapters will deal with the League of Nations and immigration.
said. It was certain that all I said
In New York reached the ears of the
Translated by Morio Otaki
P'resident and the Secretary of State
ambassador and sent to the United
It was in 1917 that I was appointed
to the last. the view entertained by
the President on the Chinese issue.
actions since my arrival in the United
States had done much to remove the
in Washington. I was certain that my
States in the capacity of what was
That was the reason I cabled the Japa-
nese Government for instructions re-
ident regarding Japan's policy in
suspicion in the mind of the Pres-
then termed "War Messenger." My
garding the steps I should take in sup-
China.
ostensible duty was to congratulate
port of Pres dent Wilson in an effort
to induce him to agree to our claim.
In a country like the United States,
and thank the United States for taking
For a long time I waited for the
where national policies depend much
the side of the allies and for joining
arrival of the instructions for which
against deal upon public opinions, for-
which Lord Balfour of Great Britain
and Mr. Vivani of France were then
in the great Wur, the kind of duty for
visiting the United States.
I had cabled. It was learned later that
my proposal was laid before the Di-
plomatic Rescarch Committee through
Foreign Minister Viscount Motono, for
discussion. The general atmosphere in
ing on negotiations in Washington.
New York was and is the best market
negotiations, should endeavor to secure
the support and understanding of the
public at large as well besides carry-
eign diplomats bent on international
ernment wished me to take this oppor-
tunity to exchange with the authori-
ties of the American Government frank
and disinterested views on Chinese
problems, and if possible, to lead Japan
I was aware that the Japanese Gov-
with Mr. Lans:ng without the neces-
posal. Thus, unable to get the govern-
enter into negotiations upon China
the Committee was opposed to my pro-
mental instructions in time, I had to
sary instructions.
to secure such understanding and sup-
port.
Japan's China policy there, in spite of
the opposition of some of the weaker
minded diplomats in the Foreign Of-
That was why I discussed the
and the United States to a better un-
First Talk With Lansing
fice. Of course, the discussion of such
tion.
derstanding upon the (hinese situa-
The essential parts of the first con-
a subject as an Asiatic Monroe Doe-
trine was liable to create suspicion
War Fever In U. S.
versation which took place hetween
Secretary of State Lansing and myself
and m sunderstanding on the part of
the public or which I was quite aware.
I was quite doubtful whether the
were as follows:
The sincerity and friendliness of New
United States affficted with "war
Ishu: "Now that we have joined in
Yorker-, both official and the public
fever" would have time enough to
the Allie to engage in the War
however, enabled me to dispel such
listen to me on Chinese problems, and
against a mutual enemy, we should be
fear. It was with the most friendly
1 was not, therefore, instructed, in
very careful not let the enemy have
manner that New York listened to me.
minute details, by my Government, as
the least chance of alienating the al-
The public was pleased with my frank-
to what course should be taken in
ied countries. The enemy would
ness while the press published many
negotiating with the American author-
most prubably make use of th Im-
sympathetic comments. The attitude
my mission.
ities. Neither did I try to obtain de-
tailed instructions in connection with
question in efforts to alienate Japan
and the U'nited States. With the
mugration question and the Chinese
to pave the way for my megotiations
of New Yorkers apparently did much
in Washington.
ton. In the meantime, the welcome
both official and on the part of the
ber, 1917, that I arrived in Washing-
It was in the beginning of Septem-
do at present. It should be expected.
therefore, that the enemy will con-
Immigration question there is little to
week's stay in New York, I visited the
Returning to Washington after a
Sees President Again
public on my way from Japan to Wa-
centrate its vtforts on the (hinese
White House to pay my respects to
shington, via San Francisco and Hono-
question in an effort to separate
President Wilson. The attitude of
lulu, was certainly one of the most
Japan and the U'nited States."
the Predent at that time was far
enthusiastic and sincere in my diplo-
Lansing: "You: opinion quite agrees
more friendly. He praised me for my
matic experiences. The U'nited States
with mine. Things have rrached my
speeches in New York which had con-
was infected with war fever through.
ears time and again already in con-
tributed much in removing the mis-
out. The first few days after arrival
neetr with the seltish attempts on
understanding oetween the Japanese
in Washington were spent in war talk
the part of Japan in the Far East
and American nations. Mr. Lansing
from morning until night, intermingled
while the other wor'd powers are
himself was quite changed. He stated
with successive invitations to lun-
busily engaged in the War. Rumors
that the straightforward statements
cheons and dinners. During these days.
are afloat that Japan is establishing a
which 1 had made on different ocea-
the Government, as well as a member
of Senators and Representatives.
President Wilson and other officials of
however, I succeeded in talking with
The Secretaries of War and Navy
policy of supertority in China, reduc-
ing the preservation of territorial in-
tgrity. and the policy of the "Open
Door" to die phraseology. It will not
on'y go a long way toward preventing
our first conversation, he asked me
a plan to tide over the present cireum-
sions apparently enabled him to form
stances.
In further discusing the subject of
seemed particularly bus. I was glad.
the adverse propaganda of the snemy
what wording, 1 would suggest in ex-
however, to find that Pres:dent Wil
but also toward guiding the peoples
pressing Japan's superior position in
son and Secretary of State Lansing
of Japan and the I'nited States to
China. 1 plied that the words
were apparently finding time in tne
rightly understand the circumstances.
"Paramount interest" would most suit-
midst of their manifold duties, and 1
if the Govornments of the l'nited
ab'y express Japan's position in
was glad to be able to find an oppor-
States and Japan should is-ue a joint
China. Mr. Lansing firmly opposed
tunity to talk with the two leaders of
statement on this occasion reiterating
this expression, stating that American
the Government on China. I first ap-
the policy of the "Open Door" and
admisston to the use of such an ex-
proached President W:lson on the Chi
equal opportunity in China and the
pression would prevent the United
nese Question. The President was of
preservation of its territorial in-
States from interfering with any ac-
the opinion that the I'nited States de-
tegrity."
tion which Jayan might take in (hina
sired nothing more than policy of the
I-hii: "Tha: would not be 'nough
in the future.
"Open Door" and Equal Opportunity
under the circumstances. The preser-
1 explained that "Paramount Inter-
for all in China, but regretted that
vation of the territoria' integrity of
est" would contain no such strong
spheres of influences of the various
China and the "Open Dear" and equal
meaning as Mr. Lansing imagined, by
powers in China greatly endangered
opportunity policy in China were firm
referrng to  smilar expression
the realization of this policy. In un
'ytresed in the Root Takehir
Ju-d in representing Amerionn inter-
swer I pointed out that the pheres of
Agreement signed in 1908. Japan has
ests in Mex:co by Mr. Frelinghuysen.
influence were originally established
stressed ths poiicy time and again
I further explained that Japanese in-
by Germany and Russia in Shantung
in the Anglo-Japanese Allance and
terest in China are something like
and Manchuria but that even these
the Franco Japanese and Russo-Jap-
American interests in Mexico, and
two countries had agreed to the open
anese agreements. A statement stress
hence the ciectton of the phrase
door policy inituated by Secretary of
n1

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
The Beeretaries of War and Navy
everament, as well as a member
oors and Representatives.
ing the preservation of territorial in-
tegrity, and the policy of the "Open
Door" to idle phraseology. It will not
on!y go a long way toward preventing
stances.
our first conversation, he asked me
In further discussing the subject of
a and Seeretary of State Lansing
the adverse propaganda of the enemy
of Japan and the United States to
but also toward guiding the peoples
pressing Japan's superior position in
China. I replied that the words
what wording. I would suggest in ex-
midst of their manifold duties, and I
were apparently inding time in the
rightly understand the circumstances,
if the Governments of the United
ab:y express Japan's position in
"Paramount interest" would most suit-
States and Japan should issue a joint
this expression, stating that American
China. Mr. Lansing firmly opposed
statement on this occasion reiterating
the policy of the "Open Door" and
pression would prevent the United
admission to the use of such an ex-
ed President Wilson on the Chi-
qual opportunity in China and the
States from interfering with any ac-
estlen. The President was of
preservation of its territorial in-
tion which Japan might take in China
mere than policy of the
tegrity."
Ishii: "That would not be enough
in the future.
under the circumstances. The preser-
I explained that "Paramount Inter-
vation of the territorial integrity of
est" would contain no such strong
China and the "Open Dear" and equal
meaning as Mr. Lansing imagined, by
opportunity policy in China were rm-
referring to the similar expression
:y stressed in the Root-Takahira
used in representing American inter-
we einted out that the spheres of
mflesgh were originally established
Agreement signed in 1908. Japan ha»
stressed this policy time and again
sts in Mexico by Mr. Frelinghuysen.
1 further explained that Japanese in-
terests in China are something like
ind Mandhuria but that even these
wo countries had agreed to the open
feer poliey initiated by Secretary of
tate Hay and that they would not
lare oppose that policy at least in so
far as commurce and industry were
rencerned.
anese agreements. A statement stress-
ing the same points would mean very
little to the Japanese people. Still
in the Anglo-Japanese Alliance and
the Franco-Japanese and Russo-Jap-
worse, such a step by Japan would
lead the Japanese people to believe
that their government was pressed by
American interests in Mexico, and
volicy of Mexico.
hence the selection of the phrase
"Paramount interests." I also assert-
od that the use of the words "Para-
mount Interests" of the United States
had little affected the "Open Door"
The violation of this policy would
the American Government, suspicious
Paramount Interests Suggested
sertainly be a grave contradiction on
their part, I declared. I proceeded fur-
ther to explain that Japan, while hav-
ing established herself firmly in Man-
shuria as the result of the Russo-Jap-
anose War, was pleased to abide by
of Japan's desires in China, to
give a pledge. The Japanese Govern-
ment cannot take such a step which
would cause misunderstanding. Such
bing the case, I cannot consider the
proposed statement as a suitable ac-
Secretary of State declared that the
President himself would oppose the
Japan would not firmly adhere to the
phr, se in question and might select
use of such a phrase. I stated that
Without replying to what I said, the
the open-door policy. The President
tion to meet the circumstances. There
some other pression suitable to the
apparently found Japan quite flexible
should be something new inserted to
American Government. I suggested
and corfessed that he felt the conver-
the statement. From the Japanese
"Special interests and influence" as
sation very interesting and asked ne
viewpoint, Japan has special interests
the second choice. After negotiations,
to get in touch with him again. Thuß
urpassing other countries in China.
we sett!ed at last upon the phrase
the curtain was raised for the Amer-
especially in the leased territories,
"special interests," omitting the words
ican-Japan negotiations regarding
just as the United States has such
"and influence." The phrase "para-
China.
interests in the Western hemisphere,
mount interest," while originally used
Cabled for Instructions
(specially in Mexico and Central
American countries. Such a position
by the United States, was used to rep-
resent Japan's interest in China
Immediately upon my return to my
is chiefly due to the geographical posi-
in the third paragraph of the draft of
hotel, I cabled to the Japanese Gov-
tion of the respective countries. Just
the second Anglo-Japanese Alliance,
ernment, reporting the outline of my
is the Monroe Doctorine requires no
saying "Japan having paramount polit-
conversation with the President and
rccognition by other countries of the
ical, military and economic interests
also my views in connection with the
problem of spheres of influence in
of the Open Door is maintained in
China.
China, Japan is destined to take the
lead among the foreign powers in
trade with China. There would be.
encouragement of the equal opportun-
therefore, no policy wiser than the
It is plain that as long as the policy
world, so it is with Japan's superior
position in China. It is sometimes
and Japan did stress her superior
beneficial to secure the recognition of
position in the Anglo-Japanese, Russo-
Japanese and Franco-Japanese Agree-
the other powers for such a position,
ments of the past.
Stop False Rumors
in Korea.
chiefly on account of his personal re-
lations. He was the son-in-law of
former Secretary of State John W.
Foster, who was late Adviser to the
Chinese Government. It was quite
Mr.Lansing was very pro-Chinese,
natural that he was pro-Chinese. Pro-
Japanese. He would most probably
China as he was, he was not anti-
the Washin
United State
April 14, 14
however, ar
tion of otl
which need
in China d
unnecessary
sometimes
Japan's s
ity for all in Manchuria. The Japan-
It would be advisable, therefore.
have taken the Japanese side if the
recognition
ese are endowed with all the factors
that the two countries, besides declar-
negotiations had been Anglo-Japanese,
abolition of
to outdo the foreigners in Shantung
ing the preservation of China's ter-
Russo-Japanese or Franco-Japanese.
could not
Province and the provinces along the
ritorial integrity and the "Open-
Spheres Of Influence
special ir
Yangtze River in the foreign spheres
Door" and equal opportunity policy in
they were
of influence, if this policy is generally
China, should issue an additional
The question of the abolition of
agreement
observed. What Japan has to fear is
statement regarding the special re-
spheres of influence in China stood in
gation.
the closing of the door and inequality
lations between Japan and China.
the way of the smooth progress of our
f opportunity.
Such a measure will put a stop to
agreement. Despite the hope which 1
Under the circumstances and con-
the circulation of false propaganda as
entertained for the smooth settlement
scious of the apparent desire of Pres-
you propose, and will also prevent mis-
of other important problems by means
ident Wilson for the abolition of
understanding on the part of the Jap-
of a concession on the part of Japan
spheres of influence in (hina, I thought
anese people, at the same time clari-
in connection with the sphere of In-
it best to take the occasion to support
fying the atmosphere in the Far
fluences issue, the Government, under
East.
the influence of the elder statesmen
Lansing: "The conversation has be-
of the Diplomatic Research Committee,
gun to assume a very grave aspect. I
hesitated to give any definite instrue-
think it advisable that we have more
tions. In an effort to avoid minute dis-
time for deeper consideration of the
cussion of this question, I explained
problem."
to Mr. Lansing that the Japanese Gov-
The first conversation between
ernment was hesitating to give its ap-
Secretary of State Lansing and my-
proval to the abolition of spheres of
self, while discussing the problem in
influence in (hina by Japan and the
general,nevertheless
proceeded
United States believing that such an
straight to the point. It seemed that
abolition should be declared unanim-
the frank and even bold attitude on
ously by all the powers having interests
my part took Mr. Lansing by storm.
in (hina. It is regrettable, however.
I felt that Mr. Lansing was rather
that this hesitation on the part of the
cold toward the question. but I placed
Japanese Government to approve the
my hope in the attitude of the Pres-
abolition of spheres of influence did
ident during my conversation with him
cause suspicion to arise among Ameri-
'iw days previousiy.
can officials and resulted in the op-
Instructions from the Japanese Gov-
position of the I'nited States to the
ernment hid not yet come, and I had
expression "Paramount Interests" in
to leave Washington for New York to
the wording of the Agreement.
keep appointments with the Mayor of
Result of Abrogation
New York and the New York Recep
tion Committee, leaving my second in
Negotiations for the abrogation of
erview with Secretary of State until
the Ishu-Lansing Agreement have been
after my return from New York.
preatly misunderstood by the public
Elaborate Welcome
at large. Despite the public belief
It was one of the most elaborate
that the abrogation took place at the
programs of welcome which was pre-
tme of the Washington Disarmament
Conference, it really took place on

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
Inclosure No._4
Dospason no. 194
The Jepan Advertiser.
Prom Amerlean Rabessy
Tokyo, Pridey, June 27, 1950.
Tokyo.
VISCOUNT ISHII'S
Role Of League
Opposition of Privy Couneil
That the League of Nations has as-
(ount Kato, Viscount Ishii's pre-
MEMOIRS
sumed such an important role as it
decessor in the Foreign Omce, failed
now has so soon after its establish-
to second his overture, owing to some
ment is partly due to its adaptability
reason or other. Upon his asaumption
League of Nations Provides
to the general tendeney of the world.
of the Foreign Ofce portfolie, Vis-
Machinery for Peace
It is also due to the hearty support
count Ishil induced the Gevorwment
given the League by the many in-
to join in the London Declaration.
fluential statesmen of the power.
He faced, however, opposition in th
This is the fourth of a series of
They include the late Mr. Leon
Privy Council, and offensive inter-
articles on "The Memoirs of a Diplo-
Bourgeoise, the late Lord Balfour and
pellations in the two Houses.
mat" by Viscount Kikujiro Ishii. The
Sir Eric Drummond, Secretary-Gen-
In order to restrain Russia from
next and concluding article will deal
eral of the League Secretariat who
entering into separate peace negotia-
with immigration.
stands out conspicuously. He proved
tions, Viscount Ishii spared no ef-
By Suyeo Nakano
himself to be a combination of re-
forts, and concluded an agreement
Special to The Japan Advertiser
sourcefulness, promptitude and sincer-
with Russia. Separate peace might
ity.
not be necessarily be dangerous, but
Viscount Ishii was first appointed
Sir Eric's role corresponds to that
a Russian alliance with Germany fol-
Japanese Ambassador to Paris in 1912.
on the heels of the Napoleonic war.
of Ghentz in the Vienna Conference
lowing an independent p(ace, formed)
a menace to peace in this part of
He spent three years and a half there,
Ghentz attended all subsequent inter-
the world.
returning home to assume the port-
national conferences in Europe as
Japan was once envied by other
folio of Foreign Minister in succession
Secretary-General, in view of his ex-
ceptionally versatile character and
neutral without facing the risks of
Powers as enjoying the b nefits of a
to the late Count Takaakira Kato in
fluent writings and utterances.
belligerents. But if Russia and Ger-
the last Okuma Cabinet. On his ar-
Ghentz and Drummond were both
many should join hands, Japan had to
rival in Paris five years later, again
dark horses until the Peace Confer-
combat the joint forces in the Far
as Japanese Ambassador he found a
ences opened. They immediately dis-
East. Russian cabinets changed in
complete change in politics and diplo-
played their clear insight and tact.
:apid succession. Rumors had it that
macy.
They : qually surpassed leaders in the
Gt rmany was about to transport sub-
During his first tenure of office as
conferences in calibre. Overtures
marines in parts by the Siberian
Ambassador in Paris there were two
-ubmited to the conferees by leaders
Railway, and assemble them in Vladi-
hostile camps in Europe. Political
in the meetings were mostly mapped
vostok t. destroy trade in Andian
leaders were then exceptionally ner-
out by the Secretaries-General. Early
and (hinese waters with a base at
vous, and 'more provocative than pa-
in the twentieth century Sir Eric
Canton.
triotic. Five years later both the
was practically directing peace policy
Agraement with Russia
victorious and defeated countries in
(f the world.
The Japanese Government thus took
Europe, similarily suffering from
the horrors of the World War, eager-
Ghentz and Drummond
by providing arms and munitions
steps to strengthen Russian forces
ly sought peace. Conferences replac-
Ghentz and Drummond are both very
amounting to about Y300,000,000. Half
ed military camps. Utterances of pol-
clever drafters. Sir Erie is behind
a year after his assumption of the
itical leaders assumed a peaceful
none a, to process verbal as Ghentz
Foreign Affairs portfolio, Viscount
tendeney. Altogether, the World War,
was in his days. Sir Eric instantly
Ishii concluded an agreement with
Viscount Ishii declares, has given
submit- a draft whenever the League
Russia to prevent her from joining
birth to a new Europe.
Council faces a complicated question.
hands with Germany. On the other
If the Couneil should net favor it, he
hand, Germany. taking advantage of
Arrival In Geneva
presen' further plans. Metternich'
her alliance with Turkey, instigated
On his arrival in Geneva to attend
memors refer to Ghentz' resouceful-
Persia. and Afghanistan and threa-
the League of Nations Council and
ness. Their decision, are typically
tened the Indian border, and attempt-
the first Assembly, Viscount Ishi
prompt and rapid.
ed to envelop Russia via Persia,
noticed a new phenomenon. The
Sir Erie was occa-tonally criticized
Afghanistan. Turkestan and China.
patriotism of the delegates was more
by the Britt-h as too faithful to the
The Russian revolution led six
polished and their atitude was ap-
League of Nations without paying
months later to the fall of the Roma-
parently harmonious and prepared for
propeer regaid to British interests. He
noff dynasty. Another revolution
concessions. On the whole they re-
1 a distinet patriotte. but he had to
plunged Russia into Soviet despotism.
garded war as crime, and heartily
relinqu-h his connection with the
Soviet Russia c ncluded a separate
aspired for peace. It was the birth
Butish Gt vernment to serve world-
peace with Germany and Austria in
of a new World, not only of a new
wide organ such as the League of Na
Brest Litoysk. betraying Lord Grey's
Europe. Premiers, Foreign Ministers
tions. While Secretary-Gencral of
confidence and nullifying Japan's
and statesmen of big and small Euro-
the League. he t not a British citt
painful efforts.
pean countries all became pilgrims to zen. hut a faithful cosmopolitan
the Palace of Peace. Viscount Ishn
servant.
also joined the pilgrimmage and found
During the War. Viscount Ishii.
himself an ardent advocate of peace. then Ambassador in France. despatch-
Emerging from the Great War, the ed a to legraphic appeal to the Ti kyo
League of Nations instantly flashed Government for Japan's participation
peace throughout the world. Geneva in the London Declaration participat-
was made the Mecea of peace apostles. ed in hy the British. French and
The late Emperor Taisho heartily Russtan Governments on September
welcomed the establishment of the 1. 1914. He despatched that appeat
League of Nations in connection with from his provisional lodge in Bor-
the ratificatien of the Verseilles deaux, where the French Government
Treaty.
had removed.
The first peace move started by the
Japan wa participating in the
League Assembly was for disarma- Great War. and her participation in
ment. The League Assembly in 1921 the London Declaration was adytsable
curtly adorted the so-called Ge neva to enhance her position in the Peace
Protocol for the abolition of war. Confere follow ng the ce ation of
Mr. Ramsay MacDonald. the British hostilities The declaration promised
Premier and Foreign Secretary and not to nter peace negotintion
Mr. Edouard Herriot, French Premier  parately.
and Foreign Sceretary, were chtefly
responsible for the prompt consum-
mation of the protocol. But it was
premature. It may be said to have
already died or to exist only nomin-
ully.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
lo.5
coopason No. 194
The Japan Mvertiser.
Trom Ameriean Eabassy
Tokye, Satarday, Jume ze, 1960.
Tokyo.
Influence Of Labor
VISCOUNT ISHII'S
Those attempting to check labor
immigration issue was concerned.
(ntirely disregarded as far as the
MEMOIRS
should expect defeat in elections.
The Anti-Japanese Movement in the
Consequently, they have learned that
United States originated in the at-
Diplomat Severely Condemns
ident and other high executives of
labors will is inevitable. The Pres-
he influx of Japanese labor,
tempt of American laborers to check
U. S. Immigration Policy
the country are perfectly aware that
but in the long period of time
the Immigration policy of the United
States is unjustified, yet they are
which has passed since the start of
lated literally.
of articles on the "Memojrs of a Diplo-
mat" by Viscount Kikujiro Ishii. This
chapter dealing with Japanese immigra-
tion into the United States, is trans-
This is the fifth and last of a r
entirely powerless in the matter of
correcting the wrong. The Govern-
ment has had to satisfy itself by de-
hy the legislative organ. and is ob-
claring that the administrative organ
is bound to execute the laws enacted
passing years apparently have render-
the movement, it appears to have de-
veloped into a race problem. The
problem was more or less simple as
ed the problem more and more com-
plicated. While the immigration
Translated by Morio Otaki
liged to put them into operation whe-
its conversion into a race problem
iong as it remained a labor problem,
Special to The Japan Advertiser
the (overnment are not free to do
ther good or bad. The President and
renders the situation extremely dim-
A nation has absolute sovereignty
what their conscience dictates. It is
cult. With a number of anti-Japanese
within its territory, which enables it
still worse with senators and members
'd States, it is regrettable that the
laws enacted or planned in the Unit-
to take any reasonable measures for
of the Hause of Representatives.
What they advocate is frequently not
hope for complete understanding be-
the control and adjustment of the
what they believe, but is from their
tween the two great pacific nations
has apparently dwindled.
residence and removal of the people
desire to cater to labor.
The United States today is strug-
It is evident from the foregoing
living therein. While it is apparently
ling under the oppression of labor
article that Viscount Ishii's book had
very simple, the extent of and the
and genuine freedom is apparently
already gone to press when Mr. Albert
measure of control often gives rise
class is firmly opposed to the influx
reduced to mere words. The labor
Johnson, Chairman of the Immigration
Committee of the American House of
to question's of grave consequence
of foreign labor as a direct menace
Representatives. announced his intention
in the political affairs of the world.
to its own. Such opposition compels
of introducing an amendment to the
Immigration Act of 1924 to place Japan
In the first Sino-American treaty
members of Congress, who seek elec-
on a quota hasis with European na.
in 1868, the United States and China
tion as the hands of the labor class.
Tions Fd. 1 A.
recognized the mutual benefit result-
to enact laws prohibiting or restrict-
ing from the free entry of the na-
ing foreign immigration. The Gov-
tionals of each of the contracting
ernment which is dependent on
parties into the territory of the
the votes of labor, is compelled to
other, for the purpose of sightseeing.
execute such laws.
for business or perpetual residence.
Chinese First Excluded
Most-Favored-Nation Clause
Under such circumstances, Chinese
The sixth chapter of the same
laborers were the first to meet their
treaty provided that most-favored-
doom. Fighting heat and cold upon
nation treatment to be accorded the
the barren deserts to construct the
nationals of the two high contracting
trans-continental railways, the (hin-
parties in the territory of the other.
ese laborers were repaid with an
The treaty was concluded at the re-
anti-Chinese law. In 1880, twelve
quest of the United States and was
years after the conclusion of the first
in accord with the spirit of the Amer-
Sino-American Agreement, a treaty
ican Constitution, perfectly recogniz-
providing for the limitation of Chi-
ing the God-given rights of human
nese Immigration into the U'nited
beings.
States was concluded. Preceded with
The United States in those days
preamble that the second treaty is not
was busy constructing the Trans-
intended to kill the spirit of the first
continental railway and was short of
Treaty, it proceeds to enumerate mea-
the necessary labor. America wanted
sures for the control of the entry into
the ('hinese labor, and hence the con-
or residence in the United States of
clusion of the treaty. The completion
Chinese Immigrants, in case such
of the Trans-continental railway how-
entry or residence may be found to
ever caused a great change in the
injure the interests of the United
situation. American laborers had
States or to disturb the order of the
formed themselves into powerful or-
different states of the country. The
ganizations by that time and had
most-favored-nation treatment is also
joined in protest against the influx
included. The new treaty, however.
of foreign labor. The rise of the
gave the United States the chance to
libor organizations created a new
escape from the obligations of the
epoch in American History. The true
first treaty. Despite different clauses
spirit of the Constitution could do
prohihiting the entire exclusion of
little else but bow before the will of
the Chinese contained in the second
the labor organizations. There is a
treaty, the American Government
belief that the United States is the
grew suddenly strict in the admis-
country of liberty and freedom. From
sion into its territory of not only
my observations, I can declare with
Chinese laborers but also of Chinese
impunity that there is no such thing
suspected of belonging to the labor
as complete freedom in the United
class.
States since the rise of the labor
Japanese Laborers
organizations. Freedom has been sup-
pressed under a kind of tyranny due
The U'.S. Government chose Japan
to the all-mighty labor organizations.
as its second victim, and it wa, nat-
Armed with the weapon of universal
ural that the United States should
suffrage an the absolute majority, the
pick up Japanese laborers as non-
labor class has since been agitating
admissable, in view of the growing
boldly for the development of its own
power of the labor class. Thus. the
interests. The Legislative, Adminis-
natural right of human beings for
trative as well as Judicial departments
freedom in travel and the true spirit
of the Government have been able to
of the American Constitution were
do little against the claims of the
labor class.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
Incloeure o.
Deopasoh no. 19.
Prom Ameriean Eabeesy
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo.
Tokyo, Sanday, June 22, 1980.
'displeased with the report which he
half of the Island of Saghalin as
had brought to Premier Katsurs
Viscount Ishii's Memoirs
a prize of war, was in no small
fearing it might wreck the chances
part due to the efforts of Viscount
for immediate peace. Ishii was
Viscount Kikujiro Ishii, the
Ishii himself.
told that grave consequences would
Viscount Ishii recalls that during
result if his information was in-
Council, has written a book o
well-known Japanese diplomat wh
is now a member of the Privy
the peace negotiations the Russian
delegates firmly refused to comply
correct and that the harakiri of
such a minor official as he was,
with two of Japan's demands,
could not mend matters.
unusual interest which is destined
to attract wide attention. He ha
namely, the payment of a war in-
.I his chapter dealing with the
set down the "memoirs" of hi:
domnity to Japan of approximately
Ishii-Lansing agreement, Viscount
1,200,000,000 (he points out that
diplomatic career, a long and dis
Ishii tells of his arrival in Wash-
the war had cost Japan about ¥2,-
tinguished one, in which he wa:
ington as war-time envoy in Sep-
000,000,000) and the cession of
called upon to take an active part
tember 1917 at the time when Lord
in most of the notable events which
the island of Saghalin to Japan.
Balfour and Mr. Viviani, the
The negotiations in Portsmouth,
have marked Japanese history
French statesman were visiting the
Viscount Ishii writes, were actual-
since the country's transition from
United States. He tells of the
the feudal age.
ly on the verge of rupture when the
"war-fever" which prevailed in
Russians rejected these two de-
Although still only a minor
mands although they had agreed to
Washington and how busy Amer-
official in the Foreign office
comply with the others. On August
ican officials were. He called on
at the time of the conclusion of
26, 1905, he relates, the Japanese
President Wilson shortly after his
the Russo-Japanese War, Viscount
cabinet in a meeting with the
arrival and was surprised to find
Ishii was destined to play an in-
elder statesmen of the nation be-
that the President not only had
portant part in connection with
fore the Throne had resolved to
time to listen to him but was in-
the Portsmouth peace negotiations.
forego the two demands.
terested in the question of policy
During the World War, in 1915
President Roosevelt, he states
toward China. The President re-
and 1916, he held the post of For-
had telegraphed to the American
quested him to get in touch with
eign Minister and in 1917 was ap-
Ambassador at St. Petersburg to
him again later.
pointed special war-time Ambas-
appeal to the Tsar for the immedi-
In his first interview with Sec-
sador to the United States. It was
ate conclusion of peace. The Tsar
retary of State Lansing he proceed-
then that he negotiated the famous
reiterated that Russia could not
ed straight to the point but found
agreement with the late Secretary
pay the indemnity and would not
little encouragement he relates.
of State Lansing which goes by the
cede the territory of Saghalin as
The Ambassador then left for New
name of the Ishii-Lansing agree-
York where he delivered a num-
ment and by which the United
a whole, but might cede half of
ber of speeches dwelling on the
States recognized Japan's special
Saghalin.
desirability of the policy of the
interests in China.
On August 27, Viscount Ishii
Open Door in China, which were
(then Mr. Ishii, Chief of the Com-
well received, and when he return-
Subsequently, Viscount Ishii
mercial Bureau of the Foreign
ed to Washington later, he reports,
served his country as Ambassador
Office) happened to be calling on
he found both the President and
at Paris from 1920 to 1927 and as
a certain diplomat (whose name is
Mr. Lansing more willing to listen
delegate to the various meetings of
not given) and heard from the lat-
to him.
the League of Nations until his
ter a report of the Tsar's remarks.
Viscount Ishii imparts a confid-
advanced years led to his retire-
Ishii immediately rushed to the
ence to other diplomats when he
ment from the service and his ap-
residence of Prince Katsura then
says that if it is desired to reac
pointment as a member of the
Premier and Foreign Minister. He
international agreements with the
Privy Council, a post which he
found the Premier and his col-
United States, an endeavor should
now holds.
leagues of the cabinet at lunch.
be made to gain the support and
Viscount Ishii's book deals with
Prince Katsura left the lunch table
understanding of the public and
all the major diplomatic issues
and received young Ishii in an ad-
that New York "is the best mar-
which have arisen in the foreign
joining room. He told the Premier
ket" for this.
relations of Japan during the past
what he had heard and suggested
The Ishii-Lansing agreement was
fifty years. He starts in the first
that the final conversation with the
not terminated at the Washington
chapter with a review of the Boxer
Russians scheduled for the follow-
conference, as is popularly suppos-
rebellion in China and then goes
ing day be postponed and that in-
ed, Viscount Ishii says, but remain-
on to take up the Russo-Japanese
structions be sent the Japanese
ed in existence for a year later.
War, the Anglo-Japanese Alliance,
delegation to demand the cession
Its abrogation, he finds, leaves
the World War, the Ishii-Lansing
of the Southern half the island of
Japan's position unchanged since
agreement and the League of Na-
Saghalin. P'remier Katsura wanted
her interests in China were not
tions.
some proof, but on being assured
secured as a result of the agree-
His book is written with some of
by Ishii that he was certain of his
ment.
the caution which always character-
information sent him to the For-
ized him as a diplomat, but to
cign Office to see Vice Minister of
Viscount Ishii's memoirs are fas-
those who knew him in the service
Foreign Affairs Chinda, who sent
cinating reading. They contain
of his country abroad, it will ap-
instructions to Marquis Komura ac-
something of the romance of old-
pear as one of the most outspoken
cordingly.
time diplomacy. Unfortunately
statements of his career. Perhaps.
In postponing the final conversa-
however, they are only published
now that a great deal of the nego-
tion with the Russians to August
in Japanese so that they will no:
tiations have passed into history,
29, the Japanese delegation made
be directly accessible to most for-
Viscount Ishii has felt less diffid-
eign readers. It is understood,
known that they would relinquish
ence in divulging them to the
that the author has made some re-
their claim to the whole of Sagha-
public.
lin and would be content with the
servations and omissions from th
Southern half. The Russians
edition, preferring during his life
One of the most interesting in.
eventually conceded this.
time to maintain secrecy regarding
eidents recorded is one relating t
Admiral Count Yamamoto, then
certain incidents, thereby safe-
the Russo-Japanese peace negotia-
Minister of the Navy is said by
guarding the tradition of a dip-
tions, from which it would appear
Viscount Ishii to have been rather
lomat's career.
that Japan's obtention of the lowet

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
mclosure o.
Doopasoh no. 194
From Ameriean Eabessy
The Japen Advertiser.
Tokyo.
Tokyo, Tharaday, June 26, 198d.
to the opposition of the United
revised in 1905, ater the 
The Ishii-Lansing Agreement
States to the phrase 'paramount
Particular interest attaches to
interests' in the wording of the
Agreement."
tion, England went to the 
hat chapter of Viscount Ishii's
Japan's excuse for refusing the
memoirs dealing with the Ishil-
Landing Agreement, reproduced
suggestion of President Wilson for
mount political, military,
the abolition of spheres of influ-
economic interests" in Kere
plsewhere on this page, because of
ence in China was based by Vis-
Korea was formally anmexed by
the new light it throws on the his-
tory of the negotiations leading up
sount Ishii, in the absence of de-
Japan, five years later.
finite instructions from his govern-
Viscount Ishii does mot appeas
to that agreement, although it
passed into the discard at the
ment, on the grounds that if the
particularly dismayed by the aby
United States and Japan agreed to
rogation of the agreement to which
Washington Conference.
this principle, other nations might
he brought so much. laber. He
: Viscount Ishii makes a number
not follow suit and that this policy
points out that while recognition
of interesting revelations, detailing
should be unanimously adopted by
by the United States of Japas's
some of his conversations with
all the powers having interests in
special interests in China was
both President Wilson and Sec-
China.
"beneficial," they are a geograph-
retary of State Lansing, but while
, In his first interview with Pres-
ical actuality needing no recogni-
the reports of these conversations ident Wilson, Viscount Ishii pointed
tion and that as long as the poliey
will fnd their place in history as a out that spheres of influence in
of the Open Door stands, Japan is
record of these important negotia- China were originally established
destined to take the lead in Man-
tions, one is led to believe that he
by Germany and Russia in Shan-
churia.
has not quite said all that he might
ung and Manchuria respectively.
Viscount Ishii states that it is
have. It is understood that Vis-
Russia's interests however had
a popular misconception that the
count Ishii, has in effect, made
passed into the hands of Japan as
Ishii-Lansing Agreement was ab-
some reservations in compiling this
the outcome of the Russo-Japanese
rogated at the Washington confer-
ence and that it was not set aside
and that the veil may yet be fur- in possession of Germany's inter-
until April 14, 1923, over a year
after the signing of the Treaty.
The one question which has puz- taken over early in the World
Be that as it may, the ground was
zled observers since the time when War.
layed at Washington for its
the Ishii-Lansing Agreement was
Despite Viscount Ishii's belief
abrogation.
negotiated, has been what did the
that Japan's failure to concur in
Viscount Ishii gives an interest-
United States get in return for
President Wilson's proposal for the
ing account of the negotiations
acknowledging Japan's "special in
which he conducted on behalf of
terests" in China? Neither Pres
abolition of spheres of influence in
his government with such signal
ident Wilson nor Secretary o
China was to blame for America's
success. His version however suf-
State Lansing lived to divulge an:
refusal to acknowledge Japan's
fers from "sins of omission"
information on this point, nor ha
"paramount interests," it seems al-
which it is hoped he will make
Viscount Ishii given any explana
most incredible that if spheres
good at some future time.
tion in his book. All internationa
of influence in China had been
agreements are the result of
abolished—the United States had
bargaining and of concessions on
none—the American government
the part of the participants, what
would have gone so far as to sup-
share did the United States obtain
port Japan's claim to a dominant
in this bargain? It does not seem
position in that country.
possible that America simply ac-
In detailing his conversation
quiesced to Viscount Ishii's de-
with Mr. Lansing concerning the
mands, preoccupied as she was
phraseology to be adopted in the
of greater moment at that time, that Mr. Lansing "firmly opposed
without obtaining something in re-
this expression" and told him
turn.
that the President would oppose
such wording. The Japanese envoy
Viscount Ishii reveals that he
then suggested the words "special
did not get quite all he was after,
interests and influence" but dec-
lthough the Ishii-Lansing agree-
lares that "after negotiations we
ment was undoubtedly a great dip-
settled at last upon the phrase
lomatic success on the part of
'special interests'." This is one of
Japan. Viscount Ishii sought to
the lapses in Viscount Ishii's book
have the United States recognize
upon which it would have been in-
Japan's "paramount interests" in
teresting to obtain further clarif-
China and only failed, in his opin-
cation. Exactly what transpired in
ion, because his government refus-
the subsequent "negotiations"
ed the suggestion of President Wil-
which led to the adoption of the
son to abolish all spheres of influ-
final phrase?
Ence in China. Viscount Ishii ex-
The force of the term "para-
presses particular regret over this
mount interests" originally sug-
phase of the negotiations for
gested by Viscount Ishii, is evid-
which he lays the blame on his own
enced by its use in the text of the
people.
Anglo-Japanese Alliance with ref-
"This hemitation on the part of
erence to Korea. In ohe original
the Japanese government to give
Anglo-Japanese Alliance of 1902,
Is approval to the abolition of
Great Britain recognized Japan's
spheres of infuence in China" he
interests in Korea "in a peculiar
says "eaused suspicion to arise
degree." When the text was
among American officials and led

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
ISLATION
R. Langdon, Consul, Dairen)
2eag,1981.
DIPLOMATIC MEMOIRS.
By Visoount Kikujiro Ishii
Table of Contents.
Page
894.44-1SH11,
BOOK I - Outline of Japan's Foreign Relations
1
Chapter I - Teachings of Japanese History
1
1. Two Great Threats to National Security
1
Relations with China in Tang and SaiDynasties;
Fear for our country's welfare
(a) Northern frontiers; irruptions of
aboriginal savages
3
(b)
Western and southern boundaries
Disturbances in Korea; Empress Jingu's
Expedition; depredations by northeast-
ern Chinese tribes; Mongol invasion
and Maroo Polo's account of it; America
V I
introduoes Japan to World
SCOUNT/2
2.
Lines of National Defence as Demonstrated by
History
11
Securing our national safety
Chapter II - Period from Uraga (Perry)
Negotiations to Boxer Uprising
16
1. Meiji Era Diplomacy Introduced with Bloodshed
16
Agitation for Korean Expedition; Taiwan
Expedition; Loochoo Island question; Treaty
Revision Negotiations
2.
Negotiations for Foreign Residence and Treaty
Revision
Negotiations for foreign residence; offensive-
ness of consular jurisdiction; restoration in
1898 of patiently awaited judicial independence;
recovery of customs rights takes 15 years
3. Sino-Japanese War and Three Powers Interference
22
Three Powers interference creates sullen gloom
in land
4. Germany

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Germany and Three Powers Interference
Reasons for Germany's interference; Count
Aoki's guess; Prinoe Bismarok's Russian polioy;
France and Germany infeoted with Russia's Far
Eastern ambition; Britain's attitude; rapproche-
ment.
5. Boxer Robellion and Peking Protoool
26
Interpreters' Conference; Ministers' Conference;
Diplomatio Corps summons troops; activities of
5th Regiment; Manchu Court flees to Bimm; ques-
tion of indemnity; Japanese representatives pave
the way; disproportion between indemnites de-
manded and military relief extended; Lion's
share; Japan's inexperience and Powers' cunning.
6. Japan Inoluded in Anglo-German Parleys
33
Anglo-German negotiations forerunners of Anglo-
Japanese alliance; Japan joins discussions;
Baron Eokhardstein moves; Prince Bulow's random
speech; three ambiguities in Germany's attitude;
Anglo-German negotiations disoontinued.
Chapter III - Anglo-Japanese Alliance
40
1. Character of British and Japanese Peoples
40
Anglo-Japanese alliance held ideal; observance
of promises charaoteristic of both peoples
2. Development of Anglo-Japanese Alliance
42
Powers scramble for conoessions; Minister Count
Hayashi's telegram
3. Motives of Baron Eckhardstein's Actions
45
Eokhardstein a favorite of Kaiser; Germany's
intrigues; suocess of intrigues
Alliance Negotiations and Prince Ito
52
Conference at Hayama; Prince Ito's attitude
undeoided; Foreign Minister Komura's inde-
pendent position; Prince Ito telegraphs opinion
from Berlin after Russian tour; Group in favor
of concert with Russia; Anglo-Japanese alliance
party; split in Empire's diplomacy; Emperor
Meiji's judgment
5. First Anglo-Japanese Treaty of Alliance
60
(a) Announcement

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Page
(a)
Announcement. of alliance; Germany's
attitude; Prinoe Ito's simulated
mistake toward Germany
(b)
Explanation of Treaty; "Chinese Empire"
and "China"
63
6. Second Anglo-Japanese Treaty of Alliance
65
Second treaty on new basis
7. Third Anglo-Japanese Treaty of Alliance
66
Changed world political conditions; Visoount
Greys dilemma; Count Komura's straightforward
diplomacy
8. Abrogation of Anglo-Japanese Alliance
72
Anglo-Japanese alliance buried in Pacific
Ocean; Third alliance merely an alcove
ornament for Japan
Chapter IV - Russian Peace and Saghalien Question
75
1. Russian War Party in Ascendant
75
Ascendanoy of War Group and impotence of
Civilian Party in Russia; England and Germany
indifferent; Anglo-Japanese alliance of no use;
Bezobrazoff's conspiracy with the War Party
2.
Opening of Russo-Japanese Pourparlers; Rupture;
77
Cessation of Hostilities
Russia's threatening attitude; rupture of
negotiations; Germany's declaration
3. Portsmouth Peace
80
(a) Cession of Saghalien and indemnity
80
The two sunken rocks of negotiations;
President Roosevelt's good offices;
interview between Tsar and American
Ambassador
(b)
Tsar's personal hopes unexpectedly come
to our ears
82
Southern half of Saghalien annexed by
us; restoration of peace
(c) Troubles of Peace
84
Gloom overoasts nation; conditions in
Russia; conditions in Japan; causes of
peace treaty riots
(a) Criticism of Peace Terms
85
General Kodama urges peace; Admiral
Count Yamamoto; rupture of negotia-
tions likely
(e) President

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
Page
(e) President Roosevelt in his element
88
Abandonment of indemnity demand in
return for Saghalien cession proposed
to Russia; Mr. Roosevelt's telegram to
Ambassador in Russia
(f) History of Saghalien dispute
90
Russian exploration of Saghalien;
Japan's prior claims; Tokuuchi's first
survey; Reizo Mamiya; Russian negotia-
tions regarding Saghalien; Shogunate's
50° proposal
Chapter V - Our Diplomacy During the World War
94
1. Period Prior to Great War
94
Absolute necessity of Korean annexation;
necessity of territorial integrity of China;
Japan's attitude toward Britain, America,
France and Russia; attitude toward Germany;
Germany's tyranny; Serajevo assassination;
Japan's prompt decision
2. Diplomacy toward China
100
(a) Territorial integrity and open door;
Powers'attitude not above board
100
(b)
Magnanimity of retrocession of
Manohurian provinces and Shantung
without parallel in history
102
Putting territorial integrity polioy
into effect; adverse criticism;
Japan's demands devoid of improper
features; methods used questionable
(c) Yuan Shih-kai's imperial project
109
Comedy of imperial plan; bad elements
take advantage of disturbed condi-
tions; non-interference in internal
administration; Far Eastern peace
threatened; maintenance of peace de-
volves upon Japan; Japan's special
interests; advice to defer imperial
regime; Tang Chi-yao deolares inde-
pendence in Yunnan
3. London Paot of Non-Conclusion of Separate Peace 113
(a) London pact made; Japan assumes rank of
first-class power as a result of its
diplomacy; necessity of subscribing to
London pact; Minister Kato refuses to
subscribe; position of Empire at Peace
Conference
(b) Participation

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
(b)
Participation in London Pact and
Imperial Diet; Privy Counoil and Diet;
Parliamentary usage of other Powers;
Vienna Conference; Diet opposition
related to party politics
New Russo-Japanese Agreement
126
Fear of conolusion of separate peace by Russia;
plan to prevent it; supply of arms and munitions
to Russia; fear of Russian wavering removed;
formation of new Russo-Japanese pact; Russia's
separate peace
Chapter VI - Japan's Special Interests in China
132
1. Origin of Japan's Special Interests
132
Partitioning of China; Sino-Japanese relation-
ship as close as lips to teeth; Britain first
to recognize our speoial interests; Russo-
Japanese and Franoo-Japanese treaties
2. Japanese-American Joint Declaration
135
(a) Our Government sends War Mission to
United States; disoussion with President
Wilson; abolition of spheres of influ-
ence
135
(b)
Japanese-American negotiations
140
Negotiations with Secretary of State
opened without instruotions; New York
welcome offers splendid opportunity
for resumption of negotiations;
Japanese-American agreement
Negotiations hindered
148
Lansing's attitude; petulance over
spheres of influence
(a)
Lansing's explanation of Japan's special
interests
151
Mr. Lansing's statements to Senate;
history of special interests in China;
repeated disoussions regarding com-
mercial and geographical relationship
(e)
Fundamental importance of Japan's special
interests in China
156
What is meant by special interests;
Chinese students in Tokyo aroused
3. Cancelation of Japanese-Amerioan Deolaration and
of our "Special Rights"
161
Astonishment at oancelation; canoelation
meaningless
Chapter VII -

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter VII - League of Nations
164
1. New Europe and New World
164
Birth of new Europe; emergence of new World;
atmosphere at. Geneva; Emperor Taisho's mandate
League's Progress and Present Condition
169
Fifty-four nations adhere; General Assembly;
Council
3. General Assembly and Counoil
173
(a) Relationship between General Assembly
and Counoil; General Assembly and
Counoil the wings and wheels of League;
division of work between Assembly and
Counoil
(b)
League of Nations and Limitation of
Armament Treaty concerning mutual aid
176
(0)
Geneva Peace Protocol
177
Macdonald and Herriot; effort to
create world peace; secret meetings
of Counoil members; is the Protocol
dead?
(a) League Council
184
Counoil ruler of world; Counoil at
period of establishment
(e) Upper Silesian dispute
187
Supreme Council gives it up; favorable
settlement by Council
(f) Question of organization of Council
189
Permanent Council and other general
rules; Council's rights of initiative
and priority of debate; pressure on
small nations; two more nations
represented on Permanent Council;
Spain; Brazil; Holland; Extraordinary
Conference of 1926; Germany enters
League; Spain and Brazil withdraw;
speoial committees in Council organi-
zation
(g)
Council in cases of Large Powers'
disputes
200
Corfu inoident; Mosul boundary
question
4. League of Nations Supreme Organ for Peace
202
Has prevented incipient wars; potentialities
for preventing world war; League international
mediator; League diplomacy's olearing-house
5. World

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
Pago
World Court
206
Election of judges; court of last resort;
Court an organ of inquiry
6. League's Business Office
211
Drummond and Genz; League's loyal servants
Chapter VIII - Question of Limitation of Armament
215
1. Risk of Future War
215
High rate of Japanese military expenditure;
ourtailment of armament effective reducer of
war fever; wars not prohibited by League of
Nations articles; risk of war lessened
2. Limitation of Land, Air and Naval Armament
226
French arguments inclined to be theoretioal;
ourtailment of land and air armament increases
peace of mind of other nations; effectivenss
of limitation of navies
3. Conferences for Limitation of Naval Armament
229
Washington Conference; Geneva Conference;
American position; British position; Japanese
position; London Conference
4. Question of Establishment Rules for Naval Warfare 239
Rules of naval warfare age-long dispute between
Britain and America; Colonel House's views;
League Rule No. 16; League does not recognize
rights of neutrality in punitive war; rules of
naval warfare undetermined; four principles of
Paris Declaration; olaims of belligerents;
Mr. Borah's resolution in American Senate;
International Conference for revision of naval
warfare code; British Naval Minister Weems
Chapter IX - Court of Arbitration
253
1. Trinity of International Peace
253
Famous remarks of Mr. Arias; reform of system
of Court of Arbitration; objections of large
and small nations; reasons for our aversion to
Court; Court of Arbiration should be welcomed
on the whole
2. Disputes Susceptible of Arbitration
257
(a) Judicial

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
Page
(a) Judicial and political disputes
257
Compelling interests and national
dignity; sentiment for patriotic and
meritorious servioe; duels and wars;
Looarno Treaty
(b)
Proposal to oreate Security Guarantee
Committee of Court of Arbitration;
propriety of Committee's supervision;
model treaty provisions of Court of
Arbitration
261
(o)
League Council's authority to remonstrate 265
League has backing of 50 nations and
1 1/2 billion people; Counoil remon-
strance in effect final decision
(a)
Time premature for general compulsory
arbitration
268
Poisoning of President Wilson's ideals;
all nations have problems that cannot
be settled by arbitration
3. Compilation of Code of International Law
270
(a)
Associations for making American warless
treaties effective
America's advocaoy of new associations;
American supporters of League of
Nations; no hope of America adhering
to League in near future
(b)
Development of Peacetime Code of Inter-
national Publio Law
274
Mr. Borah's proposal; League attempts
codification in smali way; Inter-
national Conferences and International
Law Code; maintenance of world peace
dependent on individual cooperation and
support of each nation
4. Duty to Adhere to World Court
279
Chapter X - Question of Warless Pacts
284
1. American Government Proposals
284
From leisurely disoussions between United
States and France, matter rapidly takes
conorete form among great nations; pacts to
abolish war
2. Criticism of Warless Paots
286
(a) Warless pacts fruits of prosperous years;
an achievement inconceivable in past
(b) Warless

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
P
(b) Warless pacts unrelated to arbitration
287
treaties
Warless pacts and arbitration treaties
like twins; Monroe Dootrine excluded
from new Franoo-Amerioan Arbitration
Treaty; isolation of warless pacts an
element of danger
292
(o) Penalties for violation of pacts
293
3. "In the Name of Their Respeotive Peoples"
(a) Unconstitutionality
Explanation of expediency unexpectedly
created opposition; group in favor of
overlooking (defect) and group in
favor of ratifying with reservations
(b)
Amerioan assooiations for carrying out
296
warless paots
Two sohools of thought among associa-
tions: that penalties kill pacts, and
that question of war or peace should
be decided by people themselves;
Frenoh Foreign Minister's proposal to
American people
301
(c) Referendum system
Three methods of popular determination;
Lord Salisbury and the referendum;
Spanish-American War brought about by
propaganda of unsorupulous traders;
question of peace or war not suited
for popular determination; our perfect
system
306
(a) Obvious interpretations of history
309
4. Ratification of Warless Pact
"Don't kill the bull trying to straighten out
its horns"; effect of ratification with reserva-
tion
310
Postsoript: Reply to Professor Tate
Chapter XI - The National Constitution
317
of Japan and her Foreign Policy
317
1. Consitution of Japanese Nation
Our national organization unique in world; Dokyo
and Kiyoasa; Ashikaga Yoshimitsu harms our
system; Wilson with one word converts Germany
into a republic; Wilson addresses manifesto to
Italian

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
Page
Italian people; warless paots "in the name of
their respective peoples"; question of foreign
judges in l890; aotivities to destroy politioal
forms of other nations
Japan's Foreign Polioy
322
International peace our traditional policy; we
depend on whole globe; we should uphold our
national interests openly and unabashed and
respeot the rights of other nations; oivilians
and military men mutually advantageous; we
should steadfastly strive to solve the questions
of international arbitration and limitation of
armament; solution of international population
and racial problems; future of Empire's foreign
relations
BOOK II - My Views on Foreign Relations
329
Chapter I - History Repeats Itself
329
Qualifioations necessary for diplomats; history
diplomacy's teacher; Prof. Tsuboi's opinion; why
history repeats itself; anxiety over Russia's
separate peace; interview with Sir Edward Grey; Treaty
of Brest-Litovsk; Germany's miscaloulations
Chapter II - Foresight
344
Century-long drowsiness of soholars steeped in Chinese
olassios; Prince Bismarck's strong points; Germany
misled in higher policy; special characteristics of
British diplomats; history the record of foresight and
failure; Napoleon III and Franco-Prussian War; Sino-
Japanese War; Russo-Japanese War; Anti-Shogunate Army;
Britain and Tripartite Interference; World War; models
for diplomacy; Lloyd George's diplomacy; open diplomacy;
Mr. Parkes; Mr. Labisse
Chapter III - Statecraft and Negotiation
357
Diplomats who rule and diplomats who negotiate; Prince
Kaunitz; Prince Metternich; Prince Tallyrand; Prince
Bismarck; secrecy attending formation of Triple Alli-
ance; pains attending Germany's unification; Biarritz
Conference; oriental diplomats; Li Hung-chang; our
people and foreign relations; Marquis Jutaro Komura;
Count Takaakira Kato
Chapter IV -

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
11-
Page
366
Chapter IV - The Ways of Civilians and Soldiers
Origin of military domination; tolerance of people and
melf-restraint of military; fear of Russian militarism;
Bismarok leads Germany to militarism; militarism
finally destroys Germany; America's peculiar character-
istios; broadmindedness of British people and restraint
of British soldiers; civilian and military harmony in
Emperor Meiji's reign; militaristio policy of Teramehi
Cabinet; Hara.Cabinet repairs harm done; confliot of
oivilians and soldiers in France; ideal of French peo-
plo; military protects home, civil shines in external
affairs; Sparta and Athens; Grecian training; forget
not war in time of peace
378
Chapter V - International Alliances
378
1. Elements of Alliances
Necessity of alliances still exists; alliances
defined
382
2. Substance of Alliances
Alliances like commercial associations; review
of continental European alliances; review of
British allianoes; diplomacy among allies
386
3. Fulfilment of Duties as Allies
(a) Danger of non-fulfilment of allied
obligations; best alliance treaty terms
those stipuiating that contracting par-
ties will mutually discharge obligations
sincerely
(b)
Usage prior to Seven Years War and World
War; Count Kaunitz policy; Russian in-
fidelity; Brest-Litovsk Treaty of
Separate Peace; Triple Alliance and Italy 388
392
(c)
Machiavellism
Machiavelli's logic
(a)
Insecure elements of defensive alliances 393
Definition of defensive wars; impossible
to specify duties of ally in minute de-
tail; three rules to eliminate insecur-
ity of alliances; Bismarck's policy of
one master for many wives
401
(e) Modified alliances
Times give rise to modified alliances
Chapter VI -

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
12-
Page
403
Chapter VI - Diplomacy and Propaganda
403
1. Publioity Diplomacy
The propaganda vogue; active and passive
publioity
404
2. Development of Publicity Activity
Publicity our shortooming; publicity unknown
in old Japan; Government a secret business;
China of old a nation of propaganda; results
of war in China skillfully played up;
propaganda in Europe; publicity a new
instrument in America; our publioity patterned
after American
408
3. Foreign Office Publicity
Frederick the Great first uses publicity;
Anti-Machiavellism; Frederick the Great and
philosopher Voltaire; Bismarok's use of
propaganda; remarkable suocess achieved with
use of one secretary; foreign propaganda under
control of highest authorities; propaganda in
World War; Havas; Reuter; Wolff; Ex-Kaiser
addioted to propaganda; Yellow Peril theory
Publicity Section of Kasumigaseki (Tokyo Foreign
416
Office)
Evils of propaganda; publicity for foreign and
publicity for home consumption; Prince Katsura
and Mr. Sobo (Tokutomi)
418
5. Future of Publicity Diplomacy
Mr. Root spurns propaganda; publicity under
auspices of League of Nations
421
Chapter VII - Old and New Diplomacy
What is modern diplomacy? old diplomacy; professional
diplomats gradually lose ground; post-war conference
diplomacy; Wilson's open diplomacy; secreoy ad junot
of diplomaoy; new diplomacy issues from League of
Nations; slow development of diplomacy; cultivation
of foreign languages essential in modern diplomacy;
foreign languages our national weakness; Bismarck's
taoiturnity
442
Chapter VIII - Diplomatic Conferences
1. Conferences the Vogue in Foreign Relations
442
Conferences

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
Page
Conferences a welcome form of new diplomacy;
League of Nations efforts; headquarters and
secretariat of diplomatio conferences;
Supreme diplomatio conference, London, 1924;
Geneva Conference for European rehabilitation;
modern diplomaoy and diplomatio conferenoes
Versailles Peace Conference
450
Two main underourrents in conference; France's
hasty diplomatio preparations; President
Wilson's and French sohemes; Wilson fights
lone fight for new principles; a wonderful
sight from start to finish; a battle royal;
opposition of Britain and Italy to Mr. Wilson;
Mr. Wilson's two weak points
3. Council of Four
457
Our plenipotentiaries not invited to confer-
ences of big leaders; Talleyrand at Vienna
Congress; Japan's position at Peace Conference;
development of Supreme Military Council; pros
and cons of forcing ourselves into Counoil of
Four; real significance of term "principal
allied nations"; Shantung question and German
reparations question
4.
Japan's Pride and Difficulties of Jananese
Delegates
464
Chapter IX - Expert Committees of Conferences
467
Finance Committee; Military Committee; Lord Salis-
bury's warning; expeotation of six months duration
of late war; experts should not be influenced;
legal advisers; Prof. Runaud (?) and Sydney incident
Chapter X - Questions of Population; Race Problems 477
1. Outline of Population Problem
477
Malthus' pessimistic theory; Rabinstein;
Briamon (?); Luloa (?); Beaulieu; Berthelot;
Spenoer; new Malthusian party; Birth Control
Teaching Suppression Bill passes British House
of Lords
2. Japan's Population Problem
486
Overpopulated countries of world; cultivated
area of different powers; future of our
population
3. Future

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
14 -
Page
Future of World's Population
494
Spread of Neo-Malthusian propaganda; defeots
of Frenoh hygiene; declining marriage rate;
Britain's birth rate declines 50% in past 50
years; deoline of Greece and Rome; forecast
of world's population 50 years hence;
Mr. Stoddard's estimate; Mr. East's estimate
International Immigration and Racial Questions
506
(a) Immigration question
506
Emigration peculiarity of human race;
freedom of emigration and immigration;
Sino-American Treaty; American labor
unions; America suffering from labor
domination; Chinese Exclusion Act;
labor probiem transformed into racial
question
(b) Racial question
512
Minorities problem; race problem in
America; race improvement advocates;
question of discriminatory treatment;
olass wars; America becomes anti-
foreign
(0)
Contact of Eastern and Western civiliza-
tions
517
Rise of colored peoples; awakening of
backward peoples and agitation for
emancipation; Japan as leader of these
peoples; views of leading colonial
nations; sun never sets on British
Empire; will America become advance
guard of Western civilization?
Japanese-American differences arising
from contact of Oriental and Occident-
al civilizations falsely represented;
Japanese-American war a quixotic
phantasy; the doomed champion nations;
Anglo-Saxon dislike of foreigners;
unimportance of matter; solution of
racial and immigration questions;
magnanimity of advanced nations and
patience of backward peoples.
CqenTEmben.Smyo
- END -
61
FE

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.93)
Apr119 1981.
.95
894.44-1SH11
To the Amerieam Ambassador,
Tokye.
with referemoe to the Mmbsssy's despatek Ne. 194.
Eated Jaly 1, 19s0, the Seeretary ef State emeleses
hesesith fer the files of the Bmbassy a tramslation, by
VISCOUNT/3
W. R. Iangien, Cemsal at Dairem (while en detail in the
Depertment of State), of the table of cantents of the
"Diplematie Memoirs" ef Viseount Kikujiro Ishii. The
Depertment would be interested te know whether any
farther tremslatiens ef this work, either in whele or in
part, are contemplated either by the publisher er by the
Rmbassy.
Enclesure:
Tramslation ef table
of eentents of
"Diplemstio Memoirs".
M
CR
894.44-Ish11, Visoount
ssm
FE: RSM: EJL
FE
Mml.
4/6/31
CR
Apr.8, 1931.PM

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.92)
AM RECD
OF EMBASSY OF THE
RTATES OFAMERICA
10, 1981.
q'e
JUL - 6.31
UUL 7
Li7yun PE
MR3
44
894.44-
894.412
VISCOUNT/4
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With referenoe to the Department's instruction No.95
dated April 9, 1931, I have the honor to state that I am
informed by the seoretary to Viscount Kikujiro Ishii that
the "Diplomatie Memoirs" ( Gaiko Yoroku) of the latter are
now being translated, but that no date can be set for the
completion of the work nor have arrangements been made for
publishing the translated work.
JUL 9 - 1931
FIIED
Respeotfully yours,
Edwin I. Twilk
Edwin L. Meville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.96)
1als.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TMCNT PIGPIPIEOF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 16, 1931.
EE
Mr. Packer:
Aooording to FE's information,
Visoount Ishii's Memoirs have been pub-
lished only in Japanese.
At the time of their publication
the newspaper reviews gave free transla-
tions of oertain parts.
The Department, and so far as known
the Embassy at Tokyo, has had translated
only the table of contents.
Aocording to the Department's
latest advice from the Embassy at Tokyo,
under date of June 10, 1931, the Embassy
was "informed by the secretary to Viscount
Kikujiro Ishii that the 'Diplomatio
Memoirs' (Gaiko Yoroku) of the latter are
now being translated, but that no date
can be set for the completion of the work
nor have arrangements been made for pub-
lishing the translated work."
m.m.H
RSM: EJL

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF EASTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
9-14-31
have
infonmation
any
abouthis
Thauks
ELP

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.96)
L4A
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
BERKELEY
EE
OF
SEP 1 4 1931
 EURUPEAN AFFAIRS.
IP 1: 1931
Dortmene or Sialo
DEPAP
SEP 1 1931
DEPARIMINI OF SIAIL
September II, I93I.
DIVISIUN OF
894.44-1
Chiof, Division of rastern European Affairs,
state Department,
11:
Washington, D.C.
My dear Mr. Kelly:
will you be good enough to refer the followingf
IS
H
inquiry to the proper person on the staff of the Department?
During my recent stay in Japan one of the scholars
informed me that he had almost completed an english translation
of viscount Ishii's Memoirs and wanted me to collaborate in
S
SCOUNT/5
bringing out such a work. He had heard,however, that some one
in the State Department was getting out a translation. My inquiry
leads me then to ask whether any one in the Department or in the
kmowledge of the Department is making such a translation.
In the June issue of the Journal of Modern History
I note the following title: Viscount Kikujiro Ishii, The Memoirs
2
I have just inquired of my friend in Japan whether this ipan
2
2
inglish translation. Often such titles are given in American
S
E
Journals in translation and the person who inserts them is unable
to tell whether the book is in nglish or the other language.
I shall be grateful for any information which you
may be able toobtain for me from your colleagues in the Department.
Sincerely yours,
Pojt Kerner

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
Sentember 19 1981:
 reply refer to
894.44 Ish11, Viscount/
894.44-1SHI
dear Professor Kerner:
In the absence of Mr. Kelley, I have opened your
letter to him of September 11, 1931, with regard to
Viscount Ishii's "Memoirs".
After consulting with the appropriate officers of
the Department, I may say that the Department is not
VISCOUNT/6
adertaking to make a translation of the "Memoirs" and
that so far as known they have been published only in
Japanese.
I may add that under date of June 10, 1931, our
Embassy at Tokyo informed us that Viscount Ishii's
secretary had stated that a translation of the "Memoire"
was in progress but that no date could be set for the
completion of the work nor had any arrangements been
made for publishing the translated work.
The
Professor Robert J. Kerner,
Department of History,
University of Oalifornia,
Berkeley, Califernia.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.89)
-8-
The Departmemt has a translatien ef the table of
centents tetalling some fourteen pages.
As you may kmow, the JAPANESE ADVERTISER, a Tokyo
Eaglish language newapaper, in June of last year published
translatioms of exoerpts from the "Memoirs".
Sincerely yours,
E. L. PAOKER
Aoting Chief,
Divisien of Eastern European Affairs.
1881.
828
FE
H.iw
EX1LP:.
CLX

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.95)
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY
BERKELEY
Liles
FILED
SEF·291931
DIVISION OF
EASTEAN EURDPEAN AFFAIRS.
SEP 29 1931
DEPÀRTMENT OF STALL
6
VISCOUNT/7
Robert Sterner
21931
DIVISION OF
PRCEIVED

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.91)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
4.44-ISHI, VISCOUNT
S123.L 851/257
FORDespatch #
(...angdos.) DATED
Oet. 18, 195
FROM .....Rooul.
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
Viscount Ighii's DIPLOMATIC COMENTARIES:
see enc
no.6
Comment regarding publication of translation of -
8
8
894.44 Jsh
Visconl

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.96)
SUBJECT
Masao Shibusawa: Industrialist of Japan
of no little importance.
DATE
Oot 13,
1936-
894.44 SHIBUSAWA, MASAO
CASE NUMBER
No.
JACKET
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with office stamp or
notations.
1-1286
. V R  1

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
OCT 20 1936 DIVIBION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DIVISIUN OF
Ootober 13, 1956.
ITIO
OCT·19 1936
Division a
FAR EASTLON AFFAIRS
OCT 20 1936
Mr. Masao Shibusawa
Department uf State
new
Mr. Masao Shibusawa will call on the Secretary at
94.44p
twelve, noon, on Monday, October 19.
Mr. Shibusawa was born in 1888, the third son of the
late Viscount Shibusawa, the grand old man of Japanese
894.44
industry. He is a graduate of the Tokyo Imperial
University, College of Economics, and has at one time
been a director of a large number of important Japanese
industrial concerns. He is at present director of the
SHIBUSAWA,
Japan Iron Manufacturing Company and the Nippon Steel
Pipe Company, Limited, and also a member of the Tokyo
Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
In the spring of this year Mr. Shibusawa attended
the International Labor Conference at Geneva as repre-
MASAQA
sentative of Japanese capitalists.
While Mr. Shibusawa has no official status he is an
important industrialist of Japan, and a man of no little
5
influence.
He is accompanied ly hee YoshizAwa, The
OBf
Counsellan of the Japanre Emhassy.
NTT
WTT/DLY 7. 3./H.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 1.00)
SUBJECT
Visoount Shibusawa. -- Japan.
DATE
1931
Nov.12-
894.44-SHIBUSAWA,VISCOUNT
CASE NUMBER
No.
JACKET
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with office stamp or
notations.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State
Charge Department
On
Washinglen,
-SHIDUSAWA,
44
VISCOUNT
November 12, 1981.
20
AMERICAN EMBASSY
TOXYO /( JAPAN).
e
223
894.
Government/and boople of Japan hhd sincere oondolences
SHIBUSAWA,VISCOUNT
reat Japanese and a /great oitisen of thd world.
members of/viscount Shibusawa't family.
iny
JIK
FE: RSM: EJL
FE
PR
CRV
GCH
Nov. 12.1931
Enciphered by
Send by operator
M..
19
Inder Bu.—No. 50.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.94)
DE
FAR EASTERI AFFAIR
TELEGRAM RECEIVEDNOV 21931
EE
Departmen of State
NOV 13
FROM
Santa Barbare, Calif.
DIVIEION OF
Dated Nov. 17, 1931
Reo!d
v. 18, 7:03 a.m.
Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
NOV18 r I. Mm. Ma
Seoretary of State,
7iee  LC.
Washington.
894.44 SHIBUSAWA,VISCOUNT
Please cable Amorican Embassy, Tokyo, and ask them
to deliver to family of Viscount Shibesawa following message
and have the Department send the cable charges to me at
15 Broad Street, Now York City.
Please acccpt my dcep sorrow and sympathy at
irreparable loss to Japan to America and to the world in the
death of Viscount Shibesawa、 His life was noble to the
end and the gift of his sincere and true friendship is the
most cherished dccoration I reccived in Japan. I trust his
successors and descendants will continuc to serve their
country with the same zeal and wisdom that he has shown in
the past.
(signcd) Charles Macveat.
2
16
FIED
8AON
WSB

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.92)
PARTMENTELEGRAM RECEIVED
Division of
3 wu ax
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ANOV 1 3 1931
FROM
OJI 14 13 445pm
Department of State
LCO
to dt. Crt.
Mistress Coloner Burnett
3
Purnel
nM
State Department,
WashingtonDe
Deeply greatful for your warm sympathy Baron Sakatani
FK 894.44 SHIBUSAWA,VISCOUNT/3
546am Nov 13, 1931
3
2
FILFD
心
1 931

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.88)
Shibueaw
Calovel Charles (Bs)
Burnet
Former Military Attachle,
Takyo.)

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.83)
MMH:
mighi  Turn
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
x1-13
Thin wrthe
to mn (chone)
Bunett..
moyle
an ontgon
nut
throsh Dy+..
Wide ya phere
attd?(FA?).
Snct

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
1-128
TO BE TRANSMITTED
OFFICE
CONFIDENTIAL OOK
WHETHER
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
Department
OR
Washington,
November 13, 1931.
Lieutenant Colonel Charles Burnett,
Third Cavalry,
Fort Ethan Allen, Vermont.
FK 894.44 SHIBUSAWA,VISCOUNT/4
Following message received from Tokyo dated November 13
addressed Mistress Colonel Burnett, State Department,
Washington QUOTE Deeply grateful for your warm sympathy
4
Baron Sakatani ENDQUOTE
Henry 4 Steuson
Seoretary of State.
MB
(rou)
FA:MMB
FE
teu
Huw.
CR
TRNT WISH
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
1188
Index Bu.—No. 50.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.96)
AM TREEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
narge Department
Ant of State
PLAIN
OR
Charge to Charles Maoveagh9
3
Washington.
15 Broad Street
16.20
New York, New Yorr
25
5
GRAPH
OF
November 0, 1931.
Han
NOV25.31
FILE. BUR, OF AOOTS
AMEMBASSY,
TOKYO (JAPAN)
894.44-SHIBUSAWA,VISCOUNT/5
242
Deliver following message from Charles MacVeagh,
15'Broad Street, New York City, to 'family 'of Viecount
Shibusawa:
QUOTE? Please accept my deep sorrow and sympathy at'
irreparable loss'to Japan to America'and to 'the world in
the death of viscount Shibusawe. His'life 'was'nobld to
the end'and the'gift 'of his'sincere and/true'friendship
is the most cherished decoration'I received in Japan. I
trust his successors and descendants will continue to
serve their country with the same zeal 'and wisdom'that he
has shown'in the past! UNQUOTE.
LLED
894.44 Shibusawa, Viscount/2
AOF ACCOUNTS
FE
DP: CLC: JBW
1. X, C
Enciphered by
JIK
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Lndex Bu.—No. 50.
1—138

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.93)
November 25 1951.
894.44-SHIBUSAWA,VISCOUNT/6
The Honerable
Charles MacVeagh,
Santa Barbara, California.
Sir!
I have reseived your telegram of November sevem-
seenth and have been pleased to transmit your message
to the American Embassy at Tokyo for delivery to the
family of Visoount Shibusawa.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Harvey H. Bundy
Assistant Secretary.
NOV 24 1
NOV 31P
N
DP: CLC: JBW
FE
JTK
11/21/31
x c
mm

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
RECD
GHAMBER OA COMMAR
COM
November 30, 1931
DEC 4:31
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFARS
DEC -5 1931
DEC 1 0 1931
894.44
Dept.
Depertmant of State
of
State
TRUSTEES
Honorable Henry L. Stimson
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
PERGY P. BRITTON
M.H.CALLIBON
My dear Mr. Secretary:
BEN GOHN
I enclose herewith two copies of a Resolution
JOHN F. DAVIES
respecting the recent death of Baron Shibusawa of
Japan, which Resolution was unanimously adopted by
JAMES A.DRAIN
the Board of Trustees of the Spokane Chamber of Commerce.
LEONARD FUNK
I was instructed to send this Resolution to
you and ask for its official transmittal to the family
VISCOUNT/7
of Baron Shibusawa through our State Depar tment representatives?
Sincerely your
Managing S6cretary
J. A. Ford-s
(7)
En cl.
DEC 1 4 1931
FILED
5
DR.EDIBONWORTHING

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
RESOLUTION
Adopted by the Board of Trustees
Spokane Chamber of Commerce
November 25, 1931
The officers of the Spokane Chamber of Commerce
having in remembrance the occasion of the visit of the
Honorable Japanese Commercial Commission to the United
States in 1909, and remembering the great friendship
and respect we have had for the distinguished head of
that Commission, The Honorable, The Viscount Shibusawa,
and learning with deep regret of the passing of that great
man, tender this message of sympathy to his family.
This resolution ordered placed on the records of the
Chamber of Commerce and copy sent to the family.
The above resolution was unanimously adopted by
the Board of Trustees of the Spokane Chamber of
Commerce in regular session, Wednesday, November
25, 1931.
Managing Secretary

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.96)
RECO
DP
OFS.EMBASSY OF THE
STATES OF AMERICA
Japan, November 21, 1931.
No. 395
BMC 7.31
DEC -8 1931
THE UNDER SECRETARY
WYDEC 17 1931
Dept.
Division of
of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAN LHNFAN AFFAIRS
DESU11931
Deperment of State
894.44-SHIBUSAWA,VISCOUNT/8
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit herewith a copy of my
1/.
note No. 178 of November 13, 1931, addressed to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs, expressing condolences on
the death of Viscount Shibusawa, despatched in complia e
with the Department's telegram No. 223 of November 12
FILED
2/.
2 P. M., and a copy in translation of the reply of the
Foreign Minister, note No. 139/P of November 17, 1931.
Respectfully yours,
Wlameen Forbes
Embassy's File
No. 844.
Enclosures: Copies-
Embassy's Note above
W. Cameron Forbes
.referred to, and
Foreign Minister's reply
krihareto,in translation.
4

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure No.95
Despatch No
From American Embasay
Tokyo.
EABASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 13, 1931.
No. 178
Excellenoy:
I have the honor, by direotion of my Government,
to convey to Your Excellenoy for communication to the
Government and people of Japan, the sincere condolences
of the Government and people of the United States on
the death of Viscount Shibusawa, eminent in finance, in
philanthropy, in statesmanship, and in friendship, a
great Japanese and a great citizen of the world.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your
Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
(Signed) W. Cameron Forbes
His Excellency
Baron Kijuro Shidehara,
His Imperial Japanese Majesty's
Minister for Foreign Affairs,
etc.,
etc.,
etc.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
Enolosure No.3953
From Ameriuan Embamey
Tokye.
Translation.
No. 139/P
Department of Foreign Affairs,
Tokyo, November 17, 1931.
Excellenoys
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
Note No. 178 of November 13, 1931, conveying to the
Imperial Government, the sinoere condolences of the
Government and people.of the United States on the death
of Visoount Shibusawa.
The Government and the people of Japan feel the
deepest gratitude for this expression of sympathy, and
desire that you convey to the Government and people of
the United States their sincere thanks.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your
Excellenoy the assurances of my highest consideration.
Baron Kijuro Shidehara,
Minister for Foreign Affairs (SEAL)
His Exoellency
W. Cameron Forbes,
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
of the United States of America,
Tokyo.
Tr: WTT

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.92)
December 11 1981.
219
894.44 SHIBUSAWA, VIS00UNT/9
To the Amesieea Ambasseder,
Terye.
The Seoretary of State has received the enclosed
resolutiontfrom the Spokane. Chamber of-Commeree, the-
Managing Seoretary of which asks that it-be transmitted
to the family of Baron Shibusawa through official ohan-
nels. The mbassy is reqtested to forward the resolution
to its dectination.
Enclesure:
Resolution.
894.44 Shibusawa, Viseount.
TE
DP1JTX:MSD
m.m.1..
lorig-
CF
11.21.
19361

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
MFNT
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 1 1 193J
FE
1931
Dopartment of Stet
DI..SIL.. O!
Shibusawa, Ei-iohi, Viso. (or. Baron '00); b. 1840
in Saltama-ken. Took service under the Tokugawa in its
declining days and visited Europe, '67-68 in company of
a Tokugawa Prince; appointed to a high post in the
Treasury on establishment of the Imperial Government
but left it, '73. From that time to his retiroment he
consistently kept aloof from Govt. service, though
frequently offered the ohair of Finance. Founded the lst
Bank (Dai-iohi Ginko), a pioneer of national bank, in '73;
was Chairman of the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce from its
inauguration till spring of '15; was also Chairman of
Tokyo Bankers' Ass'n. and Pres. or Dir. of many other
conoerns, but retired from business about 20 years ago
only retaining the post of Tokyo Municipal Orphanage, eto.
Toured in Europe and Amerioa in 'O2; again in U.S.A. in
'10, in 15 and in '21-22. Add. Oji, near Tokyo.
(See also editorials NEW YORK TIMES and NEW YORK
HERAL TRIBUNE, November 12, 1931.)

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.97)
December 11 1981.
894.44 SHIBUSAWA,
My dear Mr. Ford:
The reseipt of yeur letter of November 30, 1931,
is aoknowledged and the request sentained therein
that a resolution of the Board of Trusteeé of the
Spokane Chamber of Commeroe concerning the recent
death of Baron Shibusawa be forwarded to his family
through the representatives of this Department
VISCOUNT/IO
abroad has been complied with.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Warren D. Robbins,
Chief, Division of Protocol.
Mr. James A. Ford,
Managing Seoretary,
Chamber of Commeroe,
A true copy of
Spokane, Washington.
the sgred prig-
JIK
inal.
DP:JTK:MSD
FE
DE~8 1231
Huww

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.93)
894, 44 sht
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
44 SHIBUSAWA/ I
FOR ....#404..
SEE ....894.00.P.R/48.
(..Nezille......) DATED ....Dso..4,lSS1....
FROM ......Japan.
1-1187
NAME
TO
REGARDING:
Passing of one of the last great figures of the Meiji ere, Viscount
Blieht Skibassws,who died on November llth.
ome of the last of the great figures of the
Meijs ese, Viseount Milehi Shibusewe, died om November
11th.*

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
RIVLD
July 22, 1952.
HIL 83 1932
DIVISIOI
yion:
Mr. Kyagoro Obats, Secretary of the
Japanese American Relations
Committee.
4.44Shibusawa
宏
Mr. Hornbeck.
note
Sub jeet:
Message from the family of
894.
Viscount Shibusewe.
793.94
Mr. Obata called on appointment made by Mr. Frederick
Meere.
Mr. Obata stated that he had come to this country on
SHIBUSAWA,
behalf of the family of Viscount Shibusawe and the
Japanese American Relations Committee. His mission was
to thank the friends of Baron Shibusawa in this country
for the many kind messages which they had sent at the
time of Viscount Shibusawa's death and to convey an ex-
VISCOUNT/12
pression of appreoiation and good-will. He presented a
printed
folder containing a message from Mr. Keiso Shibusawa on
behalf of the Shibusawa family and a colleotion of
photographs of Viscount Shibusawa and a dooument in
Japamse characters.
Mr. Hornbeck expressed appreciation of Mr. Obata's
call and of his exeoution of the mission, and requested
221日
that thanks be conveyed to the Shibusawa family and t
the Committee which Mr. Obata represents. He said tht
Viscount

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.96)
Viseeunt shibusewe had been held in great esteem all
over the werld and especially in this country. He made
reforenee to the message which this Govermment had sent
at the time of Viscount Shibusawa's death. Mr. Obats
said that he knew of that message and that it had been
greatly appreciated. Mr. Hornbeck made reference to
various important incidents in Viscount Shibusawa's
life and especially to the friondly attitude which the
Viseount had always manifested toward the United States.
Mr. Obata spoke of the Viscount's interest in economic,
social and philanthropic work and montioned his constant
good-will.
Mr. Obata then asked whether he might leave certain
materials which he had prepared in conneotion with ques-
tions whioh were constantly asked him about the Manchuria
.91
793.
controversy. Mr. Hornbeck smid he would be glad to have
them. Mr. Obata presented a mimeographed paper entitled:
"Outline - The Causes of the Trouble in Manchuria and
Shanghai" and & pamphlet entitled: "The Manchurian Con-
troveray". On looking over the latter of these, Mr.
Hornbeck commented upon the quotation from editorial com-
ment of the LONDON TIMES of November 23, 1931, with which
this dooument is concluded. In that comment there is a
statement regarding the conditions in whioh a country
hitherto ruled under a Mandate should be allowed to enter
tho

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.96)
the League as an independent severeign State. Mr. Herabeek
seid that this quotation was partioularly interesting in
view of the disoussion which is now going on in Japan ef
the subjeet of recegnising "Manchukuo". Mr. Obata replied
that he "theught so too".
Mr. Hornbeek asked Mr. Salisbury to oome in to meet
Mr. Obata. Mr. Obata said that he had had much and
pleasant contact with Mr. Salisbury in Tokyo.
Mr. Salisbury asked Mr. Obata to visit him in his
offioe.
SKH:CLS

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.93)
THE WHITE HOUSE
REOETVED
WASHINGTON
AIG I - 1932
July 301932.
of
heco
SECRETARY'S OFFICE
1932
My dear Mr. Secretary:
DIVINION OF
8-432
Will you please be good onough to oi
Free
894:44-SHIBUSAWA,
Inet
the enclosed papers transmitted to the
President by Mr. Frederick Moore at the
request of Mr. Kyugoro Obata?
AUgUSI
Sincerely yours,
LAWRENCE RICHEY
Secretary to the President.
VISCOUNT/13
Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State.
26
Enclosures.
Division of
FAR EASTEN AFFAIRS
AUG 3- 1932
611190
Department of State

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.90)
894.44-SHIBUSAWA,VISCOUNT/13
FREDERICK MOORE
3117 THIRTY-FIFTH STREET, N. W.
"July 25, 32.
WASHINGTON. D. C.
Dear M. President,
Dr. K. Obata, Oecretary
of the Japanere Amenca Relaton
Conmmitte of Pokyo, Las spent to
days ie washinghton. He desiven
of witroduchon from M. 
and also the luelored sowenir
of the Take Cound Dhibusawa
If gapan, buh was liformed
by his embarry that is mould
this im peroaon. He has

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.92)
therefore asked me. to send
the euclosed to you.
I any M. Presidect,
Respectfulty yours.
Fredrick Moore).
o Tre President.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
OFFICE OF
OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
The Times-Mirror Company
HARRY CHANDLER
PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER
NORMAN CHANDLER
VICE-PRESIDENT
PUBLISHERS OF
Los Angeles Times
MARIAN OTIS-CHANDLER
SECRETARY
F. X. PFAFFINGER
FOUNDED BY HARRIBON GRAY OTIS, DEGENBER 4, 1001
TREASURER
LOS ANGELES. CAL.
MRS. MABEL OTIS-BOOTH
HARRY C. CARR
Jane 14, 1988
894.44-SHIBUSAWA,
Mis Emedleney Berbert C. Hoover,
President,
United States of merica,
The hite Heuse,
Washimgton, D. C.
 dear Mr. President:
his will intro duce Dr. Kyugore Obata,
Seeretary of the Japanese meriean Relatiens
Committee.
Dr. Obate is a man of standing in Japan
VISCOUNT/13
and highly respeeted by mericans who have
had the pleasure of his acqumintance.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
The
Manchurian Controversy
A.STATEMENT BY
The Japanese-American Relations Committee,
TOKYO, JAPAN

=== Page 154 === (confidence 1.00)
THE MANCHURIAN CONTROVERSY
Much has been written on the subject of the present Manchurian
controversy from the Japanese point of view. It may not, however,
be out of place to attempt a brief recapitulation of the principal
points of the Japanese argument, so as to present a sort of a bird's
eye view of the discussion.
(1) The Russian menace from the north, of which the first
alarm was given by the activities of Russian explorers along the
coast of Hokkaido toward the end of the 18th century, has been one
of the dominant factors in determining the orientation of Japan's
foreign policy in modern time. The menace, which for a century
had been thought to come by way of Hokkaido, actually came by
way of Manchuria soon after our war with China (1894-1895), which
we fought for the liberation of Korea from China's baneful control.
China's helplessness brought Russia into Manchuria, which was soon
intersected by Russian railways and garrisoned by Russian troops,
with a heavily fortified naval base at Port Arthur. It was obvious
that with Russia firmly established in Manchuria, Japan's independ-
ence was directly menaced. The inevitable result was our war with
Russia (1904-1905).
(2) Our war with Russia was a war of Asiatic liberation from
the clutches of the Northern Colossus. We had to fight it single-
handed. For China, who was the principal party concerned as the
invasion had taken place through her territory, stood helpless and
indifferent, not so much as raising a finger. To her lasting shame,
she was then in secret alliance with Russia against us!
(3) Fortunately we won but at a cost which was staggering in
view of our limited resources in money and manhood—200,000
casualties and over 2,000,000,000 yen expended. And who got the
chief benefit out of the war? China. The sovereignty over the
whole of Manchuria was restored to her, while Japan's share of the
spoil was a temporary control over a tiny peninsula and a narrow
strip of railway zone, measuring altogether not more than 1,400
spuare miles.
(4) Japan had to stay in Manchuria, because China had proved
herself helpless and indifferent in the face of Asia's common enemy.
The world knows what use Japan has made of her time in Manchuria.
With a total investment of over two billion yen in various economic
undertakings and a dozen newly created modern towns, Japan has con-
verted Manchuria from the most backward into the most progressive

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
and orderly territory in whole China. The result has been a
continuous and increasing flow of immigrants from the war-torn
provinces of Shantung and Chih-lih, the population in Manchuria
increasing from 5,000,000 to 30,000,000 in twenty-five years. The
foreign trade of Manchuria, which totalled 52 million Haikwan Taels
in 1907, increased to 755 million by 1930, the port of Dairen ranking
now the second most important trade centre in China.
(5) Japan's very success in developing Manchuria displeased the
Chinese. Their displeasure from this cause was fanned into deep
hatred of Japan by the recent growth of nationalistic spirit and an
intensive cultivation of anti-foreign and particularly anti-Japanese
sentiment in their schools. The result has been an increasingly
stringent policy of persecution and obstruction against the legitimate
pursuit of business by Japanese subjects including Koreans, of whom
over a million are now dispersed all over Manchuria, and who were
originally officially encouraged to settle in Manchuria. Cases of
illegal persecutions officially taken up by the Japanese Government
and which remain unsettled number more than 300. The avowed
object of the Chinese in pursuing this policy of systematic provoca-
tion, was to compel the Japanese to get out of Manchuria.
(6) A generation of men who know little about the Russo-
Japanese war, constitute the bulk of the Chinese army, officers and
men alike. The common belief among them is that, as they have
been continually fighting in civil war, while the Japanese have not
recently had opportunity to practice warfare, they are now better
soldiers than the Japanese. Such in particular was the view of the
young general commanding the brigade at the North Barracks at
Mukden, who by written instructions as well as by word of mouth
took good care to fill his men's minds with hatred of Japan and
remind them of the existence of the enemy's railway very close to
their barracks. These were the men who bombed the South Man-
churia Railway track on the night of September 18, 1931, thus starting
the unfortunate trouble the end of which is not yet in sight.
(7) Japan's primary motive in the present emergency is not
territorial aggrandizement. Her object is to secure safety for her
peaceful economic enterprise in Manchuria and Mongolia in con-
formity with treaty stipulations.
(8) Pending China's success in regaining enough strength to
maintain peace and order in Manchuria against foreign as well as
internal foes, Japan has no chice but to continue her presence in
that region for the protection of her own interests there. In this
connection it will be well for outside observers to bear in mind the
patent fact that Japan in Manchuria is the only reliable bulwark
against the Communist danger sweeping down through that region.
The value of Japan's service in this respect, can only be properly

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
appreciated by those who know how serious is the Communist
situation in the heart of China on both banks of the Yangtze. Even
Marshal Chiang Kai-shek's troops have had to give up the task of
suppressing the Communist power. As a matter of fact the area
under the Communist rule along the Yangtze is larger than the
territory under the direct control of the so-called National Govern-
men of China. The Communist problem in China will shortly
demand the most serious attention on the part of the Powers, for,
unless properly handled in time, the possible consequence will be
the closure of the Chinese market to the world, except the Soviet
Union.
(9) In view of the oft-repeated criticism that Japan's Manchurian
policy is at variance with the provisions of the Covenant of the
League of Nations, the Kellog Pact and so forth, it seems pertinent
to remark that China is not and has not been for a long time an
effective national entity capable of fulfilling the international
responsibilities of an independent civilized nation. On this subject,
attention may be called to the following editorial comment from the
London " Times" of November 23, 1931:
"When the Mandates Commission of the League recently con-
sidered the conditions in which a country hitherto ruled under a
Mandate should be allowed to enter the League as an independent
sovereign State, it laid down five prerequisites. The country must
have an administration capable of maintaining the regular operation
of essential Government services; it must be capable of maintaining
its territorial integrity; it must be able to maintain the public peace
throughout the whole territory; it must have at its disposal adequate
financial resources to provide regularly for normal Government
requirements; and it must possess laws and a judicial organization
which will afford equal and regular justice to all. How many of
these conditions does the present Chinese Government fulfil? Does
it indeed fulfil a single one of them? Yet China is not only a
member of the League, but has quite recently been elected to a seat
on the Council. An unbiased recognition of this anomaly opens up
a whole series of reflections, in the light of which term 'aggression'
is seen to be liable to justly various interpretations."
Baron YOSHIRO SAKATANI,
Baron TAKUMA DAN,
RAITA FUJIYAMA,
Excecutive Council of the Japanese-American
Relations Committee
February, 1932, Tokyo, Japan

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.91)
Prepared
15. alata.
OUTLINE
THE CAUSES OF THE TROUBLE IN MANCHURIA AND SHANGHAI
REMOTE OR INDIRECT CAUSE
1. Political:
(1) Public observance of the so-called "National Humiliation Days"
by the Kuomintang, the National Government and public organ-
izations, such as the National and Local Chambers of Conmerce.
A. 9 Humiliation Days observed throughout the year:
(a) 3 Humiliation Days against Great Britain
(b) 4
n
11
Japan
(c) 1
1n
n
n
Great Britain and Japan
(a) 1
18
n
19
the nations involved in Boxer
Rebellion.
2.
Ecdnomical:
(1) Boycott: ? cases of persistent and extensive boycott against
Japan - 1908 to 1932. A11 thesc boycotts conducted under
tacit understanding of civil authorities.
(2) Boycott on a large scale - namely tic construction of parallel
lines of railway along South Manchurian Railway, in violation
of the l90 Treaty between tho tvo Governments.
3. Educational:
(1) Use of text-books in Primary ana Secondary Schools to inculcate
anti-foreign spirit into the ninds of youths.
A.
Military Lessons:
(a) 6 cases concerning nations in general.
(b) 9
i7
ip
Great Pritain
(c) 1
17
Germany
(a) 1
17
Frence
(e) 7
it
17
Japan
B. Political Lessons:
(a) 12 different remarks conceming Imperialism,
(b) 4 discourses concerning Unequal Treaties,
(c) 6
97
i7
ceded lanàs, leased territories,
concessions and settlements,
(a) 巴
Consular jurisdiction,
(e) 3
1n
n
commnications.
C.
Economic Lessons:
(a) 4 remarks on Powers' economic oppression,
(b) 2
i7
" the Custom Tariff
(c) 1
18
17
Bank.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.98)
4. Legal:
1. Retroaction - namely the misapplication of the "Territorial
and Administrative Integrity" phrase of the Nine Power Treaty
and of the Bryan and Kellogg Pact.
Briand
II. PROXIMATE OR DIRECT CAUSE
1. Events in Manchuria:
(1) Killing of Captain Nakamura and members of his party by the
Chinese regular soldiers in Jorthwestern Manchuria in June, 193l.
(2) Wanpaoshan Incident (clash between Chinese civilians and police
force on one hand and Korean farmers on the other, July 2, 1931.)
(3) Destruction of a section of South Tanchurian Railvay near
Mukden by Chinese soldiers and retaliatory measure pursued by
Japanese soldiers which later caused a clash between the forces
of the two countries.
2. Event in Kerea:
(1) Clash between Koruns and Chinese residents in Seoul, Pingyan
and Chenulpoo (Koreans' rotaliation for Wanpaoshan trouble)
mentioned in (2), 1, I.
3. Events in Shanghai:
(i) Insultin, remark in the "Iinruo Jipao", the official organ of
Kuomintang, made about Emporor of Japan on January 9, 1932.
(2) Attack on 5 Japanese' by a Clinese mob, consisting of about 50
people, on January 18, 1932, near San Yu Towel Factory, causing
the death of one and seriously wcunding two.
(3) The clash between a party cf Japanese near San Yu Factory and
Chinese police constables,
(4) Japanese Consul-General's ultinatum, consisting of four points,
presented to the Tayor of Creuter Shanghai, Wu Tieh-cheng.
(5) The Hayor's final acceptance of the ultimatum about 3 p.m. Jan. 28th.
(6) Acute tension between Japanese residents and Chinese citizens.
(7) State of anergency proclaimed by the City Council and policing
of the sectors of the Trench and Interiational Settlements assi gned
to representatives of the United States, Great Britain, France
and Italy.
(8) About 10:30 p.m. Japanese guards, consisting of Harines, fired
on by plain clothed Chinese soldiers.
(9) The 19th Route Army of General Cheng Ming-shu commanded by
Tasi Ting-kai.
(10) Actual warfare which necessitated the dispatch of Army from Japan.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.93)
through
KYUGORO OBATA
Secretary of the
Japanese American Relations Committee
.s
and  i Tat nt s
I ITCHOME MARUNOUCHI
KOJIMACHIKU. TOKYO.
Viscount K. Shibusawa,
Grandson of the Late Viscount E. Shibusawa.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
No.1
大正十三年三月二十一日東京市獲育院板橋本院新築披露の際同院病室に於て

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.79)
1

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
No.2
大正十五年五月二十六日飛鳥山邸居室に於て

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.74)
二

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
No.3
全國兒童保護事業大會に於ける閉會の胖
大正十五年十二月二日日本青年館に開催せられたる

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
No.4
ドール・メッセンジャース・オジ・フレンドシップを手にして
昭和二年三月三日文部省内日本國際兒童親善會に於て米國よりの

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.74)
11//

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.95)
No.5
昭和四年六月十三日飛鳥山邸内庭園に詩聖タゴールを迎～て

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.95)
No.6
昭和四年六月十八日オエンタル寫興工業株式會社に於て

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
No.8
社團法人如水會主催「青淵先生米事祝賀會」に於て
昭和四年六月二十五日東京商科大學出身者の團體なる

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
No.9
總理大臣官邸に於て商工大臣と會見後、新聞記者諸氏に圍まれて
昭和四年八月九日東京市及東京瓦斯株式會社間の調停問題につき

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.78)
1

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.91)
No.10
の放速後」０AK放送室に於て
昭和四年十一月十一日國際聯
聖協會の為「平和紀念日に付て」

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
No.11
昭和四年十二月十九日上特別の思召にようて單獨御陪食仰せ付られし後

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
No.12
昭和六年四月二十四日飛鳥山邸居室に於て

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.67)
C.
1

=== Page 183 === (confidence 1.00)
No.13
昭和六年四月二十四日飛鳥山邸居室に於て

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
No.14
昭和六年九月十七日飛鳥山邸ヴェランダに於て

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
"PICTORIAL REMINISCENCES OF SEIEN"
A lithograph of the late Viscount Eiichi Shibusa-
wa's own hand writing of a copy of Lord Shirakawa-
Rakuo's writing on the wall. (June 2, 1929).
Fourteen photographs taken between 1924 and
1931:
1. At the Children's Home, Itabashi, Tokyo, upon the com-
pletion of its new building. (March 21, 1924).
2. At his own room, reading a newspaper. (May 26, 1926).
3. Making the closing address at the National Convention of
Workers for the Protection of Children. (Dec. 2, 1926).
4. At the International Children's Goodwill Assembly held at
the Department of Education in Tokyo, holding the "Doll-
Messengers of Friendship" sent from the United States of
America. (March 3, 1927).
S. When he welcomed Rabindranath Tagore, Indian poet, at
his home, Asukayama, Tokyo. (June 13, 1929).
6. Writing Chinese characters at the Oriental Photographic
Co.'s Studio. (June 18, 1929).
7. At the laying of the cornerstone of the First National Bank,
Tokyo. (June 22, 1929).
8. On his eighty-eighth anniversary, celebrated under the
auspices of the Alumni Association of the University of
Commerce of Tokyo. (June 25, 1929).
9. Being surrounded by newspaper reporvers after a confer-
ence at the Premier's official residence with the Minister of
Commerce and Industry relative to the arbitration between
the City of Tokyo and the Tokyo Gas Company. (Aug.
9,1929).
10. At the JOAK broadcasting studio in Tokyo after his ad-
dress on "Peace Memorial Day" under the auspices of the
League of Nations Association. (Nov. 11, 1929).
11. After being granted a dinner with His Imperial Majesty
the Emperor. (Dec. 19, 1929).
12. Listening to the radio at his home, Asukayama, Tokyo.
(April 24, 1931).
13. Reading at his home. (April 24, 1931).
14. Photographed on the veranda of his home. (Sept. 17,
1931).
The four Chinese characters constituting the title,
"Pictorial Reminiscences of Seien," on the cover of the
envelope, have been reproduced from a rare manuscript
of Lun Yu of the Sung Dynasty of China.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 1.00)
We, the bereaved members of the family of the late
Viscount E. Shibusawa, have been very deeply touched
by the tenderness, consideration and courtesy shown to
him and to us also by the host of his friends, during his
serious illness, at his subsequent death, funerals and at
the memorial services both private and public. We feel
that the debt of gratitude we owe our friends can never
be repaid. But at the same time, we felt that the sense
of our profound appreciation and sincere thanks should
be expressed in some form, however inadequate and
insufficient it may be. To this end, we conceived an
idea of preparing a collection of a few photographs of
his together with a replica of his own hand writings,
with a view that they may serve to perpetuate the
memory of various phases of his activity in the days
gone by, and named it "Pictorial Reminiscences of
Sei-en"— Sei-en being the pen-name of the departed
one.
We shall be exceedingly grateful to our friends if
they would accept it in the spirit with which we
present it.
Keizo Shibusawa,
in behalf of the Shibusawa Family.
February 13th, Birthday of My Grandfather, 1932.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.95)
延ながら茲に呈上する次第でございます。
た。爾來調製を急いで居りましたが此程漸く出來致しましたので遷
を蒐め青淵遺影と題しお目にかけ御禮の驗に代へることに致しまし
就ては祖父生前の御懇親に甘へ不美ながら晩年の寫興數種並に筆踏
遺族一同の衷心より風佩指く能はざる所でございます。
に付ては終始容易ならざる御配慮と御同情とに浴しましたことは
又逝いてよりは深厚なる御追慕と御哀惜とを賜はり更に葬儀其他
祖父病臥中は皆様の深き御憂慮と心からなる御祈念とを忝うし
昭和七年二月十三日
祖父誕生の日
澁
澤
敬
三

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.84)
一
1
一大正十三年より昭和六年までの寫國の中上り還定印刷
集やしたるものな
國書察御教藏の字内の孤本「宋本論語註號」の中ょり
祖父が昭和五年十月特に九許を得て覆刊したる宮内省
を揮せしもの～結篇
昭和四年六月二日豫て尊崇廿る白河樂霸公の樂亭豐書
青淵遺影目次
簽
十四
種

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.67)
心をわけんたのーひばー
たれりと思きはわううなうすとーく
ようきすのはつむざさ道
樂きおふうたのーきの事なりツうく
はふ求むぶ樂む翁
昭和己巳六月
法澤榮一書時年九十
1
图

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.62)
うむさのは歎きよえぬ
ヨえろそぷう？みのねかのゅろーだの
ろとすがめねこ承は精にるむべー打も
ふろーつべくおふははい飲ひらうは
梅う香を携の在柳の枝子ひはお
まき事生花の紅やきのみん

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.63)
うづもれておかーきのはあう子日
の小松化夏草にかくれ多ちはおかー
思ふ子ただ之嬉一きは八月十五夜り晴
了五月雨の雲ま化月知きとおふう文つ
そりうによけだ
うむきのは歎きまぬ
ヨえろ午ぷうつみのねとねのンあーだの
ちとすがめねこ承は精にうむべー打も
ふろーつべくおふははい飲ひら分るは

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.62)
おほきをいむのは茶さけのさかな
遲機うなむの花ほかうす
2
よきはうくうーきはあーきはうたひ
もあやめら女風流がそんうちな慮
こそいはめー古るこのけり花をめ
ブっとそツうんいはんらすうら月みひり
は日をほむにーわ
うづちれておかーきあはあうじ子日
の小松比夏草にかくれ多こはおかー
思ふ子ただ之嬉一きは八月十五夜の時

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.63)
野分うあーたの庭ん面なそは乳
ゆりはうう人ー為花落
葉の猿藉ち申すのみかは酒のみだ
れはそん類しすうす
月はっえ親むされ過
ふ苦行末之思年
まー只ひかいそこえ腰のあたりんいなら
ち鳴出侍らずば共まぬもありなむ
花んゃ卧おう
女のまえいまかまんかげうふみー夢
うたるきのはみひ月の鶯落ばの
风にさはゃっ

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.78)
安詳是應事第一法
知足是享樂第一法
存厚是召福第一法
寡慾是延壽第一法
夜更之之ふ言初時鳥雁がね
はかうんうくんかうす
枕子通ふのは花の如遠寺
のかね霜夜りんのねんこしにあはれ
むー
にそよすべきは花りなぜ自化
ふうちつけまう？ふ人はすの
みかは

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.93)
雁
身

=== Page 198 === (confidence 1.00)
是是是是是是是是是是亭

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.91)
reply reder to
806.44 shibasawa,
viscoumt/13
894.44
Mr. Frederick Moore,
3117 mirty-fifth Street, N.W.,
Washington, D. C.
SHIBUSAWA,
sir:
The receipt 1s aoknowledged, by reference from
the white House, of your letter of July twenty-fifth
addressed to the President, transmi tting, at the
request of Dr. Kyugoro Obata, photographs and a memo-
rial of the late Visoount E. Shibusawe, as well as a
VI
letter of introduotion from Mr. Harry Chandler, Pres-
1dent and Gen-ral Manager of the Los Angeles Times-
Mirror Company.
The American Consul General at Tokyo has been
instruoted to convey to Iir. Obata the President's
4
appreoiation of the courtesy of the family of the
late vi :count E. Bhibusawe in presenting him with
these souvenirs.
Very truly yours,
1802.
m
For the Seoretary of State:
2.X.C.
 Jr
mm N
DP: CLC1UM.
FE:1.
Under Secretary
A

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.92)
▲ugust 10 1982.
So.
To the Amerieam Comsul General,
Tokye.
894.44 SHIBUSAWA,
there is emelesed herewith eepy of a letter which
the President hes reselved frem Mr. Frederiek Meore of
Waskingtem, D. C., tramsmitting eertain photegraphs and
a mamerial of the late Viseount I. shibusame with the
cemplimemts of his grandson, Viscount X. shibusawe, and
a letter f introduction to the Presidemt for Dr. Kyugoro
Obate, Sesretary of the Japemese American Relatioms Com-
mittee, 1 Itehome Marmouchi, Kojimachiku, Tokyo. It
VI
appears that Dr. Obata was entrusted with the delivery
SCOUNT/I
of the photographs and memorial.
The Secretary of State desires that the Consul General
suitably ackmewledge to Dr. Obata the receipt of the photo-
graphs and memorial, expressing the President's appreciation
5
of the courtesy of the family of the late Viscount E.
shibusawa in presenting him vith these souven1rs, should
such course be deemed proper by the Consul General.
Imclosures:
Copy of letter from
Frederiok Moore, with
enolosure.
894.44-Sh1busawa, Viscount/13
C.Y.C.
AUG
mm//
DPIULO:MEM.
1982
FE&
2

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.97)
Duplicates furnished in compliance with the
Depar nt's telegram No. 131 to the
Consul ve General at Shanghai.
AMERIOAN MMBASSY
TOKYO
MAY 27 1937

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.95)
No. 2059.
Tokyo, September 28, 1936.
SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR PHOTOGRAPHS.
20lito Jokgo
4
memo to m. Holmes. 6/18
the
AND
3
CONFERENCES
JUN 18 1937
DEPT.
88ud
OF
194.44
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
"ashington.
Sir:
For use in a biography of Viscount Shibusawa to be
published in the autumn of 1937 I have the honor to request
the assistance of the Department toward obtaining photo-
graphs of President Grant, President Theodore Roosevelt,
President Taft, and Judge Gary. This request originated
with Mr. K. Obata, Secretary of The Japanese American
Relations Committee and former secretary of Viscount
Shibusawa. Mr. Obata has suggested Mr. Kermit Roosevelt,
United States Lines, 1 Broadway, New York City, for the
photograph

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
photograph of President Theodore Roosevelt, and for the
photograph of President Taft he has suggested Mr. Henry
W. Taft, 14 Wall Street, New York City. For Judge Gary
of the United States Steel Corporation he suggests no
possible source, but it occurs to the Embassy that Mr.
John Foster Dulles of Sullivan and Cromwell, New York
City, might be of assistance. Judging by printed bio-
graphies of President Grant, it appears that the Meserve
Collection contains his best portraits, and it is possible
that a photograph of one of them would be supplied for this
purpose.
Viscount Shibusawa's prominence in Japan and importance
in relations between the United States and Japan during his
lifetime are well known to the Department.
Respectfully yours,
Erle Dickover
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
844.
CC:r

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
PROTOCOL AND CONFERENCES
MEMORANDUM
May 14, 1937.
Mr. Southdate:
The previous on this case was
handled by Mr. Cooke and it seems
likely that the despatch which has now
disappeared was sent to him for action
also.
No one in this Division or in FE is
now able to recall what action, if any,
was taken in the matter last fall.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 1 7 1937
D.B.E.
Department of State
894.44 Shibusawa, Viscount/17
PC:DBE:GLW

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 11, 1937.
There is no record in FE
of the missing despatch (No.
2059 of Sept. 28, 1936) from
Tokyo, which was tallied to
PC in O0tober1936.
120
PC may wish to request the
Embassy to forward a duplicate
copy of the despatch, and for
that purpose may wish to make
at Shanghai.
AND
CONFERINCES
MAY 12 1937
M
DEPT.
OF
STATE

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DEPATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2374.
1937 MAY 3 PM 3 30
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNIC TIONSTokyo, Apr11 19, 1937.
AND RECORDS
SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR PHOTOGRAPHS.
Goky
OF
894.44 SHIBUSAWA
AND
X
CONFERENCES
MAY -4 1937
Divis
FAR EASTER
STATE
B
NeS-gay
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
sqs, 14 shibes
Sir:
September 28, 1936, requesting the assistance of the Depart-
ment in obtaining certain photographs for use in a biograpby
of Viscount Shibusawa, I have the honor to inform the Depart-
mont that a further communication has recently been received
MAY 20 19371
from the biographers, who desire that the forwarding of the
photographs be expedited if in any way possible.
Respectfully yours
844.
Joseph C. Grew.
CC:r
F/FG

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.91)
TELEGRAM SENT
AG OFFIOE
CONFIDENTIAL GOGE
Colleat
HONOONPIDENTIAL COU
Department of State
Cherge Department
Charge to
Washington,
1937 MAY 19 PM 5 26
May 19, 1937.
VIA NAVAL RADIO
S
iS
AMCONSUL
voan
SHANGHAI (CHINA)
131
minetentt
894.44-SHIBUSAWA,VISCOUNT/18
Please send following to Embassy, Tokyo, by mail:
QUOTE Your despatch No. 2374, April 19.
Department unable to locate Embassy's despatch
No. 2059 of September 28, 1936. Please send duplicate
COpy. END QUOTE
Hell,
526
894.44 Shibusawa, Viscount/17
WM
PC: DBE: GLW: LDA
FE
DCR
1o
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19.
7
Index Bu.—No. 50.
C

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE
TO BE TRANBWITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Collect
NONCONADENTIALCODEL
Charge Department
Department of State
PARTAIR
OR
TNAE
PLAIN
Charge to
Washington,
1937 JUN 29 PM 3 47 June 29, 1937.
4pm
AMEMBASSY,
COMMI CATIONS
AS
TOKYO (Japan).
—97
894.44 SHIBUSAWA,
Department's telegram No. 131, May 19, via Shanghai.
Copy of despatch received. Department has not,
repeat not found original copy or any record of action,
if any, taken. For Department's guidance, does Dooman
recall whether and what action was taken. Please telegraph.
Hee
SKH
VISCOUNT/I
6
F/FG
894.44 Shibusawa, Viscount/18
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE
PC
Enciphered by
SA
Sent by operator
M..
.19
D. C. R.—No. 50
MENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF
JUN 22 1937
PROTOCOL AND CONFERENCES
YWENT UI
Department of State
REOBIVED
MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE
JUN 8 0 1937
DIVISION OF
June 19, 1937.
3.93.
In connection with despatch No. 2059, of Septem-
ber 28, 1936, from the American Embassy at Tokyo, the
original of which has not been located in the Department,
I telephoned Mrs. Bacon, formerly Mr. Cooke's assistant,
and inquired whether she by any chance recalled the
894.44 SH1BUSAWA,
despatch and what action, if any, had been taken on it
by this office.
Mrs. Bacon said she did recall the despatch and
that Mr. Cooke had drafted a reply stating, she believed,
that the Department considered it best not to lend its
assistance in securing the photographs which had been
requested by the biographers of Viscount Shibusawa. The
reply was sent to FE for initial. FE, however, wished
the Embassy informed that the Department would be of
VISCOUNT/20
whatever help possible. The instruction was not returned
to Mr. Cooke for redrafting and it was thought that FE
might be attending to the matter.
PTLPID
Mrs. Bacon
F/FG

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Mrs. Bacon added that some time afterward, in
looking over Division copies of correspondence, she
found the uncertified copy of the instruction which
Mr. Cooke had drafted. She took the copy to FE and
asked one of the secretaries if she knew what action
had finally been taken on the despatch. The secretary
was to ask Mr. Duvall to look into the matter. Mrs.
Bacon never heard anything further from FE about the
instructicn. She did not recall whether she had
destroyed the hold copy of the instruction.
9.
GLW
894.44 Shibusawa Viscount/16
PC:GLW

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 3, 1937.
This file contains:--
I Files pertaining to request by
biographers of Visoount Shibusawa for
photographs of certain presidentw of the
U.s. and of Judge Gory.
1. Tokio's No. 2059 of September
28, 1936 transmitting request. (Duplicate copy)
2. Tokio's No. 2374 of April 19,
1937, requesting that forwarding of photo-
graphs be expedited. (Rsquest on behalf of
biographers)
3. Department's telegram of May 19,
1937, requesting duplicate copy of despatch
of September 28, 1936. (Copy sent May 27, 1937,
and received June 16, 1937)
4. PC's memorandum of June 19, 1937,
to the effect that PC had drafted a reply de-
clining the request (Mr. Cooke), that FE had
expressed desire to comply if possible with
request and that PC's draft reply was still
in FE pending further action.
5. Department's telegram of June 29,
1937 to Dooman inquiring as to the action which
had been taken.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
6. Dooman's reply of July 2, 1937, to the
effeot that he recalled having seen original
despatoh and draft of PC above-mentiened,
and that he had returned file to PC suggesting
that in the special ciroumstances an effort be
made throughtinformal channels to obtain
the photographs.
7. JWB's memorandum (undated) to the effect
that the original despatch cannot be found
in FE and that DCR believes that despatch in
question never reached FE.
II Files relating to the condolences
official and unofficial on the occasion of
the death of Viscount Shibusawa on November
11, 1931.
III Files relating to the memorial and
photographs in memory of Viscount Shibusawa
presented to President Hoover by Dr. Obata.
Àcknowledgment by Consul General at Tokio
as per instruotion of August 10, 1932.
II and III do not bear upon the present
oase.
JHS

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JR
GRAY
11800
FROM
Tokyo
he
Dated July 2, 1937
894.44-
Recia 3:02 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Divacion of
"ashington.
FAR EASIERN AFFAIRS
894.44 SH1BUSAWA,
173. July 2, 11 a.m.
ofu.s.
Department of State
Dooman recalls oeeing original despatch accompanied
by draft by Protocol Division stating Department not
accustomed to comnly with such requests. Dooman returned
file to rotocol Division su& st ng in the special
circumstances that effort throlsh informal channels be
made to obtain photographs.
VISCOUNT/21
GRE:
FLP
894.44 Shbusawa, Viscount /18
F/FG

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.95)
PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
WILL INDIGATE WHETHER
Collect
CONFIDENTIAL
A
NONOONFIDENTIAL 
Charge Department
Départment of State
PARTAIR
OR
PLAIN
Charge to
Washington.
1937 JUL 24 PM 1 14
July 29.
1937.
2m
AMEMBASSY,
TOKYO, (JAPAN).
127
1111
894.44
Refereace Embassy's despatch no. 2059, September 28,
1936.
Copies of
photographs are being sent you in
next pouch.
BHIBUSAWA,VISCOUNT/22
Hee
894.44 Shibusawa, Viscount/21
Wn
m.m.H
FUI
FE:WTT:VIC
FE
Enoiphered by
Sent by operator
M..
19
F
D. C. R.—No. 50
1-1402
G

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.92)
July 26 1937
1307
To the Amerieen Ambassader,
Tokye.
Beferense is made to the mbassy's despateh no. sose
of september 88, 19s6, in which the assistanee of the Do-
partment is requested toward obtaining photographs of
Presidemt Grant, President Theodore Roosevelt, President
894.44 SHiBUSAWA,
Taft and Judge Cary, on behalf of Mr. K. Obata, for use
in a biography of viscount Shibusawa to be published in
the autwm of 1957.
In conformity with this request there are enclosed
copies of the four photographs above mentioned.
If in future requests of a similar nature are made,
the Embasay should inform the persons concerned that the
Department is not prepared to act in matters of this kind
beyond furnishing, if available to it, names of firms
which might possibly be able to supply the items sought.
SCOUNT/2
Enclosures:
Four photographs.
て
A thve copy of
894.44 Shibusawa, Viscount/21
the  arigi
F/AA
FnP5
11
mm
FE:WTI:VIC:LJL
FE
7/207/23
514

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.94)
July 6, 1937.
Bear R. Comnor:
The Department has received from the American Embassy
in Tekyo a request that we assist in obtaining for a Japa-
mese publieist who is eonnected with the preparation of a
biegraphy of Viseount Shibusawe photographs or President
Grant, President Theodore Roosevelt, and President Tart.
894.
Ordinarily, the Department could not undertake to as-
sist in sueh a matter. In this case, however, it happens
44
that there are cireumstanoes which cause us to feel dis-
S
posed to do what we ean toward meeting the request under
H
referenee. In course of canvassing ways and means, it has
BUS
oecurred to me that there might pessibly be in possession
JSAWA,
of the Archives available duplicate copies of phetographs
of some or all of the three Presidents named.
I do not wish to trouble you about this on the tele-
phone, henee this letter. There is, however, a feature of
S
C
urgenoy involved. Might I ask you to be so good as to
10
have
1
The Honorable
2
R. D. W. Connor,
4
Arohivist of the United States.
π
1
A

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.91)
have seme mmber of yeur staff take this matter in hand
and inferm me at an early date whether yeu heve available
sush phetegraphs and whether yeu ceuld let this Departmsms
have ecpies fer preseatation te the Japasese publieist whe
has approached eur Eabassy in Tekyo with this ummseal re-
quest. Also, in ease your reply is in the megative, any
saggestion whieh you might be in position to offer would
be greatly appreeiated by,
Yoars sineerely,
Holen K Hombeah
Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
A trur jopv of
 84.02
11
m.m.10.
PC
FE:SKH:ZMK/EJL
FE
7/8/37

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.97)
#RE
10
The National Archibes
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATEshington, .C.
1937 JUL 26 PM 1 39
July 7, 1987.
DIVISION OF
he
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
rgr
Hon. Stanlsy K. Hornbeck,
Chief, Difision of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
894.44
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
I was out of the city yesterday
when your letter of July 6th, requesting assistance
in obtaining photographs of President Grant, Presi-
dent Theodore Roosevelt, and President Taft was
delivered.
SHiBUSAWA
I regret that we do not have a
photograph of any of the three. I suggest that
members of their families may be very glad to furnish
photographs if requested to do so. If not, I am sure
that photographs of President Theodore Roosevelt and
President Taft can be obtained from any of the pho-
tographers in Washington. You might get a photograph
of President Grant from the same source, but if not,
a photographer can easily make one from a portrait.
Perhaps the one at the White House might be avail-
ViSCOUNT/25
able.
PTLED
Sincerely yours,
1937
A. W. W. Cowr
Archivist of the United States.
t
F/AA

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.93)
July 6, 1937.
Dear De. Putmem:
The Department has reseived frem the Ameriean Embassy
La Sekge a pegeest thet we assist in ebtaining for a Jape-
894.
mese publieist whe is commeeted with the preparatiem of a
biegraphy of Visecunt Shibusawe photographs of President
44
Grant, President Theodore Reesevelt, and President Tart.
Ordinarily, the Department could mot undertake to as-
IS
H
sist in sueh a mtter. In this ease, hewever, it happens
B
that there are eirewmstanees whieh eause us to feel dis-
C
JSAWA
posed to de what we ean toward meeting the request under
refepanse. In course of eanvassing ways and means, it has
eesmmmed to me that there might possibly be in possession
of the Library of Congress available duplicate copies ef
SCOUNT
phetegraphs of some or all of the three Presidents nemed.
I do mot wish to trouble you about this on the tele-
pheme, henee thie letter. There is, however, a feature of
1
urgenoy involved. Might I ask you to be so good as to
2
9
have
Horbert Putmam, Litt.D., LL.D.,
Librarian of Congress.
π
1
A
A

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.89)
have seme member of your staff take this matter in hand
and inferm me at an early date whether you heve available
sueh phetegraphs and wtəther yen could let this Departmens
have cepies fer presentaticon to the Japasese publieist whe
bas appresehed car Eabassy in Tokye with this ummsumal re-
quest. Also, in ease your reply is in the megative, eay
suggestion whieh you might be in pesitien to effer weuld
be greatly appreciated by,
Yours sineerely,
ta 1 o bech
Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern affairs.
A
tn
mai
PC
FE:SKH:ZMK/EJL
TE
7/8/37

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.95)
LABRARY OF COnGRBeS
p
RECEIVED
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Juiy 8, 1994
1937 JUL 26 PM 1 39
Division of
DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
COMMUNICATIONS
JUL 1 6 1937
AND RECORDS
Department of State
Jaly 26 1939
fie
Sir:
attention of the Chief of the Division of Fine Arts, Dr.
Holland.
He regrets that the Library of Congress has no duplicate
photographs of Presidents Grant, Theodore Roosevelt and Taft.
According to Dr. Holland, glossy prints of such portreits,
SHiBUSAWA,
suitable for reproduction, can be obtained from the Handy
Studios, 494 Maryland Ave., S. W., Washington, D. C., for $1.00
each, and a booklet with halftone portraits of all the presi-
dents and their wives may be had from the Haskin's Information
Bureau, 314 Eye St., N. E., Washington, for 10 cents each.
Harris & Ewing, photographers, 1313 F St., N. W., can furnish
glossy prints, size 8" x lo" of the Presidents desired for
$3.00 each.
0730
For the Librarian,
Very respectfully,
ViSCOUNT/27
S.G. Qaton
Acting Secretary of the Library
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
JUL937
Department of State
PILLE
Washington D C

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.95)
July 7, 1039.
Dear Mr. Farrell:
The Department has received from the Ameriean
Mabessy in Tekyo a request that we assist in ebtaining
894.44
fer a Japanese publieist who is conneeted with the
preparation of a biography of Viseount Shibusewe a
photegraph or Judge Gary.
Ordinarily, the Department could met undertake
to assist in sueh a matter. In this ease, hewever, it
B
BUSAWA,
happens that there are eiroumstanees whieh eause us to
feel dispesed to do what we can toward meetins the
request under reference. In course of canvassing ways
and means, it has oeourred to me that you might possibly
<
be in position to furnish or to obtain a copy of a
SCOUNT/
photograph of Judge Gary.
As there is involved in the matter a feature of
urgeney, I would very much appreciate it if you would
2
be so good as to let me know at your early oonvenience
a
whether you have available or could prooure an extra
oopy
Mr. James A. Farrell,
944 Firth Avenue,
New York, New York.
F
/AA

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.92)
- 2-
eepy ef sesh a photegreph and shether you eould let
the Bepertment have smeh a copy fer presentatiem te the
Japesese publieist whe has appreached cur kmabasay in
Tekye with this umussal reqaest.
Alse, in ease yeur reply is in the megative, any
sussestien whieh you might be in pesitien to effer would
be creatly appreciated by
Yours simeerely,
Stanley K. Hornbeek,
chiof,
Division of Far asterm Affairs.
FE:MMH:SKH/EJL:ZMK
FE

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
FE
3
Divieion of
MES A. FARRELL
RECEIVED
SEAVER STREET
DEPARTMENT OF STATER EASTERN AFFAIRS
NEW YORK
AUG 2 5 1937
Ail
1937 SEP PM 1
rtment of State
August 24, 1937.
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
14..
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
28
Your letter of July 7 has just come to my attention on
894.44-SHIBUSAWA VISOUNT/29
returning from a visit abroad.
I note the request from the American Embassy in Tokyo
in behalf of a Japanese publicist who is interested in the
preparation of a biography of Viscount Shibusawa. I will be able
to secure a photograph of Judge Gary, taken shortly after his
visit to Japan, and forward it to you within a few days.
As you probably know, Viscount Shibusawa visited this
country several times and on some of those occasions I had the
pleasure of seeing a great deal of him. On one occasion I
accompanied him on a visit to several of the plants of the United
States Steel Corporation. I was always very much impressed with
Viscount Shibusawa's apparent interest and friendly relations
between Japan and the United States. I am confident that a
biography of this eminent Japanese gentleman would prove
interesting reading to those in a position to secure a copy.
Sincerely yours,
Jamis a. Farril
894.44
SEP 2 9 1937
FILED
F-S

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.93)
J
August 25, 1937.
Dear Mr. Farrell:
Your letter of August 24 confirms my eonjeeture
894.44-SH1BUSAWA,
carlier fermed that you were probably abroad.
with regard to the matter of obtaining a photo-
raph of Judge Gary, I greatly appreoiate your response
that you will be able to secure sueh a photograph; but,
I am happy to inform you that we sometime ago succeeded
in obtaining what seemed to be a good copy of sueh a
photograph and there will therefore be no need for you
to trouble yourself with regard to that matter.
I am sure that we will all look forward to the
VISCOUNT/30
appearanoe of the biography of Visoount Shibusawa.
Thanking you for your helpful response to my
inquiry, I am,
Yours sinoerely,
K Hobnhe
Mr. James A. Farrell,
26 Beaver Street,
Now York, Now York.
SKH/ZMK
m.m.1
I
S

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.96)
2ite
atid
JAMES A.FARRELL
3
Divisiono
BG BEAVER STREET
RECEIVED
Sobyo
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NEW YORK
1937 P
13
eIVISION OF
er
August 30, 1937.
AND RELORDS
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
44-SHIBUSAWA VISCOUNT/31
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Referring further to your letter of July 7, my reply on
return from a visit abroad dated August 24, and yours of August 25,
I have succeeded in obtaining what seem to me to be good photos of
Judge Elbert H. Gary. I obtained these photos from Mr. Fred R. Sites,
who accompanied Judge Gary on one of his visits to Japan.
There are three photos, which I am sending you enclosed,
namely, a picture of Baron Shibusawa and Judge Gary taken on the
occasion of Baron Shibusawa' luncheon for Judge Gary on September 5,
1916, at the Baron's Oji villa, (On the reverse side of the same card
there is mounted a picture of Viscount Okuma and Judge Gary);a picture
of the group which attended the same luncheon; and a picture of Judge
Gary which was taken just prior to his visit to Japan.
These photographs are lcaned by Judge Gary's former secretary
who will appreciate their return when they have been used in the
biography of Viscount Shibusawa which is being prepared by a Japanese
publicist. If it is not too much trouble will you kindly have these
photos sent to the American Embassy in Tokyo for the above purpose.
Very truly yours,
Encls.
SEP 8 9 1997
FILED
F-S

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.97)
Septamber 4, 1957.
Bear Mr. Parrell:
Your letser of Lugust 30 and the three photo-
894.44-SHIBUSAWA
graphs whieh you have been so good as to send are
before me.
I greatly appreeiate your having gone to the
trouble of procuring and making available these
photographs.
Asting upon your suggestion, we will send these
photegraphs to the American mbassy in Tokyo, stating
that they have been loaned, for the purpose indioated,
VISCOUNT/32
and that they are to be returned, through us, to you.
Thanking you for your help in this matter, and
with best wishes, I am,
Yours sincerely,
Mr. James A. Farrell,
26 Beaver Street,
New York, New York.
SEF 9 1937.PM
厂1
PA/H:SKH:ZMK
S
-.m.N

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.97)
Septemter 10 1957
.1333
To the Ameriean Ambassader,
Tokyo.
Referenee is made to the Embassy's despateh No. s059
894.44-SH
of September 28, 1936, 1n whieh the assistanee of the
Department was requested toward obtaining photographs for
use in a biegraphy ef Visoount Shibusawa, and to the
Department's instruotion No. 1307 of July 26, 1957, en-
SHIBUSAWA,
elesing eopies of four photographs.
There are enelosed three photographs of Judge
Elbert H. Gary whieh were obtaimed through the good of-
fiees of Mr. James A. Farrell from Mr. Fred R. Sites, who
aceompanied Judge Gary on ome of his visits to Japan. In
SCO NT/33
forwarding these photographs to an offioer of the Depart-
ment, Mr. Farrell deseribed them as follows:
"a pieture of Baron Shibusawa aid Judge Gary
taken on the oceasion of Baron Shibusawa'
lumeheon for Judge Gary on September 5, 1916,
at the Baron's Oji villa, (On the reverse side
of the same card there is mounted a picture of
Viscount Okuma and Judge Gary); a pioture of
the group which attended the same lumeheon;
and a picture of Judge Gary whioh was taken
just prior to his visit to Japan."
As Mr. Farrell has requested that the photographs be
returned, please indicate to Mr. Obata that after he has
completed his use of them the photographs should be re-
turned to the Embassy for forwarding to the Department.
Enclosures:
Three photographs.
SEF
S
894.44 Shibusawa, Viscount
FE:WTT:MMH/EJL
9/9/37

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.87)
No. 26s0.
Tokye, (eteber 2s, 1989
SUBJEOTI RETUHN OF PHOTOGRAPHB.
The Henerable
The seeretary of tete
naehington.
2151
wish despeteh 1333, eptemter 10, 1937, the mbessy
reeoived frox the separt ont four poto ra;e ontained
throueh the ood offieee of  r. James. Farrell for
posslble use in è lography of viseount hibusewa. I
now have the honor to return these photoeraphs, oomplote
as reseived (listed bolow), and to exprese the tnan:s of
the abessy and of  r. . Obate whe is in eharge of the
shibusewa biography. Copies of the photocraphe have
been made by r. Obeta, who is deeply appreciative of the
kind esslstanee of those persons who have been soneerned
2

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.91)
-8-
in this kindness.
kespeetfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Cabot Coville
seeond eer tary of mbaeey.
Snolosures:
1.
Group photosraph of lunoheon party of eptember 5,
1916, iven by aron nibusawa in honor of Judse
ery.
2.
hotosrep ar aron hihumawa and Judpe vary.
optember1916.
3.
hotorepn  iscountuma and Jutve ary.
coptember 5, lele (mounted on reverse of photo raph
of aron hibusawo an uery.
tudio photo, rarh cf Jud e ary.
844.
cCome

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.87)
-8-
In this kindness.
kespeetfully yours,
For the mbaseador:
Cabot coville
Beeond eer tary of mbaooy.
Snolosures:
1.
uroup photosraph of lunoheon party of  eptomber 5.
1916, iven by aron .nibusawa in honor of Judse
ery.
hotoprep of aron nibumawe and Judpe cary,
ter1916.
3.
notor vloountu nd Juary
-optember s, lels (mou ted on rev rse of photo raph
ofarenbiuaen ary
.tudio photo raph or Judre
ary.
844.
CC1m
146

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, October 23, 1937
No. 2638.
SUBJECT: RETURN OF PHOTOGRAPHS
Distreberon Chock
Crode1
3IV1S
937 N0 M 2 09
10 L 3 A
SS
894.44-SHIBUSAWA,VISCOUNT/34
Vincorent
Lttt
Jamn 2.Jarrall
894.441
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Honorable
ANOXO937
The Secretary of State
Depattment of State
Washington.
Rebly to mr 7 arrild du ofted
Nov.11,1937-and thotos returned
Sir:
33
With despatch 1333, September 10, 1937, the Embassy
received from the Department four photographs obtained
through the good offices of Mr. James A. Farrell for
NUVL6197
possible use in a biography of Viscount Shibusawa. I
FTLED
now have the honor to return these photographs, complete
as received (listed below), and to express the thanks of
the Embassy and of Mr. K. Obata who is in charge of the
Shibusawa biography. Copies of the photographs have
been made by Mr. Obata, who is deeply appreciative of the
kind assistance of those persons who have been concerned
in

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
in this kindness.
Respectfully yours,
Bltbils ls
For the Ambassador:
Cabot Coville
Second Secretary of Embassy.
Exclosures:
1.
Group photograph of luncheon party of September 5,
1916, given by Baron Shibusawa in honor of Judge
Gary.
2.
Photograph of Baron Shibusawa and Judge Gary,
September 5, 1916.
3.
Photograph of Viscount Okuma and Judge Gary,
September 5, 1916 (mounted on reverse of photograph
of Baron Shibusawa and Judge Gary).
4.
Studio photograph of Judge Gary.
844.
CC:mg

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.95)
Novemper 15 1937
In reply refer to
 s9e.44-Shibusawa, Viscount
My dear Mr. Farrell:
In Mr. Hornbeck's absence at Brussels, I am returning
894.44
to you herewith the three photographs of Judge Elbert H.
Gary which you were so kind as to send to Mr. Hornbeok on
August 30, 1937, in fulfillment of the request, transmitted
SHIDUSAnA
through the Amerioan Embassy in Tokyo, of a Japanese publi-
cist who is preparing a biography of Viscount Shibusawa.
In returning these photographs the Embassy requests
that its deep appreciation, and that of the publicist in
question, be expressed to you and to those others who
have been concerned in this kindness. I wish also to
add our sincere thanks for your assistance in this matter.
Sincerely yours,
-
Mexwell M. Hamilton
C
Chier
Division of Fer Eastern Affairs
(For enclosures, see following page.)
Mr. James A. Farrell,
7
26 Beaver Stres.,
CR V.
NOV 15 1937.
goov o
New York, New York.
FE:JMJ:NN:REK
11/13/37

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.94)
-8-
Enelesures:
1. Pieture ef Baren Shibusawa
and Judge Gary taken on the
cesasion er the Baron's
luneheen fer Judge Gary at
the Baron's oyi villa. (On
the reverse of the same eard
there is mounted a pieture
of Viseount Okume and Judge
Gary.)
2. Group photograph of luneheon
party or September B, lols,
given by Baron Shibusswa in
honor of Judge Gary.
3. Studio photograph of Judge
Gary.
fmy
FE: JMJ:NN
FE
11/11/37

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.93)
893.4
FILE NO.
DEPARTNENT OF STATE
CHARGE SLIP
CHANGE TO -
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
REMARKS
QE-Pratt
2RK
5-9-47
()
36-53

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.95)
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I.ANDM.I.D.
TELEGRAM RECETVED
GRAY
RECEIVED
FROM
Shanghai vie N.R."
MAY 90 1832
Dated May 26, 1983
DIVISONG
Reo'd 7:57 a.m.
Division of
Bile
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Beoretary of State,
MAY 26 1932
A
Washington.
Zeneral
267, May 36,4 p.m.
894.00. /401
Referring to my telegram No. 263, May 24,
4 p.m., just informed by the Japanese Consul General
that General Shirakawa died at noon today. Repeated
to the Legation.
CUNNINGHAM
RR WWO
GENERAL/I
Y 31 1932
FILED

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENTFILE
NOTE
894.44-SH1RAKAWA/
SEE
894.00-P.R./54
FOR
634
FROM ......
Japan
(.Nev111) DATED ..June 1.1932
xxx
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING: the death of General Baron Yoshinori Shirakawa as a result
of the Hongkew bombing incident.
2
dew
