894.6341 Mines. Mining. Concessions., Precious Metals And Precious Stones., Japan, Gold., December 3, 1947 - May 9, 1949 (File 1722)
ID: 894.6341-1722   Pages: 20   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.6341-mines-mining-concessions-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: FN, OPD, Le/E, SEA, FE, WE, NA, A-T, A-S    DATE: December 3, 1947
FROM: OE - Mr. Whitman
SUBJECT: French and Siamese Earmarked Gold in Japan.

The attached letter to General Draper, Under Secretary of the Army, is submitted for the formal approval of the Divisions of the Department indicated above. It reflects the course of action agreed upon at the meeting called by A-S on December 1, 1947, which was attended by representatives of the Divisions of the Department interested in the question.

The letter informs the Department of the Army, and through it the SCAP, of the determination made by the Department that:

(1) Unilateral action is inadvisable.

(2) The question should be resolved by the Far Eastern Commission.

(3) Once the question is before the Far Eastern Commission, the United States will take no initial position but will determine its final position in the light of the proposals advanced by other FEC countries.

A copy of the minutes of the meeting referred to above, is also attached, which outlines the course of further action vis-a-vis the French and Siamese Embassies.

Attachment:

Letter to Gen. Draper
Minutes of meeting of December 1, 1947

OE:RBParke:mw
(See Routings, above)

294 6341/12-347
3916

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER

December 4, 1947.

TO: A-S - Mr. Claxton #2
FROM: Le/E - Walter S. Surrey WSS
SUBJECT: Indo-Chinese and Siamese Gold in Japan.

With reference to the memorandum of conversation of December 1, 1947 dealing with the "Indo-Chinese and Siamese Gold in Japan", Le is of the opinion that the conclusions reached at the bottom of page 2 are fully satisfactory, with the exception of conclusion no. 4, reading

"That this Government will take no initial position at the time of the presentation to the FEC and will consider abstaining from taking a position throughout the debate."

Le is of the opinion that the Department should arrive at an initial position to be taken in the FEC prior to discussion of the matter in the FEC. In the event that the varying views cannot be resolved by the working levels, the question should be submitted to Mr. Lovett prior to discussion in the FEC for decision as to what the initial position should be.

On this basis Le/E has cleared the communications to the French and Siamese.

cc to: WE - Mr. Wallner
EUR - Mr. Jackson
NA - Mr. Green
OE - Mr. Whitman
SEA - Mr. Landon
Le/P - Gen. Snow
A-T - Mr. Wood
FE - Mr. Butterworth

Le/E:WSS:vwm

3789
3916

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WESTERN DIVISION OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
OFFICE OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
DIRECTOR
DEC 18 1947
MR. HICKERSON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

EUR - Mr. Reber:

The question of French gold in Japan has again come to an impasse. There is general agreement that the matter should be taken to FEC after consultation with the French, but there is no agreement as to the position we should take in FEC.

I have proposed that, as we really can decide the question one way or another without going to FEC and that as we only resort to FEC because we are reluctant, for very good reasons, to make the decision ourselves, that we put it up to FEC without taking an initial position, thus letting the majority of FEC members decide. This was agreed to at a recent meeting but since then I has reversed itself on this score and I suspect that some other Divisions feel the same way. Wayne Jackson and I feel that this is basically a political question upon which FE and EUR should reach agreement before the matter is again presented to the Department as a whole.

Would you consider having a meeting with Walton Butterworth and threshing this matter out.

Sam - I am not aware of a reversal of my position. My view is + has been that US should not go into FEC without a formulation of US position (or alternative positions to which we can retreat) for the guidance of the US member of FEE. We do not have to announce our position, or alternative positions in the FEC until we want to, but Ma Ray must know what they are.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
SECRET
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Mr. Breithut
DATE: March 24, 1948

FROM : Mr. Fletcher
SUBJECT: Indo-China Gold Claim

In compliance with your request, I am glad to give you the following information:

1. The French Embassy presented a note on subject matter to the Department of State on May 6, 1947 stating in short terms their claim in the name of the French Union to the 33,056.813 kg. of fine gold earmarked at the Yokohama Specie Bank for the account of the Bank of Indo-China. The gold was later transferred to the Bank of Japan by the occupying authorities. A reply to this note was drafted in OE and both the note and the draft reply were held for a number of months in Mr. Wallner's office (WE). I located the French note and the draft reply, which has not been sent yet, at Mr. Hemmendinger's desk (A-O). The note will now be sent over to us.

2. On October 20, 1947 a letter from the Washington law firm of Cox, Langford, etc., dated October 17th, was received in Le/E, containing a copy of a legal opinion prepared by Professor Hamel of the University of Paris, which I discovered in the files of OE.

3. OE also had on file a second French note dated October 23, 1947 elaborating on the claim as stated in their first note of May 6, 1947. To this note, too, a reply was drafted in OE, but was stopped by Mr. Hemmendinger and returned to OE with the remark that the case might have to be submitted to FEC and no reply should be made until then. The complete material is now in my file.

4. A solution of the Indo-China gold problem cannot be divorced from the decision regarding the similar Siamese claim. A memorandum is now being prepared by Bob Parke of OE and myself (in accordance with the assignment given us by the interdivisional meeting on this matter a few days ago) requesting Le/E to provide another legal opinion on the justification to deny on legal grounds, not as a matter of policy, the whole of the Indo-Chinese, Siamese gold claim or at least the post Pearl Harbor portion bulk of such claims of certain new legal and factual developments. and on the question whether such decision can be made unilaterally by the U.S. and that the gold would automatically

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
SECRET

The legal opinion should include a statement with regard to the strength of the claim of the U.S. under the first charge principle to all Japanese-owned gold and, consequently, whether decision can be made by the U.S. unilaterally or by submission to FEC only.

5. There is attached a copy of the policy paper on this matter prepared for the Secretary's office a few days ago. I gather you want to send this copy to Mr. Thorp's office.

Enclosure:
Policy paper,
Indo-China's and
Siam's Gold Claim,
drafted March 18, 1948.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: FN Mr. Fletcher
DATE: March 24, 1948

FROM: O Mr. H Gohringer

SUBJECT: French and Siamese Gold in Japan.

In accordance with your telephone request, I am sending you herewith the French notes and other action documents on the above subject.

1. French note of May 6, 1947 together with draft reply.
2. Memorandum of October 13, 1947 from Mr. Saltzman to Mr. Lovett with indorsement from Mr. Lovett.
3. French note of October 22, 1947.
4. Copy of Siamese note of August 5, 1947 together with draft reply.
5. Copy of memorandum of conversation of December 1, 1947.
6. Memorandum from Mr. Surrey to Mr. Claxton referring to memorandum of conversation #5.
7. Memorandum from Mr. Butterworth to Mr. Gross of December 16, 1947.
8. Memorandum from Mr. Wallner to Mr. Reber dated December 18, 1947 with indorsement by Mr. Gross.
9. Memorandum of law submitted by Mr. Alk with letter dated August 28, 1947.
10. Drafts of letter from Department of State to General Draper together with memorandum by Mr. Whitman.

A-5 3789
3916
3523
72
1376

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : OFD - Mr. Knapp
DATE: May 27, 1948
FROM : OE - Mr. Whitman
PVM
SUBJECT: Gold in Japan Under Earmark for Siam and Indo-China.

The Department has had under consideration for some time the question of the disposition of approximately $80 million worth of gold in Japan under earmark for French Indo-China (approximately $37 million) and Siam (approximately $43 million). This gold was earmarked by Japan for these countries shortly before and during the war on the basis of agreements entered into by them involving the sale of commodities and services to Japan, including, in the case of French Indo-China, certain occupation costs. The Siamese and French Governments are pressing for the release of this gold, which is now in Japan in the custody of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.

The Office of the Legal Adviser has indicated that as a question of legal principle, the U.S. recognizes that the earmarking of gold gives title to the country in whose name the gold is earmarked, and that the U.S. should recognize that French Indo-China and Siam hold title to the gold in question unless it is determined, as a matter of policy, that the transactions which gave rise to the earmarking of gold by Japan in the name of Indo-China and Siam were of such a nature as to justify the United States in holding that the legal effect of earmarking was therefor vitiated. The Treasury Department holds substantially the same view.

On October 13, 1947, the Under Secretary indicated he was inclined to the view that the question of the release of the gold in Japan earmarked for both Indo-China and Siam should be submitted to the Far Eastern Commission. This action was recommended primarily because of the amount of gold involved, the political implications of the problem, and because the Far Eastern Commission has assumed jurisdiction over the disposition of Japanese-owned gold in Japan and of United Nations' property in Japan, particularly when the disposition of such property is related to the payment of reparations by Japan. It was felt that these considerations are of sufficient weight to render unilateral action inadvisable.

There is now in the process of development within the Department the position which the U.S. Government should take in the Far Eastern Commission if the question is referred to that body. To date, there has been no agreement within the Department with respect to such a position. A number of divisions considered that the U.S. should take no position at all in the Far Eastern Commission, and should not actually seek to arrive at a position until FEC consideration had

neared

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 8 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -

neared its conclusion. Others have insisted that although it may be appropriate for this Government to refrain from stating its position at the outset, the U.S. Representative should be fully instructed as to the U.S. position before the matter is submitted to the FEC.

The viewpoint heretofore developed by OPD has been that notwithstanding the earmarking, which would otherwise convey title, the belligerent governments against Japan should not, as a matter of policy, allow a preference to be given to governments which collaborated with the enemy over governments which were completely occupied, suffered disastrously and have no possibility of adequate compensation from Japan, and that, therefore, the gold earmarked after December 7, 1941, should not be turned over to the claimants but treated as Japanese and subject to the claim of the victors. So far as the U.S. is concerned, it would appear that there would be no strong grounds on which to impugn the validity of earmarkings made by Japan prior to the outbreak of hostilities between the U.S. and Japan, unless the U.S., on grounds of equity, would wish to consider the interests of other countries represented on the FEC, since they (e.g. China) might well wish to attack the validity of all such earmarkings on the ground that certain of them were actually at war with Japan before that date, or like Siam and French Indo-China, were occupied by Japanese forces and their resources exploited by the Japanese without payment of any adequate compensation. The earmarkings were performed in connection with war-time trade and military transactions consummated by regimes of French Indo-China and Siam while those countries were subject to Japanese occupation. The favorable treatment accorded these two countries by Japan in earmarking the gold rather than in settlement on a less favorable basis, is believed to have been because the regimes in control of these areas entered into cooperative commercial and military arrangements with Japan which were detrimental to the interest of the U.S. and her allies. Therefore, to recognize the validity of these claims would be to reward those areas for favorable arrangements consummated by their wartime regimes and to discriminate against other occupied countries which have no prospect of receiving compensation for the exploitation of their resources by the Japanese except by reparations payments, which would probably afford only very partial compensation at best.

The immediate interest of the United States would be best served, of course, if the gold in question is declared Japanese. As Japanese gold it would ultimately be disposed of as reparations, but in the meantime it would be available under FEC policy directive, for the acquisition of foreign exchange to aid in financing production programs designed to contribute to the revival of productivity in a

Japanese
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 9 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 3 -

Japanese peace economy. Also, the United States claims the right, known as the "first charge principle", to avail itself of Japanese assets, including gold, to defray the costs of occupation and the maintenance of a minimum standard of living in Japan in preference to the use of such assets for the payment of reparations. This right, however, is not recognized by all the members of the FEC and may, therefore, be regarded as a controversial matter at this time.

In the event it should prove to be impossible to assert the first charge principle against this gold, or retain it for Japan, OE would prefer that it be distributed to all former Japanese-occupied countries, including Siam, rather than to France and Siam alone. The one serious question which would seem to arise if the gold presently under earmark for Siam and French Indo-China is declared Japanese, is whether, in view of its earmarked status and the possibility of claims by the claimants if the gold is transferred to other jurisdictions, it would be possible either to sell the gold for foreign exchange or use it as a credit base on which to negotiate a loan. Thus it would appear necessary to determine the legal capacity of the United States unilaterally or the FEC to give quit-claim in any transaction involving the gold in question.

On the other hand, FN now appears to be inclined to the view that this Government should suggest to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers that unless he preceives some objection not heretofore considered, he announce as his decision that the gold belongs to the claimants and will be transferred to them, but that the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers should withhold actual transfer until the FEC has had a chance to consider the decision. If strong objection to this decision is met in the FEC, the U.S. should consider the various possibilities for a solution to the problem by negotiation with Siam and Indo-China. This position is taken on the grounds that the equitable argument that Indo-China and Siam received a preference by the earmarkings in question over other countries occupied by Japanese forces which should not be allowed to stand, is countered by the validity in international law of such payments (whether to an occupied enemy of Japan, a co-belligerent or a neutral) and the practice until now of treating such transfers in the course of the war as valid.

A working group composed of a representative of FN, OE, and NA, in coordination with O, is now in the process of preparing a list of questions for submission to the Office of the Legal Adviser for an opinion

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 4 -

opinion on the legal aspects of the issues involved. It is contemplated that after the opinion of the Legal Adviser is obtained on these questions a meeting will be called at the office level with a view to determining a U.S. position in the matter.

There is attached for further background information a number of papers pertinent to the problem.

OE:RBParke:mw:el
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
DRAFT
SECRET
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Mr. Gross - Le
DATE: April 14, 1948
FROM : Mr. Claxton - O
SUBJECT: Gold in Japan Earmarked for French Indo-China and Siam.

The attached memorandum (Annex "A") gives the substance of a discussion of the subject by representatives of interested Divisions of the Department on March 17, 1948.

You will note that it was decided to obtain from the Legal Adviser his opinion on two basic questions:

1. The strength of the United States claim to Japanese-owned gold generally under the first charge principle; and

2. Whether an acceptable case, from the standpoint of international law, can be made to treat the gold in Japan under earmark for French Indo-China and Siam, or a substantial part of it, as Japanese.

First Charge Principle.

The "first charge principle" is the right claimed by the United States to avail itself of Japanese assets to defray the costs of occupation and the maintenance of a minimum standard of living in Japan in preference to their use for the payment of reparations. This principle was established by the Far Eastern Commission in FEC-014/9 "Basic Post-Surrender Policy for Japan", Part IV (4), which provides, in part, that "The reparations shall be in such a form as would . . . not prejudice the defraying of the cost of occupation and the maintenance of a minimum civilian standard of living."

The question of the applicability of this principle to Japanese-owned gold arises because of paragraph 16 c of FEC-032/26, July 25, 1947, "Interim Import-Export Policies for Japan", which provides, in part, that "Stocks of gold . . . of clearly established Japanese ownership ultimately should be disposed of as reparations. In the meantime, values of such Japanese assets should be preserved, but such assets themselves may be used as a means of acquiring foreign exchange to aid in financing production programs designed to contribute to the revival of productivity in a Japanese peace economy . . ." (This paragraph was adopted by the FEC and concurred in by the U.S. to give SCAP immediate use of the gold for financing Japanese foreign trade.)

The United Kingdom has taken the position that the Far Eastern Commission, in passing FEC 032/26, had in effect decided that the

disposition

594.6341/8-14 48

=== Page 12 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

disposition of Japanese gold for reparations did not in fact prejudice the question of meeting the costs of occupation, and hence "stocks of gold . . . of clearly established Japanese ownership . . ." are available for ultimate disposition as reparations without regard to "the defraying of the cost of occupation and the maintenance of a minimum civilian standard of living." On the other hand, the U.S. has consistently held that the provisions of paragraph 16 c were without prejudice to the provision of the earlier decision (FEC-014/9) and a statement to this effect was made by the U.S. Representative at the time FEC-032/26 was passed (See Annex "B").

The question to be resolved, therefore, would appear to be whether the "first charge principle" as it might apply to Japanese-owned gold, finds sanction in existing FEC policy statements or whether, in view of the British position, its applicability to such gold has to be reaffirmed by further FEC action which would, in effect, amend paragraph 16 c. Stated in another manner, at the time of the adoption of the FEC policy decision making Japanese-owned gold available for reparations, did the United States lose the right to assert the first charge principle in respect to such gold? Was that right lost with respect to both 1) the defrayment of accrued occupation costs; and 2) the defrayment of current occupation costs, including the maintenance of a minimum civilian standard of living in Japan? (Comment: OE is of the view that U.S. interests will be served regardless of the applicability of "the first charge principle" to Japanese gold if the earmarked gold in question is declared Japanese in view of paragraph 16 c, providing for the use of Japanese gold to finance Japanese foreign trade programs. Assuming that the first charge principle does apply to this gold, its use to defray current occupation costs, including the maintenance of a minimum civilian standard of living in Japan, probably would ultimately reduce the need for currently appropriated funds by more than the amount of the gold involved, and therefore would be preferable to its use to defray accrued occupation costs. Maximum benefit would, therefore, accrue to the United States and the Japanese economy if the first charge principle were clearly established in addition to the earmarked gold being declared Japanese-owned, as the gold would then be used under more flexible and economically sounder arrangements than are possible under the present terms of paragraph 16 c, FEC-032/26).

Case for Treatment of Gold as Japanese.

The OFD position, based on considerations of policy and overall equity to other former Japanese-occupied areas, as well as the claimants to this gold, has been set forth in previous memoranda. In summary, this position is as follows:

So far as the United States is concerned, it would appear that there would be no strong grounds on which to impugn the validity of earmarkings made by Japan prior to the outbreak of hostilities between the United States and Japan, unless the U.S., on grounds of equity, would wish to engage the interests of other countries represented on the Far Eastern Commission, since they (e.g. China) might well wish to attack the validity of all such earmarkings, on the ground that certain of them were actually at war with Siam, or like Siam and French Indo-China, were occupied by Japanese forces and their resources exploited

bv

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

by the Japanese without payment of any adequate compensation.

In respect to the gold earmarked in Japan for the account of French Indo-China and Siam between December 7, 1941 and the date of the Japanese surrender, again so far as the U.S. is immediately concerned, the circumstances under which the earmarking occurred and the nature of the transactions involved were such as to warrant the determination, as a matter of policy, that they vitiate the transfer of title that the act of earmarking would otherwise convey. This earmarking was performed in connection with war-trade and military transactions consummated by regimes in French Indo-China and Siam while those countries were subject to Japanese occupation. The favorable treatment accorded these two countries by Japan in earmarking the gold, rather than in settlement on a less favorable basis, is believed to have been because the regimes in control of these areas entered into cooperative commercial and military arrangements with Japan which were detrimental to the interests of the United States and her allies. Therefore, to recognize the validity of these claims would be to reward those areas for favorable arrangements consummated by their wartime regimes, and to discriminate against other occupied countries which have no prospect of receiving compensation for the exploitation of their resources by the Japanese except by reparations payments which will probably afford only very partial compensation at best. As an extension of this position consistent with the above analysis, OE would, provided it seemed desirable from a policy standpoint in the FEC, be prepared to support an FEC policy statement providing for the distribution of this earmarked gold among all former Japanese-occupied countries, including Siam, on an equitable basis.

The Legal Adviser has indicated (memorandum to the Under Secretary dated October 2, 1947) that "as a question of legal principle the United States recognizes that the earmarking of gold gives title to the country in whose name the gold is earmarked." The effects of earmarking as such might now be considered in the light of the recent action taken by the U.S. Government in regard to Swiss assets in the U.S. in which there is presumed to be an enemy interest (Annex "C"). This action might be taken as implying that the U.S. Government would not recognize the validity of earmarking if higher policy considerations counsel otherwise is prepared to withhold redemption of legal title to property if considered justified by higher policy considerations.

There also appears to be some question as to whether the Japanese regard the effect of earmarking as conveying title. SCAP reports that "an official of the Japanese Ministry of Finance has stated that during the war there was a difference of opinion between the Ministry for Greater East Asia and the Ministry of Finance of the Japanese Government as to which country, Japan or Thailand, was the actual owner of the earmarked gold. The Ministry of Greater East Asia claimed that the gold belonged to Thailand at the time of earmark; the Ministry of Finance claimed that the gold belonged to Japan until it was delivered to Thailand either upon delivery in Japan to a representative of Thailand or delivery in Thailand. It was further stated that during one shipment of gold from Japan to Thailand there were several conferences between the two ministries in an attempt to determine which country would suffer the loss if the gold were lost, but the conferences were not concluded upon notification of the safe arrival of the shipment of gold.

Insurance

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-

Insurance and transportation charges in connection with the shipment of the gold were borne by the Japanese.

Another indication that the Japanese may not have regarded earmarking as conveying title, appears to be reflected by the fact that on various occasions during the war, the Japanese refused to ship earmarked gold either to French Indo-China or Siam "because of the hazards of transportation," despite provisions in the earmarking agreements that the gold would be shipped on the request. The Yokohama Specie Bank, which was acting as the agent of Siam in securing the earmarking of the gold by the Bank of Japan was, under the terms of the agreement, required to secure the permission of the Japanese Government prior to actual shipment of the earmarked gold. The Japanese Government promised to give this permission on the request of Siam, but did not always do so ostensibly because of "hazards of transportation". Had the Japanese earmarked the gold in good faith and considered that earmarking conveyed title, they certainly would not have been concerned over its possible loss in shipment. (There is, of course, the possibility that had Japan won the war, the gold would never have been turned over to Siam and French Indo-China). Apparently, the Japanese Ministry of Finance regarded the act of earmarking merely as an encumbrance upon its stocks of gold, somewhat as appropriated funds in the United States are encumbered (or earmarked) for certain purposes and may not be expended for other purposes.

Another consideration which seems to bear on the position the U.S. should take in this matter, is whether the U.S. Treasury would purchase the gold in question if, despite the earmarking performed by Japan, its release to French Indo-China and Siam were denied either:

(a) by unilateral directive of the United States; or
(b) by policy directive of the Far Eastern Commission.

It is suggested that the Treasury Department be requested to pass on this question since the gold would be of little immediate economic benefit to Japan if it could not be used to acquire foreign exchange to aid in financing trade programs in Japan.

Conclusion

The opinion of the Legal Adviser is requested on the two questions raised in the second paragraph of this memorandum in the light of the considerations and facts set forth herein, and such other considerations as may be deemed appropriate. The Legal Adviser's opinion would also be helpful on the question of what would be the implications, from a standpoint of a possible precedent in international law, if the United States should for policy reasons take a position against the release of the gold to French Indo-China and Siam on the grounds that the transactions underlying the earmarking were detrimental to the interests of the Allies in time of war. As a possible alternative solution, what would be the legal implications of the U.S. taking the position within the FEC that, whereas the status of the gold is in doubt, it should, on grounds of equity, be divided among the former Japanese-occupied countries, including Siam?

OE:RBParke:mw

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Personal and Confidential
American Embassy, Bangkok, Siam, April 18, 1949.

My dear Ken:

I was happy to receive your letter of March 21st which contained some rather encouraging news concerning the gold in Tokyo, earmarked for Siam. I am very glad indeed that you pushed this matter all the way to the Secretary's desk because I am sure, as I wrote you before, that it will require action at that high level to induce SCAP to relinquish the gold. About two weeks ago I received a long letter from Sebald in which he outlined CAP's thinking on this subject. He enumerated the various reasons and arguments put forth by SCAP why the gold could not be returned to Siam and said rather plainly that SCAP was, of course, not concerned with the political aspects of this problem. I might say that I had written Sebald and stressed how damaging it would be to our relations with Siam, if we were the ones to block the return of this gold. The Siamese would feel that we had literally robbed them of what they believe is rightfully theirs and this feeling would be heightened if, as seems to be SCAP's intention, this gold were used to defray occupation costs in Japan. I am afraid it would be an impossible task to explain in an intelligible fashion to the Siamese just why we blocked the return of the gold and then took it, ourselves. About the only way we could soften such a blow would be to turn around and offer the Siamese a substantial loan, but, of course, that would not completely mollify them since they would still be faced with the necessity of repaying such a loan.

I sent off an airgram the other day reporting that Doll, the British Financial Adviser to the Siamese Government was about to proceed to England on home leave and that he informed me that he had been charged by the Siamese Government with persuading the British Treasury officials to support the Siamese requests for the return of this gold if and when the matter comes before the FEC. From what I know of the British attitude on this question, it appears that the British Foreign Office officials are disposed to support the Siamese claim, but that the Treasury officials take a dim view of the gold being returned to Siam. The latter would apparently very much prefer to see the gold thrown into the general reparations kitty from which they might derive some benefit when the kitty is divided up.

Kenneth P. Landon, Esquire,
Assistant Chief,
Division of Southeast Asian Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington.

File Landon

894.6341/4-1849

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-

Personal and Confidential

I was very much interested in the information you gave concerning the proposals for aid to Siam under Point IV. That is indeed an achievement, to give so much emphasis and importance to Siam. If as much as two million dollars is actually allocated for expenditure on Siam, I think we can make very good use of this sum. I agree with you that the training aspect of Point IV aid is very important although I must say that after seeing so many young Siamese return from studying abroad and the difficulty they have, firstly, in finding jobs which they regard as satisfactory and secondly in readjusting themselves to life in Siam, I am beginning to wonder if it is not equally important to send qualified teachers and instructors to Siam to train the young men and women of this country without unduly upsetting their mode of life or actually removing them from their local environment. I think, however, that the proportion of trainees to a clean experts or teachers suggested in your letter is about right. With reference to technical experts and teachers which should be sent to Siam, I think we need to be careful to maintain a balanced ratio so that we will have neither too many technical experts nor a disproportionate number of teachers or cultural representatives. Any advance information you can give us regarding the mechanics and workings of assistance to be extended under Point IV would be very helpful. Is Point IV aid likely to be covered by new legislation or will it be extended under the provisions of the existing Smith-Lundt Act? Furthermore, what relationship will there be between Point IV aid and the Fullbright Act? One point I should like to urge is that any aid given to Siam, whether under Point IV or in a military way, be given publicity by the Department. I would very much like to see the Department issue one or more statements when aid is assured. I feel a statement or statements by the Department very important from both the political and psychological points of view. I think if we expect, or if we hope Siam will prove to be somewhat of a vast amount against Communism, and if we hope to see the Siamese make an effort to continue to do it, it is important that we issue a statement describing what aid is being specifically extended to Siam. We can of course give wide distribution to such a statement or statements here in Siam and I think it would make a very definite impression upon the people, would give them a feeling that they are not standing alone, and would encourage them to resist Communism. I do hope, therefore, that you will bear this particular point in mind and see to it that whatever aid is extended be made the subject of a special and separate little Department statement.

With reference to the political situation, I feel as you do, that further trouble is to be expected. The Phibun government, and more particularly the Each coup group, is making every effort to round up and intimidate Fridi and his followers, but whether they will succeed to the extent of discouraging the Fridi group from making any further attempt to seize

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-

Personal and Confidential

to seize control, is problematical; but I think the greatest uneasiness is caused by the continued bad feeling between the Navy and the Army, or rather, the Each group of the Army here in Bangkok. There is no question that the Navy is very sore over Phibun's failure thus far to carry out any of the "understandings" reached between the Navy and the Army during the recent trouble. This uneasiness is reflected in most co-vacuations with the Siamese who follow political developments. They all talk in terms of further trouble, and of course the astrologers are busy fixing new dates for new coups d'etat. I have been doing what I can in a personal and friendly way to urge the absolute necessity of political factions getting together and proposing the establishment of a real coalition government. I do not see any other possibility of real political stability. I am achieved since no one faction seems to be strong enough to maintain itself in power for any length of time. I am inclined to think that such a coalition might be formed if Phibun can get rid of each and his boys, but this latter group is so firmly entrenched, and Phibun owes so much to them, that there appears to be less and less likelihood of Phibun's being able to oust Each. The political prospects, at least in the immediate future, are therefore none too bright, and it is the sort of situation which the Communists know well how to exploit if they choose to do so. However, the people continue to enjoy a reasonable measure of prosperity and Siam continues to be, relatively speaking, one of the most stable countries in SEA. Furthermore, there is no question that the Siamese people are basically non-Communistic. I feel, therefore, that we should not hold back the giving of technical and other aid if such is made available, but I think we should watch the situation carefully to see that such aid is not misused.

We are getting you a copy of the "New Guide to Bangkok" which will be forwarded to you in the pouch. How kind of you to send me a copy of your most recent book; I shall most certainly read it and know in advance that it will be well worth reading. You say nothing about the remarkable hand in family but I take it that they are all well and busily engaged in literary or other worthwhile pursuits.

As ever,

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
May 9, 1949

PERSONAL AND
CONFIDENTIAL

Dear Ed:

It was a pleasure to receive your letter and to have your views on various matters. Thanks a great deal also for sending me the Guide Book to Bangkok. I assume that the cost was deducted from the dwindling remnants of my funds there. If you will let me know when they are exhausted I will send some more to have on deposit.

Lacy came back with an alarming picture of your health and I have decided to write you posthaste to inquire about your health. I would especially like to know whether you feel you need an operation, in which case you would doubtless prefer to have it in the USA. In view of the fact that Jimmy Scott is gunning for your job, I would prefer to keep the health angle as much in the quiet as possible. I believe it could be arranged for us to call you home on consultation at any time you feel the need of health leave or especially for an operation. With the situation developing as it is in China and with the drift of Communists into Burma and possibly into Indochina and Siam, it would require little imagination on our part to enable us to justify a period of consultation. Although it means a great deal to us all to know that you are representing US interests in Siam, I am sure no one wants you to hang on grimly in ill health. As Confucius say, "Live dog better than dead lion". Please keep me informed and let me know of your needs and I will do the best by you that I can.

The Siamese Ambassador is standing poised with a note from his Government to present some day this week to the Secretary, in which he will request that the US withdraw from

Ambassador Edwin F. Stanton,
American Embassy,
Bangkok.

File - London

=== Page 19 === (confidence 1.00)
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
-2-

from its joint trust relationship with the British over enemy assets, leaving Siam responsible for those assets pending final decision by international negotiation. As far as we are concerned in the Department it seems a good move. The agents of the Siamese Government report that the British are not opposed to the idea and are also looking into it. You might check with Thompson to discover his views on the matter. Incidentally, what are your own?

I have just finished providing material to be used this week or next on the Hill in regard to military aid on a reimbursable basis for Siam. That is the only basis on which we can hope to secure it under present conditions unless Siam's position becomes desperate. British aid which was proffered to Siam, you may recall, was also on a reimbursable basis. I have had a very difficult time keeping Siam in the picture militarily even on this basis. Many of our military and high political officers have been inclined to cut Siam out.

You asked about the Landon family in your last letter. Peggy, our eldest, is still sold on the idea of marriage after almost six months of it. Her husband expects to begin his dental school studies next fall, and one of these days I hope we will all be able to have gold teeth with a dentist in the family. Bill, our eldest son, has one more year of college and then he hopes to go into some sort of chemical industry. He has that eager look in his eye which means an engagement ring, so I presume we will shortly have two of them married. Carol at 16 is a sophomore in high school and is starting with her first formals. Along with her interest in boys she also has an interest in rats, having a box full of them which she is breeding, selling the offspring at 40¢ apiece. Fortunately, we have a number of bathrooms because she keeps them in one of the bathtubs so that they cannot escape. On a hot night I envy the life of a rat. Kip, our youngest, is no longer a baby, he thinks, and will start school in the fall at six. We are sending him to the Cathedral School. Margaret is hoping to finish the book version of *Never Dies the Dream*, which is currently appearing in McCall's. She has to have the final manuscript in the hands of the publisher by May 16 or else the book will not be published this fall in time for the Christmas sales. We need those sales. Our principal family diversion is gardening, and at present our rock garden has about 270 varieties of rock garden plants, many of which are evergreens.

Now tell us about you and Josie and yours. Please remember me to Stone and the others who may remember me.

Sincerely yours,

=== Page 20 === (confidence 1.00)
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
-2-

P.S.
I am glad to have your comments in regard to the Point IV Program. I notice that you agree with me in the balance ratio between trainees and foreign technical experts. You ask whether Point IV aid will be covered by new legislation. Yes, it will. There is no adequate legislation to provide for the extensive number of projects presently contemplated. The Smith-Mundt Act is only a stepping stone along the way. That is my understanding of it. At present the over-all programs for Middle and Far Eastern countries are drafted and ready to be presented to Congress. There is no direct relationship between Point IV aid and the Fullbright Act. Consequently, although no Fullbright Agreement has been reached by Siam we can go ahead with Point IV aid as soon as the new legislation is passed. In regard to publicity, I am not certain. One reason being that the President has been very emphatic in desiring that as much of this aid as possible be channeled through UN. I think, however, that we can certainly pass the word around in some fashion to let people know that the US is the principal agent in providing the money and most of the experts. For Siam we have drafted one of the finest programs east of India, and I think you will be very pleased with it when you see it.

K.P.L.
