894.20211A Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Hawaii Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., March 9 (File 1110)
ID: 894.20211A-1110   Pages: 496   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20211a-military-affairs-army-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.89)
Achnaly
INSTITUTE OF PACIFIC RELATIONS
DCRfK.
LONDON
MANILA
MOSCOW
NEW YORK
SMANONAI
STDWBY
TORTO
TOBONTO
OF THE SBCRETARY-OENERAL
Apr1l 9 .930
MNT OF
RECPIVEO
Livision o
AF:10 1936
FAR LASTERN AFFARS
Maxwell k. Hamiltor,
DIVISION UF
APRI 6 1936
Dep rtrent of Siete
Department of State
Washington, D.0.
Dear Hamilton,
14
This is to the na you for your letter of March 6th
returning the min ogreph copy of e text book on
894.20211a
894.20211A/
Japan, prepered fer us in the Hawaiian office.
Interest ingly exough, in Saturday's New York Times,
yet another reference va: made to the MeClutchy at-
te ck on this text. Oseer F. Shepara, formerly one
of the leading m t rs et Milton, has, as  u will
see, ansnered Mcol tehy in e fashien thet will satis-
fy. I hepe, all but MeClatchy's iedi 'e fullowers.
Sincerely yours
Edvaeera
Edi:rd 0. Ceiter
APR 10 1936
YILED
F
G

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
(Envelope addressed: Attontion of
Mr. Field.)
REK.
Maroh 11, 1936.
Dear Carter:
Referring to the project to prepare for use in the
public schools or Hawaii textbooks on certain countries of
the Pacific area, and to the interest of the Institute of
Pacifio Relations in this project as indioated by you to
894.20211A/1
me during our recent conversation in New York and to
Hamilton during your conversation with him on February 8
at the Department, it seems to me that a very useful
purpose would be served were the Institute to send someone
from its New York office to Weshington to discuss this
whole matter with the appropriate people in the Department
4
of the Interior. I have mentioned to Dr. Gruening. Direotor,
Division of Territories and Island Possessions, Department
of the Interior, the question of the Institute sending
someone to Washington for that purpose; Dr. Gruening thinks
well of the idea; and I would be glad, in the event that
the Institute is in position to send someone, to put whoever
may
E. C. Carter, Esquire,
Secretary General, Institute of
Pacific Relations,
129 East 52nd Street,
New York, New York.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
may be sent in touch with the proper person in the Depart-
ment of the Interior. Would you be so good as to let me
know what you think of this suggestion and, if your reaotion
is favorable, the name of the person you propose to send and
what date would be most convenient for such a trip to
Washington.
With all best wishes, I am,
Yours sincerely,
m.m..
MMH/REK

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
R. FISK
CHARLES M. GOETHE
MERICAN LEGION
IGRATION STUDY COM'N
AIRMAN)
California Joint Immigration Committee
(TREABURER)
SCHARRENBERG
85 SECOND STREET
HON. U. S. WEBB
EAS. STATE FED. OF LABOR
STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL
Phonz GArpield 2697
JOHN T. REGAN
San Francisco, Cal.
V. S. McCLATCHY
GRAND BEC'Y NATIVE BONS
ETARY)
OF THE GOLDEN WEST
RECEIVED
APR 9 1936
894.20211a/15
March 30, 1936. QIVISION OF
Jil
Divisien ef
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
FAR EASTEHN AFFAIRS
12
Far Eastern Division,
APR 6 - 1936
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Bepartment of State
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
The subject of propaganda in the
public schools is of vital interest to this country, and incidentally
it has become a factor in the problem of statehood for Hawaii.
For your information there is
894.20211A/15
sent copy of a statement prepared for consideration of the Asia House
Sub-Section of the International Relations Section of the Commonwealth
Club of California, supplementing information furnished to the Sub-
Section by leading representatives of the Institute of Pacific Rela-
tions.
With warm personal regards,
Sincerely yours,
V. S. McClatchy
VSM.DK
Enc s.
F/FG

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
Fisk (Ch.)
Chas. M. Goethe
in Legion
Imm. Study Com
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMI GRATION COMAITTEE
Scharrenberg
85 Second Struet
Hon. U.S. Webb
ate Fed. of Labor
San Francisco, California
State Atty. Gen.
John T. Regan
GArfiold 2697
V. S. McClatchy
Native Sons G. W.
(Exec. Secy.
Text Books and Courses
for use in Public Schools
on
Pacific Relatiuns
History and Culture of Asiatic Peoples
Some Problems in Conneotion Therewith
In Hawaii and on Mainland

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
K. Fisk (Ch.)
Chas. M. Goethe
loan Legion
Imm. Study Com.
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIGRATION COMMITTEE
aul Soharrenberg
85 Second Street
Hon. U. S. Webb
State Fed. of Labor
San Francisco, California.
State Atty. Gen.
GArfield 2697
John T. Regan
V. S. MoClatchy
Native Sons G.W.
(Exec. Secy.)
(Copy)
Maroh 14, 1936.
Commander Walter F. Lafrenz, U.S.N., Chairman,
Sub-seotion on Asia House, International Relations Seotion,
Commonwealth Club of California,
San Francisoo, California.
Dear Sir:
It is noted that at the meeting of the Sub-seotion, February 19, Edward C.
Carter, Secretary General, Institute of Pacific Relations, and Frederick F. Field,
Seoretary, American Council of the same organization , explained the plans of the
Institute for introducing into 152 high schools of California and into the publio
sohools of other states certain courses on Pacifio Relations and Japanese Culture.
Because of the importance of the subject, there are offered herewith for
information of the Sub-seotion, in the shape of documents and references, certain
necessary details, which, it is inferred, the speakers did not cover. The plan is
undertaken jointly under mutual understanding between the I.P.R. and the Society of
International Cultural Relations of Japan, and assumes cooperation of educational
authorities in the United States. In the Japan Times and Mail, January 1, 1936,
Count Kabayama, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Society named, explains
Japan's desires in the matter, and stresses the importance of receiving favorable con-
sideration therefor in our institutions of learning which he regards as the real oen-
ters of American culture.
The general plan of collaboration is indicated in an item in the December 4,
1934, issue of the Japan Times and Mail of Tokyo ("English language voice of the
Foreign Office of Japan"), reproduced in C.J.I.C. Doc. #4o9 attached. It is covered
more fully in report of a meeting of departmental heads of the Japanese Government
held on November 21, 1934, as stated in a protest to the Hawaiian Commissioners of
Eduoation, December 11, 1934, (C.J.I.C. Doc. #414 attached).
A practical demonstration of what is intended to bo taught Amerioan students
under the plan is found in the text book on Japan which was in use, notwithstanding
repeated protests, in certain public schools of Hawaii throughout the year 1935, and
which was personally urged by its co-author for general use in public sohools of the
mainland. A general idea thereof may be had by reading the attached copy of a letter
to the Editor of the Honolulu Star Bulletin, Maroh 1l, 1936, and C.J.I.C. Doos. #438
and #443. Copy of #438 was mailed recently to more than 200 members of the American
Counoil, I.P.R..
Copy of the book itself, together with statements and exhibits explaining
fully the charges made were deposited with Vierling Kersey, Superintendent of Public
Instruction of California at Sacramento, on June 21, 1935, and January 15 and 31,
1936, and duplioates thereof are in the office of the Bay region Group, I.P.R. at San
Franoisoo.
Respectfully,
California Joint Immigration Committee,
VSM.FP
cc Members Sub-Section
V. S. MoClatchy, Exec. Seoy.
cc Governos C.C.C.
#446

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
K. Fisk, (Ch.)
Chas. M. Goethe
rican Legion
Imm. Study Com.
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIGRATION COMMITTEE
Paul Scharrenberg
85 Second Street
Hon. U. S.Webb
State Fed. of Labor
San Francisco, California.
State Atty. Gen.
John T. Regan
GArfield 2697
V. S. McClatchy
Native Sons G.W.
(Exec. Secy.)
(Copy)
March 11, 1936.
Mr. Riley H. Allen, Editor,
Honolulu Star Bulletin,
Honolulu, T. H.
Dear Mr. Allen:
This is in response to your letter of February 17, concerning the text
book on Japan which was in use in certain public schools of Hawaii throughout 1935,
and which has been proposed for similar use in California and other states. The book,
joint product of the Institute of Pacific Relations, the Society for International
Cultural Relations of Japan, and the Hawaiian Commissioners of Education, it is charged,
flagrantly misrepresents historical facts and available records in order to serve the
interests of Japan.
Hawaii and California may fairly disagree in matters of opinion and pol-
icy. They should not disagree as to facts in the face of conclusive evidence. Assum-
ing that some of the facts in this book have not yet come under your notice, I take
the liberty of calling your attention thereto with suggestions as to where full de-
tails may be obtained.
You say the book is not now in use by any school in Hawaii. It was,
however, in use in certain public schools there throughout the year 1935, as indicated
by protests made to the Superintendent of Public Instruction as latc as December, l935.
The proper authorities hed notice and proof repeatedly as to the alleged objectionable
features of the book:- In Deoember, 1934, through protest to the Hawaiian Commissioners
of Education; in March, 1935, through petition to the Hawaiian Legislature; in June,
1935, and later, through publicity in California and New York attending the attempt to
secure endorsement of the book for use in continental states; and through notico given
by the co-author of withdrawal of the book pending revision (New York Times, July 14,
1935.).
C.J.I.C. Docs. f430 and #443, ttachod, enumerate a number of misrepre-
sentations made; and full details appe ar in statements and exhibits filed with the
State Superintendent of Public Instruction of California, June 21, 1935, and January
15 and 31, 1936. Copies thereof were filed also with the San Francisco Bay Region
Group, I.P.R., and copy of the June 2lst presentation was sent to Superintendent of
Public Instruotion of Hawaii, O. E. Long, at his request. It is suggested that you
inspect that statcment nd the accompanying exhibits.
It is learned from your letter that the book is now being somewhat
revised and that it will be again used in Hawaiian public schools after that revision
is completed. Meamwhile, however, as stated by the Chairman of the Hawaiian Education
Committee, I.P.R., in the Honolulu Advertiser, January 26, 1936, the co-author of
the book is still urging at New York endorsement thereof for goneral use in high
schools throughout the United States. There is also, he states, concert of action
between the I.P.R. groups in Hawaii and Culifornia looking to preparation of material
concerning Pacific Relations and Japaneso Culture, "for use in over l00 cooperating
high sohools of the state", and a movement "to carry forward this text book project
which had suoh modest beginning in Hawaii"in the hope that in another year units

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
"may be widely available to American schools". Evidence of that polioy has already
been noted in certain California cities.
The California Joint Immigration Committee, when it learned that the
promoters planned to introduce the book into schools of California and other states,
called attention to the established fects as contrasted with the authors' version in
vertain important matters, suggesting that the showing justifies doubt as to the
uthors' reliability in other matters. The position of the Joint Committee is indi-
cated in its statement, June 2lst, as follows:
None will criticize the claim made that knowledge on the part of
each nation facing the Pacific of the character, conditions, and aspira-
tions of other nations thereon is a necessary foundation for mutual under-
standing and the promotion of permanent peace on the Pacific. It is our
contention, however, that textbooks used in the public schools and relied
upon for suoh information should not be prepared by, or under direction of,
foreign propagandists, even with the aid or approval of American interests,
organizations or individuals; and further, that such books, no matter by
whom prepared, should so present authenticated facts as to assist an intel-
ligent reader in renohing fair conclusions.
Mr. Long, in a letter to the Joint Committec, July 21, 1935, quoted
the paragraph sbove and said: "I am certain I can speak for the Commissioners of
Publio Iustruction when I state that the abovo paragraph states the viewpoint of
this department. * * * * To be effective, however, any instruction in this field
must be entirely free from propaganda."The continued use of the text book in
Hawaii throughout the year 1935 does not accord with the principle thus enunciated.
If the facts are as shown by documentary evidence, the interests of
state and nation, the Joint Committce believes, forbid the uso of this book in
public sohool ourricula. Nor should any necessary ruvision thereof or preparation
of other similar text books be entrusted to egencies responsible for introduction of
the present book, nor to the authors who, after disproof of the statements therein,
reiterate conclusions and criticism which have no foundation save such misstatements.
(See intorview Helen Gay Pratt, New York Times, July 14, 1935.)
Hawaiian public opinion apparently supported the authorities of the
Territory in the policy of continuing use of this book through l935, notwithstanding
protests and evidence submitted therewith and the absence of answer cr denial. That
may have been due to lack of knowledge of the facts or to racial conditions and influ-
enoes which exist in the Territory. But, regardless of other agencies involved,
responsibility for the situation created rests with Hawaii, her constituted authori-
ties and her citizens. Cc.lifornia and other states should not be expected to acqui-
esce, even tacitly, in policy and acts so manifestly injurious to the interests of
state and nation.
I feel sure no issue wil! be raised between us on the points thus
outlined in friendly spirit.
With personal regards,
Sincerely,
V. S. Moclatchy, Exec. Secy.
California Joint Immigration Committee
VSM.FP
#445

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
Exh. B
Mr. George M. Collins,
Honolulu, Oahu, T. H.
Chairman, School Commissioners,
December 11, 1934.
2862 Kahawai St.,
Honolulu, T. H.
(COPY)
Dear Mr. Collins:
We have been informed that the Departmental Conference of the Japanese Government on
the 2lst of November last, have approved number of important projects concerning the
promotion of Japanization of the Japanese and the American public schools in Havaii.
The following department heads were present:
1. Foreign Office
6. Promotion of International Cultural
2. Education Department
Relations Society
3. Commerce Department
7. Prince Fushimi, Chief of the Japanese
4. Cultural Bureau
Naval Supreme War Council; the
5. Overseas Education Institution
Founder of Hawaii's Prince Fishimi
Scholarship Assn., incorporated in
1924.
I wish to call your attention to two projects which directly concerns with Hawaii's
publio sohool and the Japanese Language Schools.
First:
The Overseas Eduoation Institution to publish education material concern-
ing the vital national defense policy of Japan and to distribute the
same to all Japanese schools in Hewaii end America.
Second:
Supply (frec of cherge) all the public schools of Hawaii with reference
books for teachers, reading material, portfolios containing Japanese
pictorial and other graphic materials for schoolroom use and etc.
In connection with the free distribution of Japanese textbooks and etc., Mr. Okada,
the head of the Cultural Bureau and former Consul General of Hawaii, stated "that all
the necessary arrangements have been made with the Public Instruction, also with the
various Religious and Social leaders in Hawaii".
Ur. Setsuechi Aoki, General Secretary of the Promotion of International Cultural Rela-
tions Society, said, "For several years the school hcads of Hawaii and America with
the aid of many more influential cducators and missionaries made a thorough survey of
Anerican textbooks for the Japanese Society. The survey revealed that if proper prop-
aganda is systematically carried out in tho schools the Anerican children will become
strong friends of Janan".
Undoubtedly you are aware of the significance of such prcjects in Hawaii. We are ver
dueply touched and concerned with the action of the Fuhlic Instruction taking a hand
aiding in sprending Japanese prcpaganda in Hawaii. We believo the result vill be dis-
astrous to Americanization of th, Anerican citizors of Japanese uncestry.
od knows they have enough contact with the things of Japan and the Yamato and Bushido
Spirit in their homes and in the language schools. *Why let the Japanese government
promote Japanism oven in the Public Schools?
We are writing this letter with the spirit of cooperetion and Aloha and with the hope
that you will call the attention of your fellow Comnissioners.
Yours to serve
#414
W. K. Lyhan
C.J.I.C.
Conridential Representative of
The Sinc -Korean People's League

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
Fisk (Ch.)
Chas. M. Goethe
a. Legion
Imm. Study Com.
CALIFORNIA JOTNT IMMI GRATION COMAITTEE
al Soharrenberg
Hon. U.S. Webb
85 Second Strcet
tate Fed. of Labcr
State Atty. Gen.
San Francisco, California
John T. Regan
GArfiald 2637
V. S. McClatchy
Native Sons G. W.
(Exec. Secy.
HAWAIIAN TROUBLES COME TO MAINLAND
Propaganda in Public Schools
In the office of Vierling Kersey, State Superintendent of Public Instruc-
tion, at Sacramento, is a copy of a text book on Japan now in use in the public
schools of Honolulu and urged by its authors for use in the public schools of Cali-
fornia and other mainland states. Accompanying the book is a statement with exhi-
bits from the California Joint Immigration Committee in support of the charge origi-
nally made before the Hawaiian Legislature, that the book misrepresents, in the inter-
est of Japan, certain historical facts and available official records in matters of
material concern to the United States. The book was prepared and issued under joint
sponsorship of the Society of Cultural Relations of Japan, the Institute of Pacific
Relations and the Hawaiian Commissioners of Education.
Superintendent Kersey oalled attention of local school authorities in Cali-
fornia to the matter. As a result he has been asked to investigate special school
courses in two Califoraia cities which, it is charged, may be used to similarly de-
ceive the American students.
The Hawaiian book makes various statements as to the "Gentlemen's Agreement"
its purpose and operation, including the claim that it authorized the entrance of 200
Japanese immigrants annually, which are criticized as at variance with the records.
The Joint Committee's dooument offers also the following analysis of Chapter V of the
book:
In Chapter V, which purports to present a brief sketch of the polioies,
activities and international relations of Japan during the present century, the
conquest of Manchuria, creation of the puppet state of Manchukuo, siege of
Shanghai and occupation of various districts of Northern China are supposed to
be suffioiently covered for the information of inquiring American students by
the following paragraph:--"During the World War and afterwards Japan played a
part in China utterly diffcrent than anything previously known. Japan entered
actively into the internal affairs of that great and disorganized country, impos-
ing the 21 demands in l915, and beginning an economic penetration of the country
by lending money and establishing factories." Korea, which was annexed in vio-
lation of treaty obligations, receives only two brief mentions, one in connec-
tion with the request for two new Army Divisions "to maintain order in Korea",
and another in regard to "the cost of maintaining order in a hostile dependency
such as Korea".
Japan's action under the Nine Power Treaty is dismissed with
the statement that "this treaty dealt with maintaining the territorial integrity
of China and Open Door trade relations with China". The Chapter closes with the
statement that "this brief survey . . . mny serve to indicate the growing com-
plexity of the problems of contemporary Japan and their international significanc
#443 - 2-20-36

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
iSK
CHARLES M. GOETHE
ERICAN LEGION
IMMIGRATION STUDY COM'N
(IRMAN)
California Joint Immigration Committee
(TREASURER)
SCHARRENBERG
EAS. STATE FED. OF LABOR
1
85 SECOND STREET
HON. U. S. WEBB
Phon GAzpield 2697
STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL
JOHN T. REGAN
San Francisco, Cal.
V. S. McCLATCHY
OF THE GOLDEN WEST
(EXEOUTIVE SECRETARY)
Released
Copy of Item in Japan Times, Tokyo, Japan.
December 4, 1934.
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS IN U.S. TO BE GIVEN
BOOKS WITH CORRECT INFORMATION ON JAPAN.
The Society of International Cultural Relations at its meeting Monday
afternoon decided on a plan to be followed for the compilation of school text-
books to be used at high schools in the United States for diffusing correct
information on Japan.
According to the plan, the collecting and provisional compilation of
Material on Japan will be undertaken by a committee in this country, while
final compilation will be done by a joint committee including both American and
Japanese members. It was also decided at the meeting to present the draft by
the Japanese committee to Mr. Lasker, chairman on the cultural relations of the
I. P. R.* for his suggestions before sending it to the joint Japanese-American
committee for final compilation.
Material of instruction on Japan will cover almost every phase of modern
Japan, embracing topios on the government, economic and social conditions, art,
etc., which will be presented in a way that will appeal to the average high
school student in America.
*
The "Japan Times and Mail" published at Tokyo under direction of the Foreign
Office.
**
I. P. R. - The Institute of Pacific Relations, whose members in rcoent bi-
ennial sessions - notably at Bunff, Canada, in 1933, were urged by the
Japanese delegation thereto to proselyte for immigration quota for Japan.
For further information in regard to this subject see C.J.I.C. Releases #407 - #408.
#49 2-7-35

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
CALIFORNIA JOINT IMMIGRATION COMMITTEE
berg
85 Second Street
Hon. U. S. Webb
of Labor
San Francisco, California.
State Atty. Gen.
Regan
V. S. McClatchy
Sons G.W.
(Exec. Secy.)
JAPAN INVADES THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
What Hawaiian Students are Taught
In June, 1935, Vierling Kersey, Supt. of Public Instruotion of California, made
publio faots concerning a text book on Japan, then in use in the public sohools of
Honolulu and which was under consideration by the Lincoln Teachers College, Columbia
before the Legislature of Hawaii that the book was an instrument of Japanese propagan-
authoritative statements in July that the book would be entirely rewritten and mistakes
if any, correoted, new protests made in Hawaii in December declare that use of the book
has inoreased (c).
Supt. Kersey has received from the California Joint Immigration Committee an anal-
ysis of certain portions of the book substantiating the charges made (d). It is poin-
Manchuria, oreation of the puppet state of Manchukuo, siege of Shanghai and oocupation
of various districts of Northern China are supposed to be sufficiently covered for the
information of inquiring American students by the following paragraph:--"During the
orld War and afterwards Japan played a part in China utterly different than anything
previously known. Japan entered actively into the internal affairs of that great and
disorganized country, imposing the 21 demands in 1915, and beginning an economic pene-
tration of the country by lending money and establishing factories." * * * Korea,
which was annexed in violation of treaty obligations, receives only two brief mentions,
one in connection with the request for two new Army Divisions "to maintain order in
Korea", and another in rogard to "the cost of maintaining order in a hostile depondency
such as Korea". * * * The Nine Power Treaty is dismissed with the statement that "this
treaty dealt with maintaining the territorial integrity of China and Open Door trade
relations with China". * * * The Chapter closes with the statement that "this brief
survey . . . may serve to indicate the growing complexity of the problems of contempo-
rary Japan and their international significance".
In Chaptor V, and also at pp. 129 and 150, are statements concerning Japanese immi-
gration to the United States and the "Gentlemen's Agreement", which the Joint Committe
declares "are so much at variance vith the records of the facts, accessible to anyone,
as to disoredit the entire book". The toxt book states that the Gentlemen's Agreoment
provided for entrance of 200 Japanese annually; that tho Agreement was sorupulously ken
by Japan; and that the law of l924, excluding all aliens ineligible to citizenship, "was
one of the most unjustifiable and unfortunate pieccs of legislation imaginable". In
refutation of those statements it is pointed out on the published authority of Pres.
Theodore Roosevelt, under whose direotion the Gentlemen's Agreemont was made, that (1)
the Agreement did not permit thc entranco of any number of Japanese immigrants per year
(2) that it was made for the agreed purpose of excluding Japancse immigration; (3) the
to save Japan's "face", instead of mssing an exclusion act, as in the case of Chinese
immigration, the object was to be seoured by Japan so limiting her passports as to ex-
clude all Japanese laborers and to prevent inorease of Jupanese population in continen-
tal United States; (4) that if the plan failed to accomplish those purposes it was to b
replaced by an exclusion act (e).
Offioial records show thet the terms of the Agreement were not complied with. Thou-
sands of male laborers were sent over with passports; they were detained at ports of
entry, but released under habeas corpus by Fedoral Courts, which disclaimed jurisdiotio
the Agreement being noither law nor treaty; the male laberers were followed by thousand:
of pioture and kankodan brides, nearly all of whem came to labor in the fields and inci.
dentally to inorease the population by births. California's protests were unheeded un-
til 1924, when under a nationwide demand, Congress was foroed to substitute for the
Agreement a general law excluding all aliens ineligible to citizenship--the only one of
five plans proposed which would accomplish, without disorimination, the agreed purpose
of the Agreement (f).
References: (a) Saoramente Bee, 6-21-3. (b) Japan Times & Mail of Tokyo, 12-4-34;
Protest to Comnrs. of Education, 12-11-34; C.J.I.C. #414, #432. (d) Letter C.J.I.C.
1-s.(e) T. Roosevelt's Autobiog, 4ll-4l4; his telegram to Calif. Legisl.,
--09: Hearing Mar. 1924, Senate Immi
Com. Rept. 3-24-24. (o) Interviow H.G
House Doe. #600, Feb. 1926; House Imgn
ter to C.J.I. . 7-12-35.
N.Y. Times 7-14-35; Supt. Oren Long

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
April 7, 1956.
Dear Mr. MoClatehy:
The reeeipt is ackmowledged with thanks of your
letter of Marsh 30, with whieh there were transmitted
copies of papers relating to the proposed introduotion
894.20211
into high sehools of California and into the publio
sohools of other states courses on "Pacific Relations
and Japanese Culture".
We appreciate your courtesy in bringing these doou-
ments to our attention. We have read them with care.
I thoroughly eonour in the view which you express
5
that the subjeot of propaganda in the publio sohools is
of vital interest to this country.
With all best wishes,
Yours sincerely,
5
Mr. V. S. MoClatchy.
Executive Secretary,
California Joint Immigration Committee,
CR
85 Second Street,
AF33
PM
San Franeisco, Celifernia.
FE:EHD:SKH/EJL
FE

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
Chas. M. Goethe
ban Legion
Imm. Study Comm.
Paul Soharrenber
Hon. U. S. Webb
State Fed. of Lepor
State Atty. Gen.
John. Regan
V. S. MoClatchy
Nativ Sons G.W.
Department of Stare
DIVISION OF
(Exeo. Secy.)
JAPAN INVADES THE
What Hawaiian Students
 June, 1935, Vierling Kersey, Supt. of Public Instruction of California, made
o facts concerning a text book on Japan, then in se in the public sohools of
ulu and which was under consideration by the Linccln Tuachers College, Columbia
ni
rsity for use in high schocls of continental United States (a). It was charied
befule the Legislature of Hawaii that the book was an instrument of Japanese propagar
mpiled and published under joint auspices of the Society of Cultural Relations f
Jape , the Institute of Pacific Relations, and the Department of Education of the Ter-
rit  y, in the belief that "if proper propaganda is systematically carried out in the
soho ls the Amerioan children will become strong friends of Japan" (b). * * * Despite
authoritative statements in July that the book would be entirely rewritten and mistake:
if any, correoted, new protests made in Hawaii in December declare that use of the book
8
has horeased (c).
6
upt. Kersey has received from the California Joint Immigration Committee an anal-
ysi of certain portions of the book substantiating the charges made (d). It is poin-
ted ut therein that Chapter V, purporting to give in brief a reliable sketoh of the
policies, activities and international relations of Japan during the present century is
Manchuria, creation of the puppet state of Manchukuo, siege of Shanghai and occupation
of virious districts of Northern China are supposed to be sufficiently covered for the
info mation of inquiring American students by the following paragraph:--"During the
Worl War and afterwards Japan played a part in China utterly different than anything
prevously known. Japan entered actively into the internal effeirs of that great and
disoganized country, imposing the 21 demands in l915, and beginning an economio pene-
trat on of the country by lending money and establishing factories." * * * Korea,
whic was annexed in violation of treaty obligations, receives only two brief mentions,
one in connection with the request for two new Army Divisions "to maintain order in
Koree", nd another in regard to "the cost of maintaining order in a hostile dependency
reay dealt with maintaining the territorial integrity of China and Open Door trade
Telations with China". * * * The Chapter closes with the statement that "this brief
survey . . . may sorvo to indicate the growing complexity of the problems of contempo.
rary Japan and their internationel significance".
In Chapter V, and also at pp. 129 and 150, are statements concerning Japanese immi
ration to the United States and the "Gentlemen:s Agreement", which the Joint Committe
declares "are so much at variance vith th recurds of the facts, accessihle to anyone,
as to discredit the entirc hook". Tho text book states that the Gentlemen's Agreoment
provided for entrance of 2o0 Japenese annunlly; that tho Agreement was scrupulously ken
by Jpan; and that tho law of l924, oxcluding all alicns incligible to citizenship, "wes
one f the most unjustifiable and unfortunatc pieces of legislation imaginablo". In
refutation of those statements it is pointed out on the published authority of Pres.
Theodore Roosevelt, under whose direotion the Gentlemen's Agreement was made, that (1)
the Agreement did not permit thc entrancc of any number of Japanese immigrants per year
(2) that it was made for the agreed purpose of excluding Japanese immigration; (3) tha.
to s ve Japan's "face", instead of mssing an exclusion act, as in the case of Chinese
immigration, the object was to be secured by Japan so limiting her passports as to ex-
olude all Japanese laborors and to prevent incrcase of Jupanese population in contonen-
tal tnited States; (4) that if the plan failed to accomplish those purposes it was to b:
repljoed by an exclusion act (e).
7
fficial records show thet the terms of the Agreoment were not complied with. Thou-
eand of male laborers were sent over with pessports; they were detained at ports 
htry, but released under habeas corpus by Fcdoral Courts, which disolaimed jurisdiotior
the Agreement being neither law nor treaty; the male laborers were followed by thousandt
of paoture and kankodan brides, nenrly all of whem came to labor in the fields and inci. 
dentally to increase the pepulation by births. California's protests were unheeded un- 
til i924, when under a nationwide demand, Congress was forced to substitute for the
Agreoment a generel law excluding all aliens ineligible to citizenship--the only one of
five plans propos
hioh would accomplish, without discrimination, the agreed purpose
of'the Agreement
References: (a) S
te Bee, 6-21-3. (b) Japan Timos & Mail of Tokyo, 12-4-34;
Protest to Comnre
ucation, 12-11-34; C.J.I.C. #414, #432. (a) Letter C.J.I.C.,
1-1=36.(e) T.
It's Autobiog.,pp. 4ll-4l4; his telegram to Calif. Legisl.,
2-9-09; Hearing
mate Immig. Com.; House Doc. #fo0, Feb. 1925; House Imgn.
Com. Rept. 3-24
ter to C.J.I.C
1-20-36)

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.93)
Cable, INParel, New York
AMERICAN COUNCIL
INSTITUTE OF PACIFIC RELATIONS
OFFICERS
129 EAST 52D STREET · NEW YORK CITY
L. Alsszao, Chairman
ALLACE M. ALEXANDE, Vice-Chsirman
Miss Asa L. Comstock, Vice-Chairman
Fasmzaick V. Fizld, Secretary
CRARLEs J. RoAds, Treasrer
Miss HiLda Austean, Assistant Treasurer
894.2c211a17.
July 24, 1936.
nit
FAN LASTERN HAIRS
811a.42
003-1936
894.20211A/17
Dear Dr. Hornbeck,
I am having sent to you under separate cover
a revised experimental edition of the textook on Japan
which we have had prepared for the high schools of
Hawaii. We shall be glad to receive any suggestions
which you may have whereby the book may be improved.
Sincerely yours,
Todere V.Rold
Frederick V. Field.
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Department of State,
Washington
SEF 2:1936
FILYD
F/FG

=== Page 16 === (confidence 1.00)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
4Acn
August 4, 1936.
Dear Mr. Field:
I acknowledge the receipt of your letter of July 24
with which there was sent as an accompaniment a copy of
the revised experimental edition of the textbook on
894.20211A/17
Japan which you have had prepared entitled "Japan -
Where Ancient Loyalties Survive", by Helen Pratt.
I note your invitation with regard to the making
of suggestions whereby the publication may be improved,
and I shall expect to communicate with you again after
I have had an opportunity to peruse the work.
Yours sincerely,
Mr. Fredorick V. Field,
Institute of Pacific Relations,
129 East 52d Street,
New York, New York.
FE:ENN/DLY
FE

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
DcR
fl
August 14, 1936.
m.mbA
STRIOTLY COMFIDENTIAL.
Dear Mr. Field:
I rofer to my letter under date August 4, 1936, with
894.20211A/17
which aeknowledgment was made of the receipt of your letter
of July 24, 1936, and of the accompaniment thereto, a copy
of "Japan - Where Ancient Loyalties Survive", by Helen Pratt.
We have read this work and we have found therein much
material of value and of interest.
In response to your request for suggestions, there is
emolosed a memorandum containing several suggestions re-
lating to faotual data which are offered for what they may
be worth to you but without assumption by the Department or
any of its officers of any responsibility in connection
therewith or in connecti with any part of the text not
commented upon. You will realize, of course, the
desirability
Mr. Frederick V. Field,
Institute of Pacific Relations,
129 East 52d Street,
New York, Now York.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.90)
-2-
desirability of your treating as strictly confidential this
communication and the memorandum of comment.
With all best wishes, I am
Yours sinoerely,
KH
Enclosure:
Momorandum.
FIJEHD/DLY
FE
nu
71
AUG 1
A true copy of
nal.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 53, second paragraph: "Great Britain « # *
urged Japan not to enter the War as an aotive participant."
Although it has been affirmed by writers of repute
that Great Britain urged Japan not to partioipate actively
in the War, it is not known that either the British Govern-
ment or the Japanese Government has ever made public any
statement or document which would serve as a basis for the
making, without appropriate qualification, of such an
affirmation.
Page 56, fifth paragraph: "The main point of this
doetrine (Stimson dootrine) is the statement that the
United States will not recognize any situation or arrange-
mont made in the Far East which violates what is commonly
kmown as the Open Door polioy * * *" (Undersooring added).
The relevant portion of the identio notes sent on
January 7, 1932, by the American Government to the Govern-
ments of China and of Japan reads: "# * * the American
Government # * # cannot admit the legality of any situation
de facto nor does it Intend to recognize any treaty or
agreement entered into between those Governments (the
Governments of China and of Japan), or agents thereof,
which may impair the treaty rights of the United States,
or its citizens in China, inoluding those which relate to
the

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
一8
the severeianty, the independence, or the territorial and
oministrative integrity of the Republio of China, commomly
known as the Open Door polioy * * #" (Underssoring added).
The portion above quoted of the notes under referense was
a reaffirmation of a position taken by the Amerioan Govern-
ment in lo15 in regard to a situation whioh developed in
the relations between China and Japan in that year. The
Stimson notes of January 7, 1932, contained, however, not
alone that formule but, linked with it and added to it, the
additional statement:
" # # it (the Amerioan Govermment) does not
intend to recognise any situation, treaty, or
agreement whieh may be brought about by means
contrary to the covenants and obligations of the
past of Paris of August 27, 1928, to which treaty
both China and Japan, as well as the United States,
are parties."
Imasmueh as Mr. Stimson's statement was comprehensive of
much more than merely matters relating to the "open door
polioy", would it not be inacourate and misleading to say
that "The mmin point of this dootrine" is . . . . eto.,
as per the statement quoted above from page 56?
Page 58, last paragraph: "One reason why the world
refuses to recognise Manohoukuo is the fact that it is
regarded as practically a province of the Japanese empire
and, as such, is not eligible for recognition."
Page 58, last paragraph: "The United States quotes
the Stimson dostrine as a reason for refusing resognition."

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
The reasons for the refusal of the nations members of
the League of Nations to recognise "Manchukuo" are set
forth in the report adopted on Pebruary 24, 1935, by the
Assembly of the League of Nations. Among such reasons is
recognition of the fact that "the sovereignty over Manehuria
belongs to China". Although the report states that "The
main politioal and administrative power in the 'Government'
of 'Manohukuo' # # * rests in the hands of Japanese
offieials and advisers # * *", which might be construed
to mean that "Manahukuo" "is regarded as practically a
province of the Japanese empire and, as such, is not eligible
for recognition", no such affirmation is made in that report.
Nor has such affirmation been made by the United States.
Although it is a faot that among the reasons for with-
holding by the Amerioan Government of reoognition to
"Manehukuo" are those set forth in the above-mentioned
1dent1e notes of January 7, 1932, to the Governments of
China and of Japan, any statement whioh suggests that the
Amerioan Government has at any time advanoed the enunoiation
of the so-called Stimson doctrine "as a reason (Underscoring
added) for refusing recognition" is inacourate and mislead-
ing. Inoidentally, this subject 1s very complex and accuraoy
of statement with regard to it calls for understanding and
consideration of a multiplieity of facts and for very
careful phraseology.
AUG 18. 1938
GR
FERENVDLY
AUG 1

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
August 13, 1936.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
Dear Mr. Field:
I refer to my letter under date August 4, 1936, with
whioh acknowledgment was made of the reoeipt of your letter
of July 24, 1936, and of the accompanimont thereto, a copy
of "Japan - Where Anoient Loyalties Survive", by Helen Pratt.
We have read this work and we have found therein mush
material of value and of interest.
There is enclosed a hemorandum contdining several
suggestions relating to factual data which are offered for
what they may be worth to you but without assepting ang
in comeston thntt!
responsibility therefer. , You will realize, of course, the
desirability of rogmting as strictly conridential this
on
ary
commmication and the memorandum of comment
9
With all best wimhes, I am
Yours sincerely,
t
there
Enclosure:
Memorandum.
Mr. Frederick V. Field,
Institute of Pacirio Relations
129 East 52d Street
New York, New York.
text not counted ufou.
FE

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.92)
August 14, 1936.
The portion above quoted of the notes under reference
was a reaffirmation of a position taken by the American
in 1915
Government in regard to a situation which developed in
ttt
the relations between China and Japan in tim year 
hour
The Stimson notes of January 7, 1932, contained not alone
that formula but, linked with it and added to it, the f
statement:
("
n)
Inasmuoh as Mr. Stimson's statement was comprehensive of
much more than merely matters relating to the "open door
policy", would it not be inacourate and misleading to say
that "the main point of this doctrine" is . . . . etc.,
as per the statement quoted above from page 56.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
● 8●
moverelnty, the independence, or the territortel and
Inistrative integrity of the Republio of Chine, mmonly
knowm as the Open Door policy * * o" (Underscoring added).
poliey aspressed in the identie notes addressed on May 11,
1915, by the Ameriean Government to the Governments of Chima
and of Japan, and thus is repetitious of previous expressions
of American poliey. That portion of the identio notes of
Jamuary 7, l932, which gave formal and official expression
for the first time to a new polioy of the United States --
the so-called Stimson doctrine -- is the statement quoted
bolow!
" * # it (the American Government) does not
intend to recognise any situation, treaty, or
agreement which may be brought about by means
contrary to the covenants and obligations of the
pact of Paris of August 27, 1928, to which treaty
both Chine and Japan, as well as the United States,
are parties."
It is suggested that the sentence under reference might
be appropriately revised and expanded.
Page 58, last paragraph: "One reason why the world
refuses to recognize Manohoukuo is the faot that it is
regarded as practically a provinee of the Japanese empire
and, as such, is not eligible for recognition."
Page 68, last paragraph: "The United States quotes
the Stimson doetrine as a reason for refusing recognition."
The

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.82)
- 3 -
Although it is a fact that the reasons for withholding
by the American Government of recognition to "Manchukme" are
theme met forth in the above-mentioned identio notes of
Januery 7, 1932, to the Governments of China and of Japan,
statement lo sosreey which suggests that the American
Government has at y time advameed the emunoiation of the
so-called Stimsem dootrine "as a reason for refusing
recogmition"
isste +
(ing )
nisleading.
dnitnstrely, thi subjict
 in y complex
stent
and?
itt regai t f cee, yo
 a tf factd
6.0

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.97)
一8-
the povereignty, the independence, or the territorial and
edmimistrative integrity of the Republio of China. commenly
known as the Open Door policy * # #"(Underscoring added).
It is suggested that the sentence under reference might
be appropriately revised and expanded.
Pege 58, last paragraph: "One reason why the world
refuses to recognise Manchoukuo is the fact that it is
regarded as practically a province of the Japanese empire
and, as such, is not eligible for recognition."
Page 58, last paragraph: "The United States quotes
the Stimson doctrine as a reason for refusing recognition."
The reasons for the refusal of the nations members of
the League of Nations to recognize "Manchukuo" are set
forth in the report adopted on February 24, 1933, by the
Assembly of the League of Nations. Among suoh reasons is
recognition of the faot that "the sovereignty over Manohuria
belongs to China". Although the report states that "The
main political and administrative power in the 'Government'
of 'Manchukuo' * * # rests in the hands of Japanese
officials and advisers * * *", which might be construed
to mean that "Manohukuo" "1s regarded as practically a
province of the Japanese empire and, as such, is not eligible
for recognition", no suoh affirmation is made in that report.
Nor has suah affirmation been made by the United States.
Although

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.95)
Pooples of the Pacific - ll
JAPAN - WHERE ANCIENT LOYALTIES SURVIVE
1.20R11.a
by
HELEN PRATT
Experimental Edition
American Council, Institute of Pacific Relations
1936

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
Peoples of the Pacific - Il
JAPAN - WHERE ANCIENT LOYALTIES SURVIVE
by
HELEN PRATT
Experimental Edition
American Council, Institute of Pacific Relations
1936

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
PEOPLES OF THE PACIFIC
A Serles of Studies of Countrles and Peoples
In the Pacific Aroa
I. China and Her Unfinished Revolution
II. Japan - Where Ancient Loyalties Survive
III. Russia - From Tsarist Empire to Socialism
IV. The Phillipines - A Nation in the Making

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
Table of Contents
Japanese Contradictions.
P.
2
Chapter 1
The Natural Setting.
p.
3
Chapter 2
The Development of Japanese Society Under Chinese Influences
(7th to 12th centuries).
p.
8
Chapter 3
Social Changes During the Growth of Military Feudalism (End of
12th to Beginning of Seventeenth Centuries)
P. 21
Chapter 4
The Years of Seclusion (Seventeenth Century to the Middle of
the Nineteenth)
p.
30
Chapter 5
The Modernization of Japan: The Fermentation Per1od (1853-1895)
p. 39
Chapter 6
Expansionism: One Aspect of Japan's Development Since 1895. . .
p. 50
Chapter 7
Industrial Conditions in Japan Since 1895.
p. 61
Chapter 8
The Farmers of Japan
p. 72
Chapter 9
Conflicting Currents in Present Day Japan.
p. 81

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-1-
PREFACE
For particular help in the preparation of this second book of the Peoples of the Pacific Series, I wish
to express my gratitude to Sir George Sansom who read and discussed with me all but the modern part; to Dr.
Robert Karl Reischauer of Princeton University who criticised the entire manuscript; and to Professor Gregg
M. Sinclair of the University of Hawaii who introduced me to literary sources. This edition differs in im-
portant respects from an earlier mimeographed draft in the preparation of which I had the valuable assis-
tance of Professor Masamichi Royama of the Imperial University, Tokyo, who happened to be in Hawai1 while
the work was in progress, and whose courteous help was much appreciated. Preference of the teachers who ex-
perimented with the earlier outline for a somewhat different form of treatment has made this edition prac-
tically a new attempt to bring the history and the contemporary life of Japan to the understanding of Ameri-
can students.
I also appreciate and here acknowledge the courtesy of the following publishers and copyright holdera
who permitted me to make quotations from their books.
The Cresset Press, London, and D. Appleton-Century Company, New York, publishers of G. B. Sansom's
Japan, A Short Cultural History.
J. L. Thompson and Company, Kobe, publishers of Basil Hall Chamberlain's translation of the Kojik1
Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner and Company, publishers of W. G. Aston's translation of the Nihong1, and of
James Murdoch's History of Japan
Many Japanese writers whose work 1s translated in Contemporary Opinions, publ1shed by Tokyo Information
Bureau, 400 Ichome, Daita, Setageyku, Tokyo
D. Appleton-Century Company, publishers of W. G. Aston's History of Japanese Literature, and Harold
Quigley's Japanese Government and Politics
Curtis Hidden Page, author and copyright holder of Japanese Poetry, originally published by Houghton
Mifflin Company
Marshall Jones Company, publishers of Masaharu Anesaki's Art, Life and Nature in Japan
Houghton Mifflin Company, publishers of Arthur Waley's translations of The Tale of Genji and The Pillow-
Book of Sei Shonagon, and of K. Asakawa's The Russo-Japanese Conflict
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, publishers of A. L. Sadler's translation of The Ten Foot Square Hut
C. N. Caspar Company, Milwaukee, publishers of James S. de Benneville's translation of Saito Musashi-
Bo-Benke1
Edward Arnold and Company, London, and Longmans Green and Company, New York, publishers of Laurence
Binyon's Painting in the Far East
Council of the Asiatic Society of Japan, publishers of The Transactions of the Asiatic Society of Japan
The Hokuseido Press, Tokyo, publishers of Eiichi Kiyooka's translation of The Autobiography of Fukuzawa
Yukichi
Thomas Satchell, translator and copyright owner of the English translation of the Hizakurige, printed
by The Chronicle Press, Kobe
George Allen and Unwin, publishers of Arthur Waley's translation The No Plays of Japan, and of Walter
Wallace McLaren's A Political History of Japan During the Meiji Era
The Macmillan Company, publishers of Zoe Kincaid's Kabuk1
The University of Toronto Press, publishers of Robert Cornell Armstrong's Light from the East
Kelly and Walsh, Shangha1, publishers of Yukio Ozaki's The Vo1ce of Japanese Democracy
Doubleday, Doran and Company, publishers of Tatsuji Takeuchi's War and Diplomacy in the Japanese Empire
The Foreign Affairs Association of Japan, publishers of the magazine Contemporary Japan
Oxford University Press and Royal Institute of International Affairs, publishers of G. E. Hubbard's
Eastern Industrialization and Its Effect on the West
Mitsui Gome1 Kaisha, publishers of The House of Mitsu1
Methuen and Company, publishers of Guenther Stein's Made in Japan
The New York Times, publishers of an article by Hugh Byas
McGraw-Hill Book Company, publishers of John E. Orchard's Japan's Economic Position
P. S. King and Son, London, and International Labour Office, Geneva, publishers of Fernand Maurette's
Social Aspects of Industrial Development in Japan
The International Association of Japan, publishers of Isosh1 Asahi's The Secret of Japan's Trade Expan-
sion
John Murray, London, and D. Appleton-Century Company, New York, publishers of J. W. Robertson-Scott's
The Foundations of Japan
Farrar and Rinehart, publishers of Baroness Shidzue Ishimoto's Facing Two Ways
Foreign Policy Association, publishers of Foreign Policy Reports
Since this is an experimental edition, I shall be grateful for suggestions of ways in which the text may
be improved, and especially for comment and criticism from teachers who have had the opportunity of using it
in the classroom.
New York, June, 1936
Helen Pratt

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
JAPANESE CONTRADICTIONS
Japan, the Land of Contradictlons!
On One SIde
On The Other
Kimono
Western costume
Japanese style homes
Western style buildings
Kabuki theatre; No drama; traditional plays,
Musical comedies; revues; symphony orchestras
costumes, music
Tea ceremony; flower arrangement
"Western" sports and games
Ancient ceremonial; ritual; traditional standards
Experimentation with new forms of behavior
of behavior
A land of great natural beauty
Lack of cultivable land; rural problems; increasing
rural poverty
Love of natural beauty
Squalor of industrial towns
Artistry - even in commonplace utensils and details;
Bad taste in new things which depart from the tra-
traditional skills and good taste
ditional
Courtesy within the country
Ruthlessness outside
Law and Order
"Blood-brotherhoods"; extra-legal methods; assassin-
ations; repression
Loyalty to family
Chauvinism - that distorted form of patriotism tend-
ing to narrow nationalism; propaganda
Devotion to the emperor
Underground communism
Simplicity in living
Extravagance in national expenditures and claims
Universal education
"Dangerous thoughts"; censorship
Painstaking handicraft manufacture; huge modern
Lack of regulation of labor in household manufactor-
factories; laws regulating labor; contented
1es; paternalism in large industry; police and gov-
workers
ernment domination of labor organizations; low in-
dustrial wages
Universal male suffrage; parliamentary government
Fascist trends; domination of political parties by
financial or military interests; lack of power of
Diet
Increasing manufacture and trade; struggle for
Poverty of home market
world markets
Contradictions and conflicts are, of course, characteristic of life everywhere, but in Japan they ap-
pear to be particularly spectacular. In a list such as has been just set down, and which could be continued
almost indefinitely, it is plain that there are two t:pes of opposed elements. One is the kind which exists
in fact, and which arises from imposirg western civilization upon an ancient culture, many of wrose charac-
teristics have been retained. The other has its origin in the differences in personal bias of those who
interpret Japanese life. Some of the opposed elements arise from differences in emphasis rather than in
fact.
It 1s obvious that if we take all our colors from one of the lists just examined, we shall have one
sort of picture, while, 1f we take them only from the other, the picture will be very different. Many inter-
preters of Japan do exactly this sort of thing, painting pictures which, laid side by side, appear to be re-
presentations of entirely different subjects. Which of the different items listed on both sides are most
significant? What is Japan?
The clue to the answers - if there is an answer - lies in the past, for Japan alone, of the Asiatic na-
tions meeting the modern west, has adopted the techniques and methods of the outside world, and has, at the
same time, kept her political integrity and retained many national forms of thought and behavior. In the
history of the people, in the nature of the social and governmental structure which was able to maintain it-
self in the face of the impact of the modern west, lie clues to the enigma of Japan. In Japan, however
modern it may appear to be, feudal elements in thought and behavior are still struggling for survival. Out
of this situation arise some of the conflicts and contradictions which are seen in Japan today.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
Chaptor 1.
THE NATURAL SETTING
The main islands of Japan - Honshu, (the main land), Shikoku, Kyushu and Hokkaido - curve
outward from the peninsula of Korea and then inward toward the coast of Asia. The position of
this crescent of islands, inclining toward the mainland of Asia, may be considered symbolic,
for from the continent came the Chinese culture on which so much of Japanese culture was built,
and towards the mainland the thoughts and aspirations of Japanese very frequently were directed
in the past - as in the present. Insular pride and tradition were inevitably brought up
against the diverse influences which came from the great empire of China.
The continent, however, 1s not near at hand. At least one hundred miles of ocean separate
Japan from the mainland, a fact of great importance particularly when considered in connection
with China's tendency to expand on land, not by way of the sea. If Japan had been not one
hundred miles from the continent, but twenty miles - as England is - the whole history of the
country would doubtless have been entirely different. Into Japan came no invaders comparable
to the Romans, the Saxons, the Angles, the Danes, and the Normans, who raided, invaded, and
conquered England, and brought waves of new influences into the country when they settled there.
The expanse of ocean between Japan and the mainland was sufficient to isolate the islands to a
great extent and to free them from the threat of invasion. Though some piratical raids were
made upon Japan from the mainland, the only armed expedition on an important scale that ever
approached Japan was one planned and carried out by the Mongols in the thirteenth century.
The 1slands of Japan are extremely beautiful, with mountains rising from the sea, and
swift streams cutting the mountain sides. They give an impression of peaceful beauty which
has served as a Japanese ideal, but in their very nature they offer obstacles to a peaceful,
easy life. The mountains running throughout the crescent of islands break even the largest
of the group into portions which, until modern means of transportation were developed, were
relatively inaccessible to each other, for the swift mountain streams were not navigable.
Isolated portions of the 1slands formed natural strongholds for the rival lords who flourished
and made war upon each other through so much of Japan's history. Again, only about fifteen
per cent of the land is suitable for cultivation; the terraced fields today reach into the
mountain slopes, and intensively cultivated farm lands occupy all the flat plains of the rural
regions, but the greater part of the mountainous land is covered with forests which today be-
long to the emperor. Mountains, rivers, and forests form a charming natural setting for a
battle for existence, which, with every census, 1s obviously more acute. More than 60,000,000
people occupy Japan proper today, yet the country's total area is less than that of the single
state of California, and eighty-five per cent of it is not cultivable.
Still another fact to be opposed to the appearance of peaceful beauty is the existence of
fifty-eight active volcanoes. Earthquakes, often very destructive, are of frequent occurrence.
Since the dawn of Japan's recorded history there have been repeated earthquake disasters.
Betwoen 1597 and 1897 there were 108 quakes of sufficient violence to merit history, and there
1s no record of the number of minor upheavals in that period. In the years between 1884 and
1897, when more scientific records were kept, 17,750 shocks were reported, an average of 3t a
day. The Seismic Disaster Investigation Committee of Japan, a scientific body devoted to the
study of seismic disturbances, estimates that since 8oo A.D. there have been something like
2,o06 major disasters. An accurate estimate is impossible, but these figures give one some
1dea of the frequency and 1mportance of this particular part of Japan's natural heritage.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
4
The geographical position of the islands is such that they are subject to frequent violent
storms - typhoons and torrential rains. Earthquakes especially have influenced architecture and
building. Japanese homes and temples were not made of clay or stone, but of wood. Brick was
discarded after the disaster of l923, and all concrete structures have two and a half times as
much steel reinforcement as is used in the United States. While it would be difficult to esti-
mate the exact effect of recurring earthquakes, storms, and floods, upon people, it cannot be
doubted that there is an effect upon those who experience them. It is not impossible that a na-
tion's whole attitude toward the things to be valued in this world may be influenced by such
acts of nature, but even if the influence is not of the permanent type which affects the temper
of a nation, a mark is left upon the generation affected by major disasters. On the other hand,
the geographical position of the central islands of Shikoku, Honshu and Kyushu in which Japanese
civilization developed gives these islands an even, temperate climate which, in the long inter-
vals between storms and other natural disasters, also influences the life of the people.
Like all 1slanders of history, the Japanese were a seafaring people - until they were for-
bidden,early in the seventeenth century,to have anything to do with the outside world and were
not permitted to build boats which could traverse the ocean or the inland seas to Asia. Before
this, however, they built fishing and trading boats, crossed to the mainland, and made raids
upon the coast and upon islands not yet under Japanese control. One research student of Poly-
nesian life, studying Hawaiian customs and comparing them with those of the rest of Polynesia,
concludes that some Japanese must have reached Hawaii in ancient times, for the Hawaiian kahilis
which were used as symbols of royalty cannot be matched elsewhere in Polynesia, and they resem-
ble very closely the insignia carried before Japanese lords. However, it is certain that any
Japanese reaching ancient Hawai1 were blown there by some storm, and that they did not estab-
lish any routes across the Pacific. In the sixteenth century, however, under the stimulus of
contacts with European traders and explorers, the Japanese built ships in which they traversed
the Pacific Ocean. All of this seafaring activity was ended in the seventeenth century when the
Tokugawa shogun closed the country to foreigners, and forbade Japanese to leave the 1slands.
Thus the natural enterprise of seafaring islanders was imprisoned within closed walls, bringing
new problems of adjustment into the lives of the Japanese people, and helping to dam up energies
which welcomed the outlet supplied by the "opening" of the country.
As a result of the isolation of early Japan, and the natural beauty of island setting, a
copious mythology developed long before Japan had historical contact with the adjoining main-
land. In the words of Sir George Sansom:
A nature worship of which the mainspring is appreciation rather than fear is not to
be dismissed as base and fetichistic animism, and much that is gracious and kindly in the
life of the Japanese today can be traced to those sentiments which caused their remote
ancestors to ascribe divinity not only to the powerful and awe-inspiring, such as the sun
and the moon and the tempest, or to the useful, such as the well and the cooking pot, but
also to the lovely and pleasant, such as the rocks and streams, the trees and flowers.
The worship of such objects has its counterpart in that delicate sensibility to the
beauties of nature which is one of the most endearing characteristics of the modern Japa-
nese. Beyond doubt it is a ciaracteristic deeply rooted in the past.1
Isolated in valleys, cut off from many contacts, the people of ancient Japan felt their re-
lationship with the deified forces of the visible world, and traced their descent from the gods.
The myths and legends of the 1ndigenous religion were handed down by oral tradition and were not
committed to writing until 712 A.D. when the first record of the past was written in a long ac-
count called the Kojiki (Record of Ancient Matters).
1. Sansom, G.B., Japan, A Short Cultural History, The Century Co., New York, 193l: p.45

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
5-
The Kojiki tells of the birth of many gods and of the creation of an island:
Hereupon all the Heavenly Deities commanded the two Deities His Augustness the Male-
Who-Invites and Her Augustness the Female-Who-Invites, ordering them to "make, consol1-
date, and give birth to this drifting land." Granting them an heavenly jewelled spear
they (thus) deigned to charge them. So the two Deities, standing upon the Floating Bridge
of Heaven, pushed down the jewelled spear and stirred with it, whereupon, when they had
stirred the brine till 1t went curdle-curdle, and drew (the spear) up, the brine that
dripped down from the end of the spear was piled up and became an island.2
The birth of the Sun Goddess is related, and in the Nihongi or Chronicles of Japan compiled
in 72o we find the often quoted words spoken by the Sun Goddess to her grandson when she gave
him the islands of Japan as a heritage:
Then she commanded her August Grandch1ld, saying: - "This Reed-plain-1500-autumns-
fair-rice-ear Land is the region which my decendants shall be lords of. Do thou, my
August Grandchild, proceed hither and govern 1t. Go! and may prosperity attend thy dynas-
ty, and may 1t, like Heaven and Earth, endure forever." 3
The Kojiki tells of the insignia given her grandson by the Sun Goddess when she sent him to
rule over the islands:
Thereupon they (the Sun Goddess and another Deity) Joined to him (the imperial Grand-
son) the eight-feet (long) curved jewels and mirror that had allured (the Heaven-shining-
Great-August-Deity from the Rock-Dwelling) and also the Herb-Quelling-Great-Sword.4
The folklore recorded in these eighth century chronicles was particularly emphasized after
the country was opened to foreigners in the middle of the nineteenth century, and after the em-
peror, who for centuries had been in powerless seclusion, was "restored." To strengthen the new
government, to give it peculiar prestige in the eyes of the people, and to provide a conscious-
ness of Japanese unity in the face of the many strange influences then pouring in upon the coun-
try, the leaders of Japan placed increasing emphasis on the national tradition. Thus the past,
rooted in the very nature of the land itself, was carried over into the present. In Japan today,
for example, the jewel which forms part of the imperial regalia is considered to be the actual
article given by the Sun Goddess to her grandson, the ancestor of the present emperor. It is
believed that the original mirror and sword are in existence, housed in famous shrines. The
rest of the imperial regalia consists of ancient replicas of the Sun Goddess's gift. Those who
find it difficult to understand how anyone can accept such beliefs forget, perhaps, their own
uncritical attitude toward traditional elements in their own heritage.
From the original islands of Japan, the empire of Japun has expanded tremendously. The em-
pire comprises Japan proper and various colonial dependencies. Japan proper includes the four
large islands mentioned, as well as the Kurile islands to the north, the Bonin islands, and the
Ryukyu 1slands to the south. These various groups were added to the empire in the 187o's, and
Japan proper today occupies some 4,Ooo islands. Among the colonial dependencies are Formosa,
the southern half of Sakhalin, and Korea. The Caroline, Marshall, and Marianne islands held
under a mandate of the League of Nations are also under Japanese control, while the nominally
independent empire of Manchoukuo is actually ruled by Japan. The northernmost island in the
Kur1le group l1es in about 500 north latitude, while the most southern of the mandated islands
2. Kojik1, or Records of Ancient Matters, translated by Chamberlain, Basil Hall, Second
Edition, J.L. Thompson and Co., Kobe: pp. 21-22.
3. Nihong1, or Chronicles of Japan, translated by Aston, W.G., Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner
and Co., London, 1924: p. 77.
4. Chamberlain, op. cit., p. 130.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
1s only 10 north of the equator. Thus we see that the regions under Japanese control stretch
throughout the north Pacific and occupy large areas on the continent of Asia.
The Japanese empire occupies a strategic position in the Pacific and on the mainland of
Asia. This geographical position, combined with such things as the weakness of disordered
China, the economic pressure of the increasing population of overcrowded Japan, and the indus-
trialization of Japan, form some of the factors which have led the Japanese to formulate a con-
viction of the country's mission in the world. This is expressed by a Japanese:
Basic principles for the peace of the world should be a rational distribution or re-
distribution of territories, resources, and population; the restraint, on the part of
stronger nations, of their desire for conquest prompted from selfish purposes; and equal
opportunities for the existence and prosperity of all peoples. The human race, thanks to
the fallacies of liberalism, is now paving its way to an all-round stalemate in civiliza-
tion. And some nations, failing to appreciate such fact, are still bent only on promoting
their own selfish ends in pursuance of 1mperialism and the expansionist policy of bygone
days. They are thus the common foe of all mankind.
What then is the position of Japan in international politics and what is the situation
in the Far East? Japan is the most densely populated country in the world, with 17o per-
sons per square kilometer, and with 137 persons if all colonial possessions are taken into
account. Her population is increasing year after year by a total without parallel in the
world, namely 900,000 in Japan Proper alone and 1,300,000 including the colonies, w1th
prospect of the Empire's population reaching a total of 100,o00,o00 in the next twenty
years. But Japan's natural resources are far from keeping abreast with the increasing
trend of the population, necessitating import of the bulk of her necessities - iron, fuel
oil, cotton, wool, and other products - although the greater part of her food-stuffs 1s
supplied within the country.
The position of Japan, as a nation of the greatest density of population coupled with
natural resources which are poorest among the larger Powers, naturally leads to the fear .
that, unless something be done, the nation will be exposed to starvation and the very exis-
tence of the Empire will be at stake. Hence the only ways open to the Japanese are emigra-
tion as a solution of the population problem, and the promotion of industries and export
trade as a means to supplement natural resources. But Japanese emigrants have already been
shut out, or have been driven out, of the United States, Australia, Canada, and Brazil,
while, at the same time, her export trade is being barred by high import tariffs, quota
systems and other restrictive measures enforced under the pretext that Japanese goods dis-
turb the established markets of other Powers.
What then is the situation in the Far East? Who is the mistress of Asia that nurtures
one-half of the total population of the world? For many centuries in the past, the conti-
nent has been made the object of imperialistic policy and the prey for acquisition of col-
onies by the great Occidental nations. Today, Asia, excepting Japan, China, and Siam, is
divided up into colonies of European or American nat1ons. And Japan is the only country
of the three, which is strictly independent and in a position of leadership. China, de-
spite her long-continued subjection to the Powers, is not yet aware of her fate, and
struggles to keep up her prestige as a state by playing one nation against the other, al-
though on the verge of being turned into a dependency of other countries or of being placed
under international control.
Asia 1s the home of the Asiatics, 1t 1s the "life-line" of the Asiatic races. But it
is not a sphere of life and death importance for the European races. It follows, there-
fore, that there is no reason why we should leave the land to the exploitation of other
races at the cost of our own existence. In the light of this consideration, we support the
principle of equal opportunity which 1s applicable to the whole world without exception.
But we do not admit the justice of any principle of the open door or of equal opportunity
as championed by a certain great Power that tries to enforce such principles only in Asia,
but refuses to recognize such principles when applied to its own continent.....
All the peoples on the earth are brothers. They should love and assist one another,
and not be lealous or antagonistic. They should abandon all ugly ambitions for world
hegemony and cease all antagonisms and conflicts so that an era of justice and concord may
be brought about on earth. To exalt the moral principle and to bring together all the
races of the world into one happy accord has been an ideal and national aspiration of the
Japanese since the foundation of their Empire. We deem this the great mission of the
Japanese race in the world......
To bring the races of the earth together into one complete unity has been the national
policy of Japan and the traditional 1deal of the Japanese race. Hence, we are better qual-
1fied than are any other people to save a world which has been plunged into conflict in the

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
desire of each to exert hegemony over ot.ar nations. Not only are we at present carrying
out reforms in Japan and thereby making steady progress towards eventual accomplishment of
a state founded on moral justice, but also do we aspire to relieve Eastern Asia of suffer-
ing due to being under the yoke of the Occidental Powers and thus create a situation where
each people may work out their own salvation.
We also aspire to make a clear sweep of injustice and inequality from the earth and
to bring about everlasting happiness among mankind. These are the objectives of the
Japanese whose racial aspiration is the ultimate establishment of true and lasting peace
for the world at large.5
It is easy to point out the weaknesses in this argument. It omits all mention of the vast
area of the Asiatic portion of the Soviet Union, a region which is not a colonial possession of
any European power. Emigration 1s given as the only possible solution of the population prob-
lem. There is no suggestion that the population increase might be restricted; there is no rec-
dgnition of the fact that emigration alone has never solved a population problem, but that,
taken in connection with other remedies, it has helped. Moreover, Japanese do not emigrate on
a large scale even to those regions open to them, and only large-scale emigration -- if it were
the single solution as suggested - could "solve" Japan's population problem. The promotion of
industries and export trade to supplement natural resources is mentioned, but the development of
the home market through providing better economic conditions for workers and farmers, is 1gnored.
Then there is the assumptión that seizure and exploitation of portions of the adjoining mainland
by Japan is different, in kind, from European or American imperialism in the same regions. There
is the statement that Japan's military expansionism on the continent of Asia is essentially
peaceful. The point, however, is not the weaknesses of the argument, but the fact that impos-
sible arguments are called forth by the impossible situation which is due, in part, to the na-
ture and geographical position of islands which are inadequate in size and resources, and near
to tempting richer areas on the mainland.
Although it is important to know something of where Japan is, and of how its geographical
position has affected the thoughts and behavior of the people, for a fuller explanation of the
present it is necessary to go back into the past. Wfthout some knowledge of significant devel-
opments in the country before it was opened to the western world, it is impossible to have an
understanding of modern Japan.
Historical Chart, Nara Period to Meiji Era.
Years
Name of period
Capital
Power in hands of
710-784
Nara
Nara
Court, where Fujiwara family and
clergy were most powerful
794-1185
Heian
Kyoto
Fujiwara family at court, until lat-
ter years, when Taira and then Mina-
moto families gained power
1185-1333 Kamakura
Shogun's capital at Kamakura
Kamakura militarists; shogun, then
Emperor in seclusion at Kyoto
Hojo regents
1336-1392 Ash1kaga
Two emperors, one with capi-
Feudal lords
tal at Kyoto; shogun at Kyoto
1392-1491 Ash1kaga
Kyoto; emperor in seclusion;
Ashikaga and feudal lords
Ashikaga shogun at Kyoto
1491-1603
Sengoku
Kyoto
Warring feudal lords
(Age of the
country at war)
1603-1867 Tokugawa
Emperor in seclusion in Kyoto Tokugawa shogunate
Shogunate capital at Yedo
5. "Japan's Mission and the Basis of World Peace", a translation of the 5th and concluding
chapter of the recent pamphlet published from the Press Section of the Army, in Contemporary
Opinions. No. 93, Sept. 12, 1935.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
8-
Chaptor 2.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF JAPANESE SOCIETY UNDER CHINESE INFLUENCES
(7th-12th Centurles)
We know that in the middle of the nineteenth century, Japan was "opened" to the western
world; that the barrier of isolation set up for nearly two hundred and fifty years was torn down,
and that from that time modern Japan was rapidly built. This was the first time in Japanese
history that foreign pressure had been a factor in forcing change upon the country, but it was
noi the first time that Japan had been profoundly modified by contact with foreign influences.
The earlier influences came from China. These were most important during the most prosperous
and virile periods of Chinese history, as, for example, during the time of the Han when Japan
first obtained some of the advanced arts and crafts of China, and especially during the time of
the T'ang when new ideas of government, literature, philosophy ani religion took root, and the
earlier imported art of writing began to be more widely used. At periods when China was weak-
ened, its influence upon Japan was lessened; and also, Japanese culture became more sure of it-
self, and less imitative. If we take a long view of Japanese history, we see that however
strong were the foreign influences affecting the country, nevertheless certain Japanese elements
persisted. From this point of view, Japanese history appears as a combination of strands, some
of Japanese origin, the others of foreign importation. These strands sometimes are brought
together so closely that their separate identity is almost lost in what appears to be a single
fabric; at other times, they are separated and stand out in contrast to each other.
The idea of the divine origin of the great families and more particularly of the imperial
clan is one of the Japanese strands which runs throughout Japanese history. The idea persisted,
though the emperor seldom exercised the power which would seem to belong to his exalted origin
and though this particular strand was obscured at times by other elements. When the country was
going through the stages of enthusiastic acceptance of Buddhism, the national religion was for
some time in the background, and even the emperors and empresses, devoting themselves to the new
religion, seemed to be at a loss as to how to relate their own ancestors, the gods of Japan, to
the new gods. Again,after the relationship had been established and the national gods had been
honored with shrines in Buddhist temples, the influence of the growing feudal structure of Jap-
anese society, together with the actual rule of the state by non-imperial families powerful at
court, helped to undermine the power of the imperial family. During the period of more than six
centuries when the shogun ruled the country, loyalty to the immediate overlord overshadowed, in
the popular mind, devotion to the secluded and quite powerless emperor. However, the idea of
imperial prestige was never completely lost; it remained sufficiently fixed in the tradition so
that it could be revived, as it was at different periods, for political reasons.
Another of the Japanese elements persisting throughout the history of the country was the
clan system, which knit groups of people together, not only by centralized control, but also by
traditional loyalties, customs, and observances. Class stratification existed - farmers, arti-
sans, merchants and warriors formed hereditary divisions within the clan over which the lord
ruled, but class divisions did not permeate Japanese society horizontally. Thus all the farmers,
all the artisans, all the merchants, all the warriors, did not form homogeneous groups; instead,
a clan embracing members of each class was held in loyalty to the clan leader, the lord. Tradi-
tional behav1or and traditional loyalties were gradually very elaborately developed, so that
groups of the less privileged who might have common grievances were not welded together against
the upper classes. The many conflicts which devastated feudal Japan, the wars and struggles
which, in turn, led to the development of a great literature illustrating and extolling Japanese
tradition, were possible because of the emphasis on loyalties owed to a feudal overlord. This

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
literature, elaborated in popular plays during the years of peace which were brought about under
the Tokugawa shogun, the last of the great feudal rulers of Japan, kept alive among the people
the traditions which had permeated Japanese life during the feudal wars. Thus Japan was thor-
oughly imbued with feudal tradition, and it was this Japan which met the impact of the modern
west. Feudalism, as a form of organized society, was abolished, but feudal attitudes did not
die out, and feudal remains in government, in industry, and in the landholding system struggled
for survival. Indeed, in every period of Japanese history, changing economic situations pressed
against feudal traditions; economic influences brought about change in the past and cause us to
examine their possible influence today.
The presence of characteristically Japanese elements in the thoughts and behavior of the
people and in the structure of society, imparted strength to the country. When foreign forms
came in they were modified under the influence of the strong national tradition. On the other
hand, the process of modification was not a simple one and the clash between indigenous and im-
ported forms created problems. This conflict l1es at the root of modern problems of adjustment
within the country, and offers an obstacle to outside understanding of Japan.
In spite of the strength and tenacity of the national tradition, the country of Japan owed
1ts cultural advancement not to these elements, but to Chinese importations, which began quite
certainly as early as the first century A.D. At that time the Han empire held the northern part
of the peninsula of Korea; flourishing Chinese colonies brought the arts and crafts of the virile
China of the Han into a region which was reached by Japanese. Thus into Japan came such things
as silk culture, weaving, and lacquer work. Chinese script probably reached Japan, which had had
no written language, in the fifth century, but very little use was made of writing until the
seventh century. Chinese chronology was adopted in the seventh century, and when the first ex-
tant Japanese chronicle was compiled in the eighth century, Chinese chronology was used to deter-
mine dates for the legendary as well as the more well-established personages of Japanese history.
Thus the date of the legendary first emperor, Jimmu (the great-great-great-grandson of the Sun
Goddess) was set at a date corresponding to 66o B.C., because - according to the Chinese belief -
a large cycle of 1260 years precedes a small cycle of 60 years, 1n the 58th year of wh1ch a revo-
lution 1s l1able to take place. Considering the adoption of Chinese chronology as such a revolu-
tion and counting backward into the mists of legend, a date corresponding to 66o B.C. was arrived
at. Modern historical research however places the emperor Jimmu in the f1: st century A.D., but
the earlier date of 66o B.C. 1s that usec y Japanese in computing the lengh of the imperial
rule. This 1s the basis for the frequentiy reiterated statement that the present emperor, the
one hundred twenty-fourth of the unbroken line, represents a dynasty over 250o years old.
Chinese crafts were important in Japan; Chinese script had to be adapted to Japanese use;
the national tradition which derived a type of exactitude from Chinese chronology was to be in-
fluential, but the influences most immediately effective 1n changing Japanese life were Chinese
governmental forms and Buddhism.
Since 1t was China of the T'ang which profoundly affected Japan, we shall pick up the story
of Japan at the seventh century, the time when 1t met the T'ang culture.
So much of the later growth of Japan 1s to be traced to her borrowings from China un-
der the T'ang dynasty that it 1s necessary to describe, as briefly as can be, conditions in
China and Japan at this time. Politically China was at this moment perhaps the most power-
ful, the most advanced, and the best administered country in the worid. Certainly in every
material aspect of the life of a state she was overwhelmingly superior to Japan. The fron-
tiers of her empire stretched to the borders of Persia, to the Caspian Sea, to the Alta1
mountains. She was in relations with the peoples of Annam, Cochin China, Tibet, the Tarim
basin, and India; with the Turks, the Persians, and the Arabs. Men of many natíons ap-
peared at the court of China, bringing tribute and merchandise and new 1deas that in-

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
fluenced her thought and her art. Persian and more remotely, Greek influence is apparent
in much of the sculpture and painting of the T'ang period.. We need not discuss the
extent of these various alien influences, we need only notice that their presence must
have been a stimulus to invention and creation in many provinces of life, and at the same
time remark that the bulk of China was so great, her strength so formidable, that they
could be easily absorbed without disturbing the balance or the individuality of her own
culture. Along the streets of Ch'ang-an there passed in those days Buddhist monks from
India, envoys from Kashgar, Samarkand, Persia, Annam, Tonkin, Constantinople, chieftains
of nomadic tribes from Siberian plains, officials and students from Korea and, in now
increasing numbers, from Japan. It is easy to imagine the effect upon the eyes and the
minds of these last of a capital so rich in interest and excitement, their despair at the
sight of such profusion, their proud resolve to rival it, if industry and courage and
restless ambition could eke out their country's material shortcomings. No doubt with that
tireless curiosity and patient attention to detail which characterized their study of
other alien civilizations with which they later came in contact - those of Portugal, of
Holland, and later of the industrialised Occident of the l9th century - the Japanese set
themselves to observe and report on every aspect of Chinese life, and to consider what
features they might profitably adopt in their own country. First, in the political field,
they would notice that the T'ang sovereign was an absolute monarch surrounded by able
ministers, who were both scholars and statesmen, from whom he exacted and obtained
obedience and loyal service. The country was divided into administrative districts under
governors who were carefully selected for their capacity, and constantly supervised by
inspecting commissions. Officials were selected and promoted for merit. Appointments
were usually limited to those who had passed examinations in the classics, and this test,
though it might exclude certain useful types of vigour and ability, had the inestimable
advantage that it set learning above warfare and gifts above family. The career was open
to the talents: circumscribed talents, no doubt; but none the less society was establish-
ed on an intellectual basis, and to have even attempted to form an aristocracy of brains
is a stupendous achievement. So the Japanese travellers saw, and perhaps understood in
some measure, a centralised, organized state, a vast but united empire, with a great regu-
lar army, victorious against all its enemies except - and this must have afforded them
some hope and consolation - the Koreans, who more than once repulsed Chinese invasions on
a grand scale, notably in 646. The Japanese, then, could not fail to be impressed by the
sheer power of China, and they must have been soon convinced that it was due principally
to her system of government, which was in almost all essentials the exact opposite to
their own aristocratic, caste-ridden tribal institutions.
Less apparent, but equally impressive to the seekers of knowledge, was the prodigious
activity of China in the intellectual sphere... The first T'ang emperor, announcing that
the teaching of the sages was what air is to birds and water to fish, surrounded himself
with scholars, remodelled and enlarged the imperial academy, increased its students to
3,Ooo, and reformed the provincial seats of learning.. Already there existed a long tradi-
tion of architecture and carving.. Now to this was added the delicate skill of T'ang
sculpture and drawing, with which there was compounded a new emotional element furnished
by the tender and refining influences of Buddhist thought as it had by then developed...
It would be too much of a digression to go on to speak of the painting, the bronzes, the
pottery, the coloured silks, the poems and the fine calligraphies. It is enough to say
that ali these arts were blossoming in profusion when the first Japanese missions found
themselves in the T'ang capital... To the Japanese it must have been staggering.....
Priests, artists and craftsmen, brought back to Japan the knowledge and material
objects by which their country was to take over, and fashion to her own requirements, a
superior culture. The process was obviously a defective one, because it operated at a
distance, with little personal contact. Not very far in miles, China was separated from
Japan by great differences of race, language, and custom. For most Japanese, a knowledge
of China was to be obtained only at second or third hand, passing at one stage through the
medium of an alien language. It is therefore to be expected that in its transit it would
be diluted, if not distorted, and that what would reach Japan would be the forms rather
than the essence. In studying the history of the 7th century in particular, one is con-
stantly struck by this feature, as one 1s at the same time struck by the artistic develop-
ment of Japan, which was as rapid and real as the political and social changes were slow.
and superficial. Not that this difference 1s to be wondered at, for the Japanese could
see before their eyes the ravishing loveliness of statues and paintings brought from the
continent or created 1n their midst by Chinese and Korean masters. The other gifts which
China had to offer were intangible or invisible, and tainted with human fallibility. You
might be breathless with adoration before a serene and faultless golden Buddha, but you
could dislike or criticise the Chinese way of thought and the Chinese principles of
government, the more so if they ran counter to your vested interests. Splendour and
beauty are easier to accept than the austerities of reform, and the consolations of philo-
sophy are more welcome than its discipline.1
1. Sansom, G.B., op.c1t., pp.81-88.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
China of the T'ang had a mature and sophisticated civilization. For over a thousand years,
philosophies had been formulated, discussed, restudied, and reformulated. Buddhism had been in
process of absorption for some five hundred years. Governmental forms of a non-aristocratic
type had been evolving for centuries. A great literature already lay in the past. In Japan, on
the contrary, civilization at this time was unsophisticated. No systems of thought which could
be called philosophies had been formulated by Japanese; governmental forms were simple - and
aristocratic; no national literature existed, and Buddhism was a comparatively recent importa-
tion. The way in which Japanese grappled with the problems of creating a new Japan on the
Chinese model, of taking over new forms of government and religion, of building a new culture in
spite of barriers of language and handicaps of the country's size and resources, is one of the
interesting stories of history. Its close parallel may only be found in the later history of
Japan, in the story of the country's development after the middle of the nineteenth century.
Since it was the power of China which first of all attracted the Japanese, and since this
power was attributed by them to the form of government, it is important to realize that the
governmental forms of China were worked out to suit a country which included great plains in its
vast area. The country was divided into provinces, which were in turn sub-divided, until the
farm lands were reached. These farm lands were re-allotted at intervals, according to the size
of the households involved. One ninth of the produce of the allotted lands was the tax supposed
to be paid to the government. Another aspect of the government was the non-aristocratic non-
hereditary officialdom, appointed by the emperor not from families of aristocratic birth, but to
a great extent from scholars drawn from any class who succeeded in passing the state competitive
examinations.
When Japanese clan leaders who were powerful at court and who practically ruled the country
attempted to remodel Japan on this pattern, they met difficult problems. The very nature of the
land was against them, for the mountainous lands of Japan were not easily allotted and divided
into farming regions from which regular taxes could be figured and collected. The social struc-
ture was against them. Powerful clan lords ruled their districts. If the clan most influential
at court asserted without qualification, that the imperial family owned the land and could dis-
tribute it at intervals, as well as appoint provincial rulers, it would find itself meeting the
opposition of all the other powerful lords. Qualifications and concessions had to be made, to
secure the support of the clan leaders. A beginning had been made in this direction early in
the seventh century, before the era of the government reforms, in order that the ambitious clan
leaders might be placated by the family most powerful at court. At that time, an elaborate
system of ranks was worked out, each rank designated by a cap of a certain color. These ranks
were prized, and were considered important enough to be revised from time to time, until at the
beginning of the eighth century, they reached the form in which they remained. Officials of the
court and in regions near the capital were given the highest ranks, while those of the rural
regions fell into the lower categories. Privilege, exemptions, and prestige were based on
degree of rank. Rank went to members of great familios; it was based primarily on birth. When
from 645 to 718 the changes in government that began with the Taikwa Reforms were worked out,
government officials were chosen from these same families. Thus to privilege, exemptions, and
prestige was added official position with all its special privileges.
In spite of the difficulty of allotting the cultivable fields of Japan, the Taikwa Reforms
provided for such a system of division of the lands, based like the Chinese system on the size
of the households. It was planned that re-allotment should take place with the new census of
every sixth year. Cultivators of rice fields paid a land tax in rice. Rice fields held by
shrines and temples, rice fields from whose produce officials drew their salaries, and rice

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
fields cultivated by serfs for the government were exempt from taxation. When new lands were
brought under cultivation, there was a possibility that they might escape the rice tax if they
could manage to remain unlisted.
In addition to the tax on allotted rice fields, there was a labor tax payable in work or
in produce supposed to be paid by all males, but men of certain rank were exempt from this levy.
A tax was also laid upon other produce than rice - workers in a silk district for example paid
a tax in silk.
It is plain that the system of taxation placed the burdens upon the rural cultivators, but
that they might escape their obligations 1f in some way their lands could be attached to those
of an exempt lord or religious establishment, or if they could secure non-allotted non-registered
land. Thus the economic basis of the remodelled structure was fundamentally unsound. It had
too many loopholes - arising from the facts that special privileges had to be given to the
powerful to gain their support for the plan in the first place, and that the way was open to
increase the number of exemptions.
In order further to conciliate the clan leaders, local or district officials in the new
government were selected from the families already powerful in those regions. Officials were
not, as a rule, moved about as they were under the Chinese system; they remained in their own
districts and their position was further strengthened by clan loyalties. The Chinese examina-
tion system of selecting most government officials was very much modified in Japan. The types
of offices open to candidates successful in competitive .xaminations were much fewer in number
than in China and they included none of the exalted posts. The spirit behind the examination
system of Japan was different from the spirit of the Chinese system. In effect, this system
as it worked out in Japan was merely the accompaniment of government, not its basis, and it
gradually fell into disuse.
Because of the concessions given the clan leaders and because of the insecurity of the
economic basis of the new government, the system introduced in the middle of the seventh century
and revised from time to time in the effort to make it work was bound to be superseded. But,
while it was in force it is evident that in the court would be centered all that was attractive
in the life of Japan, at the expense of the rural population.
The first great center of Japanese court life was erected at Nara, where in 71o a city was
built on the model of the Chinese capital. The tax in labor secured the workers for this
enterprise, other taxes supplied the funds, and Nara arose. Life at Nara has been described as
follows:
A settled home was necessary for the growth on native soil of all those alien arts
and sciences which were then being studied with such ardour, and it is for this reason
that their development in the relatively short period of seventy-five years during which
Nara remained the seat of government and the centre of learning, was more rapid and in-
tense than it had ever been befcre. It is difficult to realize how complete a revolution
was effected in all departments of life in the capital. Life in the country went on as
before. Peasants grew their rice, fed their silkworms, grudged their taxes, and worship-
ped their native gods. But in the city all was new, all was foreign. The very architec-
ture of the palaces and the temples was Chinese; the sutras were read in Chinese transla-
tion if not in Sanskrit; laws, ordinances, public documents, official despatches, chroni-
cles, and even poems were in Chinese; the costume of the courtiers, their etiquette, their
ranks and appellations were borrowed from China. The political doctrines of the statesmen
of Japan, the philosophical ideas of her scholars, the religious beliefs of her priests
could be expressed and expounded only in an alien tongue and an imported script; and even
their native speech was now being enriched with words of foreign origin. It is hard to
find a parallel for this curious phenomenon of a small society, busily digesting and
assimilating a superior foreign culture not imposed from without by conquest or proximity,
but voluntarily, even enthusiastically adopted. It numbered probably not more than twenty

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
thousand in a city of perhaps two hundred thousand inhabitants, and the total population
of Japan at this period is estimated at six million.2
The writings attributed to Confucius were among the Chinese books studied in Japan at this
time. No investigation has ever been made to show just how much of Chinese philosophy was ever
comprehended and assimilated in Japan. To the modern reader, the essence of the teachings of
Confucius is that part which deals with the relations between man and man; the emphasis on the
responsibility of every person to include the good of others in his own good. The stress
Confucius lays on the personal integrity of a ruler as the only sanction for his rule, stands
out as another essential part of his teaching. These humanistic teachings made less apparent
impression in Japan than the portions dealing with respect for family, for ancestors, and for
ruler, which were particularly congenial to Japanese tradition. It would seem that the forms of
Confucianiam, rather than the teachings of Confucius, influenced Japan, but the study (in any
European language) which would prove or disprove this conclusion has not been made.
The thin and superficial characteristics of some aspects of Japanese culture at this time
arose primarily from the difficulties involved in adapting the Chinese script to the Japanese
language. When Chinese culture first reached them through Korea, the Japanese spoke a poly-
syllabic and inflected language entirely different from Chinese. They had no developed system
of writing, and at first students simply learned and wrote in the Chinese language, as scholars
in Europe learned and wrote in Latin during the middle ages. The Chinese written language was
1deographic, not phonetic; each ideograph represented an idea, rather than a sound. The second
step was taken when the Japanese tried to represent Japanese proper names by ideographs and saw
that Chinese symbols might stand for sounds as well as ideas. They simplified a number of the
ideographs to become purely phonetic signs and thus produced the Japanese "alphabet," which is a
list of signs (known as Kana script) for the fifty syllables that occurred in their speech. It
was possible then to write the native language completely in these signs, and Japanese might
have become independent of Chinese. To write yama, the Japanese word for mountain, for example,
one needed only to employ the kana signs for ya and ma. But the Chinese symbols stuck. In the
first place, the 1deograph for mountain was one symbol, the kana signs, two. In the second
place, the Chinese ideograph was more graphic, perhaps more picturesque. In the third place,
with the acceptance of Chinese culture the Japanese acquired a vast number of terms that had not
existed in their own language, and instead of inventing new words they simply adopted the Chinese
words with the Chinese pronunciation. To write these they naturally used the Chinese ideographs.
It is clear that many problems were involved in making the adjustments of the Chinese system of
writing to the Japanese language, that solving them would take time, and that before the solu-
tions were reached, Japanese students would be absorbed in studying and transcribing a foreign
language.3
Of the writing done by Japanese during the Nara period, three works are important. The
Kojiki and the Nihong1 (the latter written in Chinese) were compiled. At the very end of the
epoch, the Manyoshu (Collection of Ten Thousand Leaves), the only creative writing of the time,
which was a collection of poems written by different persons, was compiled. These poems show
the influence of Chinese poetry, but they were written in Japanese; the Chinese characters were
used phonetically to express the sounds of Japanese syllables, regardless of the meaning of the
Chinese ideograph. The shorter poems of the collection are particularly interesting; they are
known as Tanka, and "consist of five phrases of lines of 5, 7, 5, 7, and 7 syllables. Each of
2. Sansom, G.B., op.cit., p. 106.
3. For a fuller description of the 1deographic script of China, see Chapter 1 of the first
volume of Peoples of the Pacific Series.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
these stanzas constitutes an entire poem. The Tanka 1s the most universal and characteristic
form of poetry in Japar."4 A few illustrations of these short poems will show something of their
quality:
"The time of the cherry blossoms
Is not yet past -
Yet now they ought
to fall
Whilst the love of
those who look on them
Is at its height."
"Before the wind of spring
Has tangled the fine threads
of the green willow -
Now, I would show it
To my love."
"On the plum blossoms
Thick fell the snow;
I wished to gather some
To show to thee,
But it melted in my hands."
"Among the hills
The snow still lies -
But the willows
Where the torrents rush together
Are in full bud."
"Granted that I
Am hateful to you,
But the flowering orange,
That grows by my dwelling,
Will you really not come to see it?"5
Another translation of the last poem quoted is by Curtis Hidden Page:
"It may well be that I
Deserve your scorn and hate -
But the flowering tree at my gate
How can you pass 1t by?"
of all the influences modifying Japan at this time, Buddhism and Buddhistic art were among
the most important. Buddhism had been introduced into Japan at the end of the sixth century.
At first, though a few scholars studied the teaching, the chief attraction of Buddhism was the
temple images and tho prayers. Then the organization and the ritual began to make their appeal.
A prince and regent of the empire had been responsible for the first real interest in Buddhism;
emperors and empresses gave the new religion their support; the imperial house and the great
families gave the church lands, property and wealth; monasteries were erected, and Buddhist
establishments with their property and court recognition were numbered among the privileged
institutions of the land. It is interesting to see that it was not the ethical teachings of
Buddhism, nor the Buddhistic philosophy which was the occasion of any particular difficulty in
Japan. The questions which however had to be settled were the relation between the native gods
and the new ones, and also why the members of the ruling house, themselves gods, bowed before
new gods. The first question was settled by the decision that the native gods were phases of
Buddha. The second was disposed of by taking the attitude that Buddhism was "excellent for
protecting the state." The gods of Shinto (the name Shinto is given to the native religion)
were enshrined in Buddhist temples, or Buddhist priests took over Shinto shrines. Buddhist
4. Aston,W.G.,A History of Japanese Literature, D.Appleton Century Co.,New York, 1899
and 1933: p. 29.
5. From Aston, op.c1t., pp. 44-45. Other 11lustrat1ons may be found on pp.46-48, also
1n T1etjens, Eunice, Poetry of the Or1ent, Alfred A. Knopf, New York, 1928: pp. 133-149.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
priests took part in Shinto ceremonies. Any theological controversies which occurred were
fairly easily settled, because Shinto had practically no theology.
The significance of this lies in the evidence it gives of the Japanese willingness to
accept new things if they can be harmonized with Japanese traditions. We see here a certain
practical attitude toward problems, not necessarily involving profound thought, but we see a
solution reached which worked in Japan. At the same time, we realize that the position of
wealth and prestige allowed to the Buddhist establishments might be a source of trouble, and
that although philosophical controversies were avoided, political ones might arise. The
government and the Church were closely connected, and the institution which was "excellent for
protecting the state" might come to threaten the power of other privileged interests. As a
matter of fact, the Buddhist clergy were so influential at court, especially during the latter
part of the Nara period, that this was one reason why the capital was removed from Nara and
constructed elsewhere away from the great monasteries of that city.
Buddhist art was very stimulating to the Japanese. As has been pointed out earlier, art
can be understood without any word. Language is not necessarily connected with artistic expres-
sion stimulated by actual objects. Years before Nara was built, the Japanese had copied
Buddhist images and created beautiful sculpture in wood. In the latter part of the Nara period
Japanese sculpture began to be more than imitative. Buddhistic images of bronze, wood, and dry
lacquer were produced in profusion. Numerous temples, monasteries, and nunneries constructed in
Nara and in the provinces were filled with sculpture of the period, but artistic expression, as
well as the other cultural developments of the time, was confined to a small group.
The Nara period which came to a close in 782 is summarized in the following:
In the Nara period pure cultural development in art and letters and religion outran
economic and political growth. The aesthetic advance was almost miraculous, and bears
witness to the power of the artistic impulse in the Japanese people. Their economic and
political progress was limited by a number of adverse conditions. It was too much to
expect that a rich and varied culture could be, without difficulties and breakdowns,
borrowed from abroad and erected upon a social basis in which tradition was so strong,and an
economic basis which was inadequate to support it. The new culture not only brought a new
and rapidly rising standard of living; it created a numerous class of leisured or at least
unproductive people. The privileged classes, the monks, the nuns, the priests, the orna-
mental officials and soldiers, with all their servants, had to be supported in increasing
luxury by a farming population which, though it also was doubtless increasing in numbers,
was constantly drained of able-bodied men for unproductive work and crippled by taxation.
The measures taken to cope with this situation were bound to fail. The development of new
land merely emphasized the disparity between the rich proprietor and the small cultivator.
The appointment of inspectors to supervise, in the interests of the peasants, the conduct
of local officials merely gave scope for more patronage, already a grave abuse. The
financial expedients of the statesmen were ineffective if they were not dishonest... The
particular example of Fujiwara Oshikatsu (Nakamaro) aptly illustrates the situation in
general. In 76l, on the occasion of one of those temporary transfers of the imperial
residence which were so burdensome to the people at that time, Nakamaro was granted one
million sheaves of rice to meet his expenses. This is equivalent to the crop of 6,0o0
acres of rice field. He received in addition a fief of 3,o00 households and 300 acres of
rice land. At about the same time he was promoted to the highest possible rank, carrying
the highest possible emoluments, and was given privileges which in practice amounted to
the right to mint coins and to collect interest on rice-loans. He issued silver and
copper coins, in exchange for a currency already debased and nearly half of which was
counterfeit, at such rates that the money cost of commodities must have been raised at
least fivefold. Other courtiers and officials received grants and privileges on a lavish
scale, so that it is not surprising to learn, from memorials of the following period, that
the national treasure was diminished by half through the extravagant expenditure of the
court on buildings and gifts in the last decade of the Tempyo era, which ended in 767.6
6. Sanson, G.B., op.c1t., pp. 171-172.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
When the capital was moved to a city constructed on the site of the present Kyoto, the
Heian period (794-ll85) began. During this period, Chinese institutions, 1deas, and cultural
forms were assimilated and a Japanese culture developed. At the same time, the power of the
Fujiwara family which practically ruled the country for the emperor, the growing demands of
other families, and the rise of a militant clergy, together with the economic difficulties
which were bound to arise because of the loopholes in the taxation system, brought about such
changes that military feudalism began to develop at the end of the poriod.
Dr. Anesaki gives a charming description of the setting in which: the court lived in seclu-
sion, devoted to a life of aesthetic enjoyment:
In order to understand the sway that romantic sentiment came to have over the thought
and emotion of the makers of this civilization, we must picture to ourselves the surround-
ings in which they lived. The city of Miyako (Kyoto) lies in a valley, walled in on three
sides by hills that here and there rise to the dignity of mountains and watered by two
beautiful streams that flow southward toward the southern opening of the valley. The dark-
green slopes of the hills are broken by the somber gray of imposing temple roofs and the
overhanging eaves of pagodas. On the banks of the rivers the pliant willows bend their
supple branches, and soft leaves quiver in the breeze while the clear waters reflect their
green images. A thin veil of mist frequently covers the valley and then the gentle slopes
and overhanging precipices are like a long scroll painted in black and white. Those who
live amidst such loveliness would be insensitive if they did not respond emotionally to
such loveliness.
The persons who played their graceful parts on the stage thus set were the refined and
effeminate "moon lords," or "cloud gallants," as the noblemen were called, and the charming
and intelligent court ladies - the "Ladies of the Wisteria Chamber" and the "Ladies of the
Shadow of Willow." The refinement of their literary and artistic tastes was far superior
to their political talent or tneir moral sense; and in their emotional life they found de-
light in a romantic development of the relations of the sexes, and in a sensitive response
to the beauty of nature.7
Architecture also exerted its influence in setting the stage for the court life of the time:
The mansion of a nobleman of this period was built simply of wood and bamboo. The
floor was raised several feet above the ground, and was reached by staircases. The gently
sloping roof was covered with shingles thickly and compactly laid, so that it had the ef-
fect of a soft, brownish thatch. The main building, which contained the rooms of the lord,
was connected by bridge-like corridors with the other buildings - the lady's chamber, the
angling pavilion, the fountain house, and other characteristic structures. On three sides
of these buildings and galleries was the garden, in which there were necessarily a lake and
streams, with winding shore lines that touched the verandas of the various pavilions. In
the lake there was an islet reached by bridges with lacquered railings. The trees and
stones were placed so as to give the garden the effect of a landscape. The view of the
houses from the garden was also picturesque, for it offered the contrast of brown roofs,
grey walls and red railings, seen through the rich green of the trees and through clouds
of pink cherry blossoms or violet wisteria.8
The Genji Monogatari, or Tale of Genji, a long novel written at the beginning of the elev-
enth century by a lady of the court, gives realistic descriptions of the court life of the time;
though the novel is fiction, it serves to give pictures of contemporary life. Here we see the
palace intrigues, the life of the "refined and effeminate 'moon lords' . . and the charming and
intelligent court ladies." There is very little in this long novel to show that other people
existed, outside the court circle. The lack of mention of other classes of the people is sig
nificant. One of the few comments on the life of the people is made in a description of the life
of the hero Genji in exile in the country, where he lived in rustic style. A friend from the
court visited him.
7. Anesaki, Masaharu, Art, Life and Nature in Japan, Marshall Jones Co., Boston, 1933:
pp. 55-57.
8. Anesak1, Masaharu, op. cit., pp. 59-61.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
He was soon admiring Genji's rustic house, which seemed to him the most extraordinary
place to be living in. He thought it more like some legendary hermit's hut in a Chinese
book than a real cottage. Indeed, the whole place might have come out of a picture, with
1ts hedge of wattled bamboo, the steps of unhewn stone, the stout pine-wood pillars and
general air of improvisation. Chujo was enchanted by the strangeness of it all. Genj1
was dressed in peasant style with a grey hunting-cloak and outer breeches over a suit of
russet brown. The way in which he played up to this rustic costume struck Chujo as highly
absurd and at the same time delighted him. The furniture was all of the simplest kind and
even Genji's seat was not divided off in any way from the rest of the room. Near it lay
boards for the games of go and sugoroku, and chessmen, with other such gear as is met with
in country houses. The meals, which were necessarily of a somewhat makeshift character,
seemed to Chujo positively exciting. One day some fishermen arrived with cockles to sell.
Genji sent for them and inspected their catch. He questioned them about their trade and
learned something of the life led year in and year out by those whose homes were on this
shore. It was a story of painful unremitting toil, and though they told it in a jargon
which he could only half understand, he realized with compassion that their feelings were,
after all, very much like his own.9
Arthur Waley, the well-known translator of Chinese and Japanese literature, considers the
Tale of Genji to be somewhat over romantic in tone, but he thinks the Pillow-Book of Sei Shona-
gon, a long diary of the period, the most important document of the time. Sei Shonagon lived
and wrote at the end of the tenth century. Her witty comments bring real persons and situations
before us. For example:
A recitant (of the Scriptures) ought to be good-looking. It is only if it is a
pleasure to keep one's eyes on him all the time that there 1s any chance of religious feel-
ings being aroused. Otherwise one begins looking at something else and soon one s atten-
tion wanders from what he is reading; in which case ugliness becomes an actual cause of
sin.10
The devotions of a retired chancellor are described:
He bustles in, makes some remark to the holy man who is occupied with the service,
but even while he is doing so continually casts back glances at some ladies who are just
being deposited from their carriage, and indeed seems ready to take an interest in any-
thing that turns up. Presently he discovers in the audience some friend whom he has not
seen for a long time, and with many exclamations of astonishment and delight comes across
and sits next to him. Here he chats, nods, tells funny stories, opens his fan wide and
titters behind it, rattles a string of dandified beads, fiddles with his hands, and all
the while looks round in every direction. He discusses what sort of carriages the people
come in, finding fault with some and praising others, compares the services held recently
at various houses - . . . and all this while he does not hear a word of what the priest is
reading. And indeed, it would not interest him much if he did; for he has heard it all so
often that it could no longer possibly make any impression on him.i1
Life at the court was self-centered. Chinese continued to be fashionable, and Chinese
poetry particularly was extravagantly admired and imitated. A description in the Tale of Genji
gives something of the way in which the members of the court showed their proficiency in making
Chinese verses:
About the twentieth day of the second month the Emperor gave a Chinese banquet under
the great cherry-tree of the Southern Court . . After some promise of rain the day turned
out magnificent; and in full sunshine, with the birds singing in every tree, the guests
(royal princes, noblemen and professional poets alike) were handed the rhyme words which
the Emperor had drawn by lot, and set to work to compose their poems. It was with a clear
and ringing voice that Genji read out the word "Spring" which he had received as the rhyme-
sound of his poem. Next came To-no-Chujo who, feeling that all eyes were upon him and de-
termined to impress himself favorably on his audience, moved with the greatest possible
elegance and grace; and when on receiving his rhyme he announced his name, rank and titles,
he took great pains to speak pleasantly as well as audibly. Many of the other gentlemen
were rather nervous and looked quite pale as they came forward, yet they acquitted them-
9. The Sacred Tree, Vol. II of The Tale of Genji, translated by Arthur Waley, Houghton
Mifflin, Boston, pp. 135-136.
10.
Waley, Arthur, The Pillow-Book of Se1 Shonagon, Houghton Mifflin, Boston, 1929: p. 114.
11. Waley, Arthur, op. c1t., 115-116.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
selves well enough. But the professional poets, particularly owing to the high standard
of accomplishment which the Emperor's and Heir Apparent's lively interest in Chinese
poetry had at that time diffused through the Court, were very ill at ease; as they crossed
the long space of the garden on their way to receive their rhymes they felt utterly hope-
less. A simple Chinese verse is surely not much to ask of a professional poet; but they
all wore an expression of the deepest gloom. One expects elderly scholars to be somewhat
odd in their movements and behavior, and it was amusing to see the lively concern with
which the Emperor watched their various but always uncouth and erratic methods of approach-
ing the Throne.
The poems were opened and read aloud. The reading of Genji's verses was continually
interrupted by loud murmurs of applause. Even the professional poets were deeply impressed,
and it may well be imagined with what pride the Emperor, to whom at times Genji was a
source of consolation and delight, watched him upon such an occasion as this.12
Of this period as a whole, Sir George Sansom says:
If many of the activities of this age were artificial to the point of silliness, they
did, we must remember, express a culture remarkable, probably unique, in that it was al-
most entirely aesthetic. Into the remoter origins of this phenomenon we will not inquire,
but its immediate reasons are plain. For some centuries past Japan had been peaceful and
undisturbed, except by a little frontier fighting and brief factional quarrels that did
not check the smooth flow of metropolitan life. She had been supplied with a religion, a
philosophy, a theory of the state, all ready-made; and since she had no criterion by which
to judge these gifts she accepted them on the whole without reserve. She might have been
more critical or more uncertain had she known other civilizations, but she was isolated,
and her communication with the outside world was scanty and irregular. Though her rulers
were dominated by foreign ideas, as a country she never suffered a violent cultural inva-
sion and the first hostile descent upon her shores of any consequence was the Mongol at-
tack of 1274. The Chinese did not force their customs on her, and she was never stimu-
lated by close contact with other peoples, whereas the history of the rest of Asia and
Europe is one long record of the marching and mingling of tribes and nations.
Therefore - and this is true in greater or less degree of subsequent times - the Jap-
anese of the Heian epoch tended to treat each element of their imported culture as if it
were something integrated and perfected. Yet, while they did not question the perfection
of the whole, for they were acute observers rather than r estless critics, their temper and
their circumstances modified its parts and changed its very essence. So the terms of In-
dian metaphysics became a kind of fashionable jargon, Buddhist rites a spectacle, Chinese
poetry an intellectual game. We might almost summarize by saying that religion became an
art and art a religion. Certainly what most occupied the thoughts of the Heian courtiers
were ceremonies, costumes, elegant pastimes like verse-making and amorous intrigue con-
ducted according to rules. Perhaps most important of all, because it entered into all,
was the art of penmanship. These were the subjects of their literature and in these they
achieved a prodigious virtuosity. Let it be added that, if they transformed whatever they
borrowed and sometimes refined away its essence, they and their descendants also rejected
what was gross and cruel.13
As in the Nara period, art in the Heian period was not a thin and artificial affair. A
characteristic way of painting distinguished the art expression of this time. Scrolls, full of
realism and action, were painted to illustrate, for example, the Tale of Genji.
But what about the state of affairs in the country at large, while the Heian courtiers were
living their lives in pleasant seclusion, occupied with art and literature, manners, ceremonies,
rites and costume?
The legislation of the early Heian period is concerned to an amazing extent with mat-
ters of ritual and etiquette, and it is easy to see that the seclusion of the sovereign
and his constant preoccupation with details of dress and deportment made 1t difficult, 1f
not impossible, for even the strongest-minded ruler to comprehend, much less to cope with,
the urgent problems of government. . . Busy with such matters, occupied for many days of
the year with elaborate rites, the emperor and his ministers could not, if they would, pay
attention to the serious questions, both political and economic, which had begun to arise
as soon as the centralized state had begun to develop. . . They could not fail to be aware
12. The Tale of Genj1, by Lady Murasak1, translated by Arthur Waley, Houghton Mifflin,
Boston: vol. 1, pp. 239-241.
13. Sansom, G. B., op. cit., pp. 233-234.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
of those questions, for they struck too closely at the imperial finances and the imperial
authority. The breakdown of the system of taxation, as administered by greedy provincial
officials, was plain from the emptiness of the imperial chest. The weakness of the mili-
tary authority was plain from the incursions of the Ainu and the ravages of pirates. The
quarrels and rivalries of the great families were only too apparent from the plots and
counterplots which centered around the throne and the succession. But, obvious as were
these abuses, there is little sign of constructive policy to remove them.14
The lords of adjoining manors did not live peacefully and it was necessary for each lord to
have his own troops to protect his estate. Some peasant families proved to be better fighters
than others and the sons of these families became warriors in the troops attached to the clan.
All warriors were exempt from taxation. The fighting men of the northern districts bordering
the lands of the Ainu - those aboriginal inhabitants about whose origin little is known - had
considerable practice in warfare, for the Japanese desired the lands still controlled by the
Ainu. Thus, for one reason or another, a small privileged class of hereditary warriors arose,
the beginning of the special warrior class which was to be so important in feudal Japan. In
794, the commander of the armies fighting the Ainu was given the title of Barbarian-Subduing-
Generalissimo, or Sei-1-Tai-Shogun, the first time that this title, later to be used to desig-
nate the actual ruler of the country, was used. Thus at the very beginning of the Heian period
appeared signs of the changes which were to come much later.
Tax-free estates increased in size and in numbers. The Buddhist establishments, in spite
of decrees restricting the land they could hold, continued to gain possession of more and larger
estates - and these were tax-free. Even about Kyoto, where it was planned there should be no
powerful monasteries whose clergy might interfere with affairs at court, temples and monasteries
arose on every hill top. Many clergy were ambitious men who entered religious establishments in
order to obtain exempt land. Other men, seeking tax-free estates, took over hitherto undevel-
oped land. Small landholders, forced to bear the financial and labor obligations of the state,
tended to place their lands in the hands of some exempt institution or person, and to work their
share of the land on some sort of payment basis which was less oppressive.
As power and privilege passed into relatively few hands, the elaborate bureaucratic govern-
ment attempted under the Taikwa Reforms broke down. At court, the regent who was the mouthpiece
for the emperor came to conduct most of the business of the state. Throughout the Heian period,
the real ruler of the country was this regent, who was always a member of the Fujiwara family.
Thus the highest office in the state became virtually hereditary.
Over against this tendency to centralize control in the hands of one family, were decen-
tralizing tendencies which, combined with economic weakness, were to tear the whole fabric of
government apart. The numerous offspring of the imperial house, all of whom could not be accom-
modated at court, moved to outer provinces which they had been given, and founded new families.
In this manner the Taira and Minamoto clans, and the lesser families related to them, originated.
Gradually the daimyo or "great names" emerged, living on tax-free lands, and a potential threat
to the Fujiwara, particularly since these ambitious daimyo had in their service numbers of here-
ditary warriors while the Fujiwara at the court were not themselves a warlike clan.
The lesser nobility, who could very infrequently obtain rank high enough to enable them to
hold high offices of staie, tended to devote themselves to art, or to enter the military profes-
sion, which, toward the end of the Heian period, had become important. The lowest classes of
the people, including free persons and slaves, gradually merged into one. The distinction be-
tween privileged and unprivileged classes was much more marked than any distinctions between
different groups in the lower orders of society.
14. Sansom, G.B., op. c1t., pp. 192-193.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
Of the actual life of the people, there is little record. Some idea of their reactions
may be implied from their response to the widespread and popular teaching of a new interpreta-
tion of Buddhism.
The times were evidently ripe for a new movement in religion. A monk named Kuya, who
had preached in the streets of Kyoto during an epidemic in 951, spent most of his life
travelling about Japan, teaching the people to invoke the name of Buddha, so that he was
known as the Saint of the Market Place. These open-air meetings were clearly of a revi-
valist nature, and seem to indicate that there was now room for some popular evangel which
would afford an easy outlet for religious emotion, some satisfying but not exacting faith.
It was a marked characteristic of the Japanese of this period (a characteristic which
shows itself in their earliest native beliefs and which, some think, time has not alto-
gether eliminated) that they were not tortured by a sense of sin, not racked by a desire
to solve the problem of Good and Evil. There was little of the cruel puritanical strain
in them and little of that restless spirit of doubt and inquiry which has driven other
peoples either to seek refuge in quietism or to escape from their thoughts by incessant
activity. They were impressionable and lively, but without metaphysical bent. Being im-
presstonable, they were quick to feel the scrrows and delusions of earthly life, readily
believing those Buddhist preachers who taught 1ts emptiness and dwelt on the terrors of
hell and the glories of paradise. Being lively, they could live happily in the moment,
and pass with an easy reaction from fear of suffering to hope of bliss.is
In the latter years of the Heian period, when disorder marked the troubled times, the idea
of faith as a means of salvation had wide popular appeal. The believer found consolation in the
teaching that if he repeated the name of Buddha, in simple faith, he might hope to enter para-
dise and in that distant "pure land" receive the enlightenment he could not attain in this world.
This interpretation of Buddhism was the one which had the greatest influence on the lives of the
masses.
The last century of the Heian period, from, roughly speaking, the middle of the eleventh
century almost to the end of the twelfth century, was marked by struggles of various types. The
emperor tried to escape the dominance of the Fujiwara. When the Fujiwara were threatened by the
militant clergy about Kyoto, they had to ask assistance from one of the great military families
of the outlying districts, and these, in turn, did not give help without asking a price and gain-
ing power. Both the Taira and the Minamoto families were attempting to increase their holdings
and their power. The rivalry between the Taira and the Minamoto culminated in warfare which
went on for years (1l59-ll85). At first the Taira were victorious, but later under Yoritomo the
Minamoto finally subdued their rivals, in 1185, and inaugurated (in l192) the series of military
dictatorships, the shogunates, which were not abolished until 1867.
Thus, out of the interactions of imported Chinese governmental forms and the indigenous so-
cial structure of ancient Japan, military feudalism began to emerge with all its emphasis on the
prestige of warriors - a form of society and of thought which took deep root in Japan, and which
was quite unlike anything existing in China.
15.
Sansom, G.B., op. cit., pp. 237-238.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
Chapter 3
SOCIAL CHANGES DURING THE GROWTH OF MILITARY FEUDALISM
(End of Twelfth Century to BegInnIng of Seventeenth)
When Minamoto Yoritomo conquered the Taira, and as shogun set up his capital at Kamakura,
military feudalism was established in Japan and many institutions and customs were overturned.
A contemporary observer, Kamo Chomei, described the time of change and trouble.
"During the forty years or so I have lived since I began to understand the meaning of
things," Chomei wrote, "I have seen not a few strange happenings." He describes a fire which
destroyed a large part of the capital in l175 A.D., a typhoon which wrecked many homes, the re-
moval of the capital, and the ruinous state of the buildings remaining. "And those mansions
that stood so proudly side by side from day to day became more ruinous. Many were broken up
and floated down the river Yodo, while their pleasure grounds were turned to rice fields. And
the fashions changed also in those days, so that everyone came to ride on horseback, while the
more dignified ox-car was quite forsaken. And everybody was scrambling to get land by the
Western Sea and none cared for manors in the north and east." He visited the new capital (at
Kamakura), and observed the unsettled feeling of the people, the unfinished state of the build-
ings. "So the old Capital was already a waste and the new one not yet made," he wrote. "Every-
one felt as unsettled as drifting clouds. And the natives of the place were full of complaints
over losing their land, while the new inhabitants grumbled at the difficulty of building on such
a site. And of the people one met in the streets those who ought to have been riding in car-
riages were on horseback and those who usually wore court costume were in military surcoats.
The whole atmosphere of the Capital was altered and they looked like a lot of country samurai.
And those who said that these changes were a portent of some civil disturbances seemed to be not
without reason, for as time went on things became more and more unquiet and there was a feeling
of unrest everywhere." He went on to describe the growing poverty of the people, and then the
pestilence which killed thousands so that the dead lay unburied by the roadsides. To these mis-
eries were added the destruction and suffering caused by an earthquake. All of these experi-
ences led Chomei to reflect upon the "fleeting evanescent nature of man and his habitation," and
to conclude that the less he possessed, the less would be his misfortunes and cares. So, at
sixty, he retired to the mountains where he lived alone, in a hut ten feet square. "Since I for-
sook the world and broke off all its ties, I have felt neither fear nor resentment. I commit my
life to fate without special wish to live or desire to die. Like a drifting cloud I rely on
none and have no attachments. My only luxury is a sound sleep and all I look forward to is the
beauty of the changing seasons." 1
Many people retired, as Kamo Chomei did, and left the difficult world of affairs for monas-
teries or other retreats. In general, however, it appears that the lords and their retainers
took the opportunity of profiting by the feudal society developing in Japan.
We often think of feudalism as an ordered hierarchy of landholders who owe final fealty to
a king, and to whom lesser landholders give submission in return for protection. Actually, how-
ever, except in countries where supreme control is gained by conquest - as in England under the
Normans - the relationships are not quite so ordered and simple, because when feudal loyalties
and the whole feudal system grow out of existing conditions many other relationships cut across
the feudal organization. Though the Minamoto under Yoritomo became the most powerful family in
all Japan, and though they gained this position through fighting, nevertheless it cannot be said
1. Extracts taken from Sadler, A. L., The Ten Foot Square Hut, Angus and Robertson Limited,
Sydney, 1928.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
that Japanese feudalism owed its characteristic features to imposition through conquest. Con-
sequently, there were many conflicting elements in the growing feudalism of Japan, which arose
out of changes gradually developed within the Japanese social and economic structure, and which
necessarily affected the life of the people.
In a society which does not have a money economy - and this was the situation in Japan
throughout almost the whole of the period we are considering - and in which the aristocratic
principle is strong, two factors are of immense importance. One is concerned with the land-
holding system in which the wealth of the country is centered, and which involves the life of
the cultivators. The other is connected with the various means by which the power and strength
of the lord are maintained. It is obvious that there is a close relationship between these, for
the military feudal lord, if he is to have any power at all, must have warriors; he must draw
income from the cultivators, and he must be able to command the loyal service of both cultivator
and warrior. If the farmer is fixed to the soil, he must make all the payments, in service and
in kind, which are demanded from him, but if he is not, then he may seek the protection of a
less oppressive lord. In Japan, through the period of the growth of feudalism, the farmer was
not attached to the soil. Consequently, the lord was obliged to find some way to command his
service. Ore method used was the emphasis on traditional clan loyalties; this was one of the
chief reliances of the early lords of Kamakura, the Minamoto, who established their capital not
in Kycto, but on their own estates in oastern Japan, far from the diversions and aesthetic ac-
tivities of Kyoto. We find a literary interpretation of these loyalties in the stirring tales
of the feudal wars written in the thirteenth century. These stories may contain an element of
fiction, but they nevertheless gave to later generations the spirit of feudal 1deals. The
Gempei Seisuiki, for example, tells of the struggle between Yoritomo and the Taira, and of his
later conflict with his half-brother Yoshitsune. Yoritomo was jealous of his brother and deter-
mined to capture and kill him. The plight of the fleeing Yoshitsune seemed hopeless when Sato
Tadanobu, one of his warriors, said:
"I will stay here as my lord Yoshitsune. When my arrows are exhausted then I will
commit harakir1, and the start given will ensure our lord's safety."
Tears stood in Yoshitsune's eyes. He felt how much he owed to these brave fellows,
to any one of whom his brother would have given a large fief as a reward for desertion...
"When I think of your brother's death in my stead at Yashima, I cannot endure the idea
of such a sacrifice."
"Without him I cannot face my father," replied Tadanobu, "he would ask me what I had
done and will be only too pleased if I die fighting for my lord."
Then Benkei (another follower) said, "Tadanobu is a true samurai. We are all ready
to die for our lord. There is no taking the backward road. Will our lord graciously per-
mit Tadanobu to carry out his plan?"
"Call yourself Yoshitsune," was the latter's reply to Tadanobu, "and so tell the
Judges of Hell when they ask your name. We will exchange armour." He handed over to
Tadanobu his armour sewn with red thread, his helmet with the gold frontlet and white
stars in sixty-four places, and with the shihi (lion-leopard) surmounting it. Then he
gave him his sword Kimi-Banzai-no-Tomonari (Everlasting-Royal-Reign forged by Tomonari).
Said Tadanobu, "I would only ask that someone would don my armour. It is that of
Tsuginobu, which he wore at Yashima."
"It shall be I," said Yoshitsune. "Never has man been surrounded by men of stronger
faith than these."
Tadanobu dropped to the ground at his lord's feet. "My brother in his grave will
turn with joy."
Benkei hastened the departure. "Put on your sandals backward, so that our trail
will look as if we were going in the opposite direction." Then they took their leave of

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
Tadanobu. Sadly he watched them, and tears came into his eyes at the idea of never seeing
his lord again.2
One has only to compare this with the Tale of Genji or with the Pillow-Book of Sei Shonagon,
to be aware of a new atmosphere of life, a new set of ideals of behavior. These ideals were of
immense influence and significance, particularly in time of such an emergency as Yoshitsune and
his followers faced, but they could scarcely supply all the motives which would keep the mass of
the people contented and loyal when there was a degree of peace - or even when there was not.
Moreover, the clan system - that loose organization of numbers of people most of whom are re-
lated by blood, broke down under pressure of increasing numbers, conflicting interests, and
civil war. Out of it emerged the family system, involving single households ruled by the head
of the household and owing fealty to feudal lords unrelated by blood. Also, during the many
years of civil war, individual daimyo were obliged to control most of the affairs of their
estates, since there was no strong central government to which administrative matters could be
referred. Daimyo exercised increasing control over the households, determining whom retainers
should marry, for example; but since allegiance could be transferred to another daimyo, provided
the living conditions were intolerable, the ambitious lords of Japan were obliged to pay some
attention to the prosperity of their vassals in order to have wealth and power. The real basis
of Japanese feudalism was not ideals of feudal loyalties, but economic conditions, which varied
through the centuries.
These economic conditions, as we have seen, were primarily tied up with the landholding
system, and it is necessary to have some notion of the peculiar system of Japan, in order to see
how the lives of the people were affected. Rice, the chief crop, was cultivated by individual
farmers working small plots of land. These farmers did not own their fields; they had the right
to use the land. Numbers of other people possessed rights in the same plots of land - for ex-
ample, the bailiffs who managed several holdings for another person, or the great family which
guaranteed protection to a large number of people. The highest overlord did not necessarily re-
ceive the largest income from his rights. Rights were hereditary possessions, to be passed on
to numerous heirs and sometimes, in the process, to come into the hands of rival overlords. The
whole system was very complicated, and Yoritomo, the first lord of Kamakura, did not attempt to
change existing rights; he simply added new rights to tho list, the rights owned by his own
military administrative officials. These men were in a position to extend their authority and
they founded the ambitious new families which were later to threaten Kamakura. The great es-
tates of conquered lords were added to the Minamoto holdings - the lands of the conquered Taira
alone included one third of the lands of Japan. These confiscated properties were given to
Minamoto vassals, but even in this case all existing rights in the land did not come into the
hands of the new overlords. The samura1, the warriors attached to the clan who had figured so
prominently in the civil warfare and who had emerged from the civil wars as a recognized class,
were sometimes settled on the land, sometimes confirmed in any rights to which they laid claim,
and sometimes given new rights to draw income from land they did not cultivate. The final sanc-
tion for landholding appears to have been force. There seems to have been little discussion
about who actually owned the land but, instead, a recognition of the fact that the strongest
could dispose of it as theirs.
The inheritance of undivided estates (including land rights) by one son was not established
at this time. The feudal lord of Japan followed the old clan custom of nominating his heir, or
heirs, and cf dividing his estates among his numerous progeny. Since polygamy was practiced,
2. de Benneville, James S., Saito Musashi-Bo-Benkei, C. N. Caspar Co., Milwaukee, 1910:
Vo1. II, pp. 231-232.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
there were many claimants to property, and at this time, if the eldest son were passed over, he
could legally demand but one fifth of an estate. The imperial succession might also be a matter
of dispute - as it has very frequently been in the past - for the emperor nominated his succes-
sor. The Fujiwara had generally managed to control such nominations by intrigue; now, since the
military was influential, disputes over the succession were more apt to be marked by war than
they had been. Not until after the strong Kamakura government had become weakened, and had
finally fallen, and years of civil war had disrupted the country, was the whole inheritance cus-
tom changed.
The first lord of Kamakura was a warrior, the leader of warriors. He had no sympathy with
the aesthetic activities of Kyoto. Costume and etiquette held a minor position in the stern
military regime of early Kamakura, though they were more valued later in the period. The new
government was strict; while it expressed no particular interest in the welfare of the people,
it dispensed a certain rough justice, and let the people know where they stood. Any cultivator
who was not in debt was permitted to move from his fields, and a peasant might sell his rights
in the land, while no other person was allowed to dispose of his own rights except by bequest.
The payments required of the farmer were fixed so that a greedy overlord might not unduly op-
press him.
In dispensing justice, the Minamoto house law, a body of regulations regarding relation-
ships between the many members of the clan, was found convenient because it fitted the situation
of the time. Consequently, 1t was applied to larger groups, and by other families, and it came
to take the place of the elaborate codes of law worked out earlier. This house law, for ex-
ample, dealt with inheritance regulations. It is interesting to note that at this time women
were permitted to inherit property, estates, and land rights, and to name their heirs; they were
even allowed to adopt an heir. While these laws appear liberal, in them may be found one cause
for the chaotic social and political situations which developed in Japan, because they led to a
continued shifting of power, and to disputes and difficulties.
Even these few details concerning the Kamakura government make it plain that the men who
managed it followed no imported theory, but, instead, attempted to work out their own solutions
for problems as they arose. The new government followed the type of organization which had
grown up in connection with the management of Japanese manors, rather than copying forms devel-
oped in China. Consequently, the developments of the Kamakura period resulted not from con-
flicts between imported and indigenous ideas and institutions, but from the strengths and weak-
nesses within the Japanese situation. The government did not long retain its early stern sim-
plicity. Hojo regents, members of the Taira family, ruled for Yoritomo's sons and the later
heirs to the shogunate. The shogun lived secluded in their Kamakura palace, just as the em-
peror lived secluded in Kyoto. However, for over a hundred years (Kamakura fell in 1333) while
life at Kamakura lacked the romantic aestheticism of the Heian court, it possessed a vitality
of its own.
We have already referred to the Gempei Seisuiki and similar tales as being literary inter-
pretations of the ideals of behavior which were a part of this vitality. In the brief illustra-
tion already quoted the mention of Yoshitsune's sword is significant, for it gives an idea of
the way in which swords were personified and treasured, and suggests the manner in which crafts-
manship played 1ts part in the life of the time. Like the legendary Excalibur, Japanese swords
of this period were often credited with supernatural powers. Behind all this lay the art of the
sword-makers, for at this time sword-making was an art. It is said that for strength and cut-
ting edge, the Japanese swords of the thirteenth century have never been surpassed anywhere in
the world. Moreover,

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
As regards the sword, it was honored in Japan to such a degree as to be considered
the soul of the warrior and the token of his self-respect. Hence the manufacture of
swords was viewed as a holy profession. In the workshops cleanliness was an essential,
the workmen wore fresh garments and were required to fast and to undergo rites of purifi-
cation.3
Stories in present-day government school readers recall the traditions and skill of the sword-
maker. For example, in a story called The Blacksmith, the old blacksmith speaks:
"Nowadays I just work at making kitchen knives, nails, and such things, but there was
a time when I was fairly well-known as a swordsmith. I don't know how many dozen broad-
swords and short-swords I made when I was young. The sword is the soul of the samurai,
they say, and for that reason when forging a sword one nust have the body clean and the
mind perfectly composed."
The Dictionary of Japanese Biography gives some light on the importance of the sword-maker.
About ten per cent of the material in this work deals with sword-makers, who make one of the few
groups for which genealogical tables are given, and the only group placed in a section by itself.
The wars and conflicts which led to the establishment of the Kamakura government offered
inspiration not only to writers and craftsmen, but also to the painters of the twelfth and thir-
teenth centuries. One of these, Keion, painted extraordinary battle pictures and turbulent
scenes full of movement and action. Laurence Binyon, the well-known critic, describes his work:
In his own way Keion is the greatest of Japanese draughtsmen. At a time Kiyomor1,
the Taira chief, was absent from Kyoto, the Minamoto invaded the court and set the palace
on fire, hoping to seize in their turn the sacred person of the Emperor. Disguised as a
woman, the Emperor was smuggled into an ox-cart. Keion has painted the scene, when a
group of armed Minamoto, arriving in the courtyard, surround the ox-cart; one holds up a
smoking torch, others roughly pull aside the curtains of the hood and exclaim with disap-
pointed anger at finding only a woman. The men are alive; we can hear the stamp of their
feet; we can see their swift and menacing gestures. But the full measure of Keion's power
1s seen rather in another scene from the Boston scroll, the "Flight of the Court." What a
fury of fear, what a riot of speed, in the headlong flight of the men, in the mad race of
the ox-carts, some of which are overturned in the wild onrush! 4
The spirit of the age was reflected in certain developments in Buddhism. Nichiren, who
violently attacked all other sects, and who emphasized nationalism, sounded a new note of defi-
ance, of missionary zeal, of national spirit, even of intolerance. On the other hand, the "Pure
Land" teachings, so popular at the end of the Heian period, spread more widely among the people.
Zen Buddhism, brought from China, attracted the warriors. It stressed self-reliance, self-exami-
nation, and self-mastery, as means of enlightenment; it lacked the simple emotional appeal of
the "Pure Land" sect, and for that reason found a following among the warriors who had to depend
upon their own efforts in battle and who felt a kinship with the same idea applied in religion.
These elements, rather than the contemplative side of Zen teachings, won the warriors.
Zen priests reintroduced tea from China. Tea was believed to be a quieting drink and it
was used by those who practiced Zen meditation. Since the practice of drinking tea creates a
need for appropriate cups, porcelain manufacture, as well as trade in tea and porcelain, was
stimulated - just as it was much later when Europe obtained tea from China and tea drinking be-
came fashionable. In Japan, the elaborate tea-cult developed, because of the connection between
tea drinking and religious meditation. The tea-cult reached its height somewhat later, but it
may be described here:
Through the spread of Zen practice, tea-drinking became a necessary part of the daily
life, and gatherings in specially constructed tea rooms were organized by devotees of Zen.
3. From the Encyclopedia Japonica, in Japanese.
4. Binyon, Laurence, Painting in the Far East, Edward Arnold, London, 1908: p. 117.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
The room was tiny and simple, like a primitive hut or a hermitage in the forest. There
was no other decoration than a single painting or example of calligraphy hanging in an
alcove and a flower in the same recess. Everywhere there was severe simplicity and
purity of taste. This calm and serene mood of the tea room came to permeate Japanese
life, and restrained and refined even the luxurious life of military grandees. . The
tea room was above the ordinary laws of social distinction, for it was retreat from all
worldly cares and troubles. There a military ruler or a great lord sat on the same simple
matting with men of inferior rank, and the subject of their talk was drawn from regions
beyond the routine of daily life. They spoke of the "wind and the moon," the "air and
the stream," or any other subjects that would help to purify and elevate the mind.5
All this sophisticated simplicity seems a long way from the bare simplicity of warlike
Kamakura, and it was. It was a later development, but the beginnings lay in the Kamakura period
when regents exercised the power and the puppet shogun lived in luxury and retirement. To the
shogun's court in Kamakura came some members of the Kyoto circle; and many samura1, whose famf-
1ies had increased but whose lands had not increased proportionately, joined the shogun's court
where well-paying positions were numerous. Members of the warrior class were not uninfluenced
by this contact with Kyoto ideas and learning, introduced to Kamakura by courtiers from Kyoto.
However much the warriors affected to despise luxury and aestheticism, they were human enough to
be attracted by it. A number of influences broke down the narrow standards of the warriors and
made it possible for them to enjoy the sophisticated simplicity of the tea-cult.
Changes in the warrior class and in the standards of life at Kamakura helped to bring about
the downfall of the Kamakura government, but many other factors were more important. The con-
trol of the country by regents for a shogun, supposed to represent the emperor, made government
increasingly cumbersome. It was tending to break down of its own weight, as it were, when twice
in the thirteenth century the Mongols attacked Japan. In the history of the Mongols this was
but one of their military enterprises which did not succeed, but in the history of Japan it was
a tremendous thing, straining all the resources of the country and leaving it weakened and dis-
rupted. A costly defensive war gave the lords of Kamakura no new lands with which to reward
their followers, and both lay nobility and clergy demanded payments for their efforts in keeping
the invaders from conquering Japan. It was impossible for the Hojo regents, who were not Mina-
moto, to appeal to clan loyalties, and by this time even the shogun was not a Minamoto. The
emperor seized the opportunity to attempt to do away with the military shogunate and to re-es-
tablish civil government directly under him. Contending elements gathered their forces; in 1333
Kamakura was burned and the Kamakura government came to an end.
The ambitious strove to make the most out of the fall of Kamakura. The emperor failed in
his attempt to re-establish civil government; military feudalism was entirely too strongly en-
trenched for any such effort to be successful. From 1336 to 1392 there were two emperors, one
in the north and one in the south. A member of the Ashikaga family was shogun, appointed by
one of the contending emperors. The whole period of disorder was marked by a series of private
wars between lords contending for lands and power.
Affairs throughout the country were so confused that the daimyo began to settle many mat-
ters previously referred to Kamakura. Weaker lords "commended" themselves to the more powerful,
in order to obtain a degree of security. In these days of civil war, it was a poor policy to
divide estates, or to allow women to be the heads of families; hence women were no longer per-
mitted to inherit, and the chief share of an inheritance went to one son, the individual most
able to manage fighting men. The whole basis of Japanese society was shifted.
The ideal of the time was the maintenance of the family, the preservation of its
property and the enhancement of its prestige; and by family is here meant not the prolif-
5. Anesak1, Masaharu, op. cit., pp. 116-119.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
erating clan but the small household. . Supreme over each group was a powerful warrior,
usually the constable of a province, and attached to him for protection were less power-
ful families holding land within the territory which he ruled, but not necessarily re-
lated to him or to one another. The business of the overlord was to consolidate his
power for offense and defense against other overlords, by conserving the strength of each
family unit in his domain while preventing its use in any combination unfavourable to
himself. The business of the lesser warrior was to secure the prosperity and the continu-
ance of his own family. So we find on the one hand constant interference by the overlord
in the family affairs of his vassals, and on the other hand a sacrifice of the individual
to the interests of the family. . . Particular care was taken to ensure that land or
rights should not, through adoption or marriage, fall into the hands of a vassal of an-
other lord. A watchful eye was kept upon the marriages not only of knights and their
sons and daughters, but also of the better class of peasants and craftsmen, so that the
lord should not lose their land or their service to another fief. The members of a fam-
ily depended even for sustenance upon the head of the house and must obey him, whether he
was their father or their brother or even an adopted stranger.
The development of the family as an economic and social unit so profoundly influenced
Japanese life that the civil code now in force embodies certain survivals of medieval no-
tions as to property and succession. The new constitution of society made it the chief
duty of man to consider first not his own individual interests, but those of his house.
It thus placed high in the scale of virtues obedience, patience, and sacrifice; it encour-
aged a habit of respect for age and authority, of courtesy in speech and demeanor; and it
stimulated the holder of the name to keep 1t unsullied. These ideals of conduct were not,
of course, new, for they grew naturally out of ancient beliefs and customs; but feudalism
tended always to single out for emphasis those conceptions of morality which seemed to
contribute to its own survival, and to neglect, 1f not to discourage, all others. Its
code, though strict, was therefore narrow. Since it aimed at preserving an economic unit,
its basis was in essence material rather than ethical . . . Since the interests of the
family are paramount, the movement of its individual members is fettered, and the most
trivial decision can be reached only after prolonged consultation and discussion. A piti-
less social pressure strangles independence of thought and behaviour, makes servants of
younger sons and chattels of women. Only the stimulus of warfare, which needs quick judg-
ment and bold action, could keep suon a system from decay.6
Under this system, and in conditions of warfare, the people suffered much. The security
which they had experienced under the Kamakura government was shattered. Daimyo who managed al-
most all the affairs on their estates could exact irregular payments from the people. Contend-
ing forces destroyed homes and crops. Many peasants left their fields to join armies or to be-
come brigands. The economic basis of life was so disrupted that it became necessary for indi-
vidual lords to attempt to make better conditions for the people.
While private war was being waged over Japan, from the court of the southern emperor came a
document invoking the national tradition, and seeking to gain popular support against the Ashi-
kaga regime on the basis of this argument:
Great Yamato 1s a divine country. It is only our land whose foundations were first
laid by the divine ancestor. It alone has been transmitted by the Sun-Goddess to a long
line of her descendants. There is nothing like this in foreign countries. Therefore it
is called the divine land. . . It is only our country, which from the time when the heav-
ens and earth were first unfolded has preserved the succession to the throne intact in one
single family. Even when, as sometimes naturally happened, it descended to a lateral
branch, it was held according to just principles. This shows that the oath of the gods
(to preserve the succession) is ever renewed in a way which distinguishes Japan from all
other countries. . It 1s the duty of every man born on the Imperial soil to yield devoted
loyalty to his Sovereign, even to the sacrifice of his own life.7
This particular announcement went unheeded in the feudal warfare of the time when it was
issued, but these ideas had great influence much later, when Japanese thinkers were formulating
national philosophies in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and when the emperor was re-
stored in 1868. Because of the many times they have been repeated since then, these words have
a familiar ring.
6. Sansom, G. B., op. cit., pp. 356-358.
7. Murdoch, James, A History of Japan, Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner and Co., London, 1925:
Vol. I. p. 571.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
-28-
The Ashikaga, with their retinues and followers, settled in Kyoto where they built elab-
After the succession dispute was settled in 1392, and when the lords of Japan came to desire
larger revenues to support them in their new life of luxury, they not only attempted to secure
increased revenues from their lands, but they also turned to trade with China as a source of
profit. Japanese swords and raw materials were shipped to China and exchanged for goods which
were sold in Japan for two or three hundred times as much as they had cost. Seaport towns and
merchants flourished, and the lords, the monasteries, and the shogun who backed the China trade
reaped huge profits, which, however, did not reach the common people who suffered from the de-
mands made by public officials and landlords. About l425, local riots against oppressions began
to take place. In l467, a civil war began which lasted ten years, and which was particularly
destructive. Finally, in 149l, the whole of Japan was swept by war which continued for a century,
and of which perhaps the chief cause lay in the fact that neither shogun nor emperor possessed
enough power to hold the lesser lords in check, or to provide for the economic security of the
people. The century of civil war was a time when all the lords of Japan fought for supremacy,
lands, and wealth.
This long war could not be carried on without revenues and food. Consequently, the trade
with China continued during most of the period, and prosperity was by no means unknown. More-
over, rice fields do not form a convenient battle ground, and therefore rural economy was not so
disrupted as one might expect. The great families, however, were almost all wiped out. Only
the strongest survived, and obscure men of ability rose to positions of power. Of these the most
famous were Oda Nobunaga, Toyotomi Hideyoshi, and Tokugawa Ieyasu, all of whom rose to power dur-
ing the latter part of the sixteenth century.
Nobunaga, the son of a small rural lord, managed to make himself the most powerful war lord,
and to conquer about half of Japan. Hideyoshi, at first a common soldier in Nobunaga's armies,
then a general, followed Nobunaga. Although he never obtained the shogun's rank, he became a
military dictator and succeeded in subduing the portion of the country which Nobunaga had not
conquered. In 1592, he sent an expedition against China by way of Korea, and in 1597 another
expedition to Korea. Both were unsuccessful, but the fact that they were undertaken shows the
expansive ambition of the man, arising perhaps from his meteoric career, and from the circum-
stances which could make such a career possible.
In the latter years of the sixteenth century, Japan was in a ferment. Portuguese ships had
come to Nagasaki,on the 1sland of Kyushu. Japan was interested in extending her foreign trade and
new foreign goods were fashionable. Portuguese Jesuits had arrived; Japan was not opposed to a
new religion - provided it did not have political effects; but it became apparent that European
traders and European missionaries were not unconnected with European politics. However, the
Jesuit missions obtained converts among the lowly as well as among the great of the land, and
the new religion spread, particularly in Kyushu to which the Portuguese had first come. Fire-
arms had been brought from Europe but they had not been widely used. The Japanese preferred
their traditional swords, although they built great feudal castles whose defenses had some ref-
erence to the effect of firearms. Hideyoshi, for example, caused the huge fortress of Osaka to
be constructed in a very short time; 1t is said that he used the labor of 3o0,ooo people to get
this castle finished as he desired. The patient people of Japan were not unaffected by the rest-
less spirit of the time, and by the fact that the growing prosperity of the ruling classes was
not, to any extent, reaching their lives.
Hideyoshi, anxious to consolidate his own power and to prevent other obscure men from ris-
ing to threaten him, forbade samurai to transfer allegiance from one lord to another - a custom

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
which had been frequent in the years of warfare and shifting control. Farmers were forbidden
to leave their fields, and subordinates to leave their place of employment without the lord's
permission. As we know, lords had long possessed the right to interfere in the family affairs
of their vassals; now they controlled the persons of their retainers who could not, as they had
done. seek the protection of another lord if they were dissatisfied where they were. To fix the
people more firmly in their niches, landholders were forbidden to protect wanderers. Farmers
were obliged to surrender their weapons; no one but a samurai might wear the warrior's swords.
In the early Kamakura days, the samurai often was, in the intervals between wars, a peasant cul-
tivating the soil; the many years of civil war had helped to break this condition down, but now
legislation separated samurai from peasant. Hideyoshi also began to make laws restricting the
spread of the new religion, since he observed that not only were the foreign churchmen ambi-
tious, but that also Japanese Christian lords might form a combination threatening to him, be-
cause of their divided loyalties.
Before Hideyoshi's legislation had gone very far, he died, and there was war over the ques-
tion of succession. Ieyasu conquered Hideyoshi's son and in 1603 was appointed shogun, (being
descended from the Minamoto he was eligible for this post). He was the first of the Tokugawa
shogun who ruled the country until after the arrival of Commodore Perry.
Two lines of action were open to Ieyasu. He could fall in with the changing spirit of the
times and cope with the new problems of a Japan which was taking its place in the world with
which it had come in contact. Or he could follow the example already set by Hideyoshi with re-
gard to expelling foreigners and regulating Japanese life. He chose the latter course in order
to keep his family in power indefinitely. When peace came under the Tokugawa, Hideyoshi's le-
gislation was supplemented by other regulations all tending to hold each man in his place and
each class apart from other classes. Much attention was given to the formal rules of conduct
which should be observed by the members of each class, in relation to each other, and to other
classes. Thus the feudal wars not only consolidated feudalism but led to the creation of formal
barriers within the feudal society. Any flexibility which had existed was wiped out, and a
static rule of life substituted.
Hideyoshi had begun to restrict foreign trade and religion; the Tokugawa shogun carried
this much further. They finally closed the doors of Japan to all but the Dutch, whom they per-
mitted in the port of Nagasak1; they forbade any Japanese to leave the country, and they caused
the Japanese Christians to be persecuted until the foreign sect was wiped out. Thus, as we
shall see, Ieyasu and his successors proceeded to attempt to set Japanese life in a rigid mold.
The restless and enterprising leaders of Japan, to whom new things had always been attractive
and welcome, were now cut off from new influences. A people who had been engaged in almost
constant warfare for centuries was now at peace. A nation whose economy had become dependent
to a large extent upon foreign trade, was forbidden to engage in such trade except in very small
and carefully regulated degree. All of these bonds were to endure for two hundred and fifty
years.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
30-
Chapter 4
THE YEARS OF SECLUSION
(Seventeenth Century to the Middle of the Nineteenth)
The Tokugawa shogun wished to make their own power secure. They attempted to create
stability by preventing change - but economic forces were too strong for them. In spite of
laws and regulations designed to keep the military feudalism of Japan intact, feudalism stead-
11y declined during the Tokugawa period, and each of the carefully compartmented classes of
Japanese society was affected. Formality was encouraged, to preserve unchanged a society which
was being steadily undermined by changing economic conditions. Even if Commodore Perry had not
visited Japan when he did and caused the country to open its doors to the hosts of new influ-
ences which resulted in great changes, there is little doubt but that the Tokugawa regime would
have gone down before economic pressures, and that economic forces alone would have destroyed
feudalism. The new influences entering Japan in the middle of the nineteenth century gave
direction to changes which were inevitable; they were by no means the sole cause.
In their desire to make themselves secure, and to create stability in Japan, the Tokugawa
had first to deal with the daimyo, who numbered about two hundred and fifty. They kept the
great lords content by permitting them to receive large incomes and to continue to administer
their estates. The people were required to act with the utmost servility toward the daimyo.
When a daimyo passed, everyone knelt - beside the road, in the fields, in the streets. Issa,
a peasant-born poet, gives glimpses of the way in which the people viewed the lordly ways of
the daimyo. For example:
Just bent on viewing cherries when - "On your knees, on your knees." (That is to say,
some daimyo has come riding past and all the common people have had their pleasure in-
terrupted to get down on their knees).1
Daimyo took precedence over other people, even in small matters. Issa gives an idea of a type
of situation which doubtless was not infrequent:
After being beaten, I learned it was the daimyo's chrysanthemum. (That is to say, all
competition is futile when you're matched against a daimyo - even at a chrysanthemum
show.) 2
Issa gives the impression that the common people kneeling before the lords of Japan were not,
at heart, completely subservient. For example, he says:
A kotatsu, from which to watch a daimyo soaked to the skin. (A kotatsu is a small stove.
Here Issa pictures himself, warm and comfortable, in some inn perhaps, enjoying the sight
of the daimyo arriving "soaked to the skin.") 3
However, the people were required to show outward respect to the daimyo, and they did. Daimyo
made contented with large incomes, estates, and prestige, might have threatened the Tokugawa,
so it was ordered that every great daimyo spend part of each year in Yedo (the present Tokyo
and the Tokugawa capital). When the lord returned to his estates, he was required to leave his
family behind in Yedo. Daimyo thus had to spend a considerable part of their incomes on the
great retinues with which they travelled to Yedo, on the palaces they built in that city, and
on the servants they kept in both city and country establishments. And, of course, while they
1. Bickerton, Max, Issa's Life and Poetry, The Transactions of the Asiatic Society of
Japan, Second Series, Vol. IX, p. 135.
2. Bickerton, op. cit., p. 135.
3. Bickerton, op. cit., p. 135.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
31-
might have been willing to spend everything they had left on war, they were not likely to plan
to attack the Tokugawa stronghold in which their own families lived. The Tokugawa plan made
the Japanese war lords into men of peace who did not threaten the Tokugawa rule.
In this situation, however, the attention of the privileged class of daimyo turned to new
wants and desires. The lord of Japan who could no longer go to war, but who could wring addi-
tional payments from the cultivators, could have more luxury goods - silk, embroideries, ivory
carvings, crystals, cloisonne, lacquer, porcelain. Thus the daimyo became extravagant, the
rural population was oppressed, and the city craftsmen and merchants prospered. The whole
metabolism of Japanese society was affected and eventually every class was involved in the
changes resulting from these conditions.
As the daimyo grew more extravagant and demanded more goods, trade increased; and as trade
increased, money began to take the place of rice as a medium of exchange. When the use of money
takes the place of payment in kind, one of the essential elements of feudalism disappears.
Feudal ideas, ideals, and customs may continue to exist, but the organization of society is modi-
fied. Merchants who manage the trade of a country come to handle its wealth - no longer ex-
pressed in terms of agricultural produce, but in the more complex medium of money. In Japan,
daimyo who wished ready funds to support them in the cities and to enable them to purchase the
articles they wanted frequently sold their share of the rice crop to the city merchants. The
price of rice was manipulated by city speculators, and consequently the daimyo, who despised
trade and affected to be entirely ignorant of it, usually profited little from their transac-
tions, while the traders became rich. Daimyo who were in financial difficulties began to "bor-
row" from their samurai, deducting from their salaries a portion of what they were supposed to
receive.
At this point, we should have some 1dea of the regulations governing the life of the samu-
ra1 after the feudal wars were ended under the Tokugawa. Deprived of their occupation as war-
riors, and long since detached from farming, the samura1 were given special privileges and regu-
lar Incomes. Active and vigorous men, they had little to do. Some of them managed estate af-
fairs for their daimyo, and many acted as local administrators, thus establishing a reputation
for executive ability, and gaining experience in government. Both of these were to be important
when many samurai were influential in the government after the downfall of the Tokugawa. How-
ever, under the Tokugawa, all the samurai could not be employed. Always wearing the two swords
which were the badge of their rank, many samurai were involved in frequent fights and brawls.
Early in the Tokugawa period, feudal traditions were revived to keep this potentially dangerous
group in check, and the old ideal of frugal living was again inculcated into the warriors. It
was hard for all the unemployed members of the samurai group to find complete satisfaction in
stern traditions. The masterless samurai, or ronin, were particularly difficult to control.
The most famous instance of this involves the forty-seven ronin who, in l7o3, took it upon
themselves to revenge their lord's death; after murdering the man they regarded as their enemy,
they gave themselves up and were ordered to commit harakiri. This exploit was made the basis
of one of the most popular plays and it still remains a favorite in Japan. The government,
which had to admit that under the feudal code the samurai had done no more than their duty,
nevertheless felt that the warriors must be kept from taking the law into their own hands. Af-
ter the forty-seven ronin had given themselves up, the argument was advanced that "Confucian
principles must be observed in the light of the law, and not interpreted by individuals at their
own fancy." Though this was the legal interpretation, it was not the popular one; the self-
sacrifice of the forty-seven heroes represented the popular conception of right action. When,
however, daimyo began to reduce the samurai's income, feudal loyalties became a little strained.
They were further weakened when samurai were reduced to d1smissing their followers, to accepting

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
commoners - for a price - as retainers, or to adopting - also for a price - the son of some
wealthy commoner. The traditional pride of family and connection which was a distinguishing
mark of Japanese feudalism was, to an extent, broken down by these developments. Divisions
appeared within the samurai class itself. Some warriors adhered with pride to all the strict
traditions of their caste; others voluntarily entered trade or the professions, and circum
stances made it impossible for still others to follow their own desires in this matter. An idea
of the dilemma facing many samurai at the end of the Tokugawa period is given in the words of a
famous Japanese when he dascribed his own father:
My father was a samurai (retainer) in the service of Okudaira, the daimyo (overlord)
of Nakatsu in the province of Buzen on the island of Kyushu. . My father was really a
scholar. And the scholars of the time, different from those of today, disdained to spend
any thought on money, or even to touch it. My father always longed for a secluded uncon-
taminated life with his books and noble philosophy of the ancient sages. Yet he was
forced to attend to the most worldly affairs, for as an overseer of a treasury, it was his
duty to associate with merchants, and to count money, and to negotiate the contraction of
debts for his lord. Sometimes when his lord was in difficulty, my father had to bargain
with the rich money-lenders like Kajimaya and Konoike of Osaka.
In this work he was unhappy, and so when it came to bringing up his children, he
tried, it seems to me, to give them what he thought was an ideal education. For instance,
he once sent them to a teacher for calligraphy and general education. The teacher lived
in the compound of the lord's storage office, but having some merchants' children among
his pupils, he naturally began to train them in numerals: "Two times two is four, two
times three is six," etc. This, today, seems a very ordinary thing to teach, tut when my
father heard this, he took his children away in a fury.
"It is abominable," he exclaimed, "that innocent children should be taught to use
numbers - the instrument of merchants. There is no telling what the teacher may do
next.. ."
One may easily see that he was a very strict father who never compromised on what he
felt was just. From the writings he left, I know that he was a disciple of Confucianism
to the very heart. Among the great scholars on Chinese philosophy, my father had a par-
ticular respect for Ito Togai, and was literally living the old saying, "When one's heart
is true, and the mind is just, a broken thatch is no shame." 4
This very brief picture of a single samurai gives an idea of a changing society in which
traders and money-lenders played no small part, but in which they were despised. During the
Tokugawa period, wealth and power tended to pass from daimyo to merchant - though the merchant
was obliged to kneel before the passing daimyo. or to accept meekly the rough t gatment of a
samurai. "The samurai still had their dignit., the consciousness of high social standing; but
the commoners had most of the money and most of the fun."
Before we descrite life among the craftsmen and merchants of the towns, we need to have
some idea of the life of the cultivators. The situation of the Japanese farmer was difficult,
because of the way in which the taxes were levied and collected, and because heavy payments were
exacted from him.
All the land in a domain was carefully surveyed by officials of the overlord, and its
yield was estimated in accordance with its position, the nature of its soil, the number of
1ts cultivators, and in certain cases the harvest obtained from a test area. The overlord
then took his share of the crop, which was divided in the customary ratio, generally,
". . .four to the prince and six to the people," but sometimes even two to the prince and
one to the people. In the surveying, the assessment and the sharing there was ample room
for abuses, and in many fiefs the oppression of corrupt or over-zealous officials goaded
the farmers into revolt. Their lot was wretched enough at the best of times. . .On the
whole it is true to say that the peasants were heavily oppressed by members of the knight-
ly order, who soon in their turn were exploited by the rising class of merchants. Then,
as the daimyo and samurai attempted to transfer their burden of debt to the already over-
4. The Autobiography of Fukuzawa Yukichi, translated by Eiichi Kiyooka, The Hokuseido
Press, Tokyo, 1934: pp. 1-3.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
-33-
laden shoulders of the farmers, the agricultural economy broke down, and was replaced by a
mercantile economy which Japan was unable to support without calling upon the outside
world. 5
As standards of living rose in the cities, as money came to be used more and more widely,
and as speculation affected the price of rice to an alarming degree, the condition of the farmer
became steadily worse.
(To quote from a work written before 175o) the farmers were treated by officials and
tax-gatherers "as a cruel driver treats an ox or a horse, when he puts a heavy burden on
the beast, and lashes it mercilessly, getting all the angrier when it stumbles and whip-
ping more violently than ever, with loud curses." . . Nor can it be said that the rulers
of Japan were blind to these abuses. They tried to remedy them, and to understand them
within the limits of their knowledge. . It is remarkable that, at least until the early
part of the l9th century, even the most penetrating minds among them failed as a rule to
grasp the truth, that the wealth of Japan was adequate neither in amount nor in distribu-
tion to the needs of her society. Some of them saw it dimly, but most of them proposed
only neat ethical solutlons of the terrible equation of supply and demand. Peasants must
work hard and respect their betters, merchants must be honest and content with small prof-
its, and samura1 must not be extravagant.6
Peasants who were deep in debt often were forced to give up their rights in the land to
some creditor; they then farmed the lands under the landlord creditor, and, as may well be
imagined, this situation provided the basis for endless disputes and oppressions. Tenant farm-
ers of this type are numerous in Japan today, the result of similar situations caused by poverty
and powerlessness. There were many peasant riots and disturbances caused, like previous ones
and like similar disturbances today, by local dissatisfactions and oppressions. Many peasants
abandoned their lands - though they were not supposed to do this - and looked for employment in
the cities. Here, though they might be poorly paid in small manufactories or in the houses of
the wealthy, they were in general better off than they were in the rural regions, and city life
appealed to them because it was more amusing and diverting. Flight from the land was one reason
why the rural population of Japan remained stationary in the Tokugawa period. Infanticide was
another; this, in spite of regulations forbidding it, was a common practice among the sorely
pressed rural households of Japan.
A little poem of Issa's suggests the life of the patient farmers of Japan:
Here is suggested the anxiety of the mother working in the fields, longing to tend her neglected
child, and unconsciously planting towards the infant. She may not leave her work, . . for work
must be done.
Though there was much suffering among the farmers of Japan, and though local uprisings
against oppression were not unknown, the Japanese peasants of this period should not be thought
of as a rebellious group. The Japanese farmer was exhorted to be hard-working, obedient, and
unquestioning, and to show his superior the same loyalty expected of samurai to overlord. Feudal
traditions were strong, and they held the people of Japan in a firm grip. The forms of thought
and behavior which permeated Japanese society rested with traditional authority upon every class
of the people, and were in general accepted.
Only in the cities, which saw the rise of the new merchant class, was life less bound by
tradition than elsewhere. Under these circumstances, a gay and unrestrained life developed in
5. Sansom, G. B., op. cit., pp. 456-457.
6.
Sansom, G. B., op. cit., pp. 506-507.
7. Bickerton, op. cit., p. 139.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
-34-
such merchant cities as Osaka. The famous color prints of Hokusa1 (1760-1850) and Hiroshige
(died 1858) give some 1dea of this life. For example, the amusements of the city are suggested
in pictures of theatre interiors, the street of the theatres, the throng welcoming a favorite
actor, the scene from well-known plays. Indeed, the popular theatre, known as the Kabuk1
theatre, was one of the interesting developments of this period, and the emphasis given it in
the work of the color print artists 1s but one evidence of its importance. It was partly
through the plays presented on the Kabuki stage that the legends and stories of Japanese history
reached the people. The Kabuki theatre is still very popular in Japan, and the following obser-
vations of a present-day writer may not. be entirely inapplicable to the audiences of Tokugawa
days.
As a revelation of human nature there is nothing so illuminating in all Japan as the
Kabuki audience, quick to see the humour of a situation, it is tragedy that it likes and
which touches it to the quick.
It is a mistaken 1dea to suppose that all the people of Japan are samura1 to the ex-
tent that they never show their feelings. Loyal heroes who die for a cause, victims of
the conflict between love and duty, sacrifice of self that others may live, these always
bring the tears, and handkerchiefs are pressed to brimming feminine eyes in all parts of
the theatre. Nor are men above the softer emotions. They may be seen weeping bitterly in
such scenes as that in Chushingura (The Forty-Seven Ronin) when Enya Hangan commits hara-
kiri and his faithful retainer, Yuranosuke, comes just in time to catch his last words. . .
The sorrow of farewell, mother-love, blindness, death, the common human experiences move
them deeply. They may be dazzled by a gorgeous spectacle, excited by a combat, absorbed
by the movements of a dancer, but when it comes to sentiments of everyday life the Kabuk1
audience responds in a wave of sympathy.8
From the novel Hizakurige by Ikku Jippensha (died 1831) we get an impression of the care-
free life of the road, a life which, in spite of efforts of the Tokugawa to restrict travel, was
very attractive to many. In this tale two friends, Yaji and Kita, decide to see the country.
The story begins:
Now 1s the time to visit all the celebrated places in the country and fill our heads
with what we have seen, so that when we become old and bald we shall have something to
talk about over the teacups. Let us accept the invitation of these bosom friends and go
with them on their long long journey. . . Theirs is the easy life of the bachelor. No
more than the rats are they required to waste money on rent, and as all the property they
have is tied up in a bundle they have no anxiety about that. It is true that they had to
make a small offering of rice at the family temple, and besides that pay a hundred coppers
to get a travelling permit. Moreover, instead of paying what they owed to the landlord,
they had to get their papers to pass the barriers. However, they made some money by sell-
ing to a second-hand dealer what they had of value, leaving the rubbish in the house for
the next tenant to return thanks for. The stone weight for the pickle tub and the knife
for scraping pots and pans they left next door, and the house opposite got the torn sun-
shades and the oil jar. Nothing is left, but there is still the difficulty of paying the
rice bill and the sake bill. They are very sorry to go away without paying them, but then
as the old poem says,
Whether in this life or the next we cheat
In either case our punishment we'll meet.9
The new life developing in the merchant towns was regarded unsympathetically by the upper
classes, who were holding on to old privileges, old arts, and old ideals of living.
It is easy to see that such an irresponsible way of life, such frank indulgence in
pleasures, was repugnant to the sterner sort of samurai and in general distasteful to the
ruling class, the more so when they realized that the amusements of the townsmen were be-
ing paid for with money extracted from themselves. They therefore endeavored. . to stem
the tide of luxury among the commoners; and they were inclined to wrap themselves in their
8. Kinca1d, Zoe, Kabuk1, The Macmillan Co., London, 1925: p. 14.
9. Ikku Jippensha, Hizakurige, translated by Thomas Satchell, Printed by the Chronicle
Press, Kobe, 1929: pp, 3-4.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
-35-
own dignity and follow their traditional pursuits, as if the pastimes of the vulgar were
beneath their notice. They failed in the long run, and had to give way to strong economic
and social forces beyond their control; but we owe to their conservatism the survival of
certain of their traditional arts - in a somewhat fossilised form, 1t is true - and of
very popular elements in their code of morality. 10
As an example of the traditional pursuits which were followed by the conventional, the No
drama may be cited. This had developed in an earlier period, and had, like the tea-ceremony,
been known only among the upper classes. The No plays were formal and restrained; they were not
"plays" in the western sense, for they very frequently consisted of combinations of recitations
describing action, of songs commenting on the scene described, and of dances appropriate to it.
For example, in one play the ghost of the dead Atsumori, the hero of the Taira clan, is repeat-
ing the story of the Taira victory and subsequent defeat, and the chorus chants:
Yet their prosperity lasted but for a day;
It was like the flower of the convolvulus.
There was none to tell them
That glory flashes like sparks from flint-stone,
And after - darkness.
Oh wretched, the life of men!
Atsumori continues his tale:
My father Tsunemori gathered us together.
"Tomorrow," he said, "we shall fight our last fight.
Tonight is all that is left us.
We sang songs together and danced.
While Atsumori dances, the chorus chants:
The whole clan has put its boats to sea.
He will not be left behind;
He runs to the shore.
But the Royal Boat and the soldiers' boats
Have sailed far away. 11
In the early part of the Tokugawa period, the No drama was kept as an aristocratic diver-
sion, but common people learned the songs and dances, the Kabuki theatre was influenced by the
No, and gradually the No plays became no longer the peculiar property of the privileged. Indeed,
"most of the cultural prerogatives of the former dominant class. . lapsed into formalism and
kept their vitality only in so far as they were enlivened by contact with the commoners' activi-
ties." Another way of saying the same thing is that some of the commoners, for the first time
in Japanese history finding themselves in a position of some security, pressed against the forma-
lism of life as it was set by the upper classes, and discovered that they had the power to create
plays, or color prints, or novels or poetry, as the case might be.
Bashō (1643-1694), of samurai origin, popularized the hokku, or poem of seventeen syllables.
The writing of hokku was widespread, but few, if any, of Bashō's followers possessed his skill.
For Bashō, hokku writing was not a trick; the hokku was a means of expressing the right attitude
toward life. For example, when one of his pupils wrote:
A darting dragon-fly, but lo1
Pluck off 1ts wings, and so -
A bright red pepper-pod!
10. Sansom, G. B., op. cit., pp. 466-467.
11. Waley, Arthur, The No Plays of Japan, Knopf, New York, 1922: p. 41-43.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
-36-
"No, no!" said Bashō, "that isn't hokku! - That is the wrong way, not to say it, but to see it.
This is hokku:
A bright red pepper-pod - but lo!
Put on it wings, and sq -
A darting dragon-fly."l2
Through his poetry, Bashō tried to turn men's thoughts to higher things. For example:
Nothing in the cicada's voice
Gives token of a speedy death.
Did it but sing
The butterfly might have to suffer in a cage.
Where the dews drop, there would I fain
Essay to wash this perilous world.13
The spirit of the age, however, was not as mystical as Basho's poetry might lead one to
think. The most famous poet after Bashō, Chiyo (1703-l775), was sensitive, appealing, and
witty - but not mystical. For example, after the death of her little son, Chiyo wrote:
I wonder in what fields today
He chases dragon-flies in play -
My little boy who ran away. 14
If we look back over these few selections from the literature of the period, we have a
glimpse of a lively impressionable people striving to find some way in which to express their
feelings and emotions. But actually, wherever they turned, they met some new rule to restrain
them - laws stating how much they might spend, whether or not they could employ a hairdresser,
what the colors, patterns and fabrics of their kimono might be, how many new costumes they
might purchase. Within the family, the services to be rendered the head of the household by the
other members were defined by customs as rigid as law. The whole household, for example, was
supposed to assemble to greet the master on his return; the wife was expected to show the husband
the utmost deference - but, and this may be noticed in all the formal codes of behavior of the
time, the emphasis lay always upon duties and obligations of inferiors, and there was little
recognition of the principle of the responsibility of superiors.
Even in the cities, where life was comparatively free from some restrictions, craft guilds
and organizations of merchants prevented the development of flexible institutions. All manufac-
ture of luxury goods or consumption goods was carried on in homes or in very small establishments
in which apprentices learned their crafts while the master workman sold the commodities and re-
ceived the payments. As trade increased, guilds of workmen tried to monopolize trade in their
particular products; these guilds restricted the number of apprentices which could be admitted
to full guild membership and prevented in so far as they could the rise of competition. Appren-
tices who did not receive recognition as master workmen became wage laborers, working for manu-
facturers employing labor; but establishments depending on wage labor were very small and not
numerous.
Some of the color print artists of the time - Hokusai, Harunobu, Moronobu - deal with the
life of the workman and present pictures of the methods employed. For example, we see the
cooper making a huge wooden cask; women carding cotton and spinning it on a hand wheel; men
12.
Page, Curtis Hidden, Japanese Poetry, Houghton Mifflin, Boston, 1923: p. 120.
13.
Translations by Chamberlain.
14.
Page, op. cit., p. 136.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
-37-
cutting planks by hand, from logs of wood; a woman operating a primitive machine for removing
seeds from raw cotton. These pictures simply make more vivid the well-known fact that handi-
craft industry existed throughout Japan at this time and that methods were painstaking, slow,
and laborious.
In considering the life of the Tokugawa era, and the attempt to keep life formal in the
face of changing conditions, we should note that the Tokugawa were not satisfied with trying to
control, by law or custom, the things which people might do; they also attempted to dictate what
people should think. They themselves were formal Confucianists; the more rigid interpretations
of Confucianism suited their ideas, and they encouraged Chinese scholarship. However, as soon
as the Japanese began to delve into Chinese philosophy, they began to disagree over ways of in-
terpreting it, and over its actual significance. We do not need to go into the philosophical
disputes of the time, but we should notice the kind of ideas which was expressed by those stu-
dents who did not bow before Chinese thought. One of the important persons of this school was
Yamaga Soko (1620-1685).
Many Chinese scholars in Japan at the time of Soko considered China superior to Japan
in every way. Soko was one of the few who felt that Japan was superior to China. He
called Japan the "Central Kingdom of Civilization," and wrote an article on "The True Cen-
tral Kingdom." In one of his works he says: "To learn is to investigate things, and to
perfect knowledge. It does not consist in following foreign customs. Therefore superior
men especially will not imitate foreign customs."
....Speaking of how he came to esteem his own country so highly Soko said: "I do
not know the books which have been issued recently, but until ten years ago I read nearly
all the books that came from China; I was well informed in thin's Chinese. At that time I
thought our country was inferior to China in everything. We not only had less land, but
all the sages appeared in China. This opinion is not modern, but all scholars from olden
times have been inclined to exalt China at the expense of Japan. Recently I became con-
vinced that this was a serious mistake. It is a common mistake to believe what one hears,
and to disbelieve what one sees; to forget the things that are near and look only on those
that are far away. Until the time of the Fujiwara family, there were many great retainers.
This shows that bad men were few. This was because the race of our emperor was very in-
fluential. . . Our emperors are all descendants of the Sun Goddess. There is no foreign
blood in our veins. In bravery our country is respected by other countries and has never
been conquered. She has never had to give up even a small tract of land. Wisdom, benev-
olence and courage are three virtues which belong to a sage. When we compare our country
to others in regard to these virtues, Japan is superior. Truly she deserves to be called
the Central Kingdom of Civilization."15
It is easy to understand why the Tokugawa, who had taken from the emperor the last vestige
of power, did not welcome doctrines based on the national tradition. However, Yamaga Soko was
followed by men who expressed similar ideas and who made studies of Japanese literature to sup-
port their point of view. Motoor1 Norinaga (i730-l8ol) made, for example, a voluminous commen-
tary on the Kojiki; and in one of his writings we find:
What doubt can there be that Amaterasu-no-Ohom1-Kami (the Sun Goddess) is the great
ancestress of the Mikados, and that she 1s no other than the Sun of Heaven which 1llumines
this world? These things are in their nature infinite, not to be measured, and mysterious.
16
This revival of the national tradition, and its acceptance in some quarters, may have helped to
prepare the way for the overthrow of the shogun te and for the imperial restoration, but in the
sum total of causes, this is perhaps not the strongest. However, it is interesting to know
about such statements and to compare them with present-day attitudes and beliefs.
15. Armstrong, Robert Cornell, Light from the East, University of Toronto, 1914: pp.
212-213.
16.
Aston, op. cit., p. 322.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
-38-
Other influences were also at work preparing the ground for change. Early in the eight-
eenth century, European books - provided they did not deal with religion - were permitted in
Japan; these were chiefly Dutch, since the European language with which Japanese had contact
was Dutch. Slowly and with great labor, Dutch scientific works were translated into Japanese.
Though the Japanese who dealt with the Dutch at Deshima (a small island in Nagasaki harbor to
which the foreigners were restricted) were forbidden to tell anything about their own country,
or to find out very much about the world outside, nevertheless information and ideas from abroad
filtered into Japan, and foreign goods found a ready market. However, the influence of European
1deas and things reached a very small proportion of the people, and it reached it under protest,
as it were, for the Tokugawa never encouraged the spread of anything which contained the slight-
est threat to the stability which they wished to maintain forever.
Of course this stability, because of its very rigidity, was bound to be overturned, though
the fundamental cause of the change which was to come was not the new foreign influences or the
revival of national tradition.
The country was full of restless spirits, dissatisfied with their condition and
thirsting for activity. There were nobles who wanted independence and foreign trade, to
develop the resources of their domains; samurai who wanted opportunities to use their
talents, whether as soldiers or as officials; merchants who wanted to break the monopolies
of the guilds; scholars who wanted to draw knowledge from new springs; humble peasants and
townsmen who wanted just a little freedom from tax and tyranny. Every force but conserva-
tism was pressing from within at the closed doors; so that when a summons came from with-
out they were flung wide open, and all these imprisoned energies were released.17
The summons came when Commodore Perry arrived in 1853, and the Shogun, realizing that re-
sistance was useless, opened the doors of Japan to a world which had developed tremendously dur-
ing the two hundred and fifty years of Japan's seclusion. How did the nobles of Japan, "who
wanted independence and foreign trade, to develop the resources of their domains," go about get-
ting their desires, when they became aware of a world whose factories were pouring out commodi-
ties which could not be absorbed in the countries in which they were produced, a world in which
modern science had developed new techniques and means of production? How did the samurai who
"wanted opportunities to use their talents, whether as soldiers or as officials," find a place
in a Japan affected by a world in which the great powers had obtained colonies, and were seeking
new markets and new sources of raw materials? How did the "merchants who wanted to break the
monopolies of the guilds," respond to a world in which foreign capital was already seeking places
of investment abroad, a world in which much more powerful and extensive monopolies than any
known in Japan at that time were already in process of development? How would the scholars,
"who wanted to draw knowledge from new springs," meet the stimulus of western governmental forms,
modern science and technical achievement? How would all the inevitable changes for which many
people in Japan were ready, affect the lives of the "humble peasants and townsmen who wanted
Just a little freedom from tax and tyranny?" The doors of Japan were opened - what was this to
mean to the institutions and the ideas of Japan, and to the lives of the Japanese people?
17. Sansom, G. B., op. c1t., p. 516.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
39-
Chapter 5.
THE MODERNIZATION OF JAPAN: THE FERMENTATION PERIOD
(1853-1895)
The time between 1853, when Commodore Perry first arrived in Japan, and 1895, when the
Sino-Japanese war ended, may be regarded as a period of fermentation in the development of
Japan. During these years, western techniques, 1deas, inventions, sciences and education poured
into the country, and from the flood of new influences, combined w1th the existing institutions
of Japan, Japanese leaders shaped the direction in which the country was to develop.
We have seen how in every period of Japanese history, great clan families directed the
course of events - how the Fujiwara managed to control the He1an court and the government
bureaucracy; how the lords of Kamakura established a military feudal rule which absorbed the
functions of the earlier bureaucracy and under which the emperor was secluded in Kyoto; how the
Ashikaga shogun who followed the Kamakura government went down in the clan wars; and how the new
family of the Tokugawa took up the reins of government. Now, after the Tokugawa shogun had
opened Japan to foreigners, the ambitious daimyo of the distant western provinces, who had never
given the Tokugawa any but the most grudging allegiance, seized the opportunity to overthrow
them. These western lords - the lords of Satsuma, Choshu, Tosa, and Hizen - backed the slogan,
"Honor the Emperor and Expel the Foreigner." They attracted to their side many of the disaffect-
ed elements in Japan - the court nobles who had so long been powerless, the ronin, the daimyo who
wished to have some share in the power so long held by the Tokugawa, the reactionaries who were
opposed to opening the country, the men who believed in the abolition of the shogunate.
In 1867, the emperor died and his son Mutsuhito, only fifteen years old, succeeded to the
throne. The Shogun, at the request of the powerful western lords, but also doubtless because of
his own conviction that the day of the Shogunate was over, then 1ssued a statement, indicating
that the presence of two heads to the government - the Emperor and the Shogun - was proving it-
self a cause of weakness, and hence he resigned. His words are wonth quoting:
My ancestor received more confidence and favor from the court than any of his
predecessors, and his descendants have succeeded him for more than two hundred years.
Though I fili the same office, almost all the acts of the administration are far from
perfect, and I confess it with shame that the present unsatisfactory condition of
affairs 1s due to my short-comings and incompetence. Now that foreign intercourse be-
comes daily more extensive, unless the government 1s directed from one central authority,
the foundations of the state will fall to p1eces. If, however, the old order of things
be changed, and the administrative authority be restored to the Imperial Court, and 1f
national deliberations be conducted on an extensive scale, and the Imperial decision be
secured, and 1f the empire be supported by the efforts of the whole people, then the em-
pire will be able to maintain 1ts rank and dignity among the nations of the earth. Al-
though I have allowed all the feudal lords to state their views without reservation, yet
1t 1s, I believe, my highest duty to realize this 1deal by giving up entirely my rule
over this land.1
The abolition of the shogunate was not carried through so peacefully as these words might
lead one to think. The shogun's statement was followed almost 1mmediately by an announcement
from the court nobles and feudal lords present at Kyoto, abolishing the shogunate, and taking
the guardianship of the palace from the Tokugawa. The intention to restore the emperor was
stated, and a provisional government under court nobles and daimyo was set up. The shogun could
scarcely take this without resistance, and a short civil war followed in which the Tokugawa
1. McLaren, W.W., Japanese Government Documents, Transactions of the Asiatic Society of
Japan, Vol. XLII, Part I, 1914: pp.1-2.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
40-
adherents were defeated. The immense territories belonging to the Tokugawa, as well as the
lands held by daimyo supporting the shogun, came under the control of the new government, though
their final disposition was not decided upon at this time.
The new government which displaced the shogunate was under the control of the four western
clans which had made a temporary alliance in order to dispose of the Tokugawa. The leaders of
the four clans were by no means in agreement as to what the new government should be. They had
advocated "Honor the Sovereign and Expel the Foreigner," in order to win support for their
actions, but they actually did not all wish to expel the foreigner and lose foreign trade and
foreign goods. "Honor the Sovereign" was a battle cry which attracted followers, but which
might, or might not, mean anything definite. The lords of Satsuma, Tosa, Hizen, and Choshu,
together with their retainers, wanted most of all to make their own control secure. Gradually
1t became apparent to them that fighting among themselves at this time would be disastrous.
They set up a bureaucratic government after the model of the old Nara and Heian governments, and
divided the offices among themselves and the court nobles. They perceived that if the emperor
were restored, the different clans, as well as the people, would have some unifying 1dea to hold
them together, and to prevent quarrels which might prove disastrous if added to foreign aggres-
sions. Consequently, in 1868, after the new government had been formed, the young emperor who
took the name Meij1 for his reign was publicly "restored" in a ceremony at which he read the
famous Charter Oath containing in general terms this statement of intention to liberalize govern-
ment institutions: "All measures shall be decided by public argument."
What was actually meant by the clause "all measures shall be decided by public argu-
ment" 1t 1s now impossible to determine, but 1t 1s certain that to those present when the
oath was read the impression conveyed was that "public argument" referred to such argument
as might be advanced by the clan leaders. Yet the oath when once uttered by the Emperor
1mmediately took on a sanctity and 1mportance out of all proportion to 1ts origin, and it
was adopted seven years later as the shibboleth of a cause the very nature of which was
1nconce1vable in 1867.2
Whether or not the clan lords heading the government bureaucracy intended that the words of
the Charter Oath should be interpreted as indicating a coming change in government, they soon
perceived that if they were to continue to hold control, the possibility of feudal rivalries of
the customary sort must be eliminated. Consequently, in 1869 the lords of the four western clans
presented a memorial to the emperor voluntarily surrendering their fiefs. They said in part:
Your servants again venture to address Your Majesty with profound reverence. Two
things are essential to the Mikado's administration. There must be one central body of
government, and one universal authority must be preserved intact. Since the time when
Your Majesty's ancestors founded this country and established a basis of government, all
things in the wide expanse of heaven and all things on earth to 1ts furthest limits, have
belonged to the Emperor from generat1on to generation. This is what is knovm as  one
central government". . .
The ancient family of the Tokugawa dynasty of Shoguns and their relatives held half
the country. . . But there 1s little doubt that their ancestors had originally raised
forces, plundered the Imperial store-houses, and laid forcible hands on the treasures con-
tained, and had braved the penalty of death in the execution of their designs. . .
It 1s now sought to establish an entirely new form of government. Care must, there-
fore, be taken to preserve intact both one central body of government, and one universal
authority. The land in which your servants live is the land of the Emperor, and the people
whom they govern are his subjects. Neither the one, therefore, nor the other can belong to
your servants.
Your servants accordingly beg respectfully to surrender to Your Majesty the registers
of the population, and beg Your Majesty to deal with everything as you may think fit, giv-
1ng what should be given and taking away what should be taken away. They entreat Your
2. McLaren, Walter Wallace, A Political History of Japan During the Me1j1 Era, Charles
Scr1bner's Sons, New York, 1916: p. I1I.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
41-
Majesty to 1ssue such Imperial Decrees as may be deemed necessary to deal with the lands
and people of the four clans represented in this memorial, and to make such changes as
Your Majesty may think proper.s
A few months later, those daimyo who had not voluntarily surrendered their fiefs were
ordered to do so; the old orders of nobility were abolished, and the feudal lords were created
district governors in those regions which they had previously held as fiefs. In return for the
surrender of their lands and revenues, the daimyo - numbering about three hundred - were given
compensations amounting to about half their previous incomes. Since this was a certain income
from which no deductions, such as payments to samura1, had to be made, most of the daimyo were
better off than they had been for some time. (It must not be thought that all feeling of finan-
cial responsibility of feudal lord to retainer became at once a thing of the past. To the pres-
ent day, instances of assistance given familles of former retainers by the family of the former
feudal lord are not uncommon.)
There were some 1,500,000 samura1 who, as retainers, had for centuries been supported by
the daimyo. The government offered all samura1 who voluntarily surrendered their feudal stipends,
a payment equivalent to five years' income, payable half in cash and half in government bonds.
When all samurai did not respond, their stipends were discontinued. The warriors' swords, the
distinctive badge of the samura1, could now be worn by anyone; they were no longer a proud mark
of caste. The actual compensation received by each samura1 was relatively small, while their
pride, as a class, was deeply hurt when they were deprived of the outward badges of their rank.
However, it must not be forgotten that many samura1 families had had long experience in political
administration and in financial management of estates. They were not slow to perceive the new
opportunities opening before them in the new government, in banking, and in the management of in-
dustrial enterprises. They despised merchandizing and trade, and were not successful in this
type of business; but some samura1, notably Ito, Inouye, and Yamagata, sought places in the new
government and rose to positions of the greatest power, while others became bankers and company
directors. Still others joined the Satsuma rebellion of 1877, while many members of the class,
failing to adjust to new conditions, sank into poverty and obscurity. The fact that Japan
possessed a privileged class, many of whose members had had valuable experience in the bureau-
cratic government of the Tokugawa regime and in the management of estates, was an important fac-
tor affecting the development of Japan as the country was modernized. Another characteristic
aspect of Japanese life 1s also worth emphasizing - the fact that the masses of the people had
had long experience in being governed by an upper-class bureaucracy.
When feudalism was abolished, feudal rank was also abolished, but a new nobility was created
a few years later, when five hundred men were given new titles. It is interesting to note that
in this list all but thirty-five were daimyo or court nobles of the feudal regime, and that the
new members of the ennobled class were samurai who had already shown their ability in the govern-
ment. Thus we see that though feudalism, as 1t had existed, was abolished, old feudal lords held
office in their old provinces, or other positions in the new government, and that they formed the
bulk of the new hereditary nobility. In so far as they could adapt thenselves to the changing
conditions of l1fe in Japan, the doors of privilege and power were as open to them under the new
situation as in the past.
What happened to the cultivators? With the abolition of feudalism, peasants who had been
bound to the soil were free to move about. They were at first permitted to obtain titles to the
land they cultivated, but this system was changed to the older method of registering land within
3. McLaren, W.w., op. c1t., pp. 29-31.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
42-
the district. Peasants were permitted to sell or to mortgage the lands they cultivated. To
provide revenue, the fields of Japan were carefully surveyed and a land tax levied. This was
based not as formerly on the crop, but upon the probable value of the land itself, considered in
terms of productivity. The land tax, amounting to about three per cent of the value of the land,
was assessed upon all cultivable fields; house lots, including city estates of lords, were taxed
at a lower rate, and waste land - which belonged to the government - was not taxed. One would
say that, with the abolition of feudalism, a better day dawned for the farmers of Japan. They
became a free people; but what this freedom would mean, depended upon the governmental, social
and economic structure taking the place of the old feudal society.
In every change made in the government, the old aristocratic clan influence was dominant.
When the Tokugawa lands were confiscated, imperial supporters were appointed to fill the vacated
offices. The chief seaport towns and all the Tokugawa fiefs were thus placed directly under the
central government, which was a clan bureaucracy. This organization of local governments was
soon extended over the whole country. When feudalism was abolished, the old fiefs were re-
arranged, and the number of prefectures was reduced from 302 to 72. In 1873, a Department of
Home Affairs was created.
From that time until the present every matter of importance which concerns a locality
has to be brought before the Home Office by the local authorities, and the action to be
taken is decided virtually by the central Government. Thus, 1f a city wishes to bestow a
franchise upon a street-railway company or a gas company, the consent of the Home Minister
must be obtained before any action can be taken by the city authorities.4
The clans powerful in the Government made room for their retainers and followers in govern-
ment offices. This fact, together with the rapid changes made arbitrarily, created a good deal
of resentment particularly among those samura1 and lords who were not profiting from the new
system. Moreover, there was a difference of opinion in the Government over the policy to be
pursued with regard to expansion and internal development. Difficulties with Formosa, the Ryukyu
Islands, and Korea, caused the dissatisfied elements to criticize the Government for hesitating
to enter upon the course of expansion which they had expected would immediately follow the im-
perial restoration. Sa1go of Satsuma was displeased with the course taken by the government; he
left Tokyo and returned to Satsuma, where he was joined by dissatisfied samura1. In 1877 the
Satsuma rebell1on broke out, but the old feudal forces were soon conquered by the new imperial
troops. This was significant, for the new army, conscripted from the people, and taking the
place of the warrior class, had not had much prestige before this.
From 1877 forward an absolute monarchy served and ruled by an oligarchy, the two in a
firm alliance, dominated the nation. In this combinat1on of apparently incompatible ele-
ments, an absolute monarch and a ruling oligarchy, the dualism represented in pre-Meij1
times by the Court and the shogunate reappeared, the only important difference in the
situations being the absence of feudalism and the presence of a free nation.5
Because of this difference in the situations, and because of the new governmental 1deas
coming into the country, arguments for constitutional government were presented from various
sources, and addressed to different governmental agencies. For example, 1n 1874 a group respond-
ed to one leader's arguments against constitutional government in these words:
You say that the condition of the people of this whole country is such that it 1s not
advisable to establish a counc1l-chamber. But we reply that 1f such 1s actually the con-
dition of our whole people a council-chamber must absolutely be established. You also say
that the extreme submissiveness of our people is caused by the low degree of civilization.
You have reversed cause and effect. The cause of the low degree of civilization 1s this
extreme submissiveness, and this extreme submissiveness 1s the result of our hitherto
4. McLaren, Walter Wallace, op. cit., p. 127.
5. McLaren, Walter Wallace, op. cit., p. 94.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
-43-
existing institutions. Mr. Mill says: - "Improvement in human affairs 1s wholly the work
of the uncontented characters"; and again, "If there be a people whose submissiveness 1s
so excessive that it leaves everything to its government, it is the same as caring nothing
about such things, and accepting the results when agreeable as visitat1ons of nature. How
could such a people be expected to make progress and to desire to raise their civilization?"
If we desire to advance the position of the whole of the people we must get them to abandon
that excessive submission and must make them recover their original spirit of enterprise;
and the way to accomplish this is by correcting the errors of hitherto existing institu-
tions, and that may henceforth conduce to our people's progress.6
A memorial dated 1880 states:
We have ascertained, as the result of a careful investigation, that the people of
Japan have developed a spirit of independence, and now thoroughly appreciate the respective
rights of the monarch and the general mass of the community. The result of the knowledge
1s an increasing demand for the establishment of a const1tuent assembly, vesting legisla-
tive power in the people, and it 1s now very apparent that the movement will never cease
until the required object 1s achieved.?
For some years the government turned a deaf ear to these eloquent arguments and memorials;
but finally, in l88l, a crisis arose which forced the bureaucracy to advise the emperor to
promise that a constitution would be granted. The imperial rescript then issued promised that
nine years later a parliament would be established. During those nine years, the government
leaders took many steps to strengthen the executive so that, when a popular assembly did come
into existence, the central bureaucracy would be in too strong a position to be threatened by
any such assembly. For example, the new nobility was created partly for this purpose and to
provide a group from which the upper house could be appointed. A cabinet was formed, and the
Privy Council, or group most closely in touch with the emperor, was reorganized. Ito, originally
a samura1 of the Choshu clan, headed the cabinet, whose members were, with the exception of two,
Choshu or Satsuma men.
As time passed, the emperor commissioned Ito to prepare a constitution. Ito had made con-
siderable study of constitutional governments elsewhere, and now he went to Germany where he was
particularly impressed with the German form of government because 1t was oligarchical and not
democratic. When he returned, he prepared the constitution in secrecy with the assistance of
only four men. When the document was finished 1n 1889, it was promulgated by the emperor, who
read it before a small group of government leaders. Any criticisms or comments were forbidden
when it was announced; it immediately had the force of unchangeable law since it had been
announced by the emperor.
The form of government defined by the Japanese Constitution has several notable and 1m-
portant characteristics. The Constitution represents an attempt to fix forever the institutions
of the country in accordance with aristocratic principles of the strongest type. Only the
emperor may propose a change in the Constitution, which states:
The Empire of Japan shall be re1gned over and governed by a line of Emperors unbroken
for ages eternal.
The Emperor 1s sacred and inviolable.
In these words, the Japanese tradition of the divine origin and peculiar prestige of the
emperor was given the force of law - a fact of immense significance. An American authority on
Japanese government and politics raises the question which occurs to our minds at this point:
6. McLaren, W.w., op. c1t., p. 442-443.
7. McLaren, W.W., op. cit., p. 481.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
44-
What will happen to the loyalty of the masses when they learn that many of the tales
of the Kojik1 and the Nihong1 which they have been taught, and are still being taught, to
regard as history are nothing but fables? The real rulers of Japan are alive to this
question and are building a new foundation for monarchy. It 1s personal loyalty of the
sort that maintains the English monarchy; and, that 1t may develop, the people are being
allowed to see their Tenno frequently, to buy his picture, to read of his da1iy activ1-
ties... Successes of state are ascribed to the Emperor's wisdom and virtue as well as to
his heavenly ancestry... There can be little question that the love of the people for
their Emperor will continue indefinitely. It 1s something too deeply rooted in their
conception of existence to be supplanted, something unique in the modern world which seems
likely always to retain 1ts religious element in spite of the passing of the vast army of
gods and goddesses, from Ame-no-Minaka-Nushi-no-Mikoto to Jimmu, 1nto the m1sts of mythol-
ogy. 8
However, in spite of the possibility described above, it remains a fact that the Constitu-
tion, which can only be changed by the emperor himself, begins with the final words which define
his status for all time, in terms of sacredness and inv1olability. Since 1932 (when the above
was published), there has been a definite move to emphasize the peculiar sacredness of the
emperor.
The ministers of state - that is, the cabinet - are responsible to the emperor, not to the
Diet. The Diet may petition the executive; members may question the ministers in such a manner
as to indicate their attitude on matters under discussion; but the Diet does not control the
executive, in the sense that a change of party support in the Diet does nct necessarily mean a
change in the ministry, and hence, a modification of policy. The Diet may be convened only by
the emperor, for a period of not less than three months a year; but it may be prorogued, for
fifteen-day periods, during the session, and the Lower House may be dissolved. The Diet does
not even have entire control of the budget, since if it refuses to pass a government budget,
that of the preceding year automatically goes into effect. All these provisions in the Consti-
tution "made the bureaucracy independent of the Diet, except for the single provision that all
measures introduced by the Government must receive the consent of the Diet before they could be-
come law... A representative assembly was set up, and at the same time the executive authority
retained in the hands of a bureaucracy responsible to a monarch ruling by divine right. A
national assembly which can legislate but cannot control the executive is, if taken seriously,
Under these conditions, only the strongest sort of aroused public opinion expressing 1tself
1n the Diet may force the government bureaucracy to modify 1ts policies, but in a country where
the press 1s very well controlled by the government and where forelgn policies are frequently
kept secret even from the Diet, the chances of such an aroused public opinion are remote. They
are made even more unl1kely because the government frequently shelters itself behind the emperor,
using imperial rescripts as sacred instruments which cannot be criticized. It 1s impossible to
avoid the conclusion that the Japanese Constitution, while 1t provided for a popular assembly,
nevertheless enabled the few in control of the government to continue to control Japanese
affairs.
The Privy Counc11, made up of members appointed by the emperor and organized before the
Constitution was announced, was continued by the Constitution. Its powers were made very gen-
eral; in practice it has come to act as a sort of third house actually exercising considerable
control over the executive. It 1s the highest body advising the throne, and while Japanese
jurists disagree as to its functions, practice has placed it in a position superior to that of
the cabinet. The fact that there are several bodies - Privy Council, cabinet, and Diet - each
8. Quigley, Harold S., Japanese Government and Politics, The Century Co., New York 1932:
p. 79.
9. McLaren, Walter Wallace, op. c1t., pp. 148-151.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
45-
overlapping the other, accounts for some of the peculiar political situations which have arisen
in Japan. The Privy Council in particular gives Japanese government 1ts peculiar quality of
lack of responsibility to the electorate, for the only control over its membership 1s the fact
that the prime minister submits the names of possible new members to the emperor when a vacancy
occurs in the Council's ranks.
The imperial advisers, known as the Genro or Elder Statesmen, developed after the Constitu-
tion was announced, and have no constitut1onal recognition. The young men who managed affairs
in the early years of the Meij1 era became the Genro of the latter years of that period and of
succeeding reigns. It became customary for the emperor to consult the Genro in a national
crisis and, later, to ask their advice chiefly when a new cabinet was to be formed. By 1936
Prince Saionji was the only living Elder Statesman. It 1s not known whether or not this special
body of advisers to the throne will be continued after the death of Prince Saionj1, but public
opinion has prevented the appointment of new men to the Genro.
Of the type of government set up by the Constitution of Japan, one student of Japanese in-
stitutions observes:
Thc reactionary institut1ons established in Japan in 1889, with a definiteness that
almost paralleled the 1mmutability of the laws of the Medes and Persians, 1mmediately began
to hamper and restrict the nation's political progress. Rapidly changing political condi-
tions demand a high degree of elasticity in the institutions of government. To attempt to
check an active progressive nation in its career is a type of folly bred by caste or
1gnorance... The year 1867 witnessed in Japan the bursting of the bonds 1mposed in 1603 by
Tokugawa Iyeyasu, whereas the Constitut1on, by 1ts claim to 1mmutability, marked the be-
ginning of a new period of political stagnation after a few brief years of readjustment
and change...
The devices adopted by the constitutional oligarchy - the diligent cultivation of a
popular belief in the peculiarity and inherent superiority of the Japanese monarchy, with
its heavenly origin and unbroken lineage, the diverting of the nation's energy from do-
mestic to foreign policies, the securing of a place in the comity of world Powers - are as
old as history and as modern as the twent1eth century. But despite the wonderful record
of progress achieved by the people in the second half of Meiji, the era closed in a storm
of protest against the institutions established in l889 - a storm which will continue to
rage until the 1nsurmountable barriers against political progress erected by the Constitu-
tion have been removed by a revision of that instrument.10
After the Constitution went into effect and the first Diet was convened in 1890, four years
of struggle followed in which one government clan leader after another went down before the
forces of opposition determined on the revision of the Constitution. Finally, in 1894, the
government played the card which 1t has found useful more than once since then when internal
troubles became acute - 1t declared war, this time on China. All the discontented elements in
Japan got behind the war; the Diet assented willingly to the government budgets - which it had
been rejecting - and political differences were forgotten for the time being.
The war with China arose because of differences in Korea. Korea was in a curious position.
Many times in the course of its history it had been completely controlled by China; at other
times it had paid tribute to China; and sometimes 1t had been independent. At this time, Korea
was supposed to be tributary to China, but China, with many troubles of her own and with a
weakened dynasty at the head of the country, did not actively assert her control over the Korean
kingdom. The militarists in Japan emphasized Japan's interest in a region adjoining the island
empire and refused to recognize China's rights over Korea. Korea was in a state of complete
decay; the country was disorderly and the government corrupt. It was unable to resist outside
pressure, or to keep order. Both Japan and China had troops in Korea and the two countries had
10. McLaren, Walter Wallace, op. cit., pp. 179-180.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
46-
made an agreement that neither should send additional troops into Korea without notifying the
other. In 1894 condit1ons in Korea caused China to break this agreement, and Japan therefore
declared war. The Japanese army, trained by foreigners and well disciplined, was victorious on
land and the Japanese fleet was successful at sea.
In 1895, the treaty of peace was signed; Japan was given the lease of the Liaotung peninsula
in southern Manchuria; China recognized the "independence" of Korea, thereby leaving Korean
affairs to Japan; the 1sland of Formosa was ceded to Japan, and China was forced to pay a huge
indemnity. Russia, Germany and France refused to allow Japan to occupy the Liaotung peninsula;
in place of surrendering this territory to Japan China was obliged to pay an additional
indemnity.
The effects of this war can scarcely be overestimated: the conflict may be regarded as a
turning point in Japanese history and in the Far Eastern situation. In Japan, the basis of clan
control shifted from the government bureaucracy to the military. In l885, a civil service system
had been instituted, thus cutting down the number of civil positions which could be given by
government leaders to their supporters. The navy had come under Satsuma control and the army
under Choshu leadership. In 1894, 1t was provided that cabinet ministers of the Army and Navy
departments could only be chosen from officers in active service of at least the rank of Lieu-
tenant-General or Vice-Admiral, and such was the control of Satsuma and Choshu over the appoint-
ments and promotions in the service that practically no one not of Satsuma or Choshu extraction
could win these ranks. After the war with China, Yamagata, the Minister of War, was in a posi-
tion of such prestige that he was able to secure from the emperor the right for the ministers of
War and Navy to approach him directly, and thus to advise the emperor even without the knowledge
of the other ministers. This right separated the High Command of the forces of Japan from civil
control. It introduced the possibility that army or navy leaders could unmake a ministry by re-
fusing to submit the names of qualified officers to a new prime minister. It introduced the
possibility of cabinet difficulties in case the ministers of war or navy opposed the prime
minister on matters of policy or finance. It caused clan government to come to mean a government
by the military. Against this situation political parties in the Diet might struggle, but they
would struggle in vain for they possessed no such means of controlling the executive as did the
m11itary.
This shift in power was but one of the results of the war. Formosa was the first colonial
possession of Japan; Yamagata attached the colonial governors to the list of offices under the
Army and Navy, and thus created the military colonial administrat1on system which Japan has
followed ever since when 1ts colonies were extended. Still another result of the war was the
shift in attention from constitutional revision to expansion on the mainland; Japan's ambitions
were increased, and the determination to gain possessions on the mainland was fed by the way in
which territory which had been gained had been snatched from Japan through the interference of
other nations. Another result was the increase in taxes necessitated to meet the expenses of
the war, and the receipt of an indemnity which might have paid for the war, but which was, in-
stead, applied to the development of industry.
In the Far East Japan's victory called attention to the weakness of China, and in the years
1mmediately after the war the Powers began practically to dismember China, seizing territory and
obtaining concessions and spheres of interest. This again had repercussions in Japan; with every
advance of European powers on the mainland of Asia, Japanese militarists became more convinced of
the necessity of getting what they could for Japan. Again, Japan's victory increased Japan's
prestige in foreign eyes; all foreign nations now surrendered the extra-territorial rights they
had enjoyed in Japan under the unequal treaties forced on the country when it was first opened,

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
-47-
and the foreign control over Japanese customs duties, established by the unequal treaties, was
relaxed.
The way in which the government of Japan was modified, but shaped to the desires of a few
clan leaders, and the way in which Japan became involved in Far Eastern disputes on the mainland
of Asia, were immensely important, but they form only one aspect of the many changes of the years
we are considering. They do not reveal, for example, the earnest 1dealism which was present in
many Japanese leaders during the early years of the Meij1 era. The Meij1 Emperor commanded sin-
cere respect and devotion; his 1deals as a ruler and as a person expressed the best in the Jap-
anese tradition and may be seen in these few quotations from his poetry:
Reading the chronicles of early days
I think upon our well-loved country's fate,
And vow in all things so to rule the state
That ancient wisdom guide our future ways.
Behold how at your door the very stone
Is hollowed out by countless drops of rain.
However hard the task and slowly done,
To it again! 11
Search the mountains even in their depths, and the
1slands from end to end,
For wise men may there be hidden from the world.
Even short summer nights I spend tossing about half awake,
So many things are there that I have to think of for my
country's sake.
Oh, how I wish to make this country inferior to none,
Adopting that which 1s good, and rejecting that which
1s bad. 12
This last stanza represents the spirit of idealism underlying the developments of the Meij1
era. That this spirit was present, there 1s no question; that it dictated all choices made in
the transformation of Japan would be too much to expect of human nature.
Then there was the rapid acquisition of foreign techniques and the speed of the many changes
taking place in Japan - which 1s the more remarkable when we realize the unfamil1arity with the
West which existed at the beginning of the period. This unfamiliarity is suggested in a des-
cription given by young Fukuzawa Yukich1 - later to found Ke1o University and to become one of
the intellectual leaders of Japan - when, in 1861, he vis1ted the United States, one of the mem-
bers of the first delegation to come to America. He recounts his personal experiences:
Our welcome on shore was certainly worthy of a friendly people. They did everything
for us, and they could not have done more. The feeling on their part must have been like
that of a teacher receiving his cld pupil several years after graduation, for it was their
Commodore Perry who had effected the opening of our country eight years before, and now
here we were on our first visit to America...
On our part there were many confusing and embarrassing moments, for we were quite
1gnorant of the customs and habits of American life. For instance, we were suprised even
our mode of conveyance until the door had been opened. We were seated inside, and the
horses had started off. Then we realized we were riding in a carriage behind horses.
All of us wore the usual pair of swords at our sides and the hemp sandals. So
11. Page, Curt1s Hidden, Japanese Poetry, p. 164.
12. Ozak1, Yuk1o, The Vo1ce of Japanese Democracy, Kelly and Walsh, Ltd., Yokohoma, 1918:
pp. 13, 33, 108.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
48-
attired, we were taken to a modern hotel. There we noticed, covering the interior, the
valuable carpets and rugs, which in Japan only the more wealthy could buy from importers'
shops at so much a square inch to make purses and tobacco pouches with. Here the carpet
was laid over an entire room - something quite astounding - and upon this costly fabric
walked our hosts, wearing the shoes with which they had come in from the streets! We
followed them in our hemp sandals.
Immediately bottles were brought 1n. Suddenly an explosion - the popping of champagne.
When the glasses were passed around, we noticed strange fragments floating in them - hardly
did we expect to find ice in the warm spring weather. Some of the party swallowed these
floating particles; others bravely chewed them. This was an adventure - finding out that
they wereice.
I wanted to have a smoke, but seeing no "tobacco tray" such as in Japan 1s placed
before the smoker to hold the burning charcoal brazier and the bamboo ash receiver, I took
a l1ght from the open fireplace. Perhaps there was an ash tray and a box of matches on
the table, but I did not recognize them as such. I finished my smoke, but finding no ash
receiver, I took out some of the tissue paper which we carry in place of handkerchiefs, and
wrapping the ashes in it, crushed them very carefully, and placed the ball in my sleeve.
After a while I took out the paper to have another smoke; some wisps of smoke were trick-
ling from my sleeve. The light that I thought I had crushed out was quietly setting me on
fire!
After all these embarrassing incidents, I thought I could well sympathize with the
Japanese bride. Her new family, whom the bride has never met before, tell her to make her-
self comfortable. One laughs with her; another engages her in conversation - all happy
with the new addition to the family. In the midst of all this the bride has to sit, try-
ing to look pleasant, but in her efforts she goes on making mistakes and blushes every
time.
Before leaving Japan, I, the independent soul - a carefree student who could look
the world in the face - had feared nothing. But on arriving in America, I was turned
suddenly into a shy, self-conscious, blushing "bride." The contrast was indeed funny,
even to myself.13
While this account is interesting as revealing some of the strangeness which Japanese felt
on encountering foreign customs, the most significant fact connected with the visit was that the
ship in which the visitors came to America was navigated across the ocean by Japanese. As
Fukuzawa observes: "About seven years after the first sight of a steamship, after only about
five years of practice, the Japanese people made a trans-Pacific crossing without help from
foreign experts." In this statement lies the suggestion of the rapidity with which foreign in-
ventions and techniques were taken over in Japan. Scientists, teachers, engineers, doctors, and
other experts were invited to Japan; Japanese travelled abroad to observe and study.
Government leaders early perceived the need for establishing schools in which the learning
of the modern west should be taught. In 1872 the first plan for educat1on was made; in 1879 a
simpler and more workable plan was adopted. This forms the basis of the present system of edu-
cation in Japan. The main points of interest in this system are the facts that education 1s
compulsory for all children between six and fourteen, exceptions being made in the case of
children completing the course before the age of fourteen. Through the years of compulsory edu-
cation, boys and girls are taught the same things in the same classrooms. One of the subjects
of instruction 1s "morals" - that 1s, Shinto and traditional rules of conduct and propriety. At
the end of this period the sexes are separated, and the curriculum is different, that of the
girls being shorter and including the practical household arts. Rigid examinations are given to
students wishing to attend higher schools or the university. The expense of compulsory educa-
tion is met by the communities in which the schools are located, and the rural schools rest
heavily upon the impoverished rural communities. Tuition charged in higher institutions defrays
a portion of the cost of higher education. Most of the higher education available for girls
1s supplied in privately endowed schools, often supported as missions of some foreign church;
13. The Autob1ography of Fukuzawa Yuk1ch1, op. c1t., pp. 120-122.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
49-
government universities are, with few exceptions, closed to girls.
Another foundation laid by Japan to ensure the welfare of the country had to do with the
army. It was apparent to the leaders of Japan that military weakness was one reason why China
was being encroached upon by foreign nations, and 1t appeared that military prowess seemed to
command high respect among foreign nations. The beginnings of a foreign trained conscripted
army have been mentioned in the discussion of the Satsuma rebellion. By 1894, when Japan was at
war with China, the Japanese army, well trained and equipped, cons1sted of some 200,o00 men.
Still another foundation essential for Japan's progress was the development of modern means
of transportation and of modern industry. Japan's feudal industry was not centralized; the
various 1solated communities of the country produced much of what was consumed there. Luxury
goods were made in Kyoto or Tokyo or Osaka and adjoining reg1ons, porcelain for the luxury trade
was made in the districts where the best clay was found, but in general all industry was widely
scattered. Roads were few and poor. The government alone could at first command the capital or
provide the conditions under which modern railways, modern ships, and modern industrial estab-
lishments could be built and operated, and it was hampered because the foreign control of Jap-
anese tariffs prevented it from levying customs duties to protect home industry. However, in
1870, the government arranged for the building of the first railroad, and at about the same time
also took over the first shipyards and transferred them to the navy. In the l88o's, private con-
cerns were granted land and loans for building railways, and the shipyards in existence, except
the navy yards, were rented and then sold to the Mitsubish1, a wealthy family which had been en-
gaged in commercial undertakings in the Tokugawa period. The government gave subsidies to en-
courage shipbuilding, and permitted the Mitsubishi to fix freight rates in silver at a time when
the yen was depreciated, thus further stimulating private enterprise in this industry.
The first modern factories established in Japan were cotton-spinning mills. Modern cotton-
spinning machinery was brought 1n by feudal lords before the Meij1 restoration, but not until the
government took an active hand in the text1le industry, in l879, did cotton-spinning begin to
expand. After the government had imported machinery and established several model mills in
different districts, private concerns entered the cotton-spinning industry. The reeling of silk
was improved after the government, in l87l, set up a model silk-reeling mill. This was purchased
some twenty years later by the Mitsu1, a merchant family which had been a financial backer of
the shogunate, had supported the movement for the restoration of the emperor, and had rendered
important aid in the founding of the ministry of finance under the new government.
The government took the lead in mining, operating mines in existence and opening new coal
fields. By 1880, the government had withdrawn from mining, and had sold 1ts interests to the
Mitsu1 family. The iron and steel industry which began at the Kama1sh1 mine was bought by the
government in 1874 and sold to private owners in 1887, who in turn sold 1t later (1924) to the
Mitsu1 fam1ly.
While the government took the initiative in the industrial development of Japan, and while
1t continued, after disposing of many of its interests, to take an active part in fostering in-
dustry, it did not continue to engage directly in industry and to build state socialism. Instead,
it gave so many privileges to a few wealthy families that a purely Japanese form of capitalism
was, by 1895, beginning to develop. It was not unconnected with the special privileges of feudal
grants. An enlarged sphere of action, combined with government aid and special privileges, gave
to a few families a great deal of power, and caused modern Japan to begin to emerge as a particu-
lar type of capitalist state. In the government of this state, old clan leaders exercised power
through their control of the army and navy, and the ministers of army and navy were powerful be-
cause of their unique position in the cabinet.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
50-
Chapter 6.
EXPANSIONISM: ONE ASPECT OF JAPAN'S DEVELOPMENT SINCE 1895
Since 1895, political changes of great importance, particularly 1nvolving Japan, China,
Russia, Germany, Great Britain and the United States, have taken place in the Far East. Japan
has obtained a.dominant position in territory previously a part of China and is steadily in-
creasing the area under her control, while reducing to a minimum the influence of other powers
in these regions. Foreign nations whose trade 1s adversely affected by those developments re-
gard the advance of Japan as threatening to world peace, and the Soviet Union openly considers
them ominous of war. Japanese action has been one of the factors retarding the peaceful settle-
ment of China's internal problems. Since the international significance of the Japanese expan-
sion on the mainland of Asia is so great, 1t is necessary in this chapter to consider the actions
of the Japanese government since l895, and to shift emphasis from the life of the people of
Japan to the events of political history which have a bearing on the present situation in the
Far East.
The main events we shall consider are: the scramble of the powers to gain concessions
from China after 1895; the acceptance by the powers of the United States notes formulating the
"Open Door" pol1cy; the Anglo-Japanese all1ance; the Russo-Japanese war of 1904-1905; the Jap-
anese annexation of Korea in 1910; the Chinese Revolut1on of 19ll; the preoccupation of the
European nations, and later, of the United States, in Europe during the World War, and the con-
sequent Japanese pressure on China during this period; the Japanese intervention in Siberia
after the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917; the Washington Conference of 1922 and the subsequent
treaties and agreements regarding the Far East; the Tsinan "1ncident" of 1928; the Japanese ad-
vance into the Three Eastern Provinces of China - He1lungkiang, Kirin, and Liaoning, the region
known as Manchuria - in September, 1931; the organization of these provinces and the province of
Jehol into the Japanese-controlled "empire" of Manchoukuo; and, finally, the Japanese advance
into north China, south of the Great Wall, in 1935. In this chapter we shall examine only the
events outlined, leaving for later consideration the internal changes in Japan which have a bear-
ing on Japanese expansion.
After the Sino-Japanese War had demonstrated the weakness of China, the powers hastened to
secure additional spheres of interest in Chinese territory. The advance of Russia into the
Three Eastern Provinces was, in 1ts effect upon Japan, and hence upon the Far Eastern situation
today, the most important of the actions of the powers at this time. This advance proceeded as
follows:
1896 - Russ1a secured the right to build and operate, under a Russ1an syndicate - known as
the Chinese Eastern Ra1lway Company - a railroad across north Manchuria to form a short cut
connecting the Trans-Siberian ra1lway with the Pacific.
1898 - Russ1a obtained a twenty-five-year lease of the southern port1on of the Liaotung
peninsula, and the right to build a railway south from the main line of the Chinese Eastern road
to the ports of Dalny and Port Arthur. Russia secured the exclusive right to adminster the en-
tire railway zone adjoining the 1mmense T formed by the Chinese Eastern Ra1lway and 1ts southern
branch, to police the reg1on, to mine coal and cut timber required for the upkeep of the railway,
and to fortify the ports as well as to keep warships in the southern harbors.
1899-1900 - The Un1ted States, alarmed at the way in which the powers were securing exclu-
sive spheres of interest in Chinese territory, sent the "Open Door" notes to the different powers
1nvolved. The text of the notes varied in the case of the different nations to which they were

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
-51-
sent, but each note emphasized the 1dea that no country should obtain exclusive rights in
Chinese territory, but that instead trade should be open to all nations. Each of the powers hav-
ing interests in Manchuria, as well as other parts of China, declared, in one way of another,
their acceptance of the principle set forth in the Open Door notes, though Russia alone stated
that there must be no interference with rights already obtained in Manchuria.
1902 - Great Britain and Japan, each alarmed at the As1atic expansion of the Russian empire,
signed a treaty of alliance. The treaty recognized the Open Door principle when it stated that
the two countries were "interested in maintaining the independence and territorial integrity of
China and Korea, and in securing equal opportunities in those countries for the commerce and
industry of all nations." It went on to say, however, that Great Britain had special interests
in China, while Japan was particularly interested, politically and economically, in Korea. Each
country was to safeguard 1ts own special recognized interests in these regions, even to the
point of intervening if necessary. In the event of such "intervention" by one of the signing
nations, the other would remain neutral unless some other nation joined against 1ts ally. In
this case, the neutral country would come to the assistance of 1ts ally. In l905, the treaty
was renewed and changed; the new arrangement provided that if any country made an unprovoked
attack on one of the parties signing, the other would 1mmediately come to 1ts assistance. In
1911, the treaty was again renewed, but its scope was not widened.
Ever since the Sino-Japanese war, Japanese had been extending their 1nfluence in Korea. The
Japanese interests in Korea, combined with the Russian control of portions of Manchuria imme-
diately adjoining Korea, brought about the Russo-Japanese war of 1904-1905, in which Japan was
victorious and which marked another turning-point in the history of Japan and of the Far East.
It. was not, however, the sort of turning-point visioned by Japanese liberals who supported the
war. For example, in 1904 a Japanese scholar forecast the results of the conflict in these
words, the expression of sincere conviction of a type which was not reflected in the events which
followed the war, for none of these prophecies, except the one relating to Japan's growth and
progress, was fulfilled.
If Japan should win. . the Oriental commerce would be equally open and free to all;
the Empires of China and Korea would not only remain 1ndependent, but, under the influence
of a new civilization, their enormous resources would be developed and their national insti-
tutions reformed, the 1mmense advantages of which would be enjoyed by all the nat1ons which
are interested in the East. There would naturally result a lasting peace in the East and
the general uplifting of one-third of the human race. Japan's growth and progress after
the war would be even more remarkable than in the past. In short, East Asia would be
forcibly brought under the influence of the new civil1zation, the effect of which would not
be without a profound reaction upon Russia 1tself. Humanity at large, including the
Russians, would thereby be the gainer.1
The treaty of Portsmouth which set the terms of peace provided for: (1) Cession to Japan
of the southern half of the 1sland of Sakhalin; (2) Russian recognition of Japan's paramount in-
fluence in Korea; (3) the transfer to Japan - providing China's consent were obtained - of the
lease of the land on which the Chinese Eastern Railway from Changchun south was built. The
transfer included the leasehold of L1aotung (henceforth known as Kwantung Province), and thus the
ports of Port Arthur and Dalny (henceforth known as Dairen). All the administrative rights and
concessions previously obtained by Russia in the same area were transferred to Japan. Russia re-
tained all the northern sect1on of the T formed by the railway, and the portion of the southern
part from Harbin to Changchun.
Following the signing of the Treaty of Portsmouth, Japan secured from China her consent to
1. Asakawa, K., The Russo-Japanese Conflict, Houghton Mifflin, Boston, 1904: pp. 60-61.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
52-
ments regarding Japanese control of other railways in Kirin and railways planned for Liaoning
and Jehol. Certain articles whose official text has never been made public were also signed by
China at this time. Many of Japan's later moves in Manchuria were justified in Japan on the
ground that these secret agreements had been violated by China. If the text of these agreements
resembled the text of the publ1c ones, 1t 1s easy to see how they could have been v1olated. For
example, one of the public agreements reads:
The Imperial Japanese Government engage that in the matter of railway construction
and exploitation they will, as far as circumstances permit, conform to the original agree-
ments concluded between China and Russia.
Japan proceeded to organize the government of the railway zone, an area legally defined as
lands needed for the construction, operation, and protection of the line. The Japanese-owned
railway was named South Manchuria Railway, and its management, including the commercial explo1-
tation of the zone, was entrusted to a corporation known as the South Manchuria Railway Company,
half of whose stock was taken by the government and all of whose officials were appointed by the
government. The zone was placed under the direction of a high army officer appointed by the
emperor to administer Kwantung Province. Until 19l9, when the administration system was divided
between civil and military, the general in command of the Kwantung Army governed Kwantung Prov-
1nce.
As far as Korea was concerned, now that Russia, the nearest rival on the continent, had been
forced to concede Japan's dominant position, there was no hindrance to Japan's control of Korea,
except Korea herself; and she was in no position to resist Japan. In l905, Japan presented the
Korean king with a proposal for creating a Japanese protectorate in Korea; the king accepted the
proposal, and a Japanese governor-general was appointed. The king, however, sent a secret mis-
sion to the Second Hague Conference asking the Powers to protect the country against Japanese
aggression. This caused the Japanese, in 19o7, to force the king to abdicate in favor of his
son. The Japanese governor-general became the regent, and Korean affairs were thus brought more
firmly under Japanese control. The situation, however, was far from satisfactory to Japan, and
when, in 1909, Prince Ito, the governor-general of Korea, was assassinated by a Korean in Harbin,
the Japanese government was able to take strong measures. In l91o, the government sent troops to
Korea; the annexation of the country was announced, and carried forward by Japanese militarists.
Since that date Korea, now called Chosen, has been a colonial possession of Japan.
The Korean government had been weak and corrupt, but the Japanese government which replaced
1t, while it established order and began to build roads and railways, followed policies which
were resented in Korea. For example, it suppressed the Korean press and schools and forbade the
use of the Korean language. The few Japanese schools established for Koreans offered a curri-
culum imbued with Japanese ideals. Inequality of treatment was common; under the law, Japanese
had advantages not extended to Koreans. Under these circumstances, Koreans were slow to appre-
ciate the benefits of order under Japanese rule. The situation was modified to an extent after
1919 when, as a result of the passive resistance of the people, Japan relaxed its Korean policy
with respect to government, education, and the press.
Meanwhile, in 19ll, the Ch'1ng dynasty of China was overthrown and the Chinese Republic
announced. China, not at this time a unified political state in the western sense of the term,
became more and more disorganized.2
What would have happened in China if the World War had
not broken out and absorbed the attention of European Powers, it 1s impossible to say. As it
2. For fuller information concerning the Chinese Revolut1on, see Chapter 7 of the first
volume of Peoples of the Pacific Series.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
-53-
was, Japan - with all its interests in extending its power in the Far East - was left in a very
favorable position, particularly as its alliance with Great Britain provided it with a reason
for entering the War on the side of the Allies and attacking German possessions on the mainland
of As1a.
Great Britain realized that 1ts interests in the Far East might be absorbed by Japan if
that country took an active part in the War, and urged Japan not to enter the War as an active
participant. But from the moment the War broke out, the Japanese government moved rapidly and
discussed the probable advantages of seizing the German concessions in Shantung Province in
China, as well as German colonies in the Pacific Islands. Before China entered the War on the
side of the Allies in 1917, Japan had seized the German concessions in Shantung, and had, 1n
1915, imposed the Twenty-One Demands on China. These Demands, 1f they had been carr1ed out,
would have made China virtually a dependency of Japan. Since the other powers were occupied
elsewhere, Japan took advantage of the situation to attempt to secure a dominant position in
China. Yüan Shih-k'a1,then president-dictator, accepted some of the Demands, but they were never
ratified by the Chinese Parliament. For this reason, Chinese have contended that none of the
Demands were ever legally accepted, while the Japanese government has insisted that they were.
Certain of the Twenty-One Demands dealt specifically with Manchuria. The period of the
leases was extended - the leases of the ports of Dairen and Port Arthur to 1997; of the South
Manchuria Ra1lway zone to 2007; of the Antung-Mukden Ra1lway to 2007. Japanese were permitted
to work certain mines in Liaoning and Kirin Provinces. Japanese capitalists were given the
first right to be consulted for loans for Chinese government enterprises in Manchuria or Eastern
Inner Mongolia. If foreign advisers were employed by China in Manchuria, preference was to be
given to Japanese.
Then, in 1917, came the Russian Revolut1on, overthrowing the Tsar and later, in November,
1917, establishing the Bolsevik regime. Japan's monarchical tradition was too firmly rooted,
and its interests on the continent of Asia were too near to territory which might become
Bolshevik, for Japan to observe these changes with calm. As early as December, 1917, Japan had
battleships in Vladivostok, and was attempting to gain the consent of the Allies to take charge
of military operations in Siberia.
A despatch sent by the American Ambassador 1n Tokyo, dated January 17, 1918, reports the
Japanese minister to have said that while the Japanese would not object to the presence of an
American warship at Vladivostok, with the Japanese and British warships, yet
1f,however, conditions should hereafter require occupat1on of Vladivostok and the lines of
the Chinese Eastern and Amur Ra1lways, Japan asks that this task be left to her alone, and
has definitely asked the British government to agree to this as evidence of the confidence
of the Allies in her good faith, and is greatly pleased at reported refusal of our govern-
ment to agree to a suggested plan for joint occupation if conditions require more drastic
act1on.3
The United States, however, refused to agree to give Japan a free hand in Siberia, and when
troops were sent in, it was agreed that both countries - the United States and Japan - would
place about 75o0 men there, for the sole purpose of safeguarding the departure of the Czechs.
Japan sent, instead of the 7500 troops agreed upon, over 70,000 men to Siberia. Japanese
army leaders took a very active part in assisting counter-revolutionists, particularly support-
ing the notorious Semeonoff, and later offering him refuge in Manchuria. Japanese troops re-
mained in Siberia until after the Washington Conference of l922. Because of the massacre of 700
3. Foreign Relations of the United States, 1918, Russ1a, vol. 2; p. 30.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
54-
Japanese at Nikolaevsk, Japanese moved into the northern half of Sakhalin, and then proceeded to
exploit its mines rap1dly, not leaving the 1sland until after 1925.4
In connection w1th these events 1t 1s interesting to know that in 1919 a representative in
the Japanese Diet
vigorously pressed the government to state the real objective for the despatch of 73,ooo
troops, and questioned the sincerity of the declaration of the foreign minister that
Japanese forces were not interfering with the internal affairs of Siberia.5
In 1920 another representative
called the attention of the government to the widespread rumors in Europe and America that
Japanese diplomacy conducted by the Foreign Office and the activities of the military
authorities were often in conflict. . . that the military authorities were interfering with
the internal affairs of another state or assisting one faction against another. He declar-
ed that such rumors, if unchecked, were highly detrimental to the honor and standing of
Japan. General Tanaka, in reply, flatly denied any interference by military authorities in
the conduct of foreign relations.
Baron Shuntoko Sakamoto, in a searching interpellation
on the Siberian situation, demanded that the government state the future policy toward
Siberia, to which the prime minister declined to reply, saying that the time was not ripe
for the government to state what it intended to do with Siberia.6
These discussions serve to throw light on the Japanese conduct of foreign affairs and upon
the way in which events were presented to the popular assembly.
By the terms of the Versailles Treaty - which was never signed by China - Japan was given
control of Shantung province. Under the League of Nat1ons, Japan was given the mandate over the
former German possessions in the Pacific - the Marianne, Marshall, and Caroline Islands. The
whole situation in the Far East remained unsatisfactory, particularly to China, Great Britain and
the United States, and when in 1922 the Washington Conference was called to consider naval con-
struction plans, 1t was understood that problems of the Far East would be taken up also.
The Washington Conference appeared to make a new turning point in Far Eastern history. As a
result of this conference, Shantung was returned to China, the Anglo-Japanese Alliance came to an
end, and the Lansing-Ish11 agreement of 1917 recognizing Japan's paramount interests in Manchuria
was terminated. The Four-Power and the Nine-Power treaties were drawn up. The Four-Power pact,
signed by Great Britain, Japan, the United States, and France, dealt with the Pacific possessions
of these powers; each nation pledged itself to respect the others' rights in the Pacific area,
and to refer any controversies arising to a joint conference for discussion. The Nine-Power
Treaty was signed by Belgium, China, France, Holland, Italy, Japan, Portugal, Great Britain and
the United States. Each power signing pledged itself to respect China's sovereignty, independence,
and territorial and administrative integrity; each promised to maintain equal opportunity for the
trade of all nations in the Far East, and to refrain from taking advantage of conditions in
China to obtain special rights and privileges. With regard to naval construction, the naval
rat1o of 5-5-3 was set for Great Br1tain, the United States, and Japan respectively. In return
for the larger ratio of ships, Great Britain and the United States agreed not to increase the
fortification of naval bases in the Pacific.
It 1s now necessary to return to a discussion of that battleground of conflicting inter-
èsts - Manchuria. Because of the Russian Revoluticns, Russia had been largely eliminated as a
4. For addit1onal 1nformation concerning foreign intervention in Siberia, see Chapter 6 of
the third volume, Peoples of the Pacific Series.
5. Takeuch1, Tatsuj1, War and Diplomacy in the Japanese Emp1re. Doubleday Doran, New York,
1935: p. 210.
6. Takeuch1, op. c1t., pp. 211-212.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
55-
competitor in Manchuria. Japan had attempted, in vain, to secure from the Allies permission to
manage the Chinese Eastern Railway after the Bolshevik Revolution; management had gone for a
time to an Allied commission. This control ceased after the Washington Conference, and the
Soviet Union then began to take an active part in attempting to come to some agreement with
China concerning this heritage from the Russian empire. While the arrangements agreed upon were
not satisfactory to either party, Japan for a time was unable to gain control of the road.
However, after the World War Japan would have had a much freer hand in Manchuria than be-
fore the War, 1f it had not been for new developments. In 1920 an internat1onal consortium of
bankers was organized to make loans to China. In spite of Japan's protests Manchuria and the
provinces known under the name of Inner Mongolia were not excluded from the territory which might
be given financial assistance, though Japan was given first rights to finance specified railways
in these regions. Japan feared the construction of railways which would compete with the South
Manchuria railwey. While the powers would not agree to except Manchuria and Inner Mongolia from
the regions which might be financed, they did not, however, finance the building of railways in
these districts, but from 1925 on the Chinese government proceeded independently, without foreign
capital, to build new railways in the Three Eastern Provinces and in Jehol, and to develop the
new port of Hulutao in Jehol. A tremendous migration of Chinese into regions north of the Great
Wall began - one of the great population movements of history. Men came from the crowded north
China plain by the mill1ons, settling upon the plains to the north. In 1928 the Nat1onal Govern-
ment's moves against Chang Tso-lin, the war lord of Manchuria, were attaining some success.
Japanese vested interests, with large investments in Kwantung province and with concessions
elsewhere in Manchuria in which much capital had been sunk, regarded with dismay the Chinese
policy of railway building, the Chinese population movement, and the possibility that China might
restore order in Manchuria. By this time, Japanese militarists and financiers were convinced
that Manchuria was Japan's "1ife-line," and 1t was an easy step from that to believe that Japan
alone could save Manchuria from chaos.
Chang Tso-lin was reputed to be the friend of General Tanaka who pressed the policy of send-
ing additional Japanese troops to the mainland, to Tsinan in Shantung province: The troops were
sent, while in Japan the statement was made t!at the new forces would not take sides in the con-
flict between Chang Tso-lin and the Nat1onal rmy - that they were sent only to protect Japanese
nationals in Tsinan. However, in Tsinan the Japanese troops and the National army did engage in
fighting. Then Chang Tso-lin was assassinated in Mukden, and Japanese pressure was brought to
bear upon his son. The entire Tsinan affair, which was finally settled in 1929 by an exchange
of notes between China and Japan, was seriously criticized by Japanese liberals who expressed
grave doubts as to whether the Japanese troops were sent for self-defense, and who deplored the
effect of such military action upon the relations between Japan and China.
In a situation where Japan maintained an army in a restricted area in the heart of another
country, deeds of violence which could serve as an excuse for applying force were bound to
happen. Chinese were accused of bombing a port1on of the Japanese-owned railway near Mukden,
and in September, 1931, the Kwantung army moved out of the ra1lway zone into Chinese territory,
rapidly gaining possession of strategic points before the government had approved the action
taken by the army.
On September 21, China appealed to the League of Nat1ons, charging a v1olation of the
League Covenant. On September 22,

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
-56-
ambition in that region, and broadly intimated that it would insist to the end upon direct
negotiations between the two countries. It made clear the intention of Tokyo to withdraw
1ts troops to the railway zone in proportion as the situation improved.7
Before the date set for the meeting of the League Council, the Japanese troops had bombard-
ed Chinchow. When the Council met on October 13, 1t proposed to ask the United States to send a
representative to attend the Council meetings, but this was opposed by the Japanese member. How-
ever, the invitation was extended two days later, and on October 24 the League Council adopted a
resolution calling for the withdrawal of Japanese troops to the railway zone before the next
meeting of the Council in November. The troops were not withdrawn, end when the Council met in
November the Japanese requested that a commission be sent to investigate the situation, assert-
1ng that first-hand information must be assembled before other nations could presume to judge
the course of events in Manchuria. In December, 1t was decided to send such a commission. When
the Kwantung army began 1ts activities outside the railway zone, and the League Council dis-
approved 1ts actions, liberal opinion in Japan was outspoken and critical. For example,
Professor Kisaburo Yokota, of the Tokyo Imperial University, probably the most out-
spoken critic throughout the dispute, openly approved the action of the Council. He also
expressed a grave doubt as to whether military operations of the troops during September
18-19 could all be justified as measures of legitimate self-defense. He even likened the
steps taken by Japanese forces on September 18 to those of the Germans in the summer of
1914.8
On the other hand, the militarists became even more determined when the opposition of other
nations was expressed in the League Counc1l.
Major-General Tatekawa openly counseled a more vigorous policy of economic expansion
on the continent as a means of maintaining peace in the Orient. He saw no reason why
Japanese should be obliged to remain confined to such a small territory and urged upon the
people to be ready to accept, 1f necessary, an imperialist charge by the Chinese people. . .
Lieutenant-General Arak1 declared to the press that Japan would not be content w1th mere
insistence on the preservation of her treaty rights in Manchuria but must be prepared to
show her determination not to allow any further disturbance in the Far East.9
In this confusion of discussion,
the rank and file of the people were convinced that all the operations in Manchuria had
been prompted by sheer necessity of self-defense. They were now ready to support any move
their army might make on the continent.1o
In January, 1932, the American government sent notes to both China and Japan, stating what
has come to be known as the "Stimson doctrine." The main point of this doctrine is the statement
that the United States will not recognize any situat1on or arrangement made 1n the Far East which
violates what 1s commonly known as the Open Door policy, or which has been brought about by means
contrary to the covenants of the Pact of Paris.
By January, 1932, ant1-Japanese activities in China had become marked, taking the form of a
boycott of Japanese goods, and of various deeds of mob violence. On the grounds of protecting
the 1ife of Japanese in Shangha1, Japanese warships were sent up the Whangpoo River, Japanese
troops were landed, and war, though undeclared, began. Shanghai was bombarded, but the Chinese
troops put up an able defence even though they were not supported by the National government.
In March, the fighting around the city stopped, and in May, the Japanese troops were withdrawn.
7. Takeuch1, op. cit., p. 356.
8. Takeuch1, op. cit., p. 363.
9. Takeuch1, op. c1t., p. 365.
10. Takeuch1, op. c1t., pp. 366-367.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
-57-
The Japanese Foreign Min1ster explained the Manchurian and Shangha1 "1ncidents" in these
words:
Certainly we must defend ourselves when, as at Shangha1 and in Manchuria, we are
attacked by Chinese armed force; and, in the chaotic state of China, our measures of self-
defence must be "straight from the shoulder." Half-hearted fumbling with such situations
would only be productive of endless conflict. The critics who accuse Japan of proceeding
to unnecessary and excessive steps in her military measures in Manchuria forget that,
until this open attack, Japan exercised the utmost patience in the face of extreme provo-
cation. The Chinese boycott was strangling her trade. The Chinese repudiation of treaties
was making a million Japanese subjects 1n Manchuria tremble for their safety; and Chinese
assassinations and assaults gave point to these apprehensions. But we desired by all
means to keep out of Chinese territory, and to avoid the easy but perilous path of settling
these grievances by armed force. We clung to the policy of treating the vast territory
called "China" as if it were a unified and organized state, capable of exercising, more or
less promptly, complete control over all its area. Not until we were attacked from Chinese
so1l did we fire one shot on the Chinese troops.1i
Meanwhile, in March,
a declarat1on was 1ssued at Mukden, in the name of the All-Manchuria Convention, expressing
the joy of the thirty million 1nhabitants of Manchuria for the founding of a new state of
Manchukuo. On March 9, the former Emperor Hsuan Tung, now known by h1s personal name as
Mr. Henry Pu-y1, was inaugurated at the new capital at Changchun as regent of the newly
established state, and on March 10 the principal members of the new government were
appointed. Two days later a notice was cabled to various foreign powers, 1nforming them
of the establishment of Manchukuo and requesting them to recognize it as a new state.12
In August, the Japanese government announced 1ts intention of recognizing Manchoukuo, thus
officially indicating that the territory was 1ndependent, although the newly proclaimed emperor
and his councillors were figureheads and Japanese administered the affairs of the state. The
Japanese foreign minister
defended the course as the only means of stabilizing the situat1on in Manchuria and of re-
storing tranquillity in the Far East; he asserted with conviction that the proposed step in
no way violated e1ther the spirit or the letter of the Pact of Paris or the Nine-Power
Treaty of 1922, say1ng that Japanese act1on since September 18 had been prompted solely by
considerations of self-defense, and that the Nine-Power Treaty did not guarantee China
against "secessionist movements."13
On the other hand, a member of the House of Peers and a former official of the South Man-
churia Railway Company, analyzing the situation and discussing the status of Manchoukuo, mention-
ed the immense size of Japanese investments in Manchuria, the inability of China to maintain
order there, and said:
All those who are interested in the adequate exploitation of Manchuria must welcome
the establishment of the independent state of Manchukuo. While it 1s natural that the new
order of things has provoked criticism of various sorts on diplomatic grounds, what has
happened 1s certainly gratifying when viewed from the standpoint of opening up the resourc-
es of Manchuria and Mongolia, which for the first time begins to show prospects of real
success.
There 1s no question that the extensive development of such a vast reg1on as Manchuria
and Mongolia, with abundant natural resources, will contribute much toward the common wel-
fare of mankind at large, and to further that common cause all nations should cooperate.
If the Manchurians were datermined and well-equipped in ability and in resources to tackle
the job single-handed, well and good; but, as there 1s no immediate prospect of their being
so, the next best thing 1s for the work to be carried out with the assistance of foreign
nations, those of Europe and America as well as Japan.
11. The Fore1gn Minister's Message, 1n Contemporary Japan, June, 1932, Vol. 1, No. 1, p. 5.
12. Takeuch1, op. c1t., p. 385.
13. Takeuch1, op. c1t., pp. 389-390.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
58-
...The sooner the resources of Manchuria and Mongolia are opened up to the maximum
degree, the better for the welfare of the Manchurian nat1on, and in no less degree for
that of Japan. Economic and financial conditions in Japan today are such that she 1s in
dire need of any benefits which a quick development of Manchuria can bestow.14
While all these events were occurring, the League Commission, known as the Lytton Commission
since it was headed by Lord Lytton, was at work investigating the facts of the situation in Man-
churia, and finding out the background for the events which had occurred. The report of the
commission was released in October, 1932. It recommended the appointment of a conciliatory
committee on which the Soviet Un1on and the United States should be represented; it stated that
it could not accept Manchoukuo as a solution to the situation, nor could it recommend a return
to the previously existing arrangements. In brief, it condemned the course of events, and re-
commended thorough-going revision by a committee representing all the nations having interests
in the region. In December, the League Council accepted the report over the opposition of Japan-
ese members.
Throughout this period, Japan continued to advance; 1ts troops were now in Jehol province,
and had occupied the port of Shanhaikwan.
In January 1933 the League Counc1l, recognizing that efforts at conc1liation were a failure,
planned to draft a new report. Meanwnile, in Japan the foreign minister
argued at length, that general principles and practices of international law do not apply
to China without important modifications, and that the Covenant of the League was no ex-
ception... He declared:
Our government believes that any plan for erecting an edifice of peace in the Far
East should be based upon the recognition that the constructive force of Japan is
the mainstay of tranquillity in this part of the world.15
In February, 1933, the League Council 1ssued 1ts report, severely censuring Japan for 1ts
actions in Manchuria. In March Tokyo sent notice of intent1on to withdraw from the League of
Nations.
Liberal opinion in Japan opposed withdrawal from the League. When the League Counc1l issued
1ts report censuring Japan for 1ts actions in. Manchuria, feeling in Japan was intense, and
liberals were obliged to cease their opposition to withdrawal from the League. They, however,
then warned the government against a policy of further expansion on the mainland, saying in
effect: "Go no further. If you go south of the Great Wall, then the world will be against you.
Make Manchoukuo the paradise you say 1t will be and prove the truth of your claims that Japan
can stabilize the Far East."
When Manchoukuo was, in 1934, declared an empire under the imperial rule of the former re-
gent, 1t included not only the Three Eastern Provinces but Jehol as well, thus extending south
to the Great Wall, and west into Inner Mongolia. The new empire has been recognized only by
Japan and Salvador. One reason why the world refuses to recognize Manchoukuo 1s the fact that 1t
1s regarded as practically a province of the Japanese empire and, as such, 1s not eligible for
recognition. Another is that the situat1on in the Far East does not appear to be stabilized, and
Japanese expansion has continued, going south of the Great Wall and further west into Inner Mon-
golia in 1935, further disrupting an already disturbed state of affairs. The United States
quotes the Stimson doctrine as a reason for refusing recognition.
14. Ohkura, Kimmoch1, Tapping Manchuria's Resources, 1n Contemporary Japan, Dec. 1932, Vo1.
1, No. 3; pp. 490-491.
15. Takeuch1, op. c1t., p. 409.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
-59-
Of recent years, Japanese have emphasized the fact that Manchuria 1s a "life-line" essen-
tial to the country. A "life-line" for Japan should provide a market for manufactured goods,
should supply some of the most needed raw materials, and should relieve the population pressure.
With regard to the first of these Manchoukuo has proved valuable, and Japan's exports to Man-
churia have more than doubled since 1928. However, the exports of Manchuria have declined in
the same period. The world demand for soya beans, the chief product of the region, has fallen
off and Japan cannot absorb all the beans of Manchoukuo as payment for the manufactured goods
exported there. With regard to raw materials, Manchoukuo also offers wheat, a little cotton,
and coal. But since l932, Japan has raised all the wheat consumed in the country, so Manchurian
wheat is not needed. The cotton of Manchuria is not sufficient to supply the great textile
mills of Japan. The cheaper coal of Manchuria competes with Japanese coal, and 1ts free importa-
tion is therefore resented by Japanese mining concerns. With regard to relief for population
pressure, Manchuria has not lived up to expectations. The farmers of Japan are rice farmers,
unused to rigorous climate and unacquainted with large-scale agricultural methods suited to the
Manchurian plains. Japanese who emigrate to Manchoukuo must be trained before they go, and
assisted after they arrive. Consequently, Manchoukuo has proved an outlet not for the poor
farmers to whom the "life-line" 1dea was presented, but rather for the professionally trained
Japanese who could not find work in Japan - a very small portion of the population. It appears
that as an economic life-line" Manchoukuo has not lived up to expectations in Japan.
To meet some of the difficulties just mentioned, a Japan-Manchoukuo "economic bloc" was
advocated - that 1s, an economic alliance between the two regions which would permit the planning
of all developments in both. This, according to one Japanese writer, would probably mean trans-
ferring heavy industry to Manchoukuo where coal is produced more cheaply than in Japan, develop-
1ng primary industry - such as the manufacture of flour and bean products in Manchoukuo - but
leaving to Japan the production of other industrial goods. This would demand a sacrifice from
certain branches of Japanese industry, particularly from mining, but he observes:
Japanese industry must make this sacrifice, just as the farming villages will have to
make sacrifices when the emphasis of national policy changes from agriculture to industry.
The 1mmediate hardships must be borne for the country's future.16
Late in 1935, when the attention of European powers was centered upon the Italo-Ethiopian
situation, Japan moved south of the Great Wall and a Japan-Manchoukuo-North China economic "bloc"
was discussed in Japan even when the so-called "autonomous" state comprising Hope1 and Chahar
provinces had not yet evolved.
A rapidly expanding Japan 1s becoming 1solated in a world which will not approve Japan's
program for the Far East. The Japanese attitude, developed to support this program, was ex-
pressed in November, 1935, by an official of the Foreign Office:
Japan's diplomacy 1s now on the cross-road. Japan has awakened to her real mission
1n the world, has returned to Asia and 1s now prepared for a new start with Asia as her
home. Her move 1s of great significance. Few events in mankind's history during the
past 50 centuries are comparable with 1t in 1mportance. Japan's diplomacy will follow 1ts
destined course necessitated by the particular circumstances by which the Japanese nation 1s
faced. These circumstances which exist exclusively in Japan are three.
First 1s the fact that Japan can no longer hope to survive under existing circum-
stances. Nat1ons in the West may differ in nat1onal wealth and strength, in colonial
possessions and natural resources, but they can all maintain their national existence with
what they have. Italy in this respect is considered to be in the most disadvantageous
position among the Occidental nations, but her lot 1s even better than Japan's because she
16. Taj1, Yasush1, Our Industrial Reformation, 1n Contemporary Japan, June, 1934, Vol. III,
No. 1, p. 100.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
-60-
has the advantage of sending her superfluous population abroad. Japan's population has
been increasing from 800,000 to 1,000,000 every year, her territorial possess1ons are
limited, her natural resources are exhausted and her people are excluded from the United
States, Australia and other lands. Moreover, her excellent and low-priced products are,
like her people, excluded from foreign countries.
The second and special consideration which urges Japan to follow her new course in
diplomacy 1s the fact that the Japanese race, as one of the colored races, 1s under obl1-
gat1on to play the part of leadership in the community of colored Asiatic races, the
majority of whom are either under Western domination or in a state of sem1-independence.
All the peoples of Europe and of America enjoy the incalculable gifts of independence,
whereas most of our brother races of Asia are being held in a state of semi-independence.
Japan 1s in duty bound to guide and lead them and help them ultimately to become 1ndepend-
ent.
The third pedestal on which Japan's diplomacy of the future should be founded 1s her
mission to fuse the civilization of the East with that of the West. Japan is the only
nation in the world which has mastered and digested the civilizations of two hemispheres.
She 1s the one nation gifted with an 1mmense power to correlate and assimilate things
foreign. . .
Her role is to play the part of leadership of the Asiatic races and to fuse Eastern
civilization with that of the West. Her aims are thus both cultural and of a moral char-
acter and hence may be considered just and honorable, unlike the essential selfishness of
aims which mark Western diplomacy. The realization of these two aims of Japan requires
the change of the status quo in common with the basis necessity for Japan to defend her
right to exist as a nation.17
Sučh a point of view cannot be evaluated without some fuller consideration than has yet been
given of the industrial and rural developments in Japan during the period of expansionism on the
Asiatic mainland.
17. Yoshitom1 Masaom1, Japan's Fore1gn Policy At A Turning Point, 1n Contemporary Opinions,
No. 103, Nov. 21, 1935; pp. 1-5.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
-61-
Chapter 7.
INDUSTRIAL CONDITIONS IN JAPAN SINCE 1895
After 1895, modern industry in Japan developed rapidly, stimulated at intervals by wars.
The Sino-Japanese War created a sudden demand for war materials and supplies and showed the
need for Japanese-built ships, while the indemnities paid by China after the war provided the
government with funds which were used to subsidize industry. After l899 when international
treaties were revised and Japan was permitted to control (to some extent) its customs duties
the government levied tariffs designed to protect home industries. It further favored industry
by a system of taxation which rested lightly upon the industrialist. The Russo-Japanese War
gave another sudden spurt to Japanese industrial enterprises, partly through the temporary stim-
ulus which war gives to industry, and partly through the new needs created by the Japanese pos-
session of the lease of the South Manchuria Railway and Kwantung Province.
The World War had a tremendous ffect upon Japanese industry and trade.
The war created for Japan an enormous market for war necessities of all sorts, both
in goods and services, gave to her, by its crippling effect on shipping on the ocean trade
routes, an overwhelming advantage in the neighboring Western Pacific markets, and opened
to her fresh markets farther afield. .. For industry in general the following percentages
of increase were recorded: number of factory workers 63 per cent, units of industrial
power 34 per cent, electric motor capacity 206 per cent; in the cotton industry the number
of spindles increased by 44 per cent, the output of yarn by 55 per cent, the steel and
iron industry, thrown on its own resources, developed still more rapidly, the cutput of
pig iron rising by 143 per cent and that of the principal steel products by ll6 per cent. .
À most important development occurred in the chemical industry in its applications partic-
ularly to dye-stuffs, soda, the manufacture of artificial silk, and the extraction of at-
mospheric nitrogen.
Foreign trade reflected the effect of the War in an increase in value of exports be-
tween 1913 and 1918 from 632 mill1on to 1,962 million yen and of 1mports from 729 million
to 1,668 million yen. While Japan's trade with Europe decreased roughly by 10 per cent,
her trade w1th As1atic countries increased 78 per cent, with North America 427 per cent,
and with Africa 385 per cent.1
The tremendous expansion of industry during the World War was followed by depression. In
order to enable Japanese industry to cut the costs of production and to continue to compete suc-
cessfully in the new markets opened up during the period of the war, the government encouraged
a system of rationalization - that is, of forming large combines of the small independent con-
cerns and, under the improved organization, replacing old machinery with new more efficient ma-
chines, improving technique, and reducing wasteful competition in production, management, and
marketing. A law was passed in 193l giving the Minister of State the power to force a minority
of persons engaged in staple industries to participate in agreements concerning production or
sales made by the majority interests engaged in the same industries. The system of rationaliza-
tion decreased output in some industries, increased it in others, and cut costs. Export goods
produced under a definite plan which had markets in view, and produced more cheaply than before,
found a market abroad; the aim of the government plan was attained as far as the export of Japa-
nese goods was concerned; but, partly because of the wider use of improved machinery, requiring
the labor of fewer workers, unemployment increased.
The development of Japan's industry has been accomplished in spite of Japan's shortage of
the raw materials essential to industrial development. With amazing confidence and energy the
Press, London, 1935: pp. 51-52.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
-62-
export trade - top-heavy industries that may in turn threaten the entire structure of the na-
tion."2
Heavy industry, involving the manufacture of machines and tools used in other industries
and the building of ships and munitions of war, is considered the foundation for industrial de-
velopment and national defense. Without this foundation, light industry must rely on imported
machinery, and national defense becomes a precariously dependent affair. Iron, coal, oil, and
minerals used in the manufacture of steel are the raw materials essential to heavy industry and
to national defense. What is Japan's position with regard to these materials?
Let us assume, for the moment, that Japan is cut off from all foreign sources of
minerals, and must rely on her own resources. Immediately her blast furnaces must reduce
operations; not only is their output greatly curtailed, but their span of life 1s short-
ened. The entire iron-ore reserves of the Japanese Empire - assuming all the ore to be of
a uniformly suitable grade - would last only some thirty years, at the present rate of de-
mand. But Japan depends upon foreign sources for pig iron as well as ore. Cut off the
six or seven hundred thousand metric tons of pig import, and the requirement for pig from
domestic ore is stepped up. The life of the iron reserves is thereby reduced to little
more than twenty years.
As her resources are scarce and her industrial age is young, Japan lacks the vast
secondary resources of a country like the United States, where scrap metals are abundant.
She is therefore supplementing her imports of ore and pig iron by increasing imports of
scrap - 1,554,000 tons 1n 1934, mainly from the United States. Cut off this supply, and
the blast furnaces, and the output of steel are still further reduced.
These furnaces require suitable coking coal.Japan's known and estimated coal re-
serves, adequate for some hundreds of years at the present rate of consumption in the Em-
pire, are admittedly of only fair quality, and only a very small percentage is metallur-
gically valuable. Dwindling iron reserves are matched by small and uncertain supplies of
coking coal.
For a steel industry, to the above requirements must be added manganese, nickel, and
chromium, as well as other reserves. Possibly Japan could supply manganese, as it occurs
frequently though in no large deposits throughout the Empire. But as the country imports
a large amount, 1t would seem that domestic production to meet total demands is a costly
undertaking, to be justified only in time of emergency.
So little nickel is produced in Japan that no returns on 1t are available. Most of
it 1s a by-product from copper refining. Therefore domestic production to meet the many
industrial demands would be costly, and a national emergency might accentuate the scarcity
of the material. Several Japanese mining and other industrial companies now refine nickel
ores 1mported from New Caledonia, and there has even been some talk of purchasing the
nickel deposits outright. Transporting the ores over such a distance would involve haz-
ards in a time of conflict.
Chromium ore exists in Japan, and is produced in some quantity. But cutting off the
country's foreign supplies would seriously hamper industry; it is doubtful whether self-
sufficiency could be attained. . . .
Japan cut off from foreign supplies of petroleum would present so serious a problem
that the Government has already taken a number of steps to remedy the situation. It has
encouraged prospecting, intensive development of local resources, domestic refining of
1mported crude; it has attempted to enforce the Oil Law, providing for the storage of a
six-months' supply of petroleum products within the country - a provision which has
aroused so much opposition on the part of both foreign and domestic firms in the country
that the date of enforcement has now been postponed until June. Without imports of crude
oil, the refining industry would soon collapse, for about 9o% of Japan's refined petroleum
products are derived from 1mports. Again, petroleum refined in the country supplies less
than half the country's demand. Take away imported petroleum, crude and refined; tax to
the utmost the producing power of the Empire; and within a few years the Japanese navy
alone would drain the country dry.3
2. Porter, Catherine, Mineral Deficiency Versus Self-Sufficiency in Japan, 1n Far Eastern
Survey, Vol. 5, No. 2, Jan. 15, 1936: p. 10.
3. Porter, Catherine, op. cit., p. 10.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
-63-
As far as light industry is concerned, Japan lacks raw materials. For example, the manu-
facture of cotton textiles which has risen to a position of importance since the World War de-
pends largely upon imported raw materials. About half the raw cotton used in Japan's manufac-
ture comes from the United States; in 1932, the percentage imported from the United States was
71.4; in 1933, 59.5; in 1934, 47.9. The only raw material produced in abundance in Japan 1s
811k.
The conditions which have enabled the forced growth of Japanese industry under the short-
age of raw materials together with the lack of colonial sources of raw materials or colonial
markets to absorb the manufactured products of Japan, are complex. Two hundred and fifty years
of a life of seclusion during which the people of Japan lived upon an agrarian economy, had
demonstrated the fact that the land of Japan could support not more than 30,o00,o00 people
(under the agricultural conditions of the Tokugawa period, at least). Whenever the population
rose much above the 30,Oo0,oo0 mark in Tokugawa times, there was a famine. Disease and recur-
ring famines in different regions helped to keep the population static; in addition, the people
practiced infanticide, and the Tokugawa made laws restricting the marriage of younger sons.
With the modernization of Japan, however, modern medicine reduced the number of deaths by ep1-
demics; new means of transportation made it possible to send famine relief hitherto difficult
to supply; and modern codes of law ended the practice of infanticide and restrictions on mar-
riages. The population increased rapidly; it no longer remained static as in Tokugawa times.
But it was known that an increased population could not be supported entirely on an agrarian
economy, and hence, in spite of natural disadvantages, industrialization was considered neces-
sary. Industrialization proceeded in spite of the unfavorable conditions mentioned, through the
support and encouragement given industrialists by the government in the form of subsidies, favor-
able tariffs and taxes; its growth was assisted by the centralization of control. To these it
is necessary to add the simplicity of the standards of living among the people, the poverty of
the farmers, and the survival of traditional ideas, attitudes, and methods of production of in-
dustrial goods, all of which contributed to the industrialization of Japan.
In spite of the rapid growth of Japanese industry and trade to a point where they are con-
sidered threatening to the other exporting countries of the world, agriculture continues to be
very important in Japan's economy. Moreover, there is still a close connection between industry
and agriculture. Many people who leave their villages to engage in industrial work return later
to the rural districts to live; village households support the members of their families who are
unemployed because of industrial depression or changes in production which throw industrial
workers out of employment; many farming households carry on small-scale manufacture. Before,
however, we consider the life of the people in the rural regions we shall examine some of the
characteristics of Japanese industry and trade, and the life of the industrial workers.
In the industrial expansion of Japan, the part played by a few families is significant.
The concentration of financial power in a few hands 1s not unique to Japan; but the degree of
this concentration is particularly marked in Japan. In addition, the financial power of a few
families is given a peculiar quality because of the fact that the management of the huge volume
of business centered in family groups is based on principles dating back to feudal days. As far
as concentration is concerned, the 1934 Japan Year Book gives as an illustration the Mitsu1
interests, which, among other things, handle half of Japan's export trade.
The Mitsui interests now control 12o subsidiary and affiliated concerns, with a
in business.
4. The par value of the yen is 50t; it 1s now valued at about 30t.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
-64
The story of the house of Mitsu1 describes the organization and control of these vast
business enterprises:
In l673, seventy years after Japan had entered upon the long peace of the Tokugawa
Shogunate, Mitsu1 Hachirobei, then aged 52, left the obscurity of a provincial shop and
established in Kyoto a. new business which was extended to Yedo, the seat of the new gov-
ernment. He died twenty-two years later, the father of many children to whom he left a
gift more valuable than the wealth he had accumulated.
Before he died Hachirobei had set up collateral families for his sons whom he made
partners in his business, and in his will he defined the principles on which his children
were to govern his inheritance, . .
It has been modified to meet the needs of changing times, but the spirit of the in-
herited family code remains the essential core of the constitution, which today governs
the Mitsui family and firm with its worldwide interests, and the Omotokata, the central
administrative body, has become the incorporated Mitsui Gome1 Kaisha, the Mitsui Partner-
ship Company. Its partners are the heads of the eleven Mitsui families and no others,
and its directors are chosen by them. . In the Gome1 Kaisha all the far-flung cords of
the Mitsui enterprises - banking, trading, mining, trust and insurance business, shipping
and ship-building, warehousing, etc., - come to a common centre under the united control
of the eleven families. At its head is the direct descendant of Hachirobei, the head of
the main family.
...
Hachirobei's will, as already stated, is the basis of the present constitution, ampli-
fied by precepts added in 1722 by his son Sochiku. In 1900 the entire document was re-
drafted and it is the constitution of the House today. Every member of the Family, on
coming of age, swears allegiance to it at a religious ceremony in a prescribed form of
oath, of which the English translation runs as follows:
In obedience to the precepts of our forefathers, and in order to strengthen the
everlasting ancestral foundations of the families of our House and to expand the en-
terprises bequeathed by our forefathers, I solemnly vow in the presence of the August
Spirits of our ancestors that, as a member of the House of Mitsui, I will observe and
follow the regulations handed down in the Constitution of our House, and that I will
not wantonly seek to alter them. In witness whereof I take the oath and affix my
signature thereto in the presence of the August Spirits of our ancestors.5
Other great families - notably the Mitsubishi and the Sumitomo - have feudal histories not
unlike that of the Mitsui. Like the Mitsui they direct diversified present-day concerns in
which they gained a head start because the government gave them special rights, just as in
feudal times feudal grants were made to the lords of Japan. As a result, the Mitsubishi, the
Sumitomo, the Yasuda, and the Mitsui together have in their hands about half the banking capital
of Japan and most of the industrial enterprises of the country. Monopolies of the type which
elsewhere appeared after a long period of development in capitalism came quickly into existence
in Japan, partly because of the persistence of forms of thought and behavior dating from feudal
days.
In spite of the growth of Japanese industry and of the concentration of the control of
mining, manufacturing, shipbuilding, shipping, trading, and banking, all Japanese industrial
production is not, as might be expected under these circumstances, carried on in large factor-
1es. The situation is such that a clear-cut picture cannot easily be presented. For example:
The export goods labelled "Made in Japan" come from every type of organization: from
small family industries and small or medium-sized handicraft units, more or less linked up
with family enterprises; from super-handicraft plants, representing the greater part of
medium-sized industry; from large factories based on peculiarly Japanese semi-feudal so-
cial organization; from similar factories organized on Western lines.
Very small units, employing less than five persons, are not included in the Japanese
Factory Statistics. These small workshops still have an important share in the total in-
dustrial production. According to the Chamber of Commerce in Tokyo, they produced in 1931
18.8 per cent of the total output of cotton textiles; 28.8 per cent of woolen textiles;
5. The House of Mitsui, published in Tokyo, 1933, by Mitsui Gomei Kaisha: pp. 3-12.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
-65-
55.1 per cent of silk textiles; 27.4 per cent of hosiery goods; 29.1 per cent of hats; 91.5
per cent of pencils; 60.8 per cent of china ware; 65.5 per cent of bicycles (assembling as
well as production of parts). . . .
In 1932, the last year for which a census was comp1led, 13 per cent of all registered
workers were in small industrial establishments employing from 5 to 9 persons - the smallest
units included in the Japanese Factory Statistics.
Twanty-six per cent of all workers were employed in workshops with from 10 to 49 employ-
ees. In view of their organization these establishments must also be included amongst the
smaller industries. Altogether, therefore, small industries employ about 39 per cent of
Japan's industrial workers.
Medium-sized industries, as we shall arbitrarily call those plants employing from 50 to
500 workers, absorb a further 36 per cent of Japan's industrial labor.
T1s means that in the large factories, employing 500 workers or more, only 25 per cent
of Japnese workers are employed.6
A line cannot be drawn between the type of establishments producing for the export trade and
the type prolucing for home consumption. Cotton spinning, for example, a step in the manufacture of
the cotton textiles which are invading world markets, is carried on in great mills - while the manu-
facture of tabi, or Japanese stockings, an article used only by Japanese, has been taken from small
plants to large factories. Pencils, which are produced both for export and for home consumption,
are made in tiny establishments employing less than five persons, and a large proportion of the
reeling of silk for the export trade is done in households.
The matter of chief concern to us is the effect of the different industrial set-ups on the
life of the worker. What are the conditions of labor, the hours of work, the protection given the
worker, the wages received, the sex and age of the worker? What, in brief, is the life of the indus-
trial laborer in Japan? Since the conditions affecting the life of the worker vary with the type of
industrial astablishment, generalizations can scarcely be made, but life under the different situa-
tions can ba described.
Cotton spinning, one of the most important industries organized almost entirely on a large-
scale basis, offers an illustration of one type of set-up - the kind in which there are many sur-
vivals of the paternalistic forms of control of earlier days even though the machinery is modern
and the fatory large. Over 8o per cent of the workers in cotton spinning mills are girls and young
women from 15 to 20 years of age, recruited from the country for a definite period of time. At the
end of the.r period of service. they expect to return to the country to live. While they are engaged
in factory work, they live in dormitories on the factory premises, and may not leave the grounds with-
out the permission of the management. The factory management provides the recreational and education-
al influences which reach the lives of these young people. Few, if any, opportunities exist for modi-
fying rural forms of thought - except along the lines favored by the management; and, as is natural
under the circumstances, the management is careful to see that the ideas which reach the young workers
are such as will keep them docile and contented. A recent description written by a visitor to one of
these cotton spinning mills will show the sort of influence which is brought to bear upon the young
girls in t.he factories:
Nine hundred Japanese girls sat on the matted floor, their feet tucked under them, while
an old gentleman addressed them on "Mutual Love." The sermon over, a younger man - in shirt-
sleeves, for it was noon and hot - recited sentences from their scriptures. The girls made the
appropriate responses. He turned to an altar on which a white lily shone among the duller
Budihist emblems, and prayed for the old folks at home.
He had touched a sensitive chord, and with clasped hands and closed eyes the girls remem-
bered the farms in the deep country whence they had come. Then they sang three songs and dis-
persed, chattering, to their dormitory rooms. At 2 o'clock they reappeared, wearing, instead
of their Japanese dress, a "gym" costume of short serge skirt and white blouse, and streamed
across the campus to the factory of the Fuji Cotton Spinning Company. . .
In this factory the aim of building up a discipline of morale is intelligently pursued.
Tho psychology of propaganda has been fruitfully studied. In the administrative block is an
upitairs room which is used as a meeting house. At the end is a small family shrine, a foot
6. Stein, Guenther, Made in Japan, Methuen and Co., London, 1935: pp. 44-46.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
-66-
square, made of white wood from the National Shrine at Ise. Once a week the official and
technical staffs assemble here for half an hour of their own, not the company's time. The
manager reads passages from a small book called "Mental Power," based on the Buddhist canon.
A few sentences are worth translation: "He who is the master of his mind is happy even
if he has nothing... Rely on your own mind; 1t is the only thing on which you can ultimately
depend. Cultivate your mind and a way will open before you... Enjoy life. The world was cre-
ated to make us happy. But unless you have peace of mind, wealth will only increase your wor-
ry... Do not envy others. It is your mind that afflicts you, and your mind can relieve you."7
"Welfare" work in a factory of this type includes providing some medical care, bathing and wash-
ing facilities. light and airy workrooms, and meals at low cost, as well as some school instruction
and recreational opportunities. However, it is clear that any system of housing and feeding factory
employees on the factory premises is open to abuse. In l930, one authority made this comment on con-
ditions:
Some of the dormitories are quite pleasant places, except that they are all under the
shadow of their factories. They are clean and airy and they have small gardens about them,
careful sanitation according to Japanese standards, and various social features. But some are
not well kept. Too many girls are crowded together into one room for sleeping quarters. The
night and day shifts share the same quarters, the same bedding. This is not often true, but
it does happen. Sanitation is careless. The food is bad, or if not bad, unpalatable.
In the best factories, the food is a source of dissatisfaction and unrest. The usual meal
consists chiefly of rice, potatoes, daikon (a kind of pickled radish) and tea. . .
An investigation into the physical condition of operatives living in factory dormitories
in Tokyo City in May, 1930, made by the metropolitan police with the assistance of diet experts,
disclosed the fact that a large number of occupants of factory dormitories are badly under-
nourished. The police and the experts pointed out to the factory management that it was often
not so much a question of the quality of food served as the lack of variety in the menus that
led to the undernourishment of the operatives. One large factory dormitory, it was said,
served miso-shiru (a bean soup) and pickles at breakfast, salted salmon at dinner, and miso-
shiru and pickles at supper; and the same menu had been served for years.8
Wages (which do not include everything received by the workers, and which are only one factor
in judging living standards) are low, averaging 80 sen (a sen 1s 1/lo0 of a yen) for a working day
of from 8 to 10 hours or more; from this 80 sen, 13 sen a day are paid by the employee for the fac-
tory meals. Dormitory accommodations are furnished without charge, as are the various "welfare" ser-
vices. With regard to the wage of the Japanese cotton spinner, as compared with that received else-
where, one Japanese writer states that the average weekly wage per spinner of 40 count yarn was, at
par1ty, 35 yen ($17.50) in the United States, 18 yen ($9.00) 1n Great Britain, 5.8 yen ($2.90) in
Japan, 5.5 yen ($2.75) in Br1tish India, and 3.7 yen ($1.85) in factories under Japanese management
in China.9
He goes on to say that when hours of work are taken into consideration the low wages
of Japan are even more significant. If 48 hours are worked per week in Great Britain and 55 hours
in Japan, the average wage of a Japanese spinner corresponds to 28 per cent of that of a British
spinner.
Some reasons why the girls from the villages are persuaded to enter factories and to live under
conditions which limit their freedom and pay them little, are the poverty of their parents and the
fact that the Japanese girl of the rural regions has relatively little freedom at any time. Brought
up in an environment in which the family system, controlled by the father or other male head, 1s
still strong and the wishes or desires of individuals are subordinated to the welfare of the family
group as a whole, she expects to do whatever seems best for the family. Though the factory wages are
small, the money which can be sent from her wages to her family makes an appreciable difference in
the small budget of the Japanese farmer.
In a large cotton spinning mill, the hand of paternalism is apparent. It provides young poorly
paid girls with some living conditions which may be pleasing in contrast with those to which they are
7. Byas, Hugh, Spinners of Japan's Vast Web, New York Times Magazine, Dec. 8, 1935.
8. Orchard, John E., Japan's Economic Position, McGraw-H1l1 Book Co., New York, 1930: pp.356-357.
9. For additional information concerning Japanese factories in China, see Chapter 8 of the first
volume of Peoples of the Pacific series.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
-67-
accustomed in the country, and inculcates in them those traditional sentiments which will help to
insure the continuance of the supply of cheap docile labor. The young workers recruited from the
country are peasants who will return to the soil; they have little incentive, and are given little
cotton textile industry of Japan has remained largely untouched by any Japanese labor movement, and
this movement has, in consequence, been weakened. Such protection as the workers in this industry
have has come through government legislation or paternalistic factory management.
Though the manufacture of cotton textiles is the largest industry of Japan, Japanese do not
consider its labor conditions typical. Textile manufacture can make use of unskilled labor, and it
1s contended there is justification for treating unskilled young workers in a paternalistic manner.
The newer chemical industries which employ skilled labor, it is asserted, are more typical; here the
workers are better paid, the turnover less, and the methods more advanced. However, in industries of
this type, continual technical improvement results - as elsewhere in the world - in increased unem-
ployment. Since many of these unemployed return to their families in the country and engage in agri-
culture or other rural work, the number of unemployed remaining in the industrial districts is, com-
paratively speaking, low - about 350,O00. The lack of a large army of unemployed who have no means
of support is another factor contributing to the weakness of the labor movement in Japan.
All industrial workers in Japan are not so docile and easily man ed as the girls of the textile
mills, but it is to the advantage of both government and industrial leaders to emphasize traditional
attitudes which will keep all workers fairly contented with thei situation. The attitude which is
highly appreciated is expressed in the words of a Japanese industrialist:
The rapid industrial progress which Japan has achieved during the past half century is,
indeed, phenomenal, and the causes are not far to seek. First is the spiritual discipline in
which the Japanese people have been tempered for centuries and the excellent workmanship re-
sulting from such discipline. The energy and industry of the people, the simplicity in Japa-
nese mode of living and the system of cooperation they display in industry may be counted as
other contributing factors. ..
I have at one of my factories a very efficient worker whom I consider the leading expert
in the paper manufacturing industry in Japan. I sent him abroad with the 1dea that he might
learn something more in his profession. I was told that he took a dagger with him when he left
Japan for the United States. One day I asked him why he took the weapon with him when he went
to America. He hesitated to tell me the reason, but finally owned up that he was going to end
his life if he could not maintain his honor among the American workers as an efficient repre-
sentative of his craft in Japan. My instructions were simply for him to go to America to study
more about the industry, but he had taken his task very seriously and went on his mission with
the great determination not to tarnish the reputation of what is meant by an efficient Japanese
worker.1o
The existence of such traditional attitudes and points of view is one reason why the labor move-
ment in Japan is relatively undeveloped. Other causes for this have just been mentioned - the rela-
tively small number of the unemployed, and the small size of the proletarian class, due to the fact
that young girls, temporarily employed, form so large a proportion of the textile workers. Still an-
other factor influencing the labor movement is the government control of the majority of the labor or-
ganizations. Trade unions enroll less than ten per cent of the industrial workers, and all but a very
minute fraction of this small number belong to unions which are controlled by the government. These
organizations, known as "Right Wing" unions, are much less concerned with securing higher wages and
better conditions of work than with backing the policies of the government, and they are thus entirely
opposed to fundamental social and economic changes. When, for example, the assistant director of the
International Labour Office visited Japan in 1934, he had a number of interviews with persons in dif-
expressed opinions which showed a remarkable degree of agreement. Government leaders said, for example:
"It is not correct to compare the nominal wage rates paid in Japan, or the wage rates con-
porary Opin1ons, No. 102, Nov. 14, 1935.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
-68-
accompanied by an equivalent rise, or indeed any rise at all, in the price of home produce
fish, vegetables, tea, etc. This means that real wages in Japan are much less different from
nese population, including peasants, industrial workers, and others, is extremely simple. This
is due to the climate and soil of the country, as well as to custom. It must be remembered
that simple conditions of life are not necessarily miserable conditions; in practice they can-
not be harmful to the individual, for the Japanese today is not inferior to the Western man
either in energy or in mental or physical ability."
Labour leaders made a sta+ement including the following:
It is very deplorable for the cause of the peace of the world as well as for the progress
of mankind that a campaign against the expansion of Japanese overseas trade is being organized
in various countries, especially in Europe and America. And the most regrettable thing in more
than one sense for us is that, as one of the reasons for that agitation, the wages of the Japa-
nese workers are being cited as low wages. . .
Even when an improvement of working conditions has been obtained, it is quite possible
that the conditions of employment in Japan may still not be "nominally" the same as those pre-
vailing in Europe and the United States. From that point of view, which is purely one of fig-
ures, Japanese wages will continue to be low. In order to understand this fact it is not suf-
ficient to take into account the conditions of labour and industry. Allowance must also be
made for the climatic, geographical and demographic conditions prevailing in Japan, its his-
torical traditions, the racial traits of the Japanese people, their mode of living, and also
the international situation.
In the matter of food, housing and clothing, the Japanese are a people of simple and fru-
gal life . . . This, however, does not necessarily mean a low standard of living, but simply a
qualitative difference between the life of the West and that of the East. The simple, frugal
life of the Japanese means a comparatively cheap cost of living, and it 1s here that the real
significance of the relatively low wage rates must be sought.11
In addition to the "Right Wing" unions which join with the government in presenting a "united
front" when explaining Japanese labor conditions, there is a small "Left Wing" organization which
had in 1935 a membership of only about 15,000 persons. Leaders of this group do not defend 1abor
conditions in Japan in terms of the simple frugal life of the people; they believe that labor has
been exploited to serve political purposes and to enable the expansion of Japan's overseas trade.
They have for their goal the betterment of the life of the workers, but they have to steer a diffi-
cult course and avoid any suspicion of being unpatriotic. Hence they do not advocate fundamental
political, social and economic changes. They desire merely a fairer wage and better living condi-
tions.
Radical groups advocating socialist or communist ideas are illegal and must work underground.
Members of any such organizations are always under threat of arrest or imprisonment. In l932 alone
over 8,ooo people were arrested and imprisoned for suspected connection with radical organizations.
The suspects were not all workers; many were young students or university graduates. The strikes
which occur in Japan - and there are many - generally take place in individual factories, in protest
against particular situations; they are not the expression of a growing political consciousness among
the workers of Japan. Since radical thought must work in secret, the extent of the spread of poli-
tical consciousness among the proletariat cannot be estimated.
It is clear that the labor movement in Japan is undeveloped and 1mmature. It seems reasonable
to conclude that it will remain immature so long as: (1) so many of the workers are women tempora-
rily recruited from the rural regions where traditions are strong; (2) the government succeeds in
controlling the majority of the labor organizations; (3) radical organizations are suppressed; (4)
unemployment is not a pressing cause for unrest because of the fact that rural families care for
their unemployed members; (5) industrial workers are relatively better off than the farmers; and (6)
household and small-scale industry (in which many of the workers earn most of their living elsewhere)
plays so prominent a part in the industrial set-up.
11. Maurette, Fernand, Social Aspects of Industrial Development in Japan, P. S. King, London,
1934: pp. 37-38 and 43-44.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
-69-
What about the life of the workers in small household industrial establishments? In the words
of a recent observer:
In a small industrial town, at the foot of a beautiful mountain range, a small wooden
house stands among rice fields and mulberry groves. In the house are six broad looms, of the
usual size, which are worked by electricity. The staff of this small home industry consists
of the owner, his wife and the neighbor's child, and they are all very busy.
They begin work in the morning at six o'clock. Three times a day they rest: twice for
fifteen minutes and once for thirty minutes. The machines are stopped in the evening at half-
past six. Then next day's work is prepared; the woman cooks a meal and the man writes his
letters. Twice a month they take a day off.
There 1s no door between the family's bed-sitting-room and the workshop where the looms
are rattling. The floor of this room is somowhat raised and is covered with a mat. There 1s
a low table, a few cushions and a small iron bowl to hold glowing charcoal. Beyond 1s the
kitchen.
Each of the second-hand looms costs 90 yen. They are sold in the village street just as
elsewhere bicycles might be offered for sale. The man owns the looms, but he is 300 yen in
debt. His creditor is either a merchant or a factory owner of whom he buys his yarn and to
whom he sells his cloth. . . .
The man and his wife earn about llo yen a month. The electricity they use, very cheaply
generated by water power, costs them about.....15 yen a month. The neighbor's child is paid
40 yen a year... The taxes are not much more than 6 yen a year.
The average daily production of this home industry is 30o yards of good cloth, woven in
many-coloured patterns. Most of the orders received are for the export trade. Therefore this
man is better off than his neighbor who manufactures kimono materiai for home consumption.
This neighbor uses ten narrow looms, which he has bought second-hand for 50 yen each. He, too,
has debts amounting to 3oo yen; and he, his wife and his brother work from six o'clock in the
morning until seven o'clock in the evening. He has two small children to support and his total
monthly income varies from 50 to 70 yen.
In a small wooden house in a side-road in Tokyo, behind a latticed sliding door, which
serves as a window as well, a man, a woman and a young girl are seated on the clean, mat-cov-
ered floor. They bundle and label pencils, which are brought to them from a factory near their
home. The pencils are tied together in neat little packages of twelve with gay pictures on
top. The family works with quick, automatic movements.
They work from early in the morning until late at night, and when the small children come
home from school they spend eight hours, so the mother says, helping the older members of the
family bundle and pack... The whole family, five people, earn on an average 50 to 60 yen a
month.
Forty families near the factory are employed in a similar manner. Before they get the
pencils, many other families in Northern Japan, in Hokkaido, a district rich in wood and
graphite, have worked under similar conditions making the unfinished pencils which are sent
to the Tokyo factory in huge bundles.
The factory itself is merely a large handicraft plant laid out in thinly walled wooden
workshops of somewhat improvised appearance. The machinery is more or less primitive. The
forty men and women employed in this factory are mostly young and they earn between 15 and 30
yen a month. Only the finishing of the pencils is done here; they are painted, polished and
the name is printed on them. In all, the factory sees to the planning of the work of about a
hundred smali family enterprises, from the purchase of raw materials to the distribution of the
finished pencils. .. .
A mechanic at the "pencil combine" . . . told us about this complicated family budget. . .
This man has two sources of income. As a mechanic he earns 33 yen a month. He works
every day from seven o clock in the morning to six o'clock in the evening, with an hour's rest
at noon and two free days a month. While the export trade is as prosperous as it is at pres-
ent, he receives a month's wages as a bonus every six months.
He earns a second income as a small employer. He and his wife work at home for the pencil
factory, and they employ three neighbors' children to help them. When he comes home from the
factory he rests for a short time, and after his wife has seen to her two little children and
the household, she and her husband work three hours in the evening. They also devote most of
the two free days a month to this homework. After the man's wages have been paid, this man has
14 yen a month from this second source of income, his total earnings being 47 yen, excluding
bonuses.
His house, near the factory, is small and old. It has room for 10 mats, and the rent 1s
only 9 yen a month. He spends about 3 yen a month on coal, gas, and electric light. He pays
O.60 yen a month for his health insurance; the factory pays the other half. His wife and
children are not insured.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
-70-
This family's average daily expenditure for food is O.60 yen. They spend about 4 yen a
month on clothing; and about 5 yen for sake, tobacco, and the cinema. The man saves about 6
yen a month.12
The illustrations selected are, in the opinion of the writers quoted, typical of situations in
certain kinds of Japanese industrial establishments. Thus it would appear that industrial workers
in Japan in general work longer hours for smaller pay than the workers in other exporting countries,
and that young girls do a considerable proportion of the work in large textile mills, and both women
and children assist in household industries. It would also seem thit the standard of living is low,
but this statement cannot be made without the type of qualification indicated by the Government and
Labour leaders whose opinions were quoted earlier. The diet of the Japanese people is different
from the diet of western countries; it includes afmost no meat, butter, or milk, all of which are
expensive - and a great deal of cheaper foods such as rice, pickles, bean products (the chief pro-
tein element in the diet), and some fish. Household furniture is simple and inexpensive; bedding,
mats, cushions, low tables, rice bowls and cups equip a home in comfort. House-building 1s simple
and not costly; the same room serves for living, eating, and sleeping, since the bedding laid on the
floor is rolled up and put away during the day. Japanese clothing is not necessarily expensive.
While the apparently simple Japanese home of the wealthy may represent the expenditure of a great
deal of money - costly woods, carefully selected panels, delicate porcelain, priceless scroll paint-
ings - the home of the poor may be suitably equipped, according to Japanese standards, at little cost.
Privacy is scarcely known in any Japanese style home, with its sliding paper partitions, and hence
the lack of privacy in the crowded homes of the workers does not necessarily indicate tenement social
conditions. Because of the general simplicity in living, "a given unit of purchasing power represents
probably more civilization in Japan than elsewhere in the world." 13
Also, while the whole set-up
may seem to indicate a low standard of living, the standard of living of the urban worker is higher
than that of the farmer.
The production of silk differs from the types of manufacture already examined in that it overlaps
both agriculture and industry. In its earlier stages it involves the work of farmers, and rural fam-
1lies often carry through the production of raw silk to its final stages. Any examination of working
conditions in this industry takes us naturally to a consideration of other aspects of rural life. An-
other reason for considering the silk producers of Japan is that silk, as late as 1929, accounted for
thirty per cent of the exports of all Japan and, in spite of the lessened demand for silk on account
of the world depression and the development of rayon as a substitute for silk fabrics, silk still rep-
resents over one quarter of Japan's exports.
The mulberry trees which furnish the food for the silk worms are raised on mountainous slopes
which are unsuitable for the cultivation of rice. The raising of silk-worms, which is exacting and
demands painstaking care, is a seasonal occupation limited to the time when the mulberry leaves are
young. Women and children can do the work required and thus add to the family income. In 1932,
2,065,000 rural households in Japan were engaged in the industry.
When the eggs are hatched, the tiny worms are brushed off the egg sheet into shallow trays which
must be kept in a place where the temperature is carefully regulated. For the first few days of their
1ives, the worms must be fed very frequently, perhaps every hour of the day and night. The leaves
must be picked fresh, but they must not be damp. The fresh leaves are chopped into very fine pieces
at first; as the worms grow larger, the feeding times are not so frequent, and the leaves may final-
1y be given whole. During the beginning stages, then, the persons responsible for raising the silk-
worms are almost continually busy, and constant attention is required until the silk-worm spins its
cocoon.
After the cocoon is completed, a few days may elapse before the silk is reeled. If the cocoons
are to be transported to a filature for reeling, they are packed in bales. Otherwise, the reeling is
12. Stein, op. c1t., pp. 25-28, and 85-86.
13. Stein, op. c1t., p. 70.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 1.00)
-71-
done in the household. Reeling in a small household filature or in a larger establishment may be
done by hand or by machine. The size of a filature is measured in terms of boiling basins, since
the cocoons are dropped into basins of boiling water to dissolve the sticky substance which holds
them together and to enable the operator to pick up the slender threads. Above the boiling basin
are spindles; the ends from several cocoons are picked up, twisted together for a start, and placed
on the spindle which, as it revolves, spins the delicate strands from the cocoons into fine silk
thread.
In 1930, over 90 per cent of the total number of filatures in Japan had less than ten basins,
indicating that hand-reeling still predominated. Though the number of boiling basins for hand-
reeling was small (71,925 in 1931), the number of establishments for hand-reeling was very large
(53,76o in the same year). The tendency to develop larger filatures is indicated in the following
table:
No. of basins in a filature
1923
1926
1929
1931
Less than 10
200,326
83,311
65,431
62,663
10-50
1,684
1,747
1,997
1,798
50-100
818
838
985
903
100-300
648
649
768
817
300-500
108
113
141
138
500-1000
79
85
77
79
1000 or more
9
8
8
2
Total
203,672
91,751
69,407
66,400
In 1932, the average wage for all the workers in silk reeling or silk weaving establishments em-
ploying more than five persons was less than half the average wage paid in other industrial concerns.
In the silk reeling industry, 92 per cent of the workers were women, and of these over 18 per cent
were under sixteen years of age. The legal working day is eleven hours, with about an hour off for
meals and rest, while two rest days are given per month. All of these figures exclude the household
establishments where the returns are less, the hours longer, and the labor of children may be used.
The picture of working conditions in this industry would be incomplete if it consisted only in
descriptions of the labor involved, the wage scales, and the hours. The existence of other factors
1s suggested in the words of a Japanese writer:
The author once saw a pair of votive lanterns dedicated to the tutelary gods of a certain
silk filature. On one of these lanterns were engraved the characters, "On the Occasion of the
Fulfillment of Prayers for Producing Articles of Superior Marks." The other simply bore the
date of "The Propitious Day of May 1933." The explanation the author got was that early in
1933, the girls of this filature (one of about fifty controlled by the same company) resolved
that they would produce silk yarn of the highest quality within that year. Every morning and
evening, the girls came to the shrine of the tutelary gods in a corner of the mill compounds
to pray that their vows might be fulfilled. The prayers were soon granted. The filature was
numbered among the few that could turn out the yarn of that specific quality. In gratitude
for this, the girls collected money from among themselves and had these lanterns erected for
the benefit of those who might come to the shrine when it is dark. The lanterns are therefore
lights in the dark literally and figuratively.14
The same writer says:
As regards conditions of labour in Japan, it must be frankly admitted that they are not
satisfactory. Nor is the national wage level so high as that of some countries. But is there
any country on the globe where working conditions are what they should be? Is it right to say
that high wages always mean improved conditions of labour? A comparison of conditions of la-
bour in various countries is a very difficult task. No greater mistake can be committed than
Judging them by merely comparing wages. The author is of the opinion that the Japanese factory
The conditions under which Japanese industrial workers live and work may not be satisfactory.
ers, and that their situation is not only unsatisfactory, but acute.
Japan, Tokyo, 1934: pp. 51-52.
15. Asah1, op. cit., p. 6.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
-72-
Chapter 8
THE FARMERS OF JAPAN
Farming is still the chief occupation of the Japanese - about half the people of the country
are included in the households of the farmers. Rice, the chief crop, is the staple food of the
people, and Japanese rice is different from varieties raised in other countries. Not until the
preferred variety was cultivated in Korea and Formosa did rice from the colonies find a ready market
in Japan.
The farmers of old Japan developed a very fine technique of rice culture. They terraced and
diked the patches, irrigated the plots, fertilized the soil, and planted, cultivated, harvested, and
husked the crop by laborious hand labor. Modern science could offer some improved techniques to les-
sen the labor and increase the yield, particularly along the line of commercial fertilizers, systems
of seed selection, and power machinery. This last, however, has a limited sphere of usefulness under
Japanese conditions. Machinery is suited to large-scale agriculture on flat lands, and such lands
are not only scarce in Japan, but most of them are divided up among numerous cultivators. Power
pumps could replace irrigation devices run by man-power, and they have to some extent, but such ma-
chines are expensive and man-power is cheap. Consequently, Japanese farming has not been modernized
and improved to the same extent that industry has; the farmers of Japan, while they use commercial
fertilizer and improved methods of seed selection, still follow traditional methods.
Since the beginning of the Meiji era, the population of Japan has doubled, and is increasing at
the rate of approximately 1,000,000 a year. The lands under cultivation have increased in the same
period by about 25 per cent, but the general opinion seems to be that all the land suitable for cul-
tivation 1s now being utilized. It was mentioned much earlier that only about 15 per cent of the
land is cultivable. When this small area is divided among the millions of rural households, small
holdings result, averaging about 2 acres per household. The average is not, however, the most com-
mon holding; 69 per cent of the households have less than the average, and 34 per cent have less than
1: acres from which to wring a living. These small holdings are not in one place, but are made up of
scattered patches, some very small. The nature of the land and the way in which rice is cultivated
have something to do with this uneconomic arrangement; other reasons may be found in the original
division of the lands under the feudal system. It will be remembered that when feudalism was abol-
1shed, the farmers were allowed to continue to work the fields which they had been cultivating; as
time went on, they might lease new patches, or sell part of their holdings, or bring some new patch
on the mountain side under cultivation, and thus accumulate a holding which consisted of scattered
fields.
Attempts have been made to consolidate the scattered holdings in regions where the nature of
the land permits this, and to use large-scale methods of cultivation on the larger paddy fields thus
obtained. Several things have retarded this development. One 1s the high price of agricultural
land; in 1920 the price per acre averaged about $1200 and in 1931 $800 (figuring the yen at par in
both cases). Another is the high rate of interest charged rural borrowers by money lenders; this
rate varies from 10 to 12 per cent, a higher rate than that charged other borrowers in Japan. Sti1l
another factor 1s the cost of machinery which would make the cultivation of consolidated holdings
profitable. Under these circumstances, the creation of large consolidated holdings would involve
the outlay of considerable capital which the farmers of Japan do not possess and which they could
only secure at ruinous rates. Capitalists in Japan hesitate to invest their money in agriculture
since the tax on incomes received from agriculture is much greater than the tax on the same income
derived from industry or trade. For example:

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
-73-
If a man receives
His income tax
But the tax he would
an annual income of
1f he is a farmer 1s
pay in the city 1s
5,000 yen
1394.85 yen
700.61 yen
10,000 yen
3484.72 yen
1603.33 yen
30,000 yen
12096.72 yen
6818.65 yen
100,000 yen
53224.90 yen
30057.91 yen 1
These conditions help to perpetuate small-scale intensive cultivation in Japan.
The preferential income tax applies not only to larger incomes but 1s extended to the lowest
incomes on the tax lists. In amount and in proportion, the landlords and peasant proprietors pay
much more in taxes than the most prosperous manufacturers and traders.
The contrast is amazing, as appears from recent figures compiled by the Imperial Agricul-
tural Association. In the annual income group of 300 yen, peasant proprietors pa1d 35% in
taxes, while manufacturers paid 1.5 and traders 12.5. In the 500 yen group, landlords pa1d 51,
peasant proprietors 31.5, manufacturers 18 and traders 14% approximately.2
The origin of the tax discrimination in favor of industry and trade was the government policy
adopted when modern industry was beginning, when Japan "was then predominantly agricultural. Nothing
was more natural, therefore, than that it should tax farming, directly and indirectly, to pay the
costs of industrialization. The first industries were aided with Government subsidies, paid by the
farmers. They were given tariff protection. Again the farmer paid. He is still paying, even though
industry is prosperous and he is sinking into a quagmire of debts." 3
In 1931, 26 per cent of the households engaged in farming owned no land at all and worked on
rented land, for which they paid 50 or 60 per cent of the crop raised as an annual rent. Of the re-
mainder of the farming households, 42 per cent owned some land and rented other fields which they
cultivated. Tenants and small tenant-owners paying rent in produce have little, 1f anything, to do
with the marketing of their crop. Owners, on the other hand, needing cash for taxes, are most fre-
quently obliged to sell their crop as soon as it is harvested, at a time when the price is lowered
because the market is glutted. In l932, according to surveys made in Japan, the average annual in-
come per farm household of five and a half persons was 388 yen. In that year, the average household
went 22l yen deeper into debt, making the average indebtedness 837 yen. Tenant farmers, under such
conditions, desire reduction in rents; but the owner, forced to sell at an unfavorable time and
obliged to pay disproportionately high taxes, 1s not disposed to lower the rents. Agrarian disputes
which have marked recent years have had their origin largely in the demand of the tenant for rent
reductions; in the attempt of the landowner to raise the rents when leases were renewed; or in the
refusal of the owner to re-lease to old tenants because the lands were going over to new tenants or
were to be worked by the owner employing hired labor. The following figures show the growing dis-
content of the farmers of Japan with the conditions in their particular locality:
Number of Tenant Disputes in Japan
1917.
85
1922.
.1,578
1926.
1929.
......2,434
1930.
1931.
......3,419
1932.
These disputes, like the majority of the industrial strikes, have occurred largely in protest
against particular conditions in a particular locality. Traditional forms of thought and behavior
1. Figures from Japan Advertiser Annual Review, 1934-1935.
1, 1936: p. 2.
3. Japan Advert1ser Annual Rev1ew, 1934-1935.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
-74-
and economic reform which would make the farmers' situation more bearable would be too revolutionary
to appeal widely to the Japanese peasantry who merely ask for some favorable modification of local
conditions. One observer of life in the rural regions sums up the situation in these words:
Japanese aestheticism, the victorious army and navy, the smoking chimneys of Osaka, the
pushing mercantile marine, the Parliamentary and administrative developments of Tokyo and a
costly worldwide diplomacy are all borne on the bent backs of...the Japanese farmer and his
wife. The depositories of the authentic Yamato damashi1 (Japanese spirit) are to be found
knee-deep in the sludge of their paddy fields.5
Throughout Japanese history, as we have seen earlier, the farmers contributed the greater part
of the revenue which maintained the state. The toiling farmer and his wife, "knee-deep in the sludge
of their paddy fields," have been familiar elements in the Japanese scene for centuries - but the na-
tional and provincial expenses of the state have increased enormously at a time when the farmer was
being deprived of old sources of subsidiary income, and being made less self-sufficient. Cotton
cloth used in the rural household used to be spun and woven in the household; tabi, sandals, clothing,
were made in the home. Now cotton spinning 1s carried on entirely in large factories, which are tak-
ing over more and more of the cloth weaving as well. Tabi, the universal footgear, are produced en-
tirely in factories. Silk culture, a very important source of subsidiary income, is uncertain; it is
dependent upon foreign market conditions, and when the demand for silk or the price of silk drops,
some 36 per cent of all the farmers of Japan are deprived of a large part of the additional income
which enables them to get along. Moreover, as we have seen, while there 1s still a large amount of
hand reeling, the trend is toward machine reeling in factories. But rice farming alone cannot sup-
port the rural households, under the present circumstances.
In Japan, as in all other industrial countries, the farm problem is a chronic one. The situation
in Japan is particularly acute because of the shortage of land; government leaders make much of the
argument that emigration is one essential solution. But, as we pointed out much earlier in this bock,
emigration alone has never yet solved a population problem. Moreover, there are certain factors in
Japanese life which restrict emigration. Until Hokkaido was developed in the Meiji period, Japan had
no frontier to attract the enterprise of the adventurous; there was no outside stimulus to the pioneer
spirit. Also, the family system of Japan emphasized the subordination of the individual to the group:
Personal initiative was alien to the Japanese tradition which gave the people no opportunity to devel-
op ideas of freedom and independence. Consequently, even when a frontier region was available, as it
was in Hokkaido, the farmers of Japan were unwilling, perhaps unable, to take advantage of the new op
portunities and to emigrate on a large scale. Manchuria has not attracted Japanese farmers. These
facts lead many authorities to conclude that Japanese would not emigrate, even if all immigration re-
strictions existing in different foreign countries were removed.
Immigration restrictions, however, exist, and are resented in Japan, not only because they pre-
vent the Japanese from settling in such favorable regions as Australia, New Zealand and the United
States, where the pioneer spirit is no longer called for and which therefore might attract them; but
also because these restrictions are regarded as an insult to the Japanese people. Probably the great-
est resentment is that felt against the United States, which in 1924 terminated the Gentlemen's Agree-
ment and barred Japanese immigrants on the same basis on which other Asiatics had long been barred.
The Gentlemen's Agreement made in 1907 was an understanding by which the Japanese government provided
not to 1ssue passports to laborers desiring to go to the continental United States. During the years
the agreement was in force, approximately l20,o00 Japanese entered the United States, and approximate-
1y 112,ooo departed. Under the terms of the agreement, the wives of Japanese living in the United
States were permitted to join their husbands, and many thousands of "picture brides" came in under
this provision. The custom of sending "picture brides," the establishment of Japanese families, and
the consequent increase in the size of the Japanese population concentrated in agricultural regions
on the west coast of the United States, were regarded with alarm in these states particularly since
5. Robertson- Scott, J. W., The Foundations of Japan, D. Appleton and Co., New York, 1922: p.1x.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
-75-
written in October, 192o, by the Governor to the Secretary of State. After giving a brief account
of Oriental immigration in California the Governor went on to say:
The Japanese in our midst have indicated a strong trend to land ownership and land con-
trol, and by their unquestioned industry and applicatfon, and by standards and methods, both
in connection with hours of labor and standards of living, have gradually developed a control
of many of our important industries.
He stated his recognition of "many admirable qualities of the Japanese people," but expressed his
regret at the difficulty of assimilating them, and asserted that necessary measures should be taken
by Congress. He continued as follows:
California is making this appeal primarily, of course, for herself, but in doing so she
feels that the problem is hers solely because of her geographical position on the Pacific
slope. She stands as one of the gateways for Oriental immigrants into this country. Her
people are the first affected and unless the race ideals and standards are preserved here at
the national gateway the conditions which will follow must soon affect the rest of the conti-
nent. 6
The influence of Congressmen from the coast states feeling strongly on the matter of restricting
Japanese immigration had a great deal to do with the passing of the law of 1924. An unfortunate note
from the Japanese Ambassador at Washington,in which he seemed, on behalf of his government, to threat-
en the United States with dire consequences if this measure were passed, had the effect of hastening
the action of Congress. Since the position of the coast states at the time the law was advocated has
been given, it is only fair to state that today there is a considerable body of opinion, even in the
western states, in favor of some arrangement which, while fully maintaining the actual exclusion of
Orientals, would be less hurtful to their pride.
The farmers of Japan not only show an unwillingness to leave their crowded fields for districts
which are open to them, but they are much less vocal concerning their difficulties than are, for ex-
ample, the farmers of the United States. The American farmers of the great western plains were ad-
venturous pioneers; the American tradition emphasizes independence and personal initiative - and
American farmers do not remain silent about their problems. Moreover, universal manhood suffrage
has existed in the United States ever since the country was founded. But in Japan, a property
qualification for voting automatically shut out the masses of the people from exercising the suf-
frage, until l925, when universal manhood suffrage was granted. Consequently, by tradition and prac-
tice, the Japanese farmer is not politically-minded, nor independent.
When the patient farmers of Japan did become vocal, and in l9l8 and the years just following
there were rice riots all over the country, the Government began to take some steps to relieve the
chronic troubles of the peasantry. A system to control the price of rice was tried in 192l, changed
in 1931, and revised again in 1933. Rice price control had two aims - to prevent the price from
falling too low and thus injuring the farmers, and to keep the price from rising so high as to create
discontent in the cities. In l931, the Government was empowered to buy rice when the price reached a
minimm, and to sell when 1t reached a maximum; but minimum and maximum prices were to be determined
by a Rice Price Control Board. However, cheaper rice from Korea and Formosa offered a problem here;
since these regions are colonies of Japan, customs duties could not legally be laid on their products.
in these countries which would, in the long run, have to be relieved by Japan. Again, Japanese capi-
talists with money invested in Korean and Formosan development schemes opposed the idea of restrict-
and the Oriental, June 19, 1920.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
-76-
front a new problem - the size of the purchase when there was a bumper crop, as there was in both
Japan and Korea in 1933. To encourage Korea to consume more of the rice produced there, the Gov-
ernment placed high tariffs on substitute food-stuffs, such as millet and kaoliang. But, unless
the Government makes some provision for the planned production as well as for the purchase and sale
of rice, its attempts at the control of the price of rice only temporarily relieve the rice farmers,
and get the Government into difficulties.
Other measures taken by the Government have aided the farmers to a degree. For example, a
tariff on wheat prevented foreign competition with Japanese-grown wheat. Wheat grown as a winter
grain on paddy fields provided the tenant farmer, who paid his rent in rice, with additional income,
and helped the other farmers as well. Since 1932, Japan has produced the wheat consumed in the coun-
try, so this source of additional income cannot be further expanded.
It 1s evident that Government measures taken to relieve the farmers are inadequate in extent and
in scope; they represent a compromise between the interests of the farmers and the cities. They do
not deal with fundamental difficulties, such as unequal taxation, the landholding and renting systems,
the uneconomic small-scale methods of agricultural production. They do not make it possible for the
farmer to become permanently more well-to-do; they do not permanently increase his security, his com-
fort, or his purchasing power. They perpetuate the small home market which makes necessary the des-
perate struggle for foreign markets for manufactured goods.
More than one foreign writer analyzing the situation of the Japanese farmers feels that, sooner
or later, they must rise in revolt. Such a forecast may be correct, but at the same time the strength
and tenacity of Japanese traditional forms of thought and behavior, and the influences brought to bear
upon the rural population to keep these traditions alive and vigorous, are elements which can not be
entirely ignored. A few concrete illustrations may help to give an idea of these factors.
From time to time there are such things as tenants' strikes. Mr. Yamasaki assured me that
the problem of the rural districts can be solved only by appealing to the feelings of the people
in the right way. He said that "the Japanese are largely moved by feelings, not by convictions.
In some coastwise counties, someone told me, a hurricane destroyed the crops to such an extent
that the tenants could not pay rent, and the landlords who depended on their rents were impover-
ished. Things reached such a pass that a hundred thousand peasants signed a paper swearing
fidelity to an anti-landlord propaganda. Then Mr. Yamasak1 went, and, sitting in the local tem-
ple, talked things over with both sides for days. He got the landlords to say that they were
sorry for their tenants and the tenants to say that they were sorry for their landlords, and
eventually he was allowed to burn the oath-attested document in the temple.
One day, when I was staying in a rural district, I was invited to a remoter part in order
to see something of the discipline that the members of a group of young men's associations were
1mposing on themselves... Nearly six hundred young men were in the parade... The physical con-
dition of the young fellows was good and their evolut1ons with dummy "rifles" were smart and
skillful. The paraders seemed lost in their desire to do their best for their credit's sake
and their own good. . . The secret of this surprising display far away in the heart of Japan
was that the work of the young men had been done under the direction of two fit, be-medalled
army surgeons, reserve officers, who were present in order to answer my questions.
Every morning half an hour before sunrise these Y. M. A. (Young Men's Association) members
assemble in the grounds of their Shinto shrine or of their school, where they exercise until
the sun shows itself. In the evenings after work they also fence, wrestle, lift weights, and
develop their wrists.
The members endeavour to cultivate their minds as well as their bodies, and they also ob-
serve in their dress a self-denying ordinance. . .
The object of all this varied discipline is to develop physique, self-control, self-re-
spect, and what the Japanese call the spirit of association, or, as we might say, good fellow-
ship.. .
I was assured that, in addition to the development of physique, morale and the spirit of
association, there was to be seen, under the influence of the Y. M. A., a development of good
for old age have increased.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
-77-
For seven years in succession the men, old, middle-aged, and young, who had done the
most remarkable things in the agriculture of the prefecture had been invited to gather in con-
ference. I was invited to this annual "meeting of skillful farmers." Among the speakers were
the local governor and chiefs of departments who had been sent down by the Ministry of Agri-
culture and the Home Office. . . .
Some of the audience used to weep as the older men told their tales. The farmer's would
sit up late around a farmer or a professor who was telling about some subject that interested
them. The originator of these gatherings. . . told me that he was "more than once moved to
tears by the merits and pure hearts of the farmer speakers. . ."
The addresses of the earnest Tokyo officials and the Governor were directed towards urging
on the farmers increased production and increased labour, and the duty was pressed upon them,
as I understood, in the name of the highest patriotism and of devotion to their ancestors.
One of my hosts, who was thirty-two, hoped to see all his tenants peasant proprietors be-
fore he was fifty. The relation of this landlord and his tenants was illustrated by the fact
that on my arrival several farmers brought produce to the kitchen "because we heard that the
landlord had guests.".
This landlord's family had lived in the same house for eleven generations. The courtesy
of my hosts and his relatives and the beauty of their old house and its contents are an inef-
faceable memory. From the time my party arrived until the time we left no servant was allowed
to do anything for us. The ladies of the house cooked our food and the landlord and his younger
brother brought it to us. The younger brother waited upon us throughout our meals, even peeling
our pears. At night ne spread our silk-covered futon (mattresses). In the morning he folded
them up, arranged my clothes, swept the room and stood at hand with towels, all of which were
new, while I washed.
When on our arrival in the house we sat and talked in the first reception-room we entered,
I noticed that outside the lattice a company of villagers was listening with no consciousness
of intrusion, in full view of our host, to the sound of foreign speech. It was a Shakespearean
scene.
The rural policeman is not only a paternal guardian of the peace but an administrative
official. He keeps an eye on public health. He is charged with correctly maintaining the rec-
ord of names and addresses - and some other particulars - of everybody in the village. It is
his duty to secure correct information as to the name, age, place of origin and real business
of every stranger. He attends all public meetings, even of the young men's and young women's
associations, and no strolling players can give their entertainment without his presence. . .
At the houses of well-to-do people I was struck by the way in which the local police officer
.. . called with the headman and joined our kneeling circle in the reception room. Nominally
he came to pay his respects, but his chief object, no doubt, was to take stock of what was go-
ing on.
In the year of the Coronation. . . two prefectures had the honour of being chosen to pro-
duce the rice to be placed before ods, Emperor and dignitaries in Kyoto. . . Plots had been
prepared with enormous care. Along the top of the special fencing were the Shinto straw bands
and paper streamers. A small shrine had been built to overlook the plots. Even the instruments
of the little meteorological station near by, by which the management of the crop would be
guided, were surrounded by straw bands and streamers - religion protecting science. The mat-
tocks and other implements which had been used in the preparation of the paddy or were to be
used in getting in the crops and in cultivating, harvesting, threshing and cleaning it were
all new. Even the herring which had manured the crop had been "speciaily selected and blessed."
Further, there was a specfal bathhouse where the young men and women who were to plant the rice
had washed ceremonially at an early hour.
We had reached the spot through a crowd of twenty or thirty thousand people who were gath-
ering to witness the ceremony. A covered platform had been built in front of the rice field
shrine, and on either side were large roofed-in spaces for some scores of Shinto priests and
the favoured spectators. The ceremony lasted two hours. It carried us magically away from a
Japan of frock coats to Japan of a thousand, it may be, two thousand years ago. Between the
wail of ancient wood and wind instruments and the cinema operators who missed nothing external
and some bored top-hatted spectators who furtively puffed a cigarette before the ceremony came
to an end, what a gulf!
As we went on our journey we spoke of the sturdiness and cheeriness of our chief carrier,
who told us that he was seventy. I asked him if he thought it fair that he should have to walk
so far on a hot day with so much to carry while we were empty-handed. He replied that it might

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
-78-
More than half the expenditure of many a village is on education, which in Japan is com-
pulsory but not free. One cannot but be impressed by the pride which is taken in the local
schools. The dominating man-made feature of the landscape is less frequently than might be
supposed a temple or a shrine; where the picture which catches the eye is not the vast expanse
of the crops of the plain or the marvels of terracing for hill crops, it is the long, low
school building, set almost invariably on the best possible site. The poorly paid men and
women teachers are earnest and devoted, and their influence must be far-reaching. They are
rewarded in part, no doubt, by the respect which pupils and the general public give to the
sense1 (teacher). At the school I visited, the children, as is customary, swept and washed
out the schoolrooms and kept the playground trim. Above one teacher's desk were the following
admonitions:
Be obedient
Be active
Be decent
Be social
Be serious
I spent some time in a typical inland village. The very last available yard of land was
utilized. The cottages stood on plots buttressed by stone, and only the well-to-do had a yard
or garden; paddy came right up to the foundations. Now that the rice was high no division
showed between the differen: paddy holdings. I noticed here that the round, carefully con-
creted manure tank which each farmer possessed had a reinforced concrete hood.
I asked a landowner who was in a comfortable position what societies there were in his
village. He mentioned a society "to console old people and reward virtue." Then there was a
society of householders, such as is mentioned in Confucius, which met in the spring and autumn,
and ate and drank and discussed local topics "with open heart.". . . The householders' meet-
ing was a kind of informal village assembly. That assembly itself ordinarily met twice a year.
There were in the village, in addition to the householders' organization, the usual reservists'
association, the young men's society, and agricultural association.
(Story told by a blind headman in a village)
"Although I thought it important to advance the economic condition of the village it was
still more important to promote friendship. As the interests of landowners and tenants was the
same, it was necessary to bring about an understanding. I began by asking landowners to contrib-
ute a proportion of the crops to make a fund. . . I went from door to door with a bag collecting
rice as the priests do. . . In the fourth year a hundred tenants came in a deputation to me.
They said:
This gathering of rice is for our benefit. . . So please let us contribute every year.'.
I was very pleased with that. But I did not express my pleasure. I scolded them. I said,
Your plan is good but you think only of yourselves. You do not give the landowners their
due. When you bring your rent to them you choose inferior rice. It is a bad custom.' I ad-
vised them to treat their landowners with justice and achieve independence in the relation of
tenant and landowner.
In the next year the tenants exerted themselves and the landowners were pleased with them.
hus the relation between landlord and tenant became better. The landowners in their turn be-
came desirous of showing a friendly feeling toward the tenants. Some landlords came to me and
said, If you wish for any money in order to be of any service to the tenants, we will lend it
to you without interest.' I received some money. I lent money to tenants to buy manure and
cattle, to attack insect pests, to provide protection against wind and flood and to help build
new dwellings nearer their work. By these means the tenants were encouraged and their welfare
was promoted. The landlords were also happier, for the rice was better and the land improved.
The landlords found that their happiness came from the tenants. There was good feeling between
them. The landlords began to help the tenants directly and indirectly. Roads and bridges and
many aids to cultivation were furnished by the landlords. A body of landlords was constituted
for these purposes and it collected money. My 1dea was realized that the way of teaching the
villages is to let landlords and tenants realize that their interests agree and they will be-
come more friendly."
(A concrete illustration of the working of the Japanese family system, which is still es-
pecially strong in the rural regions. . . .)
"A married B. B dies without having any children. A next married B's sister, C. Then,
because of the necessity of having a male heir for the maintenance of the family, and because
he thought it unlikely that his wife, C, would have children as her dead sister, B, had had
none, he adopted his wife's younger brother, D. But the wife, C, did have children. Conse-
quently, not only is A's wife his sister-in-law and lhis eldest son' his wife's brother, but
his children are his eldest  son's' nephews. The eldest of these children, E, is legally the
younger son. He says, I am glad that instead of an uncle I have an elder brother. I am much
attached to him and he 1s attached to me. I am not sorry to be younger instead of elder
brother, for when my father dies my adopted brother will become head of the family and he must
then bring up his younger brothers and sisters, manage the family fortunes, bear the family
troubles and keep all the cousins and uncles in good humour by inviting them occasionally and
at other times by visiting them and giving them presents.'

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
-79-
"It is obvious that our family system, for speaking in criticism of which officials have
been dismissed from their posts, puts too much stress on the family and too little on the in-
dividual. The family is the unit of society. Any member of it 1s only a fraction of that
unit. For the sake of the family every member of it must sacrifice almost everything. Some-
times the development of the individual character and individual initiative is checked by the
family system. An eldest son is often required to follow his father's calling, irrespective
of his tastes. Nowadays some eldest sons go abroad, but their departure attracts attention
and you seldom find such a thing happening among farmers. The family system, by which all is
subordinated to family, 1s convenient to farmers, for it means increased labour and economy of
11ving."7
The Young Men's Association described in one of these quotations grew out of local organizations
of Tokugawa days, when, in the years of seclusion, local clubs interested themselves in community wel-
fare and in providing amusement and recreation for the young men of the rural districts. with the
abolition of feudalism and the resulting changes in the rural regions, these youth organizations did
not find a new sphere of usefulness until the foreign wars of Japan appealed to their patriotic emo-
tions. The local clubs then undertook to make articles needed by the soldiers at the front, or to
assist in farming the fields from which the laborers had been called to the army, and the Government
began to encourage local governors and officials to support the youth organizations. Army reserve
officers have been very active in directing and assisting the club enterprises which include social
meetings, lecture meetings, athletics, excursions, repairing roads and bridges, caring for shrine
and temple grounds, establishing libraries, and engaging in agricultural experimental work. The
organizations, now known as the Young Men's League, had in 1933 a membership of over 2,700,000. By
far the largest number of these were young men of the villages, who had not entered the middle or
nigher schools after completing their primary education.
The nature of the Japanese family system, and its persistence in the rural regions, is suggested
in the last quotation. We have seen that very much earlier in Japanese history family headship was
given to some male member of the family group, to that person who could best look after the interests
of the family during the disorders of the feudal wars. Since under these circumstances women were
not, in general, either an economic or administrative asset, their position was subordinated to that
of the men of the household. Obedience to the head of the family and subservience to the husband were
inculcated in the Japanese woman.
The Japanese family system embraces relatives of varying degrees of kinship, not necessarily
living under one roof, or even in the same region. When a decision is to be made concerning the mar-
riage of a son or daughter, or the education of children, or choice of vocation or occupation, or
similar matters, the family council is called, and the decision made in terms of the good of the fam-
1ly group. Individuals brought up under this system expect to agree with the group decision; they in
turn expect the support and encouragement of the family in case difficulties arise later in their own
lives. The family system offers a sort of social security which has both its good and less good as-
pects - it provides for the care of dependents, and sometimes, unfortunately, encourages lack of
responsibility among those who are unwilling to do their share. The family system is the psycholog-
ical basis of the group loyalties which are so marked in the Japanese people; carried over from the
family to the nation, it gives to the Japanese sentiments of devotion to the state their peculiar
strength and quality. While western ideas of individualism have broken down the family system to
a degree, the change has been most marked in the cities, not. in the rural regions.
Another influence making for conservatism is Shinto. In the villages the Shinto shrines have
many functions, and are centers for community life. Ancient religious festivals are observed, and
loyalties which give strong support to the present government of Japan.
328-329.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
-80-
The picture of the life of the farmers as a whole is that of a simple people valuing tradition-
al forms of thought and behavior, shut off from new or radical influences, and sincerely trying to
meet new conditions in the spirit of their traditions of frugality, loyalty, obedience, and industry.
Without fundamental changes which, under present circumstances, can come only from the government -
changes in the systems of taxation, of landholding, and of credit, for example - it appears that the
earnest efforts of the farmers themselves to deal with their problems cannot be effective enough to
relieve their pressing need. But, because of the strength and tenacity of tradition, and because of
the numbers of governmental, military, and educational influences de: .gned to perpetuate these tradi-
tions, it appears that revolt among the farmers of Japan is still remote, in spite of the unfair condi-
tions imposed on them, and in spite of the pressing nature of their difficulties.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
-81-
Chapter 9
CONFLICTING CURRENTS IN PRESENT-DAY JAPAN
The swift building of modern Japan is one of the interesting stories of history, but it has not
run so smoothly as might be thought from superficial observation. Preceding chapters have suggested
some of the problems which have developed as the country was modernized, but before we summarize
these we shall mention some of the outward contrasts which attract attention.
Contrasts of a noticeable type are most numerous in the cities. Here are modern department
stores and tiny traditional shops, large public buildings and streets lined with small houses, wide
thoroughfares and narrow alleys, great factories and busy household manufactories. Kimono-clad
women enter modern stores, are waited upon by clerks in western costume, and return to a Japanese-
style home. Outside the door of the home stands a row of footgear - sandals, clogs, western shoes -
removed by different members of the family when they entered the house. Inside the simply furnished
Japanese room may stand a foreign chair and desk, the property of a schoolboy son or of the business
man or professional man who is the head of the family. The pretentious home may boast a room or a
series of rooms furnished entirely in foreign style, overlooking the secluded Japanese garden. The
business man, the student, the teacher, the employee in the store or restaurant returning at night
changes into his comfortable kimono at home and joins the members of his family as they sit on cush-
ions on the soft padded floor mats before the low dining table set in Japanese style. If it is
cold, the room may be heated by a small stove burning oil, or wood and charcoal, or coal, instead of
by the charcoal brazier of earlier days. All of these western furnishings are relatively expensive,
and are not found in the homes of the poorer classes whose tiny dwellings are equipped only in Jap-
anese style.
Thouga the contrasts are most noticeable in the cities, the great dailies of Japan, most of
which are city publications but which circulate widely in the country, carry to the outlying dis-
tricts certain information concerning the changing life of the cities. The four large dailies, pub-
lished in Tokyo and Osaka, have estimated circulations of well over a million each, while smaller
papers published in the same cities have estimated circulations ranging from 100,000 to 600,000.
The combined number of daily newspapers in the two largest cities 1s, according to the Japan Year
Book, 25 per cent of all and their combined circulation covers almost all parts of the country.
These widely-read papers offer many concrete illustrations of the contrasting cultures in the
country.
The press, for example, gives such glimpses as these of the various sports enjoyed by the Jap-
anese:
In the Japanese fencing and Judo tournament of teams from all parts of the country, Chita
prefecture policemen won in Japanese fencing. Tokyo Metropolitan police won in Judo.
The baseball match between Waseda and Keio Universities will be held today and tomorrow.
Not only in Tokyo but all over the country, W and K stand gazing at each other. Waseda has
won 20 games out of the 37 games held with Keio in the past, has made the best record in the
whole League games of this season. Both teams are silent about their plans for today's battle
so that they can win the victory and make their mother school's prestige shine.1
Western sports are immensely popular. The Japanese desire to compete internationally on favorable
grounds with the nationals of other countries, and they have thrown themselves into the business of
developing world champ1ons in games, field sports, swimming and athletics in general. Physical
training and sports usually are encouraged by a militaristic regime, and sports and games have a
natural appeal. For these various reasons, Japan has made great strides in sports.
All Japanese newspapers run serial modern novels and serial traditional novels. Advertisements
Vol. IX, No. 2: June, 1936.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
-82-
four is available for adoption. They suggest the contrasts in occupation: a teacher of flower ar-
rangement advertises her prices, a big firm advertires for college graduates, offering 60 yen a
month without board. Notices of books on English poetry, on new interpretations of the Japanese
classics, on the religious side of the national spirit, appear side by side.2
Prices of tickets
for revues, for the Kabuki theatre, for a Bach festival program, are listed. Of recent years there
has been a marked interest in western music. The great concert artists of the world find some of
their largest and most enthusiastic audiences in Japan, while there are two symphony organizations
in Tokyo and one in Osaka.
Weekly 1llustrated papers devote a page to the Kabuki theatre, another to the modern stage,
another to the cinema. They contain pictures of Kabuki actors in favorite roles, photographs of
screen favorites both Japanese and foreign - and scenes from musical shows produced by Japanese, thus
showing very concretely the contrasts in types of theatrical entertainment popular in Japan. The
classic plays of the No drama are often presented by actors trained in the old tradition, while the
Kabuki theatre is most popular. Though some of the plays offered on the Kabuki stage have departed
from tradition, most of them are still characteristically Japanese in content and in presentation.
In the cities are also theatres devoted to western drama. The little theatre movement, whose aim
was the importing of modern foreign plays and the stimulation of similar productions among the Jap-
anese, began about twenty-five years ago, but it remained on a very precarious financial footing
until 1924 when the Tsukiji Little Theatre was established, and, in the following six years, suc-
ceeded in presenting l17 imported plays. Japanese playwrights have written successful plays showing
the influence of foreign technique and ideas. Musical comedies and revues are popular particularly
among the young people of the cities.
The developments just mentioned have brought with them changes of some significance in the life
of the Japanese woman. The girl swimmer in her brief costume, the feminine track champion in shorts,
appear to be a long way from the bowing young girl in the kimono greeting her father or her husband.
They are some distance even from the school girls of the last years of the Meiji period, as described
in the following account of an athletic exhibition given by the girls of the Peeresses School before
the wife of the Meiji Emperor:
Our royal guests watched our athletic exercises from beginning to end: Swedish gymnastics,
graceful minuets and square dances with orchestra accompaniment, and maple hunting - a dance
with purely Japanese music. About six hundred girls from five to seventeen took part in the
events of the day.
..
Even at this athletic meeting. . . the girls wore long-sleeved purple kimonos, red cash-
mere skirts, and high-heeled shoes. Only when it was absolutely necessary did we tuck up our
two and half foot sleeves with red or white silk bands. But in this fashion we performed the
Swedish gymnastics before Her Majesty! Our tucked sleeves were cumbersome, but they were beau-
tiful - streaming and fluttering, with the undersleeves of bright scarlet or pink adding to
the color.3
However, the outward contrast between these girls and the present-day feminine athletes of Japan
is no more marked than that between the American or European tennis players and swimmers of a few
years ago, and of today. Are the outward contrasts still to be observed in Japan indicative of an
inward conflict? Education, new opportunities for employment outside the home, new amusements and
recreational activities, would seem to open up a new mental horizon for the Japanese girl. One Jap-
anese writer observes:
The effect of all these forces upon a girl cast in the original mold of the medieval
tradition is incalculable. No woman who has ever mingled in the hurley-burley of economic
life, whose mental horizons have been brcadened by educat1on and who has contacted even the
surfaces of the modern world, can be again the limited creature that she was before. Her
life opens up in a thousand directions at once. New ideas creep in, new wants develop. old
restrictions are thrown out. She is refurbished in a hundred ways; most of them superficial,
of course, but a few profound.
2.
Information from Stein, op. cit.
3.
Ishimoto, Baroness Shidzue, Facing Two Ways, Farrar and Rinehart, Inc., New York, 1935:
p. 63.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
-83-
Yet in spite of the power and penetration of these disrupting forces the integrity of
the old traditions remain surprisingly firm. Their influence cannot be eradicated even from
the most Westernized Japanese woman. Quietness and self-effacement are her external qualities.
The formerly non-existent virtues of individuality, initiative and firmness are not easily cul-
tivated in a soil which is st'll conventionally inimical to them.4
The outward contrasts to be noticed in contemporary Japanese life are striking and picturesque,
but the significant conflicts lie elsewhere in the problems which modernization has brought to the
government, to international relations, to industry, and to agriculture.
The westernization of Japan's government involved developing parliamentary forms in the face of
feudal survivals, and modern government has been unable to resist completely the strong pressure
exerted by earlier clan leadership. Thus in spite of the "restoration" of the emperor, in spite of
his unique position in the Japanese state, he is so surrounded by a host of councillors and advisers
that he himself is not much more of an active factor in government than he was in the days of the
shogun and regents. Also, in spite of the machinery of parliamentarianism - political parties,
elections, and a national Diet - the Diet remains relatively powerless. Clan influences, not dis-
similar to those which shaped the essentially democratic governmental forms of China of the T'ang
into the bureaucracy of the Naii and Heian periods, have modified government institutions imported
recently into Japan, by adding them to the aristocratic bureaucracy which had been for centuries a
characteristic institution in Japan. However, parliamentary institutions do exist; they have as-
serted themselves at times and wrested control from the bureaucracy whenever strong public opinion
has been aroused in support of liberalism.
The modernization of Japan's industry involved industrial development on the basis of small-
scale feudal manufacturing, - which still persists. Paternalistic forms of control dating from feudal
days have been perpetuated in large industry as well as in small-scale manufacturing. Industrial
privileges have been granted to a few families, in much the same way as land grants were made in
feudal times; and thus financial power has come into the hands of these families not as a result of
competition, but as a gift from the Government. However, the proletariat of Japan, though small and
poorly organized, does exist, and it is possible that this group may cease to respond to the tradi-
tional forms of thought and behavior which are pressed upon them, and may take a more actiye part in
changing the conditions under which they live and work.
The farmers of Japan have been called upon to support the expensive program of political and in-
dustrial expansion. Their economic position has not been materially improved and they have been en-
couraged to continue to remain satisfied with frugal living. As a result the home market has not
developed in proportion to the industrial growth of the country. This has necessitated Japan's
search for foreign markets which has intensified the fierce competitive struggle of industrial na-
tions in the markets of the world. However, the literate farmers of Japan are becoming aware of the
way in which they have not shared in the prosperity of the country or in the profits of Japan's ex-
panding foreign trade.
This brief sumn.ary of the situations existing in government, international relations, industry,
and agriculture, shows that the conflicting currents in present-day Japan include more than the con-
trast between the new and the old, though this colors the whole, provides emotional drives, and con-
tributes to the tenseness of the general situation. But these conflicting currents involve as well
the struggle among various powerful groups - bureaucrats, army leaders, capitalists and landowners;
they include also the struggle between vested interests and the less privileged.
As illustrations of the conflicts among the groups in power, may be cited the differences be-
tween liberal political leaders and army heads; between army and capitalist families; between land-
owners and city capitalists. The more liberal political leaders, as we have seen, opposed military
expansionism on the Asiatic mainland; they questioned, for example, the high-handed actions of the
4. Sato, Kennosuke, The Changing Japanese Woman, in Contemporary Japan, Vol. III, No. 2,
8ept.1934:p.281.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
-84-
Kwantung Army in Manchuria and the disproportionate budgets demanded by the army, and they have
attempted to oppose the control of cabinets by the military. The army, many of whose younger of-
ficers were of rural birth, promised (in 193l-1932) to develop Manchuria for the benefit of the
people and to prevent the exploitation of the region by the capitalists of Japan. Thus the army
appeared to be opposed to the financial powers; but when it became apparent that the money needed
for the development of Manchuria could come only from the capitalists, the army heads ceased to em-
phasize the need of improving the economic status of all the people and began, instead, to admonish
the Japanese peasantry in familiar language, urging them to work harder and to be more frugal. When
the rural districts asked for relief, the government proposed measures which would benefit the land-
owners, not the poorer peasantry, and immediately the industrialists opposed this; they wished the
custom of favoring industry at the expense of agriculture to be continued. Thus landowners and city
capitalists were brought into opposition.
The struggle between vested interests and the less privileged was intensified when industry was
"rationalized," and industrial workers were thrown out of employment. Those who returned to the coun-
try brought new notions of unrest to the countryside at a time when the people of the rural districts
were themselves disturbed over their pressing economic problems. When great combines were formed,
thousands of small manufacturers and shopkeepers were squeezed out. When, under all these circum-
stances, the lower middle classes, the peasantry and the industrial workers showed signs of unrest;
when they began to respond as never before to radical propaganda, all the different vested interests
of Japan forgot their differences for the time being. They combined and presented a "united front"
against radicalism. Appealing to the traditional patriotism and sentiments of the Japanese, and us-
ing repressive measures as well, they "converted" young, radicals and brought them to see the error of
their ways, and won the support of the masses.
They were the more able to do this on account of the feeling aroused in Japan because of foreign
actions and opinions, a feeling kept alive by reactionary groups in Japan. The history of this feel-
ing goes back to the beginning years of contact with the western world, after 1853; emotions which
ran high long ago are invoked today and aggravate new irritations. In a recent book published in
Japan we read:
Heretofore, the world has witnessed the conquest, by the white peoples, of the colored
peoples. Japan, too, was once treated as if she were a dominion of the white races, having
been subjected to extra-territorial jurisdiction on the part of Occidental countries. Japan was
even forced by powerful foreign countries to return territory legitimately acquired as war
indemnity.
The author goes on to cite the refusal to grant the principle of racial equality in the Versailles
Treaty as another instance of insulting treatment, and says:
Our country has thus long put up with insults on the part of the white races, but we can-
not stand for such forever. In the Manchurian affair, Japan was completely isolated, 42 coun-
tries having unanimously ranged themselves against her.
Under the circumstances, our country finally withdrew from the League of Nations. At
present it stands in a solitary position, internationally speaking.
The foreign countries of late have been doing all in their power to exclude Japanese goods
by raising the tariff wall and adopting an import quota. They are also enforcing a racial ex-
clusion policy against the Japanese through prohibition of Japanese 1mmigrants and instituting
economic restrictive measures.5
All of these accumulated grievances, added to others such as the 5-5-3 naval ratio, and the re-
fusal of the world to accept Japan's idea of her "mission" in China, have been interpreted in Japan
in language which excites emotions. The Japanese press has played its part here in helping to weld
together the conflicting vested interests of Japan and to enlist the support of the peasants and work-
ers. (In matters touching foreign relations, there is little expression of dissenting opinion in the
Japanese press, though on internal affairs there is considerable freedom of speech.)
5. Quotations taken from translation in Contemporary Opinions, published by Tokyo Informa-
t1on Bureau, No. 54, Nov. 29, 1974.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
-85-
However, the conflicting interests are facts, and they remain very uncertain elements in the
metabolism of the country. Moreover, the apparent unification of Japan around a policy of narrow
nationalism has not occurred without violence. There are many super-patriots in Japan who regard
themselves as the modern ronin of the country, and who commit deeds of violence on their own ini-
tiative, or hire out their services to those who can pay them. There are also many societies orga-
nized for super-patriotic action, and the "blood-brotherhoods", or the societies, or both together,
have been responsible for many political assassinations. In l930, for example, Premier Hamaguchi
was shot. In February, l932, a former finance minister was assassinated; in March, Baron Dan, the
head of the Mitsui interests, was killed; and in May, Prime Minister Inukai was assassinated, while
"bombs were hurled at the residence of Count Makino, at the Tokyo policy headquarters, the Mitsu-
bishi bank, and the offices of the Seiyukai party, and an attempt was made to blow up the metropoli-
tan power stations. These acts were carried out by several terrorist societies, composed of young
naval officers, military cadets, students, and peasants." 6
From 1932-1935, the deeds of violence
were directed at newspaper editors and writers, many of whom were killed or injured; pressrooms were
attacked and machinery destroyed.
In February, l936, an outbreak of a new type occurred. Young officers and men of the Tokyo
garrison who were soon to entrain for Manchoukuo and who therefore had been engaging in night marches,
started out on what appeared to be but another night maneuver and hence attracted little attention.
It turned out to be, however, a violent attempt to purge the government of all undesirable influences,
of all who were not, in the opinion of the men involved, considering the welfare of the people, and
who were hence betraying the emperor. Marching to the house of Premier Okada, the soldiers called
for him and shot the man who answered the summons, supposing him to be the Premier. Entering the
bedroom of the aged Finance Minister, Viscount Takahashi, they shot him three times and then attacked
him with the sword, almost severing one of his arms. The minister, eighty-two years old, died a few
hours later of his wounds. General Watanabe, Inspector-General of Military Training, and Viscount
Makoto Sato, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, were killed in their homes, but Prince Saionj1, the last
of the Genro, was warned in time to escape death.
These deeds of violence sprang from a number of causes. The movement was purely an army one,
representing one side of army sentiment. The election which had just taken place had shown popular
support for liberal candidates, and many men opposed to Japan's continued expansion on the continent
of Asia had been elected to office. Young army men, stirred by the popular expression of disapproval
of policies initiated and supported by the army, took the method of violence to show their determina-
tion that the army should continue to control the government, whatever the expression of popular opin-
ion. The Finance Minister was assassinated because he had not supported the huge budget demanded by
the army. Viscount Makoto Sato was a liberal, and a former admiral, and the Japanese army and navy
have seldom agreed upon foreign policies.
The difference of opinion dates back to the days when the army represented the Choshu clan, the
navy the Satsuma; it has been fed by the navy's desire for over-seas trade - which would necessitate
a large navy - and the army's determination to win a continental empire for Japan. But one of the
commanding generals was assassinated at this time - because within the army itself there is division.
Younger officers of peasant birth are opposed to older generals of aristocratic descent, and being
peasants, they desire an improvement in the life of the farmers and thus feel that the army should
take an active part in internal politics. The premier was attacked because of the feeling that
civilian officials have played into the hands of industrialists and neglected the welfare of the
people. Whatever the various causes back of the assassinations, the aim was the establishment of a
military dictatorship under the emperor, and the sweeping away of all opposing influences.
6. Bisson, T. A., The Trend Toward Dictatorship in Japan. in Foreign Pol1cy Reports,
Vol. X, No. 25, February 13, 1935: p. 322.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
-86-
When these murders occurred, the world waited to hear whether a military dictatorship would be
established, or whether the rebels would be suppressed. The latter happened. A conservative minis-
try was finally formed, many of the minor rebel leaders committed suicide, and more important army
officers advocating the same ideas as the rebels were removed from the active service lists. But,
though the extremists among the army officers did not win at this time, other officers of the same
type remain on active service. Army pressure was recognized as the new cabinet was cautiously
formed. A decisive crisis has been only postponed.
The type of violent movements which have occurred in Japan has often been called fascist. Like
fascism elsewhore, the movement is opposed to radical social and economic reform; it uses terrorist
methods; it calls upon narrow nationalism, as well as prejudices against radicalism; it has "the emo-
tional appeal of sacrifice, in that it frankly admits the temporary necessity for hardships and even
suffering in the interests of the nation. . . It promises a glory of national triumph more than com-
pensatory for the initial sacrifices." 7
However, though any movement in Japan which may be la-
belled Fascism has these characteristics which distinguish European Fascism, there is in Japan no
separate Fascist army to force through, and support, a Fascist dictatorship. Moreover, "if the so-
cial basis of Fascism is rooted deep in the middle class, it can hardly flourish in countries where
that class has a short history, small power and few traditions. If Fascism is a device of the in-
dustrial and financial capitalists to defend their vested interests, 1t is likely to grow wherever
monopoly control is being challenged."8 In Japan, the middle class has a short history, small power
and few traditions, and in Japan the only challenge to monopoly control has come from the army,
which has been forced, because of the need of funds to develop Manchuria, to make a truce with
capital. Whether or not the trends to be observed in Japan are Fascist, they express the Japanese
struggle between the common man and the vested interests.
While this struggle is going on, the core of the reactionary point of view is expressed in the
words of the president of the House of Peers, "Many Japanese have now waked from their long period of
dreaming and have begun to advocate a return to ideas peculiar to that country." 9
A Japanese
writer, arguing against Marxism and Communism in Japan, expands this idea and says:
The Japanese Empire is a huge family, and the people are tied by close blood-relationships
into a tight spiritual unity. It is thus quite different from states in Europe and America
that have been organized to meet the rational needs of the people. The Imperial Family 1s the
head family, and all other families branch from it, tracing their descent either directly or
indirectly from the Imperial fountainhead. This is a characteristic of the Japanese state in
which we take pride. Instead of the principles of freedom and equality for individuals held
essential in occidental states, the Japanese rely on parental love and deep affection among
brothers and sisters. These feelings are more deeply rooted and permanent than the rational
claims for freedom and equality. Though dormant in the bosoms of the people in ordinary times,
they manifest themselves unmistakably in times of national emergency. Japan has adopted the
culture and institutions of the West to an amazing degree, but they have neither extirpated
nor changed the national spirit. All we need to do is to strengthen our consciousness of 1t.
Confucius, the great sage of the Orient, taught that filial piety is the source of all
other virtues. This is an eternal truth. To the Japanese, loyalty and filial piety are the
same; love between sovereign and subjects and affection between parent and child have a common
source. Through all ages this has been true. In its essentials, the Japanese social structure
1s not the exploiting organ of the bourgeoisie that the Marxists believe it to be. . .
Japan is at a crossroad. The national spirit will be conquered by capitalism and the com-
munistic doctrines sprouting from it, or it will triumph over capitalism and its evils. . . The
problem will be solved only when the cardinal principles of love and affection underlying the
family system, peculiar to the Japanese race, are reawakened in the minds of the people and
when our productive machinery, instead of benefiting the privileged minority, is devoted to the
welfare of the whole nation.
To bring this about, the people must be taught anew our traditional spirit, that they may
acquire unshakeable faith in it.10
pp.28-29.
8. Barnes, op. c1t., pp.32.
9. Contemporary Opin1ons, No. 54, Nov. 29, 1934: p.3.
pp. 448-451.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
-87-
In addition to generalizations of this type, there is a movement based on these and similar
ideas, which advocates a "Second Restoration." Supporters of this maintain that capitalists, corrupt
politicians and militarists have come between the emperor and his people; that all these elements
should be swept aside; that the emperor should be "restored" and, as father of his people, provide
for their welfare. To make this possible, all the people should return to agriculture and to the
simple economy of earlier times, to the forms of thought and behavior of the past.
Generalizations such as those quoted, or the impracticable propositions of those who advocate
the "Second Restoration," seem to be grounded in a strong desire to escape from the complex prob-
lems of the modern world, but they seem to take insufficient account of facts. The words quoted on
an earlier page, applied to Japan of the Nara period, appear not inapplicable today, as a description
of the type of facts which are not faced by those who wish a return to the life and ideals of the past:
It was too much to expect that a rich and varied culture could be, without difficulties and
breakdowns, borrowed from abroad and erected upon a social basis in which tradition was so strong,
and an economic base which was inadequate to support it.
In this period of difficulties, resulting from borrowing from abroad a rich and varied culture,
and erecting it upon a social basis in which tradition is strong and an economic base which is in-
adequate to support it, Japanese seek various solutions, and conflicting currents exert their influ-
ence. A personal interpretation of these conflicting currents is given in a recent book called Facing
Two Ways. The author, the Baroness Ishimoto, analyzing her own problems, casts light upon her hus-
band's difficulties as well, and indicates also the nature and strength of the various influences
affecting life in present-day Japan:
As I look back even over my short life I see there repeated challenges of the new against
the old, the perfect feminine in the old sense trying to put down the struggles of the new fem-
inine aspiring to express itself in a progressive world. It was my own mother who regarded it
as her great work to cast her daughter into the mold deemed so admirable by Occidental and
Oriental "philosophers." When mother bought a kimono or an obi for me, she was always partic-
ular to select one elegantly quiet in color and design. I was not to look younger than I was
actually; nor was I to be the focus of all eyes by reason of some splashing decoration in my
apparel. If my garments were costly, the fact was not to be too strident. My manner she hoped
to make accord with the refined modesty of my dress. A naive grace was the desired effect.
Even my speech was to be free of such assertions as "I think," "I like," "I want," "I, I, I..
the I never coming first, unlike the style of free Western girls. My mother warned me that I
must listen to others always, smile at whatever they said, and express as little as possible
of myself.
While my mother was eager to make a dainty bride of me, the man I married was writing in
his diary: ". . . I am not hoping that my wife, Shidzue, will be a baroness of the sort de-
picted in fiction or drama, leading an elaborate life amid luxurious surroundings; what I really
hope for her future is that she will concern herself with the great problems of her country-
women!"
After our marriage and while he found inspiration in working for labor, he watched with
interest my growth in social consciousness. As soon as we had settled in a cottage in the coal
mine district in western Japan, away from the traditions and complications of the old family
system in Tokyo and its guardian mother-in-law, my husband began his constructive task of edu-
cating his girl bride into a "real" person. He insisted on my changing my attitude even toward
him from a meek feudal wife to an alive, liberal and understanding companion. . . His persis-
tent call to me to rise from a stage "too delightful to behold" toward that of the "self-con-
scious woman" changed even my appearance.
After his long and hard effort to put spirit into a doll-like creature, and just as his
labor began to bear fruit. . . my husband said to me one day that he thought my appearance was
losing charm for him.
Now he frankly declared that the beauty of a Japanese woman lay only in her naivete. He
pointed to the delicate feminine pictures in the old prints, pronouncing them his ideal. What
a contradiction! After having so long admired the sturdy women of Millet and the powerful
masterpieces of Rodin! He who once had undertaken to educate his wife with a view to making
her as active and independent as any English or American woman was now gloating over Japanese
dolls in the old prints as types to emulate! But as my husband had always been ahead of his
time, so his reaction against liberalism was a sign of the newest national tendency. . .
In family life in Japan, as it must be everywhere, the husband's mental outlook directly
affects the life of his wife. This ancient truth, known to my ancestors of course, I now took
to my heart. Hardly had I become conscious of myself when I had to face this reactionary wave
at home.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
-88-
If the ensuing domestic problem and struggle had been but an isolated private affair,
my melancholy plight would have been of little moment as a story. But my story is a common
one among the present-day Japanese women who are trying to emerge from the condition of non-
resistance to events however meaningful and take their place in the shaping of events in their
own interests, in the interests of the race and of the nation. So in talking about myself, I
am really talking about countless members of my sex in Japan.11
The young Baron Ishimoto had been a radical and an idealist. He had lived and worked among the
people, and had encouraged his wife to understand social problems. He later became discouraged be-
cause of conditions about him and moved from progressivism to conservatism. His wife observes:
Having believed in the swift reconstruction of Japanese life from top to bottom, he was
unprepared for the slow and tedious march of events toward that goal. As the reactionary
forces at home grew bolder, he grew correspondingly discouraged and soon felt that idealism
had been irrevocably betrayed. Immediate realities curbed his imaginative flights and even-
tually he was completely overcome by the influences of his bourgeols environment. There he
was at last - a mere man of aristocratic urban culture, captivated by the conventions of his
own class! 12
Here we have a concrete picture of a Japanese who, under pressure of conflicting influences,
lost his courage, surrendered the liberal and radical ideas he had valued, and gave in to the
forces of reaction. Is this picture a typical one? Will a return to traditional forms of thought
and behavior serve as an adequate outlet for the conflicting currents in Japan today? Or will these
forces find some other outlet? The answer of course lies in the future, and any predictions which
might be ventured would be based on one's own philosophy and interpretation of history.
11. Ishimoto, op. cit., pp. 297-301.
12. Ishimoto, op. cit., p. 299.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
-89-
References for Teachers
(The following is a selected minimum list; a classified longer list may be found in A Short
Bibliography on Japan, published by the Kokusai Bunka Shinkokai (The Society for International Cul-
tural Relations), Meiji-Seimei-kan, Marunouch1, Tokyo, 1934)
Sansom, G. B., Japan, A Short Cultural History, The Century Co., New York, 193l. The indispensable
reference up to the Meij1 period.
McLaren, Walter Wallace, A Political History of Japan During the Meiji Era. Charles Scribner's Sons,
Now York, 1916.
Young, A. Morgan, Japan Under Taisho Tenno, George Allen and Unwin, Ltd., London, 1928.
Takeuchi, Tatsuj1, War and Diplomacy in the Japanese Empire, Doubleday Doran, New York, 1935.
Young, C. Walter, The International Relations of Manchuria, University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1929.
Quigley, Harold S., Japanese Government and Politics, The Century Co., New York, 1932.
Orchard, John E., Japan's Economic Position, McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York, 1930.
Japan Year Book, issued each year by the Foreign Affairs Association of Japan, Tokyo.
Industrial Labour in Japan, Series A, No. 37, Geneva, 1933. Published in the United Kingdom for the
International Labour Office of the League of Nations by P. S. King and Son, London; distributed
1n the United States by the World Peace Foundation, Boston.
Stein, Guenther, Made in Japan, Methuen and Co., London, 1935.
Maurette, Fernand, Social Aspects of Industrial Development in Japan, P. S. King and Son, London, 1934.
Robertson-Scott, J. W., The Foundations of Japan, D. Appleton and Co., New York, 1922. Contains a
series of observations of life in the rural regions; a sociological analysis which seems to be
the only thing of the sort available in English.
Crocker, W. R., The Japanese Population Problem, The Macmillan Co., New York, 1931.
Pacific Affairs, a quarterly magazine published by the Institute of Pacific Relations, 129 E. 52
St., New York, will be found useful, as will also
The Far Eastern Survey, published fortnightly by the American Council, Institute of Pacific Relations,
129 E. 52 St., New York.
(For translations of Japanese literature, see footnote references throughout the book.)

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.92)
Telephone, PLaza 3-4700
Cabls, Impare, New York
AMERICAN COUNCIL
INSTITUTE OF PACIFIC RELATIONS
OFFICERS
129 EAST 52D STREET · NEW YORK CITY
CARL L. ALsszRo, Chsirmen
WALLACE M. ALEXANDE, Vice-Chairman
MIs ADA L. ComstocK, Vice-Cheirman
Faik V. F. Secretary
CHARLEs J. ROAds, Tresssrer
Miss Hilda Austzan, Assistant Treasurer
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG 2 7 1936
August 22, 1936.
Department of State
Dear Dr. Hornbeck,
894.20211A/18
Mr. Field is now in California attending
the Iustitute Cor erence, and in bis absence we have
received your letter of the 14th in connec ion with
the textbook "Japan - Where Ancient Loyalties Survive."
I am holding it for his immediate attention on return
to the city.
Sincerely yours,
Kelew Thea
Helen Wiss,
Secretary to Mr. Field.
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Department of State,
Washington
98
7
FG

=== Page 122 === (confidence 1.00)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 7, 1937.
Mr. Secretary:
The papers here attached consist of
reports and communications giving account
of suspicious and/or objectionable conduct
on the part of Japanese visitors and
residents in the Territory of Hawaii; among
them are a letter from the Secretaries of
War and of the Navy to the President and a
letter in reply from the President to the
Secretary of War; and the top communication
is a letter from the Secretary of War sug-
gesting that the matter be studied by
representatives of the various interested
departments and requesting that, if you
concur, you give the name of an official
of this Department to represent you at
preliminary discussions.
The proposed discussions would
presumably be participated in by representa-
tives of this Department, the War Department,
the Navy Department, and perhaps the Depart-
ment of Commerce, the Department of Justice,
and the Treasury Department.
This Division suggests that its Chief
be designated by you to participate in the
discussions under reference.
SKH
FE:SKH/ZMK

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
WAR DEPARTMENT
reply refer to
WASHINGTON, D.C.
WPD 3675-5
JUN 4 1937
FE
Ail
S
1937 JUN
AM 10 13
Division of
The Honorable,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUN 1 0 1937
The Secretary of State.
NS
794.202112
Department of State
Dear Mr. Secretary:
With reference to the enclosed secret letter from the President,
dated May 20, 1937, (Enclosure 1), I am forwarding herewith, for your
consideration, certain secret information regarding objectionable and
illegal conduct on the part of visiting and resident Japanese in the
Territory of Hawaii. Since activities of the nature described in the
894.20211A/1
enclosed report are highly inimicel to the national cefense, repetition
thereof should be prevented or at least discouraged by the utilization
of all appropriate means.
I believe thet, prior to & formal meeting of the Committee
appointed by the President in Enclosure 1, it would be beneficial to
have this matter stu ied by representatives of the various interested
Departments, with a viow of cevisins ways and meens for putting an end
to the above-mentioned pernicious activities. If you concur in that
view, I request that you furnish the name of an official of your De-
partment to repre ent you during the preliminary incussions. Brige-
dier General Walter rueger, Assistant Chief of taff, Wer Plens Divi-
6
sion, vill reprer ent me end meake ell necessory arrangevents with the
representative you may appoint.
Your attention is particularly invited to the last paragreph
of the President's letter, which reeds as follows:
Confidential File
"The information transmitted herewith is of a
secret nature and must be so regarded."
Sincerely yours,
4 Enclosures:
Copy of letter from the
Presicent, May 20,1937.
Secretary of War.
Copy of joint letter to
the President, Oct.22, 1936.
Copy, Report of Local Joint
Planning Committee, Hawaii,
with Enclosures.
Opinion, Judge Advocate Geners1
of Navy, Sopt. 18, 1936.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
(COPY)
SECRET
TH& WHITE HOUSE
WASHINOTON
May 20, 1937
Seeret
Dear Mr. Seeretary:
with referenee to the joint letter whieh you and
the Seeretary of Navy sent to me, I believe that mome pras-
tieal solution to the problem presented can be worked out
through cooperation between the Departments of State, Treas-
ury, Justioe, Labor, Interior and, of course, War and Navy.
I am designating you as Cha irman of a Committee
to sonsist of the Seeretaries of State, Treasury, Labor,
Navy and War Departments, as well as the Attorney General,
to study this problem.
The information tranamitted herewith is of a
secret nature and must be so regarded.
Very sincerely yours,
/=/ Franklin D. Roosevelt
The Honorable
Secretary of War
Washington, D. C.
SECRET

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
(COPY)
SECRET
SECRET
WAR AND NAVY DEPARTMENTS
WASHINGTON
J.B. No. 504.
(Serial No. 593).
October 22, 1936.
The President,
The White House.
Dear Mr. President:
With reference to the enelosed report by the Local Joint Plan-
ning Comittee, Hawaii, subject: "Activities of Japemese Naval and
Civil Personnel in Hawall", whieh has heretofore been referred to you
informally by the Chief of Naval Operations, and upon whieh you re-
quested certain information by memorandum, dated August 10, 1936, to
the Chief of Naval Operations, your attention is respectfully invited
to the letter from the Aeting Secretary of war to you, dated August 29,
1956, covering your comments on matters in which the War Department
is primarily interested.
With reference to paragraph l of your memorandum, the Loeal
Joint Planning Committee, Hawai1, made no specifie recommendations in
this particular report.
With reference to paragraph 2 of your memorandum, lists of
suspects are maintained by those responsible for military intelligence
and mueh suspects will normally be the first interned in the event of
trouble.
with reference to the conelud ing sentence of your memorandum,
The Joint Board has for years suspected espionage activities on the
part of the indicated nation in the Pacific. Desirable as it my
seem to terminate definitely and completely these activities, which
are 1nimical to our national defense, The Joint Board has realized
that sueh an objeetive would be impracticable. It would involve
either the desigmation of the important strategical islands of the
Hawaiian Group as military or mval reservations and an increase in
the local garrimon in order to poliee effectively these areas, or
the closing of the important Hawaiian commereial ports to the commerce
of the world. Either one or both of the foregoing solutions to the
problem are considered too drastio and accordingly are not recommended.
The Joint Board, however, has consistently advocated reasonable and
effestive solutions to specific related problems. The following recent

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
SECRET
instances of War and/or Navy Department efforts to curtail espionage
primmrily in the Pacifie are cited:
Executive Orders No. 7404 and 7405 dated July 1, 1936 and
July 6, 1936, respectively, mend the civil service rules so as to
permit the Secretaries of War and Navy to employ civil service per-
sonnel outside the continental limits of the United States (except
the Canal Zone and Alaska) upon satisfactory completion of a non-
competitive civil service examination. Under authority of these
Executive Orders, it is expected that vacancies oceurring hereafter
in military or neval civil service positions in Hawaii will be filled
by selected citisens of unquestionable loyalty rather than by citizens
generally of alien extraction whose loyalty may be questionable.
During the 74th Congress, the War and/or Navy Departments
advoeated the enactment of the following bills pertinent in the premi-
ses:
a. S. 1815 or H.R. 5705, 1dentical bille *To require eer-
tain documents of vessels not wholly owned by citizens of the United
States and navigated in the Territorial waters of the United States,
its Territories or its possessions, to regulate vessels engaged in
the fisheries, and for other purposes." By the enactment of this
legislation, it is expected to gain more effective control over alien-
owned and alien-operated fishing boats operating in our territorial
waters and thereby eliminate mmny hazards to our national defense.
b. S. 4495 (Seetion 5 only) - A bill "To mend certain of
the mavigation laws of the United States to remove inoonsistencies
and inequalities therein, and for other purposes." Should the amend-
ment proposed in Seetion 3 of this bill be enacted, it is believed
that the effect will be to foree all vessels engaged in the fisheries
to beowmed in whole by citizens of the United States.
c. S. 92 or H.R. 3436, identical bills, "To prohibit the
making of photographs, sketohes, or maps of vital military and naval
defensive installations and equipment, and for other purposes."
By the enactment of this legislation, it is expected to control more
effectively the activities of free lance motion picture and still
picture operators in vital military and naval installations, where
the intent of the photographer is not necessarily so flagrant as
that contemplated under Seotion 1, Public No. 24, 65th Congress,
"Espionage Act."
-8-

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
BBCRET
d. None of the above mentioned bills, however, was passed
by the Congress - and it 1s accordingly recommended that similar
legialation be givem high priority on the President's legialative
program in the next Congress.
The Joint Board is of the further opinion that the Depart-
ments of State and Justiee would be interested in the attached papers
partieularly from the viewpoint of foreign poliey and proceeding
against the violators of the "Espionage Act," Publie No. 24 -65th
Congress and/or the Revised Laws of Hawaii, whieh the Judge Advocate
General of the Navy is of the opinion (oopy inelosed) have been viola-
ted by eertain activities deseribed in the report of the L∞al Joint
Planning Committee, Hawaii; that the Departments of the Treasury and
Laber would be interested partieularly from the viewpoint of implied
violations of the customs and immigration laws; and the Department
of Commeree in connection with the recommended legislation.
The Secretaries of War and Navy deem the curbing of espion-
age activities in the Hawmiian arem to be of the highest importanee
to the interests of national defense. They, therefore, urge that the
other departments of the Government concerned be enjoined to give
this matter their attention, in cooperation with the War and Navy
Departments.
Respectfully yours,
(Signed) Harry H. Woodring
Secretary of War.
(Signed) Claude S. Swanson
Seoretary of the Navy.
-3-

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.95)
COPY
SECRET
Froms
Lecal Joint Planning Committee.
To:
The Commanding General, Hawalian Department, Fort Shafter, T.H.
The Commandant, Jourteenth Maval Distriet, Pearl Harbor, T.H.
Subjeet: Report of Meeting, Local Joint Planning Committee.
1. The Committee met upon order of the Senior Member, at Fort
Shafter, 25 May, 1936, at 0980.
PRESENT
U.S.ADNY:
Brig.Gen. Daniel Van Voorhis, General Starf Corps,
*Celomel James A. Ulio, Adjutant Ceneral's Department.
Lieut.Col. Marshall Magruder, General Staff Corps,
Lieut. Col. George S. Patton, Jr., General Staff Corps,
Lieut. Col. S.J. Chamberlain, General Staff Corps,
*Major Frank X. Emery, Jr., Coast Artillery Corps,
Major R. C. Montgomery, Field Artillery,
*Captain Jos. J. Twitty, Corps of Engineers,
(*Not members of the Committee.)
L. B.Mav:
Captain D. M. LeBreton,
Commander W.K. Kilpatriek
2. The Committee proceeded to consider reports of the Assistant
Chief of Staff for Military Intelligenee, Hawaiian Department, and the
Distriot Intelligence Ofricer, l4th Naval Distriot, regarding the visits
of naval oil tankers and meroantile trainine vessels of the Japanese
Government to the Hawaiian Islands.
3. The reports incorporated the following facts:
a. In the twelve-month period ending May 10, 1936, 18 vessels
of the Japanese Government have visited these islands, by classes and with
dates as follows:
Navel Cruieers
Complement
Vessel
Port and date of call
orfieers
Cadets Grew
Asama )
Honolulu, June 15-19, 1935
145
174 1,877
Yakmo)
(These comprised the Naval Training Squadron for 1935)
SECRET
-1-

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.91)
SECRET
Yaseal
Pert and date of call
Ore Q C
Haval Oll Tankere
Sunesaki
Honolulu, Jume 14-19, 1985
Sata
June 29-July 1,1935
Sunesaki
July 14-19, 1985
000
Tsurumi
Dos. 4-7, 1986
12
165
Seta
Dee. 27/86-Jam.2/36
16
144
Omde
n
Jan. 20-22, 1956
18
155
Krimo
n
Teb. 25-26, 1936
16
142
Omdo
Hilo,
Apr. 16-19,1936
18
136
*Sata
Honolulu, May 24-27, 1936
Merosatile Trainins Veccale
Taisei Maru Hilo
Aug. 20-89, 1955
13
67
42
Kaiyo Maru "
Dec. 29/35-Jan.9/36
14
81
99
*Nippon Maru Kahulu1, June 8-14, 1936; Kealakehua, June 15-18, 1956;
Kailua, June 18-20, 1936.
*Seheduled.
b. It is portinent to remark that in the case of the oil tankers,
presmably interested in securing cheap fuel for the Japanese Navy, in
visiting Hawaii these mhips add an average of s00 miles to their trip. The
leth Naval Distriet gives the distances in nautieal miles over the usually
traveled routes and via Hawaii as follows:
Usual Route
vla Hawall
Yekohama-Seattle
4.255
8803
Yekohama-San Francisco
4255
8485
Yekohama-Los Angeles
4839
5622
e. So far as it is known, there 1s no valid exouse for these
visits, entailing as they do considerable extre expense due to added
milesge. It is true that while in port in Hawai1, the tankers take on
additional water, but the average intake is only about s5% of the capacity
of their tanks, while, since the extre distance is only about 2o greater,
it is patent that the tanks hold ample water for the direot run without
refilling.
d. The complements of all the tankers are members of the
Japanese Navy. On each trip one or two of the senior officers are
changed. When the "Onda" visited Honolulu in January of this year, her
captain had just completed a tour of duty as gunnery officer of the
Battle Fleet.
e. The conduct of the personnel while on shore is of interest.
The men and the officers are invariably taken on sight-seeing trips around
-2-
SLURET

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
the island and entertained by local Japanese. Many of the men and
officers are provided with exoellent cameras. During February the mmnager
of the Reyal Hawaiian Hotel notified local army and navy authorities that
without authority from the hotel, sir Japanese sailors from a tanker
ascended the tower of the hotel and were observed taking pictures of the
harbor and nearby fortifications with a very large camera. While later
investigation demonstrated that little of military value could be seen
from the tower, the attempt was none the less sinister in motive.
f. Particular interest attaches to the marked importance
visiting Japanese vessels attach to the island of Hawaii. Numerous
instanees have been reported by credible witnesses of whole convoys of
Japanese from these ships, equipped with cameras and sketehing hoards,
making the cirouit of the island and stopping at several points, notably
on the west of Kona coast, to take photographs. In the case of the
Onda's visit to Hilo in April, 1936, the crew not only earried out this
routine but actually took measurements of the Hilo doekaand made detailed
photographio studies of its fixtures. For further details see Annex No.
1. (Report of Major Gilohrist.)
. The attached letter from Mr. Alfred W. Carter, Managing
director of the great Parker Ranch and oe of the leading oitizens of the
Territory, with its inclosure from A.A. Akina, gives a vivid deseription
of one of these parties. See Annex No. 2.
h. It is further noteworthy that in every case the same local
Japanese invariably visit the ships and act as hosts and guides. For
details see Annexes Nos. 1 and 3.
1. On the island of Hawai1, which is ungarrisoned, only l0% of
the military male citizens are white Americans, that 1s 887 out of 8287;
while there are 2774 military male citizens of Japanese ancestry. In
addition, there are 2886 alien Japanese males of military age and 8688
filipinos. A comparison for white Americans of military age to all other
citizens of military age reduces the ratio from lo% to 4%.
j. To sum up, it may be said that the many years of observa-
tions indicate beyond any reasonable doubt that Japanese government
vessels, partioularly the naval oil tankers, adjust their schedules so as
to observe most effectively all special activities of the U. S. Army and
Navy. Examples: During the 1925 Joint Army-Navy exeroises, the Tanker
"Hayatomo" hovered on the flank of the U. S. Fleet all the way from San
Francisoo to Honolulu, and came into port here shortly after the conclusion
of the maneuvers. In May, 1928, three Japanese tankers visited Honolulu
during the period of joint operations and the subsequent visit of the
American naval vessels to Honolulu. In l932, the Tanker "Erimo" arrived
at Honolulu during Army-Navy exercises. Significant, too, was the fact
that she was then on route to California,the only tanker calling here on
her outbound voyage that year. The "Erimo" again, on January 10, 1934.
-s
SCCHC

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
"happened" to be in San Franeiesco at the take-off of six U.S. Navy planes
for Honolulu on the (then) longest non-stop formation flight ever
attempted.
k. Karly this year, Captain George H. Piltz, mster of the
Commereial Pacific Cableship "Diekinson", reported that the "Tsurumi"
on departing Homolulu on December 7, 1935, proceeded to Midway Island
arriving off the island about midnight December llth. She slowed down
to about S knots, proceeded to skirt the reef to the southward of the
1sland, then set course for Wake Teland and departed at an inoreased
speed. It was a bright moonlight night and the movements of the Tsurumi
were clearly apparent to the personnel of the cableship which was
anchored off Midway ut the time.
1. Factors favorable to espionage or counter-espionage on the
part of the Japanese tankers include the following:
Delivery of mail to and from Japan; there being no law
which prohibits this practice.
Regular visits by Japanese commissioned parsonnel to
certain Japanese hotels, tea-houses, shrines, temples, and
schools, suspected centers of espionage activities.
Many of the visiting Japanese naval personnel have elose
relatives among the local Japanese residents.
Liberty parties are eautioned against accepting favors
fron mon-Japanese or strangers.
All of the vessels are equipped with range-finders,
whish they use freely on entering or leaving ports; and they
are frequently observed sketahing and photographing dooks
and utility plants.
m. Aside from the espionage aotivities of the visiting
Japanese vessels, they serve as a direct medium of contact between the
Japanese residents of lHawai1 and their homeland, and the personnel of
these vensels are naturally looked to for interpretation of conditions
and evente in Japan. The visiting naval personnel make most
of the opportunity. Through leotures, moving pictures, exhibitions,
ete., is borme home to the local Japanese the "greatness" of Jupan, her
virility, and her absolute superiority over all other countrics. In
fact, every effort of Japanese naval personnel ashore here appears to
be deliberately caloulated to advance Japanese nationalism and to
cement bonds of loyalty.
n. On the west coast or Hawai1 between Ka Lae Point and
Keahole Point, a distance of about 70 miles, there are at least four
emellent landing plabes which in normal trede-wind weather are all
sheltered and afford easy approach. The belt roed which connects these
SFCRET

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
landing places and which is paralleled by the telephone line can be
easily interrupted. On this entire stretoh of coast there are only four
white men in whom we can place implicit confidenoe. The other inhabi-
tants are either apathetio or wholly hostile to our interests. These
considerations point to the faot that the Kona coast is the blind side
of the island of Hawai1 and gives point to obvious interet of the
Japanese therein.
o. While the distanoe from Yokohama to Hawai1 1s 3394 miles
(nautioal), the distance from the Mandate Island of Jaluit 1s only 2200
miles. Recently two French advanturers sailing the South Seas attempted
to land at that island, Jaluit, and were denied the privilege, and,
ascording to their own account, very roughly handled. 3o far as 1s known
here, mo foreigmer has visited the island for a number of years. The
route from Jaluit to Hawaii is one of the loneliest parts of the ocean.
4. After disoussion of the above points, it was decided that
these facts should be brought to the attention of the War and Navy
Departments.
(simed)
(Signed)
D. M. LeBreton,
Daniel Van Voorhis,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Brig.Gen. G.S.C. U.S. Army,
Member.
Seniar Member
(Simed)
(Signed)
Marshall Magruder
W. K. Kilpatrick,
Liout.Col., O.S.C., US Army
Commander, U.S. Navy,
Member.
Member.
(Signed)
(Signed)
S. J. Chamberlin,
G. S. Patton, Jr.,
Liout. Col., G.S.C., US Army
Liout.Col., C.S.C., US Army
Member.
Member.
(Signed)
(Signed)
Jos. J. Twitty,
R. C. Montgomery,
Captain, C.E., U.S.Army,
Major, F.A., U.S. Amy,
Recorder.
Member.
APPROVED:
(S1gned) H.E. YAHNELL.
(Signed),H.A. DRUM,
Rear-Admiral, U. S. Navy,
Major General,
Commandant, Fourteenth
Commanding,
Naval District.
Hawaiian Deparsment.
Inclosures: (with original only)
Annex #1 - 4 sheets.
Annex #2 - 3 sheets.
Annex #3 - 2 sheets.
Distribution:
0.0. Haw.ept. - 1 original and 2 copies.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
May 3, 1986.
MEMORANDUM: Assistant Ch1or of Staff, C-2, Hawaiian Department,
Fort Shafter, T.Il.
SUBJECT:
Report on the Visit or Japanese Naval Tanker "Onpo".
1. In compliance with memorandum your ofrice, dated Marolh 20, 1936,
the following report is submitted:
(a) The Imperial Japanese Nuval Tanker "OnDo" arrived off port at
Hilo, Apr11 16, 1936, ut 8:45 4M., and docked at Pier #2 at 9:27 A.M.
after a ten day trip from San Pedro, California. (Later mhifted to Pier
#1).
Description: Length overall: 460 feet, Beam 60 feet, Gross tonnage
weight: 7630 tons, Not 4480 tons. Coal Burner.
Cargo:
8000 tons Fuel 011.
Master:
Captain Michiaki Kamada, IJN, apparently about 40
years of age. Very large in stature for a Japanese.
Complement:
16 officers and l41 Enlisted Men.
Purpose of
Visit:
To take on water before continuing its journey.
Destination: Kara, Japan.
Departed:
Sa1lod from Hilo at ?:15 P.M., April 19, 1936.
The "ondo" belongs to the Imperial Japanese Navy and is attached
to the Japanese battleship to Kumu-Kan.
(b) The undersigned accompanied by lst Lieut. Geo. Selman, USA., and
Commissioned Warrant Ofricer Christianson, Commanding Officer, Usco "TioER",
made an official call on the Commander of the "ONDo" soon after doeking.
An intorpreter was aboard but seldom used as Captain Kamada spoke Eaglish
fairly well. o stated bis trip from Honduras (later corrected to Los
Angoles) was slow and tiresome, apologizing for the filthy condition of his
vessel. That this was hie first trip into American waters as his other
voyages were in the Crient, the Mediterranean Seu and European waters.
That he had been royally entertained by Navy officials while in San Pedro
and Los Angeles.
At 2:00 P.., same date, Captain Kamada, accompanied by an aide,
the ships chaplain and Dr. Yoshimura paid an official visit to Kilaues
Military Camp remaining about one and one half hours.
(c) The following aotivities and movements were observed or reported
and confirmed tnrough reliable sources:
(1) Immediutely after docking a delegation of Japanese (see In-
closure I) carryins flowers and packages boarded the "ONDO".
-6-

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
All were apparently expected as no questions were asked. Some
(1) were saluted by the seemen on duty, at the gang plank und his salutes were
(2) promptly returned indicating some acknowledged official capacity. The
(s)
) leaders appeared to be Dr. K. Yoshimra, Mr. X. Kawasaki and Mr. Xiyesaki.
(2) A sack of mail was taken aboard by two Japamese. The Post
Master at Hile stated this saek eame direet from Yekohame under closed
privileges and delivered uboard without examination.
(3) Second Liout. Em1l Osorio, E.N.0., reported the "ONDO" took
on se5 tons of water up to 9:00 A.M., April 18th. She was drawing ever
25 feet of water and wus overloaded at this time. She took on 100
additional tons of water before sailing. She was equipped with hand
water pumps exeept for boiler feed. The amount of water was estimated
to be sufficient for a sixty to eighty day aruise. Saw members of the
erew making drafts, photographs and measurements of the docks (see emelo-
sure (4) copy of report by Liajor Stafford direct to Dept. 0-2). The
"OND0" had a water capaoity of about 1,200 tons.
(4) Commissioned Wurrant Orficer Christianson, Comranding Offioer of
the US0o "TIGik", reported veriried sketohing, measuring and photographing
of dooks. Reported tho tuking off of packages by meabers of the "onmo"
crew whieh were subject to oustes examination and in violation of the
"Courtesy of the Port" which had been extended. Arrested the Japanese
fishing sampan, l1cense No. 3?-A-477, which followed the "OND0" in from
Honolulu, for not having the required papers. Owner of this sampan is:
Shimisu Matutaro.
(5) Mr. D. A. Devine, Fostmaster at Hilo, reported the seising for
oustoms examination and violation of postal regulations, packages mailed
or attempted to be mailed at Hilo.
(6) Mr. Leslie W. Branch, manager of the Hawai1 Telephone System,
furnished seven (7) copies of radiograms sent and received. See enelo-
sure 3 Numbers 1 to 7 inclusive.
(7) Mr. George K. Richardson, Polioe Inspector, Hilo, furnished the
l1st of cars with names of owners present at the dock awaiting the "ONDO"
(see enclosure 2). He also furnished the moves of visitors boarding the
"ONiC" while in port showing time spent aboard by princ1pal suspeoted
agents and sympathizers und those acoompanying Japanese crricers ashore.
(see enolosure 1).
(8) Officers and crew were entertained upon several occasions by
individuals and societies at homes and tes houses. Some of these made
the usual round the island trip. Interest was shown in waiamea and Kona
districts. Generally speaking the Japanese populace as a whole did not
appear to be overly enthusiastie in their reception of the "OnDo".
-7

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
(9) It has been reliably reported but unconfirmed at this time that
some members of the orew were seen with instruments in a home at Waiamea
making ranges and sketohes of that area.
This will be further investigated and reported later.
(10) Two U.S. Navy planes arrived in Hilo harbor about 10:45 A.M.
April l6th, alighted for about ten minutes then took off.
(11) It has been reported that Japanese vessels have the kabit of
switehing a part of their crew while in port. This was checked as far as
possible (as far) in this case but no switohing was reported. It is
interesting to note however that the immigration authority was conspicuous
by his absenee most of the time while the "OnDo" was in port.
(12) The "onDo" was granted the courtesy of the port by port
authorities.
2. During the stay of the "OnDo" in Hilo suspicion of the following
persons has been aroused by their actions as indicated:
(2)
(a) Mr. Kango Kawasaki: Reported to have a brother, who is
an officer aboard the "ONDo". He is an alien and as such is barred from
the practice of law, althoush a graduate of an American institution. He
is a leader of local Japanese. Entertained Japanese officers while in
port. Spent much time aboard the "OnDo". Habitual visitor aboard all
Japanese ships arriving in Hilo.
(1)
(b) Dr. E. Yomhimura: Reported to be a member of the I.J.N.,
Med-Res. Spent much time aboard the "ONDo". Car bearing the license
number in his neme, but not the make of car for which license was
granted, was seen with the Captain of the "ONDo" and three other officers
as passongers. Believed to have driven these officers around the Island.
Is very active among the Japanese populace. A frequent visitor to all
Japanese ships oalling at this port.
(c) Mr. Frank Arakawa, Assistant County Engineer. Reported to
be an ex-officer, U.S.A. Always found around Japanese ships in port.
Spont much time aboard the "OnDo" while absent from his duties because
of reported sickness. Is in a position to furnish vital information of
a geographical nature. Hold in general distrust by leading citizens.
(d) Mr. Shinoda, Salesman for Ruddle Sales and Service:
Always found around Japanese ships. Spent much time aboard the "OnDo".
(e) Mr. Ishikawa, Salesman for American Factors: Reported
to be a Captain in Japanese Aray Reserve. Was very much in evidence
aboard the "ONDO" prior to sailing.
SECRET

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
(f) Kiyosaki Brothers, local merohants: Spends much time
aboard all Japanese ships as well as the "ONDO". Known to have earried
documents aboard the "OnDo" and entertained the officers. (This may
have been for nothing more than commercial reasons.7
(5)
(g) Mr. Matsasakaya: Reported to be a book salesman from
Honolulu. Spent much time aboard the "ONDO" and was the only known
visitor from Honolulu. Seemed to be very welcome and much at ease with the
ships officers.
(6)
(h) Mr. Minoru Murakami: Loeal representative of the
"Mippu Ji-Ji". Seen driving one of the cars which carried Japanese
offieers around the Island. Quite a leader among the Japanese Populace.
(Two cars with Japanese officers as passengers were seen in the vicinity
of Hue-Hue Rank (Kena) on April 18th, by Mr. Roy Estes, manager,
Standard Oil Co.
(1) K. Omanaka: Drives a ramshackle model "T" Ford with
license No. 2l-669 meets all Japanese boats but confines activities
to the crew. Suspicioned of being a dope peddler and a contact man.
3. Conolusions: That the "ONDO" visited Hilo for the goneral
purpose of obtaining information, making contact with their loyal agents
and to take on suffieient water to permit cruising to units of the
Japanese fleet and Naval stations in the Pacific before proseeding to
Japan. That there are active Japanese agents in Hilo and that some action
should be taken to determine their status especially those reported herein.
That the officers were interested in the port of Hilo, Waimae District and
the Kona Coast. That the latitude granted foreign vessels in port is too
great for our own good and advantage is being taken of this. That some
action should be taken to rid the island of alien residents who have had
the opportunity to qualify for citizenship or those ineligible. That
there is an apparent laxity on the part of imigration authorities to
closely oheck illegal residence and entries on this island.
4. The following individuals had definite partial knowledge
of the assigned mission and were instrumental in obtaining the above in-
formation. All reports were corroborated and considered reliable.
Major Ben Stafford, Infantry.
Captain James G. Reidp Hilo Harbormaster.
Mr. Leslie W. Branch, Manager Hawaii Telephone System.
Mr. George K. Richardson, Police Inspector, Hilo.
Commisioned Warrant Officer Christianson,
Commander USCG "TIGER".
SEC
-9-

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
End Lieut. Emil Osorio, H.N.G.
Mr. D. A. Devine, Postmaster, Hilo.
(Signed) H. C. Gilehrist.
H. C. Gilchrist,
Major, Infantry,
Commanding, Hawai1 Distriet.
Inclosures:
1. List of Visitors
2. List of Cars and Owners
3. Copy of Radiograms 1-7, inel.
4. Copy report by Major Stafford.
5. News Clipping.
-10-

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Anner ¥2.
Alfred W. Carter, Trustee.
Cable and Wireless Address
"CAR", Honolulu
P.0. Box 277.
Honolulu, T. H., U.S.A. April 27th, 1936.
Colomel G. S. Patton,
Fort Shafter,
Honolulu, T. H.
Dear Colomel Patton:
I enelose herewith a letter fron Mr. A. A. Akina regarding
a visit of some Japanese officers to Waimea and also a statement re-
garding one of my employees at the ramch house.
I have learned from Hilo that a Japanese Oil Tanker left that
port on Sunday aftermoon, April 19th.
Should I obtain any further information, I will let you know
or if you would like me to make inquiry along any line, I should be glad
to have it done.
I regret that they did not got the automobile mumbers nor
the names of the local people who were in the cars. It would be easy
to get the name of the contractor and the Japanese owner of the building
in the course of construction but the drivers were not identified.
I presume this sort of thing is, to your knowledge, being done
all of the time and I don't know if you consider such reports of any
value. I send it for what it is worth.
Yours respectfully,
(Signed) Alfred W. Carter.
AWC:LB
Kammela, Hawaii,
April 25, 1936.
Mr. A. W. Carter,
P.0. Box 277,
Honolulu, T.H.
Dear Mr. Carter:
Acting upon information contained in your letter of the 23rd,I called
on Mrs. Kanakanui and she informs me as follows:-
-11-

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
On Sunday the 19th, some time between 7:30 and 8 e'elosk A.M.,
while she was preparing breakfast, her attention was direeted to 3 auto-
mobiles stopping directly in front of her house and in the back of a new
house under construetion. Three automobiles stopping in that neighborhoed
being somewhat of a rare oscasion naturally made Mrs. Kanakamui eurious,
so she watehed and from the 3 cars 10 Japanese men dressed in white wai-
forms, with white eaps and all wearing black capes or overeoats stepped
out. To Mrs. Kanakamui those men resembled naval officers. There were
also 3 mem in civilian clothes, presumably the drivers. One of those in
civiliam olothes was either the contractor or the owmer of the new house
for Mrs. Kanakamui has seen him on several previous occasions some there
to inspeet the work of the carpenters.
Some man in uniform, a tall person, carried with him from the
ear, what looked to Mrs. Kanakanui, like a 4 or 5 ft. length of 3 or 4
ineh pipe, others carried metal boxes similar to the usual tool or eash
bex type. There were several of these boxes. All went into the house
and through the window in the back room whiok commands a full view of
Waikoloa, Keamoku, Waikii, eto. this length of pipe was put to use as
though it was a teleseope, one man looking through and making motiems
while others took out large sheets of paper evidently from the boxes and
had them stuek on the walls. It looked very mueh like they were drawing
or writing on these sheets. The position of this pipe was changed several
times in order to take in the whole surrounding country ineluding the
hills back of Peter Ariole's. Mrs. Kanakanui olaims, that this performance
hadn't gone on more than about 30 or 45 minutes when the raneh milk
delivery car came and immediately the whole outfit in the mew house dis-
appeared from view but as soon as the milk car left Mrs. Kanakanui saw
every body standing again and the performance continued until about 1l
o'clock A.M. when they all left driving up towards Choek In's.
I questioned several others very casually on the pretense of
looking for some itinerant picture salemman who was selling pictures,
books, ete. without license and discovered that yesterday sometime your
yartmen, Ishida, with a man from Honolulu went to Edwin Lindsey's at
Waiake to see the 3 Japanese there. As near as I can find out the mission
of the Honolulu man was to take census among the Japanese and at the same
time give a pieture of the Mikado to those who wished to donate $2.50 or
$5.00. I could not obtain the name of the Honolulu man noe the reason for
the donation as the old Japanese at Edwin's cannot understand much.
I had also intended to contact Mr. Groves who lives nert door
to Kanakamui but he is in Hilo at present. Should I gather further
information will so advise you.
Very sincerely yours,
(S1gned) A.A. AXINA.
-12-

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.97)
Annex #5.
Hile, Hawaii,
Apr11 80, 1936.
J. Walter Doyle,
Celleetor of Customs,
Honolulu, T.H.
S1r1
In reply to your letter of april 27, 1936, reference to my
report on Mr. Kawasaki, I wish to state his contasts with the Japamese
Training Ships and Tankers always seemed suspieious to me. His actions
as well as his attitude bear out that signifieanee.
He has always been aotive with Reception Committees in welcom-
ing and emtertaining "Members of the Crew" especially the Cfricers.
Masters frequently refer to him for assistanee in their dealings with
local agencies. During the period I have been in eharge of this port,
there has developed meh suspieion against him. Other Federal Officials
expressed like sentimeats.
I have notioed that he is always on hand when ships arrive, and
is one of the first to pay his respeets to the Master. It is very
motieeable that he spends a lot of his time aboard these vessels. He
accempamies Officers on sight-segins tours on this Island with eameras
from the vessel, mot kodaks. I was onee invited to a beach pionio given
in homor of one of the Training Ships, at which he was Master of Ceremonies.
At the end of the celebration he gave a talk in Japanese whioh was
applanded with hearty "Bansale".
Om a mumber of occasions he has come to me for interpretation
of courtemy letters. He has constantly tried to find loop-holes in
them, and is always ready with seme alibi when he finds himself in
diffieulty. He really acts as go-between in this matter. His exeuses
are that they do different in Honolulu, Los Angeles and other ports where
these vessels have touehed, and it was his belier that different oustoms
regulatioms applied to the various classes of vessels with regard to
landing of packages. He claims thut I am too strict, and onoe inferred
that I might be exoeeding my authority. I have gone into this mutter
very thoroughly with him, on each occasion, and up to this time I have
received little cooperation.
In my dealings with him in the past, he has been very evasive,
and his attitude has been insincere. He has been in trouble with Customs
more than once at this port. On the last oceasion when I tried to have
him put his answers to my questions in black and white he employed
Attorney C. S. Carlsmith to represent him before answering.
He submitted his answers the day following our interview, and appeared
greatly relieved when it was over. He informed me that he had not
-13
SECRET

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
slept during the night thinking over the ineident. He also stated
at the time that he had lived s0 years in Hawaii, and loved this country
far better than Japan. This statement seemed quite uncalled for, as no
question was ever raised as to his loyalty. I impressed on him at the
time, that the only reasom for asking him for written answers was to
assure myself of me future misunderstanding, and that it would serve as a
matter of writtem record. He then apologized and offered his full eo-
operation.
Mr. Kawasaki is an alien. He is known as Attorney Kawasaki,
and listed in the Directory as, Kango Kawasaki, Attorney-At-Lew. I do not
know whether be is an Attorney, but Mr. Oarlmmith stated that he keews Mr.
Kawasaki went thru Law Sohoel. Mr. Thomas, of the Immigration Service,
stated he interprets for a number of applicants for re-entry permits, and
evidently charges a nomimal fee. His occupation may otherwise be classed
as Japamese interpreter. His business is in the legal profession, in the
preparation of legal papers and documents, sueh as Contracts, Deeds,
Abstracts, & Titles, Ete., but he is not permitted to practice in any court.
He employs a Japanese girl who 1s a Notary Public.
I have no conerete information relative to his comnections with
the Japamese National Govermment. I have gathered from conversations with
different people, whom I ean not recall at this time, that he received
Maval Training from the Japamese Government prior to coming to Hawaii. On
different occasions, I know, he received small gifts from High-Japanese
Officials.
In my previous letter, I stated that "I firmly believe him to
bepprominemtly conneeted with the Japanese National Covernment" his as-
tions, his connections, conversations with loeal residents, all tend to
build up a chain of oireumstantial findings which are the basis for my
convictions.
Respeotfully,
(Signed) R. H. Anderson.
R. H. Anderson,
Deputy Colleetor.
-14

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
(COPY)
Op-12A-CTB
Serial 598
(90)A8-5
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
M
Office of the Judge Advocate General
Washington, D.C.
SECRET
September 18, 1956.
From:
The Judge Advoeate Gemeral.
TO:
The Seeretary of the Navy.
Subjoet:
Activities of Japanese naval and civil personnel in
Hawali.
Roference:
(a) Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to the
Judge Advocate General, August 28, 1936, Op-
12A-CTB (SC) A8-5 SM0RET, 1nelos1ng repOrt of
Local Joint Planning Committee-Hawaii, May
25, 1956, and papers attaehed thereto.
Inclosure:
Reference (a).
1. In referenee an opinion is requested as to whether
or not certain of the subjest activities indicate violations of
existing laws of the United States for which the perpetrutors could
be proseeuted. It is further requested that in arriving at an
opinion on the above subject it should be assumed that (1) the Haw-
aiian aree involved is of such strategical charaeter that its de-
fense is deemed of first importance, and (2) that evidence is
available supporting the allegation that detailed information,
sketehes or photographs are being gathered or made.
2. An examination of the report of the Local Joint
Planning Committee of Hawaii and the annexes thereto indieate that
some of the activities complained of on the part of the Japanese
aliens and residents constitute violations of either the Espionage
Act of the United States (U.S. Code, Title 50, Sections 31, 32,
34, and 35), or ohapters 267, 294, 295 and 297 of the Rev1sed Laws
of Hawa11, 1925, or both. In this connection particular reference
is made to the incident in February, 1956, at the Royal Hawaiian
Fotel when sir Japanese sailors from a tanker ascended the tower
of the hotel and were obeerved taking pictures of the harbor and
nearby fortifications with a large camera, and the inoident of the
visit of the Japanese tanker Ondo to Hilo in April, 1956, when the
crew thereof not only took measurements of the Hilo dook but made
detailed photographic studies of its firtures. The other ineident
to whioh reference should be made is that reported by Mrs. Kana-
kanui, of Kamuela, Hawai1, of a number of Japanese who on April 19,
1936, ontered a new house in thet vicinity and took bearings on
surrounding points of interest.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
3. Under the Constitution of the United States (Artiele
4, Sectiom S, paragraph 2) Congress has the power to make all need-
ful rules and regalations respeeting the territory or other prep-
erty belonging te the Umited States. Acting under this authority
Congress has provided for the govermment of the Territory of Hawaii
(U.S.C., Title 48, Chapter S). In establishing the govermment of
the Territory of Hawail, Coagress as provided (U.S.C., Title 48,
Seetion 49s) that the Constitution, and, exsept as otherwime pro-
vided, all the laws of the United States, imeluding laws earrying
gemeral appropriations, whieh are not locally immpplieable, shall
have the same foree and effeet within the Territory of Hawaii as
elsewhere in the United States.
4. To aid in earrying out the laws of the United States
which are thus made applieable to the Torritory of Hawaii, Congress
has established in that territory a distriet court to comsist of
two judges (U.s.C., Title 48, Seetion 641), which court has the
same jurisdietion as the Distriet Courts of the United States, and
the procedure therein is the same as in a distriet court; and the
said judges thereof, distriet attorney, and mrshal have and exer-
eise in the Territory of Hawali all the powers conferred by the
laws of the United States upon the judges, district attormeys, and
marshals of distriet courts of the United States. (U.S.C., Title
48, Seet1on 648).
5. By virtue of the sequence of authority above out-
lined the Espionage Aet of the United States, above referred to, is
clearly applicable within the Territory of Hawaii, and any individ-
ual residing in that territory or elsewhere, whether a citisen of
the Umited States or an alien, who violates the provisions of the
Espionage Aet within the Territory of Hawaii is subjeet to proseeu-
tion in the Distriet Court of Hawaii.
6. In order to determine whether or not any of the ao-
tivities referred to in reference eome within the purview of the
Espionage Act, attention is invited to the following provisions
thereof:
(a) Any person who, for the purpose of obtaining
information respecting the national defense with intent or reason
to believe that such information is to be used to the injury of
the Dmited States; or to the advantage of any foreign nation "goes
upon, enters, flies over, or otherwise obtains information coneern-
ing any vessel, aireraft, work of defense, navy yard, naval station,

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
submarine base, coaling station, fort, battery, torpedo station,
deek-yard, eanal, railroad, arsenal, eamp, factory, mine, telegraph,
telephone, wireless, or signal station, building, offiee, or other
place conneeted with the national defense, owned or construeted,
or in progress of constructiom by the United States or under the
control of the United States, or of any of its officers or agents,
or within the exelusive jurisdietion of the United States, or any
pleee in whieh any vessel, mireraft, arms, munitions, or other mm-
terials or instruments for use in time of war are being made, pre-
pared, repaired, or stored, under any contrect or agreement with the
United States, or with any person on behalf of the United States,
er otherwise on behalf of the United States, or any prohibited
plaee * * *;"
(b) Any person who, for this same purpose and with
this same intent or reason to believe, copies, takes, makes, or ob-
teins, or attempts, or induces or aids another to copy, take, make
or obtain, any sketoh, photograph, photographic negative, blueprint,
plan, map, model, instrument, appliancc, document, writing, "or
note of anything connected with the national defonse;" and
(e) Any person who, for like purposes aforesaid,
"receives or obtains or agrees or attempts or induces or aids
another to receive or obtain from any person, or from any mource
whatever, any document, writing, code book, signal book, sketeh,
photograph, photographic negative, bluoprint, plan, mmp, model, in-
strument, appliance, or note, of anything connected with the nation-
al defense, knowing or having reason to believe, at the time he re-
ceives or obtains, or agrees or attempts or induces or aids another
to receive or obtain it, that it has been or will be obtained, taken,
made or disposed of by any person contrary to the provisions of this
title; * * *shall be punished by a fine of not more than $10,000, or
by imprimonment for not more than two years or both." (U.S.C., Title
50, Seetion 31).
7. In addition to the foregoing this Act further provides
that any person who, with intent or reason to believe that it is to
be used to the injury of the United States or to the advantage of a
foreign nation "communicates, delivers, or transmits, or attempts to,
or aids or induces another to, communicate, deliver, or tranamit,
to any foreign government, or to any faction or party or military or
naval force within a foreign country,* * *or to any representative,
-3

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
offiee, agent, employee, subjeet, or eitisen thereof, either direstly
or indirectly, any document, writing, eode book, signal book, sketeh,
photograph, photographic negative, blueprint, plan, mp, model, note,
instrument, appliance, or information relating to the mational de-
fense, shall be punished by imprisomment for not more than twenty
years;* * *." (U.S.C., Title 50, Sestion 52.)
8. Amother seotion of this same Act provides that if two or
more persons eonspire to violate the provisions of Sestion 32 or 85 of
this title, and one or more of sueh persons does any aet to effeet
the object of the conmpireey, each of the parties to much conspiraey
shall be punished by imprisonment for not more than twenty years. And
if they con mpire to violate the provisions of any seetion of the Aet
and do any met to effeot the objeet of the conspiraey they shall each
be punished by imprisonment for two years. (U.S.C., Title 50, Section
54.)
9. It will be noted from the foregoing that the Kspionage
Aot is very broed and comprehemsive. It not only eovers all eases
where individuals go upon or fly over any mavy yard or maval station
for the purpose of obtaining information respeeting the national de-
fense with the intent that the information so obtained is to be used
to the injury of the United States, but it also prohibits them from
making any sketeh, photograph, photographic negative, blueprint,
writing or note of anything conneeted with the national defense for
this purpose. In fact the various provisions of this Ast are so com-
prehensive that it is praetieally impossible to explein them exeept
in the exaet language of the Aet.
10. Having in mind the instruetions contained in reference
that (1) the Hawaiian aree inrolved is of sueh strategical character
that its defense is deemed of first importance, and (2) that evidence
is available mupporting the allegation that detailed information,
sketches or photographs are being gathered or made, it is the opinion
of this ofrice that the provisions of the Espionage Act are surfi-
ciently comprehensive to cover such cases and that the perpetrators
of the ineident in the tower of the Royal Hawaiian Hotel, as well as
the incident reported by Mrs. Kanakanui, are subject to prosecution
under the provisions of the Espionage Aot, provided they may be found
within the jurisdietion of the United States and returned to the ju-
risdiction of the District Court of Hawail.
11. Acting under the authority conferred upon it by Congress
the Legislature of the Territory of Hawal1 is empowered to enact legis-
lation not ineonsistent with the constitution and laws of the United
States applicable to the Territory of Hawai1. (U.S.C., Title 4s,
Section Bes.) In the exeroise of this power the Legislature of the
4

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Territory of Hawaii has created the crime of syndicalism, which it defimes
as a doctrine advocating crime, sabotage, violence or other umlawful meth-
ods of terrorism as a means of accomplishing industrial or political ends.
Under this law, any person who by word of mouth, or writing, advecates
or teaches the duty, necessity, or propriety of crime, sabotage,
violence, or ther unlawful methods of terrorism as a means of
accomplishing industrial or political ends, or who prints, pub-
lishes, edits, issues, or knowingly circulates, sells, distributes,
or publicly displays any book, paper, cocument, or written matter
in any form, containing or advocating, advising, or teaching this
doctrine, or helps to organise, or becomes a member of or volun-
tarily assembles with any society, group, or assemblage of
persons formed to tench or advocate this doctrine is guilty of a
felony and punishable by imprisonment for not more than ten years
or by a fine of not more than five thousand dollars or both.
(Section 4357, Revised Laws of Hawaii, 1925).
12. The assembling of individuals together for the
purpose of advocating syndicalism is also made a fslony which is
punishable by imprisomment for not more than ten years or by a
fine of not more than five thousand dollars or both. Even the
use of & building for this purpose is made a misdemeanor and the
owner or those charged with the care and upkeep of such building
who wilfully and knowingly permit its use for such purpose are
punishable by imprisomment for not more than one year or by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars or both. (Sections
4358, 4359, Revised Laws of Hawai1, 1925).
13. The Legislature of Hawaii has also made it a mis-
dememmor for any group of persons to organise, form, or maintain
any secret association for any purpose whatever, unless they have
obtained a license from the Governor for this purpose. Any vio-
lation of this license subjects it to being revoked by the Governor.
Any recret association formed without a license constitutes a mis-
demeanor and upon the conviction of the individuals who form it
they shall be punished by imprisomment not to exceed three months
or by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars or by both. The
owner of the building who permits an unlicensed seoret association
to assemble within such building is also guilty of a misdemeanor
and subject to imprisomment not to exceed six months, or by a fine
not to exceed two hundred dollars or by both. (Sections 4515-4521,
Revised Laws of Hawaii, 1925).
14. In addition to the foregoing, the Legislature of the
Territory of Hewai1 has provided that any individuals who associate
themselves together with others within the limits of the Territory
as a military company or organisation for military purposes or to
give or receive military instruction, other than those belonging to
the regularly organised milite y and naval forces of the United
States, or of the Territory, without the written permission of the
Governor, which he may at any time revoke, shall be guilty of a
misdemeaner and upom conviction thereof shall be fined not less than
one hundred dollars nor more than five humdred dollare, or imprisomed
for a term not to exeeed six months, or both. (Section 4523, Revised
Laws of Hawaii, 1925).

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
15. In this connection, attention is specifically invited
to Section 4527 of the Revised Laws of Hawal1, 1925, which provides
that any person (a) who shall at any time or place within the Terri-
tory use amy language in the presence or hearing of another of or con-
cerning the government of the United States of America, or of end
concerning the Ary, Navy, or Marine Corps of the United Stetes,
which language shell be comtemptuous or disloyel to the United
States of America, or abusive in its charecter, or calculated to
bring into disrepute or contempt the United States of America, the
Army, Navy, or Merine Corps of the United States of America, or (b)
who shall commit any act or use any language of such isloyal nature
as shell be ressonably calculated to ceuso a breach of the peace, or
who shall use such comtemptuous or disloyal language ef or concerning
any flag, standard, color or ensign of the United States of America, or
concerning the uniform of the Army, Navy, or Marine Corps of the
United States of Americe, or (c) who shall either individually,
jointly with another or others, or as part of a general propagenda
make or publish or circulate any book, pamphlet, picture, paper,
letter, writing, print, or other publication calculated to bring
into isrepute or contempt the United States of America, or any flag,
standard, color or ensign of the United States of America, or (d)
who shall publicly or privately mutilate, deface, defile, insult
or tramp upon any flag, standard, color or ensign of the United States
of America, or any representative thereof, "shall be guilty of a
felomy and shall be punished by & fine of not less than one hundred
dollars nor more than one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment at hard
labor for not less than one year nor more than ten years, or by both
fine und imprisonment."
16. The forogoing analysis of the Acts of the Legisla-
ture of Hawai1 on the subject of syndicalism, unlicensed secret
associations, unauthorised militery organizations, and disloyalty,
discloses thet, while these laws cover a field entirely apart from
that covered by the Espionage Act, they supplement it most effectively
and present e further avenue of approach to the problems submitted
in reference. Under this set-up an incident or a situation occurring
in the Territory of Hawaii may constitute an offense under both the
Espionage Act and the Territorial Acts ebove analyzed. Where this
condition exists, all that remaine to be done is to enforce that
Act which would be most likely to mete out an e propriate puniehment.
17. To aid in the effective administration of the laws
enacted by the Legislature of Hawaii, Congrees has created a complete
judicial system for the Territory vesting the judicial power thereof
in one supreme court, circuit courts, and in vuch inferior courts
as the Legislature may from time to time establish. (U.S.C., Title
48, Section 631). The justices of the supreme court and the judges
of the circuit courts of Hawaii are appointed by the President of

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
TET
the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, and mey be removed by him. (U.S.C., Title 46, Sections
632-633). As the judges of the District Court of Hawaii are also
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and comsent of
the Senate, and may be removed by him, both the territorial and
the district judges are indirectly under the jurimdiction of the
President of the Umited States to such an extent that if they fail
to perform their judicial duties in connection with the enforcement
of the laws above referred to they are immediately subject to re-
moval by him.
18. In this connection, it should also be remarked that
the Govermor of the Territory of Hawali, in whom all executive
territorial functions are ledged, is also appointed by the Presi-
dent, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, for a term
of four years and until his successor has been appoimted snd
qualified, unless seemer removed by the President. (U.S.C.,
Title 48, Section 53l). As hereimbefore noted, the District
Attorney for the District Court of Hawaii and the United States
Marshal for that district are also appointed by the Prosident of the
United 3tates and subject to removal by him. Under these ciroum-
stances, the Federal Government of the United States should not
experience any extraordinary difficulty in securing a most effec-
tive administration of the Espionage Act and the Acts of the Legis-
lature of the Territory of Hawaii, above referred to. Assuming
that a situstion now exists in the Territory of Huwaii such as is
described in reference, this office is of the opinion such situs-
tion is directly dependent on the uality or effectiveness of
the administratin and execution of the Netionel and Territorial
laws applicsble to these problems.
19. On the general question of the administration of the
laws above anelyzed and the , rosecution of cases arising thereunder,
attention is invited to certain provisions of the Treaty of Commerce and
Navigation entered into between the United States and Japan in l9ll
(37 Stat. 1504), which have & direct bearing thereon. In Article I of
this Treaty liberty is conferred upon subjects of Japan "to enter, travel
and reside in the territories" of the United States to "carry on trade,
wholesale and retail, to own or lease and occupy h uses, manufactories,
warehouses and shops, to employ agents of their choice, to lease land for
residential and commercial purposes, and generally to do anything incident
to or necessary for trade upon the same termases native citisens" of the
United States, subject to the laws and regulations established in such
territories. Under this Article subjects of Japan may not be compelled,
under any pretext whatever, to pay any charges or taxes ether or higher
than those that are or may be paid by citisens of the United States.
20. The subjecto of Japan shall receive in the terr1-
tories of the United States "the most constant rotection and se-
curity for their persons and property, and shall enjoy in this
respect the same rights and privileges as are or may be granted to
netive citizens" of the aited States, on such Japamese submitting
SFC

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
themselves to the conditions imposed upon such citizens. while in
the territory of the United States the subjeots of Japan shall be
exempt from compulsory military service, either on land or sea, in
the regular forees, or in the national guard, or in the militia,
and from all contributions imposed in liou of personal service, and
from all foreed loans or military emctions or ontributions.
(Artielo I).
£l. Under Artiole II of this Treaty the dwellings, ware-
houses, manufacturies and shops of the subjects of Japan in the
territories of the United States, and all premises pertaining there-
to used for purposes of residence or commeree by the Japanese,
shall be respected. "It shall not be allowable to proeeed to make
a demieiliary visit to, or a seareh of, any such buildings and
premises, or to examine or inspect books, papers or accounts, exeept
under the conditions and with the forms preseribed by the laws,
ordinances and regulations for nationals" of the United States.
22. There shall be reoiprocal freedom of commeroe and
mavigation between the territories of the United States and Japan.
The subjeets of Japan "egually with the eitizens or subjeots of
the most favored nation, shall have liberty freely to come with their
ahips and cargoes to all places, ports and rivers in the terri-
tories of the other which are or mey be opened to foreign commeree,
subject always to the laws of the country to which they thus come".
(Artiole IV).
23. The import duties on artieles, the produce or mnufac-
ture of the territories of Japan, upon importation into the terri-
tories of the United States, shall be regulated either by treaty be-
tween the two countries or by the internal legislation of each.
Nor mhall any prohibition be imposed by either country on the impor-
tation or exportation of any article from or to the territories of
the other which ahall not oqually extend to a like artiele imported
from or exported to any other country. This last provision is not,
however, applicable to prohibitions or restrietions maintained or
imposed as sanitary moasures or for purposes of protecting animals
and useful plants. (Article V).
24. Subjocts of Jupan shall enjoy in the territories of
the United Stetes a perfect equality of treatmant with citizens or
the United States "in mll that relates to warehousing, Counties,
facilities and drawbacks". (Artiole VI).
-8-

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
25. All items whieh are or may be legally imported into or
exported from the ports of the United States in the vessels of other
foreign countries may likewise be imported into or exported from
those ports of the United States in Japanese vessels in the same
manner as if sueh items were imported or exported in vessels of the
United States. Sueh resiprosal equality or treatment is required by
this Artiele of the Treaty to take effest without distinetion re-
gardless of whether sueh items come direetly from the place of origin
or from any other foreigm place. (Artiele VIII).
26. In all that regards the stationing, loading and un-
loading of vessels in the ports of the territories of the United
States no privileges shall be granted by the United States to its
vessels whieh are not equally in like cases granted to Japanese
vessels, the intent being that in these respeets "the respective
vessels shall be treated on the footing of perfeot equality".
(Artiele IX). And merohant vessels navigating under the flag of
Japan and earrying the papers required by the national laws of
Japan to prove their nationality shall in the United States be deemed
to be vessels of Japan. (Artiele X).
27. Japanese vessels charged with performance of regular
scheduled postal service, whether belonging to the State or subsi-
dized by it for the purpose, shall enjoy in the ports and territories
of the United States the same facilities, privileges and immunities
as are granted to like vessels by the United States of the most
favored nation permitted to perform regular seheduled postal service.
(Artiele XII). The coasting trade, however, of the United States,
is exsepted from the provisions of this Treaty. (Artiele XIII).
Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Treaty, however, it is
required that in all that coneerns commeree and mavigation, any privi-
lege, favor or immunity which either eontracting party has actually
granted to the citizens or subjects of any other State shall be ex-
tended to the subjects of Japan gratuitously, if the coneession in
favor of the other State shall have been gratuitous, and on the same
or equivalent conditions, if the coneession shall have been conditional.
(Artiole xIv).
28. In accepting this Treaty the Japanese Ambassador in
Washington, D.C., stated that he had been duly authorised by his
Government to deolare that the Japanese Government is fully prepared
to maintain with equal effeetiveness the limitation and control which
it has for the past three years exeroimed in regulating the emigra-
tion of laborers to the United States. With this exeeption the
-9-

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Treaty of Commeree and Navigation entered into between the Uaited
States and Japan in l9ll continues in full force and effeet at the
prement time.
29. There is one provisiom above noted in conneetion with
Artiele IV of this Treaty whieh sheald be emphasized which is that
the liberty granted to the Japamese freely to come with their ships
and eargoes te all places, ports and rivers in the territories of
the Umited States whieh are or my hereafter be open to foreign com-
merse is "subjeet always to the laws" of the United States. In
other words the liberty granted by this treaty to subjeets of Japan
in the Umited States does not authorise them to violate either the
Espiomage Aet or the territorial laws relating to syndiealism,
illegal seeret associations, illegal erganizations for military pur-
peses, or disloyalty. However, in the administration of these laws
and prosecutions thereunder eare should be taken to see that these
treaty provisions are not violated and that the rights of the
Japanese secured thereby invaded. This should not be permitted to
impede or obstruet in any way the administration of the laws nor
prevent the prosecution of any or all Japanese who are found to
have violated these laws, or to be violating them either at this
time or at any future time.
50. It is perfectly obvious, however, that mo long as
this treaty is in foree certain drestic measures can not legally be
adopted, sueh as prohibiting all Japanese vessels from touching
all ports in the Territory of Hawail unless the vessels of all
other foreigm countries are prohibited from touching at these ports.
Likewise, subjects of Japan who are now in this Territory or who
may hereafter desire to enter it for the purpose of carrying on pur-
suits of commeree and navigation may not be prevented from so doing
unless their presence is otherwise shown to be undesirable, as in
the ease where they have been found to be plotting against the mov-
ereignty of the United States, or their presence is inimical to the
peaee and good order of the community.
3l. The following activities of the Japanese maval and
civilian personnel in the Territory of Hawail, with particular refer-
ence to the Island of Hawaii, are noted in reference and the annexes
attached thereto:
(A) Visit of Japanese ships.
(1) Japanese Naval Training Squadron for 1955,
Honolulu, June 15-19, 1955.
-10-
SECRET

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
(2) Visit of a mmber of mval oil tankers to
Homelulu between June 14, 1955, and May 24, 1986,
both dates inelusive.
(S) Visit of Mereantile training vessels at the Island
of Hawa11 between August 80, 1935, and June 18,
1956, both dates inelusive.
(B) Cenduet of persommel of visiting Japanese vessels while
on shore.
(1) Ineidemt at Royal Hawaiian Rotel.
(2) Conveying to loeal Japanese, both alien and native,
the greatness of Japan, her virility, and her ab-
solute superiority over all other countries, through
leetures, moving pistures, and exhibitions.
(C) Conduet of eivilian personnel on the occasion of visits
of Japanese vessels.
(D) Visit of the Japanese navy oil tanker Ondo at Hilo,
Island of Hawa11, April 16-19, 1936.
32. An exemination of the ciroumstanees surrounding the
visits of the Japanese ships to the Hawaiian Islands emumerated under
(A) does not indieate that any of these visits were made for the pur-
pose of sommeree and trade, as covered by the United States - Japanese
Treaty of l9ll, above cutlined. Unless the visits of these vessels
come under the provisions of this Treaty they may very properly be
made a subjeet of diplomatie representations by the United States to
the Japemese Govermment for the purpose of restrieting such visits
in the future to occurrences of necessity.
55. The conduot of the personnel of Japanese vessels while
on shore in the Hawaiian Islands, with particular reference to (B)
(1) and (2), appears to be reprohensible. The incident in the tower
of the Royal Hawaiian Hotel, as reported in reference, is apparently
a violation of the Espionage Aet and it also appears that these in-
eidents enumerated under (B) (2) violate one or more of the provisions
of the laws of the Territory of Hawmii, above analyzed. It appears
that the necessary administrative precautions could be taken by the
Territorial Gevernment to prevent the recurrence of sueh ineidents
in the future or to apprehend and prosecute the perpetrators thereof
under the appropriate provisions of law.
-11-

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
34. The conduet of some of the civilian populatien  the
Hawaiian Islands in connection with these visits by Japanese vessels,
as reported in referense and the annexes thereto, indisates that the
members of these groups are violating either the Espionage Act or
the laws of the Territory of Hawai1 comeerning syndiealism, 1llegal
secret associations, illegal organisations for military purposes and
disloyalty, or both the Federal and Territorial laws. The importanse
whieh these visiting Japanese vessels attash to the Island of Hawai1
and the fact that the Japanese oil tanker Tsurumi went out of her
way to seout the Midway Island indicate that their purpose is inimi-
cal to the national defense of the United States.
35. The conduet of the personnel of the Japanese Navy
tanker Ondo on the occasion of her recent visit to the Port of Hilo,
Island of Hawai1, Apr1l 16-19, 1936, appears to have been sueh a
display of contempt for the sovereignty of the United States as to
require special consideration. The acts of mking drafts, and tak-
ing photographs and measurements of the docks at Hilo are reprehensible.
The membere of the crew in taking ashore packages without clearing
through Customs obviously violated the Revenue Laws of the United
States. The taking of ranges and the mking of sketehes of the aree
of Waimee by the crew of the Ondo, as reported in annexes (1) and (2),
are clearly violations of the Espionage Act.
36. Other matters reported in reference and the annexes
thereto indieate that a thorough investigation into all phases of
these activities, especially those occurring on the Island of Hawail
would be appropriate. The visit of the Japanese Navy oil tanker Ondo
at the port of Hilo, in April, 1936, could be brought to the atten-
tion of the Department of State, with a request that this matter be
investigated further by that Department to the end that it may be
made the besis of diplomatie representations to the Japanese Govern-
ment, pointing out that such visits are objectionable to this Govern-
ment and that in the future they will not be permitted, exeept under
sueh ciroumstances as Japanese men-of-war are permitted to visit
Ameriean ports.
37. It is not believed that any additional statutory
authority is necessary to permit e proper handling of such activities
as have been reported in reference, nor is any additional legislation
recommended. This situation might well be brought to the attention of
the President of the United States to the end that he may, through
the proper departments of Government, communieate with the Governor of
the Territory of Hawaii and the Federal and Territorial officials
-12-

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
appeinted by him in that Territory, directing them to investigate
and to take such measures as my be mecessary to bring to justiee
all violators of either the Espionage Aot or the laws of the Terri-
tory of Hawmii.
38. Sumarising, this office is of the opinion that ex-
isting laws are suffieient in general to protect the interests of
the United States, and that action depends primarily on proof as
to fast and on a disposition to aot.
(Signed) G. J. ROWCLIFF.
APPROVED Soptomber 18, 1936.
(Signed) Claude A. Swanson,
Secretary of the Navy.
-13-

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.85)
OF STATE
FICE OF
NATION AND REVIEW
JUNE?
Jugy 9th was set5
envelofed
War under doieble-
cover marted
be delwend ty thand Juey 10
a.m.
on1
Jinng

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.96)
June 9 1937
In reply refer to
FE 894.20211A/19
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Dear Mr. Seeretary:
In reply to your letter of June 4 cemmunieating
seeret information regarding objestionable activities
on the part of visiting and resident Japanese in the
894.
Territory of Hawaii, suggesting that this matter be
studied by representatives of the various interested
20
departments, and requesting that I designate an offieial
2
of this Department to represent me during the prelimimary
diseussions, I have the honor to inform you that I am
A
naming the Chief of the Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
6
Mr. Stanley I. Hornbeek, to participate in the prelimi-
nary diseussions to whioh you refer. I assume that you
will at your convenienee sumon a meeting of the officials
who may be named by the various departments for the pur-
pose under reference.
I have made note of the point to which you call
attention in the conoluding paragraph of your letter
Tile
under acknowledgment.
Sineerely yours,
Cordell Hull
d origi-
The Honorable
Harry H. Woedring,
Seeretary of War.
FESIH
6/7/37
FE:SKH/ZMK

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.94)
CHARLES M. GOETHE
AN LEGION
(AN)
California Joint Immigration Committee
HON. U. S. WEBB
D. VANDELEUR
85 SECOND STREET
EIVE
Pnone GAapiBld 2697
IT OF
V. . MeCLATCHY
JOHN T. REGAN
San Francisco, Cal.
GRAND SEC'Y NATIVE SONB
OF THE GOLDEN WEST
1937 JUL 12 PM 1 59
July 6, 1937
920
894.20211a
FA LASTRS
Hon. Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
150.946/431
Dear Mr. Secretary:
894.20211A/20
In our statement of June l8th, on page 4 thereof, there was omitted in
footnote 2-A reference to C.J.I.C. Document #5Ol, copy of which is en-
closed herewith.
Respectfully,
California Joint Immigration Committee
J.I. M Cothe
V. S. McClatchy, Exec. Secy.
VSM.DK
Eno
421937
F
G

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
Ha Joint Immigration Committee
Jond Street
Franoisco, California
MORE JAPANESE PROPAGANDA IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
The American Council, Institute of Pacific Relations, in official report of
its activities for the year 1936, refers at pp. 18 and 19 to what it has done in
Hawaii and California in introduction of text and reference books into the public
schools, and says in regard thereto:
 811. 13 Justitute g Paisn Relalion 118
"Work along this line on the west coast, because of the educational tradi-
tions which have been foisted on the schools by chauvinistic groups and by the hos-
tile newspapers and certain anti-Japanese elemcnts, is of necessity slow. Every
effort made by the American Council to introduce new material in California--and
this is true also of Hawaii--has been roundly denounoed by these propagandists. It
is encouraging to note that despite unscrupulous propaganda of this sort, the educa-
tional authorities themselves, the teachers and the vast majority of the adult pub-
lic, have staunohly supported the Council's efforts."
In the language quotod reference is made to the condemnation and final with-
drawal of a textbook on Japan, prepared under joint direction of the Instituto of
Pacific Relations, the Hawaiian Board of Education, and the Society for Cultural
Relations of Japan, usod in Honolulu public schools during 1935 and urgod for simi-
lar use in continental United States. Use of the book was protested to the Hawaiian
Board of Education, to the Hawaiian Logislature, and to the Superintendent of Public
Instruction of California, because of falso or misleading statements therein con-
tained as to the "Gentlemen's Agreement" and the Japanese immigration question, and
as to the part played by Japan in making history in Asia during the present contury.
The justice of the criticism was conceded and the withdrawal of the book announced
in letter of the Council's Secretary, June 30, 1936.
The I.P.R. report and the languago quoted doubtloss refers also to the with-
drawal and reissue in corrected editions of certain textbooks prepared for use in
the public schools of California in courses, credit for whose introduction is
claimed by the American Council of tho I.P.R. Those books were publicly charged as
containing misleading statements similar to those found in the Hawaiian textbook,
and substitution therefor of corrected cditions was mude under direction of the
California State Board of Education or thru voluntary offer of the publishers (see
C.J.I.C. Docs. #458-9-76).
The report also announces complction and contemplated appearance in l937 of
three new text books. One of them, "Japan, Where Ancient Loyalties Survive", was
written by Helen Pratt, co-author of the text book on Japan which it replaces. It
is now in use in sohools in Hawaii and possibly elsewhere. On examination it is
found to offend, at pp. 74, 75 and 84, in similar manner, tho with more subtlety
than its predecessor, the apparent intent being to mislead the reader by concoclment
or skillful treatment of selocted facts and to make thereby a case for Japan.
The complaints of Japan, therein voiced, will find full answer in the facts
which are concealed:• The intent and provisions of the Gentlemen's Agreement, ex-
plained carefully by President Theodore Roosevelt; the fact that Australia and other
British Dominions have even more rigorously excluded Japanese without any racture
of friendly relations; the enormous increase of our Japanese population vhile the
Agreement was in force and in violation of its terms; and the nocessity in conse-
quence for an exclusion law--all are ignored. Immigration statistics are juggled so
as to lead the reader to believe that our Japanese population roceived an incroase
of only about 8,Ooo thru immigration under the Agreemont. If thc author knows the
facts as set forth in "Japanese Exclusion, a Study of the Policy and tho Law", Jonn
B. Trevor, House Doc. #600, 1925, pp. 8 and 9, and in the statement of the California
Joint Immigration Committee to the Secrctary of State, June 18, 1937, and in C.J.I.C.
Doc. #499(and a book to guide students should not have beun written by one ignorant
of those facts)--then there is evidonce of an intent to deliberutely mislead publio
school students and instruotors.
501

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
4
Mr. HapiIton:
Mr. Renchard called to see you
about this case. He asked me to tell
you that the Secretary wants Mr. ilson
to attend the meeting of the Committee.
The Secretary also would like you to
give Mr. ilson the background on the
case.
894.20211A/21
X
FL:FD

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 13, 1937.
. Secretary:
The meetings which have so far been
held of the Interdepartmental Committee to
study the problem of the activities of Japa-
nese Naval and Civilian rersonnel in Hawaii
have been attended on the part of the De-
partment by ir. Hornbeck or me. In the
draft letter to the President attached to
the letter from the Secretary of War, the
only points which may not be clear are:
under measures which have been agreed upon -
item (d), and under legislation recommended -
item (b).
The first named of the two foregoing
points contemplates measures, such as finger-
printing, for the effectual identification
of alien fishermen operating in Hawaiian
waters.
The second point relates to a project
of law for amending R. S. Section 43ll, the
effect of which, if enacted, will be even-
tually to force all vessels engaged in fish-
eries operating from American ports to be
owned by American citizens. You may wish to
inform the Interdepartmental Committee with
reference to this bill that it has been under
consideration

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
consideration by the Department but that the
Department feels that the object sought of
clothing enforcing agencies of the Government
with more specific authority in order to
rectify pernicious conditions (i.e., control
over espionage activities such as the utili-
zation by aliens of fishing vessels to observe
fleet maneuvers) can be attained without so
far-reaching a measure in which there might
be involved questions embarrassing to our
foreign relations such as those of contra-
vention of our commercial treaties, of the
deprivation of alien residents of the United
States of their livelihood, thus leading to
retaliatory measures against Americans in
foreign countries.
1110111
J111
FE:
JWB:NN

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.96)
ECRET
ilet
reply refer to
WAR DEPARTMENT
WPD 3675-5
WASHINGTON. D. C.
livision of
LASTEHN ALAIRS
NOV 1 0 1937
November 18 1937
JV 11 1937
The Honorable,
Uepartment of State
894.20211a
The Secretary of State.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
19
894.20211A/21
Reference is made to a letter from the President,
dated May 20, 1937, desi n: ting me as Ch irman of en Inter-
departmental Comnittee to consist of yourself, the Secret ries
of the Treasury, Navy, Labor, and War, and The Attorney General,
to study the problem, "Activities of Japanese Nevel end Civil
Personnel in Haveii." The Secret ry of the Interior :lso con-
sented to participate in the deliberations of the Committee.
The roblem presented was assi-ned for detailed study
to  vorking committee composed of represent: tives of the Depart-
ments concerned.
The working committee having completed its labors and
havin: submitted its report, : copy of which is εtt&che hereto
for your information, I deem it desircble to have the Interde-
partmentel Committee meet in the necr future to consid r that
r port. Accordinoly, I sugcest that the Com ittee meet in my
office, State, Wer end Navy Buildins, at 2:00 p.m., November 17,
1937, for the above-mentioned ourpose. If tne sugrested hour
or date is not found convenient, I should sppreciate being so
informed.
F/MR
Sincerely yours,
FILED
心
Atany,1 Morhi
Confidential File
Enclosures: Copy Memo. for Sec.War Secretary of War.
w/Copy of report to the
Cheirmen.
Presiuent. (Proposed).

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.96)
WPD 3675-5
November/0, 1937.
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF WAR:
Subject: Activities of Japenese Noval and
Civil Personnel in Hawall.
I.
The problem presented.
Report of the Interdepartmental Committee, on the above
subject.
II.
Facts berring upon the problem.
1. On Jctober 22, 1936, the Searet ry of Wur and the
Sucret ry of the Navy, by joint letter to the Presi ent, reported
on suspected eapionage activities inimical to cur national defonse
being con ucted by Japanese navel en civil personnel in Hewall.
2. On May 20, 1937, in reply to the above joint lotter,
the Preeident wrote the Secret ry of Wer in part os follows:
"I believe that some practicel solution to the
problem presented can be worked ut through cooperation
betwsen the Departments of State, Treasury, Justice,
L bor, Int rior, and, of course, Wer and' Navy.
"I am esisneting you as cheirmen of a committee
to consist of the Secretaries of State, Treasury, Labor,
Nevy, and Wer Departments, ay well es The Attorney General,
to study this problem.
It is to be noted that the Prosi ent, in the composition of the committee,
omitted the Secretary of the Interior. Believing this to be en oversight,
and apprecieting the interest of the Interior epartment in the enforce-
ment of statutos of Hawaii, the Secret ry of Wer in letter to the Secre-
tary of the Interior on June 4, 1937, stated in ert as follows:
"Since your advice in this matter would be most help
ful, I should appreciate it if you would consent to partici-
pate in the deliber tions of the committee."
The Secret ry of the interior accepted the foregoing invitation.
3. it the sugg stion of the Secret ry of Wer,  working
committee composed of the following representstives designated by the
reapective heada of Departments, was appointed to consider pertinent matter
in the premises:
Ficc.1
-1-

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.97)
Brigadier General Wulter Krueger ..... Wer Department
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck ...
.State Department
(Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton acting
in Dr. Hornbect's absence)
Rear Admiral R. R. Waesche ........
Tressury Department
(Captain W. H. Munter ecting
for Admirsl Waesche)
Mr. Golden W. Bell
Justice Dapartment
Captain R. E. Ingarsoll
Novy Department
Mr. Harry Slattery
Interior Department
Mr. Irving F. Fixon
Lebor Department.
4. The working committee iscussed the folloving prsctices and
consitione which the War and Navy Departments are particularly esirous of
terminnting in Hewail:
. The prectice followed by some Japenese public vessels,
when they depart from Hawaiian watere, of leeving surreptitiously,
naval and military personnel on the Islands.
R. The illogel or unauthorized presence in the Islands
of any member of the Jxpanese Army or Nevy.
£. The presence of any craft in the Islands fitted or
designed for illegitimate purposes or with unidentified personnel
on board.
d. The securing of militery en: naval information by
aeans of speciel photogrephs.
The unauthorize? lin ins from Japenese public vessels
end using on shore specinl camerks and instruments, ruch es range
finders, surveying instruments, etc., adapte  to letailed recording
and obeservation.
III.
Action recommended.
The working committee, havin: cunsidered all avsilable pertinent
informstion in tho premises, haa embodied its conclusions and recommendations
in a dreft letter to the President, which is cubmitted her-with for the on-
sideretion of the Interlepertmentel Committee.
W. CHUEGER,
Brigadier General,
Enclosure
Dreft letter to
Assistant Chief of Steff,
the Preuident.
Chairman of the Workin: Committee.
1cw
-2-

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.93)
NOV 1 0 1937
The President,
The Wnite Housu.
Deer Mr. Prezitents
Feference is mele to your latter or Mey 20, 1937, designating
me we Cheirman of e Comaittee, consisting of the Secreteries of State,
Treaaury, Labor, Havy, end Nar, an: The Attorney Gonercl, to study the
problem of permicious activities of Japnese naval snd civil persomnel
in dewsii. The Socret ry of cue Interior, sleo,  articipated in the
deliber ti ns of this Committee.
The ommittce cnsidered specificaily the followins practices
ne n ition wnin tao  r an Havy Dopartmonts are particulerly de-
sirous of tarmin ting in Hawaii:
2. The practice tol'owed by some Japenose public
vessele, nou the depurt from dowalian watere, of lenvinr
surreptitioualy, aval ind military personnel on the Islande.
b. The illegel or unauthorize. presence in the Ialands
of ony member f tae Japenese iry or Nevy.
desirnes for illegitimate purposes or itn unidentiried per-
sonnal on boerd.
d. The securing of militery ane nevel inform tion by
merne of speciel photographa.
2. The unauthorized len in from Je nere pualic vessuls
an: using on ahore special cemeree and instrumente, uch "s range
findere, surveyin inatruments, etc., dapted to detaile recording
and observation.
To correct the foregoin pernicious practices ane on itions,
the tembere of tne comsitteo desirneted by you ani the Secret ry of the
int rio have greed upon the fol orin mer sures to au plenent those now
axi:tins
-1-

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.91)
52
. The State Dapartment to considsr, in consultation
vith the Mavy Deparim nt, vithholding Srom Japanese public ves-
rele permission to visit porte in the Hawoiion Iplen s, othor
thanHonolulu.
E. Verioun overnmental s encies, particularly the
Immigr tion an: Mutionsl Dofeno» authoritles, acting sape-
rately, but under the coordinstion of toe Navy Tapartment,
anobtrusivoly to check all indivlousls lenving cad bonrdine
Japrnece public vessèl viaitink Honolulu.
S. Cuctoms authorities to obmerve carsfully Japanase
putllc veseels visitim Hacail in order to lecover eny andue
wdvantages baing taken of tue courtesios cocorded under inter-
nutionul practice.
4. The Dapertment of the Int-rior to sponsor in the
Bawsilan lericlntare lwgixlation deslrnen to gein more offoc-
tive control ov r alien-omned n: al en-operated fizhing boats
opereting in Hameiien watera, und over thnir personnal.
. The Stete Dapertmont to make represontation to the
Jepanese Government, or to take ather suitable actlon, ia care
of a violation by e Japaness publie vessel of the immigretion
or customs leme or of intorn tional prectie.
If the forogoing suggeated romedial muamares aro fully com-
summated, the Committee bellaves thet the desired objectives will he
oblalmed. Howover, the Committee alno believes that the enforeing
rroncles wbouls be cinthed with more pocific authority in order to
rectify, wapecially in other important strategicel mreas, perniciens
con itioms similer to the ones in uestiom. It is therefore recom-
sended thet lerinlstion simil:r in purpoew to th:t inclu od in the
follomim. bill which felled of onectment during the Firet Session
of the 7sth Congrees and to that in tan following amen ment so Seo-
tion 43ll, vired  tutes, pro osed by the Buream of Marine
inepection n Naviretion, be siven hish priority on the Presi nt'
Ler al tive rogrem in che appro chine peasion of the prasent Congreest
2. 8. l485, "To pronibit the mekine of photographs,
maachus, or mepe or vitel military pod ni val defonoive in-
stelletlons and oguipment, end for  ther purpoeem." By the
enectm nt of tnis o/irlation, it lv expected tn control
more ffoctively the ectivities of frer lance motion picture
-2

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.94)
and still picture operetore in vitel military and naval in-
stalletiops, whore the intent of the photographer is not
necess.rily vo flagrant as thet contemplated under Section I,
Public No. 24, 65th Congress, " spionage Act."
b. SEc. 431l. Veasuis of ewenty net tons und upward,
onrolled in pursnence of tais Tit1e (.8. 4311-390 U.8.C
Title 46. p0cee 451 to 356) und ving o liconce in force, or
vessels of less than twenty tons but nut lesg then five net tone.
which, although not enrolled, have a license in force, ss re-
quired by this Title, and no  thors, shall be deemed vessuls
of the United  tates ontitled to aneage in the-prtviloges of
vessels-empleped sm the coasting tra  e or fisheries. Any
vessel ather tian as defined above found enzaged in the coest-
Ing trade or fisherles shall. together witt her tackle, apparel,
furniture, and equipment, be forfoited, Provided. That the
penalty preecribed by this Secti n sha!? not apply to undogu-
monted vogeels of less tran five net tons. built in and wholly
owned by citlsens of the United Stacss. and operated by crews
et leust fifty per centum of waich. excluding the pereon in
charge. shall be citisens of the United States: and Provided,
That such peneliy shall nut apoly to vessels built in the
United States and uwned by eliens luwfully sdmitted as residente
theroin. which vessels are engexed solely in the fisheries until
on and after six years from the dete of the approval of this Act:
and Provided furthor. That nothing in this Act ahali be construed
to affect eny existing laws rel:ting to veasels engaged in the
conating trede or whele fisueries.
By amonding Saction 43ll ae above, the effect xill b: to force
eventual y a'l vessels enraged in thc fisheries to !e oemed by citizena
of the United States.
Respectfully youro,
Secret: ry of : r,
Chairmen.
-3

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.93)
November 16 1937
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
I acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated
Fovember 10, 1937, in whioh you suggest that the
Interdepartmental Committee to study the problem,
"Activities of Japanese Naval and Civil Personnel in
894.
Hawai1", meet in your office at 2:00 p. m., November 17,
1937, for the purpose of considering the report pre-
202
pared by the working sommittee.
I have designated Mr. Hugh R. Wilson, Assistant
Secretary of State, to represent me at the meeting which
A
has been called by you and he will be accompanied on
2
that oocasion by Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton, Ohief of the
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Sincerely yours,
Cordeil hlel
The Honorable
1
A
Harry H. Woodring,
Seoretary of War.
CR 50m
(2
NOV 10 1937.
A.WAKW
FE?JWB:SMJ
FE
11/18/37
mmN

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.95)
STRICTLY CON:
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
021037
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRSN
November 17, 1937.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
The meeting of the Interdepartmental
Committee took place in the office of the
Secretary of War, with the Secretary of
War presiding. There were present from
the various Departments the representa-
tives mentioned in the attached statement
of November 17. The draft of a letter to
the President was approved with one
change, there being added in parenthesis
on page 2 of the letter after the words
"similar in purpose" the words "having
due regard for our foreign reletions".
This change was suggested by the State
Department representatives at the meeting
and was agreed to.
M.m.
894.202114
Divit en of
Til
FAR EASTEBH AFFAIHS
NOV 2: 1937
Department of State
MMH: EJL

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.97)
Ad
November 17, 1937.
Subject: Meeting of Interdepartmental Committee,
2:00 p.m., November 17, 1937, in the
Office of the Secretary of War.
The following representatives of their respective Departments
will be present at the meeting of the Interdepartmental Committee
to study the problem, "Activities of Japanase Naval and Civil Per-
sonnel in Hawaii," at 2:00 p.m. today in the Office of the Secretary
of War:
State Department:
Mr. Hugh R. Wilson, Assistant Secretary of State.
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton, Chief, Division of Ear
Eastern Affairs.
Treasury Department:
Rear Admiral R. R. Baesche, Commandant, U. S. Coast
Guard.
Navy Department:
Captain R. E. Ingersoll, Director, War Plans Division,
Office, Chief of Naval Operations,
Navy Department.
Interior Department:
2
Mr. Harry Slattery, Personal Assistant to the Secretary
of the Interior.
NOV 2C 193.
Labor Department:
Mr. James L. Houghteling, Commissioner of Immigration
and Naturalization.
Mr. Irving F. Wixon, Deputy Commissioner.
The Attorney General has informed the Secretary of War that no one
will be present at the meeting to represent the Department of Justice,
but that he sends a letter as his assent to the sending of the proposed
letter to the President.
FIA

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20211A/23
811a.01/12
letter
SEE
FOR
FROM Guy M. Gillette (USS)
) DATED
November 26,1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
GPO
REGARDING: Alleged improper activities of Japanese consular officers
in Hawaii in organizing residents of Asiatic origin into
an organization antagonistio to the caucasian citizens.
Informs of evidence which was developed by the commission
to investigate Hawaiian statehood regarding-,
vhd

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
5
RECEIVEAR DEPARTMENT
JEFARTMENT OPASIHNGTON. D. C.
In reply
NOV 3 0 1937
refer to
Auid
S
DIVIC ON 
pecember1937
COMMUNICATIONS
A
The Secretary of State.
X
Dear Mr. Secretary:
220..
294120211
With refe ence to the report on "ictivities of
Japanese Naval and Civil Porsonnel in Hawaii," submitted
to the Presi ent on November 17, 1937, by en Interdepart-
mental Comaittee of vhich you were a membor, I am pleased
to tronsmit the folloving for your informetion.
By secret memoronoun of November 26, 1937, ad-
dressed to me, the President stated that he fully approved
the report in question, ne directed me to inforn the
894.20211A/24
other members of the Conmittee of this and of his request
that the meusures recomnended be put into effect as quickly
as possible.
In regeru to the Congressional legisl:tion pro-
posed by our Committee, the Presicent directed that letters
to the appropriate Chairmen of the House and Senate be
preparee for his vi nature, in order that this aspect of
the problem might confidentially be leid before them.
The necessery crafts of lette s heve been prepared and
transmitted to the President.
Sincerely yours,
15
Many
Secretary of Ver.
Confidential File
FILED
心
co
1937

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.94)
December 3 1937
894.20211A/24
STRLOTLY CONEIDENTIAL
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
I aekmowledge the receipt of your letter under date
Nevember 80, 1957, in whioh you state that you have beem
direeted by the President to inform members of the Inter-
8
6
depertmental Committee designated to study the problem
4.
20
"Activities of Japanese Naval and Civil Personnel in Hawaii"
that the President has approved of the report sukmitted so
2
11A/
him on Movember 17, 1937, and has requested that the measures
reeommended be put into effect as quickly as possible. I
2
have also moted your statement that in pursuance of the
4
President's direetions you have prepared and transmitted to
the President for his signature letters to the appropriate
cheirmen of the House and Senate Committees in regard to
F
the Congressional legislation proposed by the Interdepart-
A
mental Committee.
Sincerely yours,
CONFIDENTIAL FILE
MACR
Cordell Hull
DEC 8 1937. Nd
nd origt-
The Honorable
Harry H. Woodring,
Seeretary of War.
Jus
5
12/2/37

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
DCR
Jume 22, 1937.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
m.m.ll
ACTIVITIES OF JAPANEBE MAVAL AND
CIVIL PERSONNEL IN HAWAII.
954.222
1. The following information on the above subject has been
furnished by the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, and the Director of
Maval Intelligeace. It is extrected primarily from Navy reports.
This aiditional information reinforces that contained in the report
of the loeal Joint Planning Committee, Hawaii, which was forwarded
to each Department represented on the Committee for consideration:
. Visit of the Japamese tanker HIJMS TSURUMI to
Honolulu, 30 December, 1936 - 3 Jamuary, 1937.
(14th Naval District Report of 10 February, 1937).(Tab 6).
"In view of the small amount of stores
taken, it is ebvious that the announced purpose of the
visit, 'to replemish stores and weter,' was a mere sub-
terfuge, and that the real purpose was to maintain con-
tact with local Japanese residents and to foster pro-
Japanese sentiment among the American citizens of
Japanese ancestry."
b. Visit of the Japanese tanker HIJMS SATA to
Honolulu, 20 - 24 Februery, 1937.
(14th Naval District Report of 18 March, 1937).
(Tab 7).
"Conclusions.
FILED
"(a) This ship, and possibly others,
carried persons not listed as officers or crew.
"(b) That these persons either made
contact ashore or that they remained in Hawaii and
3
others took their places aboard.
"(c) That contact with certain defi-
nite local inhabitants, once made, is passed on from
ship to ahip, and that there is a constant exchange of
information, gifts, etc., by means of the visits of
these tankers.
"(d) That the maintenance of such
contact in Hawaii, and possibly the regular tranemission
of informstion and persons, is one of the basic reasons
for the regular visits of shipe of this type."
-1-

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
. Visit of the Japanese tanker HIJMS ONDO to Honolulu,
3 - 6 March, 1937.
(14th Waval District Report of 5 April, 1937). (Tab 8).
"(3) ▲ careful 24-hour watch was kept on
the Onde and a count takem of officers, enlisted men, and
civilians going abeard and coming ashore during the entire
stay of the ship in port, and totaled at half-hour intervals.
A double check was made in the case of officers, and all
discrepancies were thrown out. These tabalations ere en-
closed as Enclosure (B). This count shows that at least
eight officers and a number of onlisted men were left in
Hemolulu by the ship. Due to liberty parties leaving the
ship in large mumbers, making it diffioult to obtain an
exact count, it is believed that there may be some error
in the totel of emlisted men, but it is believed that the
count of officers and civilians is ecourate within very
small margins."***
"Conclusiona.
"(a) That the visits of Japanese naval
tankers serve as channels of communication and contact for
Japanese agents in Hawaii.
"(b) That, as a result of the visit of
the Ondo, there are now in Honolulu some five to ten Naval
officers and a number of enlisted men, conservatively esti-
mated to be from twenty to thirty. This fact is considered
to be of particular significance in view of the fortheoming
visit of the U. S. Fleet to Hawaiian waters, and the projected
Army and Navy exercises in connection with thet visit."
d. Visit of the Japanese tanker HIJMS RIMO to Honolulu,
24 - 27 March, 1937.
(14th Naval District Report of 12 Apri1, 1937). (Tab 9).
A careful twenty-four hour watch was main-
tained on the ship, and officers, crew, an civilian men
counted on and off. The check of officers and civilians
balanced, but the check of enlisted men indicated that
thirty-five enlisted men had been left ashore. The check
of enlisted men 1s believed in error, due to large sise
of liberty parties and to coming and going of mess cooks,
side-cleaners, etc."
-2

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.97)
"Concluciona.
"(a) That the underlying purpose of the
visits of this and other Japamese ships to Hawaii ares
(1) Establishment and maintenance
of contacts among local inhabitants of Japenese
ancestry.
(2) Spreading of pro- Japenese
propaganda by means of motion picture exhibits
and personal contact.
(b) That these ships provide a ready
and secure channel of communication between Hewaii and Japan.
"(c) That the visits of this and previous
ships to Honolulu have enabled an orranisation to be set up
and perfected for the close observation of the forthcoming
Army en Navy sxercisea.
e. Visit of the Japenese tanker HIJMS HAYATOMO to
Honolulu, 5 - 8 Apr1l, 1937.
(14th Neve! District Report of 26 Mey, 1937). (Teb 10).
"(4) In order to obtain an absolutely accurate
check on officer , crew, and civilian visitors ashore and abeard,
arrangements were me e to berth this ship et Pier No. 5A, which
ie the U. S. N vy pier, un the cooperation of the Coast Guard
and the Customs Service enlisted, as we'l as setting e careful
24-hour gangway wetch of navl etty officere in civilien
clothing on the dock. The results of t d: count are tabulated
in nclosure (B).
This check clearly demonstrated that -
"(a) Thi. ship took boer ? more offi-
cors in uniform thon cume cshore;
"(b) Your men in n isted men': uni-
forms were left behin
"(c) Five more men in civilian clothes
came aehore curing the tay of the ship than went aboard.
"(5) A trunk and ther personal baggage were de-
livered aboard.
-3

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.97)
Conclusione.
"(A) That this ship picked up 2 officers in
umiform, left behind 5 men who left the ship in civilian
elothes, and 4 men who left the ship in en isted men's un1-
forms.
"(B) That this ship carried at least 5 more
men than were reported officially to the boarding officer."
£. On April 8, 1937, two seeretaries of the Japanese
Comsulate and the Manager of the Japamese Chamber of Commerce,
Honolulu, took by force to the police station a Umited States
sailer, Arthur J. Carroll, for snapping & pictare of the
Japanese Consul-General while he was posing on a U. S. Navy
pier for a Japanese photographer. An official report of
this ineident has beem made to the State Depertment by the
Navy Department.
(Tab 10 A).
-4

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
Division of
DCR
WAR DEPARTMENT
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
WAR DEPARTMENT GENERAL STAFF
WAR PLANS DIVISION.
N0V 211937
WASHINGTON. D.
July 2, 1937.
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. STANLEY K. HORNDECK.
STATE DEPARTMENT:
REAR ADMIRAL R. R. WAESCHE
TREASURY DEPARTMENT:
MR. GOLDEN W. BELL,
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT:
CAPTAIN R. E. INGERSOLL,
NAVY DEPARTMENT:
MR. HARRY SLATTERY,
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT:
MR. IRVING F. WIXON.
LABOR DEPARTMENT:
994.20211a
Subject:
Activities of Japanese Naval and
894.20211A/26
Civil Personnel in Hawaii.
1. In compliance with the desires of the Working Committee of
the Interdepartmental Committee dealing with the above subject, as
expressed in conference on June 29, 1937, the following points are
submitted, as indicating practices and conditions which the War and
Navy Departments are particularly desirous of terminating in Hawaii:
a.
The practice of leaving presumably Japanese naval
and military personnel from Japanese naval vessels upon de-
parture of such vessels. This practice, strong indications
of which appear to have been observed during the current year,
in all probebility places trained observers in position to
gather important information on our military and naval ex-
ercises held in that area.
These exercises involve the
planned defense of Hawaii.
It is noted that such personnel
was probably present at the time of the recent Army - Navy
exercises there.
b. The illegal presence in the islands of any member
of the Japanese Irmy or Navy.
c. The presence of any craft in the Islands fitted
or designed for illegitimate purposes or with unidentified
personncl on board. This involves inspections as to the
equipment or design and positive identification of personnel.
2
30
ien
FILED
101937
a
10
-1-
2

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Photographing -
(1) U. S. Naval vessels at close range, and
particularly from elevated view points.
Opportunity for this exists where such
vessels are moored at locks not at the
Naval Reservations.
(2)
Pearl Harbor Naval Station and defense
installations from aircraft or other
elevated positions.
e. The laniing from ships and using on shore special cameras
and instruments, such as renge finders, surveying instruments, etc.,
adapted to detailed recording and observation. Cases in point
are the incident described by Mrs. Kanakanui during the visit of
the ONDO to Hilo in A ril, 1936, end the surreptitious visit of
seilors from a naval tanker to the tower of the Royel Hawaiian
Hotel to photograph near-by fortifications.
orua5
W. KRUEGHR,
Brigadier General, U. S. Army.
-2-

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRE
WAR DEPARTMENT
WAR DEPARTMENT GENERAL STAFF
WAR PLANS DIVISION.
Division of
WASHINGTON. D. C.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
m.m.
UL 281937
apartment of State
July 28, 1937.
894.20211a
STATE DEPARTMENT:
MR. STANL. Y K. HOFNBECK,
MEMORAN U FOR
TREASURY
DEPARTM NT:
RF/R AMI-AL R. R. WALSCHE
JUSTIC
DEPAT ENT:
MR. GOLDEN V. BELL
NAVY DEPARTMENT:
CAPTAIN R.
E. INGERSOLL,
INTIRIOR DrPARTMENT:
MR. HARRY SL TTIRY
894.202
Subject:
Activity of Japanece Naval end
Civil Personnel in H vaii.
Inclosed her with i a secret memoranoum on the above
subject, prepared by Mr. Irving F. Wixon, Labor Dupertment, for
your infore tion :ne consicer tien in conncction vith the work
2
of the Interdepartrental Com ittee engayed in the cubject study.
7
Bri a ier Gener , U. F. may.
TI
:rclocure
lcw
DEC 10 1937
FILED

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.94)
BBGRBT
In re: Aetivity of Japemese Naval and Civil Personnel in Mamell.
Simoe in the final amalysis it is persons, many of them aliens, with
whem the Committee is comoermed in its deliberations, the problem rests
In large part vith the Immigration and Maturalisation Service.
But there are prestical diffioulties for which a solution mmst be
found befere the Immigration and Naturalisatiom Service can render effee-
tive aia.
Prastieally all of the sampans engaged in fisheries in the Hawaiiam
Islamés are maamed by Japasese. Most ef these fishermen are either citisems
(matives of the Nawaiian Islands) or alieas whese deportable status it
would be difficult to establish.
Opem the subject of cheeking the crews of the sempams, the fellowing
1s queted from a repert received from our District Direotor in Homolulu:
"As to the checking of sampans: Through the cooperation of the
Ceast Geard Service, we have been able to make occasiomally, effeo-
tive checkups of Japanese in the fishing fleet. Inspestor Sleam whe
is assigeed te warrast work, enters into anything of this sort with
sest. wWith Interpreter Tajima he was detailed abeard the U.S.C.G.
Patrel Beat "Tiger" from March 26th ustil March 3lst last, and the
eaptalm of the beat was givem orders te take them whererer Inspester
Sleam wanted to go. In additien to stops at isolated tewme en the
other Islands where investigations had te be made or aliems apprehemded.
sampans were bearded wherever found, on the high seas and in the her-
bors. According to Inspeotor Sleam's report, 50 fishermen were ques-
tiomed, resulting in the arrest of ome who had entered Hemolulu as a
stemamay on Nevember 30, 1935. Six others admitted emtering 11legally
prier te July 1, 1924, although a further check will probably reveal
that several of these entered after that date.
"The Coast Guard Service has also cooperated by furmishing a vessel
em Saturdays and Sumdays to emable Mr. Slean and the interpreter to
beard sampams at Pearl Harbor, Kaneohe Bay, and at the entrance to
Kewalo Basin, Honolulu. We have defimite information that this check-
of sampams has resulted in the volumtary and harried returm to Japan
of a mmber of Japanese who had gained entry as stowaways or as desert-
img soamon."
It has been suspected that changes in the crews of eampams have been
mede by contacting Japamese vessels on the high seas. This is pessible of
accomplishment, and under existing conditions could escape detectiom, since
SEC

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.94)
 are mot required to carry axy pepere, er other meame of identifleation.
the imenlar lams, euptaine of these fisking beats are required enly to
are metal disss la a mmber mafficient to cever their ereme. cbviesely, 16
foald be impessible for offioers te remember all members of a erew, even theugh
it were prestieable to eheck up these sempane upen each departure. These
sempans leave at all hours of the day and night, frem videly separated peiats
and do met operate on a fixed sabedale. Mereover, the oaly excnse mhick immi-
gratien effieers weuld have for cheeking the erews wpon departare weuld be to
determime whother there were any allems among them subject to depertatien,
simce persems om these sempems ccempy me different status, so far as the immi-
gratien lase are cenceraed, thaa do perseas empleyed on land, imasmmch as the
ressels are met required te alear and enter on the cccasion of each departure
and roturm.
It is felt that consideration should be given to the securing of an amend-
meet to the present las so as to render it mandatery that all persoms empleyed
on these sempase seeure by mmy of a licemse, a decumemt bearing their phote-
graph, fimgerpriats, and deseriptien, thereby emabling immigration officers to
more effeotively condact a cbeck.
As regards the practice of leeving presamably Japamese maval and military
persemmel from Japamese maval vessels upen departure of suoh vessels, any
alleme estering the Islands and remaiming under those comditioms would be subjest
to depertatiom. Here again, however, we are comfronted with the problem of finé-
ing these persess, for it goes without saying that none of them would admit that
they had entered in the manner indicated. To stand the test of law, the Immi-
gratiem and Maturalisation Service is required to establish by affirmative
evidemse that aliems are unlawfully in the United States and nationals er sub-
jests ef seme particular coumtry. That can generally be established only by ad-
missions upem the part of the aliems themselves. The mere fact that as aliem
caamet establish that he was lawfully admitted to the United States is met smf-
fielemt im itself to effect deportation. If he claims to have entered prier te
July 1, 1924, even though he may admit that he entered unlawfully it would met
be cmuse in itself for deportation as there is a limitation of three years within
whieh aliems whe entered prior to the date mentioned can be deported upen the
groands of umlamful entry. The Statute of Limitatione dees mot run, however,
In the mases of aliens who have entered unlawfully since July 1, l924.
Amother thing, if the Immigration and Naturalisation Service is to determine
whether a greater mumber of persons disembart from naval vessels than depart
with them, it would be meosssary to cheek officers and mem leaving and returning
to smch vessels while they are in Hawalian ports. Heretofore it has been custom-
ary to grant freedom of the port to Japanese naval vessels tonching at Hamaiiam
ports, and it is understoed that similar courtesies are extended to naval vessels
of all nations touching at ports throughout the United States. Where freedom
of the port is granted, immigration officers do not examine efficers and men
taking shore leave, and umtil it becomes the universal practice to comdact such
exsminations, embarrassing consequences would undoubtedly follow amy attempt to
adept a different procedure in respect to Japanese naval vessels touching at
Hawaiian ports.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
In giving consideration to the foregoing, it should be understood
that little, if any, assistance can be looked for by immigration officers
from the Japaness population of the Hawaiian Islands in locating Japanese
unlawfully in the Islands.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Division of
WAR DEPARTMENT
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
WAR DEPARTMENT GENERAL STAFF
NOV 2 4 1937
WAR PLANS DIVIBION.
WASHINGTON, D. C.
And SEP 2 1937
Department of State
zmo
894.20211a
August 31, 1937.
MEMORANDUM FOR
MR. STANLEY K. HORNBECK.
STATE DEPARTMENT:
REAR ADMIRAL R. R. WAESCHE,
TREASURY DEPARTMENT:
MR. GOLDEN W. BELL.
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT:
CAPTAIN R. E. INGERSOLL,
NAVY DEPARTMENT:
MR. HARRY SLATTERY,
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT:
MR.
IRVING F. WIXON,
LABOR DEPARTMENT:
894.20211A/28
Subject:
Activities of Japanese Naval
and Civil Personnel in Hawaii.
1. The Working Committee of the Interdopartmental Committee
dealing vith the above subject, at its meeting on June 29, 1937,
agreed to consider certain practices and conditions which the War
and Navy Departments are particularly desirous of terminating in
Hawaii. Points indiceting these practices and conditions were
forwarded to you by a memorandum dated July 2, 1937. Since that
date, Mr. Wixon has submitted for the consideration of the Working
Committee his reactions in the premises. Copies of Mr. Wixon's
contribution were forwarded to the members of the Working Committee
by memorandum dated July 28, 1937.
2. It is considered desirable that the Working Comnittee meet
again in the neer future for the purpose of formulating constructive
recommendations to the Interdepartmental Committee on the subject
study. Accordingly, I suggest that the Working Committee meet in
my office, 406 Winder Building, at 2:00 P.M., September 21, 1937,
for the above-mentioned purpose. If the suggested hour or date
is not found convenient, I should appreciate being so informed.
R
W. KRUEGER,
Brigadier GenerU. S. Army.
DEC 10 1937
FILED
1cw
Condea Fne
SECRET
2

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.91)
4
OCR
To wotettta
you cen.
P
September 2, 1937.
To:
Gemeral Krueger.
Frem: S. K. Hornbeek.
894.20211A/28
Gemeral Krueger's memorandum of Augast 5l sug-
gesting that Working Committee meet in Gemeral Krueger's
offiee at 2 p.m., September 21, 1937, for purpose stated
is noted. Mr. Hornbeek is putting this date on his
calendar and will attend or send a substitute.
F/MR
PA/H:SKH:ZMK
FE
Coni  e

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.95)
DA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 29, 1937.
254.20211a
Mrs. Buford (PR) states that notices
sent to other Departments in regard to the
visit of foreign publio vessels are intended
primarily to be informative, and do not con-
template that immunity from customs or immi-
gration laws or regulations should be granted
to the personnel of such vessels. The wording
used by PR in this connection is shown on the
attached form, the general purport of which
appears to be clear, but is probably subject
to considerable misinterpretation by field
officers of Treasury, and Labor.
It might be well if PR could adopt a more
explicit wording for its notices covering the
arrival of foreign vessels in place of the one
now in use.
M, Cinlter (VD)atate, that the
immigralion authenties ui
Serign Rultis meels und thetlhe
FE:LAS:NN
FE
10.1937

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.78)
t.29
PVe
1. 
2. E.
Ore thee,
o4 Jo t" a o .
t
land ah
Eait L.bort E..toms
sand mew to t
to sheck? yeu
wt
got. ac t?
See attashed

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
894.2021
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
and requests that if no objection is perceived, the cour-
tesies and facilities usual on such occasions be extended
in the following case:
To
Th See of Ltad

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
Division or
FAR EASTER
DEPARTMENT OF STA
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 13, 1937.
Mr. Hornpeck:
At the last meeting in General Krueger's
office, Captain Ingersoll of the Navy Depart-
ment, Mr. Wixon of the Labor Department and
myseif were appointed as members of a sub-
committee to consider certain questions
relating to the activities of Japanese naval
and civil personnel in Hawaii. Captain
Ingersoll has now sent me a statement of
recommendations which our subcommittee might
present to the full committee for considera-
tion. These recommendations are attached.
I have numbered them lightly in pencil. I
think that the recommendations are in general
all right. However, I call special attention
to the fourth recommendation. This matter
was not discussed at the meeting of the full
committee which I attended and represents a
new suggestion. I am inclined to feel that
we need register no objection at this time
to this fourth recommendation.
If you approve, I shall inform Captain
Ingersoll that the recommendations as drafted
seem to me satisfactory for presentation to
the full committee.
MMH/REK

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 11, 1937.
I have been unable to find anything in the
record showing a reason for differentiating be-
tween the right of the Japanese Government to
refuse permission for our naval vessels to visit
open ports in the islands under mandate of
Japan and the right of this Government to re-
fuse permission for Japanese vessels to visit
open ports in Hawai1 or elsewhere in American
territory. The record shows thet originally
the Japanese Government was willing to allow
our vessels to visit the open ports in the man-
dated 1slands but in latter years permission
to visit even these ports h:s been withheld
by the Japanese Government.
While from the point of view of legitimate
retaliation we may be warranted in withholding
permission for Japanese vessels to visit open
ports in the Hawaiian Ielands, there is a ques-
tion in my mind whether now 1s an opportune
time to take such measures. Our naval vessels
have begun to make frequent visits to Kobe to
contact the Dollar Line there and no difficulty
has been experienced in obtaining the permis-
eion of the Japenese Government. If we resort
to restricting Japanese vessels visiting Ameri-
can ports this might cause irritation, lead-
ing the Japanese Government to make difficul-
ties over visits to Japenese ports, of our
naval veseels and over other matters.
923
FE:JWB: VCI

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.94)
AST
NAVY DEPARTMENT
In reply refer to Initials
til
and No.
OFFICE OF CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
WASHINGTON
30 September 1937.
894.20211a
Dear r. Haminton:
894.20211A/30
am enclosing a suggested draft for the reconendation
of our Subcoittee in comectioi with the subjects tnat were
it
referred to at the last meeting in ceneral Krueger's office.
へ
I an also sending a copy to ir. ixon.
Cincerely yours,
R.E. S.
.Ingersoll.
Lr. Maxwell Mamilton,
Far Eastern Division,
Noom 376,
F/MR
State epartment.
DEC 10 1937
FILED
u
C

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
Recom mendations
1 Recommend that when a Japanese naval vessel visits Honolulu an accurate
count be made of all individuals leaving the ship and of all individuals
going on board the ship, in order to ascertain definitely whether or not
such vessel is leaving personnel at Honolulu upon departure or is taking
on board personnel at Honolulu in excess of the numbers with which she
arrived.
2
Recommend that the count be taken independently by different covernment
agencies in Honolulu in order to check the eccuracy of results and that if
practicable a separate count be taken of officers in uniform, enlisted
men in uniform and individuals in civilian clothes. The count should be
taken under the supervision of the Commandant, Tourteenth Naval District,
utilizing such personmel of the Federal Governnent in iawaii as may be
agreed upon by the representatives of the various Executive Departments in
Hawaii. The count should be taken in such a manner that the fact that it
was being taken should not be known.
3. Reconmend that should a Japanese naval vessel be found, upon taking such a
count,to have left personnel behind upon departure or to have taken on ad-
ditional personnel at Honolulu, the tate Department be informed immediately
of the circunstances in order that proper representations cen be made to the
Japanese Government or other suitable actin be taken.
11
Inasmuch as the difficulty of maintaining efficient vatch cver the activities
of Japanese naval vessels in violetion of the usual courtesies extended to
public vessels is very great at any port in the Hawaiian Islands except at
Honolulu, reconmend that requests of the Japanese Government for its public
vessels to visit ports in the Hawaiian Island, other than Honolulu, be de-
nied, giving the same reason for denial that the Japanese Government hes
given to some requests of the United Stetes for its naval vessels to visit
open ports in the Mandated Territory - that is, that the visit would be
"inconvenient", or following t.e most recent practice of the Jepanese Govern-
ment in refusing such permission iving no reason.
Recommend that the Custous officers watch Japanese naval vessels, in a manner
so that the fact is not known, to assure that such vessels are not landing
material in violation of customs regulations and that should it become ap-
parent that such is the case that proper steps be taken to stop it.
File
Éontial

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
ZCR
WAR DEPARTMENT
WAR DEFARTMENT GENERAL STAFF
WAR PLANS DIVIBION
WASHINGTONDC
FAR FA
October 28, 1937.
894,20211a
ME ORANDUM FOR MR. ST.NIY K. HOHBECK
(Attention N. Maxwe1l M. Hamilton) STATE DEP.RT.LNT:
RE R ADMIRL R. R. WAESCHE
TREASURY DEPARTMENT:
MR. GOLDEN I. BELL
JUSTICE DEPARTRENT:
CAPTAIN R. E. INGERSOLL
NAVY DEPARTMENT:
MR. HARRY SLATTERY
INTERIOR DEP RTEENT:
MR. IRVING F. WIXON
LABOR DEPARTTENT:
Subject:
activities of Jupanese Naval
and Civil Personnel in Hawaii.
1. The ittached draft of a proposed report to be rendered by
the Working Committee to the Chairman of the Interdepurtmental Committee,
convened by the President for the purpose of studying and of finding a
solution for the subject problem, is submitted to you for your consider-
ation.
2. It is deemed desiruble that the Working Cormittee meet again
in the near future to consider the proposed report. accordingly, I sug-
gest that the Working Committee meet in my office, 406 Winder Building,
If
at :00 p.m., November 5, 1937, for the ubove-mentioned purpose.
the sugcested hour or date is not found convenient, I should anpreciate
being so inforned.
Whrugps
H. RUGH,
Lrirudier General, U. S. army.
DEC 10 1937
Enclosure.
FILED
0
SECRET

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.95)
人
3675-5
23
C/E EASTEHN ATTAINO
November, 1937.
Departmenr
894.22112
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF WAR:
Sub ject: Activities of Jepanese Navel
and Civil Personnel in Hawaii.
I.
The problem presented.
Report f the Interdepartmental Committee, on the above
sub ject.
II.
Facts bearing upon the problem.
1. On ctober 22, 1936, the Secret: ry of War and the
Secretary of the Navy, by joint letter to the President, reported
on suspected espionage activities inimical to our national defense
b ing conducted by Japanese naval and civil personnel in Hawail.
2. On May 20, 1937, in reply to the above joint letter,
the President wrote the Secretary of War in part as follows:
"I believe thet some practical solution to the
problem presented can be worked out through cooperation
betwoen the Departments of State, Treesury, Justice,
Labor, Interior, and, of course, War and Navy.
"I am designating you as chairman of a committee
to consist of the Secretaries of State, Tressury, Labor,
Navy, and War Depertments, as well as The Attorney General,
to study this problem."
It is to be noted that the President, in the composition of the committee,
omitted the Secretary of the Interior. Belioving this to be an oversight,
and appreciating the interest of the Interior Department in the enforce-
ment of stetutes of Hewaii, the Secretary of Far in letter to the
Secret ry of the Interior on June 4, 1937, stated in part es follows:
"Since your advice in this matter would he most help-
ful, I should approoiate it if you would consent to partici-
pate in the deliberations of the committee."
The Secretery of the Interior accepted the foregoing invitation.
3. At the suggestion of the Secretery of Wer, & working
committee composed of the following representatives designeted by the
respective heads of Depertments, was appointed to consider pertinent
metter in the premises:
-1-

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.97)
Brigadier General Walter Krueger ..... War Depertment
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck ......
State Department
(Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton acting
in Dr. Hornbeck's ebsence)
Rear Admiral R. R. Waesche ........... Treasury Department
(Captain W. H. Munter ecting for
Admiral Waesche)
Mr. Golden W. Bell
Justice Department
Captain R. E. Ingereoll
Navy Department
Ar. Harry Slattery
Interior Department
Mr. Irving F. Xixon
Labor Department.
4. The working committee discussed the ollowing pructices and
conditione which the Wer ani Navy Departments are perticularly cesirous of
terminating in Hawaii:
. The practice followed by some Japanese public vessels,
when they depart frm Hewalian waters, of leavin surreptitiously,
neval  nd militry personnel on the Islands.
b. The illegel or msuthorised presence in the Islenés of
any aember of the Japenese Army or Navy.
. The presonce of any craft in the Ielen s fitted or
designed for illegitimate purposes or with uni entified personnel
on board.
d. The securing of militery snd naval informstion by
means of special photogrephs.
. The unauthorized lunding from Japanes: public vessele
and usin: on shore special cameres and inatruments, such s ren e
finders, urveying instruments, etc., adapted to etailed record-
ing and observation.
III.
Action recomaended.
The working committee, heving considered all aveilable pertinent
information in the premises, hes embodied its conclusions and recommendetions
in a dr ft letter to the Presicent, which is submitted herewith for the con-
sidertion f the Intsrdepartmental Committee.
W. KRUEGER,
Enclosure
Brigadi r Generel,
Draft letter to the
Assistant Chief of Staff,
Presient.
Cheirman of the Working Committee.
lew
-2-

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.78)
1II。
Actn roooaonded
(s. Bell' proosed sragra):
The Borsing Committee, Davin caneldeced all sveileble
ortinent inrorm tion in the premiees, hae embocled It comelusione
med recommendntlone in a dr ft  tter to the P ident, mhich,
co other with coploe of the Conkrcsslonel bille ens soomree
Propesed to be aponvgred in the Brsalian levlalyture, is subsitted
oresitn fo t c msi  retlon of the Isterdepertmental Comvittee.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.84)
Leat porecreoh gf letter to the Prepsuant.
(ar. Boll's sug estion, to a s thorsto, after the
wore "ceamures" the werde, "to mupploment those
mow  xletimg," sacing the peragreph recds
To correct the forugoime pernicious prcticee and conditlons,
the wombere of the committee dee  nated by you ane the "ccretary of the
Interier have pree upon tis following ser sures to eueclecont thwee
nowxieting

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.79)
Por   
(ur. Bell'e propoaod persaraph)
d. The interior Depertmsst to spomeor in the Hawaliem Legis-
lncure bursmbretem  bill similr to s. lals whicn fmlld of emact
ment ls thn 7ith Coparees and nslal llen mugsented by tus Connittes.
These ae suree are desi ned to sin more effective control over
allon-owmed s allen-operated  iahin bonts oper tins in Ravmiin
waterethirpormonsel.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
The President,
The White House.
Dear Mr. Presi ent:
Reference is made to your letter of May 20, 1937, desig-
nating me as Cheirmen of a Committee, consisting of the Secretaries
of State, Treasury, Labor, Nevy, and War and The Attorney Cenerel,
to study the pro lem of pernicious activities of Japanese noval and
civil personnel in Hawaii. The Secretary of the Int-rior, also,
participated in the deliber tions of this Committee.
The Committee considered specifica ly the following prac-
tices and conuitions which the Ver and Navy Depertments are partic-
ul rly desirous of terminatin in Hawaii:
a. The practice followed by some Japanese public
vessels, when they depart from Hawaiian waters, of leaving
surreptitiously, naval and military personnel on the
Islands.
b. The illegal or unauthorized presence in the Islands
of any member of the Japanese Army or Navy.
c. The presence of any crsft in the Islanus fitted
or designed for illegitimate purposes or with unidentified
personnel on board.
d. The securin: of military and naval information by
means of special photographs.
e. The unauthorized lanuing from Japenese puhlic vessels
and using on shore speciεl cameras and instruments, such as
range finders, surveyins instrument, etc., adapted to detailed
recording ane observation.
To correct the foregoing pernicious practices and conoitions,
the members of the committee designated by you nd the Secret ry of the
Int rior have agreed upon the following measures to suoplement those
now existing:
-1-

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
CRET
a. The State Department to consider, in consultation
with the Navy Depertment, withholding from Japanese public
vessels permission to visit ports in the Hawaiian Islands,
other than Honolulu.
b. Various governmental egencies, particulerly the
Immigration and National efense uthorities, acting sepa-
rately, but under the coordination of the Navy Department,
unobtrusively to check all individuals leaving nd boarding
Japanese public vessels visiting Honolulu.
c. Customs cutnorities to observe carefully Japanese
public vessels visiting Hawaii, in order to ciscover any undue
advantages being taken of the courtesies a. corded under inter-
national practice.
d. The Department of the Interior to sponsor in the
Hawaiian legislature legisl: tion designed to gain more effective
control over alien-owned ene elien-operated ishin boats opera-
tin in Hawaiian waters, n over their personnel.
e. The State Department to make representation to the
Japanese Government, or to tete other uit bl action, in case
of a violation by a Japenese public vessel of the immiuration
or customs lews or of international practice.
If the foregoing suggested remediel measures are fully con-
summated, the Comnittee believes that the desired ob jectives will be
obtained. Hovever, the Committee also believes that the enforcing
agencies should be clothed vith more pecific authority in order to
rectify,especially in other important strategical areas, pernicious
conditions similar to the nes in cuestion. It is therefore recom-
mended that legislation similar in purpose to that included in the
followinr bill which failed of enectment during the lst session of the
75th Congress and to that in the following amendment to Soction 431l,
revised St&tutes, proposed by the Bureau of larine Inspection and
Navigation, be ~iven high priority on the President's legisl tive
progrem in the : pproaching session of the present Congress:
a. S. 1485, "To prohibit the making of photographs,
sketches, or maps of vital milit ry and naval efensive in-
stallstions and equipment, and for other purposes." By the
enactm nt oi this lesislation, it is expected to control more
effectively the activities of free lance motion picture
-2-

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
end still picture operators in vital militery and navel in-
stallations, where the intent of the photographer is not
necessarily so flagrant &s that contemplated under Section
I, Public No. 24, 65th Congress, "Espionace Act."
b. SEC. 431l. Vessels of twenty net tons and upward,
enrol1ed in pursuance of this Title (R.S. 4311-4390; U.S.C.,
Title 46. secs. 251 to 356) and naving a license in force, or ves-
sels of less than twenty tons but not less than five net tons,
which, &lthough not enrolled, have a license in force, as re-
quired by this Title, and no others, shall be deemed vessels
of the United States entitled to engege in the-erivileges-ef
vessels-emeleyed-in- the coasting trade or fisheries.
•ny
vessel other than as defined above found engaged in the coast-
ing trade or fisheries shall. together with her tackle, apparel,
frrniture, and equipment, be forfeited: Provided, Thet the
penalty prescribed by this Section shall not apply to undocu-
mented vessels of less than five net tons. built in and wholly
owned by citizens of the United States, and operated by crews
et least fifty per centum of which, excluding the person in charge,
shall be citizens of the United Ststes; and Provided. That such
penalty shall not apply to vessels built in the United States and
owned by aliens lawfully admitted as residents therein. which
vessels are ensaged solely in the fisheries until on end after
six years from the date of the approval of this Act; and Provided
further, That nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect
any existing laws relting to vessels engaged in the coasting
trade or whale fisheries.
By amending ection 43ll as above, the effect will be to force
eventually all vessels engaged in the fisneries to be owned by citizens
of the United States.
Respectfully yours,
Secretary of War,
Chairmen.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.85)
SECRET
WPD
RPH
W. P. D. G. S.
Date
Octeber
.1909.
BAN POR  GRSTANY C WAR:
Subjeet: Aetivities ef Japanese Meval
and Civil Perssanel ia Nawais.
I.
goot.
Sessetary ef the Havy, by Jeiat Letter to the President, repested
en seapeeted eapienage estivitses snimieel to eur natiosal defense
being cendneted by Tapenese mavel and esvil persennel ia Eamail.
2. Ga May n0, 1009, La reply to the abeve Joint lotter,
"I believe thet seme prestieal selutiem to the
preblem pressated cas be werked cut through ceeperation
betweem the Departmeate of State, Treasuzy, Justiee,
Laber, Iaterter and, ef eourse, War and Nevy.
"I em desigmating you as chairman of a cemmittee
to ecmsist of the Sesretaries of State, Treasury, Laber,
Eevy and War Departmeats, as well as The Astermey Geseral,
to stuty this problem."
It se tothe moted that the Presidemt, sn the campesssien of the cammettee,
amitted the Seeretery of the Interser. Belsevine this to be an everaight.
mest of statstes of Newasi, the Seeretary of Wer in letter to the Sesre-
tary of the Interier en Jame 4, l9s9, stated in part as follows:
"sinee your adviee in this matter weuld be mest hely-
ful, I should appreesate it if you weuld cosscat to partici-
peté in the deliberatiens of the cemmattee."
The Beesetary ef the Iaterier aceepted the feregelag Lavitation.
S. At the susgestlen of she Seeretary of Wer, a werking
eemméstee eempesed of the followine repressatetives desigmated by the re-
speetive heeds of Departmsats, was appointed te coasider pertinest matter
in the premises:
-1-

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.97)
Brigadier General Walter Krueger, War Department
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeek,
State Departmest
Rear Admiral R. R. Weesche,
Treasury Department
Mr. Golden W. Bell,
Justice Department
Captain R. E. Ingersoll,
Navy Department
Mr. Harry Slattery,
Interior Department
Mr. Irving F. Wixon,
Labor Department
4. The working committee disoussed the following practices and
comditions whieh the War and Navy Departments are particularly desirous
of terminating in Hawaii:
. The prectice followed by some Japanese public vessels,
when they depart frem Hawaiian waters, of leaving surreptitious-
ly, maval and military personnel on the Islands.
b. The illegal presence in the Islands of any member of
the Japanese Army or Mavy.
I. The presence of any craft in the Islands fitted or
designed for illegitimate purposes or with unidentified per-
sonnel on board.
4. The securing of military and naval information by
means of special photegraphs.
../oong.
I. The landing from Japanese public vessels and using
on shore speeial cameras and instruments, such as range find-
ers, surveying instruments, ete., adapted to detailed record-
ing and observation.
III.
sation recommended.
The working committee, having considered all available pertinent
information in the premises, has embodied its conclusions and recommenda-
tions in a draft letter to the President, which 1s submitted herewith for
the consideration of the Interdepartmental Committee.
W. RUEGER,
Brigadier General,
Enol.
Assistant Chief of Staff.
Draft letter to
Chairman of the Working Committee.
the President.
mse
-2-

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.94)
The President,
The white House.
Dear Mr. President:
Reference in made to your letter of Way 80, 1937.
desigmatime me as Chxirn of a Comittee, coneistins of the
Seeretaries of State, Treasury, Labor, Navy. Sar and Tho attorney
Gemeral, to study the problem of pernieicus metivities of Japamese
maval and eivil persomnel in Hawaii. The eeretary of the Interior,
also, partieipatod in the delilurations of this Commistes.
The Cawmitteu ounsidorud specifically the following prae-
tiees and conditione whion the Mar and uvy Departments are purtio-
alarly desirous of terainating in Havaii:
. The practice followed by some Japanese publie
vessels, when they depart from liuvalian waters, of leav-
ing surreptitiously, navul nd military persomnel on the
Ialands.
. Theillegal presence in the Iulande of y menter
of the Japanese m or lavy.
. The preuence of any oruft in the Islamds fitted
or dosigned for illegitimate purposes or with unidentified
personnel on bourd.
. The securin of military and maval information by
means of spoeial photographs.
I. The landing from Japamese publio vessels and using
on shore special eameras and instruments, suen as range
finders, surveying imstrumonts, stc., adapted to detailed
resording and observation.
To eorreot the foregoing pernieious practices and conditions,
the members of the sommittee designated by you and the Searetary of the
Interior heve agreed upon the following measures:
-1-

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.86)
16.
the Mawallam Islands, ether shen Hemelulu.
B. Varisus governmental agessies, partioulerly
the Immigratiem and National Defemse authoritiee, astins
meperately, but wmder the soordimutiom of she Bavy Depart-
meat, te ebeek eammkly all individuale leavime and
beurdime Japamese public vessele visisine Hemolulu.
12.+4(4)
. Custew authorttiee by abeerre enrefully Japamose
to dleeever umy undue adventages being taren of she cour-
sesies ccorde terd
d. The Isterior Lopartment to eponeor in the Hawallan
legislature legislesion designed to sain mere effostive eos-
trol over alies-ommed and aliem-operated fiahine boats oper-
ating im Hawaiion waters.
t. The utate wepartment to make representation to the
Japassse Gevermmeas, or to take other suitable metion, in
samm a defiaite vielatiem or the immigration or onstome lons
by a Japamese publse veseel is established.
If the feregoins sugrosted remedial neasures sre fully cos-
summates, she Cemmittee belleves that the desired objectivee will to
obteimed. Newever, sae Semmister aleo believes shet she enfaroing
agoasiee should be slethed with more speeifie sutherity in order to
reotify sspesially in osher importast strategienl sreas pernieicus son-
ditieme similar to the cmes is questlon. It is sherefere reeammended
that legislatiom, like that imeluded in the fellowing bill whien falled
of emmetmemt durine she lst sessiom of the 5th Congreue end the fol-
lowing wmemament to seetion 4sll, Hevised atatytes, propesed by the
Bureau ef Marime Imspeetion and Ravigation, be given high priority on
the Presideat's leglslstive progrem in the approsebing session of the
present Congress:
. s. laes, "To prohibit the makine of photographs,
sketebes, or maps of vital military and naval defensive in-
stalletioms and equipmemt, and for other purposes." By the
ensctment of this legislution, it is expeoted to sontrol
more effectively tse activitior of free lanen motien pisture
一8

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.81)
und still pieture operaters in vital military and naval is-
stullations, where tho intent of the photogrupher is mot
mesesmarily mo flagrest as shat ountenplated under Section
I, Pablse Ne. We, éstu Congress, "Ksplomage Aot."
I. D0. 3ll. Vessele of twonty pat tons and upwurd,
emrolled in purseamee of this Title (R.. 43ll-42901 U..0. Title
 hvi ic in fo, r 
sels ef lees than sweaty toa mt i lt thn Cve nt tane
whiek, alshough mot sarolled, have a liesnse in foree, us re-
quired by this Title, sud mo others, shull he deemed vessels
of the United Sates nusitlod to ese in ehe právédeges
es vessle empéoped a she coasting trade or flakeries. 
ahe faraltare ead cnntament. be forfested: Pravided. That
Not apprived
lly  iin es the Ued ntee n rereted
a s yet by
 re et Leaet firty per cntan of whiek, exelnding the
Do pt. ef s tate.
and Irorieed That cueh penalty shall not poply to veseale
l  he Ua te nd a by ll lanully 
n a recléents tharen mhich vecsel are ensa celely la
he fichaxiee until en and after aix yesre fres the date of
the aruroval ef taie Aotl and Previded further. Thut pothine
La thie pet ehall be sonatrmed to affect xay exietinr laws
relatine to veesels eagaced in the consttar trade er whale
Lheriee
Ly ndlng seotion asll es wbove, the effeot will be to
feree evemteelly all veesels engaged in the fieherise to he owued by
eisizems ef the Umsted Sutes.
Rospoetfully youra,
Searotary of as,
Chairman.
mse
-3

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.95)
Copy of p pers
furni: ned by
Crptr in Aunter

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.94)
Exeerpt frem letter frem Commamder W. y. Towle to the Cemmamdemnt
October 20. 1937.
I met Mr. lnd offahore when he arrived on the alela mmd found him
very iateresting indesd. He wanted to get all possihle informatien relative
to the eperatiom of Sampams by the Japamese Aliems in trade and in the Pisk-
aries. Of course you kmow that the Fisheries here are entirely in the hemds
of the Japamese and that mest of the Saxpans are owned and operated by Jape-
mese Aliems. There are lßl9 beats registered by the Territery ef which s6s
are llsted as rishing Beats of which 476 are listed as 3akpaNs. I think that
you are privy to the cemeerm of the Naval Command as to the threat of a stab
in the besk from this direction in case of muddem surprise attack. The Army
Cemmamd are alse "ppreheneive. Mr. Blmml was more or less preccoupied with
this mmgle beesuse his Committee has mder consideration a ill, drafted by
the Navy I belleve, to comtrol the operatiom of Undoeumented vescels owned
Ln the mited states by Aliems and operated in the risheriee by Aliams per-
tieularly as regards the situation here mmd in Seuthern Californin fiskeries.
I shall inolose a copy ef the propesed Bill which is still in the status ef
CONYIN)ENTIAL. In Committee it has romched a stage called "Confidential Commtme
Primt." Xr. Bland said that my neme had beem givem him in Tashingtem as
ome of the few men here who are well informed in this matter. e arranged
a Comference for him attemded by Commender Buchanmm, Naval Intelligemce.
Commamder Heard, Usm, represemting Admiral urfin and Colonel Csborme, USA.
whe is to be Gemeral Moses' Chief of Staff. Fell we comferred in my office
all morming from S:40 a.M. on. Each officer presented his views as te the
damger of the existins situation mnd his idens as to what legislmtiom is
nesessary to abate the damger and bring the situatiom wmader effective comtrol.
The Mavy mad Army presned the case for the Havy Bill and stressed the fact
that vessels of tem cress toms and over built mns! owmed by alieme in the
United States are now being operated in the United States Fisheries, operating
out of U. S. perts with aliem crewe without deoments ef any kind either
Americam or fereigm exeept the award of mmber wnder the Federal numbering
mot which is not a dooumemt, of course, hut merely evidemee thnt the vessel
has beem recorded om a list of such vessels kept in the Custom House.
Sectiom 2 ef the Bill forbids this umder penalty of forfeiture (the operation
of sech vessels in waters mder ". 8. jurimdiotiom) wmless it is provided with
a foreiem register, manifest, and a desoriptive crew list providing for the
identifiestion of every persen found on board.  very mound measure Iy IT
COULD E PASSXD. Sectiom 3 applies to all vewsele of lees then ton tons
engaged in Commercial Fishing end provides that each person present on sush
a veasel sh-ll at all times while on board such vessel be provided with an
Identificatiom Paper isemed by the Ssoretary of Cemmerce and carrying
desoriptive data mo extemsive hat complete identification is certain. This
1s the so-called Identification Measure which is regarded with such favor
and ms of great impertnnce beommse it mpplies to all aliems on board any
vessel (all persons, ns a mattor of faot) 1 ss than ten toms und lems
them five net toms or whe: have you. This seation is to be applicable
only in smck areas "As the Pr sident may direct." It is expooted he would
deslgmate the Somtherm Callfornin Area and Aawni1 an the Arems for ite appli-
eatiem if the Bill is passed. This was telked over at grent length. It is
impertamt to note that the question of nationality of the vessel is nvoided
in this Seation. Heard thought that this was an mdvantage, not to make an
-1

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.95)
sssme ef emership. I agreed to some extent but pointed out thet U. S.
statutes are applicable en the high seas only to vessels of the Uaited states
(1.e. deeumented vessels) or vessels ewmed by citisens ef the Uaited states.
Mr. Bland was as attentive as the wisest of owls but every one presemt was
sare that he is not faverably inclined as regards the eneotmemt of this Bill.
He discussed the effect it would have if applied to the aliem fishing vessels
perattng out of New Fagland perts, out of New York and out of the Chesepeake.
Of cearse, it would be a hardship for these people as well as for the Italiams
operating out of Sam Frameisee, because theygemerally recruit a new crowd
when they are ready to go fishing and it would be diffioult and expensive to
semd cach ome ef them pessibly for long distances to get an identificatiem
peper. It is of eourse a drastic act to require averx nersen on aver em-
mercial fishind teesel of whatever tonn ge less them ten gresn to get himeelf
am idemtification paper: but I think that in prespect it seems more drastie
than it really is and I feel that in practice it would not be a serious hard-
ship. It is one of those things that looks di'fioult is prespect but the
accomplishment looks easy when it has been viewed in the retrospect. We
wonder what made as think it was gotar to be hard. But I mow slso that
every neasure looking to the registratiem of aliems is this comtry evem
in a limited way has eneemmtered a terrifio hovl f pretest md a sterm of
oppesitiem whieh has defeated every ome of them. we did not get very far
in trying to impress Wr. Bland with the idee that this measure is not in-
tended for applicatiom is all areas but that, en the centrary, it wae in-
tended smd expested that the President will desigmate enly the Seatherm
Califermia ares amd Hawall as the areas for its application. This is a
measure so pretect the matiemal defemses agaimst the real and damgerees
threat of  organised fleet of Japamese fiehing vessele manned  Japamem
right smeek in our midst as regards Hawail and Southerm Califernia. My
impressiem is that Mr. Blend is ome ef the ablest end most valuebly ex-
perienced mem I have met, and that he is eager te remove this threat and
to centrel the Japmese fishing fleet in every pessible way, bat that he
is not mch impressed with this Bill is a device fer deing it. Throughout
the whele oomferemee eme ides stond out promimently amd this was the mami-
mously sceepted mnd comstantly expressed conceptiom of the Ceast Qaard as
the emfereemeat service of the Daited States. The Nsvel and Army officers
were stresdmg this throughout: ""e wamt to imoresse the pewer and anthority
of the Ceast Guard te cheek this threat." This will mable the Coast Guard
to check up em smsplcieus aliens. Yes, but if the Ceast Guard has cause to
believe they shomld have muthority to questiem them end ezamine them, am
fimd out if they are aliems or citiseme. The Ceast Gmard womld catch them
whem they returmed inte territorial waters. The most peverful enfercement
service in the werld, ete., etc., etc. well, th idea 1s "te apply the
pelice pewer ef the Ceast Oaard to proteat the fleet." All this without a
word or saggestiem frem me. Net at this time anywey. Takes time for n
buildup. Amyhew Wr. Mlmd cortaimly get m earful of the Geast Gmard as
the champiem enfercememt service ef the werld i thout my saying a word.
I was tickled to death im view of your letter. There was = considerable
dissussies of existins lmw spplicabl: te the situatlem here and the com-
feremce begam to sesk informatiom frem me as am autherity in that field

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.94)
beth as regards Pederal statutes and Territorial statutes. Fertumately
I de not kmow a lot about it becamse I have beem making a stady fust that
as well as certain sectioms of the Castoms Laws md Regulatiems and
Nareetie Laws ever simce I got dowm here. Mr. Aland is by far the best
infermed mam I have met as to Pederal statuses relating to vessels and
trade mad the fisheries, alse the most imstructive. I was able to give
him a somplete picture ef the Territorial statutes unier which the Mawalimm
Fisheries are almost exclusively carried en. This because the Orgamic Ast
(Ammexatiem Aet) reserved to a certain extent control of the fisheries in
the Territerial autherities and d1 not reeerve exolusive comtrol for the
U. S. Congress. As you kmew the Territorial laws provide for and enoourage
aliem fiebermem gemerally referred to as commercial fisbermem in the laws
and also, of course, the empleymemt in the fisheries of vessels owmed here
by aliems. The Japamese had monopolised amd were in cemtrol ef the Hawailan
Visheries lems before the mmexatiom smd the Territorial Law simply provides
measures for retadming them in that pesition with certain wholly iandequate
measures for identifieatiom whioh have mever heen really enfarced by the
Territory and would mot have may offeat i" they ware as far as I can see.
Ar. Bland knew nothimg of the Territorial set up on the Pisheries and he seems
lad to get the dope em this angle. He made an angagement to come w to the
offioe in a faw days to dimouss the situntiom further. He wanted to talk over
the legal mapects or the situatiom pro and con. An came in as arrmm ed and
we  isoussed the matter for about three houre. "e described very clearly the
proceedinxe o" his Committee Hearinxs on the Navy Bill. Remd the testimomy
of the more impertant firures who mopeared en? wanted my comment en it. Re
seemed to have a great deal of confidence in the leral an from the "reasury
Departmemt. I think he said his name is Hester. Talked over exlsting law
at some length, beth Federal and Territorial. isoussed dericiencies ms a
result of which th presemt situatien is pos ible. Disoumsed probable dis-
position of aliem owm d beats in case they are excluded from the fisheries
and agreed that the beats would continue in the fisheries operated by aliem
crews owmership heim trensferred by sale or otherwise te American citisens.
but 3 thought that emabling legislation would be required fer this besamse
it is not, am I remember it, permitted under existims law. Herohant Marim
Ast. I think. Mr. Almmd wanted to know how we are tryim to comtrel the
situatiom now and I gave him a fairly good picture of what we are doing.
In this aotivity we work in very close cooperation with Naval Intelligence
and Mr. Strench of Immigratiom. As umual the Const Guard does most of the
work, but of course I did not mentiom that to Mr. land. It is a matter
of indoctrinating and traiming the men of nforcement Units which I tried
to have organised om the TANEY, LIANCE and "IOXR to be alert and observant
whem boarding or watching sampans at Kewalo Resim and ameohe Ray in noticing
atrange aliems (Jepamese) of non-fishermen type. After our men cot some
"xperienoe and begem to know the ishermen it was not a diffioult matter.
Naval Intelllgemee operstore are very goon at it. I disoussed with "r. land
a proposed amendment to the Federal mmsberine lot which I had drawm up
several momths ago. I am inclosing a copy of what hed been my idea of a
method of comtrollimr vessels of the type that mre givins so much trouble.
-3

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.91)
SECCT
M measures cre intended to prevent mliens from numbering, emming, or
operatins ressels in the United states. To require mumbered vessels te have
a permit befere engagimg in trade or in the fisheries and to require aliems
empleyed on mmbered vessels to carry i entification certifiantes. It would.
I believe, give us pretty complete control of the whole situstien if there
was a ahanoe in the world of gatting it enmoted, whiah there may not be.
Anyhew nobody seems so so for it. Yobedy seens willing to come out is the
ope inet the OVNERSIP and RATION of A Tt of TeSsele of L SS THAN
FIVE NE" TONS by Jmpanese Allens out of American perts in United States
waters, in U. S. trade, nd in the . s. Fisheries. But the whole threat,
the wHOLE DANmXR, to the nationel defense lies right there. The cem-
oentratiom in Hawal1, San Pedro an: San  iago, the throe very perts in the
thited states which are most vital to the It, of compact Neets of ocemm
coime pever eeeels so destmed me to mmamure laes them ive tome M. D
AND DONTBOLLD BY JAPANESE and therefore preperly (and probably so regarded
La Jmpem) vxsexLs of JApa mnd certaialy (I =t least have no donbt), in time
of war or contemplated surprise attack, nubjeot to the orders of the JApAns?
Anthorities. The weakmesn of our laws (Pase the Wumberine lat) reste in the
fact that they permit, almost moourare, the concentration at vital strategie
points near Haval "ases of dnn srous fleets of "mosquito craft" hiah by
virtwe of their OESEIP ere mbjeet to the OF ERS CP A POP DN POWER, and
not subjeat to control by the United states ns ere vesmeln of the Imited States.
I wms intarested to et your searet letter reguiring a statement ef ed-
ditiomal Territorial regulstien nec saary in order that the Cemst Guard may
maintaia sntisfactory cheok om permone foumd on commerninl fishing vessels.
I certainly have been doing some thinking about that ngl». A study of
Öhapter 10 - Pevised Laws of Hawali. ec.  -39 et al. would indi-
cate that the desired objective can bes? be ubtmined by amendments to certain
of the Sections. Amend ec. 33. paregreph 1. so ms to require the alion
commeraial fimhermem to ccolare his nationmlity together with lemrth of resl-
demce in the United States. mend parngrmph 2. See. 4. so that the "Metal
Teg" shall bear identification data - photo or "inger print - complete onough
to make 2 entification of bearer cartain and insart after th words " thibit
the same to mny police officer" in peragrmph 2. see. 4, the worde "or
ofrioer of the United Statee Coast Guard." In Chapter 59 Fevised Lave.
Hawaliem. Seo. 1748, amend this Sec. Insert in 1tem No. "a" th wmrde "srose
and met" before the word tonnage and a the end of the See. add the words
"8 whother equipred a th radio a rnratus an 1 ao a descrintion of euch
eq1: 1pnoat."
If e decide to challonge and to eliminate alien omerahip, t is can be
done very simply. Amend Seo. 1747 erised Imwa, Hewaii. mdd the words:  An
oath shall be medo by the omer or rson in control that he is a citisen
of the Tmitrd states and owes no allegiance to any foreien prince or power."
Amend ses. 1753 - add mbe words: "Or to imprisonment for a term of not more
then ome year or to beth fine and imprisomment." Could you let me know by
redio despatoh as soon as you rend this, whether to nvoid the omership isue?
4

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.93)
I am inclosine a copy of Fegietretion Certificate *s they are filed
in the Harbor Cemmissiemer's Record of Bewer Boats. You will see that
referemee to "groes" tonmace und to "met tonange" Is pvoided, an is alse
"cruising radius" altbough See. 174s muthorises tris data. I have die-
aussed this metter with the Harbor Master for sone time end we heve been
in the throes of getting out a new form of Certifloate thst will include
grons tonnage, net ton age and oruisinx radiue.
You might advine whoever se studying this angle for you nt Headquarters.
that the last Lenielntwre nmonded Sec. 1746 (Perintratiom act) by inserting
a clmace rending "Fxcepting vennels usnd solely for plonaure and having a
lomgth of not over twenty-five fert," eee page 62, Sesslon Laws for Regular
Sessiom l927. In observanoe of this amendment the Roard of Farbor Commission-
ers are not rrquirins, any veenel not over twenty-five feet to take out
registration.
I shall take that angle up with ite on Monday. I. mill be necessery
to keap this nagle in min? when muggestine additionnl "Perulntione" to pro-
vide the desired check en cormercial fishermen. I maet fin' an nanwer to
the questiom who has mmthority to ireme much rogulations to they will have
"the foree of law?" The comtrol of the fisheries sme to be provided for
by a whole flook of statutes, coverins the whole industry in Chapter l0 and
bepter 11 of Revieed Laws of Rawai1 1935 end the Seasions Laws for 1936-
1937. I doubt if the I'ivisien of Pimherles end Game could lawfully issme
rogulations having to do with identifiontion togs for commercial fishermem
in view of Seo. 334. I shall msk nite to ive mc the dope on th- feasibility
and prompoots of the "Regulatiom Angle." It sewen to me, however, that in
order to modify the existing methods for 1dentifying Co mcrcial Firhermem
provided rather explicitly in atmtutory form, it will be neceseery to change
the "tetutes - Seo. 33 334 et. al, no wel) ae Cnc. 3:8 et. al.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.95)
Ssed by Commemder Towle as a means for control of aliem vessels and crewa)
ADNT TO USO 46 20S A3 HHED ADOULST B. 1935
In orcer to the issme of said Certificate of Award of mumber, m eath shall
be takem by the owmer er by one of the omere thereof befere the offieer
mmtherised to make smeh award deelaring the type and length of such vessel.
her breadth, type of prepelling meshimery, feel capacity, cruisime radius
and maximm mpeed, whether equipped to trammit radio signals, whether
equipped te receive redie stsmals, the type mmd raage of mch radio equipment,
the plmee where she was built mnd the year in which she was built, and if he be
the sole owmer of the ressel, that suoh is the case; or if there be another
owmer, thet there is smch other owmer, spccifyiar his mame mmd plaee of abede
ans that he is a oitisem of the Umited states sad specifyins the propertiem
belemging to sesh omer, that the persem so swesrims is a citisem of the Dmited
states, and that there is no subjest or citisen of any foreigm prince or state
nor mmy person owing mmy allegiamce to my fereign prince or state, directly
or indirestly. by way ef trast, comfidence, or otherwise, interested im mmsh
vessel, or the unes, profits, or ismmes thereof, and that the vessel shall
not be used in my trade or busimess whereby the revenue of the (mited States
may be dofrauded. amnd that the ven el shall not be used to the prefudice of
the matiomal dofenses of the Unitec States.
If any of the matters of faot mileged in the oath taken by the owmer to obtais
the certificate of award of number of my vessel, whioh within the kmowledge
of the party so swearing are not true, there shall be a forfeiture of the
vessel, tokether with her tnckle, apparel, an: urniture, in respeot to which
the osth shall have beem made, or of the value thereof, to be recovered with
the costs os suit, of the pereon by whom th- oath was made.
No alien shall be employod, or tranmported an board any vessel to which a
certificate of sward of number hes been iamed, other tham am mlien who is
provided with a certificate of identification obtsimed from any officer of
the United States who may be duly authorised by law to issue much certificate.
For the purposes of this section, the Comminsiomer of Immigration of the
United States in authorized to imvue such certificates or identification, in
such form and pursuant to suah regulations, as he may prescribe. when ever
en alien ie found on board such vessel, in viclation of the provisions of
this section, the operator in charge, shall be limble to a fine of 500.00
for each alien so found, in additlon to mny other pemalty imposed by law.
The owmer of any vessel which has been employed in vielation of this section.
shall be l1able to a pemalty of $500.00: and the said vessel may be holden
for payment of sueh pemalty. mad may be seized and proceeded against smummarily
by libel for the recovery of the smme im mny United States Dietrict Court for
the District withim which much vessel may be and in the name of the officer
desismated by the Snoretary of Commeroe.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.96)
In erder to the employment of axy vessel whieh has been awarded a Cer-
tifieate of Award of Humber in any trade or in the fisheries, as eath
shall be made by the eperater in charge of suet vessel, that he is a
eitisem of the United tates, that he ewes no alleginnee to any for-
eige prinee or state, that he is able to speak and understand the
English language, and that the vessel shall met be employed in any
trade er busimess wherety the revemmes of the United States will be
defremded: where upon the Colleeter of the Distriet wherein the award
of mwaber wan made to the vessel, may issue a permis to said vessel
te engage in trade, or in the fisherien, and an eath shall be made by
the operator in charee of sueh vessel, deelaring that said permit sgall
not be used for any other vessel, or any other employment than that for
whieh it was speeially granted. The operator in charge of any vessel
violating the provisions of this seetion, mhall be liable to the penalty
of gr00.00 in additiom to any other penalty imposed by law. The Seore-
tary of Commeree shall have power to mitigate any sueh penalsy, if in
his opinion it was ineurred without negligonse or intention of fraud.
The owner of any vessel violating the provisions of this Seotion shall
be liable to a penalty of s20).00, in addition to any other pemalty im-
posed by law; and the said vessel may be holdon for the payment of such
penalty and mey be seized and proceeded agninst summarily by libel for
the reeovery of the same in any United tates diatrict court for the
distriet within whieh suoh vessel may be and in the name of the ofrieer
designated by the Seoretary of Commeroe. The Seoretary of Commerse
shall have power to mitigate any suohs penalty, if in his opinion it was
1nourred without negligence or intention of fraud.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.95)
PROPOD NENT T C.  OF VID T TUT OP U. 3.
See. 4sll. Vessels of twenty net tons und upward marolled in
purememee ef th1s Title (H.8. 4311 - 4390: U.3.C., Title 46, Sees.
2s1 to s8s) and havime a lieense in foree, or vessels of less than
twenty met tons but mot less than five met tons, which although mot
emrolled, have a licemse in foree, as required by this Title, and no
others, shell be deemed vessels of the United tates entitled to en-
gage im the cossting trade or fishories. ny vessel other than as
defized above found engaged in the coastin trude or fisheries shall,
tegether with her taekle, appurel, furniture, and eguipment, be for-
feised. *rovided, that the penalty presoribed by this seotion shall
not apply to undooumented vessels of less than five net tons, built
im and wholly owned by oitizens of the United tates, and operated
by erews ut least firty por centwm of which, exoluding the person in
charge, shall be citizens of the United tates; and provided, that
sueh penalty shall mot apply to vessels built in the United States
and omed by aliens lawfully admitted as residents therein. hieh
vessels are engaged solely in the fiuhories, until on and after six
yoars from the date of the approval of this  ot; and provided fur-
ther, that mothime in the aat shull be conatrued to affect any ex-
isting laws relating to vessels engaged in the coaeting trade or
whale fisherios."
(Thie proposal wme given to Comdr. Towle by Mr. Eland for study and
Gomment. It is a "searet" copy for information of dmiral Waesebe enly.)

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.97)
894-20211a
75TH CONGRESS
S.1485
1ST SESSION
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
FEBRUARY 11, 1937
Mr. Warsn and Mr. Suerraro introduced the following bill: which was read
894.20211A/08
twice and referred to the Committee on Naval Affairs
A BILL
To prohibit the making of photographs, sketches, or maps of vital
military and naval defensive installations and equipment.
and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
1
2 tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
3 That, whenever, in the interests of national defense, the
4 President shall define certain vital military and naval installa-
5 tions or equipment as requiring protection against the general
/...F
6 dissemination of information relative thereto, it shall be un-
7 lawful to make any photograph, sketch. picture, drawing.
8 map, or graphical representation of such vital military and
9 naval installations or equipment without first obtaining per-
10 mission of the commanding oflicer of the military or naval
★2-15 37

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
2
1 post, camp, or station concerned, or higher authority, and
2 promptly submitting the product obtained to such command-
3 ing officer or higher authority for censorship or such other
4 action as he may deem necessary. Any person found guilty
5 of a violation of this section shall be punished by a fine of
6 not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than
7 one year, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
8
Sec. 2. Any person who uses or permits or procures the
9 use of an aircraft fer the purpose of making a photograph.
10 sketch, picture, drawing, map, or graphical representation
11 of vital military or naval installations or equipment, in viola-
12 tion of the preceding section, shall be liable to the penalty
13 therein provided.
SEC. B. On and after thirty days from the date upon
15 which the President defines any vital military or naval
16 installation or equipment as being within the category con-
17 templated under the first section of this Act, it shall be
18 unlawful for any person to reproduce. publish, sell, or give
19 away any photograph, sketch. picture. drawing. map, or
20 graphical representation of the vital military or naval instal-
21 lations or equipment so defined, without first obtaining per-
22 mission of the commanding officer of the military or naval
23 post, camp, or station concerned, or higher authority, unless
24 such photograph, sketch, picture, drawing, map, or graphi-
25 cal representation has clearly indicated thereon that it has

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
3
i been censored by the proper military or naval authority.
2 Any person found guilty of a violation of this section shall
3 be punished as provided in the first section of this Act.
4
SEc. 4. The term “aircraft" as used in this Act means
5 any contrivance known or hereafter invented, used, or de-
6 signed for navigation or flight in the air. The expression
7 "post, camp, or station" as used in this Act shall be inter-
8 preted to include naval vessels, military and naval aircraft,
9 and any separate military or naval command.
10
SEc. 5. The provisions of this Act shall extend to all
11 Territories, possessions, and places subject to the jurisdiction
12 of the United States, whether contiguous thereto, or not,
13 and offenses under this Act when committed upon or over
14 the high seas or elsewhere within the admiralty and mari-
15 time jurisdiction of the United States and outside the terri-
16 torial limits thereof shall be punishable hereunder.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
S.1485
75TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
A BILL
To prohibit the making of photographs.
sketches. or maps of vital military and naval
defensive installations and equipment, an 
for other purposes.
By Mr. WALsH and Mr. SHEPPARD
FEBRUARY 11.1937
Read twice and referred to the Committee on Naval
Affairs

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.95)
MSK
CHARLES M. GOETHE
AAN LEGION
IGRATION STUDY GOM'N
(MAN)
California Joint Immigration Committee,
D. VANDELEUR
85 SECOND STREET
ECEIVED
HON. U. S. WEBB
STATEATTORNEY GENERAL
PHone GARpield 2697
JOHN T. REGAN
San Francisco, Cal.
V. 8. McCLATCHY
GRAND BEC'Y NATIVE BONS
40 MA 19 AM 1151
山
May 9, 1938
Dr. Stanloy K. Horabodk, A EASTERN A
ADVISER
MR HBRNSECK
Department of State,
MAY 1 6 1938
Washington, D. C.
K
Departrent of State
Dear Dr. Hornbeek:
Referring to your letter of April 27th, in the matter of "Japan Where
Ancient Loyalties Survim". Our committee regrets the present complica-
894.20211A/32
tions, but cannot see that we are at fault therein. We have purused in
that matter the same polioy as in similar cases of publio school books
containing misleading information as to our relations with Japm. We
have sought thru understanding with the State Board of Eduoation and, if
possible, with friendly cooperation of publishers and authors, to secure,
without publicity, correetion of grave errors. Int he past two years we
894.20211a
have been instrumental that way in seouring withdrawal or substitution of
correeted editions in the case of three textbooks in the California sohools.
In the ease of "Japan Where Ancient Loyalties Survive", the Board decided
at its last meeting that it laoked furisdietion under state law, and that
the various distriot sohool authorites are at liberty to use or bar such
a book. In view of the stand taken by the Institute of Pacifio Relations
2
we will therefore refer the oase to those authorities thruout the state
2i
with the publicity, if any which may be involved.
Mr. Carter's statement that a "group of Californians" would consider our
objeetions meane that he and Mr. Field, who thoroughly understand the inti-
mate facts are shifting responsibility to a district "Edueation Committee"
of the I.P.R. whioh will obtain its information at second hand from some-
ene else.
MAR 2 9 1940
FILED
The dooumented facts, I regret to say, cast grave doubts on the good faith
of Mr. Carter and Mr. Field and the I.P.R. in this matter. Read in the
testimony of John F. G. Stokes (at pp 256 and following) and Kilsoo Haan
before the Congressional Committee on Hawaiian Statohood at Honolulu in
Ostober, 1937, and in the exhibits presented with our statement to the
Superintondent of Publio Instruotion of California, June 18, 1935, and in
correspondenee with Mr. Field, and in various C.JI.C. Doowments released,
the details of fact, of which the following is a passing glimpse.
Nitobe, after nine months investigation in the United States, reported in
1934 that Amerioan missionaries "are the very medium for bringing about
better relations" He referred to them as "peace-at-any-price missionaried"
possessing neither "intelligence" nor "vision" but yet followed by the
"ignorant". After a survey it was decided that "if proper propaganda is
systematically carried out in the sehools the American children will become
strong friends of Japan". The "Bureau of Cultural Relations" was organised
with Aoki, fermer Censul General at Honolulu, as Seeretary. Part of its
polioy, as Aoki outlined, was to Japanise the Ameriean children not only
of Hawaii but of the mainland, for whioh "the wholehearted cooperation of

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.97)
the Japanese Government and the people is anticipated". Arrangements
were made with the Inditute of Pacific Relations for introducing a text-
book for the purpose indicated, Bruno Lasker serving as the representa-
tive in Japan for the I.P.R. (See the Japan Times, news item, Dee. 3,
1934, C.J.I.C. Doo. #4o9.) The book was written by Helen Gay Pratt, rep-
resemting both the I.P.R. and the Hawaiian Board of Edueation and Assisted
by Prof. Gregg Sinolair of the University of Hawaii, who had formerly
taught in Japan, and by Prof. Royama of the Imperial University of Tokye,
whe stated that he had been sent over by the Bureau of Cultural Relations.
That book was used in five publio sohools of Honolulu during 1935, notwith-
standing repeated protest there and on the continent, was finally with-
drawn, its deficienoies acknowledged, and promise mde of revision thereof
in a new edition. That revised edition is "Japan Where Anciont Loyalties
Survive", published by the I.P.R., the oredited author being Helen Pratt,
the names of Royama and Sinolair being dropped.
Our critieism is to the effect that the revised edition gives the reader
am impression as to conditions similar to that produced by the originel
book. It does it, however, by omission or slurring of the facts, while
the origimal did it by misstatement of the facts which, if not deliberate,
displayed an ignorance which should have barred the authors from use for
such responsible work.
The ecmparison of a selested page of the book with the authenticated facts
as covered in our "Story of Japanese Immigration" is convinoing on that
schore, and we are content to let school authorities and the publio decide
on that showing.
Meedless to day that our committee appreeiates highly the friendly service
you undertook to secure an amicable adjustment of the matter.
With warm personal regards,
Sincerely,
M tdely
V. S. MoClatchy, Exee. Sooy.
VSM.DK

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
37
June 21, 1937.
Mr. Moore talked with
General Embick, Assistant Chief of
Staff, regarding this matter, and
informed him that we would be at
the service of the War Department
at any time to discuss the subject.
nu
8110.041
Gree H. Hackworth.
Le GHH:AD

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.83)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
MM Moore :
I our returning
in iter tteougler ttion
yu way weed
abrevee.
GNN

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.97)
3
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVLO
PARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
19372i5
MEMORANDUM
D VISION OF
COMMUNICI-IONS
May 26, 1937.
AND REUS
894.20211A/
The Session Laws of Hawaii contain the following
894-20211a
provision:
"Sec. 5524. Waiver of jury. The defendant
in any criminal case other than a case in which
the death penalty may be imposed may, with the con-
sent of the court, waive the right to a trial by
3
jury either by written consent filed in court or
by oral consent in open court entered on the
3
minutes. Any case in which a trial by jury is
waived as aforesaid may be tried by the court with-
out a jury both as to the facts and the law, and
when the trial shall have been had there shall be
no further trial upon the facts, except upon the
granting of a new trial according to law. [L. 1903,
c. 9, 8. 1; R.L. 1925, 8. 4028; Am. L. 1931, c. 36,
s. 1.]" (Revised Laws of Hawai1, 1935, page 858.)
Article III, Section 2, Clause 3 of the Constitution
F/MR
of the United States provides that:
"The Trial of all Criminals, except in Cases
of Impeachment, shall be by Jury."
The sixth amendment to the Federal Constitution also
Confidential File
provides that:
"In all criminal prosecutions, the accused
shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial,
by an impartial jury of the State and district
wherein the crime shall have been committed", etc.
It
e

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
It has been held that the provision in Article III
of the Constitution just quoted applies only to criminal
proceedings in the Federal courts and does not govern
trials in State courts (The Constitution of the United
States of America (1924), Senate Document No. 154, 68th
Congress, lst session, pages 483, 484). The provisions
of the sixth amendment to the Constitution have also been
interpreted as restrictive of the power of the Federal
Government alone and to mean that the jury referred to
is a jury constituted as it was at common law, i.e.,
twelve men. (Ibid., 615, 617.)
Willoughby states in his treatise on the Constitution
that:
"The right of trial by jury provided for in
the Constitution applies only in the Federal courts,
and in them it applies only to those cases in which,
by common practice at the time the Constitution was
adopted, it was employed in the colonies and in
England. Thus it does not apply to equity causes,
to cases in an admiralty and to military courts,
nor where the special prerogative rights of courts
are involved, as, for example, in proceedings for
disbarment or for contempt."  (II, Willoughby, The
Constitutional Law of the United States (1929) 1142.)
Willoughby also states that:
"The law governing the waiver by the accused
of his constitutional right to a trial by jury in
criminal actions, or to a trial by less than twelve
jurors, and, indeed, the waiver of any constitutional
guaranty, is not in a clearly determined condition.
In cases arising under State constitutions, inhar-
monious doctrines have been declared. In some juris-
dictions the position has been taken that the guaran-
ties are intended merely for the benefit of the
accused

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
accused and may, therefore, be waived. In other
States the courts have held that the guaranty of
jury trial in criminal cases is one in which the
State also has an interest, and which for that
reason may not be waived.
"In the United States Supreme Court it was
held in Schick v. United Statee [195 U.S. 65] that
jury trial might be waived in the trial of minor
offences.
"The right of the accused to waive jury trial
in cases of felony has never come before the Supreme
Court; but in Lewis v. United States [146 U.S. 370]
that Court held that, in felonies, the presence of
the accused could not be waived either by himself
or by counsel. ..." (Ib1d., 1l46-ll47.)
Dobie, in his work on Federal procedure, also states
that:
"Whether the accused can waive a jury trial
and be tried before the Federal judge is a question
that has occasioned grave debate. Schick v. United
States seems to have settled the question by hold-
ing that there can be such a waiver in (but only in)
'petty offenses', which are not 'crimes' in a consti-
tutional sense." (Dobie, Handbook of Federal Juris-
diction and Procedure (1928), 86.)
The Act of April 30, 1900, entitled "An Act To pro-
vide a government for the Territory of Hawaii", contained
the provision in Section 5 thereof that:
"The Constitution, and, except as herein other-
wise provided, all the laws of the United States
which are not locally inapplicable, shall have the
same force and effect within the said Territory as
elsewhere in the United States ..."
and Section 6 thereof states:
"The

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
"The laws of Hawaii not inconsistent with
the Constitution or laws of the United States or
the provisions of this Act shall continue in force,
subject to repeal or amendment by the Legislature
of Hawaii or the Congress of the United States."
(31 Stat. 141-142.)
By the Act of May 27, 1910, Section 5 of the Act
just quoted was amended to read:
"The Constitution, and, except as herein
otherwise provided, ali the laws of the United
States, including laws carrying general appropri-
ations, which are not locally inapplicable, shall
have the same force and effect within the said
Territory as elsewhere in the United States", sub-
ject to certain provisos. (36 Stat. 433.)
Attention should be called to a case decided by the
Supreme Court upon an appeal from the District Court of
the United States for the Territory of Hawaii in 1903
(Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U.S. 197). In that case Mankichi
had been tried on a charge of having committed the crime
of murder on March 26, 1899. He was found guilty of man-
slaughter in the first degree by a verdict of nine jurors.
The statutes of Hawaii prior to July 7, 1898, provided for
such trial and conviction. It therefore became important
to determine whether the Joint Resolution of Congress "To
provide for annexing the Hawaiian Islands to the United
States", approved July 7, 1898, which provided that the
municipal legislation of the Hawaiian Islands not incon-
sistent with the Joint Resolution nor contrary to the
Constitution or the treaties of the United States should
remain

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
remain in foroe until the Congress of the United States
should otherwise determine (30 Stat. 750-751), imposed
upon the Islands the provisions of the United States
Constitution. The Supreme Court held by a five to four
decision that the conviction was lawful. Justice Brown,
in delivering the opinion of the majority, stated that:
"... Under the conditions named in this reso-
lution [July 7, 1898] the Hawaiian Islands remained
under the name of the 'Republic of Hawaii' until
June 14, 1900, when they were formally incorporated
by act of Congress under the name of the 'Territory
of Hawaii'. 31 Stat. 14l. By this act the Const1-
tution was formally extended to these islandg, sec. 5,
and special provisions made for empanelling grand
juries and for unanimous verdicts of petty juries.
Sec. 83. [Underscoring added.]
"The question is whether, in continuing the
municipal legislation of the islands not contrary
to the Constitution of the United States, it was in-
tended to abolish at once the criminal procedure
theretofore in force upon the islands, and to substi-
tute immediately and without new leglslation the com-
mon law proceedings by grand and petit jury, which
had been held applicable to other organized Terri-
tories.
"... Of course, for the reasons already stated,
the questions involved in this case could arise only
from such as occurred between the taking effect of
the joint resolution of July 7, 1898, and the act
of April 30, l900, establishing the territorial
government." (Ibid., 210-211, 218.)
It appears, therefore, that the majority of the
Supreme Court had no doubt that after June 14, 1900, the
Constitution of the United States was formally extended
to

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
to the Hawaiian Islands and that the case of Hawaii v.
Mankichi was decided as it was because of the fact that
it arose prior to that Act.
Le:MW:FEH:SS

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
37
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
S. 1815 or H.R. 5705 - "To require certain documents of vessels not wholly
owned by citisens of the United Stat es and navigated
in territorial waters of the United States, its
territories or possessions to regulate vessels
engaged in the fisheries,and for other purposes".
S. 4495 (Section 3) - "A Bill to amend certain of the navigation laws of
the United States to remove inconsistencies and
inequalities therein, and for other purposes".
S. 92 or H.R. 3436 - Bills to prohibit the making of photographs, sketches,
or maps of vital military and naval defensive
installations and equipment, and for other purposes".

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.96)
REC
THE COUNSELOR
DED
December88
DIVI.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 8- 1937
Dear MrHanilton:
Depariment of State
Until you handed me this memoran-
dum, I did not know that any action had
been taken relative to tne matter men-
tioned.
My recollection, which is rather
vague, is that Messrs. Hornoeck, Hickworth
and I were reguested to confer witn the
represent tives of the other Dep artments,
and that Mr. Hackworth, and per aps at my
request, prepared a rather elaborate
memorandum discussing the legal phases of
the matter.
Since then Mr. Hackworth
has had on his desk the file which I am
handing you herewith.
R. altd g
C RWM: HM

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
RTMENT OF STATE
ON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 7, 1937.
C
Mr. Moore:
In reference to your
statement this morning that
you had received a letter
from Mr. Bland in regard
to Japanese espionage
activities in Hawaii, you
may be interested in the
attached strictly confi-
dential correspondence.
FE:MMH:EJI

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.94)
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
RIMENT
May 20, 1937
czl
I am enclosing a copy of a joint letter from the
Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy under date
894.20211A/34
of October twenty-second, 1936, which together with its two
enclosures, is self-explanatory.
I believe that some practical solution to the
problem presented by the War and the Navy Departments can
be worked out through cooperation between the Departments of
State, Treasury, Justice, Labor, Interior and, of course,
War and Navy.
The Secretary of War has been designated by me
Chairman of a Committee to consist of the Secretaries of
State, Treasury, Labor, Navy and War Departments, as well as
the Attorney General, to study this problem.
The information transmitted herewith is of a secret
nature and must be so regarded.
Very sincerely yours,
894202114
Confdential
The Honorable
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
TE
1
①
M

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.94)
旦三旦旦三T
TAR AND NAVY DEPARTMENTS
WASHINOTON
m. No. 504.
(ser1al No. 593).
Catober 22, 1958
The President,
The hite Houne.
Dear Mr. Presidont:
with referenee to tho enclosed report by the Local Joint Planning
Committee, Hawail, subjeet: "Activities of Japapese Naval and Civil Permon-
mel in Hawmil", whiah has heretofore been refer ed to you informally by the
Chief of Naval Operations, and upon whioh you requested eertain information
by memoramduy, dated August 10, 195e, to tho Chief of Naval Operations,
your attemtion is respeetfully invited to the let or from the Aoting Seare-
tary of Har to you, dated August 89, l936, covering your commente on
mmttere in whieh the Tar Department is primerily interestod.
With reference to paragraph 1 of your memorandum, the Local Joint
Plamning Cemmittee, Hamaii, made no npeciric recommendations in this partic-
ular report.
With reference to paragraph 2 of your memorandum, lists of suspects
are mmiatained by those remponsihle for military intelligence and such sus-
peets will normally be the firat interned in the event of trouble.
with referenee to the concl udins montence of your memorandum, The
Joint Heard has for years muspeoted espionage aotivities on the part of the
indieated nation in the Paciric. Desirable ns it may seem to terminate
definitely and comp etely theme activitios, which are inimical to our
mational defense, The Jeant Board has realized that such an objeotive would
be impreetieable. It would involve either the designation of the important
strategical islande of the Hawmlian Group as military or naval reservationa
and an increase in the losal garrison in ordor to police ef'eetively these
amas, er the alodng of the important Hawmiian commercial ports to the
commeree of the world. Either one or both of the foregoing solutions to
the preblem are considered too drastic and uepordingly are not rscammended.
The Joiat Board, however, has consiatently ndvocated reasonabln and effec-
tive moluti ns to spooifio related problems. The following recent instanoe
of War and/or Navy Department efforts to ourtail espionage primarily in the
Pacirie are eited:
Exeoutive Ordern No. 7404 and 7405 dated July 1, 1936 und
July 6, l986, respeotfvely, amend the civil service rules so as to purmit
the Seeretaries of ar and Navy to mploy civil servico personnel outside
the continental limits of the United itates (exeept tho Canal Zone and

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.94)
S CH星T
Alaske) upon matisfactory completion of a non-competitive civil serviee
emmmimation. Under authority or these xeoutive Orders, it is expacted
that veeancies oscurring hereefter in military or maval civil service
positions in Hawmil will be filled by selested citizens of unquestion-
able loyalty rather than by citizens gonerally of alien extraction
whose loyalty may be questionable.
Durins the 74th Congress, the ar end/or Navy apartmonts
advoeated the meetment of the following bills pertinent in the
premisess
. 3. 1a15 . 5705, ident cal b111s "To require
eortain doouments of vessels not vhlly ownod by citizens
of the United States and navigated in the Ter itorial maters
of the United States, its Territorien or its possesnions, to
regulate vesmele engaged in the fisheries, and for other
7.6
purposes." By the onmetment of this loginiation, it is ex-
peeted to gain more efreetive control over alimn-owned and
aliem-oporated fiahing boats operating in our turritorial
watore and thoreby eliminate muny heznrn to our national
defense.
b. 3. 4495 (Section 3 only) - A bi11 "To amand cortain
of the navigation laws of the United  tatos to ramove inoon-
sisteneies and inoqualities therein, and for other purposes."
Should the amemdment proposed in tection 3 of this bil be
enaoted, it in belloved that the offoot will be to force all
vessele angaged in the fiaheriea to be  mned in wholo by
oitizens of the United Stetes.
. 3. 92 or i. . 3436, 1dentical bilis, "o prohibit
the making of photographs, sketches, or maps of vital
military and maval defonsive instaliations and equipment, end
for other purposos." Hy the enactment of this legislation,
it is expected to control more effectively the mctivities of
4123
free lance motion picture and still picture operators in
vital mikitary and naval installatione, where the intent of
the photographer is not neceseurily so flagrant a: that oo-
templated under Sectin 1. Public No. 24, 65th Congress,
"Eopionage Aot."
d. None of tho above mantiuned bills, however, was
passed by the Congreas - and it is accordingly recommended
thet similar legislation be given high priority on the
President's logislative program in the next Congress.
- 2-

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
The Joint Board is of the further opinion that the Departments
of state and Justien would be interested in the attached papers partieu-
larly frem the viewpoint of foreim polioy and proceeding againet the
violators of the "Kspionage Aet." Publie No. 24 - 65th Congres: and/or
the Hovieed Laws of Ramli. whiah the Judte Advocate General of the Navy
1s of the opinion (eopy (nolosed) have been violated by certain activitles
deseribed in the report of the Looal Joint Plam:ing Committee, Hawaii;
that the Departments of the Treanury and Labor would be interested partie-
ularly from the vienpoint of implied violatione of the oustoms and
immigration laws; end the Departmont of Comm ren in connection vith the
recommended legislation.
The seoretarien of "ar and Navy dom the curbing of espionage
aetivitiem in the Hawmiinn aren to be of the highest impertance to the
interestn of national defense. They, therefore, urge that the other
departments of the Oovernmant coneerned be enjoined to give this matter
their attention, in cooporstics, with the ar and Navy  apartments.
Respectfully yours,
(Signod) Harry H.oodrin.
Seeretery of ar.
(S1med) Claude . iwanson.
Seeretary of the Navy.
- 3 -

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.95)
OP-1RA-CTB
(9C)AB-5
BECRET
September 18, 1936
From:
The Judge Advocate General.
TO:
The Beeretary of the Navy.
Sub jeet :
setivities of Japanese naval and civil personnel
in Hawmii.
Refarence:
(a) Letter fram thu Searetary of the Navy to the
Judge Advocate General, Augunt 88, 1936, Op-
12A-CTA (3C) A8-0 SEORT, inelosing repOrt of
Loonl Joint Plenning Committee-Hawaii, May
25, l93s, end papare attached thereto.
Inclomure: Heferenee (a).
1.In referenee an opinion is requested as to whether
or not certain of the mubject aetivitias indicnte viola ions
of existinx lawn of the United States for which the perpetrators
could be prosecuted. It is further requested thn- in arriving
at an opimion on the above subject it should be asaumed that (1)
the tawaiian aren involve: is of such strategical charecter that
1te defanse is deemed of first importanen, and (2) that evidence
is available supporting the allegation that detaile information,
sketches or photographs aro being gathered or made.
8. An examina ion of the raport of the Locel Joint
Planning Committen of Hawaii and the annexes there to indioate
that some of the metivitien oompleined of on the part of the
Japanese aliens and residents constitute violations of either
the Rspionage Act of the Unitad States (U.s.Code, Title 50, Sec-
t1ons 31, 32, 34 and 35), or chapterm 267, 294, 295 and 297 of the
Revised Laws of Hawai1, 1925, or both. In this conneotion par-
tioular reforence is made to the incident in February, l936, et
the Hoyal Hawaiian Hotel when eix Japaneme mailere from e tanker
aseended the tower of the hotel and were observed taking piotur's
of the harbor and nemrby fortifioations with e large cemera, and
the inoident of the viait of the Japanese tanker Ondo to Hilo in
April, l936, whon the crew th reof not on)y took meamurements of
the Hilo dook but made detailed photographic studies of its fix-
tures. The other inoident to which roferenoe should be made is
that reported by Mrs. Kamakanui, of Kamuela, Hawaii, of a number
of Japanese who on April 19, 1936, entared a new house in thet
vieinity and took bearinga on murrounding points of intorest.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.93)
0p-1RA-0TB
(SC)A8-5
SECRET
M
3. Under the Constitution of the United Stetes
(Artiele 4, Seetion 3, paragraph 2) Congress has the power
to make all needrul rules and rapulations rempectin the
territory or other propurty belonging to the United States.
Aeting under this authority Congress han provided for the
government of the Territory of liawaii (U.S.C., Title 48,
Chapter 3). In establinhing the govurnment of the Ter-
ritory of Hamai1, Congress has provided (U..C., T1tle 48,
Section 495) that the Conatitution, und, exoupt as other-
wime provided, all the laws of the United Staten, includ-
ing laws carrying general appropriations, which are not
locally inapplicable, shall heve the sume foroe and effect
within the Torritor of Hammii as elmewhere in the United
States.
4.
 To aid in earrying out the laws of the United
States which are thus made ap )lcable to the Ter itory of
Hammi1, Congress han establiahed in thet ter itory a distriot
court to consist of two judges (U.s.0., Title 48, Section 641),
which court hes the same jurisdiction as the District Courto
of the Unitnd Stetes, and the procedure therein is the same
as in a district court; and the said judgos thereor, district
attorney, and mmrshal have and exercise in the Territory of
Hawmii all the powore conferred by the luws of the Unitod
States upon the judgem, distriot attorneys, end rarshnir of
district o urta or the United tates. (U..c., Title 48,
Sootion s4a).
B.
 By virtue of the sequence of authority above
outlined the Rspionnge Aot of he nited tetns, above roforred
to, is clearly applicanle within the Territory of Hawali, and
any individual reaiding in that territory or elsowhere, whe-
ther a citizen of the United Statem or an alien, who violates
the provisions or the Ksplomage Aet within the Territory of
Hawaii is mubjeet to prosecution in the District Court of
Hawaii.
-8-

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.93)
OP-12A-CTB
(BC)A8-5
SECHET
x
6. In order to determine whether or not any of
the actimities referred to in referenee como within the
purview of the Kspionage Aot, at ention is invited to the
following provisi ns thareof:
(m) Any perwon who, for the purpome of ob-
taining information respecting the natioml defense with
intent or rearon to beiieve that muan informs tion is to be
used to the injury of the United tates, or to the advan-
tage of any foreign natiun "gous upon, untere, rlies over,
or otherwime obtains information coneerning any vesmel, air-
crart, work of defenze, nayy yurd, naval station, mubmarine
base, ooaling station, fort, battery, torpedo station, dock-
yard, canal, milromd, arsenal, camp, faetory, mine, tele-
graph, telephone, wireless, or signal atation, building, of-
fiee, or other place connedted with the national defense,
owned or construoted, or in progress of gonstruction by the
attedaotates or under the oontrol of the Uni ted itatue, or
of any of its ofricers or agents, or within the exolusive
jurisdietion of the United itates, or any place in which
emy vessel, airoraft, arme, munitions, or other materials
or instrunents for uee in time of war re veing made, pre-
pared, repmired, or stored, under any contract or agreement
with the United Staten, or with any person on bohalr of the
United tates, or otherwine on bahalf of the United States,
or any prohibited piaee *"":"
(b) y porson who, for this same purpose
and with this aame intent or reasom to balisvo, ooples, 'akes,
makes, or obtains, or atlemipts, or induces or aida another
to copy, take, mmke or obtain, any mketoh, photograph,
ph,tographic negative, blueprint, plan, mnp, modei, instru-
ment, appliance, dooument, writing, "or note of anything con-
nocted with the natlunei defanme;" and
(e) Any purwon wno, ror like purpomes arore-
said, "receives or obtains or agrues or attampts or induces
or aids another to reoeive or obta:n frow any porson, or from
amy mouree whatever, any dooument, writing, code book, signal
book, sketeh, photograph, photographio nogative, biueprint,
plan, mmp, model, instrumont, applianee, or note, of any-
thing connocted with the ne'ionel defense, knoning or havint
一 5 -

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.93)
OP-1BA-CTB
(SC)48-5
M
reason to beliove, at the time he recuives cr obtains, or
agrees or attempts or inducem or aids an thor to receive
or obtain it, that it has been or wil be obtained, taken,
made or dinposed of by any parmon con rasy to the provi-
sione of this title; ** enall be punlahed by a fine
of not more than 10,000, or by imprisomment for not more
than two yeare or both." (0. 5., T1tle 50, Section. 31.)
7. In additio to the foragoine this ot further
provides that any pereon who, with intont or reeron to be-
l1eve that it is to be used to the injury of the nired
Strtes or to the advanteee of & foreign natior "communicetes,
deliv»rs, or transmite, or attempta to, or aids or Induces
another to, communicate, deliver, or transmit, to any for-
•igm government, or to uny feotion or party or militury or
neval foron within a foreign country, *** or to eny rep-
resentative, offies, ngent, employee, subject, or citizen
thereuf, vither direotly or indireetly, any document, writ-
ins, oodn book, ina: book, skotoh, photorrnph, photofraphio
negative, blue print, plan, man, modelt note, instrument, ap-
plianee, or information relating to the netional defense,
shall be puntshed by imprimonment for not mere than twenty
yeerm: *  *." (U..., Title 50, seotion 32.)
8. Anothor seotion of this same Aet provides thet
if two or more porsons conspire to violnte the provimions of
Seation 32 or 33 of this title, an one or more of such per-
sons doos any act to effoct tho ob juct of the conmptrecy, oach
of the parties to nuch conspiracy shall bo puniuhed by im-
primonman', for not m e than twenty years. And if they con-
spire to violate the provisions of any mection of he Act
and do any aot to offeet the object of the conaptraoy they
shell each be punished by impr sonmant for two yeare. (U. .6.,
Title 50, ection 34.)
9. It will be not ed from the forecoing that the
Espionage net is very broed and comprohensive. It not only
covers all cases where individuals go upon or fly over any
navy yard or naval station for the purpome of obtaining in-
formetion respecting the national dofenee with the int nt
that the infomation so obtained is to be used to tho injury
of the United 3tates, but it aleo prohibit: them frou making
- 4 -

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.92)
Op-1RA-CTB
(SC) A8-5
SCRET
any sketon, photograph, photographio nogative, blue print,
writing or note of naything conneoted with the national
defonee for this purposs. In fact the variaus provisions
of this Aot are mo comprehanaivo that it is practically
imposaible to explain them exoept in the exact loliguate
or the Aot.
10. Aaving in mind the instructions contained
In roforonce thet (1) the Hawaiien areu iavolved io of such
strategionl aharacter chat its dnfenan 1s deemed or firet
importance, and (2) hat avideno" la availublo supportius
the allogation that dateile iafo uti n, sketches or photo-
graphs are being gatherod or mado, it ta the opinien of this
ofrice tat the provisions or the apionage  ot are suffi-
ciently comprahenaive to cover such ce es und hat the per-
potratore of the ineiden in the tomer of the oyal lawaiian
Hotal, as well as the incident roported by Mrs. Kanakanui,
are subjeet to prosecution under the provisions of the apion-
age Aot, provided they may be found within the jutisdictin
of the United St tee and returned to the Juria iation of the
Distriet Court of Haweii.
11. Acting under the authority conforrod upon it
by Congr as the Legislature or the "erritor of  awaii is em-
powerod to enact legialntion not inoonsistent xith ths conati-
tution and laws of the Unitad t tes ap licable to the Ter-
ritory of Hawai1. (U.3.C., "1tie 48, Soct1on B62). I. the
exeroiee of this power the Legl leture or the Territory of
Hawal1 hem created the orire of syn'ionliem, which 1t defines
an a doctrine advocating orimo, suhotn o, viojence or other
unlawrul metnode of terroriom u a merne of accomplishing in-
dustrial or politioel onde. Under this  ew any porson who
by word of mouth, or writir., a vocntes or touchee the duty,
necensity or propriety of crime, saborepe, violonce or othar
unlawful methods or terrorim us a monns of accomplishing
industrial or politicel onde, or h printn, pubiiahos, ecit,
issuen or knowingly circulatoe, sells, dietributoo or public-
ly diaplays any book, paper, documon: or written mat: er in
any form, containing or advocating, advising or tenching
this doetrt = or helps to organize, or becomes a momber of
or voluntarily amsembles with eny sociaty, sroup or assomblage
of pereons formed to t och or advocute this doctrine is  uilty
of a folony and puniahable by impriaonment of not more than
-5-

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.95)
Op-12A-OTB
(80) 48-5
M
ten years or by a fine of not more than
five thoumand dollars or both. (Seotion 4357, Hovisod Laws
of Hawa11, 1925).
12. The ammembling of inividun a togather for
the purpose of advoeating syndiemlimm is almo made u felony
which is puninhable by imprimomment Ser not more than ten
yuars or by e fime of not more than rive thoumand dollare
or both. Even the use of a building for this purpose is
made a misdemeamor and the owner or thoso charged with
the eare and upkeep of such building who wilfully and know-
ingly permit 1ts use for much purpose ure punishable by im-
prisonment for not more than one year or by a fine of not
more than five hundred dollars or both. (Seetion 4358,
4559, Revised ans of Hawm11, 1925.)
13. The Legiaiature or Hama!1 hes also made it
a misdemeanor for any group of persons to organize, form,
or mmintaim any meeret association for any pur ose whatever,
unless they have obtained a lieense fro. the Governor for
this purpose. Amy violation of this licanxe subjects it
to being revoked by the Govnrnor. Any secret association
formed without a license constitutes a misdemeanor and upon
the convietion of the individuals who form it they shall
be punimhed by imprisenment not to exeeed threu months or
by a fine not to exeeed one hundred dollars or by both.
The owner of the building who permite an unlicenmed secret
association to assemble within suah bui ding is also suiity
of a miedemeanor and subjeet to imprisonment not to exeeed
six months, or by a rine not to exoeed two hundre dollars
or by both. (Seot1ons 4515-452l, Hovimed Laws of lawai1,
1925.)
14. In addition to the foregoing the Legisla ure
of the Territory of Hawa:1 has provided that aay individuals
who assoeiate themeelves together with others within the
limits of the Territory as a military company or organization
for military purposes or to give or receive military instrue-
ti n, other then thome belonging to the regularly organized
military and naval forees of the Umited States, or of the
Territery, without the written permission of the Governor,
whien he may at any time revoke, shall be guilty of a mis-
demeaner and upon convietion thereof shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollare nor more than five hundred dollare,
or imprieoned for a term not to exeeed six months, or both,
(Seotion 4523, Revimed Laws of Hawa11, 1925.)

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.94)
-184-CTB
(80) 40-8
S三C三三T
15. In this connection attention is specifically
invited to Sootion 452? of the Rovised Iawe of Hawmi1,
1925, whiah provides that any persom (a) who shell at any
time or plaee within the Territory use any language in the
present of hearing of another of or concerning the gevern-
mont of the United tates of Am ri, or of and coneerning
the army, mavy, or marine corpe or the United States, which
language shall be contmmptuous or dimloyal to the United
States of Am riem, or abusive i: itn character or caleulated
to bring into dimrepute or contempt the United states of
Ameriee, the army, mavy or marine corps of the United States
of Americe, or (b) who ahall commit mny met or use aay language
of such disloyal nature  shall be reasonably calculated
to eause a breeeh of the pesee, or wh shall use such son-
temptuous or disloyal language of or coneerning uny flag,
standard, color or ansin of the United tates of Amorica,
or concerning the uniform of the army, navy, or marine corps
of the Umited States of Ameriem, or (o) who shall either
1ndividually, jointly with unother or ot ors, or as part
of a genara). propaganda make or publiah or eireulate any
book, pamphlet, picture, paper, letter, writing, print or
other ublioation omloulated to bring into dimrepute or con-
tempt the United States of Amorica, the army, navy, or marine
corpe of the mited States of Ammrice, or any flag, standard,
coler or ansign or the United statox of Ameriem, or (a) who
shall publioly or privately mutilate, deface, defile, insult
or tramp upon mmy flag, standard, color or ensign of the
United tates of Amorioa, or nny represontative thoreof,
"shall be guilty of a felony and shall be punished by a fine
of not less than one hundred collare nor more than one thous-
and dollars, or by imprimonment at hord labor for not less
than one year nor more than ton years, or by both fine and
imprisomment."
l6. The forecoing unalysi of the Acta of the
Legielature of Hamaii on the subject of syndicalism, un -
licensed meoret associations, unauthorized ilitary organ-
1sations, and disloyalty, discloses that, while these laws
cover e field entirely apart from that oovered by the
Esplonago Aot, they mupplement it most ofreotively and pre-
sent a further avenue of uppromoh to the problams submitted
in reference. Under this set up un incidont or a situation
- 7 -

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.95)
OP-12A-CTB
SMCRET
(SC)AB-5
eecurring in the Territory of lawali may constitute an of-
femse under both the Rspionnge Aet and the Territoriul Acts
above analymed. Where this condition exists all that re-
mains to be dome is te emforee that het which would be moet
likelytomete out an appropriate punimhment.
19. To aid in the effective administratiun of
the laws enmcted by the Legislature of llawaii, Congress has
ereated a complete judicial system for the Territory vest-
ing the judicial power thereof in one supreme court, cirouit
courte, and in such infvrior courtn as the Legislature may
from time to time establimh. (U.s.C., Title 48, Section
631.) The justices of the supreme court and the judges of
the eireuit courts of Hawail are appointed by the President
of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of
the Senate, and may be removed by him. (U.S.C., Title 46,
Seetions 638-633). As the fudges of the Distriet Court
of Hawaii are almo appoiited by the President, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate, and may be removed by
him, both the territorinl and the distriat judges are in-
direetly under the jurisdiction of the f'resident of the
United States to muah an extent that if they fail to per-
form their judicial duties in conneotio:. with the enforce-
ment of the lawe above referred to they are immeliately
subject to removal by him.
18. In this connectiou it shoulu al mo be re-
mrked that the Governor or the Territory of Hawaii, in whom
all executi ve, territorial funationn are lodge , is also ap-
pointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate, for a term or four yuars and until hie suo-
cessor has been appointed and quslified, unless sooner re-
moved by the President. (U.S.C., Title 48, Soution B3l.)
As heroin before noted the District Attorney for the District
Court of Hawa:1 and the Uni ted States Marshal for that dis-
triet are aleo appointed by the Premident of the United Stetes
and subject to ramovnl by him. Under these ciroumstancen the
Federal Government of the United States nhould not experience
any extraordinary difficulty in mcuring e most ofrective ad-
ministration of the Xaplonage Aot and the hots of the Logie-
lature of the Territory of Hami1, above referred to. Amsum-
ing that a n1tuation now exists in the Territory of Hawaii much
as is described in reference, this office is of the opinion such
situation is directly dependont on the qunlity or efreetiveness
of the administration and exeoution of the National and Ter-
ritorial laws applioable to theee problame.
- 8 -

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.95)
OP-22A-OTB
(8C)A8-8
SE C HE T
19. Om the general question of the administration
of the laws above analysed and the prosesution of cases aris-
ing thereunder, attention is invited to certain provisions of
the Treaty of Commoree and Navigation entered into between the
Uni ted states and Japan in 1911 (37  tat. 1504), whioh have a
direet bearimg thereom. In Artiele I of this Treaty liberty
in conferred upon subjects of Japan "to anter, travel and re-
mide in the territories" of the United States to "earry on
trade, while mals and rotail, to own or lease and oecupy houses,
mamfactories, mrehouses and shope, to employ agents of their
choloe, to lease land for residentiai and commercial purposes,
and gener:lly to do anything incident to or necessary for
trade upon the same terms as native citizens" of the United
States subjeet to the laws and regulations established in
such territories. Under this Article subjects of Jmpen may
not be compelled, under any pretext whatever, to pay any
charges or taxes other or hisher than those -hat are or mmy
be paid by oitizens or the Umited Statas.
20. The subjeots of Japan shall reeoive in the
territories of the United States "the most constant proteotion
end seeurity for thnir persona and proporty, and shal: emjoy
in this respeet the saxn rihts and privilegoe as are or may
be granted to native citizens" of the Unitod States, on such
Japanese submitting themselves to tho oconditions imposed upon
aueh eitimens. hile in the territory of the (mited States
the subjecte of Japen shall be exempt from compulsory mili:ary
serviee, either on land or mee, in the regular foroem, or in
the mational suard, or in the militia, und from al contribu-
ti as imposed in lieu of parsonal sorvice, and fron al? forced
loans or military exmctionn or contributions. (ArticleI)
21. Under Artiole II of this Treaty the dwellings.
warehouses, manufactories and :hops of the subjects of Japan
in the territories of the United tates, and all premimes per-
taining thereto used for purpones of rosidence or cammorce by
the Japanese, shell be respected. "It shall not be allowable
to proceed to make a domioiliary visit to, or a seeroh of, eny
auch buildings and promises, or to exumine or inspect books,
papers or aecounts, except under the oonditiols and with the
forms presoribed by the lawa, ordinances and regulations for
nationals" of the United Stat s.
22. There mhall be reciprocal freedom of commeree
and navigation between the territories of the United States
and Japan. The subjectn of Japan "equally with the oiti-

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.93)
O7-12A-CTB
(SC)AB-5
X
BEQRET
sens or subjects or the most favored nation, shal) havm liberty
freely to came with their whips and cargoe» to all pleces,
ports and rivere in the territories of the other which are or
mmy be oponed to foreign gommaree, subjeet always to the laws
of the country te whion they thus come". (artiole IV)
83. The import duties on erticles, the produce or
mmufactur, of the territories of Japan, upon importation into
the territories of the United Stetes, shall be regulated either
by treety betwoen the two countrier or by the internal legis-
lation of eaeh. Nor shall. uny prohibition be imposed by either
sountry on the importation or exportatlon of any urticle from
or to the territorins of the other which shell not oqually ex-
tend to a like erticle imported fram or exported to any other
country. This lmst provieio: is not, however, aoplicahle to
prohibitions or restriotionm maintained or imposed ss senitary
momsures or for purposes of protecting animale and useful
plants. (rtiele v)
24. Subjoote of Japan mhmll majoy in the ter-
ritories of the Unitnd States a perfeot equality of treatment
with citizans of the United tstes "in all that relatem to
warehousing, Countries, fecilities und drawbacks". (Artiole vI)
25. All iteme shich are or may be legally imported
into or exportad fron the ports of the United states in the ves-
sels of other forein countries may likewiee be imported into or
exported fran those porta of the United tates in Jopsnese ves-
sels in the mame manner es if such items wore imported or ex-
ported in vessles f the United  tates. uch reciproeal
quulity of treatment is required by this Artiole of the Treaty
to take offoct without distineti n regardless of whether such
items eome direetly from the plaos of ori in or from any other
foreign place. (Article VIII)
26. In all that regmrds the stationing, loading and
unlosding of veseels i the ports of the territorins of the United
States no privilegen shell be grented by the United States to itm
vessels which are not equelly in like camas granted to Japanene
vessels, the intent beine thet i thome respecte "the respootive
vessels shall be treated on the footing of perfeot mquality".
(Artiele IX) And merehant vossels navigeting under the flag
of Japan and earrying the papers required by the nationel laws
of Japan to prove their nntionality shel in the United States
- 10 -

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.93)
O-1RA-0TB
(SC)AB-8
SEERII
M
be deemed to be wessels of Japan. (Article X)
27. Japaneme vemsels charged witn performance of
reguler meheduled postal service, whether balonging to the
State or subsidized by 1t for the purpose, shal) enjoy in the
ports mnd territories of the United States tho same facilities,
privileges and immunities as ar grented to like veusels by
the United states of the most favored nation pormitted to por-
form regalar seheduled postal service. (Artiole XII)
The ceasting trade, however, of the United atates, is exe pted
frem the provimions of this Treaty. (Artiole xIlI) Exeept as
otherwise expressly provided in this Treaty, however, it is
required that in all hat conoorns commeroe and navigati n,
any privilege, favor or immunity which oither contracting
party han motually granted to the citizana or subjecty of any
other state shall be axtended to the subjects or Japan gratui-
tously, if the coneession in favor or the other State shall
have been gratuitous, and on thn same or squivalent conditione,
1f the oomeession ahal! have been conditi. nel. (Article XIV)
28. In accepting thie Treaty the Japanese Ambassador
In washington, D. C., stated that he had bean duly authorized by
his Government to deolare that the Japanese Government is fully
propared to mintain with equal effeotiveness the limitation and
control which it has for the past three years exercised in regu-
lating the omigration of laborers to the inited st tes. 1 th
this exeeptimn the Treaty of Commeron and Havigation entered
into between the United States and Japan 1n l9il continues in
full foree and effeet ut the presont time.
29. There 1s one provision above nutod in con-
noetion with Artiole Iv of thie Treaty which should be emphe-
mized which 1s that the liberty granted to tha Japanese free-
ly to come with their ships and aargoes to sll places, ports
and rives in the territoriem of the United states which are
or may hereaftar be open to foreign commerco ia "subject
always to the lawe" of the Untted tn' es. In other words,
the liberty granted by this treaty to subjeot, of Jupan in
the United Stntem does not authorize them to violute either
the Hspionage Aet or the territorial lawe rolating to syndi-
ealim, illegal secret asmociations, 1llogul orgenizationa
for military purpomes, or disloyalty. However, in the ad-
ministration of thome laxn nnd proseoutions therounder oure
should bo taken to see that theme treaty provislons are not
- 11 -

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.94)
Op-12A-CTB
(80)A8-5
M
violated and thut the rishta of the Japanose seourad thore-
by invated. Thie sh uld nut be permittod to impede or ob-
struet in any may the admintstratiu: or the laws nor: pruvent
the prosecution of any or all Japanese who ure found to have
violated these laws, or to be violating them sither at this
time or at any future time.
30. It is perfectly obvious, howover, thut so
long as thig treaty is in force curtaiu drastic mougures
cannot logally be udopted, such ns prohibitiug all Japunvso
vessels frau touchine al: ports in the Tarritory of Huwali
unloas the vesnels of ull other forei.n countries are pro-
hibitod fran touching at thono porte. likowisu, subjeots
of Japan who are non in this Territory or ho may horeafter
denire to onter it for the purpoud of oarrying on pursuito
of canmaroe und navi ution may not be prevunted fra. so
doing unless their premonce is othor ise shown to be un-
dealrable, as in the case where they have been found to be
plotting aguinst the soverelgnty o? the Unitad tates, or
their presenoe is inimical to the peace and ood order of
the coomunity.
3l. The followint uctivities of the Japanese
naval and civilian personnel in the Torritor of lawail.
with particular roforence to the Imland of Hawaii, are noted
in referenee and the annexes attached thereto:
(A) Visit of Japanese ships.
(1) Japanemo Naval Trainine quadron for
1935, llonolulu, June 15–19, 1935.
(2)
Visit of a numbor of naval c1i tan ere
to Honolulu butween June 14, 1935, and
Vay 24, 1036, both dates inclusive.
(3) Vimit of Merountile truining vounels
ut the Island of Hawu 1 betweon
ugust 20, 1935, und June 18, 1936,
both dntes inclusive.
(B) Conduct of pornonnel of visiting Japunese
ver. els whilo on shore.
(1) Incident at Hoyal Haw lian liotel.
(2) Conveying to looal Japaneso, both alion
and native, the greatnosa of Japan, her
virility, and her absolute muporiority
-18-

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.92)
-1SA-OTB
(5C)A8-5
旦至旦R点T
over all other countrien, through
leetures, moving plctures, and ex-
hibitions.
(C)
Conduet of civilian personnel on the ve-
casion of vinits of Jepanene vessela.
(D)
Visit of thn Japanone navy oil tankor
Ondo at Ailo, Island of Hawa11. Apri)
16-19.1938.
32. An examinntion of the circums'anoes sur ounding
the vimits of the Japenane ships to tho Hamalian Taiandn enumur-
ated under (h) doas : ot indioxta hut auy of those visits were
made for the purposee of cormiorce and trade, as covare., by the
United States - Japnnose Treaty of l9ll, above outlinod. Un-
less the visit of these vesenls come under the provinions of
this Treaty thay may very proparly be mado e subject of dip-
lomntic representations by tho Uni ed tatas to the Japeneso
Government for the purpone of reetricting suoh visite in the
future to occurrencem of necessity.
3. The conduot of the personnel of Japanene ves-
sels while on shoro in the awmiian Islands, with partioular
referenee to (B) (1) and (2), appears to be reprahensible.
The ineident in the towor of the loyml Haweiian Hotel, en re-
ported in reforence, is apparently a violatin of the Tspionage
Aot and it also uppoures that those inoidants enumorated under
(B) (2) violato onn or mors o? the provisionn of the laws of
the Territory of Hawa i, above anal yzed. It appears that
the necessary administrative preomutions could be taken by
the Territorial Gov rnment to prevent the recurrence of such
ineidents in the future or to app rohend and proseoute the
perpetrators thoreof under  he approprlate proviaionm of law.
34. The conduot of nome or the civilian population
on the Haiian Islunds in connection with t nse vinits by
Japanese veusels, us reported in reforonc" and te annexen there-
to, indicntem that the menbere or these groupe are violating
oither the Smpionege Pot or the lawn of the Territor: of Hawei1
concerning ayndical1m, illegel aecr t ascocieti ns, 1llegal
orranimations for military urpomes and dialoyalty, or both
the Fodera! and Te ritoriel las. The importunoe whlch these
vieiting Jepanaso vesaels attach to the Islund of Hamal1 and
the faet that the Jepanese oil tanker Tmurumi wont out of hor
way to moout the Midwa" Tsland indic,te that tlieir purpose is
inimical to the national doronee of the Un1te! tutes.
-13-

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.92)
85. The conduet of the personnel of the Japanese
Mmvy tamker Ondo om the oecasion of her reeent vieit to the
Pert of Hilo, Island of Hawal1, April l6-19, l936, uppears to
have been muan a displuy of oontmapt for the wovaroignty of
the United States s to require special consideration. The
aets or making dr: rta, and taking phutographis and weasuromants
of the eeke it Hilo are r prehensible. The wmbors of the
erow in taking ashoro packnges without cl aring throue Customs
obviously violated the movenue Lawe of the Uni ted .tutes.
The taking of runges und the makine of akutahes of the urea
of waimea by the crow of the Ondo, en roported in annexer (1) and
(z), are olarly violati ns of the spionase not.
36. Other mattors roported in referenc, and the
anmexes thereto indicate that a thorough investigation into all
phases of these mctivitius, especially those occurrins on the
Island of Hamail would be appropriate. he vicit of the
Japanose Navy oil tanker Ondo at tho port of lilo, in April,
lose, could e brought to the attention u. the opartrent cf
State, wi th a roquost tliat thiu mnt ir bo investigrled furthor
by that Department to tho ensd that it may be made the basis
es diplematio representations to the Japanese Covornment,
poimtins out that such visits ure objuctiunable to this Covorn-
mont and thmt in the future thoy wil not be permittnd, exoept
wmder such eireumstandea us Japanese men-of-war ure pormitted
to visit morican ports.
37. It is dot beiloved tiat any adcitiv.si statu-
tory euthority is neeeeeary to yormit a proper handling of
mah metivities as have been reported in reforence, or is uny
additionel logielation rocommended. Thin s tiation misht well
be brought to the attontion of the  esident oi the United States
to the end that he mmy. through the proper departmants of Govern-
mont, comranieatu with the Governor of the Torritory of Hamail
and the Federal and Territorial official& appointed by him in
that Territory, direeting them to invostigate und to tuke vuch
masures ms may be neeessary to bring to juatic, al! violetors
of either the Empionage Aot or tho laws of thu Territory of
Hawm11.
38. sumarizing, thie officu iu of the opinion
that exinting laws are wufriciont in generui to protect the
-14 -

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.87)
-12A-0TB
(80)48-5
M
interests of the United States, and thnt action depends
primarily on proof an to fact and on a dieposition to
aet.
G.J.1FF
APTTOVD
Heptember 18, 1936.
Claudo A. Swanson
Heoretory of the Navy
-15-

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.91)
Copy.
旦旦旦旦照T
Yrom:
Local Joint Planning Committee.
TO:
The Commanding General, Hawaiian Department, Fort Shafter, T.H.
The Commandant, Fourteenth Nava) Diatrict, aarl Harbor, T.H.
Subject:
Roport of Poeting. Locel Jo:nt Plan: ing Commit'oe.
1. The Committee met upon order of the en or Member, at Fort
Shafter, 85 May, 1936, at 0930.
PRE3 NT
U..my:
Brig. Gen. Deniol Ven Voorhis, ane a) ofr Corps,
Colonel Jrmes A. Ulio, djuttnt Seneral' repar mont,
Liout. Col. Marahall Negruder, Ceroral tff Corps,
Liout. Col. George S. Fatton, Jr., Geno. al terr Corpe,
Lieut. Col. . J. Chamberlin, Genarel  afr Corps,
Wejor Frank . mary, Jr., Coect Artlory Corpe,
Major . C. Montgomery, Field Artillary,
*Captain Jos. J. Tw'tty, Corpn of ngirners,
(*Not mambors cf he cormittee.)
U. . Navy:
Captnin 1. '. Lobroton,
Commander . Y. Yil patrick
2. The Committen proceeded to consider re ort, of the Assistant
Chief of Steff for Militery Intelll ence, awailen Depertment, end the
District Intallicenc Ofricer, l4th Mavnl District, rererdin: tha vieite
of naval oil tenkere and reronntile training verrel s of the Japanese
Governmont to the Hawsiiur Talands.
3. These reporte incorpora ed the folloxis facts:
a. In the twelve-month pari c enain vay 10, l05e, 1? vessele of
the Japanese Goverament hav risited these islonds, by clesres and with
dates er follows:
Navel Cruisers
Complement
Vessel
Port und date of call
officers
Cedets
Crew
Asamm
Honolulu, June 15-19, 1975
145
174
1,877
Yakumo )
(These comprised the Navel Trainins quadron ror 1935)
-1-

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.91)
Copy.
SECRET
NAVAL. OIL. TANKERS
anocaki
Honolulu
June 14-17, 1935
sate
June 28-July 1, 1935
Sumosaki
July 14-17, 1935
Tsurumi
00. 4-7, 1935
12
163
sata
Do. 27/5-. 2/36
18
144
Ondo
Jan. 20-22, 1930
12
133
Erimo
Feb. 65-86, 1036
10
142
Onde
1ilo
Apr. 10-19, 1938
12
136
sata
lonolulu. My 2427, 1938
Morauntile Training Veauels
Taisei Maru
1110
Au6. 20-29, 1935
13
67
42
Kaiyo Maru
2
Dec. 29/35-Jan. /36 14
81
39
*Nippon Maru
Kahului,
Juno 3-14,1933; Auiakenwa, June 15-18, 1936;
Failua,
wie 10-20, 1936.
*seheduled.
b. It is pertinent to rosurn that in the caao oi the  il tankors,
preswmbly intsrasted in socuring ohemp fuei for the Ja aneme havy. in vieit-
ing Hammi1 these shipe add un average or 80, miles to thair trip. The l4th
Maval District gives the distances i: nautical miles uver the umually travel-
lod routes and viu uwuii as followo:
Juual oute
via Rawall
4255
5803
Yokohana-jonttlo
4255
5485
Tokohuma-n cio
4339
5622
Yekohama-Los Allgels
c. 3o fr as is kl xt, there is o ve id exouse for these visits.
mtalling as they do considerable ex'ra ex, eneo dn: to added ilouge. It is
true that while in port in Hawmii, the tankere ta e cn additlonal water,
but the average intnke is only about 2s o he c acity of their tanks, while.
simee the extre dietance is only about 20 grouter, it iu pat nt  hnt the
tamks hold omple wuter for the direct run wi thout rofiliing.
d. The complement. o" all the tunkurs ure membere or the Japanese
Navy. On each trip one or tmo of the senicer orficere ut on od. hon
the "Ondo" visi tou Honolulu in Januaryor thie your, lher caytein hud just
comploted a tour or cuty us sunnory ufficer of ha at le Flest.
9. he concuct of the pursonnel while on shore is of interest.
The mom und the ofricers are inveriubly takon un sight-souing trips around
the island und untortained b. local Jupanese. bany or the men and ofricers are
provided with exoellent camerhs. Durine Tebruary the menueer or the Ropal
Hawailen hotel notified local army un navy uuthorities het wi h ut authority
-8-

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.90)
Copy.
SEORET
Trem the hotel, six Japaneme sallore from a tanker ascended the tower of the
hotel and were observed taking pictures of the herbor and uearby fortifications
with a very large eamere. While later investigation demonstrnted that little
of military value could he neen from the tower, the attompt wes none the lees
sinieter in motive.
f. Particular intrrest attmchen to the awarked importanoe visit-
ing Japanose vessels attech to the ielend of Haweil. Humerous instunoes
have beon roported by cre. iblo witnonses of whoie convoys of Japaneso from
these ships, equip ed with onmorns and skutohing bourde, mekin the cirouit
of the island und stopping et several points, notabiy un tho west of Kona
coast, to take photographs. In the cnme or the ndo's v.sit to ilo in
April, lo5e, the orew not only cn ried out this routine out notually took
measuromon's  tho Hilo dock end mede deiailed photorrapnio atuaies of ite
fixturos. "or furt er detaila seo nnex ho. 1 (xoport or Nejor ilchrint.)
B. The attached letter from Mr. Alfred . Carter, Aenasing
diroctor of the gront farkar ench ond ne or the leadinx citizess of  he
Torritory, i itn inglonure from n. A. Akina, wives a vivid desuription of
one of thene pr. Annex No. B.
h. It is further noteworthy that in ovary dese lhe wme local
Japanese invurinnl, vinit the ahipe and aot us hustu und suidas. or details
see Amnexes Nos. 1 and 3.
1. On the isisnd of Hawai1, whion is ungurrinonad, only 10 of
the military mele oitizone are white Amoricens, thut 1a 387 out of 3287:
while there are 2774 militery male citizens of Japanome anoestry. In addition,
there are 2986 cl1en Japenmsn males of military ege und B66o fiilpinos.
A eompari son for white Amoricans of military nue to ali ctner cili ens of
mllitary age reduces the r+io from 10 to 4.
J. o mm up, it may be said that the many youre ot obon vations
indiomte beyond any reamonehl doubt hut Japanese vovorrment v suels, par-
tieularly the navul oil tanknrs, adjunt their scheuules so us to observe
most efreetively all speciel activities of the U. . Army and Navy. xamples:
During the lo2n Joint Army-Navy oxereimns, tne Tankur "Hayatocn." hovored on
the flank of the ". . meet a! the way from san rreuoisoo to onobulu, and
 into port hore hortly after the oonelusion of the maneuvera. In May,
lo2e, three Japanase tan ors vi ited Honolulu durin the period of f int oper-
ations and the sibsequent virit of the Amorioan navas vesseis to ionolulu.
In l98s, +he Tenker "Erimo" arrived at Honolulu durine army-N: y Exercises.
sigmificant, too, w a the fact thst mhe wmn then on routo o californie,
the only tanker calling hare on her outbound voyake tnnt year. he " rimo"
gain, on Januery 10, l934, "happaned" to be in san rano.sco a: he take-
off of six U. 3. Navy plenes for donolulu on the (tnon) loneost on-stop
formatiun fiiht ever attamptnd.
- 3 -

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.90)
copy.
k. Karly this yeer, Captain George H. Piltz, mmuter of the
Cemercial Pacirio Cabloship "Dickinson", reported that the "Tsurumi" on
departing Honolulu on Deeember 7, 193b, proceeded to kidway Islund arriving
off the island about midnight Deoomber 11th. she alowed down to about 3
kmots, proeueded to skirt tho reef to the southwurd or the islund, then set
course for make Island und depurted at an inorensed speed. It wes a bright
moomlight night and the movements of the Tsurmmi were cleariy upperont to
the personael of the cab as ip hien wus anchored of. Midn y ut the time.
l. uotors favorebie to espionage or counter-espionage on the
part of the Japanese tonkers inc ide t e following:
Dxeiivery of mais to una fron Japen; there boing no law which
prohibita his practice.
Hoguia vinit., by Jupanune comuimri nod perac nol to cortain
Jupan-se hotoln, tou-houuue, snrines, tomples, und sohoois, sus-
pected conters uf eapionase notivitius.
Mony o tho visitine Japanome navui persounel hnvn close
rolntives umnes the locel Japauese rosidents.
Lioarty partlew are auutioned tsainst acceptina fuvors fro
non-Japunese or truntars.
ali of the vesmeis ar wquipped with rulnge-rindurs, which
they uee fronly un antaring or Leavine porta; and thay are
froquontly observad sketoning anu photog apnine aookn and
utility plants.
. Aeide from the empionige aotivitics or the v eitine Japanese
vessels, they mmrve es a direet medium or contact botween the Juponese
residents or lawain and their homelanu, und the pereonnel or thase vessels are
mmturaliy looked to for interpretation or conditiuns and events in Japan.
The vieitine Jupanese navei personnoè make moet of the opportunity. Through
loetures, m vine pioturen, exhibitiona, tc., ia born nome to the Looal Jap-
amose tna "kreatnesa" of Japan, her v,rility, anu her uusolute wuporiority
over all other countries. In feot, avery ofrort ur Japanuse navei pursonnel
amhore here appeers to be delibarately oaleuleted to advance Jupuneso nati n-
aliam and to camont bonds of loyalty.
n. On the went coant or dawuil betwean h ao .oilt end Keahole
Point, a diatanee of about 70 ailos, there are ut Laust Lour excalient land-
ing places which in normal tratde-wind weather are ail sholtored and afrord
asy approach. The belt rond which conneuts these landing places und which
is paralleled oy tho telephone line dan be eaaily intorrupted. On thie
atire straton of ooint thore ae only four white men in whom we cen place
implioit coufidenoe. he otner innabitants are vither apatnetic or wh lly
hostile to our intorests. Thene consiuerations point to tho fuct shat the
Komm coest is the blind vide of the ialund of Hawali und ives point to
obvious intarest of the Japanese therein.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.88)
Copy.
BECRET
o. hile the distance fram Hokohame to hawa1i is 3394 miles
(mautical), tho distaneo fran the Mandate Ialend of Jaluit is only 2200
miles. Recently two Freno. advonturers sailing the outh sess at empted to
land at that islond, Jaluit, und wore denied the privilege und, according
to their own mecount, vary rouguly hendled. o fur us is known here, no
foreigner has visited the iniund or a number of yeurs. The route from
Jaluit to llawui1 is cne or the iolloliost parts of the ocean.
4. . fter discunnion of the ubove points, it wes decided that those
faets shculd be bro ht to the attention of the ar and Navy Deyartmont
(igned)
(s1med)
D. M. Laßreton,
anial Van Voorls,
Captaia, U. . Navy.
Bri.Gen. G.., Amy.
Mumber.
cenior Fenbor.
(Signed)
(s1gnod)
Murshall Magruder,
. K. kilpatrick,
Liut.olmy
ommander,.Navy,
Member.
Member.
(igued)
(. 1 sned)
S. J. Chaaborlin,
G.. ratton, Jr.,
Liout.ol..my
iout. col...U.Ary
komber.
Nember.
(Signed)
(1gned)
Jom. J. "witty,
n. C. Montgomery.
Captuin. C.., U..rmy.
M jor. ..,".. rmy.
Recorder.
A LROVSDI
(Signed)
(sirned)
.. Y
H. A. Drum,
Fear-dmiral. U. . Navy.
Me jor Jonerel,
Commandant, sourteanth,
Commendi ng.
Navel vistriet.
iawnlinn Dopartment.
Inelosuros: (with orininal only)
Annex 1 - 4 sheota.
Amnox 2 - à shesta.
Anex 3 - 2 shnata.
Distribution:
0. a. Han. Dept - 1 orikinai and z copies.
CDt. l4th N. D. - 2 copios.
-8-

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.84)
111
1

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.89)
旦至旦旦ET
Copy.
May 3, 1936
MOHANDUM:
Assistant Chiur of starf, -8, lawaiinn Dapartment,
Fort Shefter,.I.
SUBJECT:
Roport on the Vieit of Japanone Naval Tanker " Nno".
1. In compliance w1th monorms dum your offioe.  ted  roh 20, 1936,
the followine roport s mubaltted:
(a) The Imperial Japanese Have) Tanker "(Nix" arrived of: port at
Hilo, April 16, 1936, et 9:45 ..'., and docked nt Pier 72 et 9:27 A.M.
after e tun day trip frow San Pedro, Caiifornia. (Later nhirted to ier "1).
Dosoription: Length overell: 480 fant, Hmam 60 font, Cross tounage
w1ht: 7620 ton, et 4430 tons. Coal urner.
SGargo:
Ho00 tona uei 1l.
Master:
Captaln Mighiaki Kamade, JJl, apporently noout 40
yeur or age. Very ler e in mtature for a Jupanene.
Complement:
16 ofrieer und 14l nlisted Nen.
Iurpusa of
Vieit:
fo tuke on wator bofom continuine itn  urney.
Doutination:
Karn, Japan.
Departed:
Sailod from H11o ut 8:18 1.., apr11 19, 1936.
be "uNiu" belonge to the Imperiel Jupeneee Navy nu' in attuched to
the Japunecn Dattleehin to Kumu-Xan.
(b) ne undermigned accompunied by ixt Limut. Goo. Selman, U., and
Commiasioned arrent urficer christianson, Commandine fricer, Uco "TIeTR".
made an ofricin) cel o the Cormander or the "(N: o" soon aftar dockin. An
interproter wan aboard but seldom used nm  antain ramada anoke lish fairly
woll. e ata'ed nis trip from Hondurns (later corrected to os ngeles) wes
low and tirorome, apologizin for the rilthy condition of hin vessol. That
this wms his firmt trip Sate Ameriean waters ns his other voyages were in the
Orient, the vediterranean See and uropean waters. That he had been royally
entertained by Navy ofriciala wntlo in an Pedro and Lon Angalas.
at 2:0  ., mamp date, an tein aredr accompunied by nn aide, the
ohips chaplrin and Dr. Yoshimure peid en ofricial vipit to Kilnuee Vilitary
Camp remining about one and one helf noura.
(o) ae following activiti and movemantn were observed or reported and
coufired througn rnliable sources:
(1) Immediatoly after dockin a delogation of Japanese (see Inclosure I)
carryi lowurs and paokages boarded ho "ONno".
-1-
Annex1 (4 sheets)

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.94)
Copy.
旦星旦RET
All were apparently expected as no questions were asked. Seme were
(1) maluted by the meaman on duty, at the ang plank and his salutes wore
(s) premptly returned indicatin& some acknowledged official eapaeity. The
(s) leaders appemred to be Dr. E. Yoshimura, Mr. X. Kawmsaki and Mr. Kiyosaki.
(2) A saek of mail ws taken aboard by two Japeneme. The Post Master
at Hilo stated this saek eame direct from Yokohama under closed privileges
and del!vered uboand without examination.
(3) Second I.1out. Rmil Omorio, H. N. C., reportod the "ONDO" teok on
528 tons of water up to 9:00 A.M., Apri1 18th. She was drawing over 25
feot of water and was overloaded at this time. She took on lo0 additional
tons of water before sailing. she wms equipped with hand water pumps
exeept for boiler feed. The emount of mter was estimated to be sufficient
for a sixty to eighty day sruime. Sow members of the crew making drafts.
photegraphs and measurements of the dooks. (see enelosure (4) copy of
repert by Major Stafford direct to Dapt. -2). The "ONDo" had a mter
empaeity of about l,zo0 tons.
(4) Commissiuned arrant Officer Chrintianson, Commending Offieer of
the UsCa "TICkk", reported verified s etehing, measuring and photog: aphing
of docks. teported the taking off of paekages by mexbere or the "ONDo"
erew whioh mre subjeet to customs examination and in violation of the
"Courtesy or the Port" which had been extemded. Arrested the Japanese
fishing sampen, l1eense No. 32-A-477, whieh followed the "OND0" in from
Honolulu, for not having the requi red papera. Owner of this sampen is:
himisu Matutaro.
(5) Nr. D. A. Devine, Postmmster at Hilo, raported the seizing for
eustoms examination and violation of postal regulati ns, packages mailed
or attempted to be meiled ut Hilo.
(6) Mr. Leslie . Hranch, mmnager of the Hawal1 Telephone System.
furnished seven (7) copies of rediograme sent and received. See encloure
3 Mmbers 1 to 7 inolusive.
(7) Mr. George K. Richerdmon, Police Inapector, Hilo, furn shed the
list of ears with names of owners prement at the dook aweitin: the "ono"
(mee enelosure 2). He also furnimhed the moven of visitors boardins the
"ONDO" while in port showing time apent aboard by principel suspected
agents and sympathizere snd those acccmpanying Jepanese officers ashore.
(see enelosure 1).
(8) Offieers and orew were entertained upon moveral occarions by
individuals and mooieties at homex and tea h ueen. Some of these made
the usual round the 1sland trip. Interest was shom in aimee and Kona
districts. Genernlly speaking the Japanese populace am a whole did not
anpear to be overly enthusiastie in their reception of the "ONio".
(9) It has been reliably reported but unconfirmed at this time that
some membern of the orew were seen with instruments in e homo at elamea
making ranges and sketches of that area.
- 2 -

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.96)
SE C RET
be further investigated and reported later.
(10) Two U. S. Navy Planes arrived in H1lo Harbor about
A.M. April l6th, alighted for about ton minutes then took off.
(11) It has been reported that Japanese veseels have the
babit of switohing a part of their crew while in port. This was
abeeked as far as possible (as far) in this case but no switohing was
reported. It is interesting to note however that the immigration authority
was conspiouous by his absence most of the time while the "Onpo" was in
port.
(12) The "OnDC" was granted the courtesy of the port by
port euthorities.
2.
During the stay of the "OnDo" in dilo suspicion of the
following persons has been aroused by their actions as indicated:
(2)
(a) Mr. Kango Kawasaki: Roported to have a brother, who 1s
an officer aboard the "ONix". He is an alien and as such is barred
from the practice of law, although a graduate of an American in-
stitution. He is a leader of local Japanese. Enturtained Japanese
officers while in port. Spent mmuch time aboard the "ONi". Habitual
visitor sboard all Japanese shipe arriving in Hilo.
(1)
(b) Dr. . Yoshimura: oported to be a momber of the I.J.N.,
Med-Res. Spunt muoh time aboard the "ONno". Cer bearing the licenne
number in bis name, but not the make of car for which license was
granted, was seen with the Captain of tho "ONio" and three other Crficurs
as passengors. Believed to have driven these officers around the Island.
Is very aotive mmona the Japanese populace. A frequent visitor to all
Japanese shipe calling at this port.
(4)
(o) Er. Frank Arakawa, Assistent County Engineor. noported to
be an ex-ofricer. U.S.A. Always found around Japanese ahips in port.
Spent muoh time aboard the "ONto" while absent from his duties beeause
of reported siokness. Is in a position to furniah vital information of
a geographieal nature. Held in general distrust by leading citizene.
(d) Mr. Shinoda, alemman for uddle Sales and  ervice:
Always found around Japanese ships. Spent much time aboard the "o o".
(•) Mr. Ishikawa, Saleaman for American Factors: Reported
to be a Captain 1n Japanese Army Reserve. as very mucn in evidence
aboard the "UNDe" prior to sailing.
(f) Kiyosaki Brothers, local merehanta: Spends much time
aboard all Jepanese ships as well as the "C)". Known to have carried
doouments aboard the "ONDo" and entertained the officers. (This may
have been for nothing more than commercial reasons.)
Copy
-3-

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
(g) Mr. Matsusakaya: Reported to be a book salemman from
lulu. Spent much time aboard the "ONDO" and was the only known
Asitor from Honolulu. Seemed to be very welcome and much at ease
with the ships ofricers.
(h) Mr. Minoru Nurakami: Local representative or the
"Nippu Ji-Ji". Seen driving one of the cars whioh carried Japanese officers
around the Ieland. uite a leader amons, the Japanese populace. (two cars
with Japanese officers as passengers were seen in the vicinity of Hue-lHue
Rank (Kona) on April lath, by Mr. noy stes, manager, Standard Cil Co.
(1) K. Omanaka: Drives a ramshackle model "T" Ford with
license No. 2l-669 meets all Japanece boate but conrines activities
to the orew. Suspicioned of boins a dope peddler and a contact man.
3. Conclusiona: That the "Onix" visited iilo tor the general
purpose of obtaining information, making contact with thoir loyal agents
and to take on sufficient water to porait cruising to units of the
Japanese fleet and Haval stations in the Paolric before proceeding to
Japan. That there aro uotive Japanese agents in Hilo and that some
action should be taken to determine their status especially those re-
ported herein. That the officers were interested in the port of Hilo.
Waimme Distriet and the Kona Coast. That the latitude granted foreign
vesmels in fort is too great for our own good and advantage is being
taken of this. That some action should be taken to rid the island of
alion residents who have had the opportunity to qualify for citizenship
or those ineligible. That there is sn apparent laxity on the part of
immigration authorities to closely check illegel residenoe and entries
on this ieland.
4. Tre following individuals had dofinite partial knowledge
of the assigned mission end were inatrumental in obtainins the above in-
formation. All reports wero corrobated and considored reliable.
Major Ben Stafford, Infentry
Captain Jemes 3. Roid, Hilo Harbormaster.
Mr. Leslie . Branch, Manager Hawaii Telephone Systen.
Mr. Oeorge K. Richardson, Police Inapector, Bilo.
Coumirsioned Warrant Orficer Christianson,
Commander USCO "TIGER".
End Lieut. Emil Omorio, H.N.G.
Mr. D. A. Devine, iostmaster Hilo.
(Signed) H. C. Gilchrist.
H. C. .
Major, Infantry,
Coswandin lawai1 istrict.
Inclosures:
1. List or Visitors
2. List of Cars and Owners
3. Copy of adiograus 1-7, 1ncl.
4. Copy report by Major Stafford.
5. News olipping.
eopy
-4-

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.96)
Alfred . Carter, Trustee.
Cable and λireless Address
"CAR", Honolulu
.0. Box 277
Honolulu, T. .. U.S.A.
April 27tn, 1938.
Colonel G. . Patton,
Fort Shafter,
Honolulu, T..
Der Colonel Patton:
I encloae herewith a lettor fron Mr. A. A. Akina
regarding a visit of some Japunese ofricers to /aimea and also
 statoment regarding one of my employees at the ranch house.
I hate lomrned tron ilo tst a Japanose 11
Tanker left that port on Sunday afternoon, April 1 th.
Should I obtain any furt er inronation, I will
lot you know or if you would like me to make inquiry along
any line, T should be gled to have it done.
I rogret that they did not get the automobile
numbers nor the names of the locel people who were tu the
cars. It would be sasy to got the naise of the contrector and
the Japanese owner of the building in the couree of conetrue-
tion but the drivers were not identified.
I prosume this sort of thin: is, to your knowledge,
being done all of the timo and I don't know if you consider such
roports of any value. I send it for what it is worth.
Yours respectrully,
(signed) Alfred. Carter.
AWC:IB
Annex j2 (3 sheets)

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.96)
Kamuela, Hawaii,
Apr1l 25, 1936.
Mr. A. . Carter.
P. 0. Box 277.
Honolulu, T. B.
Dear Mr. Carter:
Acting upon 1nformation contained in your letter of the 23rd, I
called on Mrs. Kanakanui and she informs mc as follows:-
On Sunday the 19th, sometime between 7:3) and 8 o'clock A...
while she was proyaring breakfast, her attention was directed to 3 auto-
mobiles stopping direetly in front of her house and in the back of a new house
under construction. Three automobiles stopping in that neighborhood being
somewhet of a rare occasion naturally made Nrs, Kanakanui curious, so she
watched and from the 3 ears 10 Japanese men dressed in wh1te uniforms, with
white caps and all wearing black eapes or overeoats stepped out. To Mrs.
Kanekanui these men resembled neval officers. There vere also 3 men in
eivilian clothes, presumably the drivers. ne uf those in civilien clothes
wes cithor the contractor or the owner of the new house for Frs. Tanakanui
has seen tim on several prevlous occasions come there to inspect tho work of
the carpenters.
Some men in uniform, e tall psrson, carried w1th his from the car,
what looked to Mrs. Kanakanui, like & 4 or 5 ft. lengt: of  or 4 inch pipe,
others carriod mntal boxes similer to the usuel tool or cesr hox type.
Thore were several of theee toxes. All went into the house end through the
window in the back room which conmands a full view of aikoloa, eamoku,
Waikii, ete. this longth of pipe was put to use as thouch it was a telescope,
one men looking through and making motlons while others took out large sheets
of paper ovidontay from the boxes and had them stuck on the walle. It looked
very much like they were draxin or writin on those sheets. The position of
this pipe wen changed several times in order to teke in the whole surrounding
country inoluding the hills back of Beter Ariole's. Y're. fanakanui claime,
that this porformance hadn't gone on more than about 30 or 45 minutes when
the ranch milk delivery oar came and imrediately the whole outfit in the new
house disappeared from view but as soon as the milk car left Mrs. Kanakanui
saw everybody standing again and the performanco continued unt1l about 11
o'clock A.:. when they all left driving up towards Chock In's.
#2
-1-

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.94)
A. W. Corter - 2.
I quostioned veveral others very casually on the pretense
of looking for some itinorant picture salemman who was solling
pietures, books, ete. without license and discovered thst yestorday
sometime your yardman, Ishida, with a man fron Honolulu went to
Kdwin Lindsey's at  aiaka to see the 3 Japanese there. a near as
I ean find out the mission of the tonolulu man was to take census
mong the Japanese and at the same time gire a picture of the
Mikado to those who wished to donate s2.50 or 3. 0. I could not
obtain the name of the Honolulu mannor the reason for the donation
as the old Japanese at Edwin's cannot understand much.
I had also 1ntended to contaot kr. Groves who lives next
door to Kanakanui but he is in Hilo at present. Should I gather
further information wiil mo adviso you.
Very sincerely yours,
(si ned) A. A. Akina
A.kina.
#3
-2-

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.96)
Hilo, Hawal1,
Apr1l 30, 1936.
J. Walter Doyle,
Colleetor of Custons,
Honolulu, T. H.
Sir:
In reply to your letter or April 2 7, 1936, raference to my
report on Mr. Eawasaki, I wish to state his contacts with the
Japanese Training Ships snd Tankers alwnys seoxod suspicious to me.
His motions as well as his attitude hear out thet significanee.
Se has always been motive with Reception Committees in
weleoming and enterteining "Members of the Crew" especielly the
Officers. Masters frequently refer to him for assistance in their
dealings with local ngoneies. During the period I have been in charge
of this port, there has developed muoh suspicion against him. Cther
Federal Ofricials expressed like sentiments.
I have motieed that he is always on hand when ships arrive,
and is one of the first to pay his respects to the Master. It is
very notioeable thet he spends a lot of his time aboard these vessels.
lle accompanies Ofricers on sight-seeing tours on this Islend with
ceseras rom the vessel, not kodaks. I wes once 1nvited to s beach
pionio given in honor of one of the Training Shipe, et whieh he was
Master of Ceremonies. At the end of the celebration be gave a talk
in Japanese which was applauded vith hearty "Banzais".
On a number of occasions he has come to me for 1nter-
pretation of courtemy lotters. To has constently tried to find
loop-holes in them, and is elwmys ready vith some alibi when be
finds himself in difficulty. Te really acts as go-betweon in
this matter. His excuses are thet they do different in Bonolulu,
Ios Angelus and other ports where t cse vessels have touched, and
it wes hie belief that dirrerent customs regulations applied to
the various classes of vessels w1th regard to landing of peckages.
He clains that I am too strict, mnd onoe inferred that I might be
exceeding my authority. I have gone into this matter very thoroughly
with him, on eaoh occasion, and up to this time I heve roceived
little cooperation.
Annex No. 3 (2 shoots)
-1-

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.90)
J. Walter Doyle - Collector of Customs - Honolulu
Lnvessigation - Mr. Xawasaki - Sheet E
Iu my doalinge zith him in the past, he es been very evaelve.
ad his attitude has beon insinoere. He hms been in trouble sith Customs
more than once at this port. in the l st oocasion when I tried to have
him put bis answers to my questions in bleck end white he employed
Attormey C. S. Carlamith to reprement him tefore anmwering.
Be submitted his ansvers the dey followleg our interview, and
appeared greatly relleved when it wae ver with. Se infor od to tast he
had not slopt luring the night thinadne over the inoidont. He aleo stated
at the time that he had lived 30 years 1a famall, and loved tais country
far better thin Japan. This statomant scomed puite unoalled for, as no
question wes sver raised as to hie loynlty. I impressed on nim at the
time, that the oaly renson for akin him For wri ten anevers wee to asoure
myeelr of ma future miaunderstanding, ans thnt it would sorve ao a matter
of written record. He then spologized and offered hir full cooperation.
r. Kawaeaki is mn alion. ie is known as ttorney Eawaoaki.
and listed in the Direotory as, Xango Kaw anki,  torney-At-Law. I do not
kmow whether he is an attorney, ut  r. Cerlsmith stated that he knows Mr.
Nawasaki went thre Law chools. Ar. Thomes, of the Immigretion ervice
atated he interprete for a aumber of applioants for ro-ontry permits, ond
evidentay eharges a nominel fee. His ocoupation may otherwine bo classed
ms Japaneee Interpreter. His businees is in mo legal profeomion, in the
preparation of legel papare und documente, such sa Contracts, Deeds.
Abstrmste è fitles. to., but he is not per ittnd to prestice in any court.
He employs a Japanose cirl wno in a Hotsry  utlic.
I bave no concrete information relntive to his connectlone with
phe penese Netional Government. I have cath red from convereations with
irprent people, whom I can not recall at this time, thnt ho received Naval
Tuaing from the Japanose Joverament prior to coains to Hawel1. un
sgals.
In my previous letter,  atated toet "I rirmly beliove nim to
be prnently connected vit no Jupaneee Hetiensl Covsrmment" is sotlone,
his coteotions, coaversations I jooal rorldonts, ell tond to tuild up
a chein of eiroumetantiel rindings which are the tosis for my convictions.
lee otfully.
(sined) . . Anderson.
.1. Andorson
Jeputy collector.
-2-

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
130 Revision/307
SEE
FOR
Correspondence
894.20211
War Department
FROM
) DATEDMay.27.1938
TO
NAME
1-1127
Legislation requested to revise nationality laws. Copy
A
REGARDING:
of secret report transmitted from Military Intelligence
Hawaiian Department, upon subject "Hawaiian-born Japanese
and problem in connection with increasing number of former
CJ
5
members of Japanese armed forces in Hawail. Transmits
draft of Bill designed to check entry of those who served
in Japanese Army or Navy. Specific names and instances
mentioned in report.
nc

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.89)
CR
THE WHITE HOUSE
RECEIVED
WASHINGTON
PARTMENTOF STAT
July 25, 1938.
P
1938 JL :5 AM 10 59
LAEMORANTDUM FOR
THE STATE DEPARTMENT
RECORDS
834.2
With the return of the attacned letter
f.c
from Kilsoo Haan, it would be appreciated if
C
you would be good enough to let me have a
11
draft of appropriate reply.
1/26/38
3
matn
9
LIP EASTERN AFLAIHS
jaly
28 1938.
M. H. McINTYRE
Deparime
neu
Secretary to the President
Enclosare
C
G

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.95)
COPY GLW
Original returned to Mr. McIntyre
Honolulu, Oahu, T.H.
39 Laimi Road
July 8, 1938.
Mr. Marvin Hunter McIntyre
Secretary, The President, U.S.A.
Vhite House
hashington, D. C.
Dear Mr. McIntyre:
Late september of tnis year I am planning to visit
F
Vashington, D. C. ould it be possiblc to moke an
appointment with the President of the United states of
894.20211A/
America, His Lxcellency Iranklin I. oosevelt. I
have a Confidential report from he rar Last vhich they
vish that I hand it over to the Presicent p rsonally. It
will take me less than five minutes.
Would you kindly rant this short interviev?
?I siall
Freatly aopreciate your assistance.
As to my reference I am sure nep. John i. Rankin
or senator Guy M. Gillette may be sble to supply the
desired information as to my standing "ith certain roups
in the rar 1: st and in ha:aii.
(N
Vishing you health and hoppiness.
9
nespectfully yours,
KILSOO HAAN

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.97)
Jaly 28 1938.
In réply refer to
My dear Mr. McIntyre:
With reference to your memorandum of July 25,
1938, I am returning herewith the letter dated July 8,
1938, which you received from Mr. Kils00 Haan.
894.20211A/
Kilsoo Haan is a Korean, whose pen name is W. K.
Lyhan. He has written te the Department a number of
times in the past few years, and usually signs his name:
"W. K. Lyhan, Representative of the Sino-Korean People's
League in Hawaii". It appears that he also has been in
communication with the War and Navy Departments. In all
9
of his letters Haan discusses alleged Japanese activities
in Hawai1, and the Department has consistently refrained
from even giving him a mere acknowledgment. In a letter
口
dated May 7, 1936, Haan asks that he be given pecuniary
G
assistance in carrying on his work.
In view
The Honorable
Marvin H. MoIntyre,
Secretary to the Bresident,
The White House.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.90)
-2-
In view of Kilsoo Haan's apparent international politioal
activities, I suggest that his letter should not be ac-
knowledged and should be filed.
Sineerely yours,
GEORGET. SUMMERLIN
Chief of Protocol.
Enclosure:
Original letter from Kilsoo Haan,
July 8, 1938.
a. Kled
A trye copy of
PR:HC8:GLW 7/27/38
FE
thegned origi-
lun
hal.
OR
JUL 28
938,

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 27, 1938.
6k
The enclosure to Admiral Leahy's letter
is a report from the Commandant of the Twelfth
Naval District forwarding a letter from
Mr. Kilsoo Haan, a Korean resident of Honolulu,
to a member of the California Joint Committee
on Immigration. In the letter Mr. Haan styles
himself leader of a Korean independence move-
ment and states he is contemplating speaking in
the United States on the subject of Korean
freedom. He asks for speaking ongagements and
work on newspapers. The Commandant is of the
opinion that Mr. Haan is of less importance
than his letter indicates. This opinion is
confirmed by several letters received by the
Department from Mr. Haan, asking for a posi-
tion or for funds to carry on espionage work
against the Japanese on behalf of the United
States Government.
It is believed that no action is called
for on the Navy Department's letter.
894.20211A/37
FE:SohAer:HES

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.96)
THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
RECEIVED
Op-16-B-3
(SC)A8-5(1)/P9-2 1938 SEP 24 AM 10 21
GLblx1
DIVISICH
1938
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
A
S i r:
894.20211A/37
There is tranamitted, herewith, for your in-
formation, a copy of a letter dated 8 September l938
644.202110/3
from the Commandant, Twelfth Naval District, together
with its enclosure, regarding the proposed aotivities
of one Kilsoo HAAN in the United States.
Respeotfully,
The Honorable,
The Seoretary of State.
Enclosure (1)
F/A

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
-5/P1-5/16(1)
DISTRICT STAFF HEADQUARTERS
TWELFTH NAVAL DISTRICT
Federal Office Building - Civio Center
San Francisco, California
8 September 1938
CONFIDENTIAL
From:
Commandant, Twelfth Naval District and Operating Base,
San Francisco, California.
To:
The Chief of Naval Operations.
(Direotor of Naval Intelligence).
SUBJECT: Kilsoo HAAN, Activities of.
ENCLOSURE: (A) Letter from Haan to Miss D. Kaltenbach, California
Joint Immigration Committee, San Francisco, dated
15 June 1938.
1. Kilsoo HAAN, a Korean, who has been in Honolulu for the
past several years, is reported to have recently been announcing
a Korean Community progran over Honolulu radio station K.G.M.B.
He is a representative of the Sino-Korean Peoples' League in Hono-
lulu.
2. He plans to arrive in San Francisco from Honolulu on
28 September 1938, aboard the S. S. LURLINE, on a speaking tour of
the United States. His mission is the freedom of Korea.
3. Enclosure is probably but one of many similar letters
whioh subject has written for endorsements and engagements in tl.is
country, for information here indicates that he is to be sponsored
in part by Vorld Peaceways.
4. Haan is considered of less importance than his letter
would indioate. V. S. MoClatohy, deceased, former head of the
California Joint Immigration Committee, who was very close to this
office, confided that he did not fully trust Haan and was ever
cautious in hts dealings with him.
5. This information is forwarded as being of possible in-
terest to the Chief of Naval Operations.
/8/ R.A.DAWES
Chief of Staff.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Honolulu, Oahu
39 Laimi Road
June 15, 1938
Miss D. Kaltenbach,
85 Seoond Stroet,
San Franoisoo, Calif.
My dear Miss Kaltenbaoh:
I am sure you will fulfill the expectations of many who know your
past experiences in the type of work Mr. MoClatchy was engaged in.
Yes, I shall gladly cooperate with you and will send you whatever
information that may be of interest to America and to the Commission.
At the moment I am organizing the various Korean leaders to take
direot steps in demanding from the Japanese Goverment a plebiscite
for Korea's autonomy. I mean, to send Korean leaders to Japan and
make direot demands instead of only telling the Americans to help
them. I for one shall gladly go to Japan. Many say I am foolish
and a suicide -- well yes, it may sound foolish and seemingly
suicidal; however, one cannot do any work without risking one's life.
The time is ripe for action. Koreans in Korea (confidential) are
ready to maroh on to the battlefield if the proper time could be
reasonably decided.
According to my best knowledge and the confidential reports coming
from the fronts, this move is a timely one.
Thus far I am getting strong help and I believe I shall soon soe
the movement come into action.
Before going to Japan I am planning to visit America for four to
6 weeks to lay before the American public our side of the story and
also why we are taking this step (suicidal) to demand from Japan our
froedom. I believe in about the later part of August or September
of this year I shall be in the Pacific Coast region on my way to the
East. I have few more details to settle in the Fast; cn my way back
I hope to spend a week in California calling on various leaders.
Would it be humanly possible for you to find out if I can meet some
of the leading organizations in California. I shall be glad to
speak on the subjects which they are taking interest. I also wish
to meet the Mcclatchy family members and tope to get some place in
the Sacramento Bee.
If you can make the necessary arrangements as to time, place and
subjeot (statohood for Hawaii, Japanese in Hawaii, etc.) sometime
in the later part of September or the End week of October, I shall

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2
be able to make it. During these talks I desire to tell the American
public our aims and hopes in going to Japan at such great risk.
In the event that you can, I would wish you could give me the as-
suranoes ahead of time. It will help me very much in the arrangement
of my duration in America.
If you could give me any personal introduotion to any person in the
newspaper game I like to have it very much when I get there. Perhaps
I am asking you very muoh. My sucoess in this movement wholly depends
upon friends like you who understand my sincerity and my peaceful
motive for the benefits to humanity.
I trust and count on you to give me the necessary cooperation in
getting the opportunity of speaking before the citixens of California.
May God bless you.
Respeotfully yours,
Kilsoo Haan.
P.S. I have had experience speaking on the radio. In fact I am
the announcer of the Korean Community Program at the Station
KGMB.
My past speaking experience in the Salvation Army will also
aid my work in this present movenent. Please do not mis-
understand my mentioning the above information. It is not a
boastful aot--I thought you might hesitate to make the neces-
sary contacts and speaking arrangements because of your lack
of acquaintance with me.
I do not have much academic knowledge but I do have honest,
sincere and courageous spirit and experience in this type of
work.
I thank you.
L.H.

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.98)
ENT ON JAPANESE LANGUAGE SCHOOLS IN ISLES.
In February number of Mita Hyoron, the organ of Keio
Gijuku, the famous University founded in Tokyo by Fukuzawa,
appears a leading article appraising Japanese Language Schools
in Hawaii.
"In Hawa1i no less than 200 schools attended by 40,000
pupils out of a total population of Japanese in the islands of
140,000, three or four of the schools have an enrollment of
over 1,O00. Professor Ktyooka is impressed by the superiority
of the girls to the boys in the Makkalei School,due to the
fact that the girls are under restraint at home and retain
more of the ancestral decorum while the boys are allowed
to run about and pick up undesirable habits."
Honolulu, Hawaii.
The Honorable F.D.Roosevelt,
President of the United States of America,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Honored Sir:
894.20211a
If you would send a plain-clothes man here in, the guise
of an obscure poor man and would not let it be known that he is
a government employ- who would not accept invitations to be
feted and wined and dined by committees of higher-ups, you and
the people on the mainland would get the true facts about the
Japanese peril in Hawaii.
When the senators and their wives were here to investigate
such conditions they were entertained lavishly, seldom had time
of their own to do any investigating, saw and heard only the
0211A/
best side of the Japanese problem and went back to the mainland
preaching STATEHOOD and the AMERICAN JAPANESE when the majority
of the white citizens knew what Hawaii would be up against if
Hawaii should become a state. Hawaii is three fourths Japanese
and Sam King is howling for a plebecite vote and any thinking
person can see if we had a plebecite vote that the Japanese
3
would vote for it and outnumber us whites twenty or more to one
8
and Hawaii would soon be lost to the Japanese. I hope I"shall
never live to see the time that Hawaii will be a state with a
Japanese governor, Japanese congressmen, and our local
legislature filled with Japanese. What would be the use of our
forts- fortifying the islands with a Japanese governor,the head
of the army here ?
Japanese are most loyal to their own race, and white men
would stand no show at all in Hawaii. Besides they are over-
populating Hawaii and would do likewise when they could spread
out all over the United States. "Blood is thicker than water"
and there is no use thinking that Japanese would turn anyone of
their nationality down for a whitc man.
As it stands now our city and county attorney is a Jap.
There have been Japs in our legislature. It is too terrible to
think of statehood with senators and representatives in the Congress
of the United States making laws for good old American stock
A1
in the states. Senators and Representatives whose parents are
alien coolies, scarcely civilized. Nautiating!

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
2
After the statehood investigating committee came here
recently and had investigations, publicly, very few meh
would give testimony in public, fearing the loss ot their
positions and those few who did give adverse testimony were
ridiculed and scorned and others would not cur the enmity
of the men in the territory who advocate statehood for
business reasons, but we people here heard that such reports
that was made here had had those reports compiled and re-
written and people here did not recognize the re-written
Those men who came here for information were constantly
being entertained and had no time to look into facts and
study the peril we are up against.
Did they study the hot-bed of Japanism - THE JAPANESE
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS that we all know is un-American. They
conduct their schools as schools in Japan are conducted.
They teach all forefathers' Japanese culture,- no English is
spoken in their schools- they teach children to worship the
oldest emperors, empresses, and all Japanese possess a set
of dolls representing those old emperors, empresses and
all men and women connected with the rulers of the earliest
times. Japanese call this celebration of veneration of
the earliest rulers "DOLLS DAY." Once a year this collection
of dolls are taken reverently from a packing trunk, and put
on an alter with many tiers upon tiers and have a great
celebration. Next day dolls are carefully packed away until
the next year. Children are never allowed to touch those
sacred things.
Ever so often an educator comes here on a visit to see
and supervise these Jap schools and to see if the spirit
of Japan is carried out right.
Japanese children all go to their Language schools, pay
an unusual high tuition and parents foree children to go
to their schools no matter under what conditions.
When this war began - about three months afterwards, the
Japancse sent half a million of our good American dollars
to Japan to help their cause. ( Prove this statement with
our territorial bank examiner.)
Hawaii is certainly almost financing this war.
Scrap iron , for years, has been sent to Japan. Right now
on Hotel Street between Thomas Square and Alapat Street,
almost two short blooks, you never saw such an amount of
iron being made ready for shipment to Japan. Stacks of
iron as high as a one story-house.
I presine you have seen the statistics of the many
thousands alien Japanese in Hawaii whose families of children
number from four to twelve. The Buddhist and Shinto Priests
insist upon their women having children until they cannot
have more.
Much of the best property in Honolulu is owned by
Japanese. They have at least forty stores to one American
Store and yet an American cannot buy one foot of land in
Japan. These stores are ogned by Japanese, aliens.
Only Japanese are the fishermen of Hawaii. They own

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
3
hundreds of sampans and it is quite a curiosity to see
Japs come in with their catch. Do they pay for the
privilege? They are also aliens.
All Japanese, from laborers up, send their money to
Japan. Why, I wonder?
I do not believe there is a family including Americans,
British, Portuguese or any other nationality above the
laboring class, who does not employ a Japanese maid to do
cooking, washimg etc. and their wages are from seven to
fifteen dollars a week. It is a hard, unbreakable rule,
with the Japanese that every daughter who is un-married
even if she is thirty five years old and have parents living,
must hand over her week's wages to her father every pay
day. When a daughter gets married she hands her wages
over to her husband. She is not allowed to spend a cent
of her wages and when she needs a kimona or cheap under-
wear she must go with hef to the store and the mother pays
for things the daughter must have. I can vouch for this
for every maid I ever had has told me the same thing.
Now and then a girl's husband will take her to a picture
show for amusement.
Japanes boys who get their education in English
and are outstanding, many of them have gone to Japan and
are given high positions over there.
I know many families , who have babies will go to
Japan and leave the infants with their grandparentsto be
raised. Remember they get birth certificats, and as soon
as they get their Japanese education they come back here
and teach in the Japanese schools. ( This is easily proved).
After the senatorial committee left Honolulu, a
great cry was made by McKinley High School, and English
School, and the University of Hawaii, for EXPATRIATION.
Meetings were held at McKinley High and pros and cons
were discussed. Hundreds would not become expatriated.
They openly said the reason was out of respect for their
parents.
american Schools are keeping up this"nagging" and ever
so often we hear that these students aregetting drawn in.
But I tell you there is no truth in Japanese where
their interest is at stake.
Judge for yourself- during this war- do the powers
that be in Japan stop their offenses committed against
Americans and BritWish and after they have done these deeds
they say " Excuse us, it was a mistake" and all such
tommy-rot. But they have committed the offenses and get
away with it.
ur McKinley High School of three thousand students
and a few more, are most all Japanese with a scattering
of perhaps fifty whites- may be not as many as fifty.
I am sending a clipping of boys expatriated and are to
be in our Army. I am sorry. Knowing the Japs as I do.
My opinion is, the younger generations of Japanese
possibly might be American Citizens after ten or fifteen

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.95)
o more spies for ##
pan.
olition of the post of under sec-
a
Ci
saf.Oet
HOrTTtA.
n
Expatriates
ti
In U. S. Armý3s
ey
in
r
Three University of Hawaii
pq
w
students whose commissions as
fo
second lieutenants in the U. S.
army reserve corps were with-
ar
D
held at last June's commence-
ment because of dual citizen-
la
ship, have completed expatria-
m
tion from Japan, have presented
ca
their papers to the ROTC de-
partment, and expect soon to re-
re
ceive their commissions. The
El
r.
papers have been forwarded to
ca
the U. S. war department.
hi
One other student whose com-
he
mission was withheld must await
Fc
not only acknowledgement of his
E]
expatriation papers but attain-
be
ment of the age of 21 before he
can be commissioned.
t
Delivery of commissions to the
i
dual citizens was withheld by or-
der of the war department.
Stalin Condemns

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
panese
Drive to Take All China
To Push Thousand
Miles Inland; New
War Area Mapped
TOKYO, Nov. 8. (AP)—Jap-
PEIPING
anese armies are planning to
drive a thousand miles far-
ther into the interior of
China and the Japanese gov-
ernment warned foreign pow-
ers today to keep their air-
planes and citizens out of the
area to avoid "unfortunate
b
NANKING
incidents."
The objective of the new mili-
tary campaign was said to be to
HANKOW
dry up transportation of Chinese
SHANGH
munitions from British Burma and
possibly from French Indo-China as
well.
YUNNAN
The new area of hostilities, desig-
nated in a note from the Japanese
to foreign embassies and legations,
will extend from the coast far in-
land to a line running from Yunnan
province, in the far southwest,
northward through Szechwan prov-
CANTON
AMOY
ince to Kansu, northwestern prov-
ince bordering Tibet and Mongolia.
INDIA
Success of the campaign would ex-
tend Japan's conquest to practically
INDO
all of China.
CHINA
Pacific Ocean
It was emphasized that the Jap-
anese military would not guarantee
protection to foreign property used
by Chinese forces.
Contrel Tightened
TOKYO, Nov. 8. (U.P) — Drastic
War Area Extended:
Japanese determination to
tightening of Japanese control in
cut off all sources of Chi-
China was apparent today with two
significant moves on the diplomatic
nese arms was expressed today in an order extending Japan's
front.
Foreign Minister Hachiro Arita
aims 1,000 miles westward to heavy line on map, taking in
reiterated previous requests made
all of China and closing the British Indian and French Indo-
by Premier Fumimaró Konoye and
China borders. Besides conquered shaded portion Japan also
Kazushige Ugaki when he was for-
eign minister to foreign diplomats in
controls Chinese seacoast.
Tokyo.
The foreign representatives were
asked to urge their nationals in
China to move from the scene of
present or expected hostilities to
safer places, to prohibit Chinese oc-
cupation or use of their properties,
and to notify Japanese forces of the
location of their properties and per-
sons.
Arita's request came simultane-
ously with publications by Domei
news agency, official Japanese news
gathering organization, of an un-
named observers' predictions of the
contents of Japan's reply to Ameri-
can protests against closing of the
open door in China.
K
Cooperation Necessary
n
The Domei report quoted its
source as saying the Japanese note,
due November 10 will especially
0
ask the United States closely to
look at the facts of the situation,
and recognize that close cooperation
between Japan, Manchukuo and
China are necessary to build the
new order sought in east Asia by
Japan.
The observer said that Japan is
ready to respect legitimate Bn'ish
rights and interests with the indis-
pensable condition that Japanese
dominance in China is recognized.
He specifically mentioned that
foreign investments will be wel-
comed in China under these con-
ditions.
Many foreigners feared that they
will be forced to comply with the
famous April 17, 1936 statement of
Eiji Amau, then foreign office
spokesman, to the effect that they
"would do better to notify Japan
of their moves in China."
To Extend Zone
While Ugaki recently designated
the war zone in eastern China,
Arita today said the zone would be
extended into Hupeh, Shensi and
Kwansi provinces. Areas west of

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.97)
athering organization, of an un-
named observers' predictions of the
contents of Japan's reply to Ameri-
can protests against closing of the
door in China.
The Domel report quoted its
November 10 will especially
the United States closely to
The observer said that Japan is
ready to respect legitimate British
rights and interests with the indis-
pensable condition that Japanese
dominance in China is recognized.
He specifically mentioned that
foreign investments will be wel-
comed in China under these con-
ditions.
Many foreigners feared that they
will be forced to comply with the
famous April 17, 1936 statement of
Eiji Amau, then foreign office
spokesman, to the effect that they
"would do better to notify Japan
of their moves in China."
To Extend Zone
While Ugaki recently designated
the war zone in eastern China,
Arita today said the zone would be
extended into Hupeh, Shensi and
Kwansi provinces. Areas west of
the line in connection with Suchow,
Patang and Tali will be subject to
attacks from the air.
Extension of the zone is expected
Turn to Page 4, Column 3
to await the spring months, but it
appeared that it is Japan's intention
to take all of China unless an "un-
derstanding" is reached with the
Chinese government.
As a result of the Domei report
opinion grew that Arita is planning
to inform Great Britain that she
must choose between Generalissimo
Chiang Kai-shek and Japan for the
preservation of her rights and in-
terests in China.
Revolt Reported
CHUNGKING, Nov. 8. (AP) — The
Central News agency reported today
TOKYO, Nov. 8. (AP)—Imperial
headquarters announced today
that in the last four months
Japanese armies had counted
the bodies of 143,650 Chinese
soldiers on battlefields taken by
Japanese troops.....
Chinese caplives taken by
Japanese during the period
numbered 5,27e, the announce-
ment said.
Japanese losses were listed by
Imperial headquarters at 6,153
killed and wounded.
that Japanese Jaborers at Taiyuan
arsenal in Shansi province revolted
November 5, and blew up a muni-
tions dump.
tions valued at $1,000,000, killed 300
The blast, which exploded muni-
11A
Japanese soldiers, the dispatches
said.
Homesickness, coupled with fail-
SPAC
ure of the management to grant
promised leaves, was blamed as the
cause of the revolt.
SHANGHAI, Nov. 8. (AP)—Japanese
bombers raided the city of Chengtu
today, dropping 100 bombs on the
r
reported the raid said Chinese
air field. Foreign sources which
sharply resisted the attack, defend-
e
ing planes engaging the invaders
1-
in a sharp combat.
a-
Japanese Protest
SHANGHAI, Nov. 8. (lP—The Jap-
anese army announced today that
er
a protest has been filed with Brit-
hg
ish authorities in Shanghai Monday
t
against firing on Japanese troops
by a British ship in the Whangpoo
river.
he
The Japanese troops were said
ns
to have been engaged in "mopping
le
up" Chinese guerrillas at Chang-
1s
kakang, 10 miles east of Kiangyan,
its
south of the Yangtze river, Oc-
tober 24.
The troops did not return the
fire, and none of the soldiers were
injured, it was said.
An army communique also an-
nounced Japanese capture of the
strategically valuable city of Tung-
cheng.
Towns Recaptured
NAV
B. (IP)—Thor-

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.97)
months, but it
to take all of China unless an "un-
derstanding" is reached with the
Chinese government.
As a result of the Domei report
opinion grew that Arita is planning
to inform Great Britain that she
must choose between Generalissimo
Chiang Kai-shek and Japan for the
preservation of her rights and in-
terests in China.
Revolt Reported
CHUNGKING, Nov. 8. (P) — The
Central News agency reported today
TOKYO, Nov. 8. (P)—Imperial
hesdquarters announced today
that in the last four months
Japanese armies had counted
the bodies of 143,650 Chinese
soldiers on bettlefields taken by
Japanese troops.....
Chinese caplives taken by
Japanese during the period
numbered 5,270, the announce-
ment said.
Japanese losses were listed by
Imperial headquarters at 6,153
killed and wounded.
that Japanese Jaborers at Taiyuan
arsenal in Shansi province revolted
November 5, and blew up a muni-
tions dump.
The blast, which exploded muni-
tions valued at $1,000,000, killed 300
Japanese soldiers, the dispatches
said.
Homesickness, coupled with fail-
ure of the management to grant
PAC
promised leaves, was blamed as the
cause of the revolt.
SHANGHAI, Nov. 8. (AP)—Japanese
bombers raided the city of Chengtu
today, dropping 100 bombs on the
air field. Foreign sources which
reported the raid said Chinese
e
sharply resisted the attack, defend-
)e
ing planes engaging the invaders
i-
in a sharp combat.
n-
Japanese Protest
SHANGHAI, Nov. 8. (P)—The Jap-
anese army announced today that
er
a protest has been filed with Brit-
g
ish authorities in Shanghai Monday
t
against firing on Japanege troops
es
by a British ship in the Whangpoo
river.
he
The Japanese troops were said
ns
to have been engaged in "mopping
le
up" Chinese guerrillas at Chang-
n-
ed
its
is
kakang, 10 miles east of Kiangyan,
south of the Yangtze river, Oc-
tober 24.
The troops did not return the
1
2
v,”
fire, and none of the soldiers were
injured, it was said.
re
An army communique also an-
f-
nounced Japanese capture of the
r-
strategically valuable city of Tung-
th
1
cheng.
ht
1-
to
HONGKONG, Nov. 8. P)—Thor-
Towns Recaptured
pl
Cl
oughly reliable sources said today
w
that Chinese troops had recaptured
te
in a desperate anti-Japanese drive.
the towns of Fatshan and Poklo
m
hi
The sound of heavy artillery ex-
hi
changes could be heard in Canton.
Mission Bombed
S€
HANKOW, Nov. 8. (lP)—The Cove-
u
al
nant Missionary society today re-
p
he
to
quested the United States consul in
Hankow to protest against Jap-
t
c
anese bombing of a mission in
trr
th
Kingmen, Hupeh province, Mon-
day.
An American flag was flying
over the mission and the Japanese
previously had been advised of the
building's location, it was said.
No one was injured in the bomb-
ing.
ru
c-
k

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.97)
are, sly, mot
panese
onceited.
Bluffers. Th
America. I hope Americ
FOUR
Japanese Prepar
Government fc
Framework for Regime May Be Announced in
Few Days; Nippon Generals Confer
By JAMES D. WHITE
PEKING, Nov. 5. (P)—The Associated Press learned from reliable
sources today that at least the preparatory framework for a new central
Chinese government will be announced within the next few days."
Gen. Wu Pei-fu, former Chinese warlord, will head the new government.
These sources stated that Lt Gen, Kenji Doihara, Japanese advance
agent, conferred for two hours Fri-
Terauchi, commander of the north
day afternoon with Gen. Ilisaichi
government.
Sources stated the new govern-
ahch
China forces, at the latter's head-
ment will absorb the Peking and
quarters and emerged triumphant,
Nanking regimes and relegate them
having reached an sgreement upon
to obscurity.
details of the new government.
accepted the post, guaranteeing un-
Gen. Wu was understood to have
Previously, the two officials dis-
qualified economic cooperation with
Japan, and a policy of pro Japanism
It was considered noteworthy by
and anti communism.
these sources that Gen. Seishchi
In return, it was stated, he re-
Kits, often called the father of the
ceived permission to raise a new
Peking provisional government, was
absent from the conference. He was
Chinese army on the basis of the
Japanese promise their troops will
ta1s
with Wang Keh-min, chairman, and
be withdrawn from China within
other officials of the provisional
four years.
buiyl
Western Nations Plan
New Japan Protests
C
α=
against exclusion from the rich Yangtze valley, while Japanese are lay-
United States, Great Britain and France are preparing new protests
SHANGHAI, Nov. 5. (P)—Reliable foreign circles reported today the
m
a1
not beieure
ing foundations for economic monopolies.
n
e
A Japanese spokesman insisted that military necessity required that
the Yangize be made virtually
S
Japanese river.
base for a new stand against the
Japanese :commercial interests
Japanese.
alsc started establishing a trade
Severe Fighting
connection with South China,
Severe fighting continued in
Dispatches from Canton said
Kwangtung province, with battles
Japanese merchantmen are arriv-
reported within 10 miles of Canton.
Chinese officials said the Japa-
BERLIN, NoV. 5. (U.P)—The
nese were forced to take the de-
Berlin Voelkischer Beobachter
fensive in K w angt ung. They
said teday that demoeracies
claimed the third division of the
"autonomous army," which previ-
ously was Japanese auxiliary, de-
clared allegiance to the central
Astonishment that Japan's
government and recaptured. Kwei-
3t
formal statement of policy, is-
teh in the north Honan province
sued last Wednesday, should
from the Japanese.
evoke surprise was expressed.
"Tokyo three yearsgago an-
nounced that the open door
could mot be matatamed indef-
initely," the newapaper re-
marked.
ing there, although foreign shipping
still is barred from the Pearl river.
There was no apparent prospect
that this ban would be lifted.
Not Public Business
The Japanese spokesman said
traders going to Hankow and Can-
ton are "limited to furnishing goods
and are not engaging in public busi-
ness.
Fighting continued on numerous
fronts, being heaviest in the vicinity
of Hankow.
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek,
aided by a group of Boviet advisers,
h
chosen south Hunan province as the

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.99)
HONOLULU STAR-BULLETIN, TUI
Japan Factions Jockey
For Dominance in China
Gens. Kita, Doihara Rivals for Control Over
Nippon Sponsored Puppet Regime
By JAMES D. WHITE
PEKING, Nov. 8. (AP)—The political backstage hummed today with the
beginnings of a hotly contested race between two rival Sino-Japanese
factions, the "ins and outs," who are jockeying for position to form a
supreme central government of conquered China.
Reliable Chinese sources described the "ins" today as approaching the
quarter turn with a fair position
on the rail. These forces are led by
Chinese politicians who plan to hold
Maj. Gen. Selichi Kita, chief of the
a "China representative assembly"
Japanese army's special reserve bu-
here soon to choose a new regime
reau here, and commonly known as
headed by Wu Pei-fu, the former
the father of the Peking and Nan-
war lord.
king regimes.
The preparatory organ of this as-
His supporters are made up of
sembly is already functioning here.
members of these regimes led by
Chinese circles state that although
this group is admittedly running in
Wang Keh-min of Peking and Li-
second place it should be watched
ang Hung-chih of the Nanking gov-
carefully, because of several factors.
ernment.
In the first place Gen. Doihara's
These three, who returned Satur-
past successes in staging Chinese
day from a meeting of the "United
political coups are well known; sec-
Council of the Chinese Republic" at
ond, he is supposed to have sup-
Nanking, aanounced today that an-
port from high circles in Tokyo,
other meeting will be held here
and, finally, he has the acknowl-
about the middle of the month to
discuss unification of China and
edged support of the local Hsinmin-
hui, the Japanose sponsored Chinese
formation of a supreme government.
political party.
(Any government formed under
Chinese say both factions are
these circumstances, would of course
making the strongest possible bid
be dominated by the Japanese.)
to secure a semblance of popular
Doihara Heads "Outs"
support for their respective pro-
The outs are headed by Lt. Gen.
grams which, stated in reality, dif-
Kenji Doihara, Japan's ace political
fer little except that Doihara's
intriguer, supported by a group of
scheme would obtair. unqualified
Chinese economic coopration.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
aging
(United Preas by Radio)
TOKYO, Saturday. Nov 5.
The newspaper Ohugai Shogyo.
in an editorial believed to repre-
sent Japanese opinion correctly.
said todayJapan acquired politi-
cal superiority in the Far East
"through a holy war."
"Therefore," the editorial said,
"other powers lost their qualifi-
cation to discuss East Asia' with-
1
out Japan's understanding."
The newspaper expressed opin-
ion that if America and others
make
further representations.
based on the Nine-Power treaty
which savors of pressure agains:
Japan, Japan definitely will de-
mand correction of their views.

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
There
no way
These Japs!
suppress
Iwo China Trade Firms
Launched By Japanese
(Tremsradie Fress)
TOKYO, Nov. 7.-—Japanese businessmen, aided by the gov-
ernment, organized today for a great economic drive to exploit
the vast resources of China. Two big development companies
mr
were formed, one capitalized for 350 million yen and the other
Pr
to
for a hundred million yen.
er recognize the commercial rights
tu
Foreign Minister Ohtani was put
at the head of the larger concern,
given to the United States, Great
ed
the North China Development
Britain and other western nations
company. At the head of the oth-
under the Nine-Power treaty.
CO.
de
er, the Central China Develop-
Seven large Japanese companies
ele
ment company, is Kenji Kodama,
already are in operation in the
conquered territory. They are
former governor of the Yokohama
pe
Specie bank.
mining iron-ore, supplying water
is
and electricity, dealing in real es-
In taking these steps the Jap-
he
tate and controling all communi-
anese goyernment gave one more
ele
cations, shipping and passenger
indication that it intended to re-
travel. These will be merged into
tain the lion's share of Chinese
I
the two development companies.
trade, and that it would no long-
Half the stock will be bought by
the government. The other half
offered to the public.
tT

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.99)
IONOLU
hina Reconstruction to
Be Started by Japanese
Company Established To Rebuild Devastated
Central Area; Monopoly Plans Are Denied
TOKYO, Nov. 7. (AP)—The Japanese government prepared today for
reconstruction in devastated areas of, central China by the formation
This organization will be the twin of the North China Development Co.
Kenji Kodama, president of the new company, asserted Japan does
not intend to monopolize commerce
in China.
draw the United States into the
"We have no idea of a monopoly,"
center of the China problem and
he said.
American public opinion would not
"We will not interfere with for-
tolerate being involved.
eign interests already existing in
The Kokumin said Japan is pre-
pared to take practical retaliatory
central China nor will we oppose
new foreign investments provided
measures in the event of American
they are offered in a spirit of
economic action against her.
In such a case, the paper said that
friendly cooperation."
Japan is no longer bound to respect
U. S. Is Warned
the rights of American commercial
The newspaper Kokumin, con-
interests in China.
sidered the organ of the army's
ultra nationalists, warned, Sunday,
Launch Attack
that Japan would "take retaliatory
SHANGHAI, Nov. 7. (AP)—Jap-
measures" if the United States tries
anese troops were reported today to
to force Japan to continue recogniz-
have launched an attack on the
ing the nine power treaty.
Chinese defending the border of
declaration of U. S. Secretary of
The newspaper scoffed at the
Hunan province, preparatory to a
drive upon untouched territory.
State Cordell Hull that the United
Generalissimo Chiang Kat-shek
States' attitude toward the Orient
was said to have concentrated the
was based on existing treaties and
backbone of his defense in the ter-
remained unchanged.
rain which is the new objective of
The Kokumin belittled Mr. Hull's
the Japanese.
declaration as designed for home
Invaders were proceeding up the
consupmption only, and said British
Yangtze river from Hankow, and
machinations are working behind
also were driving overland, aiming
at Yochow.
the scenes.
Chinese admitted today they had
"Disastrous" to Roosevelt
lost a battalion while attempting to
Any American economic re-
halt Japanese bayonet assaults on
prisals against Japan's assertion of
Laohu mountain near the Hunan
economic and political sway in the
border.
Orient would be disastrous to the
Dispatches from Hongkong said
"Roosevelt regime" the newspaper
Chinese were preparing a major
said.
counter offensive in an effort to re-
Such a step, said the paper, would | capture Canton.
German Chancellor
Warns Democracies
c
WEIMAR, Germany, Nov. 7. (AP)—Chancellor Hitler's threat of a pow-
erful defense today was before the democracies that he lectured during
i
speech Sunday.
r
The German leader, addressing 100,000 nazis here, said he spoke as
"a peace loving man." "I have decided to give the German Reich a de-
fense force that will be conducive
to peace being kept," he shouted.
Hitler with grave and measured
Hitler said he is suspicious of talk
works.
of reducing armaments while the
"Let this great man search his
rest of the world arms to the teeth.
heart and conscience before he
"Let the democracies understand
accuses anyone," Churchill said, "of
this: If they talk about the rights
being a war monger.
of small peoples, they should not
"Hitler is mistaken in supposing
deny rights to big peoples; but his-
that Anthony Eden, Sir Alfred
tory has shown that democracy in
Duff-Cooper and myself as leaders
practice is different than democracy
of the Liberal Socialist party are
in theory.
war mongers..
"Democrats can conceive of only
"I am sorry that Hitler has not
one duty, namely, to uphold democ-
been mellowed by his recent great
racy, with the resultant liberty to
success. It would be wiser to relax
anybody to incite war."
a little, and not try to frighten
Referring to disarmament he said,
people for an expression of honest
"It is very nice to talk about dis-
doubt and divergencies."
armament, but I am skeptical of
Eden and Duff-Cooper respec-
disarmament when the spirit also
tively left the cabinet of Prime
is not disarmed."
Minister Neville Chamberlain as
foreign minister and first lord of
LONDON, Nov. 7. (U.P)—Winston
the admiralty, because of disagree-
Churchill today answered an at-
ment with Chamberlain's "realis-
tack by German Chancellor Adolf
tic" handling of. German demands.

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
generations provided there were no more
ools.
The cannibg Japs would not exercise their franchise a
vote until the last three or four yeare abd now they are
electing their own to many government positions. What
chance would the whites have if Hawaii were a state.
I live in hopes and pray that Hawaii may be either a
######/## commission form of government or a military
outpost.
I pray that we may never have war with Japan for there
are so many alien Japanese here besides all others are
sympathetic with their Japanese parents that I am afraid they
would be too strong against us to be taken care of.
It is a well known fact that Japan had her eyes on Hawaii
and wanted it during the breaking up of the Monarchy and
I thikk Japan would like to have up now as a suburb of Japan.
Please send a reliable'man here to investigate: - -
Number alien Japs in Hawaii
True population of Japanese at present date
Number Jap stores right in Honolulu owned by aliens
Property , stores, land, homes etc and valuation
Increase of population in past ten years Japanese
All other businessfirms owned by Japanese
Valuation of the fishing industry monopolized by Japs
American merchants cannot well compete against the alien
Japanese. It does not seem right.
Your Excellency, please keep your eyes on us in Hawaii
and work out our salvation from the Japanese.
Your obedient admirer
Thomas C.Farnsworth
General Delivery
Honolulu

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.96)
CHARLES M. GOETHE
K.FISK
PRES. IMMIGRATION STUDY COM'N
AMERICAN LEGION
(TREASURER)
(GHAIRMAN)
California Joint Immigration Committee
HON. U. S. WEBB
WARD D. VANDELEUR
85 SECOND STREET
Pzona GAapizld 2697
V. S. McCLATCHY
JOHN T. REGAN
San Francisco, Cal.
GRAND BEC'Y NATIVE SONS
OF THE GOLDEN WEST
DOROTHY KALTENBACH
38 DEC4 14
SECRETARY
Janjary
ack'd
Decwmber 17, 1938
FAR EASTERN AFFAIHS
894.20211a
JEC 20 1938
Hon. Cordell Hull,
Department of Stard
Secretary of State,
894.20211A/39
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
There is enclosed herewith release of this committee, "Japanese Threaten
to Dominate Hawaii", which gives a disturbing picture of conditions in
Hawaii. The figures for those having dual citizenship were supplied by
Governor Joseph Poindexter of Hawaii in a letter to this committee, Feb-
ruary 15, 1936. Later figures are not available, the Governor's office
stating that "these figures are not furnished to any department of the
government".
(Very t ruly yours,
Frsk
James K. Fisk, Chairman
California Joint Immigration Committee
F/A
y

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
Chas. M. Goethe
mes K. Fisk, Ch.
Imm. Study Com.
Amerioan Legion
CALIFORNIA JOINT DMTGRATION COMMITTEE
Hon. U. B. Webb
E. D. Vandeleur
85 Second Street
State Atty. Gen.
State Fed. of Labor
San Franoisoo, Calif.
John T. Regan
Dorothy Kaltenbach, Secretary
V. S. McClatohy
(1857 - 1938)
N. S. G. W.
JAPANESE THREATEN TO DOMINATE HAWAII
The following exaerpts from an article in Hawaii Hochi (a Japanese newspaper of Hon-
olulu) and reprinted in the Japanese New World Sun of San Francisoo, September 26,
1938, indicate a situation that well merits the most serious oonsideration.
"The total Japanese population of Hawaii at present (1938) is ostimated at 153,539,
representing 37.31% of the whole. Out of the total Japanese population there are
116,584 who are Amerioan citizens. This is nearly 76% of the entire racial bloc.
. . . alien Japanese make up only 9.2% of the whole population of the territory . .
. . so it would appear that the Japanese hloc that could vote if it wanted to do so,
that could rogister as ε qualified group of electors . . . amounts to about 35% of
the total eligible eleotorate.
"That suoh a group would be in a position to swing elections if it aoted in a solid
bloo is beyond question. The Japanese are in a position to hold the balance of
power and to use it effectively if they ohoose. So far they have not functioned as
a racial bloo, which is the best proof of their Amoricanzation.
"But what if they should decide to use their strength in the only truly Amerioan way
in whioh mass solidarity oan be demonstrated--at the ballot box?
"an any issue that affected them as a racial group, affeoted their interests as a
partioular seotion representing one-third of the citizenship, they would have a per-
feot right to stiok together and fight for their own oandidates. They would be saps
if they didn't.
Figures do not lie. Amerioan citizens of Japanese ancestry are approaching the point
of strongth at which it will be possible for them to ohallenge any party, any oandi-
date, any platform or any polioy."
Hore is expressed in no unoertain terms the threat of the Japanese to use their
racial plurality to dominate Hawaii. It is not stated, however, that two-thirds of
these American citizens of Japanese ancestry who have the power to "challenge any
party, any candidate, any platform or uny policy" have failed to expatriate and
are therefore also citizens of Jupan, and bound to obey her orders in peaoe and in
war.
Should statehood be granted to Hawaii, and should the prinoiple of self detormina-
tion become effeotive, what may be the future of our western outpost, where a large
majority of Amerioan citizens of tho proponderant racc, who threaten openly to use
their politioal power for their own purposes, are, thru choice, oitizens alsoof a
powerful and joalous nation which demands and roceives aotivo loyalty from its sub-
jeots in whatever portion of the world they may reside.
#523
10-18-38

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.92)
Janvary 5 1939
My dear Mr. Fisk:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
894.20211A/39
Desember 17, 1958, with which you enclose a release
of your committee entitled "Japanese Threaten to
Dominate Hawaii".
The contents of your letter and its enelosure
have been given careful consideration and your
eourtesy in supplying the Department with a copy of
the release is very much appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
For the Aeting Secretary of State:
3. 从
Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Mr. James K. Fisk
Chairman, California Joint
Immigration Committee;
F
R/son
85 Second Street,
San Francisco, California.
JAN 5 1939
pews
E9.C.
150
FE:EGD:REK
FE
1/3/39
y

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.96)
BON D. SMITH, S. C., CHAIRMAN
R, MONT.
BEORGE W. NORRIS, NEBR.
CHARLES L MCNARY, OREG.
ANIKHEAD, ALA.
ARTHUR CAPPER, KANS.
Low, s. DAK.
LYNN J. PRAZIER, N. DAK.
W. CARAWAY. ARK.
HENRIK SHIPSTEAD, MINN.
A HATCH, N. MIX.
ALEXANDER WILEY, WIS.
WIS B. SCHWELLEDNBACH, WASH.
BODORE G. BILBO, MISS.
COMMITTEE ON
UY M. GILLETTE, IOWA
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
SHERMAN MINTON, IND
BOOTT W. LUCAS, ILL
rirision of
10 A7 AM 10 08
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 6, 1939
APR 7-1939
Department of State
Honorable Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
Washington, D.C.
894.20211A/40
My dear Secretary:
This will serve to introduce to
you Mr. Kilsoo Haan of Honolulu, T.H.
I had occasion to become acquainted
with Mr. Haan on the visit to the Territory last year
made by the Hawaiian Territory Commission, appointed
from both Houses of the Congress pursuant to a resolution
creating it and whose duties were to investigate
conditions in the Territory relative to statehood. In
our hearings which were much extended, Mr. Haan was a
valuable and helpful witness and it seemed to me and
several of us that he was in possession of information
and in control of certain channels of information that
not only aided the Committee but would be of interest
to the State Department. I am informed that he is
now in Washington and I am sending this letter in
the hopeful anticipation that you will accord him
every courtesy and consideration to which he is
entitled.
Respectfully submitted,
GMG:CF
GUY M GILLETTE
li
F/FG

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
Divisionof
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAPR 11 1939
Uimuartment of State
Apr11 10, 1939.
844.202112/40
My dear Senator Gillette:
I wish to thank you for your letter of April
simth advising that Mr. Kilsoo Haan of Honolulu, who
you are informed is in Washington, may be in posses-
sion of information of interest to the State Dopart-
ment.
894.
I note what you say regarding Mr. Haan and I
appreeiate your courtesy in bringing this matter to
20
211A/40
my attention. I shall be very glad to see him, 1f
it is at all ponsible for me to do so. Unfortunately,
during this oritical period in world affairs, I am so
completely overwhelmed with emergenoy matters requiring
my close personal attention to the extent of fourteen
and sixteen hours a day, Sundays and holidays not ex-
cepted, that I do not have as muoh control over my time
as I should like. However, should I be hopelessly tied
up
The Honorable
A
Guy M. Gillette,
Un1ted States Senate.

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.88)
-3
up at the time of Mr. Haan's call, I shall be very gled
to arrange for him to see one of my associates.
Sinoerely yours,
Cordell Hull
A tree eopy of
tho isgoy 
imal
FE:EGC:JPS 4-8
S GWR:MA

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
EWS, FRIDAY, APR
hy for Korea
m of Branch
fice Set Up Here
KILSOOK.HAAN
A
BRANCH of theSino-Korean
Peoples League has been set up
in Washington at 101 D-st ne by Kil-
soo K. Haan, who arrived in the U. S.
(0)
about four months ago to organize
11
sympathy against Japan's actions in
the Far East. Mr. Haan is consult-
ing with various governmental de-
partments on secret Japanese organ-
izational campaigns in the Pacific
area.
Purposes of his organization are to
arouse liberal Japanese, Koreans and
Chinese against "Japanized fascism
in Asia" and prevent its spread; to
prevent sale of war materials to Ja-
pan, and encourage and aid Sino-
Korean organization in Hawa! and
the United States.

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.95)
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League
RLCEIVED
L0I D'STRET N. C
STAT
WASHINGTON, D. C.
PHONE LINOOLN 5187
DCR
1939 AF  PM 3 15
FE
早舌蚪
Co
A
HEADQUARTERS
OHS
1281 Fort Street
AND RECORDS
'Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
April 10, 1939
ackdet
Representative in Washington, D.C.
KILSOO K. HAAN
His Excellency Cordell Hull
114=9
Secretary of State
894.2021
Department of State
OFFICERS
Washington, D. C.
File
President
2021
SHINHO CHAR
Vice-President
SUNCHOO CHOI
Your Excellency:
Secretary
CHANGDUK CHOI
Treasurer
I have come a long way from the Hawalian
JHAIKUN SUR
Islands to have an audience with Your Excellency
with an urgent request and plea.
DIRECTORS
I am now preparing this request and plea
Chairman
in tne form of a "Memoranda" to be presented to
CHANHO MIN
Your Excellency in person. Would it be humanly
DOIN KWON
possible for Your Excellency to grant this humble
BONGKWAN CHUNG
person an audience some time during the last weck
TAISUNG LEE
of April? I shali be out of Washin ton between
BAIKSOO KIM
the 17th to the 22nd. If Your Excellency will
CHANGYIK OH
grant an audience any time before or after these
dates, I shall greatly appreciate the privilege.
I was told that Senator Guy N. Gillette
has sent to Your Excellency an introductory letter
Delegate Samuel W. King also kindly gave me an in-
troductory letter to be presented to Your Excellency.
F1
Praying and trusting that Your Excellency
1
will grant this humble person the privilege and
honor of having an audience soon.
May God bless Your Excellency.
Respectfully yours,
Kilooo K. Haan
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.97)
/H1
April 14, 1939.
My dear Mr. Haan!
Seeretary Hull has asked me to aoknowledge and
thank you for your letter of April tenth requesting an
appointment.
In view of the many emergenoy matters before the
Department at this partioular time, the Seoretary feels
894.20211A/41
obliged to keep his appointments dowm to an absolute
minimum. It is suggested, therefore, that you telephone
this office upon your return to Washington during the
last week in April, when it is hoped that it might be
possible to arrange a time mutually convenient. If the
Seoretary is hopelessly tied up with official duties at
that time, he has asked me to arrange an appointment for
you to see one of his assooiates, 1f this will be agreeable
with you.
Sincerely yours,
C. W. Gray.
Assistant to the Becretary.
Mr. Kilsoo K. Haan,
101 D Street, N. E.,
Washington, D. 'C.
A
S GWR:MA

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apr11 14, 1939.
Reference letter and "mem or andum" of
April 12, 1939 addressed to the Secretary
by Kilsoo K. Haan.
Mr. Haan treats in same detail the
Japanese menace to this country and to de-
mooraoy but he pre sents no new infornation
of outstanding interest or importance. He
requests thet the Secretary,
1. Extend moral sympathy to ihinese,
Koreans and"liberal-minded Japanese peasant s"
by issuing publio statements and "letters
of sympa thetic understanding.";
2. Refuse to sell war materials to Japan,
such materials to be bought by the Government
for two years (at a cost of 300 to 400 mil ion
dollars) and given to the American nilitary
fo roes; and
3. Aiā Sino-Korean organizuti s in tiis
country in cooperating with american Army
and Navy intellig ence dep rt ent; s e cifi cally
to provide employment for 250 or 300 :orean
students in the intelligence services. These
students have finished t heir educations in
this country and are faced with the pro spect
of having to return to their n tive land.
FE:Penfi eld

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.97)
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League . .
101 D STREET N. B.
WASHINGTON, D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
1939 A13  10 55
早舌斟
MAY - 2 1939
HEADQUARTERS
April 12, 1939
1281 Fort Street
NOTED
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
Representative in Washington, D.C.
His Excellenoy Cordell Hull
KILSOO K. HAAN
Secretary of State
A
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
m
OFFICERS
President
SHINHO CHAR
294.2 211a
894.20211A/42
Vice-President
SUNCHOO CHOI
Your Excellency:
Secretary
CHANGDUK CHOI
Enclosed please find a "memoranda" contain-
Treasurer
JHAIKUN SUR
ing our requests and plea. I trust that you will
find an opportunity to read our plea.
DIRECTORS
Chairman
Hoping that you vili grant me an audience
CHANHO MIN
DOIN KWON
as requested in my previous letter and thanking
BONGKWAN CHUNG
TAISUNG LEE
you in advance, I remain,
BAIKSOO KIM
CHANGYIK OH
Respectfully yours,
Kilooo T. Haan
FILED
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League . .
101 D STREET N. E.
WASHINGTON. D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
早舌斗
April 12, 1939
HEADQUARTERS
1281 Fort Street
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
His Excellency Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
Representative in Washington, D.C.
Department of State
KILSOO K. HAAN
Washington, D. C.
OFFICERS
Your Excellency:
President
SHINHO CHAR
Vice-President
The Korean people ask your sympathetic under-
SUNCHOO CHOI
standing of our problems in america and in the Far
Secretary
East. We do not seek money, arms or munitions. All
CHANGDUK CHOI
we ask is your moral support in the form of a letter.
Treasurer
We need it and need it badly now.
JHAIKUN SUR
The Sino-Korean Peoples League believes that
the Far Eastern problems can be localized and be peace-
DIRECTORS
fully settled if the Democratic Powers extend their
Chairman
positive and their sympathetic understanding by exert-
CHANHO MIN
ing their moral influence.
DOIN KWON
BONGKWAN CHUNG
America need not go to war nor have to send
TAISUNG LEE
battle fleets to the Asiatic waters, displaying power
BAIKSOO KIM
politics as President T. R. Rooseveit did in 19o7. With
CHANGYIK OH
a bit of the traditional american courage and a start-
ling yet an expected Congressional action, america can
morally settled the seemingly hard problems of the Far
East.
The recent development of affairs in Manchuria,
China, and sorea threatening the principle of equal
opportunity and endangering the territorial integrity
of China and the Phillipine Islands, has seriously
disappointed the Democratio Powers having commercial
and political interests in the Far East. America had been led to enter-
tain, with regard to the future of Manchuria and China, more or less hope-
ful views by the repeated and unequivocal declaration of the Japanese
Government. What is of still more serious concern to America is that the
ocoupation of China by Japan would be a continued menace to the Phillipines,
Hawaii, Guam, Midway, and Alaska. The safety and security of these stra-
tegic places are absolutely essential to america's repose and safety.
It was with the object of removing this just and natural anxiety,
that the United States Government entered into the Washington and London
Naval Conference and also into the Four and Nine Power Treaty, upholding
China's territorial integrity.
Only 68 days after the termination of America's diplomatic rela-
tion with Korea, His Excellency Huntington Wilson, U. S. Minister to
Japan, warned his government of Japan's future policy in the Far East.
This was 23 years ago, February 5, 1906. With deep feeling of anxiety
and fearful of future action of Japan, His Excellency Wilson wrote to
the U. S. Secretary of State, Elihu Root: quote,
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
go #2
beoretary Hull
"Now that Japan is actually involved on the mainland of
Asia by her virtual protectorate over Korea and by her ownership
of or interest in the major part of the Manchurian railways, as
well as in Kwantung, her slender financial resources and the enter-
prise of her people would seem for the moment to be taxed to their
limit without further territorial expansion.
"Nevertheless, although their hands may be too full at pre-
sent to admit of any likelihood that fresh field for expansion
would be desired by the Government at this time, yet the ambition
and devotion of the Japanese people are so tremendous that one can
set no bounds to their future policies in this part of the world.
4
"They have a protectorate over Lorea; they occupy the kwan-
tung, with its commercial port of Dalny and with Port Arthur at the
gate to the Gulf of Pechili; they are now establishing themselves
in a prepondering position in Manchuria; they also claim as a sphere
of influence the province of Fukien, opposite ormosa, where in
December 19oo they opposed the wish of the United States to negotiate
with China for a coaling station at Suma Inlet. - - -
"Due to her accession of political power and to this reap-
proachment, Japan seems indeed on the road which may lead to an over-
whelming position in the Far East.
"Will Japan really use her resultant political potentiality
with China for the maintenance of the principle and the spirit of
equal opportunity and policies advocated by the United States, or
will she be at work beneath the surface for herself only, and for
the Orient against the West?
"As this is a Government with all tne Oriental inscrutabil-
ity and talent for intrigue, shrewd and calculating, there may be
grounds for such fears, and Japanese protestations of disinterested-
ness may call for close examination."
Less than a year before this letter to the Secretary of State,
Elihu Root, on Larch 14, 1905, Baron omura, the Japanese oreign Minis-
ter, wired the Japanese minister in Washington a "strictly confidential
and private" telegram - quote:
"You will assure the Secretary of State that Japanese Govern-
ment fully understand and appreciate the attitude of the President
and that they are quite certain not to make any mistake on the sub-
ject. You will add that nothing was said during the conversation
about confidential exchange of views between the President and you
and Keneko. Those matters Japanese Government regard strictly con-
fidential and believe that absolute secrecy best can be maintained
by using for the future the same direct means of communication as
has been so successfully employed in the past."
One cannot help but read what transpired between the time of the
Confidential Telegram and the letter of warning from Minister Wilson to
the Secretary of State, Elihu Root. Although it was only eleven months

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
ge #3
Becretary Hull
Japan got busy undermining American prestige -- her good and faithful
friend was forgotten.
America is now facing a strong villanous competitor in the
Paoific -- soon the two powers will meet on the crossroad. America
should remember that to a large degree she trained, educated, aided, and
consented rather reluotantly even to the absorption of Korea, she now
is supplying 54.4 percent of Japan's war necessities to carry on her war
against China.
We feel that America's Ostrich Diplomacy for temporal commercial
profit out of the sale of arms, munitions and materials essential for war
will aid the comtempt and disrespect of Japanese militarists against
America. They will not appreciate merica's help but instead they believe
America's desire for profit is tne "lack of merican intelligence and de-
cadence, of patriotism". Soon they will demand many unreasonable rights
and privileges against the desire of the American people. How soon?
Japan now has proven that all the declaration with respect to
the independence of Korea and China were, in effect, a diplomatic stall-
ing for time and preparation. Will America still maintain her Ostrich
Diplomacy?
Under the present international situation, it seems to us that
the United States should interpose its "Good Offices" in protest against
this wholesale oppression of the Koreans, and it should, in good faith
at least, use ali its moral influence toward breaking the morale of the
mass of Japanese who are grossly mislead through propaganda, and it should
sympathize and encourage the Chinese and the oreans to resist Japanese
"Asia for Japan" policy.
The following suggestions are humbly submitted for your early
consideration:
A. Extend your sympathy to the Chinese, the Koreans, and the
liberal-minded Japanese peasants, thus uplifting their morale in
resisting Japanized Fascism in Asia.
B. Refuse to sell to Japan, arms, munitions, and materials
essential to carry on the war of aggression in China for two years.
We believe the total cost will not exceed 30o0 or 400 million dol-
lars.
C. Encourage and aid tne Sino-Korean organization in Hawaii
and America with the expressed purpose of having these organiza-
tions cooperate with the nerican intelligence departments -- both
the Army and the Navy.
Explanation in detail of A, B, and C.
In reference to A.
The morale of the Chinese and the Koreans can be lifted through
issuing letters of sympathetic understanding as requested and through
publio statements mentioning the hopes of reviewing the American-Korean
Treaty of May 22, 1882, eto.
There are 22,O00,O00 Koreans in Korea, in between China, Siberia,
and Japan -- they will drink in like thirsty men in a desert dying of
thirst. Sympathy will go a long way -- in reality, its effect will be
greater than supplying quantities of arms, munitions, or other aid.
In reference to B.
If the United States Congress would enact a law pronibiting the

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #4
Secretary Hull
sale of arms, munitions, and materials essential for war for two years
and appropriate 300 to 40o million dollars to buy up the arms, munitions,
and materials essential for war from the same firms who have had deal-
ings with Japan and turn them over to the United States Army and Navy
for the strengthening of the National Defense, it would bring about the
desired. effect.
Although the sum of 300 or 400 million dollars seems like a large
amount of money, when measured in the good it will do to humanity, it will
be well worth the outlay. In faot, this will be the best insurance prem-
ium for peace and happiness for America and the world.
The result of such positive action will bring the following bene-
fits:
First: Strengthen the United States National Defense.
Second: Break the morale of the mass of Japanese who are co-
operating with the militarists under misapprehension hat America
is bluffing and that the American Capitalists and officials are
behind Japan's present policy, as they were during the Russo-Japan
War, 1904-1905.
Third: The business firms, although not selling to Japan, will
maintain their usual production, giving employment to the same
number of workmen. Whether these firms sell their war materials
to Japan or to the United States Federal Governnent, will not make
much monetary or employment difference.
Fourth: To some degree it will aid domestic industries and
create a healthy sense of patriotism and positive international
diplomacy.
Fifth: The world powers will once more learn to respect and
enforce the sanity of international treaty.
Last year the State of California alone sold 30,O00,000 barrels
of crude and refined petroleum to Japan -- two million barrels more than
the year 1937.
Japan's major purchases in the U. S. A. market were largely
materials essential for war and equipment for her war industries. Out
of 2ll million dollars of U. S. exports to Japan during January to
November, 1938, one hundred forty-two million dollars were war materials,
or 67 percent of the total exports was for the carrying on of the war in
China.
Some of the essential items of war materials are as follows:
Petroleum and petroleum products
45.4 million dollars
Iron and steel semi-manufactures
30.1 million dollars
Metal working machinery
21.4 million dollars
Nonferrous metals
20.5 million dollars
Arms, munitions, and implements of war
10.2 million dollars
Automobiles, parts, eto.
9.1 million dollars
Hides, and leathers, etc.
2.5 million dollars
Ferro-alloys
2.2 million dollars
Internal combustion engines
0.3 million dollars
Please note -- Japan bought seven million dollars worth more
petroleum in 1938 than the previous year and 12 million dollars worth
of machine making tools in 1938 than in 1937.

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
#5
Soretary Hull
In reference to C.
By aiding the Chinese and Korean organizations in Hawaii and
America to cooperate with the American intelligence departments. Un-
doubtedly you will agree with me that the time and ciroumstances call
for such activities, largely for self-defense measures.
The Sino-Korean Peoples League has, in a small way, succeeded in
exposing Japanese activities in Hawaii. The thought naturally comes to
us, why not expand our activities in America? The American intelligence
departments are spending much money and time and many admit that they
meet many difficulties and get less favorable results. Our service will
aid Amerioa.
The Japanese activities in Hawaii and on the Pacific Coast are
numerous and vitally important. No one can deny the need of watching
their activities.
The Koreans are significantly placed. These young men and women
can be used most advantageously to America. Why not do it? Are there
any reasons why they should not be used? As far as I know, many are
qualified and are willing. They will gladly serve America if such op-
portunities are granted them.
Among the thousands of Korean youths, there are about 250 to 300
boys and girls who are best suited for this type of work. These young
men and women are the ones who have arrived in america since 1924. These
men are required to leave the U. S. A. after the academic requirements
have been fulfilled. Because of tne prospect of going back to Korea un-
der the Japanese rule, very few would dare say or do anything political
in nature.
Nearly 99 percent of these young men who have returned to Korea
have been put in prison because of some alleged remark made against Japan
during their sojourn in America. Many, after serving prison terms, have
become mentally and physically unfit for society. many of them are forced
to go about, against their will, preaching the wonders of Japanese rule
and Japan's future as the master of the world.
(If need bg, I shall be glad to have honorable men come to Wash-
ington and testify to this effect.)
These Korean students today are so afraid to go back to Korea.
They dread the day. They hate to even think about going. These men
and women are potential materials who would give voluntary service if
America could grant them the privilege of remaining in America as
"Political Refugees" until such time as Korea becomes free. Granting
them the privilege to reside in America as "Political Refugees" is jus-
tifiable, humanitarian, and in accord with the spirit of America's
expressed policy of giving aid to political refugees.
May I submit the following factors for further consideration:
a. There are less than 300 of these young men and women in
American schools, who come under this law.
b. They are all here in America at their own expense. Nearly
all of them are graduates of american universities or are going to
graduate from some university soon.

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
6
retary Hull
c. One hundred percent of these men are well versed in spoken
Japanese and written Chinese. They also speak good English. In
fact, their academic standing is above the average.
d. They are best suited and qualified for this type of work.
They can be made to cooperate with such organizations as ours, giv-
ing voluntary service at all times.
Secretary Hull, may I humbly beg and pray that you would, for
a few moments, picture their plight, their inward fear, the dreadful
thought of facing the heartless Japanese masters in Korea after many years
of enjoying the liberty in America.
May I plea and beg in the name of humanity and in the spirit of
the American-Korean Treaty, do give these (less than 3oo) young souls
the chance to breath the free air and live the life of liberty in
America until such time as the political situation in the Orient im-
proves.
I know they will be grateful and deeply appreciate your generous
and sincere consideration in aiding tnem to receive the status of
"Political Refugees" in America.
America has been kind and considerate to our students in the past.
We are grateful and appreciative of tae favors granted. The situation
calis for further consideration of giving these men practical aid.
May I beg and pray that you advise e and use your influence
in helping me get in touch with the Senators and other officials who
are in a position to make this grant (Political Refugees) possible.
I have travelled all over California and interviewed hundreds
of men and women. They all say they are fully aware of the need of
such an organization, particularly a orean organization to carry on
this work.
I also have had the honor and privilege of addressing 38 American
organizations during the past three months. fter my talk, many expressed
their thanks and appreciation and urged me to do all we can to carry on.
Kindly grant us our plea and let us serve america in these times of un-
certainty. The coming two decades will be pregnant with grave probabili-
ties. It may mean the rise of our civilization to the highest level of
human happiness or the ruination of our civilization.
We believe america is the beacon light of democracy and the
Government the pillar upholding this light. Asia cannot survive if
America falls or is in constant danger, threatened with insecurity.
Those who are concerned with the peace of the Pacific realize
that unless the people of the Pacific stand up for democracy now, we
will suffer the consequences. That is why we believe that the present
war between Japan and China is more than a war for territories or for
raw materials. This is a war between two political philosophies --
Democracy vs. Japanized Fascism.
Japanized Fascism means the fulfillment of "Asia for Japan"
and the beginning of an economic and military war between the white and
the yellow races.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
tary Hull
It has been the national belief that Japan is a divinely protec-
ted nation and that she can never be conquered by a foreign power. So
strongly are the militarists involved with this faith that there is ab-
solute confidence in the ultimate success and justification of all her
causes and claims in any dealings with foreign nations. Furthermore,
the Japanese Militarists' faith in the Emperor as "the incarnate god
who governs the universe" and he himself as divinely commissioned to
spread Japan's "kultur" as far as his sword can reach, has been the
constant source of danger toward peace and stability in the Pacific.
Internationally speaking, Korea has become both the exponent
and the finished example of Japanese militarists' ambition. Today 85
percent of imports are from Japan. The people have no rights, not even
the universally recognized elementary human rights. This is the second
time in our history Japan has and is now trying to wipe out rorean
civilization.
The Japanese author, Dr. Yoshi S. uno, writes:
"The Seven Years' War was one of tne most cruel and un-
provoked wars that the world has ever witnessed. korean civiliza-
tion was completely destroyed. The Lorean people suffered to such
a degree that even the graves of their kings were molested and
rifled. At the close of the war rorea was a land of the ruins, so
great had been the devastation."
There is today in the city of Kyoto, where the 38, 700 pairs of
ears and 38,700 noses of their victims are buried -- it is called the
"Ear Mound". Curious travelers still stand before this "Ear Mound"
and wonder - wonder.
Dr. Kuno further stresses the wholesale spoilation of Lorean
civilization, 1592-1597:
"At the time of Hideyoshi's invasion, the civilization
of Korea had reached its peak. She had metallic movable type of
her own invention; in Korea they had movable type several years
before its invention in the Occident. The Japanese gathered up
most of this type and took it to Japan, it was only after her in-
vasion of Korea that Japan learned to print books with any facility.
From Korea, Japan also learned the art of weaving various kinds of
goods, The most noteworthy industrial knowledge that Japan gained
from Korea was the manufacture of porcelain ware. Such famous wares
as those of Satsuma, Hirado, Rukusan, Cgano, Takatori, and Hagi, which
are famous today as special products of Japan, were originated by
skilled laborers in Korea whom various Japanese feudal lords took
prisoners and settled permanently in the various provinces. It is
said that the process is now a lost art in Korea. World history
contains no parallel to this wholesale uprooting of the civiliza-
tion of one nation and its transplantation in another."
The success of Japan's "Asia for Japan" policy spells with
capital letters a racial war in the near future. We believe this war
will come within two decades. Can you pioture the mass of Orientals
working under the new political philosophy believing the white race is
the curse to the world's happiness? Industrially and militarily
America will face a monster, whose characteristics are of the Shinto
Gods, a wolf, a fox, a tiger, a dove, a loving mother, etc. With all
its cunningness, its foxiness added with measured politeness, Japan will
play the "jujitsu" dipbmacy with America. When she is ready, she will
come with fury and with such military might america will then realize
the plea and the continual warnings of the Koreans since 1905.

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
tary Hull
Korea was virtually turned over to Japan against the spirit of
the American-Korean Treaty of May 22, 1882, believing Japan will play
ball with America and maintain the "Open Door" of the Orient. I have
read numbers of State Department notes and dispatches expressing great
fear and disappointment even as far back as April, l906, less than five
months after the withdrawal of American Legation from Seoul, Korea.
America's fear is well justified. America must take action now or it
will be too late to avert a racial war.
The Japanese preach the coming Holy War with America in Hawaii
to their children as they do now in Japan. The present war is considered
another Holy War. Japan's war is not only in the sense of military con-
quest but it also must have the "Kultural Conquest" over the whites. That
is one reason why you see so much of the so-called cultural propaganda
in Hawaii and in California. That is why they have launched out with
the Society of International Cultural Relations -- with agents all over
Amerioa. They are ven now working to convert the great financiers of
America, witn a new headquarters in New York City at the Rockefeller
Center. America's gain will be a temporal one, as soon as Japan is
ready she will strike back.
Lt. General kenji Doihara recently wrote in the Chuo Koran (Cen-
tral Review) Nov. 1938 - quote:
"Japan must win a victory in this holy war and for that
purpose she must also carry out and win a cultural war. ---- the
present incident is a war for the renaissance of the civilization
of the Orient against that of the West. ---- Japan alone which has
preserved the culture and tradition of the Orient on the one hand,
and, on the other by absorbing the new civilization of the West, has
constantly been oreating the possibility of making the Orient the
master of Oriental industry and life."
The Japanese Imperial Rescript, taught to Japanese children in
Hawaii and America, reads:
"We shall build our capitol all over the world and make
the whole world our domain."
The object of the Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is,
quote:
"To educate the children of Japanese living abroad, in
order to establish a foundation for their oversea development
and by solving the problems of the education of these children
to encourage overseas expansion. They teach their children the
Japanese spirit and urge them 'In buying select Japanese goods,
in voting cast the ballots for politicians friendly to Japanese.'"
Rev. Shinryu Umebara's statement after a survey of the Japanese
language sohools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii - Translation of G-2
U. S. Army -
"I felt while I was in America that the existence of
Japanese sohools and Buddhist organizations in the Japanese com-
munities is grand, for they are the mother bodies for fostering
the national conscience, Japan's civilization and Japan's spirit.
There are some people among the other races who see them as ob-
stacles to the assimilation of the Japanese. It appears that the
Japanese are afraid of other people's reproach and in order not to
become the target of their criticism, they are camouflaging their
activities."

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
oretary Hull
Recent Japanese editorial, Hawaii Hochi, stated:
"American citizens of Japanese ancestry are approaching
the point of strength of which iti will be possible for them to
challenge any party, any candidate, any platform, or any polioy."
Former Consul General of Japan to Honolulu, Hawaii, Honorable
Kanekazu OKada said:
"In an almost blind frenzy we have adopted the civiliza-
tion of the West. We now find an urge to renew our culture. This
restoration is the burning question of the present day Japanese
in Hawaii."
The Paradise Times, Honolulu, Hawaii, January 1935 issue, stated:
"Today, Japanese in Hawaii are displaying Japanese spirit
in full color. This may be the reaction of the rise of national-
ism in Japan. Many of the Japanese schools have been Japanized.
Imperial Resoript is boldly read and taught."
There is now a movement to bring baok 50,000 american citizens
of Japanese ancestry, who are now living in Japan, to America. The Los
Angeles Japanese Chamber of Commerce has sent Mr. Shiro Fukioka, age
59 years, who spent 40 years inamerica, as semi-official to Japan to
carry on the Japanese plan. To quote him, it reads as follows:
"There are roughly about fifty thousand American-born
youths between the ages of 18 and 25 residing in Japan. Being high
school graduates, they are well versed with the conditions and things
Japanese ....
"Our situution in America is truly a big national issue.
It is also a great crisis to all Japanese."
Recent news dispatches to Hawaii Hochi, from Shanghai, arch 7,
1939, state:
"The United States and Great Britain are Japan's 'real
enemies, accordin to Seigo Nakano, president of the Tohokai
party in Japan, who addressed the local Japanese community last
night.
"In an outspoken address Nakano said:
"'The object of Japan's campaign in Cnina is not only China
but also Great Britain and merica, who are Japan's real enemies.
"'Japan does not have to worry about affairs in urope since
France and Great Britain are in no position to send armies to the Far
East. It would be better if Japan followed her military leaders.'
"He said he told Chancellor Adolf Hitler and Premier Benito
Mussolini in personal interviews last year that, 'Germany must ex-
pand in central Europe and Italy must expand in the mediterranean,
thereby blocking Great Britain and the Soviets from the Orient.'

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
#10
Jretary Hull
"The Japanese government," he said, "should be ashamed of
themselves for coquetry in diplomatic policy toward Great Britain
and the United States."
News dispatehes of march 10, 1939, state:
"The United States Chamber of Com erce said today, 'The
American Chamber of Commerce in Tientsin reports that arbitrary
measures in the form of export embargoes and restrictions and ex-
change controls adopted by the Japanese-sponsored provisional
government in North China threaten to eliminate that territory
as a source of supply for important unmanufactured products neces-
sary to american industry and also as a market for american goods ...
Developments indicate the Japanese are determined to eliminate
American business in North China.'
"It was announced the Hankow American Chamber of Commerce
protested particularly against restrictions of foreign vessels on
the Yangtze river and movement of foreign nationals within Hankow.
Figures were cited showing that more than 3,O00 Japanese vessels
arrived at Hankow in the first month after occupation.
""While hampering restrictions are placed on merican and
other foreign trade,' the chamber said, 'Japanese imports are of-
fered for sale freely and exports to Japan move without interference.'"
The well known political writer of the ar Eastern affairs, ..r.
Willard Price, last year wrote:
"Nippon's million sons and daughters abroad will play no
trifling role. ---- their residence in the status quo countries
has not dulled their faith in the righteousness of Samurai sword.
"In the future world readjustment, whether it be convulsive
or gradual, trese far flung strategically placed Japanese communi-
ties are apt to be fully as effective as the home strength of Japan.
They are the outposts of the mpire."
Sir, believe me when I say I am not tryin to create 'Japan phobia"
in America. ie have a large number of Japanese in our organization work-
ing most diligently with us. Our aim is one -- "In principle all demo-
cratic people must forget the racial and nationalistic line and stand by
together to save democracy from being trampled by the militarists of Japan
in Asia."
An average income of a Japanese farm family of five is 28l yen a
year, or about loo american dollars. While an average income of a Korean
farm family of six is 98 yen 50 sen a year, or about 33 American aollars
at the current exchange.
The Japanese Government, not satisfied with the exploitation of
the poor and helpless pple farmers, in their so-called benevolent aid
to the farmers, the officials conspire in the sale of their daughters
into "Filial Prostitution" in the name of "Farmers Aid".
The Metropolitan Police Board and the Perfeotural bosses of the
various Perfectures have licensed 5,630 brokers on a deposit of 2,000 yen
each to act as go-betweens between the farmers and the "brothel-keepers"
(also licensed) on a fat commission.

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
ge #11
Jecretary Hull
According to the Salvation Army (Japanese) officers, who told
me that the price of these farmers' daughters depends on the economio
conditions of the country. It ranges from 100 yen, or 30 American dol-
lars, plus a few dollars per month from her earnings. At times, ac-
cording to the intelligence and looks, tney are sold as high as 2,000
yen. The brokers usually keeping as much as 50 percent, plus an ad-
ditional commission every month.
The Japanese Government's taxes on this inhuman trade are very
high and undoubtedly the taxes help the militarists to wage wars in
other lands.
According to the Japanese Home Office, there are now 300,000
professional and semi-professional prostitutes in Japan. Recently
thousands were exported to Korea, Manchuria, and China. The above
figure does not include daughters of korean farmers. The misery, the
heartbreak, the agony, the terrible pang that stabs their weary hearts
are beyond description.
Yes, the millions of Japanese farmers suffer as much as the
Koreans do.' "Their honor (womanhood of Japan) rooted in dishonor stands."
I quote a news item from the Honolulu Advertiser of March 5, 1939,
as follows:
"Professor Eichiro Kawai, liberal economist of Tokyo's Im-
perial University, is the latest victim of a purge which is sweep-
ing Japan's schools and Universities clean of liberals and persons
suspeoted of thinking 'dangerous thoughts'.
"Since the outbreak of the war the metropolitan police board
has increased its number of 'thought police'. Their job is to search
the country for any individuals who express views contrary to the
'national policy', a concept capable of extremely elastic interpreta-
tion.
"The police are aided b, the notorious Peace Preservation
Laws of 1925 and 1928 which make the organization of a communist
society punishable by death. Anyone who is caught discussing the
subject of 'changing tne national policy' is liable to a prison
sentence with or without hard labor for a period of 'more than
seven years'.
"Sentences are indeterminate in most cases, the prisoners
being sent to concentration camps in Korea and Formosa for terms
of 'more than seven years'.
"The liberal intellectuals of this country live in fear
of being snatched away from their families at any time of the day
or night.
"The professor will not be lonely, should they decide to
send him to prison. In the past few years, according to figures
released from time to time by the police, thousands of university
students, including many from Tokyo Imperial University, have
been arrested and jailed for thinking about things the govern-
ment doesn't like."
Mr. Tadaiki Iizuka, former assistant chief of the Japanese
Foreign Office Information Bureau, in speaking to me with much enthus-

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.98)
50 #12
Soretary Hull
iasm as to the future plans of Japan made the following statement:
"Before 1940 we shall control all of North China, Mongolia,
and Manchuria. In another four or five years we shall be ready to
ask Amerioa to let our people go and live among the Americans.
"China is already overcrowded. America is the only place
for the Japanese to go. If the Americans do not allow us to come,
we can have at least Alaska, Hawaii, and Samoa. When we have these
places, then America will let the Japanese live on the American
continent. Our population must expand into merica and South
America," he declared. "We find the Japanese can live more happily
on the American continent than anywhere else. If they don't like
us, the Japanese will find a way. We have always succeeded in get-
ting what we wanted." Etc. Etc. (If interested, I can talk to
you more if you can arrange tne time and place. k.H.)
The great mass of Japanese are suffering as much as the Chinese
or the Koreans do. They too will be only too happy for a change. They
too love democracy -- only they are mislead, misguided, and the mili-
tarists are misrepresenting the true situation. America's large exports
of war materials are aiding the Japanese militarists in putting fear in-
to the millions of Japanese working men. They can't help but believe
that all the Japanese militarists say must be true. Don't the Americans
sell all the necessary war materials to Japan? 54.4 percent of Japan's
need. Did not the American Government help Japan take Korea. Didn't
they buy five times more Japanese war bonds during the Russo-Japan War
than asked? They say this is fate -- we must wait. This belief is ac-
tually aiding the Japanese militarists to carry on the "new policy" --
"Asia for Japan" -- in the Orient, hastening a racial war.
In conclusion, may I pray that you would give careful considera-
tion to the above requests and reasons and give us a letter of sympathy.
This will aid our people -- uplifting our morale to struggle to do our
share in bringing about true peace. I repeat, we do not ask money, arms,
or munitions. All we ask is your sincere sympathetic understanding of
our problems in America and in the Far East. Your moral support will
bring about the results -- "Peace and Understanding" -- among the people
of the Pacific.
May God bless you and guide you to arrive at a just decision for
the best interest of humanity and righteousness.
I have the honor to remain,
Respectfully yours,
Kiiooo D. Haan
Kilsoo K. Haan

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.96)
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League . .
101 D STREET N. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
2
Senate Hitel
Division
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
早舌茸
HEADQUARTERS
pril 22, 1939
1281 Fort Street
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
1939
Representative in Washington, D.C.
E
KILSOO K. HAAN
His Excellency C. W. Gray
Assistant to the Secretary of State
12
Department of State
LORDS
OFFICERS
Washington, D. C.
President
SHINHO CHAR
5
Vice-President
SUNCHOO CHOI
Your Excellency:
Secretary
CHANGDUK CHOI
Treasurer
Your kind letter of April 14 has been duly re-
JHAIKUN SUR
894.20211A/43
ceived. Due to my absence from the city, I have
not replied as I should.
DIRECTORS
You have suggested that I should telephone you
Chairman
for an appointment of whicn I am so thankful and
CHANHO MIN
appreciate it very much. However, would it be pos-
DOIN KWON
sible for you to set the time and the date at your
BONGKWAN CHUNG
convenience and drop me a word or two. It would
TAISUNG LEE
be so much more convenient for you. I trust this
BAIKSOO KIM
will be satisfactory to you.
CHANGYIK OH
Hoping to hear from you soon, I remain,
Respectfully yours,
Kirsoo K. Haan
F/A
33
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.98)
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League . .
101 D STREET N. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
MR. HORNBECK
ADVISER
APR 2 1939
早舌斗
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
April 28, 1939
HEADQUARTERS
1281 Fort Street
Honolulu, Hawaii-T
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton, Chief
Division of ar Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Representative in Washington, D.C.
Washington, D. C.
Division of
894.20211A/44
KILSOO K. HAAN
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OFFICERS
y dear .r. Hamilton:
Department of State
President
SHINHO CHAR
Enclosed please find a copy of my testimony
Vice-President
SUNCHOO CHOI
before the Committee on oreign affairs of the
House of Representatives, april 26, 10:00 A..
Secretary
CHANGDUK CHOI
I trust that you will glance over it.
Treasurer
I was told, iln a conversation with one of
JHAIKUN SUR
the members of the state Department, that I am
to see you today relative to my letter to His
Excellency, Coraell Hull. Undoubtedly you must
DIRECTORS
have read this letter alld have some idea or are
Chairman
somewhat informed in regard to the requests.
CHANHO MIN
DOIN KWON
May I plea and sincerely urge you to con-
BONGKWAN CHUNG
sider granting the requests contained in the
TAISUNG LEE
letter to His Excellency, as soon as possible.
BAIKSOO KIM
CHANGYIK OH
I believe you Will be able to understand
the hopes and aspirations of our people in America,
as well as in korea, after you carefully read my
testimony before the committee on oreign Affairs.
Primarily we are interested in America, and
the foreans in Hawaii are particularly concerned
witn the safety of Hawaii, due to the present
political situation in orea, as well as in China.
Frankly speaking, an merican who lives in Hawaii can pack up
his trunk and come to America whenever he finds the condition or situa-
tion is intolerable, whereas a Korean, whether the conditions are liv-
F/A
able or not, is forced to stay in Hawaii. None of us desire to go back
to Korea and a greater number of aliens are not allowed to come to
America. Hence, our position is a forced one. Therefore, under this
situation, we would like to do everything within our power and within
h
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.98)
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton - 2
April 28, 1939
our means to have Hawaii remain under the Stars and Stripes. now-
ing the situation as we do, concerning the Japanization activities,
we cannot help but feel that Hawaii is itself in a precarious posi-
tion.
The situation in the Pacific, on uhe vhole, is rather an un-
healthy one. Even the estern States are not exempt from this situa-
tion.
As you know, loreans are scattered all over the Pacific Coast,
wherever there are large Japanese coanunities. Under this situation,
we can be very helpful and useful to nerica. To use the old phrase,
granting such requests to the oreans will be comparable to 'killing
two birds with one stone'.
As I have already stated in the letter to His xcellency,
Cordell Hull, it is not only the significant position we are in, but
I believe tnese boys and girls, numbering less tnan 3oo, are best
qualified for this type of work. Thererore, may I once more plea
with you that the state Department grunt us our requests.
may God bless you.
sincerely yours,
Kiloos A. Huan

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
TESTIMONY - HOUSE COMMITTE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS
KILSOO K. HAAN
4/26/39
10:00 A.M.
Mr. Chairman and honorable members of the House of Representa-
tives, I thank you for this opportunity to appear before this important
Committee on Foreign Affairs. I am sincerely grateful for this privilege.
I am sure "we hasard nothing in saying that not only the most im-
portant event of the past two hundred years, but one of the most impor-
tant ovents of all time, was the advent of the United States into the
family of nations. Its profound significance was not then unfelt. ven
now, we seem to stand only on the threshold of merioan history, as if its
domain were the future rather than the past.
"Many nations have cone and gone and have left little impress upon
the life of human happiness. The Deolaration of Amerioan Independence,
however, bore upon its face the mark of distinotion, and presaged the de-
velopment of a theory and a policy whioh must be worked out in opposition
to the ideas that then dominated the oivilised world.
"Of this theory and polioy the key note was freedom; freedom of
the individual in order that he might work out his destiny in his own way;
freedem in government, in order that the human faculities might have free
course; freedom in commeroe, in order that the resouroes of the oarth
might be developed and rendered fruitful in the increase of human wealth,
contentment and happiness."
The liberal Japanese, Chinese, und the oreans believe that the
prosent undeolared war between China and Japan is more than a war for
territories or raw materials. The present war is, in effect, a war be-
tween two political philosophies -- Japanized asoism vs. Demooracy.
Henee, regardless of nationality, the Japanese liberals, Chinese, und
the Koreans are banded together doing whatever they can to disrupt
Japanese military success, hoping some day they too will enjoy such
froedom.
Regardless of the merit or demerit of the Neutrality law, inso-
far as it effeots the Far East, the Japanese militarists and expansion-
ists have been greatly aided by this law, while, on the contrary, the
liberal Japanese, Chinese, and the oreans have suffered reverses.
Under this situation, the sino-korean reoples League feels we
should be primarily interested in the safety und in the seourity of
Amerioa. We fear that unless merioa takes firm steps in their lacific
polioy, Hawaii or other Pacifio possessions will be scriously endangered.
We also fear that the people of Asia, who love democraoy, will never be
able to enjoy the freedom as you do unless merioa remains a strong
Domooratie Power. The misfortune of Amerioa means our own failure.
To us Amerioa is the beaoon light in a dark, stormy sea. e would lose
all sense of direotion; we would be lost and be hopelessly demoralized
unless the beacon light of Amerioan demooraoy keeps shining into the dark.
In these times of international turmoil, pregnant with grave possibilities,

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
osire to do all we oan to contribute our mite and our loyalty to
Demoeraey.
I can vividly picture the Japanese Consul General Fukuma calmly
and seriously, with his smiling eyes, talking to me:
"American Congress very smart, you know, very smart, agree
not to agree with President.
"Fow more years Japan olean up all merioan business in
China. - - - You see Congress wants peace, peace, all the time
peace. Japan want peace too. You know. Yes, Japan want peaoe." ---
He then spelled the word peace - "P-I-E-C-E".
I rooall another talk, Seoretary Iizuka, formerly conneoted with
the Japanese Foreign Offioe, Information Bureau. He said:
within 1940 we shall control all of North china, ongolia,
and Manchuria. In another four or five years we shall be ready to
sk Amerioa to let our people go and live among mericans.
"Our population must expand into merioa and south America.
We find the Japanese can live more happily on the merican continents
than anywhere else.
"China is already overorooded. merica is the only place
loft for the Japanese to go. If Amerioa do not allow, we can at
least have Alaska, Hawaii, and Samoa."
To illustrate his point, he took a red penoil from his desk and
drew a heavy lino from Japan to Alaska, then to Hawaii, and continued on
to Samoa. rom Samoa to ormosa, below the  andated Islands and above
the Philippines.
"When we have these places," he suid, "then amerioe will
let the Japanese live on the American continents."
We fear the effects of the U. S. policy in the lacifio are
interpreted by the Japanese militarists as an evidence o. merica's
moral weakness and the people's desire or peace at any price, even at
the risk of losing the strategio island possessions.
If the American foreign policy, particularly the eutrality aw,
tends to cause other Powers to interpret merioa's foreign policy as such,
then I believe this is surely an unheslthy situation. in truth, it de-
feats its own good intent and purpose.
I oannot help but believe the Neutrality Law, in reality, is in-
viting an attaok from the only Power strong enough to do so in tho  aoifio.
By this I do not mean to minimize the dangers over  urope, but i certainly
do believe that there are greater dangers in tho acific and such danger
is a direot and immediate one against America's National Defense. Say
what you may, the Oriental Power aoross the raoific will soon demand a

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
fancied aocounting. There are almost three-quarters of a million sons and
daughters of Nippon in the Western Hemisphere, the large majority of whom
will do their share for Dai Nippon.
webster's Universal Diotionary gives this definition:
"Neutrality -- The state or condition of boing neutral
or being unengaged in disputes or contests between
others; the state of taking no part on either side;
In international law that condition of a nation or
tate in which it doos not directly or indireotly
take part in a war between other states."
I think no one will dispute or disagree with the known facts, in
whioh the publio believes, that the Neutrality Law has greatly aided the
totalatarian Powers in their aggression against the weak and helpless
countries.
I believe the Neutrality Law was amended three times, largely
due to the desires of the public to keep merioa out of foreign wars and
also having a desire to aid spain and china.
During the rush and shuffle in congress, some unknown fate
ohloroformod Miss Neutrality aw and sucoessfully operated on her
vital organ, taking out her heart und substituting with charlie
Mocarthys heart.sinee then iss Neutrality aw beoume so teohinoal
and so foreign trade minded, much to tho disappointment of millions.
Not long ago I was shooked and almost stunned whon I read in
the newspaper that the House of epresentatives refused to pass the
Guam Fortification Bill. Those who are familiar with orea's modern
hietory oannot help but sadly think of the future eventualities that
may come. Knowing Japan's "Jujitsu" diplomaoy us we do, we can only
pray that history may not repeat on uam.
Internationally speaking, orea has bocome both the exponent
and the finished example of Japanized ascistic ambition.
illard rice
in Harpers', some onths ago wrote:
"Those who wish to get a glimpso of the trend of future
events in Asia should not noglect to study that vivid objeot les-
son, orea."
It is interesting to note the parallel of the stratogio impor-
tance of Guam and orea. The parallel lies in the annexation of orea
in 1910 by Japan, and in the events which have grown out of that annexa-
tion.
The Korean Government made similar mistakes with good intention,
and for the sake of peace, orea too avoided in every way not to hurt the
Japanese feeling. They too refused to fortify. in its place they adopted
the well known "Ostrioh" and "Appeasement" foreign policy toward Japan.
Those of you who are older and better versed than myself, how well you
romember the Japanese deolarations to the American public and to the

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
Amerioan Government. Japan deolared orea was a pistol pointed at the
heart of Japan -- it was a threat to Japan's national dofense, eto.
Amerioa accepted their deolaration and indireotly consented to
Japan's annexation of orea.
The subsoquent events following japan's annexation of orea have
provon that Zorea, now in the grip of Japan, has become a pistol pointed
at the heart of Chine and Siberia. If .orea felt otherwise, or if
Amerioa knew Japan's ulterior motives baok in 1904 and 1910, .orea would
have romained in the hands of oreans.orea could have contributed
muoh toward the balance of power in the ar ast between ussia, china,
and Japan. Strategioally, orea became th stepping stone in the con-
quest of Manohuria and China by Japan.
Will Guam meet the same fate?
Fortifying Guam and the adoption of enator Thomas' Jeutrality
Amondment, will, in effeot, be a wise diplomatio strategy, and it will
also be an act of moral offense for gelf-defense.
Gentlemen, have you at any time seen or participated in checking
the spread of a wild fire in the sugar cane field? I have had some ex-
perienoe. I saw that in time of such emergenoy, the leaders waste no
time in making a fire break and immediately start a baok fire.  have
seen it time and again, and it worked every time.
No doubt you gentlemen may have seen the moving piotures of
the great Chicago Fire and the famous 'Leary's cowbarn, etc. Backfire
was the only and the most effeotive method o? cheoking he spread of fire.
We believe time is an important fuotor, gontlomen, if you desire
to oheok the diotators; may I honestly say, start a moral and economic
baokfire against them.
Believing as we do, I an strongly in favor of the senate Joint
Resolution 67, introduced by senator Thomas of Utah.
Amerioa needs a nuetrality Law th t has a heart as well as a
strong arm. In a good sense, we want a normal, humanitarian Neutrality
Law. A law in its application will tand for justioe, righteousness,
and humanity. A law that will truly represent tho desires nd the hope
of the majority of tho people. Above all, a leutrality law that will
keep Amerioa out of war. Senator Thomas's proposed amendment has all the
charaoteristios of an merican pioneer. Very seldom a strong man, a man
of word and action, is attacked.
Sonator Thomas' proposed amendment provides that the residont
shall have the power to piok the aggressor nation in any international
confliot, and embargo shipments of arme, munitions to it, while allow-
ing them to be sold freely to the viotims of aggressor nations.

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
It also provides that the Congress would have to ratify any em-
bargo order the President may issue.
May I call your attention to the faot that I do not see any
mandatory olause in the proposed amendment that the President must name
the aggressor in time of international conflict, nor 1 cannot see any
elanse where the viotime of the aggressor nation must transport their
purohases of arms and munitions in Amerioan boats.
I have heard a number of Americans, in my travels across the
country, questioning the wisdom of conferring the power to the fresident
to name the aggressor nation or nations. ith ali due respeot to these
Amerioan gentlomen, may I be permitted to state my honest conviotion.
I. for one, would rather implioitly trust the sound judgment of the
President and also trust his integrity, honesty, and his high quality
of patriotiam. I believe he will keep Amerioa out of war, if it is
humanly possible. hat I say of the Fresident, oan also be suid of the
Senators and the Representatives.
Gentlemen, I am sure you will agree with me when I say, there
1s not one Senator or Representative who will deliberately and inten-
tionally jeopardise Amerioa's interests or defeat justice and righteous-
ness and drag Amerioa into an unjust war.
In conolusion permit me to point out the signifioant faotors
as to the disoussed Neutrality Law's effeot on the ar sast.
First: The demoralizing effeot it will have upon the millions
of Japanese people who are misguided and misinformed; while the contrary,
trengthening the morale of the 450 million Chinese, 22 million .oreans,
and many more millions of liberal Japanese in Japan.
Once the morale of these millions of orientals, who are opposing
the Japanised Fasoism in Asia, is aroused, the war wili be localized and
it will surely prevent its spread into the estern Hemisphere.
Second: The good will of these millions will pave the way for
America's greatest prosperity in the annals of merioan history.
The profits now realised by Amerioa through the sale of petroleum,
arms, munitions, and war materials are chicken feed compared to what
Amerioa will reap in the future.
Third: Revitalize American commeroe in the .acific. china was
an important faotor in the history of Amerioan commerce and in the ter-
ritorial acquisitions in the est and in the racifio Ooean.
May I quote r. Willard  rice:
"For more than a century merioa has been Orient-bound. She
has never arrived. And yet her failure has been a stirring success.
The nation would never have developed as it has without the pull of
the East. An American takes his California and Oregon for granted.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.96)
- 6 -
It never ocours to him to thank China for them. And yot if it had
not been for tho lure of China, the West Coast would today more
probably belong to Russia, Britain, or Mexico than to the United
States. It was 'the old hina trude' that ade merioa coast-
consoious. The Western Coast way a precious vantage point for
Oriental trade.
"The firat Amerioan settlem mnt on the Paoific coast (that
of the fur merohant, john Jacob Astor, in l8ll) was, in the words
of its founder, ostablished 'for conducting a trade across the
continent - - - and from thence to anton, in hina.'
"Amerioan hearts were captivated by the eloquence of senator
Beveridge: 'Our largest trade henoeforth must be with sia. The
Pacifio is our ocean. - - - ne the lacific is the ocean of the com-
meroe of the futmre. Most future wars vill be confliots for com-
meroe. The Power that rules the racifio, therefore, is the Power
that rules the world.'"
Last but not least, gentlemen, ay I oall your attention to the
tatement ade by the onorable John ussell Young, the merican inister
to china, ufter the signing of the erican- orean roaty, uy 2, 1882,
quote -
"I think it very import it that the hi ted tates should have
a footing in orea, and thut naving opened the door, we should not
olose it, or give any other power preoedenoe."
A while ago I tried in my clunsy way to poi it out the parallel
strategio importance of uam und orea.  I humbly an sincerely plea
that the members of this o mitteo give geriou: thou ht to his statement
in its applioation to tho status quo of uam.
When congress adopts Sonator homas' proposed amendment of the
Neutrality Law and immediately fortifies Guam, the fear of war in the
Pacifio will be a passing fanoy and the threat to Hawaii, Alaska, and
the Panama Janal will be eliminated for a long period.
Honorable gentlemen, allow me to repeat -- A moral and economic
offense is Amerioa's best self-defenge.
I thank you.

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.94)
PA/A
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DATE: April 28, 1939.
FE
tivel n of
SUBJECT:
A
BCR
Departhaotn Staie
PARTiciPAnts: Mr. Kilsoo K. Haan, Washington Representative,
Sino-Korean Peoples' League,
Headquarters l28l Fort Street,
Honolulu. Hawaii.
STATE
Mr. Hamilton.
SECRE
894.20211A/45
COPIES TO:
V
1939
ADVISER
MR. HORNBECK
NOTED
APR 281939
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1-1408
Mr. Haan called at 1l:00 this morning by arrangement
made by the Secretary's office. He showed me a copy of a
letter which he had addressed to the Secretary setting forth
his desire that the State Department manifest an interest in
the situation of the Koreans, that this Government adopt
measures of economic pressure against Japan, and that this
Government make arrangements whereby some three hundred
Korean students who are now in this country might remain
here after completion of their studies. He also handed me
the attached letter of April 28, with enclosure.
I glanced over these documents and returned to Mr. Haan
the copy of the letter to the Secretary. Mr. Haan then com-
F
A
mented orally at some length on a number of the subjects
discussed in the documents.
I

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
I made comment to the effect that this Department
was essentially a department of policies; that the policies
of this Government in the field of foreign affairs had been
set forth publicly by the Secretary of State and by the
President; that I assumed that Mr. Haan was familiar with
those public statements; and I intimated that I could make
no comment in addition to and going beyond those statements.
With reference to Mr. Haan's desire that arrangements be made
whereby certain Korean students might remain in the United
States, I said thet that matter seemed to me to be one for
consideration and determination by the Department of Labor
and by Congress. I added that the Visa Division would be
the Division in this Department best qualified to offer
suggestions on that subject and I arranged for Mr. Haan to
see Mr. Coulter of the Visa Division.
m.mit
NOTE: The Secretery's office informs me that it has
not as yet received the letter addressed by Mr. Haan to
the Secretary.
Letter recaived - see file 894.20211 A /42.
Reply was made orally as per otatenents
recorded above
FE:MMH:REK

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.97)
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League . . 
101 D STREET N. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
ADVISER 
MR. HOANBECK
MAY 12 1939
m mlt
早舌耳
ay 4, 1939
HEADQUARTERS
1281 Fort Street
1939
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
Honorable maxwell .. Hamilton
Cnief, Division of ar ustern ffulrs
Representative in Washington, D.C.
state Department
KILSOO K. HAAN
iashington; D. C.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OFFICERS
49
President
-y dear mr. maxwell:
SHINHO CHAR
Vice-President
SUNCHOO CHOI
Inclosed please find latest confidential in-
894.20211A/46
Secretary
formation received fron the orient.
CHANGDUK CHOI
Treasurer
Information
JHAIKUN SUR
Certain quarters from Great Britain have urged
the Japanese oreign Office to approacn Chamberlin
DIRECTORS
for tne restoration oi tne nglo-Japan Understanaing.
Chairman
CHANHO MIN
'ebruary 16, 1939, Japan maae a friendly gesture
DOIN KWON
to Great Brituin. he followin: points were suggested
BONGKWAN CHUNG
for consiceration:
TAISUNG LEE
BAIKSOO KIM
1. Jupan's non-u gression pact in respect
CHANGYIK OH
to uten ast Indies, ustralia, und India.
2. reut sritain's acknowledgment of the
paramount interests oi Japan in unina.
3. Joint uevelopment or south China r.
sources.
4. reut ritain to remain neutral in
case of conflict itn soviet Russia.
It is stated tnere are also rumors unong tno iokyo army quarters
that during September or tnis year there will be a reign of terror in the
International Settlement.
I trust tnat this information wili be checced and rechecked and
if it is of any importance, I nope that it wili be considered as our con-
tribution toward the security of Aaerica in the Pacific. uch informa-
tion has reached me fro. time to time in the past. I nave every reason
to believe the senders of this in ormution ure very sincere anu have the
same hope and belief as I nave expressed from time to time. I do not
vouch for the authenticity of this information. iowever, past experience
shows that mucn of the information sent by these groups has been later --
perhaps six or eight months later -- confirmed tnrougn the press. There-
fore, I believe tnis information snouid not be tafen lintly.
ith best wishes, I remain,
F
Yours truly,
Kiloro t. Haan
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.93)
A-M
V1
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Johannesburg, South Africa. Mey 9, 1939.
SUBJECT:
Commission to take Tostimony of the Japanese Minister
1-1403
to the Union of South Africa.
57
xeé
3
1939
ANAT
(1)
THEECRETARY OF STATE,
9
894.20211A/47
WASHINGTON.
ryg1
SIR:
94.
I have the houor to inform the Department that I have this
morning received from the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit
Court-First Judicial Circuit, Territory of Hawaii, e letter
deted March 30, 1939, enclosins a Court Order in the case en-
titled "Kil Son Hahn, also known as Kil Soo Haan, versus Nippu
403
Jiji Co., Ltd., L.15541 - First Circuit Court, T.H." to take
the testimony of Kanekazu Okada (Consul-General) - December, l932,
5
to August 1934, whose present address is the Japanese Legation,
43 Pretorius Street, Pretoria, Union of  outh fricn. In view of
the most unusual circumstances surroundins this case I am for-
warding the entire set of papers, including a copy of the letter
from the Chief Clerk of Court, to the Depertment with the request
that, if the Department perceives no objection, a copy of this deapatch
may be forwarded with the papers to the said Clerk of Court. I would
F/A
ask on the other hand thet, if the Department does see en objection
to the subject matter of part of my despateh, it will forward the
papers together with an eppropriate letter to the Clerk of Court.
In brief, this Consulate General does not feel that any action
can be teken in this metter for the following reasons, one,technical
the other political.
In the first place, the order of the Court runs to "the Consul
- Generel -

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.97)
一2-
General of the United States or his Deputy or any United States
Consul or his Deputy residing in Pretoria, Union of South Africa."
If the person whose testimony is desired was at present in Pretoria,
the technical side of my objections might feil. However, he is
at present in Capetown and will be until presumably the end of the
Parliamentary Session about mid-July. The wording of the Court
Order does not allow the Consul at Capetown or eny of his officers
to take the Deposition.
Furthermore, the person in question whose testimony is desired
is an official of the Jepanese Government. He was presumably at
some time in the past Consul General or Acting Consul General of
Jepan in Hawaii. At the present time he is Envoy Extraordinary and
Minister Plenipotentiary of Japan to the Union of South Africa.
For this reason alone J should hesitate most seriously to approach
him for his testimony. I would also have hesitated considerably
even if he had been a Consul General.
The most serious point of my objections arises in the nature
of the questions asked in the direct Interrogatories, notably
questions 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. The substance of those questions
clearly indicates that the testimony has to do with an alleged
plot of some kind of a racial nature certainly and probably of
a higher political nature. I could not consider, in view of this
fact, asking the questions that are put forward. Furthermore,
it is extremely likely that even if I did reguest answers to such
questions he would decline to answer them either on general political
grounds or on the grounds that the rules of his Foreign Service
forbade his appearance as e witness in a case. In this respect I
have in mind the general rules of our own Foreign Service.
I extremely regret my inability to oblige the Clerk of Court
of the First Judicial District of Haweii, but I do not feel that
the Deposition could be taken even if the technical objection could
be avoided.
-I

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
I would also call attention to the fact that no arrangements
were made by the Clerk of Court for the payment of the consular
fees for the taking of the Deposition, and I have not been in-
formed from any official source that the cese is one in which the
United States Government is interested which would excuse the
charging of fees.
Respectfully yours,
H. Earue Ru
H. Farle Russell
American Consul General
Eaclosures:
Copy of letter and papers
regarding Commission to take
Testimony of the Japanese Minister
to the Union of South Africa.
800.5.
HER/je.
In quintuplicate.

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.97)
Despatch o. 403,
omtitled "Commission
of the Japanese
Umion of South Africa",
ell, Consul General et
South Africa. File No. 840.5.
COPY.
OFFICE OF THE CLERK
CIRCUIT COURT - FIRST JUDICIAL CIRCUIT
Territory of Haweii
P.0.Box 619.
Arthur E. Restarick,
Chief Clerk.
March 30, 1939.
Consul General of the United States,
Pretorie, Union of South Africa.
Kil Son Hehn, also known as Kil Soo Haan,
▼8.
Nippu Jiji Co., Itd.
1.15541 - First Circuit Court, T.H.
Sir:-
In compliance with the Court Order filed in the above matter
on March 20, 1939, I enclose herewith e certified copy of the said
Order together with the original
1 - Commission to take Deposition
2 - Proposed direct Interrogatories.
In accordance with the commission you are requested if possible to
arrange for the teking of testimony of the following person according
to our information a resident of Pretoria, Union of South Africa -
Kanekazu Okeda (Consul-Genere1) - December, 1932, to
August 1934, whose present address is
Japanese Legation
43 Prudential House
Pretorius Street
Pretoria, Union of South Africa.
The Commission contains full directions as to the taking of the
Depositions and the return of the same to this Court.
Thanking you for your assistance and earliest possible attention
to the matter, and return of the original Court papers.
Very truly yours,
TRUE COPY OF
SIGNED ORIGINAL
A. E. Restarick, Chief Clerk.
gE
Encl.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.92)
COPV
Rog.__. Pg.___.
15,541
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT CF TH FIRST JUDICIAL CIRCUIT
TERHITURY CF HAMALI
KIL SN HAHK. alsO known as
KIL SOC HAUJ
Plaintiff,
vs.
NIPPU JIJI COMPANY, LI ITED,
Defendant.
ORDER FUR CO MI SIUN TO TAKE UHPCSITICN
Upon the applioation of the defendant for order for
commissions to issue for the examination of the following
witn KAU KUAHI,   JI TAKLUnI. SUKLYUI AN.TSU,
ICHITARO SHIBATA, YOCHIO I.AT., K.NAR U UKADA. TSUNLSHIRC
YAMASAKI, THIJIRO T MURA, and TCYCKICHI FU.U A who are nor
residing outside the Territory of Hawaii, upon oath by
interrogatories, and the plaintiff, kIl N H il, also known
as KIl Xc HiN by his Attorney, . Y. Char, having consented
to the applioation of the defendant, and having also consented
to the questions proposed by the defendant and huaving waved his
right to file cross interrogatories in said cause, and just and
good cause therefore appearing.
It is Horeby Urdered that a oommission issue out of this
Court for the examination of the avove nemed witnesses for the
defendant herein and that commissions issue to the Consul General
-1-

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.95)
mited States or his deputy or any United States Consul
deputy residing in the same country as the respective
ponents, who are not of counsel or attorney for either or any
of the parties in this suit nor interested in the event of the
cause, for the xamination of  UL KUAS, K MJI TALUCHI.
SUKEYUKI AKTSU, ICHITIB T.. YC HI I AT. KNEKAZU CKAA.
TSUNLSHIRO YAMA KI,  IJIRC TMUR, nd TUYULICHI UKU; a1A
direot interrogatories shall be annexed tc the commission and
forwarded by the Clerk of this Court to the persons herein de-
signated to whom such oommission shall 1ssue, tosether with a
certiried copy of this (rder.
Said commissions shall direct the persons above deeignated
to oxamine the witness or witnesses naned therein upon oath by
the interrogatories annexed to said ccmmission, and to cause said
witness or witnesses to appear before the aforesaid persons at
such time or times and place as they shall uppoint upon giving
reasoneble notice to such itness or witnesses, and then and
there after swearins said witness or itnesses, to enswer said
interrogations truthfully, und to tell the truth, the whole truth
and nothing but the truth in answer thereto covering the matters
in this aotion, to oause such witness or witnesses to answer said
interrogatories and after said unswers to said interrogatories
have been reduced to writine, to have said vitness or  itnesses
read over or have read over to him or then, his or their answers
respeotively to said interroratories, and upon the same being
found correct or beins correcteu, to oause seid witness or
一2-

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.96)
to sign his or their respective answers to said
rogatories and the persons heretofor designated shall then
ftify that the said witness or witnesses appearing before him
answered said interrogatories as set forth with the answers
thereto after being sworn to tell the truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth conoerning the matters about which he was
or they were respectively interrogated in this aotion, and that
said witness or witnesses read over his or their answers and that
the same being correct or being corrected, signed the same in the
presence of the saia persons heretofore designated; said
interrogatories and answers thereto with the certificate of the
persons heretofor desinated, shall then be returned to the Clerk
of this Court and filed and kept in the Cfrice of the Clerk of
this Court, and copies of suoh deposition or depositions shall
be given to any party to this action upon applioation and payment
thorefor; said deposition or depositions may be read at the trial
subject to objections.
D.I: Honolulu, T. H., Maroh, 1939.
Judge
Attest;
James K Trask
Clork
11.
annesX. Irast
- 3 -

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.98)
L. No. 15,541
Reg.__, Pg.___.
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST JUDICIAL CIRCUIT
TERRITORY OF HAWAII
KIL SON HAHN, also known as
KIL SOO HAAN,
Plaintiff,
1ST CIRCUIT COURT
TERRITCRY OF HAWAII
vs.
FILED
NIPPU JIJI COMPANY, LIMITED.
1939 MAR 20 PM 3 54
Defendant.
CLERK
COMMISSION TO TAE DEPOSITIONS
TERRITORY OF HAWAII
GREETINGS
TO THE CONSUL GENERAL CF THE UNITED STATES OR HIS DEPUTY OR ANY
UNITED STATES CONSUL OR HIS DEPUTY RESIDING IN RIO DE JANEIRO,
BRAZIL; TO THE CONSUL GENERAL CI TIE UNITED STATES CR HIS DEPUTY
OR ANY UNITED STATES CONSUL OR HIS DEPUTY RESIDING IN TOKYO, JATAN;
TO THE CONSUL GENERAL CF THE UNITED STATES CR HIS DEPUTY OR ANY
UNITED STATES CONSUL OR HIS DEPUTY RESIDING IN PRETORIA, UNION OF
SOUTH AFRICA; TO THE CONSUL GEI ERAL CF THE UNITED STATLS OR HIS
DEPUTY OR ANY UNITED STATS CONSUL OR HIS DEPUTY RESIDING IN
BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA.
WHEREAS, it arpears t the Judge of the Circuit Court of the
First Judicial Circuit, Territory of Hawaii that KAZUE KU/ASHINA,
KOMAJI TAKEUCHI, SUKEYUKO AKANATSU, ICHITARO SHIBATA, YOSHIO IWATE,
KANEKAZU OKADA, TSU ESHIRO YAI ASAKI, TEIJIRO TAMURA and TOYOKICHI
FUKUMA are material witnesses in the case of KIL SON HAHN, also
known as KIL SOO HAAN, Flaint iff VS. NIFPU JIJI CUL PANY, LIMITED,
Law No. 15,541 filed in the Circuit C.urt of the First Judicial
Circuit, Territory of Hawaii ad that thepersonal attendance of
-1-

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
said witnesses cannot be procured et the hearing of said cause and
that it is necessary and proper that the deposition of said
witnesses be taken upon the direct interrogatories hereto annexed;
and
WHEREAS, we have confidence in your prudence and fidelity;
NOW, THEREFORE, you and each of you by these presents
authorized, empowered and directed to take the deposition of said
KAZUE KUWOSHIKA, KOLAJI TAKEUCHI, SUKEYUKI AALATSU, ICHITARO
SHIBATA, YOSHIO IWATE, KANEKAZU OKADA, TSUNESHIRO YAMASAKI,
TEIJIRO TAMURA and TOYOKICHI FUKUMA, upOn the direct interrogatories
hereto annexed at days and places certain to be by you for that
purpose appointed, and to diligently examine said witness or
witnesses upon said interrogatories their oath having first been
taken before you, and to cause the answers of seid witness or
witnesses to be reduced to writing and having been read over by
said witness or witnesses to be signed by each witness on each
page thereof end by yourself end then all attached to this
commission and forwarded by you with all convenient speed under
seal addressed to the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the First
Judicial Circuit, Territory of Hawaii at Honolulu, Hewaii, United
States of America, and endorsed "Deposition in the case of KIL SON
HAHN, also known as KIL SCO AAN, Plaintiff, VS. NIPPU JIJI CONTANY,
LIMITED, Defendant, being law number 15,541.
Witness the Honorable JOI BERT ATTHEWAN, Judge of the
Circuit Court, First Judicial Circuit, Territory of Hawaii, this
day of March 1939.
Attest, wit: the Seal of said Court.
Glerk of Circuit Court, First Judicial
Circuit, Territory of Hawaii.
- 2 -

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.97)
L. No. 15,541
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT CF THE FIRST JUDICIAL CIRCUIT
TERRITORY OF HAWAII
KIL SON HAHN, al so known as
KIL SOO HAAN,
Plaintiff,
vs.
L I B E L
NIPPU JIJI COMPANY, LIMITED,
1st CIRCUIT COURT
TERRITORY OF HAWAII
Defendant.
FILED
1939 MAR 20 PM 3 55
konerack
CLERK
PROPOSED DIRECT INTERRCGATORIES TC BE PROPOUNDED
to
KAZUE KUWASHIMA, KOMAJI TAKEUCHI, SUKEYUKI AKAMATSU, ICHITARO
SHIBATA, YOSHIO IWATE, KANEKAZU ÓKADA, TSUNESHIRO YÁMASAKI,
TEIJIRO TAMURA and TOYOKICHI FUKUMA.

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
L. NO. 15,541
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FI RST JUDICIAL CIRCUIT
TERRITORY OF HAWAII
KIL SON HAHN, also known
KIL SOO HAAN,
Plaintiff,
LIBEL
vs.
NIPPU JIJI COMPANY, LII.ITED,
Defendant.
PROPOSED DIRECT INTERROGATCRIES TO BE PROPOUNDED TO:
KASUE KUWASHIMA, KOMAJI TAKEUCHI, SUKEYUKI AKAMATSU, ICHITARO
SHIBATA, YOSHIO IWATE, KANEKAZU OKADA, TSUNESHIRO YÁLASAKI,
TEIJIRO TAMURA and TOYOKICHI FUKUMA.
Q.
2.
What is your present occupation?
Q.
3.
Did you ever live in the Territory of Hawaii? If your
answer to this question is "Yes", state the date and
the position you held during the time you lived in Hawaii.
Q. 4.
State where you resided during the tine you lived in
Hawaii.
Do you know a person nawed Kil Son Hahn, also known as
Kil Soo Haan and Kilsoo Haan? If your answer to this
question is "Yes", state how long you have known him.
Q.
Have you any knowledge of a movement for orientals
living in Hawaii to band together against the white
population in Eawaii?
Q. 7.
During the time you were living in Hawaii, were you
present at any meeting or meetings held to discuss such
a move at the Japanese consulate or elsewhere?
-1-

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.98)
Q.8.
Did you ever attend a meeting at the Japanese Consulate
or elsewhere in the presence of Kil Son Hahn, also known
as Kil Soo Haan and Kilsoo Haan?
Have you any knowledge of any meeting at the Japanese
Consulate in Hawaii or elsewhere attended by orientals
for the purpose of combining together to oust the white
population from the Territory of Hawaii?
Q.10.
If any such meeting was held at the Japanese Consulate
in Hawaii during the time you were Consul-General or
Acting Consul-General, would you have knowledge of the
meeting?
- 2 -

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.90)
LEBAL ADVISER
MAY 29 1939
407
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Buenos Aires, Argentina, l'ay 9, 1939.
LKE
EU
EUR
Commission to take Testimony of the
1-1408
Japanese Gonsul
e
AD
MAY1 1939
DIVISION
SEVAET  SA
91
F：has:in.
10
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
way
THE AME IUAN 
EED
4
1 -ieion of
DEPART
STATE
TA EASTERN NSHINGTON. Let Tt HoOll
15
SIiR:
25 1939
Justro to Buenas Aines, Res do fon
1939 MAY
Luve 12929.
I have the honor to submit to the Department a
copy of a commission issued out of the Circuit Court
of the First Judicial Circuit, Territory of Hawaii,
to the Consul General of the United States or his
deputy et cetera to take the testimony of Toyokichi
N
Fukuma, now Japanese Consul in Buenos Aires, together
with a copy of the direct interrogatories to be pro-
pounded to him in the case of il Son Eahn, also
known as il Soo aan, Flaintiff, versus ippu Ji
Co. Ltd., Defendant.
Since the witness is an official of a foreign
government and the cuestions to be propounded in-
volve matters affecting international relations, it
is considered inadvisable to proceed with the execu-
tion of the commission, and the Department's instruc-
tions are therefore solicited with regard to the
action

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
action that should be taken.
Respectfully yours,
Monnett B. Davis
American Consul General
List of enclosures:
No. l. Copy of Comnission.
No. 2. Copy of Proposed Direct Interrogetories.
File No. 804.5
AHC.mk
Original and three copies to the Depar ment by air mail.
Confirmation copy to the Department by regular mail.
One copy for the mbassy.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 407 dated May 9,
1939, from Monnett B. Davis, American Consul General at
Buenos Aires, Ar entina, on subject of Commission to
take Testimony of the Japanese Consul General.
L. No. 15,541
Reg. _, Pg. _.
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST JUDICIAL CIRCUIT
TERRITORY OF HAWAII
KIL SON HAHN, also known as
1ST CIRCUIT COURT
KIL SOO HAAN,
TERRITORY OF HAWAII
Plaintiff,
FILED
vs.
1939 MAR 20 P 3 54
NIPPU JIJI COLPAIY, LI. ITLD,
James K. Trask
CLERK
Defendant.
COMMISSION TO TAKE DEPOSITIONS
TERRITORY OF HAWAII
GR ETINGS
TO THE CONSUL GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES OR HIS DEPUTY
OR ANY UNITED STATES CONSUL OR HIS DEPUTY R SIDING IN
RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL; TO TIE CONSUL GENERAL OF THE
UNITED STATES OR HIS DEPUTY OR AINY UNITED STATS COISUL
OR HIS DE UTY RESIDING IN TOKYO, JAPAN; TO THE CONSUL
GLNERAL OF THE UNITED STATS OR HIS DEPUTY OR ANY UNITED
STATES CONSUL OR HIS DEPUTY RESIDING IN PRETORIA, UNION
OF SOUTH AFRICA; TO THE CONSUL GEN RAL OF THE UNITED
STATES OR HIS DÉPUTY OR AY UNITED STATES CONSUL OR HIS
DEPUTY RISIDING IN BULNOS AIRES, ARGENTINA.
MiEREAs, it appears to the Judge.of the Circuit
Court of the First Judicial Circuit, Territory of Hawaii
that KAZUE KUWASHIMA, KOMAJI TAKEUCHI, SUKEYUKI AKAMATSU,
ICHITARO SHIBATA, YOSHIO IWATE, KANEKAZU OKADA, TSUNESHIRO
YAMASAKI, TEIJIRÓ TAMURA and TÓYOKICHI FUKUMA are material
witnesses in the case of KIL SON HAHN, also known as KIL
SOO HAAN, Plaintiff vs. NIPPU JIJI COMPANY, LI..ITED, Law
No. 15,541 filed in the Circuit Court of the First Judicial
Circuit, Territory of Hawaii and that the pcrsonal atten-
dance of said witnesses cannot be procured at the hearing
of said cause and that it is necessary and proper that
the deposition of said witnesses be taken upon the direct
interrogatories hereto annexed; and
WHEREAS,

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
lns, e have coniidence in your prudence and
fidelity; NO TFORE, you end eaci of you y these
presents authorized, empowered and irected to take
the depOSition of said KAZUE KUWOSHIiA, KOMAJI TAKEUCKI,
SUNMYUKI AKANLTSU, ICHITARO SHIBATA, YÓSLIO I ATE,
KANEKAZU OKADA, TSUISHIRO YANASAII, TEIJIRO TAURA
and TOYOKICHI FUkU.A, upon the irect interrogatories
hereto annexed at ays and places certoin to be by you
for that purpose ap ointed, and to dili ently examine
said witness or witnesses upon said interroratories
their oath havin rirst been taken before you, and to
cause the answers of said witness or witnesses to be
reduced to writing and havin been read over by said wit-
ness or witnesses to be sined by each witness on each
page tnereof and by yourself and t :en all attached to
this comission und forwarded by you with all con-
venient speed under seal addressed to the Clerk of the
Circuit Court of the First Judicial Circuit, Territory
of Hawaii at nonolulu, iawaii, United States of America,
and endorsed "Deposition in the case of IL SON A,
also knen as KIL SOo HAal, Plaintiff, vs. NIPPU JITI
COiPANY, Defenaant, bein 1aw nun er 15,541.
Witness he Honoraule JOHN ALRRT MATTmMA, Judge
of the Circuit Court, First Judicial Circuit, Territory
of Hawaii, this 20 day of irch le39.
Attest, with the seal of said Jourt.
(sinea)
James . rask
Clerk of ircuit Court, irst
Julicial Circuit, Territory of
Hawaii.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch No. 407 dated May 9,
1939, from Monnett B. Davis, American Consul General at
Buenos Aires, Argentina, on subject of Commission to
take Testimony of the Japanese Consul General.
L. No. 15,541
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST JU ICIAL CIRCUIT
TERRITORY OF HAWAII
KIL SON HAHN, also known
KIL SOO HAAN,
Plaintiff,
vs.
LIBEL
NIPPU JIJI CONPANY, LIMITED,
Defenaant.
PROPOSED DIRECT INTERROGATORIES TO BE PROPOUNDED TO:
KAZUE KUWASHIMA, KOMAJI TAKEUCHI, SUKEYUKI AKAMATSU,
ICHITARO SHIBATA, YOSHIO IWATE, KANEKAZU OKADA, TSUNESHIRO
YAMASAKI, TEIJIRO TAMURA and TOYOKICHI FUKUMA.
Q. 1. What is your name?
Q. 2. What is your present occupation?
Q. 3. Did you ever live in the Territory of Hawaii?
If your answer to this question is "Yes", state
the date and the position you held during the
time you lived in Hawaii.
Q. 4.
Sate where you resided during the time you
lived in Hawaii.
Q. 5.
Do you know a person named Kil Son Hahn, also
known as Kil Soo Haan and Kilsoo Haan? If
your answer to this question is "Yes", state
how long you have known him.
Q. 6.
Have you any knowledge of a movement for orientals
living in Hawaii to band together against the
white population in Hawaii?
Q.7.

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.96)
-2 -
 7. During the time you were living in Hawaii,
were you present at any meeting or meetings
held to discuss such a nove at the Japanese
consulate or elsewhere?
Did you ever attend a meeting at the Japanese
Consulate or elsewhere in the presence of Kil
Son Hahn, also known as il oo Haan and ilsoo
--aan?
Have you ny knowledce or any meetin at the
Japanese Consulte in ha.laii or cl ewhere attend-
ed by orientals for the our ose of combining
together to oust the white population rom the
Territory of Havaii?
.10.
If any such meting was held at the Japanese
Consulate in rawaii aurin the time you were
Consul Gene ul or acting Consul-Goneral, ould
you have knowled e of the meeting?

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.90)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FOREIGN SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
LEGAL ADVISEN
JUL
DEPARTMENT OF STATI
July 1, 1939.
7.a.
Mn. Smith
DIVISTIN
Y0:
Krx
THE AUEHIUAN NLPURLIUR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Since the commission to take testimony mentioned
in the appended despatch no. 612 of June 23, 1939 from
the Consul General at Rio de Janeiro may not be executed
by him; since the Department would not appear to be
interested in examining it; and since the Court may not
desire its return, an instruction to the Consul General
does not seem necessary. Do you concur?
7/cw
5.9
894.20211A/52
FA:GAS:RM

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
A-M
Mr. Messhrsmith:
s's ls skn.
Despatch No. 403 from Johannesburg raises the question
our
whether Consul General there has done right in
1
 the testimony of the Japanese Minister in South Africa who.
presunably, was at one time Japanese Consul Geeneral in Hawaii.
The commission to take the testimony of the Minister issued out
894.20211A/49
of the Circuit Court - First Judicial Circuit, Terribory of Hawaii.
It seems that the commission calls for testimony that is highly
that I do not attempt to summarize them. You will note that
FE
(Fa copy of the letter from the Chief Clerk of Gourt, to the Department
copy of this despatch be forwarded with the papers to the said Clerk
of Court. I would ask on the other hand that, if the Department dces
see an objection to the subject matter of part of my despatch, it
F/A
will forward the papers together with an appropriate letter to the
Clerk of the Court."
I believe that the despatch should be seen by FE, FA, and LE
before it is disposed of but would appreciate an indication of your
insturction in the matter. Ihe vepartment of the Iulerror
may be untereatid rn this and I think Ons. sliould know
about the court case if it docant aluady.
ferf.
tHeCs
5-27-39.

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.88)
DEPARTMENT OF
STATE
DIVISION OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
KE
attached also
de, pratck.
FA. Please ronte
A-G.
gohn toe s

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 25, 1939.
FE concurs in the views expressed
in RA's memorandum of May 22, 1939.
Apart from any legal obligation
which the Consul General may have to
execute the commission issued by the court
in Hawaii, it seems unlikely that the Japa-
nese Consul General at Buenos Aires would
agree to appear before the American Consul
General there to give the testimony desired.
The same would apply to the giving of
voluntary testimony by the other Japanese
mentioned whether they are officials or
private individuals.
As American consular or diplomatio
offices in Japan are not permitted under
Japanese law to take testimony there would
be no possibility in any case of execution
of the commission by the Consul General at
Tokyo.
There is a considerable file in the
Department in regard to Kilsoo Haan mentioned
as the plaintiff in the case, who is now
residing in Washington as the representative
of the Sino-Korean People's League. Mr. Haan
is Korean by race and a Japanese subject.
m.m./
file Rs
9111
FE:Ballantine:JPS

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
M2/91G39
DIVISION OF THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
May 22, 1939.
I: wision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
A251939
the
Department of Staie
Dr aqueed t. usg
da
LE:
894.20211A/50
As a matter of policy, this Division considers
it best not to prooeed with the exeoution of the
commission referred to in despatoh no. 407 of May 9,
1939 from the Consulate General at Buenos Aires. As
pointed out in the despatch, the Consul General is
requested to take the testimony of the Japanese Consul
in Buenos Aires on matters affecting international
relations, and in particular relations between Japan
and the United States. It 1s suggested that LE give
an opinion as to whether or not it will be necessary
A
to exeoute the commission issued by the court in Hawaii.
The enclosure to the despatch indicates that
similar commissions have been sent to the American
Consulates General at Rio de Janeiro, Tokyo and Pretoria.
There

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.95)
3
There is no way of telling from the information at hand
whether the other witnesses are Japanese officials as is
the case at Buenos Aires. However, it is suggested that
after a decision is reached in the case, similar
instructions be sent to the Consulates General at Buenos
Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Tokyo and Pretoria.
Laurence Duggan
90
RA:GHB:GRS

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.94)
ASD
DIVISION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1203
OF STATE
DEPARTU:
May 19, 1939.
1: rieion of
TAR EASTEBN AFFAIRS
RA
Whir.. 25 1939
FE
Depertement of atme
EU
Le
In view of the apparently confidential character
of the questions to be propounded to the taltan con-
sular officer at Buenos Aires do you wish to answer
the appended despatch from the American Consul General
at Buenos Aires or to suggest what reply should be made
to him.
FA: GAS: RAW: SS

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.88)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
th Bullbr
This is apparutly a legal
queston- whetter F nuest he
done cousidering offeceal
states o the Japanare Cousul.
It may also be a question.
 Argentine law and in
any ment proball should
be aroeded f possitle
Ric
ASD
Toky
ee
Preto ia

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVN
1-1089
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
DEIARIM!STAVE
June . 1939
EASTERN AFFAIRS
UREIQN
Rk
UMINISTRATION
R
RE
Ba
Department of State
1939
FA
In response to the query contained in the attached
memorandum from RA, it 1s observed that there is no law
8941202 1a
which requires American consular officers to execute com-
missions to take testimony in foreign countries and they
894.20211A/
may perform that funotion only to the extent permitted by
the law or practice of the foreign country concerned.
The commission under reference could not be executed
by American consular officers in Japan 1rrespective of
the status of the persons whose testimony is desired
5
since such testimony under the laws of Japan can be ob-
tained only through letters rogatory transmitted through
the diplomatic channel. The commission could not, of
course, be executed in South Africa since the prospective
witness in that country 1s the Japanese Minister to the
Union of South Africa, who is exempt under international
F
/A
law from judicial process. It is highly improbable that
the commission could be executed in Buenos Aires or Rio
de Janeiro. However, in as much as American consular
officers

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
officers are not required to execute the commission and
since it is assumed that the Department will not permit
them to do so, no consideration has been given to the
question of the possible authority of the American con-
sular officers in Brazil and the Argentine Republic to
execute the commission in those countries.
081.35/54
Le:FXW:MHP:SS

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.98)
June 1, 1939
RA
FE
D
FA
In response to the query contained in the attached
memorandum from RA, it is observed that there 1s no law
whioh requires American consular officers to execute com-
missions to take testimony in foreign countries and they
may perform that funotion only to the extent permitted by
the law or practice of the foreign country concerned.
The commleslon under reference could not be executed
by American consular orficers in Janan irrespective of
the status of the permons whose testimony 1s desired
since such testimony under the laws of J pan can be ob-
tained only through letters rogatory transmitted through
the diplomatie channel. The comm1sc1on could not, of
course, be executed in South Africa since the prospective
witness in that country is the Japanese Minister to the
Union of South Afrioa, who 1s exempt under 1nternational
law from judicial process. It 1s highly improbable that
the commisslon could be exeouted in Buenos Aires or R1o
de Janelro. However, in as much as American consulor
officers

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
offieers are not required to execute the commission and
sinee it 1s assumed that the Department will not permit
them to do so, no oonsideration has been given to the
question of the possible muthority of the American con-
sular offieers in Brazil and the Argentine Republic to
exeeute the commission in those countries.
081.35/54
Le:FXW:MHP:SS

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
AIR MAIL
June 16 1989
The Clerk,
Cirouit Court, First Judicial Cirouit,
Honolulu, Territory of Hawaii.
Sir:
The Department has received from the American Consul
894.20211A/51
General at Buenos Aires, Argentina, a despatch enelosing
a cepy of a commission to take depositions in the case of
Kil Son Hahn versus Nippu Jiji Company, Limited. The com-
mission issued frem the First Cirouit Court of the First
Judieial Cireuit, Territory of Hawal1, and is addressed
(by title) to certain consular officers at Rio de Janeire,
Brasil; Tokyo, Japan; Pretoria, Union of South Afrioa; and
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Since there is no American consular officer stationed
at Pretoria, Union of South Africa, the American Consul
General at Johannesburg has forwarded to the Department
the (original) commission addressed to the officers at
Pretoria. The Department has not been informed whether
the Amerioan Consuls General at Rio de Janeiro and Tokyo
have received the commissions under reference.
The commission authorizes the consular officers to
take the depositions of various witnesses, ineluding,
among others, the depositions of Toyokiehi Fukuma, Jap-
anese Consul at Buenos Aires, and of Kanekazu Okada,
Japanese Minister to the Union of South Africa, and ap-
pears to involve matters concerning 1nternational relations.
The commission under reference could not be executed
F/A
by American consular officers in Japan, irrespective of
the status of the person whose testimony is desired. Such
testimony, under the laws of Japan, can be obtained only
under the authority of letters rogatory transmitted through
the diplomatio channel. Since it appears that the
prospective

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
prespeetive witnesses in countries other than Japan are
offisial representatives of the Japanese Government whe
seuld not be required to answer the interrogations which
seem to relate to their efficial activities, you will
deubtless appresiate that it would be improper for the
American eomsular officers to take any action leoking
to the exeeution of the commissions.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Mathaniel P. Davis
Chief, Division of
Foreign Service Administration
grigi
OR som
g40
JUN 19 PM
FA:GA8:ID:88
Le
FE
6/12

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.95)
June16 1989
To the
Amerioan Consular Officer in oharge,
Johannesburg, Transvaal, Union of South Afrioa.
Lu 894.20211a47
The Seoretary of State has received from the Consu-
894.20211A/
late Geperal despatoh no. 407 of May 9, 1939 enolosing an
original commission to take depositions in the case of Kil
Son Hahn versus Nippu Jij1 Company, Limited.
The Department transmits for the information and
possible guidanoe of the consular offioer a oopy of a
letter on this subjeot addressed to The Clerk, Cirouit
5
Court, Firet Judiclal Cirouit, Honolulu, Territory of
Hawail.
A similar instruotion has been addressed to the
consular officers at Rio de Janeiro, Buenos Aires, and
at Tokyo.
F/A
Enolosure:
To the Clerk, Cirouit Court,
First Judicial Cireuit, Honolulu.
u copy of
081.35/54
signed arigl-
nal.
m
FA:GAS:ID:SS
Le
FE
RA
6/12

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.97)
June 16 1989
AIR MAIL
To the
Amerioan Consular Officer in charge,
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
894.20211A/
The Seoretary of State has been informed by the
American Consular Officersin charge at Buenos Aires,
Argentina, and Johannesburg, Union of South Africa, that
they have received a oommission issued out of the First
Cirouit Court of the First Judioial Cirouit, Territory of
Hawaii to take the depositions of various witnesses,
5
including, among others, the depositions of Toyokich1
Fukuma, Japanese Consul at Buenos Aires, and of Kanekazu
Okada, Japanese Minister to the Union of South Africa.
The commission 1s addressed (by title) to certain consu-
lar officers at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Tokyo, Japan;
Pretoria, Union of South Africa; and Buenos Aires,
Argentina.
The Department transmits for the information and pos-
sible guidance of the consular officer a copy of a letter
on this subject addressed to The Clerk, Cirouit Court,
A
First Judicial Circuit, Honolulu, Territory of Hawaii.
A similar instruction has been addressed to the consu-
lar officers at Buenos Aires, Johannesburg, within whose
district Pretoria 1s included, and at Tokyo.
Enclosure:
origi-
To the Clerk, Cirouit Court,
First Judioial Cirouit, Honolulu.
nai.
Wgh
10PM
FA:GAS:ID:SS
RA
6/12

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.93)
June 16 1989
AIR MAIL
To the
Amerioan Consular Officer in charge,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
The Seoretary of State has received from the Consu-
late General air mail despatoh no. 407 of May 9, 1939
enolosing a copy of a commission to take depositions in
the oase of Kil Son Hahn versus Nippu Jiy1 Company,
894.20211A/51
Limited.
The Department transmits for the information and
possible guidance of the consular officer a copy of a
letter on this subject addressed to The Clerk, Cirouit
Court, First Judioial Cirouit, Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii.
A similar instruotion has been addressed to the
consular officers at Rio de Janeiro, Johannesburg, within
whose distriot Pretoria is included, and at Tokyo.
Enolosure:
F/A
To the Clerk, Cirouit Court,
First Judicial Cirouit, Honolulu.
COL105/54
nal.
115
4us
JU 1 1939 PM
FA:GAS:ID:8S
6/12
m.m.N.
qas

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.95)
June 16 1989
To the
American Consular Officer in oharge,
Tokyo, Japan.
The Seoretary of State has been informed by the
American Consular Officers in oharge at Buenos Aires,
894.20210/47
Argentina, and Johannesburg, Union of South Afrioa, that
they have reoeived a commisslon lssued out of the First
Cirouit Court of the First Judiclal Cirouit, Territory of
A/
Hawal1 to take the depositions of various witnesses,
5
including, among others, the depositions of Toyokiohi
Fukuma, Japanese Consul at Buenos Aires, and of Kanekazu
Okada, Japanese Minister to the Union of South Africa.
The commission 1s addressed (by title) to certain consu-
lar officers at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Tokyo, Japan;
Pretoria, Union of South Africa; and Buenos Aires,
Argentina.
The Department tranamits for the information and pos-
sible guidance of the consular officer a copy of a letter
on this subject addressed to The Clerk, Cireuit Court,
F
First Judicial Circuit, Honolulu, Territory of Hawai1.
A
A similar instruotion has been addressed to the
consular officers at Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro and at
Johannesburg, within whoee district Pretoria is ineluded.
Enclosure:
To the Clerk, Cirouit Court,
std origi-
First Judieial Cirouit, Honolulu.
na.
081-85/5+
yh
FA:GAS:ID:SS
Le
FE
RA
Eu
6/12

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.95)
AIRMAIL
by
A
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, June 23, 1939.
RA
SuBJEcT: Commission to Take Deposition of Japanese
1-1403
Ambassador to Brazil.
ur rCmaichy
LEGAL ADVISE
INSTRATION
9
1913
1839
THE HONORABLE
Memo. dr. to he, 7/1/39
DEPARTMENT OF STA
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
I have the honor to refer to instruction of June
894.20211A/
16, 1939 (File No. 08135/54), concerning certain
commissions issued out of the Circuit Court of the
First Judicial Circuit, Territory of Hawaii, to take
the deposition of various witnesses, including certain
Japanese consular and diplomatic officers.
52
The Consulate General at Rio de Janeiro received
a similar commission to take the deposition of the
Japanese Ambassador to Brazil.
This office, of course, did not approach the
Japanese Ambassador, and drafted a letter, copy enclos-
ed, to the Clerk of the afore-mentioned Court. This
letter has not been mailed and, in view of the instruc-
tion under reference, will not be placed in the mails.
Unless the Department signifies its desire to have the
commission submitted to it or returned to the Clerk of
the Court, these documents will be retained in the
Consulate General's files.
Respeotfully yours,
Uieeim C. Besditt
Enclosure:
William C. Burdett,
Copy of drafted
American Consul General.
letter, as stated.
804.5
WCB/j1w

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.99)
Losure to despatch No. 612, dated June 23, 1939,
American Consulate General at Rio de Janeiro,
zil, entitled "Commission to Take Deposition of
apanese Ambassador to Brazil".
COPY OF DRAFTED LETTER
A. E. Restariok, Esquire,
Chief Clerk,
Cirouit Court, First Judicial Circuit,
Territory of Hawaii, U.S.A.
Sir:
This office has received your letter of March 30,
1939, transmitting (1) a Commission to take Deposition
and (2) Proposed Direct Interrogatories in the case of
Kil Son Hahn, also known as Kil Soo Haan vs. Nippu Jiji
Co., Ltd.; L 1554l - First Circuit Court, T. H. I was
requested to arrange for taking the deposition of Kazue
Kuwashima whose address is Japanese Embassy, 75 Rua dos
Voluntarios da Patria, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
With every reasonable disposition to comply with the
order of the Court, I regret that it is not practicable
to execute this commission. Mr. Kuwashima is the Japanese
Ambassador to Brazil and the diplomatic immunity attached
to his position prevents him from giving testimony in
relation to litigation in any foreign court whatsoever.
He cannot forego this right except by the express consent
to his Government. Furthermore, some of the interrogatories
would seem to be objectionable as tending to question
matters which in his official character are exempt from
examination.
Consequently, the commission and proposed direct
interrogatories are returned herewith.
Respectfully yours,

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.98)
file eg.c.
A
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League . .
WASHINGTON. D.C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
101 D STREET N. E.
@h
PM 12 99
早舌
July 6, 1939
HEADQUARTERS
1281 Fort Street
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
REDORDS
Mr. Stephen Early
Secretary to President Roosevelt
Representative in Washington, D.C.
White House
KILSOO K. HAAN
Washington, D. C.
894.20211A/53
OFFICERS
Dear Secretary Early:
President
SHINHO CHAR
Enclosed please find an article -- Japan-
Vice-President
SUNCHOO CHOI
ization, A Peril to Hawaii -- written in 1936 and re-
vised recently. I trust you will kindly read the con-
Secretary
CHANGDUK CHOI
tents and later turn it over to President Roosevelt.
Treasurer
Japan's economic, political, and cultural
JHAIKUN SUR
penetration in the Far East is too well known -- but
very few Americans are aware that Japan is on our very
doorstep.
DIRECTORS
3
Chairman
Last April I submitted a letter request-
CHANHO MIN
ing the President to give consideration to - lst Ex-
DOIN KWON
tending His Excellency's sympathy to Korea; 2nd Em-
BONGKWAN CHUNG
bargo all essential war materials to Japan on a planned
TAISUNG LEE
subsidy; and 3rd Grant privileges to 250 to 300 Korean
BAIKSOO KIM
students who have come to America since 1924 to remain
CHANGYIK OH
in America in order to use them in checking Japaniza-
tion activities throughout America and Hawaii.
May I plead again that you kindly call
the President's attention to our urgent requests.
794.202a
Reading this article may better acquaint
FILED
you with the need of arresting Japanization activities
in Hawaii and in the Pacific Coast States.
F/WB
Respeotfully yours,
Kilooo K. Haan
Kilsoo K. Haan
Enclosure
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.98)
To His Excelleney 8 resident Rovsevelt.
White Houae, Washnigton k.e
JAPANIZATION, A PERIL TO HAWAII
-- C O N T E N T S --
PAGE
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
2
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
4
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
5
RACIAL HARMONY?
6
PRINCE FUSHIMI SCHOLARSHIP FUND
6
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
7
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
8
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
9
CONCLUSION
12
-1-

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.98)
JAPANIZATION, A PERIL TO HAWAII
PREEACE
The purpose of this writing is to present as
briefly as possible the Japanization activities as
they are found in Hawaii, not as it should be as
generally understood by the American publio in
America.
The subjects of Japan and the agents of the
Tokyo government have olosely collaborated with their
home government in Japanizing Hawaii. Consequently,
the results have been very detrimental to the teach-
ings of Americanism and, in reality, if it is not
arrested soon, it will be a peril to America's first
line of defense.
The writer earnestly prays and hopes that this
writing may find its way into the hands of patriotic
Americans and do its most good for the security and
welfare of the United States of America.
Milooo K. Huan
Kilsoo K. Haan
Representative of the Sino-
Korean People's League in
Hawaii.

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
National or racial conflicts do not become aoute until
the nation or race kept in a weaker position is animated by
national tendenoy to ohange its status and strive for equality
with the nation or race deemed superior. Commodore Mathew C.
Perry kindled this very kind of spark when he forcefully opened
the ports of Japan to the world.
The Japanese race accepted the supremacy of the white
race with solemn mental reservation. She buried her pride and
humiliation and austuciously adopted the spirit of popular educa-
tional system from America, military, medical and scientific train-
ing from Germany and the naval strategy and diplomatic tactios from
England. In a good sense, these learnings were fittingly blended
into the teachings and culture of Japan. She took every nutriment
in order to develop Japan's racial civilization.
Today Japan is a new dynamic military power which makes
itself felt not only in the revolt all over Asia against the white
race but she is making forceful penetration into the western homi-
sphere and has captured many of the rich commercial markets.
The greatest statesman of Japan, Count Okuma, declared:
"To brand us Japanese as inferior because we are a colored race
is bigotry, -- we must combat and destroy through the fulfillment
of our national mission."
What is then, the national mission of Japan?
It is fairly arguable, basing on historical facts that
Japan's national mission is world's supremacy and racial equality.
With this in view she has played a role of an expert strategist,
she has judiciously applied the art of jiugitsu, seizing and claim-
ing all the strategic points in the continent of Asia and in the
Pacific, directly obatruoting America's advance to the rioh com-
meroial El-Dorado of the Far East. She stretohed her steady arm
up to the north and gripped Kurile and half of Sakhalin, threaten-
- 2 -

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.98)
Americoa's future northern air-route. She annexed Korea, the
stepping stone to Asiatio continent, and in l931, she forcefully
seised the three eastern provinoes of Manchuria and the rich
opium province of Jehol. She also possesses the island of Formosa
and the chain of islands north of Formosa to Japan proper, blook-
ing China's front door. She now holds the key to the western half
of the Pacific, by virtue of taking over all the former German
Pacifio islands north of equator, even the island of Yap. These
chain of islands for thousands of miles stretches from Bonin to
the Marshalls, two thousand miles nearer to the Hawaiian Islands.
strategically these islands are natural air bases for her large
air forces, coaling station for her navy and the stepping stone
for her army to maroh toward the white man's country. Unques-
tionably the proximity of these islands makes the American possess-
ions vulnerable!
Japan will never rest until the fulfillment of her dream
is ended. To her, time is no question. Like the 47 ronin who
awaited years for an opportunity to avenge the dishonor of their
master, she will do likewise. For 26 years she prepared for the
eventful march from Mukden to Shanghai. It will be a matter of
time that she will attempt to sail from Bonin via Marshalls to Hawail,
then to California, or from Kurile via Unalaska to the Pacific Coast.
The Japanese fishing interests are scanning the Marshalls
and the Carolines with hundreds of fishing sampans. In July of
1934, Japan moved her northern fishing base 800 miles nearer to
Alaska. The fishing industry employs about 18,O00 men. With twenty
tenders and more than 400 vessels. Hawaii's large fleet of 400 or
more sampans and about 15,000 reservists will be another vital fac-
tor. These unique and strategic positions will be an added advan-
tage to Japan's navy. Not long ago in a meeting at the Buddhist
temple, an American Shintoist, Dr. Mason, remarked, "I have been
- 3 -

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.99)
that in the event of war between Japan and the United States
ou have enough food supply to last only for six weeks." When he
was asked from whom he received the information, he answered, "the
Japanese leaders told me." For all practical purposes the Japanese
are fervently pushing Japanization in Hawaii.
Japan is the only world power possessing a first class
army as well as navy, this factor combined with the compactness of
super-strategic position, a naval attack on Hawaii would be reason-
ably successful. No one can deny that the Pacific situation is
fraught with dangerous possibilities. The indecisive policy of the
United States may encourage the Japanese militarists to take sudden
action. In which event, What Can Be The Consequenoes?
It seems clear that the result of such an attack would
seriously weaken the defensive as well as the offensive efficiency
of our Army and the Navy. If due to some unforseen event, the Japa-
nese cause enough damages to many strategic points, it will mean
two things:
One. That the American fleet will be forced to wage a
defensive war.
Two.
The invading fleet will have an equal chance of
victory.
With due respect to the U. S. Army and the Navy, if one
can hear the whispers of the Japanese in Japan, Korea, China, Si-
beria, the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, one will think twice before
making the common remark, "the Japs wont dare attack Hawaii."
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
Hawaii was annexed to the U. S., while Japan was too
busy having wars with China and Russia. To this day the Japanese
regret that Japan did not annex these islands prior to her major
wars. However, this does not mean that she did not make any at-
tempt.
In l894, during the sitting of Constitutional Convention
of Hawaii, Japan made a diplomatic demand that Japanese be given
- 4 -

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
to vote. To avoid granting franchise, the Republic of Hawaii
forced to frame its constitution in suoh a manner as to stop all
naturalization for the time being, making this matter subject to
further treaty negotiation.
In 1895, the far-sighted Japanese government, made strong
formal protest against allowing large number of Chinese to enter
Hawaii. Japan's representative stated that the coming of Chinese to
Hawaii was "detrimental to the Japanese interest." It is said similar
protest was made to the Korean government by Prince Ito, ending fur-
ther immigration of Koreans to Hawaii.
In l897, after the unsuccessful attempt to intimidate the
Hawaiian government, the Japanese government seized an opportunity to
protest an alleged ill-treatment and disoriminative act toward the
Japanese immigrants. She made a formal demand for an indemnity. Soon
after the ultimatum was forwarded to the Hawaiian government, Japan
sent her cruiser, S. Naniwa, under the command of Captain Euroda. On
his arrival Minister Shimamura of Japan immediately asked for a per-
mit to have Captain Kuroda and his crew to exercise in target prao-
tice with the tube guns and rifles adjacent outside of the harbor of
Honolulu for 20 days, under the very nose of the Hawaiian capitol.
This dramatio inoident hastened the move of annexation of Hawaii to
the United States and temporarily halted Japan's advancement.
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
Japan's continental polioy has been termed the "duck
diplomacy" by the Chinese, because it typifies a duck, which ap-
pears calm and serene above water, while it paddles busily beneath,
making steady progress. Likewise, Japan's diplomaoy in Hawaii can
be termed as such. Outwaraly, the Japanese seem very peaoeful and
loyal to America. Yet behind the soene one may find their programs
filled with questionable activities.
There are two distinot factors which aid the promotion
of Japanization in Hawaii. They are -- first, the heredity of
- 5 -

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
traits of the Japanese race. Second, the Japanized en-
ment, created by the Japanese leaders. These two factors have
in so cleverly harmonized and blended into such a degree that the
result of collaboration is astonishing. It should be borne in mind
that the suocess of Japanization is largely due, if not entirely,
to the correlationship of these two factors.
RACIAL HARMONY?
Although Hawaii is oalled the "melting pot" in the
crossroad of the Pacific, underlying its peaceful surface, the pro-
blem of racial equality and its contemporary issues constantly bob
up to disturb the community. Enter the business world in Hawaii
and one will find that race prejudice still controls its human
emotions. Very often the question of racial equality is fully dis-
oussed in the classrooms of the public schools, and among mission-
aries. To be sure, the politicians loudly speak of it on the stumps,
during the political campaigns.
The elder citizens oonsider the question of racial
equality merely an academic subject, while the youngsters of the
teen age make a reasonable practice of it. However, as soon as the
two races venture out into the business world as competitors, they
find the common ground on which they had stood has suddenly disap-
peared. Inwardly, both races wish to exclude each other in order to
prevent a rapid rise or to exclude dissimilar customs as a means of
promoting national solidarity. Whether this prejudice is intentional
or not, the actual practice still persists in Hawaii and it will con-
tinue to fight for supremaoy of race so long as the Japanese race
demands equal racial status -- Americanism vs Japanism.
HIS IMPERIAL HIGHNESS, PRINCE FUSHIMI'S FUND.
Among the many Japanese institutions and agencies, perhaps
the Prinoe Fushimi Soholarship Association of Hawaii can be consider-
ed a representative one, directly sponsoring an effective action in
promoting leadership for the fulfillment of Japan's mission. The
- 6 -

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.99)
aid received from a Prince of Japan, in the form of
s and scholarship by the American citizens of Japanese an-
stry, has oreated the desired results.
In the year of 1907, after the successful consummation
of Anglo-Japanese Alliance, His Imperial Highness, Prince Fushimi
of Japan, visited Hawaii on his homeward voyage as the guest of
the British government. Fifteen leading Japanese with Consul-
General Saito, met the Prince and his military aides at the home of
Mr. Araki, the manager of the Yokohama Specie Bank. It is said that
General Nishi and Admiral Yamamoto insisted on an aggressive, typi-
cal Japanese program, but the two militarists were prevailed to com-
promise to a milder, but an effective program. Prince Fushimi gave
a modest amount of $2o0.00 with the promise of more and the looal
leaders were asked to inorease the fund according to the needs from
time to time. Prizes and other recognitions were given to the out-
standing young Japanese student leaders for meritorious efforts and
in excellence of sohool work. Since l9l9 scholarships were awarded,
sending outstanding Japanese student leaders to various universities.
The recipients of this fund now hold the key positions in the City,
County, and Territorial governments.
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
Mr. Yusuki Teurumi, one of the well-known parliamentarian
and Christian leaders, said, "I doubt very muoh whether Christianity,
as developed in America and Europe, will be accepted as such by a
large number of Japanese ....... Japanese will not accept a foreign
thought without impressing upon it their own stamp."
The foregoing statement by an eminent Japanese Christian
leader confirms our belief that the Japanese Christians in Hawaii
cannot be truly Americanized through Christianity alone. Unfortun-
ately, the American missionaries and many leading financiers are of
the belief that this seems to be the best means to Americanize the
American citizens of Japanese ancestry. Looking over the statistics
-7 -

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.99)
the various Japanese religious sects in Hawaii, one will find
the sorrowful fact that, in spite of large expenditures donated
by American missionaries, Christianity has been embraced by the
Japanese leaders for a purpose.. The following table will give
the reader some idea of the number of Japanese Christians compared
with the Buddhist and Shintos:
Figures of Japanese Consulate-General,
Maroh 5, 1934
Buddhists
52,039
Shinto
31,870
Christian
4,131
"The Japanese may be a faithful Buddhist or Christian,
as he wishes, but he is under obligation to worship the deified
ancestors."
EXPATRIATION A HOAX
Recently the Japanese and many of their American friends
have proudly pointed out to the expatriated Japanese boys and girls
as a proof of their loyalty to America.
Peculiarly, the Japanese law of nationality is based on
the principle of jus sanguines, while the American laws are based
on the prinoiple of jus soli. Dual nationality usually arises
through a conflict between the law of jus soli -- the law determining
nationality according to the place of birth -- and the law of jus
sanguines by which nationality as traced through blood relationship.
Whenever these two principles conflict dual nationality arises.
To ease this unfortunate situation, the 1924 Expatriation
Law was put into effect by the Japanese government. Unfortunately
the result has been proven, beyond a reasonable doubt, a hoax.
The Japanese Consulate Official stated that although the
Japanese children may register only at the Territorial Board of Health,
the status of the child may not be "necessary to say that such children
hold American citizenship only." One of the indirect means of bringing
-8 -

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.98)
ted Japanese youths back to their own nationality is
are urged to register their marriage certificates at
panese Consulate, thus regaining their nationality from
Japanese government. Another way is the general practioe of
e
parents of the Japanese ancestry registering their names at
the Consulate when they become of military age, without their son
knowledge. It is said "the parents are forced to do it, for other-
wise their relatives residing in Japan would be punished, fined or
otherwise made to suffer."
Under these circumstances, should one believe in the
sincerity of the Japanese government and her subjeots in Hawaii?
The figures given to the writer by the Japanese Consulate
are as followe:
1. Number of Japanese who first reported their birth
to the Consulate and expatriated themselves from Japan ...... 5,496
2. Number of the Japanese who did not report
their birth to the Consulate and lost the Japanese nationa-
lity
25,515
December 31, 1933
31,011
Expatriated in 1934
614
Total
31,625
One must ask -- how can Americans be made out of Japanese
decents if the schools, various semi-government organs, religious
seots, oultural centers, Y.M.B.A. Intelligence Work, Japanized
Christianity and eto., subtly stress loyalty to Japan?
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
Mr. Y. Soga, as spokesman for the Japanese community
once said:
——-
"Japanese youths who are born here are not still
fully adapted to their new environment and new civilization
of the west, if they should lose all traoes, its effect will
be rather deplorable."
- 9-

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.99)
It is absurd to think that the Japanese youths born in
must be taught to retain Japanese traits to become 1o0 per-
American citizens. Nevertheless the attitude of the leaders
Learly shows that is what they want the Americans to believe. In
a practical sense, it means that they are going to maintain the
Japanese language schools.
If one can live in a Japanese community for a period of
years, and daily associate with their children, one will readily
agree that the language schools seriously hinder Americanization.
The textbook itself may not undermine Amerioanism, but they cer-
tainly do teach Japanism. Enough is taught to make the little
youngsters talk of and play the role of "Samurai", the "three
human bullets", and dramatize future U. S. - Japan War. They
speak of Admiral Togo as "our hero" and the Emperor of Japan as
"our king". To say the least, the fact that the Japanese insist
in maintaining these expensive institutions proves that contrary
is true. Why do they persist in maintaining the language school
at the tremendous expense of 850,000 dollars a year? Tne American
public sohools are the best medium to Americanize the American citi-
zens; is it not reasonable to believe that the same is true for the
Japanese? Just as the Territorial government has its Publio In-
struction, the Japanese maintain Hawaii Japanese Educational As-
sociation of Hawaii. The association is the pillar of the Language
Sohools in Hawaii. Under its wings alone there are l6l sohools,
589 teachers and an enrollment of 37,484 pupils. The remaider of
26 schools, 96 teachers and 2,533 pupils are under independent as-
sociations.
We must remember the student leaders of today will be
the leaders of tomorrow. Whatever they acquire in the language
sohools, will be used as the means of a stepping stone to higher
and nobler duty for Japan. The response of the Japanese students
toward Japan and their heroes shows their inward feelings. The
- 10 -

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.99)
year book of l93 was dedicated to their beloved leader,
mazo Nitobe, the author of "Bushide" -- the spirit of Japan.
Nitobe was the adviser to the leading Japanese daily Osaka
iniohi in Japan and a delegate to the League of Nation's Cultural
Bureau. He was known as the idol of America's drawing room. He
commanded high esteem from many American Christian workers, as
well as many financiers. Because of his commanding position, he
was sent to America by the Japanese militarists to check the at-
titude of American officials, as well as the public, toward Japan's
planned invasion of Manchuria in September 18, 1931.
Dr. Nitobe, aided by his American friends, made a thorough
investigation and reported the result to the militarists. He reported
that: --
"America has more peace at any price missionaries
than any other country. They possess neither the intelligence
nor the vision to see things as they are. Consequently what
they say in public, though not worth listening to, is swallowed
by the ignorant."
"Men in educational circles, jurists and students of in-
It is interesting to note that all the Japanese language
sohools abroad are controlled by the Institute of Oversea's People's
Education and Japan's Foreign Office. The head of the above insti-
tution, Viscount Ishii, deolared (July 2nd of 1934) --
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an
organization for infusing the Japanese spirit into the second
generation of Japanese abroad. In other words, leave the second
generation in the land of their residence but don't let them
forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, select
Japanese goods, in voting - cast the ballot for politicians
friendly to Japanese."
The Growth of Japanese Language Sohools in Hawaii
Attendance in the
Japanese Language
American Public Schools
Sohools
1921
19,311
18,612

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
The Growth of Japanese Langauge Schools in Hawaii (Cont.)
Attendance in the
Japanese Language
American Public Schools
Schools
1985
28,363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45,121
42,665
The Founder of Japanese Language School Speaks
Rev. Takie OKumura, the founder of the Japanese Language
Sohool in Hawaii said, (1935) --
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direc-
tion and the Japanese community seems to be Japanized more and
more. Since its victory in the Supreme Court the language
sohools are beginning to display the real color of Japanism.
Imperial Rescript is boldly read and taught, - - - - "
Language School Inspector From Japan Speaks
Rev. Shinryu Umehara, Japanese Buddhist priest who was
sent to America to inspect the Japanese language schools in the
Pacifio Coast and Hawaii, said, (March 27, 1934) --
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligence Department
"I felt while I was in America that the existence
of Japanese schools and Buddhist organizations in the Japanese
communities is grand, for they are the mother-bodies for foster-
ing the national conscience, Japan's civilization and Japan's
spirit."
CONCLUSION
A few years ago the vice-minister Yasujiro Tsutsumi, of
Japan's Oversea's Affairs, urged upon Japanese abroad to build up
their own civilization and industrial development, rather than be-
come assimiliated in the local population. He stated that "where
Japanese had maintained their identity, the result had been bene-
ficial to Japan."
General Araki said, "The urgent need of the Japanese
nation is to realize justly and effectively the power of the spirit
of the Japanese." He further declared, "The spirit of Japan must
be spread over the seven seas and the five continents. Everything
-12-

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.99)
pposes its expansion is to be overwhelmed if necessary by
The countries of eastern Asia have been oppressed by the
Hite people. Japan will not tolerate this any longer. It is the
duty of the Japanese people to oppose any action of the Powers
that run counter to Japanese rule."
Judging from these official attitudes and the subsequent
events inoe l9l0, it is apparent that America will soon face a
momentous period of her history. The ideals, political philosophies,
and eoonomio standards of the two great nations are bound to test
their supremacy. Our national security and the security of these
islands will be wholly contingent upon Japan's military policy in
the Paoifio. Japanization activities should not be considered as
mere aoademio interest; we should follow as closely as possible
the course of events and development of publio opinion in Japan
and Amerioa.
Americans may recall the Wood-Forbes mission in 1921
to the Philippine Islands. General Wood is said to have had a
frank talk with Baron Tanaka (author of Tanaka's memorial). He
told the Japanese militarists "that if she continued to fortify
the Bonins, the Loochoos and the Pesscaadores to the point where
at any time it would interfere with or stop American commerce with
mainland (China), the U. S. would go to war". Baron Tanaka answered
just as frankly and emphatically, "that if anyone interferred with
them in Manchuria, Japan would fight. Japan will not arbitrate on
Manchuria and will fight before she surrenders her hard won rights
in the territory she holds as vital to her security as the U. S.
does the Panama Canal."
Since the exchange of this frank deolaration, Japan not
only fortified the Bonin and Loochoos, but it is said that she is
improving harbors and building large airplane landing fields in
the Pelews, Carolines and the Marshalls. In the name of Manchukuo
she is building a puppet navy and foroing military training on
- 13 -

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.99)
d the Koreans. The most recent threat is the "Hands
policy which is as much as to say, America you keep off
china; this declaration is a direct threat and an act of
rference to American commerce.V
Will America go to war with
pan as declared by General Wood?
Thus far America has not
taken any effective action, but if Japan insists to aggravate and
demand the equality of naval ratio, elimination of American com-
meroial and economic interests in China; secretly construct forti-
fioations in the Pacific Mandates and continue the Japanization of
Hawaii, America will have no alternative.
In the face of all these perplexing contingencies, the
strategioal value of Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed. Hawaii
is the Hellegoland to U. S. navy and Gilbralta to U. S. army. There-
fore, the necessity of Americanization in Hawaii is doubly signifi-
oant. Our security will wholly depend upon the satisfactory and
rational settlement of political and military problems between Japan
and Amerioa. The Japanization of Hawaii is no longer an issue only
for the people of Hawaii but it has become national and as such it
should be dealt with.
Japan's continued aggressive movement into the continent
of Asia and particularly Japan's insistence of Japanization of her
subjeots residing in the North and South American countries and
Hawaii are the outcome of the intense desire of the Japanese race
to change their racial, social, economic, and political and military
status equal to the status of America and of the white race. This
spirit of Japan will never rest till her national mission is attained.
More than three decades ago American hearts were captivated
by the eloquenoe of Senator Beveridge. He declared in the Senate -
"Our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia.
The Pacifio is our ocean. - - - And the Pacifio is the ocean
of the commerce of the future.
"Mostfature wars will be confliots for commerce.
The Power that rules the Pacific, therefore, is the Power that
rules the world."
- 14 -

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.99)
Twenty-three years ago Mr. Chokume Matsuo said: "Japan
America are pitted against each other not only as regards China
also with regards the mastery of the Pacific Ocean. There is
always a possibility of the outbreak of war between Japan and
America. Frankly speaking, there is no prospect for America's
emerging victorious, judged both from her military and naval pre-
paredness.
"Remember the position of the country before the out-
break of Russo-Japanese War. There might have been not a soul in
the world who dreamed of Japan's defeating Russia."
How canAmerica best arrest Japanization of Asia and
Hawaii without going into a racial war with Japan? Thinking Ameri-
cans fully know when Japan is in full control of Asia, with count-
less man power and with all the rich resources under their command,
America will be forced to lower the white man's standard of living.
and submit to much humiliation.
The writer sincerely believes that America can arrest
Japanization of Asia and Hawaii if she so desires. The following
course of action will force Japan's militarists to their senses,
which will eventually bring peace and security in the Pacifio:
First: Embargo the necessary arms, munitions, machinery,
and materials essential for war to Japan through
a planned subsidy for two years.
Second: Extend positive moral aid to China and Korea to
resist Japan's militarists.
America's present policy of supplying 57 percent of all
war essentials to Japan is parallel to America's aid to Japan when
annexing Korea in 19lo. Japan used Korea as a stepping stone in
the conquest of China. If history repeats, Japan will use China
as another stepping stone in the conquest of Alaska, Hawaii, and
possibly the Pacific Coast.
Remember the American-Korean Treaty, May 22, 1882.
15-

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.92)
NAVY DEPARTMENT
Office of the Chief of Naval Operations
OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
→AtM(fo)
n reply refer to No.
0p-15-B-3
WASHINGTON
A8-5/EF37/EG12(6-29)
A1138
ack, 7-19y1939
JU 15.1939
fajarrers
Jile
B
MEMORANDUM for Mr. Fletcher Warren.
894.20211A/54
The enclosure is forwarded for information as being of
possible interest to the State Department.
C00
E. B. Nixon,
Commander, U.S.Navy.
894.20211a
JL2 01939
FILED
ir. Fletcher Warren,
JUU
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.99)
Hawaii Hoohi - March 9, 1939.
In monthly magasine called "Kensetsu Jidai" (Age of Construction)
we find that Central organisation of Resident Japanese in foreign
countries has recently been organised in Tokyo. The preamble of the
constitution reads: "This organisation shall be the organ to promote
the interests of two million fellow countrymen in foreign countries".
Seiichiro Yasui, director of the Bureau of colonisation, Department of
Colonisation, seems to be the prime mover of the organisation. Among
the organisation's activities, following attract our attention:
1. To invite once a year representatives from various
countries to Tokyo and have them meet the government
officials and exchange views on immigration, etc.
2. To enlist the support of Japanese in various countries
for the propaganda of our country.
3. To promote the developmert of our vernacular pepers
in foreign countries and to establish some sort of
closer link between papers in Japan and those in
foreign countries.
4. To offer assistance to the settlement of all disputes
among Japanese in foreign countries.
5. To offer aid to the Japanese in foreign countries
when they file any petition to the government.
6. To act as arbitrators in all disputes between organi-
sations or individuals.
7. To offer assistance to the problem of immigration in
various countries.
To render assistance to the solution of second
generation problems.
Hawai1 Mainichi, May 26, 1939.
Japanese Consulate Requests Japanese Society To In-
vestigate Conditions of Japanese Residents in Hilo.
The Japanese Consulate in Honolulu made a request with the
Hilo Japanese Society to conduct an investigation of the Japanese or-
ganizations for the study of the conditions of the Japanese residents
in Hlo.
-1-

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
Hawai1 Mainichi, May 26, 1939 (Cont'd).
According to this request, the investigation is to be con-
dueted on a wide scale and to inelude organisations composed of
American citisens of Japanese ancestry. These organisations are the
Japanese Society, district Japanese organisations, prefectural
Japanese societies, commercial organisations, youths clubs, educational,
academie and religious organisations, social and charitable organisa-
tions, women's alubs and civic organisations.
Since the investigation is to be completed and reported to
the Japanese consulate by the end of this month, the Hilo Japanese
Society held a meeting of the consular agents in Hilo at nine this
morning to present the above request.
Maui Shimbun, May 26, 1939.
Meeting Of Consular Agents On Maui Held At Mr. Ogawa's Home.
In compliance with the request of the Japanese Consulate in
Honolulu for an investigation of the various Japanese organisations,
such as the Japanese society, the district organisations, the prefec-
tural societies, the commercial organisations, the youths' organisa-
tions, the educational and academic organisations, the religious or-
ganisations, the social and charitable organizations, the civic organi-
sations and the women's organisations, by the consular agents in Wailuku,
namely, Kokichi Nakamura, the Japanese Society, Teisen Imamura, Taikichi
Akimori, Satosuke Yasui, Kosuke Hirose, and Nagao Otsuke, a meeting of
the consular agents was held at the home of Chairman Ogawe of the
Japanese Society last night, and the following organisations were listed.
Please notify Mr. Hirose in event of any omission as he has been elected
clerk in charge of this.
Jodo Mission: YMA, Federation of Meisho YMA, Women's club, Brother-
hood society.
Hongwanji Mission: Brotherhood society, YMBA Federation of Maui, YMA,
Maui Kyogaku Kai (Buddhist training society), Women's
Club, Japanese language school, Boy Scouts.
Christian religion: Temperance Union, Women's club, YMCA, Japanese
language school, Boy Scouts.
Shingon Mission: YMa, Brotherhood society, Women's club.
Showa Club.
Showa YMA.
Athletic alubs.
Society of Japanese Residents from Fukushima Prefecture.
Kumamoto Overseas Society.
Society of Japanese Residents from Oshima-gum.
-2-

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.96)
Mau1 Shimbun,
May 26, 1939 (Cont'd).
Merehents association.
Barbers association.
Watob-makers association.
Tailors association.
Isumo Shrine.
Kompira Shrine.
Civie Association.
Restauranteurs association.
Doetors society.
Cemetery socicty.
Japanese society.
Kaua1 Shimpo, May 30, 1939.
Vice-Consul Kudo Aoturns To Honolulu Tomorrow Morming.
Vioe-Consul Toshijiro Kudo of the Japanese conaulate unex-
peetedly arrived bere on the worning of May 7 by plane. However.
as West Kauat had been informed of hie visit, there were meny put to
meet him.
He was Lodged at Waimee and made : trur of the reglon from
Weimea to Wahiawm on that day.
On the following day, May 8, he went to Kosee vin Kekahamana
and had lunoh there. Then he proceeded to Lawai. In the eveming, he
was feted at a reception banquet at the Waimen Hotel, after which
various businoss affeirs between the Japenese consulate and the con-
sular agonts were disoussed until Late inte the night.
A year has passed since his arrival to Hawail, end having
become familiar with the general situation in Hawsil, he docided to
make e tour of the islande. being with this island. As the murpose
of his tour is primarily to consult with the consular agents of the
various districts to bring about e smpother mnd fester exeoutlon of
business, he is declining ell receptions of general nature.
Led by Rev. Naito of Koloa, he toured the region from Koloa
to Lihue and was treated to a Luncheon by Rev. Miyasaki of Lihue.
After resting at Lihue Hotel, he will make a tour of Bast Kauei up
to Haene today and will meet the consuiar agonts at 10 a.m. at the
Kapan YMBa hall and again at 1 p.m. at the Hanalei pavilion.
Tonight, he will attend the recoptlon and diecussion meeting
-3

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.99)
Kauai Shimpo, May 30, 1939 (Cont'd).
of the consular agents of Koloa and east of Koloa and will leave by
plane for Honolulu tomorrow, May 31.
Nippu Jiji, May 30, 1939.
Meeting Of Consular Agents Held.
(Hilo Dispatch) - The Hilo Japanese Society, which is the agent of
the Japanese consul in Hilo, held a meeting of the consular agents
at its offiee on May 26.
The matter regarding the request of the Japanese
consulate to make an investigation of the Japanese organisations
was disoussed and the task of investigation was divided among the
consular agents.

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.91)
A-M
Ju1y 19, 1939.
MMORANDUM for: Commander Nixon.
Mr. Warren acknowledges the receipt of Commander
Nixon's memorandum of July 12, 1939 forwarding enclosures
of interest to the Department of State.
A true cup of
the signed ung!-
nal.
feol.
A-m/:VS-S8

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.97)
AE
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League . .
101 D STREET N. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
fib
Ch
E.g.C.
早舌蚪
A
July 15, 1939
HEADQUARTERS
1281 Fort Street
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
Assistant Secretary
Honorable Francis B. Sayre
Representative in Washington, D.C.
Assistant Secretary of State
UI Stato
KILSOO K. HAAN
1
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
MR SAYRE
OFFICERS
President
SHINHO CHAR
My dear Assistant Secretary Sayre:
Vice-President
SUNCHOO CHOI
Secretary
Enclosed please find a copy of an article
CHANGDUK CHOI
entitled "Japanization, A Peril to Hawaii", recently
FW
Treasurer
presented to members of the United States Senate
JHAIKUN SUR
Foreign Relations, Naval, and Military Committees.
894.20211A/5
We trust that this will be of some service and help
in understanding the Japanization activities in the
DIRECTORS
Pacific area.
Chairman
CHANHO MIN
Aggressive Japanese policies in the Far
East have been repeatedly warned by the Koreans and
DOIN KWON
the Chinese for many decades. Today aggression has
BONGKWAN CHUNG
become a reality, disrupting the security and peace
TAISUNG LEE
of the Pacific area. It is now taking a definite
BAIKSOO KIM
step in the penetration of the white man's sphere
CHANGYIK OH
of influence.
5
5
We, therefore, desire to take this oppor-
tunity of presenting this writing to you with the
spirit of international harmony and peace, looking
forward to America's positive policy of coping with
the Japanese activities in the Pacific and in the
western hemisphere.
Respectfully submitted,
Kilsoo K. Haah
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
101 D Street, N. E.
Washington,I
D. C.
July 15, 1939
Honorable Members of the Senate
Foreign Relations
Naval and Military Committees
The Seventy-Sixth Congress
Washington,
D. C.
Honorable Gentlemen:
The Sino-Korean Peoples League of Hawaii hereby
humbly submits an article -- "Japanization, A Peril To
Hawaii" -- for your information.
In the face of many grave and perplexing contin-
gencies in the Far East, we believe the strategical value
of Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed.
Recent report of Dr. Laura Thompson, research asso-
ciate in anthropology at the University of Hawai1, after
eight months' study of Guam, says that the people of Guam
too "fear Japanese domination and that they do not wish to
come under Japan". Hence, they strongly "desire American
fortification".
It is interesting to note the parallel of strategic
importance of these Islands with Korea.
The Koreans feared Japan's domination and justly
warned the Powers that their diplomatic action, turning
Korea over to Japan, was contrary to their best interests.
In spite of repeated warning in the name of "Peace
in the Far East", the Powers applied the "Munich" on Korea,
forcefully sacrificing their freedom and independence.
We trust that Guam and Hawafi will escape the
fate of Korea.
Respectfully submitted,
Kilsoo IT. Haan
Kilsoo K. Haan
Sino-Korean Peoples League
of Hawaii

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.98)
JAPANIZATION, A PERIL TO HAWAII
P R E E A C E
The purpose of this writing is to present as briefly
as possible the Japanization activities as they are found
in Hawaii, not as it should be as generally understood by
the American public in America.
The sub jects of Japan and the agents of the Tokyo
government have closely collaborated with their home
government in Japanizing Hawaii. Consequently, the re-
sults have been very detrimental to the teachings of
Americanism and, in reality, if it is not arrested soon,
it will be a peril to America's first line of defense.
The writer earnestly prays and hopes that this
writing may find its way into the hands of patriotic
Americans and do its most good for the security and welfare
of the United States of America.
Kilsoo K.Haan
Representative of the Sino-
Korean People's League in
Hawaii

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.98)
JAPANIZATION. A PERIL TO HAWAII
C O N T
T
Page
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
2
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
3
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
3
RACIAL HARMONY?
3
PRINCE FUSHIMI SCHOLARSHIP FUND .
4
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
4
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
4
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
5
CONCLUSION
7-8
-1 -

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
National or racial confliots do not become acute until the nation or race kept
in a weaker position is animated by national tendenoy to ohange its status and
strive for equality with the nation or race deemed superior. Commodore Matthew C.
Perry kindled this very kind of spark when he foroefully opened the ports of Japan
to the world.
The Japanese raoe accepted the supremacy of the white race with solemn mental
reservation. She buried her pride and humiliation and austuciously adopted the
spirit of popular educational system from America, military, medical and scientific
training from Germany and the naval strategy and diplomatio tactics from England. In
a good sense, these learnings were fittingly blended into the teaohings and culture
of Japan. She took every nutriment in order to develop Japan's racial civilization.
Today Japan is a new dynamio military power which makes itself felt not only in
the revolt all over Asia against the white race but she is making forceful penetra-
tion into the western hemisphere and has captured many of the rioh commeroial
markets.
The greatest statesman of Japan, Count Okuma, declared: "To brand us Japanese
as inferior because we are a colored race is bigotry -- we must combat and destroy
through the fulfillment of our national mission."
What is then, the national mission of Japan?
It is fairly arguable, basing on historical facts that Japan's national mission
is world supremacy and racial equality. With this in view she has played a role of
an expert strategist, she has judiciously applied the art of jiugitsu, seizing and
olaiming all the strategic points in the continent of Asia and in the Pacific,
directly obstruoting America's advance to the rich commercial El-Dorado of the Far
East. She stretched her steady arm up to the north and gripped Kurile and half of
Sakhalin, threatening Amerioa's future northern air-route. She annexed Korea, the
stepping stone to Asiatic continent, and in l93l, she forcefully seized the three
eastern provinces of Manchuria and the rich opium province of Jehol. Since July 7,
1937 - North and South China. She also possesses the island of Formosa and the
chain of islands north of Formosa to Japan proper. blocking China's front door. She
now holds the key to the western half of the Paoifio, by virtue of taking over all
the former German Pacifio Islands north of equator, even the island of Yap. This
chain of islands for thousands of miles stretches from Bonin to the Marshalls, two
thousand miles nearer to the Hawaiin Islands. Strategically these islands are nat-
ural air bases for her large air forces, coaling station for her navy and the step-
ping stone for her army to maroh toward the white man's country. Unquestionably the
proximity of these islands makes the Amerioan possessions vulnerable!
Japan will never rest until the fulfillment of her dream is ended. To her,
time is no question. Like the 47 ronin who awaited years for an opportunity to
avenge the dishonor of their master, she will do likewise. For 26 years she prepar-
ed for the eventful march from Mukden to Shanghai. It will be a matter of time that
she will attempt to sail from Bonin via Marshalls to Hawaii, then to California, or
from Kurile via Unalaska to the Paoifio Coast.
The Japanese fishing interests are scanning the Marshalls and the Carolines with
hundreds of fishing sampans. In July of 1934, Japan moved her northern fishing base
800 miles nearer to Alaska. The fishing industry employs about 18,O00 men. With
twenty tenders and more than 400 vessels. Hawaii's large fleet of 400 or more sam-
pans and about 15,O00 reservists will be another vital factor. These unique and
strategic positions will be an added advantage to Japan's navy. Not long ago in a
meeting at the Buddhist temple, an American Shintoist, Dr. Mason, remarked, "I have
been told that in the event of war between Japan and the United States you have
enough food supply to last only for six weeks." When he was asked from whom he re-
ceived the information, he answered, "The Japanese leaders told me." For all prac-
tioal purposes the Japanese are fervently pushing Japanization in Hawaii.
Japan is the only world power possessing a first class army as well as navy.
this faotor combined with the compactness of super-strategic position, a naval at-
tack on Hawaii would be reasonably successful. No one can deny that the Pacific
situation is fraught with dangerous possibilities. The indecisive policy of the
United States may enoourage the Japanese militarists to take sudden action. In
which event, What Can Be The Consequenoes?

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.99)
training from Germany and the naval strategy and diplomatio tactios irom ungianu. .
a good sense, these learnings were fittingly blended into the teaohings and oulture
of Japan. She took every nutriment in order to develop Japan's racial civilization.
Today Japan is a new dynamio military power which makes itself felt not only in
the revolt all over Asia against the white race but she is making forceful penetra-
tion into the wostern hemisphere and has captured many of the rioh commeroial
markets.
The greatest statesman of Japan, Count Okuma, deolared: "To brand us Japanese
as inferior because we are a colored race is bigotry -- we must combat and destroy
through the fulfillment of our national mission."
What is then, the national mission of Japan?
It is fairly arguable, basing on historical facts that Japan's national mission
is world supremacy and racial equality. With this in view she has played a role of
an expert strategist, she has judiciously applied the art of jiugitsu, seizing and
olaiming all the strategic points in the continent of Asia and in the Pacifio,
directly obstruoting America's advanoe to the rioh commercial El-Dorado of the Far
East. She stretohed her steady arm up to the north and gripped Kurile and half of
Sakhalin, threatening Amerioa's future northern air-route. She annexed Korea, the
stepping stone to Asiatio continent, and in l93l, she forcefully seized the three
eastern provinces of Manchuria and the rioh opium province of Jehol. Sinoe July 7,
1937 - North and South China. She also possesses the island of Formosa and the
chain of islands north of Formosa to Japan proper. blocking China's front door. She
now holds the key to the western half of the Paoifio, by virtue of taking over all
the former German Pacifio Islands north of equator, even the island of Yap. This
chain of islands for thousands of miles stretches from Bonin to the Marshalls, two
thousand miles nearer to the Hawaiin Islands. Strategioally these islands are nat-
ural air bases for her large air forces, coaling station for her navy and the step-
ping stone for her army to march toward the white man's country. Unquestionably the
proximity of these islands makes the Amerioan possessions vulnerable!
Japan will never rest until the fulfillment of her dream is ended. To her,
time is no question. Like the 47 ronin who awaited years for an opportunity to
avenge the dishonor of their master, she will do likewise. For 26 years she prepar-
ed for the eventful march from Mukden to Shanghai. It will be a matter of time that
she will attempt to sail from Bonin via Marshalls to Hawaii, then to California, or
from Kurile via Unalaska to the Pacific Coast.
The Japanese fishing interests are scanning the Marshalls and the Carolines with
hundreds of fishing sampans. In July of 1934, Japan moved her northern fishing base
800 miles nearer to Alaska. The fishing industry employs about 18,000 men. With
twenty tenders and more than 400 vessels. Hawaii's large fleet of 400 or more sam-
pans and about 15,O00 reservists will be another vital factor. These unique and
strategic positions will be an added advantage to Japan's navy. Not long ago in a
meeting at the Buddhist temple, an American Shintoist, Dr. Mason, remarked, "I have
been told that in the event of war between Japan and the United States you have
enough food supply to last only for six weeks." When he was asked from whom he re-
ceived the information, he answered, "The Japanese leaders told me." For all prac-
tioal purposes the Japanese are fervently pushing Japanization in Hawaii.
Japan is the only world power possessing a first class army as well as navy,
this faotor combined with the oompactness of super-strategic position, a naval at-
tack on Hawaii would be reasonably successful. No one can deny that the Pacific
situation is fraught with dangerous possibilities. The indecisive policy of the
United States may enoourage the Japanese militarists to take sudden action. In
which event, What Can Be The Consequenoes?
- 2 -

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
It seems olear that the result of suoh an attack would seriously weaken the de-
fensive as well as the offensive efficiency of our Army and Navy. If due to some
unforeseen event, the Japanese cause enough damages to many strategic points, it
will means two things:
One. That the Amerioan fleet will be forced to wage a defensive war.
Two. The invading fleet will have an equal chance of victory.
With due respeot to the U. S. Army and the Navy. if one can hear the whispers
of the Japanese in Japan, Korea, China, Siberia, the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, one
will think twioe before making the common remark, "The Japs won't dare attack Hawaii"
JAPAN's PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
Hawaii was annexed to the U. S. while Japan was too busy recovering between
wars with China and Russia. To this day the Japanese regret that Japan did not an-
nex these islands prior to her major wars. However, this does not mean that she did
not make any attempt.
In 1894, during the sitting of Constitutional Convention of Hawaii, Japan made
a diplomatio demand that Japanese be given rights to vote. To avoid granting fran-
ohise, the Republic of Hawaii was forced to frame its constitution in such a manner
as to stop all naturalization for the time being, making this matter subject to
further treaty negotiation.
In 1895, the far-sighted Japanese government made strong formal protest against
allowing large number of Chinese to enter Hawaii. Japan's representative stated
that the coming of Chinese to Hawaii was "detrimental to the Japanese interest". It
is said similar protest was made to the Korean government by Prince Ito, ending
further immigration of Koreans to Hawaii.
In 1897, after the unsuocessful attempt to intimidate the Hawaiian government,
the Japanese government seized an opportunity to protest an alleged ill-treatment
and discriminative act toward the Japanese immigrants. She made a formal demand for
an indemnity. Soon after the ultimatum was forwarded to the Hawaiian government,
Japan sent her cruiser, S. Naniwa, under the oommand of Captain Kuroda. On his
arrival Minister Shimamura of Japan immediately asked for a permit to have Captain
Kuroda and his orew to exercise in target practice with the tube guns and rifles ad-
jacent outside of the harbor of Honolulu for 20 days, under the very nose of the
Hawaiian capitol. This dramatio incident hastened the move of annexation of Hawaii
to the United States and temporarily halted Japan's advancement.
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
Japan's continental policy has been termed the "duck diplomaoy" by the Chinese,
because it typifies a duok, which appears calm and serene above water, while it
paddles busily beneath, making steady progress. Likewise, Japan's diplomacy in
Hawaii oan be termed as such. Outwardly, the Japanese seem very peaceful and loyal
to Amerioa. Yet behind the scene one may find their programs filled with question-
able aotivities.
There are two distinot factors which aid the promotion of Japanization in Hawa-
ii. They aro -- first, the heredity of national traits of the Japanese race. Second
the Japanized environment, created by the Japanese leaders. These two factors have
been so oleverly harmonized and blended into such a degree that the result of collab-
oration is astonishing. It should be borne in mind that the success of Japanization
is largely due, if not entirely, to the correlationship of these two factors.
RACIAL HARMONY?
Although Hawaii is called the "melting pot" in the orossroad of the Pacific,
underlying its peaceful surface, the problem of racial equality and its contemporary
issues constantly bob up to disturb the community. Enter the business world in
Hawaii and one will find that race prejudice still controls its human emotions. Very

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.99)
or tne uapaooo  vr
will think twioe before making the common remark, "The Japs wou
JAPAN' PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
Hawaii was annexed to the U. S. while Japan was too busy recovering between
wars with China and Russia. To this day the Japanese regret that Japan did not an-
nex these islands prior to her major wars. However, this does not mean that she did
not make any attempt.
In 1894, during the sitting of Constitutional Convention of Hawaii, Japan made
a diplomatio demand that Japanese be given rights to vote. To avoid granting fran-
ohise, the Republic of Hawaii was forced to frame its constitution in such a manner
as to stop all naturalization for the time being, making this matter subject to
further treaty negotiation.
In 1895, the far-sighted Japanese government made strong formal protest against
allowing large number of Chinese to enter Hawaii. Japan's representative stated
that the coming of Chinese to Hawaii was "detrimental to the Japanese interest". It
is said similar protest was made to the Korean government by Prince Ito, ending
further immigration of Koreans to Hawaii.
In 1897, after the unsuocessful attempt to intimidate the Hawaiian government,
the Japanese government seized an opportunity to protest an alleged ill-treatment
and discriminative act toward the Japanese immigrants. She made a formal demand for
an indemnity. Soon after the ultimatum was forwarded to the Hawaiian government,
Japan sent her cruiser, S. Naniwa, under the oommand of Captain Kuroda. On his
arrival Minister Shimamura of Japan immediately asked for a permit to have Captain
Kuroda and his orew to exeroise in target practice with the tube guns and rifles ad-
jacent outside of the harbor of Honolulu for 20 days, under the very nose of the
Hawaiian capitol. This dramatio incident hastened the move of annexation of Hawaii
to the United States and temporarily halted Japan's advancement.
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
Japan's oontinental policy has been termed the "duck diplomaoy" by the Chinese,
because it typifies a duck, which appears calm and serene above water, while it
paddles busily beneath, making steady progress. Likewise, Japan's diplomacy in
Hawaii oan be termed as such. Outwardly, the Japanese seem very peaceful and loyal
to America. Yet behind the scene one may find their programs filled with question-
able activities.
There are two distinot factors which aid the promotion of Japanization in Hawa-
ii. They aro -- first, the heredity of national traits of the Japanese race. Second
the Japanized environment, created by the Japanese leaders. These two factors have
been so oleverly harmonized and blended into such a degree that the result of collab-
oration is astonishing. It should be borne in mind that the success of Japanization
is largely due, if not entirely, to the correlationship of these two factors.
RACIAL HARMONY?
Although Hawaii is called the "melting pot" in the orossroad of the Pacific,
underlying its peaceful surface, the problem of racial equality and its contemporary
issues constantly bob up to disturb the community. Enter the business world in
Hawaii and one will find that race prejudice still controls its human emotions. Very
often the question of raoial equality is fully discussed in the classrooms of the
public schools, and among missionaries. To be sure, the politicians loudly speak of
it on the stumps, during the political campaigns.

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.99)
The elder citizens consider the question of raoial equality merely an academio
subjeot, while the youngsters of the teen age make a reasonable practice of it. How-
ever, as soon as the two races venture out into the business world as competitors,
they find the common ground on which they had stood has suddenly disappeared. In-
wardly, both races wish to exolude each other in order to prevent a rapid rise or to
exclude dissimilar oustoms as a means of promoting national solidarity. Whether
this prejudice is intentional or not, the actual practice still persists in Hawaii
and it will continue to fight for supremaoy of raoe so long as the Japanese race de-
mands oqual racial status -- Americanism vs. Japanism.
HIS IMPERIAL HIGHNESS, PRINCE FUSHIMI'S FUND
Among the many Japanese institutions and agencies, perhaps the Prinoe Fushimi
Scholarship Association of Hawaii can be considered a representative one, direotly
sponsoring an effeotive action in promoting leadership for the fulfillment of Japan's
mission. The material aid received from a Prince of Japan, in the form of prizes
and soholarship by the American citizens of Japanese ancestry, has created the de-
sired results.
In the year of 1907, after the successful consummation of Anglo-Japanese Alli-
ance, His Imperial Highness, Prince Fushimi of Japan, visited Hawaii on his homeward
voyage as the guest of the British government. Fifteen leading Japanese with Consul-
General Saito, met tho Prinoe and his military aides at the home of Mr. Araki, the
manager of the Yokohama Specie Bank. It is said that General Nishi and Admiral
Yamamoto insisted on an aggressive, typical Japanese program, but the two militarists
were prevailed to compromise to a milder, but an effective program. Prinoe Fushimi
gave a modest amount of $200.00 with the promise of more and the local leaders were
asked to inorease the fund according to the needs from time to time. Prizes and
other recognitions were given to the outstanding young Japaneso student leaders for
meritorious efforts and in excellance of school work. Since l9l9 scholarships wore
awarded, sending outstanding Japanese student leaders to various universities. The
recipients of this fund now hold the key positions in the City, County and
Territorial governments.
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
Mr. Yusuki Tsurumi, one of the well-known parliamentarian and Christian leaders,
said, "I doubt very much whether Christianity, as developed in America and Europe,
will be aocepted as such by a large number of Japanese ....... Japanese will not
accept a foreign thought without impressing upon it their own stamp."
The foregoing statement by an eminent Japanese Christian leader confirms our
belief that the Japanese Christians in Hawaii cannot be truly Americanized through
Christianity alone. Unfortunately, the American missionaries and many leading fin-
anoiers are of the belief that this seems to be the best means to Americanize the
Amerioan citizens of Japanese ancestry. Looking over the statistics of the various
Japanese religious sects in Hawaii, one will find the sorrowful fact that, in spite
of large expenditures donated by American missionaries, Christianity has been
embraced by the Japanese leaders for a purpose -- a Japanese Front. The following
table will give the reader some idea of the number of Japaneso Christians compared
with the Buddhist and Shintos:
Figures of Japanese Consulate-General, March 5, 1934
Buddhists
52,039
Shinto
31,870
Christian
4,131
"The Japanese may be a faithful Buddhist or Christian, as he wishes, but
he is under obligation to worship the deified anoestors." Quotation from
Japanese government publication, "Sinto Shrines".
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
Recently the Japanese and many of their Amerioan friends have proudly pointed

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.99)
CONCLUSION
A few years ago the vice-minister Yasujiro Tsutsumi, of Japan's Overseas Af-
fairs, urged upon Japanese abroad to build up their own civilization and industrial
development, rather than become assimilated in the local population. He stated that
"where Japanese had maintained their identity, the result had been beneficial to
Japan."
General Araki said, "The urgent need of the Japanese nation is to realize justly
and effectively the power of the spirit of the Japanese." He further declared, "The
spirit of Japan must be spread over the seven seas and the five continents. Every-
thing that opposes its expansion is to be overwhelmed if necessary by force. The
countries of eastern Asia have been oppressed by the white people. Japan will not
tolerate this any longer. It is the duty of the Japanese people to oppose any action
of the Powers that run counter to Japanese rule."
Judging from these official attitudes and the subsequent events since l910, it
is apparent that America will soon face a momentous period of her history. The ideals,
politioal philosophies, and economic standards of the two great nations are bound to
test their supremacy. Our national security and the security of these islands will
be wholly contingent upon Japan's military policy in the Pacific. Japanization ac-
tivities should not be considered as mere academic interest; we should follow as
closely as possible the course of events and development of public opinion in Japan
and America.
Amerioans may recall the Wood-Forbes mission in l92l to the  Philippine Islands.
General Wood is said to have had a frank talk with Baron Tanaka (author of Tanaka's
memorial). He told the Japanese militarists "that if she continued to fortify the
Bonins, the Loochoos and the Pesscaadores to the point where at any time it would in-
terfere with or stop American commerce with mainland (China). the U. S. would go to
war". Baron Tanaka answered just as frankly and emphatically, "that if anyone inter-
fered with them in Manchuria, Japan would fight. Japan will not arbitrate on Man-
churia and will fight before she surrenders her hard won rights in the territory she
holds as vital to her security as the U. S. does the Panama Canal."
Since the exohange of this frank declaration, Japan not only fortified the Bonin
and Loochoos, but it is said that she is improving harbors and building large air-
plane landing fields in the Pelews, Carolines and the Marshalls. In the name of
Manchukuo she is building a puppet navy and forcing military training on Manchukuan
and the Koreans. The most recent threat is the "Hands off China" policy which is as
much as to say. Amerioa you keep off from China; this deolaration is a direct threat
and an act of interferenoo to American commerce. Will America go to war with Japan
as declared by General Wood? Thus far America has not taken any effective action,
but if Japan insists to aggravate and demand the equality of naval ratio, elimination
of American commercial and economic interests in China; secretly construct fortifica-
tions in the Pacific Mandates and continue the Japanization of Hawaii, America will
have no alternative.
In the face of all these perplexing contingencies, the strategical value of
Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed. Hawaii is the Heligoland to U. S. Navy and
Gibraltar to U. S. Army. Therefore, the necessity of Americanization in Hawaii is
doubly significant. Our security will wholly depend upon the satisfactory and ra-
tional settlement of political and military problems between Japan and America. The
Japanization of Hawaii is no longer an issue only for the people of Hawaii but it has
become national and as such it should be dealt with.
Japan's continued aggressive movement into the continent of Asia and particular-
ly Japan's insistence of Japanization of her subjects residing in the North and South
American countries and Hawaii are the outcome of the intense desire of the Japanese
race to change their racial, social, economic, and political and military status
equal to the status of America and of the white race. This spirit of Japan will
never rest till her national mission is attained.
More than three decades ago American hearts were oaptivated by the eloquence of
Senator Beveridge. He declared in the Senate -
"Our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia. The Pacific is our ocean.
- - - And the Pacific is the ocean of the commerce of the future.

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.99)
tolerate this any longer. It is the auty or uno vap 
of the Powers that run counter to Japanese rule."
Judging from these official attitudes and the subsequent events since l910, it
is apparent that America will soon face a momentous period of her history. The ideals,
politioal philosophies, and economic standards of the two great nations are bound to
test their supremacy. Our national security and the security of these islands will
be wholly contingent upon Japan's military policy in the Pacific. Japanization ac-
tivities should not be considered as mere academic interest; we should follow as
closely as possible the course of events and development of public opinion in Japan
and America.
Amerioans may recall the Wood-Forbes mission in l92l to the Philippine Islands.
General Wood is said to have had a frank talk with Baron Tanaka (author of Tanaka's
memorial). He told the Japanese militarists "that if she continued to fortify the
Bonins, the Loochoos and the Pesscaadores to the point where at any time it would in-
terfere with or stop American commerce with mainland (China). the U. S. would go to
war". Baron Tanaka answered just as frankly and emphatically, "that if anyone inter-
fered with them in Manchuria, Japan would fight. Japan will not arbitrate on Man-
churia and will fight before she surrenders her hard won rights in the territory she
holds as vital to her security as the U. S. does the Panama Canal."
Since the exohange of this frank declaration, Japan not only fortified the Bonin
and Loochoos, but it is said that she is improving harbors and building large air-
plane landing fields in the Pelews, Carolines and the Marshalls. In the name of
Manchukuo she is building a puppet navy and forcing military training on Manchukuan
and the Koreans. The most recent threat is the "Hands off China" policy which is as
much as to say, Amerioa you keep off from China; this declaration is a direct threat
and an aot of interferenoo to American commerce. Will America go to war with Japan
as declared by General Wood? Thus far America has not taken any effective action,
but if Japan insists to aggravate and demand the equality of naval ratio, elimination
of American commercial and economic interests in China; secretly construct fortifica-
tions in the Pacific Mandates and continue the Japanization of Hawaii, America will
have no alternative.
In the face of all these perplexing contingencies. the strategical value of
Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed. Hawaii is the Heligoland to U. S. Navy and
Gibraltar to U. S. Army. Therefore. the necessity of Americanization in Hawaii is
doubly significant. Our security will wholly depend upon the satisfactory and ra-
tional settlement of political and military problems between Japan and America. The
Japanization of Hawaii is no longer an issue only for the people of Hawaii but it has
become national and as such it should be dealt with.
Japan's continued aggressive movement into the continent of Asia and particular-
ly Japan's insistence of Japanization of her subjects residing in the North and South
American countries and Hawaii are the outcome of the intense desire of the Japanese
race to change their racial, social, economic, and political and military status
equal to the status of America and of the white race. This spirit of Japan will
never rest till her national mission is attained.
More than three decades ago American hearts were oaptivated by the eloquence of
Senator Beveridge. He deolared in the Senate -
"Our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia. The Pacific is our ocean.
- - - And the Pacific is the ocean of the commerce of the future.
"Most future wars will be conflicts of commerce. The Power that rules the
Pacific, therefore, is the Power that rules the world."
- 7 -

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.98)
Twenty-three years ago Mr. Chokume Matsuo said: "Japan and America are pitted
against each other not only as regards China but also with regards to the mastery of
the Pacific Ocean. There is always a possibility of the outbreak of war between
Japan and America. Frankly speaking, there is no prospect for America's emerging
victorious, judged both from her military and naval preparedness.
"Remember the position of the country before the outbreak of Russo-Japanese War.
There might have been not a soul in the world who dreamed of Japan's defeating Rus-
sia."
Can America arrest Japanization of Asia and Hawaii without going into a racial
war with Japan? Thinking Americans fully know when Japan is in full control of Asia,
with countless man power and with all the rich resources under their command, America
will be forced to lower the white man's standard of living, and submit to much
humiliation.
The writer sinoerely believes that America can arrest Japanization of Asia and
Hawaii if she so desires. The following course of aotion will force Japan's milita-
rists to their senses, eventually bringing peace and security in the Pacific:
First: Embargo the necessary arms, munitions, machinery, and materials
essential for war to Japan through a planned subsidy for two years.
Second: Extend positive moral aid to China and Korea to resist Japan's
militarists.
America's present policy of supplying 57 peroent of all war essentials to
Japan is parallel to America's aid to Japan when annexing Korea in 1910. Japan
used Korea as a stepping stone in the conquest of China. If history repeats,
Japan will use China in the conquest of Alaska, Hawaii, and possibly the Pacific
Coast.
Remember the American-Korean Treaty, May 22, 1882?
- 8 -

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RC
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 20,1939.
Mr. Hapilton:
Our established practice is
to file without acknowledgment
letters from Mr. Kilsoo K. Haan.
I have, therefore, marked "file"
the attached letters addressed by
Mr. Haan to various officers of
the. Department.
E. g.C.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
July 18, 1939
FE - Mr. Hamilton:
Please acknowledge this for me
in such a way as you consider appro-
priate.
A

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.97)
DCR
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League . .
101 D STREET N. E.
WASHINGTON. D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
早舌
11939
HEADQUARTERS
July /5, 1939
1281 Fort Street
MR WELLES
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
Representative in Washington, D.C.
Honorable Sumner Welles
KILSOO K. HAAN
Under Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Ch
OFFICERS
President
SHINHO CHAR
Vice-President
My dear Under Secretary Welles
A
SUNCHOO CHOI
Secretary
CHANGDUK CHOI
Enclosed please find a copy of an article
894.20211A/5
entitled "Japanization, A Peril to Hawaii", recently
Treasurer
presented to members of the United States Senate
JHAIKUN SUR
Foreign Relations, Naval, and Military Committees.
We trust that this will be of some service and help
in understanding the Japanization activities in the
DIRECTORS
Pacific area.
Chairman
CHANHO MIN
Aggressive Japanese policies in the Far
DOIN KWON
East have been repeatedly warned by the Koreans and
BONGKWAN CHUNG
the Chinese for many decades. Today aggression has
TAISUNG LEE
become a reality, disrupting the security and peace
5
BAIKSOO KIM
of the Pacific area. It is now taking a definite
5
CHANGYIK OH
step in the penetrution of the white man's sphere
of influence.
We, therefore, desire to take this oppor-
tunity of presenting this writing to you with the
spirit of international harmony and peace, looking
forward to America's positive policy of coping with
the Japanese activities in the Pacific and in the
western hemisphere.
Respectfully submitted,
Kileoo K. Heage
ILED
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.99)
101 D Street, N. E.
Washington, D. C.
July 15, 1939
Honorable Members of the Senate
Foreign Relations
Naval and Military Committees
The Seventy-Sixth Congress
Washington,
D. C.
Honorable Gentlemen:
The Sino-Korean Peoples League of Hawaii hereby
humbly submits an article -- "Japanization, A Peril To
Hawaii" -- for your information.
In the face of many grave and perplexing contin-
gencies in the Far East, we believe the strategical value
of Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed.
Recent report of Dr. Laura Thompson, research asso-
ciate in anthropology at the University of Hawaii, after
eight months' study of Guam, says that the people of Guam
too "fear Japanese domination and that they do not wish to
come under Japan". Hence, they strongly "desire American
fortification".
It is interesting to note the parallel of strategic
importance of these Islands with Korea.
The Koreans feared Japan's domination and justly
warned the Powers that their diplomatic action, turning
Korea over to Japan, was contrary to their best interests.
In spite of repeated warning in the name of "Peace
in the Far East", the Powers applied the "Munich" on Korea,
forcefully sacrificing their freedom and independence.
We trust that Guam and Hawaii will escape the
fate of Korea.
Respectfully submitted,
Kilsoo T. Haan
Kilsoo K. Haan
Sino-Korean Peoples League
of Hawaii

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANIZATION, A PERIL TO HAWAII
P R E E A C E
The purpose of this writing is to present as briefly
as possible the Japanization activities as they are found
in Hawaii, not as it should be as generally understood by
the American public in America.
The sub jects of Japan and the agents of the Tokyo
government have closely collaborated with their home
Eovernment in Japanizing Hawaii. Consequently, the re-
sults have been very detrimental to the teachings of
Americanism and, in reality, if it is not arrested soon,
it will be a peril to America's first line of defense.
The writer earnestly prays and hopes that this
writing may find its way into the hands of patriotic
Americans and do its most good for the security and welfare
of the United States of America.
Kilsoo K. Haan
Representative of the Sino-
Korean People's League in
Hawaii

=== Page 403 === (confidence 1.00)
JAPANIZATION A PERIL TO HAWAII
C
0
N
T
E
N
T
S
Page
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
2
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
3
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
3
RACIAL HARMONY?
3
PRINCE FUSHIMI SCHOLARSHIP FUND
4
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
4
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
4
LANGUAGESCHOOLS
5
CONCLUSION
7-8

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.99)
0
N
T
E
N
T
S
Page
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
2
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
3
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
3
RACIAL HARMONY?
3
PRINCE FUSHIMI SCHOLARSHIP FUND.
4
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
4
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
4
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
5
CONCLUSION
7-8
- 1 -

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
National or racial confliots do not become acute until the nation or race kept
in a weaker position is animated by national tendency to change its status and
strive for equality with the nation or race deemed superior. Commodore Matthew C.
Perry kindled this very kind of spark when he foroefully opened the ports of Japan
to the world.
The Japanese race accepted the supremacy of the white race with solemn mental
reservation. She buried her pride and humiliation and austuciously adopted the
spirit of popular educational system from America, military, medical and scientific
training from Germany and the naval strategy and diplomatic tactics from England. In
a good sense, these learnings were fittingly blended into the teachings and culture
of Japan. She took every nutriment in order to develop Japan's racial civilization.
Today Japan is a new dynamic military power which makes itself felt not only in
the revolt all over Asia against the white race but she is making forceful penetra-
tion into the western hemisphere and has captured many of the rich commercial
markets.
The greatest statesman of Japan, Count Okuma, declared: "To brand us Japanese
as inferior because we are a oolored race is bigotry -- we must combat and destroy
through the fulfillment of our national mission."
What is then, the national mission of Japan?
It is fairly arguable, basing on historical facts that Japan's national mission
is world supremacy and racial equality. With this in view she has played a role of
an expert strategist, she has judiciously applied the art of jiugitsu, seizing and
olaiming all the strategic points in the continent of Asia and in the Pacific,
directly obstructing Amerioa's advance to the rich commercial El-Dorado of the Far
East. She stretched her steady arm up to the north and gripped Kurile and half of
Sakhalin, threatening Amerioa's future northern air-route. She annexed Korea, the
stepping stone to Asiatic continent, and in l93l, she forcefully seized the three
eastern provinces of Manchuria and the rich opium province of Jehol. Since July 7,
1937 - North and South China. She also possesses the island of Formosa and the
chain of islands north of Formosa to Japan proper. blocking China's front door. She
now holds the key to the western half of the Pacific, by virtue of taking over all
the former German Pacific Islands north of equator, even the island of Yap. This
chain of islands for thousands of miles stretches from Bonin to the Marshalls, two
thousand miles nearer to the Hawaiin Islands. Strategically these islands are nat-
ural air bases for her large air forces, coaling station for her navy and the step-
ping stone for her army to march toward the white man's country. Unquesti onably the
proximity of these islands makes the American possessions vulnerable!
Japan will never rest until the fulfillment of her dream is ended. To her,
time is no question. Like the 47 ronin who awaited years for an opportunity to
avenge the dishonor of their master, she will do likewise. For 26 years she prepar-
ed for the eventful march from Mukden to Shanghai. It will be a matter of time that
she will attempt to sail from Bonin via Marshalls to Hawaii, then to California, or
from Kurile via Unalaska to the Pacific Coast.
The Japanese fishing interests are scanning the Marshalls and the Carolines with
hundreds of fishing sampans. In July of 1934, Japan moved her northern fishing base
800 miles nearer to Alaska. The fishing industry employs about 18,O00 men. With
twenty tenders and more than 400 vessels. Hawaii's large fleet of 400 or more sam-
pans and about 15,Ooo reservists will be another vital factor. These unique and
strategic positions will be an added advantage to Japan's navy. Not long ago in a
meeting at the Buddhist temple, an American Shintoist, Dr. Mason, remarked. "I have
been told that in the event of war between Japan and the United States you have
enough food supply to last only for six weeks." When he was asked from whom he re-
ceived the information, he answered, "The Japanese leaders told me." For all prac-
tioal purposes the Japanese are fervently pushing Japanization in Hawaii.
Japan is the only world power possessing a first class army as well as navy,
this factor combined with the compactness of super-strategic position, a naval at-
tack on Hawaii would be reasonably successful. No one can deny that the Pacific
situation is fraught with dangerous possibilities. The indecisive policy of the
United States may oncourage the Japanese militarists to take sudden action. In

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.99)
spirit or popular ouuvavv--
training from Germany and the naval strategy and diplomatio tactics . 
a good sense, these learnings were fittingly blended into the teachings and culture
of Japan. She took every nutriment in order to develop Japan's racial civilization.
Today Japan is a new dynamic military power which makes itself felt not only in
the revolt all over Asia against the white race but she is making forceful penetra-
tion into the wostern hemisphere and has captured many of the rich commercial
markets.
The greatest statesman of Japan, Count Okuma, declared: "To brand us Japanese
as inferior because we are a oolored race is bigotry -- we must combat and destroy
through the fulfillment of our national mission."
What is then, the national mission of Japan?
It is fairly arguable, basing on historical facts that Japan's national mission
is world supremacy and racial equality. With this in view she has played a role of
an expert strategist, she has judiciously applied the art of jiugitsu, seizing and
olaiming all the strategic points in the continent of Asia and in the Pacific,
directly obstructing America's advance to the rich commercial El-Dorado of the Far
East. She stretched her steady arm up to the north and gripped Kurile and half of
Sakhalin, threatening Amerioa's future northern air-route. She annexed Korea, the
stepping stone to Asiatic continent, and in 193l, she forcefully seized the three
eastern provinces of Manchuria and the rich opium province of Jehol. Since July 7,
1937 - North and South China. She also possesses the island of Formosa and the
chain of islands north of Formosa to Japan proper. blocking China's front door. She
now holds the key to the western half of the Paoific, by virtue of taking over all
the former German Pacific Islands north of equator, even the island of Yap. This
chain of islands for thousands of miles stretches from Bonin to the Marshalls, two
thousand miles nearer to the Hawaiin Islands. Strategically these islands are nat-
ural air bases for her large air forces, coaling station for her navy and the step-
ping stone for her army to march toward the white man's country. Unquesti onably the
proximity of these islands makes the American possessions vulnerable!
Japan will never rest until the fulfillment of her dream is ended. To her,
time is no question. Like the 47 ronin who awaited years for an opportunity to
avenge the dishonor of their master, she will do likowise. For 26 years she prepar-
ed for the eventful march from Mukden to Shanghai. It will be a matter of time that
she will attempt to sail from Bonin via Marshalls to Hawaii, then to California, or
from Kurile via Unalaska to the Pacific Coast.
The Japanese fishing interests are scanning the Marshalls and the Carolines with
hundreds of fishing sampans. In July of 1934, Japan moved her northern fishing base
800 miles nearer to Alaska. The fishing industry employs about 18,O00 men. With
twenty tenders and more than 400 vessels. Hawaii's large fleet of 400 or more sam-
pans and about 15,O0o reservists will be another vital factor. These unique and
strategic positions will be an added advantage to Japan's navy. Not long ago in a
meeting at the Buddhist temple, an American Shintoist, Dr. Mason, remarked, "I have
been told that in the event of war between Japan and the United States you have
enough food supply to last only for six weeks." When he was asked from whom he re-
ceived the information, he answered, "The Japanese leaders told me." For all prac-
tioal purposes the Japanese are fervently pushing Japanization in Hawaii.
Japan is the only world power possessing a first class army as well as navy,
this factor combined with the compactness of super-strategic position, a naval at-
tack on Hawaii would be reasonably successful. No one can deny that the Pacific
situation is fraught with dangerous possibilities. The indecisive policy of the
United States may encourage the Japanese militarists to take sudden action. In
which event, What Can Be The Consequences?
- 2 -

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.99)
It seems clear that the result of such an attack would seriously weaken the de-
fensive as well as the offensive efficiency of our Army and Navy. If due to some
unforeseen event, the Japanese cause enough damages to many strategic points, it
will means two things:
One. That the American fleet will be forced to wage a defensive war.
Two. The invading fleet will have an equal chance of victory.
With due respect to the U. S. Army and the Navy. if one can hear the whispers
of the Japanese in Japan, Korea, China, Siberia, the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, one
will think twice before making the common remark, "The Japs won't dare attack Hawaii"
JAPAN's PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
Hawaii was annexed to the U. S. while Japan was too busy recovering between
wars with China and Russia. To this day the Japanese regret that Japan did not an-
nex these islands prior to her major wars. However, this does not mean that she did
not make any attempt.
In 1894, during the sitting of Constitutional Convention of Hawaii, Japan made
a diplomatio demand that Japanese be given rights to vote. To avoid granting fran-
ohise, the Republic of Hawaii was forced to frame its constitution in such a manner
as to stop all naturalization for the time being, making this matter subject to
further treaty negotiation.
In 1895, the far-sighted Japanese government made strong formal protest against
allowing large number of Chinese to enter Hawaii. Japan's representative stated
that the coming of Chinese to Hawaii was "detrimental to the Japanese interest". It
is said similar protest was made to tho Korean government by Prince Ito, ending
further immigration of Koreans to Hawaii.
In 1897, after the unsuocessful attempt to intimidate the Hawaiian government,
the Japanese government seized an opportunity to protest an alleged ill-treatment
and discriminative act toward the Japanese immigrants. She made a formal demand for
an indemnity. Soon after the ultimatum was forwarded to the Hawaiian government,
Japan sent her cruiser, S. Naniwa, undor the command of Captain Kuroda. On his
arrival Ministor Shimamura of Japan immediately asked for a permit to have Captain
Kuroda and his orew to exercise in target practice with the tube guns and rifles ad-
jacent outside of the harbor of Honolulu for 20 days, under the very nose of the
Hawaiian capitol. This dramatic incident hastened the move of annexation of Hawaii
to the United States and temporarily halted Japan's advancement.
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
Japan's continental policy has been termed the "duck diplomacy" by the Chinese,
beoause it typifies a duck, which appears calm and serene above water. while it
paddles busily beneath, making steady progress. Likewise, Japan's diplomacy in
Hawaii can be termed as suoh. Outwardly, the Japanese seem very peaceful and loyal
to America. Yet behind the scene one may find their programs filled with question-
able activities.
There are two distinot factors which aid the promotion of Japanization in Hawa-
ii. They aro -- first, the heredity of national traits of the Japanese race. Second.
the Japanized environment, created by the Japanese leaders. These two factors have
been so oleverly harmonized and blended into such a degroe that the result of collab-
oration is astonishing. It should be borne in mind that the success of Japanization
is largely due, if not entirely, to the correlationship of these two factors.
RACIAL HARMONY?
Although Hawaii is called the "melting pot" in the crossroad of the Pacific,
underlying its peaceful surface, the problem of racial equality and its contemporary
issues constantly bob up to disturb the community. Enter the business world in
Hawaii and one will find that race prejudice still controls its human emotions. Very

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.99)
oI tno uapalooo .. ..
will think twice before making the common remark, ine vap
JAPAN's PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
Hawaii was annexed to the U. S. while Japan was too busy recovering between
wars with China and Russia. To this day the Japanese regret that Japan did not an-
nex these islands prior to her major wars. However, this does not mean that she did
not make any attempt.
In 1894, during the sitting of Constitutional Convention of Hawaii, Japan made
a diplomatio demand that Japanese be given rights to vote. To avoid granting fran-
ohise, the Republic of Hawaii was forced to frame its constitution in such a manner
as to stop all naturalization for the time being, making this matter subject to
further treaty negotiation.
In 1895, the far-sighted Japanese government made strong formal protest against
allowing large number of Chinese to enter Hawaii. Japan's representative stated
that the coming of Chinese to Hawaii was "detrimental to the Japanese interest". It
is said similar protest was made to the Korean government by Prince Ito, ending
further immigration of Koreans to Hawaii.
In 1897, after the unsuocessful attempt to intimidate the Hawaiian government,
the Japanese government seized an opportunity to protest an alleged ill-treatment
and discriminative act toward the Japanese immigrants. She made a formal demand for
an indemnity. Soon after the ultimatum was forwarded to the Hawaiian government,
Japan sent her cruiser, S. Naniwa, undor the command of Captain Kuroda. On his
arrival Minister Shimamura of Japan immediately asked for a permit to have Captain
Kuroda and his orew to exercise in target practice with the tube guns and rifles ad-
jacent outside of the harbor of Honolulu for 20 days, under the very nose of the
Hawaiian capitol. This dramatic incident hastened the move of annexation of Hawaii
to the United States and temporarily halted Japan's advancement.
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
Japan's continental policy has been termed the "duck diplomacy" by the Chinese,
because it typifies a duck, which appears calm and serene above water, while it
paddles busily beneath, making steady progress. Likewise, Japan's diplomacy in
Hawaii can be termed as such. Outwardly, the Japanese seem very peaceful and loyal
to America. Yet behind the scene one may find their programs filled with question-
able activities.
There are two distinot factors which aid the promotion of Japanization in Hawa-
ii. They aro -- first, the heredity of national traits of the Japanese race. Second
the Japanized environment, created by the Japanese leaders. These two factors have
been so cleverly harmonized and blended into such a degree that the result of collab-
oration is astonishing. It should be borne in mind that the success of Japanization
is largely due, if not entirely, to the correlationship of these two factors.
RACIAL HARMONY?
Although Hawaii is called the "melting pot" in the crossroad of the Pacifio,
underlying its peaceful surface, the problem of racial equality and its contemporary
issues constantly bob up to disturb the community. Enter the business world in
Hawaii and one will find that race prejudice still controls its human emotions. Very
often the question of raoial equality is fully discussed in the classrooms of the
public schools, and among missionaries. To be sure. the politicians loudly speak of
it on the stumps, during the political campaigns.
- 3 -

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.99)
The elder citizens consider the question of raoial equality merely an academio
subjeot, while the youngsters of the teen age make a reasonable praotice of it. How-
ever, as soon as the two races venture out into the business world as competitors.
they find the oommon ground on whioh they had stood has suddenly disappeared. In-
wardly, both races wish to oxclude each other in order to prevent a rapid rise or to
exclude dissimilar customs as a means of promoting national solidarity. Whether
this prejudice is intentional or not, the actual practice still persists in Hawaii
and it will continue to fight for supremaoy of race so long as the Japanese race de-
mands equal racial status -- Americanism vs. Japanism.
HIS IMPERIAL HIGHNESS, PRINCE FUSHIMI'S FUND
Among the many Japanese institutions and agencies, perhaps the Prince Fushimi
Scholarship Association of Hawaii can be considered a representative one, direotly
sponsoring an effective action in promoting leadership for the fulfillment of Japan's
mission. The material aid received from a Prince of Japan, in the form of prizes
and scholarship by the American citizens of Japanese anoestry, has created the de-
sired results.
In the year of 1907, after the successful consummation of Anglo-Japanese Alli-
ance, His Imperial Highness, Prince Fushimi of Japan, visited Hawaii on his homeward
voyage as the guest of the British government. Fifteen leading Japanese with Consul-
General Saito, met tho Prinoe and his military aides at the home of Mr. Araki, the
manager of the Yokohama Specie Bank. It is said that General Nishi and Admiral
Yamamoto insisted on an aggressive, typical Japanese program, but the two militarists
were prevailed to compromise to a milder, but an effective program. Prince Fushimi
gave a modest amount of $2o0.00 with the promise of more and the local leaders were
asked to increase the fund according to the needs from time to time. Prizes and
other recognitions were givon to the outstanding young Japanese student leaders for
meritorious offorts and in excellonce of school work. Since l919 scholarships woro
awarded, sending outstanding Japanese student leaders to various universities. The
recipients of this fund now hold the key positions in the City, County and
Territorial governments.
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
Mr. Yusuki Tsurumi, one of the well-known parliamentarian and Christian leaders,
said, "I doubt very much whether Christianity, as developed in America and Europe,
will be accepted as such by a large number of Japanese ....... Japanese will not
accept a foreign thought without impressing upon it their owm stamp."
The foregoing statement by an eminent Japanose Christian leader confirms our
belief that the Japanese Christians in Hawaii cannot be truly Americanized through
Christianity alone. Unfortunately, tho American missionaries and many leading fin-
anciers are of the belief that this seems to be the best means to Amerioanize the
American citizens of Japanese ancestry. Looking over the statistics of the various
Japanese religious sects in Hawaii, one will find the sorrowful fact that, in spite
of large expenditures donated by Amorican missionaries, Christianity has been
embraced by the Japanese leaders for a purpose -- a Japanese Front. The following
table will give the reader some idea of the number of Japaneso Christians compared
with the Buddhist and Shintos:
Figures of Japanese Consulate-General, March 5, 1934
Buddhists
52,039
Shinto
31,870
Christian
4,131
"The Japanese may be a faithful Buddhist or Christian, as he wishes, but
he is under obligation to worship the deified ancestors." Quotation from
Japanese government publication, "Sinto Shrines".
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
Recently the Japanese and many of their American friends have proudly pointed

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.99)
HIS IMPERIAL HIGHNESS, FRINCE FUSHIMI'S FUND
Among the many Japanese institutions and agoncies, perhaps the Prince Fushimi
Scholarship Association of Hawaii can be considered a representative one, direotly
sponsoring an effeotive aotion in promoting leadership for the fulfillment of Japan's
mission. The material aid received from a Prinoe of Japan, in the form of prizes
and scholarship by the American citizens of Japanese anoestry, has created the de-
sired results.
In the year of 1907, after the sucoessful consummation of Anglo-Japanese Alli-
ance, His Imperial Highness, Prince Fushimi of Japan, visited Hawaii on his homeward
voyage as the guest of the British government. Fifteen leading Japanese with Consul-
General Saito, met tho Prinoe and his military aides at the home of Mr. Araki, the
manager of the Yokohama Specie Bank. It is said that General Nishi and Admiral
Yamamoto insisted on an aggressive, typical Japanese program, but the two militarists
were prevailed to compromise to a milder, but an effective program. Prince Fushimi
gave a modest amount of $200.00 with the promise of more and the local leaders were
asked to inorease the fund according to the needs from time to time. Prizes and
other recognitions were given to the outstanding young Japanese student leaders for
meritorious efforts and in excellence of school work. Since l9l9 soholarships woro
awarded, sending outstanding Japanese student leaders to various universities. The
recipients of this fund now hold the key positions in the City, County and
Territorial governments.
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
Mr. Yusuki Tsurumi, one of the well-known parliamentarian and Christian leaders,
said, "I doubt very much whether Christianity, as developed in America and Europe,
will be accepted as such by a large number of Japanese ....... Japanese will not
accept a foreign thought without impressing upon it their owm stamp."
The foregoing statement by an eminent Japanose Christian leader confirms our
belief that the Japanese Christians in Hawaii cannot be truly Americanized through
Christianity alone. Unfortunately, tho American missionaries and many leading fin-
anciers are of the belief that this seems to be the best means to Americanize the
Amerioan citizens of Japanese ancestry. Looking over the statistics of the various
Japanese religious sects in Hawaii, one will find the sorrowful fact that, in spite
of large expenditures donated by American missionaries, Christianity has been
embraced by the Japanese leaders for a purpose -- a Japanese Front. The following
table will give the reader some idea of the number of Japaneso Christians compared
with the Buddhist and Shintos:
Figures of Japanese Consulate-General, March 5, 1934
Buddhists
52,039
Shinto
31,870
Christian
4,131
"The Japanese may be a faithful Buddhist or Christian, as he wishes, but
he is under obligation to worship the deified ancestors." Quotation from
Japanese government publication, "Sinto Shrines".
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
Recently the Japanese and many of their American friends have proudly pointed
out to the expatriated Japanese boys and girls as a proof of their loyalty to America.
Peculiarly, the Japanese law of nationality is based on the principle of jus
sanguines, while the Amerioan laws are based on the principle of jus soli. Dual

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.99)
nationality usually arises through a confliot between the law of jus soli -- the law
determining nationality according to the place of birth -- and the law of jus san-
guines by which nationality is traced through blood relationship. Whenever these
two prinoiples conflict dual nationality arises.
To ease this unfortunate situation, the 1924 Expatriation Law was put into
effect by the Japanese government. Unfortunately the result has been proven, beyond
a reasonable doubt, a hoax.
The Japanese Consulate Official stated that although the Japanese children may
register only at the Territorial Board of Health, the status of the ohild may not be
"necessary to say that such children hold American citizenship only". One of the in-
direct means of bringing the expatriated Japanese youths back to their own national-
ity is that they are urged to register their marriage certificates at the Japanese
Consulate, thus regaining their nationality from the Japanese government. Another
way is the general practice of the parents of the Japanese ancestry registering their
names at the Consulate when they become of military age, without their son's knowl-
edge. It is said "the parents are forced to do it, for otherwise their relatives
residing in Japan would be punished, fined or otherwise made to suffer." Approx-
imately two-thirds of the Amerioan citizens of Japanese ancestry in Hawaii retain the
status of dual citizenship.
The figures given to the writer by the Japanese Consulate are as follows:
1. Number of Japanese who first reported their birth to the Consulate and expa-
triated themselves from Japan
5,496
2. Number of the Japanese who did not report their birth to the
Consulate and lost the Japanese nationality
25,515
December 31, 1933
31,011
Expatriated in 1934
614
Total
31,625
One must ask -- how can Americans be made out of Japanese descendants when the
schools. various semi-government organs, Japanized religious sects, cultural centers,
Y.M.B.A. Intelligenoe Work, Y.W.B.A. and etc., subtly stress loyalty to Japan?
Hawaii Sentinel, the fearless American Weekly, reported; (Less than two months
ago, May 25) that the U. S. Intelligence and Customs officers seized a mass of print-
ed materials brought into the islands by an American citizen of Japanese ancestry. It
is alleged that the printed matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese
Navy League, encouraging a Nippon Navy in Hawaii".
Startling news articles appeared in Japan, "praising the loyalty of Hawaiian-
born Japanese to the mother country". It was one of these stories which told how the
Japanese in Hawaii, including American citizens of Japanese ancestry "signed pledges
of loyalty to Japan in their own blood."
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
Mr. Y. Soga, as spokesman for the Japanese community, said: --
"Japanese youths who are born here are not still fully adapted to their new
environment and new civilization of the west, if they should lose all traoes,
its effeot will be rather deplorable."
It is absurd to think that the Japanese youths born in Hawaii must be taught to
retain Japanese traits and oulture to become 1o0 percent American citizens. Neverthe
less the attitude of the leaders olearly shows that is what they want the Americans
to believe. In a practical sense, it means that they are going to maintain the
Japanese language schools.
If one can live in a Japanese community for a period of years and daily asso-
ciate with their children, one will readily agree that the language schools seriously
hinder Americanization. The textbook itself may not undermine Americanism, but they
certainly do teach Lananim

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.98)
"necessary to say that suoh chilaren nolu o.
direct means of bringing the expatriated Japanese youths back to their own national-
ity is that they are urged to register their marriage certificates at the Japanese
Consulate, thus regaining their nationality from the Japanese government. Another
way is the general practioe of the parents of the Japanese ancestry registering their
names at the Consulate when they becomf of military age, without their son's knowl-
edge. It is said "the parents are forced to do it, for otherwise their relatives
residing in Japan would be punished, fined or otherwise made to suffor." Approx-
imately two-thirds of the Amerioan citizens of Japanese ancestry in Hawaii retain the
status of dual citizenship.
The figures given to the writer by the Japanese Consulate are as follows:
1. Number of Japanese who first reported their birth to the Consulate and expa-
triated themselves from Japan
5,496
●
●
2. Number of the Japanese who did not report their birth to the
Consulate and lost the Japanese nationality
25,515
December 31, 1933
31,011
Expatriated in 1934
614
一
Total
31,625
一
One must ask -- how can Americans be made out of Japanese descendants when the
schools, varicus semi-government organs, Japanized religious sects, cultural centers,
Y.M.B.A. Intelligenoe Work, Y.W.B.A. and etc., subtly stress loyalty to Japan?
Hawaii Sentinel, the fearless American Weekly, reported; (Less than two months
ago, May 25) that the U. S. Intelligence and Customs officers seized a mass of print-
ed materials brought into the islands by an American citizen of Japanese ancestry. It
is alleged that the printed matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese
Navy League, encouraging a Nippon Navy in Hawaii".
Startling news articles appeared in Japan, "praising the loyalty of Hawaiian-
born Japanese to the mother country". It was one of these stories which told how the
Japanese in Hawaii, including American citizens of Japanese ancestry "signed pledges
of loyalty to Japan in their own blood."
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
Mr. Y. Soga, as spokesman for the Japanese community, said: --
"Japanese youths who are born here are not still fully adapted to their new
environment and new civilization of the west, if they should lose all traces,
its effeot will be rather deplorable."
It is absurd to think that the Japanese youths born in Hawaii must be taught to
retain Japanese traits and oulture to become 1o0 percent American citizens. Neverthe
less the attitude of the leaders olearly shows that is what they want the Americans
to believe. In a practical sense, it means that they are going to maintain the
Japanese language schools.
If one can live in a Japanese community for a period of years and daily asso-
ciate with their children, one will readily agree that the language schools seriously
hinder Americanization. The textbook itself may not undermine Americanism. but they
certainly do teach Japanism. Enough is taught to make the little youngsters talk of
- 5 -

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.99)
and play the role of "samurai", the "three human bullets", and dramatize future U.S.
- Japan war. They speak of Admiral Togo as "our hero" and the Emperor of Japan as
"our king". To say the least, the fact that the Japanese insist in maintaining
these expensive institutions proves that contrary is true. Why do they persist in
maintaining the language school at the tremendous expense of 850,000 dollars a year?
The American public schools are the best medium to Americanize the American citizens;
is it not reasonable to believe that the same is true for the Japanese? Just as the
Territorial government has its Public Instruction, the Japanese maintain Hawaii Jap-
anese Eduoational Association of Hawaii. The association is the pillar of the
Language Schools in Hawaii. Under its wings alone (1934) there were 16l schools,
589 teachers and an enrollment of 37,484 pupils.
We must remember the student leaders of today will be the leaders of tomorrow.
Whatever they acquire in the language schools, will be used as the means of a step-
ping stone to higher and noblor duty for Japan. The response of the Japanese stu-
dents toward Japan and their heroes shows their inward feelings. The student year
book of 1936 was dedicated to their beloved leader, Dr. Inazo Nitobe, the author of
"Bushido" -- the spirit of Japan. Dr. Nitobe was the adviser to the leading Jap-
anese daily Osaka Mainichi in Japan and a delegate to the League of Nation's Cultural
Bureau. He was known as the idol of America's drawing room. He commanded high es-
teem from many American Christian workers, as well as many financiers. Beoause of
his commanding position, he was sent to America by the Japanese militarists to check
the attitude of American officials, as well as the public, toward Japan's planned
invasion of Manchuria in Septomber 18, 1931.
Dr. Nitobe, aided by his American friends, made a thorough investigation and re-
ported the result to the militarists. He reported that: --
"Amerioa has more peace at any price missionaries than any other country.
They possess neither the intelligence nor the vision to see things as they
are. Consequently what they say in public, though not worth listening to,
is swallowed by the ignorant."
Men in educational circles, jurists and students of international law, are most-
ly sticklers for legal technicalities.
It is interesting to note that all the Japanese language schools abroad are con-
trolled by the Institute of Overseas People's Education and Japan's Foreign Office.
The head of the above institution, Viscount Ishii, declared (July 2nd of 1934) --
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an organization for infusing
the Japanese spirit into the second generation of Japanese abroad. In other
words, leave the second generation in the land of their residence but don't
let them forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, select Jap-
anese goods, in voting - cast the ballot for politicians friendly to Japanese."
The Growth of Japanese Language Sohools in Hawaii
Attendance in the
American Public Schools
Japanese Language Schools
1921
19,311
18,612
1925
28,363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45,121
42,665
Rev. Takie Okumura, the founder of the Japanese Language Sohool in Hawaii, said
(1935)--
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction and the Japanese
community seems to be Japanized more and more. Since its victory in the
Supreme Court the language schools are beginning to display the real color
of Japanism. Imperial Rescript is boldly read and taught, -- - - "
Rev. Shinryu Umehara. Japanese Buddhist priest who was sent to America to
inspect the Japanese language schools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, said (March
27,1934) --
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligence Department:

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.99)
Languago uu..uv~
589 teachers and an enrollment of 37,484 pupils.
We must remember the student leaders of today will be the leaders of tomorrow.
Whatever they acquire in the language schools, will be used as the means of a step-
ping stone to higher and noblor duty for Japan. The response of the Japanese stu-
dents toward Japan and their heroes shows their inward feelings. The student year
book of 1936 was dedicated to their beloved leader, Dr. Inazo Nitobe, the author of
"Bushido" -- the spirit of Japan. Dr. Nitobe was the adviser to the leading Jap-
anese daily Osaka Mainichi in Japan and a delegate to the League of Nation's Cultiral
Bureau. He was known as the idol of America's drawing room. He commanded high es-
teem from many American Christian workers, as well as many financiers. Beoause of
his commanding position, he was sent to America by the Japanese militarists to check
the attitude of American officials, as well as the public, toward Japan's planned
invasion of Manohuria in September 18, 1931.
Dr. Nitobe, aided by his American friends, made a thorough investigation and re-
ported the resuit to the militarists. He reported that: --
"America has more peace at any price missionaries than any other country.
They possess neither the intelligence nor the vision to see things as they
are. Consequently what they say in public, though not worth listening to,
is swallowed by the ignorant."
Men in educational circles, jurists and students of international law, are most-
ly sticklers for legal technicalities.
It is interesting to note that all the Japanese language schools abroad are con-
trolled by the Institute of Overseas People's Education and Japan's Foreign Office.
The head of the above institution, Visoount Ishii, declared (July 2nd of 1934) --
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an organization for infusing
the Japanese spirit into the second generation of Japanese abroad. In other
words, leave the second generation in the land of their residence but don't
let them forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, seleot Jap-
anese goods, in voting - cast the ballot for politicians frien ly to Japanese."
The Growth of Japanese Language Sohools in Hawali
Attendance in the
American Public Schools
Japanese Language Schools
1921
19,311
18,612
1925
28,363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45,121
42,665
Rev. Takie Okumura, the founder of the Japanese Language Sohool in Hawaii, said
(1935) --
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction and the Japanese
community seems to be Japanized more and more. Since its victory in the
Supreme Court the language schools are beginning to display the real color
Rev. Shinryu Umehara, Japanese Buddhist priest who was sent to Amerioa to
inspect the Japanese language schools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, said (March
27,1934)--
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligence Department:
"I felt while I was in America that the existence of Japanese schools and
Buddhist organizations in the Japanese communities is grand, for they are
the mother-bodies for fostering the national conscience, Japan's civiliza-
tion and Japan's spirit."
- 6 -

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.99)
CONCLUSION
A few years ago the vice-minister Yasujiro Tsutsumi, of Japan's Overseas Af-
fairs, urged upon Japanese abroad to build up their own civilization and industrial
development, rather than become assimilated in the local population. He stated that
"where Japanese had maintained their identity, the result had been beneficial to
Japan."
General Araki said, "The urgent need of the Japanese nation is to realize justly
and effectively the power of the spirit of the Japanese." He further deolared, "The
spirit of Japan must be spread over the seven seas and the five continents. Every-
thing that opposes its expansion is to be overwhelmed if neoessary by force. The
countries of eastern Asia have been oppressed by the white people. Japan will not
tolerate this any longer. It is the duty of the Japanese people to oppose any action
of the Powers that run counter to Japanese rule."
Judging from these official attitudes and the subsequent events since l910, it
is apparent that America will soon face a momentous period of her history. The ideals,
political philosophies, and economic standards of the two great nations are bound to
test their supremacy. Our national security and the security of these islands will
be wholly contingent upon Japan's military policy in the Pacific. Japanization ac-
tivities should not be considered as mere academic interest; we should follow as
closely as possible the course of events and development of public opinion in Japan
and America.
Americans may recall the Wood-Forbes mission in 192l to the  Philippine Islands.
General Wood is said to have had a frank talk with Baron Tanaka (author of Tanaka's
memorial). He told the Japanese militarists "that if she continued to fortify the
Bonins, the Looohoos and the Pesscaadores to the point where at any time it would in-
terfere with or stop American commerce with mainland (China), the U. S. would go to
war". Baron Tanaka answered just as frankly and emphatically, "that if anyone inter-
fered with them in Manchuria, Japan would fight. Japan will not arbitrate on Man-
churia and will fight before she surrenders her hard won rights in the territory she
holds as vital to her security as the U. S. does the Panama Canal."
Since the exchange of this frank declaration, Japan not only fortified the Bonin
and Loochoos, but it is said that she is improving harbors and building large air-
plane landing fields in the Pelews, Carolines and the Marshalls. In the name of
Manchukuo she is building a puppet navy and forcing military training on Manchukuan
and the Koreans. The most recent threat is the "Hands off China" policy which is as
much as to say. America you keep off from China; this deolaration is a direct threat
and an aot of interferenoo to American commeroe. Will America go to war with Japan
as declared by General Wood? Thus far America has not taken any effective action,
but if Japan insists to aggravate and demand the equality of naval ratio, elimination
of Amerioan commercial and economic interests in China; secretly construct fortifica-
tions in the Pacific Mandates and continue the Japanization of Hawaii, America will
have no alternative.
In the face of all these perplexing contingencies, the strategical value of
Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed. Hawaii is the Heligoland to U. S. Navy and
Gibraltar to U. S. Army. Therefore, the necessity of Americanization in Hawaii is
doubly significant. Our security will wholly depend upon the satisfactory and ra-
tional settlement of political and military problems between Japan and America. The
Japanization of Hawaii is no longer an issue only for the people of Hawaii but it has
become national and as suoh it should be dealt with.
Japan's continued aggressive movement into the continent of Asia and particular-
ly Japan's insistence of Japanization of her subjects residing in the North and South
American countries and Hawaii are the outcome of the intense desire of the Japanese
race to change their racial, social, economic, and political and military status
equal to the status of America and of the white race. This spirit of Japan will
never rest till her national mission is attained.
More than three decades ago American hearts were captivated by the eloquence of
Senator Beveridge. He declared in the Senate -
"Our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia. The Pacific is our ocean.
- - - And the Pacific is the ocean of the commerce of the future.
"Most future wars will be confliots of commeroe. The Power that rules the

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
and errectively tne power or uno op.. .
spirit of Japan must be spread over the seven seas and the five continents. Every-
thing that opposes its expansion is to be overwhelmed if neoessary by force. The
countries of eastern Asia have been oppressed by the white people. Japan will not
tolerate this any longer. It is the duty of the Japanese people to oppose any action
of the Powers that run counter to Japanese rule."
Judging from these official attitudes and the subsequent events since l910, it
is apparent that America will soon face a momentous period of her history. The ideals,
political philosophies, and economic standards of the two great nations are bound to
test their supremacy. Our national security and the security of these islands will
be wholly contingent upon Japan's military policy in the Pacific. Japanization ac-
tivities should not be considered as mere academic interest; we should follow as
closely as possible the course of events and development of public opinion in Japan
and America.
Amerioans may recall the Wood-Forbes mission in l92l to the Philippine Islands.
General Wood is said to have had a frank talk with Baron Tanaka (author of Tanaka's
memorial). He told the Japanese militarists "that if she continued to fortify the
Bonins, the Looohoos and the Pesscaadores to the point where at any time it would in-
terfere with or stop American commerce with mainland (China), the U. S. would go to
war". Baron Tanaka answered just as frankly and emphatically, "that if anyone inter-
fered with them in Manchuria, Japan would fight. Japan will not arbitrate on Man-
churia and will fight before she surrenders her hard won rights in the territory she
holds as vital to her security as the U. S. does the Panama Canal."
Since the exchange of this frank declaration, Japan not only fortified the Bonin
and Loochoos, but it is said that she is improving harbors and building large air-
plane landing fields in the Pelews, Carolines and the Marshalls. In the name of
Manchukuo she is building a puppet navy and forcing military training on Manchukuan
and the Koreans. The most recent threat is the "Hands off China" policy which is as
much as to say. America you keep off from China; this declaration is a direct threat
and an aot of interferenoo to American commeroe. Will America go to war with Japan
as declared by General Wood? Thus far America has not taken any effective action,
but if Japan insists to aggravate and demand the equality of naval ratio, elimination
of Amerioan commercial and economic interests in China; secretly construct fortifica-
tions in the Pacific Mandates and continue the Japanization of Hawaii, America will
have no alternative.
In the face of all these perplexing contingencies, the strategical value of
Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed. Hawaii is the Heligoland to U. S. Navy and
Gibraltar to U. S. Army. Therefore, the necessity of Americanization in Hawaii is
doubly significant. Our security will wholly depend upon the satisfactory and ra-
tional settlement of political and military problems between Japan and America. The
Japanization of Hawaii is no longer an issue only for the people of Hawaii but it has
become national and as such it should be dealt with.
Japan's continued aggressive movement into the continent of Asia and particular-
ly Japan's insistence of Japanization of her subjects residing in the North and South
American countries and Hawaii are the outcome of the intense desire of the Japanese
race to change their racial, social, economic, and political and military status
equal to the status of America and of the white race. This spirit of Japan will
never rest till her national mission is attained.
More than three decades ago American hearts were captivated by the eloquence of
Senator Beveridge. He declared in the Senate -
"Our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia. The Pacific is our ocean.
- - - And the Pacific is the ocean of the commeroe of the future.
"Most future wars will be confliots of commerce. The Power that rules the
Paoific, therefore, is the Power that rules the wcrld."
- 7 -

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
Twenty-three years ago Mr. Chokume Matsuo said: "Japan and America are pitted
against each other not only as regards China but also with regards to the mastery of
the Pacific Ocean. There is always a possibility of the outbreak of war between
Japan and Amerioa. Frankly speaking, there is no prospect for Amerioa's emerging
victorious, judged both from her military and naval preparedness.
"Remember the position of the country before the outbreak of Russo-Japanese War.
There might have been not a soul in the world who dreamed of Japan's defeating Rus-
sia."
Can America arrest Japanization of Asia and Hawaii without going into a racial
war with Japan? Thinking Americans fully know when Japan is in full control of Asia,
with countless man power and with all the rich resources under their oommand, America
will be foroed to lower the white man's standard of living, and submit to much
humiliation.
The writer sincerely believes that America can arrest Japanization of Asia and
Hawaii if she so desires. The following course of action will force Japan's milita-
rists to their senses, eventually bringing peace and security in the Pacific:
First: Embargo the necessary arms, munitions. machinery, and materials
essential for war to Japan through a planned subsidy for two years.
Second: Extend positive moral aid to China and Korea to resist Japan's
militarists.
America's present policy of supplying 57 percent of all war essentials to
Japan is parallel to America's aid to Japan when annexing Korea in 1910. Japan
used Korea as a stepping stone in the conquest of China. If history repeats,
Japan will use China in the conquest of Alaska, Hawaii, and possibly the Pacific
Coast.
Remember the American-Korean Treaty, May 22, 1882?
-8 -

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League . .
101 D STREET N. E.
WASHINGTON. D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
RESPECTFULLY REFERREL
FO THE
早舌抖
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MH M Jutjie
July 15, 1939
HEADQUARTERS
1281 Fort Street
ile
E.g.C.
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
Socretary to the President
eh
Representative in Washington, D.C.
His Excellency Franklin D. Roosevelt
KILSOO K. HAAN
President of the United States
White House
Washington, D. C.
OFFICERS
President
SHINHO CHAR
Your Excellency:
Vice-President
SUNCHOO CHOI
Secretary
Enclosed please find a copy of an article
CHANGDUK CHOI
entitled "Japanization, A Peril to Hawaii", recently
FW
Treasurer
presented to members of the United States Senate
JHAIKUN SUR
Foreign Relations, Naval, and Military Committees.
894.20211A/
We trust thit this will be of some service and help
in understanding the Japanization activities in the
DIRECTORS
Pacific area.
Chairman
CHANHO MIN
Aggressive Japanese policies in the Far
DOIN KWON
East have been repeatedly warned by the koreans and
BONGKWAN CHUNG
the Chinese for many decades. Today aggression has
TAISUNG LEE
become a reality, disrupting the security and peace
BAIKSOO KIM
of the Pacific area. It is now taking a definite
CHANGYIK OH
step in the penetration of the white man's sphere
of influence.
5
We, therefore, desire to take this oppor-
5
tunity of presenting this writing to Your Excellency
with the spirit of international harmony and peace,
looking forward to America's positive policy of coping
with the Japanese activities in the Pacific and in the
western hemisphere.
Respectfully submitted,
Kileoo K. Haan
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.99)
101 D Street, N. E.
Washington
D. C.
July 15, 1939
Honorable Members of the Senate
Foreign Relations
Naval and Military Committees
The Seventy-Sixth Congress
Washington,
D. C.
Honorable Gentlemen:
The Sino-Korean Peoples League of Hawaii hereby
humbly submits an article -- "Japanization, A Peril To
Hawaii" -- for your information.
In the face of many grave and perplexing contin-
gencies in the Far East, we believe the strategical value
of Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed.
Recent report of Dr. Laura Thompson, research asso-
ciate in anthropology at the University of Hawaii, after
eight months' study of Guam, says that the people of Guam
too "fear Japanese domination and that they do not wish to
come under Japan". Hence, they strongly "desire American
fortification".
It is interesting to note the parallel of strategic
importance of these Islands with Korea.
The Koreans feared Japan's domination and justly
warned the Powers that their diplomatic action, turning
Korea over to Japan, was contrary to their best interests.
In spite of repeated warning in the name of "Peace
in the Far East", the Powers applied the "Munich" on Korea,
forcefully sacrificing their freedom and independence.
We trust that Guam and Hawafi will escape the
fate of Korea.
Resnectfully submitted,
Kilsoo T. Haan
Kilsoo K. Haan
Sino-Korean Peoples League
of Hawaii

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANIZATION, A PERIL TO HAWAII
P R E E A C E
The purpose of this writing is to present as briefly
as possible the Japanization activities as they are found
in Hawai1, not as it should be as generally understood by
the American public in America.
The subjects of Japan and the agents of the Tokyo
government have closely collaborated with their home
Eovernment in Japanizing Hawaii. Consequently, the re-
sults have been very detrimental to the teachings of
Americanism and, in reality, if it is not arrested soon,
it will be a peril to America's first line of defense.
The writer earnestly prays and hopes that this
writing may find its way into the hands of patriotic
Americans and do its most good for the security and welfare
of the United States of America.
Kilsoo K.Haan
Representative of the Sino-
Korean People's League in
Hawaii

=== Page 421 === (confidence 1.00)
JAPANIZATION. A PERIL TO HAWAII
N
T
E
N
T
S
Page
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
2
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
3
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
3
RACIAL HARMONY?
3
PRINCE FUSHIMI SCHOLARSHIP FUND.
4
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
4
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
4
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
5
CONCLUSION
7-8

=== Page 422 === (confidence 1.00)
0
N
T
E
N
T
S
Page
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
2
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
3
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
3
RACIAL HARMONY?
3
PRINCE FUSHIMI SCHOLARSHIP FUND .
4
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
4
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
4
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
5
CONCLUSION
7-8

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
National or raoial oonfliots do not become acute until the nation or race kept
in a weaker position is animated by national tendency to change its status and
strive for equality with the nation or raoe deemed superior. Commodore Matthew C.
Perry kindled this very kind of spark when he forcefully opened the ports of Japan
to the world.
The Japanese race accepted the supremacy of the white race with solemn mental
reservation. She buried her pride and humiliation and austuciously adopted the
spirit of popular educational system from America, military, medical and scientific
training from Germany and the naval strategy and diplomatic tactics from England. In
a good sense, these learnings were fittingly blended into the teaohings and culture
of Japan. She took every nutriment in order to develop Japan's racial civilization.
Today Japan is a new dynamic military power which makes itself felt not only in
the revolt all over Asia against the white race but she is making forceful penetra-
tion into the western hemisphere and has captured many of the rich commercial
markets.
The greatest statesman of Japan, Count Okuma, declared: "To brand us Japanese
as inferior because we are a colored race is bigotry -- we must combat and destroy
through the fulfillment of our national mission."
What is then, the national mission of Japan?
It is fairly arguable, basing on historioal facts that Japan's national mission
is world supremacy and racial equality. With this in view she has played a role of
an expert strategist, she has judiciously applied the art of jiugitsu, seizing and
olaiming all the strategic points in the continent of Asia and in the Pacific,
directly obstructing America's advance to the rich commercial El-Dorado of the Far
East. She stretched her steady arm up to the north and gripped Kurile and half of
Sakhalin, threatening Amerioa's future northern air-route. She annexed Korea, the
stepping stone to Asiatic continent, and in 193l, she forcefully seized the three
eastern provinoes of Manchuria and the rich opium province of Jehol. Since July 7,
1937 - North and South China. She also possesses the island of Formosa and the
chain of islands north of Formosa to Japan proper. blocking China's front door. She
now holds the key to the western half of the Pacific, by virtue of taking over all
the former German Pacific Islands north of equator, even the island of Yap. This
chain of islands for thousands of miles stretches from Bonin to the Marshalls, two
thousand miles nearer to the Hawaiin Islands. Strategically these islands are nat-
ural air bases for her large air forces, coaling station for her navy and the step-
ping stone for her army to march toward the white man's country. Unquesti onably the
proximity of these islands makes the Amerioan possessions vulnerable!
Japan will never rest until the fulfillment of her dream is ended. To her,
time is no question. Like the 47 ronin who awaited years for an opportunity to
avenge the dishonor of their master, she will do likewise. For 26 years she prepar-
ed for the eventful maroh from Mukden to Shanghai. It will be a matter of time that
she will attempt to sail from Bonin via Marshalls to Hawaii, then to California, or
from Kurile via Unalaska to the Pacific Coast.
The Japanese fishing interests are scanning the Marshalls and the Carolines with
hundreds of fishing sampans. In July of 1934, Japan moved her northern fishing base
800 miles nearer to Alaska. The fishing industry employs about 18,O00 men. With
twenty tenders and more than 400 vessels. Hawaii's large fleet of 400 or more sam-
pans and about 15,000 reservists will be another vital factor. These unique and
strategic positions will be an added advantage to Japan's navy. Not long ago in a
meeting at the Buddhist temple, an American Shintoist, Dr. Mason, remarked, "I have
been told that in the event of war between Japan and the United States you have
enough food supply to last only for six weeks." When he was asked from whom he re-
ceived the information, he answered, "The Japanese leaders told me." For all prac-
tical purposes the Japanese are fervently pushing Japanization in Hawaii.
Japan is the only world power possessing a first class army as well as navy,
this factor combined with the compactness of super-strategio position, a naval at-
taok on Hawaii would be reasonably successful. No one can deny that the Pacific
situation is fraught with dangerous possibilities. The indecisive policy of the
United States may enoourage the Japanese militarists to take sudden action. In
whiah event, What Can Be The Consequenoes?

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.99)
reservation. She buried her priae anu nuuav 
spirit of popular educational system from America, military, medioal and scientific
training from Germany and the naval strategy and diplomatic tactics from England. In
a good sense, these learnings were fittingly blended into the teaohings and culture
of Japan. She took every nutriment in order to develop Japan's racial civilization.
Today Japan is a new dynamic military power which makes itself felt not only in
the revolt all over Asia against the white race but she is making forceful penetra-
tion into the western hemisphere and has oaptured many of the rich commercial
markets.
The greatest statesman of Japan, Count Okuma, declared: "To brand us Japanese
as inferior because we are a colored race is bigotry -- we must combat and destroy
through the fulfillment of our national mission."
What is then, the national mission of Japan?
It is fairly arguable, basing on historioal facts that Japan's national mission
is world supremacy and racial equality. With this in view she has played a role of
an expert strategist, she has judiciously applied the art of jiugitsu, seizing and
olaiming all the strategic points in the continent of Asia and in the Pacific,
directly obstructing America's advance to the rich commercial El-Dorado of the Far
East. She stretched her steady arm up to the north and gripped Kurile and half of
Sakhalin, threatening Amerioa's future northern air-route. She annexed Korea, the
stepping stone to Asiatic continent, and in l93l, she forcefully seized the three
eastern provinces of Manchuria and the rich opium province of Jehol. Since July 7,
1937 - North and South China. She also possesses the island of Formosa and the
chain of islands north of Formosa to Japan proper. blocking China's front door. She
now holds the key to the western half of the Pacifio, by virtue of taking over all
the former German Pacifio Islands north of equator, even the island of Yap. This
chain of islands for thousands of miles stretches from Bonin to the Marshalls, two
thousand miles nearer to the Hawaiin Islands. Strategically these islands are nat-
ural air bases for her large air forces, coaling station for her navy and the step-
ping stone for her army to march toward the white man's oountry. Unquestionably the
proximity of these islands makes the Amerioan possessions vulnerable!
Japan will never rest until the fulfillment of her dream is ended. To her,
time is no question. Like the 47 ronin who awaited years for an opportunity to
avenge the dishonor of their master, she will do likewise. For 26 years she prepar-
ed for the eventful march from Mukden to Shanghai. It will be a matter of time that
she will attempt to sail from Bonin via Marshalls to Hawaii, then to California, or
from Kurile via Unalaska to the Pacific Coast.
The Japanese fishing interests are scanning the Marshalls and the Carolines with
hundreds of fishing sampans. In July of 1934, Japan moved her northern fishing base
800 miles nearer to Alaska. The fishing industry employs about 18, O00 men. With
twenty tenders and more than 400 vessels. Hawaii's large fleet of 400 or more sam-
pans and about 15,000 reservists will be another vital factor. These unique and
strategic positions will be an added advantage to Japan's navy. Not long ago in a
meeting at the Buddhist temple, an American Shintoist, Dr. Mason, remarked, "I have
been told that in the event of war between Japan and the United States you have
enough food supply to last only for six weeks." When he was asked from whom he re-
ceived the information, he answered, "The Japanese leaders told me." For all prac-
tical purposes the Japanese are fervently pushing Japanization in Hawaii.
Japan is the only world power possessing a first class army as well as navy,
this factor combined with the compactness of super-strategio position, a naval at-
tack on Hawaii would be reasonably successful. No one can deny that the Pacific
situation is fraught with dangerous possibilities. The indecisive policy of the
United States may enoourage the Japanese militarists to take sudden action. In
whiah event, What Can Be The Consequenoes?
- 2 -

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.99)
It seems clear that the result of such an attaok would seriously weaken the de-
fensive as well as the offensive efficiency of our Army and Navy. If due to some
unforeseen event, the Japanese cause enough damages to many strategic points, it
will means two things:
One. That the American fleet will be forced to wage a defensive war.
Two. The invading fleet will have an equal chance of victory.
With due respect to the U. S. Army and the Navy, if one can hear the whispers
of the Japanese in Japan, Korea, China, Siberia, the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, one
will think twice before making the common remark, "The Japs won't dare attack Hawaii"
JAPAN's PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
Hawaii was annexed to the U. S. while Japan was too busy recovering between
wars with China and Russia. To this day the Japanese regret that Japan did not an-
nex these islands prior to her major wars. However, this does not mean that she did
not make any attempt.
In 1894, during the sitting of Constitutional Convention of Hawaii, Japan made
a diplomatio demand that Japanese be given rights to vote. To avoid granting fran-
chise, the Republic of Hawaii was forced to frame its constitution in such a manner
as to stop all naturalization for the time being, making this matter subject to
further treaty negotiation.
In 1895, the far-sighted Japanese government made strong formal protest against
allowing large number of Chinese to enter Hawaii. Japan's representative stated
that the coming of Chinese to Hawaii was "detrimental to the Japanese interest". It
is said similar protest was made to the Korean government by Prince Ito, ending
further immigration of Koreans to Hawaii.
In 189~: after the unsuccessful attempt to intimidate the Hawaiian government,
the Japanese government seized an opportunity to protest an alleged ill-treatment
and discriminative act toward the Japanese immigrants. She made a formal demand for
an indemmity. Soon after the ultimatum was forwarded to the Hawaiian government,
Japan sent her oruiser, S. Naniwa, under the command of Captain Kuroda. On his
arrival Minister Shimamura of Japan immediately asked for a permit to have Captain
Kuroda and his orew to exeroise in target praotice with the tube guns and rifles ad-
jacent outside of the harbor of Honolulu for 20 days, under the very nose of the
Hawaiian capitol. This dramatio inoident hastened the move of annexation of Hawaii
to the United States and temporarily halted Japan's advancement.
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
Japan's continental policy has been termed the "duck diplomacy" by the Chinese,
because it typifies a duck, which appears calm and serene above water, while it
paddles busily beneath, making steady progress. Likewise, Japan's diplomacy in
Hawaii oan be termed as suoh. Outwardly, the Japanese seem very peaceful and loyal
to Amerioa. Yet behind the scene one may find their programs filled with question-
able activities.
There are two distinot factors which aid the promotion of Japanization in Hawa-
ii. They are -- first, the heredity of national traits of the Japanese race. Second
the Japanized environment, created by the Japanese leaders. These two factors have
been so oleverly harmonized and blended into such a degree that the result of collab-
oration is astonishing. It should be borne in mind that the success of Japanization
is largely due, if not entirely, to the correlationship of these two faotors.
RACIAL HARMONY?
Although Hawaii is called the "melting pot" in the orossroad of the Pacific,
underlying its peaceful surface, the problem of racial equality and its contemporary
issues constantly bob up to disturb the community. Enter the business world in
Hawaii and one will find that race prejudice still controls its human emotions. Very

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
With due respect to the U. S. Army and the Navy, if one can hear the whispers
of the Japanese in Japan, Korea, China, Siberia, the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, one
will think twioe before making the common remark, "The Japs won't dare attack Hawaii"
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
Hawaii was annexed to the U. S. while Japan was too busy recovering between
wars with China and Russia. To this day the Japanese regret that Japan did not an-
nex these islands prior to her major wars. However, this does not mean that she did
not make any attempt.
In 1894, during the sitting of Constitutional Convention of Hawaii, Japan made
a diplomatic demand that Japanese be given rights to vote. To avoid granting fran-
chise, the Republic of Hawaii was forced to frame its constitution in such a manner
as to stop all naturalization for the time being, making this matter subject to
further treaty negotiation.
In l1895, the far-sighted Japanese government made strong formal protest against
allowing large number of Chinese to enter Hawaii. Japan's representative stated
that the coming of Chinese to Hawaii was "detrimental to the Japanese interest". It
is said similar protest was made to the Korean government by Prince Ito, ending
further immigration of Koreans to Hawaii.
In 1897, after the unsuccessful attempt to intimidate the Hawaiian government,
the Japanese government seized an opportunity to protest an alleged ill-treatment
and discriminative act toward the Japanese immigrants. She made a formal demand for
an indemnity. Soon after the ultimatum was forwarded to the Hawaiian government,
Japan sent her oruiser, S. Naniwa, under the command of Captain Kuroda. On his
arrival Minister Shimamura of Japan immediately asked for a permit to have Captain
Kuroda and his orew to exeroise in target praotice with the tube guns and rifles ad-
jacent outside of the harbor of Honolulu for 20 days, under the very nose of the
Hawaiian capitol. This dramatio incident hastened the move of annexation of Hawaii
to the United States and temporarily halted Japan's advancement.
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
Japan's oontinental policy has been termed the "duck diplomacy" by the Chinese,
because it typifies a duok, which appears oalm and serene above water, while it
paddles busily beneath, making steady progress. Likewise, Japan's diplomacy in
Hawaii can be termed as suoh. Outwardly, the Japanese seem very peaceful and loyal
to Amerioa. Yet behind the scene one may find their programs filled with question-
able activities.
There are two distinot factors which aid the promotion of Japanization in Hawa-
ii. They aro -- first. the heredity of national traits of the Japanese race. Second
the Japanized environment, created by the Japanese leaders. These two factors have
been so oleverly harmonized and blended into such a degree that the result of collab-
oration is astonishing. It should be borne in mind that the success of Japanization
is largely due, if not entirely, to the correlationship of these two faotors.
RACIAL HARMONY?
Although Hawaii is called the "melting pot" in the crossroad of the Pacifio,
underlying its peaceful surface, the problem of racial equality and its contemporary
issues constantly bob up to disturb the community. Enter the business world in
Hawaii and one will find that race prejudice still controls its human emotions. Very
often the question of raoial equality is fully disoussed in the olassrooms of the
public schools. and among missionaries. To be sure. the politicians loudly speak of
it on the stumps, during the political campaigns.

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.99)
The elder citizens consider the question of racial equality merely an academic
subjeot, while the youngsters of the teen age make a reasonable practice of it. How-
ever, as soon as the two races venture out into the business world as competitors,
they find the common ground on whioh they had stood has suddenly disappeared. In-
wardly, both races wish to exclude each other in order to provent a rapid rise or to
exclude dissimilar oustoms as a means of promoting national solidarity. Whether
this prejudice is intentional or not, the aotual praotioe still persists in Hawaii
and it will continue to fight for supremaoy of race so long as the Japanese race de-
mands equal racial status -- Americanism vs. Japanism.
HIS IMPERIAL HIGHNESS, FRINCE FUSHIMI'S FUND
Among the many Japanese institutions and agencies, perhaps the Prince Fushimi
Scholarship Association of Hawaii can be considered a representative one, directly
sponsoring an effective action in promoting leadership for the fulfillment of Japan's
mission. The material aid received from a Prince of Japan, in the form of prizes
and soholarship by the American citizens of Japanese anoestry, has oreated the de-
sired results.
In the year of 1907. after the successful consummation of Anglo-Japanese Alli-
ance, His Imperial Highness, Prince Fushimi of Japan, visited Hawaii on his homeward
voyage as the guest of the British government. Fifteen leading Japanese with Consul-
General Saito, met tho Prince and his military aides at the home of Mr. Araki, the
manager of the Yokohama Specie Bank. It is said that General Nishi and Admiral
Yamamoto insisted on an aggressive, typical Japanese program, but the two militarists
were prevailed to compromise to a milder, but an effective program. Prince Fushimi
gave a modest amount of $200.00 with the promise of more and the local leaders were
asked to increase the fund according to the needs from time to time. Prizes and
other recognitions were givon to the outstanding young Japaneso student leaders for
meritorious efforts and in excellonce of school work. Since l9l9 scholarships woro
awarded, sending outstanding Japanese student leaders to various universities. The
reoipients of this fund now hold the key positions in the City, County and
Territorial governments.
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
Mr. Yusuki Tsurumi, one of the well-known parliamentarian and Christian leaders,
said. "I doubt very much whether Christianity, as developed in America and Europe,
will be accepted as such by a large number of Japanese ....... Japanese will not
accept a foreign thought without impressing upon it their own stamp."
The foregoing statement by an eminent Japanese Christian leader confirms our
belief that the Japanese Christians in Hawaii cannot be truly Americanized through
Christianity alone. Unfortunately. the American missionaries and many leading fin-
anciers are of the belief that this seems to be the best means to Americanize the
Amerioan citizens of Japanese ancestry. Looking over the statistics of the various
Japanese religious sects in Hawaii, one will find the sorrowful fact that, in spite
of large expenditures donated by American missionaries, Christianity has been
embraced by the Japanese leaders for a purpose -- a Japanese Front. The following
table will give the reader some idea of the number of Japanose Christians compared
with the Buddhist and Shintos:
Figures of Japanese Consulate-General, March 5, 1934
Buddhists
52,039
Shinto
31,870
Christian
4,131
"The Japanese may be a faithful Buddhist or Christian, as he wishes, but
he is under obligation to worship the deified anoestors." Quotation from
Japanese government publication, "Sinto Shrines".
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
Recently the Japanese and many of their American friends have proudly pointed
out to the expatriated Japanese boys and girls as a proof of their loyalty to America.

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.99)
HIS IMPERIAL HIGHNESS, PRINCE FUSIIMI 
Among the many Japanese institutions and agencies, perhaps the Prince Fushimi
Scholarship Association of Hawaii can be considered a representative one, direotly
sponsoring an effective action in promoting leadership for the fulfillment of Japan's
mission. The material aid received from a Prinoo of Japan, in the form of prizes
and soholarship by the American citizens of Japanese anoestry, has created the de-
sired results.
In the year of 1907, after the successful consummation of Anglo-Japanese Alli-
ance, His Imperial Highness, Prince Fushimi of Japan, visited Hawaii on his homeward
voyage as the guest of the British government. Fifteen leading Japanese with Consul-
General Saito, met tho Prinoe and his military aides at the home of Mr. Araki, the
manager of the Yokohama Specie Bank. It is said that General Nishi and Admiral
Yamamoto insisted on an aggressive, typical Japanese program, but the two militarists
were prevailed to compromise to a milder, but an effective program. Prince Fushimi
gave a modest amount of $200.00 with the promise of more and the local leaders were
asked to increase the fund according to the needs from time to time. Prizes and
other recognitions were given to the outstanding young Japanese student leaders for
meritorious efforts and in excellence of school work. Since l919 soholarships woro
awarded, sending outstanding Japanese student leaders to various universities. The
reoipients of this fund now hold the key positions in the City, County and
Territorial governments.
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
Mr. Yusuki Tsurumi, one of the well-known parliamentarian and Christian leaders,
said, "I doubt very much whether Christianity, as developed in America and Europe,
will be accepted as such by a large number of Japanese ....... Japanese will not
accept a foreign thought without impressing upon it their own stamp."
The foregoing statement by an eminent Japanese Christian leader confirms our
belief that the Japanese Christians in Hawaii cannot be truly Americanized through
Christianity alone. Unfortunately, the Amerioan missionaries and many leading fin-
anciers are of the belief that this seems to be the best means to Americanize the
Amerioan citizens of Japanese ancestry. Looking over the statistics of the various
Japanese religious sects in Hawaii, one will find the sorrowful fact that, in spite
of large expenditures donated by American missionaries, Christianity has been
embraced by the Japanese leaders for a purpose -- a Japanese Front. The following
table will give the reader some idea of the number of Japaneso Christians compared
with the Buddhist and Shintos:
Figures of Japanese Consulate-General, March 5, 1934
Buddhists
52.039
Shinto
31.870
Christian
4,131
"The Japanese may be a faithful Buddhist or Christian, as he wishes, but
he is under obligation to worship the deified anoestors." Quotation from
Japanese government publication, "Sinto Shrines".
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
Recently the Japanese and many of their American friends have proudly pointed
out to the expatriated Japanese boys and girls as a proof of their loyalty to America.
Peouliarly, the Japanese law of nationality is based on the prinoiple of jus
sanguines, while the Amerioan laws are based on the principle of jus soli. Dual

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.99)
tionality usually arises through a confliot between the law of jus soli -- the law
determining nationality aocording to the place of birth -- and the law of jus san-
guines by whioh nationality is traced through blood relationship. Whenever these
two principles oonfliot dual nationality arises.
To ease this unfortunate situation, the l924 Expatriation Law was put into .
effect by the Japanese government. Unfortunately the result has been proven, beyond
a reasonable doubt, a hoax.
The Japanese Consulate Official stated that although the Japanese children may
register only at the Territorial Board of Health, the status of the ohild may not be
"necessary to say that suoh children hold American citizenship only". One of the in-
direct means of bringing the expatriated Japanese youths back to their own national-
ity is that they are urged to register their marriage certificates at the Japanese
Consulate, thus regaining their nationality from the Japanese government. Another
way is the general practice of the parents of the Japanese anoestry registering their
names at the Consulate when they beoome of military age, without their son's kmowl-
edge. It is said "the parents are forced to do it, for otherwise their relatives
residing in Japan would be punished, fined or otherwise made to suffer." Approx-
imately two-thirds of the American citizens of Japanese ancestry in Hawaii retain the
status of dual oitizenship.
The figures given to the writer by the Japanese Consulate are as follows:
1. Number of Japanese who first reported their birth to the Consulate and expa-
triated themselves from Japan
5,496
2. Number of the Japanese who did not report their birth to the
Consulate and lost the Japanese nationality
25,515
December 31, 1933
31,011
Expatriated in 1934
614
Total
31,625
One must ask -- how can Americans be made out of Japanese descendants when the
schools, various semi-government organs, Japanized religious sects, cultural centers,
Y.M.B.A. Intelligenoe Work, Y.W.B.A. and etc., subtly stress loyalty to Japan?
Hawaii Sentinel, the fearless American Weekly, reported; (Less than two months
ago, May 25) that the U. S. Intelligence and Customs officers seized a mass of print-
ed materials brought into the islands by an American citizen of Japanese ancestry. It
is alleged that the printed matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese
Navy League, enoouraging a Nippon Navy in Hawaii".
Startling news articles appeared in Japan, "praising the loyalty of Hawaiian-
born Japanese to the mother country". It was one of these stories which told how the
Japanese in Hawaii, inoluding American citizens of Japanese ancestry "signed pledges
of loyalty to Japan in their own blood."
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
Mr. Y. Soga, as spokesman for the Japanese community, said: --
"Japanese youths who are born here are not still fully adapted to their new
environment and new oivilization of the west, if they should lose all traces,
its effeot will be rather deplorable."
It is absurd to think that the Japanese youths born in Hawaii must be taught to
retain Japanese traits and oulture to become lo0 percent American citizens. Neverthe
less the attitude of the leaders olearly shows that is what they want the Americans
to believe. In a practical sense, it means that they are going to maintain the
Japanese language sohools.
If one can live in a Japanese community for a period of years and daily asso-
ciate with their children, one will readily agree that the language sohools seriously
hinder Americanization. The textbook itself may not undermine Americanism. but they
certainly do teaoh Japanism.
Enough is taught to make the little youngsters talk of

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.99)
direct means of bringing the expatriated Japanese youths pack to vnor. u..
ity is that they are urged to register their marriage certificates at the Japanese
Consulate, thus regaining their nationality from the Japanese government. Another
way is the general practice of the parents of the Japanese ancestry registering their
names at the Consulate when they become of military age, without their son's knowl-
edge. It is said "the parents are forced to do it, for otherwise their relatives
residing in Japan would be punished. fined or otherwise made to suffer." Approx-
imately two-thirds of the Amerioan citizens of Japanese anoestry in Hawaii retain the
status of dual oitizenship.
The figures given to the writer by the Japanese Consulate are as follows:
1. Number of Japanese who first reported their birth to the Consulate and expa-
triated themselves from Japan
5,496
2. Number of the Japanese who did not report their birth to the
Consulate and lost the Japanese nationality
25,515
December 31, 1933
31,011
Expatriated in 1934
614
Total
31.625
One must ask -- how can Americans be made out of Japanese descendants when the
schools, various semi-government organs, Japanized religious sects, cultural centers,
Y.M.B.A. Intelligenoe Work, Y.W.B.A. and etc., subtly stress loyalty to Japan?
Hawaii Sentinel, the fearless American Weekly, reported; (Less than two months
ago, May 25) that the U. S. Intelligence and Customs officers seized a mass of print-
ed materials brought into the islands by an American citizen of Japanese ancestry. It
is alleged that the printed matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese
Navy League, enoouraging a Nippon Navy in Hawaii".
Startling news articles appeared in Japan, "praising the loyalty of Hawaiian-
born Japanese to the mother country". It was one of these stories which told how the
Japanese in Hawaii, including American citizens of Japanese ancestry "signed pledges
of loyalty to Japan in their own blood."
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
Mr. Y. Soga, as spokesman for the Japanese community, said: --
"Japanese youths who are born here are not still fully adapted to their new
environment and new civilization of the west, if they should lose all traces,
its effeot will be rather deplorable."
It is absurd to think that the Japanese youths born in Hawaii must be taught to
retain Japanese traits and oulture to become lo0 percent American citizens. Neverthe
less the attitude of the leaders olearly shows that is what they want the Americans
to believe. In a praotical sense, it means that they are going to maintain the
Japanese language sohools.
If one can live in a Japanese community for a period of years and daily asso-
ciate with their children, one will readily agree that the language sohools seriously
hinder Americanization. The textbook itself may not undermine Americanism. but they
certainly do teach Japanism. Enough is taught to make the little youngsters talk of
- 5 -

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.99)
and play the role of "samurai", the "three human bullets", and dramatize future U.S.
- Japan war. They speak of Admiral Togo as "our hero" and the Emperor of Japan as
"our king". To say the least, the fact that the Japanese insist in maintaining
these expensive institutions proves that contrary is true. Why do they persist in
maintaining the language sohool at the tremendous expense of 850,000 dollars a year?
The Amerioan publio schools are the best medium to Americanize the American citizens;
is it not reasonable to believe that the same is true for the Japanese? Just as the
Territorial government has its Public Instruction, the Japanese maintain Hawaii Jap-
anese Educational Association of Hawaii. The association is the pillar of the
Language Sohools in Hawaii. Under its wings alone (1934) there were 161 schools,
589 teachers and an enrollment of 37,484 pupils.
We must remember the student leaders of today will be the leaders of tomorrow.
Whatever they acquire in the language sohools, will be used as the means of a step-
ping stone to higher and nobler duty for Japan. The response of the Japanese stu-
dents toward Japan and their heroes shows their inward feelings. The student year
book of 1936 was dedioated to their beloved leader, Dr. Inazo Nitobe, the author of
"Bushido" -- the spirit of Japan. Dr. Nitobe was the adviser to the leading Jap-
anese daily Osaka Mainichi in Japan and a delegate to the League of Nation's Cultural
Bureau. He was known as the idol of America's drawing room. He commanded high es-
teem from many American Christian workers, as well as many financiers. Beoause of
his commanding position, he was sent to America by the Japanese militarists to check
the attitude of American officials, as well as the public, toward Japan's planned
invasion of Manchuria in September 18, 1931.
Dr. Nitobe, aided by his American friends, made a thorough investigation and re-
ported the result to the militarists. He reported that: --
"America has more peace at any price missionaries than any other country.
They possess neither the intelligence nor the vision to see things as they
are. Consequently what they say in public, though not worth listening to,
is swallowed by the ignorant."
Men in eduoational circles, jurists and students of international law, are most-
ly sticklers for legal technicalities.
It is interesting to note that all the Japanese language schools abroad are con-
trolled by the Institute of Overseas People's Education and Japan's Foreign Office.
The head of the above institution, Visoount Ishii, declared (July 2nd of 1934) --
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an organization for infusing
the Japanese spirit into the second generation of Japanese abroad. In other
words, leave the second generation in the land of their residence but don't
let them forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, select Jap-
anese goods, in voting - cast the ballot for politioians friendly to Japanese."
The Growth of Japanese Language Sohools in Hawaii
Attendance in the
American Public Schools
Japanese Language Schools
1921
19,311
18,612
1925
28.363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45,121
42,665
Rev. Takie Okumura, the founder of the Japanese Language Sohool in Hawaii, said
(1935) --
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction and the Japanese
community seems to be Japanized more and more. Since its victory in the
Supreme Court the language sohools are beginning to display the real color
of Japanism. Imperial Resoript is boldly read and taught, - - - -"
Rev. Shinryu Umehara, Japanese Buddhist priest who was sent to America to
inspect the Japanese language schools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, said (March
27,1934)
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligenoe Department:
"I felt while I was in America that the existence of Japanese schools and
Buddhist organizations in the Japanese communities is grand. for they are

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.99)
We must remember the student leaders of today will be the leaders of tomorrow.
Whatever they acquire in the language sohools, will be used as the means of a step-
ping stone to higher and noblor duty for Japan. The response of the Japanese stu-
dents toward Japan and their heroes shows their inward feelings. The student year
book of 1936 was dedioated to their beloved leader, Dr. Inazo Nitobe, the author of
"Bushido" -- the spirit of Japan. Dr. Nitobe was the adviser to the leading Jap-
anese daily Osaka Mainichi in Japan and a delegate to the League of Nation's Cultural
Bureau. He was known as the idol of America's drawing room. He commanded high es-
teem from many American Christian workers, as well as many financiers. Beoause of
his commanding position, he was sent to America by the Japanese militarists to check
the attitude of Amerioan officials, as well as the public, toward Japan's planned
invasion of Manohuria in September 18, 1931.
Dr. Nitobe, aided by his Amerioan friends, made a thorough investigation and re-
ported the result to the militarists. He reported that: --
"America has more peace at any price missionaries than any other country.
They possess neither the intelligence nor the vision to see things as they
are. Consequently what they say in public, though not worth listening to,
is swallowed by the ignorant."
Men in eduoational circles, jurists and students of international law, are most-
ly sticklers for legal technioalities.
It is interesting to note that all the Japanese language schools abroad are oon-
trolled by the Institute of Overseas People's Education and Japan's Foreign Office.
The head of the above institution, Visoount Ishii, declared (July 2nd of 1934) --
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an organization for infusing
the Japanese spirit into the second generation of Japanese abroad. In other
words, leave the second generation in the land of their residence but don't
let them forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, select Jap-
anese goods, in voting - cast the ballot for politicians friendly to Japanese."
The Growth of Japanese Language Sohools in Hawaii
Attendance in the
American Public Schools
Japanese Language Schools
1921
19,311
18,612
1925
28.363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45.121
42,665
Rev. Takie Okumura, the founder of the Japanese Language Sohool in Hawaii, said
(1935) --
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction and the Japanese
community seems to be Japanized more and more. Since its victory in the
Supreme Court the language schools are beginning to display the real color
of Japanism. Imperial Resoript is boldly read and taught, - - - - "
Rev. Shinryu Umehara, Japanese Buddhist priest who was sent to America to
inspect the Japanese language schools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, said (March
27, 1934) --
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligence Department:
"I felt while I was in America that the existence of Japanese schools and
Buddhist organizations in the Japanese communities is grand, for they are
the mother-bodies for fostering the national consoience, Japan's civiliza-
tion and Japan's spirit."

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.99)
CONCLUSION
A few years ago the vice-minister Yasujiro Tsutsumi, of Japan's Overseas Af-
fairs, urged upon Japanese abroad to build up their own civilization and industrial
development, rather than become assimilated in the local population. He stated that
"where Japanese had maintained their identity, the result had been beneficial to
Japan."
General Araki said, "The urgent need of the Japanese nation is to realize justly
and effectively the power of the spirit of the Japanese." He further declared, "The
spirit of Japan must be spread over the seven seas and the five continents. Every-
thing that opposes its expansion is to be overwhelmed if necessary by force. The
countries of eastern Asia have been oppressed by the white people. Japan will not
tolerate this any longer. It is the duty of the Japanese people to oppose any action
of the Powers that run counter to Japanese rule."
Judging from these official attitudes and the subsequent events since 1910, it
is apparent that America will soon face a momentous period of her history. The ideals,
political philosophies, and economic standards of the two great nations are bound to
test their supremacy. Our national security and the security of these islands will
be wholly contingent upon Japan's military policy in the Pacific. Japanization ac-
tivities should not be considered as mere academic interest; we should follow as
closely as possible the course of events and development of public opinion in Japan
and America.
Americans may recall the Wood-Forbes mission in 192l to the Philippine Islands.
General Wood is said to have had a frank talk with Baron Tanaka (author of Tanaka's
memorial). He told the Japanese militarists "that if she continued to fortify the
Bonins, the Loochoos and the Pesscaadores to the point where at any time it would in-
terfere with or stop American commerce with mainland (China), the U. S. would go to
war". Baron Tanaka answered just as frankly and emphatically, "that if anyone inter-
fered with them in Manchuria, Japan would fight. Japan will not arbitrate on Man-
churia and will fight before she surrenders her hard won rights in the territory she
holds as vital to her security as the U. S. does the Panama Canal."
Since the exchange of this frank declaration, Japan not only fortified the Bonin
and Looohoos, but it is said that she is improving harbors and building large air-
plane landing fields in the Pelews, Carolines and the Marshalls. In the name of
Manchukuo she is building a puppet navy and forcing military training on Manchukuan
and the Koreans. The most recent threat is the "Hands off China" policy which is as
much as to say. Amerioa you keep off from China; this declaration is a direct threat
and an aot of interferenoe to American commerce. Will America go to war with Japan
as declared by General Wood? Thus far America has not taken any effective action,
but if Japan insists to aggravate and demand the equality of naval ratio, elimination
of Amerioan commeroial and economic interests in China; secretly construct fortifioa-
tions in the Pacific Mandates and continue the Japanization of Hawaii, America will
have no alternative.
In the face of all these perplexing contingencies, the strategical value of
Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed. Hawaii is the Heligoland to U. S. Navy and
Gibraltar to U. S. Army. Therefore. the necessity of Americanization in Hawaii is
doubly significant. Our seourity will wholly depend upon the satisfactory and ra-
tional settlement of political and military problems between Japan and America. The
Japanization of Hawaii is no longer an issue only for the people of Hawaii but it has
become national and as such it should be dealt with.
Japan's continued aggressive movement into the continent of Asia and partioular-
ly Japan's insistence of Japanization of her subjects residing in the North and South
Amerioan countries and Hawaii are the outcome of the intense desire of the Japanese
raoe to change their racial, sooial, eoonomic, and political and military status
equal to the status of America and of the white race. This spirit of Japan will
never rest till her national mission is attained.
More than three decades ago American hearts were captivated by the eloquence of
Senator Beveridge. He declared in the Senate -
"Our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia. The Pacific is our ocean.
- - - And the Pacific is the ocean of the commerce of the future.

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.99)
thing that opposes its expansion is to be overwhelmed 1r neoosay  ...
countries of eastern Asia have been oppressed by the white people. Japan will not
tolerate this any longer. It is the duty of the Japanese people to oppose any action
of the Powers that run counter to Japanese rule."
Judging from these official attitudes and the subsequent events since l910, it
is apparent that America will soon face a momentous period of her history. The ideals,
political philosophies, and economic standards of the two great nations are bound to
test their supremacy. Our national seourity and the security of these islands will
be wholly contingent upon Japan's military policy in the Pacifio. Japanization ac-
tivities should not be considered as mere academic interest; we should follow as
closely as possible the course of events and development of public opinion in Japan
and America.
Amerioans may recall the Wood-Forbes mission in 192l to the Philippine Islands.
General Wood is said to have had a frank talk with Baron Tanaka (author of Tanaka's
memorial). He told the Japanese militarists "that if she continued to fortify the
Bonins, the Loochoos and the Pesscaadores to the point where at any time it would in-
terfere with or stop American commerce with mainland (China). the U. S. would go to
war". Baron Tanaka answered just as frankly and emphatically, "that if anyone inter-
fered with them in Manchuria, Japan would fight. Japan will not arbitrate on Man-
churia and will fight before she surrenders her hard won rights in the territory she
holds as vital to her security as the U. S. does the Panama Canal."
Since the exchange of this frank declaration, Japan not only fortified the Bonin
and Looohoos, but it is said that she is improving harbors and building large air-
plane landing fields in the Pelews, Carolines and the Marshalls. In the name of
Manchukuo she is building a puppet navy and forcing military training on Manchukuan
and the Koreans. The most recent threat is the "Hands off China" polioy which is as
much as to say, America you keep off from China; this declaration is a direct threat
and an aot of interferenoo to American commerce. Will America go to war with Japan
as declared by General Wood? Thus far America has not taken any effective action,
but if Japan insists to aggravate and demand the equality of naval ratio, elimination
of American commeroial and economic interests in China; secretly construct fortifica-
tions in the Pacific Mandates and continue the Japanization of Hawaii, America will
have no alternative.
In the face of all these perplexing contingencies, the strategical value of
Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed. Hawaii is the Heligoland to U. S. Navy and
Gibraltar to U. S. Army. Therefore. the necessity of Americanization in Hawaii is
doubly significant. Our security will wholly depend upon the satisfactory and ra-
tional settlement of political and military problems between Japan and America. The
Japanization of Hawaii is no longer an issue only for the people of Hawaii but it has
become national and as such it should be dealt with.
Japan's continued aggressive movement into the continent of Asia and partioular-
ly Japan's insistence of Japanization of her subjects residing in the North and South
Amerioan countries and Hawaii are the outcome of the intense desire of the Japanese
raoe to change their racial, social, eoonomic, and political and military status
equal to the status of America and of the white race. This spirit of Japan will
never rest till her national mission is attained.
More than three decades ago American hearts were captivated by the eloquence of
Senator Beveridge. He declared in the Senate -
"Our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia. The Pacific is our ocean.
- - - And the Pacific is the ocean of the commeroe of the future.
"Most future wars will be conflicts of commeroe. The Power that rules the
Pacific, therefore, is the Power that rules the world."
- 7 -

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.99)
Twenty-three years ago Mr. Chokume Matsuo said: "Japan and America are pitted
against each other not only as regards China but also with regards to the mastery of
the Pacifio Ocean. There is always a possibility of the outbreak of war between
Japan and Amerioa. Frankly speaking, there is no prospect for America's emerging
victorious, judged both from her military and naval preparedness.
"Remember the position of the country before the outbreak of Russo-Japanese War.
There might have been not a soul in the world who dreamed of Japan's defeating Rus-
sia."
Can America arrest Japanization of Asia and Hawaii without going into a racial
war with Japan? Thinking Americans fully know when Japan is in full control of Asia.
with countless man power and with all the rich resources under their command, America
will be forced to lower the white man's standard of living, and submit to much
humiliation.
The writer sinoerely believes that America can arrest Japanization of Asia and
Hawaii if she so desires. The following course of action will force Japan's milita-
rists to their senses, eventually bringing peace and security in the Paoific:
First: Embargo the necessary arms, munitions, machinery, and materials
essential for war to Japan through a planned subsidy for two years.
Second: Extend positive moral aid to China and Korea to resist Japan's
militarists.
America's present policy of supplying 57 peroent of all war essentials to
Japan is parallel to America's aid to Japan when annexing Korea in 1910. Japan
used Korea as a stopping stone in the conquest of China. If history repeats,
Japan will use China in the conquest of Alaska, Hawaii, and possibly the Paoific
Coast.
Remember the American-Korean Treaty, May 22, 1882?
- 8

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.98)
AE
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League ..
101 D STREET N. E.
WASHINGTON. D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
@h
早舌抖
m
July /5, 1939
HEADQUARTERS
1281 Fort Street
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
Honorable Edward Yardley
Representative in Washington, D.C.
KILSOO K. HAAN
Chief Clerk and Administrative Assistant
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
OFFICERS
President
SHINHO CHAR
My dear Mr. Yardley:
Vice-President
FW
SUNCHOO CHOI
Secretary
Enclosed please find a copy of an article
894.20211A/55
CHANGDUK CHOI
entitled "Japanization, A Peril to Hawaii," recently
Treasurer
presented to me bers of the United States Senate
JHAIKUN SUR
Foreign Relations, Naval, and Military Committees.
We trust thut this will be of some service and help
in understanding the Japanization activities in the
DIRECTORS
Pacific area.
Chairman
CHANHO MIN
Aggressive Japanese policies in the Far
East have been repeatedly warned by the Koreans and
DOIN KWON
the Chinese for many decades. Today aggression has
BONGKWAN CHUNG
become a reality, disrupting the security and peace
TAISUNG LEE
BAIKSOO KIM
of the Pacific area. It is now taking a definite
step in the penetration of the white man's sphere
5
CHANGYIK OH
of influence.
We, therefore, desire to take this oppor-
tunity of presenting this writing to you with the
spirit of international harmony and peace, looking
forward to America's positive policy of coping with
the Japanese activities in the Pacific and in the
western hemisphere.
FI ED
Respectfully submitted,
Kilooo K. Haan
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.99)
101 D Street, N. E.
Washington,' D. C.
July 15, 1939
Honorable Members of the Senate
Foreign Relations
Naval and Military Committees
The Seventy-Sixth Congress
Washington,
D. C.
Honorable Gentlemen:
The Sino-Korean Peoples League of Hawaii·hereby
humbly submits an article -- "Japanization, A Peril To
Hawaii" -- for your information.
In the face of many grave and perplexing contin-
gencies in the Far East, we believe the strategical value
of Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed.
Recent report of Dr. Laura Thompson, research asso-
ciate in anthropology at the University of Hawaii, after
eight months' study of Guam, says that the people of Guam
too "fear Japanese domination and that they do not wish to
come under Japan". Hence, they strongly "desire American
fortification".
It is interesting to note the parallel of strategic
importance of these Islands with Korea.
The Koreans feared Japan's domination and justly
warned the Powers that their diplomatic action, turning
Korea over to Japan, was contrary to their best interests.
In spite of repeated warning in the name of "Peace
in the Far East", the Powere applied the "Munich" on Korea,
forcefully sacrificing their freedom and independence.
We trust that Guam and Hawafi will escape the
fate of Korea.
Respectfully submitted,
Kilsoo T. Haan
Kilsoo K. Haan
Sino-Korean Peoples League
of Hawaii

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.99)
Honorable Members of the Senate
Foreign Relations
Naval and Military Committees
The Seventy-Sixth Congress
Washington,
D. C.
Honorable Gentlemen:
The Sino-Korean Peoples League of Hawaii hereby
humbly submits an article -- "Japanization, A Peril To
Hawaii" -- for your information.
In the face of many grave and perplexing contin-
gencies in the Far East, we believe the strategical value
of Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed.
Recent report of Dr. Laura Thompson, research asso-
ciate in anthropology at the University of Hawaii, after
eight months' study of Guam, says that the people of Guam
too "fear Japanese domination and that they do not wish to
come under Japan". Hence, they strongly "desire American
fortification".
It is interesting to note the parallel of strategic
importance of these Islands with Korea.
The Koreans feared Japan's domination and justly
warned the Powers that their diplomatic action, turning
Korea over to Japan, was contrary to their best interests.
In spite of repeated warning in the name of "Peace
in the Far East", the Powers applied the "Munich" on Korea,
forcefully sacrificing their freedom and independence.
We trust that Guam and Hawafi will escape the
fate of Korea.
Respectfully submitted,
Kilsoo T. Haan
Kilsoo K. Haan
Sino-Korean Peoples League
of Hawaii

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANIZATION, A PERIL TO HAWAII
P R E E A C E
The purpose of this writing is to present as briefly
as possible the Japanization activities as they are found
in Hawai1, not as it should be as generally understood by
the American public in America.
The sub jects of Japan and the agents of the Tokyo
government have closely collaborated with their home
Eovernment in Japanizing Hawaii. Consequently, the re-
sults have been very detrimental to the teachings of
Americanism and, in reality, if it is not arrested soon,
it will be a peril to America's first line of defense.
The writer earnestly prays and hopes that this
writing may find its way into the hands of patriotic
Americans and do its most good for the security and welfare
of the United States of America.
Kilsoo K.Haan
Representative of the Sino-
Korean People's League in
Hawaii

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.97)
JAPANIZATION. A PERIL TO HAWAII
C
0
N
T
E
N
T
S
Page
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
2
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
3
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
3
RACIAL HARMONY?
3
PRINCE FUSHIMI SCHOLARSHIP FUND..
4
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
4
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
4
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
5
CONCLUSION
7-8

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
National or racial conflicts do not become acute until the nation or race kept
in a weaker position is animated by national tendoncy to change its status and
strive for equality with the nation or race deemed superior. Commodore Matthew C.
Perry kindled this very kind of spark when he foroefully opened the ports of Japan
to the world.
The Japanese race accepted the supremacy of the white race with solemn mental
reservation. She buried her pride and humiliation and austuciously adopted the
spirit of popular educational system from America, military, medical and scientific
training from Germany and the naval strategy and diplomatic tactics from England. In
a good sense, these learnings were fittingly blended into the teachings and culture
of Japan. She took every nutriment in order to develop Japan's racial civilization.
Today Japan is a new dynamio military power which makes itself felt not only in
the revolt all over Asia against the white race but she is making forceful penetra-
tion into the western hemisphere and has captured many of the rich commercial
markets.
The greatest statesman of Japan, Count Okuma, declared: "To brand us Japanese
as inferior because we are a oolored race is bigotry -- we must combat and destroy
through the fulfillment of our national mission."
What is then, the national mission of Japan?
It is fairly arguable, basing on historical facts that Japan's national mission
is world supremacy and racial equality. With this in view she has played a role of
an expert strategist, she has judiciously applied the art of jiugitsu, seizing and
claiming all the strategic points in the continent of Asia and in the Pacific,
directly obstruoting Amerioa's advance to the rich commercial El-Dorado of the Far
East. She stretohed her steady arm up to the north and gripped Kurile and half of
Sakhalin, threatening Amerioa's future northern air-route. She annexed Korea, the
stepping stone to Asiatic continent, and in l931, she forcefully seized the three
eastern provinces of Manchuria and the rich opium province of Jehol. Since July 7,
1937 - North and South China. She also possesses the island of Formosa and the
chain of islands north of Formosa to Japan proper. blocking China's front door. She
now holds the key to the western half of the Pacific, by virtue of taking over all
the former German Pacific Islands north of equator, even the island of Yap. This
chain of islands for thousands of miles stretches from Bonin to the Marshalls, two
thousand miles nearer to the Hawaiin Islands. Strategically these islands are nat-
ural air bases for her large air forces, coaling station for her navy and the step-
ping stone for her army to march toward the white man's country. Unquesti onably the
proximity of these islands makes the American possessions vulnerable!
Japan will never rest until the fulfillment of her dream is ended. To her,
time is no question. Like the 47 ronin who awaited years for an opportunity to
avenge the dishonor of their master, she will do likowise. For 26 years she prepar-
ed for the eventful march from Mukden to Shanghai. It will be a matter of time that
she will attempt to sail from Bonin via Marshalls to Hawaii, then to California, or
from Kurile via Unalaska to the Pacific Coast.
The Japanese fishing interests are scanning the Marshalls and the Carolines with
hundreds of fishing sampans. In July of 1934, Japan moved her northern fishing base
800 miles nearer to Alaska. The fishing industry employs about 18,000 men. With
twenty tenders and more than 400 vessels. Hawaii's large fleet of 400 or more sam.
pans and about 15,O00 reservists will be another vital factor. These unique and
strategic positions will be an added advantage to Japan's navy. Not long ago in a
meeting at the Buddhist temple, an American Shintoist, Dr. Mason, remarked, "I have
been told that in the event of war between Japan and the United States you have
enough food supply to last only for six weeks." When he was asked from whom he re-
ceived the information, he answered, "The Japanese leaders told me." For all prac-
tical purposes the Japanese are fervently pushing Japanization in Hawaii.
Japan is the only world power possessing a first class army as well as navy,
this factor combined with the compactness of super-strategic position, a naval at-
tack on Hawaii would be reasonably suocessful. No one can deny that the Pacific
situation is fraught with dangerous possibilities. The indecisive policy of the
United States may encourage the Japanese militarists to take sudden antion

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japanese race accepted the supremacy of the white race with solemn mental
reservation. She buried her pride and humiliation and austuciously adopted the
spirit of popular educational system from America, military, medical and scientific
training from Germany and the naval strategy and diplomatio tactics from England. In
a good sense, these learnings were fittingly blended into the teachings and culture
of Japan. She took every nutriment in order to develop Japan's racial civilization.
Today Japan is a new dynamio military power which makes itself felt not only in
the revolt all over Asia against the white race but she is making forceful penetra-
tion into the western hemisphere and has captured many of the rich commercial
markets.
The greatest statesman of Japan, Count Okuma, declared: "To brand us Japanese
as inferior because we are a colored race is bigotry -- we must combat and destroy
through the fulfillment of our national mission."
What is then, the national mission of Japan?
It is fairly arguable, basing on historical facts that Japan's national mission
is world supremaoy and racial equality. With this in view she has played a role of
an expert strategist, she has judiciously applied the art of jiugitsu, seizing and
olaiming all the strategic points in the continent of Asia and in the Pacific,
direotly obstruoting Amerioa's advance to the rioh commercial El-Dorado of the Far
East. She stretohed her steady arm up to the north and gripped Kurile and half of
Sakhalin, threatening Amerioa's future northern air-route. She annexed Korea, the
stepping stone to Asiatic continent, and in l93l, she forcefully seized the three
eastern provinoes of Manohuria and the rich opium province of Jehol. Since July 7,
1937 - North and South China. She also possesses the island of Formosa and the
chain of islands north of Formosa to Japan proper. blocking China's front door. She
now holds the key to the western half of the Pacific, by virtue of taking over all
the former German Pacific Islands north of equator, even the island of Yap. This
chain of islands for thousands of miles stretches from Bonin to the Marshalls, two
thousand miles nearer to the Hawaiin Islands. Strategically these islands are nat-
ural air bases for her large air forces, coaling station for her navy and the step-
ping stone for her army to march toward the white man's country. Unquestionably the
proximity of these islands makes the American possessions vulnerable!
Japan will never rest until the fulfillment of her dream is ended. To her,
time is no question. Like the 47 ronin who awaited years for an opportunity to
avenge the dishonor of their master, she will do likowise. For 26 years she prepar-
ed for the eventful march from Mukden to Shanghai. It will be a matter of time that
she will attempt to sail from Bonin via Marshalls to Hawaii, then to California, or
from Kurile via Unalaska to the Pacific Coast.
The Japanese fishing interests are scanning the Marshalls and the Carolines with
hundreds of fishing sampans. In July of 1934, Japan moved her northern fishing base
800 miles nearer to Alaska. The fishing industry employs about 18,O00 men. With
twenty tenders and more than 400 vessels. Hawaii's large fleet of 400 or more sam.
pans and about 15,000 reservists will be another vital factor. These unique and
strategic positions will be an added advantage to Japan's navy. Not long ago in a
meeting at the Buddhist temple, an American Shintoist, Dr. Mason, remarked, "I have
been told that in the event of war between Japan and the United States you have
enough food supply to last only for six weeks." When he was asked from whom he re-
ceived the information, he answered, "The Japanese leaders told me." For all prac-
tical purposes the Japanese are fervently pushing Japanization in Hawaii.
Japan is the only world power possessing a first class army as well as navy,
this factor combined with the compactness of super-strategic position, a naval at-
tack on Hawaii would be reasonably suocessful. No one can deny that the Pacific
situation is fraught with dangerous possibilities. The indecisive policy of the
United States may encourage the Japanese militarists to take sudden action. In
whioh event, What Can Be The Consequenoes?
- 2 -

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.99)
It seems clear that the result of such an attack would seriously weaken the de-
fensive as well as the offensive efficiency of our Army and Navy. If due to some
unforeseen event, the Japanese cause enough damages to many strategic points, it
will means two things:
One. That the Amerioan fleet will be forced to wage a defensive war.
Two. The invading fleet will have an equal chance of victory.
With due respect to the U. S. Army and the Navy. if one can hear the whispers
of the Japanese in Japan, Korea, China, Siberia, the Pacifio Coast and Hawaii, one
will think twice before making the common remark, "The Japs won't dare attack Hawaii"
JAPAN's PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
Hawaii was annexed to the U. S. while Japan was too busy recovering between
wars with China and Russia. To this day the Japanese regret that Japan did not an-
nex these islands prior to her major wars. However, this does not mean that she did
not make any attempt.
In 1894, during the sitting of Constitutional Convention of Hawaii, Japan made
a diplomatio demand that Japanese be given rights to vote. To avoid granting fran-
ohise, the Republic of Hawaii was forced to frame its constitution in such a manner
as to stop all naturalization for the time being, making this matter subjeot to
further treaty negotiation.
In 1895, the far-sighted Japanese government made strong formal protest against
allowing large number of Chinese to enter Hawaii. Japan's representative stated
that the coming of Chinese to Hawaii was "detrimental to the Japanese interest".
It
is said similar protest was made to the Korean government by Prince Ito, ending
further immigration of Koreans to Hawaii.
In 1897, after the unsuccessful attempt to intimidate the Hawaiian government,
the Japanese government seized an opportunity to protest an alleged ill-treatment
and discriminative act toward the Japanese immigrants. She made a formal demand for
an indemnity. Soon after the ultimatum was forwarded to the Hawaiian government,
Japan sent her cruiser, S. Naniwa, under the command of Captain Kuroda. On his
arrival Minister Shimamura of Japan immediately asked for a permit to have Captain
Kuroda and his orew to exeroise in target practice with the tube guns and rifles ad-
jacent outside of the harbor of Honolulu for 20 days, under the very nose of the
Hawaiian capitol. This dramatic incident hastened the move of annexation of Hawaii
to the United States and temporarily halted Japan's advancement.
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
Japan's continental policy has been termed the "duck diplomaoy" by the Chinese,
because it typifies a duck, which appears calm and serene above water, while it
paddles busily beneath, making steady progress. Likewise, Japan's diplomacy in
Hawaii can be termed as suoh. Outwardly, the Japanese seem very peaceful and loyal
to America. Yet behind the scene one may find their programs filled with question-
able activities.
There are two distinct factors which aid the promotion of Japanization in Hawa-
ii. They are -- first. the heredity of national traits of the Japanese race. Second.
the Japanized environment. created by the Japanese leaders. These two factors have
been so oleverly harmonized and blended into such a degree that the result of collab-
oration is astonishing. It should be borne in mind that the success of Japanization
is largely due, if not entirely, to the correlationship of these two factors.
RACIAL HARMONY?
Although Hawaii is called the "melting pot" in the crossroad of the Pacific,
underlying its peaceful surface, the problem of racial equality and its contemporary
issues constantly bob up to disturb the community. Enter the business world in

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.98)
witn auo respoou vo v
of the Japanese in Japan, Korea, China, Siberia, the Pacifio Coast and nawall, ono
will think twioe before making the common remark, "The Japs won't dare attack Hawail."
JAPAN's PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
Hawaii was annexed to the U. S. while Japan was too busy recovering between
wars with China and Russia. To this day the Japanese regret that Japan did not an-
nex these islands prior to her major wars. However, this does not mean that she did
not make any attempt.
In 1894, during the sitting of Constitutional Convention of Hawaii, Japan made
a diplomatio demand that Japanese be given rights to vote. To avoid granting fran-
ohise, the Republic of Hawaii was forced to frame its constitution in such a manner
as to stop all naturalization for the time being, making this matter subjeot to
further treaty negotiation.
In 1895, the far-sighted Japanese government made strong formal protest against
allowing large number of Chinese to enter Hawaii. Japan's representative stated
that the coming of Chinese to Hawaii was "detrimental to the Japanese interest". It
is said similar protest was made to the Korean government by Prince Ito, ending
further immigration of Koreans to Hawaii.
In 1897, after the unsuocessful attempt to intimidate the Hawaiian government,
the Japanese government seized an opportunity to protest an alleged ill-treatment
and discriminative act toward the Japanese immigrants. She made a formal demand for
an indemnity. Soon after the ultimatum was forwarded to the Hawaiian government,
Japan sent her cruiser, S. Naniwa, under the command of Captain Kuroda. On his
arrival Minister Shimamura of Japan immediately asked for a permit to have Captain
Kuroda and his orew to exeroise in target practice with the tube guns and rifles ad-
jacent outside of the harbor of Honolulu for 20 days, under the very nose of the
Hawaiian capitol. This dramatio incident hastened the move of annexation of Hawaii
to the United States and temporarily halted Japan's advancement.
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
Japan's continental policy has been termed the "duck diplomaoy" by the Chinese,
because it typifies a duck, which appears calm and serene above water. while it
paddles busily beneath, making steady progress. Likewise, Japan's diplomacy in
Hawaii can be termed as suoh. Outwardly, the Japanese seem very peaceful and loyal
to America. Yet behind the scene one may find their programs filled with question-
able activities.
There are two distinot factors which aid the promotion of Japanization in Hawa-
ii. They arc -- first. the heredity of national traits of the Japanese race. Second.
the Japanized environment, created by the Japanese leaders. These two factors have
been so oleverly harmonized and blended into such a degree that the result of collab-
oration is astonishing. It should be borne in mind that the success of Japanization
is largely due, if not entirely, to the correlationship of these two factors.
RACIAL HARMONY?
Although Hawaii is called the "melting pot" in the crossroad of the Pacific,
underlying its peaceful surface, the problem of racial equality and its contemporary
issues constantly bob up to disturb the community. Enter the business world in
Hawaii and one will find that race prejudice still controls its human emotions. Very
often the question of racial equality is fully discussed in the classrooms of the
public schools, and among missionaries. To be sure, the politicians loudly speak of
it on the stumps, during the political campaigns.
- 3 -

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.99)
The elder citizens consider the question of racial equality merely an academic
bjeot, while the youngsters of the teen age make a reasonable practice of it. How-
over, as soon as the two races venture out into the business world as competitors,
they find the common ground on which they had stood has suddenly disappeared. In-
wardly, both races wish to exclude each other in order to prevent a rapid rise or to
exclude dissimilar customs as a means of promoting national solidarity. Whether
this prejudice is intentional or not, the aotual praotice still persists in Hawaii
and it will continue to fight for supremaoy of race so long as the Japanese race de-
mands equal raoial status -- Americanism vs. Japanism.
HIS IMPERIAL HIGHNESS, PRINCE FUSHIMI'S FUND
Among the many Japanese institutions and agencies, perhaps the Prince Fushimi
Scholarship Association of Hawaii can be considered a representative one, direotly
sponsoring an effective action in promoting leadership for the fulfillment of Japan's
mission. The material aid received from a Prinoe of Japan, in the form of prizes
and soholarship by the American citizens of Japanese ancestry, has created the de-
sired results.
In the year of 1907, after the sucoessful consummation of Anglo-Japanese Alli-
ance, His Imperial Highness, Prince Fushimi of Japan, visited Hawaii on his homeward
voyage as the guest of the British government. Fifteen leading Japanese with Consul-
General Saito, met the Prince and his military aides at the home of Mr. Araki, the
manager of the Yokohama Speoie Bank. It is said that General Nishi and Admiral
Yamamoto insisted on an aggressive, typical Japanese program, but the two militarists
were prevailed to compromise to a milder, but an effective program. Prinoe Fushimi
gave a modest amount of $2o0.00 with the promise of more and the local leaders were
asked to inorease the fund according to the needs from time to time. Prizes and
other recognitions were given to the outstanding young Japanese student leaders for
meritorious efforts and in excellence of school work. Since l919 soholarships woro
awarded, sending outstanding Japanese student leaders to various universities. The
recipients of this fund now hold the key positions in the City, County and
Territorial governments.
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
Mr. Yusuki Tsurumi, one of the well-known parliamentarian and Christian leaders,
said, "I doubt very much whether Christianity, as developed in America and Europe,
will be accepted as such by a large number of Japanese ....... Japanese will not
accept a foreign thought without impressing upon it their own stamp."
The foregoing statement by an eminent Japanese Christian leader confirms our
belief that the Japanese Christians in Hawaii cannot be truly Americanized through
Christianity alone. Unfortunately, the Amerioan missionaries and many leading fin-
anciers are of the belief that this seems to be the best means to Amerioanize the
American citizens of Japanese ancestry. Looking over the statistics of the various
Japanese religious sects in Hawaii, one will find the sorrowful fact that, in spite
of large expenditures donated by American missionaries, Christianity has been
embraced by the Japanese leaders for a purpose -- a Japanese Front. The following
table will give the reader some idea of the number of Japanose Christians compared
with the Buddhist and Shintos:
Figures of Japanese Consulate-General, March 5, 1934
Buddhists
52.039
Shinto
31,870
Christian
4,131
"The Japanese may be a faithful Buddhist or Christian, as he wishes, but
he is under obligation to worship the deified anoestors." Quotation from
Japanese government publication, "Sinto Shrines".
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
Recently the Japanese and many of their American friends have proudly pointed
out to the expatriated Japanese boys and girls as a proof of their loyalty to America.

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.99)
HIS IMPERIAL HIGHNESS, PRINCE FUSHIMI'S FUND
Among the many Japanese institutions and agencies, perhaps the Prince Fushimi
Scholarship Association of Hawaii can be oonsidered a representative one, direotly
sponsoring an effeotive action in promoting leadership for the fulfillment of Japan's
mission. The material aid received from a Prince of Japan, in the form of prizes
and soholarship by the American citizens of Japanese ancestry, has created the de-
sired results.
In the year of 1907, after the sucoessful consummation of Anglo-Japanese Alli-
ance, His Imperial Highness, Prince Fushimi of Japan, visited Hawaii on his homeward
voyage as the guest of the British government. Fifteen leading Japanese with Consul-
General Saito, met the Prince and his military aides at the home of Mr. Araki, the
manager of the Yokohama Specie Bank. It is said that General Nishi and Admiral
Yamamoto insisted on an aggressive, typioal Japanese program, but the two militarists
were prevailed to compromise to a milder, but an effective program. Prinoe Fushimi
gave a modest amount of 200.00 with the promise of more and the local leaders were
asked to inorease the fund according to the needs from time to time. Prizes and
other recognitions were given to the outstanding young Japanese student leaders for
meritorious efforts and in excellence of school work. Since l919 soholarships wore
awarded, sending outstanding Japanese student leaders to various universities. The
recipients of this fund now hold the key positions in the City, County and
Territorial governments.
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
Mr. Yusuki Tsurumi, one of the well-known parliamentarian and Christian leaders,
said, "I doubt very much whether Christianity, as developed in America and Europe,
will be accepted as such by a large number of Japanese ....... Japanese will not
accept a foreign thought without impressing upon it their own stamp."
The foregoing statement by an eminent Japanese Christian leader confirms our
belief that the Japanese Christians in Hawaii cannot be truly Americanized through
Christianity alone. Unfortunately. the Amerioan missionaries and many leading fin-
anciers are of the belief that this seems to be the best means to Amerioanize the
American citizens of Japanese ancestry. Looking over the statistics of the various
Japanese religious sects in Hawaii, one will find the sorrowful fact that, in spite
of large expenditures donated by American missionaries, Christianity has been
embraced by the Japanese leaders for a purpose -- a Japanese Front. The following
table will give the reader some idea of the number of Japanese Christians compared
with the Buddhist and Shintos:
Figures of Japanese Consulate-General, March 5, 1934
Buddhists
52,039
Shinto
31,870
Christian
4,131
"The Japanese may be a faithful Buddhist or Christian, as he wishes, but
he is under obligation to worship the deified ancestors." Quotation from
Japanese government publication, "Sinto Shrines".
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
Recently the Japanese and many of their American friends have proudly pointed
out to the expatriated Japanese boys and girls as a proof of their loyalty to America.
Peculiarly, the Japanese law of nationality is based on the principle of jus
sanguines, while the Amerioan laws are based on the principle of jus soli. Dual

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.99)
hationality usually arises through a confliot between the law of jus soli -- the law
determining nationality according to the place of birth -- and the law of jus san-
guines by whioh nationality is traced through blood relationship. Whenever these
two principles conflict dual nationality arises.
To ease this unfortunate situation, the 1924 Expatriation Law was put into
effect by the Japanese government. Unfortunately the result has been proven, beyond
a reasonable doubt, a hoax.
The Japanese Consulate Official stated that although the Japanese children may
register only at the Territorial Board of Health, the status of the child may not be
"necessary to say that such children hold American citizenship only". One of the in-
direot means of bringing the expatriated Japanese youths back to their own national-
ity is that they are urged to register their marriage certificates at the Japanese
Consulate, thus regaining their nationality from the Japanese government. Another
way is the general practice of the parents of the Japanese ancestry registering their
names at the Consulate when they beoome of military age, without their son's knowl-
edge. It is said "the parents are forced to do it, for otherwise their relatives
residing in Japan would be punished, fined or otherwise made to suffor." Approx-
imately two-thirds of the Amerioan citizens of Japanese anoestry in Hawaii retain the
status of dual citizenship.
The figures given to the writer by the Japanese Consulate are as follows:
1. Number of Japanese who first reported their birth to the Consulate and expa-
triated themselves from Japan
5,496
2. Number of the Japanese who did not report their birth to the
Consulate and lost the Japanese nationality
25,515
December 31, 1933
31,011
Expatriated in 1934
614
Total
31,625
1
One must ask -- how can Americans be made out of Japanese descendants when the
schools, various semi-government organs, Japanized religious sects, cultural centers,
Y.M.B.A. Intelligenoe Work, Y.W.B.A. and etc., subtly stress loyalty to Japan?
Hawaii Sentinel, the fearless American Weekly, reported; (Less than two months
ago, May 25) that the U. S. Intelligence and Customs officers seized a mass of print-
ed materials brought into the islands by an American citizen of Japanese ancestry. It
is alleged that the printed matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese
Navy League, encouraging a Nippon Navy in Hawaii".
Startling news articles appeared in Japan, "praising the loyalty of Hawaiian-
born Japanese to the mother country". It was one of these stories which told how the
Japanese in Hawaii, including American citizens of Japanese ancestry "signed pledges
of loyalty to Japan in their own blood."
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
Mr. Y. Soga, as spokesman for the Japanese community, said: --
"Japanese youths who are born here are not still fully adapted to their new
environment and new civilization of the west, if they should lose all traces,
its effeot will be rather deplorable."
It is absurd to think that the Japanese youths born in Hawaii must be taught to
retain Japanese traits and culture to become loo percent American citizens. Neverthe
less the attitude of the leaders clearly shows that is what they want the Americans
to believe. In a practical sense, it means that they are going to maintain the
Japanese language schools.
If one can live in a Japanese community for a period of years and daily asso-
ciate with their children, one will readily agree that the language schools seriously
hinder Americanization. The textbook itself may not undermine Americanism, but they

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japanese Consulate Official stated that although the Japanese children may
register only at the Territorial Board of Health, the status of the child may not be
"necessary to say that such children hold American citizenship only". One of the in-
direct means of bringing the expatriated Japanese youths back to their own national-
ity is that they are urged to register their marriage certifioates at the Japanese
Consulate, thus regaining their nationality from the Japanese government. Another
way is the general practice of the parents of the Japanese ancestry registering their
names at the Consulate when they become of military age, without their son's knowl-
edge. It is said "the parents are forced to do it, for otherwise their relatives
residing in Japan would be punished, fined or otherwise made to suffor." Approx-
imately two-thirds of the Amerioan citizens of Japanese anoestry in Hawaii retain the
status of dual citizenship.
The figures given to the writer by the Japanese Consulate are as follows:
1. Number of Japanese who first reported their birth to the Consulate and expa-
triated themselves from Japan
5,496
2. Number of the Japanese who did not report their birth to the
Consulate and lost the Japanese nationality
25,515
December 31, 1933
31,011
Expatriated in 1934
一
614
Total
31,625
一
One must ask -- how can Americans be made out of Japanese descendants when the
schools, various semi-government organs, Japanized religious sects, cultural centers,
Y.M.B.A. Intelligenoe Work, Y.W.B.A. and etc., subtly stress loyalty to Japan?
Hawaii Sentinel, the fearless American Weekly, reported; (Less than two months
ago, May 25) that the U. S. Intelligence and Customs officers seized a mass of print-
ed materials brought into the islands by an American citizen of Japanese ancestry. It
is alleged that the printed matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese
Navy League, encouraging a Nippon Navy in Hawaii".
Startling news articles appeared in Japan, "praising the loyalty of Hawaiian-
born Japanese to the mother country". It was one of these stories which told how the
Japanese in Hawaii, including American citizens of Japanese ancestry "signed pledges
of loyalty to Japan in their own blood."
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
Mr. Y. Soga, as spokesman for the Japanese community, said: --
"Japanese youths who are born here are not still fully adapted to their new
environment and new civilization of the west, if they should lose all traces,
its effeot will be rather deplorable."
It is absurd to think that the Japanese youths born in Hawaii must be taught to
retain Japanese traits and culture to become lo0 percent American citizens. Neverthe
less the attitude of the leaders clearly shows that is what they want the Americans
to believe. In a practical sense, it means that they are going to maintain the
Japanese language schools.
If one can live in a Japanese community for a period of years and daily asso-
ciate with their children, one will readily agree that the language schools seriously
hinder Americanization. The textbook itself may not undermine Americanism, but they
certainly do teach Japanism. Enough is taught to make the little youngsters talk of
- 5 -

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.99)
and play the role of "samurai", the "three human bullets", and dramatize future U.S.
- Japan war. They speak of Admiral Togo as "our hero" and the Emperor of Japan as
"our king". To say the least, the faot that the Japanese insist in maintaining
these expensive institutions proves that contrary is true. Why do they persist in
maintaining the language school at the tremendous expense of 850,000 dollars a year?
The American publio sohools are the best medium to Americanize the American citizens;
is it not reasonable to believe that the same is true for the Japanese? Just as the
Territorial government has its Public Instruction, the Japanese maintain Hawaii Jap-
anese Educational Association of Hawaii. The association is the pillar of the
Language Sohools in Hawaii. Under its wings alone (1934) there were 161 schools,
589 teachers and an enrollment of 37,484 pupils.
We must remember the student leaders of today will be the leaders of tomorrow.
Whatever they acquire in the language sohools, will be used as the means of a step-
ping stone to higher and nobler duty for Japan. The response of the Japanese stu-
dents toward Japan and their heroes shows their inward feelings. The student year
book of 1936 was dedicated to their beloved leader, Dr. Inazo Nitobe, the author of
"Bushido" -- the spirit of Japan. Dr. Nitobe was the adviser to the leading Jap-
anese daily Osaka Mainichi in Japan and a delegate to the League of Nation's Cultural
Bureau. He was known as the idol of America's drawing room. He commanded high es-
teem from many American Christian workers, as well as many financiers. Beoause of
his commanding position, he was sent to America by the Japanese militarists to check
the attitude of American officials, as well as the public, toward Japan's planned
invasion of Manchuria in Septomber 18, 1931.
Dr. Nitobe, aided by his American friends, made a thorough investigation and re-
ported the result to the militarists. He reported that: --
"Amerioa has more peace at any price missionaries than any other country.
They possess neither the intelligence nor the vision to see things as they
are. Consequently what they say in public, though not worth listening to,
is swallowed by the ignorant."
Men in eduoational circles, jurists and students of international law, are most-
ly sticklers for legal technioalities.
It is interesting to note that all the Japanese language schools abroad are con-
trolled by the Institute of Overseas People's Education and Japan's Foreign Office.
The head of the above institution, Visoount Ishii, deolared (July 2nd of 1934) --
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an organization for infusing
the Japanese spirit into the second generation of Japanese abroad. In other
words, leave the second generation in the land of their residence but don't
let them forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, select Jap-
anese goods, in voting - oast the ballot for politicians friendly to Japanese."
The Growth of Japanese Language Schools in Hawaii
Attendance in the
American Public Schools
Japanese Language Schools
1921
19.311
18,612
1925
28,363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45,121
42,665
Rev. Takie Okumura. the founder of the Japanese Language Sohool in Hawaii, said
(1935)
--
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction and the Japanese
community seems to be Japanized more and more. Since its victory in the
Supreme Court the language schools are beginning to display the real color
of Japanism. Imperial Resoript is boldly read and taught, - - - -"
Rev. Shinryu Umehara, Japanese Buddhist priest who was sent to America to
inspect the Japanese language schools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, said (March
27, 1934) --
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligence Department:
"I felt while I was in America that the existence of Japanese schools and

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.99)
The Amerioan pupllo sonools aro uno voou ouin  
is it not reasonable to believe that the same is true for the Japanese? Just as the
Territorial government has its Public Instruction, the Japanese maintain Hawaii Jap-
aneso Educational Association of Hawaii. The association is the pillar of the
Language Schools in Hawaii. Under its wings alone (1934) there were 16l schools,
589 teachers and an enrollment of 37,484 pupils.
We must remember the student leaders of today will be the leaders of tomorrow.
Whatever they acquire in the language sohools, will be used as the means of a step-
ping stone to higher and nobler duty for Japan. The response of the Japanese stu-
dents toward Japan and their heroes shows their inward feelings. The student year
book of 1936 was dedicated to their beloved leader, Dr. Inazo Nitobe, the author of
"Bushido" -- the spirit of Japan. Dr. Nitobe was the adviser to the leading Jap-
anese daily Osaka Mainichi in Japan and a delegate to the League of Nation's Cultural
Bureau. He was known as the idol of America's drawing room. He commanded high es-
teem from many American Christian workers, as well as many financiers. Beoause of
his commanding position, he was sent to America by the Japanese militarists to check
the attitude of American officials. as well as the public, toward Japan's planned
invasion of Manchuria in Septomber 18, 1931.
Dr. Nitobe, aided by his American friends, made a thorough investigation and re-
ported the result to the militarists. He reported that: --
"Amerioa has more peace at any price missionaries than any other country.
They possess neither the intelligence nor the vision to see things as they
are. Consequently what they say in public, though not worth listening to,
is swallowed by the ignorant."
Men in eduoational circles, jurists and students of international law, are most-
ly sticklers for legal technicalities.
It is interesting to note that all the Japanese language schools abroad are con-
trolled by the Institute of Overseas People's Education and Japan's Foreign Office.
The head of the above institution, Visoount Ishii, declared (July 2nd of 1934) --
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an organization for infusing
the Japanese spirit into the second generation of Japanese abroad. In other
words, leave the second generation in the land of their residence but don't
let them forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, select Jap-
anese goods, in voting - oast the ballot for politicians friendly to Japanese."
The Growth of Japanese Language Sohools in Hawaii
Attendance in the
American Public Schools
Japanese Language Schools
1921
19,311
18,612
1925
28,363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45,121
42,665
Rev. Takie Okumura, the founder of the Japanese Language Sohool in Hawaii, said
(1935) --
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction and the Japanese
community seems to be Japanized more and more. Since its victory in the
Supreme Court the language schools are beginning to display the real color
Rev. Shinryu Umehara, Japanese Buddhist priest who was sent to America to
inspect the Japanese language schools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, said (March
27, 1934)--
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligence Department:
"I felt while I was in America that the existence of Japanese schools and
Buddhist organizations in the Japanese communities is grand, for they are
the mother-bodies for fostering the national consoience, Japan's civiliza-
tion and Japan's spirit."
- 6 -

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.99)
CONCLUSION
A few years ago the vice-minister Yasujiro Tsutsumi, of Japan's Overseas Af-
irs, urged upon Japanese abroad to build up their own civilization and industrial
development, rather than become assimilated in the looal population. He stated that
"where Japanese had maintained their identity, the result had been beneficial to
Japan."
General Araki said. "The urgent need of the Japanese nation is to realize justly
and effectively the power of the spirit of the Japanese." He further deolared. "The
spirit of Japan must be spread over the seven seas and the five continents. Every-
thing that opposes its expansion is to be overwhelmed if necessary by force. The
countries of eastern Asia have been oppressed by the white people. Japan will not
tolerate this any longer. It is the duty of the Japanese people to oppose any action
of the Powers that run counter to Japanese rule."
Judging from these official attitudes and the subsequent events since l9l0, it
is apparent that America will soon face a momentous period of her history. The ideals,
political philosophies, and economic standards of the two great nations are bound to
test their supremacy. Our national security and the security of these islands will
be wholly contingent upon Japan's military policy in the Pacifio. Japanization ac-
tivities should not be considered as mere aoademic interest; we should follow as
closely as possible the course of events and development of public opinion in Japan
and America.
Americans may recall the Wood-Forbes mission in 192l to the Philippine Islands.
General Wood is said to have had a frank talk with Baron Tanaka (author of Tanaka's
memorial). He told the Japanese militarists "that if she continued to fortify the
Bonins. the Loochoos and the Pesscaadores to the point where at any time it would in-
terfere with or stop American commerce with mainland (China), the U. S. would go to
war". Baron Tanaka answered just as frankly and emphatically, "that if anyone inter-
fered with them in Manchuria, Japan would fight. Japan will not arbitrate on Man-
churia and will fight before she surrenders her hard won rights in the territory she
holds as vital to her security as the U. S. does the Panama Canal."
Since the exohange of this frank declaration, Japan not only fortified the Bonin
and Loochoos, but it is said that she is improving harbors and building large air-
plane landing fields in the Pelews, Carolines and the Marshalls. In the name of
Manchukuo she is building a puppet navy and forcing military training on Manchukuan
and the Koreans. The most recent threat is the "Hands off China" policy which is as
much as to say, America you keep off from China; this declaration is a direct threat
and an act of interference to American commerce. Will America go to war with Japan
as declared by General Wood? Thus far America has not taken any effective action,
but if Japan insists to aggravate and demand the equality of naval ratio, elimination
of American commercial and economic interests in China; secretly construct fortifica-
tions in the Pacific Mandates and continue the Japanization of Hawaii. America will
have no alternative.
In the face of all these perplexing contingencies, the strategical value of
Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed. Hawaii is the Heligoland to U. S. Navy and
Gibraltar to U. S. Army. Therefore, the necessity of Americanization in Hawaii is
doubly significant. Our security will wholly depend upon the satisfactory and ra-
tional settlement of political and military problems between Japan and America. The
Japanization of Hawaii is no longer an issue only for the people of Hawaii but it has
become national and as such it should be dealt with.
Japan's continued aggressive movement into the continent of Asia and particular-
ly Japan's insistence of Japanization of her subjects residing in the North and South
Amerioan countries and Hawaii are the outcome of the intense desire of the Japanese
race to change their racial, social, economic, and political and military status
equal to the status of America and of the white race. This spirit of Japan will
never rest till her national mission is attained.
More than three deoades ago American hearts were oaptivated by the eloquence of
Senator Beveridge. He declared in the Senate -
"Our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia. The Pacific is our ocean.
- - - And the Pacific is the ocean of the commerce of the future.

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.99)
General Araki saiu, Ino urgono noou or uno vapanvso
and effectively the power of the spirit of the Japanese." He further deolared. "The
spirit of Japan must be spread over the seven seas and the five continents. Every-
thing that opposes its expansion is to be overwhelmed if necessary by force. The
countries of eastern Asia have been oppressed by the white people. Japan will not
tolerate this any longer. It is the duty of the Japanese people to oppose any action
of the Powers that run counter to Japanese rule."
Judging from these official attitudes and the subsequent events since l910, it
is apparent that America will soon face a momentous period of her history. The ideals,
political philosophies, and economic standards of the two great nations are bound to
test their supremacy. Our national security and the seourity of these islands will
be wholly contingent upon Japan's military policy in the Pacific. Japanization ac-
tivities should not be considered as mere aoademio interest; we should follow as
closely as possible the course of events and development of public opinion in Japan
and America.
Americans may recall the Wood-Forbes mission in 192l to the Philippine Islands.
General Wood is said to have had a frank talk with Baron Tanaka (author of Tanaka's
memorial). He told the Japanese militarists "that if she continued to fortify the
Bonins. the Loochoos and the Pesscaadores to the point where at any time it would in-
terfere with or stop American commerce with mainland (China), the U. S. would go to
war". Baron Tanaka answered just as frankly and emphatically, "that if anyone inter-
fered with them in Manchuria, Japan would fight. Japan will not arbitrate on Man-
churia and will fight before she surrenders her hard won rights in the territory she
holds as vital to her security as the U. S. does the Panama Canal."
Since the exohange of this frank declaration, Japan not only fortified the Bonin
and Loochoos, but it is said that she is improving harbors and building large air-
plane landing fields in the Pelews, Carolines and the Marshalls. In the name of
Manchukuo she is building a puppet navy and forcing military training on Manchukuan
and the Koreans. The most recent threat is the "Hands off China" policy which is as
much as to say, America you keep off from China; this declaration is a direct threat
and an aot of interferenoe to American commerce. Will America go to war with Japan
as declared by General Wood? Thus far America has not taken any effective action,
but if Japan insists to aggravate and demand the equality of naval ratio, elimination
of American commercial and economic interests in China; secretly construct fortifica-
tions in the Pacific Mandates and continue the Japanization of Hawaii, America will
have no alternative.
In the face of all these perplexing contingencies, the strategical value of
Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed. Hawaii is the Heligoland to U. S. Navy and
Gibraltar to U. S. Army. Therefore, the necessity of Americanization in Hawaii is
doubly significant. Our security will wholly depend upon the satisfactory and ra-
tional settlement of political and military problems between Japan and America. The
Japanization of Hawaii is no longer an issue only for the people of Hawaii but it has
become national and as such it should be dealt with.
Japan's continued aggressive movement into the continent of Asia and partioular-
ly Japan's insistence of Japanization of her subjects residing in the North and South
American countries and Hawaii are the outcome of the intense desire of the Japanese
race to change their racial, social, economic, and political and military status
equal to the status of America and of the white race. This spirit of Japan will
never rest till her national mission is attained.
More than three decades ago American hearts were oaptivated by the eloquence of
Senator Beveridge. He deolared in the Senate -
"Our largest trade henoeforth must be with Asia. The Paoific is our ooean.
- - - And the Pacifio is the ocean of the commerce of the future.
"Most future wars will be conflicts of commeroe. The Power that rules the
Pacifio, therefore, is the Power that rules the world."
- 7 -

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.98)
Twenty-three years ago Mr. Chokume Matsuo said: "Japan and America are pitted
against each other not only as regards China but also with regards to the mastery of
the Pacific Ocean. There is always a possibility of the outbreak of war between
Japan and Amerioa. Frankly speaking, there is no prospect for Amerioa's emerging
victorious, judged both from her military and naval preparedness.
"Remember the position of the country before the outbreak of Russo-Japanese War.
There might have been not a soul in the world who dreamed of Japan's defeating Rus-
sia."
Can America arrest Japanization of Asia and Hawaii without going into a racial
war with Japan? Thinking Americans fully know when Japan is in full control of Asia,
with countless man power and with all the rich resources under their command, America
will be forced to lower the white man's standard of living, and submit to much
humiliation.
The writer sincerely believes that America can arrest Japanization of Asia and
Hawaii if she so desires. The following course of action will force Japan's milita-
rists to their senses, eventually bringing peace and security in the Pacific:
First: Embargo the necessary arms, munitions, machinery, and materials
essential for war to Japan through a planned subsidy for two years.
Second: Extend positive moral aid to China and Korea to resist Japan's
militarists.
America's present policy of supplying 57 peroent of all war essentials to
Japan is parallel to America's aid to Japan when annexing Korea in 1910. Japan
used Korea as a stopping stone in the conquest of China. If history repeats,
Japan will use China in the conquest of Alaska, Hawaii, and possibly the Pacific
Coast.
Remember the American-Korean Treaty, May 22, 1882?
-8-

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.97)
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League . .
101 D STREET N.B.MEN
WASHINGTON, D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
1939 JUL 17 AM 10 49
ε.g.C.
早舌抖
HEADQUARTERS
JMMUH
July 15, 1939
1281 Fort Street
AND NLOONDS
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
Ch
Honorable Cordell Hull
A
AFFAI
Representative in Washington, D.C.
Secretary of State
KILSOO K. HAAN
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
OFFICERS
President
SHINHO CHAR
My dear Secretary Hull:
FW 894.20211A/
Vice-President
SUNCHOO CHOI
Enclosed please find a copy of an article
Secretary
entitled "Japanization, A Peril to Hawaii", recently
CHANGDUK CHOI
presented to members of the United States Senate
Treasurer
Foreign Relations, Naval, and Military Committees.
JHAIKUN SUR
We trust that this will be of some service and help
in understanding the Japanization activities in the
Pacific area.
DIRECTORS
policies
Chairman
Aggressive Japanese /in the Far East have
CHANHO MIN
been repeatedly warned by the koreans and the Chinese
DOIN KWON
for many decades. Today aggression has become a
BONGKWAN CHUNG
reality, disrupting the security and peace of the
TAISUNG LEE
Pacific area. It is now taking a definite step in
5
BAIKSOO KIM
the penetration of the white man's sphere of influence.
5
CHANGYIK OH
We, therefore, desire to take this oppor-
tunity of presenting this writing to you with the
spirit of international harmony and peace, looking
forward to America's positive policy in coping with
the Japanese activities in the Pacific and in the
western hemisphere.
Respectfully submitted,
Kilovo T. Haan
ED
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.99)
101 D Street, N. E.
Washington,' D. C.
July 15, 1939
Honorable Members of the Senate
Foreign Relations
Naval and Military Committees
The Seventy-Sixth Congress
Washington,
D. C.
Honorable Gentlemen:
The Sino-Korean Peoples League of Hawaii hereby
humbly submits an article -- "Japanization, A Peril To
Hawaii" -- for your information.
In the face of many grave and perplexing contin-
gencies in the Far East, we believe the strategical value
of Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed.
Recent raport of Dr. Laura Thompson, research asso-
ciate in anthropology at the University of Hawai1, after
eight months' study of Guam, says that the people of Guam
too "fear Japanese domination and that they do not wish to
come under Japan". Hence, they strongly "desire American
fortification".
It is interesting to note the parallel of strategic
importance of these Islands with Korea.
The Koreans feared Japan's domination and justly
warned the Powers that their diplomatic action, turning
Korea over to Japan, was contrary to their best interests.
In spite of reneated warning in the name of "Peace
in the Far East", the Powers applied the "Munich" on Korea,
forcefully sacrificing their freedom and independence.
We trust that Guam and Hawafi will escape the
fate of Korea.
Resnectfully submitted,
Kilsoo T. Haan
Kilsoo K. Haan
Sino-Korean Peoples League
of Hawaii

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANIZATION, A PERIL TO HAWAII
P R E E A C E
The purpose of this writing is to present as briefly
as possible the Japanization activities as they are found
in Hawaii, not as it should be as generally understood by
the American public in America.
The subjects of Japan and the agents of the Tokyo
government have closely collaborated with their home
Covernment in Japanizing Hawaii. Consequently, the re-
sults have been very detrimental to the teachings of
Americanism and, in reality, if it is not arrested soon,
it will be a peril to America's first line of defense.
The writer earnestly prays and hopes that this
writing may find its way into the hands of patriotic
Americans and do its most good for the security and welfare
of the United States of America.
Kilsoo K.Haan
Representative of the Sino-
Korean People's League in
Hawaii

=== Page 457 === (confidence 1.00)
JAPANIZATION. A PERIL TO HAWAII
C
T
E
N
T
S
Page
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
2
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
3
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
3
RACIAL HARMONY?
3
PRINCE FUSHIMI SCHOLARSHIP FUND
4
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
4
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
4
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
5
CONCLUSION
7-8

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.99)
C
0
T
E
N
T
S
Page
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
2
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
3
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
3
RACIAL HARMONY?
3
PRINCE FUSHIMI SCHOLARSHIP FUND.
4
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
4
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
4
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
5
CONCLUSION
7-8

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
National or racial conflicts do not become acute until the nation or race kept
in a weaker position is animated by national tendenoy to change its status and
strive for equality with the nation or race deemed superior. Commodore Matthew C.
Perry kindled this very kind of spark when he forcefully opened the ports of Japan
to the world.
The Japanese race accepted the supremacy of the white race with solemn mental
reservation. She buried her pride and humiliation and austuciously adopted the
spirit of popular educational system from America, military, medical and scientific
training from Germany and the naval strategy and diplomatic tactics from England. In
a good sense, these learnings were fittingly blended into the teachings and culture
of Japan. She took every nutriment in order to develop Japan's racial civilization.
Today Japan is a new dynamic military power which makes itself felt not only in
the revolt all over Asia against the white race but she is making forceful penetra-
tion into the western hemisphere and has captured many of the rich commercial
markets.
The greatest statesman of Japan, Count Okuma, declared: "To brand us Japanese
as inferior because we are a colored race is bigotry -- we must combat and destroy
through the fulfillment of our national mission."
What is then, the national mission of Japan?
It is fairly arguable, basing on historioal facts that Japan's national mission
is world supremacy and racial equality. With this in view she has played a role of
an expert strategist, she has judiciously applied the art of jiugitsu, seizing and
claiming all the strategic points in the continent of Asia and in the Pacific,
directly obstructing America's advance to the rich commercial El-Dorado of the Far
East. She stretched her steady arm up to the nor th and gripped Kurile and half of
Sakhalin, threatening America's future northern air-route. She annexed Korea, the
stepping stone to Asiatic continent, and in 193l, she forcefully seized the three
eastern provinces of Manchuria and the rich opium province of Jehol. Since July 7,
1937 - North and South China. She also possesses the island of Formosa and the
chain of islands north of Formosa to Japan proper. blocking China's front door. She
now holds the key to the western half of the Pacific, by virtue of taking over all
the former German Pacific Islands north of equator, even the island of Yap. This
chain of islands for thousands of miles stretches from Bonin to the Marshalls, two
thousand miles nearer to the Hawaiin Islands. Strategically these islands are nat-
ural air bases for her large air forces, coaling station for her navy and the step-
ping stone for her army to march toward the white man's country. Unquesti onably the
proximity of these islands makes the American possessions vulnerable!
Japan will never rest until the fulfillment of her dream is ended. To her,
time is no question. Like the 47 ronin who awaited years for an opportunity to
avenge the dishonor of their master, she will do likewise. For 26 years she prepar-
ed for the eventful march from Mukden to Shanghai. It will be a matter of time that
she will attempt to sail from Bonin via Marshalls to Hawaii, then to California, or
from Kurile via Unalaska to the Pacific Coast.
The Japanese fishing interests are scanning the Marshalls and the Carolines with
hundreds of fishing sampans. In July of 1934, Japan moved her northern fishing base
800 miles nearer to Alaska. The fishing industry employs about 18, O00 men. With
twenty tenders and more than 400 vessels. Hawaii's large fleet of 400 or more sam-
pans and about 15,O00 reservists will be another vital factor. These unique and
strategic positions will be an added advantage to Japan's navy. Not long ago in a
meeting at the Buddhist temple, an American Shintoist, Dr. Mason, remarked, "I have
been told that in the event of war between Japan and the United States you have
enough food supply to last only for six weeks." When he was asked from whom he re-
ceived the information, he answered, "The Japanese leaders told me." For all prac-
tical purposes the Japanese are fervently pushing Japanization in Hawaii.
Japan is the only world power possessing a first class army as well as navy,
this factor combined with the compactness of super-strategic position, a naval at-
tack on Hawaii would be reasonably successful. No one can deny that the Pacific
situation is fraught with dangerous possibilities. The indecisive policy of the
United States may enoourage the Japanese militarists to take sudden action Tn

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.99)
strive for equality witn une navion o .a
Perry kindled this very kind of spark when he forcefully opened the ports of Japan
to the world.
The Japanese race accepted the supremacy of the white race with solemn mental
reservation. She buried her pride and humiliation and austuciously adopted the
spirit of popular educational system from America, military, medical and scientific
training from Germany and the naval strategy and diplomatio tactics from England. In
a good sense, these learnings were fittingly blended into the teachings and culture
of Japan. She took every nutriment in order to develop Japan's racial civilization.
Today Japan is a new dynamio military power which makes itself felt not only in
the revolt all over Asia against the white race but she is making forceful penetra-
tion into the western hemisphere and has captured many of the rich commercial
markets.
The greatest statesman of Japan, Count Okuma, declared: "To brand us Japanese
as inferior because we are a colored race is bigotry -- we must combat and destroy
through the fulfillment of our national mission."
What is then, the national mission of Japan?
It is fairly arguable, basing on historioal facts that Japan's national mission
is world supremacy and racial equality. With this in view she has played a role of
an expert strategist, she has judiciously applied the art of jiugitsu, seizing and
claiming all the strategic points in the continent of Asia and in the Pacific,
directly obstructing Amerioa's advance to the rich commercial El-Dorado of the Far
East. She stretched her steady arm up to the north and gripped Kurile and half of
Sakhalin, threatening Amerioa's future northern air-route. She annexed Korea, the
stepping stone to Asiatic continent. and in 193l, she forcefully seized the three
eastern provinces of Manchuria and the rich opium province of Jehol. Since July 7,
1937 - North and South China. She also possesses the island of Formosa and the
chain of islands north of Formosa to Japan proper. blocking China's front door. She
now holds the key to the western half of the Paoific, by virtue of taking over all
the former German Pacific Islands north of equator, even the island of Yap. This
chain of islands for thousands of miles stretches from Bonin to the Marshalls, two
thousand miles nearer to the Hawaiin Islands. Strategically these islands are nat-
ural air bases for her large air forces, coaling station for her navy and the step-
ping stone for her army to march toward the white man's country. Unquestionably the
proximity of these islands makes the American possessions vulnerable!
Japan will never rest until the fulfillment of her dream is ended. To her,
time is no question. Like the 47 ronin who awaited years for an opportunity to
avenge the dishonor of their master, she will do likewise. For 26 years she prepar-
ed for the eventful march from Mukden to Shanghai. It will be a matter of time that
she will attempt to sail from Bonin via Marshalls to Hawaii, then to California, or
from Kurile via Unalaska to the Pacific Coast.
The Japanese fishing interests are scanning the Marshalls and the Carolines with
hundreds of fishing sampans. In July of 1934, Japan moved her northern fishing base
800 miles nearer to Alaska. The fishing industry employs about 18,O00 men. With
twenty tenders and more than 400 vessels. Hawaii's large fleet of 400 or more sam-
pans and about 15,O0o reservists will be another vital factor. These unique and
strategic positions will be an added advantage to Japan's navy. Not long ago in a
meeting at the Buddhist temple, an American Shintoist, Dr. Mason, remarked, "I have
been told that in the event of war between Japan and the United States you have
enough food supply to last only for six weeks." When he was asked from whom he re-
ceived the information, he answered, "The Japanese leaders told me." For all prac-
tioal purposes the Japanese are fervently pushing Japanization in Hawaii.
Japan is the only world power possessing a first class army as well as navy,
this factor combined with the compactness of super-strategic position, a naval at-
tack on Hawaii would be reasonably successful. No one can deny that the Pacifio
situation is fraught with dangerous possibilities. The indecisive policy of the
United States may enoourage the Japanese militarists to take sudden action. In
whioh event, What Can Be The Consequenoes?
- 2 -

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.99)
It seems clear that the result of suoh an attack would seriously weaken the de-
fensive as well as the offensive efficiency of our Army and Navy. If due to some
unforeseen event, the Japanese cause enough damages to many strategio points, it
will means two things:
One. That the Amerioan fleet will be forced to wage a defensive war.
Two. The invading fleet will have an equal chance of victory.
With due respect to the U. S. Army and the Navy, if one can hear the whispers
of the Japanese in Japan, Korea, China, Siberia, the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, one
will think twice before making the common remark, "The Japs won't dare attack Hawaii"
JAPAN's PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
Hawaii was annexed to the U. S. while Japan was too busy recovering between
wars with China and Russia. To this day the Japanese regret that Japan did not an-
nex these islands prior to her major wars. However, this does not mean that she did
not make any attempt.
In 1894, during the sitting of Constitutional Convention of Hawaii, Japan made
a diplomatio demand that Japanese be given rights to vote. To avoid granting fran-
ohise, the Republic of Hawaii was forced to framo its constitution in such a manner
as to stop all naturalization for the time being, making this matter subject to
further treaty negotiation.
In 1895, the far-sighted Japanese government made strong formal protest against
allowing large number of Chinese to enter Hawaii. Japan's representative stated
that the coming of Chinese to Hawaii was "detrimental to the Japanese interest". It
is said similar protest was made to tho Korean government by Prince Ito, ending
further immigration of Koreans to Hawaii.
In 1897, after the unsuccessful attempt to intimidate the Hawaiian government,
the Japanese government seized an opportunity to protest an alleged ill-treatment
and discriminative act toward the Japanese immigrants. She made a formal demand for
an indemnity. Soon after the ultimatum was forwarded to the Hawaiian government,
Japan sent her cruiser, S. Naniwa, undor the command of Captain Kuroda. On his
arrival Minister Shimamura of Japan immediately asked for a permit to have Captain
Kuroda and his orew to exercise in target practice with the tube guns and rifles ad-
jacent outside of the harbor of Honolulu for 20 days, under the very nose of the
Hawaiian capitol. This dramatio incident hastened the move of annexation of Hawaii
to the United States and temporarily halted Japan's advancement.
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
Japan's continental policy has been termed the "duck diplomaoy" by the Chinese,
because it typifies a duck, which appears calm and serene above water, while it
paddles busily beneath, making steady progress. Likewise, Japan's diplomacy in
Hawaii can be termed as such. Outwardly, the Japanese seem very peaceful and loyal
to America. Yet behind the scene one may find their programs filled with question-
able activities.
There are two distinot factors which aid the promotion of Japanization in Hawa-
ii. Thoy aro -- first, the heredity of national traits of the Japanese race. Second.
the Japanized environment. created by the Japanese leaders. These two factors have
been so oleverly harmonized and blended into such a degree that the result of collab-
oration is astonishing. It should be borne in mind that the success of Japanization
is largely due, if not entirely, to the correlationship of these two faotors.
RACIAL HARMONY?
Although Hawaii is called the "melting pot" in the crossroad of the Pacific,
underlying its peaceful surface, the problem of racial equality and its contemporary
issues constantly bob up to disturb the community. Enter the business world in
Hawaii and one will find that race preiudice still controls its human emotions. Very

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.99)
of the Japanese in Japan, Korea, China, Siberia, the Pacific Coast anu uana.,
will think twice before making the common romark, "The Japs won't dare attack Hawaii"
JAPAN's PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
Hawaii was annexed to the U. S. while Japan was too busy recovering between
wars with China and Russia. To this day the Japanese regret that Japan did not an-
nex these islands prior to her major wars. However, this does not mean that she did
not make any attempt.
In 1894, during the sitting of Constitutional Convention of Hawaii, Japan made
a diplomatio demand that Japanese be given rights to vote. To avoid granting fran-
ohise, the Republic of Hawaii was forced to frame its constitution in such a manner
as to stop all naturalization for the time being, making this matter subject to
further treaty negotiation.
In l895, the far-sighted Japanese government made strong formal protest against
allowing large number of Chinese to enter Hawaii. Japan's representative stated
that the coming of Chinese to Hawaii was "detrimental to the Japanese interest". It
is said similar protest was made to tho Korean government by Prince Ito, ending
further immigration of Koreans to Hawaii.
In 1897, after the unsuccessful attempt to intimidate the Hawaiian government,
the Japanese government seized an opportunity to protest an alleged ill-treatment
and discriminative act toward the Japanese immigrants. She made a formal demand for
an indemnity. Soon after the ultimatum was forwarded to the Hawaiian government,
Japan sent her cruiser, S. Naniwa, under the command of Captain Kuroda. On his
arrival Minister Shimamura of Japan immediately asked for a permit to have Captain
Kuroda and his orew to exercise in target practice with the tube guns and rifles ad-
jacent outside of the harbor of Honolulu for 20 days, under the very nose of the
Hawaiian capitol. This dramatio incident hastened the move of annexation of Hawaii
to the United States and temporarily halted Japan's advancement.
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
Japan's continental policy has been termed the "duck diplomaoy" by the Chinese,
because it typifies a duck, which appears calm and serene above water, while it
paddles busily beneath, making steady progress. Likewise, Japan's diplomacy in
Hawaii can be termed as such. Outwardly, the Japanese seem very peaceful and loyal
to America. Yet behind the scene one may find their programs filled with question-
able activities.
There are two distinot factors which aid the promotion of Japanization in Hawa-
ii. They aro -- first, the heredity of national traits of the Japanese race. Second
the Japanized environment, created by the Japanese leaders. These two factors have
been so oleverly harmonized and blended into such a degree that the result of collab-
oration is astonishing. It should be borne in mind that the success of Japanization
is largely due, if not entirely, to the correlationship of these two factors.
RACIAL HARMONY?
Although Hawaii is called the "melting pot" in the crossroad of the Pacific,
underlying its peaceful surface, the problem of racial equality and its contemporary
issues constantly bob up to disturb the community. Enter the business world in
Hawaii and one will find that race prejudice still controls its human emotions. Very
often the question of racial equality is fully discussed in the classrooms of the
public schools, and among missionaries. To be sure. the politicians loudly speak of
it on the stumps, during the political campaigns.
- 3 -

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.99)
The elder citizens consider the question of racial equality merely an academic
subjeot, while the youngsters of the teen age make a reasonable praotice of it. How-
ever, as soon as the two races venture out into the business world as competitors,
they find the common ground on which they had stood has suddenly disappeared. In-
wardly, both races wish to exclude each other in order to prevent a rapid rise or to
exclude dissimilar oustoms as a means of promoting national solidarity. Whether
this prejudice is intentional or not. the actual practice still persists in Hawaii
and it will continue to fight for supremaoy of race so long as the Japanese race de-
mands equal racial status -- Americanism vs. Japanism.
HIS IMPERIAL HIGHNESS, PRINCE FUSHIMI'S FUND
Among the many Japanese institutions and agencies, perhaps the Prince Fushimi
Scholarship Association of Hawaii can be considered a representative one, directly
sponsoring an effective action in promoting leadership for the fulfillment of Japan's
mission. The material aid received from a Prince of Japan, in the form of prizes
and scholarship by the American citizens of Japanese ancestry, has created the de-
sired results.
In the year of 1907, after the sucoessful consummation of Anglo-Japanese Alli-
ance, His Imperial Highness, Prince Fushimi of Japan, visited Hawaii on his homeward
voyage as the guest of the British government. Fifteen leading Japanese with Consul-
General Saito, met tho Prince and his military aides at the home of Mr. Araki, the
manager of the Yokohama Specie Bank. It is said that General Nishi and Admiral
Yamamoto insisted on an aggressive, typical Japanese program, but the two militarists
were prevailed to compromise to a milder, but an effective program. Prince Fushimi
gave a modest amount of $2o0.00 with the promise of more and the local leaders were
asked to inorease the fund according to the needs from time to time. Prizes and
other recognitions were givon to the outstanding young Japaneso student leaders for
meritorious efforts and in excellonce of school work. Since 19l9 soholarships woro
awarded, sending outstanding Japanese student leaders to various universities. The
reoipients of this fund now hold the key positions in the City, County and
Territorial governments.
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
Mr. Yusuki Tsurumi, one of the well-known parliamentarian and Christian leaders,
said, "I doubt very much whether Christianity, as developed in America and Europe,
will be accepted as such by a large number of Japanese ....... Japanese will not
accept a foreign thought without impressing upon it their owm stamp."
The foregoing statement by an eminent Japanese Christian leader confirms our
belief that the Japanese Christians in Hawaii cannot be truly Americanized through
Christianity alone. Unfortunately. the American missionaries and many leading fin-
anciers are of the belief that this seems to be the best means to Americanize the
Amerioan citizens of Japanese ancestry. Looking over the statistics of the various
Japanese religious sects in Hawaii, one will find the sorrowful fact that, in spite
of large expenditures donated by Amorican missionaries, Christianity has been
embraced by the Japanese leaders for a purpose -- a Japanese Front. The following
table will give the reader some idea of the number of Japaneso Christians compared
with the Buddhist and Shintos:
Figures of Japanoso Consulate-General, March 5, 1934
Buddhists
52,039
Shinto
31,870
Christian
4,131
"The Japanese may be a faithful Buddhist or Christian, as he wishes, but
he is under obligation to worship the deified anoestors." Quotation from
Japanese government publication, "Sinto Shrines".
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
Recently the Japanese and many of their American friends have proudly pointed
out to the expatriated Japanese boys and girls as a proof of their loyalty to America.

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.99)
HIS IMPERIAL HIGHNESS, PRINCE FUSHIMI'S FUND
Among the many Japanese institutions and agencies, perhaps the Prince Fushimi
Scholarship Association of Hawaii can be considored a representative one, directly
sponsoring an effective aotion in promoting leadership for the fulfillment of Japan's
mission. The material aid received from a Prinoe of Japan, in the form of prizes
and scholarship by the American citizens of Japanese ancestry, has oreated the de-
sired results.
In the year of 1907, after the sucoessful consummation of Anglo-Japanese Alli-
ance, His Imperial Highness, Prince Fushimi of Japan, visited Hawaii on his homeward
voyage as the guest of the British government. Fifteen leading Japanese with Consul-
General Saito, met tho Prince and his military aides at the home of Mr. Araki, the
manager of the Yokohama Speoie Bank. It is said that General Nishi and Admiral
Yamamoto insisted on an aggressive, typical Japanese program, but the two militarists
were prevailed to compromise to a milder. but an effective program. Prince Fushimi
gave a modest amount of $2o0.00 with the promise of more and the local leaders were
asked to inorease the fund according to the needs from time to time. Prizes and
other recognitions were given to the outstanding young Japaneso student leaders for
meritorious efforts and in excellonce of school work. Since l919 soholarships wore
awarded, sending outstanding Japanese student leaders to various universities. The
reoipients of this fund now hold the key positions in the City, County and
Territorial governments.
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
Mr. Yusuki Tsurumi, one of the well-known parliamentarian and Christian leaders,
said, "I doubt very much whether Christianity, as developed in America and Europe,
will be accepted as such by a large number of Japanese ....... Japanese will not
accept a foreign thought without impressing upon it their owm stamp."
The foregoing statement by an eminent Japanese Christian leader confirms our
belief that the Japanese Christians in Hawaii cannot be truly Americanized through
Christianity alone. Unfortunately, the American missionaries and many leading fin-
anciers are of the belief that this seems to be the best means to Americanize the
American citizens of Japanese ancestry. Looking over the statistics of the various
Japanese religious sects in Hawaii, one will find the sorrowful fact that, in spite
of large expenditures donated by American missionaries, Christianity has been
embraced by the Japanese leaders for a purpose -- a Japanese Front. The following
table will give the reader some idea of the number of Japaneso Christians compared
with the Buddhist and Shintos:
Figures of Japanoso Consulate-General, March 5, 1934
Buddhists
52,039
Shinto
31,870
Christian
4,131
"The Japanese may be a faithful Buddhist or Christian, as he wishes, but
he is under obligation to worship the deified ancestors." Quotation from
Japanese government publication, "Sinto Shrines".
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
Recently the Japanese and many of their American friends have proudly pointed
out to the expatriated Japanese boys and girls as a proof of their loyalty to America.
Peculiarly, the Japanese law of nationality is based on the principle of jus
sanguines, while the Amerioan laws are based on the principle of jus soli. Dual

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
nationality usually arises through a conflict between the law of jus soli -- the law
determining nationality according to the place of birth -- and the law of jus san-
guines by which nationality is traced through blood relationship. Whenever these
two principles conflict dual nationality arises.
To ease this unfortunate situation, the 1924 Expatriation Law was put into
effect by the Japanese government. Unfortunately the result has been proven, beyond
a reasonable doubt, a hoax.
The Japanese Consulate Official stated that although the Japanese children may
register only at the Territorial Board of Health, the status of the child may not be
"necessary to say that such children hold American citizenship only". One of the in-
direct means of bringing the expatriated Japanese youths back to their own national-
ity is that they are urged to register their marriage certificates at the Japanese
Consulate, thus regaining their nationality from the Japanese government. Another
way is the general practice of the parents of the Japanese ancestry registering their
names at the Consulate when they become of military age, without their son's knowl-
edge. It is said "the parents are forced to do it, for otherwise their relatives
residing in Japan would be punished, fined or otherwise made to suffer." Approx-
imately two-thirds of the Amerioan oitizens of Japanese ancestry in Hawaii retain the
status of dual citizenship.
The figures given to the writer by the Japanese Consulate are as follows:
1. Number of Japanese who first reported their birth to the Consulate and expa-
triated themselves from Japan
5,496
2. Number of the Japanese who did not report their birth to the
Consulate and lost the Japanese nationality
25,515
December 31, 1933
31,011
Expatriated in 1934
614
Total
31,625
One must ask -- how can Americans be made out of Japanese descendants when the
schools, various semi-government organs, Japanized religious sects, cultural centers,
Y.M.B.A. Intelligenoe Work, Y.W.B.A. and etc., subtly stress loyalty to Japan?
Hawaii Sentinel, the fearless American Weekly, reported; (Less than two months
ago, May 25) that the U. S. Intelligence and Customs officers seized a mass of print-
ed materials brought into the islands by an American citizen of Japanese ancestry. It
is alleged that the printed matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese
Navy League, encouraging a Nippon Navy in Hawaii".
Startling news articles appeared in Japan, "praising the loyalty of Hawaiian-
born Japanese to the mother country". It was one of these stories which told how the
Japanese in Hawaii, including American citizens of Japanese ancestry "signed pledges
of loyalty to Japan in their own blood."
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
Mr. Y. Soga, as spokesman for the Japanese community, said: --
"Japanese youths who are born here are not still fully adapted to their new
environment and new civilization of the west, if they should lose all traces,
its effeot will be rather deplorable."
It is absurd to think that the Japanese youths born in Hawaii must be taught to
retain Japanese traits and culture to become lo0 percent American citizens. Neverthe
less the attitude of the leaders olearly shows that is what they want the Americans
to believe. In a practioal sense, it means that they are going to maintain the
Japanese language schools.
If one can live in a Japanese community for a period of years and daily asso-
ciate with their children, one will readily agree that the language schools seriously
hinder Amerioanization. The textbook itself may not undermine Americanism. but they

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japanese Consulate Official stated that although the Japanese children may
register only at the Territorial Board of Health, the status of the child may not be
"necessary to say that such children hold American citizenship only". One of the in-
direct means of bringing the expatriated Japanese youths back to their own national-
ity is that they are urged to register their marriage certificates at the Japanese
Consulate, thus regaining their nationality from the Japanese government. Another
way is the general practice of the parents of the Japanese ancestry registering their
names at the Consulate when they become of military age, without their son's knowl-
edge. It is said "the parents are forced to do it, for otherwise their relatives
residing in Japan would be punished, fined or otherwise made to suffer." Approx-
imately two-thirds of the Amerioan oitizens of Japanese anoestry in Hawaii retain the
status of dual citizenship.
The figures given to the writer by the Japanese Consulate are as follows:
1. Number of Japanese who first reported their birth to the Consulate and expa-
triated themselves from Japan
5,496
2. Number of the Japanese who did not report their birth to the
Consulate and lost the Japanese nationality
25,515
December 31, 1933
31,011
Expatriated in 1934
614
Total
31,625
1
One must ask -- how can Americans be made out of Japanese descendants when the
schools, various semi-government organs, Japanized religious sects, cultural centers,
Y.M.B.A. Intelligenoe Work, Y.W.B.A. and etc., subtly stress loyalty to Japan?
Hawaii Sentinel, the fearless American Weekly, reported; (Less than two months
ago, May 25) that the U. S. Intelligence and Customs officers seized a mass of print-
ed materials brought into the islands by an American citizen of Japanese ancestry. It
is alleged that the printed matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese
Navy League, encouraging a Nippon Navy in Hawaii".
Startling news articles appeared in Japan, "praising the loyalty of Hawaiian-
born Japanese to the mother country". It was one of these stories which told how the
Japanese in Hawaii, including Amerioan citizens of Japanese ancestry "signed pledges
of loyalty to Japan in their own blood."
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
Mr. Y. Soga, as spokesman for the Japanese community, said: --
"Japanese youths who are born here are not still fully adapted to their new
environment and new civilization of the west, if they should lose all traces,
its effeot will be rather deplorable."
It is absurd to think that the Japanese youths born in Hawaii must be taught to
retain Japanese traits and culture to become lo0 percent American citizens. Neverthe
less the attitude of the leaders olearly shows that is what they want the Americans
to believe. In a practical sense, it means that they are going to maintain the
Japanese language schools.
If one can live in a Japanese community for a period of years and daily asso-
ciate with their children, one will readily agree that the language schools seriously
hinder Americanization. The textbook itself may not undermine Americanism. but they
certainly do teach Japanism.
Enough is taught to make the little youngsters talk of
- 5 -

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.98)
and play the role of "samurai", the "three human bullets", and dramatize future U.S.
- Japan war. They speak of Admiral Togo as "our hero" and the Emperor of Japan as
"our king". To say the least, the fact that the Japanese insist in maintaining
these expensive institutions proves that contrary is true. Why do they persist in
maintaining the language school at the tremendous expense of 850,000 dollars a year?
The American public schools are the best medium to Americanize the American citizens;
is it not reasonable to believe that the same is true for the Japanese? Just as the
Territorial government has its Public Instruction, the Japanese maintain Hawaii Jap-
anese Educational Association of Hawaii. The association is the pillar of the
Language Sohools in Hawaii. Under its wings alone (1934) there were 16l schools,
589 teachers and an enrollment of 37,484 pupils.
We must remember the student leaders of today will be the leaders of tomorrow.
Whatever they aoquire in the language schools, will be used as the means of a step-
ping stone to higher and nobler duty for Japan. The response of the Japanese stu-
dents toward Japan and their heroes shows their inward feelings. The student year
book of 1936 was dedicated to their beloved leader, Dr. Inazo Nitobe, the author of
"Bushido" -- the spirit of Japan. Dr. Nitobe was the adviser to the leading Jap-
anese daily Osaka Mainichi in Japan and a delegate to the League of Nation's Cultural
Bureau. He was known as the idol of America's drawing room. He commanded high es-
teem from many American Christian workers, as well as many financiers. Because of
his commanding position, he was sent to America by the Japanese militarists to check
the attitude of American officials, as well as the public, toward Japan's planned
invasion of Manchuria in September 18, 1931.
Dr. Nitobe, aided by his American friands, mado a thorough investigation and re-
ported the result to the militarists. He reported that:
--
"Amerioa has more peace at any price missionaries than any other country.
They possess neither the intelligence nor the vision to see things as they
are. Consequently what they say in public, though not worth listening to,
is swallowed by the ignorant."
Men in eduoational circles, jurists and students of international law, are most-
ly sticklers for legal technicalities.
It is interesting to note that all the Japanese language schools abroad are con-
trolled by the Institute of Overseas People's Education and Japan's Foreign Office.
The head of the above institution, Visoount Ishii, deolared (July 2nd of 1934) --
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an organization for infusing
the Japanese spirit into the second generation of Japanese abroad. In other
words, leave the second generation in the land of their residence but don't
let them forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, select Jap-
anese goods, in voting - cast the ballot for politicians friondly to Japanese."
The Growth of Japanese Language Schools in Hawaii
Attendance in the
American Public Schools
Japanese Language Schools
1921
19,311
18,612
1925
28,363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45,121
42,665
Rev. Takie Okumura, the founder of the Japanese Language Sohool in Hawaii, said
(1935) --
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction and the Japanese
community seems to be Japanized more and more. Since its victory in the
Supreme Court the language schools are beginning to display the real color
Rev. Shinryu Umehara, Japanese Buddhist priest who was sent to America to
inspect the Japanese language schools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, said (March
27, 1934)--
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligenae Department:
"I felt while I was in America that the existence of Japanese schools and
Buddhiet organintiana in tt-

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.99)
aneso Educational Association of Hawaii. The association is the pillar or the
Language Sohools in Hawaii. Under its wings alone (1934) there were 16l schools,
589 teachers and an enrollment of 37,484 pupils.
We must remember the student leaders of today will be the leaders of tomorrow.
Whatever they aoquire in the language schools, will be used as the means of a step-
ping stone to higher and nobler duty for Japan. The response of the Japanese stu-
dents toward Japan and their heroes shows their inward feelings. The student year
book of 1936 was dedioated to their beloved leader, Dr. Inazo Nitobe, the author of
"Bushido" -- the spirit of Japan. Dr. Nitobe was the adviser to the leading Jap-
anese daily Osaka Mainichi in Japan and a delegate to the League of Nation's Cultural
Bureau. He was known as the idol of America's drawing room. He commanded high es-
teem from many American Christian workers, as well as many financiers. Because of
his commanding position, he was sent to America by the Japanese militarists to check
the attitude of American offioials, as well as the public, toward Japan's planned
invasion of Manchuria in September 18, 1931.
Dr. Nitobe, aided by his American friends, mado a thorough investigation and re-
ported the result to the militarists. He reported that: --
"Amerioa has more peace at any price missionaries than any other country.
They possess neither the intelligence nor the vision to see things as they
are. Consequently what they say in public, though not worth listening to,
is swallowed by the ignorant."
Men in eduoational circles, jurists and students of international law, are most-
ly sticklers for legal technicalities.
It is interesting to note that all the Japanese language schools abroad are con-
trolled by the Institute of Overseas People's Education and Japan's Foreign Office.
The head of the above institution, Visoount Ishii, deolared (July 2nd of 1934) --
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an organization for infusing
the Japanese spirit into the second generation of Japanese abroad. In other
words, leave the second generation in the land of their residence but don't
let them forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, seleot Jap-
anese goods, in voting - cast the ballot for politicians friondly to Japanese."
The Growth of Japanese Language Sohools in Hawaii
Attendance in the
American Publio Schools
Japanese Language Schools
1921
19,311
18,612
1925
28,363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45,121
42,665
Rev. Takie Okumura, the founder of the Japanese Language Sohool in Hawaii, said
(1935) --
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction and the Japanese
community seems to be Japanized more and more. Since its victory in the
Supreme Court the language schools are beginning to display the real color
of Japanism. Imperial Rescript is boldly road and taught, - - - - "
Rev. Shinryu Umehara, Japanese Buddhist priest who was sent to America to
inspect the Japanese language schools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, said (March
27, 1934)--
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligenoe Department:
"I felt while I was in America that the existence of Japanese schools and
Buddhist organizations in the Japanese communities is grand, for they are
the mother-bodies for fostering the national consoienoe, Japan's civiliza-
tion and Japan's spirit."
- 6 -

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.99)
CONCLUSION
A few years ago the vice-minister Yasujiro Tsutsumi, of Japan's Overseas Af-
fairs, urged upon Japanese abroad to build up their own civilization and industrial
development, rather than become assimilated in the local population. He stated that
"where Japanese had maintained their identity, the result had been beneficial to
Japan."
General Araki said. "The urgent need of the Japanese nation is to realize justly
and effectively the power of the spirit of the Japanese." He further declared. "The
spirit of Japan must be spread over the seven seas and the five continents. Every-
thing that opposes its expansion is to be overwhelmed if necessary by force. The
countries of eastern Asia have been oppressed by the white people. Japan will not
tolerate this any longer. It is the duty of the Japanese people to oppose any action
of the Powers that run counter to Japanese rule."
Judging from these official attitudes and the subsequent events since l910, it
is apparent that America will soon face a momentous period of her history. The ideals,
political philosophies, and economic standards of the two great nations are bound to
test their supremacy. Our national seourity and the security of these islands will
be wholly contingent upon Japan's military policy in the Pacific. Japanization ac-
tivities should not be considered as mere academio interest; we should follow as
closely as possible the course of events and development of public opinion in Japan
and America.
Americans may recall the Wood-Forbes mission in 192l to the Philippine Islands.
General Wood is said to have had a frank talk with Baron Tanaka (author of Tanaka's
memorial). He told the Japanese militarists "that if she continued to fortify the
Bonins, the Loochoos and the Pesscaadores to the point where at any time it would in-
terfere with or stop American commerce with mainland (China), the U. S. would go to
war". Baron Tanaka answered just as frankly and emphatically, "that if anyone inter-
fered with them in Manchuria, Japan would fight. Japan will not arbitrate on Man-
churia and will fight before she surrenders her hard won rights in the territory she
holds as vital to her security as the U. S. does the Panama Canal."
Since the exchange of this frank declaration, Japan not only fortified the Bonin
and Loochoos, but it is said that she is improving harbors and building large air-
plane landing fields in the Pelews, Carolines and the Marshalls. In the name of
Manchukuo she is building a puppet navy and forcing military training on Manchukuan
and the Koreans. The most recent threat is the "Hands off China" policy which is as
much as to say. America you keep off from China; this declaration is a direct threat
and an act of interferenoe to American commerce. Will America go to war with Japan
as declared by General Wood? Thus far America has not taken any effective action,
but if Japan insists to aggravate and demand the equality of naval ratio, elimination
of American commercial and economic interests in China; secretly construct fortifica-
tions in the Paoific Mandates and continue the Japanization of Hawaii, America will
have no alternative.
In the face of all these perplexing contingencies, the strategical value of
Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed. Hawaii is the Heligoland to U. S. Navy and
Gibraltar to U. S. Army. Therefore, the necessity of Amerioanization in Hawaii is
doubly significant. Our security will wholly depend upon the satisfactory and ra-
tional settlement of political and military problems between Japan and America. The
Japanization of Hawaii is no longer an issue only for the people of Hawaii but it has
become national and as such it should be dealt with.
Japan's continued aggressive movement into the continent of Asia and particular-
ly Japan's insistence of Japanization of her subjects residing in the North and South
Amerioan countries and Hawaii are the outcome of the intense desire of the Japanese
race to change their racial, social, economic, and political and military status
equal to the status of America and of the white race. This spirit of Japan will
never rest till her national mission is attained.
More than three decades ago American hearts were captivated by the eloquence of
Senator Beveridge. He declared in the Senate -
"Our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia. The Pacific is our ocean.
-- - And the Pacific is the ocean cf the sommerce of the future.

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
Japan."
General Araki said, "The urgent need of the Japanese nation is to realize justly
and effectively the power of the spirit of the Japanese." He further declared. "The
spirit of Japan must be spread over the seven seas and the five continents. Every-
thing that opposes its expansion is to be overwhelmed if necessary by force. The
countries of eastern Asia have been oppressed by the white people. Japan will not
tolerate this any longer. It is the duty of the Japanese people to oppose any action
of the Powers that run counter to Japanese rule."
Judging from these official attitudes and the subsequent events since l910, it
is apparent that America will soon face a momentous period of her history. The ideals.
political philosophies, and economio standards of the two great nations are bound to
test their supremacy. Our national seourity and the security of these islands will
be wholly contingent upon Japan's military policy in the Pacific. Japanization ac-
tivities should not be considered as mere academio interest; we should follow as
closely as possible the course of events and development of public opinion in Japan
and America.
Americans may recall the Wood-Forbes mission in 1921 to the Philippine Islands.
General Wood is said to have had a frank talk with Baron Tanaka (author of Tanaka's
memorial). He told the Japanese militarists "that if she continued to fortify the
Bonins, the Looohoos and the Pesscaadores to the point where at any time it would in-
terfere with or stop American commerce with mainland (China), the U. S. would go to
war". Baron Tanaka answered just as frankly and emphatically, "that if anyone inter-
fered with them in Manchuria, Japan would fight. Japan will not arbitrate on Man-
churia and will fight before she surrenders her hard won rights in the territory she
holds as vital to her security as the U. S. does the Panama Canal."
Since the exohange of this frank declaration, Japan not only fortified the Bonin
and Looohoos, but it is said that she is improving harbors and building large air-
plane landing fields in the Pelews, Carolines and the Marshalls. In the name of
Manohukuo she is building a puppet navy and forcing military training on Manchukuan
and the Koreans. The most recent threat is the "Hands off China" policy which is as
much as to say, Amerioa you keep off from China; this declaration is a direct threat
and an act of interferenoe to American commerce. Will America go to war with Japan
as declared by General Wood? Thus far America has not taken any effective action,
but if Japan insists to aggravate and demand the equality of naval ratio, elimination
of American commercial and economic interests in China; secretly construct fortifica-
tions in the Pacific Mandates and continue the Japanization of Hawaii, America will
have no alternative.
In the face of all these perplexing contingencies, the strategical value of
Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed. Hawaii is the Heligoland to U. S. Navy and
Gibraltar to U. S. Army. Therefore, the necessity of Americanization in Hawaii is
doubly significant. Our security will wholly depend upon the satisfactory and ra-
tional settlement of political and military problems between Japan and America. The
Japanization of Hawaii is no longer an issue only for the people of Hawaii but it has
become national and as such it should be dealt with.
Japan's continued aggressive movement into the continent of Asia and particular-
ly Japan's insistence of Japanization of her subjects residing in the North and South
American countries and Hawaii are the outcome of the intense desire of the Japanese
race to change their racial, social, economic, and political and military status
equal to the status of America and of the white race. This spirit of Japan will
never rest till her national mission is attained.
More than three decades ago Amerioan hearts were captivated by the eloquence of
Senator Beveridge. He deolared in the Senate -
"Our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia. The Pacific is our ocean.
- - - And the Pacifio is the ocean of the commerce of the future.
"Most future wars will be conflicts of commeroe. The Power that rules the
Pacific, therefore, is the Power that rules the world."

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.98)
Twenty-three years ago Mr. Chokume Matsuo said: "Japan and America are pitted
against each other not only as regards China but also with regards to the mastery of
the Pacific Ocean. There is always a possibility of the outbreak of war between
Japan and America. Frankly speaking, there is no prospect for Amerioa's emerging
viotorious, judged both from her military and naval preparedness.
"Remember the position of the country before the outbreak of Russo-Japanese War.
There might have been not a soul in the world who dreamed of Japan's defeating Rus-
sia."
Can America arrest Japanization of Asia and Hawaii without going into a racial
war with Japan? Thinking Americans fully know when Japan is in full control of Asia,
with countless man power and with all the rioh resources under their command, America
will be foroed to lower the white man's standard of living, and submit to much
humiliation.
The writer sincerely believes that America can arrest Japanization of Asia and
Hawaii if she so desires. The following course of action will foroe Japan's milita-
rists to their senses, eventually bringing peace and security in the Paoifics
First: Embargo the necessary arms, munitions, machinery, and materials
essential for war to Japan through a planned subsidy for two years.
Second: Extend positive moral aid to China and Korea to resist Japan's
militarists.
America's present policy of supplying 57 peroent of all war essentials to
Japan is parallel to America's aid to Japan when annexing Korea in 1910. Japan
used Korea as a stepping stone in the conquest of China. If history repeats,
Japan will use China in the conquest of Alaska, Hawaii, and possibly the Pacific
Coast.
Remember the Amerioan-Korean Treaty, May 22, 1882?
-8-

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League . .
101 D STREET N. E.
WASHINGTON. D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
Ch
f6
E.g.c.
早舌
A
July 15, 1939
HEADQUARTERS
1281 Fort Street
m
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
FW
Honorable Maxwell m. Hamilton
Representative in Washington, D.C.
KILSOO K. HAAN
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
89
OFFICERS
4.20211A/
President
SHINHO CHAR
1、
my dear Mr. maxwell:
Vice-President
1
SUNCHOO CHOI
Secretary
Enclosed please find a copy of an article
CHANGDUK CHOI
entitled "Japanization, A Peril to Hawaii", recently
Treasurer
presented to meabers of the United States Senate
JHAIKUN SUR
Foreign Relations, Naval, and military Committees.
We trust that this will be of some service and help
5
in understanding the Japanization activities in the
5
DIRECTORS
Pacific area.
Chairman
CHANHO MIN
Aggressive Japanese policies in the Far
DOIN KWON
East have been repeatedly warned by the koreans and
BONGKWAN CHUNG
the Chinese for many decades. Today aggression has
TAISUNG LEE
become a reality, disrupting the security and peace
BAIKSOO KIM
of the Pacific area. It is nov taking a definite
CHANGYIK OH
step in the penetrution of the white man's sphere
of influence.
e, therefore, desire to take this oppor
tunity of presentin this writing to you with the
spirit of international harmony and peace, looking
forward to America's positive policy of coping with
944120211a
the Japanese activities in the Pacific and in the
western hemisphere.
7
/A
Respectfully subnitted,
Kilooo K. Haan
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.99)
101 D Street, N. E.
Washington,
D. C.
July 15, 1939
Honorable Members of the Senate
Foreign Relations
Naval and Military Committees
The Seventy-Sixth Congress
Washington,
D. C.
Honorable Gentlemen:
The Sino-Korean Peoples League of Hawaii hereby
humbly submits an article -- "Japanization, A Peril To
Hawaii" -- for your information.
In the face of many grave and perplexing contin-
gencies in the Far East, we believe the strategical value
of Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed.
Recent report of Dr. Laura Thompson, research asso-
ciate in anthropology at the University of Hawaii, after
eight months' study of Guam, says that the people of Guam
too "fear Japanese domination and that they do not wish to
come under Japan". Hence, they strongly "desire American
fortification".
It is interesting to note the parallel of strategic
importance of these Islands with Korea.
The Koreans feared Japan's domination and justly
warned the Powers that their diplomatic action, turning
Korea over to Japan, was contrary to their best interests.
In spite of repeated warning in the name of "Peace
in the Far East", the Powers applied the "Munich" on Korea,
forcefully sacrificing their freedom and independence.
We trust that Guam and Hawaii will escape the
fate of Korea.
Respectfully submitted,
Kilooo T. Haan
Kilsoo K. Haan
Sino-Korean Peoples League
of Hawaii

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.98)
JAPANIZATION, A PERIL TO HAWAII
P R E E A C E
The purpose of this writing is to present as briefly
as possible the Japanization activities as they are found
in Hawai1, not as it should be as generally understood by
the American public in America.
The sub jects of Japan and the agents of the Tokyo
government have closely collaborated with their home
government in Japanizing Hawaii. Consequently, the re-
sults have been very detrimental to the teachings of
Americanism and, in reality, if it is not arrested soon,
it will be a peril to America's first line of defense.
The writer earnestly prays and hopes that this
writing may find its way into the hands of patriotic
Americans and do its most good for the security and welfare
of the United States of America.
Kilsoo K.Haan
Representative of the Sino-
Korean People's League in
Hawaii

=== Page 475 === (confidence 1.00)
JAPANIZATION, A PERIL TO HAWAII
0
N
T
E
N
T
S
Page
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
2
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
3
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
3
RACIAL HARMONY?
3
PRINCE FUSHIMI SCHOLARSHIP FUND
4
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
4
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
4
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
5
CONCLUSION
7-8

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.99)
C
10
N
T
E
N
T
S
Page
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
2
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
3
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
3
RACIAL HARMONY?
3
PRINCE FUSHIMI SCHOLARSHIP FUND
4
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
4
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
4
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
5
CONCLUSION
7-8
- 1 -

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN'S NATIONAL MISSION AND HAWAII
National or racial conflicts do not become acute until the nation or race kept
in a weaker position is animated by national tendenoy to change its status and
strive for equality with the nation or race deemed superior. Commodore Matthew C.
Perry kindled this very kind of spark when he foroefully opened the ports of Japan
to the world.
The Japanese race accepted the supremacy of the white race with solemn mental
reservation. She buried her pride and humiliation and austuciously adopted the
spirit of popular educational system from America, military, medioal and scientific
training from Germany and the naval strategy and diplomatic tactics from England. In
a good sense, these learnings were fittingly blended into the teachings and culture
of Japan. She took every nutriment in order to develop Japan's racial civilization.
Today Japan is a new dynamic military power which makes itself felt not only in
the revolt all over Asia against the white race but she is making forceful penetra-
tion into the western hemisphere and has captured many of the rich commercial
markets.
The greatest statesman of Japan, Count Okuma, declared: "To brand us Japanese
as inferior because we are a colored race is bigotry -- we must combat and destroy
through the fulfillment of our national mission."
What is then, the national mission of Japan?
It is fairly arguable, basing on historical facts that Japan's national mission
is world supremacy and racial equality. With this in view she has played a role of
an expert strategist, she has judiciously applied the art of jiugitsu, seizing and
claiming all the strategic points in the continent of Asia and in the Pacific,
directly obstructing America's advance to the rioh commercial El-Dorado of the Far
East. She stretched her steady arm up to the north and gripped Kurile and half of
Sakhalin, threatening America's future northern air-route. She annexed Korea, the
stepping stone to Asiatic continent, and in 193l, she forcefully seized the three
eastern provinces of Manchuria and the rioh opium province of Jehol. Since July 7,
1937 - North and South China. She also possesses the island of Formosa and the
chain of islands north of Formosa to Japan proper. blocking China's front door. She
now holds the key to the western half of the Pacific, by virtue of taking over all
the former German Pacific Islands north of equator, even the island of Yap. This
chain of islands for thousands of miles stretches from Bonin to the Marshalls, two
thousand miles nearer to the Hawaiin Islands. Strategically these islands are nat-
ural air bases for her large air forces, coaling station for her navy and the step-
ping stone for her army to maroh toward the white man's country. Unquesti onably the
proximity of these islands makes the Amerioan possessions vulnerable!
Japan will never rest until the fulfillment of her dream is ended. To her,
time is no question. Like the 47 ronin who awaited years for an opportunity to
avenge the dishonor of their master, she will do likewise. For 26 years she prepar-
ed for the eventful march from Mukden to Shanghai. It will bo a matter of time that
she will attempt to sail from Bonin via Marshalls to Hawaii, then to California, or
from Kurile via Unalaska to the Pacifio Coast.
The Japanese fishing interests are scanning the Marshalls and the Carolines with
hundreds of fishing sampans. In July of 1934, Japan moved her northern fishing base
800 miles nearer to Alaska. The fishing industry employs about 18,O00 men. With
twenty tenders and more than 400 vessels. Hawaii's large fleet of 400 or more sam-
pans and about 15,Ooo reservists will be another vital factor. These unique and
strategic positions will be an added advantage to Japan's navy. Not long ago in a
meeting at the Buddhist temple, an American Shintoist, Dr. Mason, remarked, "I have
been told that in the event of war between Japan and the United States you have
enough food supply to last only for six weeks." When he was asked from whom he re-
ceived the information, he answered, "The Japanese leaders told me." For all prac-
tical purposes the Japanese are fervently pushing Japanization in Hawaii.
Japan is the only world power possessing a first class army as well as navy,
this factor combined with the compactness of super-strategic position, a naval at-
tack on Hawaii would be reasonably successful. No one can deny that the Pacific
situation is fraught with dangerous possibilities. The indecisive policy of the

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japanese race accepted the supremacy of the white race with solemn mental
reservation. She buried her pride and humiliation and austuciously adopted the
spirit of popular educational system from America, military, medioal and scientific
training from Germany and the naval strategy and diplomatic tactics from England. In
a good sense, these learnings were fittingly blended into the teachings and oulture
of Japan. She took every nutriment in order to develop Japan's racial civilization.
Today Japan is a new dynamio military power which makes itself felt not only in
the revolt all over Asia against the white race but she is making forceful penetra-
tion into the western hemisphere and has captured many of the rich commercial
markets.
The greatest statesman of Japan, Count Okuma, declared: "To brand us Japanese
as inferior because we are a colored race is bigotry -- we must combat and destroy
through the fulfillment of our national mission."
What is then, the national mission of Japan?
It is fairly arguable, basing on historical facts that Japan's national mission
is world supremacy and racial equality. With this in view she has played a role of
an expert strategist, she has judiciously applied the art of jiugitsu, seizing and
claiming all the strategic points in the continent of Asia and in the Pacific,
directly obstructing America's advance to the rich commercial El-Dorado of the Far
East. She stretched her steady arm up to the north and gripped Kurile and half of
Sakhalin, threatening America's future northern air-route. She annexed Korea, the
stepping stone to Asiatic continent, and in 193l, she forcefully seized the three
eastern provinces of Manchuria and the rich opium province of Jehol. Since July 7,
1937 - North and South China. She also possesses the island of Formosa and the
chain of islands north of Formosa to Japan proper. blocking China's front door. She
now holds the key to the western half of the Pacific, by virtue of taking over all
the former German Pacific Islands north of equator, even the island of Yap. This
chain of islands for thousands of miles stretches from Bonin to the Marshalls, two
thousand miles nearer to the Hawaiin Islands. Strategically these islands are nat-
ural air bases for her large air forces, coaling station for her navy and the step-
ping stone for her army to maroh toward the white man's country. Unquesti onably the
proximity of these islands makes the Amerioan possessions vulnerable!
Japan will never rest until the fulfillment of her dream is ended. To her,
time is no question. Like the 47 ronin who awaited years for an opportunity to
avenge the dishonor of their master, she will do likewise. For 26 years she prepar-
ed for the eventful maroh from Mukden to Shanghai. It will bo a matter of time that
she will attempt to sail from Bonin via Marshalls to Hawaii, then to California, or
from Kurile via Unalaska to the Pacific Coast.
The Japanese fishing interests are scanning the Marshalls and the Carolines with
hundreds of fishing sampans. In July of 1934, Japan moved her northern fishing base
800 miles nearer to Alaska. The fishing industry employs about 18,000 men. With
twenty tenders and more than 400 vessels. Hawaii's large fleet of 400 or more sam-
pans and about 15,Ooo reservists will be another vital factor. These unique and
strategic positions will be an added advantage to Japan's navy. Not long ago in a
meeting at the Buddhist temple, an American Shintoist, Dr. Mason, remarked, "I have
been told that in the event of war between Japan and the United States you have
enough food supply to last only for six weeks." When he was asked from whom he re-
ceived the information, he answered, "The Japanese leaders told me." For all prac-
tical purposes the Japanese are fervently pushing Japanization in Hawaii.
Japan is the only world power possessing a first class army as well as navy,
this factor combined with the compactness of super-strategic position, a naval at-
tack on Hawaii would be reasonably successful. No one can deny that the Pacific
situation is fraught with dangerous possibilities. The indecisive policy of the
United States may enoourage the Japanese militarists to take sudden action. In
which event, What Can Be The Consequenoes?

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.99)
It seems clear that the result of such an attaok would seriously weaken the de-
fensive as well as the offensive efficienoy of our Army and Navy. If due to some
unforeseen event, the Japanese cause enough damages to many strategic points, it
will means two things:
One. That the Amerioan fleet will be foroed to wage a defensive war.
Two. The invading fleet will have an equal chance of victory.
With due respect to the U. S. Army and the Navy. if one can hear the whispers
of the Japanese in Japan, Korea, China, Siberia, the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, one
will think twice before making the common remark, "The Japs won't dare attack Hawaii"
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
Hawaii was annexed to the U. S. while Japan was too busy recovering between
wars with China and Russia. To this day the Japanese regret that Japan did not an-
nex these islands prior to her major wars. However, this does not mean that she did
not make any attempt.
In 1894, during the sitting of Constitutional Convention of Hawaii, Japan made
a diplomatio demand that Japanese be given rights to vote. To avoid granting fran-
chise. the Republic of Hawaii was forced to frame its constitution in such a manner
as to stop all naturalization for the time being, making this matter subject to
further treaty negotiation.
In 1895, the far-sighted Japanese government made strong formal protest against
allowing large number of Chinese to enter Hawaii. Japan's representative stated
that the coming of Chinese to Hawaii was "detrimental to the Japanese interest". It
is said similar protest was made to the Korean government by Prince Ito. ending
further immigration of Koreans to Hawaii.
In 1897, after the unsuccessful attempt to intimidate the Hawaiian government,
the Japanese government seized an opportunity to protest an alleged ill-treatment
and discriminative act toward the Japanese immigrants. She made a formal demand for
an indemnity. Soon after the ultimatum was forwarded to the Hawaiian government,
Japan sent her cruiser, S. Naniwa, undor the command of Captain Kuroda. On his
arrival Ministor Shimamura of Japan immediately asked for a permit to have Captain
Kuroda and his orew to exercise in target praotice with the tube guns and rifles ad-
jacent outside of the harbor of Honolulu for 20 days, under the very nose of the
Hawaiian capitol. This dramatic incident hastened the move of annexation of Hawaii
to the United States and temporarily halted Japan's advancement.
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
Japan's oontinental policy has been termed the "duck diplomaoy" by the Chinese,
because it typifies a duck, which appears calm and serene above water, while it
paddles busily beneath, making steady progress. Likewise, Japan's diplomacy in
Hawaii can be termed as suoh. Outwardly, the Japanese seem very peaceful and loyal
to America. Yet behind the scene one may find their programs filled with question-
able aotivities.
There are two distinot factors which aid the promotion of Japanization in Hawa-
ii. They aro -- first, the heredity of national traits of the Japanese race. Second,
the Japanized environment, created by the Japanese leaders. These two factors have
been so oleverly harmonized and blended into such a degree that the result of collab-
oration is astonishing. It should be borne in mind that the success of Japanization
is largely due, if not entirely, to the correlationship of these two factors.
RACIAL HARMONY?
Although Hawaii is called the "melting pot" in the crossroad of the Pacific,
underlying its peaceful surface. the problem of racial equality and its contemporary
issues constantly bob up to disturb the community. Enter the business world in
  that ea raiudiae atill controls its human emotions Very

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.99)
of the Japanese in Japan, Korea, China, Siberia, the Paorrro
will think twice before making the common remark, "The Japs won't dare attack Hawaii"
JAPAN'S PREVIOUS ATTEMPT
Hawaii was annexed to the U. S. while Japan was too busy recovering between
wars with China and Russia. To this day the Japanese regret that Japan did not an-
nex these islands prior to her major wars. However, this does not mean that she did
not make any attempt.
In 1894, during the sitting of Constitutional Convention of Hawaii, Japan made
a diplomatio demand that Japanese be given rights to vote. To avoid granting fran-
chise, the Republic of Hawaii was forced to frame its constitution in such a manner
as to stop all naturalization for the time being, making this matter subject to
further treaty negotiation.
In 1895, the far-sighted Japanese government made strong formal protest against
allowing large number of Chinese to enter Hawaii. Japan's representative stated
that the ooming of Chinese to Hawaii was "detrimental to the Japanese interest". It
is said similar protest was made to the Korean government by Prince Ito. ending
further immigration of Koreans to Hawaii.
In 1897, after the unsuccessful attempt to intimidate the Hawaiian government,
the Japanese government seized an opportunity to protest an alleged ill-treatment
and discriminative act toward the Japanese immigrants. She made a formal demand for
an indemnity. Soon after the ultimatum was forwarded to the Hawaiian government,
Japan sent her oruiser, S. Naniwa, under the command of Captain Kuroda. On his
arrival Minister Shimamura of Japan immediately asked for a permit to have Captain
Kuroda and his orew to exercise in target praotice with the tube guns and rifles ad-
jacent outside of the harbor of Honolulu for 20 days, under the very nose of the
Hawaiian capitol. This dramatio incident hastened the move of annexation of Hawaii
to the United States and temporarily halted Japan's advancement.
"DUCK DIPLOMACY"
Japan's oontinental policy has been termed the "duck diplomacy" by the Chinese,
because it typifies a duck, which appears calm and serene above water, while it
paddles busily beneath, making steady progress. Likewise, Japan's diplomacy in
Hawaii can be termed as suoh. Outwardly, the Japanese seem very peaceful and loyal
to America. Yet behind the scene one may find their programs filled with question-
able activities.
There are two distinot factors which aid the promotion of Japanization in Hawa-
ii. They are -- first. the heredity of national traits of the Japanese race. Second.
the Japanized environment, created by the Japanese leaders. These two factors have
been so oleverly harmonized and blended into such a degree that the result of collab-
oration is astonishing. It should be borne in mind that the success of Japanization
is largely due, if not entirely, to the correlationship of these two factors.
RACIAL HARMONY?
Although Hawaii is called the "melting pot" in the crossroad of the Pacific,
underlying its peaceful surface, the problem of racial equality and its contemporary
issues constantly bob up to disturb the community. Enter the business world in
Hawaii and one will find that raoe prejudice still controls its human emotions. Very
often the question of racial equality is fully discussed in the classrooms of the
public schools, and among missionaries. To be sure. the politicians loudly speak of
it on the stumps, during the political campaigns.

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.99)
The elder citizens consider the question of raoial equality merely an academio
subjeot, while the youngsters of the teen age make a reasonable praotice of it. How-
ever, as soon as the two races venture out into the business world as competitors,
they find the common ground on which they had stood has suddenly disappeared. In-
wardly, both races wish to exclude each other in order to prevent a rapid rise or to
exclude dissimilar customs as a means of promoting national solidarity. Whether
this prejudice is intentional or not, the aotual praotice still persists in Hawaii
and it will continue to fight for supremaoy of race so long as the Japanese race de-
mands equal racial status -- Americanism vs. Japanism.
HIS IMPERIAL HIGHNESS, PRINCE FUSHIMI'S FUND
Among the many Japanese institutions and agencies, perhaps the Prince Fushimi
Scholarship Association of Hawaii can be considered a representative one, directly
sponsoring an effective action in promoting leadership for the fulfillment of Japan's
mission. The material aid received from a Prince of Japan, in the form of prizes
and scholarship by the American citizens of Japanese ancestry, has created the de-
sired results.
In the year of 1907, after the sucoessful consummation of Anglo-Japanese Alli-
ance, His Imperial Highness, Prince Fushimi of Japan, visited Hawaii on his homeward
voyage as the guest of the British government. Fifteen leading Japanese with Consul-
General Saito, met the Prince and his military aides at the home of Mr. Araki, the
manager of the Yokohama Specie Bank. It is said that General Nishi and Admiral
Yamamoto insisted on an aggressive, typioal Japanese program, but the two militarists
were prevailed to compromise to a milder, but an effective program. Prince Fushimi
gave a modest amount of $200.00 with the promise of more and the local leaders were
asked to inorease the fund according to the needs from time to time. Prizes and
other recognitions were given to the outstanding young Japanese student leaders for
meritorious efforts and in excellence of school work. Since l9l9 scholarships wore
awarded, sending outstanding Japanese student leaders to various universities. The
recipients of this fund now hold the key positions in the City, County and
Territorial governments.
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
M Yusuki Tsurumi, one of the well-known parliamentarian and Christian leaders,
said, "I doubt very much whether Christianity, as developed in America and Europe,
will be accepted as such by a large number of Japanese ....... Japanese will not
accept a foreign thought without impressing upon it their own stamp."
The foregoing statement by an eminent Japanese Christian leader confirms our
belief that the Japanese Christians in Hawaii cannot be truly Americanized through
Christianity alone. Unfortunately, the Amerioan missionaries and many leading fin-
anciers are of the belief that this seems to be the best means to Amerioanize the
American citizens of Japanese ancestry. Looking over the statistics of the various
Japanese religious sects in Hawaii, one will find the sorrowful fact that, in spite
of large expenditures donated by American missionaries, Christianity has been
embraced by the Japanese leaders for a purpose -- a Japanese Front. The following
table will give the reader some idea of the number of Japanese Christians compared
with the Buddhist and Shintos:
Figures of Japanese Consulate-General, March 5, 1934
Buddhists
52,039
Shinto
31,870
Christian
4,131
"The Japanese may be a faithful Buddhist or Christian, as he wishes, but
he is under obligation to worship the deified anoestors." Quotation from
Japanese government publication, "Sinto Shrines".
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
Recently the Japanese and many of their American friends have proudly pointed
out to the expatriated Japanese boys and girls as a proof of their lovalty to America

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.99)
HIS IMPERIAL HIGHNESS, PRINCE FUSHIMI'S FUND
Among the many Japanese institutions and agencies, perhaps the Prince Fushimi
Scholarship Association of Hawaii can be oonsidered a representative one, direotly
sponsoring an effective action in promoting leadership for the fulfillment of Japan's
mission. The material aid received from a Prinoe of Japan, in the form of prizes
and soholarship by the American citizens of Japanese ancestry, has oreated the de-
sired results.
In the year of 1907, after the sucoessful consummation of Anglo-Japanese Alli-
ance, His Imperial Highness, Prince Fushimi of Japan, visited Hawaii on his homeward
voyage as the guest of the British government. Fifteen leading Japanese with Consul-
General Saito, met the Prince and his military aides at the home of Mr. Araki, the
manager of the Yokohama Specie Bank. It is said that General Nishi and Admiral
Yamamoto insisted on an aggressive, typioal Japanese program, but the two militarists
were prevailed to compromise to a milder, but an effective program. Prince Fushimi
gave a modest amount of $200.00 with the promise of more and the local leaders were
asked to inorease the fund according to the needs from time to time. Prizes and
other recognitions were given to the outstanding young Japanese student leaders for
meritorious efforts and in excellence of school work. Since l9l9 soholarships wore
awarded, sending outstanding Japanese student leaders to various universities. The
reoipients of this fund now hold the key positions in the City, County and
Territorial governments.
JAPANESE CHRISTIANS
Mr. Yusuki Tsurumi, one of the well-known parliamentarian and Christian leaders,
said, "I doubt very much whether Christianity, as developed in America and Europe,
will be accepted as such by a large number of Japanese ....... Japanese will not
accept a foreign thought without impressing upon it their own stamp."
The foregoing statement by an eminent Japanese Christian leader confirms our
belief that the Japanese Christians in Hawaii cannot be truly Americanized through
Christianity alone. Unfortunately, the Amerioan missionaries and many leading fin-
anciers are of the belief that this seems to be the best means to Amerioanize the
American citizens of Japanese ancestry. Looking over the statistics of the various
Japanese religious sects in Hawaii, one will find the sorrowful fact that, in spite
of large expenditures donated by American missionaries, Christianity has been
embraced by the Japanese leaders for a purpose -- a Japanese Front. The following
table will give the reader some idea of the number of Japanese Christians compared
with the Buddhist and Shintos:
Figures of Japanese Consulate-General, March 5, 1934
Buddhists
52,039
Shinto
31,870
Christian
4,131
"The Japanese may be a faithful Buddhist or Christian, as he wishes, but
he is under obligation to worship the deified anoestors." Quotation from
Japanese government publication, "Sinto Shrines".
EXPATRIATION A "HOAX"
Recently the Japanese and many of their American friends have proudly pointed
out to the expatriated Japanese boys and girls as a proof of their loyalty to Amerioa.
Peouliarly, the Japanese law of nationality is based on the principle of jus
sanguines, while the American laws are based on the prinoiple of jus soli. Dual

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.99)
nationality usually arises through a conflict between the law of jus soli -- the law
determining nationality aocording to the place of birth -- and the law of jus san-
guines by which nationality is traced through blood relationship. Whenever these
two prinoiples conflict duai nationality arises.
To ease this unfortunate situation, the 1924 Expatriation Law was put into
effect by the Japanese government. Unfortunately the result has been proven, beyond
a reasonable doubt, a hoax.
The Japanese Consulate Official stated that although the Japanese children may
register only at the Territorial Board of Health, the status of the ohild may not be
"necessary to say that such children hold American citizenship only". One of the in-
direct means of bringing the expatriated Japanese youths back to their own national-
ity is that they are urged to register their marriage certificates at the Japanese
Consulate, thus regaining their nationality from the Japanese government. Another
way is the general practice of the parents of the Japanese ancestry registering their
names at the Consulate when they become of military age, without their son's knowl-
edge. It is said "the parents are forced to do it, for otherwise their relatives
residing in Japan would be punished, fined or otherwise made to suffor." Approx-
imately two-thirds of the American citizens of Japanese anoestry in Hawaii retain the
status of dual citizenship.
The figures given to the writer by the Japanese Consulate are as follows:
1. Number of Japanese who first reported their birth to the Consulate and expa-
triated themselves from Japan
5,496
2. Number of the Japanese who did not report their birth to the
Consulate and lost the Japanese nationality
25,515
December 31, 1933
31,011
Expatriated in 1934
一
614
Total
31,625
One must ask -- how can Americans be made out of Japanese descendants when the
schools, various semi-government organs, Japanized religious sects, cultural centers,
Y.M.B.A. Intelligenoe Work, Y.W.B.A. and etc., subtly stress loyalty to Japan?
Hawaii Sentinel, the fearless American Weekly, reported; (Less than two months
ago, May 25) that the U. S. Intelligence and Customs officers seized a mass of print-
ed materials brought into the islands by an American citizen of Japanese ancestry. It
is alleged that the printed matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese
Navy League, encouraging a Nippon Navy in Hawaii".
Startling news articles appeared in Japan, "praising the loyalty of Hawaiian-
born Japanese to the mother country". It was one of these stories which told how the
Japanese in Hawaii, including American oitizens of Japanese ancestry "signed pledges
of loyalty to Japan in their own blood."
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
Mr. Y. Soga, as spokesman for the Japanese community, said: --
"Japanese youths who are born here are not still fully adapted to their new
environment and new civilization of the west, if they should lose all traces,
its effeot will be rather deplorable."
It is absurd to think that the Japanese youths born in Hawaii must be taught to
retain Japanese traits and culture to become loo percent American citizens. Neverthe
less the attitude of the leaders clearly shows that is what they want the Americans
to believe. In a praotical sense, it means that they are going to maintain the
Japanese language schools.
If one can live in a Japanese community for a period of years and daily asso-
ciate with their childron, one will readily agree that the language schools seriously
hinder Americanization. The textbook itself may not undermine Americanism, but they
certainly do teach Japanism.
Enough is taught to make the little youngsters talk of

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.98)
register only at the Territorial Board of Health, the status of the child may not ve
"necessary to say that such children hold American citizenship only". One of the in-
direct means of bringing the expatriated Japanese youths back to their own national-
ity is that they are urged to register their marriage certificates at the Japanese
Consulate, thus regaining their nationality from the Japanese government. Another
way is the general practice of the parents of the Japanese ancestry registering their
names at the Consulate when they become of military age, without their son's knowl-
edge. It is said "the parents are forced to do it, for otherwise their relatives
residing in Japan would be punished, fined or otherwise made to suffor." Approx-
imately two-thirds of the American citizens of Japanese anoestry in Hawaii retain the
status of dual oitizenship.
The figures given to the writer by the Japanese Consulate are as follows:
1. Number of Japanese who first reported their birth to the Consulate and expa-
triated themselves from Japan
5,496
●
2. Number of the Japanese who did not report their birth to the
Consulate and lost the Japanese nationality
25,515
December 31, 1933
31,011
一
Expatriated in 1934
614
Total
31,625
一
一
One must ask -- how can Americans be made out of Japanese descendants when the
schools, various semi-government organs, Japanized religious sects, cultural centers,
Y.M.B.A. Intelligenoe Work, Y.W.B.A. and etc., subtly stress loyalty to Japan?
Hawaii Sentinel, the fearless American Weekly, reported; (Less than two months
ago, May 25) that the U. S. Intelligence and Customs officers seized a mass of print-
ed materials brought into the islands by an American citizen of Japanese ancestry. It
is alleged that the printed matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese
Navy League, encouraging a Nippon Navy in Hawaii".
Startling news articles appeared in Japan, "praising the loyalty of Hawaiian-
born Japanese to the mother country". It was one of these stories which told how the
Japanese in Hawaii, including American citizens of Japanese ancestry "signed pledges
of loyalty to Japan in their own blood."
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
Mr. Y. Soga, as spokesman for the Japanese community. said: --
"Japanese youths who are born here are not still fully adapted to their new
environment and new civilization of the west, if they should lose all traces,
its effeot will be rather deplorable."
It is absurd to think that the Japanese youths born in Hawaii must be taught to
retain Japanese traits and culture to become 1o0 percent American citizens. Neverthe
less the attitude of the leaders clearly shows that is what they want the Americans
to believe. In a practical sense, it means that they are going to maintain the
Japanese language schools.
If one can live in a Japanese community for a period of years and daily asso-
ciate with their childron, one will readily agree that the language schools seriously
hinder Americanization. The textbook itself may not undermine Americanism. but they
certainly do teach Japanism.
. Enough is taught to make the little youngsters talk of
- 5 -

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.99)
and play the role of "samurai", the "three human bullets", and dramatize future U.S.
- Japan war. They speak of Admiral Togo as "our hero" and the Emperor of Japan as
"our king". To say the least, the faot that the Japanese insist in maintaining
these expensive institutions proves that contrary is true. Why do they persist in
maintaining the language sohool at the tremendous expense of 850,000 dollars a year?
The Amerioan publio schools are the best medium to Americanize the American citizens;
is it not reasonable to believe that the same is true for the Japanese? Just as the
Territorial government has its Public Instruction, the Japanese maintain Hawaii Jap-
anese Educational Association of Hawaii. The association is the pillar of the
Language Schools in Hawaii. Under its wings alone (1934) there were 16l schools,
589 teachers and an enrollment of 37,484 pupils.
We must remember the student leaders of today will be the leaders of tomorrow.
Whatever they acquire in the language sohools, will be used as the means of a step-
ping stone to higher and nobler duty for Japan. The response of the Japanese stu-
dents toward Japan and their heroes shows their inward feelings. The student year
book of 1936 was dedioated to their beloved leader, Dr. Inazo Nitobe, the author of
"Bushido" -- the spirit of Japan. Dr. Nitobe was the adviser to the leading Jap-
anese daily Osaka Mainichi in Japan and a delegate to the League of Nation's Cultural
Bureau. He was known as the idol of America's drawing room. He commanded high es-
teem from many American Christian workers, as well as many financiers. Because of
his commanding position, he was sent to Amerioa by the Japanese militarists to check
the attitude of American officials, as well as the public, toward Japan's planned
invasion of Manchuria in September 18, 1931.
Dr. Nitobe, aided by his American friends, made a thorough investigation and re-
ported the result to the militarists. He reported that: --
"Amerioa has more peace at any price missionaries than any other country.
They possess neither the intelligence nor the vision to see things as they
are. Consequently what they say in public, though not worth listening to,
is swallowed by the ignorant."
Men in eduoational circles, jurists and students of international law, are most-
ly sticklers for legal technicalities.
It is interesting to note that all the Japanese language schools abroad are con-
trolled by the Institute of Overseas People's Education and Japan's Foreign Office.
The head of the above institution, Viscount Ishii, declared (July 2nd of 1934) --
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an organization for infusing
the Japanese spirit into the second generation of Japanese abroad. In other
words, leave the second generation in the land of their residence but don't
let them forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, select Jap-
anese goods, in voting - cast the ballot for politicians friendly to Japanese."
The Growth of Japanese Language Sohools in Hawaii
Attendance in the
American Public Schools
Japanese Language Schools
1921
19.311
18,612
1925
28,363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45,121
42,665
Rev. Takie Okumura, the founder of the Japanese Language Sohool in Hawaii, said
(1935)
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction and the Japanese
community seems to be Japanized more and more. Since its victory in the
Supreme Court the language schools are beginning to display the real color
of Japanism. Imperial Resoript is boldly read and taught, - - - -"
Rev. Shinryu Umehara, Japanese Buddhist priest who was sent to America to
inspect the Japanese language schools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, said (March
27, 1934)
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligence Department:
"I felt while I was in America that the existence of Japanese schools and
Buddhist organizations in the Japanese communities is grand, for they are

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.99)
We must remember the student leaders of today will be the leaders of tomorrow.
Whatever they acquire in the language sohools, will be used as the means of a step-
ping stone to higher and nobler duty for Japan. The response of the Japanese stu-
dents toward Japan and their heroes shows their inward feelings. The student year
book of 1936 was dedioated to their beloved leader, Dr. Inazo Nitobe, the author of
"Bushido" -- the spirit of Japan. Dr. Nitobe was the adviser to the leading Jap-
anese daily Osaka Mainichi in Japan and a delegate to the League of Nation's Cultural
Bureau. He was known as the idol of America's drawing room. He commanded high es-
teem from many American Christian workers, as well as many financiers. Beoause of
his commanding position, he was sent to Amerioa by the Japanese militarists to check
the attitude of American officials, as well as the public, toward Japan's planned
invasion of Manchuria in September 18, 1931.
Dr. Nitobe, aided by his Amerioan friends, made a thorough investigation and re-
ported the result to the militarists. He reported that: --
"Amerioa has more peace at any price missionaries than any other country.
They possess neither the intelligence nor the vision to see things as they
are. Consequently what they say in publio, though not worth listening to,
is swallowed by the ignorant."
Men in educational circles, jurists and students of international law, are most-
ly sticklers for legal technicalities.
It is interesting to note that all the Japanese language schools abroad are con-
trolled by the Institute of Overseas People's Education and Japan's Foreign Office.
The head of the above institution, Viscount Ishii, declared (July 2nd of 1934) --
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an organization for infusing
the Japanese spirit into the second generation of Japanese abroad. In other
words. leave the second generation in the land of their residence but don't
let them forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, select Jap-
anese goods, in voting - oast the ballot for politicians friendly to Japanese."
The Growth of Japanese Language Sohools in Hawaii
Attendance in the
American Public Schools
Japanese Language Schools
1921
19,311
18,612
1925
28,363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45,121
42,665
Rev. Takie Okumura, the founder of the Japanese Language School in Hawaii, said
(1935) --
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction and the Japanese
community seems to be Japanized more and more. Since its victory in the
Supreme Court the language schools are beginning to display the real color
of Japanism. Imperial Resoript is boldly read and taught, - - - -"
Rev. Shinryu Umehara, Japanese Buddhist priest who was sent to America to
inspect the Japanese language schools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, said (March
27, 1934)--
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligence Department:
"I felt while I was in America that the existence of Japanese schools and
Buddhist organizations in the Japanese communities is grand, for they are
the mother-bodies for fostering the national consoience, Japan's civiliza-
tion and Japan's spirit."
- 6 -

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.99)
CONCLUSION
A few years ago the vice-minister Yasujiro Tsutsumi. of Japan's Overseas Af~
fairs, urged upon Japanese abroad to build up their own civilization and industrial
development, rather than become assimilated in the looal population. He stated that
"where Japanese had maintained their identity, the result had been beneficial to
Japan."
General Araki said, "The urgent need of the Japanese nation is to realize justly
and effectively the power of the spirit of the Japanese." He further deolared, "The
spirit of Japan must be spread over the seven seas and the five continents. Every-
thing that opposes its expansion is to be overwhelmed if necessary by force. The
countries of eastern Asia have been oppressed by the white people. Japan will not
tolerate this any longer. It is the duty of the Japanese people to oppose any action
of the Powers that run counter to Japanese rule."
Judging from these official attitudes and the subsequent events since l910, it
is apparent that Amerioa will soon face a momentous period of her history. The ideals,
political philosophies, and economic standards of the two great nations are bound to
test their supremacy. Our national seourity and the security of these islands will
be wholly contingent upon Japan's military policy in the Pacific. Japanization ac-
tivities should not be considered as mere academic interest; we should follow as
olosely as possible the course of events and development of public opinion in Japan
and America.
Amerioans may recall the Wood-Forbes mission in l92l to the  Philippine Islands.
General Wood is said to have had a frank talk with Baron Tanaka (author of Tanaka's
memorial). He told the Japanese militarists "that if she continued to fortify the
Bonins. the Loochoos and the Pesscaadores to the point where at any time it would in-
terfere with or stop American commerce with mainland (China), the U. S. would go to
war". Baron Tanaka answered just as frankly and emphatically, "that if anyone inter-
fered with them in Manchuria, Japan would fight. Japan will not arbitrate on Man-
churia and will fight before she surrenders her hard won rights in the territory she
holds as vital to her security as the U. S. does the Panama Canal."
Since the exohange of this frank declaration, Japan not only fortified the Bonin
and Loochoos, but it is said that she is improving harbors and building large air-
plane landing fields in the Pelews, Carolines and the Marshalls. In the name of
Manchukuo she is building a puppet navy and forcing military training on Manchukuan
and the Koreans. The most recent threat is the "Hands off China" policy which is as
much as to say, America you keep off from China; this deolaration is a direct threat
and an aot of interference to American commerce. Will America go to war with Japan
as declared by General Wood? Thus far America has not taken any effective action,
but if Japan insists to aggravate and demand the equality of naval ratio, elimination
of American commercial and economic interests in China; secretly construot fortifica-
tions in the Pacific Mandates and continue the Japanization of Hawaii, America will
have no alternative.
In the face of all these perplexing contingencies, the strategical value of
Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed. Hawaii is the Heligoland to U. S. Navy and
Gibraltar to U. S. Army. Therefore. the necessity of Americanization in Hawaii is
doubly signifioant. Our security will wholly depend upon the satisfactory and ra-
tional settlement of political and military problems between Japan and America. The
Japanization of Hawaii is no longer an issue only for the people of Hawaii but it has
become national and as such it should be dealt with.
Japan's continued aggressive movement into the continent of Asia and particular-
ly Japan's insistence of Japanization of her subjects residing in the North and South
Amerioan countries and Hawaii are the outcome of the intense desire of the Japanese
race to change their racial, social, economic, and political and military status
equal to the status of America and of the white race. This spirit of Japan will
never rest till her national mission is attained.
More than three decades ago Amerioan hearts were oaptivated by the eloquence of
Senator Beveridge. He declared in the Senate -
"Our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia. The Pacific is our ocean.
- - - And the Pacific is the ooean of the commerce of the future.

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.99)
thing that opposes its expansion is to be overwnermeu . o
countries of eastern Asia have been oppressed by the white people. Japan will not
tolerate this any longer. It is the duty of the Japanese people to oppose any action
of the Powers that run counter to Japanese rule."
Judging from these official attitudes and the subsequent events since l910, it
is apparent that Amerioa will soon face a momentous period of her history. The ideals,
political philosophies, and economic standards of the two great nations are bound to
test their supremacy. Our national security and the security of these islands will
be wholly contingent upon Japan's military policy in the Pacific. Japanization ac-
tivities should not be considered as mere academic interest; we should follow as
closely as possible the course of events and development of public opinion in Japan
and America.
Amerioans may recall the Wood-Forbes mission in 192l to the Philippine Islands.
General Wood is said to have had a frank talk with Baron Tanaka (author of Tanaka's
memorial). He told the Japanese militarists "that if she continued to fortify the
Bonins, the Loochoos and the Pesscaadores to the point where at any time it would in-
terfere with or stop American commerce with mainland (China), the U. S. would go to
war". Baron Tanaka answered just as frankly and emphatically, "that if anyone inter-
fered with them in Manchuria, Japan would fight. Japan will not arbitrate on Man-
churia and will fight before she surrenders her hard won rights in the territory she
holds as vital to her security as the U. S. does the Panama Canal."
Since the exohange of this frank declaration, Japan not only fortified the Bonin
and Loochoos, but it is said that she is improving harbors and building large air-
plane landing fields in the Pelews, Carolines and the Marshalls. In the name of
Manchukuo she is building a puppet navy and forcing military training on Manchukuan
and the Koreans. The most recent threat is the "Hands off China" policy which is as
much as to say, Amerioa you keep off from China; this deolaration is a direct threat
and an aot of interferenoe to American commerce. Will America go to war with Japan
as declared by General Wood? Thus far America has not taken any effective action,
but if Japan insists to aggravate and demand the equality of naval ratio, elimination
of American commercial and economic interests in China; secretly construct fortifica-
tions in the Pacific Mandates and continue the Japanization of Hawaii, America will
have no alternative.
In the face of all these perplexing contingencies, the strategical value of
Hawaii cannot be too highly stressed. Hawaii is the Heligoland to U. S. Navy and
Gibraltar to U. S. Army. Therefore. the necessity of Americanization in Hawaii is
doubly significant. Our security will wholly depend upon the satisfactory and ra-
tional settlement of political and military problems between Japan and America. The
Japanization of Hawaii is no longer an issue only for the people of Hawaii but it has
become national and as such it should be dealt with.
Japan's continued aggressive movement into the continent of Asia and partioular-
ly Japan's insistence of Japanization of her subjects residing in the North and South
American countries and Hawaii are the outcome of the intense desire of the Japanese
race to change their racial, sooial, economic, and political and military status
equal to the status of America and of the white race. This spirit of Japan will
never rest till her national mission is attained.
More than three decades ago American hearts were oaptivated by the eloquence of
Senator Beveridge. He declared in the Senate -
"Our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia. The Pacific is our ocean.
- - - And the Pacific is the ooean of the commerce of the future.
"Most future wars will be conflicts of commeroe. The Power that rules the
Pacific, therefore, is the Power that rules the world."
- 7 -

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.99)
Twenty-three years ago Mr. Chokume Matsuo said: "Japan and Amerioa are pitted
against each other not only as regards China but also with regards to the mastery of
the Pacifio Ocean. There is always a possibility of the outbreak of war between
Japan and Amerioa. Frankly speaking, there is no prospect for Amerioa's emerging
victorious, judged both from her military and naval preparedness.
"Remember the position of the country before the outbreak of Russo-Japanese War.
There might have been not a soul in the world who dreamed of Japan's defeating Rus-
sia."
Can America arrest Japanization of Asia and Hawaii without going into a racial
war with Japan? Thinking Americans fully know when Japan is in full control of Asia,
with countless man power and with all the rich resources under their command, America
will be forced to lower the white man's standard of living, and submit to much
humiliation.
The writer sincerely believes that America can arrest Japanization of Asia and
Hawaii if she so desires. The following course of action will force Japan's milita-
rists to their senses, eventually bringing peace and security in the Pacifio:
First: Embargo the necessary arms, munitions, machinery, and materials
essential for war to Japan through a planned subsidy for two years.
Second: Extend positive moral aid to China and Korea to resist Japan's
militarists.
America's present policy of supplying 57 peroent of all war essentials to
Japan is parallel to America's aid to Japan when annexing Korea in 1910. Japan
used Korea as a stepping stone in the conquest of China. If history repeats,
Japan will use China in the conquest of Alaska, Hawaii, and possibly the Paoific
Coast.
Remember the American-Korean Treaty, May 22, 1882?
一8-

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.96)
NaVal Operations
(Fu)2A=M
OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
reply refer to No.
WASHINGTON
Op-16-B-3
A6-4/ND14(6-5)
JUN 17 1939
ack.6-24
file.
RESTRICTED
My dear Mr. Warren:
Attached hereto are translations from Japanese
newspapers in Honolulu whioh might prove of interest to the
State Department.
894.20211A/56
The item titled "Hawaii Mainichi, May 25, 1939,
Local Japanese Residents Donation to Airplane Donation Fund
Reaches 85,000 Yen" might possibly come under the category
as presoribed in paragraph 3 of the Neutrality Aot of May 1,
1937.
No other governmental department has been fur-
nished copies of this correspondence.
Very sincerely yours,
EMLOn
Cire. letler
E. B. Nixon,
6/22/39
Commander, U.S.Navy.
RVH/Eg
Mr. Fletoher Warren,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
F/A
FILED
RESTRICTED
1939

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Hamai1 Mainichi, May 26, 1939.
Japanese Consulate Requests Japanese Society To
Investigate Conditions of Japanese Residents in Hilo.
The Japanese Consulate in Honolulu made a request with the Hilo
Japanese soeiety to conduct an investigation of the Japanese organisations
for the study of the conditions of the Japanese residents in Hilo.
Aecording to this request, the investigation is to be conducted
on a wide soale and to inelude organisations composed of American
eitisems of Japanese ancestry. These organisations are the Japanese
society, distriet Japenese organisations, prefectural Japanese societies,
commeresial organisations, youths elubs, educational, academic and re-
ligious organisations, social and charitable organisations, women's
elubs and civie organimations.
Simee the investigation is to be completed and reported to the
Japanese consulate by the end of this month, the Hilo Japanese Society
held a meeting of the consular agents in Hilo at nine this morning to
present the above request.
Hawali Mainichi, May 25, 1939.
Loeal Japanese Residents Donation To Airplane
Donation Fund Reaches 85,000 Yen.
The airplane donation fund of 20,000, which was collected
patriotically by the Society For Realisation of Airplane Donation
Movement, was shipped on April 13 aboard the special service ship
Shiriya and according to a message from the Administration Bureau,
Navy Department, yesterday, it amounted to 84,942.23 yen. Besides
this letter, a reeeipt and a certificate of appreciation were received
by the said society.
National Defense Fund Receipt.
84.942.23 Yen.
Received with thanks the above amount, donated with the primary
purpose of strengthening the national defense.
To Society For Realisation of Airplane Donation Movement On Island
of Hawaii.
Lt.Cmdr. Chitei Ishibuchi, paymaster.
Administration of National Defense Fund,
Administration Bureau, Navy Department.
-1

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.98)
MCTED
Letter of Appreciation
We, hereby, express our deepest appreciation for your monetary
donation made in the spirit of strengthening our national defense in
this current emergenoy.
May, 1939.
To Society For Realimation of Airplane Donation Movement on Island
of Hawail.
Mitsumasa Yonai, Minister of Navy.
Wippu J1j1, May 30, 1939.
Meeting Of Consular Agents Held.
(Hilo Dispatoh)- The Hilo Japanese Society, which is the agent of the
Japanese consul in Hilo, held a meeting of the consular agents at its
office on May 26.
The matter regarding the request of the Japanese consulate to
make an investigation of the Japanese organisations was discussed and
the task of investigation was divided among the consular agents.
N1ppu Jij1, May 30, 1939.
Waste Articles To Be Collected For Shipment
Aboard Training Vessels.
(Hilo Dispatch)-- The Hilo Japanese Society held its officers' meeting
on May 25 to make plans for the reception of the training vessels,
Nippon Maru and Kaio Maru, which wili arrive in company in the emrly
part of August.
It was decided to have waste articles collected by the Japanese
societies and branches of the Society For Encouragement of Savings in
the various districts on the island of Hawaii from now for shipment
aboard the training vessels to the proper authorities in Japan and to
act as the go-between in the donations of comfort bags and money.
Since the donation of waste articles, entrusted with the Shintoku
Maru last year, resulted in over 15, 000 yen, the onthusiasm of the
society is to collect only priceless articles, such as copper, lead,
zine, bronze, aluminum, wool and muslin, and to entrust with each vessel
20,000 yen worth of these artieles. Besides, the shipment of old news-
papers, which are being sold at 40 sens a kan (3.75 kilogrammes) in
Japan today, may be considered according to the loading capacity of both
ships.
-2

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.99)
June 24, 1939.
My dear Commander Nixon:
I aoknowledge with thanks the receipt of your letter
of June 17, 1939, addressed to Mr. Warren, 1n regard to
certain translations from Japanese newspapers in Honolulu.
894.20211A/56
Sincerely yours,
George S. Messersmith
Assistant Secretary
F/A
Commander E. B. Nixon, U.S.N.,
Offiee of the Chief of Naval Operations,
Department of the Navy.
A true copy of
the signed origi-
nal.
A-M: FW: DMZ: SS

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
611.942/1
letter
SEE
FOR
894.20211
Sino-Korean Peoples League
FROM
Washington DC
Kilsoo K. Haan)
DATED
July 10, 1939
TO
NAME
REGARDING:
Incident of Japanese officers and captain
57
on TAIYO MARU. Japanese passenger ship, refused
to allow Customs officials in Hawaii to inspect
a locked safe aboard the ship. Haughty and
arrogant attitude protested.
las
S

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.85)
Lek
T1
894.20211A/70
PSAB

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.99)
OC
New York Evening Post
MEN AGAINST AMERICA:
Jap-Nazi Propaganda Linked Even in 1938
Viereck and Matsuoka Wrote Defense of Manchuria Grab
Copyright, 1940, by N. Y. Post
where nearly 40 per cent of the
of Japanese school children are
of Japanese. origin. Between
On Jan. 17, 1938, the present
residents are of Japanese blood,
taught language and tradition.
1934 and 1936 there had been a
foreign minister of Japan,
dedicated to Japanese ideals and
Japanese Aims
20 per cent increase in this vote,
European criticism of the Man-
Yosuka Matsuoka, voiced cer-
tain succinct comments about
cans, irrespective of any techni
worship and in no sefisAmeri-
cal claim to citizenship.
the NRS release, will make clear
One more quotation, also from
istration as a whole.
a 10 per cent increase in the reg
churian venture and led his
The contact between Viereck
Tokio's aspirations for the stu-
And investigators ha
country's delegation out of the
and Matsuoka was established
dents in foreign language
that much of the ac
League of Nations chamber.
whose Chaplinesque mustache
A fortnight later, Adolf Hitler,
through the German consul in
New York, at that time Dr. Ot-
to Kiep. Since 1933, according
zens of Japanese blood. In the
schools and for other U. S. citi-
nese strength is still
The leaders of the
community, fearful
is very similar to Matsuoka's,
to NRS, Japan has been assist-
words of former Japanese Am-
strength will seem to
followed suit for Germany.
ed by such other German propa-
bassador Ishii, the aims are
have not
And seven months later there
gandists /as Colin Ross and
these:
ands of mama-
appeared in Liberty Magazine
Klaus Mehnert, who is now
"The Institute of Ove
generation Jan
an article signed by Matsuoka
busily examining the Pacific
Peoples Education is an o
come of
and entitled: "Manchuria: Ja-
Coast from a retreat in Carmel,
zation for infusing the Jap
om would
pan's Challenge to the World—
Cal., preparatory to a trip to
spirit into the second gene
944 percent
An Empire Builder's View of
Germany via Hawaii and Japan.
of Japanese abroad. In
What Lies Behind the New
Yet another emissary to Tokio
words, leave the second g
re is yet
Turmoil in the East."
is Dr Alfred von Wegerer, his-
tion in the land of their
il that ma
The article was totalitarian in
torian who spent years proving
dence but don't let them
dangerou
the philosophy of a man who is
known as the Clive of Japan; it
tone and phrase. It set forth
World War.
Wilhelm's innocenge in the first
All this propagandist activity
the Japanese spirit. In b
select Japanese goods; in
cast ballots for politicans
rrow's arti
economic o
hunger in
Tells Story of Article
placed in an American publica-
tion a smooth blending of Nazi-
Japanese ideology.
Today, in a relase headed
centers onthe Hawafian Islands
for two reasons: rst, any Japa-
nese attack upen the U. S. must
necessarily first try to render
the island impotent as a base
for the U. S. Navy; and, second,
friendly to Japanese."
entire Hawaiian situatio
summed up in that single
graph. There is, first, a
community of 155,000 p
The point and menace
var-time problem.
oncentrating
sifed agricultur
slands and so crt
sugar profits.
"Japanazis Over Hawaii," the
Hawaii is a convenient pause for
out of a total population
News Research Service of Los
travelers between the countries,
000, most of them bound
Angeles tells the story of that
where a unified block of loyal
of superstition and ind
article and of George Sylvester
Nipponese listen patiently to
ence to an Emperor posin
Viereck who wrote it.
ideology and instruction.
god. There is, second,
Matsuoka might have written
Barely a week passes that
pulsion that they "cast
it himself. Now in his fifties,
does not see a Japanese official
for politicians only friendly to
the veteran Japanese politician
of greater or less degree spend-
the Japanese."
and diplomat has a thoroughly
ing a week or ten days in Hono-
In the general elcctin of 1936
American education. He wears
lulu between ships. Reporting
there were 75,000 registered vot-
American clothes gracefully,
to these officials on the progress
ers. Almost 19,000 were citizens
speaks English virtually without
of a movement identical with
cent and falls back to slang
Germany's Auslands Organiza-
as a second line of defense when
tion (organization for regimen-
he needs it.
tation of Germans living abroad)
But for an article defending
are such representatives as:
the seizure of Manchuria, he
The Kantoru, chief aide of
turned to the mouthpiece for
The Hoss, head of the Buddhist
Kaiser Wilhelm in the first
religion in Japan and worship-
World War, the chief writing
ped as a living Buddha. Of the
propagandist for Adolf Hitler
155,000 Japanese in Hawaii, ful-
in the second World War. Why?
ly 90 per cent are either Budd-
"This fact, insignificant in it-
hist or Shintoist, and are requir-
self, is of great importance
ed by the tenets of those reli-
pw," says the NRS release, "be-
gions to worship Hirohito as a
se it proves how closely and
god. The Kantoru, Japanese in
how long Japan and the
Hawaii admit, rules this entire
d Reich have played from
community "as easily as one
27
ends, with the United
moves his fingers."
of America caught in the
The head of the Japanese fish-
ing syndicate, whose fleet was
the release adds:
represented by 62 Diesel-pow.
d Reich trans-Atlantic
ered sampans in the Japanese
Curacao played the
navy games of 1933—first year
: Japan's trans-
of the Hitler era. In these
lize Hawaii as
games, taking place 700 miles
from the Hawaiian Islands, "the
on be-
islands of Kauai and Maui were
Govern-
captured and other strategic
ication
posts severely damaged,"
propa-
cording to the report of
its use
JLT
ese Foreign Office.
)-opera-
teachers of the Bud
agerous
dor
 foreign lang
Hawaii,
wh
ponderant
