894.504 Economic Matters., Japan, Labor., April 16, 1946 (File 1521)
ID: 894.504-1521   Pages: 24   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.504-economic-matters-japan-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
Endow. to dep. 365, from Tokyo

GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Economic and Scientific Section

BASIC JAPANESE LABOR UNION LEGISLATION

TEXT OF:

Page

1. Trade Union Law, promulgated 21 December 1945 . . . . . . . . . 1
2. Ordinance Fixing Date of Enforcement of the Trade Union Law, promulgated 27 February 1946 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
3. Enforcement Ordinance of the Trade Union Law, promulgated 27 February 1946 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Note: The following is a reproduction of texts presented by the Imperial Japanese Government to General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.

March 1946

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
BASIC JAPANESE LABOR UNION LEGISLATION
1. Trade Union Law, promulgated 21 December 1945

PROCEEDINGS OF THE DIET
No. XVI (c)
TRADE UNION LAW

We hereby give our sanction to the Trade Union Law approved by the Imperial Diet and cause the same to be promulgated.

This twenty-first day of the twelfth month of the twentieth year of Showa.

Signed: Hirehito
Seal of the Emperor

Countersigned: Baron Kijuro Shidehara,
Prime Minister.
Chuze Iwata,
Minister of Justice.
Hitoshi Ashida,
Minister of Welfare.
Viscount Keizo Shibusawa,
Minister of Finance.
Takeo Tanaka,
Minister of Transportation.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
TRADE UNION LAW

CHAPTER I GENERAL PRINCIPLES

Article 1. The aim of the present Act shall be to raise the status of workers and thereby contribute to economic development through the guarantee of the right of organization and the encouragement of collective bargaining.

The provisions of Article 35 of the Criminal Code shall apply to collective bargaining and other acts of the trade unions which are appropriate, being performed for the attainment of the objects of the preceding paragraph.

Article 2. Trade Unions under the present Act shall be those organizations, or federations thereof, formed autonomously by the workers, with the workers as the main constituents, for the main purpose of maintaining or improving the conditions of work and for raising the economic status of the workers, provided that this rule shall not apply to those:

1. Which admit to membership the employer or persons who may be considered to represent the interest of the employer.
2. Which depend on the employer's aid for the major expenses of the organization.
3. Where objects are confined to mutual aid work or other welfare work among the members.
4. Which principally aim at carrying on political or social movements.

Article 3. Workers under the present Act shall include those who live by wages, salaries or other remuneration assimilable thereto

-2-

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
regardless of the kind of occupation.

Article 4. Police, firemen and employees of penal institutions shall be denied the right to organize or to join trade unions.

As regards other government officials, subordinate officials and municipal officials, and those employed by the state or public bodies, separate regulations may be made by ordinance for the application of the present Act, provided that this rule shall not apply to the prohibition of their organizing a trade union or of their joining such as members.

CHAPTER II. TRADE UNIONS

Article 5. Representatives of trade unions shall submit to the administrative authorities within the week after formation of the trade union, its statute and the list of names and addresses of its officers.

When charges occur in the particulars as laid down in preceding paragraph, a report thereon shall be submitted to the administrative authorities within a week thereafter.

Article 6. When a report has been submitted in accordance with paragraph one of the preceding article and the union concerned is not in conformity with Article 2, the administrative authorities shall take action in accordance with the stipulations of ordinance following the resolution of the Labor Relations Committee.

The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to the case of an organization set up as a trade union which has ceased to conform to Article 2.

- 3 -

=== Page 5 === (confidence 1.00)
Article 7. The statute of the trade union shall contain at least the following particulars:

1. Name of the union.
2. Address of the main office.
3. If the union is a legal person, statement to that effect.
4. Objects and business of the union.
5. Rules relating to membership or to affiliated unions.
6. Rules relating to meetings.
7. Rules relating to the representatives of the union and other officers.
8. Rules relating to expenditure and accounts of the union.
9. Rules relating to revision of the statute of the union

Article 8. When the statute of a union contravenes laws or regulations, the administrative authorities may order its alteration following the resolution of the Labor Relations Committee.

Article 9. The trade union shall keep a membership list or a list of affiliated unions.

Article 10. Representatives of a trade union or those to whom the powers therefore are delegated by the union shall have the power to negotiate with the employer on behalf of the members of the union for conclusion of a trade agreement or on other matters.

Article 11. No employer shall discharge a worker or inflict disadvantages on him on account of his membership in a trade union.

- 4 -

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
No employer shall make it a condition of employment that the worker must not join or must withdraw from a trade union.

Article 12. No employer shall claim indemnity from a trade union or members or officers of the same for damages received through a strike or other acts of dispute which are proper acts.

Article 13. When a trade union intends to use for other purposes the funds specially set up for mutual aid and other welfare work, it shall obtain the resolution of the General Meeting of the union.

Article 14. The trade union shall be dissolved in the following cases:
1. Occurrence of the circumstances requiring the dissolution as provided in the statute of the union.
2. Bankruptcy of the union.
3. Resolution for the dissolution adopted by the General Meeting of the union with at least three-fourths majority of the total membership of the affiliated unions.
4. The decision taken under the provisions of Article 6.
5. Court action of dissolution order issued in accordance with the provisions of Article 15.

Article 15. When a trade union frequently violates laws and ordinances and disturbs peace and order, the Court may order dissolution of the union at the request of the Labor Relations Committee.

Necessary matters relating to procedure under the preceding paragraph shall be fixed by ordinance.

Article 16. A trade union shall acquire the status of legal person by registering at the place where its main office is located.

-5-

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
The matters necessary for registration other than were provided in this Act shall be fixed by ordinance.

As regards the matters which require registration for a trade union, they shall have no effect against any third person unless a registration has been effected.

Article 17. The provisions of Article 43, 44, 50, 52-55, 57 and 72-83 of the Civil Code and of Articles 35, 36, 37 clause 2, 136 paragraph 1, 137 and 138 of the Law on Procedure of Non-contentious cases shall apply mutatis mutandis to trade unions which are legal persons.

Article 18. Trade unions which are legal persons shall be exempted from income tax and taxes charged on legal persons in accordance with the provisions of an Ordinance.

CHAPTER III. TRADE AGREEMENTS.

Article 19. The agreement between a trade union and the employer or organization of the latter concerning conditions of work will take effect when the agreement is signed by the parties concerned.

Varies concerned shall submit the trade agreement to the administrative authorities within the week after signing of the trade agreement.

Article 20. No trade agreement shall fix a term exceeding three years.

Article 21. When a trade agreement is signed, the parties concerned shall mutually assume the obligation to cooperate in all sincerity for giving effects to the agreement for the enhancement of efficiency and maintenance of industrial peace.

- 6 -

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 22. When a standard is fixed by a trade agreement concerning conditions of labor and treatment of workers (when a special organ exists for fixing such standards in accordance with a trade agreement, the standards fixed by that organ shall come under this provision and this rule shall apply to all the cases where the same terms occur hereafter) any provision of a labor contract contravening the standard mentioned shall be void and the invalidated part of the labor contract shall be replaced by the provisions of the above mentioned standard. The same rule shall apply to the part which is not laid down in the labor contract.

Article 23. When three-fourths or more of the workers normally employed in a factory, mine or other places of employment come under application of a trade agreement, the remaining workers shall ipso facto be bound by the same agreement.

Article 24. When a major part of the workers of similar kind in a given locality come under application of a certain trade agreement, the administrative authority may at the request of either one or two of the contracting parties take the decision to extend the compulsory application of the contract (including the part revised under provisions of the second paragraph) to all the remaining workers of the same kind in the same locality and to the employer.

In case the Labor Relations Committee deems, in making the resolution of the preceding paragraph that the trade agreement in question contains inappropriate provisions, the Committee may amend these provisions.

The decision shall become effective by public notification.

- 7 -

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 25. When there is a provision in the trade agreement to the effect that disputes concerning matters in the same agreement be put to conciliation or arbitration, it shall be disallowed to engage in strike, lockout or perform acts of dispute except in case of failure of either conciliation or arbitration.

CHAPTER IV. LABOR RELATIONS COMMITTEE.

Article 26. Labor relations committees shall be set up consisting of equal numbers or representatives of employers and workers and of central members.

The administrative authorities shall appoint the representatives of the employers in accordance with the recommendations of the employers organizations, those of workers with the recommendation of the workers trade unions and the central members with the agreement of the representatives of employers and of workers.

The Labor Relations Committee shall consist of National Labor Relations Committee and Prefectural Labor Relations Committees and in case of a special need, special Labor Relations Committees may be set up for a given locality or to deal with special matters.

The members of a Labor Relations Committee and the staff attached thereto as provided by ordinance shall be regarded as staff members engaged in official business under laws and ordinances.

Matters relating to Labor Relations Committees other than those laid down in the present Act shall be fixed by Imperial Ordinance.

Article 27. In addition to the provisions under Articles 6, 8, 15

- 8 -

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
24 and 33 the Labor Relations Committees shall have authority to perform the following functions:

1. Compilation of statistics on labor disputes and investigation of conditions of labor.
2. Mediation in collective bargaining and prevention of labor disputes.
3. Arbitration and conciliation in disputes.

The Labor Relations Committee may submit to the competent administrative authorities for improving conditions of labor.

Article 28. When the Labor Relations Committee deems it necessary for public welfare or when the parties concerned request it, the proceedings of a Labor Relations Committee may be made public.

Article 29. When it is necessary for carrying out its work the Labor Relations Committee may require the attendance or presentation of reports of the employer or of his organization and the worker of others concerned or it may require the presentation of books and documents necessary for investigating conditions of labor or it may also have its members or staff of the committee (hereafter called simply staff) as provided by order under Article 23 clause 4 inspect factories, mines and other places of employment involved or inspect the conditions of business, books and papers and other objects.

Article 30. The members and those who were members as well as the staff or those who were on the staff of a Labor Relations Committee shall be disallowed to disclose any secret information obtained in performing their functions.

- 9 -

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 31. The provisions of Chapter III shall apply mutatis mutandis to the agreements handled by the Labor Relations Committee but to which a trade union is not a party concerning the standard of conditions of work and other terms relating to the treatment of workers.

Article 32. When the conditions of labor or of treatment of workers are especially inappropriate, the Labor Relations Committee may, after investigation of actual conditions, formulate concrete proposals and submit a representation to the administrative authorities.

When the representation of the foregoing paragraph is received and the administrative authorities deem it necessary, they may issue the direction for a fixed standard of working conditions or of treatment of workers to the employer.

When the employer receives the direction of the foregoing paragraph, no must take necessary measures to let all the workers know of the direction without delay.

The standard as directed in accordance with the provisions of paragraph two above shall have the same effects as the trade agreement on the employer and workers concerned.

CHAPTER V. PRIVATIVES.

Article 33. In case of violation of the provisions of Article II, the person who committed the act shall be liable to imprisonment not exceeding six (6) months or to a fine not exceeding Five Hundred Yen (300.00 Yen).

The offense of the foregoing paragraph shall be acted upon at the request of the Labor Relations Committee.

- 10 -

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 34. Those who contravene the provisions of Article 30 shall be liable to fine not exceeding one Thousand Yen (1,000.00 Yen).

Article 35. Those who contravene the provisions of Article 29 and fail to present reports or make false reports or fail to submit the books and papers or contravene the provisions of the same Article and fail to present themselves or refuse, obstruct or evade the inspection under the provisions of the same Article shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Five Hundred Yen (500.00 Yen).

Article 36. When a legal person or the deputy of a person, the head of a family, members of a family, a co-habitant of a family, employees of others engaged for work contravened the provisions of the first portion of the preceding Article, in connection with the business of a legal person or of a person, the said legal person or person shall not be immune from penalty on the ground of not having given order for such contravention.

The provisions of the first portion of the preceding Article shall apply to the directors, managers or other officers who execute the business of the legal person in case the employer is a legal person and to the legally fixed deputy in case the employee is a minor or a person adjudged incompetent provided that this rule shall not apply to a minor who has the same capacity as an adult in the performance of business.

Article 37. The representative or liquidator shall be liable to fine not exceeding Five Hundred Yen (500.00 Yen) in any of the following cases:

1. When he fails to submit the report prescribed in

- 11 -

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 5, paragraph 2 (inclusive of the case where it applies mutatis mutandis under provisions of Article 31) or makes a false report.

2. When he failed to keep the list as prescribed in Article 9.

3. When he failed to register under this Act or under the Ordinance issued under this Act.

4. When he contravened Article 79 or Article 81 of the Civil Code which are applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 17 and failed to make public notification or when he made a false notification.

In case of contravention of the provisions of Article 19 paragraph 2 (including the case where the provisions are applied mutatis mutandis under Article 31), failing to make the report or making a false report, the party to the trade agreement other than the trade union (representative in case the party concerned is an organization) shall be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty yen (50.00 Yen)

When the employer contravened the provisions of Article 32, paragraph 3, he shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Fifty Yen (50.00 Yen).

SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS

The date of enforcement of this Act shall be fixed by Imperial Ordinance.

Trade unions existing actually at the date of enforcement of this Act shall submit reports applying mutatis mutandis the provisions of Article 5 within a week after the date of enforcement of this Act.

The following amendment shall be made in the Act in Registration Tax.

- 12 -

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
In Article 19 clause 7, "Federation of Cooperative Societies" shall be amended to read "Federation of Cooperative Societies, Trade Unions" and "Cooperative Societies Act" to read "Cooperative Societies Act, Trade Union Act."

- 13 -

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
BASIC JAPANESE LABOR UNION LEGISLATION

2. Ordinance Fixing Date of Enforcement of the Trade Union Law, promulgated 27 February 1946

IMPERIAL ORDINANCE

NUMBER 107

Promulgated 27 February 1946

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

We hereby give our sanction to the fixing of the date of the enforcement of the Trade Union Law and cause the same to be promulgated.

This twenty-sixth day of the second month of the twenty-first year of Shwa (26 February 1946)

Signed: Hirohito

Seal of the Emperor

Countersigned: Baron Kijuro Shidehara,
Prime Minister.

Chuzo Iwata,
Minister of Justice.

Hitoshi Ashida,
Minister of Welfare.

Viscount Keizo Shibusawa,
Minister of Finance.

Yoshishige Murakami,
Minister of Transportation.

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

Imperial Ordinance Number 107

The Trade Union Law shall come into force as from 1 March 1946.

- 14 -

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
BASIC JAPANESE LABOR UNION LEGISLATION

3. Enforcement Ordinance of the Trade Union Law, promulgated 27 February 1946

IMPERIAL ORDINANCE

NUMBER 108

Promulgated 27 February 1946

***

We hereby give our sanction to the Enforcement Ordinance of the Trade Union Law and cause the same to be promulgated.

This twenty sixth day of the second month of the twenty-first year of Showa (28 February 1946).

Signed: Hirohito

Seal of the Emperor

Countersigned: Baron Kijuro Shidehara, Prime Minister.
Chuzo Iwata, Minister of Justice.
Hitoshi Ashida, Minister of Welfare.
Viscount Keizo Shibusawa, Minister of Finance.
Yoshishige Murakami, Minister of Transportation.

***

Imperial Ordinance Number 108

THE ENFORCEMENT ORDINANCE OF THE TRADE UNION LAW

Article 1. The administrative authority under Article 5 of the Law shall mean the prefectural governor in whose jurisdiction the office

-15-

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
of the trade union concerned is located, provided however that in the case of paragraph 2 of the same article when the alteration in the statute is made as to the location of the office and when the governors are not the same for the old and the new locations of the office, the administrative authority shall mean the governor in whose jurisdiction the new office is located as well as the governor in whose jurisdiction the old office was located.

Article 2. The decision, according to the provisions of Article 6 of the Law shall be made following the resolution of the local Labor Relations Committee by the prefectural governor in whose jurisdiction the head office of the trade union concerned is located.

Article 3. When the prefectural governor made the decision according to the provisions of Article 6 of the Law, he shall hand without delay a letter stating the fact to the representative of the trade union concerned.

Article 4. The person dissatisfied with the decision made by the prefectural governor according to the provisions of Article 6 of the Law may submit his objection thereto within three weeks to the Welfare Minister by written document stating the reasons therefor through the prefectural governor who made the decision in question.

Article 5. When an objection of the preceding article has been submitted, the Welfare Minister either rejects the objection in question or countermands the decision subject to the objection in question following the resolution of the Central Labor Relations Committee.

The provisions of Article 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the case either of rejection or of countermand of the preceding paragraph.

Article 6. The decision according to the provisions of Article 6 of the Law shall take effect when the period provided by the article lapsed in case no objection under Article 4 has been submitted and when the objection has been rejected under paragraph 1 of the preceding article in case objection was submitted under the same article.

Article 7. The provisions of the five preceding articles shall apply mutatis mutandis to the order for alteration under Article 8 of the Law.

Article 8. When a trade union submitted a request for a certificate of trade union, the prefectural governor in whose jurisdiction the head office of the trade union concerned is located shall grant the same without delay the same rule applies to the case that a person proposing to establish a trade union as a legal person has requested the grant of a certificate certifying that it can be a trade union.

Article 9. The procedure to be adopted in the case under Article 15, paragraph 1 of the Law shall follow the provisions of the Noncontentions

- 16 -

=== Page 18 === (confidence 1.00)
Procedures Law with the exception of those laid down in articles from 10 to 18 of this ordinance.

Article 10. The cases according to the provisions of Article 15, paragraph 1 of the Law shall be within the jurisdiction of the local Court of Justice which has jurisdiction over the place where the head office of the trade union concerned is located.

Article 11. The request under Article 15, paragraph 1 of the Law shall be made, following the resolution of the local Labor Relations Committee within whose jurisdiction the head office of the trade union concerned is located, by the chairman of the said committee.

Article 12. When the request under Article 15, paragraph 1 of the Law is made, the Court of Justice shall notify the prosecutor.

Article 13. The Court of Justice shall fix the date for hearing without delay and summon the representative of the trade union.

The date for hearing shall be notified to the prosecutor and the chairman of the local Labor Relations Committee.

Article 14. The representative of the trade union summoned according to the provisions of the preceding article, paragraph 1, must present himself provided however that when there exists unavoidable reason he may send a deputy.

The person who is not a lawyer, in order to become a deputy under the preceding paragraph, must receive permission of the Court of Justice.

The Court of Justice may revoke the permission of the preceding paragraph at any time.

Article 15. The hearing shall be held at the Court open to the public, provided however that the Court may suspend the public hearing when there is danger of disturbing peace and order.

Article 16. The prosecutor and the members of the Labor Relations Committee may attend the hearing and express opinion.

Article 17. The decision of the Court shall be supported by a written opinion which shall cite the evidence submitted that the violations committed were either the act of the union as decided by a majority of the members or affiliated unions in accordance with their statutes or were directly ordered by the representatives or other officers of the union acting within the authority granted them by the Statute of the Trade Union as registered in accordance with Article 5, paragraph 1 of the Law or were acts on behalf of the union by representatives or other officers acting within the same authority.

The Court of Justice shall fix the date and announce the

- 17 -

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
decision of the preceding paragraph.

Article 18. The representative of the trade union, the chairman of the
Local Labor Relations Committee or the prosecutor may enter a complaint
immediately against the decision of the preceding Article.

The complaint of the preceding paragraph shall have the
effect of a stay of execution.

Article 19. Other than those provided in the Law, the registration of
trade unions shall follow the provisions of Article 20 to 30.

Article 20. For the registration according to the provisions of Article
16, paragraph 1 of the Act, the following items shall be entered:

1. Name.
2. Head office.
3. Objects and business.
4. Name and address of the representative.
5. The conditions for effecting dissolution, if any.

Article 21. When a trade union moves its head office, it must register
the removal at its old location within two weeks thereafter, and the
items enumerated in the preceding article within three weeks thereafter
at its new location.

Article 22. When changes occurred in any of the items registered, the
same must be registered within two weeks thereafter.

Article 23. When liquidation of a trade union is completed, it must
be registered within two weeks from the day the liquidation was com-
pleted.

Article 24. For the registration of a trade union, the district Court
of Justice within whose jurisdiction the head office of the trade union
is located shall be the competent registration office.

Each registration office shall keep a trade union register.

Article 25. The registration according to the provisions of Article 10,
paragraph 1 of the Law shall be made at the application of the represent-
ative.

The application for registration under the preceding para-
graph must be accompanied, by the Statute, with the certificate stipu-
lated in Article 10 of this Ordinance and a paper certifying the quali-
fication of the applicant.

- 18 -

=== Page 20 === (confidence 1.00)
Article 26. The registration of the removal of the head office of a trade union or of the changes of any of the items under Article 23 shall be made at the application of its representatives or liquidator.

The application of the preceding paragraph must be accompanied by a paper certifying the change in the registered item.

Article 27. The application for registration of dissolution of a trade union must be accompanied by a paper certifying the reason for dissolution and in case the representative does not act as liquidator a paper certifying the qualification of the liquidator.

Article 28. The registration of completion of liquidation of a trade union shall be made at the application of the liquidator.

The application of the preceding paragraph must be accompanied by a paper certifying that the liquidator reported the completion of liquidation to the competent authority.

Article 29. The items registered must be publicly notified without delay by the Court of Justice.

Article 30. The provisions of the Noncontentions Procedures Act, articles from 141 to 150, from 151 to 151-4, Article 151-6 and from 154 to 157 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the registration of trade unions.

Article 31. The incomes of a trade union which has legal personality accruing from other sources than the business with profit making object shall be exempted from income tax and legal person tax in accordance with the provisions of Article 18 of the Law.

When one trade union which has legal personality submits the report under Article 18 of the Legal Person Tax Law, the report shall be accompanied by a bill with separate statements for the incomes accruing from the business with profit making object and other incomes.

Article 32. The administrative authority under Article 19, paragraph 2 of the Law shall mean the prefectural governor within whose jurisdiction the head office of the trade union which is a party to the trade agreement concerned is located and the prefectural governor within whose jurisdiction the factory, mine or place of employment where the two parties to the trade agreement concerned are involved is located (excepting the ones where the place of employment is unfixed), and the report according to the provisions of the said paragraph shall be made by the two parties concerned jointly except the case special reasons preclude it.

Article 33. When the application of a trade agreement has been extended to other workers of the same kind in accordance with the provisions of Article 23 or 24 of the Law, the employer shall inform all the workers concerned without delay.

- 19 -

=== Page 21 === (confidence 1.00)
Article 34. The administrative authority under Article 24, paragraph 1, of the Law shall mean the prefectural governor within whose jurisdiction lies the region concerned and in case the region concerned extends over two or more prefectures, it shall mean the Welfare Minister.

Article 35. The Central Labor Relations Committee shall be set up in the Welfare Ministry and the local Labor Relations Committees in each prefecture and the name of the prefecture concerned shall be prefixed to that of the local Labor Relations Committee. Special Labor Relations Committees may be established in accordance with recommendation of the Central Labor Relations Committee.

Article 36. With the exception of the matters fixed elsewhere, the Central Labor Relations Committee shall deal with the matters which extend over two or more prefectures and the local labor committees those which lie within the prefectures concerned. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, in case the Welfare Minister deems it necessary, he may let either the Central Labor Relations Committee or the local Labor Relations Committee designated by him deal with the matters under Article 27, item 1, 2 or 3 of the Law.

Article 37. The number of members of the Central Labor Relations Committee shall be 21 or less and appointed by the Welfare Minister. The number of members of the local Labor Relations Committee shall be 15 or less and appointed by the local governor.

In addition to the committee members of the two preceding paragraphs, in case of need, the Welfare Minister or the prefectural governor may appoint temporary committee members.

Six weeks prior to their date of appointment, the Welfare Minister or the prefectural governor shall invite recommendations for the labor members of the Labor Relations Committee from all registered labor unions concerned registered in accordance with Article 5, paragraph 1 of the Law and recommendations for the employer members of the Labor Relations Committee from the employer organizations concerned. Three weeks thereafter the Administrative Authority shall make public the recommendations received. Provided however, that in the selection of the Labor Relations Committee for the first time, in cases where labor organizations and employer organizations are considered by the Administrative Authority inadequate to represent labor and employer opinion, and in the selection of temporary Labor Relations Committees, this procedure need not be followed.

For appointing the members of Labor Relations Committees, in case the recommendation of either the employer's organization or trade union, or the agreement of the representatives of the employers and workers cannot be obtained, in case the persons recommended in accordance with the preceding paragraph are not suitable, the Welfare Minister or the prefectural governor may appoint the members using his official powers.

- 20 -

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 38. The name of a Special Labor Relations Committee, location, area under its jurisdiction, business under its jurisdiction and the number of its members and other necessary matters relating to a Special Labor Relations Committee shall be fixed by the Welfare Minister.

Article 39. The term of office of the members of Labor Relations Committees shall be one year.

In case the member has been convicted of violation of laws or ordinances, in case the member has lost the right of being elected as member of the House of Representatives under Article 6 of the Act relative to the election of members of the House of Representatives, in case the member has become incapacitated from attending the meetings of the Labor Relations Committees or in case the member has frequently violated the rules concerning the procedure and other matters decided by Labor Relations Committee, his appointment may be revoked during the term of office with Labor Relations Committees agreement, notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, provided, however, that the agreement of the members shall not be required in respect to the members who have lost the right of being elected as members of the House of Representatives under the same Law.

The member filling the place of a vacant member when vacancy occurred shall remain in office during the remaining term of the predecessor.

Article 40. There shall be a chairman in the Labor Relations Committee. The chairman shall be elected by the members of the committee from among the neutral members.

The chairman shall preside over the work of the committee and represent the Labor Relations Committee concerned.

When the chairman has been prevented from performing his functions, a person shall be elected to act in lieu of the chairman applying mutual demands the provisions of paragraph 1.

Article 41. The Labor Relations Committee shall be convicted by the chairman. Its decisions shall be made by the majority or more of the members present and in case of equally divided opinion, the decisions shall be made by the chairman.

The Labor Relations Committees shall be disallowed to make a decision unless at least one member each of the members representing the employers, workers and neutral party be present.

The Labor Relations Committee may fix other rules regarding the convocation of procedure by passing a decision of its own.

Article 42. There shall be offices for the Labor Relations Committees. The offices shall consist of the Director, secretaries and clerks. In

- 21 -

=== Page 23 === (confidence 1.00)
case of a Special Labor Relations Committee, only one shall be designated by the Welfare Minister.

The staff of the preceding paragraph shall be appointed with the agreement of their respective chairmen by the Welfare Minister for the Central Labor Relations Committee and by the local governors for the local Labor Relations Committees.

The Director shall direct the work in accordance with the direction of the superiors.

The secretaries shall dispose of the work in accordance with the direction of the superiors.

The clerks shall perform work in accordance with the direction of the superiors.

Article 43. The government officials concerned may attend the committee meeting and express opinions with the permission of the chairman.

Article 44. The staff to be determined by ordinance under Article 26, paragraph 4, of the Law shall mean the staff under Article 26, paragraph 1.

Article 45. The administrative authority under Article 32 of the Law shall mean the local governor in respect to the representations made by the local Labor Relations Committees and the Welfare Minister in respect to the representations made by the Central Labor Relations Committee.

Article 46. The request under Article 33, paragraph 2, shall be made following the resolution of the local Labor Relations Committee, within whose jurisdiction lies the place where the violations have been committed, by its chairman.

Article 47. The report to the prefectural governor under the provisions of this ordinance shall be made through the director of the Labor Office within whose jurisdiction lies the place concerned.

Article 48. When the Welfare Minister deems it necessary he may designate other administrative authorities than prefectural governors to perform the functions of local governors under this ordinance, provided however, that in order to designate the administrative authorities which are not under the direction and supervision of the Welfare Minister, he must have a previous consultation with the competent ministers.

As regards the seamen to whom the Mariners' Act applies, under the present ordinance, the location where the factory, mine or place of employment where the two parties to the trade agreement concerned are involved under Article 35 shall mean the location of the employers or the head office of their organizations which are party

-22-

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
to the trade agreement concerned.

Other than these fixed in the preceding paragraph, as regards the seamen in the same paragraph, the Welfare Minister under the present ordinance shall mean the Minister of Transportation, the prefectural governor shall mean the Director of Maritime Transportation, the Welfare Ministry, the Ministry of Transportation and the prefectures shall mean the jurisdiction of the Maritime Transportation Bureau.

Supplementary Provisions:

The present Ordinance shall be enforced from the day of enforcement of the Trade Union Law.

As regards the trade agreements existing when the present Ordinance goes into effect, the parties concerned shall make the report thereon within one week after the enforcement of this Ordinance in accordance with the provisions of Article 35.

- 33 -
