894.20235 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Argentina Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., Febru (File 1590)
ID: 894.20235-1590   Pages: 276   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20235-military-affairs-army-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.87)
DEPARTMENT OF OTATE
OFFICEOL
OSTRRRVE on
AMCANRPAR
FEB2 81945
FLB 2 19450
AIRGRAIN
千
FROM Amerioan Embassy
3
wun
2
navry
Buenos Aires
11-0
2-1 7
ip.rtile
go Dato of mailing: 218145
Reo'd February 17, 6p.m.
ecrotaly of stute,
MAR3 1945
asainete.
-89
Fee.7,1945
KPA FC
oforence Department's 139, February 2, 10 p.m.
in r ontina sinee the broak of relations hao been coveredm
in the Japensm s Seetion of the mmbassy's bi-monthly report
on itled Non- morican otivities in Argentina..." (monthly
sineo September, File No. S20.02.); 1n the Embassy's trans-
letions from tre Jupunese pross; and in various despatohes
suoh us nos. 1608n and 16121 of September 15 and 19, 1944,
enbitled "rormer Japunese bassador Effectively Prevents
Aerican Fil Erom Bein xbibited Without Heavy Consorship"
and p  ticularly the last parugraph of enclosure no. 1 to
douputch ne. l6845 of Docoaber 15, 1944, entitled "Applicad
 uhe Rio de Juneiro Conforence of Foreign Ministers".
(oue also XV I (A) 2 und 5, and (B) 2 in that enolosure.)
There hav. been no consistent restrictions, normally
insuituted coou e brouk in rolations, on the activities of
Jupaneno di lomate in rgentinn, except for spasmodic
ytrgentine surveillance over tho top ranking Japanose from
FCUPAJAINI
Hebrurry 8-10, 1944, amd an unsuccessful attempt to keep
Navul Autac é yu ishlta, assistant Naval attuché Kameda,
and civil At saché hozo Lural under house arrest during
As long
ATUPALUR

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.91)
-2 A- rom Buenos Aires
As lont as Japanese diplomats remain in Argentina
thoy conutitute the directive center of Japanese activi-
t u, inclucin ospionage aotivities in this and possibly
o oricn Repubiles. They direct the Japanese As-
spciution of rgentina which has oharge of conmunity
rain, the solection of tho present panel of officere
o? she ssceit tion huving boen mado in consultation with
te Tor or Jupenese uubasuador and Consul 1n Harch, 1944.
julogutes te ro ional conferences of the Association are
"i  treted" in sso i tion "duties" by the former Japanese
ml ud  ilitary and Neval Attachés. offioers of the
seouiuti fre uently call at the residenoes of
 former Jupunesu cabassador, Sonsul and Military and
 tnh for confcrenees.
Intorriuent murveillanee of residances of Japanese
eis sihee th brout has rovealed Argentine police
 ti no cutssde vhe Japamose Embassy residonce alone
 rcntly Po protepslon only, similar to the watoh kept
thoi vererican and other Embassy residences
1. i. o olice control over the entrances and
visinos to the Japanese mbassy residence
h !ean notod and callers come and go at will, although
1. hes seen cirficult for rgontine watchers to identify
Unese vicitors.
Termer ta  der Tomii, Consul Omori, Naval Attaché
uishta, ltrstaché Suzuki, and Conmercial Attaché
rd sui pe automobiles with diplomatic license
lates nos. Bss-2so inelusive, and still receive gasoline
bion courona fro i Argentine Foreign Office through
the swiss Legation in amounts equal those granted other
di lomuts in Buenes Aires of corrosponding rank. Japanese
di lonets cnn aily be observod enjoying the liberty of
bu mes Aires is freely as in former days; they still pos-
soeo their telephonos and shortwave radios; they have
rocently been vreceiving l944 Japanese newspupors from Japal
roper; und shoir local pross, as has been noted in the
mury trcrslations, ofton roports trips by various Japa-
nese diplovws to the interior of Argentina.
A oheok

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
-3- 1- 89 from Buenos Aires
A oheck of the summary translations from the Japanese
press, reportod to bo missing from the Department's files,
has reveuled only two items about Japanese diplomats,
namely (1) tho press of April 19 noted that the Japanese
Eabassy interproter, Shozo LUrI, was inoluded in the
argentino Govornmont spy 1ist of April 17, 1944, and (2)
the pross of July 1l noted that Naval Attaohé Yukishita
wan guost of honor at the Japanese flower exhibition at
Jos6 C. Puz on July 9.
There aro frequont collections of funds for Japanese
poss so which Japanese diplomats have contributed,
u freguont moetings of Jupanese associations and clubs
of various sorts as noted in the translations. These
sopieties have convinued to flourish since the break of
lations and their meotings are often attended by Japa-
teve diplomnte. For instance the Big Athletic Meet at
rmace al on November 19, 1944, was attended by some
o J punose headed by the former Ambassador, Consul,
lit y und lavai Attacheu, who offered prizes for win-
nns. The consul id the caligraphy for the "oertain
viocory" tovols sold at that moet. On Decomber 10, 1944.
the ii litary cnd Navel Attuchés sponsored a military arts
out vith judo und kendo (sword play) events and partici-
puted in the typicel routine held at such meetings, namely
(1) worship of the Iaperial Palace from afar; (2) silent
p yer for Japanese var dead; (3) prayer for certain Japa-
io victory; tnd on shis occasion (4) reading of Imperial
Roscript deolarlns w on the United States and Britain;
and (5) worship of Iso shrine (ohief Shinto shrine) from
altr. Such hily nationalistio activities could well be
ourbe by tho fgontine authorities if they were intereste
in doinso.
poeohes by former Japanese diplomats to Japanese
Croups in argentina have boen confidentially noted, in par,
as followe. Thoso meetings were not recorded in the local
press and rolerenoe to them should only be used confiden-
tiully: (1) eurly in May l944 former inlitary Attaohé
C(Jonel Suzuki addressod a group of some loo Japanese in
Rosario on the progress of the war; (2) early in June 1944
former ssistunt Navol Attaché Commander Kamedn addressed
another

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.88)
-4- A-8; from Buenod Aires
another neutin or some 40 Japanese in Rosario on the
Su e tbjcct: (,) curly in July 1944 former Consul Omor1
 Jolontc  ali acdressod a meoting of Japanese leaders
(n: r ituntion; (4) in mid-July 1944
rukiohita und colonel
0.104
Gi: jac
4

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.91)
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
4061
DIRECTOR
GPE
Mederal Burean of knuestigation
DC/R
United States Department oi Justice
Mashington, D. C.
PEFARTAENT OF STATE
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTI
IN REPLY. PLEASE REFER TO
OFHCE OF
FILE NUMBER 65-523114
AMERICAMREPBBCAFI
Date: March 13, 1945
MAR 2 194
MAR 151945
De
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
0235/3
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Ly'on
Chief, Division of Fore grlActivity Correlatic
Department of State
ASA
From: John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
ESTERAN DELGADO (BERNAL); ANTONIO MARGUEZ (SERRANO); RAMON CLEMENTE (MUNOZ)
Argentina
345
For your information there is transmitted herewith a copy of a report
relat ing to the activities of the above individuals, who have been alleged to be
en aged in es ionage activities. It will be :called that the above named persons
were suspected of he ing traveled to the Western He isphere for the purpose of en-
894.2023.
gaging in subversive activities.
This information  tren ontained from confidential sources believed to
be re liable and is avai lable to the American Embassy at Buenos Aires, Argentina.
C
S
ce - Director of Naval In ellivence
Assistent Chief of Staff
Navy Department
G-2, War Department, Washington, DJc.
M
Washingten, D. C.
Attention: Brigadier General Carter
wclacke
7ile
5
345
Attaiment
ZM
12
1.11179

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.81)
2y 14, 1945
A DELO (L), with elies,
RAMON CLEMENTE (MUÑOZ),
Baenes Aires, Argsatimm.
It wes peovienaly meperted thet subjeet mLaano, e
the Spantah thestrienl compeny ef coscurta (meal mame Gomed
reveal astivities of a subversive mature en his part.
A sarVe11lanee ef DELAADO (MERNAL) frem Mevember 16 thseugh
Desember 19, 1944, shemed him cent imsing endinary aosivitses es em ls-
serezel mearty bare and eafes whieh he and et her mambere ef the paaun
pleions individuals. On November 12, 1944, he and twe etker mombera et
aster Joss CLaRRA in the Cafe Esyeliel, and again mothins smspleiens was
notod.
Souree D, a Speniard of streng leftist tendenetes, hes fu-
nished lafesmetien regarding couceroion PIqunn, the ster of the show.
()

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.85)
It mes at first believed that sovesel memte
Syenish Prese Astesks.
(2)

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.82)
Souree D has stated that in his estimetéen the mess e
member of the PIQu mpeny 1s sub Joet RAoN CL (S). The
Souree C reperts that the coatrest of the Praun
porsoum as the Toatere Cemiee tesmimated Jammary 4. 1945. 0
as yet applied in Argestine fer a vise to the Uhited stetes.
Oa Jammary 11, 1945, aa artiele appeared 1n the Basase Aéses
memepeper "La Critien" stes ine that COnOHITA PIQuen had erfesed the entive
Immediately upen arrival ia Besnss Aires sabjest Dmrase (B

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.94)
APR1945
PERSONAL AND CONFID
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Date:
1945
APR 7 1945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
ei.E.Fil
Chief
Director of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
From:
John Edgar Hoover, Director - Federal Bureau of Invostigation
17-844
Subject:
HIDENOSUKE JEDA
Argentina
As a matter of possible interest to you, a report has bean received
.20235/4-645
concerning the above-captioned individual. You will recall that Ua was at
one time connected with one Goro Miyasaki, a Japanese espionage ager t in
Chile who was expelled from Chile in September of 1942 and from Aentina on
October 17, 1942. He left Argentina to return to Japan on an exeh age
1
vessel in September of lo43. During his stay in Argentina, Miyasaki resided
in an apartment in the city of Cordoba. Hidenosuke Ueda worked for Miyasaki
as a servant or secretary or both. Apparently Ueda is in or near Cordoba at
the present time. He is not identical with one Heisaku Ueda who was detained
in February of 1944 by the Argentine police.
This information is available to the American Embassy and the
Military and Legal Attaches in Buenos Aires.
Enclosure
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Derartment, Washin ton, D. C.
Attention: Brigadier Gereral C. W. Clarke
MAY141945
FILED
Director of Naval Intellibence
Navy Department, Washin.ton, D. C.
Jan. 23, 1926 - F81 2
N, 12/7/78
By 5
BmB
ORITORY
 nal.
inrog.
BUY
BRT

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
JOHN FOGARHOOVER
hIRECTOR
29108 FC-CPE
Bederal Burean of Inuestigation
United States Department of Justice
Mashington,D.C.
JA
RPA
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
JASION
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FOREIGH ACT!HH CRECIAL MESSENGER
FILE.NUMBER
64-25073
APR 121945
CEPARTMENT OF
Date:
April 11, 1945
DIVISION OF
To:
Mr. Frederick B..Lyon
SECURITY.
Chief
SY TILE COPY
Director of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
Return immediately
WFrom:
to
SY u on com-letion
SubJect: NOBUO YATOH, et al - ARGETINA
894.20235/4-1145
894202
As &. matter of possible interest to you, there is attached hereto
a memorandum received from a reliable confidential source concerning the activi-.
ties of one Hirametsu, a Jopanese who at the present time is in Buenos Aires.
20H.Ta
You will recall that Nobuo Yatoh was in La Paz, Bolivia, from 1941
until the middle of 1943 when he was repatriated to Japan. Nobuo Yatoh wrote
letters numbered 20 and 2l to Mahoichi Hiramatsu in Duenos Aires on February
1 and 3, 1943. The letters furnished informstion of a political and economic
nature and indicated thet Yatoh's expenses were paid by Hiramatsu. The
attached memorendum reflects that Hiramatsu is living at the present time in
a rooming house. He is still in contact with Yamada and Company. a Buenos
Aires Japanese firm, and he wes recently annointed to teach in the local
Japanese gremmer school. One intercepted message shows that in September
1944 Hiramatsu, in writing to an interned Japanese in the United States,
stated he thouht Japan had no hope for victory in the present war.
Enclosure
cc - Assistant Chief of Steff, G?
War Department
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Brigadier General C. W. Clarke
894.2023
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
B…心
APR2 01945
FILD
C
FORVICTORY
S
CE
BUY
9
UNITED
0
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS
AND
un. 23, 1976
FB1#2
-1145
orom
12/7172

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.88)
3-27-5
R08
NOBUO YATOB: ST AL.
Buenos Aires, Argentino
MoBUo Y.Ton wee in La Pas, Bolivia, from mid-loel
to the widdle or lees when he was ropatrimted so Japan. Be
had been absent from tho latter country simee l9sg trawollimg
in countries of Central and South Ameriea as a represontasive
of the Japancee firms H. Yamamoto and Company mnd of the Japamese
Cotton Treding Cerpany, Ltd. From eostaots mede by Yaton and
doeuments sarriod by him, it uppears that he was a Japanese
espionage agent. Prom Le Pas he wrete lettere te MakolomI
HInamataU in Buemos Aires on Febrmary lst and Srd, l9es, mmmbered
respestively 2o and 2l. rhese letters forwarded informatiom of
a politieal and sconomic nature. The letters alme shom thas
YATon's expenses, at least, were paid by HIaAMaTsu.
HIhamarsu is the prineipel owner of Case Wassaya of
a  as, a busimess whioh apparently had about five Japanome
amployees 1n 194s. IAMaTsU entered Argentima from Dolivia àm
195o end investigation in Buenos ires in l9as showee he lived
in Apartmont B, 4th Floor, renelee l98f, until about Deeember of
that year when he moved to a rooming house zun by a widow mamed
OnETE A. de VInnnn where he had ovidently liwed previonely.
Investigation indloeted thmt RI RaMaTsu was roeeiving lisls mail
at t  is roomins house in Deeember of l9es, and that he had cemtaes
with a leeal firm of Japaneme named 3. Yameds y Cim. several times
weekly. The latter compamy is loeated at Yoreno Bosy, Busmes
Aires, end is egent for the Japanese Cotton Trading Compamy, of
whieh eompany YATon wus representetive in Bolivim.
More reeent investigation in Buenes Aires by Souree ©
has indieated that MInAMaTay is presently remiding at the ebove-
named rooming house, loscted on ll de septiombre lfßo, telephoms
73 (rampa) 471s. It 1s indieated thet he leaves this mdaress
around B:0o a.m. during the weok and returme usnally about @r0o p.m.
We appoers wary of surveillanee end on cecasions turns sround
while welking and looks baokward in an offert evidently to
asosrtain whether or mot he is being followed.
Souree has obtained the following deseription of
KIHAMATSU:
Age
48
Height
5 3"
Su114
Nodium
Complexion
Yellow-brown
It is notod chat en cesnsions he carriss a brief emsse
-1-

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.90)
Senres D advised thas en artiels appearing in a
losal Japemoss newapeper of Dosember 29, l9aé, stated thas
HIRAMaTU had just Seen made an instrueter in the Local Japamese
Grammar Sehoel of Buenos vires, Lesated et Patagomse sdo. It
is noted thet the term of imstruetion fos this sohool begime
in aroh, 1945.
Souree & states that HIRAMATSU applied for repatrimsiom
with the Argent ine Government through usmal diplometie chammols in
Way, l9ee; on she liet of eppliemnts, HIkAMaTsU appoure as
"morehans." Me is presensly listed on the proelaimed list fer
Argonsine.
Redent investigation of Yemmde y Gia. by Soures 5
indieates shet shis firm is cstive epperontly in losal buyimg
and selling. The firm was organized so earry on import-oxpers
busimess and to represent foreign rirms. It is lesated in e
modern, medium-sized, four-story bullding in whieh the managar,
ISkku IImo, apparently resides with his family. Om oms coemmion
in Februery, l94s, HIRaMatsU was meen entering the building. To
Japamese conneeted with this firm, as yet unidentiried, roside
at Rincon 255 end Posos 249, Sth Floor, Apartment 1. Muemos Alress
Souree : adviees that IsARU IImo is e very promimemt
member or she Japanese community im Buenos Aires, holding variems
officiel pesitions in loeel Jepanese welfmre, athlotic, mesiel
and sohool organimntions. He hes been reported by souree as
aasistins the former Jepanese Ambeseador to Argontina, Barom sny
ToMII, im the letter's duties. Nis firm upperently owme a bustom
fastory at Mitre lls, San Martin, suburb of Buenos Aires, whioh
is nnmed the Yemede Button Feetory in translation. In Movember,
l9es, IIno was reported by Souree D to be busy with preparatiemm
for the opening of a button festory in Sauta Fe, Argentimm.
Souree e edvises that in e letter ment by HIRakafsy
dated September 8, l94e, to two Jepaneme being helà im a Texms
alien detemsion station is statod that in view of surrens war
Gonditions between Japen and the United States he thonghs She
Jupenese might heve me hope for vistory. The letter gave his mew
address in Argentine as 11 de Septiombre 17so (the rooming house)
but was written on letterhead stationery of Cass Hirametss givins
the La Pas, Belivie, mddress of Casillm éys.
Souree A advises thet on Way 19, 19ee, MInaMatoy reeeived
a cable from one TamIosmI in Bolivie as follows: "Ayer viejeron
todes Jmponeses siendm quedemes yo Ishihare motivo enfermeded
esperemos imstrueeiones. Tamioshi." The trenslatien from the
Spaniah is es follows:
"Yesterday all Japanese of the stere
loft. Ishihera and I rommim beseuse
of illness. wo await iustrnetioms."

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.89)
A clarifieetion of this messege was requested by
businea. On May £0, 1s4, MIMAtst sont a reply im Spami
to the mender of the above message direeting thas he tramsfer
remein under look and key until its expropriation, or shomla bo
left in the hands or "Daniel" if he should ascept, MIkamat
en su eetedo saludo de tu y Iohihare). The above-mamsd "Takxommi"
is thought to refer to TAMIYOSI HIRAMATeU SOnOE, employee of
Casa Matsuya in Le mz.
hen subjeet Y fon arrived in Peru on his ropatrimsion
(rip, an eddrese beok in his posecesion was exemined and fommd to
226. This address was thought to rofer to a street of thas mame
name in La Pas and MIth was identified as probebly P..W. Bmtm
of All Ameriee Cables et that addross. Smith, en Ammtrelioms was
recently interviewed by Sourse N in Buenes Aires regeraims this
mutter. siIrm advised that he could not reeall womuo Yatom and
did not recognize the letter's photogreph. He stated that the omly
explanation he could furuish as to how he hed come imte somtees with
Taton was possibly in soliciting busimose for his cable eompemy im
Le Pas. He stated that he wes there in Novomber and Deeamber, lseo.
for that purpose and solicited the business of meveral Japemese
firms as well as others; he returned to La Pas in loes fer e lemeer
period. SwIT was not aided in recalling Yaton by momsion ef she
two Japanese firms whioh the latter repreeented im Le Peme
In YAToH's address beok appeared an addroms for MaGolony
KIRWATsU, thet of Gareia y Gia., General J. Cesdr Dias 2efs, Dmemes
Aires. In parentheses after this eddrees appoared the mame of Mataxy
DIr ItY. Investigation in Buenos Aires has not reveeled sueh e
compaay at this adaress at present. The eross guide for Buenos
ires in l9es shows et tlis cddress a Gereim y Ciee. S.R.Les
telephons number Be-esle. Thet sross guide also whowed at the
weme address one WAT LIo I"Itz, with the same telephome mumber
as the compeny. The l9es cross guide showe no smoh addrens exissing
end this selephome number referred to e different imdividuel as
another addrooe.
YAfon's eddress book elso sonteined the neme "Yoshi
Kuwahere" with the address Avenide xoque Saens Peßn 99s, offiee
7o6, end home address Rodrigues Fela i9v8, Apartment A, Srd Mleer.
both addresess in Buenos Aires. Investigation in Buenes Airem
does not show a YosEI KUw…HäRA but does whow shet in the latest
telephome book there is a KIYozo KUWAnARA residemt as Rodrigmem
Peñe 19vs, with telephone 44 (Juneal) 2969. Souree % states shet
this imdividuel is Buonos Lires representative of the Tokahamm
SpoeieBank.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.89)
In maother addross book of YAton's, thore wam fommé
an address in peneil as followsi "Arture L. B. Wansekke (mzyls
failed to shew either of the abeve names as eppearing in Buames
Airos telephone direstories. The adarees or Condares éose does
mot appear in Duenos Airos eross guides. Inveatigatiem by Beaves
0, however, whows tiat at this address there is aamell hanse whi
is covered with honeymuckle. The only oceapent obeerved by mommes
was a women of Jerman appearanee. Couree & has given the followim
informatica regardins one MIN JO. CHIN LUDIO, aleo kmowm m
to Bolivia fron Hamburs, Garmaay, August Si, lomé, neing Imaemet
Came Pindel, Ururo, Bolivia. There is strong indientien that ho
formerly served as a member of the German sterm troopers end ea
various oscasions soted as a courler between Bolivia mnd other
Bouth Ameriean countries for ths Xazis: his mame appemrs on the
N.B.D.A.P. membershiy list in Orure, and he is loeally eompidered
partieularly dengerous.
Inves:igation 1n Deeember, 194s, had showed that writtem
on a sheet of paper HIn NaTou had the following addressesi
 de Julie, San Isidro; «ivadavia Booeß; Avenide Meeke 129s.
Investigation by Soures c slows that the firet addrome is the
"Tintoreria Wippon," a Japanese cleamins and pressing shop losmsed
in the Buenos Aires suburb of San Isidro. Investigation shows the
Rivadavia address is a Jupanene laundry nomed "Crend Tekie" which
is run by e Japanese married eouple. Investigation has not
rovealed the existance in Buenos Aires of an avenne or street
namedMookB.
一一

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.94)
49595
TOF SIALL
CAFAIN
1945
PERSONAL AND CO
9r09.
BY SPECIAL
Date:
April 24, 1945
To:
r. Frederick B. Lyon
APR 27 1945
Chief
ivision of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
gor
From:
John dgar Hoover - Director, Federal Durea
Subject:
TOLTYA ROSEKI
VSION OP FORL
LRVCEADNSTION
Argentina
wR
MAY 1 6 1945
EPARTMET OF STATE
as of possible intomatito you, here is tra
sunmary memorandum pointing out the pertinent developments in the Japanese
rewith a
14.20235/4-2445
Jespionage case which centers around Tomiya Koseki in Euenos Aires. The
memorandum deals largely with the transmittal of a certain amount of
'Yclandestine Japanese correspondence between Chile and Argentina and the
activities of certain hilean nationals, such as Carlos Santa Cruz, who
served as internediaries for the clandestine Japanese correspondence.
The memorandum furnishes information on the type of material desired
by the Japanese and furnishes some information about the individuals
involved in this case.
cc - Director of Maval Intelligence
Assistant Chief of Staff
Mavy Department
2, War Department
Washington, J. C.
Mashington, D. C.
Enclosure
Attention: Brigadier General Carter·W. Clarko
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 1: 1945
MAY 1 9 1945/D
Jan 23, 1974 - FB1 #2
oam
Chief, Division of
12/7/78
Forgign Service Administration
PORDEFENSE
山
BUY
mrly
UNITED
Hal Pile
STATES

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
Apri1 2h, 1915
Re: TOMIYA KOSEKI, was, Tomigyo Koseki,
Tomigio Koseki, Fomilla Kosheki
This case is mainly concerned with the transmittal of clandestimo
Japanese correspondence between Chile and Argentina and the activitios of
certain Chilean and Ar. entine n tiorals who serve as intermediaries for such
corres ondence.
Shozo Hurai, former Civil Attache of the Japanese Embassy in
Buenos Aires, may be re arded as the principal Japanese subject in thi
case, althongh he in turn is un erstood to be subordinate to Tomiya Koseki,
First Secretary of the same Embassy.
Investi ation of the case oe an when it was learned that Lus
Poblete de Santa Cruz arrived in Buenos Aires from Chile on approximately
the first of warch, 1943, havin in her possession certain lotters given her
by Japanese in Santiago for delivery to the Japanese Embassy in Buenos Aires.
During the one month this wonan remained in Argentina she was in contact
ith Shozo kurai, and it is nuerstood that in addition to paying her hotel
bills during her stay the Japanese paid her the sum of 5,0oo0 Chilean pesos
for the work she had performed on their behalf. Investi ation in Chile has
co.firn ed that this woman has acted as l aison between Japanese agents in
Chile and the Japanese Embassy in Buenos Aires. Japanese in Chile with
whom Luz Poblete de Santa Cruz was in contact have been identified as
K. Kawauchi, Julio Matsumoto, Jore Yamamoto and Guillermo Tsunekawa. It
was further learned that an Argentine cover address used in sending corres-
pondence fron Chile was as follovs: Senor Fernando Garcia de la Coste,
Sarandi 303, Beccar FCCA, Argentina.
One wanuel mayo (Bodelon) was reported to have carried correspondence
for the Japanese when he aeparted from Buenos Lires for Santiago, Chile, on
July 1, 1943. It is knowm th t this man was in contact with Carlos Santa
Cruz during his stay in Buenos Aires and that while in Chile, Bodelon
associated w th Alverto Veloz Santa Cruz. A search of Bodelon's effects was
made by the Chilean authorities at the time he entered that country on route
from Buenos Aires but no uocuments of the nature reported were located.
The first known, s ecific instance of the transmission of secret
correspondence in this case occurred on July 21, 1943, when Carlos Santa
Cruz at Buenos Aires dispatched a letter via ordinary mail to Hernan
Santelices, Correo Central, Santiago, Chile, which was actually destined
for Al erto Veloz Santa Cruz and which bore the false sigmature of Alberto
Sanchez. At the time Carlos Santa Cruz prepared this letter, he wrote
coded message on a strip of very thin paper approximately 2 x 8" and
placed this message between the lining and the wall of the envelope. This
was, of course, in addition to the harmless appearing letter which was con
tained in the envelope itself. When Carlos Santa Cruz typed the coded
message on the thin slip of paper, he used another heavier sheet as backing

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
and later threw the backing sheet away. The typed impressions appearing m
the backing sheet have been analyzed by the Technical Laboratory and a deeode
of the message ap earing thereon is as follows:
"Bring back as many as ! ossible of the following books. I
wish preparations to ove made for your return to Japan by outward-
bouna ship from Uruuay.
(1) United states newspapers and ma azines and maps of the
various countries of Central ana South America.
(2) Latest publications concemin: U.S., Central and South
Anerican relations in Spanish or En:lish.
(3) S anish and En lish text magazines conceming the war
in East Asia, etc.
(4) I request a report on the shi) ADOS S (pho) of the
Smith-Gonzales (company), also course.
(5) Upon the addition of Susumu Miyasaki to the list of
names of those returmin to Japan, there was a telegram from your
office askin continuation of consultation with the governments
of the .S.A. and Chile.
With reference to the matter of the pert.nent stipulations,
(thanks for the trouile - ?) of your inister."
It is of interest to note that the code used by the Japanose in
this instance is identical with the code enployed in t.e JAPSA Case.
Another development of considerable interest occurred when on
Augst , 1943, Carlos Santa Cruz received at Buenos Aires a package from
Chile containing l0& sheets of letternead paper exactly resembling that
useu in the Uniteu States Embassy in Santiago, Chile. Inside the packag
was a note readin "Para Javier" ("For Javier"). Javier is an alias used
by Chilean and Argentine su jects in this case in referring to their chief-
tain Shozo Murai. An examin tion of a sample of this paper by the Technical
Laboratory showed that the watermarh, seal and stamp "Embassy of the United
States of America" are identical with those appearing on paper actually used
by the Amurican Embassy in Chile, and it can be concluded, therefore, that
this paper originated in the American Embassy in Santiago and came unlaw
fully into the hands of the Japanese agents responsible for sending it to
Shozo Murai. The Ja anese are known to have made the claim that they have
contacts in the American Emvassies in nearly all the South American countries
and that, for example, they knew two weeks in advance of the intended
departure for the United States of the American Ambassador in Argentina, Mr.
Norman Armout, despite the fact that his plans for leaving had received no
publicity at that time.
-2 -

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
On August 9, 1943, Carlos Santa Cruz received an airmail letter 
Alberto Veloz Santa Cruz, Santiago, Chile, which Carlos Santa Crus them
delivered to the Japanese Embassy in Buenos Aires. Before delivering thie
letter to the Jananese, Santa Cruz made a copy thereof and then thrw y
the Lackin sheet he useu in  reparing this copy. ▲ study made of the backing
sheet by the Tech ical Latoratory res 1ted in the reproduction of a lotter in
the Spanish language, possioly containin hiduen meanings. It was reported
that Carios Santa Cruz decodeu this letter for his owm information using 
code vook iven him by the Japanese. The first half of this book allegedly
containeu printin terms and phrases, it being notea that the cover of
instant letter dealt almost entirely with various styles and sizes of type.
It is beli ved that this case passed into a relatively inactivo
status when Carlos Santa crus was arrested by the Argentine police on Jarch 5,
1944, on charges of bein engagea in Japanese espionage. At about that same
time, the Argentine Government released an o.'ficial communique donouncing
Shozo Murai of the Jap anese Embassy in Buenos Aires as head of Japanes
es iona e activities in that country. This denunciation and the arrest of
Carlos Santa Cruz were undouotedly connected. The police also arrested a
close contact of Santa Cruz named Jose Au usto Carlos Rabert, and a Japanese
named Mario Katsuda, who is likewise believed to be connected with this
particul r group. It is unoerstood that Katsuda was subsequently released.
However, Carlos Santa Cruz and Kabert are still in jail in Argentina.
In the followin section information concerning the background and
activities of the indiviu al subjects in this case is set forth:
Tomiya Koseki. This indiviaual arrived in Asuncion, Paraguay, in
ly39 to take up duties us Civil Attache in the Japanese Legation there. He
was the only Japanese aiplomat on cuty in that country and was responsible to
the Japanese Ambassador in Buenos Aires. He remained in Asuncion until
rebruary of 1942 when Para uay br ke relations with the Axis countries and
caused Koseki to leave for Buenos Aires. There he took the position of First
Secr tary in the Japanese Embassy. In September of 1942 Kosekd took a trip
through Chile and Paraguay, later returning to Ar entina. The purpose of
this trip is not known. As indicated previously, Koseki is linked with this
case by virtue of the report received that he is the superior officer of
Shozo kurai in all espionage matters. Koseki's diplomatic status has enabled
him to escape arrest by the Ar entine police and it is believed he is still
enjoyin full liberty in that country.
Shozo Murai. This man held the position of Civil Attache in the
Japanese Embassy prior to the time Argentina broke relations with the Axis.
He presently r sides at Calle Delensa 1763, first floor, Buenos Aires,
Argentina. He was the immediate superior of Carlos Santa Cruz in espionage
activities and paid the latter 500 pesos (approximately $125 U.S.) per month
for his services. It has been reported that urai received newspapers and
magazines of strategic interest at a Post Office Box which was registered in
the name of Elias Jofre. In April of 1943, Murai allegedly gave 500 pesos to
-3-

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
one Jose Aguilera who was to go to Montevideo, Uruguay, on Murai's behalf
and inspect a United States base there, however, it has not been pessible
develop any evidence that this trip was actually made.
Carlos Santa Cruz Poblete. This inaividual is of Chiloan nationality
and arr ved in Ar entina in February of 1942. Prior to that time he had ben
extremely active as a pro-Axis Chilean nutionalist. On one occasion he
reportedly atten tcu to penetrete the Communist Party in Chile but was
eventually uncovered and had to leave the country to avoid Communist vengeanee
On his arrival in Argentina he pegan serving as correspondent for a magasine
Later Carlos Sa ta Cruz ootained a job as reporter for the Argentine nationalist
newspaper "Crisol", Calle Pieuras 33o, Buenos Aires, and continued in thi
work until July of l94). The rollowin month he obtained a job as advertising
solicitor for an unorficial police gazette called Eco Policial" omed by
Julio E. Barros, Calle Sanciez ue busta as te 3u84, Buenos Aires. During
practically all tis time ar ta Cruz was in very frequent contact with Shoso
Murai whom he saw both at the Japanese mbassy and at urai's home. Santa
Cruz was also in contact with a.other attach of the Japanese Embassy, one
Takeshi Furukawa, whose hone aduress is Calle Alsina 40, Apartment F, Buenos
Aires. It appears that Santa Cruz' main function was to serve as intormodiary
for mail; however, it has also been reported that he frequented the pórt area
in Buer:os Aires and delivered shippin information to his superior, Shoso
Murai. Under Lurai's direction, Carlos Santa Cruz changed his address many
times. He resided at the followin, addresses in Buenos Aires: Calle Corrito
134; Calle Moreno 524; Calle Corrientes 1220; Calle Viamonte 1319; and Callo
Peru 358. Carlos Santa Cruz has lived from time to time with a girlfriend
named Laria Juana tuiz, Viuda de Ca al, who is employed in various bars and
cabarets unuer the name arina Sanders. Aoth r irlfriend of Carlos Sant
Cruzt is named Hilda Ankelen, last known to be resiaing at Calle Constitucion
lc49. This woman is of German ori in anu is the da  hter of a Captain in the
Chilean erchant Narine.
It has been reporteu that Santa Cruz was in frequent contact with
Juan Queralto, leader of the nationalist movement in Argentina, and that on
November 5, 1943, Queralto allegealy ave Santa Cruz 400 grams of glycerin,
400 rams of sulphuric acid and 400 grams of nitric acid to be used in the
preparation of bombs.
Among the other contacts of Carlos Santa Cruz were the following:
Captain Octavio O'Kuinghttons, Calle Nuevo York 250, Santiago,
Chile. This man is a former Chilean Army officer, expelled for having taken
part in a revolutionary attempt, and is now engaged in the produce business
at the above address. He is very active in Chilean nationalist ciroles and
it is believed that his contacts with Carlos Santa Cruz have to do with such
activities.
- 4 -

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
Fernando Garcia vella Costa, who is an employee of the Nasi now
paper "El Federal" resides at Calle Sarandi 303, Buenos Aires.
Alberto Alvarez Hidalo, Armando ossella, Fernando Mascasina, all
of whom are con ected vith "El Federal."
Ot ro rischer, a C l an em loyeu in Argentina as writer for the
newsoaper "El Cnileno" n. w.o es ces at Calle Chacabuco 134, Buenos ires.
Manuel Mayo Bodelon. This man is a suspected Japanese courier who
came to Buenos Aires from Santiago, Chile, on June 19, 1943, and returned to
Santiago on July 1 of the same year. It was reported that Carlos Santa O
received 300 pesos from shozo  urai on June 23, 1943, to be used in dofraying
the expenses of B xdelon's trip. Bodelon's address in Santiago has been
reporteu as Bella ista oll3, Casilia ue correo o4D, and also as Calle ndres
Bello 923. This man is auout 35 years old and vas born at Valparaiso, Chilo.
lle has been active in political al airs in Chile and is presently mployed a
circul tion mana er for the En. resa Lditora Zig-Zaz in Santiago. He is also
enga ed in business with one Carlota ndree under the name "La Industria
Casera" with offices located at the corner of Vonuera and Moneda in Santiago,
Chile. No eviuence or current subversive activities on Bodelon's part has
been develoued up to the present time.
Armando Fuentes. This person resides at Calle Tucuman 1134, Buenos
Aires, and is reportealy erployed as telephone operator at Casa Alborto
Granza Paz, Villanueva 1324, buenos Aires. Fuentes was formerly an officor in
the Chilean Caravincros.
Anioal Pinto. This man is a Chilean, 3 years of age, an electrical
engineer by profession and res ues at Calle Mexico 457, Buenos Aires. He is
employed at the aduress Rivadavia o31, o fice #1l4.
Manuel Cordova. This man resides at Calle Pasco 62, Buenos Aires,
and is employed in an "army" factory en a eu in the man: facture of radios.
The followin is a description of Carlos Santa Cruz:
Age
25
Height
51 6"
Wei_ht
135
Build
Thin
Eyes
Brown
Complexion
Medium
Hair
Brown, straight and receding
Mustache
Has small mustache
Crininal record
Was arrested at Santiago, , on
September 13, 1937, on robbery
charges and on November 23, 1937,
on swinaling charges. He received
no sentence on either charge.
-5-

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
Alberto Velos Santa Cruz. Alberto Veloz Santa Crus, a cousim of
was Chilean Consul in the city of Kobe. At the age of eight, Velos Sante C
returned to Chile with his family. He studied law at the Catholic Univereity
there and lso studied at the Teachers College of the University of Chilo.
Since that time he has had extensive teaching experience and has also ngaged
in the publishin business. In 1939, the Japanese Charge d'Affaires in
Santiago requested Veloz to establish and edit a ma azine designed to strengthem
relations between Japan and Chile. As a result of this request, Velos under
took the publication of a Spanish language magazine called Mirando al
Oriente." In addition to this the Japanese in Chile sponsored a radio progrem
along the same lines and Veloz served as announcer for this program.
In the spring of 1943, Veloz organized an evening commercial school
known as "Henriquez 0." at Calle pandere 154, Santia o, Chile. In addition,
he presently operates at his home address a small printing business knom a
"Simiente." Despite these variois financial interests, Veloz is kmom to have
very little money.
He has been extremely active in Chilean nationalist circles and was
the or a izer and leader of a rabiu natio alistic roup called "Los Condore
de Chile."
Veloz is marrieu to ti.e former Maria Santidrian, a relative of
Canlido Santid ian, wno is known to have received coded messages in Santiago.
Among the contacts of Alberto Veloz anta Cruz are anuel Mayo
Lodelon and Octavio O'Kuinghttons, both of whom have been previously mentioned
in this memorandum as contacts of Carlos Santa Cruz of Buenos Aires. In
addition Veloz is known to be in contact with Orlando Latorre, Loreto 150,
Santiago, Chile, a known Leftist leauer.
The following is a aescri tion of Alberto Veloz Santa Crus:
Age
33
deight
5'4n
Build
Pudgy
Eyes
Brown
Hair
Black
Comple xi on
Dark
Glasses
Wears glasses
Peculiarities
Oval shaped face, hawk nose
Marital Status
Married
Nationality
Chilean
Luzmira Poblete (Ortega). This woman resides at Calle Rodolfo
Filip i 82, Santiago, Chile. She is the mother of Carlos Santa Cruz of Buenos
-6-

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
Aires and is the aunt of Alberto Veloz Santa Cruz of Santiago, Chile. I
very strongly suspected that she has served as courier for the Japanese 
previously in this memorandum. She has been in correspondence with her sem
Carlos anta Cruz at Calle Piedras 338, Buenos Aires, this being the address
the Nazi news, aper "El Pampero."
Among her contacts n Santiago are Carlos azo, Calle Santo Domingo
25; Enrique verara, employee of a Chilean Wine com any called Vino Tocornal;
and Luis Blasco of Calle  Ines 7o.
A deser ption of this woman is as fol ows:
Ae
46
Heicht
5' 42
Hair
Black
Eyes
Black and small
Nose
Straiht
Complexion
Light
Figure
Good
Larital Status
te, ortedly sigle, Carlos Santa Cruz
bein an illegitimate son
Occupation
Dressmakin; she also sublets rooms
at the home aidress mentioned
previously
Mario Katsuda. This Japanese lives at Calle Juan Bautista Alberdi
130, Buenos Air s. It has been reported that he has served as liaison man
between the Japanese in Ar entina and in Chile, and that he carries out this
function under the orders of Tomiya Koseki. A report received in January of
1943 reflecteu that Katsuda had been requested by the then Japanese Ambassador
in Buen s Aires to take over the post of the nationalist Japanese leader
Jojuro morikawa who had died a short time previousl. Katsuda was expected to
unite all the Japanese Catholics and also to direct the operation of a group
of Ja. anese saboteurs who were soon to become active.
Katsuda was ar ested by the Ar entine police on approximately
Febru ry 13, 1944. As of warch 23, 1944, he was known to be stil1 in jail but
no subsequent information is vailaule as to his circumstances.
Agata martinez. This woman lives at Calle Victor artinez 72,
Buenos Aires, Argentina. it has been reported that she allowed ario Katsuda
to use her name and residence as a drop vox in connection with clandestine
Japanese correspondence.
Usaburo Kik::chi. This Japanese is employed as photographer for the
magazine "El Grafico" of Calle Azopardo 479, Buenos Aires. This magazine is
published by the firm "Editorial Atlantida" which figures on the U.S. Proclaimed
List. Kikuchi has been with this magazine for the past ten years and received
-7-

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
a salary of 700 pesos a month (approximately $175 U.S.). According to
report received in January of 1943, Aikuchi is an important assistent of
Tomiya Koseki in Japanese espionage. Kikuchi is considered a very woell
cated individual and has a ood command of several foreign languages.
Felix rimpler. This inuividual, a German, resides with his father
at Calle Sarmiento 1771, 1lorida, Buenos Aires, telephone 741-3712. He i
employed at "El Electra Ltaa," Calle 5 Julio 49, Buenos Aires. He is under
stood to e a close frienu of Carlos Santa ruz and of Jose Rabert, subjects
in this case. himpler is known to have pro Nazi sympathies and has been
reported as engaged in certain contraband activities on behalf of the Japmese.
Several unidentified indivic als were allegedly connected with him in these
activities and were accustomed to mecting at an unknown address in the 1300
block o1 Calle Acoyte, Buenos Aires.
Jose Au usto Carlos Rabert. This indiviuual was born in the Germn
hospital at Valparaiso, Chile, in July, 1920, and is the son of Jose Rabert
and Ana rate. His 1ast known address in Buenos Aires was Calle Brandsen 2748,
Sarandi (a suburb of Ave! laneda). e is known to be a close friend of Carlos
Santa Cruz and was probably in.volved with the latter in Japanese espionage
activities. On May 2, ly.4, follovin: the arrests of Carlos Santa Crus, Jose
Augusto arlos Rabert was likevise taken into custody on similar chargos. It
is believed that Alberto Veloz Santa Cruz in Santiago formerly sent mmil to
Carlos Santa Cruz in uenos Aires by adaressing it to the residence of Jose
Rabert. Rabert is also sus ecteu of havin gathered espionage information of
a military connection for Santa Cruz. There is also some reason to beliove
that Rabert may have been linked with Jorge Lorca of the Chilean Consulate in
Euenos Aires in carryin on Chilean espionage in Argentina.
-8 -

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.95)
50228
federal Bureau of Inusstigstion
Boparement of Justice
PERSONAL AND
BY SPBCIAL
DCTR
Date:
April 30, 1945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
y4
From:
John Edgar Hogver - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
SubjeCt: RYOKICHI NAGAI: SUETAKA HAYAO;
894.20235/4-3045
DR. ALBERTO GOES TELLES; et al
Argentina
As of possible interest to you, there is attached hereto a memorandum
3
concerning the activities of certain Japanese believed to be active in Japanese
espionage in Argentina. This case consists of the investigation of bramehes of
the Japanese Mitsui firm in Rio de Janeiro, Buenos Aires, and Santiago. Tads
memorandum deals with the Nambei Trading Company, a Mitsui branch, located at
Calle Uriburu 1263, and the two managers, Isoma Kobayashi and Suekasu Miura.
Previous investigation has disclosed espionage activities on the part of Mitsui
personnel.
A surveillance of Isoma Kobayashi reflected him making daily trips to
the Nambei office. Kobayashi made a trip on January 2, 1945, to Bauness 2064,
a residence in the area of General Urquisa. On this visit Kobayashi was accompanied
by a young woman of Germanic appearance.
This information has been made available to the American Embassy, the
Military and Naval Attaches in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
MAY 1 9 1945
FILED
Enclosure
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
MAY 16 1945
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Brigadier General C. W. Clarke
CS/D
Bnum
J4n. 22, 1976 - FB1 #2
mry
By S8M
12/7/78
beve

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
1945.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.81)
cirl da not, ad  Lmedlately laft, soing La the direstien trem mhtch
they bed eome.
Souree 0 remalaed watehing this address en Jasmary 2, 1945, masll
6:45 P. M. at which time komaxasmI had mot yet left. Oa the follouing dag.
Jasmary 3, OnAYAsI went to the NAkMI effise as uswal.
beginning of 1944. OSGAR A. WINGORD has apparently resided at this address
less than e year.
Regarding the possible ident ity of the woman eeempesying momar
the matienal feeling is rising". It is moted, however, that Mania E. 
KOBAYASIII.
Souree & advised that a Fobruary 7 iasued of a Loeel Japanese mems
peper contained an item stating that ISOMA KOBAYAmI was at that sime n
veeation at La Falde ia the Cerdobe hills of Argansine. The same sommee
Desnes Aires. Mruna had previously resided in an apartment on the éh Fleer
b014t 2477.
Interest in the coougants ef a house et Pamga 2149, Bsnes Aires,
baa been areased by the faet thet addrese appeared as a aebune addrees an
● 2 .

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.84)
Investigation by Souree C has ahemm thet sonllum hes a wife and twe bege
ERWDN SOEILLER
500
wotcht
1551b0.
Baild
Well preportiened
Bair
Browm, turaing grey
Byes
Gerey
Informetien doveleped by Souree G in Brasil shems that ia 1944 the
Embesay; this infomatien, hewever, was not established as tree.
It is reeelled that the effise of MammI was femerly lesated at
Larree lass, Beones Aires. Iafematien frem Seuree H indiestes thes the
fommer NamnI etriee las ow ceeupied by e Argeatine wemen, deseribed as
and experts of the Allied Natiens.
--

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.88)
who left the NamesI address. Souree I reports, however, that although the
1ieense number of this car, eapital 148669, 1s registered in the mme e
Manco, it really belongs to saITH and is used by him. This seuree mepests
Souree has previously stated that sarmm, makes frequent tripeiss his eem te
that the travel meter registered 66, 303 kilemeters. Ho returmed te Besnes
kilometers. It will be obeerved that on his last trip frem Jammary 11 te l.
is a town loeated in the Provinse of Entre Rios, Argentime, en the ragmy
River. Measured on a map, it appears to be about 150 miles frem Besess Aises
by direet lime, but the distanse by road is considered mmeh sreater.
-4-

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
50230
PARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICEOF
al Bureau of Inurstigation
1945
nited
tates Bepartment of Justice
Jashington 25, D.
PERSONAL AND 
BY SPECIAL
DC/R
H
Date:
April 30, 1945
MAY 1 1945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
701.9435
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Burean of Investigation
894.20235/4-3045
Subject:
TOSHIYUKI SHIBATA
Argentina
As of possible interest to you, there is attached hereto a memerendum
concerning the investigation in Buenos Aires of the above-captioned Japanese.
You will recall that it had previously been reported that Shibata was cenneeted
with the Japanese Eabassy in Buenos Aires and had used hostesses in Buenos Aires
night clubs to obtain shipping information. At the Casanova Cabaret in March,
1943, he was observed to be carrying a package which was found to contain several
sheets of paper containing data on Argentine foreign trade and the ships owmed
by the Argentine Government.
This memorandum reflects that Shibata resides at Calle Alvares 2457,
Apartado 7A, Buenos Aires. He is living quietly with his wife and no activity
of any suspicious nature has been observed, but he receives local newspepers
in Japanese, Spanish, English, German, and French. He is an employee of the
Mitsubishi company and no connection with the Japanese Embassy has been confirmed.
This information has been made available to the American Embassy, the
Military and Naval Attaches in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Enclosure
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
MAY 7 - 1945
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Brigadier General C. W. Clarke
jay
Attal File
mom
R
2
Jan. 23,1976- FB1 *2
B5 80m
11012/7/78

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.88)
RO: TOSHIYUKI SHTBATA
Baenos Aires, Argontime
Marah 10, 1945
owmed by the Argeatine Goverament. On a subeequent might, mrmame wes ens-
rylng a note book which contained a map of South Ameriee with signirseamé
markiags which could mot be analymed. A surveillanse of twe daye shewed
SHIBATA going four times to the Japamese Kmbessy La Besnes Aises.
Investigat 1on condusted by Souree C in Oetober 1944 shewed thes m
joct and his wife were residing at the above address of Alvaves asy 
the seveath floor, apartment A. Souree asoertained that mmaa hed e-
sided there for about two and ose-half years end that e femele sesvess
had resently been discharged by subjeet in order to eecnemise. Is is be-
Lieved by me ighbors who know SHInatA that he is a member of the Japanese
Embessy perscasel. (It is noted that no reliable infematies veriryins
this can be obtained and that SIBatA's mame does met appear em m affieial
1ist of February 1944 of the Japanese Eabassy persoamel.)
Souree C reported that SHIBATA was at that time mot eneeged a ay
apparest aetivity and remained almost all the time at heme. e seessved
lesal Japanese mewspepers and looal newspapers in Spanish, Eaglisk, Sesmen
with the Axis ia Jamuary 1944, SHIBatA enterteined frequemtly at hame end
reeeived mmay visitors there; since the breek, he reeeives almest me eee
at homo.
It was reported by Souree D that in February 1944, smnata and his
wife, MIcnIko HIBatA, applied for repatriation to Japen at the firet ep-
pertunity. SHIBaTA was listed as an employee ef MITsUBIsHI Campany ef
Japan.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.89)
OFFINE OF
FCV
AMERSSAN BEPUBLIC APPANS
J:0V 8 1945
Isderal Bursus ai 
JA
United States Dapurie
Mashin
.20235/7-
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NUMBER
Date:
July 1, 1945
JUL61945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Director, Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
9rot
Department of State
-1445
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Pedetal Bureau of Im
Subject: Japanese Activities in Argentina
As of possible interest to you, there is attached a memorandum coataiming
information received from a confidential source believed to be relieble pertaiming to
the activities of Japanese in Buenos Aires.
The information contained in said memorandum is available to the Americas
Embassies in Santiago, Chile, and Buenos Aires, Argentina
894.2023
Enclosure
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
CS
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
Mar Department, Washington, D. C.
DGH AnA Cnd
Attention: Reading Panel
BIIL
Ana!
Military Intelliganoe
mtm
SIFIED
CaL
2412. -3, 1976 - Fβ1 2
1217/78
8r0m
DLBL.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.86)
J 16, 19%.
ROI MUTSUO NATAHAB, W, HATBON GATHURLAR
HATBON VATANAVE, AMUTUO HATSON, MUTU WATBON.
M. WATN; HINTARO TANT
Busnes Aires, Argentina
Subjeot aatallk was e clerteal mployee of the romer Japameve mbaesy
in Buenos siros und was susyested of esplonage aetivity on bakalf of
the Jepameme. Ho was previouely reported to recsive correspandomse
from Japanese in Chile addressed to him in the name of "watuos". Soms
of these Lettere were sent by the former Japanese Military Asteghe in
Bentiago, Chile, HAvo T 3DA. American magasines almo arrived in Buonos
Aires for WATANAnx fron a Santiago book store. Thie corrospandence.
according to the original report, was reeeived by WAtakan at his fommer
addreas of San Mertin 440. ie resided in a room on the thind floew of
latter address, a rooming and boarding house, until Seytember l943 whem
he moved to apartment 44 on the seventh floor of Tueuman 8ló, Bucnes
Aires.
Heme of the letters from Chile wore sald to have borme the mame of
à. vlsh es return addressee, but investigation in Se 'ago hase mot
dimelosed ths existenee of suoh & pereon. Sone of the 2 ttere arriwins
from Chile contained on the envelope the roturn addrese f Calle Manjites
550, Santlago. The latter sddress wus formerly the res ionee of suveral
Jupanese offieials, all of whom wers reputristed to Jay, with she
exeeption of one H. Y..
Investigetion by Souree  at Tuouman 8l0, Buenos iros, han showm that
wATANaße resided at this adaress from Jeptember, 1943 until April 19.
1945. He continued to take the noon-day meal at the boarding honse where
he formerly resided, an artin 40. The latter bearding houee 1s
owned by a Spaniard nansd ANU Fdi D. When fomerly residing at
the bonrding house TalAß apparently reoided with another Japaaoss
almo employed as a olerk in the Jnpanese sbassy, named silntano TamI.
Souree C ascertained from the building amployeos at Tuouman Blo that
dATalsms Tommeriy received correspondenes arriving at this andress fron
Chile, Draail and ruguay. It uppears that this correspondenee arrived
until about mid 1944 and that dome of the Letters were sant to Wataa
es intemsediery and wero intended for other Japanese in Buanos Aires.
(aTalabl wms vieited in his apartmant at this addreae by several Japemese,
among whom Souree C was able to identiry ToIY. KUsEKI, Seoretary of the
fomer Japamese ambasay, und TA I AndsDs, ssistant Haval Atteohe of
the former Japamese mbaesy.
Souree C has reported thet 1t sppears likely that since mid 1944 the ma1l
whieh formerly arrived for NTAlanx at Tuowman 8lo hes been eens to
mubject TanI ut the latter's residonce, an apartment in the building at
Calle Liberted 443.
-1

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.70)
Lumrtbed daily wlsh suh Jest Tan and anther Japasse bolievet te be Mete
TANasI. Thome memle mere taken is s sepeete roem me she shree
Joyasese hed lissle sesteet witk stner yaesene of the benviisg hemee
ho lameked tegesher in a Lavger pom. an, the amding hease
TAMI nd TALrMI crde eslserable repeet to HA, epsing
doore fur him to pass taromgs, ste. n should we noted thet meeeraing
to Japanese Eakmesy poreocmel filss, Wattahy and TANl are both lised
ae eivilimm elerts, r ahaneallere.
  .  T 1    
Japemese Coleay in huenss Alros and hes boes in bumimese math kia father
Leeally for maey yoars. The Takimeal Cempany was establiaked in ammes
Airao im 1909 and was slommd 1n ay, 1944 for Lask of laspests fym Japm.
Aein to Sre , SDTo TaI ried in o Japse i of
the Si Lagsti frem Fesury 19, 1944 a11 Ap11 19, 1943, sine
She Swles in their raprosestat lon ef Jepocems Latorests in Angestine
after Argentine broke diplemmtls relatleno witn Jayen in Jammary, lßs.
Pre o centct with sujest T at prviouly-siasd bis
ho   nortLd tht  d Lt s wt
other individwals usia tne bourdis nouss talepheme.  swe cesesioms
staxa poke is sosd agli, lthogh the converaatin sed te t
wis ehey Japoss. ron thees covreatls it apperd as Was
wa ia frequent ponteet i an ryentiss won idified anly  ae
ne "lly". It aleo apered th "tat, Tl ane shsr ried
Japmaeme wont coceslanally to fourth rate dance halls on váa. L. . Alam.
memd Th Speen Bar, The Alon r so Th yaity.
An:  .   1. 195  15 .   
from ihe boordi s la en idontified individal i t goi
iy of Interi. l mnloed  m of dl Toii.
Minlater as Iatorier, avideesly imdienting ssnt his mesemgs was for tdms
indivsul. Watans stated shet they" wero boin bothred gele and
thet snetruetienn should be iven to Majop Contal, Chlef ef APgentine
Federel Coonterempionage, to stop hothorins shed. AaTaNAM sbated ahas
ahe kaister kmew thee shey" wern oi nothinn. appmrenely roferring
to subvsysivo st ivisins.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.89)
Sonree D observed that on Mnreh 4 And Mareh 6, 1945 WA2N nd 2ANI
case for lumeh at tho boarding houso accompanied ty a white pereon
whe was evidently Argantine. The thres lanehed together ia a saparate
room and it was noted by wource thet when thay wore walking cut togother
on Maroh 6 thay were converein, in Spanish. The Argensine said, in
translation, "There are only thoee two thinga fop today". Watakank
replied, Yos". The Aryontine then steted, "Well them, I'll go to your
hoe tonight". Thißs roplied that ne should call by telephone first.
This Argentine individual wes never seen again and was not identiried.
B is desoribed as fellows:
Age
31 years
Hoight
5 t. 11 in.
Weight
155 lbe.
Buila
hin
Hair
Blond, out short
Camplexion
Fair
Peduliarities
deers horn-rimmexi epeetaeles.
Appearance
Italian
Jpsech
Argentine panish
Souree D reports that ATAtA apparently attemptod in Mareh, 1945 so
leave Argentine, probably intend in to go to huguay. Ho was evidently
unabls to obtain λmontine ovorrental pommisaion énd so did mos leeve.
Acconding to Soures , subjects ATala und TAnI ware among the sity
meven individuals connected with tns fommer Jupanese mhasay in Argoasime
whe were sent y trein to La Falda, rovinee of Cordobe, for intermmens by
the Argentiae Govermment on pril 17, 1945. Sourse & reports that at
the time ths Swies Diplomatic Nmpresentatives in uenos Aires stated
they would etteapt to obtain the roturn of TaiI to Buenos «ires to msaias
with the Japanese wonk in the wiss Logetion.
Souree D hme advimed that ns sew Tnl in busnos ires om Jume 4, 1945 and
that he is apperontly still rosidine et Liberted 443.
LUTSUO NATANABE is deseribed by oureo o as fellowe
Àge
45 years (appears to be 32)
135 1hm.
limir
Black
Complexion
Dark
hinrital tatus
Married (wife in Japam)
Feculimrities
Clean-sheven, walks very eroet,
does not woar glosmes.
• 3 .

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.70)
The seme souree has deseribed GHDNTARO TANI as fellous:
27 you0
3.6
Veay thdn
The thire Japenese, the Is testatively Ldensirted as vmse tamnd,
La dessvsbed  fallomes
50 yeure
§..4 .
165 1b0.
mir

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.71)
BDEDELGEED LHANS
DHE SANTLA OLIG
will eeeestata the Leeatten of N. YAkaDa, fomerly pestatns 
Meajstes 550, and detezmine whesher he 1a kmonm to heve beem
La    et M A  B A
and whether ne ls angeged in subversive aetivities.
THA MENGE ADHES OVTICA
AT L  AA
wIll seertala whether MNTAO TANI, eda et Labd 443.
is eesing as a meil drep fer Japesese correspenéense.
LOURGES OF DUURNATION
The seurese of Lafermatien referred to La the repert of apeetal Agame
LAUmCX L. AN0LD, dated Jme 16, 1945 at Baemes Aires, Àn the eame
LO WATAAB, ,   IOMAG -    
Rouree 0 - Cenridential Iufemant 363-22.
Gouvee I - Gesald Kerner, Seeretery of U. . basay, Buenes Ares.
Souree 7 - Diapeseh / 2peas frem Beeses Aires to she nopestmens ef
sate, aased Apr11 28, 1945.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.94)
FCtePE
03
Mederal Bureau of huestigation
n
United States Departmentiof Justice
Mashington 25,1.
BL
20235/7-1845
FILE NO. 64-24243
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSEN
Date:
July 18, 1945
JUL 1 9 1945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief, Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
gur
From:
John Edear Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
YUTCHI TAKEUCHI
Japanese Activities in Argentina
As of possible interest to you there is attached a memorandum containing
information received from a confidential source believed to be reliable concerning
the activities of Yuichi Takeuchi in Buencs Aires, Argentine.
The information contained in said memorandum is available to the
894.20235
American Embassy in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
Cc
Director of Naval Intelligence
Wo Department
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel
Military Intelligence Service
Attachment
1211976-112
5Bm
1.217176

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.93)
5-295
Re: YUICHI TAKEUCHI, with alimm ; ET AL
Buencs Aires, Argentina.
infomation has beon roceived in the past comeeming
possible espionege and other subversive aotivities on the part
of subjeot, a Japanese, in Argentina. It hes been raported that
he has been Argentine representative of the Japanese trading fimm
of Okura & Compeny in Argent ine sinee l94l. For this purpome ho
set up offices on the oth floor of en ofriee building im Buencs
Aires located at San Martin 235, Orfices 70 and 71. He has
resided for meveral years at Conesa l980-90, a private rosidenve
in the Belgrano seetion of Buonos Aires.
It was reported that meetings of about 40 Japanese tock
plece in the Okura ofrices; thet TAKEUCHI hed large mmounts of money
at his disposition and that he was in conteet with the Jepenose
and German Embessles. It was alleged that he collooted momey from
mombers of the Japanese colony in Argent ine, using threats Were
meesssary to obtain it. Ro was seid to receive mail at his orfiee
addressed to the names of NTONIO MARTINEZ end JOSE MANUEL FERNANDEZ.
It wes elso stated that TAKEUCHI often went et night to the apert-
ment or e Japanese dentist, rETSUZO KOKUBO, loeated on the Sth floor
of Piedras G92. The setivities of TAkEUCHI at the letter addrese
were not known but it was reported thet umusual mumbers of Jepamese
congregated at this address also. It was also alleged thas eubjest
Wes in contaet with one CHRISTIAN KIMUNDO PYEIFFER (SANZ), who
oecupied ofrices 97 end 98 on the samm floor of the building oceupied
by the Okure offices. 'FEIFyER was reported to be a Nezi and
pomsibly engaged in espionage.
 surveillance of lAKEUClI's residenee was comdueted by
Souree C from Oetober 22nd to Deoember 2End, 1944, inalusive. This
souree reported thet Conesa 1990 is the address of the house proper
while l980 is merely a garage connoeted to the house. The surveillanes
did not show indiontions of subversive eetivities at this addrees;
PAKKUCHI appearod to be insotive. He rarely left home and whem ho
did leave he was accompanied by a wcmen presumed to be his wife.
They usually went shoppin', went to have tea, ete. Several Japanese,
however, were seen entering the nouse at l99ó during the period of
tho surveillenoo.
investigation conducted by Bource D in April and May.
1945, indieates thet PAKEUCHl smploys in his homm a maid of Gemman
nationality and a Japanese gardener named JUAN HIhuTA. This imwesti-
gation showed that in the reeent past TAKkUCHI was visited by mamy
Jepanese, mort of them unidentiried. Souree was able to identify
the following offioi als of the former Jspenese Embessy im Buemos
Aires as having vi si ted TAKkUCHI: Ambassador SHU TOMII; Admiral
一1

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.93)
KATSUKI YUKIGHITA. NaVal AttaGhé; YOSHIO NAKAMURA, Commereiel
Secretary; Km UsüI, Srd Seeretary.
license Capital lo8as8, which he brought from the Umited Btates
when he oame to Buenos Aires in l9als. Souree sseerteimed that
FAKEUCHI pureheses gasoline for this cer in e garage at Juresembe
2971. At this garage, at least, TAKKUCHI is in occasional conseet
with e retired Cerman army orrioer named SChUBEnT. From deseriptive
details and residenoe obtained by Souree D, it appears ahas Souummat
1s 1dentieal with Kajor VIC On SChURT on whom Sourees A mnd E
have given considerable inrormation in the past. These sourees
report thet Major LCiUBknT come to Argemtina as the represonsative
of the Carl 7eiss Optieel Firm of Jenn, Gemany, end submequemtly
soid arms and munitlons for an unidentiried Germen firm until thãs
bus iness was stopped by the war. : CifUBERT is reported to mow live
on e pension received from the Dornier Air Plane Company through
Simmens- chubert, S.A. CHUBERT is stated by souroem to be opemly
pro-Gemen, having stated publioly be would do all posaiblo to
help Germany win the war, and is paid to havo been conneeted in an
unidentified way with the rormer Germen Embassy. It wae alleged
in mid-l944 thet SCHUBkRT was newly appointed head of Gormen
esplonage in Argent ina and he wes nemed by the former Argentims
Congressional investigating Committee as conneeted wd th Nami Pasy
aotivities in Argentine.
investigation perfomed by Source D at Sam Martim ass has
reveeled thet Crfices 70 and 7l at this address were abandonsd by
Okura & Company in Februery, 944; this is verified by Soures F who
reports that the Pebruery 19, 1944, issue of a loeal Japemese
newspaper reported the Ckura company would close at the end of that
month. Souroe D was uneble to asoertain whether offices had been
taken elsewhore by this compeny.
inquiry made by Souroe D at San Martin 235 regarding a
connection between fAKkUCHI end the previously-mentioned YEIFFER
elicited the information that the two are epparently friendly and
have met eaoh other from tims to time in the offiee building bes
that their association did not appear to be close within the past
two years. Souree D aseertained that PyKIFFER is an Argentime deal-
ing in imported meehinery and that he resides at Carlom Pellegrimi
1219。
Souree D ameertained at San Martin 235 that TAkkUCMI wes
sometimes visitod by BUmPKI LAKINAMI and TEIKICKI OKIMUBA. TAKINAMI
is reported by Souroe F to be the oldest Jupenese bumimossmam in
Buenos Aires at prement, having eatablished his businese in leo9;
his buminees was shut down in Kay, 1944, for lack of importe fmom
Japan. Cl iMURA is rsported by Source Y to reside at 9 de Julio B6y.
6th Yloor, Apartment 35, end to represent the publishing house im
Japan nemed "The Creater Japan Oratorioal and Leeture Society"; moures
stetes he is a respeeted member of the Japanese colony in Buenes Airom

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.92)
Souree D mnAe partioular inquiry omong the employees
at San Mertin 235 concarming the arrivel of mail for AnTomão
MARTINEZ and JOSE MANUEL FERANDEZ. or the existeneGO of ueh 
Souroe wes advimed that they hed never heard of sueh individmale
howover, that letters formerly axrrived from Japen, Germany, Switmar-
lend, Spain, Chile and the United States addresaed to morilo Iqrgna.
The employees stated thet an individual of this name was unkmoum
to them but thet this mail was received by Okure & Compamy. It is
noted thet IOBU0 DXsuA is a Japenese resident in Buenos Alres who
has in the pest been reliably reported as engeging im espiomage
acti viti es and said to have been amployed by Okure & Company.
Source J was int omed thet mail still arrives at San
martin 235 for Ckura C Company since that firm still ronts a mall
receiving nail box, called a "Casillero," number 69. It was stated
that I Kiucill pesses by two or three times each week to piek up the
mail arri ving here and thet it hes been noted he receivee by this
me ans copies of "Lire" and "Fortune" mngezines, apparently eet from
the United States.
It is not ed thet Souroe G reliably reports that ome TAMAmE
of Ukure  Company in Buenos Aires was added to the staff of the
Japanese mbassy in early 1942 as a special employee to ai4 in
"United States remeareh." This appears to refer to Kknzo TAnank.
reported by Souree  to be the addrossee of a letter onee sens to
San Martin 235 in eare of PAKKUCHI. fhe Buenos Aires telephome
direetory for Maroh, l944, lists KENZ0 LaNaBk as residing at Coneme
l980, address cccupled by TA EUCiI. Previous direetorles and a
later one, November, l944, do not list him. Source F reports that
a local Japenese nowspaper of Cotober 1l, l944, steted that TAWA
hnd moved to Juromento 3370.
 pertial desoription of YUICHI TAkXUCHI obtaimed by
Source D) is as follows:
八80
40
lheight
55
Build
Slender
Appearanee
Very serious and reserved
Drese
ears no hat; inolined to weer
dark blue suits

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.91)
DEPARTHENT OF STATE
OFFIDE
AMERICAN REPUBLIN AFFAS
Jederal Bureau of Inurstigation/ E 1945
11
United States Depurtment ol Jugtison or Amssnam
Mashington 25, D. G
RE UBLIO ANALYSIS AND
LIAISONI ANALYSIS SROTION
IN REPLY. PLEASE REFER TO
FILENO. 65-55652
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECLAL MESSEIGER
20235
Date :
14
2
infermation rece ved from a.
the activities of Kingo Kaai,  prominent Ja: enest residin i Buenos Aires,
S
Argentina.
The information contained in said nemorandum is available to the American
Embassy in Buenos Aires, Argentine.
Assistant Chief of Staff, G2
CC
Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department
War Department
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel
Military Intelligonce Service
.91.
Attachrent
H8
U.:
Due

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.91)
Re:
KINOO KAWAII
Subject has been reported by Bourees A and B, 
well s others, t be engaged in Javanese espionage metivities
in /rrentine.These ti itles have been stated to be 
acted ith tno e o: everal other Ja  nese in Buenos Aires
nd it n's been liered th t they were conneeted with an
IN. The letter 1s a lawyer who
ssy in Bueno
apnde
avectivites
nave heen iuent t to lnate activiti in
connection ith ihe tro  ishine tr  lers owned by this c-
uny. The revious ntionec co ny is the COmPAIA ARo-
TINA INDUETHIAL F PSFI., .R.L. This Company was First
or: nired  s a  rtn-:=ip in 1936 nd was incorporated wnder
this name in 1d 1941. Its charter  uthorizes the company to
fish in the itl itic Oce'n nd in rivers and lakes of Argen-
tina. The company o er tes, ccorcin to all sourees, two
vessels of its own nich re buiit in J pan, "PRESIDETE
MITRE" (48C tons),  nd the "PPESIDENT! ROCA". According
to Source B, these vessels re uite ses worthy and can remain
at sea for forty to fifty sys.
According to Suurce B, the fishing company, whose
name 1s sually bbreviated CACIP, was organized with a sub-
scribed capital of 1,7 0, 00 esos, e uivalent to approzimately
42",on0 U.8. The ir-ctors naned in 1941 xere .s follows:
President - Lr. JUANG JUsE MAO
Vice President - Engineer - DOMINGO SELVA
(deceased May, 1944)
Diroctor - Dr. LUIS BARBERIS
Director
JORGE L. ORTIZ
Director
-
E.gineer - MARTIN EZCURRA
Source B reported La December, 1944, that Lawesti-
gation had showm that none of these directers has er sver hed
sufficient capital to make up that mabeerabed to
and that the abeve mamed are mere frents fer the Sapamese 
of the partmers la the firm betere l94l.
16n. 23,1976 - FB12
-1-
BySbn
12/7128

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.94)
Bource C reported, 1n Deeember 1943, that by
order of the Ar,entine Prefectura Maritima, crew members
of the two tr:wlers wer- restricted to native born Argem-
tines, lthough one or t o of th: engineers on board were
id to be Cerman-horn nstur i ed Arpentines. The souree
recorted that t thet time ex enses of oper tion of the
si10
ke t-ir, eration ulmost
1. the Spring and
stth
on ona ccasion, n unkn wn  sare ws sont whon a 0. 8.
vessel pessed. sourde H Iso reported that the previously
rentioned order of r stricting c ew embers or these two
ships to native born Arrentines was evidently not being
followed and thst some cren eubers ere Jεpanese naturalised
Arrentines.
CACIP for erly n d orfices at the following addres-
ses in Buenos Aires: Tefensa 1595-77, Brundsen 36; Villarino
2L44. It is not-d that accoraing to the November 1944 tolo-
hone directory for Buenos Aires, offices of this company
are listed as Bras1l 476 nd Villarino 2444. Investigation
by Eource B h's stablished thet t the first address, Brasil
476, the CACIP office is located on the third floor of a
house apperently occupled by families in moderate cireumstamees.
Intermediate surveillance by Source B at this
address during May, 194s, sho:ed that apparently several
Japanese were employed in the fishing company's offices and
that the company owns a chrysler automobile, Capital lieense
number 109-526. The firm w s intervened by the Argemtime
Government in Apr1l of this year and one OttILO J. FAzCo
was named interventor. According to Source D, this intervemter
told members of the firm that he would come to the offiee
every day or two to countersign checks and that his activities
would extend no further. Bource D reports that two autome-
biles with Capital license numbers 99587 and 109735 were
frequently parked in front of the Brasil address and apperemtly
helonged to individuals working there.
- 2 -

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.94)
KINGO KA /II was originally reported by Souree B
to have moved in late 1942 fron the address of AvenaAlvear
30t0
ouse t 0. l ro: .156 in the suburb of Belgrame,
trat the November 1944 telephone
h- latter addreas.
e utomobile
01n
sec'et ocument.
reported
that KAnAII dic st  ive such infor atiol..
Source A re orted, in February, 1945, that KAwaII
was spending his summer vacstion at a chalet named "villa
Fnriqueta" located in L F Ida, Province of Cordoba. Aeeerd-
ing to Source A, KAwAII had his utomobile there. Inter-
mediate surveillance of KAwAII'S residenee in Buenos Aires
by Source D duriny Xorch, April, and May, 1945, showed that
KAwAII and his J"panese wife were apparently absent during
March. A caretaker "nd his fsmily, German appearing, were
apparently staying in the h use during their absemee. Subjeet
wus first seen by Source D on April 20 :s KAsAII left his
house at 7:15 a.m. Subse uent to thet time, subject apparemtly
resided at home continuously Ithough sometimes he would mot
leave his house for successive days. He appeared te leave m
arrive at irregul r hours and traveled in his car. Mis trips
were usually to the CACIP office at Brasil 476. Subjeet was
observed working in the yard in front of his house in his
shirt sleeves on May 30 and spent his entire aftermeem et
this activity. Nothing unusual or significant was observed
in his activities during the period of surveillance and 
only one occasion were other Japanese seen at his heuse,
when on Aoril 25 a Japanese couple arrived in an automebile
#1th Cap1t:1 l1cense No. l07463, and visited one-half hour
inside:
-3-

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.95)
FC-OPE
HJe
VICTORY
π
Jederal Bureau of Inuestigation
BUY
United States Department of Dustice
894.20235/7-2545
Mashington 25, D. C.
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
RPA
FILE NO.
64-22099
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
RL
geag.
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Date:
July 25, 1945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief, Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
SEB
Department of State
rom:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
SubJeCt: JAPANESE ACTIVITIES IN ARGENTINA
As of possible interest to you there is attached a memorandum
containing information received from a reliable and confidential source
concerning the suspected espionage activities of Japanese in Argentina.
The information contained in said memorandum is available to
the American Embassy in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
CC
Director of Naval Intelligence
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
Confidential File
Rilng
Navy Department
War Department
894.20235
Washington, D. C.
Washington. D. C.
AttentioassReadingePanel
121.46
DCR . ARA Unit
Military aatelaigence Service
AMERICAN REPUBLIC AFFAIRS
Attachment Anal
V71945
CS
Rev.
DIVISION OF AMERICAN
Cat.
REPUBLIC ANALYSIS AND
Dist.
LIAISON: ANALYSIS SECTION

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.82)
Tume 4, 1900
RO: DAIZABUBO SUXMATSU!
SUXTYY AAYA, W SYKEYE AAYA
Buenes Aires, Argentime
beenrevlously reported that pubvorsive
"arried on in sne
DAIZABUHU SUKMATYU
BURKYE ASAYA
KYNKIORI SUDA
HIBOSHI ISAWA.
shet in early loen he seld his share in she fárm te subgeet
in Fobruary, 1944.
sabjeet suxxatsu formerly resided la aa apartmemé la
shippins iafematien fren Vaited statee sezlers.
DMGnGs A1 es. ABATA POsiGeG 1a ApaPtmGné 6, B0é PeoP 0? 
1000, asd ss doser1bed briefly es follomsé
ro 20 
1.
6.23,1926-PB12

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.83)
Duild
Thin
Kair
Dark brown
Cemplexien
Dark
Appearance
Neat, eleam-shaven and
reserved in manner
ouree  has reported thut e decoded message frem the
ertokydatdy 1
ladbeaed
, aecordiud to ouree
Investigetion resently performed by Jozee X regareins
DAI ABURC SUEY ATSU has established that he is preseatly Pesidins
alene ia apartmeat 26, éth fleor, Calle Estades Umides sls, and
that he has been there for about shree years. Inguiry by seuree
at this address has showa that sUrk ArsU fermerly wemt te the
Japanese rabessy frequently and reccived an erdimary mmber ef
visiters ia his spartment. These visisers were apparemtly ell
Japese. Am the were Go TUADo f Clle Mbete 1º l0.
and TARO TAKZHARA of Lima l3S2. Souree F Feperte shet TAKUKAbO
is an empleyee ef Japanese firm Murai and Cempany in Deemes Aires,
 fimm repertedly ensasins in espiezage eetivisies. searee I else
reperts shat Takukado is she preprietor ef e eleaaing establsshmemt
at his address steted abeve. Investigatien at suzzatsv's edéress
by searee I esteblished thet he dees net receive cerrespeséenee
there at presest.
sUxNAtsU 1s reported by Seuree I se leave beme sbeut
10:00 er 11:00 a.. ad sually retur heme aleme ebe le:00 er
1l:0o p.m. Ne esseeiates coasiderably wish ene MARIo CAmPIslIo,
whe hes resided fer fear years at Calle wexiee Slé, Ssd fleer,
apartèent . CAmpIsLIo is an Argeatine whe has spens mesé es hãs
life la Italy. The reasen for sheir asseeiatien is uakaeme bes
which meele are prepared by she latter's wife, AnezLa Nánza Panment
Ge CAMPIeLIO. It is Peperted by Seuree shet CAMPzeLIo'e wáfe alse
éees the eleeains La suxxatsv's apertmeat. searee I alse reperte
Shet SUZKATSV nd CANPIGLIO frequesly Bse she lasßer' ear, leease
befeve she Apgeatine beeck of relatsene ia Japen ia Jemnarg, 10s4
SAMPIsLIe reestved et b1s house cosstGereble corveepesdesse foem

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.83)
Gemany, esecheslovakta, shile, Mexiee, and agney. eazese
Le reperted te have been a redie sechasesan presesély emplaged
at "Case Ameriea", Avda. de Maye 9s9.
gouree à obtained the followins deseriptien of Daxsam
SUKFATCU:
31
1.1
reet5inohes
n8e
56
Height
xverase
Build
glight
Complezion
Fair
Nasiomalisy
Argentine
B.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.94)
D3
π
Rederal Bureau of nuestigation
United States Department of Dustice
Washington 25, . C.
Jesg.
DE
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
64-26826-23
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
FILE NO.
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Date:
August 7, 1945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
151945
Chief
Division of Forein Activity Correlation
Denartment of State
John Edgar Hoovep - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
Angel A. Perrone
Argentina
1.102
894.20235/8-745
As o possible interest to you there is transmitted herewith a
report received from a reliable confidential source concerning the acti-
vities of Angel A. Perrone, Buenos Aires correspondent for the Medrid
newspaper "El Economista." It has been previously reported that Perrone
would be used by the Japanese for forwarding intelligence reports from
Areentina to Madria.
A surveillance of Perrone in May and June, 1945 did not show
any activity of a definite subversive nature. He is employed by the
Ar entine Ministry of Interior but the nature of his duties is not known.
Perrone indicated great interest in a newspaper article on June 19, 1945
about Japanese killing of Australinn prisoners. Perrone has apparently
ceased sending cable messa es to Madrid and has indicated thet future
reports would be sent by air mail.
Enclosure
Conf
CS/LE
cc - Director of Mavel Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Brigadier General Carter W. Clarke
Jan, 23, 1976
Fβ1 #2
By Si=n
12/7178
mrm
02
二)

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.79)
July 24. 1945
IV
1. 0
cont witn h Japn. iti
Previous investigation s ahon im to reside it reru Lal7, taird fleer,
apartment 34, anc to hnve selephone number 23-huen Ordem 1672, which
number has met been registered in resent Dusmes Aires telepheme direeteries.
A urvelllanee of Pki: conduoted by souree C in May  Jm, 1945
with the Argent ine Govermment and works in a building of the Mslatay
of Iaterior, Lesated at vanida de ayo 760. The met mekare ef mis
work hes nos beem determined. ARRonE Leaves heme betweem B:00 A. M.
and 9100 A. M. durind week days ad usually es mi t wek b
street ear. He returas home at moon, apparestly lamekáng theve, and
returns to werk abo 3:00 P. M. or 4:00 P.  he leeves the see 
6:00 P. . and wwlly soer raighe home, in travelin  seee .
The variatiem in houre when he koes to the offiee suggeess thes he dees
not have a detinite workin, sohedule whieh he mst fellew.
PKRRONX was an autonobile, a red tudebaker, with Capital lleemse mbes
35970, which he keeps in a sarage Lessted at Hress1 S40. Mo wess shss
ear very iarrequemtly, prebebly due to the shertage or wmselime. se fer
as could be ascertaimed she sar is anly used e an essasiemel aftesmsem
whem as takee is fasily riding.  July 2, for mmple, 
hio wire Lart their hem, driving ia the ear,a 4i00 P.  and areveled
a eenstsereble distemee ia Buemes sires with cccnstemal ssepe fer
PEmcnx's wife to get eus and ester a store fer apperent sheypias
parpesss.
The marvedllanee ahowed Lnteressing notivity aa Jme 19.  2125 P..
Prne toek a arees anr fren kis hoese te the canter of Beanse Aee
and mle wal teh the e stod  re  le 
a Bess lah nonogagee on diaplay La the wiadow of Peokine Book soove, n
-1-

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.74)
store in an upparent affort to buy the mewepaper but eame eut withoue it.
 tan want wuccessively to two other book stores whieh mell Baglish
ublicat ony, ngain seminsly tryin, to buy the nowmpaper, bus beins
be.n wnt t leotric shop of t Y CI.  M
-ute taliith  miadl
n
Jiun, is presentl nmpluyed o; lit pewspaper in the eaiterial meesiem.
AN(X.L PRtuNr has been in contact with mnother mpleyee ef the Maiy
of Interior on eeaniom. They have laft the Ministry abeu 6i00 P. .
und sometimes gone to a nearby soffee shop for a drink. This eempamden
hes been deseribed by souree  as about ferty yoars of ase, 5 . 7 la.
tail, welghing lbu pounds and having blmek hair.
Prior iaformation ladiuatec that PlactOis ment is Laemesien te "
or able a as May 2, 1945 d therearter sand them aly  r l.
FERHUX Leed t  thot thi  bse " m"
Argetin and other sstr Hesi phere coustries, ad m of ss 
matios, 1s is meted, was soveral months old whem sent.
aith the maststasee of Souree i a l1st of tolopeme calls made beten
Ne ressed es a telaphene eall made to Spaia by Pannane, oe to Amganétme
by "XL MOORORLSTA" wAS foumd.
Invens Lgnttan w Bouree 0 at PIReon's hane, Pe 1417, hod te no
has reasdsd thore with he wire nad mall ahnsa rer thoue the lae toe
yoars. Ne apperent ly rosesd vee ne mall as hane. Is wns the hagooenden at
a belldiae aplageo as shes addrene thee paaon lo aglaged by the
Asgse ime Mnéstry of Wer.
- 8-

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.83)
Souree C obtelned the followins dseription of ANL A. P:
40 years
ight
5 rt.6 1m.
1
14.0 pound s
rove colorod Lone.
srees
bown , low lto
dirty appearing cmbesaime pain-
cout, als cmated wisà boom
rether shabby.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.93)
August 14, 1945
CCA--Mr. Teu
ARa--Mr. Warrar
Panoho Arias says the new
Constitution will be approved by
the end of the year or early 1946
and that Presidential elections
will be held in April or May of 1946.
He ridiouled reports that
Psesident Jimenez intends to perpetuate
himselr in ofrice. He denied reports
of any friction between the President
and himself.
LILPARIMENT OF STATE
wo
OFFICE OF
AMERIL AN REPUBLIL AFFAIRS
AUC141945
CCA--M0v1se
DIRFCTOR

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.91)
A/ARS
Jederal Bureau of Inusstigution
SESM
United States Department of Justire
RC
Mashington 25, D. C.
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
IN PLY, PLEASE REPER TO
BY SPECIAL MESSEGER
FILE NO. 64=28146
D/R
Dato:
September 11, 1945
SEP 1 2 1945
To:
Mr. Frederiok B. Lyon
Department of State
From: John Edgar Hoover - Dtreotor, Federal Bureau of Investigatiom
SubJOOT: JULIO GUIDO AMUCHASTEGUI - ARGENTINA
As of possible interest to you, there is transmitted herewith a repert
①
concerning the activities of Amuchastegui in Argentina.
894.20235/9-114
It will be recalled that allegations were received that Ammohastegui
was engaged in Japanese espionage and propaganda activities. The repert refleets
that Amuohastegui is employed by the advertising firm, Lintas, Ltda., in Buenos
Aires. It is reported that he receives a salary of 700 pesos a menth. A sur-
veillance did not establish subversive or suspicious activities  the part ef
Amuchastegui and the contacts which he made were evidently in line of business
or of an innocent nature.
Amuchastegui resides at J. B. Alberdi 954, Borges (suburb of Buenos
Aires).
This information has been made available to the American Embassy
in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Enolosure
oo - Direotor of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
oo - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel
Malitary Intelligence Service
DCR ARA Un
1.3
Anal
ES
Rev.
en
Jun 23, 1976 - FB1 2
By SEm
12/7/78
17
1945
3
.2

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.79)
RO: JULIO GUIDO AMUGNASTBOUI
provions saformation was received shat s
was eagagins ia Japadese espionese aad prepesande nesávissens
Ze was reperted se have received ia l94s eves l,see peses
(abess saso U. s.) per moath fren the Japaaese fes hse ses
at Prage lles, Deoaes Aizes. As shat sine he ma mmratée tea
vestigatien showed shas AkUckAsTeGUI wae fond of arinking ané
was appereatly not considered a goed fiasmeial risk boeause ef
past uapaid dobss.
Iavestigation by souree "C" has shomm shet Agenastmeu
1s ssill employed by she LIntas advertieing fira and shes ne ap
parently has a pesitien ef impertanee there. this seuree wes
lafermed thet he is considered very elever at wrisins she semés
of advertisemeats and was laforaed by a fellow emgleyee that
his enly diffieulty is in evereemins his seadeaey te ériak
she lasser swe to eondues sheir advertisins aad alse edverssse
fer ether firns empleying sheir serviees.
A purveillaee of AmUCñAsTEGUI was condueted by sesees
Berges, a subarh ef Beeass Aires, alshough, ascezding te the
famsly, ineludiae his brether, Garles, whe 1s empleyed la à
Al, bees te werk by sabarbes sraía, aad retaras heme abemé
Lliés Am for lusek. Lé retazas te the effiee abont siee m
asd remmins until S:se when ell emplegees leaves

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.76)
ef hie fermer marriage.
Tho ureille ha not hoa Anst to bo 
Aires Previaee licease plates ssszes, whieh ear belengs te
OSGAR BERKARDO CARIBOTO, BGSL to POSiGG as AmGGhNO BeS
Rãe Banba Gll fer almess swe hours. ea July s subjeet was
In the afteraeen where he met swe men. These twe have bees
LGtfi s L R f Gi B,   VAL, 
former was previously ia she advertising business fer "pelm
Olive Gelgate- aad she Latser is enployed by PReraGanDa
PUNYRREVON, an adVertisinG firm in Whieh ANUCMASTMGUI fermeely
wosked.
Souree "D" was subsequently able to talk te Reem
and was sela shat AmUoñAstíGUI is vory cempetent la hás fiele
and ls well dueated, speaking several laaguages. e estámeted
thet AMUCASTEGUI roeeives about 900 peses (SIvs V. S.) pe?
moson.
vith referenee to poss orfice lox "Éspecial e" pearee
"y" has reperted that ene JUAN BALDINELLI is mow amtheríseß se
1n ANUOL.STBOUI'S BABO.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.92)
IMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
BX COURINE
EMBASSY OF THE
ANHEPUBLIC AFFAIRS
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1945
9
Buenos Aires, Argentina, September 27, 1945,
Central Information Ofrice
D-/
(C.I.O.) Report.
No.
Subject: Note Verbale to Foreign Ofrice Regarding
Japanese Social Organisations.
105.420
CONFIDENTIAL
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.20235/9-2845
sir:
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a Note
Verbale read by the Ambassador to the Foreign Minister
when Ambassador Braden called on Foreign Minister
Cooke on September 19, l945. This communicatiom
submitted to the Argentine Government a list of
Japanese social organizations existing in Argentima
on May 8, 1945, and considered to be centers of Axis
influence. This list has already been tranamitted
to the Department as Enolosure No. 2 to Despateh
No. 17602 of May 16, 1945.
The Foreign Minister stated that the ease would
be referred to the proper authorities for investiga-
240 351121910
tion.
-/0Y
Respootrully your
CS/LE
John M. Cabot
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
1. Copy or Note Verbale to Foreign Orriee en
September 19, l945 Regarding Japemese Secial
874.2
Organisations in Argentina.
NOV 191945
Originel (for Osalid mehine) to Department.
Pile No. 80o.08.
Gerald Wermer:vi
DCR . ARA Unit
Anal.
Ke
m.Hy
L

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.94)
AIR MAIL
Exelesure No. 1 to Despateh
920
September , 194s, frem tme
at Buenes Aires, Argentime.
NOTE VERBALE
The Embassy of the United States of Ameries
presents its compliments to the Ministry of Fesetem
Affairs and Worship and has the honer to refer te
Resolution VII of the Inter-American Comferembe em
of centers of Axis influence in the Western Hemimphe
In this connection reference is mde to the feet
that a large number of Japenese soeial oreamisate
continue to operate in Argentina. In the balief
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Worship my
to have the proper authorities inquire whotheet
is attached a memorandum containing data in regame se
these Japanese organizations.
Buenos Aires, September 19, 1945.
Enclosure:
Memerendum entitled "Entidades Soeiales
Japonesas en la Argentina al 8 de Mayo de 196s.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Worship
of the Argentine Republie.
0W:v1

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.91)
Federal Bureau of Inuestigation
AM
Anited States Department of Justire
9002
Mashington 25, D. C.
P. RSUNAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
LY SPEC IAL MESSENGER
FILENO 6h-22017
ReA
RT
894.20235
a re ort roceiv ro p allaole, conf  untiar aree regaraing the activities
of Albino Pu nalin concerning wio. le ations have veen received that he was
engaged in es iona e activities on behalf of the Japanese curing the war.
The report sets out that o cubvoreive activities on Pugnalin's
part were observed during June, 1slh5. It is reported that Pugnalin lives
frugally and has ood relati rs with sone officials of the present Argentine
Covernment, but he is not connected with the Argentine Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.
This infermation is available to the American Embassy at Buenos
Aires, Argentina.
cc - Acting Chief of Xaval Intelligence
VISA DIVISION
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
NOV 30 1946
DEC111945
co - Assistant Chief of Sta
FILED
G-2, War Department
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel
Military Intelligenca Service
Jun.23, 1970 - F01*2
ByAma
1217/78
DR
B113
Enclosure
tuta
(D

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.80)
ecteber 5, 1965
R0: ALBINO PUGNALIN (BREVEDAN);
ANTONIO AGBITOS (LAGOS):
Duenee Aires, Argestiae
PUGNALIN Ls a forMer ArGentine GíplemSSe pere
the Japezese mbassy and 1s kaewn te heve am effsee at
eeeupied by the Jepezese Eabassy prier te Argeabinets báenk
ef relatieas with éhe Azis 1n Jessary, 19se. Be bes been
reperted as the ewner of the fermer Jepanese prepegande
Japeaese eagaged ia espiozage acssvissos and shas he hiasels
directs espiezage eetivisies in the perts ef Deenes Asres
and Rosario, Argeztina, by means of agezts ln bis amploy.
ANTONIO AGRITOS has been PeportOE as ene ef he
espiezage agents with whem PUonaLIn is in eeateet. Ee is a
erew member abeard the ss "Rie Grande" treveling between
Argentina, ether Latin-Amerieen cenatries, and the Uaited
states. Iavestigetion ef lositos, like lavestigaties ef
PUGKALIN, hes been condueted wisheut revealins espienage
eetivssies.
PUGWALIN was surveilled by Souree à durins the
meath ef Jene, l94s withest shere appeerins any setávity of
an ummsuel er espiezage nature. Is was ebserved shat
PÉGNALIN Pides streetears en mest escesseßs when ssavelíng
besween bis heme at Zameralda lsss and his effice at
Gesrieates see. ea shese sripe he is aleae. Is was ebessved
by she sosree shat PUeßaln works in hie ofgiee methes
has aay sabversive cesteete, shey mmst be mmde sa hss esrsee.
mhich eenld noe be adeguesely covesed, ssass he dess mes
reeesve sespieseus visiters at his beme.
Investigessen by Seuree D sheved thet PUenalxN
lives tregelly and epperestly hes ne enplegeee la hés esrasse
20

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.82)
Is has been indieated by seuree A shat peanazzu has
a pesisien ia she Argentine Miaistry ef Pereign Aftasve eà
present. However, lavestigation condueted by Seuree E Sa she
to show that ruonalin has aay kmowa pesition er empleymess
ohere.
Souree A reperte thet en Yareh 10, 196s e. peeñal
the laterview puonaLIn stated shat he eagages ia the fellowing
aetivisiess Prastieins as a private lawyery fulgallang a
pesitien with the Natienal zducetien Ceuneil; eesessemel
private zatters whieh were zet speceified. the views ef De.
PUGžALIN were summerised by the souree as follews: Ambs-
Ameriean and agaiast severel uaspecified Latia-kmerieam
Vassed states ia respezsible for the estbreak ef the secemély
termizated war la she Pacifie; that the foreiga pelsey of
the Ameriees.
Desing the isterview, as reperted by Seuree A.
average diplomat poiag to Japen keepe amay fren the Japamese
of the westera Werld, bet shat he had saken aa aessve satesesé
in their mede ef lifé and that, in turn, maderateed hís
a.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.85)
states zight have en Argentime.
It has been reperted by Bouree 7 thet Dr. PUemaLIm
was iastrumental ia seezrins the reappesrezee ef twe Jepamess
mewspepers ia mia loes after sheir publieetien hed been
sespended en Mareh 29, l94s by the Argestine soveramente
inmedsately arter suepensien te be alloved so reappees sa é
form eppreved by she Argentine cevermmest, mhich pessssens
these twe es stased.
It was previeesly reperted shat Japeasese pebveresve
astivisies wish whieh Puonaln was cezaeeted were beßns
and that a Japenese newspeper wes printed shere.
Iavestigatlen by Souree a at this adarese hewe
that the priatins shep referred to is prebably eme entasled
"Impresta Farmen" lecated at Kuaberte 1., Ne. lés9, Besnes
Aires. FURxan, the preprieter, it was aseertaimed by sowee
fer mere then thirty years aad is a naturalised Argemésms
eitisen. Soures diseusssd with hin prepegande end whether
PURXAN weeld print pre-Axie prepagaade. The seuree wes
or esher kind ef propegande azd thet me érouble wonla bé
It asd neot appear that a Japezese newspaper had ever been
published there.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
VEDGAR,HOOVER
corbng
DRECTOR
Rederal Bureau of muestigation
United States Department of Dustire
Mashi
APA
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
Date:
December 14, 1945
DIVISION
5 1946
DEC 181945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyoh
Chief
STATE
Department ofState
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
/12-1445
OFFICE OF
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Eureawced RErmstaguron
894.20235
Leo
gron
JAN 9-1946
Subject:Osaka Shosen Kabushiki Kaishal
Argentina
HONY
As of possible interest to you, there is transmitted herewithla copy
memorandum recgived from a reliable ana confidential source concerning the abov
captioned shipping line Phe memorandum reflects that this shippingline was
reportedto ethe Japanese uspionage center. Investigation showed that meetings
of Japanese ansome Caucasians took place at the shipping line offices at Avenida
R. S. Pena 99bTuenos Aires. The investigation reflected that one Maria
Ramos, telephone girl for the shipping line, received British publications at villa-
894.20235
nueva 1355, an address at which she did not reside.
This information is available to the American Embassy in Buenos Aires
Argentina.
FORYICTORY
cc - Chief of Naval Intelligence
Assistant Chief of Staff
C
BUY
UNITED
Navy Department
G-2, War Department
STATES
WAR
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C.
BONDS
AND
STAMPS
Attention:
Reading Panel
C
Enclosure
Military Intelligempe Service

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.85)
0etober 24, 1045
RB1
OSAKA SHOSEN KABUSHIKI KAISHA
PmSeAirLL.ArntLne
an espiemage ring was being operated frem there.
Souree A reperted that a large quan tity ef nemepep
2011ow8:
Gemerel
1946
Jan22,1976 FB12
By 
12/7/28
-1

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.84)
Japamese in Buencs Aires coanested with the Yohea
It ls noted that Argent ina deelared wer em he Axds
were ram oved from the af fi eos and earried aff in the truck.
more farniture mnd a large wieker basket, eoatem ts mkmowm.
andT1mo."
mumber 85-0414, in its om nmme.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.86)
Souree D was able to sam tlty eme eallere at the 0..
Eabassy.
It l1 be noted that ANToNIo J. de soUSA wae peperted
and isuld give him è remmmerative position.
It 1s atated abeve that on Mareh so and an. a tmak
other Japamese later took some bund les from the affiee to m
unkmem address located on Avm ida Chielme.
Ameng the indi viduals ealling at the 0.s.X, affase,
#sse. Le was deseribed by the seuree as follews:
196
Appeerense:

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
black lists.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.89)
Height:
Woight :
145
Hair:
Dark brown
Cemplexien:
Ballow, roud
au though
Distinguishing
features:
dressed
SABAN La shown by loeal Tole pheme Dtreeteriee to peeide
tina and the Banee Eapafßel del Rio de La Plata.
saBar evidently lives a qaiet lafe at hem md seldem
Leaves his heme in the evem ing. seurse eould net aseertain

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.78)
thie plase at bmastmess la freqaem tod by Jepenese.
basimess evidemtly belengs te nardio Jósn meax.
It mas aseertaimed by souree 7 thas
El Negar Argeatine, which lean was demied, Amasmush as
saBAnave
 O.S.K. shipping lime as a referemse.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.96)
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
CREFC
YOLRECTOR
Rederal Bureau of Inuestigatioñs
DE/R
JESN.
United States Department of Jusfice
HashIngton, D. C. PERSONALA CONFIDENTIAL
RPA
BY SPECIAMESSENGER
Date:
December 14, 1945
at
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
JA
Chief
DEC 181945
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Department of State
894.20235
DC/1
From:
John EdgarHoover - Director, Federal Bureau of
AFFAIRS
Subject:
asao Tsuda, with aliases
JAN 31946
Argentina
a memorandum received from a reliable and confidential source concerning the activfies
5
of the Japanese espionage agent Masao Tsuda. The memorandum reflects that Tsuda as
of October 1, 19ub, was still free and was living in relatively poor guarters on
Calle Junin 138l, Buenos aires. Investigation failed to reflect that Masao Tsuda is
engaged in pro-Japanese activities at the present time.
This inrormation has been made available to the American Embassy in Buenos
Aires, Argentina.
FORVICTORY
JAN4=194
cc - Chief of Naval Intelligence
Assistant Chief of Staff
BUY
FILJ
Navy Department
WAR
UNITED
STATES
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C.
G-2, War Department
C
BONDS
S
AND
STAMPS
Attention: Brigadier Genera CarterW.
Enclosure
Jan. 23, 1976 - FB1 2
Clarke
C
By 8m
1217178

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.81)
Octdber 26, 1965
RB：
MASAO TSUDA, m1 th allases
L AA
MASAO TSUDA La DONKI orPeS pend mt in Argantine md hoed
relati ens dth the Axis, forwarded that infermmatiem to Japem.
year. At the time af his arrest, his affiee wes alesed ndhe
after his release frem jail did not how him engaglag in ab-
veraive astivities. Ne centinued residing in his apartment,
Apartment B em the 6th Pleer of Junin l479, Buenes Aires.
had lest the war, but expressed no epíaien abeut Japan.
sweeess was had.
1

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.89)
"ambo1.
It was reported by source C after visit ing tauDa in his
to an wakmome plase where TsuDa said they were stered.
at least one.
Sewree C held a eoversation wi th TauDa in Jume whish
toushed om Germmy's recent marrender to the Allies. tmuna sadd
war fer yeare amd in the mantime some thing weuld happen té sepe-
rate the United Natiens, making it possible far Japan to make 
advantageous pease.
not beem aseertedmed.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.81)
the registret en af Axis matiena ls in Àrgoatimm.
selling n omisden.
mntive.
PAUL PARHANDEZ SO La PUNTE
It was proviomsly reperted that a Arpm tume nome
at Calle Potesi 384l, Apertumnt 8, Besmes Aires.
did not dhew Pxnnannns as in coatast ath Jepmess.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.82)
y Comroie, evid emtly were obtained for him by his brether-lm-
1
Argn tin L.1outanant colonel JN CaHLoS MARTIN. It
7AeTePUKRTE
It is reealled that previeus investigatien af taum
"kokLal" md the telepheme nusber 34-4eee. It wae aeseerted
sueh as "kabilde.
Inwestl pa en by Souree J indleates tat lately

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.92)
RPA
DISTRIS
BX. COTRIEE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
15
10
346
Buenos Aires, Argentina, January
a1R
9229
Subject: Notea Verbales to the Foreign Office in Regarm
to Activities of Japanese Espionage Agemt Masse
Tsuda.
1946
SECRET
1/
The Chargé d'Affaires a.i. has the honor to emelese
a copy of the Embassy's Note Verbale of December 8, 1945
in regard to the activities of the Japanese espienage
agent Masao TSUDA. This information was supplied upen
the request of the Argentine Foreign Ministry.
2/
Also enolosed is the Embassy's Note Verbale ef
December 13, 1945 containing additional infermation on
Tsuda obtained from a search of the arohives of the
former Japanese Embassy in Buenos Aires.
DIVISION
FFAIRR
DIVSION OF
5 1946
MAR6 1946
Emclosures:
CS/DConfident
1. Note Verbale dated December 8, 1945.
2. Note Verbale dated December 13, 1945.
Origimal (fer Osalid mohine) to Department.
MAR181946
rile no. éso.oz.
FILUD
 Zeaneth Oakley: jad
Bmrs
mry

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
AIR MAIL
Embassy at Buenos Aires,
NOTEVERBALE
The Embassy of the United States of Ameriea
presents its compliments to the Ministry of Fereigm
Affairs and Worship and has the honer to refer te
an oral request for information available te the
Embassy conoerning the Japenese espionage agemt
Masao Tsuna. Information in the Embassy riles
shows that Masao Tsuda was correspondent in Argen-
tina for the Japanese news agency Domei, and was
the prinoipal representative of that ageney fer
all of South Amerioa. After December 7, 194l,
Tsuda compiled information regarding the Allied
war effort from many sources and transmitted it
to Japan using his correspondent's radio and cable
facilities, until this means of commumication was
interrupted by action of the Argentine Govermmemt.
The Embassy will appreciate being infermed
regarding whatever action is taken with respeet
to Tsuda.
Buenos Aires, December 8, 1945.
Ministry of Foreige Affairs and Worship
of the Argemtime Republic.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.94)
17
Bmelesar: Ne. 2 to
AIR MAIL
dated dry 9,
Amsrisan Embassy at
Argentina.
NOTEVERBALE
The Embassy of the United States of Amertee
presents its compliments to the Mimistry ef Pereism
Affairs and Worship and has the homer te refer to
its Note Verbale of December 8, 194s im reply to the
Ministry's request for information comeerming Masee
TSUDA, a Japanese agent.
Since preparing the reply mentioned abeve the
following edditional information has come te the
attention of the Imbassy. A first cursery seareh
of the arohives of the former Japanese Embasay in
Buenos Aires revealed that in June l94z official
funds in the amount of 600 Argentine peses were
paid to Tsuda for "an investigation trip to Brasil".
The vouoher was signed by one Raúl Fernkndes.
Buenos Aires, December 13, 1945.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Worship
of the Argentine Republie.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.92)
BECUEIFIDE
MR BRADEN
N~2280069
By I/e  Mans, Date F.22 28
FEB 5 1946
ABn/S
Jederal Bureau of Inusstigation
United States Department of Justire
ngtan 25.. C.
PERSONAL AND-00
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
FILE NO.
Date:
January 25, 1940
4.
To:
AT.
2023
5T
memorandum pertaining to Angel A. Perrone wno was ori inally reported as a possible
agent for the Jaranese used by them for the forwarding of intelligence reports. The
memorandum sets out information about Perrone's activities in Argentina as corre
pondent for the Madrid newspaj er "El Economista".
the Anerican Eabassy at Buenos Aires,
This information
CS/V
Argentina.
Bm3
Enclosure
1916
u.n.
Assitant Chief of Staff
BR.T
Chief of Naval Intellig
cc:
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel
Military Intelligence Ser

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.91)
Buenos Aires, Argent ina
November 30, 1945
日.
PAFNNSPAER
PRRONE
It was oricinall, reported that the representative
or che Ladrid econamio nowapaper "l EconCliIsTa" would be
used by the Japanese for rorwardin: intelligence reports, and
it has bean muggested chat he might uleo be used by the
Carmans. AnokL A. Ch. is Buenos Aires correspondent for
this paper. He is an urgeutine citiren who in tho past has
been in oontact wi th Japanese in Buenos vires. Previows
investigation has shown him to reside in Apartment 34 at
eru i4l7, Buenos Airen. investigation han not revealed the
nature or extent of hin ospionage nctivity. It has been
previously roported whut rerrone ceased sending mssages to
 EccNIsLa" by conueralal radio as o. Ma 1. 1945.
stating that he would send further reports by air mail.
Perrane has likewise been previously reported as mapleyed by
the Argentine Ninistry of Interior, the exact neture of his
work being uainown.
Investigatlon conducted by Source C during July nd
August, 1945 showed that Perrone went almost daily to the Sub-
Seeretaria de Infomaciones, a sub-seeretarist of the Mimistay
of Interior located at Avenida de Mayo 760. This Sub-Seeresarias
to pertain to radio and newsreel propeganda of the Argemtimm
government.
According to Sourse C, Perrone received mo meil at
his house during July and Augast and apparently had mot deme
se fer seme time. It was noted by the source that Perreme
is a resognised news correspondent ia Argentina, havins
-1-

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
Further information regarding the metivities
Perrome from Souroe ) indicates that on August 2lst, he tesk
a bus trip, leaving Buenos Airen with destimatien elther La
Plata or Rosario, both beina cities locnted several miles
distant from Buenos Airen. o apparently returned on Augast 27th.
In September it wer noted that errono no loncer went regularly
to his office in the Ministry or Interior and appeered so have
at Florida 334, Duenos Aires, which orrice was labeled wolub
Argentino". Investipation by Source D indicates that this offiee
really belongs to the Federai tolice and is disguised a a alub
in order tc facilitste investiretions of a political nature
inside one hour.
According to bource D,  errone continued to be irreguler
in his hours during Cotobar and early November. From baekgroumd
serving as an amployee thoro for 2 years. He arose to tho
position of Chier or Ratio Communications, but in l9ez wes als-
charged beeause or his denonstrated pro-Lavi astitude. o was
discharged after refusai to sin a declaration denying sueh
sympathies, he steting nt the time that he preferred to meimsaim
his political independence. It was indicated to the mouree that
prier to Norld sar 11, rerrone was in Germany for some time,
lecturine and writing articles for "LA PHensA".
Source u has reported that on November nd, Perrom
made a trip to an ofrice or the Argentine Ministry of war,
located on the corner of Callao and Viamonte Streets. On
November 7th, he went to a printing shop loeated at Leandro
Alem 17?, whioh shop prints the pro-Feron newspapem "BPoCA"
and "LA foiIrI A". It wan noted et this time that Perrone was
taking considerable yains to aseertain whether he was being
followed.
Further infomation regarding Perrone has been reeedved
from Source I, for several years acquainted with him, and who
occupies an important position in the Buemes Aires ofriee of
Transradio Intemacional, Compadia Argentina de Telecomunicasiemes,
that Perrone was disoharged from "LA PReNSA" when he beeame
involved in local Argentine nationalist affairs and openly spoke
of this and his pro-Arás sympathies. He had been a protege of
the director of "LA P KitA" and mpparemtly comsidered his
position unassailable. After his discharge he beeame aware of
his mistake, according to the nouroe, and is now quite shastemek.
The source does not believe that Perreme is engaged in suke
varsive activity of any mature and shinks he is barely eksing
eut a living aad anxious not to lose what he has.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.92)
Souree E advised that about the first of April, loes
Perrone ntated he had reccived direotions from "EL moNoMIsTa"
te cease sending economic information regarding the United 
Porrone stated at thet ime thet El EcoNomI TA" was gestams
that information from e recogni-ed news serviee, indieating
this mi he be Associnted ress or nited ress. rior to that
time,  cur e etated, errone's  onthly bili for radiograms to
Spanish newspapers amounteu to fron ,u00 to 10, 000 Argmtine
pesos (150c to c500 U:). han, as previously stated, arter
May 1, Perrone was directed to cease entirely using commereial
radic neans. errone at this time advised Scuroe  that
"i ccNonI:fa a parently intended to use lese of his nowo.
It in noted shat it has seen reviously suspoeted
that l'errone was sending clandestino  essages to "El kconomiaza
in eipher or code, inaxriuch as his resseges contained mamy
figures. Source k hes advised that Perrone, prior to May 1. loss,
ways typed out his essaree in the office of Traneradlo, using
a typewriter of the latter oc spany. Perrone would bring In
newapapers and maga-ines and sinply sit down and copy ofr figures
and infomation fru. this material. source ; atated he belioves
thet Perrone has bean receivins from "E.  Uli(Al aTa" a salary
of B0o Argentine posor er onth (tt.).
It is noted that copies cf sevoral moamages sens by
Perrone to his newspopers durine l944 vere previously obtaimed.
Exemination of these cessages by Scurce F has indioated that
statisties given in the memeages could have been set forth with
 prearranged secondary meenins, but thet such meaning, if
existent, was not ascertained.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.96)
DECLASSIFIED
N~D 20069
By ZG Cy MARS, Dato 8.2y.7
FEB 5 1946
rnis
Washingtan 25, D. C.
PERSONAL AND
BY SPECIAL MESSENG
Date:
January 25, 1946
Seb
To:
Mr. Frederick r Lyon
Chief
1291946
Division of Foreign Activity
Department of State
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
KINGO KAWAI
Argentina
memoranaum received from a confidential reliable source concerning Kingo Kamai mho
894.20235/1
was believed to be enguged in espionage activities in Argentina on behalf of the
Japanese. Investigation has failed to substantiate allegations that Kingo Kamai
was engaged in espionage operations on behalf of the Japanese.
This information has been made available to the American Embassy at
894.20235
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
C
S
MAR1-194
Enclosure
Bmr3
cc:
Chief of Naval Intelligence
Assistant Chief of Staff
Navy Department
G-2, War Department
Washington, D. C.
En.S.
Washington, D. C.
2
Attention: Reading Panel
Military Intelligency
Service

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.95)
November 25, 1945
ROI KINOO KAWAI,
Buenos Aires, Argentine
KAwAI is a prominent Japanese, rosiding in Buemes
Aires and who for years has been conneeted with an Argentine
fishing company, Compaßie Argentina Industrial de Pesgueria,
S.R.L. This company has been reported us owned entirely by
Japanese who heve employed several irgentines to aet as
ostemsible owners and directors of the firm to avoid suspleion.
XAwaI has been alleged to be a Jupanese espionage agemt, but
investigation condueted to substantiate these allegations has
failed to de so. It has also been alleged that the twe large
fishing vessels of the firm (known as "Cacir") were engagins
in subversive activities. It has been stuted that they were
provisioning Axis subzarines in the South Atlantic and that
their radio transmitters were being used for the tranmission
of elandestine Japanese messages.
It will be recalled that XINGc KawAI was arrested by
Argentine Federal Police on chargen of espionage in Febrwary,
l94e. Information received fron 3ource C indicates tha6 1s
was not possible for the police to take a statement frem XAwAI
after his arrest besause of an attuok of mental derangemens
suffered by him. He was sent to an observation ward maintaized
by the poliee and remained there during his detentions-.
Regarding the two ships of "CAcir", the "presidente
Mitre" and the "Presidente tooa", investigation has been
condueted to ascertain the possibility of the erews engagins
in the previous mentioned activitics. Information reseived
from Souree D indicates that both ahips have radio tramamissins
equipment emabled them to send radio messages up to apprezimately
1,zso miles under the best conditions. They are equipped with
Master eseillaters, have an antenne power output of ss wetts,
and use the 40-45 meters and 70 meter bands. This souree
advises that this equipment is average for boats sueh as these
twe, which are sea-geing and displace about 4so sens. The
transmitsers are used by the vessels to contaet Argentine
gevermment stations leeated at Villa Real and at Gemeral
Paebeeo.
1.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.95)
Grew list for these two vessels durins Deesmber, 19s4
were obtained by Souree E from the Argentine Prefeetura Gemeval
Maritima. These lists on examination show only ene Japamese
name, thut of RICaRDo YAMAGUChI, employed as "mose" or eook's
assistant aboard the "presidente Mitre". However, infermasion
given by Source E confirms that previously reported, te the
efreet that sinee the Argentine break of relations wish Japen,
Prefeeture Varitime has not permitted the use of erew members
of Japanese nationelity abourd these ships. It was the souree's
opinien, sherefore, that YäAGUchI must be of Argemtime metiemmlasys
perhaps being Argentine-born Japanese.
Aecerding to Source F, in July, 1945 no erew members
of Japanese eppearance were observed around the "Presidente
Mitre" when that ship was in port in Buenos Aires. It is mosed
that both the ships doek in Buenos ires in the aree kmewn as
"Beea" between "lmirante Brown and Martin Rodrigues streets.
However, souree observed two individuals of Japanese appearamee
among the erew or the "rresicente Roca" when that ship wes in
port; one was obviously the cook and another appeared te be am
ordinary seaman. It wan observed by the souree thet several
other Japanese appeared to be engaged in louding and ualeadins
the ships while in port und that on two oocasions Japanese whe
appear to be business men, driven by cheuffeurs, were at the
port watching the process of loading and unloading the ships.
From information obtained by cource F it appears shat
operation or the two vessels is lucrative. Souree advises
that each vessel makes four trips to sea per month, brimging in
a eargo of fish worth about $s,ooo (U.s.) each trip, resultims
1n profit per vessel of about $lε, 5oo (U.s.) per month.
8.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.94)
B
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
AMERICAN REPUBLIC AFFAL
Esderal Bursan et ssuestigntion
FB 11946
United States Department ef Sustice
Mashington, D. C.
PERSONAL AND CONFIDITIA
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Date:
January 28, 1946
H
91946
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
From:
John Edger Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investfgation
894.20235/1-2846
Subject:
CHOKO SHRYA
Argentina
As of possinle interest to you there is transmitted herewith
? cory of a memor ndum received from a reliable confidential source
concerning Choko Shirakawa who has long been suspected as a Japanese
espionage agent in Buenos Aires. The memorandum sets out extensive
information about the background end activities of Shirakawa who used
the alias of Jucn Roberto Lartinez. The memorandum sets out that Shira-
kawa and his family are now in internment in the province of Cordoba,
Argentina.
This information has been made available to the American Embassy
at Buenos Aires, Argentina.
MAR1-194
Enclosure
Assistant Chief of Staff
cc:
Chief of Naval Intellience
G-2, War Department
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C.
Military Intelligence
Service
DECLASSIFIED
894.20235
NNO 780069
By DG/Cy NARS, Date 8.24.22
CS
B
FORDEFENSE
/ÚJ
BUY
UNITED
STATES
2
①
TATE

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.83)
November 28. 1945
RO: CHOKO SHIRAKANA, WAB, MT ALI
Baenes Aires, Argentina
This ease originated with the diseovery that Choko mIRAKANA, a
Miner empleyee of the fomer Japanese Kabassy in Buenes Aires, was
eurrently handlins elandestine correspoadence sens frem Limm, Pese
to Bmeses Aires. This cerrespondense, some of whieh was ia Japasess,
was eddressed to the cover name "JUAN RoRro MAkN", sd asrived
at twe apertmest addresses which SHIRAKAWA has eseupied, Calle Masiee
L815 and Calle San Jose 663. It was diseevered that BHIRAKAWA's
inserest La this csrrespendeace having indieated to a bailding empleyee
at Sen Jeme 663 that al1 Lattere arriving there for the sheve-nmed
MARFINES should be deli vered to BHIRAKANA's apartmeet.  wes
"Destere", that she resided in a roeming house Loeated en the firet
fleer ar Calle Sarmiente 1775 and that possibly a elderly white wem
residing with shIrakaNa and his fanily might be her aged mother.
Lavestigatien in Peru has sherm that the letters ferveréed frem Lim
te Baemes Aires were sent by personmel of Japanese fim Tarmo (Zaiheiye
Beekd Kabashiki Kaiska, er Pacifie Trading Ce., Isda.). Frem stase-
B   JUAN BARTHLS (ACEVEDO)  BUI OASI (WAANA),
It appears that arreagements were originally made  a Jagenese ia
Cemmeree in Lime and Seeretary of the Japemese ssheel, with the fesmer
Direeter of TAIBo in Lim, DNAO TAKNAKA, for the hamdling of elam-
dostine correspendemee by the compeny. CashI stated thak emeeded
lestere were written by YaMamoro for mailing to Beenes Alres and that
replles were Peeeived skrengh the TAIBo fim. Both GasdI and BakLa
stased they hed reeeived let tere whiah were handed over to Takmtaka
fer apprepriate handling. They stated that no suah lestevs hed
arrived siase the depertasion of Yakamoro to the Uhaited séases is
Jammry of 1944.
Aecerding to the above séatements BartHELkEs reseived correspendesse
frem a Japamese named e1ther MXAstRA or KANAGGGNI, beth mambers of
●1-

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.83)
the TAIBo firm in Santiago, Chile. This cerrespendense was handled
in the mane way as that from Buemos Aires. Iavestignsien La Sastiage
has shom thet YADAHARA UI EMURA (OkDA) was empleyed by ZAIBO im
was alse enpleyed by TAnno la Sastiage and wes repetráated to Jagen
La September, 1943. KawaG0cHI has been provtoualy ideatified  a
Japanese espieaege agest, astive in Chile.
It was aseertained from the questienins La Lime, alee, thas Tamak,
prier to his death La letober, 1%3 had frequent earzeependenee with
a Japamese aamed T. HaYAkaWA, Loeated ia La Pas, Belivia. Imvesbágabien
at the laster plase has showm that this iadividaal is mamed remarimo
MIWA HAYAKANA and was eagnged 1n basiness ia La Pas wnS11 May of 19%5.
It appeare that he is mow in the towm of Tileare, Previase of Jajay.
Argemtina, where he apparently lateads to settle.
Interregatien of YAkamoro in the thited States regarding as part in
the elaadestine cerrespendesse previously mentioned resalted in his
demial of axy kmowledge er partisipetien therein. le amitted
sequaintanceshíy and ameciat lon with ether previensly mened individnals
La Lime, but stated that all cerrespendenee written by him was either
famdly in mature or written for the Japanese Chamber ef Cammeree.
Efforts made to ebtain infomat ion regarding further eerrespendesse
have been megative. It is noted that aecording to stesements made
Apeil 19, 1945 sixty-two members of the persennel of the fesmer Japemese
fer iatemment. mong these sixty-two were shirakawA, his wife amko,
and a mall danghser.
Infematiem peeently received from Souree C verified that the stnakaNa
meeeupied. Seuree reperts verifieatien of the previensly resséved
and states that her lasé nane is ManrDez, and that she Ss an annt of
has net been goen sinee the aaanas lar't and that the poeably
wenk to live mith her aiese, The laster has lakonine net beam som
a Ban Jose  ase the aaas lort. Prir te tht the 
eeeastems she lert the apartment is the cempeny es smtnakats.
- 2-

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.87)
Souree C also reports that on occasions Japanese would sather s
SHIRAKAWA's apartment, ane of whom is named ROBERTO SABUMO TAKmOro.
ANGKLA ACOSTA was present in SHIRAKAWA's apertwent  mere thm eme
osh eeeasion.
It has been previoualy reported, reliability akmem, that a
In heigkt, was earried off to the Swiss Legation for sefeheepáns. (s
1s moted shat the Swiss have handled Japanese affairs ia Amgenesma
siace the latter country broke diplomatic relatioas with the Axis).
It waes previeualy reparted that in late 1943 Inakaa reesved 
invitesien to a wedding taking place between Ronkkro s. Tamro 
LAURA P. PALMA. It has since been aseertained by Seuree D thee the
Japemese TahImoro must be ident1eal with the previeusly memsiemed
ROBERTO SABORO TAkKMOTO. Thi: souree reperts that TAkEMSrO marzied
LAURA PALMA about a year and a half ago and that they preeembly meside
La an apertment on the second floor or Curapaligtle 1ll, smberb ef
Flores, Busmes Aires, where they have been sinse their marriage.
Takwoto werks as an lasuranee breker and pertems variens etker jobe
whieh ceme his way. He is apparently aetive in obtaining variens
empleymemt and is known as a jask-of-all-tredes. His wise sews et
heme to inerease the family ineome and specialimes in making limsm
goods fer sale.
It will be recalled that BhIRakANA was arrested by the Argentine Pederel
Pel1ce on eharges of espienage on Yebruary 12, 1944. He wes released
in May of that year. Frem Souree & it is learmed thas during paliee
quest loning shirakala denied ever having resel ved or handled earres-
pendenee eddreassd to JUAN RORERTO MART INEZ. It was moted  the
peliee that sHIRaKAWA 1s about thirty-four years eld and that he
arrived ia Beenos Aires about 1937. After his arrával he was umempleyed
fer four years, neserding to his stat emest, but supplled mmnsy 
his father whe was an offieial of the Japanese Goveramest. In May.
1941 he began to work in the Japanese Exbassy.
Investigatien perfomed by Souree C to aseertais whether AmanLa AGoska
has efrietal status in Argentine as a registered aurse has resulted
mesatively. It is mted thet this souree censalted e liss ef
registered murses and mde iaquiry a varieus hespitals and sesiterims
1a Deemes Asres.
- 3-

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.86)
It will be reealled that information was previously reesived thes 
individual driving a car once called at San Jose 663 and inquired of
a build ing empleyee for one "ANGKLA MARTINXZ". He was aireeted 
the empleyee to shrhaKawA's apartment, where he remained fer abous
five miautes. From the lieense mumber of the autemobile it wes asees
tained that the car belonged to Compalia Iatermesiemal de Tremapestes
Automoviles, B. , Lecated in Buenon Aires at Calle Merida Te. his
gat ien perfomed there by Souree I in an effort to assertain the peesen
for this visit has resulted negat ively. nquiry mde et the engleyees
af the firm showed that neme recalled making sueh a visit.
●40

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Forefga Activity Correlation
DATE 3/6/46
NOTE:
The information contained
in the attached FBI report
should not be used as a refer-
ence without first clearing it
with FC.
FC

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.92)
TENT OF
Fsderul Sursau nt Enuestigutin
FFICE OF
Uuited States Department of Juattes
NREPURLIC AFFAINS
1946
Mashington, D.C.
PAK
PERSONAL AND GONPIDENTIAL
IN REPLY, PLEABE REPER TO
BY SPECIAL MESS
FILE NUMBER
Dato:
March 4, 1946
51946
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon, Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Burtau of Investigation
94.20235
Subject: Japanese Activities in Argentina
As of possible interest to you,
is tranamitted herewith
a copy of a translation of reports of the Buenos Aires Police on Japanese
espionage activities in Argentix
hs material was furnished on a
strictly confidential basi
T'hgurnished to you with the under
standing that no use will
made of it unteits source has been adequately
concealed by paraphrase.
231946
Enclosure
cc Assistant Chief of Staff,
Chief of Naval Intelligenoe
Navy Department? Washdmethn, D.
War Department, Washington, D.C.
PORYICTORY
Bnu
Attention: Reading Panel
Arai
BUY
Military Intelligence Service
wr
UNITED
1 v.
STATSS
WAR
DECLISSIFIED
C.:t
Nc11) 280069
D:st
By I/ : 8.24.28

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.79)
TRANSLATION MON THE SPANISN
tr foraation of poss ib espienage sctivities carried cut by elemeats ft
ent Japansese partianali
diapatahes, and riage Kamai, also suspeeted of being an esplemege agme
said reasens the iavestigatien should be delayed without preded
the Oheervatlen meem of the Jail of the Pires setem. Certiied.
Oseer pregmal.
G0emr C. comtel

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.80)
To other questione wtdch were fermalated he
Instrestsane given hie by hie aperiare an the Tth day af the
is eartiriel.
J.2. Lambega.
Oseer Fregonal.
The deeleratien of the empleyee Alfrede Feraantes fegkom
Osear Pregenal
Oseer C. Gental
Majer
-2

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.83)
and signed in witmess whereef it is eertified.
Signed A. Pernandes
Oseer pregsmal
The statemest of the eapleyee mdgarde Hmberte Aaare folless.
Osear Fregenal
Osear C. Comtal
wajer
-3-

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.64)
Oseregon1
The statesent of the expleyee Marberto Jose Metta fellems.
Oear regenal.
O0em C. Gmta2

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.81)
that he kmew that whish he would state and was nes affeeted.
signed in witness wheree? it is certified.
N. J. Mott
Geear G. Gental
00rgomm1
Majer
The stateent of the empleyee Eduardo pelix Brave fellems.
Osear C. Gental
Majer
-5-

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.88)
read, retifled and simed in witress whereof it is eertlried.
E. D. Breve
Oseer Fregenal
Osear C. Cental
xaje
The statesent of the empleyee Julio Cesar Alaenacid fellems.
Osear Fregenal
Ocoar C. Contal
wajer

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.80)
Lotoed is he kmew the parties that appear Aa these
to htn, he replied that he keew them and wae net effested.
parpese of obtaining the appearanee of the pereen named Jerge shtage
Jalle Cesar Alsenacid.
Oseer C. Cemtal
Majer
Oseer pregenal.
ta
of the faete that are being investigated, the emplagee Jrste J. Keseme ws
certiried.
0seer pregena1
O0eer C. Temta2
majer
-7-

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.71)
Shetre skdrekeswe
Goeer G. Genda
Goeer pregemel
The statement of moisaks vede follows. Certiried.
Osear pregenal
Oseer C. Comta]
majer
-9-

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.75)
Neisakn voda
Oceer C. Cental
myer

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.92)
of
Mrie Chesabre Katauda
Osear C. Camtal
Osear Fregomal
-12-

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.86)
Elins Jefre
Osear C. Contal
yajer
Oseer regenal
-24-

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.71)
25-

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.76)
Gare N syesake, Sheee Nwrai and Teniave Kesaki, be replied that wish the
siged in witmese whereef it is cartiried.
Inesert "gurepear. Ohey.
Takme Arai
Osemr C. Cemtal
wajer.
Gseer pregenal.
Certified.
searregenal.
sear C. Cemta1
waje
-2-

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.76)
5witù

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.86)
That be did not knew Kidenesuke Veda but he
retified and signed in witness whereef it is eertified.
1sn Robeyeeb1
000a C. Cmsa1
Majer
Oseer pregenal
On mareh 2, 1944, at 5:00 P.., the person arrested named Cheke sirek
was et ree. certiried.
Oseer Rregenal
Osear C. Cental
Majer
-19-

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.86)
Jerge Teshie Shinya.
Osear C. Cental
Majer
Goeer pregenal.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.90)
to all jeurnalistie publieations. That libewise aeeng his reperte were seme
States of lerth Aseriee but later he disearded thet idee beesuse of the
statesemt was reed, ratified and signed in witness whereof it is sartirles.
Masse Tuda.
Osoar C. Contal
uajer
Oscer Rregenal
On Mareh 5, 1944, at 11:00 A. ., the aaplayee Jose Juste Moreme appeared to
repert en the investigatiens undertaken and it was desided to reseive his
statememt en the fellewing page. Certiried.
Osearregona1
Osoar C. Cental
Major
The statement of the employee Jose Justo Yorene folloms. Certifiel.
Osoer pregena1
Osear C. Contal
Majer
-2-

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.88)
married, peliee empleyee, demisiled at Mareno 1550.
Asbed 1f he knew the partles that appeer in these preeeediags and 2f
he replied that he mew them d was not efreeted.
Sesend Fleer, Apertment C, where he was diseevered at ten o'alock this meraing
and arrested and brought to this affice in his narmal conditien That ls all he
has to say. In elesing, this statement was read, ratified and sigmed in witness
whereof it is cartified.
Jose J. Mareno
Oscar C. Contal
Oscar Fregenal.
iajor
Loten
Mar 6, 1944, at 4:00 Pa., it was dec1ded to comalss1en the employee 00
Fregenal, mecording to instrustiens he had received, to zake an inepeetiem of
the demioile of the persen named Carlos Alberto Santa Cres Peblete at Pere se,
Second Ploor, Apartment C, for the purpose of finding anything of isterest to
the investigatiem. Likewise the empleyee Alberte Jose Olavarrie wae eemissiemed
to nake a seareh of the Demei Ageney at Diagonal Merte ass, 5th Meer, Ofrise I
and to seise anything of interest. As pert inent the pages centaiming the events
as a result of presedures carried out in the residenees of the persems nemed
Choko Shirakasa, Heisaku Deda and Blias Jofre, are attashed, contimming additiemal
legal preseedings. Certified.
searpregenel.
Ocear C. Contal
xajer
一2一

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.90)
given he went to the beuse at mumber 673 3an Jose, Ird Pleer, Apartmone C.
desieile of Mr. Cheke Sh irakame and with expressed authorisatsem ef the laster
presseded to make a carefal examination of the centents of the apertmens fer
the purpose of seising aaything of interest to the investigatlem m pregress
of the th Sestiem, Refelfe Peres de Arriluoes. In conelnsiem this statemend
was reed aleed and these present ratified and sigred it befere me in wttmess
whereef is is eortiried.
Cheke Shirakawa
A. Pernamdes
Redolfo P. de Arrilucea
This is added to the file. Certiried.
Osear Fregenal
Oscer C. Cental
Major
-25-

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.90)
undersigned afrielal, mduarde polis Breve, tegother with hie partmes
of erders, went to make a search of the residense of Neisske Dede leeated at
106s Merida, Tth Meer, Apartment B, mhieh he eeeupies as a eervant of Dr.
Hariberte Hefmanm. The search was made whieh resulted in the seimure of twe
netebeeke with adéresses and a Large mamber of letters written in Japenese in
addisien to var lows papers and phet egraphs. I wish to stase that is wae
whem made ne ebjestien to the seareh appearing as a witness to it and m
clesing, this statewent was read aloud and signed in witness whereef is is
certified. Certified.
H. Hofmann.
B. F. Brave
N. J. Motta
This is added to the file. Certified.
Oscar pregenal
Oscar C. Contal
Yajor
-26-

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.88)
In peanse Airee, rederal capital of the krganttne messan, a Sens
phetegraphe. The preseedings were earried out with the semeent of Jefre and
In conelusiem the statement was read aloed to these whese memes teklan and
without feer that anything will be added aor ahanged, it la retirsed and m
witness whereef it is eertifled. Certified.
Blias Jefre
E. V. Martimes
Edgardo H. A
F. Cretella
This is added to the rile. Certified.
Oseer Fregenal
Omear C. Contal
aje
Mareh 6, 1944, at 5:00 P.., the eaployee scar regenal appemred to repert
on the result of the investiation with which he was entrusted and his state
nemt is resetved en the following page. Certified.
Oscer Tegenal
Osear C. Contal
Major
The statement of tie employee Osoar rerenal follows. Certified.
Oscar tregenal
Oocar C. Contal
Major
-27-

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.92)
stating that he mas naned Oeeer pregenel, of Argentine natienality, age 34,
married, pellee empleyee, demdeiled at Woreno 1550.
to hin, he replied that he kaew what he will tell and was net affeeted.
To other questions that were foraulated he stated that in felaleant
of ardere givem him, at 4:30 P.U., he went to the heuse at 358 Pere, S0eemd
Plesr, Apartment C, demieile of the persen named Carles Alberte Sante Gres
Peblote, beiag attended by the per son in sharge of the heuse to wham he ambabated
the autherisatien sigeed by Santa Crus, and made an iaapeettem of the reeme where
he sedsed an emvelope like those used for air nail addressed by typesriter to
Mrs. Maria Santidriam de V., Calle Santo Domingo 20ss, Santiage, Chile, wich
contained a letter typed on thin paper wmose text reads:
"Beenes Aires, November 22, 1942; Dear Cousin, I have beem talking
with Pancho and with regard to your legal matters he mest talk with hs brethers
and will wer net week. GIVE UCH ATTEN TION TO THE FOLLOWING: Beed  m
as pessible the Latest telephone directory of Santiage (it is fer Pameke). I
regret very mueh what happened to U.N. and I hope that it will all have a
quiek and faverable selutien. Greetings to all there and aatil later, your
cousin."; a letter written in peneil on three sheets of rag paper sigeed by
"mag. Humberto P. Goye Rico" in which comments are made regarding em
explesive named "Cleritita" (little chlerite) and a mmall piese of fiber
paper en whiek there appears writing formed by succession of lettere plesed
in a disarderly fashien without sense which mppears te be a cedes likemise
other papers of little importanee all of wnich are delivered to this affiee.
That is all he has to say. In closing, this statement was reed, ratified
and sigmed in witaess whereof it is certified.
Oscar pregenal
Osear C. Cemtal
- 2 -

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.85)
On Kareh 7, 1944, at 2:00 P.ke, the 1tame aedaed tn the seokd
he earried out, his statement is received on the fellowing pege. Certiriet.
Osear pregenal
Osoar C. Cemtal
Majer
I  muthorising the Chief of the Offiee of pederel Cesedimessen,
Peru 358, Secend Pleer, Apartaent C, and to seise asy effeete er deemment
that he may esneider necessary.
uarch 6, 1944
C. Sante crms
This is added to the file. Certified.
Osear ?regenal
Oscar C. Cental
Wayer
Letter taken from the residence of Carlos Alberto Santa Cras Peblete, Peru 
Second Moor, Apartment C. See preceding page.
一一

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.90)
The inventien Ls cemnested with impreving emplesive fer mee toa
neverthelese, has a high degree of affielenay and may be adapted an a vest
scale, to a diversity of purposes.
The explesive easpositien, according to the present imvemtses, hes
a simple fermula which ls sharesterised by the faet that it is eempesed of
only twe eempenente, easily ebtainable, the relative prepertdeme of th ich may
be veried as mush as poss ible in either direetien aeserding te the parpesss
desired in eseh ease. The preduct ebtained after elabevatlem affere the
aharaeteristiss of high stability and resistenee to deeempesisien, en the other
at will.
Por the mamufacture of "Cloritita" complisated mechimery is net
necessary.
I have requested a patent on the inventien Nevember 17, 1943, mader
I ave the Winister of mar through the "military mmatestering 
quantity of the explesive mentiened for them to analyse and esperiment
and as a result I have been autharised to mamufacture the explesive, "cleritste.
The fastory will be located in the subkurb of san Iaidre, preperty thee
has alrearty been inspected by a technical coasissien and deelared suitable fer
the factory.
Necsssary capital; $10,000 nat ienal money - 10,000 pescs nati cmal mesey
Eng. Humberto P. Geye Rice.
He. Aires, 12/21/43.
Cemment with referenee te explesive nased Cloritite seised in the residenee
of Carlos Alberto Santa Crus Poblete, Peru 358, Secend Fleer, Apartment C.
This was requested ef Goye Riee by a Mr. Pugealin.
This is added to the files certified.
Oeear prepenal
Oseer C. Cental
maje
-30-
:

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.89)
(See attached Laberatery Report dated pebruary 21, 1946, of eede.)
Paper seised in the residenee of Carles Alberte semte cres
Poblete, Peru 35s, Sesond ploor, Apartaent C, whieh appeers te repressmt
a eede.
Aecerding te Geye Riso, Santa Crus has the key to the presems
eode.
This is added to the file. Certified.
Osear Fregenal
Osear C. Cental
majer
-n-

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.91)
was named Alberto Jese Olavarria, of Argentine nat ionality, ege 40, marril
police employee, demic1led at Moreno 1550.
Asked if he kmew the parties that appear in these preeeedings and 1
in respeet to them he understoed the general terms of the law which weve
explained, he replied that he kmew them and is not effested.
To other questions that were foraulated he stated that fuleslling
to seise different itens whish have been presented in detail in the statemené
That thas 1tene eo ised have been del1vered to this affiee and neted and ahat
thay ame the seee ae these new ezh ibited; this being all that he hee te eng.
In el ing, this statement was read, ratified and sigeed in witesss mhereed
it is oortified.
A. J. Olavarria
Osear C. Censal
uajer
-Oscar regenal
On March 8, 1944, at 10:00 A.., there was added a pentane
the statement presented as a result of the seisure made at the Demei Agemey.
Avenida Reque Saens Pena 86s, Firth Aoer, Apertaens I, the iteme bedng
depesited in this office and made available for trenslatien in ender to
which is added Later, cont inuing additienal legal prossedings. Certified.
Oecer Fregenal
Osoer C. Contal
uajer
-2-

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.92)
Diagonal terte 0se, Pirth Voer, 8riee I, to weise 1tems he doame me
Pederal Cap1tal marah 7, 1944.
Shigskatn shtees
I a designating to earry out the search and seisure of itene emmested with
the investigatien in progress the employee Alberte Jose Olavearria, Piret elass
Certified.
Oecer C. Cental
uajor Chief of the pederal Ceerdimestem
In the pederal Capital, Monday, aroh 7, 1944, at 11000 A, the
with his fellew afrieer, Pablo Meliten Palaer, both frem Pederal Cessktmatiem
of the Capital Pelise, fulfilling arders previously given, went te Avemile
Diagonal Nerte 868, Pifth PMoor, Apar tment I, and having previealy lirted the
seal exersised by agent of the Guard, Infantry No. e%, Oevalde Demastel.
preseeded in the presence of ur. Sh idhskasn shimase to ememine the eestests
of the twe bedroems, service part and kitehen which resulted in the sedsmre
from a cabinet three peckages containing cinesa films totaling twelve, five
inforast ien and elippings from newspapers with referense to the Arpestime
this statement was read alcud, ratified and signed in witress whereef it is
certified.
S. Shimasu
J. A. Olavarria
P. M. Palmur
This is addad to the file. Certified.
Osoar Fregenal
Oscar C. Contal
Majer
-33-

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.87)
journalist, domiciled at Peru 358, Second PLoer, Apertaent C.
consisted of visiting all the Enbassies of the Ameriean sesmtriss with the
number of eoples. That the exeeption of the United states was dee to the
prepagande being filled with material taken from other publieatiems.
That when the deelarant beease affiliated with the Chilemm Matiemalist
Mevesent ite antherities, taking advantage of his youthfulness and the fast
 the 20th of the seme memthe
一x-

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.83)
the ond of Mareb.
That in the begiuming he stayed at the Parqee Betire motel
natiemalimm, after whieh the latter presented him to the editer a
sese artlelee about Chileem nationalism whieh he did fer the sm of gse,
mootat time en his savingg.
一x-

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
That in the menth of Septeaber of 1943, apps
again began te visit the deelarant at the editerial affiees of the

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.89)
it
-38-

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.92)
Nevember 22, 1943; Dear Cowsin, I have been talking with Pamehe and wish
the latest telephene direstery of Santiage (it is fer Pemehe). I regvet very
much what happened to U.N. and I hope that it will all have à gadek and taver
able selutiem. Greetings to all there and until later, your eotsda. , he
answered that besause his esusin Alberto Veles had visited him net te write
previonsly, meant Sheso Murai when be was aceustesed to eall by that miekeess.
That he dees nat knew what was meant by "legal matters"sappeeing thas is
referred te converestien between  urai and Veles and that the tesm "brethere"
referred to the Japanese and the deponent used it beeause of having already
seen that werd in one of velos' letters.
That the reqeest of the telephone direetery mas fer the depememt
in spite of the feet that he said that it was fer Panebe beeemse he wee thimking
about setting addresses frem it te direct lettere requiring the sending of
postal stampe, whieh he later regretted and for whish reesen he did net sand
the letter. That finally he must make it clear that the initials U.N. belemged
to "matienelist Union." Asked about the text that appeare wristen en three
ssall pases of rag paper in pencil ent it led "Deseriptive Memerendes - New
Huaberto Pleside Geie Rice explaining bis invention of emplesives whish he
gave to the depenent to try to interest someone to furnish eapital tor its
develepment, a thing that the deelarant was not interested in deing.
Asked te state whether he krew Jose Aguilere and in oase of the
affirmative what relations he had with him, he replied that he did nes kmew
him ner hed he ever heard the neme, In clus ing this statement was reed,
ratified and sigmed in witness whereof it is eartified.
C. santa Crus.
Osemr C. Contal
Osoer Pregenal.
-39

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.90)
by Masao Tude, representative of the Dosei Ageney. Certified.
eear pregenal.
Osear C. Contal
Majer
March 9, 1944, at 6,00 Po., the ap1oyee Justo No James presemted
himeelf to repert the result of investigations entrusted to him and it ws
à nete mas received an this date fran the direetor of the jail in which wes
of precscupetien and depression as a result of arrest he hes suffered am attack
of peycho-motor exeitatien which may have been produced by a strang shesk."
Certified.
Oscar Fregenal
Oscar C. Contal
Majer
In Buenos Aires, Pederal Gapital of the Argentine natism, Mareh 9,
1944, 6i30 P.., there appeared isn this office a persan whe, adrised of the
penalties fer false testimony, swore legally to tell the trath, stating that
he was nased Juste Heracie Gomes, of Argentine nat ionality, age 33, sarried,
police enployee, damiciled at Mareno 1550.
Asked if he knew the parties that appear in these astivities and if
in respest te thes he understeed the general terss of the law which ware
axplained, he replied that he kmowe them with regard te what he will state and
he is not effeeted.
To ether questiens that were foraulated he deslared the in falfikeant
of instrustiams given hin, he made investigntians to establisk what erderly of
the Japamese Babeaay went to the peat oft see best logo to got the nemopapere
apite of having hade the effert me faverable revult wae attained. That he
signed in witness wharee? as is curtirsed.
Gseerregena]

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.89)
March 14, 2966, at 2100 P., there we reseived and aded
ment bas copies of all telegraus sent by International Tramaredie. Certified.
Osear Pregenal
Oseer C. Cental
majer
On Mareh 15, 1944, at 4:00 P., the unders1ged msided th
preeent there is no charge against Kingo Kaway, arrested and taking inte asseant
his physieal and noral state aggravated prebably by the fest ef his arsest, hes
desided, after having eonsulted with the Chief of the pederel Pellee, te sse
him free, altheugh in case his presence should be nesessary he will agais be
detained. Certified.
Osear regenal
Osear C. Contal
jor
Internationel tranaredie
Argentine Cempeay of Teleoosmunications, Ltd.
Buenos Aires, areh 14, 1944
REFAD/00
00. 340
Chief of the Pederal Police
Colanel Juan ilomene Velasco
With reference to your kind letter "Seeret" Ne.262 of Mareh 10, in
which you reqessted telegraphic dispatohes sent through this eempesy frem
Desember 1, 1942, to the present date by the persons named marie Chesabre
Katauda, Takao Arai, Isema Kobayoshi and Jorge Yoshio Shinya, as well as these
sent resently by Madao Tude, representative of the Demei Ageney, we regret very
mush te advise you that we cannet assent to yeur request beeawse of the legal
dispesitiems in effest which prevent us fren doing se, under whieh the astivistes
of this py are arried on.
Thus, in eenferaity with artieles 31, 32, 54, 118, 120 and 158 ef
natiemal law 750k, ealled National Telographs, we are permitted to give eaples
of telegrams enly after a written erder fron è eempetent fudge.
On the ether hand, in asosrdanee with reselutieme of the Gemerel
of this eampany) No. 1109, kmanded pobruary 3, 1943, and No. last, of
December 30, 1943, amy Lnfermstien frem us rogarding eur serviees enn be
furnisbed ealy threugh said depertment.
-41-

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.90)
No. 137,500 of Deeember 2, 1942.
We salute the Chief with our highest appreeiatien.
(S1gned) Jeorge W. Hayes - Ceneral Mmeger
sos
This ts added to the file. certiried.
Deeer progenal
Oscar C. Cental
uajer
Mareh 16, 1944, at 4:00 P.V., it was decided te mmiseien the
employee pable Meliten Palner to make investigatien fer the ebjeet er identify
ing and eiting a pereen nemed puruta, mentioned in the statement givem hy
Jorge Yoshie Shinga, damiciled at 66 San Martin. Certiried.
Osoar Fregenal
Oscar C. Contal
uajor
On March 20, 19 4, at 4:00 P.M., the employee Lusiane Geldares
having presented himselr to report the result of his emmissien, it wes
decided to recsive his statement on the following page. certifled.
Osear Fregenal
Oscar C. Contal
Hajer
In Basnes Aires, Pederal Capital of the Argentine natiea, March 20,
1944, at 4s30 Poll., there appeared in this office a pereen, whe advlsed af the
penalties for falee testimony, wore to tell the truth in a legal memer,
stating that he was named Lusiano Goldaras, of Argentine nationality, age 37,
bacheler, palise empleyee, domiciled at Moreno 1550.
Asked if he kmew the parties that appear in these preseedings and
if in respest te them he understeod the general teras of the law whisk were
explained, he replied that he knew what he will tell and is net effested.
with his fellew pelleesan, Nieolas Grasiane and in falrilment of instrestieme
given by his suaperior ofrieere, he nade invest igatéane to lecate the peresms
mmsh investigstien that they lived at present at miesmer qaiate leested as
Inteadeato Neyer Street, no number, in the neighberheed ef Beeser, previnse
there withest the apprepriate meane of leeenotisn sinee the reed is very bad
-42-

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.91)
and the benee is severeal kilametere tren the raihmay statten. this le as
he hes te state. In elesing, the statement was rend, ratified and eigeed
in witness whereef it is eertified.
Oscar Pregenal
Osear C. Contal
Major
On arah 25, 1944, at 4:00 P.., the pleyee carlos melite
Palmer having presented himselr to repert on the result of his eemmissiem,
it was deetded to receive his statement an the following page. Certifiel.
Osear pre genal
Oeoar C. Contal
uajer
In Buenes Aires, ederal Capital of the Argentime Matiem, Meech 25,
1944, at 4:30 P.., there anpeared in this ofrice a pereen whe, adised af
the pemalties fer talee testimony, swore to tell the trath in a legal meamse,
stating that he wes nesed Carlos Xeliten Palmer, of Argent ine netionality,
age 44, married, pelice employee, daxic1led at Moreno 1ss0.
Asked 1f he kmew the parties that appear in these preeeedings, 
if with respest to them he understoed the general teras of the law whish weve
explained, he replied that he knew them
nas not effeoted.
To other quest ions that were formulated he stated that in falrileemt
of instrustiene given by his superiore he mede investigatiems to ebtain the
Identi leation and eitation of a person named Muruta, or semething like thas,
he was able to preve that the person sought was nased Tekesire Merate, ees-
respendent of the Japanese newspaper "Yomiuri-Househi" whe had an afrise at
the place in qesstion on the rifth ploor, Office 502, and whe is at presemt
and a eitatiem left stating that he should appear in this afrise. That is all
he has te may. In closing, this statement was read, ratified and siged im
witnees whereef it is certified.
Oscar Pregenal
Osear C. Contal
ajor
On April 1, 1944, at 4:00 P.M., in censideration of the fast that
there are ne serseus char ges against the persone named Heisais Dede, Takne Arad,
Marie Chemakre Kateude and Jerge Yoshio Shiaye, the undersigned hes reselved
to set them free. Certified.
Oscmr Fregenal
Osear C. Cental
Majer
-43-

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.91)
beving
en the fallming page. crtiried.
Osear Tregenal
Oeeer C. Cental
vajor
married, journalist, with two and a half years residenee in the eeestry,
domiciled at Valabia 2561, Sixth Floor, Apartment A.
Asked if he knew the parties that appear in these proeeedings and if
with respeet to then he understood the saneral terms of the law whish were
explained, he replied that he knew then for what he will state and is mot
offeoted.
the month of dareh 1941, appeinted by it, be was sent to the City of Now Yasks
as a cerrespendent. That he remeined in that city until August ef the seme
year when he reeeived erders frem his newapaper to transfer to this eapital
Aires September 2, 194l, on board the steaser wUruguay", established his
office at 66 San Martin Street, Pifth Ploor, Ofrice 50a, adding thns em his
sinee it had been nerged with the "Yemiuri" and as a consequenee had new
adepted the name of "Yesiuri-Houschi".
That fron that time until relations were bereken betmeen Japem amd the
the Latter en a emall meale due to the faet that it teek mush Langer them for
the fermer to send the news to ite destination. That the dopement reeeived
monthly threugh the Central Bank of the Republie the money fer his malary, fer
it for the last time about the middle of last year. That sinee the raphere df
diplematie relatiene he hes ceesed te send newe to his homeland likewise heving
Left the offise en san wartin street.
Asked to state whether he knew the persene aesed Shese Murai,
he had ne intimate relatione with then, aimply aogeaintaneeship. Laed to state
-44-

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.91)
if be has any kmen ladge of the develepment of esplemage eetivitsee t thde
he hes to say. In elee ing, this statement was resed, retiried and sigmed m
witness whereef it is eertiried.
T. Huruta
Osear Pregenal
Osear C. Contal
majer
Apr11 4, 1944, at 10:00 A.., in vlew of the statemente thee heve
been made in these pressedings the presence of the persene nesed Bamberte
Oscar Fregenal
Osear C. Contal
uajor
In Buanee Aires, Federal Capital of the Arpant ime Matiem, Agell 5,
manner, stating that he was naned Lueiano Joldares, of Areont ine natiemality,
age 37, bacheler, pelice employee, domiciled at Morene 1550.
Asked if he knew the parties that appear in these astivities and
if in reapest to them be unders tood the general terms of the law whish were
explained, he replied that he krew thea regarding what he will state and is
not effeeted.
To other questions that were foraulated he stated that is falrik-
en the fellewing day with respest to the father, Humberte Plaside Gole Riese,
whe like the fereer was trought te this office in his noreal state. That with
the consent of the latter, he made a eareful seareb of the house presseding
to seise a large quantity of papers with different meserande ameng whish wes
found a letter typewritten on ordinary white paper whose tesrt statess "Dem
the other day, I have im my power the order and some money to wndertake the
of Chinese' inks, pensils and other neesssary artieless yeu will see to the
prlee and where we ean find the nautieal deviees that we need to make seme-
la now boing amhibited, In alosing, thia statessnt wee rend, ratiried and
signed in witness whereof it is certiried.
Oscer pregenal
Gseer C. Cental
majer
-4-

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.85)
eeeperatien of the losal pelice represented in the arfair by agente cerles
Luis Wamte, Badge 8657, domieiled at Massini 1a51 of Hurlingham and Juste
No. s10 in the name of Humberte Placido Ge1e Riees a pelise csrtiflemte frem
Quiaee in the neme of stelvio Antonio Kstaban Geie Deesdes a Chilean pess-
itene; seme emvèlopes and odd papers with annotatienss a rell of fakme and
odd pleees und three glass flasks with saaples of a predect whick aeeording
it 1s rtirled.
M. alieim Decsia de Cedo
Lusiane Goldares
stalvie a. D.
F. Gerpe
carlos Luis waate
Juste J. Games
This is added to the file. Certiried.
Oseer pregenal
Osear C. Contal
myer
Letter seised in the residense of Rmberto Placido Geio Riese. See
page 52.
this ts ded to the ile. cortirie
Oseer Fregenal
Oseer C. Cental
wajer
-4-

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.85)
On Ape11 5, 1944, at 3:00 Pa., the reeerd a the preeeetiage
eaarled eut in the residenee of the peroen arreated mesed Benberte plaaddle
Cnde Riese are added an teree page, pie a labber eised at the me 
whese tasrt and aharesteristies are given in detail in the preseding state-
nent of the eaployee Lusiano Goldaras. Certified.
Oseer Pregenal
Oooar C. Contal
wajer
On April 5, 1944, at 6,00 P.., 1t was desided te reseive the
statement of the persen nemed stelvio Goio Dessia. Certiried.
Oseer pregenal
seer C. Cental
vajer
-47-

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.92)
Bosesr, Provinee of Buenes Aires.
Astked 1s he khew the parties that appear in these preeeediage and
15 in reepeet te them he underatood the general teras ef the law whiak were
by the interest he has in the case, nevertheless, his statemeats will be
tuthal.
To other questiens that were foraulated, hbe stated that in the
month of May of the year 1942, he arrived in this empital, preeseding frem
Alberte Santa Crus Poblete, likewise of Chilean nationality, with whem he
rather to ebtain employment having failed, they retaurned to Chile as repatriste
establishing themselves in the City of Arice fron which they later went to
La Pas, Belivia, then cont imuing to ruro and villasen and exteriag Arseatime
Aray in the last war, taking up collections from the Italian group ebtaiming
in this my money to contime the trip.
That m their arrival they stayed in several hotels, meving fregeently
due to the impessibility of paying their bills beesuse of laek of imeemse
That a shert time later he again be gan to frequent the eeapesy of saste Gres
Peblete whe at that time was working on the newepaper "crieel" where the
Sentiage, Chile. That he sesepted the invitatiem waiting ter semte Cres at
aoked fer ss0 natienal meney of what was owed his consin and that he had
the latter wes a friend of shese wurei who worked at said embessy and as a
of July, 1943, apprecimately, Santa Crus' eousin, Alberte veles, tegether

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.90)
message and offer it to the British Hmbesey, which they did, the deelarent
distating it to the fermer who fer ged a message and for the purpose of
measeass, whiah ts the aase that la now on eshibitian and ls added to pege 3s
it waid that it was a "childish thing or something stupdd," se that he
having furalaked the ameunt for the patent and was interested in abeaiaing
contimme living in that plaee although it is his preperty, besause of the
preeerisus ceenesls situatien of the family he has permitted them te comtimme
living in it without paying rent until the fastery begins to famstiem for
whieh his father is attempting to interest various pereons to furmish the
neesssary capital, That is all he has to say. In closing this statemest
was reed, retified and signed in witness ahereof it is csrtified.
stolvso G. D.
Osear C. Contal
ujor

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.93)
at Quinte Mesener, Intendente Neyer Stroet, without nember, Besear, Reglem
of San Isidre, Previnee of Buenes Aires.
botuo.
To other questiens that were formulated, be stated that he arrived
for the first time in this country in the year 19lg frem Italy with the
Desarehi Wissiem, remaining or six months during wrich be eentimeed to
travel throughout the South Amrican continent siving addresess and shewing
pistures abeut the wer as a means of I talian prepagande. That in the year
192s be returned to Italy, remaining in that Republie fer rifty.ar sisty dage
was exeessively cold it was not healthy :or his saall chaane be meved to
the nerthern part of the country and remained there until l942, with the
hepe of entering the Argentine Merchant Zarine he emme to this esantry tegether
they returned to Chile as repatriots but besause life in their esantry was
diffieult they decided to move to La Pax, Bolivia, conversing there with
his triend, Antenio Perrweeio, who knowing that the depenent had a fermale
for the mamufactare of pender advised him to return to Besnos Aires, argaing
that he weuld be completely suscessful. That thus stimulated again in
ompany with his family he came to Huenos Aires entering the Argentime
Hepublie by way of the City of La Quiacs. That later he tried to sbtaim the
suppert of a eapitalistic parther for the exploitatiem of the predest of
his inventiem but he has failed until now in spite of having petemted is
and of having been autherised by the M inister of war who gave his apprevel
for ite mamufacture after sons tests. That he wes in eentest with Measrs.
Darenens and Dias Vieire of the newspaper "Cabilde" for thet purpese and
they premised to furnish suffisient eapital but later shanged their attitade
termimating therefore his offorte with thes. That for the purpose of establist-
ing the smstery, the deponent by means of prepesitiens in the nemopapere
astivities, be ls eomsidering seeding the fara and keeping chiskene to thes
Airee in the yeer 1942 his sen Stelvie, established criemdehip with the Chilem
-50 -

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.92)
eltiaen, Carlee Alberte Sante Crus Peblate, whe later weetbed on the
last trip to this capital his son resumed nis triendehip with Sants Cres
Poblete and the latter came to visit them in their temperary hase diseuss-
ing with the deponent dirferent subjects, en one cseasien he stated that he
had sese Criends in the Japanese Habeesy with whem "he eculd de besineses
mape of the Pae lfio Deean, er in case that was net pessible, that he areate
some taking advantage of his own knowledge for that parpese sinee fer many
depenent aesepted the prepositien, but within himself be had desided net
to get aised up in these matters in view of their deabtfal aberester and
his true purpese was to get sose money fres that souree and them net to
eesply with the promise.
That an the other and he must add that be asked sante Cres
to intreduee him to the Japanese of the Embessy whe turned out te be Mr.
Shese Wurai, ite cemsereial attecbe, in order to interest him in the
acquisitiem of the foraule of his invention for the mammfastare of pender.
That after some days Santa Crus Poblete, through his son, Stelvie, semt
him a letter written on the typewriter which is the same that is new enhibsed
and whieh was seised by the police enployees in his demisile the test of which
reedos
"Don Joye Riso, try to see where we can obtain the mestieal mape
that we ment inned the other day, I have in my pewer the order and seme memay
to undertake the work from now on, but on the other hand my friand of whem
I speke to you is interested in meeting you persomally, whish will be
interesting, for that day let us have sosething done, I fer my pert m
going to bey the material of 'Chinese' inks, penoils and other nessesary
devioes that we need to make something truly worthy of being presemte.
Greetings, Carlos Santa Crus."
That in view of this he again had an interview with Sante cras
Poblete whe teok him to the Japanese Eabessy where he sew Mr. Shese Mwrai
who in turm teek him to the naval attache whose neme he does not remember
and the Seeretary of the latter. that in an aside with these twe, they
the depensent replying that it was impessible to obtain thes altheuch he
stepe te abtain a cartifleste of good condest but by the time be had resedved
-51-

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.84)
has had that viee.
Oseer C. Gental
Mamberte P. Gaye R.
Majer
Oscer pregenal
Oseer Fregenal
Oeear G. Gomtal
uaje

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.66)
Laked is be ratifies his previous statement, be stated thes
MaseeTede
Oseer C. Contal
maj
000

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.77)
I. Kobayeshi
C.mi
Oseer Pregenal
aje
Apr11 22, 1944, at 10145 A.M., v1ss Jusma Yemamete heving pre
hereelf, it was deesded te reseive her statenent an the fellewins pee
cartiriod.
O C. Cnta1
majer

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.80)
J. Yenemete
Oseer O. Gental
Oseer tregenal
nfer
O Apri1 23, 1944, at 4:00 P.., the persemememed
ressive their statements. Certifd
Oseer rreganal
Oeear C. Comta1
majer

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.93)
the Demel Agenay had a semi-offisial charester in cennestiem with the
Japanese government but that he knows no other details, of interest in
connestien with it and its activities. That is all he has te ey. In
alosing, this ststenent was resd, rat ified and sigred in witness whereer
it is cartiried.
S. Shimasu
Deear C. Cental
Osear Pregenal
aj
In Buenos Aires, ederal Capital, Apri1 23, 1944, at 6000 PM.,
there appeared in this office a person whe, adrised of the pemalsies fae
nataralised Argentineen, age 41, married, employee, denisiled at Alveres
Street 246s, Firth Ploor, Apart ent C.
Asked if he knew the parties that intervened and if with reepest
to them he understood the general terms of the law whieh were emplaimed
previowsly, he said that he knew then with regard to what he will state and
is in part effected with reopect to them.
To questiens that were made, he stated that temard the end of the
year 1941, bessuse the Argentine Vitsubishi firm, Losated at Avemida Regse
activities as a result of Japan having gone to war with the nited states of
to work as a translater in the Dose1 Agenoy, after having met ite direster,
Mr. Masse Tude, that his work cons isted in translating to English amy
referenes to war, eeenemic, pelitieal and social cenditiens in erder that
Mr. Tude, whe knew little Spanish, could understand its libewise that he
was busy extrecting for the kmewledge of ur. Tude any artiele en neme frem
work that wes dene at the Desei Ageney was sending to Tekyo said artiales
into Spanish, accerding to a deree made by the Exesutive Pemer of the Nassem.
That at firat said pews wes tranaaitted to Japem by meeme of
Italemble and franaradie, having weed only the latter in resent times beessse
repressntative. That in generel all orgemisatien and femesiening of the
ageney was earrled an in the way that has been stated and that at ne thmp
-7-

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.84)
did he ha eden t  dete  t n tht wld  h te th
and signed in witnees whereof it is cartified.
Carlos F. zworine
Osoar C. Contal
Osoar pregenal
ajer
Apr11 24, 1944, at 5:00 P.M., for the purpese of visiting the perem
 24 de Neviembre 329. Cert1fied.
Oscar Fregenal
Oseer C. Contal
wajer
On the same date at 9:00 P.., Adfutant Alberte Jose Olaverria
having presented himself to repert en the cossissien givem him, it was
decided to reseive his statement an the following page. Certified.
Osoer Tegenal
Osear C. Cental
Majer
In Buenos Aires, Pederal Capital of the Argantine Matiem, April 24,
1944, at 9:10 P.v., there appeared in thiis office a pereon whe, advised of
age 42, married, Adfutant of the Pederal Police, dosieiled et Mereno 1550.
Asked if he knew the parties that appear in these preseedings and
if with reepest te them he wnderstood the general teres of the law which
were explained, he replied that he krew them and is net effested.
To other questiens that were foraulated, he deslared that in aseerd
with instreetieme that were given by his superiers an this day at Sese P..,
he went te the hemse at 24 de Neviambere 329, denie1le of the peresn named
Jese havert, to wham no peliee emplegee he presented himeelf and reqessted
peraiaeiam te make a search wh lak wee arantedy That he made a eretal
perents and nething of interest to the investigatiem in pregress wes foand,
this bedng all thet he has te mey. In alesing, thie statement wes rend,
reticled and siped in witaess wbereef it is eertiried
rresenal
Goeer C. Cemtal
-58-
Lager

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.90)
In Buanee Aires, Pederal Capital, Apr11 25, 1944, at 20000 P.,
statexent received. Certified.
Osear Fregonal
The statement of Jose Augusto Carlos Rabert follems. Oartiried.
Osear Fregenal.
In Buenes Aires, Federal capital of the Argentime Natiem, at
10:10 P., there appeared in this ol ioe a persen whe, advised of the
penalties fer false test imony, swore to tell the truth in a logal memmse
age 23, beabelor, single, donio1led at 24 de Neviambre 339.
if with respeet to then he understoed the generel teems of the lam thich were
explained, be replied that he knew Carlos Alberto Saate Crus Peblete and what
be will say will effest him in part.
To other questions that were lormulated, he deelared that in the
that requested the presentation of Chilesn nationalists in Busnes Aises e
as the deponent supperts this idealogy he answered the anmemeement thes
getting eequminted with Carlos Alberto Sante Crus Poblete whe hed eeme from
Chile ae a delegate from the Nationalist Party and whe wes attempting te
after this interviow he beomme int imate with Sante Crus with whem he wemt
out frequently likewise they visited each other's dasisiles.
That Santa Crus con fided confidentially en one cseesien that
additienal details. That through Santa crus he alse met stelvie Cage Rise
and Hamberte Plaeide Geyo Rise, Likewise of Chilean natienality. That last
Marek 4, Santa Crus gave the deponent a letter addressed to a Chiloam Gamevel
nemed keoadere, to kbeep but added that at the proper time he shoald sive is
oarrying ts to ise deetinatian. That an the firth af that eose month he want
wee indientiam of the departure of an Argantine ship. That during the
felloming daye he eame to thie deperteent freguently to visit seate crem
一9-

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.90)
to rind him. That likewise Santa Crus asked him to go to the demieile of Wr.
aske for money explaining that he had been arrested and acevsed ef eoplenage.
That in spite of his repeated visits he was not able to find Prarakeme and
finally by means of a messenger sent hin a letter explaining the yekeens r
reply of aay kind. That the deponent meets Stelvie Geye Rice alaest evey
day in the Teyge Cafe at 400 Corrientes Street and one aftermeen they obearved
ascording to what he had heard Santa Crus say several times, was a friemd ef
hia.
That in view of cirouastances, Joyo Rico proposed that the depememt
send a meeeage to Murai letting him know that Santa Crus was arrested thevefere
the deslarant wrote on a piese of paper whict he gave to the Japenese waiter
some referenee to the fabricatien of powder. That when Sante Crus wes arrested,
he telephened Miss Hilde Ankelen s ince he knew that she was a friend of the
offieer en the stesmer "Antefagmstan, asking her what to do with it to widch
she replied that if he toek it on beard not to ment ien her beeaase she did
not wish to have any "trouble" for which reason the depenent destreyed it.
Asked te indlcate what other persons connested with Sasta Cres be
had ccossien te meet, he replied that he knew pederise Helf or pelfenm, the
he has net seen sinee that time. That is all he has to say. In lesinge
carlos Rabert
Oscar pregenal
In Busmes A1res, Pederal Cap1tal, May 3, 1964, at 10255 Aa., the
pereon nemed kliae detre La ensed to appeer fer the purpese of amplisying
his statemsmt. Cortified.
0seer Fregemal
- 60 -

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.86)
as 47, married, employee, desiciled at Depallata 571.
15 with reapeet te then, he waderatande the genereal tesme as the law te th
af feet thay were emplained, he replsed that he kmome what he will state and
La effested in part by the interest that he has in the ease.
To other questiome that were formulated, he deelared that he retafied
eespletely mhat he had previossly stated, having nething to add mer aeond.
tham what he has already montlened ner did he reeeive frem him momey etber
than what be bas already explained which was fer kis expenees.
Asteed te atate ts he keew whether the peroon named narleee Greved
delivered any money te him by instrustions frem laral, whe eeuld ill agfeed
to wse the dopenent, with whem he had little int imaey, and whe theretave
would eertainly met ontrust hin with laree swas of money, That ls what he
has te say. In eleslng, this statasent was reed, ratiried and sigmed tm
witness whereef it is eertified.
B. Jof
Osearregena]
In Dusnee A1res, Pederal Capital, May 6, 1944, at 2:55 P.M., the
persen nemed Carles Alberte Santa Crus Poblete was caused te appeer again
fer the purpese of mplifying his statenent. Certifiete
Oseer pregenal
-2-

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.77)
of ald trem raila and that he was in eharge of trying to plase theé
whereef 1s is eertirsed.
C. santa crs
00er pregmm1
On the date May 27, 1944, at 8:30 P. N., there being ne eeune to

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.93)
BECLASSIFIED
NND 720049
Bederal Bursau of Enuestigution
United States Depurtment et Sustics
Mashington,D.C.
IN REPLY, PLEASE REPER TO
PERSON
FILE NUMBER
MAY 2 - 194BY SPRCIAL MESSENGER
Date:
March 5, 1946
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
1946
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
MAR
SEBW
Department of.State
202
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
TOMIHA KOSEXI.
Argentina
As of possible interest to you there is transmitted herewith a copy of
to
memorandum received from a reliable confidential source concerning Carlos Santa
01
Cruz who worked for the Japanese in Argentina during the war. Santa Cruz was
5
detained by the Argentine police and finally was released and returned to Chile.
は
This information has been made available to the American Embassy at
Buenos Aires, Argentina and at Santiago, Chile.
Enclosure
PORYICTORY
CC:
Chief of Naval Intelligence
Assistant Chief of Staff, 
BUY
Navy Department, Washington, D. . Wer Department, Washine on,
STATSS
Rmk
Attention:
Reading Pangl
飞
WAR
Military Intolli
Fil
Service

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.95)
February 8, 1946
Re:
TOMIYA KOSEKI, was. et al
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Investigation in this watter has centered around
a Chiloan Nationalist named CARLOS SANTA CRUZ (POBLETE), whe
has been 1n Argentina s1nce 1942 and has reportedly eeted
for the Japanese as an espionage agent and mail drop. He
was in contact with a cousin in Chile, ALBERTo VXLo2 (sanTA
CRuz), also a Nationalist and likewise in contaet with
Japenese in Chile. In Buenos Aires SANTA CRUZ was aequmimted
with several individuals of whom some were Chileans, reperted-
ly assisting him in pro-Japanese activities in varieus ways.
SANTA CRUZ was arrested by the Argentine poliee on Mareh 3.
1944. SANTA CRUZ was released by the Argentine police 
July 8, l945. de subsequently gave information regarding
his past activities to Source c, of which a resume ls set
forth bolow:
CARLOS SANTA CRUZ tated that ho first beeme
Interested in political activity in Chile in 1937. At that
time he became a member of a local Chilean party known as the
Falange Nacional. According to SAnTA CRuz, the aime of this
party were primarily dewocratic. At the end of 1937, he
entered she Chilean army as a consoript to perform a year's
servise. In late l938, having left the Army, he resimed
frem the Falange since he considered he had been duped by
its leaders.
SANTA CRUZ then Joined the Chilean Mationalist
Party known as Movimiento Nacionalista Chileno, in mhieh his
cousin, ALBeRTc WELc2, held an important position. Mewever,
his joining this party was searet, sinee it was deaided by
his cousin and other leaders of the organisetion that he
should work under cover in attempting to join the Gemmumist
Party in Chile and report iss activities to the leaders of
the Basionalist Party. SANTA ChUz stated he was able to
besome a member of the Communist Party and reperted its
mstivities fer about six montas, His sousin requested thas
his reperts be made in triplieate, and SAšTA GRuz suepests
that eme er more cepies were given to Axis embassies, Éaelud-
1ng the Japanese with whom ALšmrto VEL0% hed elese eenneetiend
-1 -

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.95)
After ix months of this mot!vity, SANTA CRUZ
was discovered b the Comaunists and had to cease his under
oover motivity. About this time also, VELoZ was almost
expelled from the Nationalist Party for complaining about
the manner in whioh Party activities were being finaneed by
the German and Italian Embassies. As a result of all this
SANTA CRUZ and his cousin VELOZ resigned from the Nationalist
Party together.
SANTA CRUZ then WOrKeD fOP CARLOS IBANRZ DBL CAMPO
in the latter's presidential campaign in Chile in January,
1942. In Pebruary of that year JUAN ANTONI0 RIOS was elested
prosident of Chile and SANTA CRUZ' work brought him nothing.
Beeause of his many enemies in Chile and his lack of pres-
peets in that country, SANTA CRUz left for Argentime on
February 19, 1942. He brought with him to Argentina a small
amount of pocket money and the representation in Argentina of
the pro-Axis magasine put out by his cousin in Chile mamed
"Veinte Naelones". This magazino was, according to SANTA
CRUZ, at that time finaneed by the Japanese Kmbassy beeause
it was a medium for the presentation of propaganda to
maintain Chilcan neutrality in the face of Allied pressure
to Join the Allied cause. SAnTA CRUZ stated that VELOz was
at that time receiving 3000 Chilean pesos per month (at that
time roughly equivalent to lo0 U. S.) for his work in aiding
this magasine.
After entering Argentina SAnTA CRUZ evidently came
to Buenos Aires where he fell in with Argentine Nationalists
and seoured a position working on the Hationalist and pro-
Axis publieation "Crisol". In this he was helped by PEnMANDo
GARCIÀ DRLLA COSTA and ENRIQUE P. OSES of the better known
Nasi daily paper "El Pampero".
After his arrival in Buenos Aires, SANTA CRUZ
reeeived a letter from VELo2 in Chile asking him to pass by
the ofriee of Dr. ALBINo PuoNALIN, edi tor of the Japanese
propaganda magasine in Buenos Aires "Oriente y Ocsidente"
to give him VkLo2' regards and perhaps get assistamee in
his Journalistic career. SANTA CMUZ Ascertained that PUGNALIN
had an offiee next to offiees of the Japanese Hmbessy at
Corrientes 330 and paid a visit. They diseussed at length
the pelisieal sisuation in Chile, ascording to SAntA GRuz,
and the reception of PUGdALIn's magasine in Chile. Befere
leaving, SANTA CRUz was told by PUGNALIN that an offieial of
● 2 -

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.95)
the Japanese Embassy would like to speak to him and they
went to that Embassy next d or. SANTA CRUZ was introdueed
to a Japanese whose name he subsequently ascertained to be
SHoZ( MURAI, Civil Attache of the Japanese Embassy.
MURAI and ANTA CRU2 disousmed pol1ties again and
MURAI seemed partieularly interested in Communist matters.
Before his departure SANTA CRUZ was asked by MURAI eenserning
his finances and the latter handed him an envelope containing
fifty Argentine pesos (about 12.0 U.s.).
Shortly after this SAnTA CRuZ received a Lotter
from VRLc2 stating that individuals in the Japanese Eabeasy
In Chile had asked VELOZ about SANTA CRU: and that he had
given good Peferenees. The next time SANTA CRUZ Baw MURAI
the latter appeared even more affable than formerly. On
this subsequent meeting MURAI asked SANTA CRUZ for a momo-
randum on what he knew about the Communist Party. At this
time also, according to SANTA CRUZ, MURAI offered him more
money, whieh offer was refused. They talked at length
regarding the possibility of printing artieles about Japan
and printing favorable news about Japan in "Crisol".
In about Pebruary, 1943, SANTA CRUZ recoived a
letter from VELOz stating that Chile's break of diplematie
relations with Japan had made it impossible for him to
colleet money owing him from that Embassy for his propegande
worK. VELOZ roquested SANTA CRUZ tc ask MURAI if he could
be paid by the Japanese in Buenos Aires, whose Rmbassy was
still open. SAUTÀ CRUZ showed this lotter to MURAI and MURAI
agreed that VELOZ could be paid. MURAI gave SANTA CRUz
emough money to purohase two round trip railway tiekets from
Santiago to Buenos Aires for VELoZ and his wife and SANTA
CRUZ sent these to his cousin by the travel ageney Villalonga.
VELCZ and his wife traveled to Buenos Aires and
were accompanied by VRLoz' brother-in-law whose passage was
never paid by the Japanese. They stayed at the Hotel Colon
in Buenos Aires where lodging was paid by MURAI. VELOz
stayed in Buenos Aires for several days and it is the impres-
sien of SAntA CRuz thet he received the expeeted payment from
the Japanese. He had brought with him, as requested, evidemees
of indebtedness to him on the part of the Japemese in Chile.
The neture of this evidenee is mot kmown. SANTA CnUz was
iven 200 pesos (350 U.5.) by MUnAI to spend entertaiming
VELOz and his wife. VEL02 attended several dinners given by
the Japamese. Before his departure VELoz bought books and
printing materials to take beek to Semtiage. Santà CRUz
moted that VELCZ and his brether-in-law, JmSUS SANTIDRIAN, were
- 3 -

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.92)
werking one entire afternoon over the books whieh they hed
purehased, apparently making notes of some sort in them.
These books were then sent to Chile. SAntA CRuz poimted
out that the notes and other markings made in the books
might have been of assistance to the Japanese in espienage
astivity. On the same afternoon SAnTA CRUz saw them prepare
a letter on the typewriter. This letter was written in
ordinary mall.
In the course of subsequent contact wit moso
named TAkESHI PURUKAWA, and a lesser employee of thet Mabassy
nemed SHINtARo TANI, were in frequent contast with & few
Arpentine newspapermen. It appeared that the latter were
iving them infermation. These newsmen have beem identified
as followe:
ANTONIO PODESTA, who appeared to be commeeted
with a magasine and worked in an ofriee at
Calle California 2020;
ANTONIO CORRIERI, who seemed to reside in am
apartment at San Juan 1122 and is believed
presently employed in a book shop on Calle
Ksmeralda;
SOIZA REILLI and
VACCARKZA.
In mid 1943, SANTA CRUZ became aequainted with
a youme Chilean named STELVIO GOYO (DECIA). The latter then
IntPodueed him to a HUM BERTO PLACIDO GOYO (RIGO). This
family eeasisted of about nine members. The Goros were in
dire straits and SANTA CRUX assisted them, aeeording to him,
with mall gifts of money. They saw eeeh other freguently
and as a Pesult the GOYOs came to knew that SANTA GRUS was
Ln comget with the Japanese. Hm Bto GOYO mhed SArTA
CRuz t8yintrodused to a Japanese stating he had infermatiom
of imterest regarding Reuador and the Galapages Islands.
SAnZA Cmuz did mot make the introdustion immedsately but sub-
sequemtly MunaI aaked him whother he kmew of anybedy whe would
travel te Paru and Belivia en a confidential miosion. The
this serviee NnaI stated he would pay l00 peses (about s2s
U. 8.) per day and a flat mum of 10,000 peses (about
-4-

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.96)
2,500 U. 8.) upon return. ANTA CRUZ suggested HU BERTO
JOYó for this mission and the introduction was made. MURAI,
however, subsequently discovered that the older ooyc is addic-
tedto drink and refused to consider him for the job. The
GOYOs bel1eved that SANTA CRUZ dissuaded MURAI from employ-
ing the old man and this resulted in their later informing the
poliee regarding activities of SANTA CRUz and his conneetion
with the Japanese.
SANTA CRuZ stated that he was never given a
salary by MuRAI or other Japanese and that, in all, he recelved
relatively small sums of money from MURaI on about four or
five oceasions. One of these was at the end of l943 when
UxAI sent him 200 pesos of which 100 was to be sent to
VBLOZ.
According to ANTA RuZ, he was arrested on
Mareh 5, 1944, by the Argentine pol1ce and oharged with
espionage. He was held incomuunicado for sixty-three days
and aocorded rough treatment. de ecame 1ll and was
given freer confinement until his release.
SANTA CRUZ was quest1oned further by Souree C
regarding any activity on his part in the nature of espionage
for the Japanese. He finally stated that in late 1942 or
oarly ly43, he was asked by MuRAI whether he would travel
to Central America and Moscow as a crew member of a ship
belonging to the Argentine Merchant Marine (Plota Mereante
del Estado). The p rpose of this trip was to be an obser-
vation of the nature of goods embarked, ship sailings, and
other information of a maritime nature. The manner in which
this information would be transmitted was, aocording to SANTA
CRUZ, not spec1fied. 3ANTA CRUZ, according to his statement,
refused this offer and atated he does not know whether mURAI
obtained another agent or agents for this work. He told the
souree that MURAI, at that time, evidently kmew an important
offieial in the werohant rleet who could obtain positions for
hix mong the erew of Argentine ships.
un being further questioned regarding his kmowledge
of Japanese espionage activi ty, SAnTA CRuZ only stated that
he kmew that MURAI and SHINTARO TANI frequently saw newemen
in Buenos Aires, emong whom were those previously mensioned.
He stated he does not kmow whether the Japanese hed an
observer in the port of Buenos Aires. It was his impression
that an Argentime named ALIAS JOPRE acted as ms?l drop fer
the Japanese and received newspapers and magasi:? whieh he
handed to TANI. SANTA CRUZ stated he did not know what.
- 5 -

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.96)
might have been the source of money used by the Japanese for
subversive purposes and that he hiwselr did not know any
Japanese except MURAl, TANI and URUKAwA. He tated HUBERTO
JoY( was presented to several Japanese of the Eabassy, inelud-
1ng Lt. TADASI KAw DA, assiatant Naval Attache of the Embassy.
It was SANTA CRUZ' 1mpression that KAM EDA was an impertant
figure in Japanese espionage circles, apparently outranking
MURAI in that activ1ty.
SANTA CRUZ advisnd oroe c that the only oneoded
message possibly connected with the Japanese that he knew
about was the one previously mentioned as written by VBLoz
and malled to Chile. The only individual in Buenos Aires,
according to SANTA CRUZ' statement, whom he suspeeted as
acting as a mail drop or handling subversive mail in any way
was the previously mentioned JoPRE. He stated that vLos
used to send him from Santiago copien or the Communiet daily
newspaper "El Siglo" which he read and handed to MuRAI imes-
much as the latter seemed interested in Chilean and Comumist
newspapers.
SANTA cRUZ was queried Dy Souroe 0 regarding a
reported plan of the Lermans and Japanese in Chile to send
sabotage agenta to ths united States in l943 under the guise
of students and tourists. e advised that he knew absolutely
nothing about this nor had he previously heard thereof.
SANTA Chu2 stated that a widdle aged Chilean women
named ALkS AlDRI resided in Buenos Aires and appeared to be
in some way conneoted with the Japanese. Speeifically, SAnTA
CRUZ stated she was aoquainted with Lt. KAM EDA and apparently
with other Japanese. e thought that this aoquaintanee dated
baok two years before the war and advised he did not know the
nature of it. He stated this wcman is a niece of ex-Presidemt
ARTURC ALESSANDRI of Chile. (Investigation has diselosed that
the woman undoubtedly referred to is LoA ALESsANDRI, who 1s
apparently so related to the former President of Chile and
who resides in Apartment 4, 2d floor, of a building at Chareas
817, Buenos Aires.)
SANTA CRUZ was questioned by the souree coneerming
his reeeipt in Buenos Aires of a package containing l08 sheets
of letterhead paper exactly rescmbling that used at the U. S.
Embassy, Santiago, Chile. This cceurred cn August B, 1943,
and SAntA CRUZ stated flatly that he knew nothing about this
and he had not heard mention of sueh a thing before.
- 6 •

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.96)
He was likewise questioned by the souree on a
report that 1n November, 1942, he was g1ven glyeerin and
sulrurio and nitrio acids by one JUan QugRAltc,at that
time leader of a Nationalist organisation called Aliansa de
la Juventud Argentina. SANTA CRuz stated this had met
oceurped but that in reality ST LVI0 GCYo hed made some
bombs in his, SANTA CRUZ', apartment on one ossasion using
a eelluloid formula for aking explosives whioh his fether
was trying to sell to the Argentine Jovermment. These bombs
were apparently not successful but SANTA CRUz stated that
QUERALTi and other Nationalists were apparently 1ntending
to use them.
Rogarding ShOZO MURAI, SANTA RUZ had 11ttle to
say in addition to what has been set forth above. MURAI
resided in an aparment at Alsina 292, living with an
Argentine woman about thirty years old known only as "Else".
This woman was unmarried and had been a cabaret hostess in
Buenos Aires. She was desoribed as blond, thin, and fairly
attrastive. SAnTA CRUZ stated it was his opinion that meng
eabaret hostesses she would appear to e a rather high type.
He gave the following deseription of MURAI:
Age
42
Ho1ght:
50 8n
weight:
160 pounds
Hair:
Dark, turning gray
Appearance:
cllm, protruding upper front teeth.
Languages:
English and Spanish.
SANTA CHUZ affirmed that MURAI was known by the
nlekname "Paneho" but stated he had never heard him referred
to as "Javier", a nickname previously reported used as
referring to MURAI and other Japanese.
Rogarding his mother, LUZ POBLETE (Ortega), SANZA
on her trip from Santiago to Buenos Aires in the Spring of
1943. He stated that his mother had not asted as a seurier
on this trip or om her return to Chile and that she had nething
te de with the Japanese exeept to visit MURAI and "Elsa" in
their apartment and have dinner with them on ome ossasion at
a Japenese bearding house leeated along Calle Defensa semewhere
In the 1700 bleek. This resul ted from the faet thas santA
GRUz intreduced her to MURAI after her arrival in Buemes Aires.
He seid his mother sew MuraI about three or four times. Ne
denied that his mother had visited him while he was wader
-7-

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.92)
arrest in Argentina but subeequently stated that a Chilean
acquaintanee of hers, a woman who buy" alothes in Buenos
Aires for resale in Chile, did inquire about SAnTA Cauz on
behalr of his mother.
SANTA CRUZ was quiried by the soupee regarding
whether or not he had been in contact with OArLos IBAffk2
1n Buenos Aires. He stated that on one oceasion 1n 1943
he heard that IBAßkZ was in Buenos Aires at the Continental
dotel and that he went to visit him there with another
Chiloan named ARANDO PUENTES (QUEZADA). They did net
sueceed in seeing IBAhnFZ on this occasion.
BANTA CRUZ told the Bouroe that HUMBERTO JOYO
1s about rirty-five years cld, Chilean, and apparently
formerly an offieer in the Italian Army. He appeared to
SANTA CHUZ on first acquaintance to be rather hapless and
because of this SANTA Ctuz lent them rinaneial assistanee.
He tated that HUm BERTO's son, STLVIO, possesses an
unusually active immagination and surfers delusions of
randeur whieh make him complctely unreliable. As previously
stated, SANTA CRu2 said that the GOYOs betrayed him to the
Argentine poliee, giving the latter a considerable mmount of
false information regarding his connection with the Japamese.
The last kmown address for the lOYo family is in Villa Linen,
a suburb of Bumos Aires where they were evidently residing
at A1bert1 238.
SANTA CRUZ gave somo further information regarding
hi. eousin ALBKRTO VELOZ (SANTA CRUZ). Ho tated tha6 VELOZ
spent seme time in Japan when he was young and that in the
late 1930s, after his return to Chile, he was empleyed by the
Japanese Eabassy there as direstor of their prepagande maga-
sime kmown as "Mirando Al Oriente". /ELoz was fond of the
Japanese and, along with his mother, attended Japanese dinners
and seeial activities in Chile. He made wany trips within
Chile to give leetures at soeial centers on Japam and on
eeeasion Japanese propaganda films were shewn after these
Leetures. VEL(2 apparently also ad semething te de with the
distributien of Japamese propagande film to loeal theaters
La Chile. Arter the start of the Pacifie war veLoz, as
previeusly stated, was finaneially backed by the Japemese in
printing pre-moutrality magasine "Veinte Naciones". vLoz
empleyed his wife, his brether-in-law, JEBUS SANTIDRIAN, and
CARLOS SANTA CRUE  BhiS mmGSine. SANTA CRUZ waS qHOSSimed
by the souree as to whether Veloz had aided the erganisation
1n Chile knewm during 1945 as "Les Gondores de Chile", and
stated tat he did not ow about this but would mot be aur-
prised if he did
- 8 •

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.93)
SANTA CRUZ was questioned rogarding Dr. ALBINO
PUGNALIn and whether the latter was conneeted with Japanese
esp1onage. SANTA CRUZ again stated he did not know whether
he was but had always noted that puonAlIN seemed very
timorous. When the politioal revolution ossurred om June 4.
1943, PUGnALIN paeked a su1 tease and was ready to leave fer
Uruguay at any time, a trip whieh he apparently never made.
SANTA CRUZ was also questioned conGerning JOSE AUGUBTO GARLOS
RABEnt Y PApE, a Chilean about twenty-five years old with
whom he had been acquainted in Buenos Aires. He stated that
RaBErt had never, to his knowledge, engaged in subveraive
work of any sort for the Japanese. His arrest in early l9lh
oscurred as a result of false information given by the Goxos
to the Argentine police. RABERT was detained by the peliee
for eight months. He stated that RaBent is presently engaged
in a manufasturing enterprise in Buenos Aires, apparently
namod Cia &AtA, S. A.
Coneorning NAHUEL WAYO BC ELON, a Chilean who
came to Buenos Aires 1n 1943 and was in contact with SAnTA
Chuz, the latter stated that his trip was net paid fer by
the Japanese nor was 1t conneeted in any way with the
Japanese. BOVELON stated to SANTA CRUZ that he wished to be
presented to some Japanese in Buenos Aires, appareatly making
the request at the 1nstigation of VELOZ. SANTA CRUZ stated
he refused to make the introduetion besause of the twrouble
caused by MURAI's having diseovered HUM BKRTO GOYO's 1nelin-
ation to drink.
It was previously reported that SANTA CRUz was
assceiating, prior to his arrest, with an Argentine mamed
FERNANDO GARCIÀ DRLLA COSTA, Pes1ding 1n & BueBes Aires
suburb known as BCCAR, and it was suspeoted that this
individual was acting as a mail drep for the Japanese.
SANTA CHUZ den1ed that GARCIA DKLLA CCSTA had anything to
do with the Japanese or aeted as a receiver of mail fer
them. He stated that GARCIA DELLA COSTA 1s presently metive
in Argentine Nationalist affairs but has steady emapleyment
as a solieitor of busimess fer severel printing shepe. Ne
did state, however, that GARCIA DELLA COSTA 1s extPemely
anti-United states and that his polisieal views are sovesned
entipely by this amtipathy. GAnoIa DLa COstA presemtly
● 9 •

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.93)
"El Pampero", did receive a rogular monthly salary from the
Japanese, the amount being unknown. This was appareatly fer
(SES' propaganda activity on their behalf. SAnTA CRus did
not know whether osks is presently conneoted with the Japenese
1n any way but said he is employed in a book shop loeated im
the 300 block of Avenida Corrientes. Informatien was previous-
ly given that a young 1ndividual of German deseent mamed PXx
HIMPLER, residing in a Buenos Aires suburb of Ploride, wme
conneeted with SANTA CRUZ and was engaging in eertain eentre-
band aetivities on benalf of the Japanese. SAntA Gnuz teld
Souree C that any sueh contraband aotivity on behalf of youme
RIMPLER 1s unknown to him. Likewise, RIMPLER had no kmomm eon-
neetiem wi th the Japanese. He stated that RIm PLR was aeguaiated
with several sailors of the former "Graf Spee" and that he
frequently went armed but the latter was apparently dome with-
out any real purpose.
Souree C has advised that it was impossible to
GRut. It should be pointed out that it was stated by the
Chilean Consul General in Buenos Aires, AUGUSTO MILLA
(IRIARTE), that SANTA CRUZ was released by the Argemtime
poliee after throwing all bieme for his subversive astivity
on his cousin VEL02 in Chile. It 1s noted that SANTA CRUZ
said nothing to Source C concerning a Chilean asquaintamse
of his 1n Buenos Aires named AFMANDO PUEHTES (QUEZADA); (this
individual has been previously reported as in contaet with
SANTA CRUZ under suspicious ciroumstances but his name was
then iven  AH ANDO FUENTES (PERNANDEZ) ). SANTA CRUZ
stated to Souree D after his release by the Argentine peliee
that PUkNTEs was employed by the Japanese. PUNTKs had a
job as building porter and jani tor at the residenee of the
direetor of the newapaper "La Prensa", Dr. ALBERtC GAINZA PA,
at Villa Nueva 1324, Buenos Aires.
In the course of his duties Fuèmtés aseertaimed the
1dentity of all callers on Dr. GAINZA PAZ at his heme and was
paid by the Japanese for this information. The moumt paid
for this was unkmemn. SanTA CRUz stated that on ene eeeasiem
PUENTES assisted him in obtaining maps from a retired Argem-
tine Army eap tain whom they sot drunk. These mape, aeserding
to BAwtA CRuß, set forth the Argentine defenses aleng eertain
unidentified Southern ehannels and were obtaimed long emough
to be photegraphed. This master was net elaberated upen further
that Pukurms operates a roulette wheel illegally taree er four
-20 .

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.94)
times a week in a house somewhere in the 600 block of Calle
Maipu. rUENTES apparently resides at Tuouman 1134.
After h1s release on July 8, 1945, SANTA CRUZ
resided in a rooming house at Yorano 540, Buenos Aires. Ne
paid 35 pescs (about $8.75 U.S.) per month for his reem there.
He was apparently very low in funds at this time. His mame
was included among those of several Axis espionage agents
nemed by the Argentine Government in Sept ember, 1945, es seem
to be expelled from Argentina. By Presidential Dearee dated
November 7, 1945, his expulsion was ordered and 1t was stated
that he would be held under detention until his departures
however, on September 26, SANTA CRUZ had left Buemes Aires
aboard the Chilean ship "ss Aviles" traveling to Chile by way
of the Straits of Magellan.
Previous mention has been made of TAkksHI PURUKAWA
Civil Attashe of the Japanese Emb assy with whom SAnrtA CRUz
was in toweh. This individual resided in an apartmeat at
Alsime 440, Buenes Aires. Investigation of his astivities
during Pebruary by Souroe E failed to disclose any aetivity
on his a rt of interest. It is noted that PURukaWa and amozo
URAI were intermed in Apr11, 1945, along with other persemmel
of the Japanese Kmbassy at La Palda, Province of Cordeba.
PURUKAWA was deser1bed by SANTA CRU2 as follows:
Ago:
40
Hoight:
53
Welght:
150 pounds
Hairs
Black, out short
Peculiarities:
Wears mustache
Prom Souree F the results of the questioning of
SANTA CRUZ by the Argentine police (Ccordinaeion Pederal)
have been obtained. These results show that he was arrested
Mareh 5, 1944, at his then residemee of Apartmens C, 2d Pleer.
Calle Peru 358. His atatements to the poliee follows in gemeral
that previously set forth as given to Souree C. However, is
1s neted that he told the polloe he is sure his seusim vilos
obtained the meney he was owed by the Japanese frem MURAI.
He alse stated that after yELoz had been in Buemes Aires fer
twe weeks, MunaI invited him and his family to dime at am
unkmowm address en Calle Alsima, whieh dimmer was alse astended
by several Japamese, Lnelwding TanI and the fermer Jepemese
Comsul La Papaguay (perebably Tm IYA KOSEKI). Arter dimmer
MUnaI atated he wanted to apenk to VeLos alone, whieh the to
did.
-11-

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.94)
It was apparently as a result of this conversation that
the following day VELOZ called SANTA CRUZ by telephone and
arranged to meet him. VELOZ showed SANTA CRUZ a sheet of
paper whieh was waterproof and transparent on whieh there
appeared a jumbled message written in code. VEL02 stated he
was to earry this message to Chile and requested SAntA Cmuz
to assist him in copying the message into the text of a beek
by punehing holes over letters with a pin. This was dome
and VKLCz then stated he would like to have the message
copied on a typewriter. The two made this copy om a typewriter
of this message.
VELoz left for Chile two days later according to
SANTA CRUZ' statement to the police and upon arrival rote
santA onuz saying he did arrive safely and he should tell
"Paneho" (muRAI) that his legal matters were going aleng well.
SANTA CRUz gave this message to NURAI. Subsequemtly, the
copy of the coded message which SANTA CRUZ had kept was
seen by STKLVIO GOYO and was explained to him. sOro sugsested
the message be sold to the Bri tish or American Embassies, to
whieh SANTA CRUZ agreed onee a few letters in the message
had been changed. Goxo went to the Bri tish Embassy te tey
to sell the message but his offer was refused with the state-
ment that it represented what must be the work of a ehild.
In searehing SANTA CRUZ' apartment, the poliee
found a typewritten letter, or a copy of a letter, dated
November 22, 1942, and of which the contents in translatiem
from the Spanish are as follows:
"Doar Cousin:
I have been talking with Pansho and he agreed
to talk with his brothers about your legal affairs
and to POply mext weeK. PAY STRIOT ATTENTION TO THE
POLLowING: I need urgently a telephone direetery for
Santiage (this is a matter for Panaho). I am very
sorry fer what has happened to the U.N. and I hepe
that everythins will soon be favorably settled.
Regards to all and until the next, Your Cousin."
SANtA GRUz stated that this letter was written to
his eousín viloz in Chile but sent to his wife, sinse vaLos
feared imtereeptien of mall addressed to him by Americane.
Ne stated that "Panehe" is SHozo MURAI and that he did mot
kmew what the "legal arfaira" referred to but suppesed this
- 22 -

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.94)
must have referenee to a conversation VELOz had had with mumAI.
The term "brothers" referred to other Japanese. SAntA OMUS
stated that the telephone guide was really for his om use
Ln writing letters, even though he atated in the lester is
was at the request of "Paneho" that he was aaking shas it be
sent direetly. SANTA CRUZ stated that this letter really
was not sent. He also stated that the initials U.N. ated
for "Union Nacionalista."
Information obtained by the poliee from the cores
after their arrest was also obtained from Souree F. The
G0Y0 family was found by the pol1ce on April 4. 1944, resid-
ing in a house on what is kmown as Quinta Niesmer, situated
near the suburb of Besear, Province of Buenos Aires. The
extent to that previously set forth as obtained frem Sawza
ORUS. However, 1t 1s noted that HUMBERTO GOXO stated that
he knows that on one ceeasi on SANTA CRUz wen't leeking feer
MURAI to request another fifty pesos for himself as am advanse
an the money owed by the Japanese to his cousim VLoß. Ee
alse stated that 3ANTA CRUZ had the key to the eneeded message
whieh has been previously mentioned.
In searehing the Goro house the poliee foued a
letter addressed to HumBknto whieh, translated frem the
Spanish, reads as follows:
r. Goyo Rieo:
Try to see where we can get the nautieal maps
of whieh we spoke the other day. I have in my
possession the order and a little money to begin
Immediately the work. Also, my friend whom I mentiened
to you is interested in meeting you personally and it
would be well to have something ready by the time the
meeting cecurs. For my part, I an going to buy the
ink, peneils, and other neceasary materials and I
leave it to you to got the necessary nautieal infer-
matien to make something really worth while.
Greetings from Carlos Santa Grus".
SANTA CRUS was questioned about this matter and
stated that it referred to drawins maps of the Galapages
Islands to illustrate a boek whieh the olderly doro was
wri sing om them. The mape were to make the book mare interest-
Ing. KaNtA CRUz stated thet GoYO mever drew the mape beeause
be lest interest.
-13-

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.95)
Souree P also advised that JOSE AUGUSTO CALOs
RABERT Y PAPE was arrested by the police and questioned on
May 25, 1944. He tolo the police that after the arrest of
SANTA CRUZ, he went to jall to visit the Latter and SANZA
CRUZ told him to go to the apartment of FURUXAA and state
at home and finally sent a letter to the Japanese making fer
money and setting forth the ciroumstances. Ee ressived me
answer to this letter, according to his statememt. Ramem?
also stated he subsequently sont a similar message te unar
to wieh he apparently never received an answer.
Previous 1nformation was given to the effeet that
JORGK LORCA was an honorary consul In the Chilean Eabassy
in Buenos Aires and had possibly aoted as leader ef a
Chilean espionage organisation in this city. Infesmatiom
given by Souroe D reveals what was said by the Chileam Cemsal
Gemeral, AUGUSTo MILLAN, when this matter subsequemtly eame
to his attention. M ILLAw stated that he knows sush am
allegation is uatrue. He said that LonCA has been, therough-
out the war, pro-German but that he has never helped the
German or Axis cause in any aotive way, and above all, has
not taken part in Japanose cspionage aotivities.
Un November 9, 1945, 1t was deereed by the
Argentine Government that HUMBEnTO GOYO RICO should be
expelled frem Argentina for having engaged in Japamese
espionage.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.94)
DECLASSIFIED
N~D 280069
Bederal Bareau of Inuestigutan
Lashigpton 25, D. C.
STATE
BY SPBCIAL M
FILE NO. 64-28146
7il
Date:
March 8, 1946
JAK
MAR111946
DC
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
894.20235/3-846
Department of State
From: John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
SubJOCT: JULIO GUIDO AMUCHASTEGUI - ARGENTINA
As of possible interest to you, there is transmitted herowith a
copy of a memorandum received from a roliable, confidential source concerning
the above-captioned individual. Amuchastegui was active on behalf of the
Japanese in Argentina during the war.
This information has been made available to the American Embassy
in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Enclosure
FILEU
cc - Chief of Naval Intelligence
CS/VJ
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
PoByan
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
4.7m
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel, Military Intelligonce Service

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.96)
January 31, 1946
RO: JULIO OUIDO AMUCHASTEGUI
Buenos Aires, Argentina
It has been previously noted that AMUCHASTROUI
was reported to be engaging in Japanese espionage and
propaganda motivities. He was reported to have reeeived,
in 1942, the equivalent of about $250 U. S. per month from
the Japanese for his services. It was reported that he
held post office boxes 396 and "Espesial 8" and through
these boxes received wagasines, newspapers, and mail from
the United States. This correspondenee was then turned
over to the Japanese. Subsequent investigation has shown
that AmUCHASTEJUI 1s presently employed by an advertising
fimm named Agenoia de Publicidad Lintas, Ltda. lceated In
Buenos Aires at Fraga 1l63. Ha has recently been married
for the second time and is residing in the Buenos Aires
suburb of Borges at J. B. Alberdi 954.
Further Investigation conduoted by Souree C
of the activities of AMUChAsThouI have not shown that he
is presently in contact with Japanese. Investigatiem has
also failed to disolose that he is engaging in any type of
activity other than his advertising work. It has been
noted that he and his wife frequently visit the heme of
Dr. CONSTANCIO LARGUIA ESCOBAR at R1o Bamba 611, firet
floor. The reason for this contact has not been ascertained
but it is apparently innocent in nature.
Source D has supplied information obtained from
an examinmtion of secret reports of the former Japanese
Embassy in Argentine, whieh reports were placed in the
custody of the Swiss Legation after Argentina's breaking
of diplomatie relations with Axis nations. The souree
advises that mong these reports is a list of Japanese
Embassy accounts of propaganda expenses for Desember, 1941.
Among those accounts 1s an item of 2,640 peses
(about 3660 U.3.) paid to the Aome News Ageney lesated at
Bartolome M1tre 552, on December 30, 1941, fer pay sub-
seriptions each to "Time", the "Chieago Tribune", and the
-1-

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.90)
"Now York Horald Tribune" to run from Fobruary 2, 1942
to January, 1943, 1n the name of JULI0 3. AMUCHASTEGUI,
Armnales 1984. It w1ll be recallod that AMUCHASTEOUI
formerly resided at Arenales 1984, Buenos Aires.
- 2 •

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.92)
OHN EBGAR AOOVER
ECTOR
Jederal Bureau of Inuestigation
United States Department of Justice
Mashinggan, D. C.
PERSONAL AND
In reply, please refer
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
to 64-23401
Date:
March 8, 1946
YEC JAK
Le1946
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief, Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
From: John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
OLA
Sub jOCT: HENRI CATHERI: GRAVET - ARG NTINA
Fice
5-1646
As of possible interest to you, there is transmitted herewith a
copy of a memorandum received from a reliable, confidential source concerning
the activities of lHenri Catherin Gravet and Elias Jofre in Argentina on behalf
.00
of the Japanese durin- the war.
94.20235/3-846
This information has been made available to the American Embassies
in Buenos Aires, Argentina, And Santiago, Chile.
Enclosure
oo - Chief of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
JAPANESE
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
86L
War Department, Washington, D. C.
MAY 2-1946
Attention: Reading Panel
Military Intelligence Service
08
894.20235
MAY1 41946
Bary
FILDD
FORVICTORY
BUY
UNITED
BONDE
PEPENSE
STAMPS
DECLASSIFIED
N~0280049
iD
By ZZ /C NARS, Dato 8. 24.28

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.76)
BueRos Aires, Argemtime
Pobruary , ioss
Imveeligation in tnin cane orlgiasted when Ghave?
ume so Duen r n  puin nly  ay, l. Me was
somt by Jepanne to the  ster Hdimphere t cemmis espemese
ad frum Buezes lres wns to travel north te Guatemale and
Mexleu. Kowever, ln Mevumber, loes he toek retura passage e
upain e was redeved fron the vonzel ou whien he wa savelans
beine uabsoquemsly bakem to  ngland. Iavestigatlen of kis
ooataets la Buemus ires is sein. eontirued.
Upen nl arrival 1n cuenou ires GR,vet waa mes 
the pier by  Argesi amod R Jor. thás dáváme
was epparensly eesive as a Japuncse liaieen agens ane mmil
arep. Jorrz was arrestd Fobruary lz, l9es by Argemtime Pederel
Poliee en eharges or esplonage.
the resulte or the pollee quostionlns of Jorze have
been obtaimed by souree c und ure, in summary, as followss
Jo", when arreted, was 4' yoars old, married and
resieims in Buenes vires at Uupallata Btl. He was
amployed frem l9l0 se 1940 by the magazime "Cares 7
Caretas" with ofrlee zt chacutueo lsl. In l9so the
magasime apperensly weat sankrupt. Abous shat sime
Joyan beeame acguuizted through sosiul eontaet and
aesivisles, accerdins to is stntanens, with a fesmer
Beeresary ef she Japamese Embassy In Buenes Alres
Baned Xc OxagA. rho Latter Lefe Argoatiaa ehossly
befere Paesrie sur bugen. fter the departnre of
KOO JORX  in w CHOZO MRAI,
Civil Assache er she forner Japanese Embasey, whe
paid Jorxx pesiedseally sum» or firey peses (slz,no
U.se) in retura fer Jorz's setsing Jupamese phote
sraphs and pletures publiahed ia lecal periedieals.
shortly aster . tart of the Pacifie ar, ka
ealled Jornn se she Japezese Embasay and requested
him se subseribe te variene foreiga magasiaés and
mowapepers. Jorxz steted thas shese publieatlems
weve Ameriean, zaglssk, Aastralian, ane Mew Zeelene
pablseatsons. Ne plaeed the subseriptions with
Cass Meckera, Aveaide Leamdre Alem ésy, mmeaes
res. Jorß coztized sakia cut mere suberípsns
2

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.79)
l,  d,  ws re mt r he
imporlans publieutions or the Allled coumsriese
These he ressived through cusille (pest orriee bez)
lo90 in ihe Central Post Ofriee. It wuu subseqmemlly
esranged thnt xu I ahould a vo a koy to this bos
uad would have lhe uolloutluns witharawn by an
 pon  br t to i. y hi 
apparemsly, Mu.I was paying Jor firty poses 
moztn whie, Jo: stated, wus only ror ezpemses
1mous84.
Jorax used sht in pril, l943 ua.I save m
some momey (aount unstated) und told him se meet
è apamian anip arrivind in tne  ort of Buemos Aires
aad set in touen with a pussengor cbourd mamed
O. Vt. (Jorre muat have referred to May l, loss,
she day when n v I arrived ia Buenon ires).
Jorxs stated thet hu roacked shu boat juss arser iss
asríval  "vave U I' mensuo to GR vEt." 
toted he lse ve G vt e calllg eard, algh
it ls mot clear wose card snis was. Laser thas
aftormoem Jors contaotod ku I nnd told him shat
be had domo as dirueted. Two weeks lates, Joraz
stated, he aecidentally met v  in she sreet
al sho cormer or  venida de Mayo and Chusabueee
On vet sold Ju: that hu anted so speak so nl.
and Jornß sald he would pass on that reguess te
MUn I. The lattor, however, stated thai he din
nut wlh to see Cn vtr und, por Jorg's sttemeat,
the meetime apparentiy did not ccour. Twe weeks
Later Jorkz ugain met  V T by ohanee and shis
sime, reelimg sheeplsh bout Mt I mot seeing
OnaVEt, lied to the extent of saying that Munal
wes in lne Provinee or Cordoba.
s Jorks atated aie case to the pollee, the above
neetings were all shat pecurred between him and
Ga vzt. No stated thas ne does not xnow whetber
ChAv r breusht cerrespondonee or anyshing else from
spain se mulnI or whethor te latter eave uRavt
Mumey, eisher direesly or through imtermodiaries.
Jugzy ssatee he nud eontinual euntaet therearser
wish Mn cencerzins she suberiptiens ené she
absails or mew sberipíon mhn Mn e
quessed. uhes argentinu breke relatlons wish
she Azls eeuasries MUn l appearee very dejested
and returaed bie camllle key se Jornx tellass

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.82)
the Laster to sheroarter brine she peziodseato asesváne
a tho bo te he Jupe Abassdest ressdee 
Lovo at the und of Junuary, lsss aad om shis peresoular
oeension curried them to mù I's residenee, ut shat
1me Defens 1773.
Casllla Logo was unted un mareh 6, le bome s
Jor u fuilure tu pey ront thereon. the polsee hom
apartado cspecial libreros number s1 in the Gemtral
rost Ofriee. In thls lust  ux Jo. Rt had Feeoived Large
quanslslos or forelgu newzpapers (not speesrsed) and
Arceztime mewspepers from the interior previmees of
Bhe counsry.
Furter form.tion regurding  Jor  
from souree D in september, lg45. That souree hed juss beem re
Leased from primon by tho  réentine Federal Pellee aad mhile
imprisozed hud own Jo t. He stnted that Jo appeared 
prisom to be a very sorvile individuel who would underteme
aythim for money am who ws gunerally mae she bess ef jees
on she part of osher prisoners . Jorrx ayywared very proo
ixis im syapashy bus soure tolloves that his sympesháes could
be bought. He ataied that Jirhi eppeared mmusmally religloms
and spomt ecasiderutle time readin religious beeks. this seuree
stated that Jorh'n Ire ountinuod co rine alled mmmaimos and
newapapers to prison sor hor husband und that Jor weed te sarm
 Vr  CUI RMO OTTO IDLIT  JUA HARY 
esplomnge agomts, who were lso imprizoned at that time
 uree D advised hu had no iden or now mmek meney
Jorns hud reseived fron the Japanese but that his wife mmst
have reseived noney after Joyg's arrest deeause she seomed
never to leek rosourees.
souree  demeribedI  a follow
45
Hoight
58
weighs
180
suile
Fat
Mair
Blaek, surains urey ever
the ears
Appearance
Lasi o mosthe
unimtelligoms.
Souree D stated thst Jorx was released frem prásen
ea May ss, loss. arser his release he coztizmed en friemály

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.77)
serms with propriesers or che confiseria "Les Des himes" s
Alima fon and she Hesei colon ut Chacuduee zal. the souree
stated that Jo: xl continues rouidins t Vapellata sfl
where he ean be roaehed y callin, telophone mumber Baray zels.
It ls noted shas tnie tule honu in reo istorod in the mame 
FOT  To O. CRTh t Lnl droa. soure D  
Joyrn was apparently uno :,loyed us of suptamber, loes.
Is nau been prevlously montioaed chat an umddemssfied
Imasvidual eunteted un v T ln buenos Aires at she Gashedrad
on etober 3l, Loss. It nan subsuquontly stated has tais 
dividmel wae probably named à N iDo snb rkR. I is kow h
she lmdivéamal Gn v t mctually contaeted was stayime as shas
sime at the Hotel Rol, corrientes 7s2. eheek of the suems
resisere t snis notel Ly curee , wover, show hat  eo
mamed n. nDo s  rn hus stayed t this notel simee loel.
Durine dis atay ln uenos iros u var wes alee 
contes wish an individuni belloved to be me of swe orothers
aamed ANToNIo nd  iNou HUNI tayin at he Motel POrtos
Del Palormo, Bante Pe aleu, Buonos  iros.
Investigasion conduolad dy souree I la septembes of
lyut showed that shesu two urothers nad reeously agaim beem
ia Buemes nires, having iurt  usust .5. They apperoasly say
at sh:s hosel when in Buenos ires. lt was aseertalmed by
Buuree Lhn thoy are known n utockruisurs and sha bouioo
äRuni works, appurently, as an overseer un the estameia of 
Dr. CUTVu PUNYRD own a "l Har. Thi l
is lecuted nour the town or Jahan Loeuted abent one hundred
zi les fro Buenes tres in the rovinee of Bueaes Alres Ao
ceráias te hel employees the p nl urotuers have been prezís
in syapathy curing the war. This epinien was Dased on ssate
sonts made by she urothere and was belleved by the employeos
so De due bo sheir Itallan doseons.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.95)
Jederal Bureau of Inusstigution
United States Department of Justics
Mashington, D. C.
PERS ONAL AND GONT-IDENBIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
IN REPLY, PLEASE REPER TO
MAY 231946
FILE NUMBER
1946
Dato:
Maroh 26, 1946
EPARTMENT OF STATE
D<1R
To:
Mir. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
From:
John Edgar Hgover - Director, Fedefal Bureau of Investigation
894.20235/3-2646
Subject:
Nabuo Yatoh, et al
Argentina
You will recall  revious communioations regarding
Nabuo Yatoh, a Japanese a ent whc visited several Latin Amorioan
countries and who was deported Irom Lima, Peru in 1941.
There is transmitted herewith information received from
a reliable source rerardint statements made in Buenos Aires,
Argentina by Magoichi Hiramatsu concerning Yatoh. The name of
Hiramatsu, a former businessmen in Bolivia, was contained in an
address book found in the possession of Yatoh when he was deported.
This information is available to the American Embassy in
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
DEPT. OF STATE
DIVISION OF
SECURITY
CC
Chief of Naval Intelligence
SY FILE COPY
MAY 2 7 1946
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
FILED
Feturn immediately
Assistant Chief of Staff G-2
t SY upon completion
War Department
necessary action.
Washington, D. C.
894.20235
Attention: Reading Panel
Military Intelligenoe Service
C
S
4
DECLASSIFIED
4.1141
N42 280049
-2646
By Ihf cy
NARS, Date 8.27.2

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.95)
PERS ONAL AND
BY SPECIAL
Date:
Maroh 26, 1946
To:
Mr. Frederiek B. Lyon
Chiaf
Division of Foreign Aotivity Cerrelation
Department of State
Froms
John Edgar Hoover - Direotor, Federal Bureeu of Investigstien
Subjeet: mabue Yateh, et al
Argentina
You will recall previous communioetions regarding
Mabue Yateh, a Japanese agent who visited several Latin Amorieam
countries and who was deported from Lima, Peru in 1941.
There is transmitted herewith information received frem
a reliable source regarding statements made in Buenos Aires,
Argentine by Magoiohi Hiramatsu concerning Yatoh. The mme af
Mirematsu, a former businessman in Bolivia, was contained in am
address book found in the possession of Yatoh when he was deported.
This information is available to the American mbassy in
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
 Chiof of Maval Intelligenoe
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
Assistant Chief of Staff 0-2
War Department
Washingtem, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel
Military Intolligense Service

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.97)
Fobruary 20, 1946
Re: NOBUO YATOH, et al
Buenos Aircs, Argentina
Invostigation in Argentina has boen conductod into
the activi ties of a Japanese namod MAGOICHI HIRAMATSU, who
was in contact with the Japaneso NOBUO YATOH by corres-
pondence prior to the latter's ropatriation fron Bolivia in
the middlo of 1943. Y4ToH was suspocted of Japaneso ospionage
activity and the naturo of somc correspondcnce exchanged by
him with HIRAMATSU in Buenos Aires indicuted HIRAMATSU might
be recciving political and economic information for forward-
ing to Japan. It is notod that HIRiMATSU had boon the owner
of a business locatcd in La Paz named Casa Matsuya.
Invcstigation of HIRAMTSU's activitios by Source C
since March, 1945, indicatcs that hc continucd rrsiding at
the rooming housc at Callc 11 do Sopticmbre 1720. Hc custom-
arily lcaves this house, located in the suburb of Belgrano,
carly cach morning and travols by commuters train to Retiro
Station in the conter of Bucnos ircs. From thore ho travels
by subway to Ccnstitucion Station and walks to the Bucnos
Aircs Japanesc Grammar School located at Patagoncs 840.
Previous information indicated that he is cmployed as
instructor there. HIRiMATSU was scldom scon lcaving this
school and apparently ate lunch there on most occasions.
Activity of a subvorsivc naturc cr appcaranco on his part
was net cbserved. The investigation did indicate that
HIR/MATSU 1s frequontly in contact with a Japanoso named
TOYOKICHI MOCHIZUKI who Cic reside at Uspallata 489 but
moved in June, 1945, to Callc Humberto 1663. It 1s noted
that thc latter Japancso is rathor pronin nt in local Japanes
affairs and has beon in argcntina for over thirty years,
boing an officer in the "Thirty Year Sccicty".
HIRAMATSU was interviewed by Scurco D on January 10,
1946. It is noted that statoments mado by him to the source
are not necossarily true, although HIRAMATSU appoarod to
speak frankly. His attitudo during this intorview was rather
belligorent. He stated that ho had resided in Bucnos Aires
since June, 1942, having come directly from Bolivia. Ho know
YAToH in La Pas, sineo tho latter had arrived there a yoar or
- 1 -

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.96)
two provious. He statod that Yaton had always bcen an
employeo of minor importanoe in Japan and that hc is suro
YAToH was never connocted with the Japancsc Government. He
statod YATcH was not viry intolligont and that he came to
South Amcrica from Japan in 1939 for thc purpose of obtain-
ing rrpresrntativos in Latin Amcrican countrics for firms
in Japan namod H. YAMAMOTO and Company and thc Japanose
Cotton Trading Company, Ltd. YATOH was caught by the war
in Belivia and could only rcmain thorc until ropatriated.
As timc passcd YATOH's circumstancos bocame straincd becauso
hc could not rrccive in Bolivia moncy from his companics
in Japan.
HIRAMATSU statcd hc himsclf had no conncction what-
soover with the firms ropresentcd by YATOH; howover, YATOH
scnt him scvcral messagrs to forward to Japan by commeroial
radio mrans. These mcssagcs wore in English and sincc
HIRAMATSU does not spoak that languagc he was not sure of
thc contonts. Howover. It was his Impression the messagos
doalt with family mattcrs and had to do with his cxponses
and other matters concerning his business mission. HIRAMATSU
reprated that he forwarded thoso mossages purcly through
friendahip and bocausr YAToH could not son'd thom from Bolivia.
Hc said he had no other connection whatsorver with YAToH and
had certainly cxorciscd no control over his activitics.
Previous information indicated that HIRAMATSU had
contact with the Japuncse firm Yamada y Compania in Buenos
Aircs. HIRAMATSU told Scurcc D that this contact was only
in connection with business since he sometimcs bought goods
from this Burnos Airrs firm to send to La Paz for salo in
his store therc. Previous information also indicatod that
a notobook carrird by YaToH during his ropatriation contained
the name of NATALIo DInSITZ and in connection with this namo
the address of Garcin y Compania, Calle Genoral J. Cesar
Diaz 2475, Bucnos Aircs. HIRAMATSU statod that hc knows
DIMSITZ but only to thc cxtent of a spcaking acquaintance.
DIMSITZ is an Argentinc about thirty-fivc ycars old who was
cmployed about thrcc yrars ago as a salcsman for YAMADA y
Compania. HIRAMATSU kncw nothing about Garcia y Compania.
It 1s also rccalled that YATOH's notobook contained
thc following in pencil: "Arturo L. B. Wanechkc (spy),
Condarco 4064". HIR MATSU told Sourcc D that hc knows no
such porson and knows nothing about the houso at this addross.
He likewise stated that he had never heard of a HEINZ JOACHDM
LUDWIG, whose name also appearod in YATOH's book.
. 2 

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.96)
Conccrning himsolf, HIRuMaTSU stuted that he has been
in Latin America about seventeen ycars. His business in La
Paz dcaling in imports and exports was formorly quito remuner-
ativo and ho stated its valur once amountod to 250,000 Argon-
tinc pcsos (approximatoly 62,500 U.S.) but that 1t has sinco
been liquidated and aold for practically nothing. Ho stated
that the Japanesc he hud loft there in charge of the businoss
have all bron interned in thc United States. In argentina
his financial situation had bccome progressively worse and
ho presently has a small businoss at Cabildo 2969, Buenos
ires selling lacc work and dry goods. His total asscts now
qual about 3,OOO U.S., HIRMATSU statod, and his business
is adverscly cffectod by his inclusion on tho U. S. Procl imed
List. HIRAMATSU seomod anxious to be cxcluded from this list.
He also stated that ho would likc to bo repatriatcd to Japen
since his wifc and children are therc. He apparently hopes
to roturn to Japan and then come back to South America with
his family to enter business again.
Information reccived fron Source E shows that HIRAMATSU
has Argentine Crdula No. 1539307 and that hc was born in Japan
Docember 20, 1908. Ho came to Argentina on Japanesc passpert
No. 098663 1ssucd in Tokyo 4pril 30, 1928.
Information obtained from Scurce F concerning NATALIO
DIMSITZ confirms that given by HIRAMATSU. Hc is  young
argentinc who has engaged in local business and coarcc
without much success. Hc apptrrntly took a trip to Boiivia
in 1940 and rcturned to Bucnos aircs in March, 1941. In
Deccmber of the latter year hr acted us managor for the firm
Garcia y Compania, which position ho apparently held until
November 16, 1943. Hc presently rosidcs at Ca1le Juan B.
Justo 294, Bucnos ir s, und is cngngcd in selling on conmissi...
Ho pays monthly rent of 130 pesos (approxiratcly $33 U. S.)
and apparently has littlr or no capital.
Information roccived from Source F concorning Garcia
y Compania, S.R.L. shows that this was a vcry small busincss
organized in Deccmber, 194l, with capital amounting to aoout
$1200 U.S. It was organizcd to carry on buying and selling
and importing and exporting. Busincss has bccn inactive for
more than tho past two years and apparontly amountcd to very
littlc. RiIMUNDO GARCIA, a Spaniard aged 64, was thc principal
partncr and hud proviously beon a customs brokcr. Other
partnors consisted of two young Argontine women. The firm was
located for a timo at Goneral Cesar Diaz 2475. It is roported
by the sourco to have not proven financially roliable and the
partners attomptod to defraud oreditors.
-3-

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.97)
Investigation has be on performed by Source G concerning the
occupants at Condarco 4064, an address appcaring in YaToH's
notebook. This invostigation revcalcd that the housc was
occupicd until mid 1945, and for scveral years previous, by
a German nancd LRTURO E. F. HANSCHKE. HANSCHKE 1s doscribed
as about sevonty years old, tall and hcavy set, a rotired
ongincer of the Compania Arg ntina de Electricidad. Hc
resided at this address with his wifc, aged sixty-scvon and
also German, and two childrcn. A daughter nancd IRuA 1s
about thirty-two ycars old, argontine, and teachcs; she
apparently also gives private Gorman lossons. A son namod
IRMo is alsc Argentinc and aged about thirty. He is an
ngineer and is employed as such in tho Ministry of war,
working in the Armamonts Scction naned Fabricacion do rmamentos
Militarcs. Invcstigation by Souree G showed that the
HANSCHKE family received considorable nail from Germany and
that they had considorablr contact with other individuals
of Gernan nationality in Buenos Aircs. Thc family prcsently
resides at Callo Carlos Mclo 2404, locatcd in tho suburb of
Flcrida, F.C.C.A.
Information rcccived from Sourco H shows that
ARTURO HANSCHKE was reportcd as a Nazi agent working at
the argentine Naval Base at Pucrto Belgrano.
- 4 -

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.94)
Isderal Bursan of Inusstigatiep2S
PAIRS
United States Depurtment of Sustics
Mashington, D.C.
diag.
PERSONAL AND -OOMPIBINNIAL
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
CORRELA
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
PILE NUMBER
1946
Date:
To:
Mr. Frederiok B. Lyon
DcR
Chief
JNTMENT OF STATE
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Direotor, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
Osaka Shosen Kabushiki Kaisha
Argentina
-894.20235
112
1445
894.20235/4-146
You will recall my letter of December 13, 1946 rogarding
tho above captioned conpanv, a Japanese shipping firm, which was
reported to be a Japanese esnionare center.
Thero is transnitted herewith a report received from
reliable sources concerning an interview with Enrique Saban who was
an accountant for the firm. It is noted that Saban admitted that
he subscribed to American periodicals for the benefit of his mployers.
This information is available to the Amerioan mbassy in
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
APR 24 1946
Enclosure
FILED
181946
oc Chief of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
Assistant Chief of Staff G-2
War Department
Confidential File
Washington, D. C.
Attontion: Reading Panel
CS/A
Military Intelligence Servioe
M. Laurion
Morekhea
PORyICTORY
BUY
wW
WAR
DECLASSIFIED
NNO 290049
By G/SMARS, Date 24.2

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.97)
Fobreary 26, 1946
OSAKA SHOSEN KABUSHIKI KAIBHA
Buenos Airgs. Argontina
It has been previously reported that the leeal
branch ofrice of this Japanese shipping firm was suspeeted
of being a Japanese espionage center. The offiee of the
firm was formerly located on the 7th floor of a besimess
building at Avenida R. 8. Pema 995, Buemos Aires. It was
indicated that an accountant for this firm mamed EmmIQUE
SABAn was, during the war, receiving United States Naga-
zines and newspapers on behalf of the Japanese personnel
of the firm. It was also reported that an Argentime weman
employee of the firm named MARIA RAMOS was receiving eopies
of the British magazine "Shipping World" at the address of
Calle V1llanueva 1355.
Information from Source C reflecting the results
of a conversat1on w1th ENRIQUE SABAN on January 10, 1946,
has been received. It is noted that there 1s no particular
reason for believing that the statements made by BABam to
the souroe are true, but his attitude during the conver-
sation indicated he was probably telling the trath.
SABAN stated that he has been employed by the
0.3.X. Shipping Line as an accountant since 192s. During
the course or time he became well acquainted with the busimess
of that firm and became almost indispensable in the matter
of arranging and caring for the firm's accounts in Argentima.
He stated that the firm has conducted no business sinee 1941
and that the financial situation of the firm and of the
Japanese personnel has become progressively worse.
SABAN stated that during the war he received
Ameriean newspapers and magasines for the Japanese members
of the firm. He did this at their request and reeeived a
commission for it. He stated also that he always considered
he would lose his employment as accountant for the firm if
he did not comply with this request. He listed the follow-
ing American magasines as having been received by him:
"Saturday Evening Post"; "Time"; "Newaweek": "Colliers".
Re said on ome occasion the Japanese reqmested him to subseribe
to am American shipping Journal, name forgottem, but that he

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.92)
subeeribed to amother Ameriean newspaper, the mame ef whish
minated in late 1944, apparently at the request of the mows-
papers thenselves, and Baßan received a refund whieh he
pookoted.
SABAN stated that the Japemese members of the
0.8.I Firm used to read and study these periodisals and
make notes. Le does mot kmow, he said, what they did with
the informatiom but considered it possible they semt sable
summaries of the information to Japam before Argemtima's
diplomatie break with that eountry 1m Jaamary, 1944, at
Le stated that it is likely also that some of the infer-
mation was turmed over to the Japasese Eabassy.  resalled
that the Japanese were partieularly iaterested in date
about Liberty ships and about Allied airerart. Be stated,
however, that he does not know of any other souree wsed by
the Japanese here to gain information about the Allied war
Newe Ageney, B. Mitre 552.
SaBal was asked about receipt of the Britich
magazine "Shipping World" by ManIA Rakos at Villammeva 1sss.
E eonfirmed the fact that Beßorita Ranos had aeted as
watil Jyme, 1943. Me stated that she had l1ved ln the sub-
urb or Villa Brquiza and had mever resided at Villaseeve lsss.
TARO SUKUGaVA, who wsed the Bame of NARIA RANOS as a alias
fer the reeeipt of this magasine and perhaps others. le
stated that MaRIA RanOs is now married and she mo lenger
has anything to do with the Japanese. Ee likewise stated
that she mever kmew about this use ef her mame fer the
ressipt of publieations althongh his iasistemee om this
- 2 -

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.96)
Ne stated that the Argontine ANtomIo J. DB
BOUZA formerly conneeted with O.S.K. as represemtative la
Buemos Aires, continued in employment by the firm mtil
1944. Ne rece1ved a monthly salary of 3, 500 Argeatime peses
(equivalent to approximately t87s U.8.). He stated alse
that souzA had acted for the Japanese in receiving coples
of the British magazine "Fairplay", which he pabeeribes
to through Nitohell's Book Store located at Cangallo B70.
SABAN gave some detalls about the fimameial
situation of the O.S.I. Firm. He said that after the
start of the Japan-United States war, the firm here did
not receive money from 1ts principal offiee in Japam. Im
order to pay salaries to the personnel, money was berrewed
from the Japanese Ambassador SHU TOMII, in varioms amoumts,
whieh have now reached the total of 80,000 Argeatine peses
($20,000). On February 28, 1944, al1 Japanese persom-
nel or the firm were discharged except the mamager, SukU-
GAWA. The latter individual has the equivalemt of about
$500 U.8. in curreney at present and lives on about $2s
U. S. per month. He 1s doing some gardening to redmee his
living expenses. The equivalent of about $i2s U.8. remaime
in cash for the company, apparently in the position of
SUKUGAWA. The firm also sold its automobile for the equiva-
lent of $1,500 U. 8., which money 1s presently bloeked 1m
the Baneo de la Provincia and which SABAn is trying to
unblock for use by SUKUGAWA. In addition, the firm has the
sum of 10,000 pesos (about $2,500 U.3.) being held by the
local Panamanian Consulate, which sum is likevise bleeked.
(This amount represents transit fees which were deposited
by the firm in i94l on behalf of several employees of this
firm in anticipation of their returning to Japan, a trip
which was not made.) The firm likewise has 7,000 pesos
(about $1, 750 U.8.) on deposit with the Argentine Goverm-
ment as guaranty that shipping committments will be carried
out; this guaranty is 1dentical with that placed by all
shipping firms operating from Argentine ports.
SABAN stated that the O.S.K. Firm in Argemtina
is practically liquidated and amounts to almost noghing. A
steel riling cabinet and a few of the firm's books are being
kept in a room, apparently located in a boarding house at
Calles Guemes 324l, Buenos Aires. The former persoanel of
the firm who have been diseharged are engaging in various
activities, ineluding gardening and hortioulture.
- 3 -

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
WAR DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF WAR
STRATEGIC SERVICES UNIT
GA
25th  E STREETS, N.W.
to
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
L4-10,373
2 April 1946
ECLORK
fite
1R
1946
Memorandum for: Mr. Jack D. Neal
Department of State
Subject:
Boris SAPIRO
1.
The attached memorandum is transmitted for your interest.
894.20235/4-246
Information on subject is also being furnished the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.
3.
It is not known whether this information has been made
available to any representatives of the Department of State.
faen Caye .
VISA DIVISION
MAY6-1946
Jason Paige(Jr.
Liaison Officer
Department of Sret
Attachment
894.2023
CS
4-246
SECRET

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
MEMORANDUM
Ro:
BorL SAPIRO
A cable from Shanghai, dated 22 March 1946, states that on
11 March 1946, Boris SAPIR0, who is alleged to have been an agent of
the Japanese Gendarmerie, sailed from Shanghai on board the S. S.
"Doctor Lykes." The "Doctor Lykes" is reportedly proceeding to a
Gulf port (or possibly Gulfport, Mississippi, is meant) via Hong Kong,
Honolulu and the Panama Canal. SAPIRO, who has a U. S. Consular
transit visa and whose passage is guaranteed by CNRRA, (Chinese sion
of UNRRA) is en route to Argentina. SAPIRO is stateless, of Pre
origin, was born on 21 January(1946)and is an actor by profession.
1910
joy
8715747
SECRET

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAL
No.
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Buenos Aires.
The Secretary of State tranamits for the information of
894.20235/4-246
the Embassy a copy of a report dated April 2, 1946 receiwed
from the Strategic Services Unit in regard to Boris SAPIRO.
Enclosure:
A stated above.
her:
4-9-46
8
APh 11
A
0
29
Cx3

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.95)
BECLASSIFIED
wN) 20069
PARTMENT OFS
By Ga MABs, Dato 2.2422
OFFICE OF
AN HEÉPUBLIC AFFAIRS
Eeheral Bursau at Inuestigutien
01946
United States Department of Sustics
Mashington, D.C.
gEsy
PERSONAL AND -SONPIDENTIAL
IN REPLY, PLEASE REPER TO
BY SPECLAL MESSENGER
35
Date:
April 3, 1946
APR 3 1946
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon, Chief
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
席
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
DC
Department of State
346
From:
John Edgar Hooyer - Director, Pederal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
Ryokichi Nagai; Suetaka Hayao;
294.20235/4-3045
Dr. Alberto Goes Telles, et al
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Raference is made to my letter dated April 30, 1945, conoerning
the above-captioned matter. Additional information concerning the activities
of Isoma Kobayashi is set forth in the attached memorandum. It will be
894.202351
noted that Kobayashi states that personnel of the Nambei Trading Company
extracted information from Allied newspapers and magasines to submit to the
Japanese Embassy in Buenos Aires until January, 19lh when Argentine-Japanese
diplomatic relations were broken.
Enclosure
PORYICTORY
CS/A
BUY
CC
War Department, Washington, D. C.
File
1-346
Attention:
Reading Panel
Military Intelligence Service

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.93)
Pebruary 16, 1946
RYOKIOHI NAOAI; SUETAKA
HAYAO; Dr. ALBERTC GOES TELLES, et 
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Investigation of braneh offices of the Japanese
Mitsul Pirm in Rio de Janciro, Buenos Aires, and Santiage,
Chile, has diselosed espionage activities on the part of
persennel of this firm and communications betweem the
bramehes in these cities in code. Investigation in Buemes
Aires has been eondusted into the activities of the per-
Company, located at Calle J. E. Uriburu 1263, Buenes Aires.
A part of the investigation of Nambei has dealt
AsKI. KOBAYASHI has resided in an aparment at Juramente l8es.
Purther investigation of the activities of KoBaYAsnI during
mid 1945 by source C failed to diselose astivity en his part
of interest. He went daily to the Nambel offiee and returmed
in the evening to his home. During these trips he was
unsceempanied.
It will be recalled that kovAYashI was arrested by
the Argentime Pederal Poliee on charges of espiomage in
Pebruary, 1944, and was released on Nay 27 of that year.
Sewree D has supplied the results of the police questieming
of kosayasHI, which are set ferth in sumary as fellewe:
KOBAYAsHI stated he is of Japanese matienalig,
yeare. He has been working about twenty-five yeare im
the Nitaui Company, a Japanese importing and n
his Jowrney to Now York.
There he received a message frem his heme effiee

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.91)
tHO fOllOW1nG! HARRUO KINURA, KONAZO TOSHIDA, HIBO
MEKATA, SENZABURUVSRINO, MASRÍOHIIROTA M BINICHI
TAkkDA. Later, at the request of his fellew coumtry-
men, he was made a member of the Instituto Cultarel
Argentino-Japanese (presently disselved). Ne die mot
hold any official position in it.
Seeretary of the Japanese Eabassy La Beasil end at
present an amployee of the Japanese Embasay, he replled
produetiem and general priees, eapecially of pubbee, in
cemmeetiem wi th North Ameriea. He obtained the nowe
he obtaiaed at any news stand.
About two years ago he received erdere not to send
any mere news 1tems, since prices in the United states
reason it was not necessary to cempare them with Jepanese
priees. He did not forward news items referring te
milltary or marisime questions, and dees met mew if there
was another person assigned to do that.
The Nambei Company has branabes in Chile and Brasil.
The empl oyees of those branahes have returaed te Japen,
anee of the employees of the company.
In mermal times it ia an obligatien to ferweed such
news iteme to Japan and, therefere, it dees net at the
He has recei ved many messages La eede fres Japan,
but that was befere the war when 1t was permisted. le was
sent time they send copies of balansee and bank escoumbe

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.89)
of those branehes. These communi cations were Prequemtly
made through the company's lawyer, Dr. RDUARDo ORmsPO.
When the representati ves of the branehes La Breafl
Jevernment arrested them. Arter stepe were tabem by the
Japanese Rmbassy, MIYASAkI was allowed to leave Chile.
TON IYO KOSKKI and SHOZO URAI beGASe the three a
scheel in Japan toge ther when they were children. Bo
stated that this friendship continued in Argentimm.
KOBAYASHI was further interViewed by Souree B em
January 5, 1946. At that time he stated that the emly
Japanese astivity of an intelligenee nature earried en in
infermatiom ebtained frem Allied newapagere and magasimss.
did with the information but assumed that it was sent te
earried on until Argentina broke relatiens with Japen la
一3•

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.94)
Japen after ceiling prioes were well established in the states.
KoßaYasnI was asked by the souree exactly what kind of infes-
firas in Buenes Aires were similarly engaged im the estraetien
of infermation from other U. S. and Allled periodieals fer
transmittal to the Japanese Embassy and named feur of these
firms whose personnel were so used as followe: Iwai y Gias
Okura y Compania. He likewise stated that the Japamese ess-
respondents of Japanese news agensies in Japen were alse
AsHI told Sourse E that the Japanese Rabassy had not, earing
he is friendly with the Japanese Ambassador although this
friendship does net antidate his arrival in Argentima.
KOBAYASHI stated that this work of reviewing Allied periedi-
cals was not well organised by the Japanese Embassy and thas
their work apparently lost some of its effeetiveness beeause
of the absenee of real direotion.
KOBAYASHI was asked by Source E regarding the send-
ing ef a message to M ItsUI employees in Sansiage, Chile,
(It will be noted that previous information indieated rather
definitely that a eourier was sent from Buemes Aires te
Santiago at that time to make contact with these twe indsvie-
uals fer an unknown purpose.) koBAYAshI stated he eeuld met re-
HuBNER were apparently still in Santiage. Ne did met kmew,
similar to the review of magasines and newspapers sondusted by
his firm hore.
- 4-

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.96)
He likrwise stated that he doos not know of any
such activity being carried on by any  ITstI personnel in
Brasil.
KoßAyASHI was asked by Source H regarding Dr.
ANDRADE FEGUIRA and ALHERTO GOES TELLES in RIO de Janiero.
(It is noted that information previously received indicates
that KOBAYASHI wrote to Japanese employees of MITSUI in
Bras1l through these two named Brazilians. KOBAYABHI
stated he does not know FFtuIRA but that he does know of
GOES TELLES, whom he described as administrator of the
MIrsuI branch in Rio de Janeiro. He also advised that he
kmows RYOKICHI NAGAI, Japanese employee of MITSUI 1n Bras1l
and that he believes NAgAI 1s presently in Bao Paulo.
KOBAYASHI was asked about a Japanese named YAMAMOTO located
in La Pas, Bolivia; he stated that he recalls sueh an
individual, a MITsuI employee, as having been in Bolivia
but that he does not recall YAm AioTo's first name nor does
he know where he is at present.
KOBAYASHI was also asked about the whereabouts and
aotiv1 t1o of ANTONIC VGONZALEZ and FLORENCIO CAM PO. (It 1
noted previous information is raported that these two Argen-
tines were being used by Japanese in Buenos Aires as mail
drops.) KoBayAsI advised that he does not know either ene
nor has he heard of them and he is certain they have not
been connected with his firm here.
KOBAYASHI told Source E that h1s firm has not
carried on any business worthy of the name sinee early 1942
and that at present 1t is 1ntervened by the Argentine Government
and 1s Inactive. He stated that he personally would like to
return to Japan if he could get employment there.
During the course of the interview Source E obtained
a description of ISomA KCLAYASHI which is as follows:
Ag - 47
Hoight - 5' 2"
Weight - 130 pounds
Hair - almost entirely gray, parted
on left side
Eyes - brown, wears rimless glasses
Teeth - good
Remarks - appearance average fer a
Japanese and is edusated.
-5-

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.92)
It is noted in connection with the above interview
of KOBAYASHI by Souroe E that there 1s no particular reasen
to believe that statements made by KoBAYAsHI are true.
CAm PO, 1t 1s noted that he was previously reported as am
have not been successful but it is noted that this address
was formerly occupled during the war by GNICHImo moRI,
because is did not arouse Allled interest while in tramsit.
It was previously reported shat mail was erriving
for the NA BEI firm at its former address of Laredal2ßs
residing. It was stated that this leader then turmed ever
the mail to members of the Nambei firu. Investigatiem by
Souree F during July, 1945, showed that Lareda l2ng is mow
ocoupied by a dentist nmed Ur. JULIO ARGENTINO PERNANDE
is arriving at this address other than correspondenee dirested
to Dr. PERNANDEZ. The souroe did ascertain that mail w
from other countries as follows: Switserland, Spain, Peru,
Paraguay, Brasil, Uruguay, Chile, and Mexieo. Mall alse
arrived from various parts of Argentina. It was impessible
for the souree to intercept any of these letters or esesrtaim
their eontents.
Considerable investigation has also beem comdusted
in the past regarding SUkKAZU d IURA, Japanese head of TOXe
MEuKa KAIsHA, a eetton firm in Argensina whieh is a Niteul
subsidiary. MIURA resides at Maure 2467, Buenes Aires.
Purther investigatien of his astivities cendusted by Souree
C during mid l945 failed so show his partieipation at that
almost daily to the Nambei offiee and that he seldem lert
heme to ge elaewhere. He resides with his family ef a wife
and three children. It was obeerved that en the aftermeen
of July 19, he appareatly tried te rind e certaia adéress
lesated In the 2300 blesk ef e1ther Calle O'Higgins er Arees.
Ne leeked earefully at buildings in the 2500 bleek of beth
streets but appeared to mot find what he was leoking fer. 
perusal of Buenes Aires cress guides fails te shew any
b20ots.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.94)
It was previously reported that the Mambei rimm
was waing post ofrice box 1893 in the Central Post Ofrice
of Buenos Aires for the receipt of mail. It was reperted
however, by Souroe 0, in Marah, l945, that this pest effgee
box was at that time registered in the name of odtAviolamo-
DARAY residing at Calle Independeneia 2273, Buenos Aires.
The bex was apparently not being used by Nambei persennel
at that time.
It will also be recalled that on January 2, 1945,
KOBAYASHI was followed to a house at the address of Baumess
2064, Buenes Aires. It was thought at that sime that this
house was oseupied by one OSCAR Ar WINGORD. Investigatien
subsequently performed by Souroe H showed that wInookb
named TAnO BUXAGAWA, the head of the loeal braneh of the
Japanese shipping fira Osaka Shosen Kaisha, moved iate this
heuse and has resided there sinee. The house evidemtly
consists of about ten rooms and it is possible that it is
oceupied by other individuals also. It appears that KomAXA-
SHI's trip to this address was made to talk with SUKAGAWA.
The yeung lady of Jerman appearanee who lead him te that
address 1n January, 1945, has not been seen subsequently.
It has been previously reported that an Argantine
named SIDNEY CARLOS SMITH was oonnected with personnel of
the Nambei firm and was possibly used by them. He: was
knewm in partieular to be in toueh with RINIOHI YOkoßoRI and
to be interested in the prices of platinum and other rare
metals in Buenos Aires. It appeared at that time thas mm
intended to buy platinum for the Japanese. Information sub-
sequently supplied by Souroe I in mid 1945 shows that mIm
was apparently interested more in the sale of platimm than
in its purehase and stated to the source that he had seme to
sell. Me did net spesiry the quantity of platimum in his
possession nor its souree. It likewise appears tmat mIth
1s no lenger conneeted with the NamI fira. After the
defeat of Japan, he apparently lost hope that the Japanese
would sesure him the kind ef empleyment he desired. Ne ad-
vised Souree I in August that he was planning te purehase
land in the Province ef Eatre Ries in erder te take ue agri-
fer a reported 61,000 peses ($15,250 U. 8.).
●7-

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.94)
In July, 1945, SMITh was absent from Buenes Aires
for about two weeks. During this tine, Souree I had meeess
to artieles and records belonging to ShIth whieh he left
in Buenos Aires; among these artioles there was found a
roughly drawn map of the southern part of the South Ameesesm
the eeater of Uruaguay, the only mark appearing en the may.
The Nature of this map and the reason fer the sirele dremm
in Uruguay could not be ascertained.
Information obtained by Souree I from Im
regarding personnel of the Nambei firm showed that Kizo
MECATA is presently residing with another Japanese entside
of Buemes Aires on a chieken farm; this farm was stated te
be lecated om the road to Lujan about 25 miles outside of
Buenos Aires, It was also ascertained by Bouree I thas
RINICMI YUKOBORE is intimately acquainted with an Argsmtime
womam named Sara INRaNZAs, apparently a woman of low mevals
whom YOkOBORk has been keeping in an apartment loeated en
Carlos Pellogrini.
- 8 -

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.96)
DECLASSIFIED
—JWA
—4ND 280069
DB
ETA-FC
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
By IC6 C. NARS, Dale 8.2Y 28
DY
DOTR
Mederal Bureau of nuestigation
88
Anited States Department of Justice
6
Mashington, D. C.d
87
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
2
IN HEPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
BY SPEC LAL MESSENGER
FILE NUMBER
Date:
April 3, 1946
APR3 1946
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon, Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
346
From:
John Edgar Hoover  Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
Ofelia P. Fernandez (Dario)
Buenos Aires, Argentina
As of possible interest to you, information has been received
that Ofelia P. Fernandez was suspected by the Argentine Federal Police
Conede
894.2023
of Japanese espionage. She is an employee of the Argentine Ministry of
Agriculture and it is reported that she was in close touch with several
officials of the Japanese Embassy in Buenos Aires. Additional information
concerning this individual is set forth in the attached memorandum.
Enclosure
FORVICTORY
CC
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Navy Department, Washington D. C.
BUY
UNITED
File
STATES
WAR
Attention: Reading Panel
S
BONDS
-346
AND
Military Intelligence Service
146
STAMPS
A

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.93)
Pebruary 25, 1946
OFELIA P. FERNANDEZ (DARIO)
Buenos Aires Argentina
Information was originally received that OFELIA
PERNANDEZ was suspeoted by the Argentine Pederal Poliee of
tine woman about forty years old, employed in the Mimistery
of Agrioul ture, and recel ved a salary equivalent to firty
dollare U. S. per month. It was stated that she lives
beyond these means and that on one oscasion she was gvem
reported to frequent Japanese homes, have contact wite
offielals of the former Japanese Embansy, and to reside in
an apartment at Anohorena 1592, Buenos Airen.
Past investigation has not showm her engaging in
subversive motivities. Investigation Gondusted by Bouree 0
during November, 1945, likewise failed to show sush aetivity.
although it would indioate further contaet on her part with
the Japanese. This souree reports that she has in the past
had contact with the following personnel of the former
Japanese Embassy: Ambassador SHU TON II; Secresary KRII UNO
Commereial Seepetary Y(SHIO NAKAM URA; Pirst Seesetary
GEN CHIRO CMORI: NAVAL ATTACHE KATSUMI YUKIBHITA. It W
reported by the souroe that she has in her apartmens phete-
from ten to twenty minutes on eaah oceasion.
Investigation conduoted by Souroe C shewed that
OPELIA PERNANDEZ is also in contact with she following
1ndividuals: CARLOS MADRAZO, engineer employed in the
Ministry of Agrieulture: ARNÁNDO VON ZEYLEN, Maritime
and that apparemtly their contact is of an intimate mature.
years and that she presently werks in that part of the inis-
-1 •

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.90)
try ef Agrieulture located at Paseo Colon 974, being
amployed in the Accounsing Secti on as a seeretary. She
Ls etated to new reseive a sum of 30p peses (apppedimately
$75 U.8.) inatead of 200 pesos per menth as previowsly
repeeted.
semplexien, and she apparently belenged to the Argenkime
Japanese Cultural Insti tute while that organisatien
funstioned in Buenes Aires.
Source reports that she receives mail frem the
Bahia Blanca, and frem other addresses in Buenos Aires.
The Souroe Peports that CPELIA PRRNANDEz USually
goes eash year either to the Province of Cerdebe er to
Bahia Blanea for ten or fifteen days, apparently em
vaeation.
- 2 -

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.91)
41801
DO/R
ARA
AIRGRA
1261
OOD
ESP
SPD
 cicun mbassy
Buenos Airee
late of mailing: m 44 2.1946
Roc'a 10:20,a.m. May 8
CONFIDENTIAL
Secrotary of stato,
894.20235/4-3046
Washington.
408
A一
APRIL
30.1946
When may I epuet iutormation from Japanese
Government and other urehlves an Japan coreerning
Japanese subversive activislos in Argentina?
GAROT
fted
5-14-46
1946
RkOakley: jad
yill
dential File
(LRC)

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.91)
JFB
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JUN2 71946
FOREIGN ACTIVITY CORRELATION
SPECIAL PROJECTS FILE
June 19, 1946
DIVISION
nail
de0
JUN2 1 1946 Bi
SPD -
3
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has gone
over the attached bundle of letters (which were
written on board the SS Wild Hunter) and reports
894.20235/6-1946
that they contain only harmless personal material.
Attachment.
James T. Lewis
Transmitied to Hed (Farm: D5.4)
107. Embasau. Buenea. Aires...
(aractad lears euty)
r: Delvoy to addrussn...
 SPD 1J: JTB 2se: 6-21-6
DECLASSIFIED
NND >80069
JUN 2.105
By T6-CY
Na95, Pote 8:24.28
FILED
FC:JTL10r

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PROFBOTS
SPECIALDIVISION
June 7, 1946
FC - Mr. Lewis
I attaoh a bundle of letters
which were written on board the
SS wild Hunter.
It is possible that these let-
ters contain some information of
interest in regard to Japanese
activities in Argentina and there-
fore that they should be examined.
After examination SPD will be glad
to forward the letters by instruo-
tion to the Embassy at Buenos Aires for
forwarding to the addressees.
1946
SPD:AEClattenburg: BB

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.92)
DECLASSIED
NN 280049
By.76 5
Ha. Date f 2Y2
n
Jederal Bureau of Inuéstigatin
United States Departmeht of Dusitce
Mashington 25, ..
Fon
HJe-/FC
IN REPLY. PLEASE REFER TO
June 25, 1946
FILE NO.
PERSONAL AND GOB
TO:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief, Division of Foreign Aetivity Corrlation
Department of State
John Edgar Hoover Director, Federal Bureaubr Investigation
DcDa
SUBJECT: OFELIA P. FERNANDEZ (DARIO)
894.20235/6-25
As of possible 1nterest to you there is transmitted herewith a
copy of a report concerning the captioned individual regarding whom infor-
mation was received from the Japanese repatriates during the course of
their interrogation in San Francisco, California.
This information is available to the American Embassy in Buenes
Aires, Argentina.
FEB 241947
Enclosure
FILED
A CC - Chief of Naval Intelligence
CC - Assistant Chief of Staff
GIOH OF BIGERAPNIC
Navy Department
Washington, D. G.
IATELLIGENCE
RECEIVE
5
Attention: Reading Pane
2546

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.96)
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Form No. 1
THIG CASE ORIGINATED AT
BUREAU
FILE NO. 105=621
REPORT MADE AT
DATE WHEN MADE
PERIOD FOR
REPORT MADE BY
WHICH MADE
LOS ANGELES
5-29-46
4/13-17/46
RICHARD D. AUERBACH
DRB
TITLE
CHARACTER OF CASE
OFELIA P. FERNANDEZ (DARIO)
ESPIONAGE - J
SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:
Subjeet, an argentine national, considered well known
in Japanese cireles at Buenos Aires, accerding te MASA0
TsUDA, Domei correspondent. Subject a close friend of
Assistant Naval Attache KAMkDA and SUZUKI, Japanese mewe-
paper correspondent.
- RUC
REPERENCE:
Bureau letter dated Apr1l 3, 1946.
DETAILS:
AT TERMINAL ISLAND CALIFORNIA
This report is predicated upon a Bureau request for interrega-
tion of the Japanese diplomatic repatriates formerly conducting the Japamese
Embassy at Buenos Aires, Argentina, who are en route to Japan via Les Angeles,
California, as to their knowledge coneerning the subject. This is a jeimt
repert of joint interviews condueted by Special Agent WILLIAM H. BUYs and the
writer,
The only individual who had any knowledge of the subjest was
Demei correspondent MASAO TSUDA. TSUDA informed that he knew the subjest very
wall and that she was well known throughout Japanese ciroles in Argestine,
According to TSUDA, the subject is an accountant and second in charge of her
section in the Accounting Department of the Argentine Department of Agrieulture.
TSUDA advised that FERNANDEZ had learned to speak Japanese in
an organisation known as the "Cirele of Japanese Friends," which was rum by
the Japanese Tourist Bureau, representative at Buenos Aires whese mame is
SHIMEZU. TsUDA noted that this group had very clese cantast with the
mbassy and was used to enoourage an interest in things Japanese in Argenkine
APPROVED AND
SPECIAL AGENT
DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES
FORWARDED:
IN CHARGE
COPIES OF THIS REPORT
Bureeu
2- Los Angeles
7-2084

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.89)
L.A. 105-420
matienals se as to present a syapathetic peint of view as to Japessse affaire
to the Argemtine poople.
Accerding to TsuDA, the subject was a vary clese friend of samme
SuzuKI, of the Japanese newspaper Mainiehi, and Assistant Naval Attache TABaRt
in intelligenee work but belleved that it was entirely pesaible thet shed
heve been se utilised due to her intimate social relatienship with a m
of varied individuals in the Japanese Colony.
The sub jest was not known to any other of twelve Japanese diplemstle
repatriates.
- RIPERRED UPON COMPLETION TO THE OFFICE OF ORIGIN -
- 2-

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.88)
BECLASSIFIED
NND 2800G1
By ZZ/CYNARS, DotO 8.24.28
Bsderal Bursau mt nuestipatie
Mashington 25, D. .
JUL 1 3194
IN REPLY. PLEASE REPER TO
Jane 26, 1946
YAK
PILE NO.
grwa
8ub
TO:
Mr. Prederick B. Lyon,
Chief, Division of Toreiga Mativity Correlation
Department of State
DC
John Mgar Hogter - Director, Federal Burean of Investigatien
890.25/1-2546
SUBJECT: ANGEL A. PETRONE
8-745
As of possible interest to you, there is transmitted herewitha
copy of a report pertaining to the abeve-captiened iadividmal, semseraing
whom information was received from the Japamese repatriates during the
course of their interrogation in San Framcisce, Califormia.
This information is available to the American Embassy ia Beenes
894.20235
m
Aires, Argentina.
2
Enclosure
3
ED
CC - Assistant Chiof of staf
CC - Chiof of Maval Intelligence
Havy Department
G-2, War Department
16
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. 0.
Attentton:
Reading Papel
9
Rilktary Patelligence
wn
0
9
7/

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.94)
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Form No. 1
BURBAU
1096.20
THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT
FILE NO.
REPORT MADE AT
DATE WHEN MADE
PERIOD FOR
REPORT MADE BY
LOS ANGRL"S
5/31/46
2/13=19/46
RTCHARD D. AUERBAGH
TITLE
CHARACTER OF CASE
ANGEL A. PRRRONE
FSPICNAGE - G & J
ASA0 TSUDA, Deme1 cerrespendent, states he asted as
SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:
Lntermediary for peyment to sub jeet as intelligence
informant fer Japamese Assistant Naval Atteche KmmmA
and Japanese vilitary Attaehe SuzuxI. Subjest charee-
terised as pre-Derman and Japanese and utilised for
Argentine pelitieal and military informatien.
- RUC -
REPERENCE:
Bureau letter dated April 5, 1946.
DFTAILS:
AT TERMIWAL ISLAND. CALIPORNTA
This repert is predieated upon a Bureau request fer imterrege-
tion of the Japanese diplematie repatriates fomerly condseting the Japameee
as to their kneuledge coneerming the mub ject. This is a jeins repert of jaims
interviewe conducted by Spesial Agent WILLIAw H. BUYS and the writer.
Interview was had with MASAO TSUDA, the Demed momepaper eerree-
paadent at Buenes Aires, Argentina. TsuDA noted that he had asted as am ister-
mediary in paying PERRONE for Japamese Assistant Naval Attache TADAsI KArmDA
and Japanese M1litary Attache Colonel CARL TOSHIHARU SUZUKI, and that he hed
paid pFRmowE 300 from each of these individuals semetime in way  Jume, 191.
TSUDA advised that during early 141 he had lived aent deer to
the subjest in the Safico Duilding at Buenes Aires and that fer a peried of
appreximately six monthe he did not know who PERRonw was. me eveming Pmemong
eame te TSUDA's roem, whereupen it was learned that PERmONE was a meekamie at
the La Premse Newepaper, and they talked general pelitical attere and streck
APPROVED AND
SPECIAL AGENT
DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES
FORWARDED:
IN CHARGE
COPIES OF THIS REPORT
2-Lee Angelee
7-20:14

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.88)
Los. 20g-.22
paper and asked TaUDA for leans, which TSUDA refused. TsUDA sald that as wme
about this time that he learned that prRRone was a contect and infement fee
Aoelsbant Neval Attache KAMwDA and Wilitary Attache SUZUKI, whe theughe very
highly of PRrroNy as an infermm.
he himself had never given FERRong any meney for informatden bessese he usé
to talk with him abeut the Argentine pelitical situstion, and ahet after e
eertaiming that PrRRCnr's information conserning this matter wms met mmsh god
he did not have angthing to do with him.
TSUnA advised that during the latter half of 142 Pnom e-
appeared frem sight in Buenes sires and that when he eame beck in early l9ks
anse. TsUDA stated that he diseouraged PPRRONE at this meesing and alee a
not bother him.
Accerding to TSUnA, PERRONE had told him that he had met a ees
and become a radie spesialist. It is TSUA's belief that PRRons had reve
been in Germamy fer this purpese and that he was a cemplete Germam and Japamsse
aympeshiser.
As far as TSUDA kmw, the information which PERRow. mpplied to
Rar DA and suzuXI ceneerned the activities er the military sroupe ia Argeakime
and their afferts to take contrel of the Argentine govermmemt.
TSUDA also advised that he believed PARRoNE to have beem a
eerreependent for a newspaper knomn as "l Reenemistiea" of Madrid, Spaka,
but was weable to furnish any additional information coaeerming this.
- REPERRED UPON COMPLUTION TO THE OFPICE OF CRIGIN -
- 2 -

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.94)
LAF
AIRGRAN
2104
ACTION:FC
INFO:
DC/E
A-R
ARA
FAoM American Eabassy
COr
894.20235/
JUL131946
72
JULー
With referonse to the opartmentts a1rgram no. 486
of May 17, l946, the mmbussy is in neod of the following
inforratlon soncorning Jupunese cubversive aotivities in
Argentina.
1. Jepanc o csplonage netivities, particularly with
rogard to members of tino lool colony who were used as
espionage acents und tho moans of sommunloation used to
transnit intolligence informatlon botween Buenos Aires
and Japan. hat extreordinary funds were available for
ospionage and proraganda purposos, and from what souroes
were those funds dorived?
2. Details conoorning control exeroised ovor Japa-
nose schools in Argentina by tho Japancse Government,
including the names of teachors sont to Argentina, the
extont to which the schools wcre subsidized, what text-
books and teaohing matcrials were furnished, and the
extent to whioh militarism and super patriotism were
taucht students in Jupanese schools hore.
3. To vhat degroe was tho Japunese Assoolation of
FILED
Argentina controlled and/or subsidized by the Japahose
Government?
350

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.94)
Buonos Aires
July , 1948.
- 2-
4712
4. What conneotion oistol between the Embassy and
such organisations as to To o Jommerce and Industry
Promotion Assoclation, the ionds of tho Japanese Language
Association, the Sadno  ndo Jultural Institute, the Japanese
Ghamber of Coni orce in rgeutina, and simflar drganigations.
5. To vhat extent did Japanese secret societies exist
in Argentina and in what, if any, espionage activities did
they nartioipate? The abassy during the war received
nuiorous unconfirmed reports of the existence of the Black
Dragon and Nippon Gawa socloties and of their esplonage and
propagenda activitios here.
6. Did the Daitoasho (Greater ast Asia Ministry)
maintuin a formal orgunization for the control of the Japa-
nese oolony in Argontina, nd if so what were its methods
of oporatión?
7. Were any cupion se, propaganda, or secret society
activities engagod in by bho Japanese gardenorst.organiza-
tions here, such as tho iver Plato Market Gardener's. As-
sociation and the lipar olub of the Buenos Aires Hortioul-
turalists' assooiution.
It is requosted that priorities bo assigned investiga-
tion of tire above aotivitios in order of their listing
lease mark any portion of the information so furnished
whioh should not be given the Foreign offioe.
LESSMRSHITH
Original (hecto raph) to Department; one copy
Copy to Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Copy to Mr. Thomas Mann, Division of River Plate Affairs.
DKBallontine:jad

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.94)
DC/R ROUTING SLIP
Buenos Aires
FROM
584
NO
894.20235/8-16-46
ACTION:
ARA
CCPIES TC
EUR
acD

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Buenos Aires, Argentina, August I6, 194s.
No.584
Subject: Note Verbale to the Foreign Office supplyins
Supplementary Information en Kinge Eawai.
CONFIDENTIAL
The Ambassador has the honor to enelose a eopy
of the mabassy's note verbale of August 8, l94e,
894.20235/8-1646
furnished the Argentine Ministry of Foreign Affairs
and Worship in response to the Mimistry's request
for information regarding Kingo KAWAI.
1946
CS/A
IP12194
SION OF BIOGRAPHIC
INTELLIGENCE
FILED
Enelesure:
depy of Embassy's mete verbale ef August 8, l94é.
erigimel (emalid) and twe cepies te Departmemt.
Cepy to Mr. Themas Mann, Ghief, Bivisien ef River Plate
Affairs.
F11e n0. m0.e2.
mallentime: jad
ar

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.96)
ÁIR MAIL
16,1046, 
mbassy at Buenes Aires, 
HOTE
VERBALE
The Embassy of the United States of Ameries
presents its compliments to the Ministry of Fereign
Affairs and Worship and with reference to the
Ministry's courteous note of July 19, 1946, request-
ing any information whioh the Embassy may pessess
concerning Kingo KAwAI, has the honor to inferm the
Ministry that considerable information comcerming
Kawai may be found in the Embassy's notes or Mareh 6,
April 10 and August 7, 1946. However, for the im-
formation of the Ministry the following additiemal
data in the possession of the Embassy is set forth:
Kawai, according to numerous reports frem
sources of proven reliability, was one of the leaders
of Japanese espionage activities in Argentina during
the recent war, having been in charge of certain
phases of Japanese maritime espionage in the Republie.
One of these sources has cited Mataiohi puRA, 
ITAGANA, Igo (Seikichi) OGAMA, and Tadao (Harma)
TsuCkIYA as members of Kawai's espionage net and has
further asserted that these individuals were fermerly,
at least, officers of the Japanese Navy who fer a
time carried on their espionage duties under the guise
of being crew members of trawlers belonging to the
Compafia Argentina Comercial e Industrial de Pesqueria.
According to this same source, these individuals later
were engaged in activities of a like nature under
Kawai's direction in Argentine port cities. Souroes
other than the ones cited above have confirmed this
report.
The Embassy avails itselr of this epportunity to
renew to the Ministry the assurances of its highest
consideration.
Buenos Aires, August 8, 1946.
BMB: jad

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.92)
September 6, 19
In reply refer to
FC:894.20235/8-1666
CONFIDENTIAL
The Department of State transmits to the following
the attached information in the hope that it will be of
value:
Military Intelligence Division
Office of Naval tntelligence
Foderal Bureau of Investigation
Rear Admiral J. !. NoCrea,
Director, Central Ddvision,
Navy Department.
Enclosure:
Two (2) copies or Confidential despatch
No. 584 of August 16, 19ls from the 5
at Buenos Aires, Argentina regarding "Note
Verbale to the Foreign Office Supplying
Supplementary Information on XING KAwAI."
LuN
FC: LMDrery: Jo
DSL-3X
11-14-49

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.91)
Soptambar 6, 1966
In reply refer to
FC :894.20235/8-1616
CONPIDENTIAL
The Department of State transmits to the following
the attached information in the hope that it will be of
value:
Mititary Intelligence Divisian
Office or Navat tntelligence
Federal tureau-of lavestigation
It. Col. Charles . Smith,
Chief, Washington Liaison Branch,
Rm 2D' B1h The Pentagon Bldg.,
Enclosure:
Threo (3) copies of Confidential deapatch
No. 58h of August 16, 1946 from the Bmbamay at
Buenon Aires, Argentina regarding "Note Verbale
to the Poreign Office Suppiyine Supplementary
Information on KIMO KAWAI."
118-
1
FC:IMDrury: Jo
051-31
11-24-45

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.80)
INCOMING
AIRGRAM
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
AIRGRAM
1946
PROL
Amertoan Sabasoy
Huenon ires
Dato of lling
RoOa
PANOWR nd FANJAL
88
AA
6
Secretary of State,
Wasbington.
2
0
2
3
5
à
6
Smbasay hee rovelved roqusst rrom Argentine Foreie
Minlstry Tor information conoorning following Germam omt
i
2046
Jupunese organizations:
lad lamán an Buenos Airoe
0óraoba 931
Ulub Aleán belgrano
Cuba 8410
Olub Alomén de Rosario
Jorriemtes 092.
(Ro)
ue do Ganto Garmanta
Almime s010
Jémase de Comerolo Alomane
20 de Mago 168
aab cán de Bquateaión
pohovosría 900
Aspesmesón Japenosa on La rgontina
Pategosso 040
mátn Gemmdaica es la Argantina
s0 de mape lac
G Aoin do Remo Toutanic
Lemalle s (Tigre)
Satametén Oultural Argancine Cermana
Cárdora val
Dastasasión Galtaral Sadm Ando
Defenma a1o
Rooledad lomana de Gmasie
Las Harno 060
(visente Zópsz)
 Alea parn anero
Carlos Calvo 102
Dulãn Alevans de Gremtea
Loreno 508
Mappén Tenais Club
Repabliquetes 1358
Congregeelón Cvangélice lons
Eameralda loe
3921894
工

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.86)
Rg res
Joytmbor, 2940
020
Sooleded Aioana de Glmnasia de
Aguetin Alvarez to
Valla Hahdester
(Ville Balloster)
Sooledud Alomana de Gocorros a Enfermos
25 de Mayo 140
Spolodad dol llospital. Alemán
Pueyrredon 1050
Donefidonela de Danms Alennnas
Aguero 1319
Sociodad Alemana do Beneficencia
Asopardo B04
Club Náusiob Cavlota
Rio Luján (Tigro)
Gentro de Ipucnieros Alemaneo
Barnardo de Irio
goyen 330
Gommnadud de Gatbljoos de Habln Alomana
Eatrada 653
amara de doarcio dol Japón
Gorriontes 390
Círaulo Japunls de Jonorcio en la
Vorrientos 330
Argentina
Federacian de las Asoclaolonoe de
Ogrrientes 330
Expertadores e L portndores del
Japón pasa lo Amórica del Sua
Orzaina de Tusisvo del Japón
Sata  3925-50
Taklo shoko shorelkan (Asoolaolón
para el Pononto del domorolo y
Chalo 19x0
Ba Injustrta)
Ualón de Representantes de Jasas
Alsina 2320
Japoneeas
Asoolaoidn de Oowerclanten Japonosce
Pederacian de Sociodados (it ls bolleved
that she word "lepolarest has been
anedvertantly omittod) Alomanas do
Duanos Alres y altodedores
aratish mmbasey has roooived identical note; eagion
will be coordinated,
Wilz: Deparoment pouse Furnisn as soon es possible any
Infermutlon obtained in Gormany of Japan concerning any of
these opgenlmatlons. Sunmary.memorande referring only to
date net furnlehed by this bmbaoey or by its Attacháy, wonld
be mose mebpful. form. Data desired includes any evidence br
subsbrsive ectivities, ofricial conneotions or orrioial sub
sidaes. Memoranda should be sont es completed and not held
amtil antormutzon on all orgnnizations is complote
Inppennestlon wath Japanose organizatlons please refen
Embumay airaram 922, July 5.
MSHERSMLTH
Original fhectograph) and ono copy to Dopartment.
Copy torMr. Thomas Sann. Division or Aiver Plate Atfairs.
Rroakleysjaa

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.84)
7e But fit ouu
pothey.com
why this information
Cant be feurnisleed
the Srg. Sait. Wo
you lans uny oljection
Nad

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.94)
To : RPA - M. Hoyt
orfice oF
ARLPUBLIC AFFAIRS
mo : FC - Mr. Bradford
0V5=1946
SUBJECT :
7.0.894.20235/
Please review these documents carefully.
You will have to make the final decision as to
whether or not they should be turned over to
the Argentine Government. Carl Spaeth used to
check things of this type very carefully before
putting them in the hands of the Perón Govern-
ment.
9
Sau Bracend
Attachment:
Draft instruction to
Buenos Aires re
Union Germanica en la
Argentina
FC:SEBradford:LBH

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.93)
BY COURIER
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED SPAYES(OFAMTERICA
13-27
Jel-rm Cummegs-Fe
MAIL ROOM
No.
1299
cm
man
in Sao Paulo, Brazil, to Japanese Agent in
Buenos Aires.
CONFIDENTIAL
PANJAP
98
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
894.20235/11-2
I have the honor to report that a previously
opened letter from Sao Paulo, Brazil. was recently
sent to this Embassy by the Divislon or Foreign
Interests of the local Swedish Legation, with the
request that it be delivered to Ryohei GASHU, its
addressee. Photostatic coples have been made and
are attached.
Gashu, accoraing to the Congressional Committee
Investigating Anti-Argentine Activities, was an
esplonage agent of the Japanese Government during the
war. He has been included among the dangerous Japanese
2046
suggested by the Embassy to the Argentine Foreign or-
fice for deportation (see Embassy despatoh no. 8 or
June 7, 1946).
Since Sao Paulo has recently been the soene or
Japanese resident in that locality, it was deemed
advisable to determine the contents of the communica-
tion. A Seoretary of the Chinese Embassy cursorily
<14X
examined it and declared that it was for the most
ARA
part innocuous. However, a few matters of possible
interest to the Department were disolosed. The in-
dividual writing the letter (name unknown because of
the Chinese ofricial's inability to pronounce Japanese)
ocD
inquired of Gashu whether he had in his possession
n
oertain Japanese motion ploture films whioh the writer
might be able to show in his Sao Paulo motion pioture
C
theatre. He also expressed interest in obtaining
3
copies of Japanese language newspapers published elther
1
CIG
in Buenos Aires or in the United States (Colorado,
EUR
Utah, and possibly other looalities).
894.20235
FR-INQUIRY SLRVICE
HE
No Japanese
BMR
FR (436)
RECORDING UNIT
FEB 7 1947
Wpr (photoetaaturpg)
Nez FER 101947

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.92)
AIR MAIL
-2-
Despatch no. 1789
No Japemese language newspapers are pmes
being published in Argentina. Whether Gashu in
reality has Japanese motion picture films in his
possessfon and whether he receives Japanese language
newspapers from the United States is not kmown to
the Embassy.
Since the translation was only oursory eme the
Embassy has no facilities for determining the smet
contemts of the communieation, the matter is beins
referred to the Department for any action deemed
appropriate. The original letter was returned to
the Swedish Legation together with Gashu's last
known address.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassader:
Dinron
pnselep of Mabassy
ragatied 1 photortat
With Origincal
Pdila

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.80)
NIPPAKU
CINEMA-SI
RUA SANTA LUZIA N.0 88
TEL. 2-3657 - C.P
END. TELEGR. "NIPCINE"
SAO PAULO-BRABIL
詩次
賀集九平國
月
航
日本映山人
d)
日
"NIPCINE SÃO PAULO
電話二六九七番野函十十七卷
以

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.86)
NIPDAKU
CINEMA-SHA
RUA SANTA LUZIA N BB
TEL. 2-3657 . CP.382
END. TELEGR. "NIPCINE"
SAO PAULO -BRASIL
北
十
者
9
中
年
w
n
11
4
it
殿
12
日本入
H伯
話六五七香郵師三八十七香
24.
NIPCINE" SÃO PAULO
2

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.92)
NO. 4472
DAMGEONGANCONSULATE GENERAL
bill
rue
JAN I1947
São Paulo, Braz 1l, December 23, 1946
1947 JAN 10 AM 8 54
JCIK
SUBJECT: TransmimaL pdophotostatic copy of letter
addressed to American Embassy, Buenos Aires,
Argent ina.
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
11.2046
WASHINGTON.
894.20235/12-2346
SIR:
89 4.20235
I have the honor to refer to the photostatic copies
of the letter, written in the Japanese language, sent
to this Consulate General by the American Embassy in
Buenos Aires accompanied by a copy of a despatch to the
Department No. 1289 of November 20 from the same Embassy.
These photostats were shown to Sr. Paulo Mdrita who
53
handles Japanese affairs for the Swedish Consulate in
São Paulo. Sr. Morita stated that the writer of this
3
letter was Masaichi Safto, Japanese owmer of a cinem
located in São Paulo, Rua Santa Luzia 88. He also stated
that this Saito was, as far as he knew, above sumpicion
and was not connected witpy any of the Japanose terrorist
societies in the State  São Paulo. The Japanese in
Buenos Aires, Ryohei Gashu, to whom the letter was addres-
1FC
sed, was little known to Sr. Morita but he had heard of
him as being a well known floriculturist.
LEAR
In the first part of the letter Saito mentions tnat
4ARA
six years had passed since they, Saito and Gashu, had met
JA
on the steamer Argent ine Maru on their way out to Brazil
1Dc/R
and Argentina from Japan. Saito then goes on to say that
he had arranged, wnile in Japan, for the exclusive distri-
5010
butorsnip in Brazil of one of the principal Japanese film
2.0c0
companies but tnat tne war started and he had been unable
aq
to do anytning witn tnis business. He then mentions tnat
Gashu had some Japanese films in his possession, two es-
pecially, which he would like to have for exhibition in
3ear
m3
Brazil. He suggests that he might be able to exchange
7films he has in São Paulo for tnem.
19
In the last part of the letter Saito tells Gashu of
the conditions in São Paulo in which fanatic Japanese
have organized terrorist societies and have threatened
several important Japanese, among them the ex-diplomat
accredited to Argentina Furyu.
BM Ra
Respectfully your
bury
a.T.
Cecil M. P. Cross
American Consul Generdl
File No. 800
OWHoever: vsp

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.95)
AESTRICTED
FEB19100
RESTRICTED
No,
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Buenos Aires.
The Secretary of State refers to the Bmbassy's
A1rgram A-722 of July 5, 1946, requesting informatiom
on Japanese subversive activities in Argentina and sub&
mits the enclosed despatch no. 797 of January 3, 1947
from the Political Adviser's office in Tokyo. It will
be noted that the ofrice of the Political Adviser reports
that additional information requested in the above mentiem-
ed airgram is heing obtained. It will e forwarded as soon
as received.
If the information contained in the attached may be
of assistance to the Argentine Government in its program
of eliminating Axis penetration, the information may, at the
discret1on of the Emhassy, be passed on to the Argentine
authorities.
CSA
ni
W3
Enolasure:
stated.
894.20235/1-347
FC:HHBarger:m 2/12/47
RESTRICTED

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.94)
1/14/k
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
894.20235/1-347
File Designation
797
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
TJranery
3.1447
Date
Tokyo
From
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
4/20/76
Authority
Date
mnw
FBI/oParinn
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GSA FORM 7117 (2-72)
GPO : 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.92)
VIS UR
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
47 FEB13 59
Buenos A1res, Argentina, January 3 , 1949.
No.
1589
Subject: Noboru HARA and His Connectlons Witthe
Japanese Seoret Organizatlon, "Nippon Gawa".
CONFIDENTIAL
12
The Chargé a'Arraires ad interim has the honor to
transmit herewith a copy or a note verbale dated Decem-
ber 12, 1946, which was furnished the Forelgn Ministry
1n response to 1ts note or November 15, 1946. In this
894.20235/1-347
note the Ministry requested inrormation donoerning the
antecedents of the Japanese, Noboru HakA, and his ao-
tivities in connection with the Japanese seeret organi-
zation, "Nippon Gawa".
ACTION
CA0
FC
COPIES
208
EUR/X
rc
OCD
1-De/R
3-811
1-C12
3a
Enclosure:
the
Note verbale dated December 12, 1946.
Original, Ozalid, and one copy to Department.
Copy to Mr. Thomas Mann, Division or River Plate Affairs.
rile no. eso.os.
DKallentine:jad
FE8 24 1947
GFLA

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.98)
AIR MAIL
Emolosure to Despatoh no. 158
January 3 , 1947, from the Ameri
Embassy at Buenos Aires, Argentis
NOTE
VERBALE
The Embassy or the United States of Amerioa presents
1ts compliments to the Ministry or Foreign Affairs and
Worship and has the honor to rerer to the Ministry's cour-
teous note or November 15, 1946, and to the mbassy's note
or March 29, 1946, both relating to Noboru HARA. Tho
Ministry's note under reference inqulred concerning Hara's
connection with the "Nippon Gawa".
Hara was reported by nunerous sources or varying
degrees or reliability as a director or the Japanese secret
organlzation, "Nippon Gawa", which the Embassy translates
as "current of Japan". This entity is alleged to have been
engaged in esplonage and other forms or subversive aotivity
in the Republic or Argentina on behalr of Japan.
According to inrormatlon recelved from exceptionally
reliable sources, Hara was the director of a group or
Japanese maritime esplonage agents operating in the port
or Buenos Aires. These reliable reports indioate that
this group cabled or telephoned their informatlon to
Mainichi and Asahi news agency representatives in Madrid,
from whence it was rorwarded to Japan. All the Japanese
news agencies were used in many parts or the world for
the collectlon and forwarding of sucn informatlon.
The reliable sources cited above also maintain that
Sánchez, García y Cía., which was owned by Hara and a
group of other Japanese, was involved in these activities
and was the receiving and distributing agency for a large
volume of Japanese propaganda publications.
Hara's name is included in the list of persons sugges-
ted for repatrlatlon, informally submitted to the Ministry
by this Embassy and by the British and Chinese Embassies
on June 1, 1946.
The Embassy of the United States of America avalls
itself of this opportunity to renew to the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and Worship the assurances of its highest
consideration.
Buenos Aires, December 12, 1946.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Worship
of the Argentine Republio.
DKBallentine:epv/jad

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM!
ILE NO.
RECORD COPY
894.20235/1-347
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
--o0o--
AUG 20 1947

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.85)
UIT ST LI V
FOH JarAn
kyo, Janunry 5, 190.
4o, 797
JAN231947
SUBJLCTI
nequc:t for Inforation , ruinx Jspaaceo ubveraive
ictiviticr in argentina.
The initon  tates rolitical .virer n o the honor to refer
to the i  rtuent rirfrar. 146, uctober 24. 1946, requemting
inforrrtion : vrilnble in Jrmnn on Jeprnere auuverriva retivitins
21
i. .rientinn, rn! to onclome conir- of n merorrndun orred on on
21
interro tion of bsron clw comii, e bioirphicl sketch of the
:1
drron, and a letter ueted August 9. l46 from ar. F. G. Tilluan.
-irison ufficer in Chrgc, Counter Intelli ence Corp, to Colonel
i. . ood. civil Intolligoner nction. eneral kenduuarters, ro
Sarding  mro Tuda, rlire Lasro Tewis.
auditional inforrrtion along the lines outlined in the Jensrt-
went's rirarrm under roferenco is ocing outsined. This insion
will tranrmit the cats Fn they are roccived.
holosuree!
1. r.emorandus of interrogetion of
ron shu Tor11. iecember 12, 194.6.
2. Biophicnl erotch of baron Tonii.
3. Lotter reprming Ineao Tude,
Auxuot 9, 1446.
Originel rnd hectogreoh to Sennrtmont.
701.3
Caabbayilh
wZb/cx

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.81)
nclosure do. 1 to mptch o. 797 at Jany . 1947 fron the
United otrter roliticsl nivirer for Ji pan, Toxyo. on the subjoct
"aequent for Informtion e aruins J anese cubvercive activities in
Arsentina".
CC.Y
.YCI
rti,1
Gorp1 lr tion runch.
12 eceber 1946
ubject: nterro -tion of sr ron lu To. 1l.
ron Lu T. 1. J hone exb ss or to Arentino (a Jenuary
11  t11 t  of 1n retr1 tin to n. oril 1946). tated
tht t  (rentor titlhi try) did not nintain
'urmel ni ticn for the control of s nenese colony in urentina.
Ju t  th we o the riiistry iroli. the jurisdiction of the 
Poe 1 not ertent gond tho sco e nd area of crst aia. uo
iantur inteiurd bten t a Fte and the
a rey in.rntinn
 r pot the oestule ctncr of  uu Yu  (black
urgon) r nch or  other n tion liatic or ultraenationalietic
rociettes. ro.1I re liou tht. "it it curract for re to sey that I
i no n lude of te xitence f the or .I or other euch
oraniti ns in rtinn. or y  y not have beon en oran
izutin rch of tre I e I in ntinr". TII sdied tht he
 t. enoac  r ri e en  firet hrd of the torrorirtio
or ni:tions dc  xit a in rzil. eis corren onacnts hod
souht in itrvit vitn l: tborr c.1 on le repotrirtion fron
uenon irns.
P.     1     hd no
affilietion with the  esy other tan erb sey membera' posoiolo pereon
al friendohi, e itu memoers of this aa ci: tlon. The president of thie
organizt tion vol chu n e overy tro or thrt monthn with the chano of
the office herde rr serenting such firme in Ducnos Lires such ss the
useki termanio ne.
  CF T J G L  cod of
e small rou), rt in nurbrr. incluiin roup o. rontinr omen
students who wished to lrarn the Jrnencve lrn ue rnd foris of culture.
Tre -roup for tre most conteren erout three teschers (incluline HouhI
(fnu). ill : ctivitico of this roup come to an end vith the outbreak
of vmr in ecerber 19-1.
THe. saDno Ai Cu uiu ItiruIor wra project crried on by
hin,  dno,  all-to-do merchunt denlin; in tho rt goods lino.
(anio otill resides in ucnom hiree), vno finenced irei studonts in
neod of money: ap:x rently n lorned sums of money to much studente
on the unicratnndin: th=t the monny could be  in back at a later
period vith  elight intercrt chnr'c.
Ts lorIcuLPUhIsTs SocIAtIC we cororiord of individurl such
 TAxaICKI. llu, FCaI, and othor ll nown Jerncee florist in
Buenos Aires. fu.II daclrred th't thie proup could bardly be deccribed
es  propegendn roup. vince it wm ornized rainly for tho promotion
of the florintr' buriners in holding n yuarly flerml exhibition.
THEV

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.86)
● ? -
nolosure o. 1 to
Tokyo's remntch Ho. 797.
Jnnurry 3, 1047.
P. AIV.n rLat rr Sawi. . cClutIch ineluded Japanne
ve table and whert groere aund ferners in rnd eround suenom Airee
vho formen thir orgenizntion mainly to frcilitate the murehee rnd
ulstribution of frrtilizers pmon-at ite Fouber.
Pl J cntlo   oxinted without liniom
vith the Ja:wnemn sorelgn uffice nnd wves com rieed ontiroly from the
rouus of rrsicantu loonl within ar-nntiun. nftrr the outuroek of -ar
in vecomber 194l, thn nmocirtion ws diumolveu by in order frow the
Arcentine toverwent. Tu.il  ecificelly etrted thrt no eubeidieries
wore rver rnceived for trin eaociption fror, the Je none Government.
ixpenses of the i ssocirtion vore mirll rul met by cemberehi, feem and
Local donotione. (ros.Is ria llrd n vin:  de a sunll Jonntion). The
aunocirtion wro =rinteined for benefite of local :nd other Jepnnese
rouidouts iu .r. intin vith project inclutilng  play. round, school.
and e ennitr rium located in Coriobs for Je rnroe tuberculer patiente.
Any Jmpencnn rmciding in .r xutinr ms eli.,ible for simittance to thie
sanit:riwm.
Irior to tho outbreek of mr oetveen Jupen (nd the united states.
the Jspe.ece enmbe smy funds of ur antine rere hrudled through the
Yuzuhs. sr. CI. hifl. ith the outbroek of tne r fur.lI handed over
the emb: sey funda to tie uwins re tion, except for a arrll mmount for
exponser. fter argentins broke off diulorstic relntione vith axie
countrier in Janurry, 1944, the entire fund, including TotI1's pereonal
 ccounts, were h ndled throwch the ivisn Loytion whose reprosentetive
forusried continunus eyrense rccounts to the eabr roy  roup who were
interned at Coruobc. Hever at nny tle. eteted TOnII, did the ambesmy
have sny fiuenciel denlin with Janco nan (of vhich d, trdeo is
reportodly thue presioent. ee full Iongth rewort of Tou , szao).
Thouch the ombriaay funde were hendled through the Yokohean Specie
Benk, ite presilent, Kt.niluu, Yiyozo, never know for whet pur..one the
ambreey used its furuia, coufiientinl or othervirr.
Tonlt loio shun.Ikan. F ron Tu.II aid not racouize thi nomm,
Forsonalities:
Tui.I1 strtod thet tho t pe of work crrried on by the wilitary
attachos Yurloilfu, tetouni (imarudmirrl rnd knval tts:che) end suzukI.
Toshikxu (.ilitary .ttrche) wee not knom to him. Tnnir orders and
cirnnele of conaunic tlonm wire not vithin the eubrsny s sphore since
the oruor of tly wilitary rttrchrn were liractly to rud from the
Jojenese war s.inistry. To..Il furtlher : sscrtad tlut ncte of eapionmge
were impoesible within the mabssey circle cince ull were lwnys unuer
olome scrutiny rnd check by the ar.,ontine overuent rfter the initiel
rttrck on rearl erbor.
Tus.II strted shet ho nrd never ismued nn order for tiu Japenose
imbrany in urgentiur to mrintain linison with Tutin, remao ne i souros
of iafornation. Cn the contr'ry, Tol.II plus other ambrmey pembere were
far from being on friendly torms with Tuuu (Dowei correswonvent in
Uuenos nires. ime full lensth re,ort of TsU, iano) who hrd stated
thet he hed been en interundinry for To.lI to remmorate mavub, Femmmndes.
employed with Pinanne :nsinn, for sy inforw tion regarding the
trantment of Japnern in Israsil. fU..II rdmitted thet he had bmem

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.85)
- 3 -
inclomure .0. 1 to
2oo' wt o. 7?.
Jauw y . 1947.
nnxiour to loprn of the stntus end trostoent of Japimesn residante m
rasil, snd thareforo, i wont nmuul to rtsil sith she parpese of
snecins tre infortstion, nuui raturneu out the informsiom hm bsom
orck wes of little value. Conditione as controlled by the rasilamm
muthoritios hrd ullored littlo if ny frrodon in socuring this safem
tion. Pus II rdded tht exionso plun  sell romunertion (amoumt met
rea lled) for haoil's sorvices wore forwardou through fullte pesmtees
from the ominey, out hetler r hn been the pctual intemodimsy
or not vu unknown to Tol.II, since the funds wore Irndlea through she
enbs:say ofilce rut notrrourlly.
Fi. Urelins Tu.lI dore unt rocell thin peraon whom Tu
hrd clai: ed to be r source of inforav:tion. (ian full lenith roport of
2)
xuinYailiI, Isomo: who s le a of the : itaui iFnbei Compeny in
duenom airer. Tur.Il steted tht thrir relntionmnin wme no core them a
friendly one. for.II n of the bolief th't uwYasliI wee not one whe
would en rge in csvionr a or wimilr rcts.
5 , el n A mcheic of the L l. Neopeper (o
full lon;tn reoort of SU'a). TuiiII does not recell much an individmel.
.UuI, shozos elployed rs in iterureter for the Jepomese
e sny in r. ontinr. vho alao b cirso of the rbreey fund.
vElunt10n:
.uch effort em put forth in the interro  tion to drew re mch
infor. tion  vossiole fron tv.If oy voth indirect and dirret questions.
but To. Il i: not an indiviiual prone to volunteer specifin end direat
inforuition upon subjecte (ns listed in  regrrpha 1 n.o,c.d.e.f.s. and
n of the che ck shoot) in considaratlon of the fact thit he wes the
sosrtdor (nd envoy-extreordinkry to rpantina.
first
It murt be remombereu twt thim/interrotion of ruiIl shoula be
followeu up with intcrro ftions of other repf.trirtes from tho Jupanese
aabssy in argeutinn mnd of other individurle santioned in tie full
len th report of u (ruin). iemno.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.88)
malomure ..0. 2 to apatch uo. 797 urted Janunry 3, 1947 fm 
Unlted :tetem rolitical udvirer for Jrpan, Tokyo. on the mabjoet
"equest for Infony tion negarding Ja enosn cubvereive votivities
in argentina".
curr
UNIT STAT Y U AFIC
Opertione, CI, 02
Compilation branch
11 vecember 1946
Subject: Tur11, uhu soron
Date of 1rth: 17 u. unt 1890
...ducation:
Juno 19l5 Grrdunted frop Tokyo Inporinl Univeroity, mnjored in Lew.
Cct. l9ls 1'fssed the state xrmins tion for diplows:to end conouls.
Cr reer:
11 cov. lolo suirned es snintsnt-consul to ukdeu, uahurin.
27 Lept. l916 Troneforrod to Rew York.
22 vug. 1919  zsined rs 3rd socratrry to mb: sey, nebinston, Doc.
3 uct. 192l as1 ned n rttacho to Jrprnnee .xle.;tion rttending
Jrshington Conference.
31 var. l923 delieved of iis dutice in uerica rnd nosined to
Foreign ninistry.
11 June 1923 .se1 med os an officinl of the Foreim 1.inistry and to
the 2nd soction, Informetion Dnp'rtment of Poreig
1.inietry.
26 Feb. 1924 Assi,med as 2nd seoretary to Smbrery to Englond.
30 June 192€ romoted to let scoretsry to .br smy snd msmigned to
ingland.
25 July 1927 ss1med es Consul-General to ottrwm. Crarda
20 July 1928 nssigned cs let seoretnry of the Legntion to Crnnda.
12 Sept. 1929 λesimml as lst secrntrry of the Embassy to Jnrmany.
29 aug. 1932 ass1,med as mncretary to foreinu inistry and as Cnief
of the Document section, Linister's Lecreteriste
(Foroln vinistry): end concurrently nesigmed ms chief
of the Trnnslntion iection, and Chinf of the ifficial
Gnsette iaport and tatintics.
Temporary comdssiomor, Hia Civil cerviee ixam.
Coxmistes,

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.81)
-2-
-nclosure to。 2 to
Tokyo espatch lo. 707.
Januery . 1047.
16 au. 1o ne1 med r coul- onerl to n Francinco.
23c. 19 succceded t tarn.
30 1Py 1036
si nad r Co mul of the  brasy to unglrnd.
26 . 1958
nsi ned  nvoy xtrorinry ond inieter leni
otentlry to n
15 0ct。1040
rlluve of ie duty s nvoy traorainry nnd minioter
: lenl otentit ry to cerada on hin om re luest.
 r. 1id eavo vrrlnary ne rbesuor rlen
otentirry : ai neu to rnti
? June ll srince concurrentlyv xtrordinery rne iniater
loni utent rud to rund ureurry.
20tL3 vid of nisboveost
lo u 1 elicv of ris duty  nvoy xtrtorainry and Aabaossdor
leni otnti:r to arti
1101920
Drcurttra ith the oth or er of the cacred Treaeuro in
reco n'tiin of nis comle duri tre let urovern er.
27104
corted vit the sin gle ry of the tieing bun in
reco.ittion for in servier for prrinton Conference.
25 ov. 1a5 becoirtes Ath the sth cruer of the ncred rmrsure.
7 Scv. 1ox1 Jecorrt d vith tle 4th urder of the sacred rrersure.
5 uct. 1936 Decoratet vith the 3rd crdor of the rcree Treasure.
29 hnr. 1910 ccorrtod with the iddle Cordon of the piciar sun in
recoguition of ris sorvice for cine Incident.
11 r. 1941 secorrt u vitn the 2nd ordor of tno rcren ireasure.
source: rerronrl irtory. Pervonnel -uction, Cebinet sccretariste.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.88)
-nclosure No. 3 to Lospstch No. 797 urted Jnmuery 3, 1947 from t
United states Polisical Advisor for Japan, Tokyo, on the sabjost
"request for Inforretion esarding Japeneno Subversive activities
in Argentina".
cuY
UNIT STATEL GEY FOLC. PACIFIC
I.TARY LNTLIGCE ECTION. GL AY
9 August 1946
The fullowinx informetion regarding Leare Tude. ellas Lasee Toude
was obtaincd from p lettor report made to Colonel . . Hood, Civil
Intelli once tcction, General Jinndquarters, bupreme Cormender Tor The
Allied rover. dotod 26 July 1946. by r. . G. Tillman. Federel Baremm
of Investigrtion Lintron Cfrice. Counter Intelligenoe Corpe.
HA1 LA.AO TU:A. 11 LAAO TSUDA
Hepr Colonel:
In responee to o ro uest from lat Lt. John  xmer. upecial
Intolll ence urench, the follovins date in oein, furninhed you con
cerning IAhc Tun and, more prrticulnrly, vith relstion to hi in
telli rncs potivitior in suenoe aires, ar entina,
Four news agencies in Japrn hed correspondents in suenos aires
on Deconbor 7, 194l, (iu TU.lh repreaented Dome1, TokUJIu FUnuT
wan correm: ondent for Yomiuri Hochi, sanudo suhukI for Lainichi, and
Taxhiwto Hututn. reprerented vonhi, rutuk ee repetrtated in
Uctober, 1943. snd wa reolaced by GIlcx1 Lil. Considoreble intel-
li pence inforiw tion nn transwitted to Jr pan throuh the meesrges of
the corres,poniente in late 1943 end Jinurry, 1944. Included in this
informotion were dats on U. . shipbuildint, arms produotion, oll pro-
duction, the development of new fuels and the increnaed permonnel of
the u. S. .rmy ir Force, the offect on trens,ortetion of the United
States railrord strike, ind the possibility of a settled poece in
the Pacific in the event of the defeat of 'rosident Jwomevolt in the
1944 election,
In isny of the mesnages sources ware named, euch ne Allied news
epency flashcs end Americrn newsprpere and urgasines. principel amons
thene boin the "Yew York Timen"." all trmet JourneI", "New York
Herld Tribuno". "Life". "Time" And "United Statem legesino". The
noraml newn velue of some of the information mant would room to have
been lont by the timo it reached Japan, much as tho massnte ennt to
Dome1 on Jrnwry 20, 1944, regrding leyoffn of employmes in the Bell
hircmft nlrnts beomuso of production of r ney-type airplrne, citimg
ne the mourne of thim infornetion the "Nrw York Timea" of November 14.
1943. nother xanple of intelligonce informatiou mont by the Domei
correepondent is contrinnd in a mesmae of Janwrry 25, 1944, which
namns the companins in the united tatem cngaged in the oroduction of
Pratt & :hitney nirplann engineme the source is given es the previoue
Lecnmber 1 insue of the "wall treet Journe1".
Probebly the mmst outssanding of these corrempondente is K
Tu of omi. som in ondon, gland, he livmd maay yee im
iaropeen countries end is anid to have bron the Japamose dalngate to
the Lbor suronu in she iue of ations at Gonova, witmerlrnd.
Uhen the wr broke out in urope, It: want to the United itates and

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.81)
- 2 •
nclosure .o. 3 to
Too apptch 。797
Janu ry . 1947.
then in 1ol to ns is to becone h1 uth ricn represnt
ntiv for e Fe t u n oricet vnla . . rene 86. 5th
loor, a. 1. Ae e od t rive creons of Jenner
dercent. crin ptr r en fr ic ne ment necregee to
Lis : er In J. au vi rner dio Jatcre tion1 :nd Italcable said
to hrvont it n l.ond .b0() or1onth .n our
for kio inforntion. T 1. arlf rena 1l nava cere vam ariodical
availeblu. includiny  muoorr of vao cicn ublicstione vlich no mr
clu red in loc 1 booh storts or recetv a t.r u n c loyece vho sub
ecrtbed to tie iu non-r  ne e nome. ? if ffire he fintrined
an cxterrive filin ey ten civiceu iato three vein  ctionn on allied
11it ry. itic1 r ccnotie s. I ition, it 1o mom thet
Tu he clure relrtr with tie Ja mnrno h say Ind undoubtodly he
erco d Atn  ey ra infons tin nicl ho ird collected
nd evrlsto?
J utilixcd t rvicrn of 1ts n  gencies to secure forei
intel nce. For . on arl 6. l.oniuri in uenos ire
rsr t) teier n t) Jr an hta o  ion or tne ruti-airerort dofen
eyetrr on the c st rorat of the nited tstos. gein on uril 9. 1943.
Yoriurt vin re guentd to tele tract di tr to Jr an on the strength of
the eri n 'r oree in Chinn, its vuline up ly routes. pnd the
aucber cf Arricn Lrnes boin tent to Crirn.
Thi lror tion yaen   cut f on the Argentine Govermment
toc t r prn inortie tis ith Axis countrics. the
comyrelrl coble. rio  tole her cormnttion with vis countrien
-hou  ft Jnw ry .  Lorresondent ta T
wre rrestd on oru ry 1. lti. Ly te Arntine rederel rolice on
cherres os ton . e  relenecl n tay nnd wra at liberty at
lost re orts. rstu drUl. reiuichl corr r ondent. wre prrested by
fouorul clie ur t ob r I pnd roler ed c tper o. 1944.
In . 14c. Lnu v wen intervi d  2 soecit1 agont of
thie bur uu in L ttle, anington, rior to U a re  trirtion from
the unlted olrtee to Je van. Tu s pointed cut the rnin fr et thrt the
Jomel ne su per sycter und its re,repeut: livee vre directly subsidized
by the J  noce uovorauient. r  rosuit it rs ueclerod to bo the duty
of the re rrront:tive to reccive uoran pen fror the militery end naval
attaches for trrnemittal to J pon tnrou in sonel fi cilities. Thi
relrtionship wes institutcd in Jroan and vn the sencrel policy followed
by such mprerentrtives throughout the worlc. rrengerents vere also
in effect with the specie Brnk of Yotohare mu Tokyo brench et bueno
dire for unlimited finnncing of the :ctivitice of the sorei re  resent-
ative. .e ell  for tho direct payment to the crbln offices of the
chrr ec Incurred by the representative in sonding arterinl to Japan.
It was develoved nlso th t a similer financin followin; the break in
dialosntic relsticne was rccorded by the Svecie cank to the three rep-
resentatives of the othr Japanore neympepere at suonos nires.
The following informotion concerniiu Tu:h wen almo develoyed dur-
ing the intervies et senttle:
Tüln cdvised th-t nie corroct nrme is Tuih but thst he often wrote
it suln becrure rior to the anglicizine of the Japnnese alohebet
Toüi would trve been the correct cellin. ur stated thrt he only
axsected

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.85)
- 3 -
nnclosure to. 3 to
Tokyo' optoh : o. 797.
Janwr ry 3. 1947
expected to te in r vutin, for some ci ht rontne. meroly a experionc
for his positio with ponal: otnerwine ho uld h ve tuken hio famll
to rentinn. tie i: mot revent hin rm fem le social ,ctivitine
in ar, entio. hereu on he tte thet n 1rl friend s ono
nit A. oler3s. uenos ires.
lUla atated tht folloin the un) rturo of Japan from the eagun
of lons, for vhic. ls s the Ja,nesc moabor. he ud left hi
ponition with the pote filce enu had gune to work for tho ponel ow
Aoney in 1os9: thyt a  d reviously started cmoloyment vith tho
une office directly upon hts Trdastion fron the univereity at Tokyo
in la. nt the tio  vnt into et. T ntrted. this w in
direct o. oeitlon to mcet of his frirndn pnd family. who thought he
ahould stay t tho utplonotie aorvlce. ovever, beccuse the Progident
end Chiof ditcr of c.ei vero close frieu. s af lir snd hie femily.
he re pble to p into te orgrnirtion itlout wuch difficulty. 
further felt tht this 1 it oo lur to tie f ct thet a cousin of hi
wee  penter of the p rror's entoure e ond conrepuently with thi
aponaoreni 1 e sy to rocure  loyrent ith the dome uffice and
ountly1.e.
Co c min lis rrt. To etetal thrt he via I rrestel on
Ponr . 1o. y t e r entine olice na tept for l0o doye in
confinenrnt wit out ay forul cinr,r beins leced grinet him. and
 rrl sd oly f, lo. follovin; c intrview ith  Colonol
vo  th rtentino derel roilee. ho tmitted tht they did not
beve any iinito esploun o preof a ginet him beyond hio sending of
catlcrome to Japen. Tu'a efonue s to thin wns tht all meterial
ic he i sent to r n e ubliu.nd y Unitad : trtea sourcoo which
had  paed arentino counorsht) to cone into ar entina and had again
pusanu rucntine consorehl) to be sent to Jarn. fnd pccordintly he felt
he lud done notin iron  st. td tt e d iis first interview
witn the olice eiter is. rreet on trury o itn ejor Colti. unief
of tcordination of the deral olice, nd hin accond interviow upon
bio release. hd ts t other tisn two lhcrt interviews uhich concerned
the uiup chius of mnss nn to Dorei lus is coninl of enployent of
aesietente, no othcr talka of y kind ere d with nim oy officinl
of tho / rgentine rolice. It mi ut bo noted trt TUin stnted th:t whilo
the rentine rolice iv told niw they vore iavesti tin; his cose while
he ns confined, thoy ivd never serrcle! is rp rtment. In connection
with his erreat. Tuia atated tht he hnd not, wor aid le ow of eny-
body elee wno had prid eny money for his release fron custody.
Tund strted thrt the following were lis rudresses during his stay
in suenon A1res, Argeutina: Arrival until 12-3l-4l-Cefico building.
Corrientee 46: 1943 - Touriat sureau, Florlds 746 (reguler Do.e1
office): 17's to ?-1P-44 - Dingonel lorte 850. th floor. TJva stated
tirt re rrd no offion nfter Fobruery 1944.
no fnr Fs grnoral activities of the worei n ency wern concorned.
rui) ststod thrt prior to hie deorrture from Jrpen he wes navieed by
the Chlef ditor of Domri thrt it ws bis duty to pccept talegrsms
from the c.ilitery end nnvel attaches at suenos ires for trrnaittal
vis the omai facilities to Jran. e notxl thet .rrnn;omente were
mesle in Javen for the vomei company thom to bill the propor ueprrtment

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.84)
一 
nclosure o. s to
Tokyo's.cmptch .c. 70?.
Jrnu' ry F. 1947.
for  yent for tr  tolo rous. ine ur.o: of tais frren ement wa
occ ure tea e neor ur orrera the c1h 
vich oul ctherten in ve to ou tili d by the uiliter and urval
atteches vere four peaoo er ord. ne thr tore. 8 a watter of
econnny tro mrterirl F vent throuh in. He str ted thrt the chiof
cditor of o c1 rdvised hin thrt lis duty pbro:d  to vrocure in
forw tion for tho Jr nrse nd tiut hie onrrsin us to be on united
totue infors tion tec n cf itn 1 ort nce. He erid tvt the
Jrrnere iv r ent u d dapcnded o po e desrre on inforntion u
plitd by taa raci ted.rrn. s vhn thie we discontinued an
rren  o.e  oce ry vno  oei correoondente would
take itn lrce a su l infortl n. a fr ao the source of the
inforrtion itself ws concernca, T t ted. he drily hrd  monber
of co le conlr to hio oific to cont ct hl. but he never hirod
y  1f to ct s an infrnt Cor nis om urposo inemuch
s tie to oire rll the tofer tion he noedcu from ceneral
ubiie rurceo elc a xineene ve apro. to ever. he did
adit tt ho hd cted  en iermery in tho nryuent of inforrnt
nd colloction offor tion fror the fro v rious other ofriciel
in the be ay.
e fr us the tolesrF fu ee hin ty the nilitery and navel
tt e ea for tr no itt:1 to J: o vrr cccerned. he nt: tes th:t the
womei ornl tien t Toyo coul: veertrn hetner he or the nilitery
or n nltt: che  te sourco  th infotion by the fct that
then the ter re re nw bered e ton. ith "oo" they ere from
tne aa vel tt cne. rund tart shen they  ro musbered besinning with "300"
they  ro teiit rytt che. ln ition. he uttnd thet
further ui ins f: ctor for conei in  rtnining the source wrn that
when the vilitrry or wvl ttre lre nly  portion of e mesmage to
send. it woul be lclued in ne terll vhich run vs sendin thst
the rer  of the n val rtt he oul.  in ith the voru "reph"
nd ce itn tre wur " r.r p" vi tut of the nilitery ettache
would put thetr pree firet n then Prcirtcly atrt the information
itcout further worir.  ie uts iff icnt from the syetem utilizod by
Tu. sinco Tu bo p ria ucae: with the vores "quoto" end "unquote"
and ended vith the word "stop". . furter difference would be thet
Tu's err cn vould not begin airectly fter he rrd iven bi mource.
but would use the word "esys". Tu wont on to state that rs far as
lis ressr es wuro concerned. they sould be ;pily reco miznble oy the
style inasauch re he "s not conc rnnd vith militery or naval infoneetion
or tht of otrai;ht nu tional tefenae, but rathor ima concorned with
rocirl. oliticel. cconomic and finncial istters. He oleo etsted that
1e scaea,rer could be reco.gnized insamuch rn ho nwabered them storting
with 1 cvery day nd nover ot high cnough in his wmssr es eo that
they vould be confused with the sno neries usrd by the militrry vttache.
In commection with the source of wererres ront in the telozrems, Tul
strted thet tho .Jomei office .t Tolyo undcrstood th t in a messrye from
Po. in which the nource wes not supylied. the nource e perely Puu
opinion.
U atrted that when he frrived in r entine and be.an hio work.
he bree ood cont: ct of mb asr.dor Tu.lI. but that this contret
soon dcgenernted becsuse To. II uesired that hie work be under the
control

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.81)
clomurao.to
Tokyo'oatch0.79?.
J:nuary 3. 1347。
control of o. II wiv rerr u ", inatructice vere tht he hould act
enttrely itede. lat t t  d had rany arument
with TeI con rnl sett Itie tt t t o d novr ivon in
to lIi on le r 1ttr nte id not orovent
him trem coo  rstin vith the ben coy of the tele rens he had
sand to rone1 in Jsn. ln e:tod t t for tho purpoaen of meemengor
and the Tiko he ured onn A o' YAAtnI, vho an poid 10 peron a month
by tre wiltor ntte to do thir wor  at on to etrte that he
nd ne an. eir i or wi. o: tho v rioue ovem
cent:1 cffitls or ar tin beun :1l the prterirl ho nooded
fron u. . puro to cd doi n d not dosire to vork
wtth such offlebe bure i. e ive for hat they did.
frviendtht
cablexontinoponon a month
which bill 1?  cly to Itle e r neradio Inaterneclonal
by Io orodthout y queation.
thereu, on Ttrly ot a reenipt.  mose! in thi connoction
that ku ha r t the ten fron nw York to
ercin t.u tepo1nn affnire ceopit
theet tuea1 ve cnfat uenos iron. Ho
aui ti at nineprin oftho
pecie s contr et mot ly with  lo ith the Jr nes
Lao y. e st tod tt foer tf fron Jren  cut
off due to the nr.   not onty   iativiutnls in the
wuur y btlro fi e ip by lor Cres t oank norely upon re uest.
u iu tlt tinoleo rue rte renintor of the
Jrpaneee nove r or wee we c moomncd r un neted th t he did not have
ay limit witeonvor u on te fute which he could drv for his ex
ponoca. pithough ria l y ef leoos uer month wa fixeda ko
sald tly t the voney for his notivit:: cue ctrnctly from Domet in
Japn throu h the sonco Coatrl to t o ron ppecie denk. nd that
Domot would send bot cen o. (e rrd lo. ooo e mer month for cenerel
onees. Tu went on to note tlut o r bd to subuit nny ex
pnse uccounts or rcco nt for the monler to lud disbureed. but that
ho merely vont to tho uan ond drew m ny :o ke nee led it, since the
undoretendin:  that to lad mnlimited fundo from the pecie pank.
Hhile To ncted tht he hed noer id n inforient. he steted
thmt he did, in n eense. pay for the irfomtion because he entertained
various indivicunle around Buenos hirrs who ho folt could furuieh him
vith some cenernl infontion ebout p citu tion in mare converration.
but thrt trese incividunle could not ce considered a informents and
consinted of all tho leaders of society in uenon Airos. In other than
his own infornants. Tuh stetcd. thore cra only two instencee in which
ho hnd rcted ne on intormediary.
Une inatence vn thet of AhnG L A. r Riulli. rulhh noted thet ho
hed lived next door to rku.Oii in the  fico suildiint for some six
months in l94l without mowint who Puvit won. je srid that in lay
l941, while F als ve a mechnic of La rrensa nowepaper he cane to
TU room and trlked eneral politico end theroby etruck up an
acqueintnuce. soon thereafter F-vulult lost his job with the newspaper
and ssked Tuu for lonns, which were refused. It was at about this
time thrt IwtWils hrd a contact with ssistent daval Attache Kusi
and .ilit: ry Attnche suaulI. sollowing a mhort spnce of time, Ai.i
nd SUZUKI

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.86)
- 6 -
Enclosure 1.0. 3 to
Tokyo' Jespetoh o. 7?7.
Jamuery 3. 1747.
and uztkI ench nva Tu.u at different tirs the sum of  300 to giv
to r luwlii. Tunh noted th t he hd never aiven Piluais: any money
hinself since he dieliket P ul and did not trust hie judgmont. Ho
wanted lil to follow the ur entine , olitienl mituntion but ho hed
recortnined thrt r' luB. informtion a not nuch rood end rccord-
ingly he did not conaidar hiring hin, 'ovover, ho did stete thet be
took I suuls to dinner occnslounlly, at wi.1ch timee ho talked with
him  bout the ar ontine voliticrl oitustion. ruia nnid that both
KAi and buuki ld soprte contrct with r lon and paw him op
erately without PU a presence. He notad tht P kiallz dieappeered
frot e1ght curine the 1nttor hnlf of 1 4. nd then in aarly 1943 cnmo
orck to ruoros airea end lid not explain rir aboonce but ondeavored
to cont. ct  at the Tounin Club.  ntoted thet l diacouragod
the ele one rlls of Pwilll. ind tlut finally Pikrohn hnd ven up.
Accoriint to Tua. r auuy hed told him he hed many German frionds
and thet the er cn rovernnent h d warted r wo to so there and become
. eran r du eeclalint. T boliovid thet ru hd gone to 
my +t aote tin in the p st for thie pr ose and thet he t e
conmplcte orann and Japanesa syrpathiror. s Fer ao Tulm kmew. the
infortution hich  hou.. sup Lied to suiurI wrs morely concermine
oiritrry rou a nd thoir control in routina. with emph ie ro to
tht ocaitility of coup by one rouy uhich mi. ht be in f vor of a
breok c ai, lem tic rel: tions oetwrn ar entina rnd Japen It  tai
prrtllr ane or politie 1 developtente in Argentine which Puol
upposedly  s ble to suply.
rU. at tot that r w wmn comaletely trusted by both Kan
and -UzukI, but thrt he did not like im cnd did not trust him himoelf.
ns fir ns Tuh kney. ? l oh hd some connection vith a newopeper
inown as " I cononistice" at ndrid iu the capacity of n corroopondent
at uenon A1ren but vuin vas un-ble to funian rdditionel detaile con-
coming thet. In this conneetlon. Tu utated tht he did not have
pry other connection of uny kind, direct, indircct or remote. with
eny onne or etan aympathizera.
Tuith vre not ablo to stote spacifically as to pny facte. but it
ws ris balief thrt u lillata of the suecie Denk not only ve an in
forment of u bosarutor TcnlI but that he nlso had a rin of informent
for ToklI' benefit. He believed thut kU laillu also meintninod the
Amb sondor'r pacrnt specinl fund for such paymants, but thet the
acturl fund itaelf  operrted by Hc0 UiI.
Another instance in which Tua ncted ns en intermediery was in
the cu uin crse in Rio de Janiero, rrzil. According to
TUia. ika. Jua rd rekod TUla if ho could end somebody to resil in
order to rscertpin the situition of Jnpenese treatment by the brazilien
authorities noletine daring th Lntter part of ugust 1942. TuDa
stated tht he did not want to have anythins to do with thie situation.
so he refuscd and shortly theresfter Awurssador TulI colled him in end
asked hin to et somabody for this assignment and the rmbasey would
pay the expenses. Tusa did not procure nnybody immedintely for tmat.
so one day an individunl by the nemo of l, who e conneeted
with the magnsine "Finance" came to Tula and told him he had an arraags-
pent vith daua concerning the srazalien assignmant, whereupon tu

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.88)
- 7-
nclosure o. 3 to
olyu en;stch sio. 797.
Jenurry ?, 1947
wre siven 6.0n0 penos by  uslI vith which he paid F whihnwss. ocord
ing to Tumi, the r port aibmitted by hu wrs no sood nnd did
not provo of velue to the umnrsmy. ent further. this wne an example
of the indirect cenlings of Tor.Il in payin, nd nrndlin infommants.
Tun w uentioned conccrnin; i relrtionel with T .
the esietant inval atir  he. in rolrted thst when Ki wme in the
Jo sanore  vel scndery r hed beon a pupil of Tua s cousin. who whe
a profossor there, anu =: su a nomber of the  ror's entourrço, and
ccordincly Kr. i enuen orel to mrke  counection with Ti. vhich
ripened into a clome soc.nl frichdship. Tus stated tiet it wus le
who actually tr ined .  in rgentine in the "social cracem" nec-
essr ry to hie job rs cav:atent navol cttrchr in makint publir contncte
invonuch ns s. m's su rior, Alnirel RIonIta. the uval etteche. did
not spork any penish pn! cccordinaly all contect work wre left to
TU vnr psl:cd con ernins hia aseoci tion with other Jomei corres
ronlents. vhereupon he I xulrincd that him only contrct vith eny other
Donei corrnspondents s the fi ct th: t he had br on told by the Dorei
headqunrtere in Jeunn t to to io de Jonoiro, rrzil, in order to pne
on n temporary irro ule corrempondent by the name of HIINo there 
to whother he would be cce utable to Domei in the eatebliehment and
control of F regulrr ma.n office pt Kio. Tuun expleine: thst sHIItio
hod been hired bocnuee ne know razll no vell, h vin, been there some
thirty yerrs, on tho r commendation of the Jnpanase Ambammedor nt Rio
de Jrnciro, but thet rfter interviowiug shIlNo he hed docidod that the
only thing Domei mhoul do fur StIiio van to pay his office exuonecs.
which u to thrt lime ird been vall by unIIllo himsnlf out of him Domei
anlsry of ls0 pesos pe onth. uther then this incident, vhich wre
the only time Ua hd been out of r  ontino during the whole course
of his stry there. TUis etrted he y d hd no contect with other Domei
correspondants.
Conccrnin, Isu.h kusYairI, To atatrd that ho hed never known
thie individuel until he hed met him when they were both in prison in
suanos niree, rnd thit although ho tnlked witn KusnYnsHI at thit tise
he aid not know thst he was concorned with any as, ionage activities.
Tt s questioned  to his knovladge of Tw Kus. Firet
vocretery of the Japaneso Embaesy at lio dn Jeneiro. He ndmitted
thhat he know nim well ineenuch s they had oeen clssmates at the
univeraity in Tolyo. wnd that when he had made the tri) to kio de
Janeiro, mentioned above, KUuo hed entertainod him. Accontinsly.
when Uin cnme on r. trip to Buenos uires rnd then on to Sontinr:o.
Chile, he entortrinod kuvo in retum. It wre at this time thrt he
learned tint KUiX wrs in Buenon niren to help strengthen the liaison
relrtionship end cxchanre of detn between the Japnnesn mbassies at
Hio do Jeneiro fnd Buano irns. ccording to Tus, KUs hnd told
him this Iut dic not tell him tho nnture of the datn which mre to be
exchenged.
 to his lmowlede concorning rrreident aiho Aiis of the Benco
Anan. tuiih stated thrt he vre positive tlu't the bank did mond funde to
Jauan.

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.75)
• J -
-nclourc.to
Lol. o's venntch o. ?1?.
Jrnary . 1947.
Je on vin t s nco o le ocion. wion  re ten clenred through the
Ler!orrtncerninlrin te poa
fr tt e no inrmt cotri tere
won of t) o inion tlt rreat cnt n i a ctose frienn nd contrct
of o ror To l but he dia not ow uort! r tro rel: tionahip ex
:euded to the ro urin, of infony tin  wx. hovever. muro that
"otrt of finaninlrrnte oet en Tt 1 cnd the bank vore
1o fect rnl if lelirvn tivt onaloly moni for the mreret fund of the
ar uior were ren ton thi o in tre orrly ye of the
wir.
P  to lo of Y 
tt Y y.the I Y.
hod y o t  cor  om  .. end
tio eince ot co ni ere in t a llcirg AsaY neturolly
woud hvetit Grn  iols.He hd no kuow
lee o vr, ot furtr ifovti ut r.
U y
iltteslleiccln inrentine
rtcoinond ofr section
nrtf . ofricultureHe
trra ornitin run by
noete
f Juni plee had close con
tetiofontinnto the
rt
rcloSrct.theneepopermn.
ivival atlievetut it
coirotycuslcle tlt e t l a ely 1 tirate sociel connectiono
wita  nu ot irte a in th e, na c lony. she might have
co ti in lntli ene url b a no knovlene about tite
ter.
te une gurstioed rer  ay vnseti he mi he hove with
   of   fr   
pucnos air. etr ted th.t e d rt  only twice. The
firat tino he net a e rt the Gornn te. vere aht 
functioned  the German Prere attocho. The rrcround of thir meat
in w that when Tt  w in  hin ton aroute throuh the country.
tho Jusnucne mbr nay pruas ettache nt  srin ten hed requested the
Gorien mboy at nin ton to ive u A a letter of introduction
to   the iorman vresa etteche t enos aircs. accorling
to Tu. this wectin m morol. for the ursore of an introduction
end vont no further tirn the foct tht they  reed thet should there
be mstters of rutual intorrst they woula wunly erch other with such
dnta in their coprcitiee as newer w'r men. t socond meeting i
by en invitetion fron AT to TUA for dinner at the Germen Club.
Tu u rnt to this diuner and vs introluced to the head of ol.B..
vhone name Tula connot remember in euuch as he never sow the man or
SADSTLD:Agnin.
jorurin.; you of my denire to ne of every rssintance. I am.
Very truly yours,
F. G. Tillmen
Linison Ufficer in Oharge

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.91)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
GREIGN ACTIVITY
Tokyo, January 3, 1947.
1947
No. 797
800
OF
SUBJECT:
Request for Information Regarding Japanese Subversive
RECEIVED
Activities in Argentina.
Fc faa-4
79020235
-20/01%
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to refer
894.20235/1-347
to the Department's airgram A-146, October 24, 1946, requesting
information available in Japan on Japanese subversive activities
1/
in Argentina, and to enclose copies of a memorandum based on an
2/
interrogation of Baron Shu Tomii, a biographical sketch of the
3/
Baron, and a letter dated August 9, 1946 from Mr. 7. G. Tillman.
Liaison Officer in Charge, Counter Intelligence Corps, to Colonel
W. S. Wood, Civil Intelligence Section, General Headquarters, re
7FC
13
garding Masao Tuda, alias Masao Tsuda.
508
2FE
Additional information along the lines outlined in the Depart-
HARA
ment's airgram under reference is being obtained. This Mission
1A-H
will transmit the data as they are received.
GOCD
129
DECLASSIFIED
30
IciC
NNO280069
1FC
By G C. NARS, Date .24.2
Enclosures!
A
33
1. Memorandum of interrogation of
Baron Shu Tomi1, December 12, 1946.
12
Biographical sketch of Baron Tomii.
givVISION F
PH
Letter regarding Masao Tuda,
Confid
Auguet 9, 1946.
20
R
1947 JAN
Origfhal and hectograph to Department.
FILED
701.3
MAR 3-1947
DOR NE Unit
Dist.

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 797 dated Jamuary 3, 1947 from the.
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subjeet
"Request for Information Regarding Japanese Subversive Activities in
Argontina".
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIC
Operations, CIS, G2
Compilation Branch
BEOTRIOTD
12 December 1946
Subject: Interrogation of Baron Shu TOMII.
Baron Shu ToMII, Japanese ex-ambassador to Argentina (24 January
1941 until the date of his repatriation to Japan, 2 April 1946). stated
V
that the DAI ToA-SHO (Greater East Asia Ministry) did not maintain a
formal organization for the control of a Japanese colony in Argentina.
Just as the name of the ministry implies, the jurisdiction of the DAI
ToA-SHO did not extend beyond the scope and areas of east Asia. No
liaison whatsoever was maintained between the DAI TOA-SHO and the
Japanese embassy in Argentina.
When asked about the possible existence of a KOkURYU KAI (Black
Dragon) branch or any other nationalistic or ultra-nationalfstic
societies, ToMII replied that , "it is correct for me to say that I
had no knowledge of the existence of the KOKURYU KAI or other such
organizations in Argentina. There may or may not have been an organ-
ization branch of the KOKURYU KAI in Argentina". TOMII added that he
was taken aback with surprise when he first heard of the terroristie
organizations which had existed in Brasil. News correspondents had
sought an interview with him aboard ship on his repatriation from
Buenos Aires.
THE TOKYO COMERCE AND INDUSTRY PROMOTION ASSOGLATION haD no
affiliation with the embassy other than embassy members? possible person-
al friendships with members of this association. The president of this
organisation would change every two or three months with the change of
the office heads representing such firms in Buenos Aires such as the
Osaka Steamship Line.
THE FRIENDS OF THE JAPANESE LANGUAGE ASSOCIATION  COMPPOD of
a small group, forty in number, including a group of Argontine women
tudents who wished to learn the Japanese language and forme of culture.
The group for the most centered about three teachers (including HoshI
(fnu). All activities of this group came to an end with the outbreak
of war in December 1941.
THE SADAO ANDO CULTUBAL INSTITUTION was a project carried on by
ANDO, Sadag, a well-to-do merchant dealing in the art goods line.
(Amo still resides in Buenos Aires), who financed Nisei students in
néed of money: apparently ANDO loaned sums of money to such students
on the understanding that the money could be paid back at a later
period with a slight interest charge.
H HORTIGULrURIST! ASSOGLATION was comprised of individale sach
Beeses Aires. TodII declared that this group could hardly be desesibed
as a prepegaade greup, since it was orgasised mmialy for the peemetám
ef the fleriets' business in holding a yearly fleral exhibitiem.

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 797,
January 3, 1947.
THE RIVER PLATE MARKET GARDNERS' ASSOCIATION 1ncluded Japn
vegetable and wheat growers and farmers in and around Buenos Aires
who formed this organization mainly to facilitate the purchase and
distribution of fertilizers amongst its members.
THE JÁPANESE ASSOCIATION OF ARGENTINA exi-ted without liaison
with the Japanese Foreign Office and was comprised entirely from the
groups of residents local within Argentina. After the outbreak of war
in December l94l, the association was dissolved by an order from the
Argentine Government. TokII specifically stated that no subsidiaries
were ever received for this association from the Japanese Government.
Expenses of the association were small and met by membership fees and
local donations. (TomII recalled having made a small donation). The
association was maintained for benefits of local and other Japanese
residents in Argentina with projects including a playground, school.
and a sanitarium located in Cordoba for Japanese tubercular patients.
Any Japanese residing in Argentina was eligible for admittance to this
sanitarium.
Prior to the outbreak of war between Japan and the United States.
the Japanese embassy funds of Argentina were handled through the
YOKOHAMA SPECIES BANK. With the outbreak of the war TOMII handed over
the embassy funds to the Swiss Legation, expept for a small amount for
expenses. After Argentina broke off diplomatic relations with Axis
countries in January, 1944, the entire fund, including TomII's personal
accounts, were handled through the Swiss Legation whose representative
forwarded continuous expense accounts to the embassy group who were
interned at Cordoba. Never at any time, stated TomII, did the embassy
have any financial dealing with Banco Anan (of which ANDO, Sadao is
reportedly the president. See full length report of TSUnÀ, Masae).
Though the embassy funds were handled through the Yokohama Specie
Bank, its president, KUWAHARA, Kiyozo, never knew for what purpose the
embassy used its funds, confidential or otherwise.
TORIO SHOKO SHOREIKAN, Baron TOMII did not recognize thi name.
Personalities:
ToMII stated that the type of work carried on by the military
attaches YUKISHITA, Katsumi (Rear-Admiral and Naval Attache) and SUZUKI,
Toshikasu (Military Attache) was not kmown to him. Their orders and
channels of communications were not within the embassy's sphere since
the orders of the military attaches were directly to and from the
Japanese War Ministry. ToMII further asserted that acts of espiomage
were impossible within the embassy circle since all were always wader
close scrutiny and check by the Argentine Government after the imitial
attack on Pearl Harbor.
ToNII stated that he had never issued an order for the Japanese
Embesey in Argentina to maiatain liaisen with TsuDa, Masae as a seurse
of iaformatioa. On the centrary, ToNII plus other embassy memberew
Bueace Aires. See full leagth repert of Tsund, Nasee)wh
That he had been an intermediary for fonlI to remmmerate 
empleyed vith Pinance Nagasine, fer any iaformatien rege
treatment ef Japemese ia Brasil. TomII admisted that he

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 797,
Jamuary 3, 1947.
anxious to learn of the status and treatment of Japanese residents in
Brazil, and therefore, had sent RAoUL to Brazil with the purpose of
eeking the information. RAOUL returned but the information he brought
back was of little value. Conditions as controlled by the Brasilian
authorities had allowed little if any freedom in securing this imferme-
tion. TOmII added that expense plus a small remuneration (amount met
recalled) for RAOUL': services were forwarded through TOMII's permissiem
from the embassy, but whether TSUDA had been the actual intermediary
or not was unknown to TomII, since the funds were handled through the
embassy office and not personally.
FERNANDEZ, Ofelia: TOMII does not recall thi pereon whom TSUDA
had claimed to be a source of information. (See full longth report of
TSUDA, Masao).
KOBAYASHI, Isoma: who was head of the Mitsui Nanbei Company in
Buenos Aires. ToMII stated that their relationship was no more than a
friendly one. TOMII was of the belief that KOBAYASHI wae not one who
would engage in espionage or similar acts.
PERRONE. Angel A: A machanic of the LA PRENS▲ Newspaper (e
full length report of TSUDA). TOMII does not recall such a individual.
MURAI, Shozo: employed as an interpreter for the Japanese
embassy in Argentina, who also had charge of the embassy fund.
Evaluation:
Much effort was put forth in the interrogation to draw as much
information as possible from TOMII by both indirect and direct questions,
but TomII is not an individual prone to volunteer specific and direct
information upon subjects (as listed in paragraphs 1 a,b,c,d,e,f.g, and
h of the check sheet) in consideration of the fact that he was the
ambassador and envoy-extraordinary to Argentina.
first
It must be remembered that thi/ interrogation of TomII should be
followed up with interrogations of other repatriates from the Japanese
embassy in Argentina and of other individuals mentioned in the full
length report of TSUDA (TUDA), Masao.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch Mo. 797 dated January 3, 1947 from the
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the smubjeet
"Request for Information Regarding Japanese Subversive Activities
in Argentina".
COPY
GENERAL HEAD JUARPERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIC
Operations, CIS, G2
Compilation Branch
11 December 1946
Subject: ToMII, Shu Baron
Date of Birth: 17 August 1890
Education:
June 19l5 Graduated from Tokyo Imperial University, majored in law.
Oct. 1915 Passed the State Examination for diplomats and consuls.
Career:
11 Nov. l9l5 Assined as Assistant-consul to Mukden, Manchuria.
27 Sept. 19l6 Transferred tc New York.
22 Aug. 1919 Assigned as 3rd Secretary to Embassy, Washington, D.C.
8 Oct. l92l Assigned as attache to Japanese Delegation attending
Washington Conference.
31 Mar. l923 Helieved of his duties in America and assigned to
Foreign Ministry.
11 June l923 Assigned as an official of the Foreign Ministry and to
the 2nd Section, Information Department of Foreign
Ministry.
26 Teb. 1924 Assigned as 2nd Secretary to Embassy to England.
30 June 1926 Promoted to lst Secretary to Embassy and assigüsd to
England.
25 July 1927 Assigned as Consul-General to Ottawa, Canada.
20 July 1928 Assigned a lst Secretary of the Legation to Canada.
12 Sept. 1929 Assigned as lst Secretary of the Embassy to Germany.
29 Aug. 1932 Assigned as secretary to Foreign Ministry and as Chief
of the Document Section, Minister's Secretariate
(Foreigm Ministry); and concurrently assigmed as chief
of the Translation Section, and Chief of the Official
Gasette Report and Statistics.
Temporary commissioner, High Civil Service Exam.
Committee.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo'. Despatch No. 797,
January 3, 1947.
16 Aug. 1933 Assigned as Consul-General to San Francisco.
28 Dec. 1935 Succeeded to the Peerage as Baron.
30 May l936 oigned as Consul of the Embassy to England.
26 Mar. 1938 Assigned as Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Pleni-
potentiary to Canada.
15 Oct. l940 Relieved of his duty as Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary to Canmdd on his own request.
24 Jan. 1941
Assiened as Envoy Extraordinary and Ambassador Ploni-
potentiary essigned to Argentina.
7 June l94l Assigned concurrently as Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary and to Paraguay and Urguary.
20 Oct. l943 Relieved of his above posts.
15 July l946 Relieved of his duty as Envoy xtraordinary and Ambassador
Plenipotentiary to Argentina.
Decorations:
1 Nov. 1920 Decorated with the 6th Order of the Sacred Treasure in
recognition of his service during the lst European War.
31 May 1924 Decorated with the Single Ray of the Rising Sun in
recognition for hi service for Washington Conference.
25 Nov. 1925 Decorated with the 5th Order of the Sacred Treasure.
7 Nov. l931 Decorated with the 4th Order of the Sacred Treasure.
5 Oct. 1936 Decorated with the 3rd Order of the Sacred Treasure.
29 Apr. 1940 Decorated with the Middle Cordon of the Rising Sun in
recognition of his service for China Incident.
11 Mar. 194l Decorated with the 2nd Order of the Sacred Treasure.
Source: Personal history, Personnel Section, Cabinet Secretariate.

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 797 dated Jamuary 3, 1947 frem the
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokye, on the subjeet
"Request for Information Regarding Japanese Subbersive Activities
in Argentina".
CUPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIC
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE SECTION, GENERAL STAFF
9 August 1946
The following information regarding Masao Tuda, aliaa Masso Toude
was obtained from a letter report made to Colonel W. S. Wood, Civil
Intelligence Section, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander For The
Allied Power, dated 26 July 1946, by Mr. F. G. Tillman, Federal Buremm
of Investigation Liaison Office, Counter Intelligence Corps.
Re: MASAO TUDA, AliaS MASAC TSUDA
Dear Colonel:
In response to a request from lst Lt. John A. Ramer, Special
Intelligence Branch, the following data is being furnished you con-
cerning MAs▲o TUDA and, more particularly, with relation to hi in-
telligence activities in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Four news agencies in Japan had correspondents in Buonos Aires
on December 7, 1941, MASAO TUDA represented DOme1, TOKUJIRO FURUTA
was correspondent for Yomiuri Hochi, SABURO SUZUKI for Mainichi, and
TAKAMOTO HOSOKAWA represented Asahi, HOSOKAWA was repatriated in
October, 1943, and was replaced by GIICHI IMAI. Considerable intel-
ligence information was transmitted to Japan through the messages of
the correspondente in late 1943 and January, 1944. Included in this
information were data on U. S. shipbuilding, arms production, oil pro-
duction, the development of new fuels and the increased personnel of
the U. S. Army Air Force, the effect on transportation of the United
States railroad strike, and the possibility of a settled peace in
the Pacific in the event of the defeat of President Roosevelt in the
1944 election.
In many of the messages sources were named, such as Allied newe
agency flashes and American newspapers and magasines, principal among
these being the "New York Times","Wall Street Journal", "New York
Herald Tribune", "Life", "Time" and "United States Magazine". The
normal news value of some of the information sent would seem to have
been lost by the time it reached Japan, such as the message sens to
Domei on January 20, 1944, regarding layoffs of employees in the Bell
Aircraft plants because of production of a new-type airplane, citing
as the source of this information the "New York Times" of November 14,
1943. Another example of intelligence information sent by the Demei
correspondent is contained in a message of January 25, 1944, which
names the companies in the Uaited States engaged in the productiom of
Pratt & Whitney airplame engines; the source is given as the previous
December 1 issue of the "Wall Street Journal".
Probably the most outstaading of these correspoadente is MAsAo
TUDa of Demei. Berm in Lenden, Eagland, be lived many years in
Earepeas countries and is said te have been the Japanese deleges
When the war breke out in Earepe, Tune wont to the United Be

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo'. Despatch No. 797
January 3, 1947.
then in 194l to Buenos Aires to become head South American ropresont-
ative for Domei. He set up an office at Avenida R. S. Pona 868. 5th
floor, Apt. #1, where he employed steadily five persons of Japanese
descent, including stenographers, and from which he sent messages to
his agency in Japan via Transradio International and Italcable said
to have cost between $1,500 and $2,500 (U.S.) per month.  sources
for his information, TUDA himself read all newspapers and periodicals
ivailable, including a number of American publications which be par
chased in local book stores or received through employees who sub-
cribed to them in non-Japenese names. In his office he maintained
an extensive filing system divided into three main sections on Allied
Military, Political and Economic data. In addition, it is knowm that
Tula had close relations with the Japanese Embassy and undoubtedly he
exchanged with Embassy personnel information which he had collected
and evaluated.
Japan utilized the services of its news agencies to secure forei
intelligence. For example, on April 6, 1943, Yomiuri in Buenos Aires
was esked to telegraph to Japan his opinion of the anti-aircraft defense
system on the east coast of the United States. Again on April 9, 1943,
Yomiuri was requested to telegraph data to Japan on the strength of
the American Air Force in China, its gasoline supply routes, and the
number of American planes being sent to China.
This information syetem was cut off when the Argentine Government
decreed, after breaking diplomatic relations with Axis countries, the
commercial cable, radio and telephone communication with Axis countries
should cease as of midnight January 28, 1944. Correspondent MASA0 TUDA
was arrested on February 12, 1944, by the Argentine Federal Police on
charges of espionage. He was released in May and wes at liberty at
last reports. SABURO SUZUKI, Mainichi correspondent, was arrested by
federal police September 1 and released September 5, 1944.
In May, 1946, MASAO TUDA was interviewed by a special Agent of
this Bureau in Seattle, Washington, prior to TunA's repatriation from
the United States to Japan. TUDA pointed out the main fact that the
Domei newspaper system and its representatives were directly subsidised
by the Japanese Government. As a result it was declared to be the duty
of the representative to receive messages from the military and naval
attaches for transmittal to Japan through Domei facilities. This
relationship was instituted in Japan and was the general policy followed
by such representatives throughout the world. Arrangements were alse
in effect with the Specie Bank of Yokohama and Tokyo branch at Buenes
Aires for unlimited financing of the activities of the Domei represent-
ative, as well as for the direct payment to the cable offices of the
charges incurred by the representative in sending material to Japan.
It was developed also that a similar financing following the break in
diplomatic relations was accorded by the Specie Bank to the three rep-
resentatives of the other Japanese newspapers at Buenos Aires.
The following information concerning Tuna was also developed dur-
ing the interview at Seattle:
TUDa advised that his correct name is runa but that he oftem wrete
it Tsuna becsuse prior to the anglicising of the Japanese alphal
Tsuna would have been the correct spelling. He stated that he emly

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 797,
January 3, 1947
expected to be in Argentina for some eight months, merely a experiee
for his position with Domei; otnerwise he would have taken his family
to Argentina. This did not prevent him from female social activitie
in Argentina, whereupon he stated that his girl friend was one
ANA NGELLO. Soler 3369, Buenos Aires.
TunA tated that following the departure of Japan from the League
of Nations, for which he was the Japanese member, he had left hie
pooition with the Home Cffice and had gone to work for the Domei Mows
Agency in 1939; that he hnd previously started employment with the
Home Office directly upon his graduation from the univereity at Tokyo
in 1922. At the time he went into Domei, TUDA stated, this was in
direct opposition to most of his friends and family, who thought he
should stay in the diplomatic service, However, because the Prosident
and Chief ditor of Domei were close friends of him and his family.
he was able to go into the organization without much difficulty. Ho
further felt that this might be due to the fact that a cousin of hi
was a member of the Emperor's entourage and coneequently witn thi
ponsorship it wes easy to procure employment with the Home Office 
subsequently with Domei.
Concerning his arrest, TUnA stated that he was arrested on
February 12. 1944, by the Argentine Police and kept for 105 days in
confinement without any formal char es being placed against him, and
was released on May 26, 1944, following an interview with a Colonel
VELASCo of the Argentine Federal Police, who admitted that they did not
have any definite espionage proof against him beyond his sending of
cablegrame to Japan. TUDA's defense as to this was that all material
which he had sent to Japan was published by United States sources which
had passed Argentine censorship to come into Argentina and had again
passed Argentine censorship to be sent to Japan, and accordingly he felt
he had done ncthing wrong. TUnA stated that he had his first interview
with the police after his arrest on February 25 with Major CONTAL, Chief
of Coordination of the Federal Police, and his second interview upon
his release, and that other then two short interviews which concerned
the dispatching of messages to Domei plus his denial of employment of
assistants, no other talks of any kind were had with him by officials
of the Argentine Police. It might be noted that TUDA stated that while
the Argentine Police had told him they were investigating his case while
he was confined, they had never searched his apartment. In connection
with his arrest, TUDA stated that he had not, nor did he kmow of any-
body else who had paid any money for his release from custody.
Tuna stated that the following were his addresses during his stay
in Buenos Aires, Argentina: Arrival until 12-3l-4l-Safico Building,
Corrientes 456; 1942 - Tourist Bureau, Florida 746 (regular Domei
office); 1943 to 2-12-44 - Diagonal Norte 850, 5th floor. TUDA stated
that he had no office after February l944.
As far as general activities of the Domei Agency wero concerned,
TUDa stated that prior to his departure from Japan he was advised by
the Chief Bditor of Domei that it was his duty to mccept telegrams
from the military and naval attaches at Buenos Aires for tranemittal
via the Domei facilities to Japan. He noted that arrangements were
made in Japan for the Domei company there to bill the proper departmest

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
Emolosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 797,
Jamuary 3, 1947.
for payment for these telegrams. The purpose of this arrangement was
because press rates were one peso per word whereas the straight rate
which would otherwise have to be utilized by the military and naval
attaches were four pesos per word, and therefore as a matter of
economy the material was sent through him. He stated that the chief
editor of Domei advised him that his duty abroad was to procure in-
formation for the Japanese and that his amphasis was to be on United
States information because of its importance. He said that the
Japanese Government had depended to some degree on information sup-
plied by the Associated Press, but when this was discontinued an
arrangement became necessary whereby the Domei correspondents would
take its place and supply information. As far as the source of the
information itself was concerned, TUDA stated, he daily had a number
of people coming to his office to contact him, but he never hired
anybody himself to act as an informant for his own purpose inasmuch
as he was able to procure all the information he needed from gemeral
public sources such as magazines and newspapers. However, he did
admit that he had acted as an intermediary in the payment of informants
and collection of information from them from various other officials
in the Embassy.
As far as the telegrams furnished him by the military and naval
attaches for transmittal to Japan were concerned, he states that the
Domei organization at Tokyo could ascertain whether he or the military
or naval attache was the source of the information by the fact that
when the telegrams were numbered beginning with "oo" they were from
the naval attache, and that when they were numbered beginning with "300"
they were from the military attache. In addition, he stated that a
further guiding factor for Domei in ascertaining the source was that
when the military or naval attache had only a portion of a message to
send, it would be included in material which TUDA was sending: that
the message of the naval attache would begin with the word "paragraph"
and end with the word "paragraph" while that of the military attache
would put their source first and then immediately tart the information
without further words. This was different from the system utilised by
TUDA, since Tulh began his messages with the words "quote" and "unquote"
and ended with the word "stop". A further difference would be that
TUnA's messages would not begin directly after he had given his source,
but would use the word "says". TUD▲ went on to state that as far as
his messages were concerned, they should be easily recognisable by the
style inasmuch as he was not concerned with military or naval information
or that of straight national defense, but rather was concerned with
social, political, economic and financial matters. He also stated that
his messages could be recognised inasmuch as he numbered them starting
with #1 every day and never got high enough in his messages so that
they would be confused with the 300 series used by the military attache.
In connection with the source of messages sent in the telegrams, TUDA
stated that the Domei office at Tokyo understood that in a message from
TUDA in which the source was not supplied, the source was merely TUDA's
opinion.
Tuna stated that when he arrived in Argentina and began his work,
he became a good contact of Ambassador TomII, but that this contact
seen degemerated becsuse TomII desired that his work be under the

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 797,
January 3, 1947.
control of TOMIL whereas TUDA's instructions were that he hould act
entirely independently. TUlA related that he had had many arguments
with TOMII concerning his activities, but that he had never given in
to TokII on this matter. He said that the arguments did not prevent
him from cooperating with the Embassy a copy of the telegrams he had
send to Domei in Japan. He stated that for the purposes of messenger
and the like he used one ALONSO YAMAUCHI. who was paid 10 pesos a month
by the military attache to do this work. He went on to state that he
had no informants, either paid or unpaid, among the various goverm-
mental officials of Argentina beceuse he had all the material be needed
from U. S. publications, and in addition he did not desire to work
with such officials because it was too expensive for what they did.
As far as TUDA's expenses were concerned, he advised that his
cable expenses were between 40,000 and 50,000 Argentine pesos a month.
which bill was paid directly to Italcable and Transradio Internacional
by KIYOZO KUWAHARA of the Yokohama Specie Bank without any question.
whereupon Tun merely got a receipt. TUDA noted in this connection
that KUWAHARA had been sent by the Specie Bank from New York to
Buenos Iires to handle the personal end of the bank's affairs despite
the fact that TAkAo ARAI was chief of the bank at Buenos Aires. Ho
said that ARAI wat Thept and that KUWAHARA was the mainspring of the
Specie Bank contact not only with TUDA but also with the Japanese
Embassy. He stated thet after the source of money from Japan was out
off due to the war, KUWAHARA not only financed individuals in the
Embassy but also financed him by loans from the bank merely upon request.
TUIA said that this was also true as far as the remainder of the
Japanese newspaper men were concerned. TUDA noted that he did not have
any limite whatsoever upon the funds which he could draw for his ex-
penses, although his salary of 1800 pesos per month was fixed. He
said that the money for his activities came directly from Domei in
Japan through the Banco Central to the Yokohama Specie Bank, and that
Dome1 would send between 5,000 and 15,000 pesos per month for general
expenses. TUnA went on to note that he never had to submit any ex-
pense accounts or account for the monies he had disbursed, but that
he merely went to the bank and drew money as he needed it, since the
undorstanding was that he had unlimited funds from the Specie Bank.
While TUDA noted that he had never paid an informant, he stated
that he did, in a sense, pay for the information because he entertained
various individuals around Buenos Aires who he felt could furnish him
with some general information about a situation in mere conversation,
but that these individuals could not be considered as informants and
consisted of all the leaders of society in Buenos Aires. In other than
his own informants, TUDA stated, there were only two instances in which
he had acted as an intermediary.
One instance was that of ANGEL A. PERRONE. TUDA noted that he
had lived next door to PERRont in the Safico Building for some six
months in 1941 without kmowing who PERnONE was. He said that in May
194l, while PERRONE was a mechanic of La Premss newspaper he came to
Tunais room and talked gemeral politics and thereby struck up am
acguaintance. Soon thereafter PErmonE lost his job with the newspaper
and asked fUDa for loans, which were refused. It was at abont this
time that PERmons had a contact with Assistant Naval Atteehe 
and Military Attache sUzukI. Following a short space of time,

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
Emclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 797.
January 3, 1947.
and SUZUXI each gave TUDA at different times the sum of $300 to give
to PERRONE. TUDA noted thet he had never given PERRONE any money
himself since he disliked PERRONE and did not trust his judgment. He
wanted PERRoNE to follow the Argentine political situation but he had
ascertained that PERRONE's information was not much good and accord-
ingly he did not consider hiring him. However, he did state that he
took PERRoNE to dinner occasionally, at which times he talked with
him about the Argentine political situation. TUnA said that both
KAMEDA and SUZUKI had separate contects with PERRONE and saw him sep-
arately without TUDA's presence. He noted that PERRONE disappeared
from sight during the latter half of 1942, and then in early 1943 came
back to Buenos Aires and did not explain his absence but endeavored
to contact TUDA at the Tennis Club. TUDA stated that he discouraged
the telephone calls of PERRONk, and that finally PERRONE had given up.
According to TUDA, PERRONE had told him he had many German friends
and that the German Government had wanted PERRoNE to go there and become
a German radio specialist. TUD believed that PERRONE had gone to Ger-
many at some time in the past for this purpose and that he was a
complete German and Japanese sympathizer. As far as TUnA kmew, the
information which PERRONE supplied to SUZUKI was merely concerning
military groups and their control in Argentina, with emphasis as to
the possibility of a coup by one group which might be in favor of a
break of diplomatic relations between Argentina and Japan. It was this
particular phase of political developments in Argentina which PERRONE
supposedly was able to supply.
TUDA stated that PERRONE was completely trusted by both KAMEDA
and SUzUkI, but that he did not like him and did not trust him himself.
As far as TUDA knew, PERRONE had some connection with a newspaper
known as "El Economistica" at Madrid in the capacity of a correspondent
at Buenos Aires but TUDA was unable to furnish additional details con-
cerning that. In this connection, TUnA stated that he did not have
any other connection of any kind, direct, indirect or romote, with
any Germans or German sympathizers.
TUDA was not ble to state specifically as to any facts, but it
was his belief that KUWAHARA of the Specie Bank not only was an in-
formant of Ambassador TonIT but that he also had a ring of informants
for BOMII's benefit. He believed that KUWAHARA also maintained the
Ambassador's secret special fund for such payments, but that the
actual fund itself was operated by SHOZO MURAI.
Another instance in which TUDA acted as an intermediary was in
the RAOUL VBRNANDEZ case in Rio de Janiero, Brasil. According to
TUDA. MAXAMURA had asked TUDA if he could send somebody to Brasil in
order to ascertain the situation of Japanese treatment by the Brasilian
authorities mometime during the latter part of August 1942. TUDA
stated that be did not want to have anything to do with this situation,
so he refused and shortly thereafter Ambassador ToMII called him in and
asked him to get somebody for this assigmment and the Embassy would
pay the expenses. Tuna did not procure anybody immediately for that,
so one day an individual by the name of FERñarnz, whe was cemmeeted
with the magasine "Finance" came to Tuda and told him he had an ase
ment with Hakakgna condorking the Brasalian assigament, whereupen o

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 797,
January 3, 1947
was given 6,O00 pesos by TOMII with which he paid FERNANDZ. Accord-
ing to TUDA, the report submitted by FERNANDEZ was no good and did
not prove of value to the Embassy, and further, this was an example
of the indirect dealings of TomII in paying and handling informants.
TUDA was questioned concerning his relationship with TADASI KAD
the Assistant Naval Attache. He related that when KAMEDA ws In the
Japanese Naval Academy he had been a pupil of TUDA's cousin. who was
a professor there, and also a member of the Emperor's entourage, and
accordingly KAMEDÀ endeavored to make a connection with TUDA, which
ripened into a close sociel friendship. TUDA stated that it was he
who actually trained KAMEDA in Argentina in the "social graces" nec-
essary to his job as assistant naval attache in making public contacts
inesmuch as KAMEDA's superior, Admiral KISHITA, the naval attache, did
not speak any Spanish and accordingly all contact work was left to
KAMEDA.
TUDA was asked concerning his association with other Domei corres-
pondents, whereupon he explained that his only contact with any other
Domei correspondents was the fact that he had been told by the Domei
headquarters in Japan to go to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in order to pass
on a temporary irregular correspondent by the name of SHIo there as
to whether he would be acceptable to Domei in the establishment and
control of a regular main office at Rio. TUDA explained that SHIINO
had been hired because he knew Brazil so well, having been there some
thirty years, on the recommendation of the Japanese Ambassador at Rio
de Janeiro, but that after interviewing SHIINo he had decided that the
only thing Domei should do for SHIINo was to pay his office expenses.
which up to thet time had been paid by SHIINo himself out of hi Domei
salary of 150 pesos per month. Other than this incident, which was
the only time tulA had been out of Argentina during the whole course
of his stay there, TUna stated he had had no contact with other Domei
correspondents.
Concerning ISOMA KOBAYASHI TUDA stated that he had never known
this individual until he had met him when they were both in prison in
Buenos Aires, and that although he talked with KOBAYASHI at that time
he did not know that he was concerned with any espionage activities.
TUD was questioned as to his knowledge of TADAO KUDO, First
Secretary of the Japanese Embassy at Rio de Janeiro. He admitted
that he kmew him well inasmuch as they had been classmates at the
university in Tokyo, and that when he had made the trip to Rio de
Janeiro, mentioned above, KUDO had entertained him. Accordingly.
when KUDO came on a trip to Buenos Aires and then on to Santiago,
Chile, he entertained KUDO in return. It was at this time that he
learned that KUDO was in Buenos Aires to help strengthen the liaison
relationship and exchange of data between the Japanese Embassies at
Rio de Janeiro and Buenos Aires. According to TUDA, KUDO had teld
him this but did not tell him the nature of the data which were to be
exchanged.
As to his kmowledge concerning President SaDao AnD0 of the Jenso
Aman, rune stated that he was positive that the bank did send fande to

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's Dempatch No. 797,
January 3, 1947.
Japan via the Banco ce la Nacion, which were then cleared through the
Central Bank of Argentina. TUna's knowledge concerning thi i posi-
tive up to the time Argentina broke relations on March 27. 1944.
After that date TUDA has no information concerning this matter. He
was of the opinion that President ANDO was a close friend and contact
of Ambassador TokII, but he did not know whether the relationship e
tended to the procuring of information. He was, however, sure that
some sort of financial arrangements between TomII and the bank were
in effect and he believes that possibly monies for the secret fund of the
Ambassador were procured through this bank in the early days of the
war.
TUDA was also queried as to his kmowledge of SUkEYE Asa. Ho
advised that he knew ASAYE and that ASAYE's company, the IMAI COMPANY.
had many contacts with a German company known as HUGo STINNEs, LTD. and
that since both companies were in the same building AsAYE naturally
would have many connections with German individuals. He had no mow
ledge, however, of further information about Asaye.
TUDA stated that he knew a woman known as OFELIA FERNANDZ very
well and that she was well known in Japanese circles in Argentima.
According to TUD▲, she was an accountant second in head of her section
in the Accounting Department of the Department of Agriculture. He
said that she had learned to speak Japanese in an organization run by
V
one SHIMEZU of the Japanese Tourist Bureau which was kmown as the
"Circle of Japanese Frimnds". This group, which also had close con-
tacts with the Embassy, encouraged the admission of Argentines to the
circle and an interest in things Japanese. TUDA noted that OFELIA
FERNANDEZ also was a very close friend of SUZEKI, the newspaper man,
and KAMEDA, the Assistant Naval Attache. He believed that it was
entirely possible that due to her very close intimate social connections
with a number of individuals in the Japanese colony, she might have
been utilized in intelligence work, but he had no kmowledge about thi
matter.
TUDa was questioned regarding any connection he might have with
GOTTERIED SANDSTEDE, an official of the former German Embassy at
Buenos Aires. He stated that he had met SANDSTEDE only twice. The
first time he met him was at the German Embassy. where SAMMSTEDE
functioned as the German Press Attache. The background of this meet-
ing was that when TunA was in Washington enroute through the country,
the Japanese Embassy press attache at Washington had requested the
German Embassy at Washington to give TUDA a letter of introduction
to SANDSTEDE as the German press attache at Buenos Aires. According
to TUDa, this meeting was merely for the purpose of an introduction
and went no further than the fact that they agreed that should there
be matters of mutual interest they would supply each other with sach
data in their capacities as newspaper men. The second meeting was
by an invitation from SANDSTEME to TUDA for dinner at the German Club.
TUDA went to this dinner and was introduced to the head of.D..B.,
whose name TUla cannot remember inasmuch as he never ssy the mam or
SANDSTEDS again.
Assaring you of my desire to be of every assistance, I m,
Very truly yours,

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE GROUP
2430 E Street N. W.
Waehington 25, D. C.
6 March 1947
futh 2o Nanding Jile
Ref. No. DB-3317
3031 FC/pe: MLD
894.20235/3-647
14
TO:
Mr. Jack D. Neal
Department of State
FROM:
Chief, Source Control Branch
The attached material, which has been obtained
from reliable sources, is being forwarded to
you in the belief that it may be of interest.
2
MAY 9 - 1947
8111
tettouch
Chief, Source Control Branch.
VISA DIVISION
10 1948
B M Buyar
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SECR.
20235
SECRET
DECLASSIFIED
FORM NO.
81-101
NND250065
JAN 1947

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.92)
SEORET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE GROUP
NEW WAR DEPARTMENT BUILDING
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
COUNTRY
: Argentina/China
SURTECT
  Toe e Silv (So a)
etui Cnina
wili mortly proc ed fron. ueno. ire: to tre Orient via the United
State...
. Sub ect i.: t.e pearer or .reentine orricial passport No. 263 which
contcins non-in 1grution vise No. 31 sued 28 Februar: 1947 at Buonos
aires.
3. Subject was born 31 ust lou2 ct liongkone, China or Portuguos-
Chinese parents. It is reported thut he was C.S.l. (Osaka Shosen Kaisha).
Jupanese shippin, line int ilince ngent unc arranged the entry of
several Jepanese agents int( Argetina. In spite or his age ho i still
consiuered a possible active ugent : tne American Embassy which desires
surveillance or him in the Unit d State:.
4. The iollo ine itinerar has peen furnished: Subject departs from
Fuenos Aire; b: air (PAllAGrA) on  March via Chile and Balbom and is to
arrive at New Urleas 6 Harch et 19:45 hours. On March 12 while in Now
Orleurs he i: to mcet one ESCOBAR who is said to be Argent ine Ambasseder
to China. Therearter he will prpceed by rail to San Francisco where he is
scneculed to sail abourd tne SS General Gordon on 28 March.
-SEORET

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.90)
A71947
GONDLDENT LAL
0.
To the
Officer in Charge of the Ameriean Mission,
894.20235/3-647
Nanking.
The Acting Seoretary of State tranamits for the information of
the Embassy a copy of e report No. DB-33l? (evaluated B-3) dated
Mareh 6, l947 recsived from an agency of the Governmont in rogard to
Antonio Jose de Silva (Soura). who it is stated is attached to the
Argentine Embassy at Nanking. In connection vith the information com-
tained in the final sentence of paragraph 3 of the report the Embassy
is informed that in the absence of a direct request for action no
surveillance was conducted.
CS
/A
3,8.
Enalesure:
Confidentia
As steted.
6
2
0
2
mey
C3
5
0
3
094.20335/3-647
an
FC:PFCherp: MLD
3/31/47
CA
7
DECLASSIFIED
NNO 75006S
NARS, Date 81028

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.95)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DC/M
Tokyo, may 3, 1947
RESTRICTED
drafteld 57/20/47
No. 1012
POAP
894.20235/5-347
SUBJECT: Japanese Relief Organizations as Possible Vehicles for
Recrudescence of Japanese Imperialism.
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to refer to
despatch No. 214l of March 26, 1947 from the Embassy in Buenos Aires
to the Department regarding German and Japanese relief organizations
1R
as possible vehicles for a recrudescence of Japanese imperialism, a
copy of which was forwarded by the Embassy to this Mission.
862.48
The contents of this despatch were brought to the attention of
the Public Health and Welfare Section of General Headquarters, which
comments as follows:
"1. Reference to above subject, at the present time
the only agency recognized by SCAP to receive and distribute
894.48
relief supplies in Japan is LARA (Licensed Agencies for
Relief in Asia). LARA's parent organization, American Council
of Voluntary Agencies, located at 122 East 22nd Street, New
York, New York, is now shipping food, clothing and modical
relief supplies from San Francisco and Honolulu to LARA,
Yokohama. Individuals in America are permitted to ship to
individuals in Japan, through International Mail Service 11
pound relief packages containing clothing, food, soap and
FC
medical supplies.
CS/A
"2. Other than the two above outlined procedures, there
FE
are no approved channels for the forwarding of relief supplies
to Japanese nationals.
SPD
"3. Relative to comments and questions contained on
CE
pages three and four of the above referred to dispatch, PHW
is advised that LARA is willing to act as agent for any bona
ESP
fide welfare organisation interested in forwarding supplies
to assist in meeting the initial needs of the indigent peopl
DC/R
of the Japanese population. The welfare organisations in
Argentina mentioned by you could forward funds to Mr. Edwar
OCD
B. Peacock, LARA Chairman, 122 East 22nd Street, New York,
New York for purehase and shipment of supplies from the.
United States, or make direct shipment from ports in Argend
to LaRa in Yokohame at the expense of the shipping welgare
wau
agency in Argentina. of course, either of these procedares
R
would require export license, etc., be issued by the Ay
Novy
C
)CF NF Unit
CIP
Ana
ae
Re
Oat
Dist

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 1012
may 3, 1947.
-2-
uovernment and in the event of the second proposal, would
require permission of SCAP for the supplies to be recorded
by LARA.
"4. The procedures outlined above would obviate the
possibility of any relief supplies secured outside Japan be-
ing utilized by relief organizations serving as vehieles for
rearudescense of Japanese Imperialism inasmuch as the supplies
made available through Japan's public and private welfare
agencies by LARA are subjeet to review in each step of the
operation of distribution by PHW.
"5. For your information. PHW is advised by LARA rep-
resentatives in Japan that Mr. dward B. Peabody is due to
leave the United States for a visit to Brazil to study
possibilities of the organization of relief groups interested
in shipping relief supplies to Japan. He will keep in close
touch with the Brazil Foreign Office and American mbassy re-
garding this work. It is expeoted that Mr. Peabody likewise
will visit rgentina."
Original and aalid to Department.
Copy to American Embassy, Buenos Aires.
820.02
DCBerger:mm

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.98)
FILE NO.
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM!
R E C O F D C O P Y
894.20235/5-1947
THE ATTACHED COPY OF. A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DRSIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
1047 FR0M TOKYO
--000--
Confidential File
NOV 24 1947
FILED

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.98)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Rcc'd DO/L
FOR JAPAN
3,1947
Tokyo, May 19, 1947
SECRT
JUN 1 11947
No. 1047
-0-0-0
SUBJ CT: Information kegarding Japanese Subvorsive
Aotivities in argentina.
The United States  olitioal Adviser has the honor
to refer to this Mission's despatoh No. 797, dated
January 3, 1947, and to previous correspondence, rogard-
ing Jupanese subversive activities in Argentina, and to
1/
transmit a copy of a report entitled "Japanese Subversive
Aotivities in Argentina" compiled by the Military
20235
Intelligenoe Section, General Staff, Allied Translator
and Intepreter Seotion, of this Headquarters, after in-
terrogation of Japanese returned to Japan from Argentina
during or after the war.
Enolosure:
1. Report on "Japanese
Subversive Aotivities
in Argontina".
Original and ozalid to Department
701.3
GAAbbey:mm

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.88)
JUL3 1947
834
o.
To the
Offieer ia Chargs of ths Amerieam Missßen.
Busmes Aires.
The Searotary of State transsits for the infermatiem of the
Embassy, a cepy of despatch Mo. 1047. dated May 19, 1947 recsived
from the Uaited States Political dviser at Tekye, enelesins n
interrogatien repert of the fermer Jmpemese diplemmtle steff ro-
surned to Japan from Argentima during or ufter tke war.
Enclssure?
so atated.
CS/A
A tre topy
8942
Detire cest, chirl
FC: EEGOaho:MLD
6/23/47
NA
RPA
28-47
UNO.
894.30886/6-1947
Junt
—-1947

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
BY AIR POUCH
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1D-10
Buenos Aires, Argentina, July 28, 1947.
No. 2839.
DEPARTI
6
Subject: Reorganization of the Japanese Association
of Argentina.
The Honorable
品品
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
924.3556
I have the honor to refer to Embassy despatoh
no. 26l0 of May 29, 1947, concerning Non-Amerioan
Activities in Argentina, and especially to the second
4
paragraph of the Japanese section thereof which
reported the reestablishment of the Japanese Associa-
tion of Argentina.
By decree no. 931 of January 16, 1947, a trans-
1/
lation of whioh is enclosed, the Argentine Government
canceled 1ts decree no. 1,570 of 1946 which ordered
the intervention of the Japanese Assooiation in
Argentina. Thus, the Association was allowed to renew
its activities. The latter decree, however, required
that the Assooiation change its statutes to insure
that the organization does not engage in subversive
activities. The principal points of the required
ohange limit the aotivities of the organization to
purely relief and charitable work; make the benerits
EJRN
equal for Japanese and Argentine oitizens; and prohibit
ARA
the membership of persons who have engaged in aotivi-
ties contrary to the peace and security of the Amerioan
LE
nations.
OCD
The immediate reason for allowing the renewed
activities of the Japanese Association was in order
War.
that it could raise the necessary funds for the main-
tenance of a tuberoulosis sanatorium which it has
CS/A
operated for some years. The decree was issued after
consultation with the Embassy whioh informally indicated
C'LC
its agreement.
The newly elected officers of the Association
inoluded several persons whom the Embassy had considered
as having engaged in somewhat subversive activities.
With respeot to only one of these, however, did the
Embassy have purricient information to warrant any
mention to the Argentine authorities. That person was
Kichihei HosHI, whose deportation had informally been
suggested to the Argentine Govern
been elected President of
AOG 26 1947

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.96)
AIR MAIL
Buenos Aires
RESTRIOTED
Despatoh no. 2839,
July 28, 1947.
The Argentine authorities understandably preforred
to deal with this matter inrormally. They merely sug-
gested the convenience of Hoshi' resignation. It is
understood that during this month he has submitted his
resignation and that Kosei SHMIZUKAWA, elected as Vioe
President, assumed the Presidenoy. The Embassy considers
this ohange very satisfactory. It will, of course, con-
tinue to watoh the aotivities of the Japanese Assooiation
and of the Japanese colony, and will inform the Depart-
ment of any developments which may be considered of
particular interest.
Respectfully yours,
For the Chargé d'Affaires ad interim:
Temth Cale
R. Kenneth Oakley
Second Secretary of Embassy
att.
Enclogure:
Translation of Deoree no. 931 of January 16, 1947.
Original, ozalid, and two copies to Department.
Copy to Chief, Division of River Plate Affairs.
File no. 820.02.
RKOakley:jad
RESTRICTED

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
AIR MAIL
Enclosure to Despatoh no. ssse dated
July 28, 1947, from the Amerieam
at Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(TRANSLATION)
THE NATIONAL EXECUTIVE POWER
No. 66.
Buenos Aires, January 16, 1947.
CONSIDERING:
FILE No. lO4.933-A-46 relative to the JAPANESE
ASSOCIATION IN ARGENTINA, and
WHEREAS :
From the report of the Interventor, on page 20 and
following pages of Annex 1, it is evident that the in-
stitution in question has always rulrilled the purposes
specified in its statutes;
The charitable work performed by it is effeotive;
It maintains a sanatorium for patients suffering
from lung diseases in Cosquín, Province of Córdoba,
treating patients at a very low price in some cases,
and free of charge in other cases;
There are patients in that sanatorium who are in
a very serious condition;
For purely humanitarian reasons it is necessary to
restore the legal status of the institution, particularly
because the members thereof have not engaged in activi-
ties against the Republican form of government, neither
have they made use of the premises of the institution
for such purposes;
The report of the Interventor, pages 20 Annex 1,
and 58, agrees in this respect with the report of the
Federal Police (see page lo9) and that of the Legal
Advisor of the Office of Liaison between the Ministry
and the Board for the Vigilance and Final Disposal of
nemy Property (pages 124 and 125);
THEREFORE
THE PRESIDENT OF THE ARGENTINE NATION
DECREES:
Artiole 1. Deoree No. 1,570/46 in so far as it refers
to the JAPANESE ASSOCIATION IN ARGENTINA, is horoby
annulled.
Artiole 2.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
AIR MAIL
Enolosure
- 2 -
Despatch no. 8839
July 28, 1947
Artiole 2. The authorities of the Association will
prooeed to summon a General Assembly of its members
for the modification of the Statutes to conform with
the following points, within a maximum time-limit of
sixty days;
a. Modification of Article 3, maintaining
as a single objective the purpose speoified in
the second paragraph (aid and charitable action);
b. Elimination of discrimination between
members so that all rights, benefits, and pre-
rogatives granted to those of Japanese nationality
will likewise be granted to those of Argentine
nationality;
c. It is strictly prohibited to make use
of the premises of the Association for activities
other than those that are specifically established
in the Statutes;
d. Whosoever has engaged in activities oon-
trary to the well-being, the peace and the seourity
of the country or of the American nations, shall
not be a member, day laborer, employee, et cetera,
of the Association.
Artiole 3. The fulfilment of the present decree shall
be supervised by the General Inspection of Justice.
Article 4. The present decree shall be countersigned
by the Ministers for Foreign Afrairs and Worship and
of Justice and Public Instruction.
Article 5. Let this be communicated, published, for-
warded to the National Registry, and filed.
(Signed) PERON
J. ATILIO BRAMUGLIA
B. GACHE PIRAN
Decree No. 931.
Tr. AA: jad

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.93)
7
FILE NO.
LO NOT DETACH THIS FORM.
R E C OR D
COPY
894.20235/8-547
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
N TED THE RECCRD COPY TO REPLACE THE CRIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOF FILING.
00
CM
--000--
M
MAR12 1948
FILD

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.90)
DC/R
CONTROL COPY
RESTRIOTED
Fc
Juenos iros, Argentina, August S, 1949.
.0. 2859.
AU6 13 1947
Jubjoot:
eorgunization of Japanese Committee for
celiof to Japan.
the wnorable
the voretary of tate.
ashin ton.
1 huave the honor to refer to the sabamay's des-
patoh no. 314l of aroh 16, 1947, regarding Gemman
and Jupanese relief organizations as possible vebieles
for & reorudescenve of Nazi and Japanese imperialimm.
doferenoo also is de to subsequent sommumlomtions
fro tho apartment and from the Ofrioe of the United
tates  olitioal dviser at Tokyo conoerning the
Japaneso uspeot of this question.
 the eprtment was informed in the Japamese
sootion of the smbassy's despatoh no. 26lo of May 29.
1947, concerning non-Amerioan aotivities in Argentina,
the Japanese reliof sroup. yomité de Ayuda a lae
8
6
iotie de l urr an a Japon, was reported to
have been reorganlsed. This reorganisation subsequently
X
has been ooafirmed. Its purpose wms to elimimate
202
persons objectionable to the smbassy. It is antiei-
pated thorefore that rolief shipmente from this emtity
robably will go forward from Argentinn in the mear
future.
3
5
espootrully yours,
8-547
or the Chargé d'Affaires ad interim:
R. Lonneth Oakley
esond eoretary of Embasay
Original, ozalid, and two copies to Department.
Jopy to hief, Division or aiver Plate Affairs.
Jopy to United states rolitioal Adviaer at Tokyo.
File no. 88o.02.
RxOakley:jad
RESTHLOTED
the siened ner
eioai

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.95)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPAITMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRA
RE-TRICTED
AIRGR.M
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFARS
1243
AUG 121947
FROM:
corsep1 D04psy
FC:PFCIEGE
Buenos
IJEPAKIMENI OF STATE
Date of neiling: Aug. 5, 19
Rec'd:
11,1947
2:17 PM
33
UFSARFMENT OF STATE
894.20235/8-647
secretery of tave,
FFICE OF
ACTION FC
INFO
Hashingtor.
DC/R
A-H
ARA
PE
A 491
A. g. 5, 1947
DC/L
Reference the Depurtrent's instruction No. 834
of July 3, 1947, which enclosed a copy of despatoh
No. l047 fro. the United totes Tclitical Adviser at
Tokyo dated i uy 9, 1947.
The mbossy would appreciate being furnished
dditional copi s of the Tokyo despatch under reference
if tnese are available in the Department. The Embassy
contemplates furnishing a copy to the Foreicn Orfice.
RAY
Confidential File
Oricinal in hectogruph and one copy to Departrent
Copy to Chief, Division of River Plate Affuirs
DKBallentine:el
RESTRICTED
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R eontral Mes with
