894.6363 Mines. Mining. Concessions., Carbon. Graphite., Japan, Petroleum., September 22, 1932 - January 3rd, 1935 (File 842), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.6363-842-1   Pages: 462   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.6363-mines-mining-concessions-4/894.6363%20Mines.%20Mining.%20Concessions.%2C%20Carbon.%20Graphite.%2C%20Japan%2C%20Petroleum.%2C%20September%2022%2C%201932%20-%20January%203rd%2C%201935%20842-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
CHARGE SLIP
862.51
8946363
CHARGE TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
Remarks
81
ed
RP-Reid
4-6
3-25-46
all Blue

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363/31
661.9431/8
Tel./239,1lam
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Sopt.22,1932.
FROM
-) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1197
二
REGARDING: rumored Russe-Japanese agreement under which
Russia will supply Japan's petroleum needs.
FU

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
EA
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, April 21, 1933.
F/ESP
No. 366.
Subject: Japan's Oil Problems.
CoayustE
Aib
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
CLASSIFICATION CANELLED Aiy: lee
AY- 1933
5-20-64 from Donald 1 Sinn, Siate Dept.
WkDacule Date?
Denartment of State
Copy sent to touton for th
RECO
MAY-633
894.6363/32
Oftee of Frenamir Adviser
<GUN 22 193
SPARTDENN  STATE
794.6363
JUL 17 1933
FILED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I wish to inform the Department that the oil
situation in Japan is looming up as a very important
economic problem which may vitally affect her relations
with other countries. There are indications that she
is trying to bring the business of refining and distri-
bution of petroleum products under the control of her
own nationals and possibly even to shift her sources
of supply of crude oil. As an American company* is one
of
* The Socony-Vacuum Corporation.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
of the important distributors of gasoline in Japan, and
as her chief source of supply of crude oil in the past
has been the United States, both of these tendencies
have an important bearing on the Japanese-American trade
relations.
Certain steps taken by the Japanese Government
during recent months indicated that attention was being
given to the oil problem and hints have been made that
a change of policy is contemplated. The Minister for
Foreign Affairs, in a conversation with one of my col-
leagues of the diplomatic corps, recently confirmed the
rumor that the authorities are studying the oil question
and he stated that there is a committee working on the
matter.
It is believed that the question is being studied
both by officials of the Depatment of Commerce and
Industry and by the military and naval authorities. The
Japanese oil problem definitely has two phases, the com-
mercial and the military, or naval. The activity noted
at present has to do principally with the commercial
angle, though the matter may have been brought to a crisis
as a result of the international situation.
The basis difficulty confronting the Japanese,from
a military as well as a commercial viewpoint, is the
obvious fact that the oil supplies which are under Japa-
nese control are not adequate for the needs of the country.
The annual crude oil production of Japan Proper and Formosa
during

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
during the last five years has varied from 250,000 to
z00,000* long tons, and, as this oil is of the variety
known as "pocket oil", experts do not believe that there
are possibilities of the supply being increased. The
source of supply next most closely under the control
of Japan is probably that at Fushun where the South
Manchuria Railway extracts oil from the shale refuse
of the Fushun colliery. The Japanese Navy receives all
this oil and it is believed that it has not yet amounted
to more than 50,000 long tons of fuel oil per year. The
cost of production is very high but the colliery is cre-
dited with being able to produce enough shale to give
70,000 tons of fuel oil annually.
The next nearest source of supply, which has been
developed, is North Saghalien. There the Japanese own half
of the fields and the Russians half. For several years the
Japanese company, the North Saghalien Oil Company, has co-
operated with the Russians in operating the latter's wells
and has purchased all of the product. However, a pipe line
hasnow been laid to the western shore of the island and the
Russians are said to be planning to transport their share
of the crude oil to their newly-built refineries in Siberia.
The oil resources of North Saghalien are not known;-at any
rate, to outsiders. It is clear that the Japanese have not
been
* Undisputed figures concerning Japan's production,
importation, and refining of petroleum are almost
impossible of attainment. This is partly due to
the unique manner of classifying oil and oil pro-
ducts in government statistics and partly due to the
fact that much oil is imported in navy tankers and
this does not enter into the published statistics.
For this reason the figures given in this report are
only approximate.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
beem working the fields to their capacity, partly for
reasons of policy and partly because of the difficulties
of the climate. Work can be carried on only during four
months of the year. During the 1932 season over 300,000
tons of crude oil were imported into Japan from this
district,of which about one-third were purchased from the
Soviet fields. The North Saghalien Petroleum Company,
which operates the wells in this district, is Japanese-
owned, the largest interest being held by the Nippon
O11 Company. The Japanese Government nominally owns no
shares. However, the Navy has signed a contract to take
all of the output of this company and thereby exercises a
certain amount of control over it.
Therefore, with the exception of the 250,000 tons from
Japan Proper, which finds its way into commerce, and 350,000
tons from Fushun and North Saghalien, which go to the navy,
Japan's oil must come from countries over which she has no
control. Furthermore, she must buy her oil from producing
companies which are controlled by foreigners. In this con-
nection, it should be mentioned parenthetically that for
three years a Japanese group have been trying to operate
some wells on the west coast of Borneo, but due to labor
troubles and sickness the project appears to have met with
little success. Japan's importations of crude oil, inclu-
ding that imported by the Navy, have increased from about
350,000 tons in 1928 to over 600,000 tons in 1932. Her
annual importations of fuel oil have moved up and down
between 700,000 tons and 900,000 tons, and the amount of
gasoline

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
gasoline imported has increased from 30 million gallons
to more than llo million gallons, during the five-year
poriod.
Although the importations of gasoline and other
petroleum products have nearly quadrupled during the
last five years the domestic refining industry has like-
wise expanded. The gasoline produced in Japan jumped
from 42 million gallons to more than l00 million gallons.
The amount produced from domestic crude did not vary
much during this period, amounting to from 15 to 20 million
gallons. The big increase in gasoline production was the
result of the increase in importations of crude oil from
abroad.
The Japanese petroleum refining industry is almost
entirely controlled by Japanese capital. The only ex-
ception is the fifty per cent interest which the Associated
Oil Company of California has in the Mitsubishi Oil Company.
The Japanese firms import most of the crude oil while
the Socony-Vacuum Corporation(American) and the Rising
Sun Petroleum Company(British, a subsidiary of the Shell)
import practicallv all the gasoline which enters Janan.
The twe foreign compamies are apprehensive lest the duty on
cruke oil of yem twe point twe ninety-five per one hundred gallons
be lowered er abolished altagether.Gasoline is subjeet te a duty ef
yen ten point eighty per one hundred gallons, which already places
the imperters ef gaseline at some disedvantage.
oil to Japan in Japanese tankers. The two foreign com-
panies have in the past been able to hold their own
because

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
because of their well-developed system of distribution.
They were the first established and they had the capital
to install filling stations and engage in large-scale
advertising. However, they are now facing very serious
difficulties and are being forced to sell at prices
below their costs of production.
The two independent foreign companies state that
in order to better their position they are considering
the investment of more money in Japan, in the form of
refineries. However, they will not do this unless the
Japanese Government declares that it wishes them to do
so and that it will not place further obstacles in their
way. They have recently been trying to obtain a state-
ment from the Government but have not so far succeeded in
getting exactly what they want. In the month of November
1932 the two companies addressed a joint letter to the
Minister of Commerce and Industry asking certain questions,
complete answers to which would virtually constitute a
declaration of future policy on this matter. The reply
which they received was naturally rather evasive and failed
to satisfy them entirely. However, the Chief of the Mining
Bureau later stated verbally to them that the Government
would prefer to see all the refining business done by
Japanese capital and labor, but that if the Japanese
refineries were inadequate to meet the demand then the
Government would prefer to see the foreign companies
refine in Japan rather than import refined products as
at

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
at present.
'It is not known to what extent the Chief of the
Mining Bureau was speaking for the Government. What he
said undoubtedly represents the desires of important
sections of the Japanese. However, it is understood
that the military and naval authorities are glad to have
the foreign companies here, with their large storage
facilities. They recently requested the two companies
to supply them with a list of their imports during the
past year and their probable imports in the near future.
Furthermore, there are other difficulties of a financial
nature ahead if the Japanese wish their capital to control
entirely the refining and distribution of petroleum pro-
ducts in Japan. Assuming that they are not yet able, or
ready, to invest their money in petroleum refining and
distribution, the question then arises as to whether
to encourage the foreign companies to establish re-
fineries in Japan. This would secure to them an even
more firm foothold in the market. On the other hand,
if the Japanese Government keeps down the tariff and
other restrictions on marketing the foreign produced
commodity the status quo would be maintained until Japan
has more capital to put into the industry. This is one
of the problems facing the authorities and is probably
an important topic of discussion in the committee to
which the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred(See
second paragraph above).
t

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
It is well kmown that the Japanese as a nation
have for years wanted to get under the control of their
owm nationals as much of the industry of the nation as
possible. This might be called a national policy, moti-
vated by a mixture of reasons,- racial, economic, and
military. One of the weapons now used to secure this
elimination of the foreigner is the Important Industries
Control Law, which was promulgated in April, 193l. By a
decree of the Department of Commerce and Industry of
November,l932,this law was made applicable to persons
engaged in the gasoline trade who produce or sell as
much as 100,000 cases(ten gallon cases) per month.
Under this law persons in any of the industries de-
signated may enter into an agreement to stabilize con-
ditions in their fnaustry. A copy of any such control
agreerent must be sent to the Minister of Commerce and
Industry, though his permission need not be obtained
prior to the conclusion of the agreement. In the event
that he considers that the agreement is prejudicial to
the interests of the consumers or to the interests of
another closely connected industry, the Minister, on
the advice of a Control Committee in his department,
will order a revision or cancellation of the agreement.
In case one person, or firm, engaged in any of the
industries which are designated should refuse to enter
into the agreement or should break the agreement and
start what the others consider unjust competition, then
upon the application of two-thirds of the total number
of persons, or fimms, engaged in the industry, the Minister

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
may intervene and force the recalcitrant firm into
11ne.
The most important provision of the control
agreement entered into in December, 1932, by the six
firms engaged in the gasoline trade is the one which
fixes the price of standard gasoline at 48 sen per gallon.
This was a raise of 10 sen per gallon over the previous
price. However, the two foreign companies which import
gasoline state that they continue to sell at a loss when
the price is at this level and the Minister of Commerce
and Industry has been appealed to to allow an increase
of 8 sen per gallon. Great difficulty is being encountered
in getting approval for this raise and it is believed that
a raise of 3 sen is the most that will be obtained.
One reason given for the Minister's reluctance to
approve a further raise is the fear of disturbances
among the taxi-drivers and motorbus companies. There is
no denying that the situation in Japan in this respect
is very serious and this consideration is almost sufficient
to justify the Department's attitude. However, a further
statement was made by Mr. Fukuda, the Chief of the Mining
Bureau; viz, that the price would be kept as low as the
companies could bear. As the foreign companies are hardly
able to continue operations at the present price levels,
much less make a profit, the representatives of the two
foreign companies, who were interviewing him, then asked
what basis was taken in deciding the price levels the
companies could bear. He replied that the basis was the
cost

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
cost of production of gasoline in Japan, because (a)
the costs of production of the Japanese companies were
easier to investigate and (b) their trade was confined
to Japan and therefore the Japanese market was their
lifeline, while foreign companies had other markets in
which losses, if incurred in Japan, could be offset.
He furthermore pointed out that " it is natural for
any government to consider its own people first, this
nationalistic policy being fairly prevalent in the world
at present". From Mr. Fukuda the two foreign represen-
tatives went to Mr. Iwakiri, the Parliamentary Vice
Ministef of Commerce and Industry, who made a more
politic statement, saying that foreign company s
costs would be considered in deciding price levels.
Although Mr. Iwakiri is the higher ranking official
the two foreigners had the impression that Mr. Fukuda
was expressing the more accurate opinion. It is very
possible that the decision of the Government's "com-
mittee" regarding the future oil policy of the nation
is being awaited before a decision is made regarding
the price of gasoline. However, it seems hardly probable
that, in view of the disturbed social conditions in Japan,
the Government would allow the price of gasoline to be
raised to levels which would enable the foreign companies
to make a profit when a lower level would be enough for
the Japanese companies. It is more likely that the
question before the government's committee has to do
w1th

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
- 11 -
with encouraging or discouraging the establishment
of refineries by foreign companies;- unless, for some
spocial reason it is desired to continue the status quo
for a few years longer . The fate of the investments
in Japan of the two foreign companies may rest upon the
committee's decision.
Further evidence of the Japanese desire to become
independent of the foreign oil companies lies in the
attempts recently made to shift in part, at least, the
source of supply of crude oil from the United States
to Russia. These moves are interpreted to mean, first,
that certain Japanese refining and distributing companies
wish to obtain a supply of crude oil at a price which
will enable them to undersell in the local market the
American and Dutch gasoline long enough to force the two
foreign companies out of business. Secondly, they wish
to ease their dependence upon America for their supply
of crude oil.
Almost the entire 600,000 tons of imports of crude
oil in 1932 came from the United States, the principal
exception being some importations by the Navy from the
Dutch East Indies. A very high percentage of the fuel
oil also came from America, the remainder coming from
the Dutch East Indies. Of the gasoline, the United
States and the Dutch East Indies shared honors about
qually, the Socony-Vacuum getting its supplies from
the former and the Rising Sun obtaining its from the
latter souree. It is clear that the Japanese refineries,
a

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
as well as the Japanese Navy, have been dependent
largely upon the United States for their supply of
crude oil. Some of this oil has been purchased
by Japanese agents in California and some is sold through
American representatives in Japan, such as the Union
Oil Company which has a large office and staff in Osaka.
Recently two attempts have been made by the Japanese
to start a flow of crude oil and refined petroleum
products to Japan from the Baku district of Russia.
The low prices at which it is alleged that this oil
can be obtained are causing some concern to the American
sellers. However, the product must be transported
a long distance and it is not believed that the Russians
want to enter this market when there are so many others
nearer to the source of supply. There is a theory that
the Russians are preparing a market for the products of
their newly-built refineries in Vladivostok and Harbar-
ovsk which they hope to feed with crude oil from their
North Saghalien fields. However, this theory, if true,
would only explain the importations of refined products
from the Baku district, whereas the Japanese are interested
more in the supply of crude oil than in that of gasoline.
Last September much publicity was given to the
activities of Mr. Kojiro Matsukata, who signed a contract
with the Soviets for importing annually from the Baku
district 100,000 tons of petroleum products, mostly
gasoline. He is to deliver commodities, including
fishing

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
- 13 -
fishing instruments, in payment. Mr. Matsukata appears
to be confident that his project will meet with success.
However, the general opinion is that he has no capital
and the Japanese business men, as well as the Government
officials, seem to have no confidence in him. He has
no method of distributing his product in Japan and ap-
parently he has not yet been successful in selling his
product to any of the established distributing companies.
There are many rumors regarding his schemes to carry out
his contract without capital but the oil industry in
Japan now seems to have little fear of any competition
which he will give them. The general belief among the
petroleum companies is that he will be unable to get rid
of the first shipment and that the contract will fall
through. Their only interest is in seeing that the
Minister of Commerce and Industry forces him to sell
his gasoline at the price fixed in the control agreement.
More recently another contract has been signed with
the Russians and this one is causing much concern to the
trade. The North Saghalien Petroleum Company, which has
been mentioned earlier in this report, has signed a con-
tract with the Soviets for the purchase of 300,000 tons of
crude oil, fuel oil, and gasoline annually. A trial
shipment of 8,000 gallons of gasoline is now on its way
from the Black Sea. The officials of the Japanese Com-
pany contend that their object in signing the contract
was to combat Mr. Matsukata. It is believed that the
Nerth Saghalien Petroleum Company is not much interested
in selling Rassian gasoline in Japan as it will have to
1011

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
-14 -
sell the gasoline through the Nippon Oil Company
and other Japanese distributors which have their
own refineries, and who naturally prefer to sell
their owm gasoline products. What the Japanese
industry is interested in is crude oil for its
refineries. The shipment of the gasoline is pro-
bably to satisfy some demand of the Russians. As
the North Saghalien Petroleum Company is owmed by
the principal Japanese oil refining interests, its
intrest in purchasing cheap crude oil from Russia
is a threat both to the American companies which
have been selling crude oil to Japan and to the two
American and British companies who are trying to
compete against the Japanese refineries by importing
gaooline.
A further aspect from which to consider Japan's
oil problom is that of national defense. It is knowm
that the Japanese Navy has a large supply of oil
in storage at the present time. There are certain
difficulties in estimating the amount of these supplies
as the Navy's tanks are underground. However, after
studying reports from various sources the Naval Attaché
of this Embassy estimates that Japan probably has
2,000,000 tons of crude and fuel oil in storage. Ac-
cording to him this would keep the Japanese fleet going
on a war footing for from 30 to 35 months. However,
this does not take into consideration what might be
needed for commercial purposes during war time. In
ca80

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
case of a war North Saghalien could undoubtedly provide
more oil than it does now and the Japanese would probably
seize complete control of the product of the Russian
wells. Another source of supply of oil in the case of
a war would be the Dutch East Indies. The Navy's
tankers now bring from there crude oil to an unknowm
amount. Mr. Shiratori, the Foreign Office spokesman,
recently stated in a private conversation that the
Japanese Navy would seize the Dutch East Indies oil-
fields immediately on the outbreak of a war, no matter
who the enemy might be. Past experience has proved that
Mr. Shiratori's statements cannot be relied upon as
expressing any opinion other than his own. However,
it is interesting to know that this plan has even
been suggested.
Still another oil problem facing Japan at the moment
concerns Manchuria. A conference is now being held in
Tokyo in which this subject is being discussed and it will
be treated in a subsequent report. The plan now seems
to be to devise some scheme whereby the Japanese will
control the marketing of petroleum products in Manchuria,
to the exclusion of foreign companies, without violating
the Open Door policy.
In Japan Proper the American oil interests face a
definite move to oust them from their position. As far
as the gasoline trade is concerned a British firm will
share the same fate as the American one. Both of them
have considerable investments in distributing plants and
these investments are endangered. They are willing to
consider

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
consider investing more capital in refineries if the
Japanese state that they would welcome this move. This
would enable them to save what capital they have already
put into the country. It may be that they will find it
necessary to form companies with part Japanese capital
and sell out their interests to the new companies. In
fact, there is a strong feeling in some quarters that
this is the solution to their problem.
The American crude oil interests face serious
Russian competition. It remains to be seen whether
the Japanese importers of Soviet products can continue
to undersell the Americans. It will be especially
difficult if their source of supply is no nearer than
Baku. The possibilities of the Russian wells in North
Saghalien are unknown to outsiders. The Japanese have
not been working these wells to capacity but if the
Russians take them over they may not have the same
desire to conserve that supply. However, the Russians may
prefer to divert the crude oil from North Saghalien to
their owm refineries in Siberia rather than sell it to
the Japanese refineries. There is thus a possibility
that the Russians are planning to enter the Far Eastern
market seriously, in which case a new element is intro-
duced into an already complicated situation.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
863.6
swW:r
JM
Receired

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.97)
YMH
Despatch No. 366
Date: April 21, 1933
Subject: Japan's Oil Problems.
CLASSIFICATION CANCELLED Authority: letter
Strictly Comettal
of 5-20-64 from Donaid 1. Sincn, Siate Dept
B/DGruDate3)
Summary:
The Japanese are apparently contemplating the ousting
of the Socony-Vacuum Corporation and the Rising Sun Petro-
leum Company from the gasoline trade in Japan and are also
trying to shift, in part, the source of their supply of crude
oil from the United States to Russia.
The Navy receives some crude oil from North Saghalien
and Fushun, but also imports considerable quantities from
the Dutch Éast Indies and the United States. Gasoline and
other refined petroleum products are sold not only by the
two foreign companies mentioned above but also by certain
Japanese companies which do their refining in Japan. The
latter buy most of their crude oil from the United States.
Due to the gasoline tariff and the depreciation of the
yen the Japanese refineries can produce more cheaply than
the two foreign companies and the latter are contemplating
the building of refineries in Japan. However, they do not
wish to invest so much money in the country unless they
believe that the Government would welcome it and they are
trying to obtain a statement of the oil policy of the Govern-
ment. It is kmown that the Government is seriously studying
the oil question and it is probable that the two foreign
companies will be discouraged from taking any steps which
would give them a firmer foothold in the country. The
Government has already managed to place the foreign companies
in a disadvantageous position by means of the Important
Industries Control Law, which has only recently been made
applicable to the gasoline trade.
Two attempts have recently been made by Japanese oil
interests to import Russian crude oil into Japan. The first,
made with much fanfare by Mr. Matsukata, is not considered
threatening to the established trade as he has no capital
and does not enjoy the confidence of the business and official
interests. The second, made by the North Saghalien Oil
Company, may be successful if the Russians cooperate and
push the project.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
McL
This message must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased be-
fore being communicated
FROM
Dated May 5, 1933.
to anyone. (a)
Rec'd. noon
Ail
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
F
MAY- 1933
Washington.
Denarkment of State
894.6363
FW894.6363/32
90, May 5, 5 p.m.
My despatch No. 200, April 21, 1933, entitled
Japan's Oil Problems, contains an error of fact. As the
pouch bearing this despatch is due to arrive in the
Department at about this time, it would be appreciated
if all the coptes could be corrected.
fivr
On page (?) the sontence beginning on line 22
with the words "crude oil comes" and ending on line 24
with the words "June 1, 1932" should be eliminated and
the following inserted in its place.
5
"The two foreign companies are apprehensive lest the
28
5-8-33
FILED
1
one hundred gallons be lowored or abolished altogether
19
Gasoline is subject to a duty of yen ten point eightypor
one hundred gallons, which already places the importers
of gasoline at some disadvantage".
KLPWSB
GREW

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
Oftro of Franamy Acvieer
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
SEPARTMINI Mr PTATE
MET
FROM
Tokio
FE
This tolegram must be
olosely parephrasod be-
Dated liay 8, 1933
S
fore being communicatod
to anyone. (b)
Roc d 6:50 a. m.
P
Secretary of Stat,
MAY
1933
Washington.
894.6363/3
2
94, lay 8, 11 a.m.
COMFIDELIAL.
One. The Depatment has presumably seon in the
WALL STREET JOURNAL and othor nowspapors despatches from
33
Japan regarding a tontativo proposal to establish either
an oil monopoly, undor which the Govermment would buy up
tho oxisting proportios in Japan of tho foroign oil com-
panios, or a syston of governmontal control through
liconsing of importation and refining of oil, under which
JUL17 1933
FILED
the oil industry and trade could ovontually, if desired,
be oporated oxclusivoly by Japanoso companios. Tic lattor
plan also contanplatos tho sccuring of sourcos of crudo
oil othar than Anerican and British.
Two. Thoso tontative plans woro rocontly given to
tho pross by tho Mining Bureau of tho Dopartmont of Commorc
and Industry and according to tho nowspapers woro compilod
in responso to a rosolution passed by tho Houso of Poors
in March last, calling upon tho govornmont to dovolop tho
damestio oil industry for reasons of national defense.
They

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
MET
2-#94 from Tokio, May 8, 1! a. m.
They may conoeivably have beon announced at the present
time to afford a trading point at the forthooming Eoonomio
Conference at Londai, or even as a trial ba lloon to gauge
forein reaction. On the other hand the Japanese may desire
to discourae firther expansion on the part of the foreign
oil companies uitil he Covernment is in a position to
determine its futurc policy. There is as yet no indication
that they wi'! be t into effect or when. Tic conmercial
bureau of the Fore gn office discla ims mowledge of those
specific plans but does not deny that such plans exist.
It further states that it entirely disapproves of any
monopoly project but expresses no opinion on the licensing
pl an.
Three. Under either of these plans the foreign oil
companies opuld expect eventual ly t. bo driven from the
field except for the sale of crude oil. Their distributing
plants and organizations n Japan wuld have to be abandoned
For s ame time past the two prinoipal foreign companies, the
Socony-Vacuum Cormoration and the Rising Sun Petroleum
Company (British Sell interests) have,been endeavoring to
obtain some statement of policy from te llan Government in
order to shape their ovm futuro plans and to determine
whother to male furthor investments in this country. As
thoir

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
MET
3-#94 from Tokio, May 8, 11 a. m.
their inquiries have net with no satisiactory results,
the Dr itish Ambassador, the Dutch Hini stor and I have
separately talkon occasion to oxpress inforna lly to the
Foroign Office the y e that our oil companies might be
given somo indicatior. as to the outlook for the future
of thoir businoss n Japan in order to ona blo thom to
determino their own l ans.
Four. Tho Duteh Minister a Iso einted cut tc tho
Minister and the Vico Hinister Por Forcicn Affairs that tho
Japanoso oil plans as published vould croato an unfortunato
impression abroad, particularly at tho present time whon
Japan is working for intornational froodom of trade. He
beliovos that any plan to monopolizo tho oil rofining in-
dustry would conflict with tho terms of tho Dutoh Japaneso
troaty of conriorco.
Five. This gonora? subjoct is discussed in my des-
patoh No. 366 of April 21, 183. 11thouch tho prccise
toxt of tho plans is not yot availablo tho Dopartmont may
wish to considor vhcther along goneral linos a monopoly
or a liconsing systom could bo hold to bo in contravontion
of tho provisions of our owm proaty of conmorcc vith Japan
It is possiblo that tho futuro of tho Amorican md othor
foroign oil intorosts in Japan may bo caming to a hoad in
duo

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.94)
MT
4-#94 from Tocio, May 8, 11 a. m
duo courso, but any definite policy would prosumably require
sanction by tho Diet.
WSB-RR
GREW

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363/34
550. S 1 Agenda/88
Tel. # 97, 11 am
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
May 11, 1933.
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Future of the foreign oil interests in Japan: Rising Sun
Petroleum Company (Shell interests) have telegraphed to London suggest-
ing that the question of the -, be discussed at the London Economic
Conference.
MN

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.92)
ER
Am
SA
UP
m=Clum
This tologram must bo
Tolyo
elosely paraphrasou bo-
fore boing communioctnd
Datod May 11, 1933
to anyono. (B)
Roc'd 10:25 p. m. 10th.
Seorotary of Stato,
Jashington.
97, May 11, 11 a. m.
COLFIDENTLAL.
Roferonoo mry 94, May 8, 11 a. m. I am informod that
both tho British ubasey horo nd Pinin Sun Yotroloum
Company (Sholl intorosts) avo tolo raphod to London sug-
gosting that the quostion of tho futuro of tho foroign oil
Intorosts in Japan bo discussod at tho London Econonic
Conforenco.
GREJ
JS CIB
894.6363

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.94)
May 15 1983
.P. S. Fales.
894.6363/35
Presiaent, Stamaard Oil Company of New York, Ino.,
26 Broadwey,
New York, New York.
sir:
In aeknowledging the receipt of your letter of
May 10, 19ss, desoribing developments in Japan which may
jeoperdise your interests in that country, I may say that
the information contained in your letter and in reports
which the Department has received from the Ambassador at
Tokyo are receiving careful study and that it is ex-
peoted that comment cn the qustions raised in your letter
will be ready for forwarding to you in the near future.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
3.m )
FR
May.15 1933.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM SENT
Washinglen,
May 31, 1953.
Benjamin B. Wallace, Esquire,
Care of Amorican Delegation,
894.6363/35
Baltimore and Ohio Railway Terminal,
Jersey City, New Jersey,
Train No. 2.
Please receive at ship Mr. Philo Parker of
Socony Vacuum Corporation who will bring important
matter to your attention for communication to Feis.
Oblige Hornbeck.
WILLIAM PHILLIPS
Acting Secretary of State
SKH
MAY
了CD
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE
WJJV 1135A
Enciphered by
Seed by operator.
M.,
19.
Lndex Bu.—No. 50.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.94)
ux.
SD
Yr mag  svo date addad Wallace sined Phillips
undeld step Moorman B & O representative and Bannerman state
Department representatives on train both stated to Mr Brown
Baltimere and Ohio RR representatives here addse was not on train
WU Jorsey City NY May 31. 1.15pm

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.94)
June 5 1983
290
he Menorable
Joseph C. Grew,
Ameriean Ambassador,
894.6363/35
Tokyo.
Sir:
With reference to your despatoh No. 391 of May 1l,
l9ss, and previous correspondence, there are enelosed,
for your information, copies of & letter of May 10,
1935, from the Standard Oil Company of New York,
Ineorporated, and a letter of June 2, 1933, with en-
elosures, from the Socony-Vacuum Corporation, with re-
gard to the oil industry in Japan.
There are also enolosed a copy of a memorandum of
eonversation held on May 31, 1933, between a representa-
tive of the 3ocony-Vaouum Corporation and officers of
the Department, and copies of three doouments left at
the Department by that representative, namely, a cable
of May 22, 1933, from Yokohama to New York, a cable of
May 23, 1933, from London to New York, and a memorandum
of May 27, 1933.
Very truly yours,
William Phillips
Aoting Seoretary of State.
Enclosures:
As mentioned
JR
894.6363/
JUN 5.196
A tome py of
FE:XIOLS
FE
m.m./.
the signed origi-
nal.
JUN12, 1937

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.94)
Jilo
Standard Oil Company of. New York
Livison of
Inc.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 12 1933
26 Broudway,
Department of Stape
F.S. Fales,
010
 Ner York
acre
Presidont
Lay 10th, 1933
15 1983
May
The Honorable,
79446362
Ofhre of Frannmy Aaviser
The Secretary of state,
33
Washington, D.C.
MAY 26 933
SEPARIMENI IK PTATE
Sir:
we are presentin for tur rev: ew  su mary of events
in Japan relatin in enera. t the oil incustry, and in particular
to the Socony-Vacuu.. Interests.
As a result of a chaotic conditien I ici extended over
many months and w ic.. was caused y disastrous competition follow-
ing depreciation in exchance and increased tariffs, the "Important
Industries Control Act" was invoked o  er ler 4th, 1932, to em-
5
brace the marketing of gasoline prcduced y the lar er Japanese
refiners and imported y the major fcreign companies. irior to this
a Gasoline Cartel was established by sue concerns, six in number.
of which the forei n interests were the isin sun letroleun Company,
Ltd., a subsidiary of the Asiatic Petroleum Company, Ltd., and
Socony-Vacuum Corporation. the Cartel in respect to selling prices
was placed un er the jurisdiction of the Department of Conmerce,
and in spite of every endeavor since then, it as leen impossible
to obtain the sanction of the Imperial Japanese Government for in-
creases to enable the inustry to market gasoline at a profit. To
illustrate the extent to Which prices have been depressed on
gasoline and other petroleum products, mey we point out thet our
operations in the Empire for the year 1932 resulted in a loss of
approximately 2,000,000. Our estimated loss for the first four
months of this year is alproximately 600,000.
FILED
For some time we have been endeavoring to obtain from
the Imperial Japanese Government an expression of their intentids
in respect to the policy to be applied to foreign interests of the
industry within the Japanese Empire. In this, His Excellency, the
American Ambassador at Tokyo, has been most helpful, although even
through his most courteous assistance, we have been una ble to ob-
tain any assurance that the Control Law mentioned above, will not
be used to the prejudice of foreign interests.
We have now been advised of certain announced policies
emanating from Japan in respect to a national oil policy which has
no doubt been brought to your attention, but for immediate reference
we quo te a telegram from our General Manager at Yokohama, under
date of May 8th, as follows:-

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Seoretary of State.
May 10/33.
"Refer to our telegram of lay 2nd local press has published
tentative plan national oil policy emanating from Department of
Industry outlining following alternative schemes both of which
we are informed would first require approval of all departments
of government and then Diet sanction FIRST Government Monopoly
involving purchase of all foreign companies' interests
SECOND Licensing system based on and favoring existing refineries
and embodying policy of makin Japan more independent of petroleum
from American British interests SToP Informal inquiry by American
Embassy failed to secure denial that plan along sucn lines was
being considered but assurances were given by Foreign Office that
no aotion contemplated in immediate future and in whose opinion
Monopoly doubtful SToP Embassy has telegraphed Washington fully
today STop We believe the following may have influenced publica-
tion at this juncture FIRST Opportune in view of coming conference
Washington SECoND Impending local discussion regarding renewal
Gasoline Agreement THIRD Political action connected with resolution
FoURTH Recent inquiry by American Eritish Dutch Ambassadors."
While this is hardly the first announcement of a plan for the
consideration by the Imperial Japanese Government of a monopoly or a
licensing system, nevertheless and in spite of the assurances iven by
the Foreign Office at Tokyo in the cable quoted above, it is our belief
that in view of the general political and economic situation, the open
avowal and consummation of governmental control alon these lines is
far more imminent than heretofore.
We understand the Embassy at Tokyo has telegraphed you the
substance of the proposed oil policy. The Socony-Vacuum Corporation
Interests have long been established in Japan and our investment toward
the promotion of such Interests is now in excess of twelve millions of
dollars. Consequently, we cannot avoid viewing with grave concern these
developments which seemingly point to placing our interests in serious
jeopardy.
In these circumstances, we intended submitting for your informa-
tion and consideration a summary of the situation, and specifically,
the effect in relation to us of the enforcement of the "Important Indus-
tries Control Act". While there is no definite assurance that either
a monopoly or licensing plan will be enacted and promulgated, even the
present status is of serious moment and we are particularly anxious to
ascertain the intentions of the Imperial Japanese Government.
The Embassy at Tokyo is fully cognizant of the situation and we
have instruoted our General Manager to request His Exoellenoy, the
Ambassador, to cable Washington a summary of his views based upon de-
velopments up to the time of the monopoly issue. Therefore it is possible
that the correlating of this information will afford you an opportunity
of reviowing the prinoiples involved and of determining whether you con-
sider it advisable and desirable to incorporate the subject in the
Agenda of the Eoonomic Conference at Washington with the Japanese
Delogation.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
oretary of State.
May 10/33.
In the event that you desire to include this matter as part of
your conversations with the Japanese Delegates, you may wish to afford
us an opportunity of presenting the subject before you in more detail,
in which case, we shall be pleased to have one of our representatives
prooeed to Washington for this purpose.
Sinoe writing the above, Japan cabled today to the effect that
a licensing system could probably be introduced at once provided it did
not involve tariff changes whic would require the sanction of the
Imperial Diet. Thus the question becomes of even greater importance and
we shall look forward with much pleasure to an expression of your
thoughts in relation thereto.
We have the pleasure to be
Respectfully,
..ale.
President.
CM

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.94)
y 31, 1933.
Conversution.
Mr. Korsey F. Coe,
Jooony-Vaouum Jorporulion,
Now York City.
u. Hornbous.
Mr. Moky.
Mr. Salisbury.
Mr. Coe hunded to r. Horntes. a hen orunuum with
regard to ponsible action uy tne Japanese sovernmert
whion might serlously affest merioan und other foreign
oil interesta in Japun as well as Jopies of telegrans
of May 22 and May 23 from represontatives of the coony-
Vaouum Corporatlon at Yoxohama and at London respeotive-
y. ur. Coe was vapeoially interesteu in the possibility
of a oonference being held at London of repreventatives
of Amorioan, British, Lutoh and Japancse vil interests
for the purpose of safeguarding forelgn oil interests in
,Japan. Mr. Coe stated and Wr. Hornbesk concurred that
London would te preferable to Tokyo as the place for such
a conference. At Mr. Hornbeok's suggestion ir. Parker
of the Sooouy-Vaouum Corporation at New York was got in
toueh with by telephone and was requested by Mr. Coe to
deliver to Dr. B. B. wallace, a member of the Ameriean
delegation

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.92)
- 2 -
delegation to the London Monetary and oonomio Conforence,
copies of the memorandum and telegrams whion ir. Coe had
brought to the Jopartmont and to inform sr. allaoe that
Mr. Hornbeok suggested that durin the voyuge of the
delegation to London the question of the wuvisability of
taking up the matter ut London be studied. ur. Hornbeok
stated that he would sund a telesrun to br. ullaoe with
regard to thi suujoot to c truin on lioh ur. allaoe
Ls traveling to New York in i.c hupe that it mixnt reaoh
him before Dr. alluce wnt uboure the . nt
a Jivhlt, on whlen he wa t suil lor naland.
Mr. Coe ingurrou t . lnlook Joula maxe uny
other sugoostion with regure to Juusurus tlat might be
taken toward safer-aruin e intereste in Jupun of the
Jocony-Vaouun Jor ration  . Hornbeck repliuu that.
in his opinion, the moasures outlined abuve were suffi-
oiont for the present. .. vue was informoa that it
woulu appuar t..at unything which mi tit bo uone would
have to be done from u politioal rather than from a logal
standpoint us it woula appear that the aotion whion is
reported to be ountemplated by thu Jupunese Government
would not, if applied similarly to all countries, infringe
treaty rignts.
After some further exposition by r. Coe with regard
to the subjeot under disoussion, Mr. Salisbury, at Mr.
Hornbeok's

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.84)
● 3 -
Mornbeok's suggestion, emoortea r. Coe to lne orfioe
of r. ward of Le wnere r. coe and Ar. ard had mome
diaoussion or he lugal apuots oi tne oase.
F.:LEO:CL

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.95)
1
June 3, 1933.
Dear Mr. Coe:
The reeeipt is aoknowledgoi of your Lotter of June 2,
l933, with onolosures, susge tin: t t tie epartment make
availeble to the american elegation at ondon, information
whieh has been received fron the  xbassad or at lokyo with
regard to the oil industry in Japen, anc further request-
ing that you be inforued when your representative may be
pormitted to disouss the matter vith the merioan  elega-
tion. You also state that you ore inclineu t) regars as
desirable a meeting at Loncon of representatives of your
compeny and of the leeding Je anese en: Britlsh oil
intereats and that you desire the aivioe of the Dopartment
in this regard for the reason thot such : meeting would
dopend uon the oonvenience of the merican elogation.
nith regard to the first point, I take pleasure in
informing you that the selegation is already in possession
of
Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
Socony-Vaouum Corporation,
26 Broadway,
Now York, New York.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.94)
● 8 -
of all the iaformmtion whioh has been reeelved from the
Ambessador at Tokyo and that a copy of your letter, with
1ts enelosures, and the epartmont's reply 1s also being
forwarded to the Jel gation for its information.
#ith rogard to the otrer metters mentioned in your
lotter, I am sure that either sootor reis or potor allace
of the American Delegation would be very led to :lseuss
with è representative of your con eny the probloms oon-
fronting it at any time. It ls, nowever, the Jepertment's
foeling that, as a firet stop, a meeting at london of
ropresentatives of the oil interests conoerned would be
the most satisfectory procedure end thst, in case no
olution of the problome is errived et tuer, the ques-
tioms should .be taken up by the representatives with
their respeotive delogetlons to the sonetary and
Eoonomie Conferenoe.
The Depertment is soarcely in position to suggest the
time t ioh would be most adviaable for your representative
in Japan to go to London. It is suggested that e satis-
factory procedure would a ear to be to have your representa-
tive at London get in touoh with the representatives there
of British oil interests. The British oil interests are
vitally coneerned with these problens and it should be

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.91)
- 8 -
a fairly simple matter for them to mmke arrangements
satisfeotory to all conderned.
jinoorely yours,
tanloy. ornbeok,
Chief,
Division or :er estern ffairs.
FEILKO:KC
FE
A true copy
the sge
na.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
TRANSLATION OF CABLE
May 22/33
FROM:
YOKOHAMA
TO:
NEW YORK
Refer to our telegram of may 1)th frienus oabled to
London (to) suggeat-in that tney and you attempt to
arrange a meeting between representatives of leading
oil Jompanies Japan to be hela in London if possible
during International oonomio conferenoe with the ob-
jeot of evolving some commercial plan-s fuir to all and
enbodying safeguard-s to investment-s and future trade
of foreien oompany-s whish could be suggested to
Japanese Government us a means to assist in stabilizing
Japanese petroleun industry jTur Incluentally point was
made that suggestin conferenoe now would be construotive
and opportunc in view of unoertain posltion regarding
renewal of Gasoline agrecmcnt-s us Japanese company-s
oould be requested to proause fundamental soheme for
consideration sTur London favors action along suoh
line-s una has requested representutive-s to disouss
fully with us iTop as influense being brought to bear
upon Japanese Government to uaopt without delay some
nationalistio petroleum polioy or plan under guise
national defense whioh at the same time would be advan-
tageous (to) Japanese oompany-s also in view of formation
of speoial Japanese company in Manohuria whioh may uffeot
adversely our interest-s prompt aotion would seem
advisable in order to forestall decision and official
announoement by Japanese and Manohuria Governments STOP
Have informed friends we favor conferenoe proposal
provided

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
provided you gree ana if it uoes nut ounfliot with any
measures whioh have been or will be taken at vashington,
D. C. also have suggested to them logioal procedure is
for London to approacn you ST e anu friends
representative-s ugree-a on following:
Tut for
obvious reasons oonference s oula not be hela in Japan
B. In view of known uesirc-s of Japunese oil company-s
to obtain advuntage-s by linxins up cumnercial and
national side-s that they might be reluotunt to attenu
conference believing that if left alone they could in-
fluenoe deoision more in their interest but that the
Government realizing thut no National plan could
eliminate nooessity of importing will wisn to avoid
offen:ing furelgn interests by disoriainution or trade
restriotion-s fearing possible retaliatury defensive
aotion by other Governments and mi nt therefore influ-
enoe Ja anese Uil Company-s to senu representative-s
is hela to be within soope of London conferenoe ana that
respeoti e foreign governmente will ugree to assist then
procedure along follow ing lines is suggested for son-
sideration (of) London and New York TC: American liritish
and Dutoh Governments to uguin inform Jupanese they und er-
stand National oil policy involving possible monopoly
lioense-ing system or central oontroliin company is be-
ing considered by Government and as it (this) might oon-
ceivably affeot trade and investment-s their nationals
suggest to them that commeroial side be made subjeot of
frank disoussion-s at London between affeoted interests
friend

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.84)
-8 -
frionds are quoting this oaule to Luncon anu copy has
been given to Amerioan mbassy To It is reported
(that) Russian abassy has inroruutlon to effeot
Japanese have found cruae il in promisin quantity-s
in Aanohuria.
2

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.91)
COPY OF MESSAGE RECETVED
NEW YORK MAY 23rd 1933
FROM:
ASDEBATIC
LONDON
TO:
RICHARD AIREY
NEYURK
688
JAPAN WA HAV BEEN IN COMUNICATION
ITH OUR
REPRESENTATIVE YOKOHAMA HO INED U PRIS
REPRESENTATIVE ALSO TLHGRAPHEL DEA CITTSE RE-
GARDING SUGGESTED MENTING T   N IF IT
IS POSSIBL DURING INTRNATI ML C. NOMIS  NFRAFC
BETWEEN REPRESILNTAT IVES LAD ING  CMPANIS JAYAN
AND REPRESENTATI.  FON CIL TRAD C NC RNS JAPAN
IT M JECT F VING T  G FAR T
L  Y  G   
A MEANG OF JTABLSING JAPARLS ETILUM NDUJTRY
AND AO AS AEAN F FRSTALLIN AGITAT.N NC.
GROING IN JAAN  E ONOLY INT L HTRY
WLICH MOUTL HAV.. FFECT OF PNALI JING FORIGN TRAD HS
TO THE ADVAFTAG F LS IRPORTERS L REFINER FULLTP
WE ARE INCLINED TO THIN TIS MATTER JHOULD BE RALJED
WITH POLITICAL LPRT TIVES ARICA HOLLAH GRAT
BAITAIN IN CRDER TAT DAFINIT E PRASSLON OP POL IOY MAY
BE OBTAINED FROM JA ANSSE GOVERNMCENT REPRESIENTATIVE IF
IT IS POSSIBLE ND WE WOULD LIKL FRIEHDS OPINI AS TO
LINE OF ACTION HICH SHOULD BE FOLLOWED FULLSTOP
OUR OPINION IS JAPANESE GOVERNMENT .ITH THEIR PRESENT
NECESSITY OF RELYING UPON IMPORTED SUPPLIES OF PETROLEUM
PRODUCTS ARE NOT LIKELY TO INTRODUCE A SCHEKE WIICH WILL
DEFINITELY BE REPUGNANT TO SUPPLYING COUNTRIES AND TO
IMPORTING COMPANIES BUT WE FEEL IT IS ONLY THIS NECESSITY
AND

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
AND MOTHING ELSE THAT HAY PREVENT THEM FROM INTRODUC ING
MATIONALISTIC PROGRAMME DEFINITELY HAMPERING FOREIGN
COMCERNS IF NOT ALTOGETHER PUTTING THEM OUT OF BUSINESS
FULLSTOP
FURTHER WE FEEL SOME FORM OF MONOPOLISTIC LEGISLATION
MAY SHORTLY BE INTRODUCED INTO MANCHURIA AS COMAENCING
POINT FOR MORE COMPREHENSIVE SCHEME EMBRACING ALL
MARKETS UNDER JAPANESE INFIUENCE FULLSTOP
OUR OPINION IS THEREFORE THAT TIME RIPE FOR TRYING TO
OBTAIN BOME STATEMENT JAPANESE GOVERNMENT AS TO THEIR
INTENTIONS TOWARDS FOREIGN PETROLEUM CONCERNS AND THAT
THIS CAN ONLY BE DONE BY CONCERTED ACTION ON THE PART
OF COMPANIES CONCERNED AND TILAT ASSISTANCE OF POLITICAL
REPRESENTATIVES AMERICA HOLLAND GREAT BRITAIN SHOULD BE
INVOKED FULLSTOP
IF FRIENDS AGREE WE WILL APPROACH GOVERNMENT REPRESENTA-
TIVES HOLLAND ENGLAND AND WILL NATURALLY REQUIRE TO BE
ABLE TO STATE THAT SIMILAR APPROACH WAS BEING MADE
WASHINGTON SO THAT DESIRED CONCERTED ACTION CAN BE TAKEN
FULLSTOP
PLEASE COMMUNICATE WITH FRIENDS TELEGRAPH PROMPTLY THEIR
OPINION
C.C.
P.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
May 27th, 1933.
In oonsiderins the petroleum trade in Japan, it
should be borne in mind that it represents by far the
greatest outlet ror Aaerloan petroleun produots among
the Asiatio nations. The inorease in truue has been
marked and ountinuous, and inasmuoh us Ja,an is becom-
ing an industrialized nation, le present demund for
petroleum produots should not only uc aaintained but
should srow with the spread of meohanized inaustry.
As an indioation of present volume, it is estimated
that oonaumption in 4?-gallon barrels for the 3 years
ending 1932 was as follows:
1930
16,599,000.
1931
一
17.069,573.
1932
一
19,005,127.
As oil resouroes within the Empire are acolining, the
industry is obiigea to depend more ana more upon i porta-
tion from forelgn souroes of Jrude ana/or Finished
produots to the extent that ut the moment it is estimated
roughly 90; of the totui sonsumption is aurived from
souroes outslde the smpire. it is esviwated tat nmerioan
Companies on the Paoifio Coast slhipped into Japun uuring
1932, 8.700,000 barrel8 or rude, Fuel ana lesel cil.
exoluding shipments by Shell Oil Company.
In adaition, Socony-Vaouum imports of Finished
produots amounted to approximately 1,450,000 burruls, so
that Amerioan interests in general supplied Japan with
roughly 10,200.000 barrels. A fair Amerioan f.o.b. value
of the total quantity 1s approximately $ll,000,000, of
whioh Socony-Vaouum Corporation interests shared to the
extent of upproximately $3,550.000.
Translating

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Translating this sum to rupresent gross sales
value, the 3ooony-Vaouum volume of business for 1932
•qualled 31,000,000, and as its operations for that
period resulted 1n a loss of approximately 2,000,000
the total grogs sales value in uruer to have shown
neitner profit nor loss, snoulu nave been ¥36,600,000.
or Us12,550,000 at exonange 4-1/4, which was the
average rem ttanoe rate for the term. Ir. adu tion to
this there were sold by a Jupunese  uncy, lor cony-
Vaouum aocount, 1,200,000 burrels of luel and liesel
oil, the value of whioh would matcrially inerease the
gross sales value expresscd utove.
Further to the 11,000,200, there is an indeterminate
asorual to merisan interests whish represents a very
substantial amount, involvin tne value of insurance and
freight returns for that part of the totul sallonage
whioh was moved by Amerioan tonnage.
working baok l93z estimated sales quantities within
the Empire to an f.o.b. basis, regardless of souroe, it
is oaloulated tnat tue total trude value in uppr ximately
24,000,000, whion aoes not oover insurance und transporta-
tion or cost of refining operations for that part of
Crude oil whioh is not of looal proauotion.
On the ratio of f.o.b. versus gross sales values, as
established in the foregoing, affeoting Soo ny-Vaouum
produots, this $24,000,000 should represent approximately
a gross value in the Japanese Empire of $84,700,000.
Provided future conditions are no more onerous toward
American exporters and operators than exist at the moment,
and that the applioation of the "Industrial Control Aot"
w111

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
will permit of a more liberal price polioy, there is
the possibility of greatly inoreasing the Amcrioan
share in the total turnover.
It might be said of the tutal nmerioun estinuted
f.o.b. value of this trade t.ut oouny-Vaouun represe..ts
approximately one third of it. fowever, it is pointed
out that it is the only aterioan cii soncern establisned
on a large soale and tnat tnc suojess of its business
is solely due to its own suics eriurt., wnioh has in-
volved heavy expenditures on it. purt, wncreas other
Amerioan interests are supplying Japan on open tenuer
with only Crude oil and semi-refinec prouuots, suoh as
Fuel and Diesel. Nevertheless ocony-Vaouum Corporation
has a oommon ground with all other eriouns interested
in this trade and it is its aim, throu h negotiations
with the parties oonoerned, to evolve some praotioal
plan toward the stabilization of the Jupanesc petroleum
industry whioh is in a oliaotio oondition. Naturally,
its hope is that by so doin it will not only safeguard
and guarantee its invcetments and future trade but also
that of other merican interests. it is strongly urged
that effort along these lines, enerously fostered and
supported by the Government shoulà immediately be in-
stituteu as it is underitood influenoe is being brought to
bear upon the Jupanese Governnent to adopt without uelay
some nationalistio petroleun polioy or plan under plea of
national defense, whioh at the same time, would most
conccivably be disadvantageous to Amerioun interests.
while no doubt the State Department is in possession
of certain doouments forwarded by His Kxeellenoy, the
Ameriean

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
American Ambassador, whloh enumerate in full the Joint
representations of the respeotive representatives of
Socony-Vaouum Corporation and the Rising Jun Petroloum
Company, Itd., there are sum arized below the most
important issues and it is feit tat tnere uhould be
seoured from representutives of the Japanese Government,
a definite expression of polioy in respeot t the uttitude
toward aerioan oil interests ithin the mpire and whioh
shoulc embraoe the followin:
1 - Assuranues that tariff will not be revised to impose
a groater handioup tnan existins under present sonedule.
In other words, the uifferential between Crude and
Finished produots should not be sul jeoted to a wider
range.
2 - Complete recugnition of the faot that merloan inter-
ests have invested millions of collars in Japan and
have tecn marketin: for many ears, vith the rusult that
suoh interests rlgntly osnsider t emselves an integral
part of the Japan oil industry and sonaequer:tly the
applioution of the "Important Industries Jontrol Aot"
should be modified to ive sucn Anerloan interests com-
plete equality with Jupunese interests to the extent
that foreign costs of prouuots should cqually oonsti-
tute a basis on whion the yuestion of selling prioes
should be oonsidered. Also an immediate lowering of the
quantitative qualifioation established by this Aot so
that full pro teotion oan be afforded the Japanese and
Amerioan interests against higily destruotive competition
suoh as is now arising from Russian aotivities.
3 - The Japanese Government's offioial policy covering
10001

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -
looal refining operations, thut is, whether in one
case or the other, by construoting refineries and
operating them, either:
a - A branoh refineries of the purent oompanies,
or
b - separately inoor oruteu us Japanese Compan-
ies with Amerija. onpital,
Amerioan interests will receive equal preferenoe with
the Japanese refiners.
4 - In view of the reount developwent in anomiria there
should be unqualifieu assurance fron tne Japanese
Government that the pollly of the Upen soor will be
enforoed und maintuineu and tihat merican interests
operuting in this arcu kill not te placed in jeopardy.
 - By reason of the fast tlhat the present Auerioan inter-
ests have been operating for many years and have under-
gone the necessary ex penditures toward oreating a plaoe
within the J punese oil industry, t en in the event
that either a monopoly or lioensing system is instituted,
Amerioan interests should have equal preferenoe wi th the
present reoognized Japanese refiners and importers in
supplying petroleum and its produots to the Empire. By
this it is meant that the Cartel system whion at the
present embraoes one of the most important phuses of
the business, namely, Gasoline, should be widened in
soope to cabrace other petroleun produots whioh oon-
stitute the balanoe of the trade. In the event that
the capaoity of the Japanese refineries is so enlarged
as to be independent of imported finished produots.
then in view of the prominent and important position
Socony-Vaounm

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.95)
- 6 -
Sooony-Vaouum interests have hela in this market, it
should be oonsidered fair that suoh interests at
least be privileged to maintain its present propor-
tionate share of the total business by means of
sufficient imports of rude oi. to equal in refinery
running its share of the percenture or efined produots
now bein enjoyeu.
In respeot to No. 1, no doubt the Jupanese Government
will recosnize the present stanustlil tarifr position
adopted by the conferring nations  sibjeot to the deoi-
sions reashed at the orld Lconumis onferense. However,
this will not be suffisient until it is augdented by a
definite unueratanding with the Japanese Government with
respeot to the luture. ron these lines an interpretation
o: Japan's usition ia  ven in a s)ecial diepaton to the
New York Journal of o1 erce under uate of May 2nd, to the
effeot that the npire is for assurin freeuom of inter-
national trade by the abolition of various barriers or
restriotions, and further, Visoount isnii upon his arrival
at Jan Franoisoo is reported by the all treet Journal.
May l9th, to have stated:-
"Amerioa and Japan are not competitors in the trade of
the Paoifio. They oomplement eaoh other in the field
of oonmerse. Japan la the best oustomer of the United
States. The United States is the best ouatomer of
Japan. The things you export to China are items we do
not produoe."
It is hardly neoessary to re-emphasize tne fact that
Japan's petroleum output is extremely limited and that it
mmst roly upon foreign souroes of supply, the most important
of whion has always been the United States. Under these
eireumstanees it is naturally the desire of American inter-
osts

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
- 7 -
ests to perpetuate their position in this market. Provided
Amerioan interests can suocessfully compete with oil from
other souroes, oan it not be assumed that the interests of
Japan will best be served by oontinuin this particular
traue relation with tle United tates.
In regara to No. 2, the jomneroial Jounsellor,
.. mbanay, Tokyo, comments upon this as follows:-
"The uevelopment of sontrol in te Gasoline trude
raises aifriult proulem, sinct it puts upon u.e
Jovernment part o e responsiuillty for decluing
quotas ana pricos; ullu it I. uasy lo bue that the
law mixht ve appiieu in reapeot of quotas so as to
oneok the growth of tne forein firms, or in
respest of prices so as to restriot their oompetitive
power. These forein firms asosruingly, while they
san raise no objection to tne principle of control.
feel some misgiving us to its upplioution; and they
have now approaoned the pompetent Minister asking
for some uefinition of te orfioial attitude upon
walsh they may base thcir future polloles or invest-
ments.
Experionce of tne forelsn compunies in other
direotions seens to justiry their feur that they
may suffer from the offioiui polloy of encouraging
home industries. a oase in point is that of the
wax whioh they used to import. In 193? duties were
so raised and olassified as almost to extinguish the
Import of wax from Netherlands East Inaies and
Burma (whish was largely in the hands of the Shell
Jompany, who had built up the business in the pust
20 years) und to sive further proteotion to wax
subatitutes made in Japan from fish oil. At the
same time an exoeption waa made in favor of wax from
shale oil, whioh in praotise benefited only the
jouth anohuria Railway Company's refinery. It
should be observea that the interests whioh profit
by this latter exemption, to the uetriment of ex-
ports from the Dutoh East Inaies, ure preoisely those
whioh are inoreasing tneir exports of ummonium
sulphate to those islanus; and u lurge quantity of
this sulphate ls obtaineu as a by-produot Irom
snale."
Further, un illuninating statement on the subjoot of
controlled prices was recently made by Mr. Iwakiri, Vioe
Minister for the Departmunt of Commeroe, to the Sooony-
Vaouum Sepresentative. This reads:-
"Mr. Iwakiri

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
- 8 -
"Mr. Iwakiri stated definitely that the Government
would take into consideration foreign companies'
costs in deoiding upon justifiable prices and
that no government oould foroe unprofitable price
levels on any company for a long time."
An unqualified statement oonoerning the Government's
polioy in respeot to No. 3, will enable ocony-Vaouum
Corporution to reach a desigion as to its future aotivities
in this market, and the importanse of tis point need not
be alaborated upon.
of even greuter importaise an wnion will nave a far-
reaohing effeot lot only upon tne herisan petroleum
industry, but ail merisun interests whioh lave been or
propose to partioipate in tne development or Manohuria,
1a the point ut iasue in No. 4. it is recognized vith
appreolation that tne meripun Covernment has atrongly
upheld the polioy of the Open Joor.
Considering le past history of Aerioun oil inter-
ests, it 1s felt that the expressed views in No. 5 ure
predioated upon the basis of thc only equitable sulution
in the event that the Japunese Government tukes one or
the other of the steps outlineu.
This entire matter is suusin: grave conoern to
Amerioan, Britisn and Dutoh interesta, and it is the
intention of the British und Duton to approach their
respeotive Governments inasmuon as it is believed that
only by concerted aotion on the part of all cunoerned.
can suon interests be properly proteoted. socony-Vacuum
Corporation has advised the London Offise of the Asiatio
Petroloum Company, Ltd., that it has already plaoed this
matter before its Government and that it proposes to
request

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.84)
- 9 -
regmest preliminary cunsideration of it by them prior to
the departure of the Japanese Delogation for London.
Furthex in conoert with the ritish and utoh interests.
soocny- nouum sucteste the udvieabilit o arrany in 
rarley  London uurin the rl ounomie on oronce with
the ropreeontctiver  he loalin Jahese cil cu panios
so thet ireo ox  len  towe ab n for
rrosetatit
7.Jonjuno
tio wt tae sr t e or the
rutional involvec. v1ll. 1t 1 ho . re l: i solu-
tion mutuelly sati actor to ll t rtioe sonoornod.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, May 11, 1933.
No. 391.
Subject:
Japan's Oil Problems.
(Supplementary information)
F/HS
M RECD
A 6 35
Offiege of Ecenemic Adviser
JUN 23 1933
EPARTMENT OF STATE
894.6363/36
894.6363
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 27 1938
artment of State
Cohry sent to foudommith
foru
The Honorable
JUL 17 1933
FILED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I wish respectfully to refer to my despatch No. 366
'32
of Apr1l 21, 1933/entitled JAPAN'S OIL PROBLEMS. Due to
developments which have taken place since its preparation,
which are described in my despatch No. 384 of May 11, 1933,
it appears likely that the oil problem may arise at the
London Conference. Having in mind the possibility that
the information contained in the despatch may be used by
American representatives, the following supplementary
details are submitted for the Department's information.
1.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
1. The original control agreement between
the six firms engaged in the gasoline trade- Socony-
Vacuum, Rising Sun, Ogura, Mitsubishi, Nippon and
Mitsui- was signed on October 21, 1932 but had actually
been in force since July 1, 1932. On August 24 the
authorities had sanctioned an increase of 7 sen per
American gallon in the price of gasoline. The Im-
portant Industries Control Law having been extended to
apply to the gasoline trade in November 1932, as
mentioned on page 8 of despatch No. 366, the authorities
permitted the companies to modify their agreement on
December 12 so as to allow another raise of 10 sen
per gallon. It will therefore be seen that the au-
thorities are not in principle opposed to increases
in the price of gasoline. Agitations among the taxi-
drivers and motorbus companies occurred on both occasions
that the price was increased, but the authorities stood
their ground and refused then to be intimidated.
2. Since preparing despatch No. 366 information
has been received which makes it appear uncertain whether
the contract between North Saghalien Petroleum Company
and the Soviet Government has yet been actually signed.
A trial shipment of 8,0o0 tons of gasoline is known to
be on its way from the Black Sea and it is considered
probable by persons engaged in the trade that a contract
will be signed by the Japanese representative who is
said to be in Moscow now. However, it is understood
that the original figure of z00,000 tons of crude oil,
fuel

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
fuel oil, and gasoline may be reduced before agreement
is reached.
It has also been learned that the Nippon Oil
Company, which owns the largest interest in North
Saghalien, is interested in importing some gasoline from
Russia as a temporary expedient. According to this
report, Nippon's own refineries haven't sufficient
capacity to provide the amount of gasoline it can sell
through its present distributing system. As the Soviet
product can be purchased cheaply Nippon is willing
for the present to purchase it, rather than enlarge its
plant. This is probably one reason why gasoline has
been mentioned in the projected contract with the
Soviets though the North Saghalien group are, as
stated in my previous despatch, interested primarily
in diversifying their sources of crude oil.
While on the subject of Soviet oil, it was not
strictly correct to mention in my previous despatch the
"newly built" refineries in Siberia. Accurate information
on this subject being meagre, it is not known how nearly
completed these projects are at the present time.
3. The import duty paid on petroleum products
varies according to the percentage of volume of dis-
tillates up to 2750 C. by fractional distillation. The
lowest form of crude oil(that containing less than 20%
of distillates) which is the principal import of the
Japanese refineries, pays a duty of Yen 2.295 per 100
gallons. The duty on crude oil and fuel oil increases
according

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
according to the percentage of distillates. Gasoline
pays a duty of Yen 10.80 per 100 gallons. At the time
these rates were fixed they were supposed to represent
the relative gasoline producing qualities of the various
grades of oil. However, modern improvements in refining
methods have enabled more gasoline to be extracted from
the oil and,therefore, the duties work to the disadvantage
of the importers of refined gasoline.
4. It was not strictly accurate to say on page
11 of my previous despatch that the United States and
the Dutch East Indies share honors about equally in the
Japanese importations of gasoline. The imports from the
Dutch East Indies have in recent years been greater
than those from the United States in the proportion of
about 6 to 4.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
869.6
SWW:r

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.95)
E
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, May 11, 1933.
384
SUBJECT:
Japan's Oil Problems: Current Developments.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
Offee of Foenamir: Adviser
F/HS
JUN 23 1933
PEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 2 6 55
M RECO
894.6363/37
June
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NMAY 27 1933
894.6363
Department of State
Copyrust to toudomiita
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
32.
With reference to my despatch No. 366 of april 21, 1933,
133
and my telegram No. 94 of May 8, 11 a.m., concerning the
1/
situation of the foreign oil companies in Japan, I endlose
herewith for the Department's information a copy of a i-
3
vate and confidential letter received from the British
Ambassador with regard to the representations which he
made to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this connection.
The Dutoh Minister made similar representations on two
occasions

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
occasions, on one of which he saw both the Minister and
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs and pointed out that
the Japanese oil plans as published (referred to later in
this despatch) would create an unfortunate impression
abroad, particularly at the present time when Japan is be-
lieved to be working for international freedom of trade.
As stated in my telegram of May 8, 1l a.m., I also
talked informally with the Vice Minister for Foreign Af-
fairs regarding the future of the foreign oil companies
in Japan. I pointed out that the American oil companies
(principally the Socony-Vacuum Corporation) had invested
large sums of money here in equipment, and might make
further investments by increasing their equipment, which
would undoubtedly be in the interest of the Japanese them-
selves, but that the American companies could not take such
steps without first receiving some definite indication or
assurances as to the future policy of the Japanese Government
towards the foreign oil business in Japan. I mentioned the
fact that there were indications that the Japanese Government
had been investigating the whole question of an oil policy
and that a virtual monopoly might be created in favor of
Japanese firms in connection with the refining industry
which might effectively squeeze the foreign oil companies
out of the market. I said that the Socony-Vacuum Corpora-
tion had already addressed a list of questions to the
Minister of Commerce and Industry in order to obtain a basis
for formulating its own future policy, but the desired in-
formation had not been forthcoming. I pointed out to the
Vice Minister that it was not my wish to seem to try to in-
fluence the Japanese policy, but that I hoped that some
precise indications could be given to the American companies

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
as to whether the Japanese Government desired their coopera-
tion in the future or whether a situation would be created
which would render it impossible for them to compete with
the Japanese firms in the Japanese market. The American
companies, I said, were already operating at a loss owing
to the effect of the Important Industries Control Law
which had brought prices down to a level at which the foreign
companies could not sell with a profit. The Vice Minister
asked me to let him have copies of the letter from the Socony-
Vacuum Corporation to the Minister of Commerce and Industry
2/3/.
and of the reply thereto, which has since been done. Copies
of these letters are enclosed for the Department's informa-
tion.
On May 4, 1933, the Mining Bureau of the Department of
Commerce and Industry released for publication the drafts
of two plans for national control of the oil industry and
trade. Copies of an excerpt from the JAPAN ADVERTISER of
41.
May 5, 1933, containing a translation of the two plans,
are enclosed for the Department's information. The pre-
cise text of the plans has not been released and is not
available, but the texts as published in the vernacular
and English-language newspapers agree in general purport, al-
though varying in phraseology. As will be seen, the first
plan contemplates a governmental monopoly of the oil in-
dustry and trade, to be handled by a corporation of which
the Japanese Government will own a large share. Under this
plan the existing properties (oil storage plants, distri-
buting stations, service stations, etc.) of the foreign oil
companies are to be purchased by the Government. The second
plan

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
plan contemplates the control of the oil industry and
trade by means of a system of a system of licenses for the
importation of petroleum and petroleum products and for
the refining of crude oil and the erection of refineries.
This plan also calls for the development of sources of
supply of crude oil other than American and British, and
for the development of a process of liquification of coal.
Under this latter plan the importation of petroleum proucts
into Japan by the foreign oil companies could be gra ually
decreased as additional Japanese refineries become able
to supply the market, while the construction of refineries
in Japan by the foreign oil companies could be prevented
if deemed desirable. Both of the plans, therefore, con-
template the eventual elimination of the foreign oil com-
panies from the Japanese field, except for the sale to
Japanese refineries of supplies of crude oil.
Upon publication of these plans, the Embassy got in
touch with the Commercial Bureau of the Foreign Office, with
the American oil companies (Socony-Vacuum and Associated
Oil) and with the newspaper correspondents. From these
various sources the Embassy obtained the following informa-
tion.
While the Chief of the Mining Bureau of the Department
of Commerce and Industry denies that the plans as published
are official, they were given to the press by the Assistant
Chief of the Bureau and therefore may be considered as
emanating from that Bureau. The plans are only tentative
and have not received the consideration or approval of
other

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
other Governmental departments interested, but were pre-
pared in response to a resolution introduced into the
House of Peers last March and attached as a rider to the
annual budget bill. This resolution, stating that the
supply of petroleum being a matter of imperative necessity
from a military and industrial viewpoint, and the production
of oil in Japan being small and inadequate to meet the mili-
tary and industrial needs of the country, calls upon the
Government to take imnediate steps to exploit oil resources
not only of Japan but of all places within Japanese influence,
and at the same time to endeavor to carry out a scheme for
the liquification of coal. It appears that, in accordance
with this resolution, the plans in question were prepared
by the Mining Bureau of the Department of Commerce and In-
dustry after consultation with the Army and Navy fuel ex-
perts and a Fuel Investigation Commi:sion. The Mining
Bureau, in issuing the plans, admitted that they were tenta-
tive and vague, and that it would be months, or even years,
before they could be approved anc put into effect. The
Commercial Bureau of the Foreign Office stated that the
plans had not yet been referred to the Foreign Office and
that nothing definite ha therefore been done, but that in
any case the Foreign Office was opposed to the idea of an
oil monopoly. The Commercial Bureau, however, did not
deny that plans for governmental control of the oil industry
and trade existed. The Dutch Minister, who interviewed the
Minister and Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs in regard
to

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
to the plans, received assurances that the plans, if they
existed, were not yet under consideration by the Foreign
Office, but he also received the impression that the plans
had some basis in fact.
It appears that a monopoly plan, or a licensing plan
involving a change in the tariff, will require the sanc-
tion of the Diet, which dors not meet again until next
December, unless a special session is c lled. A licensing
plan not involving a change in the tariff, however, could
probably be put into effect t any time by order of the
Cabinet and by Imperial orcinance.
Projects for a governmert monopoly of the oil industry
and trade have been put forward from time to time for some
years past, but no definite action nas been taken on these
projects to date. For various reasons, however, the foreign
oil companies believe that the present plans, or at least
the licensing plan, will receive serious consideration and
may be carried out. The plans were compiled in response
to a definite resolution of the House of Peers and are not
merely the dreams of some underlings in Government service.
The people of the country are wrought up over the matter
of national defense, and it would be a simple matter to put
any oil policy into effect if based on the plea of nation-
al defense. Pressure has been brought to bear by the foreign
oil companies and their diplomatic representatives upon
Japanese governmental organs in an effort to obtain some
indication of the future Japanese oil policy, and this pres-
sure is apt to bring the whole question to a head. Moreover,
the

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
-7 -
the largest Japanese oil company is reported to be in an
unfavorable financial condition, and it is possible that
it is bringing pressure to bear upon the Government to
adopt some oil policy which will be more favorable to the
Japanese companies. As a result of these factors, the
foreign oil comoanies are not inclined to view the present
plans as lightly as they have similar monopoly plans in the
past, especially in view of the fact that the foreign oil
companies are faced with the necessity, beceuse of exchange
and tariff difficulties, of erecting refineries in Japan
in the near future, if they wish to retain a share of the
Japanese gasoline trade. They naturally co not wish to
make these investments if they are to be subjected in the
future to expropriation under a monopoly or to control
under a licensing system.
The Dutch Minister is inclined to believe that Japanese
governmental control of the oil trade by means of a monopoly
or a licensing system may be in contravention of a clause of
the Dutch-Japanese treaty of commerce. It is possible that
he refers to a clause similar to the first paragraph of
Article I of the American-Japanese Treaty of Commerce and
Navigation of l9ll. While this clause would not appear to
apply to a government monopoly, it might be considered to
apply to any licensing system which did not contemplate
equal advantages to American companies with those given to
Japanese companies.
Various reasons have been advanced by the oil companies
and others for the publication of the oil plans at this
particular time, when the Diet is not in session and no
definite

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
-8 -
definite action is likely. The theory is advanced that
the plans are intended to act as a trading point in the
coming Economic Conference at London, or as a ballon
d'essai to test the reaction abroa to Japanese rostriction
of the oil trade. It is possible th:t they constitute an
attempt to deter the foreign oil companies from further
expansion of their trade in Japan, pending the formulation
and sanction of a definite oil program by the Government.
It is also possible that the plans are a tentative answer
of the Mining Bureau to the queries put to the Bureau by
the oil companies for an indication of the Government's
future oil policy.
The foreign oil companies in Japan are inclined to
believe that the question of the future of their trade in
Japan will be coming to a hea in the not far distant future
and naturally they are much perturbed over the situation.
As they have been unable to obtain any satisfactory as-
surances from the Government regarding the matter, the
opinion is gaining ground among them that it should be dis-
cussed at the London Economic Conference and some attempt
made there to arrive at a definite basis for future trade
in oil and oil products. Here the oil companies have no
grounds for negotiation, as they have no authority to offer
concessions to the Japanese in return for a liberal oil
policy, but they believe that something may be done along
this line at the Conference. As stated in my telegram No. 97,
34
May 11, 1l a.m. I am informed that the British Embassy in
Tokyo

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
- 9 -
Tokyo has suggested this procedure to the British Foreign
Office, while the Rising Sun Petroleum Company has taken
up this possibility with the head office of the Shell in-
terests in London. I have not yet r ceived a recuest
from the American oil inte ests to suggest a similar plan
to the Department, but I am informed that the local office
of theSocony-Vacuum Corporation is in communic tion with
its heac office on the subject. I m keeping in close
touch with the local managers of Americ'n oil interests in
connection with the matter.
Respectfully yours,
ot
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
1. Copy of letter from the British
Ambassador, April 13, 1933.
2. Copy of letter to Minister of Com-
merce and Industry, November 9,1938.
3. Copy of letter from Bureau of Mining,
February 2, 1933.
4. Copy of excerpt from JAPAN ADVERTISER,
May 5, 1933.
869.6
ERD:g
Recetved

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No
to despa:ch
No.384 of 1/a15'33
from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
COPY
British Embassy,
Tokyo.
13th April, 1933.
Private and Confidential.
Dear Grew,
I spoke to Count Uchida this morning at my
farewell visit about the oil and I should like to
let you know before I go exactly what I said.
I made no complaint as regards the treatment
which our oil interests had suffered but I pointed
out that they had invested a great deal of money in
this country and that they were quite ready to invest
more if they knew that the policy of the Japanese
Government would not be directed to squeezing them
out. In short, they were anxious to co-operate with
the Japanese in the oil industry and, if they made
fresh investments, it would really amount to the
Japanese getting a loan without having to go on to
the open market. This would be of considerable ad-
vantage to the country in its present financial position.
I knew that the Japanese Government were considering
their whole oil policy and I sincerely hoped that they
would be able to satisfy our oil people that that policy
was one of co-operation and one under which it would
be advisable for our oil interests to increase their
stake in Japan still further.
Count Uchida listened carefully to what I said
and confirmed the fact that the Japanese authorities
were studying the whole question of oil which was of the
first importance to the country. He would certainly
convey to the committee the message which I had given him.
I have given a copy of this letter to Snow for
the information of Malcolm and am writing a similar letter to
General Pabst.
As ever,
(Signed) F. O. Lindley
His Excellency
Mr. Joseph C. Grew,
United States Ámbassador,
TOKYO.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
2
to despaich
5384 or hy 11, 1933 from the
1:b: y at 1ckyo.
COPY
YOKOHAMA, November 29th, 1932.
His Excellency, Baron K. N kejima
Minister of Commcrce and Industry,
TOKYO.
Your Excellency:
By Notice No. 4: of the Lepartnent of Conmerce
and Industry dated 4th November the Lr for the Control
of Important Industries No. 40 d: ted 1931 w:s made annlicable
to the gasoline trade in so far as concerned me chonts or
companies who were producing or selling lo0,0 c: ses per
month.
Just prior to November 4th our comp nies with
four others had signed an agreement such as is defined in
Article 1 of the said Law and we have therefore been brought
within the provisions of the Law.
From our study of the Control Law itself and of
the explanation of the Law issued by the temporary Rationali-
zation Bureau our understanding of the position is that the
Law is intended to aid in the rationalization of industry,
on the one hand by encouraging the companies or persons en-
gaged in the various important industries to enter into gree-
ments amongst themselves with the object of organizing and
stabilizing their industries and on the other hand by pro-
tecting the consumer and the general public from nossible
abuse of such controlling agreements.
In order to f&cilitate the conclusion of such
agreements provision is made in Article 2 of the said Law
whereby a mjority opinion may in certain circumstances
and with the approval of the Minister of State be made binding
on the other persons engaged in that industry.
This Article introduces into any controlled
industry a very sweeping change in that no company can any
longer be sure of enjoying its former right of deciding for
1tself what is best in the general interests, in the interests
of the industry and of itself but may be required to fall
in with the majority opinion provided such opinion meets with
the approval of the Minister of State.
In publishing this explanation of the Control Law
the temporary Rationalization Bureau emphasized the great
change thus made and the sweeping character of the powers given
by the Law in this respect and we understand that so far as
possible it will be the wish of the authorities that companies
or persons engaged in an industry shall voluntarily come to
agreements.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
While recognizing the advantages of such a
arse and having full confidence that it is the wish of
ll the companies equally to act in the common interest and
in the best interests of the oil industry we can not dis-
guise from ourselves that honest differences of opinion may
arise which would require to be submitted to the competent
Minister of State.
In the circumstances and ir. view of the large
interests our companies have in the oil inoustry, the large
investments they have already made and will recuire to make
if they are to continue to play as large : part in the oil
industry of Japan as they do at present, we feel that it is a
matter of the greatest importance for us to know beforehand what
are the broad lines on which Your Excellency considers the
Japanese oil industry should be stabilized, rationalized and
developed. It is only if we know Your Excellency's views
and wishes in this matter that we can be sure of shaping our
course to comply with them, of protecting the interests of our
own companies and of justifying to our Principals the wisdom
of any policies or investments we may advocate to them.
It is with these objects in view that we venture
to address the following incuiries to Your Excellency in con-
nection with the Law in general and in particular with its
application to our own companies end we should greatly ap-
preciate the honor of your kinu assistance in msking the
points clear to us.
1.
The first and perhaps the most important question
that arises is whether it is the wish of the Imperial Japanese
Government that the refining of crude petroleum in Japan should
be developed as distinct from or at the expense of the importa-
tion of petroleum products already refined, and if so whether
any encouragement to be given to refining in Janan would apply
eyually to the refining of imported and domestic crude petro-
leum.
We would draw Your Excellency's attention to the
fact that the quantities of the various refined products that
can be obtained from a given quantity of crude petroleum are
limited and that it may be difficult at any particular time
to import the quantity of crude petroleum that will produce
refined products in the exact proportions required by the
Japanese market. There might therefore arise a shortage of
certain products or a surplus of others which would destroy
equilibrium and would not do away with the necessity of im-
porting refined products while leaving all the difficulties
of disposing in the domestic market of other products of local
refining which might be in excess of domestic needs.
The capital required for the erection of a
modern refinery is large and the progress and changes in re-
fining technique are rapid. On the other hand the building
up of an organization and facilities for importing and selling
rofindproducts is also costly and requires time, and there-
feme it is not easy to change from one policy to another
without careful consideration and due notice.
In

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
In the past there has been certain discussion
 the press as to the encouragement of home products and
definitions of home products have been attributed to persons
in important positions which might give the impression that
the official definition of home products depended not so much
on where the products were or!ginally produced as on the capital
holdings of the companies producing them.
We should be greatly obliged if Your Excellency
would inform us whether in the event of the Government wishing
to encourage the refining of imported crude petroleum in Japan
the products of such crude petroleum would be officially re-
garded as home products only if the majority of the shares of the
company refining such products was held by Japanese subjects
and the company itself were under Jpanese management. We have
heard the petroleum industry in J nan defined as the industry
of producing and refining in Janan, end we woulc r spectfully
ask Your Excellency whether such is the official definition:
that is to say whether the importation of refined products
as practised by our companies is regarded as part of the
Japanese petroleum industry and whether therefore our comoanies,
as importers, may or may not expect equal encouragement and
treatment as companies refining in this country.
III
Should it be the Imperial Government's wish to
encourage the refining of petroleum in Janan could Your Ex-
cellency advise us whether it is its intention to do so either
by changes in the Import Tariff or by & system of licenses.
Should the Imperial Government adopt the latter method, might
we expect notice to be given to the importing companies so as
to allow them time to erect refineries capable of turning out
the same quota of refined products as they were importing at
the time?
Our companies are anxious to do all they can to
co-operate with the authorities in the development of the in-
dustry. On the other hand they would ask Your Excellency to
recognize that they have already played a large part in the de-
velopment of the industry and have made large investments in
Japan, and they feel that so long as crude oil or its products
have to be imported into Japan they should receive equal con-
sideration and assistance with other companies engaged in the
industry. Moreover Your Excellency will realize that if the
importation of crude oil be indiscriminately encouraged it
might be that foreign sellers of crude oil who have made no invest-
ment in the country would be placed in a position of advantage
compared with our own companies.
We should greatly appreciate Your Excellency's
views on the foregoing general questions and venture further to
ask enlightenment on the following points in connection with
the detailed application of the Law for Control of Important
Industries:
(1)
Under the said Law we are required to report
changes in price to the Department concerned so that the
Department may decide whether such changes are against the
interests of the industry or the public, in which case sanction
would not be given.
(a)

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
(a) In the event of such a decision being made
could the Department agree to any company stopping sales if it
found itself selling at a loss, and would such stoppage of sales
be without prejudice to any of its rights or permits, for
example, service station permits?
(b) Would a Company be free  il times to meet
prices of competitors? If this involved reducing orices to
a point which the Department considered too low for the best
interests of the industry might we ask what action would be
taken? Our understanding is that no company could be con-
sidered to be damaging the industry if it were only meeting
competitors' prices and that the method of control to be adopted
wouid be to instruct those originating the underselling to
raise their prices to the level c nsidered neces ary. We ask
this question as there have been many reports in the press of
proposals to import Russian Oil at prices which will be below
the general level at least temporarily ana until such oil has
forced an entry to the market by underselling.
(2)
If any new company wished to enter the market in
Japan would the Imperial Government feel justified in the
interests of the industry in asking the established companies
to give such newcomer a share of the market, or would it merely
control prices and leave shares of the market subject to normal
commercial adjustments? If the former course were adopted
is it possible for Your Excellency to enlighten us on what
principles the Imperial Government would act?
With the object of preventin uncertainty and
speculation would the Imperial Government consider notifying
a newcomer beforehand that he would not be allowed to undersell
a level of prices that already had the approval of the Depart-
ment concerned?
(3)
Under Article 2 of the Law it is laid down that in
certain circumstances a majority of the persons engaged in an
industry may by application to the Minister of State require
the others to accept the terms of an agreement already existing
among the majority.
Should such majority of the companies in an industry
make an agreement amongst themselves allocating shares of the
trade, and should such allocation involve reducing the existing
shares of companies who were not parties to the agreement, would
the Minister give sanction to make such an agreement and allot-
ment of trade binding? If such should be the case, could Your
Excellency enlighten us on the principles that would apply?
(4)
In the present application of the Law to gasoline
persons engaged in the industry have been defined as those
producing or selling 100,000 cases per month. Might we ask
Your Excellency to inform us as to the principles on which this
limitation is made?
In raising these questions we would ask Your
Excelleney to understand the position in which we find ourselves:
our relations with our friends abroad, whether as Principals,
shareholders

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
shareholders or suppliers, make our standing somewhat different
from most of the other companies and it is necessary for us to
enlighten our friends abroad on the official views of the new
position that has arisen. In subscribing jointly to this
approach to Your Excellency we are not endeavorin to draw a
distinction between ourselves and other comnanies, but rather
we wish to be regarded equally with them as an integral part
of the Japanese oil industry.
We are, with all respect,
Your Excellency's obedient servants,
The Rising Sun Petroleum Co., Ltd.
(sgd) H.W. MALCOLM
The Socony-Vacuum Corporation: "
J.C. GOOLD

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.95)
。3
to desl a ch
5384r 711,/933 from the
8 Ko No. 1, 336.
Feb. 2nd, 1933.
Socony-Vacuum Corporation
Dear Sirs:-
Enclosed herewith I have ple sure in handing to you
the following answer to your inouiry under date of Nov.
29th, 193& about the control of the soline industry.
Yours truly,
Chief of the Mine Bureau of the
Department of Commerce and Industry.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
I presume you are already informed of the fact that
the Government is trying every possible means for the
protection and encouragement of the oil producing and
refining industries. As to what further steps we shall
take, we will decide it after thorough investigations
of various factors.
2.
Every country in the world is now carryin:  home pro-
duct encouragement campaign for different purposes, i.e.,
fostering of home industries, checking of inports, diminu-
tion of payments to be made to foreign countries, etc. The
significance of the said campaign differs, depenuing upon
its actual purpose. As for the determination of whether
a certain product is a home product or not, it is to be
made after studying the actual condition of the industry
concerned as well as the purpose above referred to.
3.
Persons engaged in any of the industries designated in the
Important Industry Contol Law are bound to send a notice
of the details of the control agreement they concluded to
the competent Minister, but they need not obtain his per-
mission prior to the conclusion of the said agreement
(refer to Art. 1 Law No. 40 promulgated on April 1st, 1931
as well as Arts. 1, ,s and 4 of each of the Ordinances of
the Department of Commerce and Industry, the Department
of Agriculture and Forestry and the Department of Communi-
cations).
In the event that the control agreement concerned is recog-
nized to be prejudicious to the legitimate interests of
general consumers of the industry concerned or another
industry closely connected with it, the competent Minister
will order revision or cancellation of the said agreement
after getting the matter considered by the Control Com-
mittee(refer to Art. 3 of Control Law), so in the case
of the gasoline industry, the application of the Control
Law to which recuires thorough previous consideration of the
relationship between the industry concerned and the con-
sumers, it is right that those desiring to conclude a
control agreement should previously inform the competent
authorities of the details of the proposed agreement,
and decide(to conclude it) after obtaining their under-
standing, since both the competent authorities and the
parties to the proposed agreement will be able to save un-
necessary trouble and the agreement be smoothly operated.
4.
In case a person engaged in any of the industries
designated by the Government should start an unjust com-
petition and thereby upset the control of the industry
concerned, and not less than two-thirds of the same
industry apply to the competent Minister for remedial
steps, and the Minister recognizes the necessity of
protecting the legitimate interests of the said industry
and thereby conducing to a healthy development of the
national economy, he(the Minister) may order the parties
to the agreement concerned as well as any person outside
it to observe the agreement after getting the matter con-
sidered by the Control Committee(refer to Art.2 of the
Control Law and Art. 5 of the Departmental Ordinance
concerned).

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
5.
The reason why the application of the Control Law
has been confined to producers or dealers of a capacity
of not less than lo0,oo0 cases a month is because, judging
from the present conditions of the industries subject
to the Control Law, we have considered it possible to effect
an adequate control of the industry concerned even by
limiting the scope of the application of the said Law
to the extent above referred to.
However, in the event that any person not covered by the
preceding paragraphs acts in such a way  to menace the
existence of the established control greement, we may
so revise the eligibility to the nrotection of the Control
Law that it may be applied to such person in order to
effect & full control of the industry concerned(refer
to Law No. 2 of the Control Law and Art. : f Dep: rt-
mental Ordinance concerned).

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
to despatch
Erclosure No 4
No384 ormay111933. from the
C O P Y.
 t Toky.
JAPAN MAKES PLANS TO MONOPOLIZE OIL.
JAPAN ADVERTISER, May 5, 1933.
Commerce and Industry Officials Want
Either State Monopoly or License System
May Oust Foreign Firms.
Authorities Regret Publication of News,
Which They Declare to Be Premature.
Tentative plans for State control of a li-
cense system, the eventual purpose of which would
be to eliminate all foreign companies from this mar-
ket, are being considered by the Japanese Government.
Japan hopes to become self-sufficient as to oil and a
tentative plan for reaching this objective has been
drawn up by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
The Mining Bureau of the Ministry acting under in-
structions of the fuel section of the Commerce and Industry
Investigation Commission, has drafted two plans, one for
State Control and the other for a license system, accord-
ing to Rengo. These plans will be studied in detail by the
authorities of the Finance, War,Navy and Overseas Ministries.
Details of the State control plan follow:
1. All rights of crude oil production, oil exports
and imports and sales of oil are to be a monopoly of the
State.
2. A large oil company will be established under
joint Government and private management.
3. The company shall contribute to the Government a
sum equivalent to the difference between present cost of
doing business and the (expected) lower cost of doing busi-
ness under joint control. The company will pay no import
tariff and rationalization is expected to cut costs.
4. This money and the dividends on shares owned by
the Government shall be used by the Government to erect a
factory for low temperature carbonization of coal and to en-
courage the manufafture and use of fuel substitutes.
5. The Government shall force foreign oil companies
to sell it the shares they hold in Japanese oil companies.
6. The Government company shall spend a certain amount
of money each year on the dewelopment of Japan's oil re-
sources

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
arces, before paying dividends.
7. The consolidated company shall be established
in the following manner:
(a) The Government shall force foreign companies
to sell it what assets they have in Japan and shall turn
these over to the new com any in exchange for shares. The
combined interests of the Japan Oil, Mitsubishi Oil, Ogura
Oil, Rising Sun Petroleum and Socony-Vacuum companies are
valued at Yen 160,000,000, with the 1ast two companies ac-
counting for Yen 40,000,000 of the total.
(b). Japan Oil, Mitsubishi Oil, Ogura Oil and all
other Japanese producing and importing cnncerns shall be
included in the amalgamation.
8. The Government shall retain the right to super-
vise cisposal of profit, new enterprises, appointment and
dismissal of directors and the obligation to bore new wells
in Japan.
This is the monopoly plan. Details of the license
system scheme follow:
1.
A license system shall be adopted for imports
of oil.
2. Those who pro uce oil at their own refineries
must have licenses.
3. Licenses shall be required for erection and ex-
pansion of oil refining equipment.
4. Imports of crude oil shall be free or subject
to very low tariffs, while imports of refined oil shall be
trstricted by very high tariffs.
5. In order to assure supplies of crude from sources
other than the United States and Great Britain, the follow-
ing methods shall be adopted:
(a). There shall be imoorts from the Soviet Union,
Rumania and other countries.
(b). The Government shall encourage the North Sagha-
lien Oil Company to drill new wells in its most promising
fields.
(c). The Borneo Oil Company shall be encouraged to
drill new wells.
(d). A syndicate shall be formed to invest in foreign
011

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
oil companies.
(e). Efforts shall be made to do further experi-
mental drilling in Hokkaico, Formosa and South Saghalien
with the idea of increasing domestic production in as
brief a period as possible.
6.
The Gove'nment shal! erect low temperature
coal carbonization and liquification plants with money
obtained by contributions from the chart red companies
and with certain funds set aside from the customs revenues
and shall force the chartered companies to assume the
obligation of storing the crude oil.
The facts above were released by Rengo and printed
in all Japanese papers yesterday. Authorities of the
Mining Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
told a representative of The Japan Advertiser yesterday
that these plans were simply tentative and that they pro-
bably would not be put into effect for & year or so.
They declared that elaborate study as to the difficult
question of the foreign companies would be necessary.
They seemed rather perturbed that the newspapers had pub-
lished their plans, for they thought the matter had been
given publicity too soon.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
patoh No. 384.
Date: May 11, 1933.
Subject: Japan's Oil Problems: Current Developments.
Summary:
As explained in despatch No. 366, of Apri1 21,
1933, the foreign oil companies are worried
about their future in Japan, and have been en-
deavoring to obtain an indicntion of the future
Japanese oil policy. In pursuance of this en-
deavor, the British an? American Ambassadors
and the Dutch Minister at Tokyo have discussed
the matter informally with officials of the
Foreign Office. A few days later the Mining
Bureau of the Department of Commerce and Indus-
try allowed the publication of two tentative
plans for governmental control of the oil in-
dustry and tra e, one provi ing for a govern-
ment monopoly of oil in Japan and the other
proviing for control by means of a licensing
system which could be used to exclude foreign
importers of petroleum products and foreign
refiners from this market. It was found that
these plans were compiled i" response to a re-
solution of the House of Peers, and for various
reasons the foreign oil companies fear that there
may  e so e real intent to adopt an oil policy
whioh will eventually rive them from the field.
It is possible that the oil plans were released
for publication at this particular time to af-
ford a trajing point at the Economic Confe.ence,
or to deter the foreign companies from further
expansion until efinite schemes are formulated,
or as an answer to thebil companies' request for
an indication of Japan's future oil policy. The
oil companies believe that an attempt should be
made at the coming economic conferences to ob-
tain, by means of trading concessions, some as-
surance from the Japanese of an oil policy which
will permit the continuance of their trade in
Japan.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.90)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
7E
Tokyo, May 12, 1933.
No.09.
EA
SUBJECT:
The Oil Business in Manchuria.
4r
MAY 26 38
PM RECD
F/G
894.6363/38
8946363
LASSIICATION CE e
-64  1 ,  D
eryDate3//
CONFIDENTIAL
atry m t Lil
The Honorable
FAR EASTENM AFFAIRS
MAY 31 1933
The Secretary of State,
Topertment of State
JUL 17 1933
Washington.
FILED
10000
Sir:
I wish to refer to this Embassy's despatch No. 366
77712313
32
of April 21, 1933, entitled JAPAN'S OIL PROBLEMS, and parti-
cularly to the statement on page 15 that a subsequent re-
port would be forwarded regarding the activities of Japanese
oil interests in Manchuria. There are a great many rumors
afloat in Tokyo concerning the plans for the elimination
of non-Japanese interests from the oil business in Manchu-
ria. It is extremely difficult to obtain certain and ac-
curate

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
curate information on the matter and this report can be
said to contain only the most plausible of the rumors.
The fact that thepil problems of "Manchukuo" were
under discussion wa: made public by a press despatch of the
Tokyo correspondent of the JAPAN ADVERTISER and the WALL
STREET JOURNAL at the end of March. Information obtained
from other sources supports the main assertions made by
this newspaper correspondent though he is generally believed
to have been wrong in some details. The Japanese military
authorities apparently summoned represe tatives of Mitsui,
Mitsubishi, Ogura and the Nippon Oil Com any to Dairen for
a conference the latter part of Marcn where they were asked
to subscribe capital to a company to be formed for the ex-
ploitation of Manchuria's oil resources and the building of
a refinery there. The matter was presented in such a man-
ner that the representatives of the Japanese oil interests
felt that for "patriotic" reasons they had to cooperate and
it was arranged to have a series of conferences in Tokyo
in April to lay further olans.
It is reported that four conferences were held in Tokyo
during April and it was agreed to form a company, the capi-
tal of which would be owned by the South manchuria Railway,
the "Manchukuo" regime, the Nippon Oil Company, Mitsui
Mining
Bussan, Ogura, and the Mitsubishi Company (The Mitsubishi
Oil Company would be excluded as it is owned 50% by American
capital). At the time of the meeting in Dairen the projected
capital of the concern was reported to be Yen 4, O00, 000,
half of which would be owned by the South Manchuria Rail-
way.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
way. Since the Tokyo meeting took place there are some
reports that the capital will be Yen 10,000,000. but
these cannot be confirmed.
The primary object of the company is said to be the
exploitation of Manchurian oil rcsources. During the
coming summer test drilling will be done at the following
11.
places, all of which ar marked on the map accomoanying
this despatch:
1. Dalainorh field, around Lake Dalai
2. A field near Pingchuan
3. A field near Fengning
4. A field near Sanchakou (Tungning)
5. A field north of Harbin
The second object of the company is said to be to
build a refinery. The proposed site of this plant was at
first erroneously re orted to be Hulutao. It was later
learned that Mukden and Yingkao, were under consideration
and it is now reported that the latter has been decided
upon. It is reported that at the conference in Dairen
the representative of Nippon Oil advocated the immediate
building of the refinery with the idea of importing crude
oil from Russia if the Manchurian fields should not develop.
However, it is understood that the latest decision is not to
build the refinery immediately.
Of more immediate concern to the foreign oil companies
which do business in Manchuria is the third matter considered
at these conferences; namely, the plans to oust the foreigners
from

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
from the field of distribution. It appears that the initia-
tive in this came from the Japanese military. It is under-
stood that the Open Door policy figured largely in the dis-
cussions at the conferences and schemes were considered
lich would accomplish the purpose of the conferees without
vlolating that policy. The establishment of a monopoly was
proposed but rejected as was also a proposal to raise the
tariff on refined petroleum proucts. It was finally de-
cided to ask presentimp rters to enter into a confe ence
agreement similar to that established in Japan and to in-
stitute a licensing system. It is hoped by the conferees
that it will eventually be possible to squeeze out the
foreigners by fixing a orice for the product whic would
enable the Japanese group to profit but would deny a profit
t the foreigners.
These plans for Manchuria must be considered in con-
nection with the reported project for establishing a Japan-
ese-"Manchukuo" economic bloc. The iniatitive appears to
have come entirely from the military and it is reported that
some of the civilian interests are not at all enthusiastic.
It was agreed that an Army officer would be selected head of
the new company.
There was one report that Manchuria would
be the field for experimenting with a scheme which might
later be adopted in Japan. Another report was that Japan
would be the laboratory. Recent announcements regarding
future policy in Japan, which have been reported in other
communications from this Embassy, would seem to indicate that
the

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5-
the second rumor is nearer the truth than the first.
Every effort has been made to enshroud with secrecy
the conferences and plans regar ing the oil business in
Manchuria. It is understood that a South Manchuria Railway
employee at Dairen was dismissed as a result of the press
despatch published in the JAPAN ADVERTISER and the WALL
STREET JOURNAL, he being accused of having given out the
information.
Respectfully yours,
Accompaniment:
Joseph C. Grew
Topographic Map of
"Manchukuo".
869.6
SWW:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping
11
" Consulate General, Mukden
Receivec

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.96)
EA
Rerr
MMH
Despatch No. 399.
Dated: May 12, 1933.
Subject: The Oil Business in Manchuria.
Summary:
There are runors afloat in Tokyo regarding
the schemes of the Japanese, chiefly the military,
to exclude foreign oil companies from operation
in Manchuria. Several meetings have been held
and a new company projected in which the South
Manchuria Railway, the "Manchukuo" regime, and
four Japanese business houses will own shares.
The purpose of the comoany is to exploit the oil
resources of Manchuria and to build a refinery.
It is reported that the group plan to have a li-
censèng system established in Manchuria to con-
control the distribution of oil products. They
hope eventually to be able to "squeeze out" the
foreign companies.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363
550. S 1 Agenda/110
#411
SEE
FOR
Japan
Brew
May 24, 1933.
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Japan's Oil Problems: Reports further developments with
regard to the - and its relation to the Economic Conference.
10

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.92)
FF
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, May 24, 1933.
180
No. 411.
Subject: Japan's Oil Problems: Further Developments.
mote
894.6363
Offee of Eaamamie Adviser
JUN 30 1933
CEPARTMENT nS STATE
PM REC0
1N105
MAF/HS
TREATY IN
J.l
894.6363/40
Divsion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
J0H 10 1933
Depertment of State
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I wish to refer to my telegram No. 97, May 11, 11 a.m.,
851.6161.37
and to the last paragraph of my despatch No. 384, May 11,
1933, both regarding the proposal which has been put
forward by the Rising Sun Petroleum Company(British) and
JUL 17 1933
FILED
the Socony-Vacuum Corporation(American) that the whole
matter of the future of foreign oil companies in Japan
be discussed at the London Economic Conference.
The

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
The two foreign oil companies have now further
developed their original idea into a proposal that the
Japanese Government be requested to send representatives
of the leading J panese oil componies to London, if possible
during the Economic Conference, for the purpose of dis-
cussing with American, British und Dutch representatives
of oil interests some plan which will be fair to all oil
interests in J-pan end which will sofeguard the investments
and trade of the foreign comp-nies in Japan. This proposal
is embodied in a telegram which the Yokohama general office
of the Socony-Vacuum Corporation has sent to its head office
1/
in New York, and a copy of the telegram is enclosed for the
Department's information. The word " friends" in the telegram
refers to the Rising Sun Petroleum Company, of the Shell
interests. The last sentence of the telegram refers to a
reported oil strike near Pogranichnaya, which the Embassy
has been unable to confirm.
Respectfully yours,
NL. Fr
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure: Copy of telegram.
869.6
ERD:r

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
Euclosure No
to despatch
No411 ofly24' 33
from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
C O P Y
May 22nd.
REKLAWSO NEW YORK
Referring our cable Mny lOtn Friends cabled London sug-
gesting they and you attempt to arrange meeting between
representatives of leading oil companies Japan to be held
in London if possible during International Economic Con-
ference with object evolving some commercial plan fair to
all and embodying safeguards to investment and future trade
foreign companies which could be suggested to Japanese
Government as a means to assist in stabilizing Jupanese
Petroleum industry STOP Incidental point was made that
suggesting conference now would be constructive and op-
portune in view uncertain position regarding renewal
gasoline agreement as Japanese companies could be re-
quested to produce fundamental scheme for consideration
STOP London favors action along such lines and has re-
quested representative to discuss fully with us STOP
As influence is being brought to bear unon Japanese Govern-
ment to adopt without uelay some nationalistic petroleum
policy or plan under guise national defence which at the
same time would be advantageous to Japanese companies, also
in view of formation Special Japanese Company in Manchuria
which may affect adversely our interests prompt action
would seem advisable in order to forestall decision and
official announcement by Japanese and Manchurian Govern-
ments STOP Have informed Friends we favor conference
proposal provided you agree and if it does not conflict
with any measures which have been or will be taken at
Washington also have suggested to them logical procedure
is for London to approach you STOP We and friends' representa-
tive agree on following
A.
That for obvious reasons conference should not be held in
Japan.
B.
In view of known desire Japanese oil companies to obtain
advantage by linking up commercial and national sides
that they might be reluctant to attend conference be-
lieving if left alone they could influence decision more
in their interests but that the Government realizing that
no national plan could eliminate necessity of importing
will wish to avoid offending foreign interests by dis-
crimination or trade restrictions fearing possible re-
taliatory defensive action by other Governments and may
therefore influence Japanese oil companies to send re-
presentatives.
C.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
C.
Assuming international question of this nature is held
to be within scope of London conference and that re-
spective foreign Governments will agree to assist then
procedure along following lines is suggested for con-
sideration of London and New York.
STOP American British and Dutch Governments to gain
inform Japanese they understand national oil policy
involving possible monopoly, licensing system or Central
Controlling Company is being considered by Government
and as this might conceivably affect trade and invest-
ments their nationals sugest to them that commercial
side be made subject of frnk discussion at London between
affected interests. Friends are ouoting this cable to
London and copy has been given to American Embassy STOP
It is reported Russian Embassy has information to effect
Japanese have found crude oil in oromising quantities in
Manchuria.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.95)
G
SOCONY-VACUUM CORPORATION
7
Export Department
26 BR0ADWAY
JUN 30 1933
NEWYORK
June 2nd, 1933.
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief,
Division of
Division Far Eastern Affairs
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
51983
Department of State,
JUN -3 1933
June
Washington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
H
S
w
Kindly permit me to express my appreciation
of the courtesy shown me by you and your staff and also Lir.
Ward during my recent visit to Washin ton When we discussed
8
the matter of the oil industr: in Japan. I may say that a
6
copy of the memorandum hande! you, to eti.er with certain
cables relative te the subject, was anded Dr. wallace, al-
though there was not sufricient time te rer it of a discussion.
9
ince my return i  ve ad an orportunity of
talking with sone of our Directors and we make the susgestion,
9
3
if you heve n t already done so, t yo be kind enou to ac-
quaint the Amer can Dele ation in London it any o ther facts
relative tc the subject w ie. ay uve :een contained in the
American Ambassedor's dispa'ci es rom olyo, and we at the same
time, will keer rou poeted on frt.er develop.ents.
In addition, and as stuted, we are very favorably
inclined to send one of vur representatives to London en you
consider the moment opcrtune. nas mei as we understand the
Conference wihl last for several ont.n, und us it is obvious we
would prefer not te : ve sueh u rerresen utive in Lond n until
such time as his presence is uctuully recuirea, we shall reatly
eppreciate it if rou will te kind e ou n, in due course, to ad-
vise us when cur representative a e  eraitted to discuss the
affe ir with the mericen Dele atin. in ll robability we would
send to Encland, our eneral ua er in Jurun, r. J.C. Goold,
FILED
and this bein the case, we esti ate that ve  cula reguire about
one month's notice so that he  reuc Londen un uny iven date.
1933
For reasons discusced, ve ure ulso inel ined to
favor, if this can  uccomplis el, a eetin in lendon, between
representatives of the lead in Jupanece cil comyunies, together
with our represontative ane tiat of the ritish interests. When
this should take place is a matter of conjecture at the moment,
but in respect tpreto te shal reatly appreciate your advices
as this should depend u on the convenierce of our Dele ation.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
Dr. 8.K. Hornbeok.
June 2/33.
By the last :ail from Japan we received further
information on the subject, copies in du licate being attached.
Again expressing a: precittien for your kind con-
sideration.
Very truly ors,
Kerany F. 6or
CM
Kerse . Coe.
Enos.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.96)
NO.506-P
P Filo
SOCONY-VACUUM CORPORATION,
YOKOHAMA, May 11th,1933
Socony-Vacuum Corpora tion,
EXPORT DEPARTMENT,
New York.
Dear Sirs:-
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT OIL POLICY
In reference to the informal enquiries recently
made by the American and British Ambassadors to the Foreign
Office regarding the Japanese Government's future policy to-
ward the foreign, oil companies, we attach for your informa-
tion the following, which we feel sure will be of interest:
(1) Copy of Sir Francis Lindley's letter to Mr.J.C.Grew
dated April 13th,1933
(2)
Copy of Mr.J.C.Grew's letter to Mr.J.C.Goold
dated May 9th,1933
(3)
Copy of Mr.J.C.Goold's letter to Mr.J.C.Grew
dated May 1lth,1933
Our Ambassador has promised to let us know
when he receives any reply from Mr.Arita on the subjects he
has raised and we will keep you informed.
Yours truly,
(SIGNED) J C GOOLD
General Manager
JOG:F
m0l:

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
OPY
(similer letter sent to General Pabst)
Private & Confidential
13th Apr11,1933
Dear Grew:-
I spoke to Count Uchida this morning at my fare-
woll visit about the oil and I should like to let you know
before I go exactly what I said.
I made no complaint as regards the treatment which
our oil interests had suffered but I pointed out that they had
invested a great deal of money in this country and that they were
quite ready to invest more if they knew that the policy of the
Japanese Government would not be directed to squeezing them
out. In short, they were anxious to co-operate with the Japan-
ose in the oil industry and, if they made fresh investments, it
would really amount to the Japanese getting a loan without
having to go on to the open market. This would be of considerable
advantage to the country in its present financial position. I
knew that the Japanese Government were considering their whole
oil poliey and I sincerely hoped that they would be able to
satisfy our oil people that that policy was one of co-operation
and one under which it would be advisable for our oil interests
to increase their stake in Japan still further.
Count Uohida listened carefully to what I said and
oomrimed. the faot thet the Japanese authorities were studying
mele question of oil which was of the first importance to
eountry. He would certainly convey to the committee the

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.97)
moesage which I had given him.
I have given a copy of this letter to Snow for
the information of Malcolm, and am writing a similar letter to
General Pabst.
(Signed) F.O. LINDLEY.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
ee Yow York Offiee
May 1lth, 1935
H. E.
Joseph C. Grew
Ameriean Ambassador,
TOKYO.
Dear Mr. Grew:-
I wish to aoknowledge your letter of May 9th,
giving an outline of your recent informal disoussion with
Vice Minister Arita and to express very sincere thanks on
behalf of my company not only for the aotion you have taken
in this instanoe, but also for the active assistance you
are giving us continuously in our present diffioulties.
For their information I am forwarding a copy
of your letter to our people in New York and pointing out
how much your co-operation as well as that we are receiving
from various members of your Embassy staff is assisting us
in the present trying times.
Yours very truly,
(SGD.) J. C. GOOLD
JOG:F

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.97)
TOKYO, May 9, 1955
J. C. Goold, mquire,
Seceny-Veeuum Corperation
We.& Bund Yokohamm.
Dear Mr. Goold:-
For your information I wish to state that
I ealled upon Mr. H. Arita, Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs,
em May S, l9ss, for the purpose of disoussing informally
with him the question of your sasoline tank at Uosaki-machi,
Byose-ken, and of the future oil policy of the Japanese
dovernment, insofar as it may affeot further investments by
foreign oil companies in Japan.
I outlined the facts of the tank matter to
Mr. Arita and pointed out that, "as the construction of the
tank was definitely approved by the responai ble authorities,
further permimsion to complete the eguipment and to use the
tank eannot now in justioe be withheld but that in praotice,
the Cerperation is willing to coider a suitable compromise
vide them_wlth sgual faoilities elsewhere"
I then took up the matter of the future
of foreign oil companies in Japan, point ing out that such
companies had already invested large sums of money in equip-
ment in Japan and possibly would invest further large sums,
whioh would be to the advantage of the Japanese, but that they
eould not do so without first receiving some definite indica-
tion or assurances as to the future polioy of the Japanese
Gevernment towards the forelgn oil business in Japan. I stated
that I was informed that the Japanese had been disoussing the
whele question of their oil polioy, and that there were Indi-
eations that a virtual monopoly might be oreated in favor of
Japanese firms in conneetion with the refining industry which
might effeotively squeese the foreign oil companies out of
the market. I montioned the letter whioh your Corporation
in eollaboration with the Rising Sun Petroleum Company, sent
to the Department of Commerce and Industry, in an endeavor to
obtain def inite replies to certain questione regarding the
Japanese polioy towards foreign importers of oil praducts and
towards pessible refining by fore ign oil companies in Japan,
and stated that satisfactory replies had not been forthooming.
I expressed the hope that some precise indications could be
sivem to the Amerioan companies as to whether the Japanese
Geverament desired their cooperation in the future or whether
a situation weuld be created which would render it impossible
fer them to compete with the Japanese firms. Ir. Arita stated
that he would examine the matter and asked for a cepy of the
letter to the Minister of Commeroe and Industry and a copy of
the reply therete. These copies, with your consent, have
simee heem sent te Mr. Arita.
Sincerely yours,
(S'd) JOBEH C. GREW.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.97)
SOOONY-VAOUUM OORPORATION
Expert Department
26 Broadway
EW YORK
June 2nd, 1933.
Please rofer to: F:894.6363/35
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeek,
Chiof,
Division Par Eastern Affairs.
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeek:
Kindly permit me to expross my appreciation
of the courteay shown me by you and your staff and also Mr.
Ward during my recent visit to waahington when we disoussed
the matter of the oil industry in Japan. I may say that a
copy of the memorandum handed you, together with ourtain
eables relative to the subject, was handed ur. allace, al-
though there was not suffioient time to permit of a disoussion.
Sinoe my return I have had an opportunity of
talking with some of our ireotors and we make the suggestion.
if you have not already done so, that you be kind enough to ao-
quaint the Amerioan Delegation in London ith any other facts
relative to the subjeot whioh may have been contained in the
Ameriean Ambassador's dispatohes from Tokyo, and we at the
came time, will keep you poated on further developments.
In addition, and as stated, we are very favorably
Inelined to send one of our representatives to London when you
consider the moment opportune. Inasmuoh as we und rstand the
Conferenoe will last for several months, and as it is obvious
we would prefer not to have suoh a representativo in London
until suoh time as his prsaenoe is aotually required, we shall
greatly appreoiate it if you will be kind unough. in due course
to advime us when our representative may be parmitted to
disouss the affair with the amerloan Delegation. In all
probability we would send to ngland, our ianeral Manager in
Jepan. Mr. J.C. Goold. and this being the case, we estimate
that we ahould reguire abont one month's : otice so that he
may reaoh London on any given date.
For reasons disoussed, we are also inolined to
favor, if this oan be mocomplished, a meeting in London, between
representatives of the leading Japanese oil companies, together
with our representative and that of the ritish interests. when
this should take place is a matter of conjecture at the moment.
but in respeot thereto we shall greatly appreciate your advices
as this should depend upon the convenienoe of our Delegation.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.90)
- 2 -
Dr. S. K. Hornbeok.
Jun• 2/33.
By the last ail from Japan wo rec ived furthor
information on the subject, copies in anplicute hoing attaohed.
Aguin expressiny appreciutior or your zind
consideration.
Vory truly yours.
Y
0r0.0
Enos.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.94)
NO. 506-P
P File
SOCONY-VACUUM CORPORATION.
YOKOHAMA,
May 11th. 1957
Socony-Vaouum Corporation.
EXPORT DEPART! NT, Now York.
Dear sirs:-
JAPAN: CCV  NT IL POLICY
In reference to the i formal snquiries recuntly
made by the American and sritish uabassadors to the Foreign
Offioe regarding the Japanese Governme t's future polioy to-
ward the foreign oil companies, we attacn for your informa-
tion the following. which we fuel sure will je of interest:
(1)
Copy of Sir Francis Lindley'a letter to r. J.C.Grew
dated april 13th. 19.3
(2)
Copy of r. J.rew's letter to r. J..oold
dated ay 9th, 1933
(3)
Jopy of  r. J..Goold's letter to r. J..rew
dated May 11th. 1933
Our Ambassauor has promised to let us now
when he receives any reply from  r. rita on the subjects he
has raised and we will keep you informed.
Yours truly.
(SIGH JD) J C COOLD
General Manager
JCG:F
Enol:

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
Smilar letter sent to General Pabst)
Private & Confidentiel
13th pr11.1933
Dear Grow:-
I spoke to Count Uohida this morning at my fare-
well visit about the oil and I should like to let you know
before I go exactly what I said.
I made no oomplaint as regards the treatment whioh
our oil interests had suffered but I pointed out that they had
invested a great deal of money in thie cou tr. and that they
were quite ready to invest more if the new that the polioy of
the Japanese Government would not be lireoted to squeezing them
out. In short. they were anxious to co-operate with the Japan-
so in the oil induatry and. if they made fres invustments, it
would really amount to the Japanese rettin a loan without
having to go on to the open market. This would be of con sidurable
advantage to the country in its present finuncial position. I
kmow that the Japanese Government were considuring their whole
oil polioy and I sinoerely hoped that they would be able to
satisfy our oil people that that polioy was one of co-operation
and one under whioh it vould be advisable for our oil interests
to inorease their stake in Japan still further.
Count Uohida listened carefully to what I said and
oonfirmed the faot that the Japanese authorities were studying
the whole question of oil whioh was of the first importanoe to
the country. He would certainly convey to the committee the

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.88)
● 2 -
message whioh I had given him.
I have given a copy of this letter to now for
the information of Maloolm, and am writin a similar lettor to
General Pabst.
(e)FI

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
OPY:KC
TOKYO, May 9, 1933.
J, C. Goold, Bsquire,
Sooony-Vaouum Corporation,
No. 8 Bund Yokohama.
Dear Mr. Goold :
For your information I wish to state that I called
upon Mr. H. Arita, Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, on
May 3, 1933, for the purpose of discussing informally
with him the question of your gasoline tank at Uozaki-
maohi, Hyogo-ken, and of the future oil policy of the
Japanese Government, insofar as it may affect further
1vestments by foreign oil companies in Japen.
I outlined the facts of the tank matter to Mr. Arita
and pointed out that, "as the construction of the tank
was derinitely approved by the responsibie authorities,
further permission to complete the equipment and to use
the tank cannot now in justice be withheld but that in
practice, the Corporation is willing to consider a suit-
able compromise which will provide them with equal facili-
ties elsowhere". Mr. Arita said that he would look into
the matter himself.
I then took up the matter of the future of foreign
o1l oompanies in Japan, pointing out that such companies
had already invested large sums of noney in equipnent
in Japan and possibly would invest further large sums,
whioh ould be to the advantage of the Japanese, but
that they could not do so without first receiving some
definite indication or assurances as to the future policy
of the Japanese Government towards the foreign oil business
in Japan. I stated that I was informed that the Japenese
had been discussing the whole question of their oil
polioy and that tiere were indioations that a virtual
monopoly might be created in favor of Japanese firms in
connection with the refining industry which might ef-
footively squeeze the foreign oil companies out of the
market. I mentioned the letter which your Corporation
in collaboration with the Rising Sun Petroleun Company,
sont to the Department of Commerce and Industry, in an
endeavor to obtain definite replies to certain questions
regarding the Japanese policy towards foreign importers
of oil products and towards possible refining by foreign
oil companies in Japan, and stated that satisfactory replies
had not been forthooming. I expressed the hope that some
precise indications could be given to the American companies
as to whether the Japanese Governnent desired their
cooperation in the future or whether a situation would be
created

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
oreated whioh would render it impossible for them to
compete with the Japanese firms. Mr. Arita stated
that he would examine the matter and asked for a c py
of the letter to the Minister of Commerce and Industry
and a opy of the reply thereto. These c pies, with
your consent, have since been sent to Mr. Arita.
sincerely yours,
(S'd) JFPH . GREW.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
OPY:KC
oe New York Orrice
May 11th, 1933.
H. B.
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
TOKYO.
Dear Mr. Grew:
I wish to acknowledge your letter of May 9th, giv-
ing an outline of your recent informal discussion with
Viae Minis ter Arita and to express very sincere thanks on
bohalf of my company not only for the action you have
taken in this instance, but also for the active assistance
you are giving us continuously in our present difficulties.
For their information I am forwarding a co y of
your letter to our people in New York and pointing out
how much your cooperation as well as that we are receiv-
ing from various members of your Embassy staff is assisting
us in the present trying times.
Yours very truly,
(SGD.) J. C. Goold.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.97)
SOCONY-VACUUM CORPORATION
Export Department
26 Broadway
NEW YORK
June 2nd, 1933.
Please rofer to: 7.894.0763/35
Dr. Stanley K. Lornbeok,
chiof.
ivision Far astern .ffairs.
Department of ;tate,
washington...
Dear Dr. lornbeok:
Kindly permit me to express y appreciation
of the courtesy shown ne by you and our utaff and also r.
Ward during my reoent visit to ashington when we disoussed
the matter of the oil industry in Japan. 1 may say that a
oopy of the memorandum handed you. togother with curtain
cables relative to the subject. was hunded r. allace, al-
though there was not sufficient time to permit of a disoussion.
ince my return I have had an opportinity of
talking with some of our virectors anu we make the sugrestion.
if you have not alreaay done so. that  ou be kind enough to ao-
quaint the merioun Delegatior in onuon itn any other faots
relative to the subjeot whicn may have been cor taineu in the
Amorioan Ambassador's dispatohes from Tokro, and we at the
ame time, will keep you posted on f.rther developments.
In addition, and as stated, we are very favorably
inolined to send one of our represontatives to London when you
consider the moment opportune. Inasmuoh as we understand the
Conferonoe will last for several months. and as it is obvious
we would prefer not to have suoh a representative in London
until suoh time as his prusence is actually required, we shall
groatly appreol te it if you will be kind enough. in due course.
to advise us when our repres tutive may ve permitted to
disouss the affair with the amer can Delegation. In all
probability we would send to mglund, our eneral Manager in
Japan.  r. J.C. Goold, and this being the case, we estimate
that we should reguire about one month's otiou so that he
may reaoh London on any given date.
For reasons disoussed, we are also inolined to
favor, if this can be aocomplished, a meeting in London, between
representatives of the leading Japanese oil companies, together
with our representative and that of the British interests. when
this should take place is a matter of conjeoture at the moment.
but in respeot thereto we shall greatly appreciate your advioes
as this should depend upon the convenienoe of our Delegation.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.91)
- 2 -
Dr. S. K. Hornbook.
June 2/33.
By the last mail from Japan we reccived further
information on the subjeot, copies in duplicate being attaohed.
Again expressing apprcciution for vour kind
oonsidoration.
Very truly yours.
YJ
Kerse.
oe
CM
RnoB.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.92)
NO. 506-P
P F110
SOCONY-VACUUM CORPORATION.
YOKCHAMA.
May 11th. 1977
Socony-Vaouum corporation.
:XPORT D PART NT.NoW York.
Dear irs:-
JAP
I  LIOY
In reference to te i. for l  quiries recently
made by the merioan and sritish mbas auors to the Foreign
Office regarding the Japanese Jovurn e: t'o future olioy to-
ward the foreign oil companios. we attaon for  our informa-
tion the followine. which we fuel siriil e o? interest:
(1)
Copy of ir Pranois Lindley's lettur to r. J..row
dated april 13th. 19.7
(2)
copy of r. J.. rew' lettr to r. ..oold
dated  ay 9th, 1930
(3)
Jopy of  r. J..Goold's lotter to r. J..Jrew
dated  ay 11th. 1973
Our ambassauor has promised to let us now
when he receives any reply from  r. rita on the subjeots he
has raised and ve will keep you informed.
Yours truly.
(SIGN JD) J C GOOLD
General anarer
JCG:F
Eno1:

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.96)
milar letter ment to General Pabst)
Privete a Confidentiel
13th Apr11.1933
Doar Grow:-
I spoke to Count Uohida this morning at my fare-
well vieit about the oil and I should l1ke to let you know
before I go exactly what I said.
I made no complaint as regards the troutment whioh
our oil interosts had suffered but I pointed out that they had
invested a great deal or mone i t is cou tr und that they
were quite ready to invest more if th krow thut the polioy of
the Japanose Government would not be irectou to squuezin them
out. In short, they were anxious to co-operate with the Japan-
s in the oil industry and, 1? they made frech i vestments, it
would really amount to the Japunese ettin loan without
having to go on to the open market. his woul: be of con sidurable
advantage to the country i: its present financial position. I
mow that the Japanese overnment were consiauring their whole
ol1 polioy and I sinoerely hoped that they woulu be able to
atisfy our oil people that that polioy was one of co-operation
and one under whioh it  ould be advisable for our oil interests
to inorease their stake in Japan still further.
Count Uohida listened carofully to what I said and
confirmed the fact that the Japanase authoritics were atudying
the whole question of oil whioh was of the first importanoe to
the country. He would certainly convey to the committee the

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.89)
- 2 -
message whioh I had given him.
I have given a oopy of this letter to Snow for
the information of Maloolm, and am writing a similar letter to
General Pabst.
(1gned) F..LI.DL V.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.93)
JOCK
Ea
sa
fee 894.6363
June 3, 1933.
Dear Mr. Coe:
Z
The reoelpt is poknoleuger ot vou ett'r of June 2,
894.6363/
1933, with enolosures, suggesting thet the Department make
evailable to the American Delegation at London, information
whieh has heen reseived from the Ambassador at Tokyo with
regard to the oil industry in Japan, and further request-
ing that you be informed when your representative may be
permitted to diseuss the matter with the American Delege-
tiem. Tou also state that you are inolined to regard as
desirable a meeting at London of representatives of your
empany and of the leading Japanese and British oil
interests and that you desire the adviee of the Department
in this regard for the reason that sueh a meeting would
depend upon the eonvenience of the American Delegatien.
with regard to the first peint, I take pleasure in
inferming yeu that the Delegation is already in possessien
of
. Keseey 7. Goo,
opomp-Tacum Corperatien,
ou Yoak, You Yoek.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.95)
●8 .
t al the iarermation whieh hae been recsived fren the
ste emelesures, and the Departmont's reply is alse being
forwarded te the Delogation for its information.
With regard to the other matters mentioned in your
Letter, I am sure that either Doctor Feis or Doetor Wallace
of the Amerieam Delegation would be very glad to diseuss
with e representative of your company the problems con-
fremting it at any time. It is, however, the Department's
feeling that, as a first step, a meeting at London of
representatives of the oil interests conoerned would be
the most satisfactory procedure and that, in case no
selution of the problems is arrived at there, the ques-
tioms should be taken up by the representatives with
their respeotive delegations to the Monetary and
Eoonomie Conferenee.
The Department is scarcely in position to suggest the
time aich mould be most advisable for your representative
in Japan to go to London. It is suggosted that a satis-
factory procedure would appear to be to have your represente-
tive at London get in touoh with the representatives there
of British oil interests. The British oil interests are
vitally coneerned with these problems and it should be
a

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.87)
fairly eiagle matter fer them to ake arrangements
sasisfestery te all eoncerned.
sineerely yours,
SMA
Stanley K. Horabeok,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
A y
FE:LB:KC
FE
melignedforigt-
nal.
32
JUN 01088
w

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.85)
Tile
Adviser
JUN 30 1933
Export D opartmont
✓
RCEIVI
EW YORK
13193
Stterto Herl t Zoie
ach
Dr. stanie.
Division of
Chief,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Divisl
JUN -9 1933
sto
De:Lr
ia:
Z
Depertnant of Srate
19 1980
89
10007
14339n
Jume 17.1
6363/42
S
Kumy'f Gor

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.93)
Jane 12, 1933.
N
CONFIDENTIAL
894.6363/42
200
Dear Kerbert:
With reference to the copies of despatohes and a
telegram from the Eabassy at Tokyo, with regard to
the oil industry in Japan, whioh were taken to London
by Hugh Cumming, and with referenoe to the material
on the same subjeet whioh, according to a representa-
tive of the Socony-Vaouum Corporation, was handed to
Deetor WallaGe on board the 3. 3. PRESIDLNT ROOSEVELT
at New York by a representative of that Corporation,
I am ferwarding herewith, for your information and
use, copies of letters of June 2, with enclosures, and
Jume 8. 193s, from the Socony-Vaouum Corporatiom with
regard to the sending of a representative of that
Corporation to London, as well as copies of the Depart-
ment's replies tuereto of June 3 and June 12, 1933.
With all best wisnes,
Sincerely yours,
55
S< Howbal
Enolosures:
As stated.
Dr. Herbert Feis,
Care of American Delegation,
World Monetary and Moonomio Conference,
London, England.
FE
16.1936

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.92)
June 18, 1988.
894.6363/42
Dear Mr. Cee:
I sekmewledge the receipt of your letter of Jane 8.
l9ss, requesting that either Doetor Feis er Doeter
N
Wallase be informed that Mr. Henry Dandas, & Direeter
and Viee-President of the Standard Oil Company of New
Yerk, Ineorporated, who is familiar with the questien
of the ell industry in Japan, intends to call on the
Ameriean Delegation in London.
I hasten to assure you that a copy of your letter
has been forwarded to Dootor Feis at London, who, I am
sure, will be very glad to disouss with Mr. Dundas the
matter under reference.
Sinoerely yours,
S.1
Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
Sooony-Vacuum Corporation,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.
FEYA:CLS
nai
FE
the
JUN 12.1888

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.94)
June 19
297
Benerable
Jeseph C. Grew,
Ameriean Ambassador,
Tokyo.
sir:
894.6363/42
with reference to the Department's instruotion
Be. 290 of Jume 5, 1933, forwarding copies of corre-
spemdemee with regard to the oil industry in Japan,
there is enolosed for your information a copy of a
letter of June 3, 1933, to Kr. Kersey F. Coe of the
Soeemy-Vaouum Corporation in reply to his letter of
Jane 2, 1933, to the Department, a oopy of whioh was
forwarded with the above-mentioned instruotion.
There are also enolosed a Jopy of a letter of
June 8, 1933, from Mr. Coe and a oopy of the Depart-
ment's reply thereto.
Very truly yours,
Aoting Seoretary of State.
Enclosures:
B
To Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
June 3, 1933;
rom Mr. Coe, June 8, 1933.
To Mr. Coe, June 12, 1933.
A true cor
894.6363
FE1IAA:CLS
FE
6-1733.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363/ 43
894.00 P.R./66
FOR ....Despatch.#..419.
SEE
(_...Grew
) DATED Juna.1.1933.
FROM .....Japan
1-1197
NAME
TO
43
REGARDING:
The Mining Bureau of the Japanese Department
of Commerce and Industry has submitted to
the press two plans which it is consider-
ing for the control of the oil industry and
trade in Japan.
hs

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.77)
-6-
(b) Janan'e O11 Probleme.
Early in muy the wining Burevu of the J ese
Lepertaent of C. eree and Indu: try : v t: th ar ss two
lans which 1 1s c nsiderinp Fur the control f the o11
industry nd trude in Jupan,  vin r  vor rent
monopely in oil no tee other I v iu : trol by
eans of Lic nrin s/ste 1 h ou b. re to e ude
oreign luoorters etroleur roouct: no foreign refiner.
The Forei n urrice st tee that nei. 1ll b ooptes 1n-
edi ely. dosev r t r len sii ni b li v that
f
y. tem
of o11 e to: 1.
riv
they
hooe the the riis
1c.
n7
uth
1
:r
to  o
1i
1
tntth
X
117:1rt
y
J
L.I.
he LdrtrFin
Leetric
ny hr
txteuof Yen,
i
bbsye,
No.
419

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 31, 1933
Aild
Division of
REOETVETY
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
F/ESP
JUL 1 1933
Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
JUL 3-1933
DIVISION OF
Sooony-Vaouum Corporation,
New York City.
Depertment of State
Mr. Hornbeok.
1933
Mr. Maokay.
KERSEY F.COE
894.6363/44
Mr. Salisbury.
20 BROADWAY
New York
Mr. Coe handed to Mr. Hornbeok a memorandum with
894.6363
regard to possible action by the Japanese Government
whioh might seriously affeot Amerioan and other foreign
oil interests in Japan as well as copies of telegrams
of May 22 and May 23 from representatives of the Socony-
Vaouum Corporation at Yokohama and at London respeotive-
ly. Mr. Coe was especially interested in the possibility
of a conference being held at London of representatives
of Amerioan, British, Dutoh and Japanese oil interests
C
for the purpose of safeguarding foreign oil interests in
FILED
41933
Japan. Mr. Coe stated and Mr. Hornbeck conourred that
London would be preferable to Tokyo as the place for such
a conferenoe. At Mr. Hornbeok's suggestion Mr. Parker
of the Sooony-Vaouum Corporation at New York was got in
touoh with by telephone and was requested by Mr. Coe to
deliver to Dr. B. B. Wallace, a member of the Amerioan
delegation

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
delegation to the London Monetary and Eoonomio Conference,
oopies of the memorandum and telegrams which Mr. Coe had
brought to the Department and to inform Dr. Wallaoe that
Mr. Hornbeok suggested that during the voyage of the
delegation to London the question of the advisability of
taking up the matter at London be studied. Mr. Hornbeok
stated that he would send a telegram to Dr. Wallaoe with
regard to this subjeot to the train on whioh Dr. Wallaoe
wastraveling to New York in the hope that it might reach
him before Dr. Wallaoe went aboard the S. S. PRESIDENT
RoOSEVELT, on which he was to sail for England.
Mr. Coe inquired if Mr. Hornbeok could make any
other suggestion with regard to measures that might be
taken toward safeguarding the interests in Japan of the
Sooony-Vaouum Corporation and Mr. Hornbeok replied that,
in his opinion, the measures outlined above were suffi-
cient for the present. Mr. Coe was informed that it
would appear that anything whioh might be done would
have to be done from a politioal rather than from a legal
standpoint as it would appear that the aotion whioh is
reported to be contemplated by the Japanese Government
would not, if applied similarly to all countries, infringe
treaty rights.
After some further exposition by Mr. Coe with regard
to the subjeot under disoussion, Mr. Salisbury, at Mr.
Hornbeok's

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.85)
- 3 -
Hornbeok's suggestion, escorted Mr. Coe to the office
of Mr. Ward of Le where Mr. Coe and Mr. Ward had some
disoussion of the legal aspeots of the case.
ceu
mmN

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JUL 12 1933
OFFICE OF THE ECONOMIC ADVISER
DIVISION OF
MEMORANDUM
File
F/ESP
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 8, 1933. .
JUL 10 1933
Depertment of State
Mr. Sahsbury:
I have examined the attached file concerning the
894.6363/45
894.6363
diffioulties of the Standard Oil Vacuum Corporation in
Japan. In view of the fact that the parties concerned
in this diffioulty are apparently now engaged in nego-
tiation for a settlement, there appears to be nothing
whioh the Department can properly do at the present time.
It ocours to me, however, that should the Japanese Gov-
ernment carry out the plan suggested for the national-
ization of the petroleum business, the Standard Oil Vacuum
Corporation may return to the Department with a request
for assistance. In case such a request should be received,
I think it would be desirable for the Department to ask
the Corporation to furnish as complete information as pos-
sible concerning the terms of any arrangement whioh the
Corporation made with the Japanese Government before es-
tablishing itself in Japan. The Corporation must have
obtained either a concession contract under which it oper-
ates or it must have obtained permission to construot
1
2
storage facilities and other necessary plants for carrying
19
on its business. If the Japanese Government should, in
connection

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.94)
-2
comnection with any proposed plans for nationalization
of the industry, violate the terms under whioh the Ameri-
can corporation established itself in Japan, the Corpor-
ation would apparently have a reasonable basis of complaint
and probably a basis for a claim.
I do not think that the Department should take any
steps to obtain this information at the present time but
it may be well to keep in mind the necessity of obtaining
it should further difficulties develop.
Kwow
894.6363/41
EA:KEC:LGB:88
KC

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.97)
1.时
SOCONY-VACUUM CORPORATION
Export Pepartment
July 27th, 1933.
NEW YoRk
tile ack. aug, 2,
Cpy adtto Tob
HS
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief,
Division of
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department of State,
994.6363
JUL 29 1933
Washington, D.C.
894.6363/46
Dear Dr. Hornbeok:
Following our letter of July l9th, our Yokohama Office
have cabled us under date of July 25th, as follows:-
"Information as per our telegram of July 13th was cabled to
London who replied substantially as follows requesting friends
to consult with us QUOTE As we believe British Dutch American
Governments do not wish at present to add to difficulty with
Japan we propose approach Manchurian Government direct to
ascertain FIRST Their definite plans SECONDLY If they are
prepared to allocate any part of trade to us SToP We propose
to apply for permission to erect small refinery at Hulutao or
Newchwang where we have land SToP We feel application will do
no harm and if permission is granted believe Government will
have difficulty in overlooking such domestic refinery in favor
of one at Dairen and that our action may force declaration of
future policy SToP Is it possible to do anything with Manchurian
FILED
Minister Tokyo END OF QUOTATION Friends have replied to the
effect that ▲ They consider declaration by Manchurian Government
regarding allocation of trade unlikely until details of Monopoly
plan settled but that B Applications for refinery might force
some definite indication of future policy C Consider it inadvis-
able question Manchurian Minister until after London has filed
refinery application."
The message to London, mentioned in the first line above,
was sent to the head office of the Asiatic Petroleum Company and it
would appear that the British oil interests either approached their
government or the British Delegation to the London Conference. From
the text it is possible that the Dutoh and American representatives
expressed an informal opinion to the effect as stated. Beyond that
we believe that the idea of approaching the "Manchoukuo" government
must have been conceived only by the British interests, for we cannot
imagine any of the representatives of the governments concerned could
have made this suggestion.
You will gather of course, that it is the Asiatic
Petroleum Company who propose applying for permission to erect a
small refinery at Hulutao or Newohwang. This in itself, and as an in-
dependent action, is quite a logical move, but we are very much

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
F. Hornbeok.
July 28/33.
inolined to agree with the Asiatio representative in Japan that any
deolaration by "Manchoukuo" in respect to the participation of trade
would be most diffioult to secure. Further, it seems to us that an
approach to the "Manohoukuo" government, either before or after fil-
ing a refinery application, would hardly be consistent or compatible
with the "Open Door" policy, inasmuch as we believe none of the for-
eign governments which might be involved, and particularly that of
the United States and Great Britain, have recognized "Manohoukuo" as
an entity.
We have the thought that procedure along the lines sug-
gested should heve very careful consideration so that any ultimate
steps by the Government of the United States, and incidental ly, that
of Great Britain, would not be jeopardized or in any way nullified
by independent action of strictly commercial companies.
In these circumstanoes, and if you conour with our
thoughts, an unofficial expression of opinion which can be paraphrased
in a cable to our Japan representative, will be very deeply appre-
ciated. Of course, we would take the utmost precaution to have it
appear that any suggestions expressed by us emanated from this office
and not from Washington, inasmuch of course, as the contemplated plan
is one of British conception and does not directly affect us at the
moment, although eventually, this may be the case. We ven ture to say
that you will understand our position when we make the observation
that we might be able to bring some influence to bear upon the British
interests, particularly if there is any doubt in their minds that the
proposed action may possibly exert a deterrent reaction upon the
final solution of the entire Manohurian situation.
In my last letter, I spoke of Mr. Horinouchi, the Japan-
ese Consul General at New York. It might be of more than passing in-
terest to no te the remarks of our Moukden Manager, Mr. Loucks, in
regard to Mr. Horinouohi, when some question arose respecting the at-
titude taken by "Manohoukuo" officials concerning customs duties. Mr.
Louoks was informed by Mr. Miura, formerly Japanese Consul at Moukden
and now Seoretary of the Embassy at Changohun, that Mr. Horinouchi
very closely watohed the trend of American press dispatohes, and as
he was extremely friendly toward any Amerioan efforts to trade with
"Manohoukuo", he oocasionally submitted suggestions to his Rmbassy
at Changohun for transmittal to the "Manchoukuo" government.
We have no intention of fully discussing our diffioulties
with Mr. Horinouohi as we feel such matters more rightly belong to the
regular diplomatio channels. Nevertheless as this gentleman is in
our opinion, very favorably disposed to Amerioan interests, and as
his baokground is such that he is in a position to acquaint his
Government either direotly or through the Bmbassy, with pertinent
data affecting relations between Japan and the United States, we be-
lieve that the cultivation of his acquaintance might conceivably
prove of advantage to us.
sincerely yoursif. Car
KFC:M
Kerdey F. Coe.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.94)
M
SOCONY-VACUUM CORPORATION
Export Department
Ea
le
DCR
ack.rdut.
Dimsion of
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeok,
toZokgr
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
A01- 193
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
Deparp of State
894.6363/47
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
I have had an opportunity of reading your letter of
July 15th to Mr. F. S. Fales, President, Standard Oil Company of
New York, Inc., in respect to the Manchurian oil policy, and we
take this opportunity of acknowledging it with much pleasure and
appreciation. It will be held in striot confidence.
We were on the point of writing on this subject, re-
peating to you the contents of a private cable we received from
our Yokohama Office under date of July 13th. This reads as follows:
"Newspaper reports early in July again mention the formation of
Japanese Manchuria Oil Company capitalization same as previously
reported except ManchurianGovernment participation increased to
¥1,Oo0,O0o SToP Have confirmed through usual confidential
sources that land is now being purchased for erection of refinery
at Dairen for completion early in fall 1934 and learn that al-
though decision not final Monopoly is planned under which it is
proposed that companies now operating in Manchuria will be
permitted to supply one-half of market requirements White products
the other half to be purchased by Manchurian Government from
refining company STOP Have written you fully in our letter
No. 671 July 12th."
We propose to pass on to you the contents of the letter referred to,
which no doubt will help to throw additional light on the subject.
The Asiatic Petroleum Company, Ltd., which represents
C
British interests in Japan and China, together with other sections
C
-
of the Far East, have notified us through London that they intend to
2
aoquaint their Government with this development, and at the same
1
time, we advised them we would take similar steps here.
19
3
Reverting again to the quoted message, and for your in-
formation, may we say that from advices before us, the capitalization
of the proposed company will be somewhat as follows:
242
"Manohoukuo" Government
¥1,500,000.
CD、Ur.,rD
South Manchurian Railway
2,000,000.
FILED
2
Mitsui Bussan Kaisha
500,000.
1
Mitsubishi Goshi Kaisha
500,000.
169
Nippon Oil Company
500,000.
3
Ogura Oil Company
500,000.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
July 19/33.
Dr. Hornbook.
Of partioularly grave concern to us is the allegation that
the companies now operating in Manchuria will be permitted to supply
only one-half of the market requirements of White produots(Gasoline
and Illuminating Oil), while the balance is to be drawn from the
proposed company. Our figures indicate that for the year l932 the
Japanese distributing companies in Manchuria shared 17.6% and 10.6%
in the total trade of Kerosene Oil and Gasoline respectively. The
peroentages for the current year to date, are approximately the same,
whereas Socony-Vacuum Corporation's participation in the indicated
total trade for the first five months of this year is:-
Kerosene O11
28.6%
Gasoline
27%
Thus the consummation of the Japanese plan would seriously interfere
with our business and also with that of the British.
We realize of course, that at present we are dealing only
with a possible eventuality, and that no action of any kind can be
taken until the project has the official sanotion of the "Manohoukuo
Government and is in actual operation. If such a contingency arises
we then assume that our Government will be in a position to put forth
representations predicated upon the policy of the "Open Door".
Relevant to the entire question of a petroleum policy for
Japan and Manchuria, perhaps you may be interested in a paraphrase
of Mr. Horinouchi's remarks, who, as you no doubt are aware, is the
Japanese Consul General in New York. A friend and I had luncheon
with him today and he seemed to be rather frank in discussing the
matter. In respect to Japan, he stated he did not feel that the
Government would declare a monopoly, but inasmuch as many other gov-
ernments had established a nationalistic oil policy, he could not be
certain as to what steps would be taken in regard to the institution
of a licensing system. He no doubt had in mind the systems in force
in Franoe and Spain. This simply strengthens our belief that ultim-
ately some disoriminatory barrier will be erected against foreign
interests.
You will perhaps remember, when I had the pleasure of talking
with you in Washington, I made the observation that if it were pos-
sible to intimate to the Japanese Government that silk might become
a vulnerable issue in the event of undue disorimination against this
country, that we would have a bargaining point of tremendous import-
ance. My companion at luncheon, who is not in the oil business,
happened to touch upon this subjeot, pointing out the value of raw
siik importations into the United States which enter duty free, and
briefly dwelling upon the fact that seri-oulture would be adversely
affected if an American tariff were imposed. It is conceivable that
Mr. Horinouohi will aoquaint the Japanese Ambassador with certain of
these remarks.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
Dr. Hornbeck.
July 19/33.
Mr. Horinouchi's comments in respeot to Manohuria were what
might have been expeoted under the ciroumstances. He stated that the
Japanese Government has no intention of abrogating the "OpenDoor"
polioy and he felt that operations of foreign interests in that
country would not be restrioted in any way. Further, because of its
undeveloped state, foreign capi tal would be welcomed. Our own
thought is that the latter might possibly be true in some respects,
but that the former is decidedly questionable under present con-
ditions.
In contrast with Mr. Horinouohi's expressed opinion on the
"Open Door" in Manchuria, we recently talked with Mr. James L. Young,
who during the absence of Mr. B. W. Fleisher, proprietor and editor
of "The Japan Advertiser" in Tokyo, has been in charge of this Amer-
ioan publication, which no doubt is familiar to you. He has had
considerable contact with the Foreign Office and the impression he
gathered was that the Japanese were rather reticent in reaffirming
this polioy under the present Manchurian regime. In faot, we under-
stood his opinion to be that the Japanese would not hesitate to
discriminate against foreign interests. Of oourse, we should prefer
not to be quoted in regard to either of these convarsations.
We shall take the liberty of again communicating with you as
soon as we have further information of importance.
Sincerely yours,
Kurny F. Cor
KFC:M
Kersey F. Coe.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.78)
J1 10. 1008.
Dear Dr. Horabeeks
I heve had an epportunity of reading your letter ef
Now Yenk, Ime., ia reepeet to the Manehurian ell pelley, and we
Ne wese en the pelat of witix on this eet, e-
"Eemepeper reports early in July again meation the fermmtion ef
no.."
The Asiatée Petreloum Compaw, Ltd., mhi ch represests
at, anmd at the so
0.00.00.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.93)
Bermbeek.
July 19/3s.
or pertieularly greve ceneera to us is the allegati on thet
whereas soseng-Vaewm Cerpemtiom's partieipation 1n the imdieated
total twede fer the first five moathe or this year is:-
Kereseme C11
Gaselime
27%
Ths the eemematiom of the Japenese plan mould seriously interfere
with our besimees and also with that of the British.
We realime of course, that at present we are dealing ealy
with a pees ihle eventuality, and that no aet iom of axy kind ean be
takem wesil the projeet has the ofricial mametiom of the "Mamehonkso"
Gevermmemt and ls im astual operatiom. If sueh a coatimgemey arises
we thes assme that our Covermment will be in a pesitiom to put forth
represemtetiems predieeted upon the polley of the "Opem Door".
Balovant to the entire questiom of a  troloum polley for
Japam mad Manehuria, perhaps you my be interested im è peraphrase
of Mr. Horimouehi's remrks, who, as you no doubt are aware, is the
Japamese Cemmul General in New Tork. A friemd and I had lumoheon
with him teday and he seemed to be rather frank in disoussing the
mmatter. Im respeet to Japan, he stated he aid mt feel that the
Govermment would deelare a momopoly, but inammueh as many other gov-
ermments hed established a mationalistie oil poliey, he could not be
certain as to what steps would be taken in regard t the institutiem
of a lieensing systom. He no doubt had im mind the systems in foree
in Fremme and Spain. This simply strengiheas our belief that ultim-
ately som iseriminatory barrter will be oreeted areinst foreign
interests.
You will perhaps remember, when  had the pleasure of ta lking
witn yuu in Washington, - mede the observation that if it were poe-
eible to int immte to the Japumese Government that silk mi ht beoome
a vulnerable issue in the event of undue diseriminetion age inst this
country, that we would have a bargaining peint of tremendous import-
anoe. My companion at lunchoon, who ie not in the o1l business,
happened to touch upon this subjeet, pointine out the walue of raw
ilk importat lons into the United States which enter du ty free, and
briefly dwelling upon the faet that seri-oulture wculd be advermely
affeeted if an American tariff were impomed. it is conoeivable tmt
Mr. Horinouch1 will acquaint the Japenese Ambassador wi th certain of
these remmrks.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.88)
中
embeek
July 19/ms.
bat that the former is deeldedly questiomeble under present com-
ditions.
Im eeatrest with Ur. Herimemehi's expressed opinion on the
of "The Japem Advertiser" im Tekye, has been in eharge of this Amer-
stesd his epialem to be that the Japamese wowld not hesitate to
Ne shall take the l1berty of agaln eemieeting with you as
sesm s we have further informa tiom of importamse.
Simeerely yours,
XFG:N
Kersey F. Cee.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.94)
COL- Staff Ue Only
Allgust 2 1983
325
  Atoy: le
f 5.2u-64 fo Donaid 1. Shiun, State Dept
D31/6
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
894.6363/47
The Aoting Seoretary of State refers to the Depart-
ment's instruotion No. 290 of June 5, 1933, forwaraing
copies of oorrespondence with regard to the oil industry
in Japan, and enoloses herewith, for the information of
the Ambassador, a oopy of a letter of July 19, 1938,
from the Socony-Vaouum Corporation on this subjeet and
with regard to the reported intention of the new regime
in Manohuria to establish an oil company, together with
a copy of the Department's reply thereto. The Depart-
mont's letter of July 15, 1933, referred to in the first
paragraph of the letter of July 19, 1933, from the Sooony-
Vaouum Corporation, oontained information with regard to
the oil situation in Manohuria. This information was
based on material reported by the Consul General at
Mukden in his despatoh No. 584 of June 2, 1933, a oopy of
whioh was apparently forwarded to the Embassy at Tokyo.
There are also enolosed copies of the above-mentioned
letter from the Sooony-Vaouum Corporation and the Depart-
ment's reply for forwarding, at the disoretion of the
Ambassador, to the Conaul General at Mukden.
Enolosures:
From Sooony-Vaouum
Corporation, July 19,
1933, in duplioate.
Department's reply
AUG 2 1060
thereto, in duplioate.
894.6363
ney
SAH
FE:LES:CLS
FE
7=31-33。

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
R.ARTAn
U31933
DATION OF
DEPARTMENT
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN
August 14, 1933.
With reference to the letter of July 31,
1933, from t he Socony-Vacuum Corporation,
giving information with regard to the oil
company whioh it is reported the new régime
in Manohuria intends to establish, -
There is attached hereto a draft letter
forwarding further information in this regard,
this letter being based on Mukden's despatch
No. 594 of July 10, 1933, and Tokyo's despatch
No. 479 of July 24, 1933.
With roference to the letter of July 27,
1933, from the Socony-Vacuum Corporation,
requesting an unoffioial expression of opinion
with regard to an approach to the "Manchukuo"
Government by the foreign oil interests, --
I oalled on Mr. Hugh Cumming, in accord-
ance with Mr. Hornbeok's suggestion, and in-
quired whether any disoussion of the oil
problom in Japan had taken place during the
London Conference and he replied that as far
as he knew no disoussions of this subjeot had
oceurred, that certainly the question had not
oome before the Seoretary. Mr. Cumming then
telephoned to Mr. B. B. Wallace and inquired
of him with regard to this matter. Mr. Wallaoe

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
stated that he had handed the material on
this subjeot to Dr. Feis shortly after embark-
ing for London and that he did not know any-
thing further in this rogard. Mr. Cumming
stated that in the near future there will be
available reports of all that transpired at
the London Conference and he also stated that
Dr. Feis will return to the Department within
three or four weeks. It is suggested that,
in view of the foregoing as well as in view
of the faot that it would seem undesirable
for the Department to attempt to give the
dosired opinion in writing, reply to this
lotter be delayed at least until more definite
information is reoeived in regard to what may
have ooourred at the London Conference.
MA
S: CLS
12

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 5, 1933.
1307
During your temporary absence, the
difficulties of Socony-Vaouum in Man-
churia were again brought to our atten-
tion. As I leave Washington today, I
wish to indioate briefly my reactions
although I have been unable to give the
subjeot thorough study.
You will note from the attaohed
letters from Socony under dates July 27
and 31 that they wish the Department
to give them an unofficial expression
of opinion which they can pass on to
their office in Japan.
It is my opinion that we should not
attempt to give any such opinion in
writing. Personally, however, I Foel
that the Asiatic Petroleum Company
would be unwise to attempt to foroe
issues at this time. To do so will not
deter monopoly action, if such action
has been deoided upon by the Japanese,
and, in addition, there appears to be
dissension among the participants of the
proposed monopoly. Furthermore, the
Japanese may decide against any such
seheme as the official announcement of
such a monopoly would materially weaken
the

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 8 -
the effeotiveness of any further public
statements that the "open door" is to
be maintained.
In any event, Dr. Hornbeck sug-
gests that Socony's letters under
reference be held until we have had an
opportunity to ascertain whether
Seoretary Hull is in a position to
throw further light on the subject. I
therefore suggest that you call this
matter to the attention of Dr. Hornbeck
shortly after Seoretary Hull's return
to Washington.
RCM:EJL

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.98)
SOCONY-VACUUM CORPORATION
Export Tepartment
August 21 1983
NEw York
July 31st, 1933.
Dr. Stanely K. Hornbeck,
Chief,
Diviston of
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
FAR EASTEAN AFFAIRS
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
1933
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
of Srate
894.6363/48
The cable of Julyl3th from our Yokohama Office,
which was quoted in our letter to you of July l9th, mentioned
that they were writing. We have now received their letter No. 671
of July i2th, and we find that with the exception of one or two
points this is simply an elaboration of their message.
We wish to correct the capital setup of the pro-
posed Manohurian Company, for advises now show that the "Manchoukuo"
Government will participate to the extent of 1,0oo,ooo instead of
¥1,500,000. This makes a total of ¥5,000,000. Yokohama goes on to
say:-
The above division of capital is the result of the insistence
of the Military that the "Manchoukuo" Government have control
of the new company and its operation. Although all participat-
ing companies will nominally have representatives on the Board
of Directors of the new concern they will be without authority,
the "Manohoukuo" Government actually controlling the operations
of the company under the influence of the Military. The S.M.R.
had objected strenuously to this proposal and a deadlock in
negotiations has resulted, S.M.R. refusing to send their repre-
FILED
sentatives to attend meetings in Hsinching(Changchun). Mr.Tsuge
of the N.O.C. has been requested to go to Hsinohing to mediat
business in Tokyo. Difficulties regarding the organization of
the company are expected to be surmounted during July or early
Noffonau Co.?
in August and definite organization be effeoted."
Yokohama further states that without awaiting the result of the ex-
ploitation of the oil fields in "Manchoukuo" the new company is to
proceed immediately with the development of a refinery at Dairen
and it is the plan that this will be in operation in August or
September of 1934. Japan reiterates the statement that the business
will be subject to participation and that to this end the refinery
will first concentrate upon the manufacture of Kerosene and Gasoline
to the equivalent of one half the present requirements of "Manohou-
kuo" and the balance will be allocated on the basis of the propor-
tionate share now enjoyed by each company. It is Yokohama's belier
that as the "Manohoukuo" Government is intended to have control of

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Dr. Hornbeok.
July 31/33.
the sale of the products manufactured by the new refinery, it
may be assumed that the Government will also take charge or the
sales of all produots made by the other (foreign) companies under
a selling monopoly. While this has not as yet been worked out it
seems to strongly reflect the trend of official opinion and Japan
advises that a definite agreement has been reached covering the
purchase of a refinery site.
We are still dealing with a hypothetical situation,
but nevertheless the accumulative indications seem to denote the
orystalization of a policy which can but have a most unfavorable
reaotion in respect to our interests.
With kind regards,
Sincerely yours,
MrmyD. Gor
Kersey F. Coe.

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.87)
August 8 1983
Dear Mr. Coe:
I am today offioially aoknowledgin the rocoipt of
894.6363/48
your letter of July 19, 1933. At the same time I wish
you to know that there have also been received your
Letters under dates July 27 and July 31 and that as
soon as possible official replies thereto will be mede.
Sinoerely yours,
Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Chief.
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
. Kersey F. Ooe,
Seeemy-Vaeuum Corporetion,
s Broekway.
New York, Now York.
nevy
MARGMIEJL
FE
eps
CB
AUG 2108
ms

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.90)
July 8lst, 10ss.
Dr. Stanely K. Hormbeek,
Divislem of Far Eastern Affairs,
Doar Dr. Hormbeeks
The eable of July lsh from our Yokolamm Offio∞,
whieh mas quoted in our letter to you of July l9th, mont loned
thas they were writing. We have now reeelved their letter No. 691
of July lzth, and we find that with the exeeption or one or two
poimts this is simply an alaboration of their meennge.
We wian to eorreet the eapi tal setup or the pre-
.800,000. This mmkes a total of 5,000,000. fokohama goes on to
"The abowe aivisiom of cap1 tal Is the reault of the insistenee
of the mew eempany and its operetiom. Although all pertieipet-
of the eompany under the influemee of the 1litary. The B.M.R.
hnd objeeted stremuoualy to this propesal and a deadloek ia
megetiasiens has resulted, 3.M. A. refusin to send their repre-
ef the N.0.0. has been requested to go to fsimehin to medlate
in this dimpate but has deelimed om exeuse of pressime N.0.C.
besimees im Tekye. Diffioulties regard ing the oreanimatiom of
Yokoheme rurther stetee the: wi thout awaitin the result or the ex-
ploitatiom of the eil fields in "Manekeukae" the new eompany Ls to
that as the "Zanehenkme" Geverameat is tatended to have contret et

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.89)
July 31/ss.
Ne are still dealine a1 th a hypethetieal situation
with kim regarde,
Simeerely yours,
Koroey. Coo.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.94)
Z
!N
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIÇA
Tokyo, July 24, 1933
No. 479.
SUBJECT:
The Oil Business in Manchuria.
Ae
11..33
Divigtion of
Z
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
F/HS
74363
AUG 14 1933
ni
Department of State
893.6363m
894.6363/49
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to my despatch No. 399 of May 12,
1933, I wish to submit to the Department further in-
formation regarding the oil business in Manchuria,
which this Embassy has obtained from a source found
in the past to be reliable.
It is reported that it has now been definitely
decided to form a company for the purpose of building
OCT 1 4 1933
FILED
and operating an oil refinery at Dairen, not at Hulatao
as

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
as reported in the press. In fact, a site opposite
the property of the Socony Vacuum Corporation at
Dairen has already been selected and the land pur-
chased with funds advanced by the South Manchuria
Railway. The company will be capitalized at Yen
5,000,000. The South Manchuria Railway will sub-
scribe to two million yen of this, "Manchukuo" to
one million, and the following Japanese oil com-
panies to five hundred thousand each: Mitsui
Bussan, Mitsubishi Mining Company, Ogura, and
Nippon. At first, the refinery will purchase
its crude oil from abroad from the source that
gives the most advantageous rate- pending the
development of sources within Manchuria. The
Nippon Oil Company will supply the skilled labor
and technicians for building and starting the
operation of the refinery. It is hoped to have
the refinery completed during the autumm of this
year.
The next problem before the originators of
this scheme is that of assuring the refinery of a
market in Manchuria without violating the principle
of the Open Door. It is understood that they have
tentatively decided upon a plan of governmental
control under which the refinery would be guaranteed
one half of the market and the commercial companies
now operating in Manchuria the other half. A "Man-
chukuo" controlled organization, called a "monopoly",
will be established to purchase the product of the
refinery

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
refinery and to market it in "Manchukuo" territory.
It is not known whether the commercial companies will
be compelled to sell to this so-called monopoly or
whether they will be licensed to sell fixed amounts
through their om established distributing systems.
The private companies will pay duty on what they
import whereas the "Manchukuo" monopoly will pay no
duty on what it imports from the refinery, even
though the latter bein, in Kwantung Leased Terri-
tory is outside the "Manchukuo" customs zone. It
would seem to be unimportant whether "Manchukuo"
gains its revenue in the form of customs duties or
in the form of excess profits, as long as the sell-
ing price of petroleum products is sufficiently high
to enable the commercial comnanies to make a profit.
It is understood that throughout the negotiations
for the formation of the refining company and the es-
tablishment of the "Manchukuo" so-called monopoly the
Japanese military and the South Manchuria Railway
have been fighting each other for control. The
military work through "Manchukuo".
S
1
Respectfully yours,
IoseLT. J
A8
863.6
Joseph C. Grew.
SwW:r
Copy to Legation, Peiping
n
" Consulate General, Mukden
11
" Consulate, Dairen.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 19, 1933.
10 1
Neot
Tokyo's despatch No. 507 of
August 31, 1933, describes the effect on
the Japanese market of the arrival in
Japan and the subsequent Bale at a
relatively low price, of a shipment of
gasoline from Russia. Mr. Matsukata,
Who is responsible for the transaction,
Is making effective plans to market the
oil produots which he has contracted to
buy in Russia; and although it was not
believed that he had enough capital to
finance his operations he has apparently
been quite successful, much to the per-
turbation of the established companies
among which is the Standard Oil Company.
There is some suspicion that
Mr. Matsukata is being financed by the
Soviet Government.
The Embassy expresses the opinion
that a revision of the agreement doubiing
the marketing of gasoline between the
established companies, which is now under
examination, may be the first step in the
process

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
proaess of squeezing out the two foreign
companies.
The despatch is of interest, but
suffers somewhat from not setting forth
clearly the effect of the appearance of
Russian oil upon the future development
of the oil industry.
142
FE:EHD:ABW

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
AM RECD
9
Despatch No. 507.
Date: August 31, 1933.
Subject: Japan's 011 P5B11m33
Summary:
The first shinment of the gesoline which Mr.
Kojiro Matsukata contr cted to buy from the Soviets
arrived in Yokohama early in August and two more ship-
ments are on their way. Storage tanks have been
erected and the importer now has good prospects of
marketing his product, which he can ann rently sell
at a price considerably lower then the local m rket.
price. The six established petroleum comoanies, of
which two ere foreign, are considerably worried by
Mr. Matsukata's activities.
Meanwhile, the egreement among the established
companies has exoireć  nd a new one is beins drawn up.
The Government forced the foreign companies, of which
one is British and one American, to :gree to a system
of quotas which will orevent their sh ring propor-
tionately in the expected ex) nsion of the Jaoanese
gasoline trade. The offici: ls of the tvo oomoonies
believe thet this is the first step in the efforts
of the Japanese to "soueeze out" the foreigners und
bring the gesoline trade under coutrol of their fellow-
countrymen.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.90)
1402
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AA
Tokyo, August 71, 1935.
No.507.
Subject:
Janan'a Oil Problems.
F/G
894.6363
DIVIBION
XAie
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAHR a By u FE
0038
SEP 16 1933
VEN.D
DEPANTMENT HF STATE
894.6363/50
Depertment of State
AM
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
FILE
For Distribution-Check
To fi.1
M
SEP 2328
The Honorable
The Feeratery of Ctto,
varrington.
Sir:
I wich to rotor to v doro tch yo. Fee of
Anril P1, 198s, entitlec JAPA  vIL PROBLral, und
to inform the beorrtwent with re ro to certain
recent develooments in this motter.
The contract referred to in the above-mentioned
despatch, which ws ent roe into by r. Kojiro matsu-
kata with the Soviet regime for the shi ment to Japan
of petroleum products from the Black Sea district of
Russia
OCT7
FILED
1933

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
Russia, has now borne its first fruit. On August 6
the Norwegian Rassmussen Line tanker NORE arrived in
Yokohama with 10,959 tons of gasoline and Mr. Matsu-
kata announces that a second shipment of 9,500 tons
is on its way. It is rumored in trade circles that,
while the first shipment is composed of standard gaso-
line, the second includes some aviation gasoline and
also some very inferior gasoline. The further in-
formation comes from Ruscian sources that a third ship-
ment will arrive in November. Four storage tonks, with
a canacity of 35o0 tons, have been erected by Mr. Matsu-
kata at Tsurumi(Yokohama) and bottoms have been 1 id for
three more. He has contracted with a locel motor agency
for the purchase of nine or ten o0-gellon tonk trucks.
Little is kmown cbout r. tsukatIr nlans for mar-
keting his prouuct, excent that he has lready contracted
with the Yokohama Bus Comnany for cun lyin: it vith gaso-
line at 35 sen : gallon The r"tnil price :mona the estab-
lished componier is 46 sen per gallon).
As was stated in nrevious recorts from this Embasry,
the established il comn nies hod little ear or r. atsu-
kata's efrorts to imoort netroleum products rrom Russia,
when his project w: first announced ne rly ? year ago.
It was not believed that he had enough canital to finnce
his opertions and he did not have a very good renutation
as an entrepreneur. However, the feeling in the oil
trade has undergone & ch nge. r. matsukata has gotten
his gasoline, or some of it, as fr as Japan nd has
found

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
found enough capital to erect some storage tanks.
With his first shipment as security he has obtained
a considerable loan from the Bank of Chosen. He has
indicated by the one contract which he has made that
he can sell gasoline at s price far below that asked
by the established companies. He has no general mar-
keting facilities but several large consumers nd groups
of consumers have evinced consideroble interest in pur-
chasing his product in 1rge quantities. He has been
very successful so far in keeoing his ol:ns socret until
he was ready to make his unrouncements  ná the est: blished
trade does not know whet to expect next.
In view of the above f cts it can be seen that the
established trade and the Japanese Governnent are faced
with the problem of preventing comnlete chaos in the Jana-
nese gasoline market.
The desptch rom this Eubassy
which is referrea to in the first n regr: oh : bove men-
tions the Imoortant Industries Control Law which oro-
vides for agreements : ong the comn: nies eng ged in
certain trades, including the gasoline trade, with a
view to regulating orices nd other comnotitive elements.
As far as the gaseline trade is concerned this law coplies
only to those firms which sell more thrn 100,000 cases
of 9.5 gallons : month nd r. matsukata's importations
so far do not amount to enough to lace him in this
category. The agreement among the six established
gasoline companies which wi: signed 1 st year expired on
June 30 last. It was formolly renewed for the month of
July nd then an informal agreement was arrived at to
continue

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
-4 -
continue its essential provisions until a new agree-
ment would be made. In the meantime the Government
has been considering revising the law to make it appli-
cable to firms as small as that of Mr. Matsukata. Some
of the established companies have favorea this and some
have preferred trying to arive r. matsukata out of busi-
ness rather than to allot him a quota in the market.
A representative of the Nippon Oil Company re-
cently anproached r. mr tsukat: with the proposal that
he voluntarily enter the trade greement. He evinced no
interest and made the surprising statement that he was
only an agent, the Soviet regime being his principals.
It is not known exactly how true this is. He may have
saiä it only to excuse himself or to confuse his ques-
tioners. However, Mr. Matsukata's financing has always
been a mystery and this may be the explanation. At any
rate it is clear that he is not likoly to nter uny trade
agreement unless he is forced to do so by the Japanese
Government or unle s his principals give their consent.
The Ministry of Coumierce and Industry recently an-
nounced that a new agreement would be signed soon und it
has in fact lready been uravi up.
The announcement
stated that the six established comnanies-Socony-Vacuum,
Rising Sun, Nippon, Ogura, Mitsubishi, and Mitsui Bussan-
would thenceforth be granted the same quotas which they
had had under the former agreement, up to an amount equal
to the consumption during the past year, which ended
June 30th. As for aduitional consumption, the first half
of such increase would be divided among the companies in
proportion to their sales during the past year and the
second

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
second half would be divided into fifths. One fifth
would be allotted to each of the six compenies except
the Mitsui Bussan. The latter would share a fifth with
the Socony-Vacuum Corporation from whom it purchases all
its gasoline.
As the Rising Sun Petroleum Connany and the Socony-
Vacuum Corporation sola over 50% of the gi soline con-
sumed in Japan during the past year the provision for
dividing the second hel: of the increased consumption
during the ensuing year wos not at 11 satisfoctory to
them. At first they emurreu but were finelly forced
by the Government to accece.
The two foreign compunies believe that this is the
first sten to be m: de by the Japanese in the process of
"squeezing" then out of the n rket.
 For the pr-sent they
will be alloweo to ret: in the m rket which they huve en-
joyed but they will be crodu lly prevented from ch ring
in the expected expansion of the g coline busincss.
The cctual signing of the new agreomont is being held
up by a disoute  nong the establishec como nier  s to how
they are goine to henole the comnetition of ir. matsuk ta.
Some of the Jopnese comoanies wich to lower the price
stated in the trade cgreement to r.  tsukata's orice,
to show a deficit in their accounts, no thereby to force
the Government to institute a licensing system to pro-
tect them.
Respectfully yours,
863.6
SWW:r
Eáwin L. Neville
Counselor of Ebcssy.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Ootober 3, 1933.
Tokyo's despatch No. 522 of September 15
dosoribes the most recent developments of the
soline war started in Japan by recent import-
ations from Russia. It will be noted that the
Japanese companies have reduced their prices
to meet Russian competition, and the Embassy
bolieves that they will 'be unable to maintain
these prices without losing money. It suggests
that a possible explanation of this policy may
be to force the Japanese Government to inter-
vone with a view to regulating prices and exer-
oising greater control over the oil industry.
The Embassy believes that it may be possible
for the Government to fix a price for gasoline
which would guarantee a profit to the Japanese
producers but cause losses to the two foreign
lcompanies.
In connection with the last point, your
attention is particularly directed to the last
paragraph of the despatch, which outlines state-
monts made to a member of the Embassy by an
offioial in the Foreign Office, indicating
that a larger measure of control would probably

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
be exercised by the Government.
This statement of policy has been communi-
cated by the Embassy to the local manager of
the Socony Vacuum Corporation.
FE:EHD:CDM

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.90)
4826
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Septemper
BASTBAN SUHOPEAN AAIRS.
No. 522
Subject: Japan's Oil Probloms.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
34.6363
in F.E
Digjon of
Copy
F
2A
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SH
RECO
OCT 3- 1933
S
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
3
OF STATE
E
C
A
51933
For Dir:
6363/51
Grade
OFSATE
For
Ix Commerce
The Honorable
inton.
Sir:
I vicn to retr to  proviom
 tebes on
the above subject  no n rtie rly to
tch
DEC 8- 1933
No. 507 of 1ucust 1,1
ich Ter bee thy
FILED
effect procuced on the puroline terde e J oun be the
importation of col
the cosition
of the Socony-y c  por or tion
greement.
r.  tsu te no his prine o ls, vhose eonen
ennerrs to be the Covict Tr de Co ie on r in Tokvo,
continue to oe ret cent bout t'  ir l n uo t the
timc

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.87)
-2-
time of writing have not agreed to enter int) any
understanding with the cst:blished gasoline comp nies.
Russian gasoline is being colo f ly in the Tokyo market
at 36 to 38 sen a gullon r t 11  no r.  tsuko to hus
signed several contract: ith l: rge conrumers to suooly
them with gsoline ut price.  lor   cen. The
Jepanese comonies estin te thrt the curt  the usion
gasoline deliveree in J oon : rter uuty is  id is so sen.
They believe that r. matrukt is eling on co  ton
with his stocks on , rti:t coosi" ment.
Age inst the  vice or the too Pore rn cor ni us-
American nd British-, the J  one co nier hi ve
lovereo th ir ricer to th  vei of the  ucrion e so-
line. If they conttnue to : all  t to r. rices it  ould
seem difficult for the to ve' r in mone. ther moy
wish to bring about a oeficit in their accounts und thereby
force the goveramont to int ao ve. They have undoubtedly
been trying to negotiate with Sovi t cit for un ly
of crude oil rt rices loner then the rice of the  icen
crude, od they  h ve ho  o uin ts to nu-
fecture  soline:t on r rices. lo ver, it is b lieved
by many uuthoritier tuct the Soviet will pover ugres to
the s le of lrg uontitir o ernd ol no th o ci 1s
of the two foreign susoline coms aimr sttribut other
intentions to the J  ore comynics.
The J o nese e s porr h ve eer h iling r. tsu-
kata as e friene of tha peonle ond buve been etr rring
the amount which will be s: ved by the cons merr i? he
1uc9

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.85)
-3-
succeeds in lowering the generel level of gasoline
prices. Furthermore, he has sigred cefinite contr cts
with certain consumers who are well org izeo to bring
political pressure. For this reason, the Government
has feared to intervene : o orce im to coo rate ith
the previously est  e e a nias. owever, the
argument that a J onere uur try if o t v rge o boing
ruined mey bring bout soveroment iut rvention. The
foreign compenies feur tot trir ill be ru ercuse, which
the Jane ese h ve bosn  it n to, t ot orole
price which will eucare  ro it to the J ese conoenies-
mos tsubishi, Hi oon, no  uea- but ou e the two Poraign
comoenies to lose ooy. T the Cov raront coar not f el
that it ca foree orices uo, it  t  other stoos to eose
the si tuation or the J  ese cma's. Tu thr csse the
forein comrv bor out.
Althouet tre Cow rout  co for t ko no etion,
yet there ore siw thyt co t e sier roine
the future l oliey for t e at in b  rived it.
On Feote bor  the Jv e reer or ed o emcevent
by the tnistry of Cou r a ne Toonstry te I oo icicls of
the Govoroment at nte ere  pr ae on thre
nationel volicies to  v rn th oil inouctry. The first
concerns intensiiieo control ef the ictinr o'l dis-
tribution  r  tien. The
second pelicy  mcer v lei a perf cting  bet tute
fuels. The thire har to de with the tc uisition
ind exploitation of oil rcpurces,  clud nr : Goverpment
subsidy for inere cee cxnr e t 1 orlling in Horth
Sh:lien

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.88)
-4 -
Saghalien.
On September 13, Mr. Kurusu, Director of the
Commercial Bureau of the J: rese Foreign Office, in-
formed a member of my taff that no dofinite policy,
or policies, had been a cided uoon s this could be done
only by the Cabinet. He  teteo, hovever, that : grooter
degree of control of oll comnies would vory nrobably
be institutec in tho ne future. He int m teo that this
was due to the r cent cti nr or r. tsnk t. He
suid that come sort of licancine cys te voule licely
be formed, the exact p tur ot vich he oia not now.
He said that he understooo the osition of the foreign
companies in not no: in w tor to ivest por canital
in Jopan; thu t, hile h  ulo voi venture to rovis them
how to run tooir buri eaer, ho e y thet t here
in their l: ce hul ri t to  er re their ex-
isting investronte ere h's
tobe: v
strone hint tot the Govor rt  ule pot look vith f vor
unon the builoine or pin  by th e Cun nd
Socony-Vacuur como nier. Luch  ct tom ant o nolicy has
been very wuch coucat ft r be th o coo nor for some
time ond it nos beer oor lly co nio ted to the Tocel
mane ger of the Cocony-  cue Corpor t n by  o ber of
my staff.
spectfullv vours,
Imph. frw
863.6
SWW:r
Josenh C. Grer.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.90)
STATE
OEIVEO
1019
MEVISION OF
(Country)
(Date)
BalleokA
Cemeraial Atteche.
Submitted by:
(Title)
(Name)
11-0061
894.6363
JUN 8 1903
F/
BUBJECT: Jamu' HaSioLULL POlLex
工
S
Two alternative plans for the purpoue of estatll aring è antional
ull poilcy re now in the course of preparation ut the inine bureau
894.6363/5
of the Comerce unu Inuustry vinistry in pursuance of une of tne
riuors attacheu lu the buaset oill bu the Lousu ui reure uurinc
the recunt Diet sessions.
Theee plens cals either for the monopolization of the urilling.
manufmcture anu sales of oil by the tate or for a perwit aystom
2
to be eniorcou on oll imports.
some of the aotails of the mononoly plan are :
1. Drilling manufacturing, traae, salts and all other
righte concornins oil shal: belon- to the  tate.
a. à mi-official compny sheli be oreeuixou lo exerc.se
the above-mentioned rishts.
3. This monopoly company shall xnaually pay the ,overnnent
 part of its profit amounting to not Less than the totai
amount of customs duties paia anu also a reasonable mount
out of the expenses to be muved througn the rationalization
of oil enterprises.
4. the coupany shall contribute a certain amount out of ite
0C141933
dividend profite, annually to the lovernment fund to exploit
Latural resources in the country.
FLED
b. ln oraer to orgaaize tnis smi-urricial conpaay, the
Gevernment shall take over by oreer the fixen assets omed
by foreign oil coupamies in this ceuntry. amounting to
approximately yen 40,000,000, and turn them over to the
mew company as the sovermmemt share of its capital, while the
ell enterprises of the Wippen Petroleam Cempany, Hitsui.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.91)
B. ?.n. Ne. 206.
- 121 -
Tokyo, May 19, 1933.
Sabgests Japea'a National Oil Poliey.
Mitambishi, Ogmra and other intereste shall be combined
usder the new compeny.
6. The Govermment shall supervise the aisposal of profit.
plams ef eaterprises, prices of prouucts, appeintmonts
of effieers and trial boring of oil fielas to be made
by the company.
The lieemse yetem plan presmably contains the following
provisions :
1. A permit systom shall be mdopted authorisina only
these mho have sertain quali fieations to engage in the
impertation of eils.
2. The oil mamufacturine iuaustry shall als∞ be placea
under a permit system.
3. zither no duty or a low rate of auty whall be Levied
en erude oil imperts, while high import duties shall be
imposed on gooda manufactured from oils.
4. measures ahall be taken to socure imports of crude
oile from souroou not controlled by Britisn or American
interests. Tor thi. purpose, arrmngowents shall oe made
to laport cruae oi. frou soviet aussi, sumauls snu
oleehere.
It is not likely that tny definite action mill be taken at this
time theugh the announcement of the plan places the foreign companies
in a very doubtfal position resaraing future activities.
Ballesk A. Butts,
AD.
Cemmersial Attashe.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
α
SEE
894.00 P. R./70
FORDespatch #.541.
6
4.
9
FROM .JaDan
(Grew
) DATED Qctobar 3.1933.
C3
TO
NAME
1-1127
9
3
50
5
3
REGARDING:
Intrusion of Mr. Kojiro Matsukata into
the local gasoline market has compli-
cated the general problem of Japan's
oil trade.
Although the government has so far taken
no action, there are signs that some
decision regarding the future oil policy
of the country may soon be arrived at.
hs

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.85)
(d) Lepan'aeiluroblem
Th- intrusion of Mr. Kojiro N tsukata int tho local
samoline mrrket hus complic te ts gereral problem of
Japan's o1 tre e. "is Sovi t gasoline is sing distributed
Soe Deopaten No., Sept. ,1

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.88)
- 20 -
at a retail priee of 3e son : gallon. Mueh aguinst the ad-
viee of the toe foreiga companles, Socony Vacuum and Rising
Sm, it is reporte" the sst blished Japarese companies de-
eided to out priees appurently t nny iovel at hien r.
Mntokata ehose to sell. hi:e t: ub::c , bonefitted
greatly from the prien war wle' hus cut g" soline ooats
about six sen a gallon, the  f ect on tt. fin ncial condi-
tiom of the large companios y soon  soricus. So far the
Government ras been reluetant to int rvene because of the
populer poclaim whic, as greet dr. watsukata's etions,
and beeause he has sol? t. sev re? 1 rge consuners sho
are well organized t 'rip politic  rs.
Alth ugh the gvernment s s fr t enn aotion,
thore are st ns t at vome eclsior r r ing t ? ture oil
policy of t country may soon be rrived  t. The Ministry
of Commeree an Ind stry oounce that t re  t onal poll-
eie had b n agred o as fun anentel. in ncerns in-
torsiried ontr of t e ex sting inusry, t secend con-
Gerns the develop ent of substitute fur,
tht1r
hes t do wit the acrvist ion end ex lolt tien af new re-
sourees, ine  ine a g vernr s: y fr r' ling in
Horth Seghalion. On Se: teml er 17 ths ir tor of the Com-
mercial Bureau of t
rorreformetber 
t) e Embrery stafr that
greatr yr of co rol of oll
companies  vry prob y ls imstitute i thpr fu
ture. e lutim t tht t s  t tt one of .
Matsukata, which, it has een l ferred, mey provide a wel-
come excuse for setting a price .hic wil nsure a prorit
to the Jepanese companies but cause the to ? reign com-
Doni0a

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 16, 1933.
maaly tar action.
roeus
Tokyo's dospatoh No. 562 of Ootober 26,
1933, brings up to date recent developments
relating to the Japanese oil industry. It
is an interesting despatch on an important
-subjeot, and should be read in full.
It will be noted that the principal
result of the marketing of Soviet gasoline
in Japan has been to accelerate the tendency
towards some form of coordination between,and
oven possibly unification of,the companies
engaged in the produotion ana sale of
gasoline. The leading Japanese companies
have reduced their prices in order to meet
the prioes of Soviet gasoline sold through
Mr. Matsukata. These prices are apparently
below the levels at which gasoline can be
profitably sold, as it is pointed out by the
Imbassy that the Government must come to their
rescue before these Japanese companies
collapse.
An inter-departmental committee on oil
has not arrived at any decision with regard to
the national oil policy, but apparently the
idea of amalgamating ali the companies, foreign
as

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
as well as Japanese, into one company, finds
considerable favor. One suggestion is that
the oxisting companies should transfer their
properties to the proposed company and receive
shares in the latter in payment thereof. As
the assets of the American and British com-
panies are valued in foreign currenoy, the
Rmbassy believes that great difficulty would
be experienced in arriving at some satisfactory
valuation in terms of yen of their properties.
The foreign companies may have no alternative,
as the principal Japanese companies are
reported to have agreed to merge and to have
oxpressed the hope that the foreign companies
and similar Japanese companies be permitted to
onter the merger. In either case it seems
very likely that the plan is to eliminate the
foreign companies from active participation
in the gasoline business. It is to be noted
that the Japanese Navy Department is opposed
to the plan for the control of the gasoline
trade, as the Japanese Navy fears that its
souroes of crude oil would be cut off in
Fetaliation for the injury done to the foreign
gasoline companies operating in Japan.
Your particular attention is drawn to the
last paragraph of the despatch, in which the
suggestion of the local manager of the Socony
Vaouum Corporation is put forward for
seouring assistance from the American Govern-
ment. The suggestion is that "the Japanese
might be required to import a certain amount
of gasoline if they wished to import crude
oil" from the United States.
The

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
The question of transmitting this
suggestion to the NRA or to any other appro-
priate body should be decided by conference
with RA.
HD/REK

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.92)
1
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, October 26,19.
F
No. 562.
/ESP
Subject:
Japan's Oil Problems.
133
He
O-ronm Avisar
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR3
NOV 1S 1933
LHD
894.6363/54
Departrment of State
894.6362
2
EPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
MAR 27
The Secretary of tatc,
FILED
washington.
191
Sir:
I have the honor to r ler to y revious despatches
on the anove subject, the lest of which was No. S of
September 15, 1933, tno to renort to the Depurtment the
following developments which hove recently ti ken olace.
The two great problems now confronting Japan's oil
inaustry are the crisis produced by the introuuction of
Soviet gasoline into the market by r. Matsukata and the
efforts of the Government to bring the oil industry under
the

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
the control of its own nationals as much as possible.
The latter problem is one of long-standing but it is
being brought to a head by the appearance of the former.
Mr. Matsukata continues to sell his gasoline at prices
well below the cost of production of his competitors, the
established companies. However, as has already been re-
ported, they have lowered their prices in oroer to compete
with him. As a consequence, though Mr. Matsukata sold
about 500,000 gallons in the month of Seotember, his sales
have been declining since that time. He does not possess
a distributing system capable of competing with those of
the Rising Sun, Socony, and the four larger Jananese
companies. Consequently it may be said that the effects
of his action in underselling his competitors have been
to injure them and  pparently do very little permanent
good to himself and his principals.
This Embassy is informed that when  r. Matsukata
was recently secretly approached by a group of labor leaders
who feared that their men woula lose their jobs if the
established companies were driven out or business and who
wished to mediate between the two groups, he replied that
they should not attack him but should drive"the foreigners"
out of the country. He stated that it was the est:blished
companies, led by the two foreign companies, who had lowered
prices first. He was unuoubtedly referring to the lowering
of prices which the Japanese companies forced upon the
foreign companies, against their wishes, iinnediately upon
the importation of Mr. Matsukata's proouct. This was
explained

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
explained in my last despatch on this subject. However,
the interesting point is that now Mr. Matsukata is apparently
trying to arouse the labor element against the foreigners
by placing upon the latter the blame for the price war.
At the time the last agreement under the Important
Industries Control Act was entered into by the established
companies, the Department of Commerce and Industry promised
that it would soon take some action in regard to Mr.Matsu-
kata. However, there has been a noticeable disinclination
on he part of the Government to interfere with him. Mr.
Matsukata is a man of some influence in governmental
circles but it is believed that there are three other
important reasons for the Government's nolicy. First,
it is afraid of the consumers. The motorbus and taxicab
owners are well organized and are in a position not only
to bring considerable pressure in orficial circles but also
to cause serious disturbances among the people. Secondly,
some elements in the Government are content to see con-
fusion in the gasoline trade in the hopes that it will
cause the several compnies to cooperate with the Govern-
ment in its schemes for control of the industry. Thirdly,
there are wide dirferences of opinion anong the Government
departments. The Department of Commerce and Industry, the
Foreign Office, the Finance Department, the War Office,
and the Navy Department do not see eye to eye in the matter
of an oil policy and the Government has decided that they
must all agree on a policy before one can be adopted.
Although all the established g soline companies are
hit by Mr. Matsukata's operations, the Japanese companies,
the

=== Page 171 === (confidence 1.00)
the most important of which are Nippon, Mitsubishi, and
Ogura,- have smaller resources to carry through a price
war than have the larger foreign companies,- the Rising
Sun and the Socony Vacuum. As the three Japanese com-
panies are the kernel of the Government's schemes and the
basis of its dreams of bringing the refining business under
Government control, it behooves the Government to come to
their rescue before they collapse. Consequently, the
Government departments concerned have been very active
trying to formulate an oil policy for the country.
The Department of Commerce and Inaustry, because
of its duty of supervising the operation of the agreement
between the companies under the Important Inuustries Control
Law, is more concerned with the immediate problems. How-
ever, there is an interdepartmental conmittee working
on the question and it is understood that it is drafting
a basic law for submission to the next session of the Diet.
The Minister of Commerce and Industry recently informed a
representative of the foreign gasoline inter sts that the
Government wants to amalgamate all the companies engaged
in the gasoline trade in Japan.
From other sources it has been learned that the
plan being considered is to form a large private company,
the stock of which could be held by foreigners as well as
by Japanese, but with Japanese control. The French Govern-
ment plan is being used as a model. The Foreign companies,
as well as the Japanese, would be asked to accept stock in
payment for their property in Japan. Dividends would be
divided

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
divided under the direction of the Government. Importing,
selling, and refining oil products would be subject to
licensing and only this new company would be licensed to
own refineries . The tariff woulo be rovi:eu to make a
greater difference between the auty on erude oi! tnd that
on the refined product tnan exists t present. No est b-
lished company would be forceu to enter the combine but it is
obvious that those on the outside would -ventuelly be "srue zed
out" of the market. If the two foreign como nies should
express an interest in entering the combine thore would rise
the tremendous questions of personnel and the valuation of
their property. The Socony Vacuum Corporation's property
is valued on the comp:ny's books in terms of dollars. The
property was bought with yen of ne rly twice the present
value of the yen in terms of doll:rs. The problem of valuating
the property in terms of the stock of the new company would
be very intricate. Yet, if the two foreign companies do not
enter the combine they are faced with the probability of
losing their business by a gradual process.
The above outline of the plan under consideration was
recently given out by an official of a Japanese Oil Company
as extremely confidential information. However, on October
24 a report appeared in the press that the three Japanese
oil companies had agreed to merge and had expressed to the
Minister of Commerce and Industry the hope that later the
American and British companies and 20 smaller Japanese
companies might be allowed to enter their combine. It would
therefore seem that the great combine is to be reached by
gradual

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
gradual stages.
It would seem that the o ject of the Japanese
Government is to bring the refining industry in Japan
under the control of Japanese nation: 1s with as little
cost as possible. As capital is obtained for builoing
refineries the Goverrment wants them to be built and
wishes to give them full protection. This is a plan
which has been followed by many countries of the world.
A feature of the Japanese problem which is not true of
all countries is that Janan's orincipal sources of supply
of the raw m terial are not under her control. In fect,
the three sources,- the United States, Russia, and the
Dutch East Indies,- are ll in l: ces which the Jana-
nese, in their present mood, consiaer potential enemy
territory. of the three, the orincipal source of Janan's
supply of crude oil at the resent time is the United
States. It is understood that the Japanese Navy Depart-
ment's representative on the interuepartmental com ittee
is opposing the plan for control of the gasoline trade
which is outlined above because his oepertment fears
that its sources of crude oil would be cut off in re-
taliation for the injury that would be done to the
foreign gasoline companies operating in Japan.
The local manager for the Socony Vacuum Corporation,
in conversation with members of the staff of this Embassy,
has expressed the view that his company's position might
be helped by some American governmental action under the
National Recovery Act. He thinks that, in the interest
the

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
the refineries in the United States, and safeguarding
his company's investments in Jupan, the Japanese might
be required to import a certain amount of gasoline if
they wish to import crude oil. In order to put such
a plan into effect some coop rative :greement would have
to be arrived at with the Shell inter sts who control
the other nearest source of suoply, that in the Dutch
East Indies. Soviet fus ia :noears to be disinclined
to sell crude oil, or, at le st, coulu not be denenued
upon to furnish a steady supply to Japan. Rumania has
been mentioned by the Japanese as a source if the American
supply should be interfered with . The Embassy is not,
however, in a oosition to comment on Rumanian oil.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
863.6
SWW:r

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
Despatch No. 562.
Date: 0ctober 26, 1933
Subject: Japan's Oil Problems.
Summary:
Mr. Matsukata who is imoorting Soviet gasoline into
Japan is not selling s uch now as he was in September.
This is due to th fact that ti established comounies
lowered their prices in oro-r to compete with him and
they have a better distributing system already estab-
lished. The Government has pparently done nothing
toward brining r. tsuk ta unuer control. This is
because of his in luence, the Government's fear of the
concumers who profit fron the lower price of gesoline,
its (esire to see confusion in the trade in oroer to
promote its own program, and aivision or opinion within
the Government itse f. The Jenonese companies are in
a sense herder hit by mr. etsuk ta thn are the foreign
companies and the Government must come to their aid.
This is causing the adv: nce of the Government's program
to bring the gasoline indurtry eventually under Japanese
control. It is underst o th t ul ns re being made
for th formation of  1 rge int ation 1 con ny
for the refining nd t rketing of oil oroducts. First,
the three orincinal Japonese con :nies will be fused.
Leter, the foreign comp nies no the snaller Jan nese
comp: i s will be inviteo to join. Nothing is stated
as yet :s to how the pro erty of the foreign como nies
will be evaluated or what will happen to its foreign
perso nel. It is obvious th: t the promoters of this
plan wish to oust the foreign companies gradu lly nd
without cost to J: pan. However, J an depends upon
foreign sources of supply for its crude oil and the local
American oil intererts have suggested that the United
States might, under the Nation 1 Recovery Act, retaliate by
prohibiting the exoortation of crude oil without a
cert in percent ge of casoline b in bought also.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.96)
994.1363
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363/
004.0∞ P.R./71
Despatch #880
SEE
FOR
Japem
Grew
November 11,19ss
FROM
-) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
5
5
REGARDING:
Importation of Soviet gasoline into Japan still con-
tinues to disturb the local market.The importer,Mr.
Matsukata,was informed of difficulties he was causing
but no cooperation was forthcoming from him.
esp

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 16, 1934.
Tokyo's despatoh No. 624 of December 27,
1933, enoloses a memorandum of a conversation
which & member of the Embassy had with the
General Manager in Japan of the Socony-
Vacuum Corporation, Mr. Goold.
Mr. Goold stated that Mr. Komatsu, who
will be remombered as having made a visit to
the United States last year, referred to
Socony's difficuly with the "Manohukuo"
oustoms at Dairen over the duty on kerosene;
and that Mr. Komatsu offered to do what he
could to "ease the situation". Mr. Komatsu
is described as being interested in
preventing suspicion arising in the United
States of Japanese discrimination against
American goods in Manchuria.
No action regured.
l1+0
HD/REK

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, December 27, 1933.
No. 624.
Subject:
Transmitting report of conversation
regarding the oil situation in Jupan and
Manchuria.
F/ESP
tupyin
SND
894.6363
894.6363/56
(yλ
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to my previcus aesoatches regaroing
the difficulties of the Socony-Vacuum Corporation in Japan
and Manchuria, I have the honor to transmit a report of a
conversation which a member of my staff had with Mr. J.C.
Goold, the General Manager of that company in Japan. ar.
JAN 19 1934
Goold gave an account of a conversation which he had had
FILED
with Mr. Takashi Komatsu, a Japanese business man who.
appears

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
appears to be much interested in bettering the
relations between Japan and the United States.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
Report of
Conversation.
Josenh C. Gr:w.
628.
SWW:r

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to despatch No. 624,
December 27, 1933.
MEMORANDUM OF CONVLRSATION
Between Mr. J. C. Goold, General Manager
of Socony-Vacuum Corporation in Japan and
Mr. S. W. Washington, 3ra Secretary of
the American Embassy.
Mr. Goold of tho Socony-Vacuu Corporation
called to report a conversation which he h.d had with
lr. Takashi Komatsu, who recently represented J: panese
Rotarians ana the Japan Ch:mber of Commerce uuring a
trip to the United States. r. Komatsu called on ar.
Goold at the latter's office in Yokohana and stated
that he had heard of the Socony's di ficulties with
the Customs at D iren, over the duty to be paiu on
kerosene, the apparent discrimination gainst foreign
companies in the plans to org: uize an oil nonopoly in
Manchuria, and the situation in Japan raised by ir.
Matsukata's importations of Russian oil. Mr. Komatsu
said that he would like to ask Mr. Goold some questions
as he thought that some of the comnercial organizations
in which he(Mr. Komatsu) was interesteu might be able to
do something to ease the situation. He stateu that he
thought it highly important that Jupan shoulo not get the
reputation in America of discriminating ugainst American
gooas.
Mr. Goold saia that they had a long conversation
during which he got the impression that Mr. Komatsu either
had been asked to mediate or was trying on his own initiative
to take steps toward settling the various problems con-
fronting the Socony-Vacuum in J pan and Manchuria. Mr.
Goold gave him all the facts. When Mr. Komatsu asked
whether he could pass on what he had heard to Count Kuba-
yama and others, ir. Goold suid that he would leave that
to Mr. Komatsu's discretion, that he did not want to make
any reguest on this matter.
During the course of the conversation r. Komatsu
said that he hoped that all suspicion of aiscrimination
against American goods in manchuria could be done away with
and that this would have a goou e fect in the Ünited States,
possibly affecting the American attitude toward the im-
portation of tuna fish and other Jap:nese products.
On the subject of Manchuria, Mr. Komatsu stated that he
considered it highly important that the Open Door be preserved;
that recognition by western Powers could not be hoped for
unless this policy were followed.
December 20, 1933.
SwW:r

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MAR 5-1934
MET
FROM
Tokio
This telegram must be
1034
olosely paraphrased be-
Dated Margh 5, 1934
20.t1ok
fore being communicated
to anyone. (a)
Secretary of State,
Washington.
994.6363
39. March 5, 2 p.m.
One. A Government bill has been submitted to the
894.6363/57
Diet which will place virtually complete control of oil
importation and refining in Japan in the hands of a
Government commission. The bill, (a), requests all
refiners and importers of petroleum products to obtain
annual licenses to operate and to conduct operations
in aocordance with instructiona from the Government,
(b), requires refiners and importers to maintain mini-
mum stocks which are to be kept at the disposal of the
Government at current prices, and, (c), mthord zes the
Government to fix prices en deemed necessary in the
public interest. It is expeoted that this bill will
receive the approval of the Diet in the near future.
1881
Two. The bill is ostensibly designed to assure
42
the Govemment of a permanent supply of oil at reasonabte
M
prioes for use in time of war, but ite effeot upon the
American and other foreign oil gompaniee aperating in
Japan will of course depend more upon the administration
of

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
MET
3-#39 from Tokio, March 5, 2 p.m.
of the law than upon the specific provisions contained
therein. It is obvious that under the powers granted by
the legislation the foreign oil companies can at any time
be forced to abandon their business in Japan. The local
manager of the Standard Vacuum Company has been orally
assured by the Minister of Commerce and Industry that the
purpose of the legislation is to protect rather than
jeopardize the business of the foreign oil companies but
this assurance will not necessarily bind future administra-
tions.
Three. The British Ambassador recently has infor-
mally stated to the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
that the oil interests of his country are anxious to
cooperate with the Japanese oil industry but that they
would like to know what the future polioy of the Japanese
Government is to be, in order that they may be in a posi-
tion to formulate their own future policy and determine
whether,further investment and installation i& justified,/
and he expressed the hope that the administration of the
impending legislation if passed would not interfere with
the present activities of the foreign oil ∞mpanies in
Japan. The looal manager of the Standard Vaouum Company
would like to have me make similar informal representations.
Does

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.98)
MET
3-#39 from Tokio, varch 5, 2 p.m.
Does the Department peroeive objections? (See my des-
patch 311, May 11, last).
154.6363/37
GREW
HPD-CSB

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.91)
TELEGRAM SENT
OFFICE
1-100
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CATE WHETHER
Department of State
Washington. Confiobstis/Cada
13
March 18, 1934.
cohla wssen
7Jpm
AMMBASSY,
TOKYO (JAPAN).
894.6363/57
a
28
Your 39, Maroh 5, 2 p.m.
Please make orally and informally to the Foreign
Offioe a statement similar to that made by your British
oolleague as outlined in paragraph 3 of your telogram
up to and including the word QUOTE justified UNQUOTE
and add the following: QUOTE I assume that the Japanese
Government in regulating the oil industry will acoord
to American oil dealers and refineries in Japan the same
rights and privileges as are or may be granted to
Japanese oil dealers and refineries, and that it will
give the same consideration to the interests of the
American oil concerns that it may give to the interests
vi horase
ofoil concerns UNQUOTE.
Huee
un
896.636B/57
EA
FE:ID/LND
FE
王in
194
Enciphered by
Sen by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 6, 1934.
Tokyo's despatch No. 701, March 9, 1934.
encloses a translation of the oil control
law and of a memorandum of a conversation
between representatives of American and
British oil companies and the Minister of
Commeroe and Industry with regard to the
operation of the law.
The despatch sets forth the principal
features of the law and the provisions
which will probably be written into the
regulations for the enforcement of the
1aw.
The memorandum of conversation refers
to an assurance given by the Minister that
the law will not be employed to force the
foreign countries out of the Japanese
market, but the Embassy hints that the
assurance may not amount to much.
This despatch does not call for action.
We have authorized the Embassy to
say to the foreign office that we hoped
that American companies would be given the
same treatment as Japanese companies.
The latest telegram on the subject from the
Embassy stated that the American oil
companies preferred to have the statement
withheld until oil control system is put
ihw operation and an oppor unity has been
to observe its workings.

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.90)
EMBASSY OF THE
54
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, March 9, 1934.
No. 701.
Subject:
Bill for the Control of the Oil Industry
in Japan.
F
894.6363
Ofhro f Frannm. Aoviser
AFH 16 1934
m
S
P
Nocopy.H
0
FARFAS
AIY
peow1
894.6363/58
cn
S
CON
For Distribution Cleck
7
Ye:
2 to(ammeree
IUSA
(87)
The Honorable
sse
APR1010
The Secretary of State,
COPIES SENT TO
Washington.
O. N.I. AND M. I. D
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my despatches Nos.
844.63632
366, of Apr11 21, 1933, 384, of May 11, 1933, 522, of
54
September 15, 1933, and 562,/of 0ctober 26, 1933, a11
of which deal with the oil problems of Japan and the
APR 2 4 1934
FILED
possibility of some system of governmental control of
the oil industry being inaugurated in this country,
57
and to my telegram No. 39, of March 5, & p.m., stating
. that a government bill giving virtually complete con-
trol of oil importation and refining to a government
commission had been introduced into the Diet.
The

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The complete text of the proposed law, as translated
1/. and published by the.JAPAN ADVERTISER, is enclosed here-
with. As will be observed from the text, the legislation
would compel refiners and i norters to obtain licenses to
operate in Japan; would permit the Governmont to reulate
the spheres of activity of the oil comp nies; voulu give
the Government suthority to supervise the oper tions of
refiners and importers; would require Government per-
mission to amalg n te or li uid te oil businesses in Japan;
would limit oil transactions to the licensed firms; would
require refiners and imoorters to maintain cortain minimum
stocks of oil; would recuire refiners nd importers to
sell to the Government at ny time t current prices;
would authorize the Government to set prices at any time
deemed necessary in the public interest; would :uthorize
the Government to recuire refiners and importers to in-
crease or improve cquioment when deemed necessary; would
place the administration of the law in the hands of a
governmental commission; would provide for punishment
of violators of the law by cancelation of licenses; would
recuire refiners nd importers to report on all phases
of their business and to open their books nd records to
inspectors; and would provide various fines for violations.
The date of coming into force of the law is not fixed but
will be determined by Imperial Ordinance, and all refiners
and importers in business at the time of the coming into
force of the law will be considered to be licensed.
The proposed legiolation will, if passed, place very
wide powers in the hands of a governmental commission,
which

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
which, it is understood in the oil trade, will be
composed exclusively of officials from various govern-
ment departments. In view of the wide powers granted
by the proposed legislation, the detailed regulations
for enforcement of the law will naturally be of great
importance to the oil trade. These regulations have
not as yet been drafted, but it is understood in the
trade that the regulations will cover definitions of
the petroleum products to be includea in the scope of
the law; will establish certain minimum sizes of refineries
to be licensed; will limit the number of licenses so as
not to disturb the balance of supply and demand; will
require annual licenses; will require importers and
refiners to operate continuously or with only short
shut-downs; will limit imports by refiners to their
own needs; will require refiners and iaporters to main-
tain stocks amounting to one-half of the previous year's
imports(thus providing a six-months' supply at all times);
and will require refineries not coming within the fixed
minimum size to shut down after a period of years.
To the foreign (American and British) oil companies
operating in Japan, the primary interest lies in the spirit
in which the law, if passed, will be administered, as
the law can obviously be employed as a means of forcing
the foreign companies out of this field, if such a result
is deemed desirable by the authorities. The question
is whether the law will be used merely as a means of
stabilizing the oil industry of Japan and ensuring an
adequate

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
adequate supply of petroleum products at reasonable
prices in time of war, or will be used as a lever for
gradually eliminating the foreign oil firms from the
Japanese trade and placing the entire trade in the hands
of Japanese firms. Ostensibly the law was designed to
fulfill the former purpose, but the possibility lways
exists that it might be used for the l tter purpose.
The two largest foreign oil companies therefore ap-
proached the Ministur of Commerce nd Inuustry on the
subject, and received oral assurances that the v lue of
the foreign oil companies to Japan, as reli ble sup-
pliers of petroleum products, is fully anpreci: tec, and
that the intent of the nev legisl&tion is to protect,
rather than to jeopurdize, the existing business of the
2/
foreign oil companies. A copy of an aiae memcire, com-
piled by the representatives of the oil companies and
containing the complete conversation, is enclosed here-
with. This statement, however, is merely the utterunce
of a present Cabinet Minister, ana cannot in any way be
considered as binding on future aaministrations, or as
determining the attitude of the oil commission toward the
foreign oil companies. It is possible that, in order to
safeguara tneir interests and investments in Janan, the
foreign oil companies will be compelled to incorporate
in Japan, taking in & large proportion of Japanese capital
and thereby securing the political assistance of the
large financial groups.
Although the proposed legisltion would appear to
constitute a radical experiment in state socialism, it
has attracted little attention outside the oil and auto-
mobile trades. This is probably because the legislation
has

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
has been brought forward as a national fuel policy, de-
signed to safeguard national defense. The only large news-
paper to comment upon the legislation was the OSAKA MAI-
NICHI, which states, in its English Edition of March 4, 1934,
that "The motive of the act is to moderate the shortage of
oil resources in this country and to orevent a confusion of
oil prices in home markets." However, the editorial further
states, "There is no doubt that by the license system on oil
refining and oil i orts,  general control of our oil in-
dustry will be realized nd  step made toward the firm
establishment of a national policy on oil. However, inasmuch
as the crude oil output in this country is almost negligible,
and a major portion of our oil must always come from abroad...
we shall not be immune from external pressure." In oraer to
remove this "external pressure", the newspaper advises
governmental aid to drilling within Janan, Jap nese invest-
ment in foreign oil fields, the encouragement of production
of industrial alcohol, and the promotion of production of
oil from coal.
Some small opoosition to the proposed legislation has
arisen among the motor-bus and taxicab companies. About
three hundred representatives of such companies throughout
Japan met in Tokyo on March 3, 1934, and passed two resolu-
tions, one condemning the gasoline price agreement among
the six large suppliers, anu the other criticizing the
proposed oil law because it does not establish a funda-
mental remedy for Japan's oil problems and because it would
control imports and thus tend to raise the price of gaso-
line in Japan.
It is not believed that the opposition which has thus
far arisen will be sufficient to prevent or delay passage
of

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
of the bill through the Diet, and in the oil trade it is
expected that the bill will be aoproved within the next
few days.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures: Clioping from JAPAN ADVERTISER,March 2, 1974
Copy of Aide Memoire.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No
to despatch
No701 of 9'1ch. 9'34
from the
The Japan Advertiser
Embassy at Tokvo.
Tokyo, Friday, March c, 1934.
OIL BILL PRESENTED
Article VIII-Administrative powers
under this law shall be vested in the
Oil Business Commission, organization
TO SESSION OF DIET
and authority of which will be set by
Imperial Ordinance.
Article IX-Violations of Government
orders under the present law may be
punished by cancellation of license or
cancellation of corporation charters.
New Measure Would Give Gov-
Artiele X—Administrators of this law
ernment Commission Power
are authorized to force importers and
efiners to submit reports on all phases
to Make Almcst Any Rule
of their busmesses. to issue super-
visory orders and to take all other
recessary administrative measures.
WOULD FORCE OIL STORAGE
The Government may send officials to
head offices, business offices. factories.
reservoirs and other properties of re-
Refiners and Importers Would
finer, or importers to investigate busi-
ness condition. books and anything
Have to Sell to Government
else necessary. Inspectors will bear
Government certificates as to their
at Current Prices
status.
Punishments Prescribed
Article XI—Oil refining or importing
Complete Government control of
v ithout Government permission shall
every angle of the petroleum industry
lo subject to fines not exceeding
in Japan, including a feature which
Y5,000.
will force importers or refiners to
Article XII-Violations of Article IV
shall be punished by fines not exceed.
keep large stocks on hand at the dis-
ing Y3,000.
posal of the Japanese Government. is
Artice XIII—Violations of Articles V
envisaged by the Oil Bill, which has
and VII shall be punished by fines
been approved by the Cabinet and
not exceeding Y3.000.
yesterday was submitted to the Im-
Article XIV-Violations of Articles
perial Diet. A full translation of the
II and III shall be punished by fines
not exceeding ¥1,000.
bill follows:
Article XV—Those who fail to make
Article I—Refiners or importers must
reports under Clause 1 of Article X.
obtain Government permission to ope-
those who make false reports, those
rate. Regulations relative to spheres
who violate necessary supervisory
orders. those who refuse to allow Gov-
will be fixed by Imperial Ordinance.
ernment officials to inspect under
Article Il—Oil refiners and impor-
Clause 2 of Article X. or interfere
ters must operate their business in ac-
with their actions, or make false state-
cordance with instructions received
ments or refuse to answer, shall be
from the Government. They must re-
subject to fines not exceeding 500.
Article XVI—Refiners and importers
ceive Government permission for any
shall not be immune from punishment
change in their own plans.
on the plea that agents, family mem-
Artic III-Government permission
bers. employes or others acted without
must be obtained for analgamations,
their knowledge.
Article XVII-When juridical persons
dissolutions.
suspensions or with-
are punished, the punishments shall
drawals.
te extended to directors and repre-
Article IV-Only refiners and li-
sentatives. When a private business
censed oil importers may import pe-
is owned by a minor, his trustees or
troleum unless exception is made by
legal agents shall be punished.
Imperial Ordinance. The kinds of oil
Date of enforcement is to be fixed
covered by the above also be fixed by
by Imperial Ordinance. Refiners and
Imperial Ordinance.
importers in business at the date of
Must Keep il in Stock
enforcement shall be considered licens.
Article V-Refiners and importers
eì and given permission to operate
must keep in stock, at the disposal of
under the law. If oil is in transit on
the Government, any amount of oil
the enforcement date. it may be
which an Imperial Ordinance shall in-
brought into the country but applica-
struct them to keep in stock.
tion for permission to do so must be
Article VI—Oil refiners and im-
fled.
porters must agree always to sell to
Article V wil not become effective'
the Governmnet at current prices.
until six months after the enforcement
Aatticle VB-The Government will
of the law.
set current prices when such action is
deemed necessary for the public good.
Also, it may order refiners and im-
porters to expand or improve equip-
ment.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No  to despaich
No70/ of N/ch:9,34 from the
Y hassy n Tokvo.
Copy.
AIDE MEMOIRE.
MEMORANDUM SUBMITTED BY THE FOREIGN COMPANIES: H1s
Excellency said he agreed in principle with the views
expressed, but he observed that the memorandum gave
no specific reasons as to why the foreign companies dis-
liked the idea of an amalgamation of the Petroleum com-
panies and further said that he read between the lines
that, while they were glad to co-onerate with the N.0.C.,
the foreign comoanies did not wish to co-operate with some
of the other Japanese companies.
Mr. Malcolm explained our osition on the cuestion
of amalgamation, which is s follows:-
1.
Our main objection to & merger of companies is
that we should then be placed in the position of
wholesale crude oil supoliers, and even if we
were given a first option on the supnly we could
never be certain that we should not be under-
quoted by someone holuing a temporary sunply of
cheap oil, and so lose our offtake. Our funda-
mental position is that of producers and as such
we wish to have  secure of take for the products
we refine from our oil by having our own selling
organization. If placed in the position of whole-
sale suppliers we could only regard the market
as an intermittent one which could only be sup-
plied as our production nd stock position in-
dicated, and we shoula be compelled to look else-
where for more regular murkets, such as Jopan is
today.
2.
There would be great difficulty in valuing assets
in an amalgamcted company, particularly as many
of our assets were accuired with a view to the future
and have a future value.
3.
We should lose control of our assets and, in fact,
be leasing them in return for a dividend from the
amalgamated compuny.
4.
As a minority partner our initiative would be cur-
tailed.
5.
In Japan's own interests we believe the erection
of raineries, apart from the cuestion of whther
or not they are fundamentally economic, has many
disadvantages, among them being
(a) It is difficult to balance the manufacture of
the various products with the demand.
(b)
Concentration of supply points means greater
vulnerability in time of emergency.
6.

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
6. We believe the creation of a semi-official company
might lead to less security of supply in case of
emergency. It would possibly be more difficult in
certain circumstances for a foreign company to
supply a semi-official concern than to supply its
own regular selling organization.
As regards co-operation with Japanese companies, we
are most willin: to co-operate not only with the Nippon
Oil Company but with any Japanese comnuny. The point we
strove to make in our memorandum was that we did not con-
sider it in the interests of the industry to continue to
take artificial steps, such as the giving of cuotas, to
establish new merchants in the business, who were only
middlemen and had no reliable or economic source of supply
behind them. We feel that such a policy would mean that
Ja an would gradually come to rely more and more on casual
and unstable sources of suoply. This would : lso cut down
our share of the trade, rendering our position less cortain
and making it more difficult for us to give the service
and security of supply we are anxious to provide.
His Excellency explained that the object of the amalga-
mation proposal was only to achieve stability: that it was
only one suggested method anu that he personelly did not favour
such a plan.
His Excellency then sked the foreign companies' re-
presentatives to hear his announcement regarding the oil
question: afterwards he would like to hear their opinions:-
He said first that the Minister had seen the memorandum
of February l2th and had asked him to give the foreign com-
panies' representatives the assurance, regarding the proposed
legislation,that the foreign and Japanese companies would
derive equal benefit from official pr tection of their busi-
ness and that there was no underlying principle in the law
aiming at discrimination against or the exclusion of the
foreign companies.
His Excellency went on to say:-
SUPPLY PROBLEM: The Japanese Government realizes that the
country is almost entirely dependent on foreign supplies of
oil and that this situation is not likely to be changed in
the near future. No national policy could be framed without
taking this situation into consideration and there was not
the slightest intention of treating the foreign concerns less
favourably than the Japanese companies.
THE NEW LAW: (a) The Bill would probably establish an
advisory committee to assist the competent Minister and the
committee would consist of officials from various government
departments, including the Foreign Office.
(b) It was probable that the Minister of
Commerce and Industry or his Permanent Vice Minister would
be Chairman of the Committee: it would be his 1dea as far
as

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
as possible to let the oil companies themselves settle all
questions and, apart from general policy supervision, the
Government would act as arbitrator of differences in opinion
and would have powers to enforce its decision.
LICENSES: The granting of licenses would be settled
by the Minister and his committee.
There was no definite policy to have all the
country's requirements refined in Japan. His Excellency
personally did not consider such a thing oossible. He did
not think that the foreign companies would be asked to re-
fine in Japan the quantity of refined products they are now
importing, but he could not say whether or not, in regard
to the foreign companies' future share of the trade, they
would be asked to refine in Japan the increase b yond their
present volume of trade, but he did not think the Government
would bring pressure to bear on them to do so if it was
uneconomic.
He did not anticipat any alteration in the import
tariff in the immediate future.
If the foreign companies wished to erect refineris
in Japan he thought permits would not be refused provided the
supply and demand position justified the erection of further
refineries. Such refineries would receive equal treatment
with Japanese refineries except that in the event of any
refinery subsidies being granted any company with 50% or more
foreign capital would not qualify for a subsidy.
It was not the intention of the Department
of Industry and Commerce to base licenses on existing unused
refinery capacity but the Government would have to remember
that it is uneconomic to have too much unused refinery
capacity.
Generally in considering licenses and the position
of the various companies the Government would take into ac-
count supply and demand.
GENERAL POSITION: The general objective of the Government
is stability for the industry and in spite of what some people
said regarding severe competition being good for industry
His Excellency did not think it a good thing that merchants
should be able to pick up casual cheap supplies and disturb
the market.
He asked whether the foreign companies could
control the supplies of Crude Oil to Japan and said this
might be one way of stabilizing . The representatives of
the foreign companies said that at the moment, leaving out
of account any dvelopments arising out of the N.R.A., their
Groups could not control the supply of Crude but that world-
wide efforts were being made by the leading companies to
stabilize

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
stabilize supply and demand. They felt that Japan was
tonding to rely more and more on less stable sources of
supply and that if the Government would say frankly what
position they wished to attain regarding supply both of
refined products and crude the foreign compinies would be
only too glad to be allowed to do what they could to reach
security of sunply on the lines indicated by the Government.
His xcellency suid that the Bill had been anproved by
the various Government Departments and might come into
effect in April or May. As soon :s the Bill was published
he would be glad to go through the various clauses with the
representatives of the foreign companies.
The representatives of the companies thanked His
Excellency for his kindness in giving them his views which
they feel were intinded to reassure them that they could
continue without hesitation to trade and make the necessary
investments in Japan, points about which they had exnressed
some anxiety in their memorandum.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.97)
LEGAL ADVISER
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAM RECEIVEB
EASTERN AFFAIRS
ND
REP
FROM
FE
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
TOKYO
F/E
fore being communicated
to anyone. (A)
Dated March 29, 1934
SP
Rectd 4 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
MAR 29 1934
894.6363/59
60, March 29, noon.
Referring to my No. 39, March 5, 2 p. m.
One. The Petroleum Control Law has been approved by
the Diet without  ar e but the enforcing regulations have
not yet been promul ated. It was ssated in the lower house
that the primary objectives of he bill were (a)- to regulate
the imports of oil and thereby to promote the ievelopment
of the domestic oil refining industry and (b)- tc secure
an adequate supply of oil at all times.
Two. I have not yet made the re resentations envisaged
57
by the Department's 28, March 13, 7 p. m., because the
local General Manager of the Standard Vacuum Oil Company
which is primarily concerned recommended delay on the
ADP 4-
ground that the future administration of the law and not
FILED
the terms of the law itself is the important factor in
1021
the situation and it seemed preferable from various points
of view to await the actual passage of the legislation.
I shall shortly make the desired representations.
Three.

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
REP
2-#60, From Tokyo, March 29; noon.
Three. Local newspapers report that the Japanese
Government is considering negotiations with the Netherlands
Government for the purpose of regulating the trade between
Japan and the Netherlands Indies on the barter system.
From reports which the Embassy has special reason to believe
are true it appears that the Japanose Government is con-
sidering the purc: ase by local and Manchurian refineries
(proportion
of a much larger
of crude oil from the
Netherlands Indies than has been purchased in the past
in order to offsot thic present icavy excess of exports to
the Netherlands Indics. If somo such arrangomont is mado
the crude oil cxports from the United States to Japan will
be adversely affocted.
GREW
WWC
CSB

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGAL ADVISER
934
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEVARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Maroh 6, 1934
MAR 20 1934
W
SKH:
57
F
YL
The bill for the control of the Japanese oil industry
m
S
9
outlined in Tokyo's telegram No. 35, March 5, 2 p. m., is
P
ElA
apparently designed to carry out substantially the "monopoly
894.6363/60
plan" described in the press article sent with Tokyo's
834.6363
37
despatch No. 384 of May 11, 1933. Mr. Grew pointed out
last year to the Foreign Office in considerable detail the
interests of the American oil companies in any projected
offioial control of the industry; the American and British
oil companies put forward their views directly to the
Japanese Government; and as long ago as April 1933, the
British Ambassador expressed to the Foreign Office the
hope that the Japanese Government would disolose its future
oil policy to enable the foreign oil companies to decide
in effeot whether they should try to develop their holdings
in Japan.
The absence of any report since May 1933 from the
Embassy on this matter indicates that the desire of the
foreign companies to be enlightened on the plans of the
Japanose Government was not fulfilled. It would also seem
that a similar request of the British Ambassador has been
ignored.

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
ignored. The forthooming measure of the Japanese Govern-
ment is the result of an agitation of many years'standing
to effect a "fundamental solution" of Japan's oil problem.
An oil monopoly was seriously considered as long ago as
f02
l92l, and I have been confident that the agitators ea a
"fundamental solution" of the oil problem will not be
satisfied until a monopoly has been established.
For the reasons above stated, I do not believe that
any representation of the nature described in paragraph three
of the Embassy's telegram would have the desired results
of putting the foreign companies "in a position to formulate
their own future policy and determine whether future
investment and installation is justified". Obviously,
however, something must be done in the present circumstances:
the Socony Vacuum should be satisfied that the Department is
giving thought to their diffioulties, and the Japanese
Government should not be allowed to suppose that the
American Government would be indifferent to the elimination
of Socony from Japan.
A telegram to Tokyo has been drafted and is attached.
The telegram would authorize Mr. Grew to make representations
along the lines of paragrapn three of his telegram, and to
indicale
tote further that we would not be indifferent to violations
of the rights which the oil companies hold by virtue of
treaty provisions.
N.B. las sleceds
200
is modoll dtalument eeull
EHD/REK
ma do hy thes fout to the atu team fort. S

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apr11 30, 1934.
(To note summary)
Tokyo's despatoh No. 734 of April 5,
1934, reports, in compliance with Depart-
mentis telegraphio instruotion, to express
the hope that, after the enforoement of the
law to regulate the petroleum industry, the
Japanese Government will give the same treat-
ment to American oil companies that it may
give to Japanese companies.
The Embassy states that the law could
be enforoed in suoh a way as to put the
foreim oil companies out of business. The
opimion is expressed that, for the present
at least, the foreign companies will be al-
lowed to retain their portion of the business
but that they will not be allowed to parti-
cipate in future increased business.
Reference is also made to impending
negotiations between the Netherlands and
Japan to regulate the commerce between
Japan and the Dutch East Indies. Japan at
the present time enjoys a very large favor-
able trade balance with the Indies, the
excess of exports from Japan last year being
about 100,000,000 yen. The despatch indicates
that

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2
that the Japanese could consume additional
Wetherland Indies' oil to the value of about
30,000,000 yen annual1y, but that if the
Japanese increased their purchases of oil
in that quarter their purchases of oil from
the United States would correspondingly de-
orease.
No aotion required.

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.91)
LEBALADVISER
EMBASSY OF THE
A1934
UNITED STATES OF AMERIEA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, Apr1l 5, 1934.
No. 734.
SUBJECT:
Americun Oil Interests in Japan.
m
XUMAY
ESP
一1
C
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 319
NOT FOR PUBLICATION
894.6363
4363
Denartment of State
994.1
nen
FILE
For Distribution-Chack
Cirado
0.01
IUSA
CoeceCon
Minen
sRC
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
COPIES SENT TO
Washington.
O.N.I. AND M. I. D.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the/Embassy's telegram
1946362159
No. 39, dated March 5, 2 p.m., to the Department's tele-
graphic reply, No. 28,dated March 13, 7 p.m., and to the
59
s
Embassy's telegram No. 60,dated March 29, noon, all 
FILED
which concern the)new Japanese legislation known as the
19
Petroleum Industry Law and the position of American o
interests in Japan under the new law. I asked that au-
thorization be granted me to make certain oral and inform-
al representations, which authorization was given in the
Department's

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
I called on the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs on
April 2, 1934, and stated informally and orally that the
American Embassy had been watching with interest the re-
cent development of a national control of the oil indus-
try in Japan, and was especially interested in the opera-
tion of the new Petroleum In ustry Law just approved by
the Diet. I pointed out that obviously the spirit in
which the operation of this law is c rrie: out is of the
great st importance to Americon oil interests in Japan,
and stated that the Embassy ha? noted that, in introduc-
ing the Petroleum Inaustry Bill in the Lower House of the
Diet, Mr. Kenzo Aoyama, tie Chairman of the Committee which
examined the bill, stated that the primary objectives of
the law were (1) to secure an adequate supply of oil at all
times and (2) to regulate imports of oil with a view to pro-
moting the development of the oil refining industry in Japan.
I said that it was hardly necessary to state that it is this
second objective which is of particular interest to the
American oil interests in Japan.
I stated that the American oil companies operating in
Japan had been for many years cooperating with the Japanese
oil industry to the end that Japan may be assured of a
steady supply of petroleum products at reasonable prices,
and are desirous of continuing this cooperation but are
anxious to know what the future policy of the Japanese
Government toward foreign oil interests, in view of the new
law and its enforcement regulations, is to be, in order that
they may be in a position to formulate their own future
policies and to determine whether further investment and
. installation

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
installation in Japan will be justified. I said that I
assume that the Japanese Governnent, in regulating the
oil industry, will accord to American oil companies and
refineries in Japan the same rights and privileges as
are or may be granted to Ja anese oil companies and re-
fineries, and that it will give the same consideration
to the interests of the American oil concerns that it
may ive to the interests of Japanese oil concerns.
The Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs said that he
fully appreciuted the position of the Anericun oil com-
panies; that he would look into the matter, and if at
any time he should be in a position to give me informa-
tion concerning the points that I ha raised, he would
be very glad to do so.
151
/ As reported in my telegram No. 60, March 29, noon,
the new Petroleum Inustry Law was a proved by the Diet
and duly promulgated. The full text of the law was pub-
lished in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE on March 28, 1934, and a
1/
translation, made in the Embassy, is enclosed herewith.
It will be observed that the text of the law, as approved
and promulgated, does not differ essentially from the
translation appended to my despatch No. 70l/of March 9,
1934. The various enforcement regulations, to be provided
by Imperial Ordinances, have not yet been promulgated.
The law places very wide powers in the hands of the Govern-
ment, to be administered in some cases with the advice of
an Oil Industry Commission. In the oil trade it is under-
stood that the actual administration of the law will be
in the hands of the Department of Commerce and Industry,
while

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
while the advisory commission will consist of governmental
officials representing the Army, Navy, Foreign Office
and the two Houses of the Diet.
The law places the foreign oil companies operating
in Japan in a very precarious position, as the law could
easily be used, if cesired, to force them out of the
Japanese trade. In the trace, however, it is believed
that the law will not be used for this urpose, for the
present, at least, but that the foreign oil companies
will be permitted to retain that proportion of the present
Japanese oil trade which they are now handling. All
future increment of the trade, however, it is believed
will be given to Japanese oil companies. The American
oil companies therefore believe that they can look forward
to some years of Japanese business of about the same pro-
portions as their present business, but they do not believe
that they will be able to participate in the future growth
of the oil trade in Japan. The newspapers state that the
existing Japanese oil refining concerns have already filed
applications for licenses to extend their plants, in anti-
cipation of the increased business which they expect will
be allotted to them, while several new concerns have filed
applications to operate. It is probable, however, that
these firms have no immediate intention of erecting re-
fineries, and that the applications were filed primarily
in order to establish claims to participation in future
increases in the trade.
Another factor has arisen during the past few weeks
which

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
which tends to make still more gloomy the outlook of the
American oil trade in Japan. This is,as briefly reported
in my telegram No. 60 of March 29, noon, the possibility
that a larger proportion of Netherlands Indies crude oil
than has been used in the past will in the future be im-
ported for refining in Japan and Manchuria. In past years
over half of the crude oil used in Japrese refineries has
been imported from the Un:ted States, tio remainder coming
from Russian Saghalien, the Netnerlands Indies and other
sources. The refineries preferred American crude oil, as
a larger proportion of gasoline could be obtained from it
than from other crude oils. In recent months, however,
the Netherlands Indies Government has taken various steps
to check the flooding of the Nethorlands Indies markets
with cheap Japanese goods and has also proposed a conference
to regulate the trade between Japan and the Netherlands
Indies. There is an excess of exports from Japan to the
loL
Netherlands Indies, over the imports from those islands,
of some hundred million yen annually, and the Japanese
Government believes that the Netherlands Indies Government
wishes to place the trade on a barter basis, balancing
imports against exports. If this is done, Japan will be
compelled greatly to increase its purchases from the
Netherlands Indies, or to lose a part of its export trade
to those islands. The Netherlands Indies do not produce
much that can be used in Japan except crude oil. It is
therefore rumored (and the Embassy has especial reason to
believe that the rumors are correct) that the Japanese
Department of Commerce and Industry is planning to propose, if
and

=== Page 208 === (confidence 1.00)
-6-
nd when the negotiations with the Netherlands Indies
Government are opened, that Japan greatly increase its
purchases of Netherlands Indies crude oil in order to
decrease the excess of exports. It is estimated by the
newspapers that Japanese and Manchurian refineries can
consume additional Netherlands Indies oil to the value
of around thirty million yen annually. If the Dutch
proposals for negotiations are accepted (which seems
likely) and the above-outlined plan to purchase the bulk
of the Japanese requirements of crude oil from the Nether-
lands Indies is put into effect, there will be a corres-
ponding decrease in the purchases of American crude oil.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
Translation of Petroleum
Industry Law.
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 209 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 734 of April 5, 1934 from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
OIL INDUSTRY LAW.
Tokyo, OFFICIAL GAZETTE, March 28,1934.
We hereby sanction the Oil Industry Law, the
bill concerning which was approved by the Imperial Diet
just closed, and order the same to be promulgated.
Imperial Sign Manual
Counter-signed by
Viscount Makoto Saito,
Premier,
and
Joji Matsumoto,
Minister of Commerce and
Industry.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
Law No. 26.
OIL INDUSTRY LAW.
Article 1.
Those who desire to engage in oil re-
fining or in the importation of oil shall obtain
permission of the Government.
The scope of oil refining businesses and of oil
894.6363
im ortation businesses an the necessary provisions in
regard to permits shall be fixed by Imperial Ordinances
to be issued.
Article 2. Oil refiners and importers of oil shall,
in accordance with Government orders to be issued, make
plans for their enterprises and then obtain permission
of the Government. This clause shall also be applied
in case alterations are introduced into the plans.
Article 3.
. In case oil refiners or importers of oil
transfer either the whole or part of their ente-prises
(to other parties), or abandon, or discontinue temporarily
their enterprises, they shall, in accordance with Govern-
ment orders, obtain permission of the Government. This
clause shall also apply in case a company engaged in oil
refining or in oil importation shall amalgamate with other
concerns, or dissolve itself.
Article 4.
Except in cases where oil refiners import
oil necessary for refining purposes, the importation of
oil shall be limited to importers of oil. However, this
clause shall not apply to cases for which special rules
are provided in Imperial Ordinances.
The kinds of oil in the foregoing paragraph shall be
specified

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
specified by Imperial Ordinance.
Article 5. Oil refiners and importers of oil shall, in
accordance with Imperial Ordinance, always keep in stock
a certain quantity of oil to be calculated on the basis
of the quantity of oil imported by them.
Article 6.
. In case the Government, in accorcance with
Imperial Ordinance, proposes to purchase a quantity of oil
owned by oil refiners or im. orters of oil at a price based
on market prices, the proposal may not bc rejected.
Article 7.
The Government may, if deemed necessary for
the benefit of the public, order oil refiners and importers
of oil to alter prices of oil offer d for sale and to
carry out measures necessary for insuring a supply of oil
and other measures for adjustment between the demand and
supply of oil.
The Government may, if deemed necessary for the benefit
of the public, order oil refiners and importers of oil to
enlarge the scope of, or improve, their equipment.
Article 8. In case the Government grants the permission
mentioned in Article 1 or issues the orders mentioned in
Article 7, the Government shall, except in cases for which
special rules are provided in Imperial Ordinance, obtain
consent of the Oil Industry Committee.
The organization of an Oil Industry Committee shall
be fixed by Imperial Ordinance.
Article 9. In case oil refiners or importers of oil ignore
the provisions of the present law or orders to be issued
under this law, or fail to carry out orders of the Govern-
ment,

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
ment, the Government may cancel the permission mentioned
in Article 1 or may discharge the officers of a juridical
person or persons.
Article 10. The authorities of administrative offices
may order oil refiners and inporters of oil to submit
reports on conditions of their business, and may issue
other orders and take measures neces ry to supervision.
The authorities of administrative offices may, if
deemed necessary for su ervision, order their officials
to inspect business offices, factories, oil tanks and
other places belonging to oll refiners and importers of
oil, and examine books, documents and other things. In
such cases, officials shall carry documents of identifica-
tion with them.
Article 1l. Those who engage in the oil refining industry
or in the importation of oil without permission of the
Government shall be subjected to a fine of less than ¥5,000.
Article 12. Those who violate the provisions of Article 4
shall be subjected to a fine of less than ¥3,000.
Article 13. Oil refiners and inporters of oil shall be
ordered to pay a fine of less than ¥3,O00 when they come
under the purview of either of the following items:-
(1) Violation of the provisions of Article 5.
(2) Violation of the provisions of Article 7.
Article 14. Oil refiners and importers of oil shall be
ordered to pay a fine of less than ¥1,Oo0 when they violate
the provisions of Articles 2 and 3.
Article 15. Those who come under the purview of either of
the following items shall be subjected to a fine of less
than

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
chan ¥500.
(1) Those who have failed to present reports
stipulated in the first paragraph of Article 10,
or submitted false reports, or violated orders
or measures necessary for supervision.
(2)
Those who have refused, or pr vented, or in-
tentionally :voiled th inspection and examina-
tion by offici ls as provided for in the second
paragraph of Article 10, or who have failed to
reply to questions by officials, or made false
sttements.
Article 16. If representatives, heads of families and
other members of families, and other employees of oil
refiners or importers of oil violate the provisions of the
present law or orders to be issued under this law, in
connection with their business, suc: oil refiners and im-
porters of oil shall not be free fron punishment even if
the violation is not due to their own instructions.
Article 17. In case oil refiners or importers of oil
are juridical persons, punishments to be applied to oil
refiners or importers of oil under the present law or orders
to be issued in accordance with this law, shall only be ap-
plied to managing directors, directors and other officers
who carry on the business of such juridical persons.
Punishments shall also be applied to legal representatives
of oil refiners or importers of oil when they are minors or
incompetent persons. However, this clause shall not apply
in case minors have equal capacity as adults with respect
to the business.
SUPPLEMENTARY RULES.
The

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
The date of the enforcement of the present law
shall be specified by Imperial Ordinance.
Those who are engaged in the oil refining industry
or in the importation of oil at the time of the enforce-
ment of the present law shall, in accorcnce with Govern-
ment orders to be issued, be regar ed as n ving obt ined
permission under the present law fron the date of the en-
forcement of the law.
If it is intended to import a cuantity of oil wlich
is in transit at the time of the enforcement of the present
law, or for which orders were issued prior to the enforce-
ment of thepresent law, the oil may be imported in spite
of the provisions of Article 4, provided that application
shall be mace to the Government in accoruance with Govern-
ment orders.
The provisions of Article 5 shall not be ap lied for
a period of six months after the enforcement of the present
1aw.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
804.00 P.R./75
7745
SEE
FOR
894.6363/62
FROM .....Jap
(....Qre
) DATEDA1116.1934
TO
NAME
REGARDING:
Reports promulgation of the bill for the Control of the
Oil industry at end of Maroh.Gives provisions of bill.
esp

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.90)
(0)912
The bill for the Cemtrel of th- Oil Industry was
promulgated at the end of th month.* This law gives
virtually complet: control of oll importation an" refining
to a government comcisslon anc stipu ates, among other
provisione.
Embassy's despatch No. 70l, karch 9, an. No. 7?4, Apr1l 5,
1984. Embessy's telegram No. 60, Dec mber  9, 1353.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.96)
- 36 -
provisions, that refiners an importers must obtain licenses
to operate in Jipan; that th Government shall have the
authority to supervise the oporations of r finers and im
orters; that oil businesses must obtain permission
from the Gov rnment for  melgamation or iouidation; that
refiners an im orters must maint in cert in minimum stocks
of oil; that r finers n im,  rt rs sh l! sel: oil to the
Gove nment t any time ar cu. rent rices;
tn.t the
Government may set prices at ny time de met necessary in
the pubic interest.
At a meeting held on m rc: 8 th: Japan Economic Federa-
tion drew up  resolution r cotmen ing thr im ortation by
the Government of crude o1: row the Dutch East Indies in
accordance with the bart  system pro ose" by the Nother-
lands Indies Government. The Feder:tion considered that
the applicatlon of the barter system s tn: only way to
arjust the existing unbalanced tra e betwcen the Dutch Bast
Indies an: Japan and to settle the tariff trouble betw on
the two countries.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363/63
804.0 P.R./74
#664
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Fobruary 6,1934
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
11127
REGARDING:
Outlines probable provisioms of the Govermment's bill fer
controlling the oil industry in Japan.
esp

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.91)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./70
#023
SEE
FOR
894.6363/
JAPAN
GREW
) DATED  12.1934.
FROM
TO
NAME
1—1197
94
REGARDING:
Proposed plan for bartering of Japanese goods for petro-
leum of Rumania.So-called gasoline war between Soviet
oil interests end Amcrican,ritish end Japanese com-
panies had not been settled at close of May,l934.
5
1
IBP

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.92)
(0)20
The Rumanian Chargé d'Af aires is reported by the
NICHI NICHX MIMUN of May 6 to have ealled on the
Minister of Commeree and Industry and to have made the pro-
posal that Japan buy petroloum from fumania. According to
this newspaper, the Minister of Commerce end Industry ordered
the ining Bur au of his Ministry to inv stigate nrroleum
conaitions

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.96)
-48-
eamditiens in Ramemia and he stated pubicly that transpertetiem
eests ef petrolemm shipped from humenia would have to be
studied but that he hoped that trade on & barter system
would remult from his talk with the humanian Chargé d'Affaires,
in the form of an exchange of Jspanese goods needed by Rumanin
for petroloum, the upply of which was so iportant to Japem.
The so-cslled gasoline war between Soviet interests
on the one hand and American (Standard-Vacuum il Company),
British (Rising Sun Petroleum Company), and J: pänese compenies
on the other hand had not been settled t the close of the
month. It is understood thst the six companies or osed to
the Boviet 1nterests in the lutter's attempt to undersell them
offered e quota to the Soviet concerns which was rejected.

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363/
SEE
102.81 Tokyo/458
FOR Report 160
FROM
Commercial Attache
Williams
) DATED
July 3, 1934
Tokyo, Japan
TO
NAME
1-1127
6
55
REGARDING: Oil Control Law.
Law passed by last session of Japenese Diet, and promul-
gated on June 26th, effective as of July 1, 1934.
Outline of articles of law.
1s

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.97)
2此
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
A.AUG·2r4 1934.
MED
This messago must bo
TOKIO
closoly paraphrascd
beforo bding communi-
FROM
Dato ugust 24, 1934
catod to anyone (a)
Roctd 8:55 a.m.
Sccrotary of State,
AUG 2 4 193
Washington, D. C.
190
lugust 24, 5 p.m.
Onc. Embassy's dcspatch number 938, containing full
report and comments on Japanoso petroleum industry control
law and probable offects of its enforcoment on foroign oil
894.6363/66
companics in Japan, gocs forwerd in pouch leaving to-
morrow duc at Washington Septenbor 8th.
Two. Gonoral manager Standard-Vacuum Company for
Japan is cabling recomaondations to his principals in the
Unitcd States to discuss the situation with the Dupartiont.
GREW
RR:CSB
FILED

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM SENT
1-188
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
Departient of State
RECETVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washingten,
954 AUG 24 PM 3 52
August 24, 1934.
57
being communicated to anyone.
Baraphrased before
AMEMBASSY,
TOKYO (Japan).
894.6363/66
On August 22 and 23 President of Standard O11 Company
of New Jorsey discussed the matter /orally with officers of
the Department.
Hull
Pritt
(u
ACUING
51510
894.6363/66
m
DLY
FE
Eniphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1—138

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
1-188
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL ODGE
Department of State
PARTAIR
RECEIVED
PLAIN
DEPARTMENT OF STATEWashington.
ble was sent in confidenticl Coe
August 31, 1934.
old be caror pa
934 AUG 31 PM 4 16
58
TOKYO (Japan).
DIVIS ON OF
COMMUNCATIONS
151
AND IDS
Your'182, Augus!
24. p.m.
394.8363/66
on August 22 witn
August(23 with the Secretary of the Interior. The subjeot
which theyIbrought up was that of the Japanese petroleum
regulationsland possible action in relation thereto! They!
suggested joint representations by the three governments
most\concerned and action'by the American Government along
the line reported in paragraph four of your 182, August 20,
3 p.m."
The Department, noting that the British and\ Dutoh
interests which presumably would be affected are considerably
greater than the American interests, and for bther reasons,
took thelposition 'that if the British and Dutch Governmentis!
deati
oooperation\this Government would be prepared to give
sympathotic`consideration thereto."
The representative of'Sholl \expected to reach Londonlon
August 31 and talk with the British Foreign Orrice." Meanwhiled
M..

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM SENT
OFPICE
1-180
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL OODE
Departnent of State
rtment
PARTAIR
on
PLAIN
- 2 -
Washington,
Department has received lon August l29 (a telegram froh London)
quoting/the textlor almemorandum/handed by the Chier br the
Department'or Far East or the (Foreign Orficel to Bingham.
Momorandum'states loertain facts in the'situationt, says the
British/oil interests'affected have expressed apprehension!
at the prospeot of having to invest large capital sums in!
increased lstorage) plant without the 'certainty of a proper'
return; that British Government is disposed to \support\them /
in/resistance to these measuresland that, as an American
British gommt
company lis also laffected)  would belglad to learn what is
the lattitude of\the American Government in the matter Tele-
gram continues) that Foreign Office'official said he, under-
stood that Shell representatives had discussed the matter with
Socony but did not\ know their views; that Foreign Officè under-
stood that Japanese plan if, carried out would entail expenditure
of two million pounds by Shell alone for construction of tanks?
that the British Government did not\like\extensive increasel in/
oil  tank storage in Japan! that thel Dutch bil interests could be
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1--188

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM SENT
OFFICE
1-138
TO BE TRANSMITTED
ATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department of State
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washington,
- 3 -
controlled by Shellty and that Foreign Office considers the
matter urgent."
Department has telegraphed! August 3l,/ instruoting\London'
urgentlylto state to Foreign Ofricel that the,objections raised'
by the \interested'oil 'companies (against) certain provisions or!
the betroloum \industry (law seem to/us) well founded (and American)
Government\is prepared to give sympathetic consideration to!
proposals\which thel British and\Dutch Governments may care to
offer toward attaining by joint or concurrent action an
amelioration or the situation under reference.
Muluj
acly
ley
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE
skt
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
—188

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
PT
This tologram is partly
confiduntial and must bFROM
LONDON
closoly paraphrased before
boing conrunicated to any-
Dated August 29,1934
one ()
Rec'd. 11.15 a.m.
th
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Sccrotary of Steto,
AUG·2:9.1934
Washi igton
Department of State
1000
495, ugust 29, 11 
894.6363/67
(GRAY)
URG ENT. The follow n is the text of a memorandum
handed me by the Chief i the Dupartment of Far East
of the Foreign Office:
"The Japanese Govermment have passed a law givins
them extonsive power of control over the petrolcun
industry in Japan and enablins thom to fix prices, to
require oil companies to incrcase their stora.,c plant,
et cctora. The British oil interests affected (Shell)
have cxprossed apprchension at the prospect of having
to invost large capital sums in increased sthrage plant
without the cortainty of a proper return. His Majusty's
Governnent are disposed to support thum in resistance
to theso measures and sinco an mcrican company (Sacony
AN
Vacuun Company) is also affected, would bo glad to
FILED
loarn what the attitude of the United States Govern ont
is

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.98)
PT
- 2 - No. 495 from London, Augi29, 11 a.m.
is in thc matter." (end Gray)
CONFIDENTIIL. In presenting the memorandum
the Forcign Office offical said he understood that the
Shell people had discussed the question with Sacony but
did not know thcir views.
Thrce. Aside from the obvious financial
disadvanta os of such a scheme which Foreign Office
understood if carried out might ontail an expenditu c
of two :illion pounds for Sholl alone or the construct on
of tanks, and the question of price fixing, the British
Govarnment did not like an extonsive increase in oil
tank stora e in Japan at all, and if it must come it
should be at their own expense.
Four. Foreign Office understood thnt Shell ana
Sacony cach had roughly onc-third of the oil business
in Japan and tho other one-third was divided betweon
Russian oil, that bought by the Japanese in the Dutch
Indics and miscellaneous. The Dutch oil interests could
be controlled by Shell. If Sacony and Shell wo ld work
togethur backed by the nerican and British Governmonts
Foroign Office thought. tho Japanese could be effectivoly
checked.
Five. Forcign Officc consid ors the matter urgont
as it undorstands tho law is now in effect and plans
for tanks aro to be submittcd at onoo.
WSB-HPD
BINGHAM

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.95)
SCR
TELEGRAM SENT
1-138
TO BE TRANSMITTED
ALL INDIOATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
ED
Sllect
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Charge Department
atentiff State
PLAIN
OR
Charge to
Washington,
934 AUG 31 AM 11 02
Auguat 31, 1934.
noom
AMCMBASSY
DIVISION OF
You may inform 'the Foreign Office, with appropriate
reference to 'the memorandum mentioned in the first paragraph'
of your telogram under reference,'that American'oll
894.6363
interests have expressed to the Department grave concern
with regard to the arbitrary and,'in possible effect?
confiscatory provisions of the Japanese Petroleum Industry
Law Which'became offective July'1, 1934, and which 'in
67
their present form,"it is claimed, require action'on the
part of the companies! if they'desire to continue to do'
business in Japan, so 'costly and so speculative as to place'
an Intolerable'burden upon all foreign oil companies
operating in Japan!/
You may also'state that a representative of Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company has evidenced to the Department'a
desire to cooperate fully with the British and Dutch
competiter in Japanese'markets and that, with a view to
endeavoring to obtain remedial action by the Japanese
Government, he has requested that the American Government
lend such'assistance as may be appropriate and practicable!
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1-188

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.93)
 OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
1-138
TO BE TRANSMITTED
OATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department
Department of State
PLAIN
OR
Charge to
Washington,
$
-2-
You may/further/state that, based on such information
a is/ now/available/the objectiond raised py the interested
oil companied against pertain provisions of the Petroleum/
Industry Law /would appear/well founded and that in
consequence/the American Government is prepared to give
sympathotic d arorul consideration/to proposals which
the/British land, Dutch Governments/may care to offed in any
ondeavor to mttain, through joint/or/concurrent action an/
amelioration/of the situation under reference.
Pulys
reay
FE:RCM/DLY
FE
894.6363/67
A
SNOTJHHOO
 M  46
DRPAT ATE
RLCLALO
Enciphered by
2
Sent by operator.
M.,
19
Index Bu.-No. 50.
1-138

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.94)
SCR
FELEND
TELEGRAM SENT
OFFIOR
1-120
TO BE TRANSMITTED
FE WHETHER
 CONFIDENTIAL OODE
Departiment of State
PARTAIR
RECEIVED
on
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington.
034 SEP 11 PM 6 27
September 11, 1934.
8pam
DIVISION OF
AMEMBASSY,
COMMUNICATIONG
This cable was se
shoa b
(3)
358
RUSH.
894.6363/67
Please telegraph acticn taken and substance of any
further communication whether written or oral that has
been reoeived vy the Embassy from the Foreign Office. Do not
repeat not make any new approach to Foreign Office.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, FOR YOUR INFORMATION ONLY.
anthorit
The Department is informed ty private soureee that
the British and the Netherland Governments have already
made representations to the Japanese Government, and by
the Netherland Legation at Washington that the
Netherlsnd Government has instructed its Minister at
Tokyo to make friendly representations.
Hule
ad
894.6363/67
—
FE: EHD/DLY
FE
WE
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1-138

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.94)
STANDARDI-VACUUM OIL COMPANY
26BRPADWAY
NEWYORK
Ale
117
August 28th, 1954.
iscn of
FAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
AUE
AUG 3 0 1934
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Demartmoat of State
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeok:
9
In reference to recent conversations in
respect to the application of the Fetroleum Industry Control
Law in Japan, may we respectfully draw your attention to that
6
part of Yokohama's cable to us of August 24th, which reads as
below:-
9
"Japan Proper sales plan as filed requested authorization
to sell approximately 2,850,000 10-gallon units during the
last half of 1934 STop Commerce Department as authorized
by law has requested us to file amended plan by Aug. 3lst
with sales of not to exceed 2,536,000 units which means re-
duction in our trade below average sales during the past 5
months STOP Friends (British interests) have been requested
to file amended plan which leaves their present volume vir-
tually unaltered STOP Japanese refiners have all been granted
substantial increases especially Mitsubishi Goshi Kaisha STOP
Friends and ourselves intend to file strong protest and are
notifying Embassies."
When preparing the sales plan for the second half
of 1934, our Yokohama Office was governed by the quota allotment as
at present existing in the Cartel. Therefore they were not en-
croaching upon the business of any other Cartel member, and conse-
quently, the action of the Japanese Government in reducing our pro-
posed sales quota can be considered as arbitrary and disoriminatory.
In respect to this point we yesterday cabled our
General Manager at Yokohama, the foliowing:-
"In reference to sales plan Gasoline second half l934 we ex-
peot you to decline to accept any quota below our full pro rata
share now agreed in Cartel."
We shall be pleased if this advice will prove of
any aid to you in the furthering of our interests.
Very truly yours,
Kerny, 4. Eor
OM
Kersey F. Coe.

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
(rcm)
reply refer to
Auu 3 1 1934
Bear Mr. Gee:
The sesseipt is acknowledged of your letter of August ss,
894.6363/68
195s, is whieh there are quoted exeerpts frem an exshange of
talegrephie cerrespendesee between your offiee and that of
your Yekeheme representative in regard to the quote assigned
to your eampany fer the sale of gaseline in Japan during the
second half of 1954.
It is assumed that you will contimue to keep the Depart-
mest fully infermed in regard to developments in this and
other phases of the Japanese Petroleum Industry Law.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
14
Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
Standard-Vaouum Oil Company,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.
3m
reeus
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
8/31/34

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
6 1934
ele
McL
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
FROM
Tokyd.
fore being communicated
to anyone. (b)
Dated September 4, 1934.
Received 10.52 p.m. 3rd.
l
Divinon
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFF
ASEP·4-1934
Washington.
Department of State
194, September 4, 10 a.m.
Department's 151, August 31, 5 p.m.
994.6363
Kobe's strictly confid ential report on the
894.6363/69
strategical value of Japan's new merchant fleet, mailel
894.8591
to Commercial Office, Department of State, August 15,
should be considered (page 1o) in connection with the
discussions in Washington and London in regard to the
oil storage requirements of the Japanese Government.
It will also be of particular interest to the Navy
Department.
GREV.
WSB
0019-1934
Q

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
1984.
26 BROADWAY
44
NEWYORK
August 30th, 1934.
894.6363
FAR EASTERN AFEA
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
SHP 1: 1934
894.6363/70
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Subsequent to our letter of August 8th, we
have received from our General lanager in Japan, copies of
letters addressed by hia and also by I'r. H. W. Malcolm,
Managing Director of the Rising Sun letroleum Co., Ltd.,
(British interests), to the Minister of Commerce and Industry
at Tokyo.
These are attached in the hope they will prove of
interest to you and also to indicate that our representative
in Japan, is, we believe, leaving nothing undone in the fur-
therance of our interests.
The covering letter which accompanied these en-
closures stated that a copy of eachh letter was handed to the
respective Ambassadors and as we understand from Yokohama's
cable of August 2and that important dispatches referring to the
Japan Control Law were forwarded to vou, it was entirely possible
that one or both of these attachments have been received.
Yours very truly,
Cermmy F. Eo
Kersey F. Coe.
KFC:M
ATTACHS.
FILFD

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.97)
Amgust 8th, 1954
His Exeelleney
Machida Chuji
Minister of Commeroe & Industry,
TOKYO.
Your Exeellemmy,
Petroloum Industry Control Law No. 26
On Maroh 27th, 1934 the above law was enacted
in Japan, and a similar law was made effective in Taiwan,
Chosen and Karafuto. The principal objeots of the law as we
underetand them are:
(a) The acoumulation by October lst, 1935 of large reserve
supplies (presumably bonded) of Gasoline, Heavy Oil and
Orade Oil, •quivalent to about 6 months sales. This
reserve stock to be in addition to the duty paid supplies
required in the ordinary oonduet of the business.
(b) The enoouragoment of the refining of orude petroleum in
the Japanese Empire, preferably under Japanese capital.
(e) The control (by a system of annual lioenses) of imports -
and in consequence sales - of practically all petroleum
produets.
(d) The control by the Government of minimum and maximum
sellins prices of prectically all petroleum products.
Under the new law, whioh (under threat of
pemalties fer nen-eempliance) sives the Government oomplete
contrel of the Petroloum Industry, and also permits the
Gevermment to take any necessary measures to regulate the

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.97)
supply of petrelemm, the ell eempamies ean be e ampelled to
(a) sell their supplies te the Government at any time and
at mmy priee considered by the Gevernment as ourrent
(b) eomplete any annual sales or import plan which has been
submitted to the Government as required by law
(e) extend or improve their equipment as ordered by the
Governmont
(4) permit Government representatives to inspeot any and all
phases of their bus iness at any time.
The effeot of the law is to virtually take
from the oll eompanies the power of decision and initiative
and also te oreate a sense of inseourity and future uncertain-
ty, especially in respeot of companies importing finished
produets. In view of this and so that our prinoipals may have
the faets upon which to judge the ultimate objects of the law,
amd so that they may determine the advisability of inourring
the enermeus inorease in capital expenditure imposed by the
law (especially under the stock-holding requirements), we
would respeetfully reqmst answers to the following questions.
As the futare poliey of our company in the Japanese Empire
must of necessity be determined in the light of the real object
and intent ef the law we would appree iate it if Your Exoellency
will arant us an interview and also arrange so that official
replies to the questiens given below may be made in writing,
thas permitting us to inferm our prinoipals acourately in re-
eard to the desire and plan of the Japanese Government in
respeet to the Petroleum bus iness. -
1. In regulating the oil industry will the Japanese Govern-

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.97)
-8
ment aeserd te eur eempany, which has been established
in Japam fer nearly 40 years, the same rights, privileges
and censideratlon as may be granted to the Japanese Oil
Companies?
2. If our prinoipals deo ide to undertake the enormous expen-
diture and risk necessitated by compliame with the law,
is the Japanese Government willing to give any quarantee
regarding our future business, and if so, what guarantee ?
8.
To retain our present share of trade and to be permitted
(under the import lioense system) to acquire our share in
the grow ing business arisine from the natural inorease in
consumption, is it necessary for our company to establish
refineries in Japan? If so, will the Government permit
us to mot alone or must we refine in oonjunotion with
Japanese capital?
4. Is it possible that the Government will amend the present
tariff regulations to permit re-export outside the Japan-
ese mpire of any finished produots refined in Japan -
sranting a duty refund on equivalent orude imported?
If we find ourselves unable to make the expenditure
necessary under the stipulatiom and intent of the
Control Law and our business suffers in oonsequence, is
the Government willing to compensate us for any equip-
ment whioh may be rendered useless?
Is the Government at present conaidering any ohange
1n
(a) impert tariff
(b) introdmtion of subsidies
or

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
-4
(c) Other meas wres whieh sheuld be taken into consi-
deration when formulating our future plans ?
7. what assurame is there that the regulatioms requiring
asewmulation of 6 months stook of certain produots by
Ootober lst, 1935 may not be changed and a greater quantity
nominated ?
8. Is oons ideration being given to reduo ing the quantity of
reserve stocks required by the regulations below the pre-
sent 6 months stipulation ? If so, when is it likely
that a decision will be reached ?
The storage regulatione not only necessitate a tremendous
investment in tanks, land, eguipment, oil supplies, eto.,
but also involve serious risk of lose from fire, earth-
quake, leakage, evaporation, etc. Is it the intent of
the Government that this expenditure and risk shall be
borne by our oompany ?
10. In approvina sellins price levels for various petroleum
produots, will the Government take into oonaideration the
costs of those companies import ing f inished produets as
opposed to the costs of those refining in Japan in order
that the importing oompanies would not be compelled to
sell at a loms should their costs, due to higher tariff,
ete., be greater than those of local refimers ?
In conelusien, we trumt Your Exoellenoy will
understand that the spirit of this letter is not controversial
but that waless we reseive olear and complete replies to the

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
questioms contained herein it is diffioult, if not impossible,
to mmke our future plans or to determine what can be done to co-
operate with the Japanese Government oonsistent with sound
bus iness poliey.
As the question of time is important, espeoial-
ly in respect to things which must be done to camply with the
stock-holdine regulatiom, we trust we may receive an early repl
we are, with all respeet,
Your Excellency's most obedient servante
SPANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY
(SGD.) J. C. GOOLD
General Manager.
3

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.97)
HARPBHIPS EXPEPRIENOED BY THE FOREICE
COMPAMIES UNDER THE NEW LAW.
(A) DI
1. we must e ither invest a large sum, whioh is
admitted to be in the interests of the Government
and/or the Nation and not in our own interests
or necessary to our trade, or else lose the
usefulness of the major part of our past invest-
ments.
II. There is no security beyond one year for our
new investments.
III. we do not know whether we shall be allowed to
build a Refinery in spite of the faot that
tariffs are in favor of looal refining.
IV. The Government controls prices and beyond
the faot that it says the Control Law will lead
to snoh economies as will reimburse the Companies
for their investment in stock-keeping, we do not know
coneretely what steps the Government will take
to bring this about, partioularly as we are told
that competition will not ba eliminated.
eannot see, therefore, that the Government has
made any provision to enable us to amortise our
investments.
V. we ean get ne assuranses of partioipation in
subsidies if sranted.
VI. we are sivep teo shert a time to consider
this qwestion and disouss it with our home
office.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
VII. we do net know whether similar or more
stringent regulatiom will be imposed in
future.
VIII. The Government fixes prioes end can compel
us to sell our stooks and to cont inue to import
and sell acoord ing to our Import Programme at a
priee fixed by itaelf. We have been unable to
learn from the Government on what basis it
proposes to fix prioes.
(B) PROBABLE:
I.
The Government is supposed to intend to
ourtail our share of the trade and give increased
shares to Japanese Companies.
Even if we were to admit that certain ad just-
ments might be reasonable, it is essential that
the Government tell us what we have to expeot, if
they foroe us to invest further large sume to
proteet our past investments, and if there is a
radioal curtailment in our trade, we should
probably have a just complaint.
If an organisation is made to stand still
it will disintegrate, and we cannot agree to
being foreed inte the position of a second-rate
O11 Cempamy in Japan.
II. It is prebable that the Japanese Government
wishes its Oil imports to be carried in Japanese
tankers. This may not o onstitute a legitmate

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.93)
-
commereial grievanee but it is a point of con-
siderable importance to our Nation.
III. The stooks are required for military pur-
poses. This again is important, though it may
not be a commero lal grievanoe.

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.96)
YOKOHAMA, S1st July, 1984.
20:
His Ekeellemey Maehida Chuji,
Minister of Commeroe and Ind ustry,
TOKYO.
Your Exeellenoy,
On Novomber 29th 1932 we had the honour of addressing the
then Minister of Commerce and Induatry. The subjeot of our
eommunieation was Notice No. 49 of the Department of Commeroe &
Industry, dated 4th November 1932, by whioh the Gasoline Trade
was brought under the applioat ion of the Law for the Control of
Important Industries (No. 40, 1931).
we drew His Excellenoy's attention to the important changes
made in the position of the ind stry itself and of the traders
in the industry by the above Law and respeotfully requested en-
lightemment as to the Government's policy and aims with regard
to Petrolewm, as we wished to be in a position, firstly, to
ee-operate to the best of our ability in aehieving suoh aim and,
seeendly, te advise our Prinoipals on the policies and investments
necessary for such co-operation.
On Maroh 27th 1934 a new Law, No. 26, 1934, was enmoted for
Control of the Petroleum Industry and as we still find ourselves
unable fully to understand the ultimate objeots the Law has in view,
we bes to be honoured with an interview with Your Exeelleney in
the hepe that we may be able te hear from Your Kxoellenoy what
course of metion it is the Government's wish we should take, so
that eur prineipals may have this knowledge and feeling of
sesmrity when they come to consider the guestion of so greatly
imereasing their investments in Japan.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
We would respeetfully draw Your Excolleney's attention
te the pesition in whioh we find ourselves at present. It
ham been indioated that the new Law has as its general ob jeets:
(1) The hold ing of certain minimum at∞ka in Japan
(2) The enc ouragement of the Refining Industry in Japan
The first objeot imposes on us the neoessity of erect ine a
large number of storage tanks and acoumulating large quantities
of oil in storage and the firet part of this programme has to
be completed by Maroh 3lst 1935, the quantity of o11 to be in
storage by that date being dependent on the quantity of imports
durine the period July/December this year. It is further
meeessary to put in a Plan of Importatioe for this period by
July 3lst this year.
It is, on the one hand, impossible in the interests of
our ellonts and the consuming publio to alter or suspend our
bus iness while our future sct ion is being considered: on the
other hemd, we have no security for our trade at the present
time, and in the future the quantitles we are allowed to import
will be licensed only for annual periods.
On such a basis alone we feel sure Your Exoellency
will agree that it is diffioult, if not impossible, to justify the
large investments required to comply with storage regulations.
The seeone objeotive of the Law compels us to consider
whether er not to ereet a Refinery in Japan. The Petroleum Tariff
In Japam gives certain advantages to refining in the country, and
if we are cerreetly informed as to the objeots of the Law, it is
the Gevermment's wish that Rof ining should be eno ouraged. In

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.96)
-
amswer to the enquiries we were permitted te make to Your Ex-
cellemey's Department as te whether it was the Government's wish
to eno ourage Refining as such in Japan or only Refining with
Japanese Capital, it was indioated to us that, judging from the
point of view of home produets, the Government prefers:-
(1) Rofining with Japanese Capital
(2)
Refining with joint Japanese and Foreign Cap ital
(3)
Refining with Fore ign Capital
(4) Imports of Refined Produots
in that order, and it would be of the greatest ass istanoe to us
1f Your meelleney would confirm or deny that this is the Govern-
ment's standpoint in regard to the refining of imported oil.
Before having to come to a definite decision on the question
of further investments our prinoipals are anxious to know whether
it is the Government's wish that we should continue to import
Refimed Prod mts, and if so for how long, or whether the Government
would prefer us to ereet a Rofinery in Japan.
we are informed that if we make applioation to ereot a
mefinery at present, our application will have to be considered by
the Advisory Committee to be established under the Petroleum
Indastry Control Law. As this Committee is not yet in being, we
are wmable te reaoh any decision regard ine a Refinery and conse-
quently eanmet eeme to a deeision regard ins the erection of a
Refimery or of Tankage.
we beg enee more to emphasise to Your Exeellemmy our belief
that if the Govermment would take us into its confidenee regarding

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.97)
Its aime fer the development of the eil Industry in Japan, it would
be found that we should be able to find the means of co-operat ing
with the Government in the realisat lon of these aims.
we would take the liberty of pointine out to Your Exoelleney
that our Company has been as it were a ploneer in the Oil Industry
in Japan and as suoh has spent large sums in deve loping the ind ustry
and we trmt that every consideration will be aiven to our pos ition
and our des ire to retain our outlets for our Petroleum produets in
Japan.
Your Ezeellemy will realise that as a large prodmine Company
our first neeessity is to have im seoure outlets for our prodots and
that if our organisation were restricted so that we were pleced in
the position of mere wholesalers of orude oil or products to the
Japam market we could not feel or sive the same security of supply
whieh under present ciroumstances and as internat ional organisations
we are able to provide.
we are, with all respeet,
Your Exoellemoy's most obedient servants,
The Ris ins Sun Petroleum Company, Ltd.

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
(Rcm)
Sentember 8 1984.
Dear Mr. Cse:
The reseipt is aekmewledged with thanks of your
letter of August s0, 1954, and ef 1ts enelesures eensist-
894.6363/70
ing of eepies of letters addressed to the Japasese
Misister of Cemmeree and Industry by the managers in
Japam of the Standard-Yaeum Oil Cempany and the Rising
Sum Petroloum Company, Limited, in regard to the Japanese
Petroleum Industry Law.
The informatien contained in the aforementiemed eor-
respondemce is now reeeiving the attention of the Depart-
rnt.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
8k14
Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
SEF
01964
2
Mr. Kersey F. Coe,
Standard-Vaomm Oil Company,
26 Broadway,
New York, Now York.
new
-mm.H
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
9/5/34

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, August 24, 1934.
No. 938.
Subject:
American Oil Interests in Japan.
yto
5134
livision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.6363
NOTED
SEF·10.1934
CONFIDENTIAL
Departmnot of State
894.6363/71
FLLED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Imbassy's despatch
No. 734,/dated pr1l 5, 1934, on the subjeet of the Petro-
leum Industry Law, then just promulgated, and to report
that the conditions of the Law and its enforcement regula-
tions place such onerous burdens on the foreign oil com-
panies that it is doubtful if they will be able to continue
to operate in Japan. This is due primarily to the stock-
earrying provisions of the Law.
Article

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Artiole 5 of the Law (a translation of which was
tranmitted with the Imbassy's despatch No. 734) provi-
des that
"Oil refiners and importers of oil shall, in
accordance with Imperial Ordinance, always
keep in stock a certain quantity of oil to be
calculated on the basis of the quantity of
oil imported by them."
Article 9 of the Law provides that licenses granted to
importers or refiners of oil may be cancelled if the
provisions of the law are not carried out, while Article
13 provides a fine of not over Yen 3000 for violations
of Article 5. The foreign oil companies are thus re-
quired to carry out the stock-carrying provisions of
the Law or subject themselves to fines of Yen 3000 for
each violation or to cancellation of their licenses to
operate in Japan.
The regulations for the enforcement of the Petroleum
Industry Law, promulgated on June 27, 1934, apply the
stock-carrying provision of the Law to gasoline, heavy
oil (i.e., fuel oil and diesel oil) and crude oil, and
require that the amount of stock to be carried shall not
be less than one-half of the quantity imported in the
previous twelve months, the requirement applying to each
kind of oil separately. These stocks are to be carried
in addition to the orainary working stocks, which usually
consist of two or three months' supply of the principal
types of oil sold. The regulations require that by
April 1, 1935, in addition to working supplies, the oil
companies must have three months' stocks in storage, and
by Ootober 1, 1935, six months' stocks in storage.
The stook-carrying provisions of the Petroleum In-
dustry Law, if carried into effeet, will require large
investments

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
investments in Japan by the American and British oil
companies, not only for the purchase of land and the
construction of additional storage facilities, but also
for the stooks of oil. The Rising Sun Petroleum Company
(British Shell interests) estimates that it will be com-
pelled to expend eventually around thirty million yen for
tanks and oil. The Standard-Vacuum Oil Company estimates
that its expenditures will amount only to about ten million
yen altogether, as it already possesses greater storage
facilities than does the Rising Sun Petroleum Company.
These investments will have to be made before October 1,
1935, or (presumably) the two companies will be compelled
to cease to handle the types of oil products of which
stocks are required. The two companies therefore have
little time in which to arrive at a decision in regard to
the investments.
The Petroleum Industry Law also requires the refiners
and importers of petroleum and petroleum produots to sell
their supplies to the Japanese Government at any time at
such a price as the Government may consider to be current;
to expand or improve their equipment as ordered by the
Government; to sell their products at prices fixed by
the Government; to carry out fully any annual sales or
import plans which have been submitted to the Government
for approval and which have been approved; and to open
their books and places or business, storage plants, dis-
tributing plants, etc., to Govermment inspection at any
time. Anmual licenses to import and sell petroleum pro-
ducts must also be obtained; these licenses can be used to
diminish or entirely stop the business of the foreign oil
companies

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
companies at any time. For these reasons the foreign
oil companies fedl that their Japan business is most
inseoure and that the power of decision has been taken
from them and placed in the hands of governmental agen-
cies. Under the circumstances they cannot see their
way clear to investing further large sums in Japan and
have addressed letters to the Minister of Gommerce and
Industry, requesting answers in writing to ten questions.
These questions asked for information on the following
subjects:
1. will the same rights, privileges and consider-
ation be accorded to foreign companies as to Japanese
companies?
2. Will the Japanese Government give any guarantee
as to future business if the oil companies invest large
sums for storage facilities?
3. Will it be necessary for the foreign companies,
in order to retain their share of present and future
business, to establish refineries in Japan, either with
entirely foreign capital or in combination with Japanese
capital?
4. will the present tarirf regulations be revised
to permit re-erportation of petroleum products refined
in Japan with a drawback on the crude oil imported?
5. Will the Japanese Government compensate the
foreign oil companies for equipment rendered useless,
in case they find themselves unable to invest further
large sums in Japan and their business suffers in con-
sequence?
6. Is the Japanese Govermment considering
a.

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
-5 -
a.
Any change in the import tarirf on oils
b.
The introduction of subsidies, or
0.
Any other measures which should be taken
into consideration by the foreign oil
companies when formulating their future
plans?
7.
Will there be any assurance that the regulations
requiring that six months' stocks be carried will not be
changed and larger stocks required?
8. Is the question of reducing the stock-carrying
requirements of the Law being considered by the Government?
9. Does the Japanese Government intend to shoulder
the expenditure for land, tanks, equipment and oil stored,
and the risk of loss from fire, earthquake, leakage, and
evaporation involved in the provisions of the Law or are
the expenditures and risks to be borne by the foreign
oil companies?
10. In fixing selling prices for petroleum pro-
ducts in Japan, will the Government take into considera-
tion the greater costs of the companies importing refined
products, due to the import tariff?
No reply has as yet been received by the foreign oil
companies to their representations.
The foreign oil companies also claim that the new
law is inequitable and unjust, in that it is retroactive
upon the past investments of the companies. That is,
unless the new provisions requiring the storage of large
stocks of oil are carried out, the companies will be
unable to continue in business in Japan and their past
investments in storage facilities, distributing plants,
tank cars and lighters, office buildings, etc., will
become useless and will lose the greater part of their
value.
The

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
The complaints of the foreign oil companies regard-
ing the provisions of the Petroleum Industry Law have been
1/
embodied in a memorandum, a copy of which is enolosed here-
with.
It is improbable that the foreign oil companies will
consent to the requirements of the new Law in regard to
the carrying of stocks. The Standard-Vacuum oil Company
in New York has telegraphed to its local representative,
stating that if the Japanese Government insists on the
fulfillment of the stock-carrying provisions of the Law,
it will expect the Japanese Government to provide the
storage facilities and to assume the risks of loss through
fire, earthquakes, leakage, evaporation, etc. It further
asserts that the conditions required in Japan by the Law
are the most onerous of any country in the world, and
states its belief that if the foreign oil companies firmly
refuse to carry out the stock-keeping requirements, the
Japanese Government will eventually modify or abandon
its demands. (The Embassy doubts that the Japanese
Government can be induced to abandon its stook-carrying
demands, as the demands are based on the requirements of
national defense. However, in its passage through the
Diet, a rider was attached to the Petroleum Industry Law,
demanding that the Law should not operate to interfere
with the supplies of oil to Japan. It is possible that
the provisions of this rider could be invoked to force
some modification of the stock-carrying requirements,
if it is found that the two large foreign companies
refuse to carry the stocks required and consequently
cease to handle the oils in question.)
The attitude
of the

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.96)
-7 -
of the Rising Sun Fetroleum Gompany is understood to be
much the same as that of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,
except that the Rising Sun Petroleum Company might con-
sent to the stook-carrying requirements if a definite
guarantee of a minimum annual business for a period of
twenty years or more is given by the Japanese Government.
It is understood that this was done in France when a
governmental oil monopoly was established there. The
Japanese oil companies are also reported to be unwilling
to provide the stock-carrying facilities required by the
Law, but they hope to be able to obtain government funds
or subsidies to assist them in the undertaking,
It is probable that the Department will be approached
by the Stamdard-Vacuum Oil Gompany with a request that the
Embassy in Tokyo take this matter up with the Foreign
Ofrice. In this connection, the Department's attention
is invited to my telegram No. 182 August 20, 3 p.m., in
whioh the possibility of retaliatory measures was discussed.
2/
In this connection I also enclose for the Department's
assistance a compilation of documents relating to the
Petroleum Industry Control Law furnished the Embassy by
the General Manager of the Standard-Vacuum Company in Japan.
Respectrully yours,
Joseph c. Grew. (
2
molosures:
1/ copy of Momorandum.
863.6
ERD:1
Copy to Legation Peiping. 3
I.x.1.
1 lopy rant to SA(murlock)
511

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY
Enclosure No. 1 to despate
No. 958 of Áugust 24, 195€
from the mbassy at Jokye.
HARDBHIPS EXPERIENCED BY THE FORKIGN
COPANIB UNDR THE NE IA.
(A) DEFINITE:
I.
We must either invest a large sum, which is
admitted to be in the interests of the Govern-
ment and/or the Nation and not in our own
interests or necessary to our trade, or else
lose the usefulness of the major part of our
past investments.
II.
There is no security beyond one year for our
new investments.
III.
We do not know whether we shall be allowed to
build a Refinery in spite of the fact that
tariffs are in favor of local refining.
IV.
The Government controls prices and beyond
the fact that it says the Control Law will
lead to such economies as will reimburse the
Companies for their investment in stock-
keeping, we do not know concretely what steps
the Government will take to bring this about,
particularly as we are told that competition
will not be eliminated. We cannot see, there-
fore, that the Government has made any provi-
sion to enable us to amortise our investments.
V.
We can get no assurances of participation in
subsidies if granted.
VI.
We are given too short a time to consider this
question and discuss it with out home office.
一)
VII.
We do not know whether similar or more strin-
gent regulations will be imposed in future.
VIII.
The Government fixes prices and can compel
2
us to sell our stocks and to continue to import
0
and sell according to our Import Programme at a
1~
price fixed by itself. We have been unable to
7
learn from the Government on what basis it
proposes to fix prices.
(B)
PROBABLE:
I.
The Government is supposed to intend to curtail
our share of the trade and give increased shares
to Japanese Companies.
Even if we were to admit that certain ad-
justments might be reasonable, it is essential
that the Government tell us what we have to
expect, if they force us to invest further
large sums to protect our past investments,
and ir there is a radieal ourtailment in our
trade, we should probably have a just complaint.
Ir an organization is made to stand still
it will disintegrate, and we cannot agree to
being forced into the position of a second-
rate Oil Company in Japan.
II.

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.93)
- 8-
Ⅱ.
It is probable that the Japanese Government
wishes its oil imports to be carried in
Japanese tankers. This may not constitute
a legitimate commercial grievance but it is
a point of considerable importance to our
Nation.
III.
The stocks are required for military purposes.
This again is important, though it may not be
a commercial grievance.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.83)
Drspatch No. 938
Aug,24, 1934
frni
Eutacsy-Jrkyo
894.6363

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.93)
938 as774,1938
PETROLEUM INDUSTRY
CONTROL LAW
JAPAN - KOREA - FORMOSA

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.76)
OWEICIAL DOCUME NTS BHLATING TO CONTROL LAW
L. (1)
Law 10 28
Ena ted by Diet, Mar 2
1934
0 (2)
Imperial Ordinance Do 196 Jane 27 1934
(Promnl.gat
ef oroement o" Law)
(3)
Tmporia rdie nce Jone 2 2934 (p mm lgatee enfom
ment Law in Cheae Poprcs
Rerarute)
tmpe dal Ordimnce do 2
xept
of
8
intanded
to piace
e er  and
Imulto
sn tolated
e19
efa

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.76)
7/1/34
1. Lw Covere (1)
(a) In case o. refinerd
1
poe ome le e tre Lonmn and
ns turnl cx xocpte produote
Vschane 
on Apopted
2

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.75)
SNOOK-ROLDING RBOULATIONR
1. Applies or y to 0 6.
Gasolina
Heavy 
In bond: R-31
(a)
Crade Oil
2. Date of aforeemant: No befo January 1. 1935 (L )
owidine   months etook (Rosi) to be held
Apil 1 10 (16)
3. Quantities (R 16-2l) Unleee reduced by Government purahame
.or calemity eto (o s)
(a)
Miret period, pril 1  Hept 30
Not lese then 1/a vuaneity or each kand (0-6)
imported Jan Doo. 31 of pmvi ous yeer.
tenions pug  ing this matet se reported 
10
Besek fortod
.
Wou t then
 auny aported Juy 1 
provi vue ye ar S Jume 3 mresin yeer Inton-
d
03
4ual2y
y ampoted
Ganea
7408, in
1a tres (Ro19).
D
vin
2150
t8 then
5
XX
5
Tenk Cape
6
8)
104
 onts (R)
0. Depex
 boma ted

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.86)
4/2/84

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.89)
ERALTS APPROVALS. BANCTLOHA
I. For new bwsiness of refining. L-l, R-l-25.
. For new businosa of importing. I-1, R-2-25.
3. Por any ohanges in applications on∞ filod. R-3-18.
4. For each new refinery 0 2
(a) If combination of straight run & cracking!
Minimum total dapao1ty. 75.000 kilo 1litres
per year, inoluding not 1ss than 25.000
kilo litres per year for creoking.
(b)
If all craoking;
Minism dapacity 50. 00 kilo litres per yer
NOTE
75 000 kilo itres  ear o 62 100 tons per yeay
1300 bbla(42ºs) per d
50.000
41 ) tons per year
 B06 bbls
25.000
20.700 to na per year
0433 hbla
(if crude 7 pounde er gallon)
5. For departure from etorage regulations. R 20-21.
6. Por purohasing a businsse ( 12) dieso iving (R-1a-25)
pemin (To3. R 13-25) or suspending for
(11525)
7. For suspending business eeu tion S monthe, no tification
only - p méesion not requirod Re10-25
(All the above are aubmitto to the Minis ter of Commerce and
Industry through local governore

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.83)
BOLRZOUBRING RGPORTE
to arrive July lat to Doc. 3lst, 1934. R 29 5).
2. y Augmet let 1934, goods in transit amd on order as
of July 1at 1034. L8 Ro33.
S. By Sept. lat l934. eetabliehed importra and refimare
at eu it detailed report on bun'res in oydr
to qualiry es oil industrialists. Patlure te
submit uis roport may risult in mfuns' to vontim
dcereeR-273 33
1 aad n to b sucmitted direot to Tolavo
gowernort

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.83)
7/2/34
CURRENT REPORTS
BSeptOtn sah yea
business plafornllowing
Calenda yea
L2 R455
2. B Feb
2ath each year  weport of
teral cond: ti ons
if busineen etc fur last calondar yes L lo R 10.
3. By Feb Ist n: August lot eash yean atoe khe ding plane
fo Pext pariod R 18
By toth  tly kmo 
ge popriousmorth
5.By5
Foaah

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.84)
7/2/3
SJGNIFICANT DATES
1. Mar 27 193c Low No k6 enooted by Diet.
June71
 gete enforeemen
1
tion

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.91)
7/2/34
P
Dutree
2

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.74)
7/2/34
MIBCRTLANEOUS
I. Permiesam to ro ine ar aw rt mw o withne ld. 03.
raohen
2
Governmert u
20 0083
p relative to
Ten
orr with
D up wi th
ich
J618
R16
ed
t10n
ia

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.85)
n Besining o mortt u i a, Wo o r under. Ll.
Pailure to submit by
of businese
3.
Importing by n n mpor or
n 48
Bofu ta chan
equimennon
5。
Contraventin
regulstions
Pailure to auo 
of previous ys
7。
Refu ai opsn
to inspscter.
under
L-15.
8. Fai.
for sa
importer
9.
Contrveni
of ordeve
paeoherse of

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.71)
THE PETR AUN INDUSTHY LAR
(No  26 0f 1934  Tomalgata4 Marah 27th, 1934)
ARILGLE_1
(1) Feraone po poaing to caroy on the bustbess of
refining
   ot importiag Petoté
ehe ll ob
t s Imp
reri
ARTL
nd

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.69)
that the fozegoing ahall not epply to gasee aye
rogulatoa by Imwarial Orainanse
(k) The kikia of Patrolaum to whioh the foregoims
paragraph appiiea shal : = prosoribed y Imperiml
Qédinsnoe
Rerinar aa mvorce os o mlom amll ao
preeorlbod a ksa
 n y k n
 th 
of the quenti
ABELGLE
 1050y 
th
it vececary in
boo t co of Futro
AB
   a 
 se 
dth
Preoenin
setrolow

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.70)
(a). The comoti tutton of the fatrolam
Committee ahal1 be  0acr;bed by Imperial Ortimmm
rtotoum impoy
nndor th
toot the
1zioexo
AB3110

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.74)
A won he hee entrareed
Arviele 4 ehall b amimhad by a fine not exaes
5.00 Yon.
one of tho folloa ns cuva oe pwiosed it a fino mo
axoaading  Yom

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.75)
family. a mombar 0? 1a 1 =.1<v =5 am aployee a
other  raon in 1=  1 ≈ al1 not be exampt
ARTIOLE 12

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.80)
The dato of enfervemer.
by Imperial vas
of
Ordin

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.96)
July 1st,1934.
OHDINANCE NO. 196 FOR THE ENFORCEBGENT OF
ME OIL INDUSTRY LAW. PROMILGATED JWE 27, 1934
Art. 1.
The oil refining business referred to in Art. 1 of the
Oil Industry Law refers to the business of making
gasolime, illuminating oil, light oil, mmchine oil or
heavy eil of a mineral mature from material eil af
mimeral neture (inclusive ef cembestible matwra) eas
having clese relations with oil bearing stratum), but
dees not cover the business of making gaselime,
illumimating oil, light oil, mmchine oil or heavy oil
from mterial oil mnufactured from coal or oil mhale,
The oil importing business referred to in Art. 1 of the
Oil Industry Law refers to the business of importing
gasoline, illuminating oil, light oil, mmchine oil,
or crude oil, but does not cover the busimess of
importing illumimating oil of mineral nature, light
oil or maahine vil in tins or barrels or similar
packages exclnsively.
Art. 2.
The permit for the oil refining bus iness referred to in
Art 1 of the Oil Industry Law shall be necessary for
each of the oil refineries.
An oil refinery engaging in the refining of imported
material oil shall be equipped with a straight rum
plant of a refining capacity of not less than 50, 000
kilo-litres per year and a cracking plant of a capaci ty
of not less thmn 25,000 rilo-litres per yoar or a cracking
plant of & capacity of not less than 50,000 kilo-litres
per year.
Art。 3.
The Minister of Commerce and Industry may not grant a
permit for the businezs of refining or importing cil
reforred to in Art. 1 of the Oil Industry Law, then he.
taking into consideration the conditions of the demand
for and the supply of oil, considers the grant of the
permit likely to hinder the healthy development of the
oil industry.
Art.4.
The kinds of oil which none but oil importers can import
because of the provision of Art 4 of the Oil Industry
Law are gasoline, illuminating oil, light oil, machine
oil, hoavy oil and crude oil of a mineral nature. Those
importable under the mme Article by oil refiners are
beavy oil and crude oil of mineral na ture.
Art。5.
In the came of importing oil failing mder any of the
following items, the importer need not be a regular oil
imperter:
I. Oil to be imported for the Government.
2. Oil for sample er specimen purposes or oil being
carried by travellers.

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.78)
ll-for use by ehipe, air araft or aubommilmmas
nature not inoludea).
Arto
Industry Law shall be gt olino huavy oil or omude 
of a mineral nature  nd the quantity to bo held ahalà
not be lass than one haif or the quantity imported fon
one year (this appliea to oach kind of the oll amp
but thie doas not apply in casy the esn tity held he
deareasen be low the speciricd lave l due to tho pum
of oil by the Govornment wndor the rovielons of Art
à of the oii induatry Law or an or dor Qint may be
lmmusd y the Jovorment for rogalting due domand-and
supply of ai undor the s ovielon of ars 7 of the Lom
or a oalomi ty omer uwy or  ny other tnovitable mimhepe
me winist s a coooo und ndatay ahall apo
the no th t ar et wo aanttsy o? otl to bo. hd
in stook reforred o tn th  mmooting ramgraph, the
method of copte n tne pncn ty os tho cil hald An et
wAion hea deet o  o  aom corerred te ia the pro
relativa to uno  ho m ny o a cwred o
in Pame sn oll ref amoe or tbt mp tor mmofaro hãe
oininoo
AL7.
The yit to do ho s in e tn  ooranee wie the
provision ot rt 0 or tho i nduatry lsnw shall be
stomd in an oi tok os
 noi  not leoo than that
whion may o  n ordor ht thw doeo not
appy in caora s co cmit beo boon obtainod from
the fiais tor or co oree amt Tn mmte
inistor.
Navy Linie ter ar e ini oor or corveree ond Indmtry
moy hpeoify a  t an o hre vi is to bo hold
in atook
shom tm coos tt noveuonry to do so for
mili tery remons
on in the publho fatoroat.
Art. 8.
The Govermsont y rohas Ce s we ke or oii hold by of
rofinere or ip urtore io urmw noo of t 5 of the Oil
Indust ew, vsen chxe ie on urgont necousity of doing
2o fo Vhilitary reasono or in tho publio interost.
The purohese of oi reforret to in the rocoding Paragmph
may be done on the b eis of - "froe" contmet.
Art. 9.
In caos the  r  ini tor or Mvy  inistor veel to iooo
the order referred o in  rt 7 of the 11 Induotry Low o
opooify the matter referreu to in mx. 2 ox Art. 7 for
militory ronsone. h: cho
confer ath the Minio tor of

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.72)
seroe and Industry, In cave the Mámaater of 
wi Art, y a the Lew or the direotion to hem
mistor or Mavy nieter.
A. o. The tom "ak iin" (niator of Comure and Imd
5paarim6 1= 16 024i.n0m =ρ114a 1. a 0ovormm2
Genara1 6f 2.aten 1= vsvn. thm G0vam9k=0amasa1 of
Taian in Tai sn  a! tha k vornor=taabn) o5 Eauarata
in Karafuto.
sapplementy .;
This wiloser fo o
00p11on

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
7/1/34
(From tho Official Gazotto datod Juno 27, '34 )
Wo horuby sanotion tho oil industry law and ordor tho
samo to bo promulgatcd in Choscn, Formosa and Saghalion.
Tho Impcrial Sign-manual and Soal.
Juno 26, 1934.
Viscount Makoto Saito, Promicr.
Ryutaro Nagai, Ministor of Ovorsoas Affairs.
Imporial Ordinanoc #198.
With the oxccption of thc provision of Art.8, tho oil in-
dustry law shall bo onforcod in Choson, Formosa and Saghalion.
Supplomontary Provision:
This Ordinanco shall bo onforccd as of July 1, 1934.
Abstract of tho Law #26 of March 28, 1934
Roforonco: -- Tho Oil Industry Lew
Art. l. Thoso who are dosirous to ongago in tho oil rofining
businoss or tho oil importation businoss aro roquirod
to obtain liconces from tho Govornment.
Mattors nocossary with roforonco to tho soopo of tho oil
rofining businoss and tho oil imp ortation businoss and
liconocs rclating t horoto shall bo fixod by Imporial
ordinancc.
Art. 7.
Tho Governmont, whon do ms it nocossary for tho public
intorost, may ordor rufinors and importors of potroloum
to chango thoir salos pricos, to maintain supply of oil
at a cortain luvol, or may order thom to adopt any othor
moasuros which aro rogardud as neccssary for control of
domand and supply of oil. Tho Govornmant, whon dooms
it nocossary for tho public intorost, may ordcr refinors
and importors of petroloum to offoct cxtonsion or im-
provomont in their facilitios.
Art. 8.
In case tho Govornment issuos liccnces undor thc pro-
vision of Art. 1 or issuos ordors undor tho provision of
the prccoding articlo, the matters shall bo submittcd
to tho discussion of tho Oil Industry Committeo with tho
oxception of tho cases spocially montionod in Imporial
ordinance.
Tho organization of thc Oil Industry Committoo shall bo
fixed by Imporial ordinanco.

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.97)
7/1/34
Organization of the oil industry committee
Art. l. The oil industry committee shall be under the control of
the Minieter of Commeroe and Industry and in accordanoe
with the provigion of Art. 8 of the oil industry law,
shall investigato and deliberate on matters within its
computonoo. In addition to tho abovo, tho committeo
shall investi gatc and doliborato on important mattora ro-
lativo to tho oil industry in accordanoo with quostions
submittod by minietors conoornod. Tho committoo may bring
forward proposals to ministcrs conourned with roforonoo
to mttors rolating to tho oil industry.
Art. 2.
Ordors to bo issuod in accordanco with Ar.7 of tho oil
industry law may not bo submittcd to tho oil induatry
committoo if thoy havo to bo kopt scorot from tho military
point of viow.
Art. 3.
Tho commit too shall consist of a chairman and committoo-
mon numboring not moro than twonty.
In addition to tho sommitteomon stated in the procoding
paragraph, committoonon may be appointod provisionally
whon nocessary.
Art. 4.
Tho Ministor of Commorco and Industry shall bo tho chair-
man. Committoomor and provisional committoomon shall be
appointod by tho Cabinot £rom among porsons mentionod bo-
low aftor tho Ministor of Commerco and Industry prosonts
a petition to tho Emporor for sanotion:-
1. Highor offioials of Govomment offices conoornod.
2. Loarnod and oxpurioncoa porsons.
Tho torm of offico of committoomon appointod from among
porsons statod in No,2 Soction of tho procoding paragraph
shall bo two yoars. Howover, when thoro is a particular
roason, such committuomon may be reloased from offico
prior to oxpiry of tho turm of offico.
Art. 5.
Tho chairman shall presi do ovor affeirs of the committoo.
Whon tho chairman is unablo to prosido ovor affairs of tho
committoe, a ccmmittoeman spocifiod by tho Ministor of
Commoroe and Industry shall act for him.
Art. 6.
The committoe shall have a scoretary. Aftor tho Minister
of Commorco and Inaustry prosonts a potition to tho
Empcror for sanction, the secrotary shall bo appointod
by tho Cabinot. In accordance with instruotions of the
chairmen, tho socretary shall executo various businoss.
Art. 7.
The committoa sheli have clerks. Clerks shall bo appoint-
od by tho Ministcr of Comnerco and Industry.
In accordance wisn insurucvions of suporior officials,
clerks shell traneac? varicus businese.
Supplomentary Provision
This ordinance shall come into foree on the day of tho
onforeomeus of sas sii industry law.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.54)
CMTEEES

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.76)
7/1/34
REOULATIOBS FOR THB ENPORGHMLENT
 THE OIL INDUSTRY LAW.
June 27th. 1934
Art。 1
Any person desiring to obtain a pomit for the oil
refining bus inese shall esant to the Minie ter of
Commeroe end Induetry an a ppliontion giving the
follwing detaile:
10
Hame and loontion or the rofinery to be   ted.
2e
Refining facilltien  nd refining eapooity.
3.
Storage faeilities and atorin; capscity ae well
en the lodation ot the former.
4.
kind of the materin oil to be usad rnd tho plese
2 its pro eton
B.
Kindn of prinoi ai ogemetn
60
soheduled aime o the a omonoament of the bus inene
 do on at alving w uira iny dataila hell be attaohed
to the popliontion xetesey! u in t e urioedine paragraph:
10
e thod an
2.
we thod ot nne a ora oi
3。
Uiat o the do gn (vi th im touched)
4
etaates zor hs coton
60
To tat maount I we or wio an he und hov
made up
6.
7
 y
B
Any peron dan o  ortng
buet nena ha et or corrn and
L
Af100
2.
apo rtk. ct
4
2
ehent ed 1m
a  
a

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.75)
9/1/34
02
Arto 3.
hen an oil importer or rofiner wishee to altor detaile
montioned in ary of the i toms of Par. 1 f Art. i and
of the items of Par. i of the preoeding Article. he ahall
apply to tho Minister of Comw roe nnd Industry for pemit.
etating the reae me for the desi red al tormtion.
Art. é.
An oilorefiner or importer shall form a. be inese-plen
for the period from Jan lst - Deo. 3let eaoh yoax and
presont an appliontion to tho Minieter of Commroe and
Industry for a pp roval y Sept. 3 th of the previous your
ArtB
The following paruoularo shdi be  toted in. the appliea-
tion for appoval of  buoineda-,Lm for oil-refining
puaines s:
uset of the bunthereplan
2.
Pi ond for tae improvement ef refining-feellitaen and
torrefilioa
30
a
whantity o mari  or e mw o for ruel
many v to2y vl fo uol
begnnin ma und o unth ear.
at cnd aatx t the boginning
and end of eh d.
7。
Art. 6.
he   d d   in e  tnon
orpot  n or  orang
oud nea
2
40
x' aach yaar.
。
n
人rt。7
hen an eiln it
enoe hin ms iness
he hait wi rout dar mooe mos
nt to tho
2t3,
o 
tvheof
o
ponot y
in ne hs ahs to dore   ed in Axioe 
aa the mdinanee Fo aho whoroent or the oi Inds try
Law.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.78)
An oil refiner or importer shall by the l5th of each
month report to the  inislor of Comerce and Induetry
the quantity of cil urch sod or imported the quantit
handled output and snles for the previous monen ms
well ee etoake at the ene s the mon th.
Art, 10
An oil refiner or impurar shetl, oy the leet day of
February each yesr   t tha nis ter uf Comauroe and
Induatry the gener cen utl n of hio he lneea mnd of
hie operetrons
his faeilitien
o
Art 
An i rofea
initer
otnet
th
isen
im toerein
ArT
14

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.88)
importing business ahall have the reasone for disso lu-
tien atated therein and be acoompenied by copy of a
record of the resolutions passed at the general
meeting of sharaholdere relative to the proposed
dissolution or of a written approval of all the members
of the company.
Art, 15.
When an oil refinr or impurter intends to give up its
busineas or suapend it for a period not less than six .
monthe he ahall presont to the Miniater of Commeroe and
Induetry an applioation for approval stating therein
the reasone therefor and the pariod that he !ahes to
suspend the business
hen n oil rafiner or impurter
has suepended the business for a perici wes than afx
monthe he shail wi thout de my report tho mattor to the
Minister of Commerce um Industry
hen he hae reswmed
the businees which hee bon mue tnded he shall without
delay report the m tter t e Winistar of commroo
and Induetry
Art 16
The quntten of uir   bo u an  t x by oilorefinere
or cit importere an sorerure
vision of
Art a of the rmnane or
t of the oil
Induatry  e  
( peried)
mor f the quantity
rapproval
rre prvious
 r (firev declvery
neat sr (second or
re f te quantity
permat or approvel
tf the previone
(second or
e wy f  pn ite 1 3 of
Art 5 of the
ronaee for the  roument of the
A noustry
n accoun in
celou atld
a ten o dvery of wa Ous tome
pormil
rofore a to in the  reeeding
Art. 17.
The kinde of vi vir reriners or oil-importers have to hold
in stock in sccordanee wit the provieion of Art. 6
of the Oraimmmee for the nforcoment of the Oil Industry
Law ere mo followo  na mhmll de of a quelit not inferior
to the of sasolime. henvy oil or crude oil they have
taken dolivery or turin the delivery poriods specified
in the preceding Article:

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.83)
1.
Gasoline.
No 1 kind
Gasuline the speoifio gravity of which
at 15 0. 1s not over 0.7428.
No. 2 kind:
"is not over 0. 80l7 bat over 0.74
2.
Heavy oil and orude oil
Percentage to the distillate at
278 C. by fractional distillation
No. 1 kind
Ver 4
No.2
Not o vor 4
Art. 18.
Oil refiners or oil importera atal at loest two monthe
before the opening of nch atoux period report to the
Minister of Cowneres ane Jmustry the kinde as well as
quanti ties uf the sin ts be held in stook auring eugh
stock pormoas conomrhe pt us whe whe oil is to be
etoreu capet o at m it ks to be  aed and nwaber
theres.
D 
oe they intand to
cheree the dete
Art. 19
he ol 
it7 of the
Ordinsnce foe the
Induetry Lew
ohe lt be net
1.0
n
t in the
dane of oru
kiloolltros in the coe 
than 100
tene than Bo ki to iorn
une dnot
Nond
Sas0 1ne
Art. 20.
When uo wie rettot
n 
to store o1l
eeiftd in the
prooeding Arti.
Conmeree nd imtuotry on upplietuon for wme tlon.
 h r of
stating therein the t moons for hie intenta on
as well ne guahtite the ot to de sto red
kinde
where theil in  
place
re uspeeity of thd tanke to
be ud nd nu 
imporoor intendo to
wo n uireriher or oil
dif rerent from shat w   nk ha wha pr o sont to the
n toe amethed
irietor a coeseo  nduetry n eopssd on for
sencti i. statlus thereim the i sons  or hio intention
kinde and quantiti ss uf th oil to cs  toree motod of
etoring aml e whe so the oil ts to be otuou.
Art. 21.
In case the uantity held in a tuelk beoomes tose thon the
quanti ty to bo ne ld in s tock due to cansee mentioned in the
provisory cimuse of araugrmaph i Art. 6 of the Regulations
for the nforoument ef the il Industry ame cauees and
condi ti one the re f  a weii ae the quantiy decreased ahall
he reported to the inin tor of Jomucree and Industzy
without de lay. In the cuee menti oned in the progeding
paragraph, oil-refiners or oil-importers eha i rill up the
deficienoy within three monthe colmenoing wi th the day
of the removal of the causes. In case the Minister of

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.78)
Commorue and Industry aonsidars thet there axist
imevitable causes tho poriod ontioned in the preseding
paragraph may ba oxtended.
Art. 22.
In cace an cilrof inr or un oilimporter transfere his
entire bucinewo to wothor i! imported y the tmmmim
shall be regorded ne oi iagoed by the tranafere at 
timo of the voruing out of the wntity of oil to be hold
in stook by ho trenafuroo
mée lo muplien to the eape
of o gi o of coe ys on il roining 
oi: impertatjon buei neze
Art. 23.
pl hee y h     h r th
 w ubit
Cor
A5t. 24
 tho oil
fom
Art2
vislons
1
cigui ation
 shall
ttomtonoe
 pta od to the
bet coos to sho
14
te the
orco and
roviaione
taos whhoroin
Art. 28.
an the y of the

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.69)
Ast 27 Any pereo vetiyans n s pofining buainuen at the ta
of the en sreanent of the prosent segulati one ahall
repoct the fo teve to the Mnt ster of Com oo
ant Industey w an o mon the fse the anforeement of
tr
4t1
1
Rateere st
cotion 6 and
Mattots
ro fuel
 eeding
7687
trage
prmsent
me to
th
hal1
nausry a report
t be mported

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.80)
and sold. and importatic. and selling prioes of ol
during th- p riod from July 1 1934 to Deoamber 31
1934, in the oase of oil refiners and quantities of
oil to be imported and splà and the pice theraof
during the same period n the pase of oil importere
wi thin one month after tee of orostent of the prese:t
regulatione In this vaee if the Miriatey or
Commeroe end Tduery as L ecessary be may or der
otl tefieers or mportevs so maxe a ohange ip the
oupt the sua y to e rten r s quet 
to b   n h   
sport
theceuf
cowth
tuth
the proete
cone ider ws
Art 2
business
toe r eent
t
tesion
proe
yprevisions
t
tetun of
 of
Art. 32
time
w f the
si on of
ore of
ofter
import

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.87)
- 9
Art. 33.
Documents to be submi tted to the Mimister of Commeres
and Induatry by oil refiners in accordancs wi he
provision of Art. 27 shall be sent in through the looml
governor governing the district wherein the oil refinery
is located.
Doouments to be submitted to the Minimter of Commaroe
and Industry by oil importera in ac cordams with the
provision of Art 28 shall be sent in through the losal
governor governing the district vrere the main offes
is locatad
Form Separatay xed
Surfa 3:
No
Iseus dato
Certifionte issusd ir a cordance wi th the
provision of parsgrath 2 Art o of the
Dil Industry Law
( Citls  nd nase ot the official
aonc med ) ( seal of the
Depertment o1 Commeros and
Indus try )
Rtok
00
Abstrast oi the Sdi Tnousty Daw
Paragrph 2 Av
Tre at ind strative
office when deas it veceesary to cery sus
eupervisory measures my tve ois slale
concerned lnvestigete brsima.s pondi tione
booke ani o ther Sings at the sffi ces busine as
placee faotories stomge pmts rnd other
placer of vil-refiners or oil importers
I. this cass the insvectins of fio ials wii.
carry certi ftsutee sho wdng their s tatus
ATC5
 serss wao comee under one
of the Pollowing shel. be punished with e
fine not exueedtng 5 Ten
2
Ay person who rofuses to allow
Jovermuent offi piale to inepest un dar
Paragreph 2 Art 10 or intevferee
wi in actions of the officials or
vefuses to nake an ansver in reply
to quastiems sr dakes falee atatement.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.58)
第十五條 左各號八一二敲當入ル當八五百圖以下ノ罰金
第十條第二項行歌言上必アリトムんい
二第十條第一項 為定二當談言史區被檢查
YY
タ傳此！お會ミ於テハッ貴分ッぶス殿書ッ場僧セン
ノ状況父ハ映は書類其ノ仙ノ物件タ檢変セッムルコト
所僧樂所工揚時痛所其仙揚所二臨強薬務
當該富琴ッテ石油覆張飛當又八石油離入業者ノ事務

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.80)
别記樣式
表面
證樂
石油藥法第十餘第二項規定二依
官
年月日交付
氏
商工省印
名
縱八五卷

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.89)
第
第
第
第
三
7
送
蘭
有
7
簡
出
稅
ス
石
十
工
港
途
油
七
R
大
本
二
條
者
業
條
在
免
石
法
第
第
石
許
油
本
許
第
石
石
油
則
可
項
定
油
出
名竝
後
油
数
施
申
第
精
y
又
法謝
認
量
行
翻筆
工
二
月
許
2
規
此
，
之
以
本
則
7
際
二
定
X
楊
規
出及輸入
則
第
得
ス
現
記
二
3
二
施
テ
n
二
戦
依
弟
所
其
行
51
第
石
之
リ
ス
入藥
在地
依
前
取
+
油
石
十
y
注
規
り
六
精
儿
油
八
地
者
年
鎮
文
定
夕
愛
事
精
條
方長官
月
7
二
n
項
製業
第
日
發
依
石
父
又
别
リ
油
定
看
义
I
2
本
石
做
第
經
大
地
者
注
數
n
則
之
油
ス
石
由
臣
方
量
石
施
7
用
油
長官
り
油
行
除
二
天
二
商
發
7
外
8
出
工
額
際
ス
テ
5
ス
經
大
入
營
π
由
臣
輸
七
入
本
許
联
二
年
入
者
可
提
月
港
為
施
9
出
日
ス
行
保
受
之

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.90)
第
第
第
效
三
前
7
臣
7
油
工
油
七
六
力
X
モ
項
變
必
本
翰
於
精
錄
十
出
條
更
要
則
入
5
製
九
最
本
七
失
7
8
魂
施
業
業
條
贷
近
則
餘
7
怠
本
看
定
y
行
者
石
者
借
施
又
y
則
做
二
其
卜
後
2
油
二
本
對
年
行
D0
施
依
認
在
在
則
照
間
第
行
り
厨
月
y
生
リ
施
表
日
8
属
出
以
產
行
收
a
十
キ
際
出
7
内
損
支
於
八
現
7
為
x
二
同
輸
昭
際
益
决
5
條
石
码
為
ス
商
期
入
和
現
計
算
2
油
石
属
工
及
九
二
算
石
規
業
油
X
出
大
年
石
書
法
油
定
法
精
几
2
9
臣
於
賣
七
及
人
P
二
附
製
事
為
ケ
月
利
二
貯
依
則
業
属
数
製
益
在
藏
凡
第
又
3
命
出
石
量
日
J
届
付
n
油
3
又
處
テ
出
項
石
テ
生
二
リ
分
竝
7
油
產
2
输
十
最
3
為
规定
輸
事
此
入
入
油
關
近
貯
入
業
罗
及
及
日
輸
ス
藏
業
計
得
入
取
販
入
元
n
依
7
又
合
費
十
業
營
場
場
營
7
9
9
面
業
所
合
許
4
認
販
於
數
價
日
營
期
及
二
可
者
可
7
量
額
迄
方
於
前
及
7
者
財產
法
其
三
リ
數
工
價
期
第
條
量
大
額
石
間
石
目

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.83)
第二十八餘本則施行際現二石油離入藥夕營者八本則施行後二月以
五本則施行則一年關二於石油版賈數量及販賈價額
四
二
內二左事項間工大臣二屈出
七
六本則施行日二於分凡石油貯藏數量竝二貯鐵楊所及方法
五
四
三
二第一錄第二項第一號第二號第六號及第八號二瑞分九事項
姓近年間收支決算一法人二在易于故近二營藥期財產目
錄貸借對照表損益計算書及利益處分二圖又書面
本則施行前一年間二於分原料油及燃料用重油便用數盤及離入
本則施行前一年周於分二石油餘入數釐及識入價額
本則施行顧一年回二於分九生產數量及敗寶數盈竝二販寶價額
第二錄第二理第一號及第二二第餘第二第八事
第二餘第一始第一號乃至第四號二周夕事項
事藥開始之夕凡時期
11

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.78)
第二十五錄第一條第三條
第二十七絲
第二十六錄
內二左事項商工大臣居出
入藥者
第
第
八其工場所在福管六
管ス
石油精製樂者日
十三及第十錄號定二
第一錄第一項第一號乃至第五號二端夕心事項
地方長官夕經由六
附
3
則
り
本則施行際現石油精製業營者
本則石油藥法施行日
周工六臣
地方長官
11
務所所在地ヲ管稽又
出工大臣
提
一續來法通用夕受夕
べ
山
十二條乃至第十五餘裁定二依り石油
此易石涵精數乘者曰
此鐵田監督局以下之二同
二提出又心手書頭石油製工場所
第七條第十二條及第十五餘規定二依
2
未書鄉八主
り之っ施行ス
一地方長官夕經由
儿事務所所在地管
本則施行後二月以
商工大臣二提出六
不
由
x
7
在
1.0

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.72)
第二十四條石油藥法第十條第二項證票別記樣式二依
第二十三
第11
三保有量
二搬出數
之夕周工大臣二提出x
薄億每日左事頃夕記載其寫夕每月取繼其金月十日迄二
營人留社合併夕篇之
行之受人人之夕
X
曲王大臣巳
前項楊合二於于石油精製來者又八入藥者八其事由止之多
由及狀迎二欽少之數監之臨工大臣二届出心
J
撤入數量
キ
三月以内二其日有又
石油精製樂者石溢總入藥者石注
石油稱經聚者石泄離入樂者其事樂全部夕識渡也
石細卜看做又石細術數來又八石油入來
十二
儿
保有楊所每二
9

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.88)
第
第
因
出
及
9
石
可
二
口
重
t
項
二
x
數
石
油
申
别及
依
十
y
油
九
7
石
當該
量
油
請
變
油
製藥者
書
石
卜
在
更
保有期問中
9
量
油
石
儿
y
石
石
有
油
以
油
油菜法施
工
石
保
精
大臣
油
有
ス
容
保
梦
石
第
π
保
有
y
油
二
保
為
者
口
行
及基
有
卜
有
サ
合
合第
入藥
出
y
第
亦
数
法
M
ス
8
九
七
7
及
者
所
百
石
數
場
石
di
牛
以
工大
油
第
所
油
二
石
9
其
们
油
臣
種
具
油
者
夕
二
别
梦
但
2
事
其
致
54
及
警
由
條
儿
油
17
出
二
可
依
華
以
二
y
指
申
保有
由
容
上
在
谷
べ
x
請
保
容
ふ
y
石
儿
有
量
保
未
ス
店
油
7
以
及基
有
出
由
外
x
第
7
保
y
石油
数
石
二
為
有
7
y
方
油
1
臣
其
法
具
石
夕
原
種
油
白
所
提
别
許
事

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.70)
第十七餘石油藥法施行令第六缺定二
第十八條石油精製藥者又八石油輸入藥者八每保有期間開始二月前迄
入榮者保有又半石油八左種別二從前錄取謂同內其者
稅圗免許又八認許何于引取り夕之數量算二言之算人之六
石油藥法施行會第五錄第一號乃至第三號二坳石溢數通八前頂
二重油及以油
第二種四十夕超工廿九七
第一極四十超凡
第二
第
原故谷置二對又百分學
劉溫蒸僧法二低夕攝氏二百七十五度二至此四二於云蒸溜又
氏十五二比○七四二八超
周氏十五二分九此○七四二八超工
n
老
原文八之卜同等以上品
モ

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.84)
第
第
人
十
石
行
十
同
又
得
六
油
許
休
九
日
四
者
精
62
稍
可叮
止
月
51
月
ナ
申
取
月
石
7
許
石
日
日
有
出
之
之
鬱
油相樂藥
本
3
十
3
米
y
り
12
出
受
數
日
九
工
I
7
大
年
迄
月
行
大
大臣
大
2
者
月
三
臣
4
臣
è
月
二
人
ス
+
分
日
六
凡
日
十
引取
迄
山
此
迄
y
日
以
止
月
迄
上
定
未
之
其
分
期引取期
有
二
夕
者
後
心
学
其
期保
富
山
民
卜
事
由
石
以
二
间
2
有周同
i.c
9
二
再
体
止
2
止
10
充
年
7
ス
父
之
7
年
方
記
六
1
π
月
免
七
許
日
卜
之
以
8
許
月
ヨ
父
上

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.81)
第十
十四餘
讓
三
前
9
三
波絡了
渡
渡
項
記
可申詩書二
受人
决
護渡人又
識渡契約
载
識錄父八總社員
石油精興藥又石油輪入藥營會
isd
關錄規定石油精製藥又八
x
二
當事者連署
奖
護渡價宿及時期竝二護渡又
5.
去當事者運署上運滯
受人力
貞德會
曾
之
曲工大臣
石油輪入藥營
本
附
定款組合十
x
二
本組合十凡書合
於
提
+
社
テ
2
出
半精興故備又八貯殿設備
3
決談錄又總社員
人
曲
許可申請
工大臣二居出
場合
於
林主總會
テ
5
y

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.87)
第
第
第
第
十
九
入
八
七
條
缺
都
條
x
條
工大
入又
年
度
概
石
石
石
月
其
石
之
石
石
况
油
油
油
日
油
9
油
精
二
李
精
7
精
簡
精
入
鐵
工大
照
業
出
桑
入
者
量
者
七
種
者
臣
概
X
工
HU
二
又
損益
况及年
大
C
居
40
石
石
臣
石
出
石
計算書及
油
數
油
3
油
油
東
心
2
入
大
出
17
入
入
於
生
藥
藥者
者
此
00
渡
00
每
限
但
出
油
每
年
2
之
7
分
營藥
在
石
可
概
月末
寶
五
9
油
入
期
日
藥法施
開
4
x
經
7
日
迄
始
迄
及
二
後
工大臣
二
月
龍
行
2
面
其
月
几
中
第
沿
2
二
名
x
工
年
数
石
錄
及
ふ0
大
財
油
二
其

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.77)
第六餘石油繼入藥藥計班認可甲請書二左事項記數又
第五錄石油術製藥事藥計臨可申齡皆二八左事項夕記載スべ
三
七
六
五
三
二
距工大臣二堤出スべ
一日二至期間學乘計監定其國年九月三十日迄二龍可甲請書
一財藏設繼改良計鑑
收支
生產數及版寶數堂四三年始及年末在效
原科又粉料用重油入數數
精製設偏及貯紙設偏改良計聲
版豐數量數二年始成年末在軍數量
入數
鳳料油及數料用處治便用數量數二年始及年末在寧數
2

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.76)
第國修
第三條
三
五
四
人
七
項
石油精獲藥者又八石油輪入藥者八每年一月
第錄第一項各號及前錄第一
像第二
驗入及版寶諫定卧盜
入方法
許可甲胡書
事業國始源定時期
入卷
石
當藥所又八事務所名教所在地
許可甲發面工大臣
石油入藥許可夕ケ
法人在易八其定款組合二
事藥收变八見
油種鎖及產站
微
故偏及貯廠昭力
事由具工大臣許可ッ受
三
一親乃至第五
左
二
老田
又
第七號及第八號
x
在
2
在
地
八其祖合契約
日R
日
2
十二月一
项
三
8
十

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.75)
生定計
第一餘石油精製藥八許可受ケ八六九者八左二過分九事記載之
光事及其方法
四工事費算
三
二
六
四
三
可申工大臣二地出
原料油取得方法
精雲八方
料油檢領及產地
精變工易名稱及所在
石油藥法施行規則
1

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.88)
第
第
第
委
四
三
石
委
調
委
依
貞及
鋒
項定員外必要
條
餘
員
查
臨
石
酸
石
石
ス
剧
油
姿員八簡工大臣奏請
X
梁法
油
項
限
00
八外酬係各大臣
二
石
工
油
七
七
儿
付
x
七
儿
x
合
ザ
命
2
工大臣
二
合
n
於
3
3
二
事
官
卜
付
制
充
人以內
關係各大臣
得
軍
心
以
臣
石
油
x
石
油藥法第八錄規定
之
7
建
藥
7
要
酸
組織
ス
ス
卜
儿
ス
中
ス
モ
2
得
2
7
付
得

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.67)
行5日
之施行ス

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.63)
第一錄石油榮法第一錄石油稱製業八鎖物性原料油一含油密
第二錄石四樂法第一錄石四製案可八石製工每二之爲
保八別二一二二分一下
幾饑儲八又八一基二付一年五萬之口リ夕卜ル以上原料油處 能力
付一年二馬九千十口易少卜凡以上原料油處壇能力有又九分解蒸留
年五萬之口リ卜ル以上原科油處壇能力夕有又九直溜裝直及一基二
石油精製工場二之子臨入之夕九原料油精雲爲又七八一基二付一
二人夕物性四經父八之夕八九事梁夕除
石細榮法第一石細靈入乘八鎖物運錢燈油額
三
重涵又原回拙入又心事樂十又但之德其之二進又容誥
此被油又風油精製又來又但之石炭又油母頁岩日月製造
石油藥法施行令

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.89)
第
第
四
三
者
五
重
ス
四
許
障
石油
油
2
條
可
7
條
石油藥法第五條規定依り石油精製藥者又八石油輪入乘者
重油及原油
船
見
政
及
用
本
府
油
左
，
原
7
石
前工大臣
品
油
得
油
認
本
入藥者
各
鎖
护
藥法第
ザ
4
航
號
空
二
鐵
同
石
卜
八石
除
機
係
夕
物
油
四
入
客
π
二
性
7
油
石
2
該
規
得
石
用
泗
當
重
定
油
品
携
9
x
油
二
要供
X
發品
安
n
依
二
法
七
石
原
y
依
第
給
二
自
夕
ズ
油
油
石
性
9
7
揮經油
入
動
n
9
石
酌
車
石
ス
精藥者
油
油
油
離入乘
石
精裂藥又
油
品
燈
者
油
二
又
鎖
入ッ
非
二
物性
石
於
經田
ザ
分
油
テ
為
L
7
其
機被油
殷油
入
輸
9
9
薬
二
入
得
為
支

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.87)
第
七
其
致
事
2
以
X
大
上
其
規
7
臣
00
1
楊
保
定
待
石
此
油
合
2
有
7
他
x
油
海
油
已
但
限
法
保
渡
此
保
大
第
有
數
石
石
.3
止
有
臣
在
五
数
油
油
其
X
二
量
藥法
ズ
低
石
待
他
所
y
必
油
无
r
第
公
7
工
之
定
要
方
7
六
又
指
大臣
製
法
方
事
調
上
定
依
立
法
限
由
節
石
軍
x
事
若
二
及
ス
規
油
石
項
石
前
在
1り
A
定
2
上
油
油
7
夕
為
二
入
必
其
但
油
精
但
不
必
依
要
保
工
链
製
二
要
者
得
他
有
大
入
柔
因
+
石
公
工
臣
4
油
所
益
大
命
之
7
若
合
其
有
老
上
臣
令
7
營
二
必
定
於
保
人
石
要
以
有
命
2
石
油
可
保
油
リ
7
定
合
人
有
X
同
法
ü
受
A
併
樂
ス
保
10
法
第
有
入
A
谷
ガ
七

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.74)
工太臣石油乘法第七條命分又八第七錄第二通指定
本中曲工大臣
八座羅大臣又八海軍大臣二偏議ス
三於示其命令又八指定力軍事上二影
第二指定
大臣上分

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.89)
第
第
第
但
四
7
三
前項石油精製藥及
條
受
條
勤令别殿规定丁
止
夕
石油精製藥者又
石油
石
石油精裏藥又
石油粉製乘又
又
政
以
4
精製藥者又
離入石油精製藥者
止
石
七
可
同
定
油
2
受
石
石油輪入藥
2
石
油
油輪入藥
業
油
2
油輸入藥營
い
入藥者
2
入藥範
法
4
ガ
1.0
7
命
者
營
限
變
更
並
在
之
精
定
七
二
7
製
4
許
x
x
社
n
定
可
n
x
必
7
所
金
ス
4
者
4
合
二
部
BA
所
卜
+
併為
依
又
所
二
7
り
考
必
依
得
石
政府
依
要
之
油
义
部
4
y
ナ
許
同
可
解
2
業
7
入
散
可
渡
計
項
受

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.87)
第
第
第
第
九條
石
测
八
政
給
入
七
命
六
段
府
合
條
4
者
卜
4
規
政
公
二
政
9
定
石
ス
A
油精與藥者又
定
签
對
府
得
油
S
又法人
T
第
上
ズ
n
精與樂者
0
必
x
石
公
所
組織及德
3
油
二
安
上
依
7
許
沙
ナ
取
U
20
除
可
張
3
n
要
時
20
卜
限
X
價
石
20
項
格
y
7
油
7
入藥者本
外
改
y
ふ
執行七
合
石
錄
良
命
認
入藥者
油
2
ズ
更
4
以
縮
命
n
ザ
7
合
ズ
石
4
石
卜
3
法
之
油
油
X
購
ふ
二
為
8
精
供
入
基
定
y
3
毀藥者又
得
石
七
得
酸
2
油
所
石油
政
得
確
精
6
有
府
發
得
保
張菜者
ス
ス
夕當時保有ス
ス
此
n
石油輪入乘者
石
第
他
又
考
油
合
00
石
9
0
油
石
之
政
許
違
合
油
府
河
反
2
職
拒

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.85)
第
第
第
第
+
檢
义
行
+
2
者
2
0
處
狀
錄
分
况
五千圃
合
粉
油
4
行政官
石油糖變藥者又八石油驗入乘者第二缺又
石
第
致
二
為
關
特
於
狀
入
ス
以
况
3
下
許
父
必
卜
可
安
9
7
石
者
7
T
得
為
反
處
金
受
身
y
女
精
違
二
5
分
所
2
石
反
ズ
7
x
之
x
示
營
4
入者
x
薬
證
他
所
者
他
9
工
D0
石
左
當
油
千
7
政官史
入樂者
各
七
以
下
石
七
所
2
“
油
二
網
入
之
7
命
金
他
石
合
當
油
2
说
2
4
数
Br
定
得
又
2
品
務

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.89)
第
第
十
離入藥者
七
大
五
錄
免
錄
者
二
他
人
法
2
油
X
第
X
反
用
y
項
項
號
A
本
得
者
法
X
二
質
規
執
命
定
行
基
合
7
x
則
石
對
依
若
依
自
油
用
役
發
報
x
員
業
告
者
指
粉
二
但
命
二
者
違
為
五
合
サ
反
百
梦
人
出
ズ
臨
ズ
3
本
若
檢檢查
2
若
以
法
代
石
盧
2
油
人
X
0
精
故
本
C
拒
年
治產
法
報
二
以
主
告
處
訪
基
7
X
+
取
又
家
若
联
役
石
發
又

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.84)
本法施行期
第五錄魏定本法施行後六月
2
本法施
定
之
石油
看做ス
5
所
附
現石油精製藥當書
6
活
日
勅合タ以
則
本
20
法施行
夕
3
條規定
X
場合
日
於
3
リ
7
命令定
拘
7
7
九石油又八本法施行前注文
又石油輸入藥營者八命會
六輸入只爲
用
本
法
七
X
4
3
2
ス
所
許
3
可
★
至
y
得
7
政
發
府
世

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
PT
1-1330
FROM
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
LONDON
fore being communicated
to anyone (B)
Dated Septeaber 12, 1934
Rec'd. 9.20 am.
40
Secretary of State,
Division cf
Washington
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 12 1934
RUSH
Department af State
.6363/72
519, September 12, 2 pom.
117
Department's 358, Soptcember 11, 8 pom.
Text of Departanent's tele ram 347, August 31, noon,
was read to the Chief of the Far Eastern (#) September
lst who after expressing thanks remarked "it is all right
as far as it goes" and later mentioned that he foared
it might be difficult "to bring the small American
companies into line."
He said that after talking the matter over with
the interested departments he would again get in touch
with the Embassy.
Nothing written or oral has since been received
from the Foreign Office.
FULED
BINGHAM
RR
CSB
Oil concessions
894.6363/67
(#) omission.

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.95)
FEX
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
yele
Conversation.
September 10, 1934.
2elt 2ay
Mr. B. Kleijn.Molekamp,
Commeroial Counselor of the
Netherland Legation.
Dioision
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Sipy t Tokyo
Mr. Hornbeok.
894.6362
SEP 11 1934
11/14/24
Mr. Hamilton.
sors
Departmeat of State
RECETVED
Sab jeot:
Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
894.6363/73
SEP 12 1934
LIVISION OF
Mr. Molekamp called on Mr. Hamilton and was brought
by Mr. Hamilton to Mr. Hornbeok.
Mr. Molekamp stated that he had received from his
Government, on Saturday afternoon, September 8, a telegram
whioh stated that the Netherland Government had instructed
its Minister in Tokyo to approach the Minister for Foreign
Affairs and in a friendly manner point out to the latter
that the Japanese petroleum regulations injuriously affected
Netherland interests and to request that these regulations
be altered. The features which he was to stress as the
most objectionable were (a) the requirement for six months'
storage purchasable at a price set by the Japanese Govern-
ment, (b) the provision that the quotas (of import) may be
changed annually by the Japanese Government, and (c) the
fact that the Japanese Government expects to give preference
ELED
t
F

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
to orude oil -- whioh preference would result in injury
to the business of refining outside of Japan.
Mr. Hornbeok inquired whether the instruotion contained
anything in the way of a suggestion for action by other
governments. Mr. Molekamp replied that it did not, but he
added that it might in itselr be taken as implying a sug-
gestion.
Mr. Hornbeok inquired whether the Netherland Minister
at Tokyo had as yet carried out the instruction. Mr.
Molekamp replied that he was not informed.
Mr. Hornbeck said that we might consider that the
status of the matter at this moment is that the Netherland
Government has informed us of an instruction which it has
given to the Netherland Minister for an approach to the
Japanese Government; that all that we can say at the moment
is that we appreciate being given this information and we
will give the matter consideration. Mr. Molekamp requested
that we inform him of any action which we take, if and when.
Mr. Hornbeck and Mr. Hamilton said that we would of course
wish to do so.
In oonolusion, Mr. Hornbeck inquired whether the
Netherland Legation has been informed of any action having
been taken by the British Government. Mr. Molekamp replied
that it had not.
With a repetition by Mr. Molekamp of a request that we
keep him informed, the conversation ended.
(Sum mext tay2).
SxH
PB:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.95)
-3 -
Supplement to memorandum of September 10.
In the course of this conversation, Mr. Molekamp
said that he understood that Netherland interests that
would be affected by the Japanese regulations are greater
than American interests, and Mr. Hornbeck and Mr. Hamilton
said that they also so understood.
m.m.W
FE:SKH/ZMK
FR

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.92)
m. m.N
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Conversation.
September 7, 1934.
Mr. Walter C. Teagle,
Di0:1
president, Standard oil
FARESTRS
ETOD
Company of New Jersey.
S: 11 034
Copey to Taleuso
Mr. Hornbook.
xmnmru
91.636
m
Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
RECEIVED
Related Developments and Problems.
SEP.12 1934
894.6363/74
DIVISION OF
Mr. Teagle called me on the telephone from New York.
He said that he had been informed by Sir Henri Deterding
(from Europe) that the Netherland and the British Govern-
ments had made protests to the Japanese Government. He
wondered what information we had and what action we had
taken.
I replied that we had not been informed that those
Governments or either one of them had protested; that we
had had an inquiry from the British Government with regard
to our attitude -- which inquiry had come before Sir Henri
Deterding had reached London, and that the Counselor of
the Netherland Legation had called and had asked us what
was our attitude; but that in neither case had we been in-
formed what the other Government thus inquiring intended
to do or what it proposed, if anything, by way of joint
FILED
action; that we had given the reply in each case that we
would expect the initiative by way of proposals, if any,
to
F

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.92)
一 8-
to come from the British and/or the Netherland Governments.
Mr. Teagle repeated that he had been informed that
they bad protested; and he said that he would cheok back
ezd would expeot to have further information on Monday
next.
FE:8KH/ZK

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.95)
mm.N.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
F5
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Soptomber 10, 1934.
Conversation.
Mr. Walter C. Teagle,
President, Standard Oil
Pivision
20
FAR EASTER FORS
Company of New Jersey.
S11734
Mr. Hornbeok.
Depapout of state
894.6363
RECEIVED
Subjoot:
Japanose Petroleum Monopoly and
894.6363/75
Related Developments and Problems.
SEP 12 1934
DIVIBION OF
Mr. Teagle called me on the telephone from New York
and said that he had been informed definitely by Sir Henri
Deterding's representative in New York that the Netherland
and the British Governments had protested to the Japanese
Government. He would like to know whether we had been
informed.
I stated that we had not been so informed; that we
had had nothing since the telephone conversation between
Mr. Teagle and me on Friday last; but that the Commeroial
Attaché of the Netherland Legation was coming in to see us
in a few minutes and it might be assumed that he would
have something to tell us.
Mr. Teagle said that probably the Commercial Attaché
would give us information corresponding to that which he,
Mr. Teagle, had; and that he would call me up again this
FILED
afternoon.
F
八

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
Mr. Teagle called me this afternoon on the telephone
from New York and I informed him in confidenoe and briefly
with regard to the information given us this morning by
the Commercial Attaché of the Netherland Legation (see
773
memorandum of today's date). He asked whether there was
anything that he could do at this stage. He said he hoped
that we would make a protest. I said that it should be
understood that the instructions of the Netherland Govern-
ment to its Minister in Tokyo, as reported to us, did not
use the. word "protest" and seemed to envisage friendly
representations. I said that if the representations are
made seriatim and without the appearance of concerted action,
it might be that the effect would be somewhat weakened. I
said that we were expecting to hear something from London
in the near future; and that in the interval I did not see
that there was anything which we could do at this moment.
It was agreed that we would keep in touch -- and the con-
versation there ended.
SCT
FE:8KH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.95)
EuO
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
RR
SPECIAL GRAY
Tokio
FROM
Duted September 19, 1934.
RECEIVED
SEP 19 1934
Recd. 1:48 a. m.
DIVISION OF
21 1934
Zekgram to Thoyo
Secretary of State,
894.6363/76
Jashington.
44
894.6563
205, September 19, 11a m.
COFIDLNTIAL. My 190, August 24, 5 p. m. and
previous telegrams concerning the Japunese petroleum control
law.
The Netherlands Minister yesterday made "fricndly
representations" to the Forei n Office on instructions from
his Governnent nd left with the Minister for Foreign Affairs
an aide lenoire pointing out thot the Netherlands oil inter-
ests, w ich act through the Rising Sun Oil Company in Japan,
are placed in a difficult position in Japan because of:
(1) The six months stock holding requirements,
which involve a large outlay of capital.
(2) The annual licensing system, which gives no
security of business beyond cne year.
(3) The encouragement of oil refining in Japan,
which is detrimental to the refining industry in the Nether-
lands Indies. The Netherlands oil interests are neverthe-
less "willing to consider the erection of a refining plant
in

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
205 from Tokio
-2-
in Japan but so far they have not been able to ascertain
if a license to refine oil in Japan vill be granted them
and if so whether they will enjoy the s ame treatment as
the Japanese companies."
(4) The price fixing regulations, which require
the oil companies to sell their stocks and import quotas
at prices fixed by the government.
The aide memoire then states the Netherlands
Legution therefore requests the Japanese Government "to
con ider means to romedy the letrimental causes which
render it extremely difficult for the Net erlands oil
intercsts to reach a decision wich is bound to involve
great expenditure for which at r esent no sufficient
security is given."
Full text of the aide memoire will be sent by
mail.
WSB RR
GREW

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.98)
Sp.sray
TELEGRAM SENT
FICE
TO BE TRANBNITTED
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Deparkment of State
NONCONFIDENTIAL OODE
PARTAIR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PLAIN
Washington, September 21, 1954
SPECIAL GRAY
AMENBASSY
034 SEP 21 PM 6 15
(TOKYO) JAPAN
8pm
162
Your 205, Beptwsa a0, 11 a.m.
COMMUNICATIONS
Please make the RfoVroging communication orally and informal-
ly to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. If and when he asks for a
copy, you may give him one without entitling it memorandum or
894.636
aide memoire.
QUOTE One. The American Government has noted the enaot-
ment by the Japanese Government of a law (Law No. 26 of March 27
363/76
1934) for the control of the petroleum industry in Japan and,
in view of the substantial participation of American interests
in that industry, it is moved in all friendliness to invite
the attention of the Japanese Government to the disabilities
which the law under reference threatens to impose upon American
petroleum interests in Japan.
QUOTE Two. The American firms concerned are convinced
that, if, as a condition to continuation of their business
in Japan, they are to be required to install equipment and
maintain stocks of oil and of oil products in excess of
their ordinary commercial requirements; if the required
stocks are to be subject to purchase by the Japanese
Government at a price to be fixed by that Government; if
there is likelihood or possibility that quotas will be
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1—188

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM SENT
ICE
1-138
TO BE TRANSMITTED
VHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
tment
Department of State
PARTAIR
OR
PLAIN
Washington.
-2-
preseribed regardless of the amount of business done in the
past by firms that may be affected; and if there is likelihood
or possibility that quotas may subsequently be raised or be
thise firms
lewered at will;--thay/would not repeat not be able to form-
S
ulate long term plans for the reasonable safeguarding of
their enterprises in Japan and would find it impossible
to invest with any sense of security funds necessary for
the operation of those enterprises. Accordingly, it is
felt that subjection of their enterprises to such conditions
and the meeting by the companies of such requirements would
be tantamount to a laying upon the companies of special
burdens the effect of which would be a contribution to a
national objective of Japan at heavy cost to the American
enterprises concerned but with no repeat no advantage or
compensation to the enterprises themselves.
QUOTE Three. In view of the destructive effect which
application of certain provisions of the law would presumably
have upon legitimate and established interests developed over
a period of many years by American enterprise in response
to economic needs of the Japanese people, the American
Government expresses the hope that the Japanese
/Government will see its way clear to avoid subjecting
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1-138

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM SENT
1-188
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department of State
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washington,
-3-
Amorican petroleum interests in Japan to the unusual
hazards and the burdensome restrictions upon the normal
conduct of business whioh are apparently implicit in the
law under reference. UNQUOTE.
Report by telegraph when action is taken.
Dopartment is instruoting London to inform the
British Foreign Office.
894.6363/76
7mmH.
FE
S14t
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
19.
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1-138

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
PT
This telogran must be
FROM
closely paraphrascd be-
LONDON
foro bcing communicated
to anyone (A)
Dated Soptember 19,1934
Roc:d. 12.20 p.m.
RECEIVED
Secretary of State,
SEP 1 1934
Zebgram to
894.6363/77
Washington
DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
d
1
894.6343
RUSH
Departmont of State
529, Soptumber 19, 4 pom.
Acti  Chiof of Far Eastern Department today
refer ud te Embassy's convorsat on with Chief of thit
Departnont, now on leave (reported in Em assy's telegran
72
519 Soptu her 12, 2 p m.) ana made the followine romarks.
One. About July 23 British mbassador at Tokyo on
instructions from the Foreign Office informally advised
Japanusc Foreign Office in a friendly conversation thnt
tho Sholl Company had complained of the Japanese petroloum
ground
law on
of compulsory tank construction anl price
fixing, nphasizing an carly date, July 3lst andwaich
the law was to come into effect. The Ambassador said that
the British Government considered that as presented the
Company's complaints were justifiud and he would be lad
if the appropriato Japanese Ministry would hear tho co pany.
This

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.97)
PT
- 2 - No. 529 from London Supt. 19, 4 p.m.
This was at once agreed to and it is understood that
the Under Secretary of Commerce had huld conversat: ons
with Shell.
Two. Though the Forei n Office had not approached
the Dutch they understood that " the Dutch Governmont
are willin to authorize their Minister at Tokyo to mako
a similar demarche on behalf of Dutch oil interusts."
Threc. The Foreign Office did not plan to move
again in the matter at present, awaitin a possible answer
fro. the Japanese Government or a request for further
action fron Sholl.
The Foreign Office is  tie opinion that in vicy
of our similar interests the Dupartiont of Stato might
desire to instruct the American Ambassador at Tokyo to
make a similar demarche to show the United States
Govornnent's concorn.
BINGHAM
WSB
KLP

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM SENT
1-130
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL OODE
epartment of State
PARTAIR
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PLAIN
Washingion.
September 21, 1934.
054 SEP 21
should be carefully parachrased before
AMMBASSY,
8pm
COMMUNICATIONS
Rh AND RECORDS
365
CONFIDENTIAL.
894.6363/77
Your 529, September 19, 4 p. m.
One. The British Foreign Ofrice having made inquiry in
rogard to the attitude of this Government and the Department
having indicated in its telegram No. 347 of August 31, noon,
that it would be prepared to give sympathetic consideration to
proposals which the British and Dutch Governments might care
to offer in the direotion of the taking of joint or conourrent
action, the Department naturally supposed that the British
Foreign Ofrice would without too great delay, in view of the
Japanese requirement that the oil companies submit a report
on plans of future operations before October 1, next, indicate
to this Government what it would be prepared to do or would
suggest for action concurrently with the other interested
governments.
594 L363 76
The Department has now instructed the Embassy at Tokyo
to invite the attention of the Japanese Government to the
fact that the American firms concerned are convinced
that if they are to be required to install equipment and
maintain stocks of oil in no repeat no way related to
Erciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
—188

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM SENT
FICE
1-120
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
artment
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washingion,
- 2 -
their ordinary commeroial requirements, if such stocks are to be
subjeot to purohase by the Japanese Government at a price to be
fixed by that Government, and if quotas for the importation of
are
oil/likely to be prescribed without regard to the amount of
business done in the past by suoh American concerns, there would
be created conditions so hazardous and burdensome as to impair
the ability of the companies concerned to conduct their business
in Japan in a commercially sound and prudent manner.
It is hoped that the British Government may, in view of
the faots that its representations were made almost two months
ago and have thus far apparently yielded no repeat no favorable
X
results, find it possible to express to the Japanese Government
substantially similar views, thus tending to confer on the
independent demarches of the interested Governments some of the
advantages which might flow from simultaneous and joint action.
(w0. Please seek an early opportunity to inform the Foreign
Office orally in the above sense.
communication to the Foreign Office unless they first impart
similar information, the Ambassador at Tokyo telegraphed under
date September 19 that the Netherland Minister on September 18
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1-188

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
OFFICE
1-120
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department of State
artment
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washingion,
- 3 -
under instruotions from his Government made representations
to the Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs.
894.6363/77
mm.H new
:MID:SKH/REK
FE
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
,19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1—188

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 26, 1934.
Tokyo's despatch lNo. 957 of September 6,
1934, in regard to the Japanese petroleum
industry law:
There is transmitted with this despatch
a translation of pertinent excerpts from the
proceedings of the Committee of the Diet to
which the draft of the law was referred last
session. The despatch sets forth important
statements made by Goverrment officials which
have direct bearing on the position of the
foreign oil companies. I suggest that you
read marked portions of the report on the
proceedings of the Diet Committee for further
information in regard to the following points:
1. Sources of Supply. Most of the
crude is obtained from the United States but
it may be possible to obtain crude also from
Borneo, Mexico and Venezuela. One concern
"has been negotiating with a view to getting
hold of petroleum resources in Mexico and
Venezuela"(page 2). Freight costs render
difficult purchases of oil from Rumania (page 7)
2. Protecting Japanese Consumers of
Gasoline by Encouraging Refining In Japan.
It is charged that companies with world-wide
markets are able to sell gasoline below cost
in

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
in countries where there is competition
from domestic refineries and to offset losses
in those countries by charging higher prices
in countries which do not produce gasoline.
For example, the price per gallon of gasoline
1s 36 Sen to 38 Sen in California and 36 Sen
in Japan, but it is 75 Sen at Shanghai
(pages 2, 3 and 14).
3. Possibility of Retaliatlon
by Foreign Oi1 Companies (Pages 6 to 8).
4. Quotas for Foreign Companies.
It is not the intention of the Japanese
Government for the present to curtail the
"sales fields" of the foreign oil companies.
(Pages 14 to 17). The Minister of Commerce
and Industry admits, however, that this is a
very delicate matter and one which he cannot
discuss in detail. His statements, however,
underscore "at present", the implication
being that the quotas of the foreign companies
will be reduced as soon as circumstances
permit. You will, of course, have noted on
pages 6 and 7 of the despatch, that the
Rising Sun has been granted a quota equivalent
to the volume handled by it at present, but
that the quota of the Standard Oil has been
reduced owing to a "clerical error", which
the Government would not correct.
5. Maintenance.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3 -
5. Maintenance of Stocks. I think
you might read this entire section, pages 22
to 25. You will note that if the companies
are required to keep more than six-months'
stock on hand the Government would feel
obligated to bear the additional cost. The
Government calculates, however, that the cost
of maintaining stocks under the present plan
is less than one Sen per gallon, and it was
believed that this cost would be at least
offset by economies (?) which the law would
enable the companies to effect.
I have not as yet received despatch
No. 956 of September 6, 1934, which 1s
referred to as transmitting a memorandum
of conversation between Neville and the
Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs.
FE:PWDLY
894.6363/78

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.89)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
HH
Tokyo, September 6, 1986.
12A
No. 957.
subjeet:
meriean Oil Interests in Japan.
400
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
994.6363
Departmant of State
 Achoriy letter
520fm od 1. , State Dept
ByH/Clly Date 3///.7
PP2A4
RECD
02
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
ASCSTANT EBORETAR
A-CZC
For Duatributon-Chock
OF STATE
Grade
Tof
For
in USA
1e
sderetary of State,
Washington.
sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Eabassy's despatck
F/HS
No. 9s8, dated agust 24, 1954, in which was dissussed
the effest of the recently-enacted Petroleum Industry
Lem upen Ameriean cil interests in Japan. Sinse that
despateh was writstes, this problem, combimed with the
guestien ef the petroleum sales monopoly in Manehuris,
has beceme ef major interest, and consequently an attempt

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.96)
- 8 -
will be made in this despatch to desoribe the bask-
ground of the matter in greater detail and to chronicle
the latest developments of the cass.
Objeets and Operation of the Petroleum Industry Law.
For the Department's information there are enelesed
1/
(1) a copy of a compilation of excerpts from the steno-
graphie record of the hearings before the special Diet
committee appointed to examine the Fetroleum Industry
81
Bill and (2) a copy of a translation of a lecture de-
livered by Mr. Kishi Sakai, a permanent seeretary of the
Department of Gommerce and Industry before a meeting of
the Fuel Association on July 14, 1954.
The collection of excerpts from the hearings before
the committee of the Diet appointed to examine the Petro-
Leum Industry Law was compiled by the Rising Sun Petroleum
Compamy (Shell interests) and the Standard-Vacuum oil
Company and consists of significant statements prinoipally
made by the Minister for Commerce and Industry, divided
into the following categories: Attitude toward Foreign
Companies; Objects of the Law; quotas for Foreign com-
panies; Priee Gontrol; Stock-keeping (costs); Stoek-
keeping (Loealities); Stoek-keeping (Miscaloulations);
malgamation; Small Refineries; Subsidies; Refining
Capaeity; Tankers; Oil for Ships; and Exports.
From the exeerpts contained in the first sectiom of
the compilation it will be obserred that the questiom of
a possible embargo on the sales of erude oil to Japanese
refineries had attrasted the attention of the Committee
ané was considered even before the passage of the bill
(the hearings were held in February, 1954). Thus, the
minister

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
Minister for Commeree and Industry stated (page 1 of
the exeerpts):
"....it will not do for us to be dependent solely
on these eompanies. In the U.S.A. there are
some sourees or supply not conneeted with the
Standard Oil; also it appears that there are
good sourees of supply in the South Sea Islands
not under the control of those two companies".
Later, however, he decried the possibility that an em-
bargo might be imposed by the United States on the export
of orude oil to Japan (page ?):
*...ir the Japan market is so important for the
big companies that their possession of it is
vital to their existence, they they might adopt
desperate means of acquiring it; actually,
however, the Japan market is quite insignificant
in their eyes in comparison with business in other
countries, and therefore it is out of the question
that they would resort to drastic measures and
expend vital energy in suppressing Japan."
But in a later statement he admitted the possibility that
such an embargo might be imposed (page 8):
"Should the U.S.A. take such an action as to pro-
hibit the export of crude oil to Japan, there
would be nothing less than an economic war, in
which event we should have no alternative but to
look to other countries for supplies."
The Minister and the Gommittee apparently did not take
into consideration at that time the added effeet of the
proposed oil sales monopoly in Manchuria upon American
opinion. The effect of the Petroloum Industry Law upon
American investments in the oil distributing busimess in
Japan only was disoussed.
In regard to the matter of maintaining stooks of
petroleum products in Japen, the Minister stated (pages
22, 23 and 25 of the excerpts):
"The Gevermment has no intention of giving any
subsidies or compensation for the ereetion of
more tankage."
w....but

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.98)
*....but ir it is felt necessary to do so, we
shall have to give the matter sonsideratiom."
"The questiom of whether the State itself will
earry stoeks or will subsidize oil companies
for earrying stocks will be carefully considered
after the Law has been in force for some tims."
As concerns the objects of the Petroleum Industry
Law, the Minister for Finance stated (page 12 of the
excerpts):
wHowever, at the moment we are greatly concerned
about the so-called *critieal period', 1935 and
1956, when our retirement from the League of
Nations will become effective.
to provide oil for national defense in 1935
and l936 it would be better for us to purehase
now from abroad and hold our purchases in stock,
because there is the risk that in a time of emer-
geney foreign powers might institute an economie
bloekade against Japan and stop selling oil to us.
To obviate this risk the safest way will be for us
to stoek up from now onwards. ..."
The objeets and procedure of the Petroleum Industry
Lam are further explained by Mr. Sakai (one of the perma-
nent officials of the Department of Gommeree and Industry)
in his lecture of July 14, 1934, (Enclosure No. 2). The
greater part of the lecture is concerned with the machinery
of control of the importing and refining of oil, and is
of interest at the moment only as a matter of record.
In the first part of the lecture, however, Mr. Sakai im-
plies that one of the primary purposes of the Law is
eventually to abolish imports of petroleum products into
Japen. He states:
*Our oil industry, nevertheless, still remaims
largely controlled by foreign capital. Over
ome halr of the demands for gasoline and heavy
oil in the country is being supplied by foreign
oil interests.
I hear that our oil refiners are obliged to
Leave about one half of their capasity idle - a
very deplorable phemomenom. It is of utmost
impertanee that they should be enabled to sive
full play to their capacity so that our country
may

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
may be rendered self-contained in all petroloum
produots eventually.
To this end, we must regulate the imports of
foreign products which are making their way into
our country....."
In regard to that part of the Petroloum Industry Law
requiring importers and refiners to maintain six months'
stocks in Japan, Mr. Sakai states:
"Stock holaing duty represents another significant
aspect of the Oil Industry Law. It being impossible
to bring about a speedy inorease in the production
of petroleum by hunting for further oil resourees
in our country or by developing the fuel substitute
Industry, we must rescrt to some expedient for main-
taining an adequate supply of petroleum at all times
against emergencies; hence this duty."
The injustice, however, of requiring foreign firms to carry
a part of Japan's war-time reserves of oils does not seem
to have occurred to Mr. Sakai.
Recent Developments.
As was stated in the Embassy's despatch No. 938, the
two large foreign oil companies in Japan (the Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company and the Rising Sun Petroloum Company)
addressed Letters to the Minister for Gommeroe and In-
dustry, requesting answers in writing to ten questions
conserning the future business of the foreign companies
in Japan. Under date of August 31, 1934, Mr. T. Fukuda,
the Chief of the Mining Bureau of the Department of Commerce
and Industry, replied to the letters. ▲ translation of
the reply to the letter from the Standard-Vacuum oil com-
pamy is enalosed herewitk. As will be observed, the
Chief of the Mining Bureau carefully refrained from com-
mitting himself or the Japanese Government in any way,
confiming his written replies to generalities and requesting
a represemtative of the Company to eall and diseuss the
guestions with the officials conserned. Perhaps the most
signirieant

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.97)
- 6 -
signifieant statement contaimed in the letter is that
"jusimess plans (of the importers of.petroloum
produets) shall be sanctioned taking demand and
supply or petroleum and other things into com-
sideratiom in order to make our petroleum in-
dustry more prosperous. ....Unless something
extraordinary takes place, the quantity to be
sold will not become less than the quantity
sold at the time of the enforcement of the Petro-
leum Industry Law.* (Italics not in original
letter).
The assuranees given in the reply do not by any means
satisry the foreign oil companies, as the assurances are
qualiried by such phrases as "and other things" and
"unless something extraordinary takes place". Moreover,
the reply does not assure the foreign ccmpanies that they
will be allowed to retain their present relative positions
vis-a-vis the Japanese refining companies, but implies,
on the other hand, that they will not be permitted to
share in the natural increase in the petroleum trade and
will only be permitted, at best, to retain the same
quantity of imports as they now handle. The foreign
oil companies do not intend, for the present at least,
to accept the invitation of the Ohief of the Mining
Bureau to discuss the matters presented im their ques-
tionnaires with minor officials of the Department of
Commerce and Iadustry, as they expect that the replies
given will either be evasive or, if specifie, will be
given as the personal opinions of the officials and will
not be binding. The oil companies have not yet decided
upon their mext step in this connectiom.
on August 80, 1934, the Department of Commeree and
Imdustry announeed to the oil companies their gasoline
sales quetas for the six months from July 1, 19se to
Deeember

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.96)
-7-
December 31, 1954. Aceording to these quotas, the
Japanese refining ecmpanies are givem the natural in-
crease in the gasoline trade, the Rising sun Petroloum
Compaxy (British) is given practieally the same volume
as at present handled, and the Standard-Vacuum Oil
Gompany is given a smaller volume than that being
handled at the present time. The decrease in the
quota allotted the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company is
explained as a clerical error, but the official of
the Department of Commerce and Industry concerned re-
fuses to change the quote because of the error. The
4
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company therefore filed a protest
on August 31, 1954, (Inalosure No. 4), at the same time
quoting a part of a telegram received from its head
office in New York opposing the oil storage plans of
the Japanese Government and stating that the require-
ments would be met only if the Japanese Government under-
took to pay for the storage tanks and the oil stored,
and to indemniry the company for losses sustaimed be-
eause of fire, earthquake, and evaporation, as well as
interest charges and all additional expenses. No an-
swer has as yet been received to this communicatiom.
In regard to the attitude of the Foreign ofrice
toward the questioms raised by the operation of the
Petroleum Industry Lew in Japan, the Department's
atteatiom is invited to the memorandum of a conver-
sation between Mr. Neville, of the Mabassy, and Mr.
shigemitsu, Viee Minister for Foreign Affairs, whiek
was tranmitted with the mabassy's despateh mo. 956
or

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
of September 6, 1954.
Respeetfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
4
mclosures:
1/
Copy of Compilation of Excerpts from
Hearings.
21
Lecture of Mr. Kishi Sakai.
3/
Letter dated Mugust 31, 1934, from
ur. Fuknda.
41
Letter dated Mugust 31, 1954, from
Standard-Vacuum Cil Company to the
Mimister for Gommerce and Industry.
865.6
ERD:1
Copy to Legation Peiping.
Rocoived

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.97)
CO P Y
EUClOSNo /
to despatch
No 957of Spt. 6,/934 srom 1w0
Embassy at Tokyo.
ATTITUDE TOWARDS FOREIGN COMPANIES.
Reference:
D.4 1/2
MINISTER:..."As you have just said, the greater
part of the imports are brought in by the Rising
Sun and the Standard oil and it will not do for us
to be dependent solely on those companies. In
the U.S.A. there are some sources of supply not
connected with the Standard oil: also it appears
that there are good sources of supply in the south
Sea Islands not under the control of those two
companies. However, this question should be
taken into consideration in connection with our
general trade position, since imports from Japan
are being restricted in the Dutch East Indiea, and,
from that aspect, we have to consider what commodi-
ties should be imported from the D.E.I. to set
off against our exports."
D.4 11/12
DELEGATE: "The Rising Sun and the Standard import
refined products. The Crude oil used at present
by refiners in Japan is brought from sources not
associated with either the Rising Sun or the
Standard oil.
Californian Crude Oil is obtain-
able from quite a number of concerns not associated
with the Standard oil.
As you probably know,
production in the U.S.A. is so big that a company
or an oilfield which does not count for much from
the American standpoint is quite big when viewed
in the light of consumption in Japan. The
Kettleman Hill Fields, from which Japan is getting
supplies

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
supplies at present, are situated midway between
San Francisco and Los Angeles. Production there
is being considerably curtailed and is running
to about one-tenth of normal capacity. According
to experts, if one or two of the wells there were
opened up fully, the resultant produotion would
be more than sufficient to meet the entire demand
in Japan. At present Crude Oil is coming mainly
from American sources not connected with the
Standard Oil and I believe that there is a reason-
able chance of our being able to obtain future
supplies from such sources. Moreover, as the
Minister said before, it is not impossible for us
to get Crude Oil from Dutch Borneo, Mexico, Vene-
zuela, etc. as well as from the U.S.A."
D.4 13/14
DELEGATE: ... "I should like to supplement the
explanation just made by the Minister by adding
that there is a concern which, since it was first
mentioned that this proposed Law might be adopted
in the near future, has been negotiating with a
view to getting hold of Petroleum resources in
Mexico and Venezuela.
D.4 17/18
MINISTER: ... "A big concern manufacturing
Gasoline on a large scale may not make a loss
even if it sells cheaply in Japan: it can sell
high elsewhere and it may have practically a
controlling influence in fixing prices. we may
be right in thinking that so much pressure is
being brought to bear on Japanese refiners that
they are not able to utilize their refining
capacity to the full. I consider that it is
high1y

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
highly necessary for us to organize and con-
solidate our refining industry after this Bill
is enacted, so that it may not be subjected to
unfair oppression."
"Big foreign Petroleum companies, which have
the lion's share of the business in markets all
over the world, can sell their products cheaply
in Japan to the detriment of Japanese refiners
because they can get higher prices elsewhere.
The word "dumping" may be out of place but it
is certain that such big companies are able to
control prices and so meet competition. If
unfair competition is eliminated by organization
and coneolidation under the aegis of the proposed
Law, Japanese refiners will be able to develop
their business.
The refining industry in Japan
must be firmly established to a certain degree,
for if we were always to be entirely dependent
on imported products our position would be un-
sound from the standpoint of national defence
and home industry. In fact, the proposed Law
has been drafted with the objective of organizing
and consolidating the refining industry in Japan."
D.4 19/20
MINISTER: ... "Gasoline is sold in San Francisco,
for example, at a price equivalent to 39 sen
per A.G. and in Los Angeles at 38 sen: in Japan
it is sold at 36 Sen. 36 Sen may not be the
price at which both the Rising Sun and the
standard

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
standard oil are willing to sell of their own
volition. Do you think they would keep on
selling at a low price if they could crush the
Japanese refining industry either by continued
pressure or by a knock down blow?
NO! In
countries where there are no big refineries, in
China, for example, they sell high, and in Japan
they sell low. If the time came that the Japanese
refiners were down and out, the Rising Sun and the
Standard Oil would put up their prices in Japan also.
Therefore the organization and consolidation of the
Japanese refining industry is imperative, in my
opinion, in the lasting interests of consumers.
In point of fact, Gasoline is selling in Shanghai
at 75 Sen - more than double the price current in
Japan, and if it were not for the refiners in Japan,
it would be possible for the foreign companies to
sell at 75 Sen here. The objective of the Petro-
leum Industry Law is the consolidation of the In-
dustry in Japan in order to obviate worldwide manipu-
lations whereby consumers in Japan may profit tem-
porarily at the expense and ultimate ruin of Japanese
refiners and later, after the Japanese refiners are
out of the picture, may have to pay high prices.
Such a situation would be exceedingly disadvantageous
to consumers in the long run. In order to guard
against such a contingency we must organize and
consolidate our Petroleum industry and, in fact,
this is the underlying purpose of the Bill that is
before you.
"It is

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
"It is possible that for a time prices may be
high, but it is clear, I think, that Japanese re-
finers will be enabled to survive and that the con-
suming public of Japan will profit thereby in the
long run."
D.4 33
MEMBER: ... Will there be any discrimination against
semi-Japanese concerns?"
DELEGATE:
"In the light of this Law there will
be none."
D.5
MINISTER: ... "If, however, the refining business
in Japan becomes firmly established under this Law,
refiners should be able to make longsighted arrange-
ments for securing their supplies.
At present
refiners are unable to do business on that basis,
are being fooled by the big foreign producers and
are prevented from purchasing at low prices except
occasionally. I know this to be a fact."
D.6 4
MINISTER: ... "I do not think that the big oil
Companies do much manipulating of bunker oil prices
because ships will lift supplies at places where
they can buy cheapest. With Gasoline things are
different: the large Cil Companies charge very
high prices where they meet with no competition
and lower prices where there is competition and
where the local refining industry is well established."
D.6 18/19
MINISTER: ..."Mr. MANABE is quite justified in
entertaining such an apprehension. It is possible,
however, that Foreign Oil Companies might stop
selling Oil to Japan for some reason other than
our Control measures: for example, Foreign companies
might unite in putting an economic blockade on Japan,
though

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
though this is an exceptional contingency and
need not be considered here. Oil Companies who
have large refineries abroad may think that the
Law is a nuisance: it may be quite natural for
them to do so: whereupon they might take offence
and, being in control of a major part of the Petro-
leum resources of the world, might devise means of
putting us in e disadvantageous position. That, I
think, is what Mr. MANABE is worried about and I
think he is justified.
on the other hand we must
remember that Japan is not a large market for the
great Companies. If it were a large market, the
loss of which would be a vital blow to them, they
might take some drastic measures, but the Japanese
consumption of oil is very insignificant in com-
parison with that of other countries, as you have
seen from the statistics put before you.
Therefore
we cannot visualize their putting so much importance
on the Japan market as to make it worth their while
to exert themselves to crush our industry. Putting
myself in their position, I imagine that their policy
would be to put up prices and reap large profits if
our refining industry in Japan were out of commission:
but as long as our refiners were in a sound condi-
tion, they would sell at reasonable prices. It
would not be necessary for them to demolish our
refining industry unless it were an easy matter,
but that is not the case.
British and American
firms of courae control, or have under their
influence,

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
influence, the majority of the oilrields of the
world, but there do exist many other places where
oil is produced. Russia is one of them, and I
can mention also Mexico, Venezuela and the Dutch
East Indies. As I mentioned the other day, Rou-
mania has good oil production and some time ago
our Minister to Roumania sent us a book dealing with
the question of the Oil Industry there and suggested
that we should purchase oil from it.
on account
of the freight question it is difficult for us to
buy from Roumania, but anyhow, from what I have said,
it is clear that British and American groups are not
controlling all the oil resources in the world, and
therefore it is very unlikely - unless there are
motives other than those of business - that they will
go to such lengths as to refuse to sell oil in order
to embarrass Japan."
D.6
25
MINISTER: .... "In the instance we are discussing,
if the Japan market is so important for the big
Companies that their possession of it is vital to
their existence, then they might adopt desparate
means of acquiring it: actually, however, the Japan
market is quite insignificant in their eyes in
comparison with business in other countries, and
therefore it is out of the question that they would
resart to drastic measures and expend vital energy
in suppressing Japan.
That is my considered opinion.
... Looking at the question from a practical point
of

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
of view, I am told that about 20% or 30% of the
Oil concerns in the United States are not affiliated
with the Standard Oil Group: from the business
standpoint, therefore, it is beyond imagination that
those Oil Companies will unite with the Standard to
stop supplies of Crude Oil reaching Japan from
America and from other places in the world.
opinion, therefore, is that it is quite improbable
that such a contingency as you mention will happen."
D.7 35
MEMBER: ..."If I am allowed to speak frankly I must
say that in the past the British and American firms
have been very tyrannical and I believe Mr. Matsukata
imported Soviet Oil in order to curb their tyrannical
actions."
D.8 4
MINISTER: ... "Should the U.S.A. take such an action
as to prohibit the export of Crude oil to Japan,
there would be nothing less than an economic war,
in which event we should have no alternative but to
look to other countries for supplies."
and he indicated that he did not anticipate that
Japan would be unable to obtain her comparatively
small requirements of Crude from other sources than
the U.S.A.
P.1 11
MINISTER: ... "It seems quite clear that they are
selling at a loss and I will explain how this comes
about. In the eyes of such worldwide Companies
the offtake in Japan seems very small-and, as they
have a big demand to fill all over the world, they
sell cheaply in places where they meet with competi-
tion and adopt quite a different price policy where
competition

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
competition is weak: in this way they average out
their transactions. For example, their price in
Shanghai is 75 Sen: in Japan a price of 32 sen or
thereabouts must mean a loss but they sell at this
level because of the strong Competition. If they
ceased delivering to Japan they would lose their
market there and it is clear that they are supplying
Gasoline to Japan below cost and not worrying much
about it because they can compensate themselves by
selling their products at high prices in other
areas."
P.1 15
MEMBER: ..."My own opinion is that oil which at
present, for various reasons, cannot be brought to
Japan may come here later as world conditions change:
it may be that importation from some country will
be encouraged because of the exchange situation or
in the light of international trade, even though
at present it is not convenient to get oil from
that source."
P.2 14
DELEGATE: ... "Of late there has been a general
inclination amongst the various countries to put
the Petroleum business under State control."
* * * *

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
- 10 -
OBJECTS OF THE LAW:
Reference:
D.2 1/2
DELEGATE: "In view of the present condition of
the Petroleum Industry in this country, and with
the objective of achieving a well regulated
development of the domestic Refining Industry by
means of some suitable regulation of the importa-
tion of Petroleum, it is proposed by this Bill
to make the importation and the refining of Petro-
leum subject to Government Licence; also, in
consideration of the supply and demand position,
to stipulate that those engaged in the Petroleum
Business maintain always stocks of a certain size,
in order to secure prompt and satisfactory supplies.
"These two proposals are the backbone of the
Bill."
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
"Importers' programmes will be subject annual-
ly to the sanction of the Government, which, when
taking into consideration the supply and demand
position in the country, will decide what quantities
the various importing concerns may bring in, there-
by regulating importations. ..."
D.3 20
DELEGATE: *... it will not apply to those who
refine domestic Crude."
D.3 33
MINISTER: "... At any rate, in practically no
circumstances are Laws enacted with the expectation
that vested interests will be lost simply on account
of those Laws going into operation, and although by
reason of great emergency, or in the public interest,
Laws causing such an effect may have to be enacted,
then

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
then in such circumstanees the losers of vested
interests would in most instances be given some
compensation.
D.4 3/4
MEMBER: "... we must consider the advisability of
importing as much Petroleum as possible from Dutch
possessions, such as Borneo. You said that the
importation of Petroleum must be considered from
that point of view and I quite agree. It is con-
ceivable, therefore, that in future the Government
may take higher politics into consideration in
granting Petroleum Import Licences. I should like
to have your views on that point."
MINISTER:
"That matter in my opinion has to be
considered from a different angle. When granting
licences under the Petroleum Industry Law it is
our intention that they should be considered in the
light of the Petroleum supply-and-demand position.
It is possible that means may have to be found to
import from a new source of supply by reason of
the exigencies of the country's trade position,
to which I referred just now: this, if necessary,
would have to be done by means of other Laws -
such as the one relating to Defence of Trade, which
is to be brought before the Diet very shortly.
As a result, we may have more sources of supply
to which we can look. ..."
D.6 11
MINISTER: .. "The main objectives of the Bill are
two - the retention of stocks and the stabilisation
of the Refining Industry. ......"
D.6 16
MINISTER: ... "we cannot succeed in supplying the
whole demand in the near future but we do wish to
have our refineries expanded and strengthened as
much

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
much as possible and you must understand that
the Bill has been framed with this objective. ..."
D.7
3
MINISTER OF FINANCE: ...."However, at the moment
we are greatly concerned about the so-called
"critical period", 1935 and 1936, when our retire-
ment from the League of Nations will become effec-
tive. ..."
D.7 4
MINISTER OF FINANCE: ..."There are two phases to
the Petroleum problem.
To provide oil for national
defence in 1935 and 1936 it woula be better for us
to purchase now from abroad and hold our purchases
in stock, because there is the risk that in a time
of emergency foreign powers might institute an
economic blockade against Japan and stop selling
Oil to us. To obviate tnis risk the safest way
will be for us to stock up from now onwards - the
Navy has been maintaining for a long time stocks
which they consider sufficient to meet their re-
quirements in time of emergency. ..."
D.7 29/30
MINISTER:"... As far as possible we shall import
Crude Oil for refining in this country so that the
cost of labour and manufacture will be spent here:
in addition there will be some byproducts and some
profit for refiners. From the standpoint of our
international trade balance also it would be more
beneficial for Japan to import Crude Oil and refine
it than to import manufactured oils. I am sure
that Mr. NAkAI will agree with me that we want to
produce more Gasoline in Japan so as to benefit
both our trade balance and our domestic industries.
MINISTER

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13-
P.1 1/2
MINISTER: "...It has been drawn up with the two
following objectives - to make the importation
and refining of Petroleum subject to Government
permission in order properly to regulate imports
into Japan and to achieve a controlled development
of our Refining Industry: and to cause oil concerns
to keep permanently in stock a stipulated quantity
of Petroleum in order to ensure prompt and smooth
supplies. ....."
P.1
3
MINISTER: "...Furthermore, in view of the importance
of Petroleum and the Petroleum Industry, the Govern-
ment reserves the right of issuing, in the interests
of the public, orders in regard to price control,
the extension or improvement of facilities, etc...."
P.1
6
MINISTER: "...If oil is manufactured within the
country the profits on refining, wages, the cost
of materials, etc., all will remain in Japan and,
in comparison with importing Refined oils, this
means that our trade balance will benefit con-
siderably. ..."
*
*
*
*

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
QUOTAS FOR FOREIGN COMPANIES:
Reference:
D.5 2/3
MEMBER: ... "Will it be the Government's policy
in future to restrict the importation of Refined
Products in addition to having Crude Oil imported
and refined in Japan?
Or does the Government
intend to allow, as at present, the importation of
Refined Products alongside the importation of
Crude Oil for refining?"
MINISTER:
"One of the objects of this Bill is to
provide security for the Petroleum Refining Indus-
try, and, if possible, we should like to have as
much refining done in Japan as is practicable.
I think I am right in saying that approximately
50% of the Refining Plants in Japan are not working,
and I should like to see them being operated to
their full capacity: further, I consider it desir-
able that Refining Plants and facilities should be
made substantial, and should be improved and ex-
tended.
Nevertheless, we have no intention of
putting any drastic check on the importation of
Refined Products.
As you know, the demand for
Oil - particularly for Refined Products - is very
noticeably increasing, and it will be very difficult
in the immediate future to manufacture in Japan
all the Refined Products required.
Moreover,
there are certain circumstances which necessitate
our allowing the continuation of importation of
Refined Products in order to safeguard the im-
portation of Crude: consequently, it would be
inadvisable suddenly to bring pressure to bear
against the importation of Refined Products.
This

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
This is rather a delieate matter, and I do not
wish to make any definite or detailed statement;
I hope you will appreciate my position. In any
case, we have no intention at present of bringing
any pressure to bear against the importation of
Refined Products, or of putting any drastic check
on it. ...."
D.6 15/16
MINISTER: "...The question then becomes - is it
possible that products manufactured in Japan from
imported Crude Oil will come to be sufficient to
prevent the importation of foreign Refined oil?
Such a position would be ideal but I do not think
we can achieve it.
...I am confident that the demand for oil will
increase very rapidly, and I hardly think that refin-
ing facilities can be set up in Japan to meet the
total demand. Putting it another way, the Standard
Oil and the Rising Sun, who are now importing re-
fined Oils, will not have their sales fields narrowed
even after this Law has become operative. I cannot
foretell what will happen in the far distant future,
but under the conditions that will prevail for some
time to come importers of refined oils definitely
will not incur any disadvantages or be oppreased by
the operation of this Law. With the demand inoreas-
ing in the manner I have just mentioned, I consider
that we shall have to import both Crude oil and
Refined Oil:."
D.7 9
MEMBER: ...."Am I correct in understanding that
import quotas will be given on the basis of the
quantities now being imported?
MINISTER

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
MINISTER:
"I think that quotas will be allotted
roughly as you have suggested.
However, looking
ahead to the increasing demand in the future, I
cannot say that the same quantities will be allotted:
quotas must be increased.
But as there will be
applications from new importers, I cannot say any-
thing definite about quotas but I cannot think that
the quotas of existing importers will be decreased."
MEMBER: "May I take your statement to mean that
at the beginning quotas wil? be based on the
quantities of Crude and Refined Oils now being
imported by the Standard Oil, the Rising sun and
the Japanese Oil Companies to meet the whole of
the demand in Japan?"
MINISTER: "I think you may take it more or less
as you say."
D.7 36/37
MINISTER:"...As regards the allotment of quantities
under Article 2, I believe I did state that im-
porters' quotas will not be smaller than their
present rates of import. I did not intend to con-
vey, however, that when the demand has doubled
they will be given double their present quotas.
Briefly, those now importing who are equipped with
the necessary facilities will not have their im-
ports cut down: and the question arises as to
whether there will be room for any new importers
to do business. In my opinion there will be
plenty of room because the demand is increasing
with great rapidity."
.D.8 1
MEYBER: "I should like to put a question to the
Minister of Gommerce and Industry in respect of
his

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.99)
-17 -
his policy of organising and consolidating the
domestic refining industry by gradually reducing
the importation of Refined Products in favour of
imported Crude to be refined in Japan. ..."
P.1
MINISTER: "...I wish, if possible, to have an
increase in the proportion refined in Japan. Never-
theless there will be no decrease in imports of
Refined Oil, because the total imports will be
inoreasing.
In fuct I think it necessary to
increase in future the imports of Refined oil. ..."
P.2
9
MINISTER: "...it is unnecessary to say that I
intend to continue the importation of oils which
have been brought in by the Rising Sun and the
Standard. I do not intend to decrease the importa-
tion of Refined Oil: the quantities which have been
imported in the past must be imported still and my
opinion is that larger quantities of oil will be
required by the country because consumption is in-
creasing very greatly. I have no intention of
checking the importation of Refined oil."
P.2 10
MINISTER: "...It will not be easy for refiners in
Japan to meet the increased demand and therefore
Foreign Refined Oil must be imported in greater
quantities than hitherto. Irrespective of these
increased quantities of Foreign Refined Oil, Petro-
leum must be refined in Japan. ....."
P.2
21
MINISTER: "As I told you a little while agO, I do
not anticipate a decrease in the importation of
Foreign Refined Oils: on the contrary, my opinion
is that it should increase.
Moreover it would be
wrong

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.99)
-18 -
wrong to stop the importation of such oils or
to give privileges to existing refineries to an
extent that would check the importation of oil
by other people. My own opinion is that the
importation of Refined Oil will increase in future
and the refining business in Japan also is sure to
expand - both parties thus benefiting. Such a
situation is quite different from that which would
prevail if there was a limited quantity to be
imported in which case the importers of Refined
Oils would get a smaller allotment if the allotment
of Crude to refiners were increased. ....."
*
*
*
*
*
*

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
- 19 -
PRICE CONTROL
D. 3 11
MINISTER: "...I do not mean, however, that
competition is going to be entirely eliminated.
n
D.3
19
DELEGATE: "..This is the first time the Govern-
ment has ever attempted to prescribe an order
giving the power to fix prices. ..."
D.4 24/25
MINISTER: "Of course we have no intention of
fixing prices so precisely as we did in con-
trolling the price of rice - by calculating
cost of production, etc. In the case of commo-
dities like Petroleum and its products, which
are subject to worldwide movements it is im-
possible - as Nr. Suzuki points out - to deter-
mine what is the proper price in Japan
.....Article 7 of the Law should be applied
only after we have ascertained the profits ob-
tained by oil concerns."
*
*
*
*

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.99)
- 20 -
STOCK-KEEPING
Reference:
D.3
6
MINISTER: "... We therefore contemplate stipulat-
ing that six months' offtake should be kept in
stock - but, of course, the larger the better. ..."
D.4
15
DELEGATE: "...going on to the question of storage
accommodation, 1 think we had better consider it
in two categories - one for Crude and Fuel oil
and the other for refined oil.
Accommodation at
present for Crude and Fuel is arproximately 760,
000 kilolitres in total, there being 467 tanks.
For Refined Products, such as Gasoline, there is
approximately 400,000 kilolitres storage accommoda-
tion - 400 odd tanks."
D.5
18
MEMBER: "I should like to ask if the amount of
stock stipulated was halved without reference to
the Navy."
MINISTER OF THE NAVY: "I understand that the Navy
supported the original figure when the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry first put forward the
draft of the Bill."
MEMBER:
"hat you say is not yet clear to me.
When you talk about supporting, do you mean that
the Navy made any request?"
MINISTER OF THE NAVY:
"The bigger the stocks, the
better it is for the Navy, and therefore the Navy
does not wish any reduction in the figure: but
if the Ministry of Commerce and Industry thinks
six months' stock is reasonable at present, the
Navy must be satisfied with it."
MINISTER

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
D.7
MINISTER: "... I consider that we shall be able
so to arrange things that the introduction of the
stock-holding stipulation will not cause any serious
embarrassment to the Oil concerns. ...."
P.8 13
MINISTER: "...As regards ordinary tankage, there
is a shortage of about 1% p.a. hen crude oil is
stored and 4 p.a. on Gasoline in storage. ...."
P.2
24
MR. HASHIMOTO: I happen to know the Government's
original plan and how it has been changed, but I
do not propose to talk about that. ...."
P.2 31
MEMBER: "My understanding of the explanation given
by the Minister is that Oil Companies will be obliged
to hold six months' supplies in stock.
As regards
any quantity in excess of this, the Government should
decide whether it should be stored by the oil Com-
panies with the help of a Government subsidy or
whether the Government itself should store the oil."
* * * * * * *

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
STOCK-KEEPING: (COSTS).
Reference
D.3
8
MINISTER: "...It is almost unnecessary to point
out that as a result of this Law, both the Refin-
ing Industry and the Importing trade will be con-
trolled, and useless and unfair competition will
be stopped: this in turn will reduce considerably
the expenses of those engaged in the business.
This reduction, in my opinion, should more than
offset the additional cost occasioned by the
stipulation that minimum stocks must be carried.
As I mentioned before, the Government has no in-
tention of giving any subsidies or compensation
for the erection of more tankage. It is thinking,
however, of extending assistance towards the
provision of the funds required. ...."
D.3 18
DELEGATE: "...it would seem quite proper, to be
frank, that the Government should, if possible,
pay some compensation. Holding this view, we
took up the question with the Department of
Finance, but were unable to obtain funds. This
was the position in regard to the Budget for 1934.
We propose, however, to continue our efforts to-
wards the payment of compensation, provided the
financial position allows it...."
D.5 30
MINISTER:
"...but the cost of this is very
small, less than l Sen per gallon. ...."
D.8
3
A MEMBER said that his own calculations confirmed
the Minister's estimate that the cost of the
additional

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
- 23 -
additional stocks stipulated by the Law and of
the storage therefor would not amount to more than
1 Sen per A.G. He pointed out, however, that
the Minister had not given any figures in support
of his opinion that the Law would bring about
economies in business expenses, etc., and called
on him to confirm that there could be no valid
reason why prices should advance as the result of
the enforcement of the Law.
The MINISTER replied that it was exceedingly
difficult to estimate accurately but that he
estimated that the savings could not be less than
the additional expenses that would be incurred by
the Industry in carrying the stipulated stocks."
P.1
MINISTER: "... The members of the Lower House
Committee went into the question closely and
asked me if it was not 6 or 7 Rin per Gallon.
believe it to be less than 1 Sen per Gallon, taking
all the expenses, including interest, into con-
.....stock-keeping is being stipulated from the
national standpoint and has nothing to do with
the immediate profit of the oil Companies: there-
fore it may be said that the country has the obli-
gation either to subsidise the Oil Companies or
to compensate them for their expenditure.
At
present I have no idea of giving subsidies or
compensation but if it is felt necessary to do so,
we shall have to give the matter consideration. ..."
P.2 1/3
MINISTER: *As I stated yesterday, tanks have to
be erected for storing the oil and arrangements
have

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
have to be made to finance the purchase of the
Oil stored, which in quantity will be more than
double that stored at present. In addition,
there is insurance and there may be some loss
caused by shortages in the quantities stored.
Furthermore, it is necessary to take into consider-
ation depreciation on the tankage etc.
We esti-
mate that the total of all these expenses works
out at something under l Sen per gallon approximately.
This probably will have to be recovered in selling
prices, but as Oil concerns will be able to conduct
their businesses peacefully and rationally and can
reduce expenses by reason of the cessation of use-
less competition the economies so effected should
more than counterbalance the additional expense
estimated at less than 1 Sen per gallon and there
should be no increase in prices."
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
DELEGATE: "I am not able to give exact figures
but I believe the quantity involved is about 1,l00,
000 to 1,200,000 kilolitres, covering crude oil,
Heavy Oil and Gasoline. That figure does not
represent six months' supplies but is the quantity
that will have to be stooked over and above the
quantities usually stored by oil concerns.
The
cost has to be worked out on the basis of such
factors as the value of the Oils, the interest there-
on and depreciation on the tankage which has to be
erected.
Assuming that interest would be 7% p.a.
and

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.99)
- 25 -
P.2 1/3
and that the cost of the tankage has to be
written off in about 15 years, the annual cost
is about y2,500,000 to 12,600,000.
...... Just
now I made an error. 1,100,000 kilolitres is the
quantity to be stored and, deducting from it stocks
kept by the Oil Companies at present, there is a
balance of about 600,000 kilolitres.
I estimate
that the annual cost of storing this quantity is
about 2,700,000 and on this basis I have calculated
that the cost of storing Gasoline is about 7 1/2
Rin per Gallon.
This is only an estimate, not an
exact figure, but I can safely say that the cost is
less than 1 Sen per Gallon.
P.2 18
MINISTER: "I should like to increase the quantity
which has to be held in stock but it cannot be done
at the expense of the Oil Companies.
A quantity
equivalent to six months' supplies is the largest
we can stipulate because the expense therefor can be
covered by economies in other directions so that the
consumer will not have to pay more. If, however,
the quantity is increased there would be additional
cost, which in my opinion would have to be borne by
the State.
The question of whether the State itself
will carry stocks or will subsidise oil companies
for carrying stocks will be carefully considered after
the Law has been in foree for some time.
Stocks
equivalent to six months' supplies will be the first
step in the system and ir later stocks equivalent
to one year's supply can be carried, we shall be able
to feel easier."
*
*
*
*

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.98)
-28-
STOCK-KEEPING (LOCALITIES)
Reference:
D.4
16
DELEGATE: "... In principle we do not contemplate
restricting, under the proposed Law, localities
where Refineries or Tanks will be permitted.
In
regard to Tanks, however, it may be necessary to
make some stipulations in the light of military
necessity: however, I am not yet in a position
to say anything definite."
D.4
30
MEMBER: "... Vill the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, or the Army or Navy, have authority by
Article 7 to order oil concerns to build tankage at
any place in Japan, either from the standpoint of
national defence or in consideration of the supply
and demand position?
I should like a definite
reply on this point."
DELEGATE: "Article 7 does not deal with specific
contingencies: construing it broadly, it is
possible that it might cover what you have just
suggested, indeed the Article was drafted with that
purpose. I think the Navy may have the same
opinion as I have expressed and may claim to be
able to apply the Article for purposes of national
defence."
NAVY DELEGATE:
"The reply that has just been given
holds good as far as the Navy is concerned."
*
*
*

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.97)
-27-
STOCK-KEEPING (MISCALCULATIONS).
Reference:
1.5
30
MINISTER:
"...Now as regards carrying minimum
stocks, most of the vil Refineries at present
fina it necessary for business reasons to carry
about two months' stock - and there may be some
carrying larger stocks. Stocks are to be in-
creased by 50/60% and the period of storage is
to be extended to six months - but the cost of
this is very small, less than 1 Sen per gallon.
P.1
21
DELEGATE: "...As you know, oräinarily importers
carry two or three months' stock: therefore I
take it that the additional guantity stipulated
by the Law amounts to three or four months:
supplies......"
*
*
*
*
*

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.99)
-28-
AMALGAMATION.
Reference:
D.4 4/5
MEMBER: ... Judging from the situation now
prevailing, I am of the opinion that after this
Law is enforced the Japanese Oil Companies, the
Standard and the Rising Sun eventually will
amalgamate.
What does the Government think?"
MINISTER: "There is some likelihood of a merger,
As I said before, we shall be in a position to
control the organization of the Petroleum Industry.
It is quite probable that mergers will be gradually
effected with a view to carrying on the business
more lucratively on a larger scale. At present,
however, the Government has no intention of spon-
soring mergers against the desire of the indivi-
dual campanies.
D.4
6
MINISTER:
"I do not think it is possible for
the existing refiners and oil trading concerns to
effect a complete and comprehensive merger: their
individual interests are too varied."
D.4
21
MEMBER: ..."I myself think that we should go a
long way towards bringing about fair prices if
we could effect a reduction in production costs
by influencing things towards an amalgamation now
instead of leaving the Petroleum companies them-
selves to amalgamate later on."
D.4
36
MEMBER: "I feel that the Government should have
taken sufficient interest in our Petroleum in-
dustry to contemplate aetting up a semi-Government
Company, and I feel also that the Government has
been

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
-29 -
been remiss in delaying until now the intro-
duction of a Bill of this kind."
D.7
2/3
MEMBKR:...."Now I wish to ask the Minister of
Finance whether or not he intends to establish
the national Petroleum policy, appropriating,
say, 10% or 20% of the ¥900,000,000 budgeted for
National Defence for the development of the oil
Industry, which is closely connected with National
Defence.
Investigations show that the Japanese
Oil Companies - the Nippon Oil Co., Ogura and
others - could be amalgamated if we had f100,0o0,
000 to spare: if we could provide y200,000,000
we could effect that amalgamation and at the same
time carry out prospecting on en extensive scale.
MINISTER OF FINANCE:
"The interpellation just
made deals with the future: I was asked whether
in the future the Government would spend sufficient
money.
I cannot commit myself in regard to the
future.
The Government's views on the petroleum
problem and how it came to decide to adopt the
measures now proposed must be broadly known to
you as the result of the various interpellations
that have been made and the replies receiwed from
Government delegates. I myself am well aware
of the close connection between the Petroleum
problem and our national defence. However, at
the moment we are greatly concerned about the
so-called "critical period", 1935 and 1936, when
our retirement from the League of Nations will
become effective. ....."

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.99)
- 30 -
SMALL REFINERIES.
Reference:
D. 3
5
DELEGATK: "... You will then ask what the Govern-
ment's attitude will be towards such existing
Refineries, in particular those running imported
Crude.
As I said before, we wish them, as far
as practicable, to manufacture Gasoline, if they
refine imported Crude, and in line with this
policy of the Government, we shall encourage them
to do so. Therefore, we shall advise them to
enlarge their plants until they reach the standard
expected by the Government.
Nevertheless, any
suaden change must be avoided, and we intend to
achieve our objective gradually."
D.3
22
DELEGATE: "...The Law itself does not intend to
put out of business those existing Refineries
falling short of the stipulated capacity and
facilities."
DELEGATE: "...To allow a Refinery of 10,O00 kilo-
D.3
27
litres per annum capacity to remain at that stand-
ard for ever is contrary to the intention of the
Law. Therefore our objective will be to have
the capacity of such a Refinery increased to 50,
oo0 kilolitres in due course.
A sudden increase
from 10,000 to 50,000 kilolitres would not be
advisable, and therefore we wish to have the in-
crease brought about conveniently within a suitable
period of time.*
MEMBER:
"Can the owner of a 50,000 kilolitre
plant be a Guild of Refiners or a Corporation,
as well as an individual?s
DELEGATE

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.99)
-31 -
DELEGATE:
"So long as the capacity of a Plant
1s 50,000 kilolitres, any concern - Company or
Guild - will be satisfactory aa owner: no dis-
crimination will be made."
D.3
31
MINISTER: "...To compel such concerns to equip
themselves with expensive plant within a very
short period of time would be tantamount to
ordering them to go out of business.
We have
no intention when we put any Law into effect of
bringing about circumstances that would be detri-
mental to those actually engaged in the Industry
concerned. ...."
D.3
34
MINISTER: "In order to avoid any possible mis-
understanding, I want to explain that by not
forcing" is meant "not asking too much". To put it
in another way, I mean that I should do nothing
that would damage a Refiner to the extent of
ruining him. I intend to formulate plans whereby
a Refiner is able to improve his plant without
difficulty.
However, should he refuse to do so,
it is possible for us to force him.
. The point
is - we shall not ask too much; if it is unavoid-
able, when and if a Refiner refuses to introduce
the desired improvements in spite of his being
able to do so without difficulty, it will be
possible for the Government to force him. It is
not intended that nothing will be required from
any Refiner who, by the Supplementary Regulations,
is deemed as having been duly licensed: some
compulsion

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
compulsion may be exercised by means of Decrees
and Orders, and the right to exercise such com-
pulsion will have to be admitted. ..."
D.4
22
MINISTER:
"....I am of the opinion that,
theoretically, organization and consolidation
must bring down prices.
.In the course of such
organization and consolidation Refineries which
are economically too small will be amalgamated
and overhead expenses thereby reduced. ...."
D.4
39
MEMBER: "....those who are already established
and have not been subject so far to such a
stipulation will find it hard, and I do not think
it equitable."
D.4
40
DELEGATE: "....Medium size and small Refineries,
however, instead of importing Crude oil for them-
selves are at present relying on importers for
their supplies. In such cases, importers take
responsibility for carrying stocks and the medium
and small Refiners are exempted therefrom. That
is the way I view the position."
*
*
*
*

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.98)
- 33-
SUBSIDIES.
Reference:
D.3 7/8
MINISTER: "...At present the Government has
no intention of granting subsidies for this
purpose, though later on it might give con-
sideration to the matter.
We have s ome idea
of providing some assistance, if it is possible,
so that those engaged in the trade obtain the
necessary funds, but we do not contemplate
giving any subsidies or compensation, which,
if it were done, anyhow would need the approval
of the Diet."
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
"......As I mentioned before, the Government has
no intention of giving any subsidies or com-
pensation for the erection of more tankage.
It is thinking, however, of extending assistance
towards the provision of the funds reguired....."
DELEGATE:
"...it would seem guite proper, to
D.3
18
be frank, that the Government should, if possible,
pay some compensation.
.Holding this view, we
took up the question with the Department of
Finance, but were unable to obtain funds.
This
was the position in regard to the Budget for
1934. We propose, however, to continue our
efforts towards the payment of compensation,
provided the financial position allows it. ..."
D.4
33
DELEGATE: "We do not contemplate giving any
subsidies to refiners of imported Crude. ..."
*
*
*
*
*
*

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.99)
-34-
REFINING CAPACITY.
Reference:
D.7 45/46
MEMBER:
"The other day Mr. NAKAI stated
that about 50% of our oil refining capacity
is idle and the Authorities said they would
go into this question.
Have your investiga-
tions been completed yet?"
DELEGATE: mye have put before you a report on
Refineries wherein they are classified into
three groups, large, medium and small.
The
large Refineries have a capacity of 1,900,000
kilolitres and during 1933 they treated 1,000,
ooo kilolitres, thus they are operating roughly
to about one-half their capacity.
We estimate
that about 70% or 80% of the idle capacity 1s
workable.
As regards the medium and small
Refineries, it is doubtful whether as much as
80% of their idle capacity could be worked -
I think probably about 50%."
*
*
*
*
*

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
-35-
TANKERS.
Reference:
D.4 14/15
MEMBER: "Do the Petroleum importers bring
in supplies in their own Tankers or do they
employ others to uo their transportation for
them?"
DELEGATE
"The Standard oil and the Rising sun
import mainly refined products and both of
them use their own Tankers. Crude oil is im-
ported by Japanese Companies who either bring
supplies in their own vessels or have them
transported by shipping companies such as the
Nippon Tankers: the purchases are made abroad
but the buyers arrange transportation."
D. 7
18
MEMBER: "...imports in 1933 of Crude and Fuel
Oils, Gasoline, Kerosene and Lub. Oils came to
2,860,000 kilolitres, say about 2,500,000 Tons.
I do not know how much of this quantity was
imported in packages, but I believe that the
majority of it was transported in foreign
Tankers. I am told that several Japanese
Companies have good Tank vessels and if we could
have Japanese vessels to carry such large quanti-
ties of oil they would constitute a strong re-
serve fleet for the Navy. I understand from
you that the Authorities are making certain
stipulations in respect of the speed, etc. of
Tankers under construction and I should like to
know if any construotion subsidy is being given.
MINISTER OF THE NAVY: "No, we are not giving
any subsidies although we are making various
suggestions

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
-36-
suggestions in connection with the construetion
of Oil Tankers. The Navy has not sufricient
Tank vessels for the importation of oil from
abroad and we are hiring Tankers from such
Companies as the Ogura S.K., Mitsubishi and
Kishimoto. At the present time we are suffer-
ing no inconvenience in regard to the trans-
portation of Fuel Oil required by the Navy but
in the event of a war, when oil consumption
would greatly increase, very many more Tankers
would be required both by the Navy and by
private concerns. We must therefore give care-
ful consideration to this point but at present
we are not taking any positive steps towards
encouraging the construction of Tankers."
*
*
*
*
*

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.99)
-37-
OIL FOR SHIPS.
Reference:
D.7
37/on
MEMBER: "...I wish next to ask a question....
D.8
2/3
DELEGATE: "Fuel Oil brought over by ocean-
going vessels for their own use cannot be
classified as "imports".
"Imports" within the
meaning of this Law are shipments brought over
and landed and therefore Fuel oil for a ship's
own use does not have to be taken into our
consideration."
MEMBER: "....hat about Fuel oil purchased
abroad, brought to Japan by Japanese vessels
and transhipped to other vessels for the
latter's use? Will such Fuel be an exception
to be covered by Imperial Ordinance as per
Article 4 of the Law?"
DELEGATE: "I do not think that such Fuel will
be classified as Imports coming into the scope
of Article 4."
*
*
*
*
*

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
- 38 -
EXPORTS.
Reference:
P.1
30
MINISTER: "...If there is a surplus of
Lubrioating Oil, etc., it will have to
be exported, but I think that the surplus will
be very small."
*
*
*
*
*
*

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.94)
to deepaich
C旦RI
N, 957 of Sp1 6, 193y from 
Mrut.sy al Tokgo.
Re the 011 Dadnstry Lam.
(Lecture by Mr. Eiaki sakai, seeretary of the
Ordinary Meeting of fuel Association held on
July 14th, 1954.)
I am going to explain the main purposes of the oil
Industry Law and express my personal opinions thereon.
This law is one aspect of the so-called national fuel
policy. Its most important object is the control and
maintenance of our oil industry.
In view of the limited oil resources in our country
and of a steadily inoreasing demand for all sorts of
petroleum produets, we must adopt such an oil policy as
aims at an effeetive and speedy development of the oil
resources, stimulus of the oil substitute industry, im-
provement of the oil refining industry, ete. our oil
refining industry has made steady progress in recent
years. In l955, the total output of gasoline in our
country filled 45% or the total requirements for it,
that of illuminating oil 45%, that of machime oil 90%
and that of light oil supplied virtually the entire re-
quirememts, but the production of heavy oil alone was
still so limited that the greater part of the requirements
had to be satisfied by imported products. Compared with
the ammal outputs ten years before (1.e. 19st), the pro-
dnetion of gasoline in 1933 inereased 14 fold and that of
heavy eil 5 fold. The shovings reflested tremendous pro-
gress mmde by our eil refining industry.
Oar cil indastry, mevertheless, still remains largely
cemtrelled by foreign eapital. ever one half ef the
femends far gasoline and heavy oil in the country is being
supplies

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
sapplied by foreign eil interests.
I heer that our oil refiners are obliged to leave
about ome half of their capasity idle - a very deplorable
phenomenon. It is of urgent importance that they should
be enabled to give full play to their capacity so that our
country may be rendered self-contained in all petroleum
produets eventually.
To this end, we must regulate the imports of foreign
products which are making their way into our country,
sealing over a fairly high tariff-wall. However, there
is danger of too many oil refining companies springing up
as & result. Some sort of State control is therefore
mesessary: hence the permit system provided for in the
Law, which aims at stimulating the import of crude oil
in place of refined produets and fostering our refining
industry to such an extent as it may stand against foreign
refixed oil produets in time.
The produetiom of crude oil in our country is not
mearly emough to cope with the rapidly growing demand for
it. In order to develop our oil refining industry, we
must be able to obtain an adequate supply of fereige craãe
oil without interruptiom, and on the other hand asquire
many more oil consessions abroad. It is likely that an
attempt to develop the oil refining industry without these
requisites will prove a futile effort.
Stoek holding duty represemts another significant
aspeet ef the oil Industry Law. It being impossible to
bring about a speedy iserease in the produetion of petroloum
by hunting for further oil resourees in our country or by
develeping the fuel sabetitute industry, we mmst resort to

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
seme expedient for mintaixing an adequate supply of
petroloum at all times against emergencies; hemse this
daty.
The provisions of the oil Dadustry Law may be
roughly grouped under the following four items:
ing and oil import buainesses.
8.
matters regarding rational conduet of oil refin-
ing and oil import busimesses.
3.
Matters pertaining to stock-holding duty.
4.
matters relative to all sorts of supervision.
Ro. No. 1 item:
The oil refining business requiring & permit (licence)
comprises the production of gasoline, light oil, maehine
oll and heavy oil as well as the collection of gasoline
from natural gas and the so-called topping. It does
not include low temperature coal carbonization, coal-
liquefaction and extraction of oil from shale, which the
Government intends to foster as a distinct industry.
Each refinery is required to have equipment of a
certain type and capacity, inamuch as it is necessary
from an economic stanépoint as well as control standpoint
of view to have all refineries adequately equipped. The
Lew spesiries the installatiom of ome straight-run plant
of a capacity of 50,000 kilolitres or more a year as well
as one cracking plant of a eapacity of 25,000 kilolitres
a year, er alternatively one eracking plant of a eapasity
of s0,000 kilolitres or more in each refinery. In my
opiniem, the minimum capacity specified should be is-
creased to a eertain extento
The cil impert busimess requiring a permit covers
the import of gasoline, illuminating oil, machine oil,
heavy oil and erade eil. The werd import wsed here dees
not

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.95)
- 4 -
net apply te the passing of goods through the eustom
house coneerned in ome's own neme for another person,
mer does it apply to the import of illuminating oil,
light oil or machine oil in packages (tins or drums or
any other package) alone, inammuch as the imports of
petroleum in packages are comparatively mall at present,
and the exclusion of those who exclusively import the same
from the category of oil-importers is not likely to inter-
fere with the realization of the purposes of the Law.
While, in prineiple, oil-importers alone are allowed
to import oil, refiners are exeeptionally allowed to im-
port erude oil or heavy oil for fuel purposes, which is
indispensable to their business without obtaining a permit.
This privilege extends to imports by the Government direet
or in aceordamce with a trust from the Government, bunker
coal aboard a ship for its om use, etc. ete.
Special attention must be called to the nature of the
permit under referenee. It is different from that of the
so-called polise permit which is usually of a negative
charaster. It is in a sense a means to help a healthy
develepment of the oil industry.
the
As for the bearing upon/oil refiners and importers
of the permit system, they are allowed to contimme their
busimesses on their present bases for ten years to coms,
the reason why the period has sconomic usefulness at least
0 10m.
Ro No. 8 itom:
It is a unique feature of the Law that both refiners
and imperters are required to formulate their busimess plans
caek year and ebtain the approval of the Minister of Cemmeree
a

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -
and Industry. Though this means a more or less meddling
with their businesses, it is a useful provisien in view of
the objeets of the Law, I believe.
As to the details to be reparted of their business
plans, they are specified in Arts. 5 and 6 of the Regula-
tioms for the mforeement of the Oil Induatry Law, the
quantity of oil to be imported, proposed produetion and
sales forming nuelous thereof. The Winistry will de-
termine the sales quotas to be allotted to the various oil
companies, taking into consideration their reports. How
to determine the same is a matter of paramount importance
and a very difficult one. No one will deny that it is
advisable from national economy viewpoint to leave none
of the refining faeilities in the country idle and at the
same time hare sources of supply scattered about instead
of having them congregated, in view of the actual condi-
tion of the produetion of crude oil and of the vital im-
pertanee of mmintaining the supply of petroleum adequate
against mational mergencies.
It is not proper that a sudden change should, through
artirisial means, be brought on in the oil industry; for
it will jeopardize the stability of the oil market.
What consideration the Ministry will give to a
stipulation mong the various oil companies in deciding
whether a busimess plan sukmitted to it shall be approved
or not is also a matter of importanee. It seems that
when the Mixistry finds such stipulation or sales agreement
intelligent and rational it will give due consideration to
the me.
R. 8

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.95)
● 6 -
1o.8item1
What eil produets and how they shall be held in
steek are specified in the relative Dmperial Ordinanse.
They are gasoline, heavy oil and crude oil - produets
whish are consumed most heavily of the various oil
produets in our country and which are imported to a large
extent. As stocks will be stored in bonded tanks in
most cases, almost all storing places will probably be
bonded areas, though nothing is specified in this connee-
tion in the relative law beyond that the Government may
desigmate places which it thinks fit from military or
publie benefit standpoints of view. oil tanks must be
used as storing plases. As for the size of a tank to
be used, it must be practieally of the same size as the
present bonded tank. Its capacity must be 1,000 kilo-
Litres or more in the case of crude oil or heavy oil, and
l00 kilolitres or more in the case of No. 1 gasoline and
s00 kilolitres or more in the case of No. & gasoline. No.
1 gasoline represents primarily gasoline for use in air
eraft, and No. & gasoline other kinds of gasoline. It is
to be noted that in case a special permit is obtained a
tank of a maller size may be used and reservoirs other than
tanks such as tins, drums, ete. may be used for the sterage
of stoeks.
1s regards the quantity of petroleum to be preserved,
the law speeifies that it shall not be less than one half
of the quantity imported in one year, i.e. from Jam. lst
to Dee. 3lst (the first perioß) or from July lst to Jume
soth of the fellowing year (the second peried). ome half
af the quantity ixperted in the first period is te be
prooeeved

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.96)
- 7 -
preserved as holding requirement fer six menths begixn-
ing Agril lst of the mert year, and one half of the
qeantity imperted in the sesond peried is for six months
beginning det. Ist of the year in whieh the sesond peried
lapees and ending on Mareh 3lst of the mext year.
Ome thing to be partioularly noted in conmeetion
with stoek holding duty is that the quantity imported
in the period comcerned is the quantity actually passed
through the oustom house coneerned and not that merely
Landed as will be seen from Art. 16 of the Regulatioms
for the Enforeement of the oil Dadustry Law.
The purpose of this provision is to evade a trouble-
some ealoulation resulting from the shipping back of goeds
after they have been landed, etc. ete.
Each petroleum produet to be held in stock is
classified as folloms:
Gasoline: No. 1 and No. 2.
Crude oil and heavy oil: No. 1 and No. 8.
(dealt with as one petroleum produet).
No. 1 gasoline is that whose specific gravity at
15 C. does not ezseed 0.7428 with Beaume not less than
59. It is intended for use in aireraft. No. & gasoline
is that with a specifie gravity not exeeeding @.s0l? and
Baume 45 or more. It is for use in automobiles, ete.
The importer is required to hold in stoek one half
or mere of each grade of petroleum imperted. He is
alleved to substitute a higher grade for a certain grade,
that is, he may hold in stoek Ne. 1 gasolime in plase of
No. & gaseline. The idee of the lam is to maintain the
supply of eaeh kind or srade of petreloum at a eertain level.
Da ease the quantity of any petroleum protest helé in
stesk is desreased for any reasen whatever, the steek-helder

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.96)
一8一
is required te replemish his steek within three months,
but in the event that it is absolutely impessible to
replemish it within the above period for a justiriakle
reasen, he mey get the period extended by presenting an
applieation to the Minister of Commeroe and Industry.
When an oil refining or import business is assigned
(transferred), the assignor's oil stoek goss to the
assigmee along with the business itself. This likewiss
applies in case of amalgamation of oil companies.
The reason for whioh the importer is required to hold
in stoek a quantity of gasoline, heavy oil or crude oil
equal to his six months' imports thereof is that the
Govermment comsiders so much stook held by each oil im-
perter will suffiee for it to get along without dirfioulty
for a reasonable period of time in case the impart of
foreign oil should become impracticable for any reason
whatever. of course, it is desirabls that a greater
quantity of oil should be preserved by sach importer in
view of the Limited oil resources in our country, but it
is not preper for us to impose toe heavy a burden upon him
on ascount of a publie spirited purpose - we must limit
the burden upon him to the minimm consistent witk his
stook-holding duty.
The reason for whioh the Oil Indastry Law provides
for a foreible purchase of oil stosks by the Government is
akix to the purpese of stosk holding daty.
It is speeified that the quantity passed through the
custem heuse sencerzed after the enforeement of the oil
Intastry Law (1.e. after July 1st, 1954) shal1 be made on
the basis for the determinatiom of the steek (amount of the
stook)

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.95)
一 9 -
stoek) to be held by eash person now engaged in oil
refining or oil impert busimess. Though stoek holding
@aty goes into effeet on Jan. lst next year, as the said
date beloags to the secend stock-holding period and the
quantity passed through the custom house concerned between
July Ist Last year and June 3oth this year is to be for
the said period, the said date (Jan. Ist) actually will
see no stoek preserved for the duty.
The first period begins on April lst next and the
quantity passed through the custom house concerned between
Jan. lst this year and Dec. 3lst is to be taken as the basis
fer the determinination of the quantity to be held in stosk,
but as the quantity passed through the custom house before
July is to be ignored, the importer (or refiner) will have
to hold in stoek one half of the quantity passed through
the custom house between July lst and Dec. 3lst (i.e.
about one fourth of one year's imports). And he will
have to hold in stock on Oct. lst next year one half of the
quantity passed through the custom house betweem July lst
this year and Jume 30th next, i.e. about one half of ome
year's imports.
As to how the stoek holding requirement for each
imperter or refiner is determimed, where stocks are to
be held and how they are to be stored, these are specified
in the Regulations for the mforeement of the Oil Industry
La.
.1t
The enforeement of the permit system might bring
about some evils, such as monepoly, artificial boesting
up of eil priees, lask of coneern for the improvement of
teshnique en the part of oil cireles, ete. Art. 7 of the

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.96)
-10 -
O11 Industry Lam is a preventive against them, by virtue
of whioh (law) the Government may, among others, require
refimers or importers to revise their selling prices,
improve or increass their facilities, ete. ets.
Lastly I will deal with the provision regarding the
Oil Industry Committes. It is necessary to seek views
of many intelligent and experienced persons in operating
this law. This is why the Law preseribed that the grant
of a permit referred to in Art. 1 of the law and the orders
mentioned in Art. 7 shall be granted or issued after the
matter having been studied by the Oil Industry Gommittee.
The Ministers of State interested may seek the committee's
views on important matters, and the latter may maks rep-
resentations to the former.
At the time the bill for this law was first introduced
in the Biet, many arguments were set forth. one of the
most worth-listening to was that development of oil-
substitutes should be carried on energetisally in addition
to an effective exploitation of oil resources. Another
was that care should be taken to prevent the law being
operated in suoh a manner as will benefit the oil companies
alone regardless of the interests of the consuming public.
An economic policy based upon free competition is by
no means suited for the present times. society is not a
casual, disorderly congregation of individuals, but an
organic (aystematized) combimation of individuals. A
community will not effect a healthy developmemt unless
eash of its members acts always with its interests at heart.
The same holds good with regard to the mational economy.
1t i.

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.95)
-11•
It is esseatial that each individual economie astivity
should be placed under a judicious contrel or guidance
of the central organ of the country concermed.
The Oil Ineustry Law represents one of the various
characteristic features of the so-called control economy.
At any rate, what effect the law will have upon the oil
industry is a matter of interest.

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.97)
0957 eSp1. 6,193y 8
Eaberey at Forye:
Trenslation
9-Ko No. 938
August 31, 1934.
Mr. J. C. Goold,
Representative of Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company in Japan.
Dear Sir:
As per your letter dated Aug. 8, '34, you have
communicated with the Miniater of this Department with
reference to the enforcement of the Petroleum Industry
Law. The Government is not yet in a position to be
able to answer officially some of the questions stated
in your letter. However, we have decided to make you
a reply as follows. (For further particulars, you are
requested to call at this Department and have a talk with
tro officials concerned.):-
1. As per the provisions of the mupplementary
regulations of the Petroleum Industry Law, those who
are engaged in the business of importing petroleum
at the time of the enforeement of the law shall be
recognized as licensed under the law and the continua-
tion of business shall be sanctioned. There is no
restraint upon the period of the continuation of
business.
2. Annual quantity of petroloum to be sold by
each petroleum importer or petroleum refiner shall be
fixed in accordance with their business plans. Busimess
plans shall be sanetioned taking demand and supply of
petroleum and other things into consideration in order
to make our petroleum industry more prosperous. Henee
it is impossible to fix the quantity to be sold by oil
companies in advanee. The demand for petroleum is on
the imerease year by year in this country. Unless some-
thing extraordimary takes place, the quantity to be sold
will not become less than the quantity sold at the time
of the enforeement of the patroleum industry law.
3. Anmual sanction of busimess plans will not pre-
vent oil industrialists from carrying on business eom-
timuously. This annual sanetion will control demand and
supply of petroleum and prevent oil industrialists from
competimg with each other reeklessly. These Plans will
be used as data necessary in conneetion with supervision
ef the petroleum business. In this way, we think we will
be able to advanee the petroleum industry of this country.
Yours truly,
T. FUKUDA,
Ghief of the Mining mureem
of the Department of Gommeree
and Industry.
(S)

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.96)
C Q R Bocluaure No 4
to despatch
No957 of Syt6,193y from
Eatassy at Tokyo.
August 31st, 1954.
His Ersellency,
Machida Chuji,
Minister of Gommerce & Industry,
Tokyo.
Your krcellency,
Ye have received Notice 9-Ko No. g20 dated kugust
zoth from the Director of the Mining Bureau ordering us
to submit a revised gasoline sales plan for the six
months' period July 1st to December 31st, 1954.
Isasmuch as we were ordered to do so we have sub-
mitted a revised plan under protest to the Department of
Commerce and Industry. We wish also to protest to your
Exeelleney against the figure which has been allotted to
us whick not only gives us no share in the increasing
demand for gasoline during the aforementioned period,
but actually in effect gives us less than our sales have
been during the past six months.
Our New York Head Ofrice has asked us to draw
attention to the fact that the restrietion placed on our
gasoline trade during the period July to December inereases
the umcertainty as to our future in Japan, to which point
we drew Your Ereelleney's attention in our letter of
August 8th, 1954. We therefore beg to be informed
whether and to what extent we may be allowed to participate
in future in the imereasing demand.
Having advised our Head orfice regarding the pre-
visiens and regulations pertaiming to the Petroleum control
Law, they have replied to us substantially as follows,

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
partioularly in regard to the expenditures and risk
incident to the stoek-holding regulatioms:
Te are definitely opposed to the hugh
additiomal fimancial outlay required by the
stoek-holding regulations, partieularly in view
of the continued unprofitable prices which under
present Government control it seems impossible
to alleriate and in the absence of any assurance
as to our future. Therefore you may inform the
authorities that we are willing to comply provided
the Government furnishes the money for the re-
quired tankage and pays for reserve stocks as
well as indemnifies us against loases by fire,
earthquake and evaporation including interest and
all other additional expense. Regarding the
reserve stocks, please also make it plain to the
Govermment that we feel the price for such stocks
would have to be fixed before shipment from our
refineries and not be based on the market price
in Japan when taken over."
We are, with all respeet,
Your Excellency's most obedient servants,
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY,
(s) J.C. Goold,
Representative.

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
PT
SPECIAL GRAY
FROM TOKYO
Dated Septcmber 25,1934
Recid. 11.55 a.m.
Ll. to Fardar
894.6347
Scorctary of State,
tw0
Washirgton
213, Scptember 25, 6 pom.
894.6363/79
I read the Dopartnent's conmunication to the
Minister for Forein Affairs today. He asked me for a
copy which I left with him, s lainins that it wus an
oral message. The copy bore ao jndication that it was
a communic tion, mamcrandum or official documont of any
doscription. The Minister said that he understood the
position of the foreign oil companies and would sce that
the points brought out in the conversation would receive
the attention of the authorities dealing with the oil
question. He said he rucognized the hardship which would
be worked if the oil companies were required to oxpond
largo suns for storage purposes with no assuranco for the
futurc.
WSB
NEVILLE

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM SENT
PARING OFFICE
TO BE TRAASMITTED
INDICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
irge Department
PARTAIR
RECEIVED
OR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Charge to
Washington,
034 SEP 26 PM 5 46
September 26, 1934.
DIVISION OF
6p2m
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
AMEMBASSY,
894.6363/79
LONDON (England).
368
One. The Department has received a telegram under
date September 25 from the Embassy at Tokyo as follows:
QUOTE I read the Department's communication to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs today. He asked me for a
copy which I left with him, explaining that it was an
oral message. The Minister said that he understood
the position of the foreign oil companies and would
see that the points brought out in the conversation would
receive the attention of the authorities dealing with the
oil question. He said he recognized the hardship which
would be worked if the oil companies were required to
expend large sums for storage purposes with no assurance for
the future. UNQUOTE
Two. Please inform the Foreign Office orally and in
Hull
confidence.
8
n
(F.S.S.)
PE:EHD/DLY
FE
Enciphered by
7.204.H.
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
OR
1-198
894.6363/79
SEP 28 334 P

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.97)
Cogay to Takyo
11/14/34
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
3
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
l
September 25, 1934.
Mr. Walter C. Toagle,
AND LONDS
Mr. Hornbeck.
Subject: Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
894.6363/80
894.6363
Having in hand Tokyo's telegram 213, September 25,
6 p.m., I called Mr. Teagle on long distance 'phone and
said that I wished to inform him that we had brought to
the attention of the Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs,
through the American Embassy in Tokyo, informally and in
a friendly way, the situation, as outlined to us by the
American petroleum interests concerned, in which these
firms feel themselves now or about to be, in connection
with the Japanese petroleum law. I suggested that
Mr. Teagle keep this information as nearly confidential
as possible. Mr. Teagle said that he would of course be
glad to do so.
Mr. Teagle inquired whether we had been informed of
any aotion by the British. I told him that we had not;
that we had had no reply from a message whioh we had sent
to the British Foreign Ofrice informing them of the action
whieh we intended to take.

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
I also called to Mr. Teagle's attention to the faot
that aocording to information reoeived by us (I had in
mind Canton's telegram of September 25, 4 p.m.), sub-
stantial progress has been made by the American and
British oil interests at Canton, China, toward resolving
difficulties which they have encountered at the hands of
the Chinese authorities there. Mr. Teagle said that he
was very glad to have this brought to his attention and
he would inquire of his office in New York with regard
to details.
I inquired when Mr. Teagle would next be in
Washington, stating that I wished to inform him of certain
suggestions made by the American Minister to China. Mr.
Teagle said that he would be here next week and would get
in touch with me.
S
m.m.N.
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, September 21, 1934.
ELA
No. 984.
Subject: American Oil Interests in Japan.
Corl. FE
894.6363
FAR EASTLNA
001 8- 1934
Department of State
894.6363/81
C
H
Yra
In U S A.
No
CONFIDENTIAL
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
FILPD
Washington.
Sir:
F/HS
I have the honor to refer to this Embassy's despatch
78
S
No. 957, dated September 6, 1934, concerning the difficul-
ties which American and other oil companies are experiencing
under the Japanese Petroleum Industry Law, and to submit
below a resumé of developments since that despatch was
written.
Representations

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Representations Made by Other Governments.
September 19, 11 a.m., the Netherlands Minister on
September 18, 1934, called on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs and left with him an aide memoire listing the
difficulties which the new petroleum regulations are
causing to the Netherlands oil interests and request-
ing the Japanese Government to consider means to
remedy the causes which render it difficult for the
Netherlands oil interests to arrive at a decision as to
their future course of action in Japan. The full text
1/
of this aide memoire 1s appended hereto. The Netherlands
oil interests referred to, it may be explained, are those
connected with the Royal Dutch-Shell interests, whose
subsidiary company in Japan is the Rising Sun Petroleum
Company. The bulk of the refined petroleum products
imported into Japan by this subsidiary company originates
in the Netherlands Indies, and consequently the
Netherlands Government is also interested in the subject
of oil control in Japan.
The Embassy has discovered that the British Ambassa-
dor to Japan, on July 26th last, made somewhat similar
representations to the Japanese Government. At that time
the foreign oil companies were primarily interested in
obtaining from the Japanese Government some inkling as
to their chances of being permitted to remain in business

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
in Japan, and the representations made by the British
Ambassador were therefore principally concerned with
the problem of forcing answers to the oil companies
questions from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
A copy of the aide memoire which the British Ambassador
2/
left at the Foreign Office is enclosed herewith.
No replies have been received either by the British
Embassy or the Netherlands Legation to their represen-
tations, although the Commercial Counsellor of the
British Embassy was assured by the Chief of the Bureau
of Commercial Affairs of the Foreign Office that the
matter would receive the careful attention of the Foreign
Office.
Attitude of the Foreign Office toward the Question.
3/
There is enclosed herewith a copy of a memorandum
of a conversation which Mr. Neville had on September 13,
1934, with Mr. Kurusu, the Chief of the Commercial Bureau
of the Foreign Office. According to Mr. Kurusu's state-
ments, the Japanese Foreign Office is inclined to doubt
the feasibility of the stock-holding requirements of the
new law, because the Japanese oil companies lack the funds
necessary to erect storage facilities, and is inclined to
assist the foreign oil companies in their difficult posi-
tion. Mr. Kurusu is also well aware of the danger of
pushing the foreign companies too hard, and fears the
imposition of retaliatory measures by the British and
American

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.99)
American Governments. In a previous conversation with
Mr. Dickover, Mr. Kurusu stated that he had heard rumors
of a possible embargo by the foreign oil companies or
their governments on the export of crude oil to Japan,
and further stated that such an embargo would be a
very serious matter to Japan, as the supply of crude oil
was not only an industrial necessity but involved the
question of national defense. The Foreign Office there-
fore seems to realize the implications in the situation
(which the Army and Navy apparently do not realize) and
is endeavoring to induce the other governmental depart-
ments concerned to relax their pressure on the foreign
oil companies.
Attitude of the Foreign Qil Companies toward the
Stock-Holding Provisions of the Law.
According to the regulations, the oil companies must
submit to the Department of Commerce and Industry, by
September 30, 1934, their business plans for the six
months' period beginning January 1, 1935. The plans
called for are to include the companies' projects for
erecting storage facilities, in compliance with the
stock-holding requirements of the law. The two foreign
oil companies are loath to submit these plans, as they
will then be obligated to carry them into execution.
On the other hand, failure to submit the plans will
comprise an infraction of the law and may lead to can-
celation of their operating licenses. The foreign oil
companies

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
companies are thus placed in a dilemma from which there
seems to be no escape at the moment. As was stated in
174
the Embassy's despatch No. 957, the Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company has definitely refused to erect storage facili-
ties unless the cost of the tanks and other equipment
is borne by the Japanese Government. According to the
Japanese press, Mr. H. W. Malcolm, the General Manager
of the Rising Sun Petroleum Company, who sailed for
London on September 15, 1934, to consult with the head
office officials of the Shell oil interests, stated
before he sailed that his Company could not obey the
regulations for the compulsory storage of oil in Japan.
On the other hand, according to Mr. Kurusu, the Chief
of the Commercial Bureau of the Foreign Office, the
Japanese oil companies are not financially able to
comply witn the oil storage provisions of the law. The
only foreign oil company operating in Japan which has
agreed to comply with the stock-holding provisions of
the law is the Associated Oil Company of California,
which operates in connection with the Mitsubishi interests.
It is presumed that the Mitsubishi interests are to bear
the bulk of the cost of the storage facilities of the
Associated Oil Company.
If the foreign and Japanese oil companies are
unable or refuse to comply with the oil storage regula-
tions, the Government could reduce their import and sales
guotas

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
quotas for the future to an appropriate proportion of
their existing storage facilities. This step would,
however, appear to be liable to create an acute shortage
of oil products in Japan, thus defeating the purposes of
the law. It seems, therefore, that it may become neces-
sary for the Government to abandon or modify its oil
storage requirements, at least for the present.
In the meantime the Japanese newspapers have been
conducting a campaign against the foreign oil companies
because of their refusal to comply with the oil storage
regulations. The TOKYO ASAHI on September 13 stated that
The (oil storage) reports have been submitted to the
authorities by the Japan Oil Company and other Japanese
concerns in general, but the two British and American
companies have not submitted any report at all to the
authorities". On September 17, the same newspaper
published an article stating, inter alia:
"As this has much to do with the defense of
our country, native oil companies are purchasing
sites necessary for stock-holding purposes and
are constructing tanks so that by October next
year the quantity to be held in stock may reach
the required standard. However, the Rising Sun
Petroleum Company and the Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company are not making preparations in this
line, saying that the Petroleum Industry Law
is the worst law in the world. These two for-
eign companies are not desirous of performing
the stock-holding duty. Hence the authorities
are worrying over the affair.*
The TOKYO NICHI-NICHI and the TOKYO JIJI also published
articles along the same line, indicating that the items
were obtained from the same source. This source is
presumed

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
presumed to be the Department of Commerce and Industry,
which is endeavoring to absolve itself from blame for
any controversy which may arise in the future and to throw
the onus upon the foreign oil companies.
Foreign Refineries in Japan.
The Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, as far as the
Embassy is aware, has not considered applying for a license
to erect a refinery in Japan, but the Rising Sun Petro-
leum Company has been exploring the possibilities, in
the hope of thereby avoiding some of the disabilities
under which the foreign companies labor. This company,
however, has not been able to ascertain if such a license
would be issued, or, if issued, whether or not the foreign
refinery would receive the same rights and privileges as
are or may be granted to Japanese refineries. On Septem-
ber 18, 1934, Rengo reported that the Department of
Commerce and Industry would grant refining licenses to
foreign oil companies, "there being no legitimate reason
for rejection, in so far as the Petroleum Industry Law is
concerned". The CHUGAI SHOGYO, however, reported on
September 18:
"Opinion is divided among Government author-
ities in the matter of sanctioning construction
of refineries by foreign concerns. Some of
them declare that it should be permitted in
spheres where the sales of Japanese companies
would not be affected, but others contend that
the Petroleum Industry Law was enacted with
the principal object of protecting Japanese
oil companies and that the foregoing sanction
would run against the spirit of the Law. Be-
cause of this disagreement, the matter will be
the

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
the subject of serious discussion at the meeting
of the Petroleum Committee to be held soon."
Restriction of Exports of Crude Qil to Japan and
Manchuria.
293
42
Reference is made to the Embassy's telegram No. 191,
August 31, 2 p.m., stating that the Standard interests,
the Shell interests and the Texas Oil Company (the three
foreign oil companies now doing business in Manchuria)
had agreed not to submit quotations for the supply of
crude oil to the refinery at Dairen of the Manchuria Oil
793.636271.11/213
Company, and to the Embassy's telegram No. l96, Septem-
ber 5, 1 p.m., stating that the above-mentioned agreement
was being rendered ineffective by the fact that the
Standard Oil Company of California and the Union Oil
Company of California were submitting bids for Kettleman
crude oil mixed with kerosene to the Manchuria Oil
Company. A few days later the Embassy learned that the
Standard Oil Company of California and the Union Oil
Company had withdrawn their bids, indicating that pressure
from some source unknown to the Embassy had been applied
in the United States to these two companies. The Embassy
has now learned, however, that another American oil com-
pany, the Rio Grande Oil Company, which formerly did no
business whatever in Manchuria, has sold ten thousand
tons of California crude oil to the Manchuria Oil Company.
Although

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
Although the problem of the Manchuria Oil Company
and the proposed oil monopoly in Manchuria is not direct-
ly connected with the question of the petroleum control
instituted in Japan, the above case is cited as an example
of the impossibility of establishing an effective control
of crude oil exports to Japan and Manchuria, as a retalia-
tory measure, without governmental action.
Rumor of Further Control in Japan.
The Embassy has been informed by the representative
in Japan of the Associated Oil Company that he learned
from his Japanese connection (Mitsubishi) that the Japanese
authorities intend to proceed gradually with their original
plan, which was to establish a central petroleum sales
organization which would monopolize the sales of petroleum
products in Japan. According to the report, this central
sales organization will soon be established, but at first
will handle only the products of the Japanese refineries,
leaving the foreign companies to continue to market their
owm products. Through the operation of the Petroleum
Industry Law, however, the quotas given the foreign com-
panies will gradually be reduced, until finally they will
be shut out of the market entirely and will be allowed
to sell only to the central sales organization. This
plan is to be adopted instead of an outright monopoly,
because, if a monopoly is established, the Japanese Govern-
ment will be morally obligated to take over the foreign
companies

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.96)
-10-
companies' distributing properties at a fair valuation,
while, if the foreign companies are gradually "squeezed
out", the Government will not be under any obligation
to buy their properties.
Respectfully yours,
Sdani mecith.
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad Interim.
3
Enclosures:
1/ Copy of Netherlands Aide Memoire.
2/ Copy of British Aide Memoire.
3/ Copy of Memorandum of Conversation.
ERD:a
863.6
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
4.
IrH

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.99)
C O P Y
AIDE MEMOIRE
The Bataafsche Petroleum Company which is
operating in Japan through the Rising Sun Comnany
has pointed out to the Netherlands Government the
very difficult position in which the Netherlands
oil interests in Japan are placed by the new re-
gulations of the Petroleum Industry Law of March
27, 1954 and the Imperial ordinances therewith con-
nected.
As has been presented on several occasions by
the "Rising Sun" Company to the Minister of Commerce
and Inaustry they consider several of the above men-
tioned regulations to be of a very detrimental nature
to their business and hard to comnly with. The most
outstanding of these are the following:
1. The requirement of holding a six months'
stock of various petroleum products in the interest
of the Japanese Government, which involves a con-
siderable outlay of capital, whilst no security
beyond one year is given for the required investments.
2. The system of annual licenses both for im-
porting and refining, in consequence of which no
security is given as to the volume of trade that may
be expected in the future.
3. The encouragement by the law of the refining
industry in Japan, a policy which is detrimental to the
refining industries which are carried on at the points
of

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
of production of crude oil and with which Netherlands
interests are specially concerned. The Netherlands oil
interests state that notwithstanding the disadvantages
following the uneconomical effects of refining in the
consuming country instead of at the point of crude oil
production, they are willing to consider the erection
of a refining plant in Japan but so far they have not
been able to ascertain if a license to refine oil in
Japan will be granted them and if so whether they will
enjoy the same treatment as the Japanese companies.
4. The regulation that prices will be fixed by
the Government which can compel the oil comp nies to
sell their stocks and to continue to import ano sell
according to their import program, (which they have
to submit at fixed periods) at a price fixed by the
Government.
The Netherlands oil interests represent that they
are anxious to continue their long record of cooperation
in the petroleum business in Japan but in view of the
investments which they are now called upon to make under
the Petroleum Industries Law they feel it impossible
to come to a decision before knowing fully the con-
ditions under which they will be allowed to carry on
their future trade.
The Netherlands Government, which is closely
following the developments of the oil trade in Japan,
fully understands the difficult position in which the
Netherlands oil interests are placed and the apprehension
they

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
they feel for their future trade in view of the
extensive powers conferred on the Government by the
Petroleum Industry Law of 1934. In consideration of
the very important Netherlands interests which are at
stake, the Netherlands Legation, acting under in-
structions of its Government, takes leave to anoroach
the Japanese Government with the recuest to consider
means to remedy the detrimental causes hich render
it extremcly difficult for the Netherlands oil in-
terests to re:ch a decision which is bound to in-
volve great expenditure for which at present no
sufficient security is iven.
September 18th.1934.

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
AIDE
MEMOIRE
CONFIDENTIAL
The British oil interests operating in Japan
have represented to His Majesty's Government that
they are placed in a di ficult nosition by the de-
velopment of the legislation for the control of the
petroleum industry in Japan.
They state that the objects of this legislation
are
1. The encouragement of the refining
industry in Janan
The holding of stocks of oil in Japan.
Oil companies are called upon to submit their sele
and import plans for the period July to December
by July 3lst next and on the basis of these plans
they have to accumulate and carry stocks by March
31st next.
They have therefore an extremely short period-
until July 3lst- in which to make an important decision
on policy and investment of capital. They must reach
a decision as to whether they will undertake large
expenditure on tanks for storage of oil, and also
as to whether they should build a refinery. They
represent that in both cases they are without in-
formation sufficient to reach a decision. Pending
the formation of an Advisory Committee under the new
Petroleum

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Petroleum Law they cannot tell whether they will
receive a license to refine oil in Japan. Similarly,
they are faced with the difficulty of deciding whether
the investment of a large sum in any form is justified
since the Law institutes a system of annual licenses
both for importing and r fining and therefore gives
them no security as to the volume of trade that may be
expectea in the future.
The British oil interests renresent that they are
anxious to continue their long record of cooperation in
the petroleum business in Janan. They feel willing
and able to cooperate in the carrying out of the pre-
sent policy; but they re now called upon under the Law
to make investments which may anount to several millions
of yen at short notice but without any degree of cer-
tainty as to the future on which they can justify a
great capital outlay.
The foregoing is the substance of the views taken
by the British oil interests concerned. His Majesty's
Embassy feel that these anorehensions are not without
serious foundation in view of the wide powers of inter-
vention conferred upon the cuthoritics by the Petro-
leum Industry Law of 1934. They take leave therefore to
suggest that in the interests not only of the British
firms but also of the petroleum industry as a whole the
Japanese Government should agree to a discussion with
the British oil importers of the position arising out
of the new Law, since, failing a clear interpretation
of

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
of the meaning of certain articles and exnlicit
assurances on certain points, it is hardly possible
for the British interests concerned to reach a decision
involving very great expenditure which might in the
future be rendered fruitless.
26th Ju1y, 1934.

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.98)
C Q P Y
MEMORANDUM
Interview between Mr. Neville and Mr.
Kurusu, Chief of the Commercial Bureau
of the Foreign Office, September 13,
1934.
*************************
011.
Mr. Kurusu said that he did not think that the
matter of the Manchurian oil monopoly was imminent,
because the situation growing out of the vexed question
of Japanese administrative control would have to be
settled first. He said that he could not comment on
this, as it seemed to have got into a jam. So far as
the domestic situation was concerned, he said that the
Army and particularly the Navy were insisting upon all
sorts of ridiculous provisions in the Control Law
regulations. He said that the six months storage
requirement was practically impossible of enforcement,
because the oil companies did not have the money to put
up so many tanks. He said that he had told the other
Departments that the Government would either have to
assist the companies to carry such large stocks of oil
or else to permit them to raise their prices enough to
cover the carrying charge. He said that he had also
spoken to the other members of the oil control board
warning them that it would be poor policy to make the
oil business unprofitable to the foreign companies,
because if the latter were forced out of business,
the Japanese companies would find difficulty in getting
a supply of oil; that the United States might decide to
control oil exports and that the Japanese concerns
might then find themselves in a very embarrassing posi-
tion. He said that he was trying hard to get some kind
of an assurance for the foreign oil concerns, who could
not be expected to expend capital sums in Japan without
knowing whether they would be able to do business for
a definite period of years. He said he hoped he could
avoid making the matter an international question, with
the possibility of retaliatory measures by the Americans
and the British, who could make matters very troublesome
for Japan if they set about it.
水水水水水***水**水***********
E. L. N.

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.95)
ZE
GRAY
WP
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Tokyo
Dated October 10, 1934
FROM
Recid 1:55 a. m.
113
Socretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
St
DCT 1 0 1934
Washington.
A
091 10 1934
bl.to Joley
894.6363/82
Department of State
公
894.6363
77
My 213, September 25, 6 . m., and previous re-
garding tho Potroleum Industry Control Law.
I have been informed only today by the British
Embassy that on October 5 the British Ambassador made
renewed representations to the Japanese Government in
regard to the Petroleum Industry Law and left with the
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs an aide memoire of which
the following is the substance:
One. The British petroleum interests have so far
been unable to obtain from the Japanese authorities
FILED
assurances of a nature to relieve thoir anxiety or
information which will enable them to decide upon thaer
future business policy, and consequently they are unable
fully to comply with the provisions of the law requiring
them to submit details of their plans for 1935.
Two. The British Ambassador therefore inquires
whether the Japanese Governmont has been able te give
consideration to the position of the British petroleum
interests under the new law and expresses the "hope
F
that
G

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 - No. 222 from Tokyo
that it will be found possible to direct or modify the
operations of that law in such a way as to relieve them
of hardshipswhich it threatens to impose".
Full text of aide momoire by mail.
NEVILLE
JS

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.98)
Isray
TELEGRAM SENT
REPARING OFFICE
1-138
TO BE TRANSMITTED
LINDICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
lect
2
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Charge Department
PLAIN
OR
Charge to
Washington,
934 OCT 10 PM 5 08
Ootober 10, 1934.
AMEMBASSY,
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
383
Department's 368, September 26, 6 p.m.
follows:
894.6363/82
QUOTE I have been informed only today by the British
Embassy that on October 5 the British Ambassador made
renewed representations to the Japanese Government in
rogard to the Petroleum Industry Law and left with the
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs an aide memoire of which
the following is the substance:
One. The British petroleum interests have so far
boen unable to obtain from the Japanese authorities
assurances of a nature to relieve their anxiety or
information which will enable them to decide upon their
future business policy, and consequently they are unable
fully to comply with the provisions of the law requiring
them to submit details of their plans for 1935.
Enciphered by
Sent by operator.
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1-138

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
PARING OFFICE
11.8
TO BE TRANSMITTED
INDICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
arge Department
Department of State
PLAIN
OR
Charge to
Washingion,
- 2-
Two. The British Ambassador therefore inquites
whether the Japanese Government has been able to give
consideration to the position of the British petroleum
interests under the new law and express the SUBQUOTE
hope that it will be found possible to direct or
modify the operations of that law in such a way as to
relieve them of hardships which it threatens to impose
END SUBQUOTE. UNQUOTE
894.6363/82
reeus
1DS.
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
11.
180
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
19
Index Bu.-No. 50.
1-138

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.94)
E
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
LONDON, October 1, 1934.
No. 963
SUBJECT:
Japanese Fetroleun Industry Law.
to
894.6363
It
new
894.6363/83
For buer br ion Check
Grode
For
1..f1 1.1
No
10 USA
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
77
FILED
Referring to tne Department's telegram To. 365,
September
21, 8 p.m., regarding the Japanese petroleum industry law,
I have the honor to report that the Embassy at once orally
informed the Foreign Office in the sense of that telegraphic
instruction.
79
The Department's telegram 1lo. 368, September 26, 6 p.m.,
concerning the statement of the Japanese Foreign Minister to
Mr. Grew on September 25 in the same matter, was also
communicated/

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
communioated orally to the appropriate Foreign Office
official, who told the Embassy that Mr. Hirota had
made a similar statement to the British ambassador when
he made the representations in July last referred to in
this Embassy's telegram Ho. 529 September 19, 4 p.m.
The Foreign Office official also said that the Dutch
Minister in Tokyo had recently made representations in
the matter.
He adued that in accoruance witn the
Department's suggestion (see Department's telegram of
September 21 referred to above) the Foreign O"fice had
instructed the British Ambassador at Tokyo to choose
an early opportunity to make further representations to
the Japanese Forein inister.
Respectfully yours,
For the mbassador:
HchMillard,
Seconl Secretary of Embassy.
HM/MVB

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
118
Inversation.
August 22, 1934.
Sir Honri W. Doterding,
Direotor General, Royal
Dutoh Petroleum Company.
1).
794.6363
Mr. Walter C. Teagle, President,
Cojey to Takyo "/19/34
Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey.
894.6363/84
ycu
The Under Secretary of State,
Mr. Phillips.
Mr. Hornbeok.
impartarent of State
m
Sub jeot:
Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
This conversation was held in the office of the Under
Seoretary of State, from 3:30 to 4:45 this afternoon.
Mr. Teagle began with a statement, on the basis of a
memorandum (attached), on the subject of the Japanese
petroleum monopoly. Reference to the text of this memo-
randum shows more accurately than did his statement what
are the facts upon which he based and advanced the conten-
tion that it would be impossible from a business point of
view to comply with the provisions of the law and the
regulations appertaining to it, if enforced, and that the
LED
net effeot would be an enforoed withdrawal of the American
and British-Dutoh petroleum interests now operating in
Japan. At various points in his presentation of the matter
Mr. Teagle's statements were corroborated by statememts by
F/G
Sir Henri Deterding.
X
When
L

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.98)
一8-
When Mr. Teagle reached the point of suggesting a
course of action, he suggested two things: that the American,
the British and the Netherland Governments make a joint pro-
test at Tokyo; and that the American Government make a gesture
by having an inquiry addressed by the Secretary of the
Interior to American petroleum interests calling for a
canvass of the situation with a view to possible measures
of restriction upon exports (to Japan). When asked which
of these measures he sought to have taken first, Mr. Teagle
seemed to be of the view that they might be taken simul-
taneously, but he seemed particularly intent upon the idea
that the American Government should act and that action
taken by it in addressing the American oil interests could
be taken expeditiously and if taken would have the immediate
effect of frightening the Japanese and perhaps leading
promptly to a revision by the Japanese of their position.
Mr. Hornbeck and Mr. Phillips asked a number of ques-
tions direoted toward eliciting information with regard to
the position and authority of the British and the Dutch
Governments in regard to measures which might be taken
toward ensuring effeotiveness of action by the oil industries
in support of protests, if and when made, by governments.
At no time in the course of the conversation was there
given any indioation that the British or the Dutoh Govern-
ments had committed themselves to a course of action either
of protest or of restriction.
At

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
At an appropriate moment Mr. Phillips read the text
of Tokyo's telegram No. 182, August 20, 1934, 3 p.m. The
suggestion made in that telegram that a gesture be made by
the American Government is similar to the suggestion made
by Mr. Teagle in the early stages of the conversation.
After some further disoussion, Mr. Phillips inquired
whether Mr. Teagle and Sir Henri would like to talk with
the Seoretary of the Interior; and in consequence of this
suggestion and replies in the affirmative, Mr. Phillips
made by 'phone appointments for a conference to be held
at the office of the Secretary of the Interior on Thursday,
August 23, at ll:10 a.m., the Secretary of the Interior to
receive Mr. Hornbeck first and ten minutes later to receive
Mr. Teagle and Sir Henri.
Mr. Phillips then raised the question as to what should
be said to the press if inquiries were made by the correspond-
ents with regard to the conversation which was just closing.
It was agreed that Mr. Teagle and Sir Henri should refer any
inquirers to Mr. Phillips and that Mr. Phillips should say
that the subjeot of the conferenoe had been a question of
the quality of commercial opportunity in the Far East.
Mr. Teagle and Sir Henri thanked Mr. Phillips for having
received them and given them a good deal of time and, with
the usual amenities, the conversation ended.
B:8XH/ZK

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.98)
August 21, 1934.
Petroleum Industry Control Law
Japanese Empire.
The Industrial Control Act, which preceded the Fetroleum
Industry Control Law, went into effect August 1st, l93l, and at first
had special reference to four industries, namely, electric machine
manufacturing, artificial fertilizers, ortland cement and woolen cloth.
▲ provision of the Law was tht ot er in lustries would leter be troucht
under the Law if by aplicutien f t e interested the epplicetion was
supported by 75% of such interests.
The Cil Industry in Jupun at te' tine was suffering from
chaotic conditions brought abcut chiefly by disustrous competition fol-
lowing depreciation in exchange and in ereased tariffs, und with the
idea of avoiding s ch control as  ud been put intc effect in the four
industries entfoned,  suscline Cartel wus estried n uly 1932
6
by the six major compenies, of w e. the forsign interests were the
Rising Sun Fetroleum Compary and the Socony-Vacuum Corporation. The
Cartel in respect to seles prices, vas placed under the jurisdiction
9
of the Departhent of Commerce. It was unticipe ted that fevorable Gov-
3
ernment action through the Departmert of Commerce, might result in
establishing higher prices, but is roved t te a considerable disap-
3
pointment and Governiment control resuited mcre in establishing a maxi-
mum price rather than a minimum price. Nevertheless tirough constant
pressure and efforts of our people in Jupan, we were successful by the
middle of 1933, in getting our rices tc a  cint where ve vere just
about out of red figures. As  matter ? interest, ur operations in
the Empire for the year 1932, resu1ted in a 1oss of about t.S.#2,000,000
and in 1933, a loss of atout .S.00,Cc.. Notwithstanding the
Cartel, the Industry control Act was invoked on Nov. 4, 1952, to embrace
the marketing of Gasoline, the results of which were a disappoin tment.
the Government refusing to allow profitable rices, farticulerly be-
cuase of the opposition of the Taxi Companies in Japan which the Gov-
ernment did not wish to antagonize. Thus the Oil Industry was mede to
serve the social and political ideas of Governmental authorities.
During the first half of 1933, ne Japanese firm of Matsukata
arranged to import Russian Gasoline, and in August, started business by
undercutting the other companies. Regardless of the Control Law, prices
were forced down and since then have eer. far from satisfectory. In
August l933, about the time Matsukata competition appeared, the Cartel
was renewed and the Shell's and our adherence to it, was made subject to
the Government controlling Russian prices and assigning them a reason-
able quota, but unfortunately, the Government did not act to any pur-
pose until June 1934, when a temporary quota was given to the Russians
and prices were partially restored but not sufficiently to cover our
oosts.
Government control has just recently culminated in the Petroleum
Industry Control Law, which has placed more onerous conditions on the
industry than ever attempted in any other country on any industry. This
Law was enacted on March 27, 1934, promulgated June 27th, and became
offeotive July lst, l934. It gives the Government full regulation of
prices to any extent they deem fit. All concerns proposing to carry on
a business of refining petroleum or of importing petroleum, must obtain

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
permit and formulate a business plan whioh must have the approval of the Govern-
memt. Any ohamge in the plan or proposal to transfer, abolish or suspend the whele
or part of the undertaking under the plan., must have the sanotion of the Government.
Ome of the most onerous conditions imposed is that all refiners and importers of
petroloum shall keep continuously in stook a quantity of petroleum caloulated on
the basis of the quantity which they formerly imported. It neoessitates the fil-
ing, prior to September 30, 1934, of the complete import and sales plan for 1935
and the filing at onco of a similar plan for the last half of l934. The rogula-
tions state that by April lst, 1935, we must aocumulato stooks in bond, roughly
•quivalent to 3 months business, and to be considered purely roserve stooks and
in adaition to stooks n rmally necessary for ordinary business. By October 1935
this reserve must be inoreased to á months stock. Regardless of vory ample tankage
we have in Japan it will mean an oxpenditure of approximately U. S. $375,000.
to make our storage oomply, and we understand the Shell interests will have to
spend about . S. $2,700,O00. Our investment in stooks unnecessarily tied up
would be approximatoly U. S. $1,900,000. A very important point is that the
Government have full control over current sales prices and in an emergoncy have
the privilege of taking over these reserve stooke at the current price in Japan
regardless of whether this prioe is below our laid-down costs in Japan or below
the basis of world prices. After taking over our stook, to continue in business
in Japan we womld then be obliged to roplenish this stook, which in turn could
again be taken over by the Government, and so on indofinitely.
The Control Law also states that plans for rofining or for
inorease in refining prodution .ust be declared by Septouber 30th, and the plans
embrace the necessity of giving considerable detail as to capacity, type of re-
fining units and total expenditures, While no figures which wo have been able
to assemble show that it will be profitable for us to croot a refinery in Japan,
nevertholess it is not clear to us whether by failure to submit a plan wo would
be eliminated from later rofining, or whether, if we did apply wo would be ao
tually oommitted to the full extont of our plan or to tho plan in a modified way.
The Japanese Governmont have progressively inoreased Finished Produot duties
in favor of refining orude, and it is concoivable that they might so inorease
them that we would be obliged to ereot a refinery in order to market profitably.
We have cabled Yokohama that at the present time we cannot
compile figures which would show any profit in a refinery and are convinoed that
we would not prepare to creot at this time and that this decision is qualified
only should it exolude us from any future opportunity to build a refinery unless
we file applioation promptly. Wo advised thom also that in respeot to building
of 3 and 6 months storage we are willing to comply if the Govonnment furnishes
money to provide tankage and pay for exoess stock as well as to indemnify us
against evaporation losses, including intorest or any other additional expense,
and failing this we are certainly unaltorably opposed to a huge additional
utlay, partioularly in view of oontinued unprofitable prices whioh under
present Government control it seems impossible to alleviate. Wo have also
informed them that as no country in the world has ever attempted to impose
suoh onerous conditions on an industry we are presonting all of the facts
in the situation to the Stato Department.

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.94)
JAPAN-KCREA-FORMOSA
DELIVERIES
INTO
CONSUMPTION
YEARS
1930-1931-1932-1933
STANDARD-VACUUM
MITSUI
TOTAL
STAD-VAC.
R.S.P.
CO.
:9
%
Barrels
Total
Derrels
Total
Derrels
Total
Barrels
Total
011
1930
426
995
37.7
426
995
37.7
221
341
19.6
1931
382
421
31.8
382
421
31.8
219
812
18.3
011
1932
330
561
29.0
330
561
29.0
192
178
16.8
1
1933
321
145
23.2
321
145
22.2
235
036
16.2
1930
778
607
22.0
87
693
2.4
866
000
24.4
1
231
197
34.8
1931
005
672
21.0
78
238
1.8
983
910
22.8
1
498
748
34.8
soline
1932
905
133
10.1
86
256
7.7
991
389
19.8
1
735
364
34.8
1933
1 069
849
19.1
110
503
2.0
1
130
352
21.1
1
803
028
32.1
1930
G9
168
0.7
1
043
056
10.1
1
112
204
10.8
2
555
564
24.7
Fuel &
1931
36
845
0.9
1
110
764
11.3
1
197
09
1°.2
2
700
264
27.5
Diesel Oils
1932
65
770
0.6
1
204
700
11.2
1
270
530
11.9
3
193
764
30.0
1933
97
398
0.2
1
727
11.6
1
521
119
12.4
3
345
114
31.2
1930
163
083
14.3
X
168
085
14.3
25
611
2.2
Lub'g.
1931
150
749
11.9
X
150
749
11.9
24
380
1.9
011s
1932
113
614
9.0
11
2.0
17
530
7.4
1933
07
999
C.C
37
099
0.0
930
0.7
1930
8
171
53.6
8
171
53.6
199
1.3
Grease &
1931
7
536
63.7
7
536
63.7
365
3.1
Petrolatum
1932
6
007
62.1
1
6
007
62.1
486
5.0
1933
5
599
54.0
3
509
54.0
293
2.6
1930
10
866
14.7
14.7
30
051
C0.0
Wax &
1931
15
359
15 602
9.9
60
986
39.4
Candles
1932
3
020
3.9
6
926
3.9
61
348
32.9
1933
3
093
3.3
3
090
2.9
12
067
11.1
1930
27
024
10.1
27
024
10.1
434
C.2
1931
25
111
6.2
25
111
6.2
283
0.1
Asphaltum
1932
20
0,1
20
493
6.1
114
0.1
1933
8
798
0.1
一
798
.1
1
1930
1
497
714
9.0
3
130
429
6.3
2
623
143
15.8
4
114
397
24.8
TOTAL
1931
1
573
693
9.2
J
169
002
7.0
2
702
625
16.2
504
838
26.4
BUSINESS
1932
1
447
604
7.8
1
201
006
7.0
73.
610
14.8
5
201
284
25.0
1933
1.
583
863
7
7.1
12
107
14.6
5
905
709
7.8
X - Deliveries by itsui inel. with Standerd-Vacuum
separation unknown.
* - Inol. sstimated delivories for Havy
Year
1930
3
991
886
Bbls. 42
1931
2
929
364
19
n
1932
3
388
829
1
n
1933
一
3
112
064
1n

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.95)
JAPAN-KOREA-FORMOSA
ELIVERIES
INTO
CONSUMPTION
(Expressed in Bbls. of
42
Gals.)
ARS
1930-1931-1932-1933
STAND-VAC.
R.S.P.
CO.
TEXAS
CC.
J. YHESE
COS
OTHERS
BUSINESS
TOTAL
1s
Total
%
Barrels
Total
%
Darrels
Total
Barrels
Total
Barrels
Total
%
Barrels
995
145
561
421
37.7
31.8
29.0
22.2
221
219
192
235
036
341
170
812
19.6
18.3
16.8
16.2
19
30
25
19
971
479
929
341
2.3
2.6
1.7
1.4
433
563
592
864
780
572
308
956
38.3
46.S
51.S
59.8
23
4
6
5
575
545
961
768
2.1
0.4
0.6
0.4
1 131
1 201
1 141
1 446
620
571
737
746
000
910
389
352
24.4
22.8
19.8
21.1
1
1
1
1
231
498
735
803
028
197
364
748
34.8
34.8
34.8
32.1
15
20
16
29
202
348
534
390
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.5
1
1
2
2
239
308
803
526
147
908
689
729
41.8
46.0
36.9
44.9
123
72
3
9
054
413
276
328
3.5
0.1
0.2
1.3
3 543
4 310
5
4
992
611
746
181
252
827
70
21
204
609
119
520
12.2
10.8
11.9
12.4
2
3
2
3
193
558
345
700
264
564
764
14
24.7
27.5
30.0
31.2
一
8
一
1
5
3
5
24
783
701
690
306
191
38.€
38.6
49.3
46.3
3
2
139
100
245
944
514
043
743
193
21.7
30.9
10.1
0.8
10
12
10
9
330
813
658
313
032
172
607
930
50
1
87
68
083
749
614
999
14.3
11.9
6.0
9.0
25
24
17
611
530
380
080
2.2
1.9
7.4
0.7
4
2
5
3
386
238
854
966
0.4
0.5
0.2
0,2
1
3.
1
000
03
304
671
209
724
796
76.0
88.0
79.2
88.9
C4
78
82
70
101
112
60
7.1
6.5
5.5
5.1
1
1
1
1.
269
176
478
267
387
514
621
977
5
6
8
007
171
536
599
53.6
63.7
62.1
54.0
199
365
486
393
1.5
3.1
5.0
2.6
256
366
523
200
2.7
3.1
5.4
2.0
2
038
一
15.3
一
3
4
2
565
592
656
260
30.1
41.2
30.1
27.5
15
11
10
9
256
672
361
832
19
666
14.7
30
051
C0.0
19
11.7
410
11.7
∴7.い
14
14
916
968
11.2
0.7
133
154
450
723
15
6
3
095
026
359
9.9
3.9
2.9
C0
61
12
067
086
348
32.9
11.7
49.4
一
1
1
1
39
73
C30
783
47.1
62.8
11
3
434
070
3.2
9.1
154
108
379
974
28
27
25
20
62
28
38
8
024
493
111
798
143
107
695
610
10.1
16.2
14.8
15.8
14.6
8.2
2.1
6.1
4
4
5
5
114
201
504
905
234
464
283
114
397
838
700
1
24.8
28.4
25.0
0.1
C.2
0.1
50
59
55
1
4
3
032
161
239
920
080
425
999
1.5
0.6
7.0
0.8
0.
2
2
2.0
7
6
307
457
157
27
510
680
235
025
404
3A1
025
049
220
177
76.0
95.2
1.2
38.9
58.0
45.7
50.9
.6
3
1
2
1
285
417
496
33
50
46
075
092
694
629
975
439
443
326
18.6
15.1
21.1
13.4
2.4
9.9
5.8
6.6
17
16
18
21
417
268
069
307
599
560
386
355
404
416
709
980
438
136
930
574
d-Vacuum
separation unicion.
Year
1930
3
991
886
Bbla. 42's
1931
2
923
364
19
1
1932
3
388
329
11
n
1
1933
一
3
112
064
n
11
August 20, 1934,

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.91)
JAPAL THRRITEY
MAY-1.824
lst Gost
Depree.Value
Lat Cest Depree.Value lat Cost Daver
YOKOHANA
XEIJO
FORMDSA
1.938,136.29 1,958,136.29 164,900.31 164,900.31
4,021,814.14 2,198,085.69
336,336.97 126.791.24
54.47
.63
Ivest.
266,896.58
96,765.87
15,059.60
6,310.54
1,339.37
808.78
Iadyment
148,106.11
49,187.20
1,726.09
584.12
430.17
237.68
48.62
83.16
109,783.70
83,134.80
44.44
21.26
s...)
89,969.33
25,876.86
9,464.84
2,838.85
1,356.87
207.50
10,135.85
10,133.85
6,879,584.29 4,400,243.48
586.233.33
301,099.88
2,799.33
1,199.16
, Kale. & Fermeee - Imveatory and 3torehouse Laterial - 5/31/34
3
8
8
- Lecouats Receivable less Accounts Payable - 5/31/34
1.
. Feije, & Pemese - Cress Sales for the year 1933

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.92)
ZAPNLEDRITEY
1
Bepree.Vaine
Lst Cost
Depree.Value lst Cost 
Lat Cost
Depree. Value
XELJO
FORMOSA
TOTAL
1,988,186.89 166,900.31
164,900.31
2,105,056.60
2,103,036.00
2,198,085.69
336,336.99
126,791.24
54.47
38.63
4,358,204.58
2,384,915.86
98,106.87
15,087.60
6,310.54
1,339.37
868.78
282,292.35
102,945.19
49,187.20
142,106.11
49,189.80
804.18
430.17
237.62
48.62
24.16
2,204.88
845.90
83,134.20
44.44
21.26
109,888.14
83,155.46
25,876.86
9,464.84
2,838.85
1,356.87
207.59
100,781.04
28,323.9s
10,133.95
10,138.25
10,133.88
4,400,868.48
586.833.33
301,099.88
2,799.33
1,139.16
7,108,586.95
4,702,482.46
y and Starehomse Material - 5/31/54
3,879,371.90
 Ressivable less Accounts Payable -
5/31/34
1,365,930.87
$ 18,385,889.12
ales for the year 1953
8,029,775.92

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.92)
STATE
OCT 1310
DIVISION OF
Fel
The SHOREHAM
994.6363
w
Coancta t nn at Calert Stresa
Washington.D.C.
894.6363/85
AuE 18: 22, 1934.
Dr. Stanley Hornbeck,
Near East Division,
State Department,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Attached you will find e translation of the
article referred to at our meetin this afternoon, con-
taining pertinent facte in regard to Japan's fuel pro-
gram.
Very truly yours,
FILED
..
WOT:F
enclosure

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.97)
TIOLE FRON THE SOVIET NEWBPAPER "PRAVDA", DATED 13th JULY, 1934.
JAPANOS TURL BASE
The fuel problem is one of the most acute problems oonfronting Japanese imper-
1aliem. In respect of natural reserves of fuel Japan has at her disposal 2.5 peroent
of the world's potential resources of hydro-energy, 2.3 percent of the oil, O.4 per-
cent of the lignine, and O.l percent of the coal. Japanese imperialiam has tried to
compensate itself by means of the forced working of its existing resources, and the
seisure of colonial sources of raw materials. If one also makes a reduction on ac-
count of the climate, which lowers the consumption of fuel, all these figures show,
however, that with the exception of hydro-energy Japan is far behind her imperialist
colleagues as far as fuel is concerned.
However, with all the forcing of the use of "white coul", this cannot take the
place of other kinds of fuel. There is no peat in Japn, likewise very little lignine,
although in the fomm of chercoal it is a universal domestic 1el, und in 1931 50,118
thousand cob. wetres timber were hewn for this purpose, as compared with 13, 597 thous.
cub. metres for business prpses. In uddi tion to these kirds of fuel there re ul so
coal und oil.
The potertial reserves of cou! of Ju un herself are reckoned at anproximately
6.950 million tons, but only 900 million tons re of any industrial importunce. Coal
production ettained its meximm roportions in 1929 - 34, 58 thous. tons, but fell to
27,987 thous. tons in 193l. The general consumption of ccl is on an verage about
30,ooo,ooo tons. un the hole up to the resent Japan has reuined a "self-supporting"
nation as far us coal is concerned.
The Fleet consumes 1 percent of the totul ccal output, the railways - 10 percent.
metallurey - 10 percent, Eus production - 4 percent, electric power stations - 3 percent
and the munufacturing industries - 48 percent. whereas durine the last few pre-
crisis years e number of countries, vith neland at the ir heed, produced less coal then
in pre-war times, Japan increased her production by more than 40 percent as compared
with l9l3. However, although in England the price of & ton of coal hus actually

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
manged to a very slight extent, in Japan coal, even in l930, cost twice as much as
in pre-war times. Hence a strong tendenc yto change over from coal to other kinds of
fuel, and in particular to oil and electricity.
Oil consumption is growing at a rapid rate. Apart from the Navy, in l913
Japan consumed approximately 350,000 tons of oil, while in 1930 consumption rose
to 1.5 million tons. Duri ng the cricis year of 193o the consumption of oil in-
creased by 6 percent, while during  in's most difficult crisis year - l931 - it
further increased by 15 percent. The structurel alterutions which took place
during this period wth recurd to the consunption of oil pro ducts are charucterized
by an acute fall in the consumption of kerosene und asoline und a very lurge abso-
lute and also comparative growth in the consumption of mazout and benzine. The
rapid growth of motor traffic and aviation, and likewise the considerable fall in
the price of benzine explain the gmwth in consumption of same, while the mass
conversion of fishing vessels to liquid fuel and the accumulation of strategical
reserves provided the reason for the £rowth in the denand for macout.
However, with such a tempestuous growth in consumption the production of oil
in Japen has not increased: in 1913 it umount to 223,000 tons, and, reaching 1ts
maximm height in 1916, is now steadily falling. In 1932 42,000 tons were pro-
duced, but although in 1913 this came to 60 percent of the country's consumption,
in l933 the specific grevity of its own oil fell to l0percent. In addition to
this, the old and principel oil regions are becoming exhausted: the Niigat and
Akita regions, which yl elded more than 0 percent of the total Japanese production
during the decade 1919 - l929, hive reduced the production of oi1 by 21 percent.
The government have taken every possible step to increase production: they
introduced a very high tariff an all imported oil products, and since l926 subsidies
have been paid to persons conduc ting explorations in new areas. However, this has
not helped: production has not increased, and the number of explored locations during
the period between the end of the imperialist war and the crisis was reduced by 34
porcent, and the number of locations under drilling by l6 percent. The only fields

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
whieh have yielded a slightly higher production since the war are the Isikari,
Tiosio, Kitami and Ibouri fields, all on the island of Hokkaido, which play a
vory amall role in Jepanese production.
The acute decrease in production at the large fields constitutes the best
proof of the exhaustion of the oilfields: although in l9l9 there were several
oilfields with an annual pmduction of more than 14 million gallons, by the time
the world crisis arose there was not one; however, the number of fields increased,
with an output from 2.5 million to 5 mdllion gallons. The average daily production
of one well in Junan amounts to only one-fifth of the everage daily production of
one well in the U.s.A.
Having utilized all the possibilities within the country, and not having
achieved any practical results worth mentioning, Japanese iaperialism has started
exploration operations in its coloni es. In Kore no oil has heen found so far, however
in Formosa exploration has yielded favorable results: in 1919 1,174 tons were pro-
duced, and in 1928 as ma ny as anprox. 44.00 tons. lowever, since 198 production
has also decreased to a considereble extent in Formosa; in l929 it amounted to
33.000 tons, and in 1930 - 32.000 tons.
Some foreign experts consider that with the object of ensuring suoplies in the
ovent of war a certain number of the wells is being conserved. It is of course
possible to make such reserves, but in ny case they cannot be of eny serious im-
portance, as the conservation of even z0 percent of possible production would yield
an increase in production of only 50 - 60 thousand tons per nnum, which constitutes
only 2 percent of the annual consumption of the Japanese navy, air force and army in
wartime.
O11 imports into Japan continue to grow from one year to another. In 1913 they
mounted to 197,000 tons, not including the direct imports of the inistry of arine,
in 1925 - 586,000 tons, and in 1933 - approximately 2.5 mil1ion tons. In the May
number (1934) of the journal "Kogio Nikhon" Vice-Admiral Nakasato, who is the chair-
man of the "Kita Karafuto Sekiu" wrote: "Japan is suffering from a shortage of oil.

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.97)
he all problee is a very diffioult one for Jepan. This question became pertieulegly
ute after the events in Hanohuria, and is now still more soute in viow of the
atheemins difficul tues in 1935 - 1936. Therefore the solution of this problem
1ill brook no dolg."
In mhat direction is Japanese iperialism turaing for the solution of this
problem? The production of the North Sakhalin concession amounted to 13.770 tong
1n 1925, in 1930 - 193,000 tons, and in 1933 it almost reached the level of pro-
duction of Japan, mounting to 220,000 tons.
In addition to the North Sakhalin concession Japan likewise has concessions
on the island of Borneo (Indonesia) and in Texas (in exico). The Japanese press
is silent concerning the progress of the operations at the latter; with regard to
the former, in the spring of 1930 43 engineers and 25 technicians were sent to
Tarakan, and have developed the work consi derably. However, the practical value
of the Borneo concession is so far inconsiderable, as it is situated in the mount-
ains, and the oil produced has to be carried away in barrels on mule-back. Com-
munications in the foretan press show that at the prssent time the Jaranese are
engaged in Eornen ct only, or rtr not so much in the froduction of oil as in
tudying the shores of the island and arranging for open spaces for future aerodromes!
During the past few years Japanese i perialism has been zealously searching for
oil in China. In buron Tunaka's memorundum the importance of anchurian oil was men-
tioned. although there are no offielal data regarding oil deposits, nevertheless the
1dea is widespread that in Jehol, in Northem China, oil exis ts, and thut secret
oxploration operations have ylel ded positive results.
If we add together the production of Japan herself, her colonies and concessions,
and also add the 150,000 tons of Soviet sukhalin oil obtained, this quantity does
not oover one third of Japan's total requirements of oil. If from this quantity
we deduct the production of Sakhalin, an "impossible situation" - to use the words
of Nakasato - is created. True, in "peace-tine" this does not cause Japanese
imperialism any real difficulty.

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
There is keen competition on the Japaneae market between the merican and
English oil concerne. During the crisis in l930-l93l prices for oil were lower in
Japan than on any other market, and iuported oil was always cheaper than home-
produced oil. Up to the present Japan has not had to pay too mich - as has the
U.S.., for instance - for Anglo-uutch mhber. However, it is clear that this
cannot satisfy Japmese financial capital, all the more sc as preparutions for a
reat war raise the yuestion, in ull ita cuteness, of the necessity of supplying
her with oil with uny variation of war.
Considerine the prospe ts of importine cil, mr. wikusuto quite reasonably
points out that "hore we re in  st te of uncertuinty, und cannot suy how long it
will be possible for us to purchise oil, and also whet we will do in the event of
exportation of oil being prohibited in the corresponding countries. In any case, if
we really teke into consider tion the so-cilled crisis of 1935-1936, while simul-
taneously buying foreign oil we must expend every effort to obtuin oil by every
other means in our power".
in
Germany, which during the world war was hemmod/by the iron ring of the blockade,
tried to extract oil from ligni te (brown coal) by means of hydrogenation. Japan
has duly profited by Germany's experience, and latterly  number of laboratories
attached to the inistry of Trade end Industry, the Ministry of the arine and the
South Manchurian Rail way have been working on the problem of hydrogenation, all
the more so as the Japanese couls, which ure very bituminous, are a much more
usable material than the Geman lignites. Operations with Korean lignite, on a
semi-works scale, have alreudy yiel ded fevorable results (from the raw materials
used 10 percent heavy oils have been obtained). The greatest importance attaches
to the use of Fushun (in anchuria) bituminous shale, the quantities of which
milliard
to a depth of 500 metres alone are reckoned at 1.2 mtitam tons. The south
Manchurian Railway have built an oil refinery at Fushun, with an annual production
programme of 73,000 tons of oil (treating 1,380 tons of shale), which can easily be
100.000 tons of oil. The question is also being raised regarding the utilisation

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
 combustible gases, obtained either as a by-product during coke or illuminating-gas
manufacture, or when refining hard fuel. Its efficacy moreover in this respect is
from 2 to 6 peroent to the raw material.
So far all these investigations, and a number of others, with the exception of
the Fushun works, hew had no practical a plication, but they bear obvious witness to
the fact of the acuteness of the liguid fuel problem for Japan. with the complete
switching over during wartime of industry, the ruilwaye, lighting and domestic heating
to electricity, coal and lignine - which is technically speeking scarcely realisable -
oil consumption mey be reduced by 500 ooo tons altocether, thus bringing down the annua
wartime requiremen ts to approx. 4.5 million tons. The exis tence of untouchable reserve
of 2 million tons, which are kept by the inistry of arine in special underground
storages (in the vicinity of the military and naval bases) the muximm increase in
production and the realisation of projects for the manufacture of synthetic oil
do not ensure supplies of fuel for Jupan under blockade conditions even for one year
ofwar.
Japanese imperialism uite well understands the difficulty of this problem, and
is taking all possible stens to solve it. uring  period of 7 years, beginning in
1927, government subsidies to the oil industry have amounted to .5 million yen, and
for the present year alone 1,970 000 yen have been issued as subsidies, and included
in this amount 1,220,000 yen to "Kita Karefuto Sekiu". In addition, several agreemont
have been concluded for deliveries of foreign oil, und in narticular such an agree-
ment was not long ago concluded with Roumenia.
However, these measures still do not solve the problem. Cne therefore cannot
but egree with the competent conclusion of admiral Nakasato: "One cannot rely toany
great extent on foreign fuel reserves .... The question raised 17 - 18 years ago we
remains unsolved till this day".
ROSEN

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTN AFS
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL
August 23, 1934.
opy for Takyo
1/19/3430
REOETV
The Under Secretary of State,
0CT1
Mr. Philipps;
AY.BIVION
894.6363/86
Mr. Hornbeck; and
CONFIDENTIAL
Mr. Dooman.
Civirin of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Subject:
Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
(Reference: Memorandum, dated August 22, 1934,
of Conversation between Sir Henri Deterding,
Mr. Walter C. Teagle, The Under Secretary of
State and Mr. Hornbeck.)
à
Mr. Hornbeck stated that a study of a memorandum which
Mr. Teagle had left yesterday with Mr. Hornbeck indicated
that the interests in Japan of the British-Dutch oil
company are greater than those of the American companies
13 1939
FILED
He observed that Mr. Grew obviously had not initiated
the suggestion that concerted action be taken by the
American, British and Netherlands Governments by way of
rejoinder to the Japanese plan to eliminate from Japan
the foreign oil companies. He believed that the suggested
3
plan of action was clearly concocted by the representatives
in Japan of the foreign oil concerns, and that the arrival
in Washington of Sir Henri Deterding, hard upon the arrival
of the telegram from Mr. Grew, might not be entirely without
significance
G

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
significance. Mr. Hornbeck suggested the possibility
that Sir Henri Deterding might be engineering a plan to
cause the American Government to take the lead (and
perhaps to act alone) in a measure directed, on behalf
of all oil interests, at Janan.
After some further discussion there was a consensus
that, If the Secretary of the Interior indicated readiness
to coonerate, Sir Henri Deterding and Mr. Teagle could
be informed that the American Government would be
disposed to respond favorably and along the lines of
the suggestion made yesterday by lr. Teagle to an
initiative coming, if and when, from the British and
Netherlands Governments.
FE:SKH:EHD/DLY

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.97)
Cayay for Takyo
11/19134 gms.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL
August 23, 1934.
REOFTV
The Secretary of the Interior,
1
Mr. Ickes.
VISION
Mr. Hornbeck.
CONFIDENTIAL
Subjeot: Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
894.6363/8
Related Developments and Problems.
This conversation took place by appointment imme-
diately in advance of the conversation between the Seore-
Mr. Hornbeck ascertained that Mr. Ickes was acquainted
with Sir Henri Deterding's background. He then gave an
180
account of the conversation which had taken place yesterday
in the office of the Under Secretary of State and of the
background of the matter to whioh that conversation related
He said that we had noted that the British and Dutah inter-
est in the petroleum business in Japan is greater by several
times (so far as volume to trade is concerned) than is the
American interest. He suggested that Mr. Ickes ask which of
Consdential Filo
the interests is greater. He suggested also an inquiry:
What have the British and Dutch Governments done or what
would they be willing to do? He explained that it was felt
in
G

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.96)
Cayay for Takyo
11/19134 gn
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL
August 23, 1934.
REOFTV
The Secretary of the Interior,
1
Mr. Ickes.
VISION
Mr. Hornbeck.
CONFIDENTIAL
Subjeot:
Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
894.6363/87
Related Developments and Problems.
This conversation took place by appointment imme-
diately in advance of the oonversation between the Seore-
Mr. Hornbeck ascertained that Mr. Ickes was acquainted
with Sir Henri Deterding's background. He then gave an
180
account of the conversation which had taken place yesterday
in the office of the Under Secretary of State and of the
He said that we had noted that the British and Dutah inter-
est in the petroleum business in Japan is greater by several
times (so far as volume to trade is concerned) than is the
American interest. He suggested that Mr. Ickes ask which of
Conadantial File
the interests is greater. He suggested also an inquiry:
What have the British and Dutch Governments done or what
would they be willing to do? He explained that it was felt
F/G
in

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
in the Department of State that if any joint governmental
action was to be taken, the initiative toward proposing
such action should come from the British and/or the Dutch
Governments; that in case such an initiative comes, and if
the Secretary of the Interior is favorable, it seems to this
Department that we might well expect to cooperate; and that
it might be well to suggest that we would, if so approached,
be responsively inclined. Mr. Ickes asked just where the
Department of the Interior "came into the problem"; and
Mr. Hornbeck explained that angle of the matter. Mr. Hornbeck
then suggested that it might be good strategy for Mr. Ickes
to take an inquiring and perhaps even a somewhat skeptical
attitude and thereby draw Sir Henri and Mr. Teagle out and
compel them to press their point. Mr. Hornbeck said that
we wished, if Mr. Ickes approved, to have present Mr. Dooman,
who was the principal specialist on Japan in the Department
of State; and Mr. Ickes replied that by all means we should
have him.
Mr. Ickes said that he understood and that he was ready
to proceed; and he then asked his secretary to call in
Sir Henri and Mr. Teagle and Mr. Dooman.
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
001 11934
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Dagartaon? of sate
m
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
August 23, 1934.
REOF
Sir Henri W. Deterding,
Director General, Royal
COT1
Dutch Petroleum Company.
VISION
Mr. Walter C. Teagle, President,
894.6363/88
Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey.
The Secretary of the Interior,
Mr. Ickes.
Mr. Hornbeck.
CONFIDENT
Mr. Dooman.
Subject:
Japanese Petrcleum Monopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
Control by the Japanese Government
Over the Japanese Cil Industry; the
FILED
Effects thereof on American and British
Oil Enterprises in Japan; Suggested
1930
Remedial Action.
Reference: Memoranda of August 22 and 23, 1934.
Mr. Hornbeck and Mr. Dooman called by appointment at
eleven o'clock this morning at the office of the Secretary
of the Interior and there found waiting Sir Henri Deterding.
Mr. Teagle arrived a few minutes later. By previous
Confidential File
arrangement Mr. Hornbeck conferred privately with Mr. Ickes
for a few minutes, and at the end of that conference
Sir Henri, Mr. Teagle and Mr. Dooman were ushered into
Mr. Ickes' office.
Mr. Teagle
G

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
Mr. Teagle began the conversation by stating that his
company and Sir Henri's company were in serious trouble.
Mr. Ickes remarked that the trouble must indeed be serious
1f Mr. Teagle and Sir Henri both and jointly sought his
(Mr. Ickes') help. Mr. Teagle replied that such indeed
was the case, as both his company and that of Sir Henri
had concluded that it would be impossible to carry on
operations in Japan under the new Japanese law for the
control of the oil industry. Mr. Teagle explained that
about two years ago there was instituted in Japan a system
similar to that of the N.R.A. in the United States whereby
about a year ago the oil industry among others was placed
under control of the Japanese Government. Prices of oil
products were fixed without regard to world parity of
prices and when a Japanese merchant imported under contract
with the Soviet Government ten million gallons of gasoline,
the American and British companies were directed by the
Japanese Government to make room for the sale of the con-
signment from the Soviet Union. When the foreign companies
sought to raise the price of gasoline to a point somewhere
approaching the world parity of price, the Japanese Govern-
ment withheld its necessary approval on the ground that the
taxicab-drivers objected to the increase in price. This
year a law was enacted for the control of the oil industry.
Under this law it is provided that the foreign companies
must

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
must keep in stock in Japan one-half the quantity 1mported
by them during the previous year, such stock may at any
time be taken over by the Japanese Government at the local
market price, a price fixed by itself, and in such event
the company must immediately replendish the stock. Under
the law the Japanese Government could repeat this process
indefinitely. It is impossible, continued Mr. Teagle,
for his company and that of Sir Henri to expect to operate
profitably in Japan under such conditions. When making the
foregoing statement, Mr. Teagle repeatedly turned to
Sir Henri for corroboration, which corroboration Sir Henri
gave.
Mr. Ickes then asked how he "fitted into the picture".
Mr. Teagle replied that the total production in Japan of
oil amounted to approximately 15 per cent of Japan's
requirements; that Japan is dependent upon supplies of oil
from the United States principally and from Netherlands
possessions; that the Mitsubishi Refinery, in which there
is some investment of American capital, obtains its crude
oil from the Associated concern in California, and that
another Japanese refinery also obtains its crude oil from
California producers. Mr. Teagle and Sir Henri agreed that
probably something like 70 per cent of Japan's imports of
crude oil are purchased in the United States. Mr. Teagle
added that if an embargo were placed upon the exportation
of o11

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
of oil to Japan from California and Netherlands possessions,
Japanese vessels would become immobilized.
Mr. Ickes asked how the British and American companies
operating in Japan compared in point of business which they
did in Japan. Mr. Teagle replied that Sir Henri's company
did more business than did the Socony-Vacuum Company.
taken by Mr. Stimson against Japan and that Mr. Stimson did
not receive much support from other countries. It seemed
to him that in view of the relatively greater importance
of Sir Henri's company it might be appropriate for the
British Government to initiate action. However, he added,
that appeared to him to be a matter which is of primary
concern to the Department of State.
Sir Henri said that he had already approached the
Netherlands and British Governments in regard to the
possibilities of placing restrictions upon exportations of
oil to Japan and that those Governments were favorably and
sympathetically disposed toward the idea; but that neither
wished to be "the bad boy" in the case. He felt certain,
however, that those two Governments would be willing to
cooperate in any such project as that which Mr. Teagle had
suggested.
Mr. Ickes then asked Mr. Teagle what definite suggestion
he could make in the way of action by the Department of the
Interior. Mr. Teagle said that in the event of the refusal
of the

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.98)
-5 -
to
of the big oil producers in the United States whiek sell
crude oil to the Japanese, the Japanese might suoeed in
making contracts with the smaller producers. It would be
necessary, therefore, that there be concerted action if any
definite results were to be achieved. It was his suggestion
that the Department of State write a letter to the Depart-
ment of the Interior, requesting that a survey be made of
the stocks of oil available for export and inquiring what
arrangements could be made for the restriction of exports
of oil from the United States; that thereupon the Department
of the Interior should cause the necessary survey to be
made, and through an appropriate agency, ascertain the possi-
bility of there being effected among the producers an agree-
ment to restrict exports of oil to Japan. Mr. Ickes remarked
that the suggestion seems to be a practical one, and he be-
lieved that even if some of the smaller producers "held out"
measures could be found to bring them into line.
Mr. Ickes asked Mr. Hornbeck whether he would indicate
the position taken by the Department of State in regard to
the project outlined by Mr. Teagle. Mr. Hornbeck said that
the Department had given the matter careful consideration
and that it felt that insofar as governmental action was con-
cerned the initiative should be taken by the British and/or
the Netherland Governments. He said that the Department had
mado

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6-
made note of the faot that the British and Netherland oil
interests in Japan are greater than are those of the United
States and it therefore would seem that their Governments
should originate suggestions, if such suggestions were to
be made, for common action. Sir Henri and Mr. Teagle
demurred at the suggestion that this matter is of greater
concern to the British and to the Dutch than to American
interests, stating that the greater part of the oil imported
into Japan is purchased from American sources. Mr. Hornbeck
pointed out, however, that this fact would not appear to be
germane, the point being that the British and Dutch interests
directly to be affected by the operation of the Japanese law
(i.e., in business in Japan) are greater than the American
interests to be affected, and that the British and the Dutch
interests stand to lose more by the operation of the Japa-
nese regulations than do the American interests. Mr. Teagle
and Sir Henri assented. Mr. Hornbeck said that this being
the case the Department would not be dispósed to initiate a
proposal for joint action looking toward restricting the sale
of crude oil to Japan, but that if Sir Henri, upon his return
to Europe, approached the British and the Netherland Govern-
ments,Sir Henri might say to those Governments that if they
felt disposed to take the initiative they might expect to
find the American Government responsive toward the idea of
cooperation.
The conference with Mr. Ickes there ended.
Lator,

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.96)
-7 -
Later, Sir Henri stated that he would leave the
United States on Saturday, that he would be in London not
later than on Friday next, and that he felt reasonably
certain that he would be able to induce the British Govern-
ment to make a definite move. He honed to be able to tele-
graph Mr. Teagle by Monday, September 2nd. Mr. Hornbeck
pointed out that insofar as governmental action is con-
cerned the approach to this Government should be by the
British and Dutch Governments. There followed discussion
of the place at which the approach should be made, and
there was reached a consensus of opinion that London would
probably be the most convenient place. Mr. Hornbeck
suggested that the approach should be made through the
instrumentality of a written communication, and there was
general consensus in that thought.
s叶
FE:SKH:EHD/DLY

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 4, 1934.
Conversation:
of the Nethorland Legatiox;
REOEIVE
Mr. Hamilton;
131
FAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
LIVISION
Mr. Maokay.
SEP 14 1934
Demarpent of State
Mr. Molekamp called at the Department and was received
894.6363/89
by Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Maokay.
Mr. Molekamp stated that he had received from the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Netherland Government a
telegram, in rogard to the Japanese Petroleum Industry Law,
which in translation reads as follows:
"New Japanese aots on petroleum contain
stipulations injurious to interests foreign oil
companies amongst which Standard Oil New Jersey
via Standard-Vaouum and a few Californian
companies STOP Am prepared in principle make
representations through Minister Tokyo on behalf
Bataafsohe (Petroleum Company) SToP Would
appreciate knowing what American Government in-
tends to do STOP Telegraph reply STOP"
Mr. Molekamp requested such information in regard to
FILED
the subjeot under disoussion as the Department might wish
to offer.
Mr. Hamilton stated that the Department had received
from various souroes reports in regard to the Japanese
Petroloum Industry Law; that Mr. Walter C. Teagle of the
Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and Sir Henri W. Deterding
of
F/G

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
of the Royal Dutoh Petroleum Company had called at the
Department on August 22; that subsequently the British
Government had requested an indication of the views of the
Amerioan Government in regard to the law under reference;
and that the views of the Department, as expressed to Sir
Honri and Mr. Teagle and to the British Government might
be summarized briefly as follows:
Based on such information as is now available to the
Department it would appear that the objections raised by
the interested oil companies against certain provisions of
the Japanese Petroleum Industry Law are well founded, in
consequence of which the American Government is prepared
to give sympathetic consideration to proposals whioh the
British and Dutoh Governments may care to offer in an en-
deavor to obtain, through joint or concurrent action, an
amelioration of the situation under reference.
Mr. Hamilton further stated that the Netherland
Government is, in all probability, in close touoh with the
British Government in regard to the subject under disous-
sion and that presumably it is aware of the British
Government's request for an indication of the views of the
American Government. Mr. Hamilton suggested, however,
that this information might more appropriately be obtained
by the Netherland Government direotly from the British
Government.
Mr. Molokamp

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.91)
-3 -
Mr. Molekamp commented briefly in regard to the
Bataafsohe Petroleum Company, whioh is affiliated with
the Royal Dutoh Petroleum Company, and, in taking his
departure, expressed appreciation for the information
received.
reeus
FE:RCM:EJL
st
m. m. .

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.95)
So
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ATE
A
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
0011319
aversation.
September 11, 1934.
DIVISION OF
Sopry te Taky
Mr. Walter C. Teagle,
president, Standard Oil
FAR EASIAS
Company of New Jersey.
2 1934
SEP 92 1934
Mr. Hornbook.
Droartmant of Stat
DLEA MENI OF SIATE
Subjeot: Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
894.6343
894.6363/90
Mr. Teagle called me on the telephone from New York
and asked whether there was any further word in relation
to the Japanese petroleum situation. I replied that we
had had nothing whatever. Mr. Teagle then said that the
companies were very much worried as to where they were
coming out in the matter. I said that the Department is
actively solicitous with regard to the matter and we are
in a "waiting" position: we do not wish to give the
appearance of "pressing" -- to the British. Mr. Teagle
asked whether I thought we would have anything tomorrow.
I replied that I had no way of making an assumption; that
FILED
I was hoping momentarily for something on the initiative
of the British Government -- but that I could make no
prediotion. Mr. Teagle said that he was coming to Washington
tomorrow evening. I said that if I received anything which
I could let him know, I would inform him tomorrow; and that
I
F/G

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.92)
- 2 -
I hoped that he would look in on me or telephone on
Thursday. Mr. Teagle said that he would do so.
FE:SKH/ZMK
E

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
10
Soptember 13, 1934.
VIBION
Saversation.
Mr. Walter C. Teagle,
Copany to Takyo 1/m 154
president, Standard Oil
8015
Company of New Jersey.
FAR EASTLN AFFAIRS
cl
Mr. Hornbeok.
181
894.6363/91
894.6313
Mr. Dooman.
Mr. Hamilton.
Subjeot:
Japanese Petroleum Monopoly and
Related Developments and Problems.
Mr. Teagle called on me by appointment at 9:30 this
morning. In anticipation of this conversation, I had
conferred with the Under Secretary on recent developments
in this case and possible line of procedure.
After exchange of amenities, I informed Mr. Teagle
that we had received yesterday from London a telegram
which indicated that the British Foreign Office had the
mattor under consideration but that they had so far made
no follow-up with us on the exohange of messages which
VILED
took place upon their initiative nearly two weeks ago.
I said that in reply to their inquiry with regard to our
attitude we had informed them through our Embassy in
London that we felt that the matter was serious and that
we would be prepared to give sympathetic consideration to
F
suggestions which they might offer for action; that they
had
G

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
had remarked that this message was satisfactory "as far
as it went" but that they thought it would be difficult
to bring independent American companies in line; and that
we had had no word from them since.
At this point, and with Mr. Teagle's approval, I
aldsed Mr. Dooman and Mr. Hamilton to join us.
Mr. Teagle handed me a copy of a telegram which he
had received from Sir Henri Deterding. (A copy of this
telegram is attached to this memorandum.) After reading
aloud the telegram, I observed to Mr. Teagle that it is
misleading in respect of two statements: one, that the
Netherland Government had asked our "attitude toward
simultaneous protest", and, second, that "Washington
had not yet definitely agreed to protest". I said that
the Netherland Legation in Washington had informed us
to the effect, first, that the Netherland Government
was prepared in principle to protest and wished to know
our attitude, and subsequently that the Netherland
Minister at Tokyo had been instructed by his Government
to make representations to the Japanese Government. I
stated that we had received under date August 29 an inquiry
from the British Government in regard to the attitude of
this Government in the matter of the oil situation in
Japan, and that the reply which we made to the British
Government on the following day expressed readiness to
givo

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
give sympathetio consideration to any proposal which the
British and Netherland Governments may wish to make to
us toward joint or concurrent action; but that we have
heard nothing further from the British Government: that we
are now in the position of waiting to receive some definite
proposal. I stated further that at no time had we received
any definite suggestion either from the British or the Dutch
in regard to the making of simultaneous representations.
Mr. Teagle stated that Sir Henri Deterding had
apparently been acting on the basis of an assumption that
it had been understood at the informal conference held on
August 23 in the office of the Secretary of the Interior
that the American Government would be prepared to give con-
sideration to a proposal to be initiated by the Netherland
Government (only). I remarked that I thought it had been
clearly understood by Sir Henri and Mr. Teagle and Mr. Dooman
and myself that the American Government would expect to
be approached by the British Government, and that Sir Henri
had stated immediately after that conference that he would
arrive in London on August 31 and would at once confer
with officials in the British Foreign Office.
Mr. Teagle said that, in view of the fact that the
question of action being taken in behalf of the foreign
oil companies in Japan is urgent, he thought it advisable
to correct Sir Henri's misapprehensions; that he would
telephone to Sir Henri's representative in New York,
requesting
