894.20293 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In China Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., February (File 1793), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.20293-1793-1   Pages: 293   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20293-military-affairs-army-5/894.20293%20Military%20Affairs.%20Army.%20Army%20Posts.%20Fortifications.%20Defenses.%20Military%20Instructors%20Advisers.%20%2A%2A%20Country%20In%20Which%20Serving.%2C%20Military%20Activities%20Of%20Japan%20In%20China%20Including%20Gathering%20Of%20Information.%20Espiona%201793-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.91)
5E 22 54
ENA EES
EC 
February 28,
DVAISSION
DC/R
February 19, 1945
FEB 26 1945
MELORANDUL!
FEB 20 1045
ENT OF SIATE
Re:
Japanese Espionage
RTMINT
A reliable renort has been received that the Japanese are endeavor-
ing to ascertain the policies of Chiang Kai-Shek through one Chin Bu-Yoo who
employs an espionage agent, one Ryuu Jitsu-Shuu. In this connection, it is
reported that yuu Jitsu-Shuu has been able to ascertain preliminary pro-
posals which Ch'en Li-, the prominent chinese government official, has
submitted to Chiang Kai-Shek concerning a proposition to discuss a plan with
/2-1945
the United States and Great Britain that they should grant the privilege of
self-government to all their colonies after the war.
MAR 2 - 1945
FILED
E B 2 21945
file
Confidential File
nt
R
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
February28,1945
SECRET
No. 62
To the
894.20293/2-1945
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Chungking.
The Acting Secretary of State quotes for the
confidential information of the officer in Charge,
an excerpt from a communication dated February 19,
1945, which was received from a confidential source
within this Government:
"A reliable report has been received
that the Japanese are endeavoring to ascer-
tain the policies of Chiang Kai-Shek through
one Chin Bu-Yoo who employa an espionage
agent, one Ryuu Jitsu-Shuu. In this connec-
tion, it is reported that Ryuu Jitsu-Shuu
has been able to ascertain preliminary pro-
posals which Ch'en Li-Fu, the prominent
Chinese government official, has submitted to
CS/HS
Chiang Kai-Shek concerning a proposition to
discuss a plan with the United States snd
Great Britain that they should grant the
privilege of self-government to all their
colonies after the war".
DCB
NB Unit
n21.m
Rev.
Cat.
Confidential
Dist.
894.20293/2-1945
FEE 27 1945F.M
FC:JDN:OPV
2/23/45
CA

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.94)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Submits summary of activities attributed to the Sedret
Societies of the Japanese.
420293/2-2045
CS/MR
rb
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See ...#131
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Conlidentmallle
From
Chingking(Sian)
Dated ..Fob.-20,--1945
T8X
File No. 740.0011 Pac1f1o War/3-2045
U. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
(FORWARDED TO DEPARTNENT WITHOUT COVERING
eos
STATES OF AMERICA
CM
secret
June 14, 1945
SECRET
Subject:
Further Developments in case evidently Invelvin
Espionage for the Japanese by. Firat War Zone 
sMiS
The Honorable,
Coulross
Major General ratrick J. Hurley
LIAISON OFFICE
merican Ambassador,
JUI1945
chungking.
DC/L
sir:
Reference is made to my despatches to the mbassy no./79, D
ember 8, 1944, "Interest Taken by the chinese Authorities as to
the identity of-rersons Calling on the Secretary of Embassy on
detail at Sian", no. A66, April 17, 1945, "Discovery of Japanese
2
Agents among High Officers of the rirst War Zone" and no. 209,
June 5, 1945, "Allegations tnat High Officers in-Shensi are nga
of tuese reference despatches.
as mentioned in my despatch of June 5, Tu Ch'ang-ch eng(木土.
Deparimo ni o
thtf--the young Tai Li commander who was responsible for the arre
of the afore-mentioned high officers of this (the First)War Zone
himself disappeared early this month. A few days ago the former
secret agent wno supplied me witn the information contained inthi
despatch again called on me; he said lu had been released by his
superior, General Wen Ch'iang(文?强), in whose custody he had been
for several days, and he offered to bring Tu in to see me. Inview
of the watch kept on my gate--described in tne first-mentioned of
my reference despatches--I thought Tu might be endangered by call-
ing on me and asked my friend instead to get for me his account of
recent developments in the case and any additional information he
might have in regard to Japanese espionage in this area. e did
so, and the account he has given me is contained in the next para-
graphs.
General Wen Ch'iang told him, Tu Ch'ang-ch'eng is quoted as
stating, that he knew it to be true that General Wang Tse-ming(I
明 and some officers associated with him are traitors. ne him-
self admitted accepting a bribe from General Wang, exousing himself
by saying that were he to have refused he would not be able t stay
in this war Zone. (He alleged that he has not used the bribe money,
but is holding it.) General Wen stated that when Tai Li sent him
to sian he ordered him to work under the direction of General nucs
Tsung-nan, whom chiang K'ai-shek has piaced in control of this ara
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT
General Hu, he continued, has a peculiar and difficult temperame
REPRODUCTION SECTION
if he likes and trusts a man he will listen to no criticism of hi
ne and his chief of staff consider that General Wang has been do
JUL 111945
good work. (To make the situation still more difficult, according
to Tu, Hu Tsung-nan had had the aocusations against General Wang
investigated by General Li Wen(李), Commander-in-uhief of the
34th Group Army--described in my June 5 despatoh as a fellow- stu
dent and good friend of the accused.) Wen Ch'iang told tu Ch'an
oh'eng that in any future case where a person of position too hi
to be openly acoused was found to be a traitor, tu should asm
nate him, taking care to do it in such a way that he would not
found out. In the present case, such a course is no longer po
and he should drop the matter. Should Tu try to leave this are

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.89)
al Wen warned, he muld find departure thererem
added that he had been relieved of th
ad possessed and ean add little infes
before about Japanese espionage in this ares
where in Lotus Lake Park(), at Sian, and that
saw of Japanese agents in the First War Zone organisa
about fifty names. ne also stated that weneral Wang
in heroin from Japanese-occupied shansi ameross the
from his headquarters at Hanchengt bi), Shensi, by me
rier pigeons.
Respectfully yours,
E R
sdward . Rioo
Second secretary of mheay
DOFUnit
Ra
Oat
Dist.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT
MABHINOTOR
The Department of State transmits to the followin
the attached information in the hope that it will be or
value:
Military Intelligence Division
Joffice'of Naval Intelligence
Federal Burcauref
VOffice of Strategic Services
Chingkings subjeots "Purther Developme
Pirst War Zone Offieers".
8
A irue cops of
FO:OSStraus:EOA
he sigred orig

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.89)
Nov.19,1945
CONFIDENTIAL
SINO TRANSLATION & INTERROGATION CENTER
4.20293/11
ANATIONAL
DEC11945
MENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
T2DEC 7-1945
1CE
PLANG
7C: lThhe
retimed to At: lins Ware
HQ. U.S.F. CHINA THEATER A.P.O.879
NUMBER 33
MAY 9 1949
FILLD
Uat

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
HEADCUARTERS
UNITED STATES FORCES
CHINA THETER
A.P.O. 879
Published for the information of all concerned.
By command of Lioutenant Ceneral TDI EYER:
R. T. MDDCCKS,
Major General, G.S.C.
Chief of Staff
OFFICIAL:
JOSH K. DICKEY,
Colonel, C.S.C.,
sst. Chief of Staff, G-2

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
RaADQULRTERS
INITED STATES. FORCES
CHIN.. THE.TER
"S I N T I C"
SINO TRINSLATION & INTERROGATION CENTER
DRS/hm
∴.P.O. 879
19 November 1945
SINTIC IIEM #343
DOCUMENT TP:NSLATION #173
Organization and activities of the Japanese Embassy Office in
Shanghai as revealed by one employee of the Shanghai office of
the principal Japanese organ for conducting its policy in Central
China. Embassy Office not a diplomatic establishment, but really
the tool of the Greater East sia Ministry on the China mainland.
Lack of ccordination and cooperation between Japanese Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and Greater East sia Ministry and other cabinet
departments.
tuvilvdulaj
JOHN A. BURDEN
Lt Col A.U.S.
Director SINTIC
DISTRIBUTION:
Chief M.I.S., War Depirtment, Washington 25, D.C.....
1
A.C. of S., G-2, USF CT, APO 879.
1
∴.C. of S., G-2, GHC, FPAC, PO 500.
1
..C. of S., G-3, USF C1, APO 879.
3
∴.C. of S., -2, 14th ir Force, APO 379.
3
1.I.S., DVON AFP∴C, APO 500........
2
Main Hq, SLiTIC, Singapore.
1
Comdt, MISLS, Ft Snelling, Minn.
4
Pacific MIhS, Campt Ritchie, Maryland.
1
Navy Group, APO 879.
4
Office of British Mil Attache, Chungking, China.
1
Office of U.S. Mil ttache, Chungking, China.
1
TPS, CSC, 1PO 1160.
2
J-2, JICPO, APO 953.
35
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
XUMENT ThANSLATION x173
:2426
LUMENT NUMBER
: Oct 1945, Shanghai
 AND PLACE OBTAINED
THOITY
: See Renarks
DAIE OF DOCUMENT
: undated
TYFE OF DOCUMENT
: Hardwritten; unclassified
THNSLATION LQUESTED BY
: FEA, Shenghai
THLANSLATED BY
: CHK, JM, GK, SI, NK, IK, SINTIC, Shanghai
Iemarks: The document translated belcw was comp led at FL request by a former
employee of the Shanghai Office of the Japanese Embassy in Shanghai;
it represents his views aud understanding of the situation.
Translated by SINTIC for FEA, Shanghai.
ACTIVITILS OF THE SHANGHAI OFFIGE OF THE JAPANLSE EMPASSY (CENTILIL CHINA AREA)
Contents:
I.
Lstablishment of the Shanghai Office of the Japanese Embassy.
11.
Outline of the Central China Liaison Bureau of the Asia Promotion Board.
11].
Outline of the Orgsnization of the Shanghai Office of the Japanese
Embassy.
IV. heal Activities of the Shanghai Office of the Japanese Embassy.
1. Economic
2.
Political
3.
Cultural
4.
Social
5.
Other
V.
The Higher rolicy of the Shanghai Office of the Japanese Embassy.
V1.
Local hivalry between the Shanghai Embassy Office and the Army and Navy.
VII.
helationship between the Japanese Government (Greater East Asia Ministry
and the Shanghai Office of the Japanese Lmbessy.
TIII.
lelaticnship between the Japanese Financial Interests and the Shenghai
Embassy Office.
ecort I - The Establishment of the Shanghai Office of the Japanese Emhassy
Freface
The Embassy Office in Shanghai was established in March, 1939. After the
dissolution of the Asia Promotion Board's (KOiIN) central office in Tokyo,
the Greater ast Asia Ministry (TN: herein called GA Ministry) was established
in its place, and the Shanghai Embassy Office became the responsible organ of
the ministry in Central China. hith the bolition of the Central China Liaiso
Eurtau of the Asia Promotion Board in Shanghai, the mbassy Office on 1
November l942 took over and continued its activities.
rom its establishment until the formal surrender of the Japanese Govern-
ment, on 15 lugust 1945, a period of approximately 2 years and 9 months, the
mbassy Office functioned under the directives of the Tokyo G Ministry and
as the highest control body for the whole of Central China. Its supervision
covered a wide sphere of activities, including administrntion, politics,
cconomics, culture and industry. Needless to say, by cooperating closely with
all branches of the Army and Navy, whose mostimportent bases were at Shenghai
and Nanking, during this period the office played an important role as an ex-
ecuting agent of Japan's imperialistic policy of aggression.
The activities, organization and character of the office will be explaine
in a separate report. First; the circumstances of the establishment of the
Embassy Office and of the GE Ministry will be brigfly and simply outlined.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
nless these circumstances are fully understood, it is impossible to do
ne activities, characteristics and organization of the Embassy Office. 
xamule, in order to determine correctly what the office accomplished it ia
beolutely necessary to touch upon the inside circumstances of the establish-
nt of the office.
I sons for the Lstablishment of the Shanghai bmbaasy Office.
The Shanghai Embassy Office was the highest on-the-apot administrative
gency of the GEA Ministry. Its sphere of activity was limited to Central
Thina, with the Peiping Embassy Cffice performing a similar function for North
hina. These offices were set up for the following reesons:
1. is a vanguard agency of Japanese imperialism, the Central China Liaison
3
Bureau of the Asia rromotion Board in Shanghai had made vast expenditures of
aoney without achieving any worthwhile rcsults.
2. Due to the exposure of the incompetence of Army officials, whose
arbitrariness had become extreme since the China Incident, Foreign Office of-
ficials, who had previously been supuressed by the military, now strengthened
their efforts to replace them.
3. New machinery had to be set up in anticipation of the relinquishment
of extraterritorial rights and the return of foreign settlements to China,
which was set for January 1943.
4. The China Iucident remained unsolved and with time was only becoming
more difficult of solution. Also, in vie. of various conditions at home and
broad, especially the realization that the war in the Facific would be a hard
truggle, Japan hastened to modify her China policy and speed preparations for
oEsce negotiations with Jhungking. For this purrose it was considered disad-
vantageous, as well as unwise from the viewpoint of political strategy, to
intain the Central China Liaison Fureau of the Asia romotion Board, which
as patently an agent of Japanese imperialism. Ja anese government circles
nich o. jectively grasped this situation, including high irmy, Navy and Civil
fi. lt, unanimously denanded a speedy "Change of Folicy".
Such were the activating forces behind the so-called "New Folicy Toward
bira". (Its essentials and effectiveness, together with the conflicts which
rose around it between the Jaranese military and the Shan hai Embassy Office,
ill be dealt with in a separate report).
ith the steady decline of Japan's military, governmental and economic
oower, the Asia iromotion Board, which was the local agent of Japan, lost the
urpose of its existence and steadily became more powerless. At this juncture,
ue to the four reasons outlined above - especially the difficult necessity in
hich Japan found itself of heving to effect a sweeping change in its China
policy, and also in the light of Japan's real situation, the new GEA Ministry
vas set up and under it, as agent for Central China, the Shanghai Embassy
'ffice was created.
Here it must be pointed out thet the GA Ministry, like the Asia Promotion
Board, employed active duty military personnel as civil officials. In occupied
territories it had coordinated its action with the Army and Navy in carrying out
+he imperialistic policies of Japan. On 1 November, the Government published
a speciel official gazette, effective on that date, which dealt with Army and
Navy ofiicers on active duty who were made full time officials of the GEa
inistry. By its provisions the posts of heads of departments, counsellors and
inspectors in the Ministry, and of special ambassadors, ministers, embassy
counsellors and inspectors in the various areas of Greater East Asia were opened
to the appointment of active duty Army and Navy officers. The first appointment
Were of Major Generals SHIOZihA and IhASaKI to the post of minister, and of
Navy Captain TANΛKA and Colonel ImAI to be inspectors in the Tokyo Ministry.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
The setting up of this system of specially appointed military peraonne
e administrative officers, which posts should have been filled wholly by
ficials, continued the past practice of the Asia Promotion Board and wae
further manifestation of Japanese imperialism. Despite the fact that milit
rhrference in administrative and political affairs had already led to dinda
ros results at other times, the military as always refusea to recognize thim
ná this stupidity brought disaster to Japan.
In the Shanghai Enbassy Office Army and Navy officers of field grade
were appointed as inspectors. de in the days of the Central China Liaison
Pureau of the Asin iromotion Poard, there was constant rivalry between them and
the Foreign Office officials, The cnly point of difference was that now they
'ad lost their power to oppress the civilian officials because of the marked
decline in the strength of the military.
3. The Shanghai Embassy Office - a non-diplomatic organization.
The Shanghni Embassy Office and the reiping Embassy Ofrice used the title
'umbassy", but in reality they were not organs of the Foreign Office but
ubor nate branches of the newly created GA Ministry, formed to oarry out
apan's new policy toward China. Accordingly, the consulates-general and the
onsulates in the principal cities of Central China were placed under the juris-
iction of the Shanghai Embassy Ofrice. Thus they lost their character as
rgans of the Foreign Office, instead becoming only the outermost tentacles of
nG GEA Ministry.
In the light of the underlying causes which led to the formation of the
.1 Ministry, it will be readily understood that in order to meet the changed
ituation in Greater East Asia, the Ministry was set up with the intention of
aking control of all metters, civil, naministrative, economic and cultural,
veluding only military affairs. Thus a wide sphere of matters which prior to
ne war had been handled by the Foreign Office were absorbed into the functions
f the GEa Ministry. For example, such important sections of the Foreign
fice as the Comnercial Affairs Bureau and the rolitical affairs Bureau were
bolished, and their functions were transferred en bloc to the GEA Ministry.
the basis for this move was that, after the China Incident had given way to the
reat Fast Asia har, there was no longer any "diplomecy" on the Continent.
il diplomatic negotiations with China were conduoted exclusively by the
ilitary, using direct military methods. Apart from these no reguler "peace-
ime" diplomatic negotiations were necessary. Thus the work of the Foreign
fice vas transferred to the GLA Ministry. And, the consulates-general and the
tbordinate diplomatic establishments, which bacame subordi-ate agencies of the
hanghai Embassy Office, naturally ceased to be diplomatic offices.
The following is a diagram of the consulates-general in Central China:
Shanghai Embassy Office
OChoW
Shanghai
Nanking
Hsuchow
Hangchow
1 other parts of Central China consulates were set up and benenth them there
sie consular branch offices.
The Japanese Embassy in Nanking - the only Japanese diplomatic agency in
China.
As is clear from the above, the Shanghei Embassy Office and its suhordinate
onsular offices were diplomatic agencies in name only. m the matter of control,
hey were merely subordinate organizations of the GEA vzhistry. The only
iplomatic agency, properly speaking, was the Nanking mbassy, which had the
unction of denling with the Puppet Nanking Government.
CONFIDENTIAL
3T/173
SINTIC 343/3

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
nsulates were composed of career men from the Foreign Office, who contint
 think and act as such. They continued to act as "diplomate" and did not
c itate to refuse to function as officials of the GEA Ministry. For instan
Tgligence and impertinence were common. They were in constant disagreement
with the Japanese troops stetioned in their districts. As a result of preeaut
from the latter, they brazenly sabotaged in their work and mental attitude.
To cover up their resentment toward the military and their negligence, they
used the excuse that they wers 'orfieial: of the Foreign Office and not of the
G! Ministry". Furthermore, like Jayanese offic' ldom in general, these men
lacked the progressiveness and moral prineiples demanded by the times. They
s tuck to the principle of 'getting ahead" and their one thought and object was
to obtain promotion as soon as their time in grace had passed.
Levort Number II - A Summary of the Organization of the Central China Liaison
Bureau of the Asia Fromotion Board.
Since the Shanghai Embassy Office under the Greater East Asia Ministry
was nothing more than an extension of the Central China Liaison Bureau under
the sia Fromotion Board, in order to facilitate understanding of the aotivi-
.iss  the Embassy Office, a sketch of the orgonization of the Central China
lai. on Bureau follows:
1. Location of Burcau Offices and Names of First Bureau Chiefs.
The Asia Fromotion Board was established in March 1939 as an agency
irectly attached to the Cabinet. Liaison bureaus were set up in three places
and additional offices were established at three other locations. The
Locations of the bureaus and nemes of the first bureau chiefs were as follows:
1. Liaison Bureaus -
Nurth China Liaison Bureau (reiping)
Chief - Lt Gen MOnlOKA
Central China Liaison Bureau (Shanghai)
Chief - Vice Admiral TSUDA
Vice Chief - Maj Gen KUSUMOTO
South China Liaison Bureau (Amo:)
Chief - Vice Admiral CTA
2. Branch Offices -
Tsingtao Branch Office -
Tsingtao, Shantung Province
Kalgan Branch Office -
Kalgan, Inner Mongolia
Kwangtung Branch Office -
Canton, Kwangtung Frovince
Special Characteristics in the Structure of the Central China Liaison Bureau
Tnis organization was created for the purpose of unifying and coordinating
he execution of Japan's penetration policy in China after the China Incident.
 was the responsible office of the Asia Fromotion Board in Central China.
its special characteristics can be described as follows:
1. It was directly attachea to the Cabinet.
2.
Army and Navy personnel were appointed as civil officials without
giving up their active military status.
3.
It was a place of concentration for officials sent out from the various
home ministries in Japan.
(1) There were certain reasons for making this organization a direct
agency of the Cabinet. As a special agency for handling the Ching
CONFIDENTIAL
CT/173

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Incident, it was independent of the various ministries and
ferea from no interference, facilitating the smooth exeouti
of policy, Another reason was that the Army and Navy men,
had long reacted against the "weakness" of Foreign Offioe or
ficiels, wished to evoid being associated with the Foreign or
fice and preferred an agancy on a higher level, directly attadk
to the Cabinet, which could freely accomplish their aims. The
conflict between the Army and Navy and the Foreign Ministry has
existed for any years. Moreover, such conflict was not necea
sarily limited - the Fer ign Ministry. It has gone on between
the civil cFiclals of various ministries and the military for
twenty years. Especially since the Manchurian Incident, the
military have heavily oporessed civil cfficials both at home and
abroad. Foreign Office officials in China were despised by the
anti-An lo-American Army men as "pro-Anglo-American dogs".
Thus, the setting up of the Liaison Bureaus under the
Tokyo Headquarters as agencies cirectly belonging to the Cabinet
was due to the situation then existing in Ja an as a result of
militarist politics.
(2)
In view of the above, the heart of this organization was in-
evitably composed of military men. Moreover, it was a special
feature that these men were not of the weaker groups, such as
the lst and 2nd heservists, but in the Active Service group.
Originelly, the Japanese civil service system was based on
the rule that "Militery men shall ot participate in politics",
and there were virtually no instances in which an active service
military man tecame e government official. It is true that the
Minister of War is an Army man on the active liet, and military
attaches of embassies or legations overseas cre also working
among civil officials, but there was no case in which Army and
Navy men on active service formed the core of any government
office.
However, after the Asia Promotion Board was established to
carry out Japan's China policy, both the Tokyo Headquarters and
the district liaison bureaus presented a strange picture with
Army and Navy men occupying the vital positions. Officers of
the rank of Army Colonel or Navy Captain, sometimes lieutenant
colonel or commander, were appointed "inspectors", and they
occupied the important posts in the district lisison bureaus.
Also, representatives of the various ministries in Japan,
such as the Ministries of Commerce and Industry, Finance,
Welfare, Civil Affairs, Home Affairs, Railways, etc., were
specially sent out to take various positions in the organization.
Here, too, the characteristic of a conglomeration of officials
from the various departments was arparent. Those appointed,
however, were by no means capable; on the contrary incapable
officials were selected. They represented only the sectionalism
of their respective ministries. lthough sent to Chine to
serve in the liaison bureaus, they had a very self-important
viewpoint. Neither did they study China nor did they conscien-
tiously try to carry out the national policy. Their sole object
was to make personal profit and to obtain promotion upon re-
turning to Japan after serving a term of 1-1/2 or 2 years.
These charecteristics were not limited to these special
government officials. Generally speaking, personal advangement
was the prime object of all government officials at home.
CONFILENTIAL

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Thus, the Central China Liaison Bureau was made up of 
and Navy men as the core, specially delegated civil officiala
from various ministries, plus non-official experts in the
sconomic, social, cultural and various other fields,attaohed a
special staff. The organization was a consolidation of these
three groups.
3. Organization of the Central Chinn Linison Bucau.
1.
Chiefs of the Linison Bureau 
1st - Vice-Adniral TSUDa Shizue (Reserve)
2nd - Vice Admiral OIl Tamezo (Regular)
2.
Vice-Chiefs -
1st - Maj Gen KUSUMOTO Masataka (Regular)
2nd - Maj Gen OIKiWA Genshichi
i1
3rd - Maj Gen INOUE
11
11
4th - Maj Gen OCHI∴I
3. Internal Organization
(1) Political Affairs Department
Chief
Vice Chief (concurrently held by chief of department)
Political Affairs Section:
lst - Section Chief - Colonel OMIzU (Army)
- Vice Chief - Captain MaTSUMOTO (Navy)
2nd - Section Chief - Colonel ASiMI (rmy)
- Vice Chief - Captain OYA (Navy)
The Political iffairs Department also included some junior civil
officials and non-reguler attaches of the War and Navy
Ministries. Further, high civil officials specially delegated
from various ministries were added to strengthen the department
and to providc the backbone of the Centrel Liaison Bureau.
Needless to say, however, tne direction of the Bureau was in
the hands of the Army and Navy inspectors.
Three official terms of service were completed, but by that
time the Army and Navy inspectors had come more and more to
realize that the military, by their own strergth, could not
achieve & final solution of the China Incident, and they also
realized that the difficulty of achieving such a solution through
the military was now keenly felt by the Japanese people in
general. As a result, compared to the first and secona terms of
office, there was a marked decline in the strength of the in-
spectors, and when the third term of office was reached, they
were losing their authority.
The Palitical Affairs Department was divided genorally into the
following sections:
(a) Political Affairs Section - As already pointed out, Army
and Navy men dominated this section and formed the nucleus
of the whole liaison bureau.
(b)
General Affairs Section - This section was made up of Army
and Navy officers of the rank of lieutenant colonel or com-
mander, holding office as inspectors.
(c)
Investigation Section -
Section Chief - Representative of Justice Ministry
. CONFIDENTIAL
SINTIC 343/6
T/173

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
lst - Sec Chief District Attorney TAKAHASHI
2nd - Sec Chief
:3
n
KATSUYAMA
3rd - Sec Chief
:1
YUDA
(d)
Secretariat - Generally made up of secretaries from the
Ministry of Home Affairs. The Secretariat originally was
the control center of the liaison bureau and performed the
role of the General Affairs Section. Thus it was an im-
portant body Like the Chinese Government Secretariat.
However, as a result of the abuse of power by the Army and
Navy men in the Political Affairs Section, the civil
officials of the Secretariat ceased to heve anything more
than nominal influence.
(2) Economics Department
lst - Dept. Chief KiTO, Secretary of Commerce & Industry Ministry.
2nd - Dept. Chief OTA, Secretery of Commerce & Industry Ministry.
3rd - Dept. Chief SHIMaD1, Secretary of Finance Ministry.
Sections:
(e)
Agriculture and Forestry
(b)
Mining
(c)
Purchasing
(a)
Communications
(e)
Transportation
The main personnel of these sections were officials of the
various home government iministries sent out for terms of one
year, one and a half years and two and a half years.
(3)
The Financial Department was created later and was organized
as follows:
Chief - YAMDA, Secretary of Finance Ministry
Sections:
(a) Finanne
(b) Currency & Credit.
(c) Exchange
The main personnel of these sections was generally specially
delegated from the Finance Ministry, with a few from the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry.
Commoroe and Inaustry:
The economic activities of the Central China Liaison Bureau
were strong and covered a wide field. First, in order to give
full play to the Central China Development Company, which was
set immediately after the China Incident as the opening wedge of
economic imperialism in China, comparatively high-calibre
officials were cbtained from the various ministries, and a large
number of these were mobilized and given the direction of the
various enterprises of the Central Chins Development Company -
railways and waterways, electric power, gas, communications,
light industry, mining, transport, purchasing nnd economic re-
search. The Bureau thus gained broud control over the economic
system of Central China, and in conjunction with the Army and
Navy, it also teckled the Chinese population problem. It sent
special agents into the various districts to buy up rice, cotton,
salt, oil and bamboo and to conduct economic investigationa
covering the whole of Central China, paying speciel attention
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
to mineral resources. Thus it did not peglect to lay the
groundwork for the next phase of imperialistic infiltration.
Although the Financial Department was established, the
financial and currency problems were serious due to the unourbed
flotation of loan issues by the Nanking Government, which
imperilled the financial situation within Japan itself. It
was necessary for the Jayanese Government to send officiale frem
the Finance Ministry to the area to enforce strict control of the
curreney and banking busiress. At the same time these officials
were intended to surveille and control the unlimited issuance
of military occupation notes (CHOBIKEN) by the Army. This
started about Ostober, 1942.
(4)
Cultural Department
1st - Chief - MOhI Tekashi (Foreign Ministry)
2nd - Chief - ITO Takaji (Foreign Ministry)
Sections:
(a)
General Affairs
(b)
Welfare
(c)
Education
(d)
Social Enterprises
(e)
Thought
The personnel of these sections was sent out from the Ministry
of Foreign iffairs, the Ministry of Education and Ministry of
Public Welfare.
The Culturel Depertment was the nerve center for the spread
of cultural activity in Central China, but its work was
hampered by a lack of really high-grade personnel. In vain
did it attempt to force Japanest ideas upon the Chinese intel-
ligentsia. On the contrary it only s ucceeded in heightening
the spirit of China's 8-year war of resistance. At times out-
standing private individuals were selected for positions in the
Cultural De,artment, but the conservatism of Ja anese bureau-
cracy did not allow the full use of their talents, and such
experts had no opportunity to show their ability. No matter how
able they might be, because their position as non-regular at-
taches was not fixed by law, they were powerless vis-a-vis the
incompetent regular officials. Herein lies the feudalistic
tragedy of Japan. The more able individuals left the government
service one after another in order to teke up something else,
and in their place inferior and ignorant succassors carried on
a stupid policy.
The cnuses of Japan's defeat, in the government offices
on the spot, lay in the fact that their economic activities
overreached themselves, and in the fact that the fundamental
basis for such activities was poorly laid in the ideological
sphere. It is said that the arbitrary policy of the militarists
reduced the Chinese people to a state of desolation, but this
was due to the fact that there was no directing thought behind
it to fix the policy and determine its scope.
The Cultural Department should have devoted itself to the
working out of such directive ideas and thus laid the foundetion
for the settlement of the China Incident. However, it lacked
the capacity to do so.
CONFIDENTIAL
T/173
SINTIO

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
N: This Document Contains No Report N mber III).
 cort IV - Internal Conflicts in the Japanese Embassy Office in Shanghai
Part I. Dispasition of Personnel.
Part II.
Conflicts between the Foreign Affeirs Personnel Group and tha
Representatives of other Ministries.
Ecport Number IV - Part I . Disposition cf Personnel.
D "sonnel Compcsition of Japa ese Enbassy Office in Shanghai.
The Shanghai Office of the Japnnese Embassy was establishec on 1 Nov 1942
as the local directive office of the Gel Ministry. The fact that its personnel
consisted of nothing more than a conglomeration of officials specially dis-
patched from various ministries in Japan has alrcady been outlined in a
separate report. In other vwords, it did not possess officials of its own, and
like the GEA Ministry, it was a combination of officials from various min-
iries centered around a core of representatives of the Ministries of War,
Nevy and Foreign ffairs.
The reasons for this organizational set-up may be outlined as followe:
(a) Being an extension of its antecedent, the Asia Promotion Board, the
Embassy Office retained the former's characteristic of being a com-
posite group of officials.
(0)
Sinse Japanese governmental machinery is feudalistic in character,
sectionalism is strongly entrenched. Tn order to avoid that tendency,
a "balance of power" arrangement was deemed necessary.
(2)
The various ministries pooled their strength in an attempt to curb
military oppression.
In shcrt, the root cause lies in the fact that the Japanese bureau-
cratic system is anti-democratic in nature.
The personnel of this office was composed as follows:
() Army and Navy - 2 representntives (one from each, of the rank of
colonel and captain respectively).
(2) Foreign Office - approximetely 25 (senior officials)
(3) Ministry of Home Affairs - 4 (senior officials)
(4) Ministry of Justice - 2 (senior officials)
(5) Ministry of Commerce and Industry - 17 (senior officials)
(6) ministry of Finance - 10 (senior officials)
(7) Ministry of Education - 3 (senior officials)
(8) Ministry of Welfare - 3 (senior officials)
(9) Ministry of Railways - 3 (senicr officials)
(10) Miscellaneóus Ministries (Communications and Transport) - 3 (senior
officinla)
CONFIDENTIAL
-9-

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
From the fact that Foreign Office representntives hela an overwhelml
ority of positions in the Shanghai mbassy Of ioc, it is clear that the
oreign Office was the main force end exercised leadership in directing t
r'fise's activities.
Felations between the Militery Representatives and the Officials of the
Foreign Office.
Of course, even in these circumstanees, the Axmy and Navy representatives
continued to preserve the power ci the military. lthough they held only two
posta as inspectors, they represente not cnly the rmy and Navy on the apot
but also Army and Navy headquarters in Tokyo and the Army end Navy as a whole.
The function of these representatives was es follows:
(1)
As representatives of the Army and Navy as a whole, to handle in-
ternal affairs of the Embassy Office, chiefly political matters.
(2) To maintain liaison with the Army in Japan, and on the spot, in re-
gard to the execution of the plans of the office.
(3)
In view of military political control at home, to surveille and in-
tervene in the execution of the plans of government offices on the
spot.
 short, the military not only hela pcsitions in the administrative of-
ic=, but through the gendarmerie they were -ble to control adminastratire
intters. This was clearly due to the fact that, both at home and overseas,
e military held the directing power. Needless to say this situation was the
tgrov:th of Japanese militarism, but it wes also due to the basically foud-
Jistic character of the Japanese state. Thele was no spirit of freedom based
a democratic principles and governmental affairs were manipulated behind
the sceies. This feudalistic character most clearly manifests itself in the
conduct of administration.
From the time of the Manchurian Incident and during the China Incident
parese militarism becemo increasingly intense. One of its concrete
icnifestetions during this pericd was the way in which small groups of Army and
'avy men in government cffices exereised dictatorial powers. This began with
the sia Promotion Board and was carrie over into the Embassy Office. It was
the Foreign Office ersonnel who suffered most from this ascendency of the
n"litary, and it was they who most strongly opposed it.
In peacetime the Foreign Office personnel, instend of the military, had
ocen eble to wield all Japanese aaministrative authority in overseas areas, and
-hey were able to maintain their pride and dignity as diplomats. However,
fter the China Incident, with China completely dominated by the Japanese Oc-
upation Armies, the military no longer paid much attention to the viows of ths
oreign Office personnel and even if they did, the latter cid not have the
strength to oppose the Army and settle matters. This tendency was more pro-
cunced in China than in Japan proper. During the life of the Asia Promotion
Board, the officials of the Foreign Office and the representatives of the other
ministries found themselves standing alone, and they had no alternative but to
io what the military told them to do. During the existence of the Embassy Of-
:ce + is tendency decreased somewhat with the decline in power of the military.
ven o, nothing could be accomplished by disregarding the views of the occu-
ation forces.
However, from   bout the time the China Incident developed into the Greater
rst Asia War, the voice of the military weakened. It was the group of Foreign
ffice personnel who now regained ascendancy. They became the main forae in
he Embassy Office and, in place of the military, they now dominated the
presentatives from the other ministries and for atime were at the peak of
CONFIDENTIAL
L1/173
10

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
thority. These officials mainteined that the Foreign Office wae the Hi
tponsible agency in t he conduct of all overseas affairs, and that ainco
mbassy Office was an outpost of the Foreign Office, they should be in oo
taority. They had fallen into the illusion that, if it were not for the
he world would be theirs, end that their sphere of influernce was being in
inged upon by the military. Therefore, vith every decline in the power of
tne nilitary, the Foreign Office automatically expanded its influence.
nother point worth noting is that in Japan itself, amidst the prevailing
nvironment of extreme militarism, the Foreign Office had lost all its vigor,
nd † : r y's diplomacy was expanding its sway throughout all of East Asla.
Jecause of these circumstances, officinls of the Foreign Office sought a place
of refuge abroad, and the Shanghai Embrssy Ofiice became a stronghold for them.
his explains why, as the influence of the military declined, a large number
of Foreign Office officials came to occupy positions on the staff of the
hanghai Embassy.
3. Reasons for the Decline of the Power of the Military.
I heve repeatedly pointed out that Japanese governmental affairs have been
directed ty the military. In China military dictatorship was particularly
sovere, and the suffering which it imposed not only upon those in government
posts, but the local Japanese residents and the Chinese cannot be measured.
However, the tyrannical power of the military, under the stress of the difficul:
ar situation, notably declined, and the military were obliged to retreat.
The reasons for this mey be enumerated as follows:
(1)
Settlement of the China Incident grnau lly buceme more difficult,
and the repeated attempts of the Japanose Army to negotiate a general
peace vith the Chungking Government had become hopeless.
(2)
With the sharp change in the situation in the Greater East Asie War,
the military lost confidence.
(3)
The political, =conomic and iaeological policies of the military on
the spot were almost completely unsuccessful, and the resistance of
the Chinese people gave rise to an alarming situation.
der these circumstances, the Japanese military gradually lost confidence.
 c nt which must be particularly noted here is the outbreak of guerrila war-
are with Communist troops in Japanese occupicd territory. Because of this,
ace and order could not be maintained, and in turn the execution of economic
olicy, espccially as regards the buying-up of goods, became difficult. Plans
or the purchase and collection of commodities required by the Army, such as
odder, rice, wheat, oil, firewood and coal, did not go well. In the case of
aw cotton, which was among the most needed materials, the Army and Navy to-
gother, despite many obstacles pushed aheed their plans to purchase from the
northern Soochow area (north of the Yangtse River). They were hindered, howeve-
by the Cormunist Armies, and the final miserable result was that not one-half
of the necessary amounts were obtained. The failure in buying up materials
was partially due to the clumsy Japanese methods of trading and to the Chinese
people's non-selling policy. It was principally cuc, however, to the counter-
attacks of the Communist Armies, which made it impossible to preserve peace
and order.
Thus, the Army's stupid policies brought the administration of occupied
territory into serious trouble, and resistance by both the Communist Armies
and the people produced a state of helplessness and virtual collapse. Even
officials of the puppet Chinese government, though compliant on the surface,
did not necessarily act as directed by the Japanese military authorities.
Jader this iying process, the political and economic leadership of the Japanese
rmy weakened each year. The military, even though they knew that the aotual
CONFIDENTIAL
01/173
-11

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
tuation was unfavorable to them, did not have the capacity to diocen
:vdamental causes of that situation, much less did they have any realigatior
what these circumstances would lead to in the future. In particuler, bot
 operational and economio staffs of the 13th Army Headquarters (NOBORI
my Group), which was the highest headquarters in Central Chind, showed an
sjual mental inferiority. Not only were they lacking in a sense of morality,
ut they were so imbued with the spirit of eggressive imperialism that they
lacked the strength and intelligence to seek a way out of their difficulties
through a change in policy.
Part II - Confliet Between ths Foreigm Office Group and Offisials from other
Ministries.
1. The Weakness of the Representatives of the Various Ministries.
As was explained briefly in Part I of this report, when the military had
lost confidence due to the failure of this China policy, it was the Foreign
Office group which outwardly grasped the right o leadership. In the Shenghai
Embassy Office, as the Foreign Office group gained ascendancy, the influence
of the representatives of the other ministries declined to a point even lower
than it had been when the military were at the peak of their power. The
reason for this was simple. When the military clique was in the saddle, both
the Foreign Office group and the group of officials from the other ministries
found themselves in the same boat, and they joined forces to present a united
ront. However, no sooner hed their powerful enemy, the military, lost in-
luence then the latent differences of power among the groups of civil of-
ficials came to the fore. The Foreign Office group showed that they had the
igor to displace the army men, and they began to look down upon the other
fi Is. Especially from about the time of the naval battle off Bouganville
n M.rch 1943, when the Greeter East Asia War had reached a critical stage,
ne Foreign Office group succeeded in aining control of the Shanghai Embassy
fice. Now the officials from the other ministries were naturally dominated
o. those from the Foreign Office and all matters of importance in all spheres
ere handled by the latter. A concrete illustration was the distribution of
posts. First, all officials in charge of general affairs were appointed from
e Foreign Office personnel. Especially, all informational work directed
owa d other countries was placed in the hands of Foreign Office chancellors,
dovn to the pàsitions of HANNIN (junior) rank. Not a single official of any
other ministry was allowed in this sphere. The representatives of the other
inistries were assigned to the following duties:
1.
Investigation
2.
Culture and Educetion
3.
Liaison Work
4.
Communications
5.
Civil Affairs
6.
Translation
In short, political matters were reserved for Foreign Office officials
and all other officials had to accept assignment to other duties. Only
representatives of the Ministries of Commerce and Industry and Finance, oving
to the specialized nature of their work, were placed in charge of economic
natters within the Shanghai area and matters connected with finance and cur-
rerey. These officials combatted Foreign Office instrusion in their spheres.
"or one thing, the Forsign Office men were inexperienced in economics, finance,
:urrency, commerce and industry, and did not belong to the category of
pecialized experts. However, as they gradually supplanted the Army, the
Luntr was made of trying to put Foreign Office men in charge of economic,
ommercial and industrial matters. For instance, an attempt was made to install
Jounsellor of Embassy SATO, a Foreign Office man who had taken office early in
isrch 1945, as the head of the economics department (Counsellor OKizakI was
len head). hut this move was blocked by officials of the Ministry of Commerce
nd Industry.
CONFIDENTIAL
D1/173
12

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Even in departments entirely ou,ide the svsialized category
he investigation section, a secretary from the oreign Office was put
ection chief, breaking the customa, rule of lving a representative f
. iry of Justice as chief. Howeve, this new chief resigned within a
onth. ain, the education department was originally headed by an offioial
om the Ministry of Education. But the Foreign Office group, who at firat
isplayed a peaceful attitude, began to maneuver to put even this department
mder their control. Finally, on the pretext of reorganizing this department
and by the use of plausible methods, the Foreign Office group reduced the
Separtment and put in Secretery NAkiDA es chief. This brought about the un-
fortunate result of leading the personnel of the Ministry of Education to take
a non-cooperative attitude toward all activities of the Shanghai Embassy office
2. Withdrawal of Representatives of the Ministry of Home Affairs.
As can be understood frcm the foregoing, the Foreign Office group gradually
became the pivotal force in the Shanghei Embassy Office and built themselves
a firm foothold in its organization. During the process, however, the
representatives of the Ministry of Home Affairs stood in the forefront of the
opposition. From the first, the Home Affairs Ministry occupied a central
lace of influence in the Ja.anese governmental edministration. Therefore,
it was inevitable that a confl would arise be ween its representatives on
the spot and the Foreign Office group within the Embassy Office. Appointed
chief of the Office at the tin of its establishement on 1 November 1942 was
Minister Plenipotentiary TAJIR: Aiyoshi. (He had been Chief of the hesearch
Section of the Foreign Office, was Minister to the Philippines from March,
1944, and more recently was Vice-Minister of the Greater East Asia Ministry).
1 ceep thinker and one of the most talented men to come out of the Foreign
)ffice, TAJIkI maintained a fair and impartial attitude in the internal. organ-
ation of the Office. He respected the representatives of the Home Affairs
Enistry and, in the first part of his tenure of office, appointed Secretary
(TN: Name omitted) to the important post of Chief of the
ocr ariet, permitting a Home Affairs type of administration. However, in
∴ew of the importance of the Secretariat's position, and the belief that Home
fairs methods woula be an impediment to carrying out administrative matters
- desired by the Foreign Office, pressure was broughtto bear upon Secretary
at every opportunity. This came out most clearly at the
eneral meetings of the staff and in the disposition of secret service funds.
t the  taff meetings, discussions were not on the real merits of the issues,
out vere hardly more than clashesochildishly opposing sentiments. On every
's views were oprosed, and & coalition was
ocasion Secretary
frrmed to maneuver for his eliminetion. Thus, the Home Office ofricials
, even down io those of junior rank,
rouped around Secretary
gradually left the mbassy Office and returnea to Japanuntil not a single one
remained. Subsequently, Foreign Office Secretary OKAMUhA, who until then had
een chief of the General Affairs Department, was arpointed concurrently Chief
of Secretariat. Thus, the Foreign Office gained complete control of all the
rey positions in the Embassy Office, and the first step in their campaign to
dominate the officials of the other ministries in organizational matters was
successfully taken. After this the power of the Foreign Office group suddenly
xpanded until they elso dominated the representatives of the Army and Navy who
till held seats. They nov began conducting themselves like arbitrary
dictators.
.Dispute over the New Chine Policy.
The inside picture of the Shanghai Embassy Office was thus one of a
ieveloping struggle between the Foreign Office group, which was its main
irecting force, and the officials of the other ministries grouped together.
Looking at this conflict from the standpoint of policy, we see that it resolved
tself into a controversy over the "New Policy Towards China". I shall first
ouch upon what is meant by the "New Policy Towards China".
CONFIDENTIAL
5T/173

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
On 7 January 1943, Japan sought to give new expression to her impert
ormulas by fixing anew her basic policy for a settlement with China. 
urface reasons for this were:
(1) The relinquishment of extraterritorial rights
(2) The return of Foreign Concussions to China
(3) Recognition of China's autonomy and independence, etc.
In Central China, the new policy first manifested itself in the general
trunsfer of the political functions hela until then by the military to ad-
ministrative governmental offices. Further, all future political, economic
and cultural policies towards Chira were to be carried out on a footing of
equality from the standpoint of a common strategy against the United Stutes of.
Anerica. In other words, Japan's basic policy towards China underwent a
change of orientation. The necessity of such a revision arose from the retreat
of the military, as already mentioned, but in essence it stemmed from realiza-
tion of the stern fact that past policy based on mere lip-service to ethical
principles had been completely without effect, and that this must somehow be
remedied ty the working out of a new policy. fter the Greater East sia, War
broke out, it became apparent that Japan absolutely could not carry on any
kind of self-confident policy in China on the old basis. She, therefore,
attempted to escape from this crisis by means of a "heorientation of Policy".
Establishment of the Shanghai Embassy Office by he Greater East Asia Ministry,
following the dissolution of the Asia Promotion Board, was also a last resort
measure taken for the purpose of effecting the "New Policy Towards Chine".
Thus, at last, the stage was set for the application of the new policy.
(It is said that this policy was originally proposed by the Emperor. By this
means, it was calculcted that the Army and Navy could be easily induced to
poify their attitude of non-submission and Ja an could be quickly saved from
crisis). Within the Shanghai Embassy Office the new policy became the center
f fresh controversy between the officisls cf the various ministries. Apart
ron the disputes already mentioned concerning the allocation of duties, a
nf lon of opposing opinions arose regarding the new policy. The nature of
hes. differences was as follows:
Cn the one hand, the Foreign Office faction abstractly favored recognition
f the independent existence of the Nanking National Government and contended
het Ja an should deal with this gcvernment aiong the line of the diplomatic
sthods firmly adhered to by the Foreign Office in the past.
On the other hand, the group of officials of the other ministries contende:
that the National Government must not necessarily be thought of in abstract
torms, that in reality it wes nothing more than a sham government engineered
oy Japan, and that therefore the "New Policy Towards China" should be carried
out on the basis of recognition of this fact.
In other words, t he Foreign Ofrice faction, lacking knowledge and ex-
periunce in real politics and economics, attempted to carry out the new policy
towards China on an abstract basis, using the old diplomatic technique.
In part, this Foreign Offict attitude stemmd from a reaction against the
military ndministration in tne occupied zones. The militery had enforced its
orcrete political,economic and cultural policies rigidly, acting through
special duty branches set up in the various districts. Towards the Nanking
overnment, it concealed its actions behind other names but carried out a
policy of aggression and imperialism.
The Foreign Office group took the stand it was unethical to regard lightly
the Nanking Government which Japan had recognized. However, this does not mean
that their attitude was entirely logical. Behind their abstract arguments lay
pposition to the concrete policies of the military, Also they brought forward
he  ue of "abstract vs. concrete" simply as a tool to combet the viewa of
Leir rivals within the ofrice, the representatives of the other ministries.
CONFIDENTIAL
SINTIC

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTLAL
On the other hand, tho latter were faced with the necessity of car
out policy concrctely in the various spheres of which they had charge:
orce and industry, finance, currency, transport, purchasing and the move
oi goods. They therefore pressed strongly on questions of reality in oppos
the ideas of the Foreign Office group. Also, thert was the fact that they
hnd been robbed of important posts in the organization by the Foreign Offica
taction. This led them to combine in sentiment, as well es for the purpose
of opposition to this faction.
4. The Struggle of the Foreign Office Group.
The Foreign Office group fell into the error of thinking that by virtue
of i+ grasp on the personnel make-up of the Shanghai Embassy Office, it could
mak the Office its own private preserve. However, under the existing
situation, especially the chaotic state of Sino-Japanese political and
-conomic relations centering around Shenghai, this outward organizational pre-
dominance was of no avail. In the execution of policy the Foreign Office
group constantly met with failure because it could not match the realistic
planning and ef ective mode of execution of the officials of the other
ministries.
In brief, the political and ecoromic problems of Central China as a whole
were too deep and broad for the Foreign Office group to cope with. After a
time the latter came to realize their own deficiencies in this respect, and the
then began to work upon the officials of the Finance Ministry with a view to
arawing them into their camp. By so doing, they hoped to curb the represent-
atives of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, who remained numerically
strong. This secret design was partially successrul snd enabled the Foreign
Office to get its views on policy acceptea to some degree.
However, even though the Finance Ministry vas supposed to handle matters
of linance and currency, these matters in Centrel China were actually governed
by ihe Aray, and without the Army's permission, the Finance Ministry found
:toelf in the impossible position of being unable, in the end, to do anything.
∴lso, finance and currency were bound up with plans for the movement of goods,
ind without an understanding regarding the latter, the prc blem of financial
gulation was extremely difficult. Plans for the movement of goods were, in
goreral, controlled by the officials of the Ministry of Conmerce and Industry.
Thus, under actual circumstances, ti: authority of the Foreign Office was sub-
ject to certain fixed limitations. The Foreign Office group found itself
nable to give free rein to its ambitions, and despite its organizational
:upe ority, it had to yield to the strength of the Ministries of Finance and
cf  mmerce and Inaustry in the actual fields of their activity.
5. The Functicus of Counsellor OK:ZAKI.
Formerly, a director of the China Idustrial Development Bank (KikO KOGYO
GINKO) in Shanghai, Counsellor OKiZAKI had also long been connected with the
Bank oi Japan in Japan. He was appointed to the Shanghai Embassy by the first
Greater East Asia Minister AOkI Kazuo, in oráer to handle matters of economic
policy toward:China.
As his past career shows, OkizakI was a banker and in a sense a Finance
Ministry man. He had frequently lived in Shanghai and had wide connections
umong the Chinese. He also had the reputation of ossessing a profound knowl-
edge of economic problems. It was because of these factors that he was re-
cruited from the ranks of private individuals to take the post of counsellor
in March, 1943.
As a rivate individual ana a third party not connected with any faction,
CKiZ^kI's function was to mediate in the internal rivalry going on in the
Shanghai Iuhassy Office and to cast oil on the trouble waters. The Tokyo
Government, and Greater East Asia Minister OkI in particular, were deeply
CONFIDENTIAL
DT/173
-15
SINTIC 343A

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
porehensive that Japan's new policy toward China would not be effed
tle Foreign Office group, in view of the darkening political and eac
Changhai Lmbassy. AokI, who had held the post of highest economic adviaor
1ho Nanking Government for a year and a half, was more or less familiar with
Chinese economic conditions, and he also understood the complicated political
situation. That he chose Ok^zakI as a private expert was both a natural and
a wise step.
However, in the Embassy Office OkazikI was far from able to exercise his
full ability. Charged with the role of peacemeker, he lacked the necessery
authority to cvercome the econonic difficulties in Central China, and also
his political ability was limited. He was therefore unable easily to bring
about a solution of pending difficult problems. He did, however, succeed in
achieving some effective results in the following functions:
(1) In the position of a third party, he showed some strength in the
feudalistic rivalry among officials.
(2)
He smoothed out relations between the Embassy and the established
Japanese commercial concerns in China.
(3)
As a private individual, he succeeded to some extent in correcting
the unreasonable attitude of the officials.
Hovever, despite his efforts, OK:Z KI could not overcome the narrow
minded mentality of the officials of the Foreign Office and the other ministrier
within the Embassy, and he was unable to bring about a smooth and rational
working environment. Moreover, coming up against the bureaucracy and feuda-
listic separatism which characterized the Embessy Office, his own thinking.
and personelity gradually became bureaucratic.
This is not a problem of OKiZAKI alone, nor of the Shanghai Embassy
Cifice alone. In a broad sense, it is a problem of the Japanese system and
the Japanese people as a whole.
The errors and irrationality stemming fpon the medieval character of the
lape se body politic have manifested themselves to the full in every sphere.
Tnus, the drama of internal struggle which went on in the Shanghai Embassy
(ffice must be recognized as nothing more than a local reflection of Japan
s & whole.
CONFIDENTIAL
-16-

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
WAR DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF WAR
m.Bright en
STRATEGIC SERVICES UNIT
25th & E STREETS, N.W.
m. tockhaft
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
26 December 1945
I4-10,043
Xx
0.1945
DC/R.
Memorandum for: r. Jack D.'Neal
Department of State
Subject:
Reports on Filipino Collaborators in China
894.20293/12-2645
xR
1.
There are attached for your information a list of
8118.20294
Filipino collaborators in China and thirty-four reports on
subject.
2.
It is not known whether this information has been
made available to any representatives of the Department of
State.
Tran blen D. N
FILED
Franklin P. Holcomb
1946
Major, USMCR
Liaison Officer
CS/LF94.20293
Confidential File
Attachments - 35
SECRET
NNO 9
Dist
ByTG/AB D. 10/20/76

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
REPORTS ON FILIPINO COLLABORATORS
IN CHINA
ABELARDO, Gregorio
DIZON, R.
ALVAREZ, Florencio
FIGUEROA, Alfredo
ASUNCION, Claro
FRANCIA, Amado C.
BACLAY, Teodorico
GERONIMO, P. (See BLANCO, Luis)
BALDEVARONA, Demetrio
GONZAGA, L.
BLANCO, Luis
HERRERA, A.
CADA, Maximino
JANGOZ, Leon B.
CADELINA, Marcelino
JACQUICO, Ramon V.
CADS(Z), Pedro
KALAIMBAKAL, Gertrudo
CARPIO, A. S.
MADRASO, A. M.
CASINO, Vicente
MALABANAN, Leonardo
CELIS, A. Y.
ALIVEIROS, R. (See BLANCO, Luis)
CONDE, Bidasto
PUNSALAN, Valentine
CONSTANTINO, B.
QUAMSON, Romiro
CONTRERAS, Jose
SALES, Armando J.
CRUZ, Terso
SALVADOR, F.
CRUZ, W.
TULIO, Victorino
DIZON, I.
UY, Conrado
SECRET

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 1.
SECRET
14 November, 1945,
SHANGHAI.
GREGORIO ABELARDO
(354 SEYMOUR ROAD, HOUSE 5, NO.12)
The following signed statement was made 6 November,
1945, by the SUBJECT:
"In January, 1942, a couple of weeks after the
capture of MANILA by the Jap., MR. CONRADO UY called
a Metting at the Metropole Garden which was attended
by the majority of local Filipino at which I was also
present. At the meeting MR. UY the purpose of the
FILIPINO ASSOCIATION was to work in the interest of
the Filipinos. But after all eforts have been made
to push the relief aim, the result was failure be-
cause the Jap failed to cooperate with the associa-
tions in giving required permits.
In Summer of 1943 DR. G. KALAMBAKAL sent letter
to the Filipino to attend metting at the (LIDO BALI
RooM) failure to attend it would mean arrest. The
real purpose of the metting was to discuss in regard
the arrest of four Filipinos but the matter was drop,
and instead we had election to revive the FILIPINO
ASSOCIATION.
On Oct. 14, 1943, we celebrate the Independence
day at the RACE COURSE. I was asked to pray and
thank GoD for having our independence and also prayed
for peace that all nations will be kind again to and
prayed the new government will lead the people in order
again.
At the celebration MR. CELIS was the Master of
Ceremonies and told the people the real meaning of the
Filipino flag. And MR. CASINO delivered speech thank-
ing Jap for giving us independence without asking and
reviewed the Filipino struggle for independence against
Spain and U.S.A. He also attacked America for not
giving us a chance to develop our own commerce trade
and industry.
SECRET

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
SEGRET
GREGORIO ABELARDO
At the CATHAY HOTEL the same day MR. CONTRERAS
acted as Master of Ceremonies in his speech he thank
Jap for being so kind in giving us our independence.
MR. ORDEN followed me CONTRERAS explaining the meaning
of our flag and then the last speaker was Mr. (uy).
MR. UY attacked America in his speech blaming the
Americans for the disunity of the Asiatic people and
also blamed the propaganda machine for misrepresenting
facts about Asiatic.
Signed: GREGORIO ABELARDO
Nov. 6, 1945."
EVALUATION: C-3.
DR. H. EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipino leader,
who suffered arrest in the hands of the Japanese, made the
following signed statement 14 November, 1945:
"Re: G. ABELARDO: A pro-Jap and claims to be
religious; believes in mixing religion with politics.
He was believed to have stated that the Japs have ful-
filled what the Bible says, that colored people will
rule the world.
He is a strong believer and supporter
of KALAMBAKAL, CONTRERAS, BALDEVARONA and TRIA, the
most active pro-Jap leaders here in Shanghai; Member
of the Jap sponsorred FILIPINO ASSOCIATION; attended
meetings and gatherings of pro-Jap Filipinos; signed
petitions and resolutions addressed to Gen. TOJo and
to LAUREL'S GOVERNMENT; participated at the Indepen-
dence Parade, Ceremony and Reception on Oct. 14, 1943;
said the blessing and benediction at the Independence
Ceremony at the RACE COURSE on Oct. 14, 1943; signified
allegiance (Yes-man) to LAUREL'S GOVERNMENT. ABELARDO'S
associates were mostly pro-Japs and Yes-man and only
about two or three persons of the members of his band
were not pro-Japs.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
EVALUATION: C-3.
On 14 October, 1943, the subject took part in a parade
and ceremonies celebrating the independence of the puppet
Philippines regime. At this ceremony, the subject made a
benediction and prayer.
SECRET

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3.
SECRET
GREGORIO ABELARDO
On 18 - 19 November, 1943, the subject answered "Yes"
and swore allegiance to the puppet Government of the
Philippines.
The subject signed the membership Rolls of the FILIPINO
ASSOCIATION, binding himself to uphold the Constitution,
Article II, Sections (d) and (e) of which read:
"(d) To co-operate with the Philippine Government in
the pursuance of our political emancipation under
the guidance of Japan.
(e) To pledge our determination to co-operate whole-
heartedly with the Japanese and Chinese Governments
and other Asiatic countries in the successful es-
tablishment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere."
EVALUATION: A-1.
On 15 June, 1943, the subject affixed his signature to
petitions addressed to the Japanese Consulate-General and
the Office in Charge of Enemy Property, which petitions con-
tained the following sentence:
"Dear Sirs: We, the undersigned, Filipino residents of
Shanghai, pledging our support in the establishment of
the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, would ask
your kind favour to help us in our present problem."
EVALUATION: A-1.
GECRET

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 1.
SECRET
13 November, 1945,
SHANGHAI.
FLORENCIO ALVAREZ
470/7-15 SEYMOUR ROAD.
1.
The following signed statement was submitted 31 Oct.,
1945, by the subject:
"31 October, 1945.
I hereby declare the following statements:
I am a musician by profession. I worked in the
NEW ZEALAND BALLROOM, then playing tea dances at the
MAJESTIC BALLROOM. Soon I got a chance in CAROL BALL
ROOM, then to the NEW PARADISE BALLROOM.
It was the time I was playing in the CAROL BALL
ROOM that the relief from the SWISS CONSULATE began.
Almost all of my fellow musicians began to get the said
relief. They told me to go and get a loan, but I
refused to go, having in mind that, I have a work and
can still maintain my living and can make both ends meet.
In my opinion the relief is for the ones who needed help
and for those without means to support their living.
The record at the Swiss Consulate will tell that I did
not approach for relief.
On or about 5 January, 1943, an association was
formed called the LIPUNANG PILIPINO.
There was a
meeting and MR. CONRADO UY was voted President. I
did not attend the meeting nor been a member of the
said association.
It was then DR. KALAMBAKAL steps in. There were
so many arrests among the Filipinos. As examples:
MESSRS. ANDRES ROSSETE, CANLAS and others by the
Japanese Gendarmerie.
DR. KALABAKAL called a meeting to all Filipinos
in Shanghai. Everybody must be present or face the
consequences. The meeting was held at the LIDO
BALLRoOM. The former officials resigned. DR. KALAM-
BAKAL was elected president. Almost all the Filipinos
SECRET

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2.
F. ALVAREZ (Cont'd): S E C R E T
were present. I was there too and signed my name
in the papers for those present at the meeting. We
were all scared not to attend the meeting because of
a threat of being arrested by the Japanese. I did
not vote in the election, first stayed and watched the
proceedings.
On 14 October, 1944, the Independence was given by
the Japanese.To me, Independence means something
to my heart and soul. A country free from foreign rule
as the Japanese made us believe was worth thinking about.
But things did not turn up as every Filipino expected.
The Japanese rule was worse after the Independence, where-
as the Americans during their period, gave the Filipinos
so many liberties as freedom of speech, religion and
others.
Coming to the point as the registration at the
Japanese Consulate, I pledgedallegiance to the New
Philippine Government, still thinking of the Independence
as noble and great, but it was just the opposite in the
long run.
A request was made by the Japanese to MR. CONTRERAS
to play music for their sick and wounded in the army and
navy hospitals. The augmented bands of MEE KOO MAY,
NEW PARADISE and LIDO was selec ted. All the boys from
the three places played for them.
During all these years, I have been working as a
musician and have strictly followed my profession.
All the above statements are correct and true to
the best of my knowledgeand before God I swear what I
have written.
Signed: FLORENCIO G. ALVAREZ."
EVALUATION: C-3.
2.
The subject affixed his signature to petitions
addressed to the Office in Charge of Enemy Property and
The Japanese Consulate-General. On 15 June, 1943, these
petitions contained the following sentence:
"We, the undersigned, Filipino residents of
Shanghai, pledging our support in the establishment
of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, would
ask your kind favour to help us in our present problem."
EVALUATION: A-1.
S ECR ET

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3.
F. ALVAREZ (Cont'd):
SECRET
3.
On 20 June, 1943, the subject affixed his signature
to the following resolution:
"To His Excellency
General HIDEKI TOJO
Prime Minister
TOKYO, Japan.
WHEREAS The Japanese nation received the Philippine
delegation with due courtesy and respect be-
fitting their mission;
WHEREAS
Your Excellency proclaimed at the Diet that
the Philippines will be grantedAndependence
within this year;
RESOLVED That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record
to thank the Japanese mation and express our
pride to be destined an independent member or
the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere."
EVALUATION: A-1.
4.
On 14 October, 1943, the subject took part in the
parade and ceremonies celebrating the Independence of the
Puppet Regime.
5.
On 18 - 19 November, 1943, the subject answered "Yes"
and swore allegiance to the Puppet Government of the
Philippines.
6.
The following signed statement regarding the subject
was made 13 November, 1945, by Dr. H. EVANGELISTA, pro-
American Filipino leader:
"RE: FLORFNCIO ALVAREZ: A pro-Japanese and liaten-
ant of CONTRERAS.
Played in concerts and benefit shows
for the Jap soldiers; attended meetings of the pro-Jap
Filipinos; signed petitions and resolutions for General
TOJO and President LAUrFL'S puppet Republic; member of
the PILIPINO ASSOCIATION; pa ticipated in parade and
ceremony for Philippine Iepenence on 14 October, 1943.
He and wife signified allegiance (Yes-man) to LAUREL's
Government.
ALVAREZ'S associates are all Yes-men or
Pro-Japs and conducted gambling and sold liquors openly
in his room without interferance either by the Police or
the Jap Gendarmerie.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
EVALUATION: C-3.
SECRET

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
PECRET
Shanghai, 5 November, 1945.
CLARO ASUNCION
1.
The following signed statements was submitted by the
subject on 5 November, 1945:
"I hereby submit in details my activities during the
period from December 8, 1941, up to the day the peace
was declared.
On Sunday morning early in January, 1942, I attended
a meeting of Filipinos which was held at the METROPOLE
Ballroom in Gordon Road. On arriving there, I saw Mr.
UY already addressing the gathering explaining the pur-
pose of the meeting which was to organize an association.
Afterwards, Mr. UY called for nomination of candidates
for presidency, vice-presidency, secretary, treasurer
and publicity officer. Many candidates were nominated
and I was one among them. The provisional officers
elected were as follows, namely - President, CONRADO UY;
Vice-President, CLARO ASUNCION; Secretary, SIMEON DASMA-
RINAS; Treasurer, JUAN TRIA; and Publicity Officer,
VICENTE CASINO.  The name of the association was approved
to be THE FILIPINO ASSOCIATION of SHANGHAI. After a
lapse of about two months, I received a telephone call
from Mr. UY informing me that the association had already
acquired a temporary office at No.66 Nanking Road, and
asked me to call at the office after my office hours.
At that same afternoon, we the officers of the association,
discussed plans for a Mianight Ball. Since then, I began
to attend the office preparing in conjunction with my co-
officers all the necessary steps to be done for the success
of the proposed Midnight Ball. In spite of all our efforts
to do something for the benefit of our needy countrymen,
this Midnight Ball failed, because we were not allowed by
the Gendarmerie to hold it. When Mr. UY made his tour of
lecture to Nanking and other places, he left the office
under my care. During the tenure of my office which was
about one month, there was nothing of importance that had
happened except the issuing of identification cards to
Filipinos, mostly musicians. When Mr. UY came back and
took charge of the office again, all the provisional
officers of the association agreed to pass a resolution
whereby a manifesto be circulated among the Filipino commu-
SECRET

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.94)
Page 2.
DECRET
OLanO asuactON (Jontinuad):
nity. In thic mani cesto, we very tstinotly stated once
a ain the ains and pur pses of the aseociation, such as,
to mroteot be interest of pilipinos, to find ways and
means to raise unds for the relief of those who are really
needy vi li pinos, ana ete. vome of the projects which were
intendea to be one were, bo ing contest, concorts in the
 eatres or cine mms,  alls in the caharets and etc. In
spite of these anv  e s not one of them materialised.
At this end t en, all the o ficers of the association be-
ca me isappointel a  also eca e idle to make any other
new move. From thi- time, I disnont inued going to the
office of the as ociation due to pressure of business.
After a lapse of about two nonths, Mr. TRIa, the treasurer,
called on me in my office in  he ustom House, and told me
that he was seat y Vr. UY to see me w ether I could extend
a small finaneial help in order that they may be able to
square some accounts of the association before they close
the office at the end of that month. To this reguest, I
complied at onee, and even how awall the amount I had given
to +he funds of the association, any how I did my duty.
From the ti ne of the olosure of the o fice of the associa-
tion, we the standing provisional o ficers could hardly
meet ea h other except Mr. UY and Mr. CASINO because they
were both working in one orfice, TE sha GhaI TIMES.
One afternoon at about six o'clock, in the month of
arch, l9 z, nr. Xa m a a a meares in my private business
office in cassoon House, n told e that Mr. uy had agreed
to meet him the next day at ti fin time at the vonk's
Pe tuarant in Avenue mdward vTt, provided Mr. CasINO and
. a  gIoN be present at the meeting. For this reason
he (a  a, came to ny office to ask me o be present
at the said meetinr, which request I aocepted. In the
conversation, Mr. UY and a- ma a bad a very beated
argument regaraing the procedure in which the general
meetiny was to be called. rina ly they found a solution
to call a general meetins, and also rixht at that moment,
Mr. UY telegated me to ancompany Dr. aala aaL to the
Folice eadquartere at Foochow Road, where the necessary
 rmit or the meeting was to be obtained that sane after-
noon.
 hen the meetiny wae beld at the Lido Pallroom,
where all the provisional officers of the FILIPINO AS OCIA-
r resigned, and a new election for the officers was
called for by pr. aa.
the officers elected were
as Collows: President, Dr. G. KalailA AL; vice President,
A. CELI; Secretary, A. ORDEN: reasurer, HE RERA;
Directors, CASINO, ALINDADA, JOUICO, SAMPER, CADELINA
and aalas. the new aporoved name o the association
Was IPUWANG PILIPINO. On one OcCaS on, Dr. MALAMBASAL
proposed to appoint e as Auditor of the LIPUvANG PILIPINO
which offer I strongly refused to accept, hecause I did not
SEORET

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
CLARO ASUNCION (Continued):
want to be drarged into his ideas of intimidating and
threatening his countrymen. From this time then, I
took the course of isolating myself from the others.
Regarding the telegram which was sent to HIDEXI TOJO
on June 20, 1943, it was Dr. KaaMBAnaL who asked me to
sign the resolution. However, being a Filipino, I am
always ready to recognize or sign anything if it concerns
the liberty and inependence of my motherland, the Philip-
pines. In the ovent that there was something else which
I have signed and not in a position to remember now, but
I am certain that the contents of it are all about the
iodenendence of my country.
One sunday mornin in Cctober or Movember, 1943, a get
tegether was held in the house of Mr. ALOBOG at Avenue
Joffre, and those present were, the owner of the house
Mr. C. UY, Mr. J. CNF AS, Mr. V. CASINO, Mr. C. ASUNCION,
Mr. A. ORE, r. A.  , Mr. J. INDADA and Mr. M.
-a.sus. his gathering agreed to form a board and called
it THE FI IPINO COMVUNITY BOARD and at the same time
e lected the officers, name ly - ghairman, C. UY; vice-
chairman, . U  stary, A.  D Treasurer
V. OB: and Directors, V. CASiNO, A. CELIS, C. ASU NOION,
J. aul.Dala and amsoN. The purpose of this community
board was to consider another relief plan for the Filipinos,
but it did not survive for lack of cooperation.
Towards the end of April, 1944, I received a telephone
call rom r. UY requesting me to call at his office in THE
ShanonaI I. Arriving there, Mr. UY proposed that I go
to Nanking as one of the milipino delexation to a youth
rally. Being eager to exchange ideas with f ellow Asiatics
and to see Manking for the first time, I agreed to go.
While in vanking, a snecial programme was set by the
committee of the cslebration, whereby every delegation had
to send one representative to the Broadcasting station
"XGOI" who, each broaraste? in meir own language. In
this occasion, I was the one who was delegated to broadcast,
and in this respect, I am enclosing Exhibits A-1 and A-2
which are the true copies of the text of my speech in our
Fhilippine language aa its translation in English. As
you will note in my roadcast, there is nothing about pro-
Japanese nor anti-American. I am also enclosing herewith
 xhibit B, which was iven to me by the manager of the
broadcasting station as a token of their appreciation for
ny speech. As you will see it is not at all a medal but
only a broadcastin souvenir.
About the middle of Nove ber, 1943, there appeared a
notificat ion in ThE S daI TI , requiring every
Filipino citizen to present in person at the HOLY TRINITY
CAIHEdRaL in Kiangse Road for registration. I being a
Filipino, therefore called at the designated place, and on
DEORET

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
Page4.
SECRET
CLARO ASUNCION (Cont1nued):
arriving there, I took one of the printed forms which
were placed on the top of several tables in the hall.
In the form there were many quest'ons to be answered,
and as far as I re member, the very last question was,
"Do you pledge allegiance to the covernnent of the
Republic of the Fhiliorines?". To this question, I
answered "Yes I do". In this connection, I wish to give
the following explanation. I was born in the Philippines
55 years ago, therefore I am a pure Filipino. When Japan
granted the Independence to my country, I was thrilled
with enotion not because Japan was the donor of the Inde-
pendence but ecause in my advanced age, I never expected
that I would be able to witness the Independence of my
country. Furtieriore, I would like to mention here also,
that when the covernnent of the Republie of the Philippines
announeea the I e ec: ce pf ts p atry, all the living
heroes, the most no'ed statesmen of the country who, not
long ago were the brain-trust of the late President Manuel
quezon and the entire population of the Philippines,
pledged their allegiance to and recognized the sovereign-
ity of the covernment of the Penublic of the Ehilinpines.
mherefore, my answer coincided also with the actions of
my brethren in the Thilinoinee who love their Independent
Yother Land.
During my association with the FiuIFINO aosOCIarION of
 aNgHaI, as an officer, I did not attend any meetings nor
conferences with any Jacanese authorities, except public
gatherings and celebrations. I clearly remember that in
this city, I delivered speech once only, and that was when
the Indians celebrated the establishuent of the Indian
Independence League in the CafHaY HO EL. In that occasion,
I represented the FILII INO asouC ION because Mr. UY was
not in shanghai by that time, and with me, were all the
other officers of the association and some members as well.
My speech was very short and it took ne about two or three
minutes only. mhe sceech was in my mother tongue, and in
substance, was the following. "Ladies and gentlemen, I
am sure t at you have heard already the views of the many
speakers who took the floor before me. mherefore, I
have nothing else to tell you.
 And what is more, I am
unpepared for this occasion. The cnly point I can tell
you is that, now is the time for us Asiatics to show to
the whole world that we are worthy to be a "ember in the
family of nations, Fefore conclu ing, we members of the
association who are present in this gathering as well as
the Filipino community in this city, wish to extend to you
all present in this occas'on, our profoundest gratitude
for being invited in this celebrat ion of the Indian Inde-
pendence League. I have said." As you will note that
my speech was very simple and nothing about pro-Japanese
nor anti-American. Other celebrationswhich I a tended
together with the officers of the associa'ion, were the
Anniversary of the Greater Tast Asia co-Prosperity Sphere,
the celebration of the Thilinpine Independence Day held
in the Race Course in the morning and in CAThAY HOrEL in
BEGRET

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 5.
SECRET
CLARO ASUNCION (Continued):
the afternoon of the same day.
One evening in the month of August, 1943, Dr. KALAMBAKAL
came to my house and invited me to a zukiyaki dinner which
at the beginning I r f med to go. But Dr. KaLaMBAKAL
being i sictent of my ac om anyin in, I therefore had to
accede to his proposul. On arriving in the place at
JUN VENUE, I met SUGANO of the crime Branch of the Police
Headquartere, Mr. COnfhna and Mr. ALOBOG. With me and
Dr. Kamtamal, we were five in the party. Only from this
time me and Mr. ALOBOG became familiar to each other. It
so happened that one day when I went to Mr. aLOBOG'S shop
in Nanking Poad during tiffin hours, I met NAMBa there, and
Mr. ALoBCG introduced me to him. I have no dealing with
NamBa whatsoever except in one morning, NaMBa telephoned
to me and as ed me to go to his office in JARDINE, MATHESON
Building for an interview which I complied. On arriving
there, aMBa told me that Mr. auUbCG had approached him to
help iron out some financial differences between me and
Mr. auCBti. That was the only occas on I had been in his
office mersonally. wurt ermore, I met SUGANO of the Crime
Branch of the Police Headquarters when Dr. KALAMbaiaL and
I applied for permit for meeting of the FILIPINO ASSOCIA-
F1oN and the second ti me was, when I met him in haLaiBakaL's
dinner party. Besides these, I did not have any other
dealing with him, SUGaNO.
As regards the arrest of Dr. EVA GELISTA, I have to say
that Mr. UY had never informed me prior nor after the
arrest of Dr. E A GELISTA. I only heard Dr. EVANGELISTA'S
arrest from the Filipino community.
concerning wilipinos who are pro-Jacanese, I should say
that pr. MalalasaL is the only one I now because he told
me so. If there were other wilipinos who seemed to be
oro-Japanese, in my opinion, I should say that they were
only simulatin: to be so, just because they wanted to avoid
all the t reads and intimi ations of Dr. KALANBAKAL, and
at the sa e ti e on account of the exigency of circumstances
surrounding them.
About wilininos who elivered s eeches which I consider
anti-A erican, I have to say that Mr. UY and Mr. CasINO
were the ones I heard; Mr. UY in the CATiaY HO EL during
the celebration of the ann iversary of the Greater East
Asia Co-Pros perity Sphere and Mr. CASINO in the RACE COURSE
during the celebration of the Philippine Independence Day.
About going to Japanese cendarmerie office, I have to
say that I had never been in any of that office.
Respectfully submitted, shanshai, Nov. 5, 1945.
Signed: CLARO ASUNCION."
Wi tness: H. EVanGELISTa (sined)
Witness: P.c. ESPINO
(signed)
EVALUA11ON: F-6.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 6.
CLARO ASUNCION (Continued):
"COPY - EXHIBIT A-2.
Translated from Exhibit A-l. In tagalog.
XGOI Broadcasting Station, Nanking, May, 1944.
2.
As one of the members of the Filipino delegation, I feel very much
honored to be present here to express to you all, our profoundest joy
for being invited to perticipate in the celebretion of this auspicious
event, China Youth Day. When I say this, I sincerely believe that I
am not only expressing the sentiment of the delegation itself, but
al so that of the Filipino Community in Shanghai, which I have the
honour to represent.
The significance of this memorable event, is to promote mutual
friendship and cooperetion among youth orgenisations of the nations
in the Greater East Asia Jo-Prosperity Sphere, namely, China, Japan,
Manchoukuo, Philippines, India, Burma, Thailand and others. In my
short broadcast, I wish to tell you regarding my impressions on this
happy event. The camp wiere all the various units of the delegations
are encamped, is very spacious and ideally located. The tents are
arranged in such a way that resemble a real military camp end give no
abstruction to the free movement of the youths. The rules and
regulations in the camp are strictly observed, and a brotherly atmos-
phere is enjoyed by all the participants. The parade to the Mausoleum
of Dr. SUN YAT E and to the tombs of the Chinese and Japanese martyrs
of war, which was participated by the entire internetional delegations,
was very traditional and impressive. The picnic which was held after
the parade where different kinds of performances were held by every
unit of the delegation, was very significant and enjoyable. All of
these successes, I should say were entirely due to the well organised
administrative committee of the celebration. Finally, I wish to
mention here that the united feelings of the youths who participated
in this celebration, is e clear proof towards the successful unifi-
cation of the Asiatics.
Before conclu ding, allow me to express once more, our deepest
gratitude for the generous hospitality afforded to us. I have said.
Si med: OLARO ASUNOION."
EVALUATION: F-6.
3.
"I, CLARO ASUNO1ON, went to CATHEDHAL on November 18, 1943, and
there I saw Mr. JONTAiRAS and asked me to help them in explaining
the questions concorning other Filipinos who could not read or write
English, which request I agreed. In turn Mr. CONTRERAS handed me one
armband, green in colour, and asked me to put on my arm, which I did.
I did not have any telephone conversation with V. CASINO of THE
SHANGHAI TI ES regarding Dr. EVA..GELISTA prior to his arrest. I
only knew Dr. EVANGELISTA'S arrest after it had occurred.
Signed: CLARO ASUNCION.
Witness: H. EVANGELISTA (Signed)
Shanghai, Nov. 5, 1945."
EVAL: C-3 Witness: P. C. ESPINO (Signed)

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 7.
C. ASUNCION (Contd.):
SECRET
4.
The following is an extract from a signed statement made
15 October, 1945, by SARA MALABANAN:
"I, SARA MALABANAN, make this statement on my own free will
and without duress.
On or about the day of 6 February, 1944, while acting as
telephone operator at THE S A G AI TI ES, I overheard an
important telephone conversation. At about 1l:00 on that
day CLARO ASUOION called from outside and asked for VICENTE
CASINO, the advertising manager.
The following conversation took place:
A: What's the name?
C:
Well, so far good news. CUi-ADO UY went to see some Japanese
official and UY saye that in a few days time they will put
Dr. H. EVANGELISTA and his gang in bridge house. They will
be scratching and full of lice and get some beatings from the
Japanese.
A:
Oh, that's very good. They deserve it. Why should they be
in fevor of the whites (men) while we are Asiatics.
C: Well, we shall see to it what will happen soon.
A: Well, I'll see you some other time, goodbye.
0: Goodbye.
End of conversation.
That day I did not dere to see Dr. EVA GELISTA. However, the
next day at 12:00 I went to his house. My sense of fair play made
me think he (EVA  LISTA) should oe werned. I did not know Dr. E -
I had .ever even spoken to him - I am Spanish (passport); though I
was formerly married to a Filipino we separated in 1943.
I Told Dr. E. he must promise not to divulge my identity because
I needed my job to support my children. Dr. E. promised and I told
him of the conversation.
Dr. E. said: "Nell, I suspected this is coming.
They are
watching me and I he ve been arrested once already."
(B. not from Mrs. MALAsA AN, Dr. E. knew Jap plainclothes (Chinese
apparel) of gendarmes had taken a room next to his room. Chinese
lady who formerly occupied the room - she was married to Jap Eurasian -
told another Filipino to warn Dr. E. that Japs were following and
watching Dr. E. day and night) End of NB.
BEORBT

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 8.
SECRET
CLARO ASUNCION (Continued):
Mrs. MALABANAN continues:
I told no one of this because I trusted no one.
CONRADO UY got telephone calls from Japanese - especially from
11020 (Jap. Mavy) and from ISHIDA, Japanese gendarmerie and from
other Jepanese whose na es I cannot remember. He also called
them."
EVALUAT ION: 0-3.
5.
The following signed stetement regarding the subject was made
by Dr. EVA GELISTA, pro-American Filipino leader:
"November 5, 1945.
RE: CLARO ASUNOTON (ALIAS) VHOSE REAL NAME IS JOSE PAJARILLO
Pejarillo was one of the staunch supporter of CONRADO UY and
organizer of the FILIFINO ASsCIATION, later becoming its acting
President during the absence of C. UY. ASUNCION signed many pro-
Jap resolutions and petitions, attended all meetings of the pro-
Jap Filipinos, participated in the Independence Parade and reception
at the Cathay Hotel. He was one of the orgenizere of the Filipino
Community board, supervisory body of the pro-Jap Filipinos and the
Filipino Association. Pajarillo was one of the delegates to
Nanking to a conference sponsored by the Japs and delivered pro-Jap
radio speech and was given a medal for it. He is a close associate
of UY, CASINO, ALDEVA ONA, ALOBOG, CONTRERAS, J. TRIA. ACting
Jep off cial at the time of registration of all Filipinos at the
Cathedral and was wearing an armband.
Si ned: H. EVA GELISTA."
EVALUAT ION: C-3
6.
The following document was submitted by A. J. ORDEN.
The names
at the end are typed and not signed:
"Shanghai, July 16, 1943
China
To iis Excellency
To His Excellency
General HIDEKI TOJO
S. TOGO
Prime Minister
Foreign Minister
Tokyo, Japan
Tokyo, Japan
His Excellency:
He, the undersigned Filipino Residents of Shanghai, China, do
hereby respectfully submits to the Imperial Jepanese Government,
SECRET

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 9.
SECRET
CLARO ASUNCION (Continued):
through your Excellency, for your kind information and
consideration, the following:-
We first of all take this opportunity of paying our
sincerest respect to the Imperial Japanese Government,
their leaders and soldiers.
We hereby express our sincerest admiration and apprecia-
tion for your greatest achievelents in Singapore, Burma,
Sumatra, Celebes, the Philippines, etc.
Now that tre Anglo-American Imperialism in the Orient
has totally been liquidated and that your objectives have
been successfully achieved by the most untiring efforts
of your brave army, navy and air forces, and as peace once
more reigns in the Crient under the Imperial Japanese flag,
we, the undersigned Filipino Residents of Shanghai, believ-
ing in you o. ds d in accordance ith your promises,
respectfully request t at through the Imperial Japanese
Goverrment's and influence the Filipino people be granted as
soon as possible, their full independence ich they have
arduously been longing for many years past.
Following closely and sincerely the steps taken by our
leaders, we the undersigned Filipino Residents of Shanghai,
China, also believing in the great ideals, the freedom
and the happiness of our country, we hereby take this
opportunity of conveying to the Imperial Japanese Govern-
ment, through your Excellency, the assurance of our full
co-operation in the establishment o?   ater East
Asia  o- osperity Sphere aad t at we are ready to render
our services to the Imperial Japanese ov.. t.ent to the
test of our ability nd within the means at our disposal.
Respectfully submitted:
DR.LOL .D.
C. ASUNCION
JOE SA! ONTE (Deccased)
ALFONSO NAVAIRO
AFOLONIO J. ORDEN
VICTOINO G. CLARA."
EVAL LTION: F-6.
7.
The subject swore allegiance to the Puppet Government of
the Thilippines on 18 - 19 Hovemher, 1?47, and was designated
by the Japanese to wear an enemy band and assist Filipinos
in the proceedings. On 14 October, 194?, he took part in
Japanese sponsored parades and ceremonies celebrating the
Philippines Puppet Independence. On 8 May, 1943, the subject
inscribed his name on the Rolls of the Japanese sponsored
Filipino Association. On 15 June, 1947, ASUNCION signed
SECRET

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 10.
SECRET
CLARO ASUNCION (Continued):
documents addressed to the Japanese Consulate-General and
Office in Charge of Enemy Property.
These two documents
contained the follo.ing sentence:
"We, the undersigned, Filipino residents of Shanghai
pledging our support in the establishment of the
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, would ask
your kind favour to help us in our present problem."
EVALUATION: A-1.
8.
On 20 June, 1943, the subject signed the following
resolution:
"Hon. JORGE B. VA GAS
Chairman
Philippine Executive Commission
MANILA, Philippines.
"HEREAS You have courageously led our people through
the hours of trial;
WHEREAS
You ave sent a mission ho presented our
cause before the Japanese nation;
WHEREAS
You have been answered by the recent state-
ment of Fremier General HIDEKI TOJO that the
Philippines will be granted independence
within this year;
sOLVzD That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record
to express our ratitude to you and join you
in saying, "This is the happiest day in the
history of the Filipino people."
EVALUATION: A-1.
9.
On 20 June, 1947, the subject signed the following
resolution:
"To His Excellency
General HIDEKI TOJO
Prime Minister
TOKYO, Japan.
WHEREAS The Japanese nation received the Philippine
delegation ith due courtesy and respect
SEGRET

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 11.
SECRET
CLARO ASUNCION (Continued):
befitting their mission;
WHEREAs Your Excellency proclaimed at the Diet that
the Philippines will be granted independence
within this year;
PESOLVED That We, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record
to thank the Japanese nation and express our
pride to be destined an independent member of
the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere."
EVALUATION: A-1.
10.
P. C. ESPINO, pro-Allied Filipino offered the following
signed statements regarding the subject:
"CLAFO ASUNCION. (ALiaS JOSE FAJA ILLO)
Very dangerous.
Yorked under cover. Brain of
the pro-Japanese croup. Organizer and vice president
of the Filipino Association.
Was always in close con-
tact ith Japanese officials. Instigator of all pro-
Japanese movements and demonstrations. Denounced U.s.
rule in the Philip ines.
Ardent supporter and ex-
pounder of asia for the asiatics.
Made contributions
to Japanese war chest. One of the officials delegated
by the Japanese authorities to conduct the registration
of Filipinos resulting in the surrendering of many of
their allegiance to U.S. One of the men responsible
for the arrest and imprisonment of the pro-American
Filipinos. Does not deserve leniency. Was called
Pajarillo hen he fled Fhilippines for fear of arrest."
EVALUATION: C-3.
11.
"During the investigations at the Bridge House I
occasionally heard the names of V. ALOPOG, C. UY,
F. SAMPER, V. CASINO, J. ALIDADA, J. CONTPERAS,
A. OPDEN, D. EALDEVARONA and C. ASUNCION. I COuld
not definitely say what cach one accused me of.
Vhat I could positively say is that the above men-
tioned persons had something to do in my arrest."
EVALUATION: C-3.
12.
P. Cr uz made the following signed statement on
24 September, 1945:
"I was arrested on February 29, 1944, together
With Dr. EVANGELISTA, Mr. ESPINO, MATEOS, JAVIER
SECRET

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
PAge 12.
ECCRET
CLARO ASUNCICN (Cont 1ed):
and VILLA. I was accused of (1) Being pro-American
(2) Diseminuting news against the Japanese (3) Being
the tool of Dr. VANGELISTA and Mr. ESPINO for their
anti-Japanese activities (4) For spreading news hurting
the pro-Japanese Filipinos (5) For not recognizing the
LAUREL Government (6) For being a member of an associa-
tion Working against Japan of hich Dr. EVANGELISTA is
the leader.
I was tortured very much because I refused to admit
the above associations. I suffered mental torture
because I mas made to cit on the floor facing the wall
for 17 hours a day, for 67 days.
"e "ere transferred
to the High Vilitary Court at Kiangwan for 21 days
after hich We received our sentence. Dr. EVANGELISTA
got 3 years and the rest of us 2 years each. On
april 29, 19 4, we were hand-cuffed and we were sent to
Ward ad Jail here I was known as S-35. We were
released toget er on May 70, 1?45, on the second mass
relet se of "J" prisoners.
The Japanese that tortured
me ar the folloming: HASEGAWA, ISHIDA and the inter-
preter whom I could recognize if I see him. The
Filipinos responsible for my arrest are the following:
JOSE ALI DADA, JOSE CONTREAS, CON ADO UY, VICENTE
CASINO, FRANCISCO SALPER, FAMON JOQUICO, CLARO ASUICION,
VICENTE ALOBOG, D. EALD VARONA, A.  AD ASO, A. CELIS
and A. ORDEN.
Signed: P. ChUZ.
P.IMITIVO CRUZ."
EVALUATION: C-8.
13.
The following is an extract from a statement made by
PAUL AQUINO:
Shanghai, 25 October, 1945.
"In Yay, 1944, . LAYSON asked me if I wanted a
free trip and visit to Wanking, as a Filipino Youth
Corps delegate. They loaned me money to get my
possession out of pawn. I reard that my uncle,
B. Ai INo, would be tl ere so I went. Going with me
Were V. CASINO, CLARO ASUNCION, . LAMSON, L. MALABANAN,
C. BUENSUCESO and some other boys inel ding A.  ADRASSO,
SECRET

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 13.
SECRET
CLARO ASUNCION (Continued):
E. LACSON, J. CALIBO, L. BLANCO.
CLARO ASUNCION received a medal for broadcasting a
speech while in Nanking. We sang several Filipino
songs over the radio.
UY told me several times that we were Asiatics and
we should stick to our colored brothers the Japanese
instead of the Americans.
Signed: PAUL AQUINO."
Witness (Signed) A. C. PINDER
Witness (Signed) H. EVANGELISTA.
EVALUATION: C-3.
14.
The following is an extract from a statement made by
G. MENDOZA:
"Shanghai, 1 November, 1945.
I, G. B. MENDOZA, do hereby make the following
statement of my own free will and without duress:
On or about June, 1943, I began to suspect the
presence of active pro-Japanese Filipino leaders.
There Were C. UY, M. LAMSON, C. ASUNCION, V. CASINO.
They used to hold their meetings behind closed doors
in UY'S office at THE SHANGHAI TIMES. They met at
least three times a month. Putting two and two
together, I am fully convinced that it had something
to do with Filipino affairs during the war.
Aside from the meetings above mentioned, these
fellows used to meet in ALOBOG'S store with some
Japanese where they used to discuss Filipino affairs.
I found this out from our telephone operator who used
to overhear their conversation on the telephone."
EVALUATION: C-3.
15.
The following extracts are from a signed statement made
23 October, 1945, by F. SAMPER:
" ..... Also visited the Association in 66 Nanking
Road office, the idea to check up their activities,
but to my surprise instead of DASMARINAS place, DICKY
OLIVEROS, a Spanish subject, was taking DASMARÍNAS
place as secretary, the reasons why and what, really I
SECRET

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 14.
SECRET
CLARO ASUNCION (Continued):
don't know in the first time. However, I found at
last that according to my enquiries, UY didn't trust
him being an ex-employee of the American Consulate.
In the office, three kinds of lines. One as FILIPINO
ASSOCIATION; twO, FILIPINO CLARION and three, brokers
office. The last was my chance to keep an eye.
According to my observations, UY as Editor, broker and
Jap entertainer. ASUNCION, real name PEDRO PAJARILLO,
wanted by the authority at Manila, came to the office
after his office hours in the CUSTOM HOUSE. Also doing
brokerage and very friendly to Jap officials in the
Consulate. J. TRIA kept the money from the new members,
donations or contributions to the Association and
brokerage business, mostly with Jap for reasons that he
could talk the Japanese language. V. CASINO, Jap enter-
tainer, broker and published many funny ideas in CLARION.
D. OLIVEROS, as secretary and broker."
" ..... Before the registration took place, I found
out that CELIS, ORDEN and ALINDADA arrived in CATHEDRAL
CHURCH before the Japanese officials. When these officials
arrived, CONTRERAS, UY, CASINO, ALOBOG and ASUNCION Were
appointed as supervisors. Here again CELIS was not happy.
Dr. EVANGELISTA, ESPINO, CRUZ, MATEOS, VILLA and
JAVIER were arrested sometime in February, 1944, charges
of which I don't know until now. Rumours at that time
that there were more. Two or three weeks after, a
Japanese in plain clothes, a small fellow with one gold
tooth in the left side of his mouth, came one afternoon
to my room, while JOQUICO and A. Teodore and myself were
playing draft (Dama). He said he wanted to see SAMPER,
and I replied, "It is me. Anything you want?" He said
he wanted to talk with me. I asked him whether in private
or with my friends, but he replied, "Alone". So JOQUICO
and TEODORO went out. While we were alone, he opened his
papers in typewriting and I saw so many names. He ques-
tioned me something like this. "Do you know EVANGELISTA?"
"Yes sir.""How long?"
"Many years." "Is EVANGELISTA
a captain in the S.V.C.?" "Yes sir, he was my commander
before." "Is he an officer in the Philippines?" "I
don't know sir, he never told me anything." "Does he get
power from the SWISS CONSULATE?" "I don't know sir. I
have requested EVANGELISTA many times but he could do nothing."
Then he wrote something in his note book in Japanese, con-
tents of which I don't know. I was quite frightened that
I forgot to ask him where he came from and his name.
BBCRET

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 15.
SECRET
CLARO ASUNCION (Continued):
Not long after this happening, BALDEVARONA and SAMSON
left for Nanking, but in fact to Manila. Then ASUNCIoN'S
house became a rehearsal stage for young boys and girls,
Filipinos, who would go to Nanking for a big rally.
ASUNCION made a speech through a radio, the subject of
which I don't know, but from his mouth he was given a sort
of medal. When he got into trouble with his house land-
lord, ASUNCION always called the Japanese Consulate or
Embassy and Japanese big shots. He dealt with gasoline
and other war materials to the Japanese."
EVALUATION: C-3.
16.
The following is an extract from a signed statement made
3 November, 1945, by M. JAVIER:
"The Japanese who arrested me asked me why I did not
recognize the new government. I said, "I have pledged
allegiance to the United States government and I determine
to live by it regardless of the consequences." They
asked me repeatedly whether the Swiss Consul or Dr. EVAN-
GELISTA advised me not to pledge allegiance to the new
government. I said, "None of them did; my conviction is
entirely my own."
My arrest and imprisonment was brought about through
the whole hearted collaboration of the pro-Japanese group
headed by J. CONTRERAS, V. ALOBOG, J. ALINDADA, C. UY,
G. KALAMBAKAL, V. CASIÑO, R. JOQUÍCO, F. SAMPER and J.
PAJARILLO, alias "CLARO ASUNCION." They were constantly
on the lookout for every move we made and every word we
said. They eagerly supplied the Japanese informations."
EVALUATION: C-3.
17.
C. ASUNCION, on 18 April, 1943, offered his resignation
as Vice President, but the date of his acceptance is not de-
finitely known, and he continued to be active in the affairs
of the association, soon reappearing as a Director. On
11 May, 1943, the officers of the association and the subject
presumably among them despatched the following telegram:
"To His Excellency
General HIDEKI TOJO
Prime Minister
TOKYO, JAPAN.
WHEREAS We take this opportunity of paying our sincerest
respects to the Imperial Japanese Government,
their leaders and soldiers;
SECRET

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 16.
SECRET
CLARO ASUNCION (Continued):
WHEREAS
We admire your overwhelming triumph in
Malaya, Burma, East Indies and the
Philippines;
WHEREAS
We appreciate that through the untiring
efforts of your dauntless army, navy and
air force, the Anglo-American imperialism
has vanished from the Orient where peace
once more reigns;
WHEREAS
We receive with joy the glad tidings
pronounced by your Excellency in the Diet
promising us our independence;
RESOLVED That we, officers of the LIPUNAN PILIPINO,
on behalf of the FILIPINO RESIDENTS of
SHANGHAI, go on record to convey to the
Imperial Japanese Government, through your
Excellency, the assurance of our full co-
operation in the establishment of the
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere."
EVALUATION: F-6.
18.
The subject, C. ASUNCION, denied that he ever used the
name JOSE PAJARILLO.
SECRET

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 1.
SECRET
15 November, 1945,
SHANGHAI.
TEODORICO BACLAY
The SUBJECT, a Filipino musician, in late December,
1941 and the first three and a half months of 1942, was
active in promoting Filipino cooperation with the Japanese.
He was seen in the company of Japanese officials and on
15 Apri1, 1942 left for MANILA on a trip sponsored by the
Japanese authorities. Filipino informants in Shanghai
believe the purpose of this trip was espionage. At present
the SUBJECT is believed to be in the PHILIPPINES, though
there are rumours that he was slain by guerillas.
The following is an article (with picture) which
appeared in the 30 May, 1942 issue of the CLARION FILIPINO,
a Pro-Japanese Filipino paper published in SHANGHAI:
"FIRST S'HAI FILIPINO ON VISIT TO P.I.
With a view to testifying to the great work planned
and accomplished by Japan toward the establishment of a
New Order in Greater East Asia, MR. TEODORICO BACLAY,
Shanghai resident for many years and active member of
the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION of SHANGHAI left here for MANILA
on April 15. Special permission for the trip was granted
by Japanese authorities here.
MR. BACLAY was the first Filipino to return to the
islands since the outbreak of the War of Greater East Asia
on December 8.
The 32-year old Filipino resident plans to make a tour
of his native province of CEBU as soon as possible, planning
there to contact his former schoolmates and urge that they
extend their wholehearted cooperation in the reconstruction
work already launched by the new Central Government of the
Philippines."
EVALUATION: B-1.
The following is an extract from a signed statement
made 21 October, 1945 by A. ORDEN, suspected Filipino colla-
borationist:
SECRET

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2.
SECRET
TEODORICO BACLAY
"TEODORO BACLAY: This individual tried to persuade
me to go to the Philippines in the employ of the Japs.
In early April 1942, he requested me to go to MR. JUAN
TRIA'S office on PEKING ROAD where I was handed a form
(Enc.6) by MR. TRIA to fill in, but MR. BACLAY failed
to appear on the appointment. When having tea at
ROSE MARIE, MR. BACLAY told me that I was being shadowed.
I reported all this to DR. EVANGELISTA. I meditated on
how I could join the Philippine army or the guerrilas in
case I was compelled by pressure to go."
EVALUATION: C-3.
The following signed statement was made 15 November,
1945 by DR. H. EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipino leader,
who suffered imprisonment in the hands of the Japanese:
"Re: T. BACLAY: Of BACLAY'S pro-Jap activities
here in Shanghai, I know very little. At the outbreak
of the Jap. American war, BACLAY showed immediately his
pro-Jap tendencies by praising always the Japs when
opportunity presents. He was one among the first
supporter of UY, KALAMBAKAL and TRIA and was a very
active member and leader of the Jap sponsorred FILIPINO
ASSOCIATION started by TRIA and UY.I believe, some-
times in January 1942, when TRIA started to organize a
group of Filipino spys to work for the Jap Army, BACLAY
and A. ORDEN were the first one to offer their services
to TRIA and they were sent to a Jap Army office located
in KIANGWAN which evidently A. ORDEN was not successful
or at least did not qualify for the test or requirements.
Soon after this, I heard that BACLAY was already in Jap
soldier uniform under training by the Jap Army. "THE
CLARION" propaganda paper of the pro-Jap Filipinos gives
an account of BACLAY'S mission to Philippines in one
of its issues in January, 1942. BACLAY comes from one
of the town of CEBU PROVÍNCE, P.I. and is about 35 years
of age by now. He was a musician by profession.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
EVALUATION: C-3.
SECRET

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 1.
November 16, 1945.
DEMETRIO BALDEVARONA (VALDEVARONA).
The subject, a former Filipino Shanghai musician,
fell under the influence of pro-Japanese elements after
the outbreak of the war; he used his influence with the
Filipino community to enforce co-operation and collabora
tion with the enemy.
In May, 1944, he left Shanghai abpard a Japanese
military plane for the Philippines, presumably to act as
spy and informer for the Japanese.  In a signed statement
Paul Aquino, Shanghai Filipino, told of being approached
by CONkADO UY, to go to the Philippines for the purpose
of ascertaining which prominent Filipinos were anti-
Japanese.
It is believed that the subject received
a similar proposition, and unlike Aquino, accepted it.
At present the subject is believed to be in Manila,
although there are rumours that he has met his death.
Evaluation C-3.
The following statement was made November 15th, 1945
by DR. H.C. EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipino leader,
who suffered imprisonment at the hands of the Japanese.
68
Re. D. Baldevarona.
Of all the pro-Jap leaders amongst the Filipinos,
Baldevarcna was one of the most radical,trouble-
some,active and daring. At the outbreak of the
Jap-American war, when the American Association
were reg istering all American nationals and
Filipinos, Baldevarona came to the premises of
the American Association and tried to interfere
to the registration of Filipinos for relief by
say ing that, the Filipinos should not register
at the American Association for relief as the
Japs may stop it any moment and that Filipinos
being orientals should not join the Americans.
He also said that the Japs are more powerful
than the Americans, they are also richer, these
statements, he said in front of many Filipinos
assembled for registration.
Later howefer,
he opplied for a cash relief from the Swiss
SECRET

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
DEMETRIO BALDEVARONA (VALDEVARONA).
Consulate, under my advise,was giving
him mmall loan and to pro-American
Filipinos, bigger leany in order to use it
for propaganda. He tored his passport in
front of Swiss Consulate official and said
that he no longer have any use of it, and
does not owe allegiance to the U.S.A.
He is a member and Director of the Jap
sponsorred Filipino Association; active
pro-Jap leader and associate of Kalambakal,
Uy, Casino,V. Asuncion, Alobog, Joquico,
Samper, F., also pro-Jap leaders here in
Shanghai. He signed petitions and resalu-
tions addressed to the enemies pledging
support and cooperation, participated at
the Philippine Independence Parade,ceremony
and reception on October 14, 1945.
On November 18,1943, Baldevarona signified
allegiance (Yes-man) to the bogus Philippine
Republic and tried to induce others to do the
same as he did. After I have left the table
of the Jap Consul to whom I had considerable
discussion about my answering No, Baldevarona
approached me and showed me his torn passport
and said to me; "Now Dr. tell me what shall
I do with this passport," and tried to pick
quarrel with me.
Baldevarona was one of the complainants
for my first arrest and an informant and
instigator for the second arrest. He went
around to various Dance Halls and tried to
induce every Filipino musician to cooperate
with the Japs or be punish by the Gendarmerie,
should they refuse to do so.
I was told that Baldevarona was sent to
the Philippines sometime in or around May,1944
to some spying and propaganda work for the
Jap Army, but according to Tria,Baldevarona
may have been killed shortly after his arri-
val in the Philippines.
(s igned) H.C. EVANGELISTA.
Evaluation C-3.
BBCRET

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
DEMETRIO BALDEVARONA (VALDEVARONA).
The following statement was made Octeber 22, 1945 by T. CRUz,
pro-Japanese Filipino.
In March 1943 I went to American school with KaLanBakAL
NAVARRO, VALDEVARONA and F. SALVADOR. My Cousim BOs
at that time in Japanese custody.
When we arrived there a Japanese told me:-
" If ya want your cousin to ∞me out you had better
sign this paper. You just tell that DR. EVANGELISTA
is pro-American and that he is a very bad man."
VALDEVARONA spoke up and said EVANGEL ISTA is a spy
and a crook.
SALVADOR, NAVARRO, VALDEVARONA and myself signed the
paper.
Myncousin was released in a few days.
Signed: T. CkUZ.
(Note. It appears that the paper signed was a record of
the conwersations and answers to questions)
Evaluation C-3.
The follow ing signed statement was made by PRIMITOVO CRUZ,
September 24, 1945
I was arrested on February 28, 1944 together with
Dr. Evangelista, Mr. Espino, Mateos, Javier and
Villa. I was accused of (1) Being Pro-American
(2) Diseminat ing news against the Japanese.
(3) Being the tool of Dr. Evangelista and Mr.
Espino for their Anti-Japanese activities.
(4) For spreading news hurting the Pro-Japanese
Filipinos
(5)For not recognizing the Laurel Government
(6) For being a member of an association working
against Japan of which Dr. Evangelista is
the leader
I wes tortured very much because I refused to admit the
above associations. I suffered mental torture because
I was made to sit on the floor facing the wall for
17 hours a day, for 63 days. We were transferred to
the High Military Court at Kiangwan for 21 days
after which we received our sentence. Dr. Evangeli sta
got 3 years and the rest of us 2 years each. On
April 29, 1944, we were handcuffed and we were sent
to Ward Rd.Jail where I was known as S-35.
We were released together on May 30th, 1945, on
the second mass release of "j" prisoners.. The
Japanese that tortured me are the following:
Hasegawa, Ishida and the interpreter whom I could
recognize if I see gim. The Filipinos responsible
for my arrest are the following:
Jose Alindada,Jose Contreas, Conrado Uy,

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 4
DEMETRIO BALDEVARONA (VALDEVARONA).
Vicente Casino, Francisco Samper,Ramon Joquico,
Claro Asuncion, Vicente Alobog, D.Baldevarona,
A. Madraso, A. Celis and A. Orden.
(Signed)
P. CRUZ
Primitivo Cruz.
Evaluation C-3.
The following signed statement was made by P.C. ESPINO,
who suffered arrest at the hm ds of the Japanese.
DEMETRIO BALDEVARONA
Well known Japanese spy. Prevented Filipinos
from registering with American Association on
outbreak of war.
Terrorized Filipinos.
Wes one of the men responsible for the arrest
and impronment of some of the pro American
Filipinos. Was sent to the Philippines about
the middle of 1944 for espionage work. Believed
killed.
60
Evaluation C-3.
The following extracts are made from signed statements
maae by P.C. ESPINO.
24th September,1945.
On March 14,1943, I was arrested by the Japanese
Gendarmerie at No.lo Avenue Petain with Dr.
Evangelista, Jose Canlas and Andres Rosete. I
was charged with being Pro Anglo-American and
in engaging in anti Japanese activities. I was
accused of:
(1) For being employed in the American Association.
(2) For soliciting contributions from the Filipinos
for the christmas dinner given to American and
British war prisoners in the Shanghai area in
December 1942.
the United States.
Philippine Independence sponsored by pro-
Japanese Filipinos.
the leadership of Dr. Evangelista and me as his
assistant.
SECRET

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
DEMETRIO BALDEVARONA ( VALDEVARONA.)
Rosete was released after thirteen days. Dr.
Evangelista ,Canlas and I were released at the
same time on April 15, 1943. During the investi-
gations, I was slapped many times, I also suffered
mental torture for not having communication with
my family, or any other outside person, for being
howled and shouted almost every moment during the
day, and for squatting on the floor facing the
wali from 5 A.M. to l0 P.M.
The following Filipinos are responsible for
my arrest and imprisonment. G. Kalambakal,Apolonio
Orden, Demetrio Baldevarona, Francisco Samper, and
Salvador Francisco. These people filed affidavits
with the Gendamerie in support of the accusations.
I do not know the name of the Japanese gendarmerie
who slapped me, but I could identify him if I could
meet him.
(s igned P.C.ESPINO)
Shanghai, 16th October,1945.
" I, P.C. ESPINO, make this statement of my own
free will and without duress of any kind.
At the outbreak of the war I was associated with
Dr. H. Evangelista at the American Association.
Our object was to unite the Filipinos to back up the
Allied cause.
We also tried to counteract Japanese
moves to get the Filipinos on their side.
When the Filipinos called at the American Associa-
tion to register we spoke to them one by one on this
subject.
D. Valdevarona came to the door of the Amer.Assoc.
and attempted to stop the registration of Filipinos and
went to Mr. Anderson, president, and asked what authority
the American Ass ociation had to register Filipinos since
Filipinos did not come under American jurisdiction any-
more and it was dangerous for them to register since Japan
was at war with America. He asked where the money was
to come from for the Filipino relief.
He also attempted to dissuade myself and Evangelista
from registering Filipinos and said: " We didn't start
this war. It is not our war. The Japanese may stop this
SEORET

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
registration and relief at any moment and
then the Filipinos will suffer. Japan is stronger
and richer than Americans and they cm do whatever
they want. If the Filipinos and Americans get
relief it is only because the Japanese allow this.
It wi ll soon be stopped."
I heard that the Japanese were watching me around
February 1943 and I was arrested 14 March 1943 by
three Japanese gendarmes (including Hirano who was
in charge). I was taken to Bridge House after they
searched my house and seized all documents and
pictures. I was not allowed to talk or say
goodbye to my family.
I was questioned by Hirano and the others at home
and at Bridge House. They asked: "Do yau know
Evangelista, J. Canlas, A. Roseta, S. Toledo (now
deceased)? What did you do last Christmas? (they
were suspicious of my part in raising funds for
Xmas dinner for war prisoners)."
At Bridge House they examined my papers but found
nothing incriminating. I was then put in confine-
ment for the night.
The second day I was fed two meals but not questioned.
The third day I was questioned again (Hirano) and
asked: " Why did you refuse to join the (Japanese
sponsored) Filipino Association?"
On the paper he held while he questioned me I
noticed Dr. Kalanbakal's signature. He showed me
this paper.
He then asked me why I solicited Filipinos to
get funds for the dinner. He showed me this paper
also and it was signed by Valdevarona.
(signed P.C. ESPINO)
Dated 18th 0ctober, 1945.
" I wes arrested for the second time on the morning
of February 28, 1944. Three Gendarmeries came to
my house and ransacked my place. They took away
all kinds of papers, photographs and printed matters.
They took me in an automobile and we stopped at
Lane 1220 Avenue Road and they also arreasted
G. Villa and M. Javier. They took us to the Bridge House.
BECRET

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
DEMETRIO BALDEVARONA (VALDEVARONA).
Upon our arrival, I learned that Dr. Evangelista,
A. Mateos and P. Cruz were also arrested. I was
not immediately taken to a cell. After I was relieved
of all the cntents of my pockets, and all partieulars
regarding my identity were taken down, I was sent to
Mokoyama, chief investigator and officer in charge. He
had an interpreter with him. His first words were the
following: " We wanted you for a long time. You and
Evangelista have always been a menace to us. Evangelista
is the head of your organization and you are his chief
of staff. You cannot escape us this time. I denied
that we had any organization and I tried to refute his
accusations. Before I coubd finish what I wanted to
say, he struck me with his fist. I got hit on two
places and I almost fell down. After few questions,
I was taken into a cell.......
..........During the investigations at the Bridge
House I occasionally heard the names of V. Alobog,
C. Uy, F. Samper, V. Casino, J. Alindada, J.Contreras,
A. Orden, D. Baldevarona and C. Asuncion. I could not
definitely say what each one accused me of. What I
could positively say is that the above mentioned persons
had something to do in my arrest.
(signed P.C. ESPINO)
Dated 21 September,1945
The second paper which contained the signature
of Baldevarona was taken and read. I was accused of
having committed an anti-Japanese activity by soliciting
contributions from the Filipino community for the Chrtstmas
dinner given to American and British war prisoners in
the Shanghai area in December, 1942. I amswered that the
said movement wes approved by the Japanese Consulate
General and that only humanitarian feelings has prompted
me to appeal to the Christian Filipinos for a small
consolation to those that had fallen, be it enemy or
a friend. The next paper bore the name of Francisco Samper.
( Signed P. C. ESPINO)
Evaluation C-3.
The following extracts were taken from signed statements
made by A. R. ROSETE, dated 25th October, 1945.
I, A. ROSETE, make this statement of my own free will.
SECRET

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
BECRET
Page B.
DEMETRIO BALDEVARONA (VALDEVARONA).
When I was arrested by the Japs in March 1943 I was
taken to a room for my second interrogation. There I
saw Dr. Kalambakal, A. Navarre, D. Baldevarona, B.
Salvador, T. Cruz and a Jap investigator all sitting
around a big round table. Baldevarona brought out
a picture of Dr. Evangelista in military uniform and
said, " Here is your American chief's picture." I ans-
swered: " He is our chief." Then A. Navarro told me that
they wanted to take me out of jail on cdndition that I
must tell the Jap that I have been telling Evangelista
news about the Japanese and Filipinos in Shanghai and
that I do not cooperate with the Japs because the
Americans will come back.
Then the Japanese told me to say all I know about
Evangelista.
I kept quiet. Then A. Navarro told me
that if I would not say what they wanted me to say to
the Jap I could not come out of jail. The Jap told me
he must investigate me again. A. Navarro and his gang
left telling me not to forget what they told me to say
sp that I could be released.........."
(Signed Andres R. Rosete )
Evaluation C-3.
The following extracts were taken from signed statemonts
made by JOSE CANLAS
17th October,1945.
......" One week after my arrest, I was taken out of
my cell and was taken into a room and asked me the
following questions:
" Do I love my country, I said yes; Do I like the
Americans, I s&id yes,"and then Hirano punched me in
the face several times.
Then he read a list of names and asked if I knew them.
Included were Kalanbakal (yes), (Alfonso Navarro (yes),
Demetrio Valdevarona (yes) Francisco Salvador (yes),
T. Cruz (yes). All these except Salvador I had heard
were cooperating with the Japs.
Hirano then read me an affidavit signed by these
men accusing me of being anti-Japanese, an American
propagandist and an American spy. Though, in substance,
this was true I denied it. I was beaten and forced to kneel
with a piece of wood thrust behind my knees.
They asked me if I received instructions from Dr.
Evangelista and asked for information concerning hin and
Espino. I replied that I did not know anything.
SDORET

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Pagel.
DEMETRIO BALDEVARONA (VALDEVARONA).
Twice they asked me if I would continue te go
around town and I replied yes, it was necessary to 
business. He asked me if I didn't get paid by Dr.
Evangelista, and if Dr. E. didn't get paid by the
Americans. I said no and was slapped.
He then asked if Dr. E. had told me to tell the
boys in the orchestra not to sign up on the side of the
Japs. I said no. Slapped again.
Hirano then asked me if I wanted to cooperate with
the Japanese. I said that I would accept any job. (However,
I did not cooperate and di d no work for them).
I was then removed to a cell..
(signed J. CANLAS)
lst October, 1945.
....." A week after my arrest, I was taken out of
the cell for investigation. The first question I was
asked was if I loved my country. I said I did. The
second was if I liked the Americans. I said I did and
I got slapped. Tey asked me if I loved my country. I
said I did. The second was if I liked the Americans.
I said I did and I got slapped. They asked me if I knew
the followins persons:
G. Kalambakal, Alfonso Navarro, D. Baldevarona, Francisco
Salvador and Tirso Cruz. Then like a flash it came to
my mind t at these Filipinos were the ones that turned
informer to the Japanese. After that they read to me
the charge. I was charged of being anti-Japanese,
merican propagandist and spy. I was so dazed for it was
not too easy to be called a spy. In support of this charge
they read me affidavit signed by the pers ons mentioned above.
Kalambakal charged me for refusing to join the Filipino
Association, a Jepanese sponsored organ for disrupting
Filipino loyalty to the United States. That I refused
to sign the association's petition for Philippine
Independence. Beldevarona charged me for being a spy
receiving instructions from Mr. Hale through DR. Evangelista .
A. Navarro charged me in diseminating ideas and trans-
mitting instructions to pro-American Filipinos. Francisco
Salvador charged me for go ing among the Filipinos instruet-
ing them not to sign the independence petition. Tirso
Cruz charged me wi th gathering informations and submitt ing
them to Dr. Evangelista. I denided all the charges. "
(signed JOSE CANLAS)
Evaluation C-3
SECRET

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
DEMETRIO BALDEVARONA (VALDEVARONA).
The SUBJECT, on October 14th, 1943, took part in
the parade and celebration of the independence of the
puppet Filipino regime. On 18th October, 1943, he
answered "YEs", thereby swearing allegiance to the puppet
government of the Philippines. On 19th May,1943, he
signed the roll of the Japanese sponsored Filipino Association,
thereby bimding himself to uphold its consitution (as per
Article II quot ed hereunder).
To co-operate with the Philippine Go ernment in
the pursuance of our political emancipation under
the guidance of Japan.
To pledge our determination to co-operate whole-
heartedly with the Japanese and Chinese Governments
and oth er Asiatic countries in the successful establish-
ment of the Greater East Asia Co-Propperity Sphere."
Evaluation A-l.
On 15th June, 1943, the SUBJECT signed petitions addressed
to the Japanese Consulate and Office in Charge of Enemy
Property. Said petitions contained the following sentemee:-
H
We, theundersigned, Filipino residents of Shanghai,
pledging our support in the establishment of the
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, would ask
your kind favour to help us in our present problem..."
Eyaluation A-l.
On 20th June, 1943, he affixed his signature to the
following resolution, addressed to Hon. Jorge B. Vargas,
Chairman, Philippine Executive Commission, Manila,Philippines.
"....WHEREAs You have courageously led our phople
through the hours of trial;
WHEREAS You have sent a mission who presented
our cause before the Japanese nation;
WHEREAS
You have been answered by the recent
statement of Premier General Hideki
Tojo that the Philippines will be granted
independence within this year;
RESOLVED:
That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on
record to express our gratitude to you
and join you in saying, "This is the
happiest day in the history of the
Filipino people.
QEORET

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Pagelke
DEMETRIO BALDEVARONA (VALDEVARONA).
On 20th June, 1943 the SUBJECT signed
the following resolution.
0
To His Excellency,
General Hideki Tojo,
Prime Minister,
TOKIO, JAPIN.
The Japanese nation received the Philippines
WHEREAS
delegation with due courtesy and respect
befitting their mission;
WHEREAS
Your Excellency proclaimed at the Diet that the
Philippines will be granted independence within
this year;
RESOLVED That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record
to thank the Japanesenation and express our pride
to be destined an independent member of the
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Bhhere."
Evaluation A-1.
The following statement was made on 22nd October
1945, by F. SALVADOR, Pr o-Japanese Filipino.
0
I, F. Salvador, make this statement of my own free will.
In March 1943 Kalanbakal inviteà me to tea also present
were Alfonso Navarro, Demetrio Valdevarona and T. Cruz.
After tea we got in a car and I was surprised when we
arrived at the American School and were taken into a room
with Japanese in uniform. Kalanbakal spoke in Japanese
to these men and I did not understand what he said.
Kalanbakal spoke to us in Tagalog and instructed us
to tell the Japanese about Dr. Evangelista and other pro-
American Filipinos. The Japanese showed me a picture of
Dr. E. and I said I knew him. Theynasked me if he was a
spy and I did not answer yes or no. I can't remember what
the others answered.
The Japanese held a small piece of paper in his hand
as he asked us abot the Filipinos and whether we knew of any
Filipinos who are pro-American and making propaganda against
the Japanese.
Dr. Kalanbakal then took this piece of paper and said:
SECRET

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
DEMETRIO BALDEVARONA (VALDEVARONA).
" Come on we better sign this paper in case
we need some other pass or papers and then
the Japanese will know us and we can obtain
from them easily."
Then he han ded each of us the paper and we signed.
Then we went home. Kalanbakal, Valdevarona and
I think Navarro went back the next day but I don't
know what they did.
In June 1943 Kalanbakal brought a petition to me
to si gn saying that if we signed it we w uld have some
unity and we could send to Tokyo for some help. It was
on Lipunang Pilipino letterhead and started:
" Dear Sirs; We the unders igned, Filipino
resi dents of Shanghai, pledging our
support in the establishment of
the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere, would ask your kind favour
to help us in our present problem..."
I signed this because times were very hard and
many others had signed before me.
( signed
F. SALV.DOR )
Evaluation C-3.
SECIET

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 1.
LUIS BLANCO, RICARDO (DICKIE) OLIVEIROS, PEDRO GERONIMO - COn'
1.
Luis Blanco, a Filipino whe claims Spanish citizenship.
teek part in parade and ceremonies on 18 October, 1943, eelobrat-
ing puppet Philippines independenee. He registered under the
Japanese as a Filipino and on 18-19 Nevember, 1943, swore alleg-
1ance to the puppet government of the Phil1ppines. In May, 1944,
he went to Nanking on a Japanese-sponsored tour of Filipime
delegates on behalf of the Greater East Asia Co-Presperity Sphere.
There is evidence to shew that while on this tour he made anti-
American pre-Japanese statements. New working for United states
Army at Kiang Wan Airbase.
Evaluation C-3
2.
Ricardo (Dickie) Oliveiros, non-registered Filipino who
swore allegiance on 18-19 Nov. 1943 to puppet government of
Philippines. In 1943 he worked at Japanese-owned Shangha1 Times
and was secretary to conrado Uy and vicente Casino, anti-Ameriean
pro-Japanese leaders and propagandists on behalf of the enemy.
He took part 1n parade and ceremonies on 14 October, 1943, cele-
brating independence of puppet government of Philippines. State-
ments of pro-American Filipinos indicate that subject was very
active in promoting cooperation to Japanese among Filipines and
worked against America and legal government of Philippines.
Now working under Col. Steiner at Kiang wan Airbase.
Evaluation C-3
3.
Pedro Geronimo, registered Filipino who on 18-19 November,
1943 swore allegiance te puppet government of the Philippines.
Worked to get Filipinos to coeperate with Japanese. Made pro-
Japanese anti-American statements. Friendly with Takeda of
Japanese gendarmerie and had him to his house many times.
Evaluation C-3
Geronimo affixed his signature on 20 June, 1943, to the
following resolution:
"To His Excellency
General Hideki Tojo
Prime Minister
TOKYO, Japan
WHEREAS The Japanese nation received the Philippine delegation
with due courtesy and respect befitting their mission;
BEORET

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Pago 2
LUIS BLANCO, RICARDO (DICKIE) OLIVEIROS, PEDRO GERONIMO - CO 
WHEREAS Your Exeellency proclaimed at the Diet that the
Philippines will be granted independenee within
this year;
RESOLVED That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record to
thank the Japanese nation and express eur pride
to be destined an independent member of the Greater
East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere."
Evaluation A-1
Geronimo on 20. June, 1943, affixed his signature to the
following resolution:
"Hon. Jorge B. Vargas
Chairman
Philippine Executive Commission
MANILA, Philippines
WHEREAS You have courageously led our people through the
hours of trial;
WHEREAS You have sent a mission who presented our cause before
the Japanese nation;
WHEREAS You have been answered by the recent statement of
Premier General Hideki Tojo that the Philippines will
be granted independence within this year;
RESOLVED That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record to
express our gratitude to you and join you in saying,
'This is the happiest day in the history of the
Filipino people.
Evaluation A-1
Geronimo on 15 June, 1943, affixed his signature to
petitions addressed to the Japanese Consulate Gemeral, an
office in charge of enemy property. These petitions contain
the following sentence:
"we, the undersigned, Filipino residents of
Shanghai, pledging our support in the establish-
ment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere,
would ask your kind favor to help us in our present
problem."
Evaluation A-1
BEORER

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 1.
SECRET
16 November, 1945,
SHANGHAI.
MAXIMINO CADA
(8 MYBURG ROAD. LANE 87)
The following is a signed statement made by the SUBJECT
on 6 November, 1945:
"I, M. CADA, signed "yes" and gave allegiance to
the LAUREL GOVERNMENT of the Philippines because my
relief through the SWISS CONSULATE was cut off.
I attended the reception to the Japanese at the
CATHAY HOTEL because my band was invited to play there.
I played one time at a concert for Japanese wounded
soldiers.
This was because my band was invited to
play there.
Signed: M. CADA."
Signed: A. C. PINDER (Witness)
Signed: P. C. ESPINO (Witness)
EVALUATION: C-3.
The following signed statement was made on 15 November,
1945 by DR. H. EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipino leader who
suffered imprisonment in the hands of the Japanese:
"Re: M. CADA: A pro-Jap and a very active member
of Jap. sponsorred FILIPINO ASSOCIATION. He partici-
pated in all gatherings of the pro-Jap Filipinos; played
in concert and benefit shows for Jap soldiers; partici-
pated at the Independence Parade, ceremony and reception
on Oct. 14, 1943, and signified allegiance (Yes-man) to
LAUREL'S puppet Republic.
CADA lives together with GONZAGA in a room and his
daily associates are, CONTRERAS, CELIS, PUNSALAN, UY
and ALINDADA, pro-Jap leaders here in Shanghai. He
said that he could have anybody arrested by the Japs
if he wanted to and he admitted to have said this, here
at the Liaison Office when he called here about a week
ago now.
SECRET

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
MAXIMINO CADA
CADA informed the Jap Gendarm that ESPINO, CRUZ and
me frequents places in HONGKEw for the purpose of spying
in Jap conversations.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
EVALUATION: C-3.
The following signed statement was made by L. GONZAGA:
"Shanghai, October 27, 1945.
"On Sept. 21, 1944, M. CADA and I were living to-
gether. During a quarrel CADA got the idea I thought
that he was a bad man and he said: "If I'm such a bad
man I can have you arrested too; I know plenty of
things about you."
I thought this was significant since it was at that
time that a number of Filipinos had just been arrested
by the Japs.
Signed: LAURANTINO GONZAGA."
EVALUATION: C-3.
The SUBJECT took part on 14 October, 1943, in a parade
and ceremonies sponsored by the Japanese celebrating the in-
dependence of the puppet Philippines Government.
On 18 - 19 November, 1943, the SUBJECT answered "Yes"
and swore allegiance to the puppet Government of the Philip-
pines.
On 19 May, 1943, the SUBJECT signed the Rolls of the
LIPUNANG PILIPINO, thereby binding nimself to uphold its
Constitution, Article II, Sections (d) and (e) of which read:
"(d) To co-operate with the Philippine Government
in the pursuance of our political emancipation
under the guidance of Japan.
(e) To pledge our determination to co-operate whole-
heartedly with the Japanese and Chinese Govern-
ments and other Asiatic countries in the success-
ful establishment ofthe Greater East Asia Co-
Prosperity Sphere."
EVALUATION: A-1.
SECRET

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3.
MAXIKI CADA
SECRET
Tie following is an extract from a signed statement
made 8 November, 1945 by B. F. LUCERO, Shanghai Filipino:
"MAXIMINO CADA, ardent supporter of the Japs, had
shown his feelings in all discussions of war situation.
He praised Jap invincibility, the efficiency and dis-
cipline of Jap armed forces, their superiority in
military tactics. He told us in the argument of his
strong belief in final triumph of the Japs and the Ger-
mans. He always defended the cause for which the Japs
were fighting, that is Asia for the Asiatics. Whenever he
hears of ill-treatment of the Jap to Filipinos, he stand
up and in a loud voice blame the Filipinos for not co-
operating with the Japs. CADA was well versed with all
local Japanese and Filipino activities unknown to most
Filipinos. When BALDEVARONA was sent to P.I. by the Japs,
which I believe on espionage purposes, CADA made the
following comment, "Why did not the Japanese send me to
the P.I. instead of BALDEVARONA?" He waged a bet of 100
to 1 that Japan will win the war. This affair was heard
by all the members of the band in CIRO'S BALLROOM. (Autumn
of 1943.)"
EVALUATION: C-3.
The following is an extract from a signed statement
made 3 November, 1945 by R. DIZON, pro-Japanese Filipino:
"That in my several conversations with M. CADA, he
made several statement of his pro-Japanism, praising the
superiority of the Japs in military tactics, their power,
their patriotism, and their discipline. In our dis-
cussion, he exposed his hatred to America and to DR. EVAN-
GELISTA. I made a comment that why should he hate
America if he hated DR. EVANGELISTA, since there is no
connection between DR. EVANGELISTA and America."
EVALUATION: C-3.
The following is an extract from a signed statement
made by M. JAVIER on 5 November, 1945 telling of his arrest
and questioning by the Japanese:
"The following remarks were reported to the Japanese:
1. I don't believe the Philippines has independence.
2. I owe to America what I am now; Japan has
taught me nothing.
3. America is definitely on the offensive now.
SEORET

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
Pago 4
M.CADA
SECRET
4. Japan will never help us in time of need.
I have said all these in the presence of MAXImo CADA,
staunch Japanese supporter and LAURENTINO GONZAGA, a
close associate of VALENTIN PUNSALAN who I heard was an
interpreter for the Japanese. This was around the
middle of January, 1944, at the room shared by CADA and
GONZAGA, and the time was around midnight.
Besides those mentioned above, the following are
staunch supporters of the Japanese ...
EVALUATION: C-3.
SECRET

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
10 November, 1945,
SHANGHAI.
MARCELINO CADELINA
(Lane 1025, House 46. BUBBLING WELL ROAD.)
1.
The following signed statement was made by the subject
on 4 November, 1945:
"Shanghai, 4 November, 1945.
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN
"I came to Shanghai 2 Dec, 1945 from TIENTSIN. For
three months after I had no job except for an occasional
extra here and there. About the month of February, a
chance came to go to SooCHOw. We could go only to
SOOCHOW through a special pass which KALAMBAKAL said he
could take through the Japanese office off DIXWELL Road.
The Japanese officer told us the first step is to join
the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION. Much as I disliked it I had
to join it as I was in sore need of a job. As it turned
out to be the pass was delayed and the place had to open
soon, so they sent two of us with three other Chinese
musicians to open saying (KALAMBAKAL) that the pass would
follow soon.Our boss had to get, through bribery, fake
passes for us as Chinese, as the passes didn't materialize.
Because of this episode I became cautious.
I came back to Shanghai after three months.
I attended the LIDO meeting and nominated MR. A.Y. CELIS
for President against KALAMBAKAL, who threatened my country-
men and whom I began to hate. Next day I was surprised to
learn I was one of the committees as I didn't hear of any
election for committee. I wanted to decline the office
but I was afraid someone might start to investigate me and
my past and come to the Soochow episode, so I had to attend
two committee meetings and one general meeting. The first
committee meeting was held at Mr. J. ALINDADA'S place and
talk about some benefit dances and boxing matches to help
some members of the FILIPINO COMMUNITY. The second was
held at Mr. CELIS' and talk about the last meeting, after-
wards a press photographer came and took a group picture.
The general meeting was held at the LIDO BALLROOM as a
SECRET

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
MARCELINO CADELINA (COntinUed):
farewell to KALAMBAKAL. After this I lost connection
with the Association and I don't know what happened to
it.
From January of 1943 I had been an active member of
the F.M.U. First as committee from January to March 1943,
then Treasurer to March, 1945, and Secretary to Juns.
I have been in close contact with Mr. CELIS and I
have not heard him utter a pro or anti-Japanese remark.
He told me that he was offered a position by the Japanese,
but he declined it.
During the registration at the CATHEDRAL I went there
with the avowed intention of answering "no" thinking that
the question would be: Do you pledge allegiance to the
Japanese? But when I found out that the question was:
Do you pledge allegiance to the Republic of the Philip-
pines? it seemed to me a sacrilege to answer no, just like
denying my own Country, so I came the next day and answered
"yes". In my heart there is no pro-Japanese nor anti-
American sentiment.
I do hereby declare that I signed a petition or the
telegram to TOJO asking for independence and also the
Constitution of the LIPUNANG PILIPINO.
To His Excellency
General HIDEKI TOJO
Prime Minister
TOKYO, Japan.
WHEREAS We take this opportunity of paying our
sincerest respects to the Imperial Japanese
Government, their leaders and soldiers;
WHEREAS
We admire your overwhelming triumph in
Malaya, Burma, East Indies and the Philippines;
WHEREAS
We appreciate that through the untiring
efforts of your dauntless army, navy and air
force, the Anglo-American imperialism has
vanished from the Orient where peace once more
reigns;
WHEREAS
We receive with joy the glad tidings pro-
nounced by your Excellency in the Diet pro-
mising us our independence;
SECRET

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3.
SECRET
MARCELINO CADELINA (COnt1nUed):
RESOLVED That we, officers of the LIPUNANG PILIPINO,
on behaIf of the FILIPINO RESIDENTS of
SHANGHAI, go on record to convey to the
Imperial Japanese Fovernment, through your
Excellency, the assurance of our full co-
operation in the establishment of the Greater
East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.
I signed the above telegram because KALAMBAkAL threatened
to divulge to the Japanese my episode in SOoCHOW.
Signed: M. N. CADELINA."
Witness: A. C. PINDER (Signed)
Witness: P. C. ESPINO (Signed)
EVALUATION: C-3.
2.
The subject, as a Director, affixed his signature to the
CONSTITUTION of the LIPUNANG PILIPINO, Article II, Sections
(d) & (e) of which reads:
"(d)
) To co-operate with the Philippine Government in
the pursuance of our political emancipation under
the guidance of Japan.
(e)
To pledge our determination to co-operate whole-
heartedly with the Japanese and Chinese Governments
and other Asiatic countries in the successful estab-
lishment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere."
EVALUATION: A-1.
3.
The subject on 18 - 19 November, 1943, answered "Yes"
and swore allegiance to the Puppet Government of the Philip-
pines.
4.
On 15 June, 1943, the subject affixed his signature
to petitions addressed to the Office in Charge of the Enemy
Property, which petition contained the following sentence:
"We, the undersigned, Filipino residents of Shanghai,
Pledging our support in the establishment of the Greater
East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, would ask your kind favour
to help us in our present problem."
EVALUATION: A-1.
SECRET

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
Page
SECRET
MARCELINO CADELINA (COntinued):
5.
The following signed statement was made by Dr. B.
EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipino leader on 10 November,
1945:
"Re: MARCELINO CADELINA: He is a pro-Jap leader
and a strong supporter of KALAMBAKAL, A. ORDEN, CELIS
and CONTRERAS. He as one of the Directors of the
FILIPINO MUSICIANS UNION: Director of the LIPUNANG
PILIPINO and the FILIPINO COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION. He
was later made the Secretary of the FILIPINO MUSICIANS
UNION when CONTRERAS became the President. It is in-
teresting to note that all the present officers of the
FILIPINO MUSICIANS UNION were alI pro-Jap leaders and
said "Yes" at the time of registration of Filipinos at
the CATHedral. CADELINA speaks the Japanese language
and has used it conveniently in his pro-Jap activities.
He signed pro-Jap petitions and resolutions, participated
at the Independence Parade and reception at the CATHAY
HOTEL. He travelled in and out of Shanghai and claimed
that he was given a special Chinese pass by the Chinese
Authorities.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
EVALUATION: C-3.
SECRET

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
Details:
T-15 Cads Pedro,
Philippino, Age about 40.
Address :
Post:
A clarinet player with thelittle Club.
President of the free Philippino Association of
Tientsin.
Charges: 1.
Volunteered to found the Free Philippino Association
of Tientsin, whicin cooperated with the Japanese.
2.
Under his leadership, Philippinos were forced to be-
come members of the Association, and to give up their
passports.
3.
Ration obtained by him from the Japanese were not
justly distributed, and subject to manipulation.
Date:
1942 to 1945.
itness:
C. Martinez, Philippino, former employee of I.E. Hayes
Eng. Corp.,Tientsin.
Remarks:
In office with Cads were the following Philippinos:
Silvestre Bernardo, SubpChairman, age 45.
Greporio Conde, age about 35
Sunday William,
11
39
Romiro Quamson,
11
11
38
The above four men were appointed by Cads, and are be-
lieved to be NOT pro Jap.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
13 November, 1945,
SHANGHAI.
A. S. CARPIO
1.
The subject offered the following signed statement
on 17 October, 1945:
"I the undersigned Filipino swears to U.S.A.
Government that my statements are true and legal.
I am 100% pro-American than some of the
Filipinos in Shanghai.
I was brought up by an American, MR. CARL HENRY
FOSS of which he is my Uncle, my Education I am
proud off was given by him.
I was going with SALES and CONTRERAS in WAYSIDE
on business, dealing with second suits, and bycicle.
Sometimes I am send to all Cabarets to show the
Circular about the increase of the salary of musi-
cian, of which CONTRERAS is the Chairman of the four
groups Federation namely: FILIPINOS, JEWS, RUSSIAN
and CHINESE.
And I was elected as the representative of M.K.M.
Ballroom on the said Federation.
I said yes, because, I had a girl German Jew
girl we are so much in love to each other that we
wanted to get married, so after the registration, I
found out that she couldn't come out no matter she
is married, and Yes, and No, are all Enemy nationals,
but it was too late to do anything. After three
months we had an argument, and we separated for
good.
Signed: A. S. CARPIO."
EVALUATION: F-6.
SEORET

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2.
SECRET
A. S. CARPIO (Continued):
2.
The following signed statements were made
16 October, 1945:
"I swear before God that I did not tell F. MATEOs
orany other Filipino that before registration they
would be imprisoned if they did not sign "Yes".
Signed: A. S. CARPIO.
During November, 1943, while in Pacific Gardens
talking to another person, I was approached by
A. CARPIO, who asked me if I had seen newspapers.
I said no. He then spoke of registration at
Japanese Consulate. He then stated: "This is
like a showdown for the Filipinos. If you don't
sign "Yes", you will be imprisoned.
Signed: A. MATEOS."
Mariano Nano declares that he was present at the
above conversation and that he heard CAPRIO make the
statement attributed to him by MATEOS.
Sined: A. C. PINDER (Witness)
EVALUATION: F-6.
3.
The following is an extract from a signed statement
made 7 November, 1945, by A. ATEOS:
"ORTURO CANPIO: Used by CONTRERAS as an informer
against the pro-American Filipinos. Approached me
(A. L. MATEOS) a week before the registration and ask
me if I know something about the registration which is
stated at the newspaper that will take place at the
Japanese Consulate branch office. I answered him no,
then CARPIO says that those Filipinos who will answer
"no" will be sent to prison or camp.
During our stay at the Jessfield Road Station under
the Japs jail, CARPIO called at that place and handed
a piece of paper to one of the Gendarmes in charge.
CARPIO didn't tell what was stated or written in the
said paper. To my opinion, this man CARPIO, is really
one of the pro-Japs Filipinos.
Signed: A. L. MATEOS."
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA (Witness)
Signed: JOSE CANLAS
(Witness)
EVALUATION: F-6.
SECRET

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3.
SECRET
A. S. CARPIO (Continued):
The following is an extract from a signed statement made
by M. NANO on 7 November, 1945:
"A. CARPIO: Supporter of CONTRERAS and a pro-Japanese,
On or about 10 October, 1943, told a group of Filipinos in-
cluding me that the Filipinos who will answer "Now in the
registration on 18 October, 1943, will be sent to camp.
He further said that some will be sent to jail and F. MATEOS
will be the "bastonero." (Bastonero is a prisoner who
look after fellow prisoners in jail.)
EVALUATION: C-3.
5.
On 14 October, 1943, according to an affidavit filed at
the SWISS CONSULATE, the subject took part in a parade and
ceremonies marking the Independence of the Puppet Philippines
regime.
6.
On 18 - 19 November, 1943, the subject answered "Yes" and
swore allegiance to the Puppet Government of the Philippines.
7.
On 8 May, 1943, the subject signed the Rolls of the
Japanese sponsored FILIPINO ASSOCIATION.
8.
On 15 June, 1943, the subject signed petitions addressed
to the Japanese Consulate General and the Office in Charge
of Enemy Property, which petitions contained the following
sentence:
"We, the undersigned, Filipino residents of Shanghai,
pledging our support in the establishment of the
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, would ask your
kind favour to help us in our present problem."
EVALUATION: A-1.
9.
The following is a signed statement made 13 November,
1943, by Dr. H. EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipino leader:
"Re: A. CARPIO: A pro-Jap in conversation and his
associates. A supporter of J. CONTRERAS, the most active
pro-Jap leader. He participated at the Independence
Ceremony at the RACE COURSE on 14 October, 1943; member
of the Jap sponsored FILIPINO ASSOCIATION; attended meetings
of pro-Jap Filipinos and signed petitions and resolutions
addressed to General TOJO and to LAUREL'S puppet Republic.
SECRET

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
Page
SECRET
A. S. CARPIO (Continued):
He signified allegiance (Yes-man) to the bogus Philippine
Republic and is a very active supporter of UY, CELIS,
ALINDADA and other pro-Jap leaders here in Shanghai.
CARPIO participated in entertainment and benefit shows
to raise funds for the Jap soldiers.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
EVALUATION: C-3.
SECRET

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
25th October, 1945.
SHANGHAI.
VICENTE CASINO:
The subject called at our office and voluntarily submitted
the following statements concerning his activities from 8 December,
1941 to 24 October, 19.5.
"Brief Report of my Activities During
the Japanese Occunetion of Shanghai.
1. FILIPINO ASCOCIATION Of SHANCHAI.
.. couple of eeks after mAnILt fell into the hands
of the JAPANISF, Mr. CONrADO A. UY, UY who Was then a
Reporter of T..E NunkI TIe, and closely connected
ith the AY and NavY Pruet bUhmnUs due to the nature
of his vork, called t me-ting oi local rILIPINos in
Janu ry, 194k, at the  ThoPOLE Ballroom, situated at
GOnLon RO.D and or Lni ed tne TILIPINO ASSOCIATION of
StanuiaI, aims of  hich cre to ascertain the status of
the local  ILIPInos ana also to ive relier to needy
FILIPINos, funcs of . nich .ould pe uerived from various
programs outlined by him, uch as miani ht Ball, Boxing
Card, mus ical Concert, etc. None or tnese nas realized
no ever, ect u. e the JiranEeE authorities Tailed to
give us t ie necesstry erlit and cooperation.
At the aic meeting, t e rollo. ing .ere elected
officers of the ssociation:
CONAALO A. UY, Presi ent
JUAN C. TRIA, Treas.
CLARO ALUNOION, Vice-Pres.
VIC. NTL . CASINO, Pub-
EIMON TAbanhINAS, tecretary
licity O icer.
之.
FILIPINO CL nloN, News eexly in rabloid Forn.
Arter the FILIPINO ASLOCIATION was formed, Mr. CONRADO
UY announced to the Associution's oificers that he was
going to put up a veekly.
This eekly as,no doubt,
financed oy the JaranitE, a thing w ich v.e didn't know so
much about. hetner or not, mr. UY obtained the necess-
ary finance, and aiso to wnat extent that finance was
iven is : secret known only to r. UY since he was the
big boss of the organization. All I know of is that he
asked me to help nin in making the cummy and also to re-
write some news.items at a measly salary of 150 a month
CLCRETA

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.95)
Page 2.
SECRET
VICENTE CASINO (Continued:)
which I got, for one month only. The following
month, I didn't get any, uecause r. UY said that
no money vas rorthcoming and t at the JAPANESE
authorities  ere not satisfied ith the way the
weekly was handled by nim. I was also running a
column entitled "Sluming Around Town" which was
written in a hunorous vein.
The WIlkhY la ted or apout three months. After
that it died a natural detth. The Association also
remained dormant because ve could not do anything to
raise funds until most of the ILIPINOS, who were ex-
members of the Association lose tneir faith and
accused mr. UY of being a "faker".
Such being the cuse, Mr. UY and other officers
decided to resign en bloc it a meeting held at the
LIDO Ballroom. At that mecting, Dr. G. KALAMBAKAL
was elected Presicent; A. Y. CiLIs as Vice-Pres.;
A. G. ORLEN as secretary and FHEDLIE HERRERA (desk)
as Treasurer.
After two months or so, KALAmrAKAL resigned as
Presicent and appointed JOEE C. CONlhrnS as President.
What his activities vere curing his term I know nothing
about, but one thing sure tnat I know of was that he
dia not succeed.
3. My HANKOw Trip.
In may, 1942, mr. CJhnaD0 h. UY was cu1led by the
JIPANEcH CONSULATE and esked to represent the PHILIPPINES
on a lecture tour of investigation in Central CHINA. He
Tent to NANKING, PENGPU, WUHU and SOOCHOn  ith an INDIAN
representative.
Alter the completion of the first leg of the tour,
Ar. ConRaDO A. UY Lound himself too pusy in THE SngHAI
1ImmS because the paper was under a proces: of re-organi-
zttion that he mas unaple to do the last leg. He then
asked me to take his place. Finaing ayseli not too
occupied tnat time nd ueing lured by the peauty of the
IrNuTzI doRulS, nich nas been wicely advertised, I accep-
ted the orfer on condition tnat I would not be muzzled,
meaning I mould pe free to say anything I vant to. The
JAPANEsI acceded to my re uest proviaeu that I vould not
say things exceedingly  etrimental to the cause.
In my trip to minmo.., I ..a accompanied by an InDIAN
representative, a nember of the JhPAnEsE hBAssY at
CECRET

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
Page 3.
S E C R E T
VICENTE CASINO (Continued:)
NANKING and a ChINESE interpreter. While there, we
toured WUCHANG, ANYANG and HANKOM, and delivered
speeches to ChINESE audiences on the Independence move-
ment in our respective countries and also on the signi-
ficance of the GRLAfER LAST ASIA WAR.
1. complete report of our tour may be gleaned on an
interviev which we had with the SlaNuHhI TIdES published
June, 1942.
4.
How I Joined ThE SrANGHAI TIMES.
Two months after my tour, I asked r. UY if he could
recommend to THh TI.aiS for a job. True to his promise,
ne sot me a job there as auvertising canvasser.  I
vorked so are that hen the ana er saw that I was doing
my best he made me the cavertising manager and later con-
currently as Assi: tant su- iness manaer.
I es ith InE TI.he until April 1945 vhen I contracted
tuberculosis. I was Laic in the hospital lor several
months.
In tu ust, 1945, the General manager told me
that he could no longer pey e ithout working.
As I was
not in a position to orx yet, I rac to resign.
5. Indenendence Day celebration, Oct. 14, 1943.
On October 14, 19 3, men the "Independence" of the
PHILIPPINIS was proclaimeo to the World by Dr. JOSE P.
LAUnlL, I was elegated to aeliver a speech at a rally
held at tne RACE COuRSE.
In my speech, I reviewed the
IILIPINO struggle for independence against the SPANIARDS
and the Al RIoAnS and thanked JAPAn for grenting the
Independence, hich later on I found out to be a rake.
At the RACE CouhtE rally, r. . Y. CELIS and Mr. A. G.
ORLEN also aelivered speeches.
I :lso attended the tea party held at the CAThaY
ForLL in the afternoon or the same day, vhere messrs.
A. G. ORLEN, JOEE CONTRERAS ana CONHADO A. UY delivered
spuecnes on the :igniricance of the cay.
6. In may 1944, I was sent to NANKING by Mr. UY to
represent the FILIPINO YUUTH LELLU.TION. The FILIPINO
Delegetion concisted of: VICINTE . CASINO, CLARO
ASUNCION, MP. . LAMZON, LEON LADANAN, CAYETANO BUENSU-
CESO, LUÍS BLANCO, PAUL ACUINO, JOE CLLÍBO, ROMLO LACSON,
ALBINO .DHASO.
he were there for about a week, and most
of the activities  ere camping, picnics, excursions.
Parties were also given to us by the CHIESE GOVERNmENT
and cultural institution officials, and the GER AN, JAPAN-
ESE and MANChUKUO ambassacors.
On the last day of the celebration, we, representatives
CLCRET

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
VICENTE CASINO (Continued):
Page 4.
of various dele ti ns, deliv reu speeches regarding
the youth movement in our respective countries.
VICLNTE CASINO.
October 15,1945
Ivaluacion C-3

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
S EC RE T
Page 5.
VICENTE CASINO (Continued).
October 23,1945
(I)
1) FILIPINO COMMUNITY BOARD:
After all efforts by the Lipunang Pilipino, the Association
hea ed by Dr. Kalambakal anu later on by Jose Contreras, have
failed to organize the loc 1 Filipinosm Mr. Conrado A. Uy
came out of his shell again an c lled a meeting at Mr.
Alobog's residence on Avenue Joffre for the purpose of
forming the Filmpino Community Board, ims of  hich are
identical with the Filipino Association of Shanghai, of which
he
s the roun er an presi ent.
Those ho att:n e. the meetin were:-
Conr ao A. Uy, A. Y. Ce is, A.u. Oruen, Jose Contrerus,
Jose Alindada, M. A.Lauzon, Claro Asuncion, V.D.Alobog
ane V.Z. Casino.
Said board died also a n tu 1   un itnout accomplishing
anythin..
2) FILIPINO COMMITTEL:-
At the reguest o. r. Hayasnica, Vice Consul or the
loc l J punese Consula e, Mr. Conr do A. Uy formed a committee
o. three to hanele the arfairs o. te Filipino Community in
Shanghai, especiall, relier, a. the committee was told that a
cert in um of money s rec ivec ron she Laurel Government
for relief purposes.
For this reason, all the "yes men" e tole to re-re ister
just to fin out chose whe were really in need of relief.
The committee composed o. Conrado A. Uy,chairman,
Jose Contreras, member, an. Benny Constantino, member; w. told
to rine a suitable orrice an also a ke to prepare everything
pertaining to relief.
The result was no office and no relief.
3) Mr. Baldevarona! Trip to Manila.
When I learned Iron Mr. Uy that he recommend Mr. Tria and
Mr. Lauzon to the Japanese for a trip to Manila in order to make
an economic invsti ation, I askeu Mr. Eldevarona i. he would
want to io to Manila on such a mission.
He tolc me that he
really wanted to o back home . he had never een his folks for so
many years. As he is ao pr:: ent in the Philippines, I can't say too mu
much about him.
SHCRLT

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Page 6.
VICENTE CASINO (Continued).
4)
TELEPHONE
CALLS.
If as ll I ha. any telephone culls from the Japanese,
they were mostly Iron Vice-Consul Hayashida who wanted
to t in touch with Mr. Uy regarcing relief mentioned
in th rore oing. Many times Mr. Hayashida had to
call we up becauce ne iound it too cifficult to get
holc oi Mi. Uy and Mr. Contreras through the telephone.
Regardin other c.lls from Filipinos, they were mrely
complaints for non-delivery or the Shanghai Times copies
a. I wa. then in char e or circulation.
VICENTL CASINO
Lvaluation C-3.
I, VIor NI- C. Ino, n xe unm  t t ment or my own
free vill.
On October 14, 1943, at the Inaepenaence Day celebrations
at he Pce Course, I ma: speecn sating:
" The Unite States ve us a pot or old with a gold
chain a ound our neck."
by tis I meent thit the
US ha stran,led us economically s rr as commerce
anc indu: try goes.
I also suiu:
" I don't consi er it democracy
when they strangle us economically. Political
indepen ence doesn't mean aemocracy, in the strictest
sense of the word."
I thanked Japan for tneir magnanimous" act and
called or three cheers for Jupan anc three for the
Philippines.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
Page 7.
VICENTE CASINO(Continued).
I attacked the United States bec use General Aguinaldo
had been gypped by A miral Dewey; that by fighting on the side
of the US against the Spaniards until victory is won the
Philippines would be gran e. her inaependenc i me iately. To
prove this statement I can produce a book written by Dr.
Maximo Kalla, former ean of the Colle e of Liberal Arts, U. of
Philippines, who wrote the boox with American approvel.
I believe that Japants igh sounain principles and
ideals such a co-prosperity sphere, racial equality and universal
brotherhood are still basically valid. I gave my whole-hearted
support to the Japanese because I thsughtthey woule curry this
out.
I believe the Tokio overnment was sincere in its aims
but they put the rong sort of militery and civilians there to
carry them out.
That was the reason why they lost the war.
For hat I have aone, if the Americ. n authorities believe
th t it a rone, I an vwillin. to surrer th conseguences, because
I still believe in these basi: ide ls mentionec ubove. I am a man
of my convictions and I cian't do my actions during the ar for
monetary reasons but for th ood oi my country.
When I sel. th't the Jepanese rile. to c rry outtheir ims,
I realized that it las a matter oi bau jud ment on my part to back
them.
I want to go on record as stating th't I hac nothin to do
O
it can be proven to the contrary.
VICENTE CASINO
Lvaluataon C-3
Sb

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Page 8.
VICENTL CASINO(Continued):
The following article appear d in the "Shanghai
Times" of October 14, 1944, under the by-line of
V.Z. C.sino.
UNIT_D PHILIPPINLE R ALY TO
SAF-GUARD INLLPENLENCE.
Destiny or Pnilippine Islanas linkeo
ith that of Jupan - Full Coope  tion a sured.
by V.2. Csino
As the 13,000,000 Filipinos c 1ebr.te today the
fir t anniv rs ry oi the rounuin o. the Republic of
the Philippines, nich their country ha: regained
through the maghaninous act of Japan, the liberator
of Asiatic nations, the Filipino nation stand: united
un er the capaole le.uersnip or Dr. Jose Paciano
Laurel, the pre: i ent o. the Philippine Republic.
The indepen ence of the Philippines constitutes
the unanimous aspiration of the people of the
Philippine Islanas. It wa: thi: aspiration which
spurred the Filipinos in their war against Spain,
and later in the strusle against the Unitcd States.
The struggle of the Filipinos for the independence of
their country lastec from 1896 until October 14,1943,
when the mighty Japanese Empire srantea us our
in epen ence with honour.
Now tht we have
already got it, it is our uty to rumain faithful to
the country whic. gave us our liberty.
The aspiration of the Philippines towards inde-
pen ence  not born anon our people from a vague
feeling that inuepenuence is -omethin desirable out
rom & deep conviction in its ability to ov rn itself
ano in the mission which it believes itselr called upon
to fuliill in the destinies of humanity.
If perchance, after having gained our liberty which
hau cost us many lives, we are compelled to lose it
again through lack of unity, we shall forever be the
slaves of our former White Masters.
But I know that
the Filipinos will never consent to this, ror by the
white colour of the banner which ve have defendea in
the past, amiust the tumult of former wars, and under
our Pact Alliance with Japan, We have pledged to lose
our lives ane furtunes rather than permit the loss of
our liberty.
We, of course, have to admit that there are serious
SECRET

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 9
VICENTY CASINO (Continued).
handicaps. But what republic va evern dorn
on a bed of roses an with food and shelter
served on a silver platter? Yet with these
honicaps and shortcomings, the Philippine
Republic, in my opinion he ore than a fighting
chance to deiena our territorial integrity and
the independence of our country.
The lory or savin tne Philippines, because
of the alle d "United States' "love" for the
Wilipinos,  not them Wn have contributed
to its ruin. We co  believe tat what crime and
inicuity hav de ile ant dcformed, another crime
and inicuity can pe iiy an redeem.
Hate never
oroduces anythine but one and criminals.
We must safequard our independence by making
ourselves worthy of it, by exaltins the intelli ence
upon people and inculcating patriotism into their
min's by loving justic, right ousness and greatness,
even to the extent of ayin for them - and when a
peoole r aches that hei ht Divine Providence will
always provide a weapon, tyranny will crumble like
a house of cards and lii t will shine out like
the first of dawn.
Our ills we owe to ourselves alone, so let us
blame no one but ourselves.
If Snain and the
United States had realized that we vould be less
submissive to tyranny and more disposed to struggle
and suffer for our rights, Spain and America would
have been the firet to rant us liberty for vhere
there are no tyrant here  ill be no slaves.
Since war is the last resource that it left
to us for the salvation of our country, for our
very existence as a nation, and our national honour, let
us fight sice by sice with Japan, our liberatorm while
an ounce ot stren th is left in us; like us ac uit
ourselves like men, cven though the lot of the present
eneration is conflict and sacrifice, for a our
beláved
Apolinario Mabini, the Sus ime Paralytic
said:
" It matters not whether we die in the midst or
at the ent o. our mose painful day's work, the genera-
tion to come prayin: ove. our tombs, will shed tears
of love an ratitude and not of bitter reproach."
SECRET

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
Page 10.
VICENTE CASINO (Continued).
Liberty is the real purpose of our existence
on earth, the foundation of life and progress.
Our past, the era of cruelty, of deceit, of
slavery, has ended. We shall renew the history of
the Philippines.
Let our steps be unflinchin an ever forward,
let them be steps of justice, of love, of harmony for
those who are wit: 1, and let it be uns and bullets
for those who want to make us slavas forever.
Vithout Japan, the Philippines will never be an
indepen ent nation. Without Japan there will be no
peace in Gr ater Fe:t Asia.
Jayan's victory will be
the victory of the Philippines and of all other
Asiatic nati ns.
It i: n fore, the bounden duty
of very Filipino and every Asiatic for that matter,
to contribute his share for he emancipat ion and free-
dom of Greater Fast Asia.
Evaluation C- 3
datar Oct.14,1944.
The follovin: excerpt is from the Shanghai Times
atec June 3, 1942.
RESURG: NCH OF SPIRIT AMONG ASTATICS
S MOVE.
rilipino and L. io. Nati m lict Lea ers,
Back Froa Lecture Tour  Central China,
Paport on Sr at Prosress Made in Intorior.
Evilonee of the resur ence of snirit amone the
Asiatics in their common move fo. complete and abrolutc
indcuendcnee fro: Anglo-American influence, is parti-
cularly noticeable in H-nkow at the present time,
declare Mr. V.Z. Crsino, publicity ofricer of the
Filipino Association orShanhai, and Mr. J.D. Kochar
Indien nationalist, upon their return to Shanenai over
the week-end from an inv-sti ation ane leeture tour of
Centrel China on the upper reaches of the Yangotze.
SECRET

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 11.
VICENTE CASINO(Continued).
A most remarkaole response ws: shown to their lectures
by the Chinese populace oi the Central China areas,to whom
they explained the significance of the independent move-
ment, as seen through the eye: of Filipinos and Indians,
brother Asiatics of the Chinese masses.
The increasec interest shown in world affairs by the
masses in Central China was attributed by Mr. Casino to
the excellent results obtaine during the past two years
by the Social Guidance Movement, which is accomplishing
many things, which would seem impossible in China not
many months ago. "
Evaluation C-3
dated 6/3/42
The following telegram was dispatcheo by the Filipino
Association, while Mr. V.Z. Casino was publicity officer
and a member of Board of Directors,altnough ne afferea
iis resigmc1on 18 .pr11, 194, it was not acceptea
untl1 14 July, 1943.
TELLGRAM
SENT
The tele ram reads:-
To His Excellency
General Hideki Tojo
Prime Minister,
Tokyo, Japan
WHEFlAS, We take this opportunity or paying
our sincerest respects to the Imperial
Japanese Government, their leaders and
solciers;
V.HEH AS, We admire your overuhelming triumph in
Malaya, Burma, East Incies and the
Philippines;
WHERLAS, We appreciate that through the untiring
efforts of your dauntless army navy and
air force, the Anglo-American imperialism
has vanished from the Orient where peace
once more reigns:
WHEREAS, We receive with joy the glad tidings
pronounced by your Excellency in the Diet
promising us our independence;
RESOLVED:- That we, officers of the Lipunan
GECRLT

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 12.
VICENTE CASINO(Continued).
Pilipino, on behalf of the Filipino
Residents of Shanghai, go on record to
convey to the Imperial Japanese Govern-
ment, through your Excellency, the assurance
of our full cooperation in the establish-
ment of the Greater East Asia Coprosperty.
Evaluation C-3
dated 5/1/43
Mrs. Sara Malabanan, mae tie followin. si ned statement on Oct.
15, 1945.
I, SAhA,MALABANAN, make this statement on my own free
will
without duress.
On or about the y o. 6 February 1944, wnile acting
as telephone operator at the Shanghai Times, I overhead
an important telephone conversation.
. At about 11:00
on that day CLAFO ASUNCION called from outside an asked for
VICENTE CASINO, the advertising manager.
The followin conversation took place:
A: What's the news?
C:
Well, so iar good news. CoNRADO UY went to see some
Japanese o ficial an: UY s.ys thet in a few days time
they will put LR. H. EVANGE LISTA an. his sang in
Bridge House.
They ill be scratching and full
of lice and gt some beatins from the Japanese.
A:
Oh, that's very good. They ueserve it. Why shoulu they
be in revor of the hites( men) nile e ure Asiatics.
C:
Well, We shall see to it what ill happen soon.
A: Well, Iill see you some other time, gooabye.
C:
Goodbye.
END OF CONVI SATION
That day I did not dure to see Dr. EVANGELISTA. However,
the next dat at 12:00 I went to his house.
My sense of
SECRET

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
Page 13.
VIC TE CASINO (Continued).
fair play made me tnink he (EVANGLLISTA) should be warned.
I dic not knov. Dr. E-----I had never even spoken to him --
I am Spanish (passport); though I was formerly married to a
Filipino we separate: in 1943.
I tolc Ir. E. he must promise not to divulse my iden-
tity because I neeuec my job to support my chilären. Dr. E.
promise ana I tol nim of the conver ation.
Dr. E. said: "Well, I suspected this is coming. They
are  tchin me n I have been arreste once already."
(NB.not I.o Mr:. Me lubmn, Lr. E. Knew Jap.plainclothes
(Chincse apparel) o. encarmes he taken a room next to his
room. Chinese lacy no rormerly occupied the room - she
Was marrieu to Jap.Eura ian - tole another Filipino to warn
Dr. I. th.t Japs Mere rollovin un. Watcnin. Dr. E. day and
niεht)
Lnc Oi NE.
Mrs. MALABANAN continues:-
I told no one or thi: hecause I trust.d no one.
CUNhADO UY ot telephone c 1ls irom Japanese -
especially fron 1lO20 (Jap.Navy) ana F1om ISHILA, Japanese
ene: rmerie and from other Japanese nose names I cnnot
remeber.
He also c 1l them.
On 27 February 1944 about 10:00 I heard UY talking
to a Jap. I was busy anc heard only part o the conversa-
tien.
Jap. (In En lish) verytnin i: fixed.
UY: When?
Jap: In the aiternoon.
END O CONV AATION
(DR. E. was urresteu 27 February 1944)
On 23 Fec.1944 UYwwas called by some Filipino.
In taalos:
Fil. Is it true EVANGELISIA is arrested?
UY.
Yes. Yesterday. No they'll taste their own medicine.
SECRET

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
Poge14.
VICENTE CASINO (Continued).
CASINO made appointments .ith Japs for UY on phone
CASINO & UY were friendly with ALOBOG and talked
frequently by phone.
ALOBOG tolC one time:
A:
Hellow UY. Thi: is ALOBOG.
When Will Dr.EVANGELISTA
and the others be arrested.
UY: Very soon.
END OI CONCLRVSATION
AunPITO CLLIS al:o calleu C.SINo often.
IVAN TRIA called UY fre uently to arrange meetings
ane spoke or trip to Manila.
PAUL AQUINO called at orfice frequently to see CASINO.
APOLONIU ORLEN alsO C.ne tO See UY. VICTORINO TULIO
came once or ti.ice to olfice to see UY or CASINO.
JOSE ALINDADh came once.
I. CoNTRErS phone an cllea often to see UY
ahout meetins.
B. CONSTANTIno calle once aDout Filipino community
meeting -- he was boas tin he was director. Said Filipinos
would get no relief fron Swiss Consulate. He mace bets with
people that cert in people oule et no relief.
1. LL JESUS c me to office uit o1ten vith ASUNCION.
. lht0s l:o in cliue.
. CRU2 c me to se UY to t loun iro Japs.
M.LAMSOn callec by phone very orten.
F.SamPrr triec to et in cli uc but as rejected by UY.
I inve rd the  pov ne ioun all six pagts true.
Signeo:- M s. L. Malahanan
Sura Malabanan
Evaluation C-3
SECRET

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
Page 15
VICENTE CASINO (Continued).
The following excerpt is Irom the story published
in the Shanghai Times of 15th October,1943.
11
In a fiery spirit Mr.V.2. C sino rose and
accr. sed hi compatriot: on tne significance
of the ay.He reminded his listener: that
the long cherished inepennenc. or the
Philippines has rinelly become a re lity a:ter
four centuries or crussle against, first,
the Spanierue, and then the Americans. The
countles: heroes or the Philippine Incepen-
cenc. movemene ne other patripts who died
in the cour. e oi the lon truggle have not
aone so in vuin, h  it, ior although the
Filipino: ha been mace mere pes or Americanism,
the outbrtak oi uhe Gre ter L  t Asia War and
the r  ine ss with nich Japan hurricu to
relieve the piight o. her neighbour nation has
become o. in inite ben- it to tne bilipinos.
" The Uniuce State. gave ur back pait of
our ol, pointing the sord at our back
and putting an iron cnain around our neck,
callin her policy in the Philippines
demoncr.cy."
Mr. Casino saic in part.
JAPAN THANNED.
Speakin in Talo, Mr. Csino rippea the
att nti-n o.  il loc l Filipinos when he called
upon them to thunk Jpan .oi the magnanimous
act of r ntin inaependence to tne Philippine
che cxnortet them to maxt the Philippine Republic
a usefui member o1 the Gr ater Last Asia Co-
Pro:perity phere.
A t. the .tirrine speech
the atherin broke out in three cheers ior the
nev. repuolic an three cheer: ior Japan, the nation
the t he proveo a real neighbour by ne. act of
liber tion.
n
Evaluation C-3
9ct.15, 1943.
MH. R. JOCUICO.
Shanghai Filipino, anu "yes-man" offer d the
following statement:-
11
During October 1943 Wnile atten ing Independence
Day celebrations at the Race Course I heard
SECRET

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Page 16.
VICENTE CASINO (Concinue).
Vicente Casino make an anti-American
speech to those assembled. Though I
cannot remeber his exact words there
was no oubt that the speech was against
America and in Tavor of Japan.
n
Datel 18th 0ct.1945
(Signed R. Joquico)
Ev:luation C-3.
Mr. Conradb Uy, tne lea-ine pro-Japanese Filipino still
in Shanghai, has he follovin to say regaraing his lieutenant,
Casino, in his sine. statement:
"--... ---O. my co-orricers only Vicente Z.
Csino hele pronounce. an. unmista able political
viers which were characterize. by proround
nationalism, ane like me he sacrifice his time
and ener y for one enhancenent of a movement
lookins toward the re-ne ation of our people.
Hop ver, the polltical or social views Casino
and I shared were purposely withheld from the
rest of the Association members because we did
not want to put any politic l complexion to the
Associationt ork winich mignt immediately bring
about con usion an squabbles amon our people.
All that I sai a. prerident o. uhe Association,
be is in meetins, conierences, rallies, cele-
bration. or in any other  unction, wnich had
anytnin to do  ith politics was intenced to
evoke the sympathy une moral assistance of the
authoritics of our comaunity......
Evaluation C-3.
Mr. P. ESPInO, pro-American Filipino, who was arrested
by the Jap nese, mace the rollowin signed statement,
regareing Vicente Casino:
11
Reporter and propaganmist or she Shanghai Times
and Clarion, anti-Allied papers, maue propaganda
tours, delivered speeches in the principal
cities through out China. Deleated to several
Japanese sponsoreu conierences and meetings.
Organizer and publicity ofiicer of the Filipino
Association.
Threatenea pro-American Filipinos
SECRET

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Page 17.
VICENTE CASINO(Continued).
who refused to join the Filipino
Association. Sponsored all pro-Japanese
Cemonstrations. Denounced American rule
in the Philippines. Championed the
Gr ater East Asia Co-prosperity movement.
Wa. one of th ofricers delegated by the
Japanese to conduct the registration of
the Pilipinos, resultins in the
subsequently surrenuerins by a srsat many
Filipinos of their alleianee to the
Unite States.
One or the men
responsi le ro. the a re:t an imprison-
ment or pro-Americ n Filipinos by the
Japanese Geniarnerie.
n
Evaluation F-6
27tn October, 1945.
Dr. H. Evan eli ta. pro-Anerican Filipino,
who twice sutrered imprisonment at the hanas of
the Japanese, offerea the following signed state-
ment, regarding the subject.
" Among the Filipino Japane e Colaborators, Casino,
V. was probably one o. the most activ. anti-
American propaganeist umong the Filipinos here in
Shanghai.
I have been told by some Filipinos that he
wis very outspoken in hurlin many vitrilic statements
aginst the Americ ns.
In his a ily conversations
to Filipinos, in ni: speeches here in Shanghai and
in his tpurs to many parts o1 China, he has always
praised the Japs and con emned the Americans and
has enlisted the cooper tion o many Filipinos who
other i: e oulu not huve coopertted to the Japs.
I heard him aumit here at the US) Liason Office
in tis converta ion  ion the investi ator on
October x4, 1945 tnat he vas 1ully convinced
that the Japs ere right in their sirusgles ith
the Occidentals or Americens io. ohe emancipation
o. the Orientals speclally the Filipihos for the
liberation o oleen o ola plated chiin around
their neck.
Some time in February 1943, C sino went to the
Swiss Consulate ne claimea that he wantea to
recuest for relief, after asking irom him the
costunary quescion in or er uhat I can make his
SECRET

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.92)
SECRET
Page 18.
VICENTE CASINO (Continuec).
applicutlon form, I tola nim to come pack
in 5 aays ana ne aiil know tne resuit o. his
request. Casino monever, never came back,
Jut later I hcart uhae ne salu to someone
that he nut not reaily in neeu or reliefout
he just vanteu to Iind out sne proceuure
and uestions axeu when maxin applicutions
so tht he may se Die co im orn she Japs of
my anti-Japanece attituut ana prop-ganda.
Fe. duye bei ore my arrsse by the Jupanese
dendarmerie, on Maren Iyas, I us tola that
Casino Maaraso ana R-bizon knen alreauy that
several Filipinoe Lnciuulng me ere Jin, to
be arresteu.
Casino ie the publielty maln or the pro-Japallese
Ilipino roup ane as associateu itn C.Uy ior the
publication oi the "Clarion" unti-Americ..n propaganua
paper, supportcc by tne Jups nu .iuely reau by tne
Filipinos.
11
(sinea H.c. Evangclista)
Evaluation C-3.
Tais office i. in possession or certain uocuments
signed by Vicente Casino, excerpt: Irom these
follow:-
To His Excellency,
General Hiacki Tojo
Prime Minister,
Tokyo, Japn.
" ........RltoLvel tret we, Filipinos in Shangnai,
o on record to tham the Japuntse nation and
express our price to ue utstineu un inuepencent
member or the ureater En-t asla Co-Prosperity Sphere."
Evaluation C-2
Hon. Jurge D. Vars,
Chairman
Philippine Executive Commission,

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
rage 19.
VICLNTE CASINO (Continued).
"...........RLSOLV.D That vwe, Filipinos in Shanghai
go on record to express our ratitude to you and
join you in saying," This is the happiest uay in
the history of the Filipino people. "
11
Ditic June 0,1943
Ev: luavion C-
June 15th,1943
Japanese Con ulate Generr 1,
I hangpoo Ro:d,
Shangnai.
11
.....le, the undcr inet, Filipino r  iuent of
Shanghai, pleu ing our support in the est: blishment
of the ureater Iast Isl. Co-Prosperity Sphere,
would sk your kin 1 vour to hel, us in our present
probiem.
11
Lv ru-tion C-2.
Oriice in Charge
June 15th, 1943
or hnemy Property
Sassoon House,
SHANGIHAI.
".........Ve, the unuer i ned, Filipino resiaents of
Shanghai, pledgins our support in the estaplisment
o. the Gre: ter att Asit Co-Prosperity Sphere, would
ask your kin. 1. vour to help us in our present
proplem.
11
Evaluation C-3.
The subject offereu his resination us publicity oiricer
of the Filipino Association on April 18,1943, but his
re ignation ve: not accept a until July 14,1943.
On May 19, 1943, the constitution of the Association
was rormulated.
Amon the signatures, Casino is
listea as a director, put his signature is not aifixed.
An excerpt rro this document rollows:-
"........(d) To co-operate with the Philippine
Government i the pursuance o1 our political emancipation
BECRET

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.95)
S ECRET
Page 20.
VICENTE CASINO (Continued).
under the guiaance of Japan.
(e)
To Pledge our uetermination to co-operate whole-heartedly
with the Japanese and Chinese Governments and other
Asiatic countries in the successful establishment of the
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.
n
Evaluation C-3.
VIGEN1n 2. C.sIN0 - 354-nouse5, Apt. A-12 Seymour Road.
called volunturily at our office to make statements.
The subject adaits nis pro-Jupanese activities, and says he
is willin, to unoer o puni hment for vhatever he uid, in
as much as he aie it itn the thought tiet he was doins his
be:t .or hi: country.
When intervie..ed, he stated that
he thought it as his uuty to recognize any Government in
power in the Philippines.
The subject staued tnat he
inccrely believed unat the Japanese Government meant to
carry out its promise to the Philippines, but that the
ron type of militery, civilian ana navy personnel hau been
sent there. Subject stateu tnnt ne.s oi nis- overnment
in the Philippines had brought nome the race that his had
been  misplaced tru.t.
Casino turne in tiree copies o. ocument aelivered in
October, whien he  iu h convincee him tht the Japanese
h rcileu.
These documents incluue a report oy Juan TaIx regaraing mis
trip to the Philippines, un. a lett r Iro.. the puppet foreign
minister CLaru m. huCT0, reg rdins conaitions ana remeaies for
conuitions existins in tne Philippines.
1. copy of the
rICTo ste tement is attachet to the oirice copy of this report.
Other copies oi the RECTO report and ohe TRII. statement.
have previously peen placeu in our illes. supject aamitted
during intervien, tihet he ve: lieutenant or "stooge"
for Conraco Uy, pro-Japanese leader. Subject statea that
he vent to Nankin. ti.ice ior pro-Japanese activities. On the
tour to Naixing With Filipino Youth representativ-s, he
was accompanied by:-
Claro Asuncion
M.M.Lamson
Leon Malabanan
Cayetano Buensuce.o
Paul Aquino
Louis Blanco (Spanish)
Jot Calibo
SECRLT

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
A. Y. CELI§ - 470 House 11, Seymour Road.
1.
The subject voluntarily made the following signed statements:
- I-
FILIPINO MUSICIANS UNION
versus
FILIPINO ASSOCIATION
On April 17th, 1942 a Preliminary Meeting was held in my house
in response to the complaints of many musicians regarding compulsion
under threat to join the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION and to play at the
Midnight Ball scheduled to take place at the PARADISE BALLROCM on
4pril 25th, 1942. In the eVening of April 17th Mr. JOSE C. CONTRERAS
asked me to explain why I was forming another organization against
the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION which was already formed for the whole
Filipino Community under the protection of the Japanese. Mr. CoNTRE.
RAs accused me of persuading the musicians not to play at the proposed
Midnight Ball which affair was cancelled owing to a telephone call
received by the CENTRAL POLICE STATION advising them that trouble
would accur if the ball was held. Consequently the affair was
cancelled. The FILIPINO MUSICIANS UNION was formally inaugurated on
Lay 1st, 1942, and in the evening of May 12th I was assaulted by
Messrs.'ALFONZO NAVARRO and CONTRERAS and dismissed from work by Mr.
CONTRERAS immediately. F. M. U. members increased inspite of
Mr. CONTRERAS' instructions to all musicians not to join this pro-
American organization, the F. M. U.
- II -
DR. KALAMBAKAL'S BACK LIST
In the presence of the musicians in March, 1943 at CIR0'S
BALLROOM. I asked Dr. KALAMBAKAL whether it was true that he wanted
me to be arrested and he answered that my name was included in his
Black List. So I went to the SWISS CONSULATE to enquire whether
any step could be taken by the CONSULATE in connection with those
arrest during the month, as I thought I was then on my way to the
same fate. Mr. ESSIG replied that as this was a political case all
they could do was to report the matter to the U.S. Government.
- III -
DR. KALAMBAKAL REVIVING THE FILIPINO ASSOCIATION
At the meeting on April 18, 1943, at the LIDO BALLROOM, when
I asked Dr. KALAMBAkAL, the presiding officer, to explain "The
important subject to be discussed will be the present situation of
arresting our fellow country-men and our dangerous situation." as
-SEORDT

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
A. Y. CLIS - 470 House 11, Seymour Rd. (continued)
stated in his circular of April 8, 1943, he remarked that I was
disturbing the order of the Meeting.
I learnt after the meeting that the reason for Mr. J. ALIN-
DADA's shouting "LIDO BOYS TO THE RIGHT" was that I would be mhot
by.the Japs if I came out as President of the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION,
considering my anti-Japanese attitude. In one of KALAMBAKAL'
numerous petitions, I scratched my name and signature, which action
was brought by Dr. KALAMBAKAL to the Gendarmerie and police
authorities, and which became the subject of investigation. Dr.
KALAMBAKAL approached his collaborators, Messrs. CONTRERAS, ALIN-
DADA, CONSTANTINO with a view to persuade musicians under them to
resign en block from the F.M.U. because I declined to instruct
F.M.U. members to join the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION.
- IV -
ACCUSATIONS AGAINST ME
On May 31st, 1943, Dr. KALAMBAKAL, together with his pro-
Japanese clique, Messrs. CONTRERAS, ALOBOG, ALINDADA and CONSTAN-
TINO reported to the authorities to have me arrested. I was
summoned at the CENTRAL POLICE STATION where I found myself
before said clique. With the inspector-in-charge of the crime
branch presiding, the aforementioned honourables fires the
following accusations against me:-
1. Mr. CONTRERAS accused me of heading a pro-Americem
Organization. He begged the presiding Jap to dissolve
the F.M.U. or bring our Union under the control of the
FILIPINO ASSOCIATION on the following grounds:-
(a) The F.M.U. was financially supported by the Americans
through the SWISS CONSULATE.
(b) Between the lines of the Rules of the F.M.U. could
be inferred American propaganda.
(c) The F.M.U. was opposed to the pro-Japanese aims of
the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION (LIPUNANG PÍLIPINO)
(a) Mr. CELIS' failure to instruct the F.M.U. members
to join the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION.
2. Mr. CONTRERAS stated that I was receiving a fabulous
amount as relief loan from the SWISS CONSULATE.
3. Dr. KALAMBAKAL alleged that I branded the bandleaders
present "CROOKS".
4. Mr. BENNY CONSTANTINO seconded Dr. KALAMBAKAL's accusa-
tion.
SECRET

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Page B.
. Y. CLIS - 470 House 11. Seymour Rd. (continued)
5. Mr. V.D. LOBOG stated that I said to him by phone that
I would not return his trophy because the Americems
mould be coming back within three months and the 8.V..
would be re-organised.
6. Mr. J.M. ALINDanA said that the F.M.U. had done nothing
but softball end therefore should not sxist.
- V -
INAUGURATION OF PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE
On October 10th, 1943, Mr. CONTRERAS, as Acting President
of the FILIFINO ASSOCIATION, took charge personally of everything
pertaining to the parade and ceremony at the RACE COURSE in the
morning, while Mr. CONRADO A. UY and V.Z. CASINO, together with
V.D. ALOBOG as Chairman of the Reception Committee. made all
necessary arrangements including financial matters, at the
CATHAY HOTEL in the afternoon. The Minutes of the Meeting
written by LORENZO EUGENIO on MEE KOO MAY letterhead and the
Memorandum in the handwriting of Mr. CONTRERAS, written in green
ink testify to all of his efforts to make the day a complete
success. Mr. ORDEN and I raised the FILIPINO flag and I erplained
its symbol. Mr. ORDEN spoke on the same teneur at the CATHAY
HOTEL in the afternoon.
Messrs. UY and CASINO in their fiery speeches attached the
mericans, as may be read in the SHANGHAI TIMES dated October
15, 1943.
Correction of a newspaper item is attached hereto.
- VI -
DEPARTURE OF DR. KALAMBAKAL
To bury the deceased body of the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION, its
Board of Directors lead by the writer, resigned en block on
announcement that DR. KALAMBAKAL is leaving SHANGHAI. This
doctor was pleased to receive our resignation for he saw a loyal-
ist in the person of Mir. JOSE C. CONTRERAS, an heir to his lofty
aims and pro-Japanese ideals.
- VII -
REGISTRATION AT THE CATHEDRAL SCHOOL IN NOV, 1943.
The same party, Messrs. UY, CONTRERAS, CASINO, ALOBOG, ASUN-
CION and LAMSON, with their colorful green arm bands, took charge
SECPFT

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 4.
A. Y. CELIS - 470 House 11, Seymour Rd. (continued)
of the registration, persuading our people to pledge allegiance to
the PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC by answering YES.
- VIII -
SECOND SUMMON BY THE POLICE ON MONDAY
Februery 28th 1944.
On Friday evening, February 25th, 1944, a Jap detective ordered
me to report at the CENTRAL POLICE STATION on the following Monday.
On arrival at the station on the latter date, the Japanese Inspector
in charge cross-examined me on complaints about my activities. The
charges against me were exactly the same as the accusations fired by
MeSSTS. KALAMBAKAL, CONTRERAS, ALOBOG, ALINDADA and CONSTANTINO
on May 3lst, 1943, The Japanese Police officer in his statement
recognising me as a good community leader advised me to cooperate and
be in good terms with Messrs. UY, and CONTRERAS. and join their
Filipino Community Board. I promised to do so provided that the
self-appointed committee would be accepted by the Filipino Comunity
and work for the welfare of our poeple. On my return home at noon
I was surprised to learn of the arrest of some Filipinos.
- IX -
APPOINTMENT AND RESIGNATION AS VICE-CHAIRMAN
OF RELIEF COMMITTEE
On written notification from Mr. CAsINO I went to see the
Japanese Vice Consul, Mr. HAYASIDA, who advised me that in accordance
with the meeting of Consular staff, it was agreed that Mr. UY, CON-
TRERAS and myself were appointed Chairman and Vice Chairman respec-
tively of a Relief Committee to assist the Filipinos. Mr. HAYASIDA
informed me that he had already interviewed Messrs. UY and CONTRERAS
and they had signified their willingness to serve in the committee.
Mr. HAYASIDA made me understand specifically that the relief loan
from the SWISS CONSULATE would be discontinued. After about half an
hour's hesitation, I promised to do my best. On reaching home,I
arafted and forwarded a letter of resignation, copy of which is
attached hereto. Messrs. UY and CONTRERAS still persuaded me to
withdraw my resignation but on being adamant, Mr. BENNY CONSTANTINO
took my post as Vice-Chairman. In accordance with circular letter
of the Japanese Consulate No.22 dated November 22, 1944, I was asked
twice by Mr. CONSTANTINO to report at the Japanese Consulate, but
to date I have NOT done so.
SECRET

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page5
A. Y. CELIS - 470 House 11, Seymour Rd. (continued)
- x-
CANDIDACY OF MR. CONTRERAS AS
F.M.U. PRESIDENT
During the election in March, 1944, Mr. CONTRERAS in
presenting his candidacy as President, promised bigger midnight
balls whose permits he could easily secure from the Japanese
authorities or relief from the government of the PHILIPPINE
REPUBLIC. He failed miserably in this election because the
voters were well aware of his empty promises. In March 1945
F.M.U. election he succeeded because of his promise to increase
the sslary of musicians and give up POLITICS. (What does he
mean by this word?).
(signed) A.Y. CELIS
Oct. 28, 1945.
Shanghai, China.
After the celebration of PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE on Oct.
14, 1943, I was called by the ARMY PRESS BUREAU at Bubbling
Well by Mr. KAWASHIME to get the pictures of the celebration
taken by them at the RACE COURSE. My self and Mr. ORDEN went
there and were given the pictures we chose.
(signed) A.Y. CELIS
Oct. 29, 1945.
Evaluation C-3
2.The following signed statement was submitted by A.AREVALO
on 8 November 1945 :
I, APOLLO AREVALO, make this statement of my own free will.
Before the second time Dr. EVANGELISTA and the other Fili-
pinos were arrested (28 Feb 44) I saw A.Y. CELIS make a number
of visits to the Japanese gendarmerie headquarters in Bubbling
Well Road together with A. ORDEN.
I lived in the same house with CELIS at this time and one
Japanese officer, army or gendarmerie, came to see him several
times in uniform. CELIS and his Japanese wife saw this man alone.
Guests and even the children were sent out of the room when he
arrived and talks were held.
JUAN TRIA and CONRADO UY told me to attend certain meetings
and they said if I did not the Japanese gendarmes would take
action against me.
SECRET

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
A. Y. CELIS - 470 House 11 Seymour Rd. (continued)
My wife told me that she saw about a week ago now, a men in
Chinese gown go to CELIS' room carrying Japanese Swords and Pistols,
but as it was already rather derk inside the house, she could not
distinguish whether the man was a Chinese or a Japanese. She has
also noticed that during CELIS' absence from his room when he was
supposed to be already at his work, many Japanese women frequents
CELIs' room and they evidently hold meetings there.
(signed) APOLLO AREVALO
Evaluation C3
3.
The following signed statement was submitted by Dr. H. EVAN-
GELISTA, pro-Allied Filipino leader on 9 November 1945 :
Re : A.Y. CELIS
A lover of power and publicity, but a poor loser. His brain
trust is A. ORDEN and S. DASMARINAS. He was the Vice President of
KALAMBAKAL when KALAMBAKAL was made the President of the LIPUNANG
PILIPINO.
Organizer of the FILIPINO MUSICIANS UNION and elected the
first President. He used this organization as a nucleus for his
pro-Jep activities and called meetings where purely pro-Jap
supports was discussed instead of musicians affairs.
CELIS, like any other Filipinos with a Jap wife, was appa-
rently a pro-Jap. After the outbreak of the war, CELIs. becamee
very active pro-Jap leader and was trying his best to take away
from KALABAKAL, UY and others the pro-Jap movements leadership
but not much of a success. He made friends from Japanese that are
connected with the S.Mi.C. and the Gendarmerie and with the support
of these Jap friends made threats that anyone who will refuse to
support him and he can make it rather hard for him. These Jap
friends visited his room frequently and he frequented in return,
the Jap rmy Headquarters in Bubbling Well Road and the Louza and
Central Police Stations with A. ORDEN.
He organized the Filipino Community Association where he
became its Vice President and A. ORDEN as the President. Bis
supporters were. A. ORDEN, ALINDADA, F. SAMPER, JOQUICO, SILAB
CADILINA and L.'SAMSON.
He entertained and gave Concerts to Japanese Soläiers and
SECRET

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 7.
A. Y. CELIS - 470 House 11 Seymour Rd. (continued)
organized benefit concerts to raise funds for the Japs. B. LUCERO
told me, that two days before the registration of Filipinos at the
CATHEDRAL CELIS canvassed all the Directors of the FILIPINO MUSI-
CIANS' UNION and asked them to give a l00% YES answer. He simed
allegiance to the Bogus Philippine Republic and was the organizer
of the INDEPENDENCE PARADE and ceremonies at the RACE COURSE. He
delivered a speech at the RACE COURSE ceremony and at the CATHAY
HOTEL reception to the Japs.
He boasted as the only person authorized to call meetings
of Filipinos that is authorized by the Japs. He was the Chief and
organizer of the Jap sponsorec Poa-Chia and compelled every
Filipino to be a member and or be in trouble with the Japs as
non cooperator.
He was one of the informers to Japs about my anti-Jap acti-
vities which caused my first arrest by the Jap Gendarmerie on
March 22 1943.
Signed petitions and resolutions that are pro-Jap was sup-
posed to be receiving pay from the Japs.
(signed) H.C. EVANGELISTA
Evaluation C-3
4. The following signed statement was made on 24 September 1945
by P. CRUZ :
I was arrested on February 28, 1944 together with Dr.
EVANGELISTA Mr. ESPINO MATEOS JAVIER and VILLA. I was accused
of (1) Being Pro-American (2) Diseminating news against the Jap-
enese. (3) Being the tool of Dr. EVANGELISTA and Mr. ESPINO for
their Anti-Japanese activities. (4) For spreading news hurting
the Pro-Japanese Filipinos (5) For not recognizing the Laurel
Government (6) For being a member of an association working
against Japan of which Dr. EVANGELISTA is the leader.
I was tortured very much because I refused to admit the above
associations. I suffered mental torture because I was made to sit
on the floor facing the wal' for 17 hours a day, for 63 days. We
were transferred to the High Military Court at Kiangwan for 2l days
after which we received our sentence. Dr. EVANGELISTA got 3 years
and the rest of us 2 years each. On Apil 29, 1944. we were hand-
cuffed and we were sent to Ward Rd. Jail where I was known as S-35.
We were released together on Mey 30th, 1945, on the second mass re-
lease of "J" prisoners. The Japanese that tortured me are the
CE

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
A. Y. CELIS - 470 House 11 Seymour Rd. (continued)
following: HASEGAWA, ISHIDA and the interpreter whom I could reco
nize if I see him. The Filipinos responsible for my arrest are the
follOWing: JOSE ALINDADA, JOSE CONTRERAS, CONRADO UY, VICENTE
CASINO, FRINCISCO SAMPER. RAMON JOQUICO, CLARO ASUNCIÓN, VICENTE
ALOBOG, D. BALDEVARONA, Δ. MADRASO, A. CELIS and A. ORDEN.
(signed) P. CRUZ
Primitivo Eruz.
Shanghai, September 24, 1945.
Evaluation C-3
5. JUAN TRIA, pro - Japanese Filipino, submitted the following
statement on 22 0ctober 1945 :
One evening, while I was returning home from my business, I
met on the street Mr. SUGANO, in charge of the foreign section, he
asked me to go to his office anytime whenever I am free. I said
yes. After few deys passed I went to see him, but while I was
going to the Police Headquarters, I saw coming out Mr. AGAPITo CELIs.
he was in state of hurry, he did not even notice me, so I proceeded
on and found Mr. SUGANO. When I sat down near his table I saw I
list headed by Dr. EVANGELISTA and Mr. ESPINO then FREDDY MATEO.
PRIMITIVO CRUZ Mr. JAVIER and some others more. I could not
remember all the names, because did not let me read all. After few
minutes, he asked me if I know those people, I said yes, and the
asked me some other questions as follows:
Did you meet anybody outside when you was coming in? I
said, yes, Chinese Policemen.
Again, asked me, whether I did not see any Filipino? I
again said, No.
Then I already suspected that was something wrong, but I pretended
that I did not see anybody.
Again, he asked me, if I know much about these Filipinos in
the list, their political views and activities? I said, again I
dont know. because I have no time for anybody specially for poli-
tical affairs, because I am very busy with my business and work.
because at night I work as kusician and the day as a broker.
because I am trying to make as much money I could to meet ail the
expenses. I said last, that I know them only as Filipinos, that's
all. Knowing that he could get nothing from me, he told me that I
could go. That's all.
(signed) JUAN TRIA.
Evaluation C-3
SEORET

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
A. Y. CELIS - 470 House 11 Seymour Rd. (continued)
6. The following signed statement was made on 20 October 1945
by Dr. H. EVANGELISTA :
I hereby state that during the course of the investigation
of J. CONTRERAS by the U.S.A. Liaison officer today. I heard him
say that one day, when J. TRIA went to the LOUZA POLICE Station,
on his way up to the room of a Police officer. he saw A.Y.CELIS
waiting downstairs of the Station and while TRIA was talking to
the Police officer, noticed a sheet of paper on the desk of the
officer where it was written the names of EVANGELISTA, MATEOS.
and ESPINO, and as there was another piece of paper placed on
about the midcle of the sheet, he was not able to read that part.
but he saw at the bottom of the paper the signature of A.Y.CELIs.
This, CONTRERAS said, I would not like to include in this state
ment that I am goin& to sign as I would not want to implicate
anyboay nor TRI▲ and CELIS know that I told you about this.
He also admitted having told me at the time I registered
to the Japs at the CHURCH HOUSE, that it was necessary that I
take a membership card from the Filipino Association, then I said.
"what is this that you are forcing to stick in my mouth", he then
continued and saic that "every Filipino must have this". indica-
ting the membership card, "and it will be countersigned by the
Jap. Consul."
Some time in Feb. 1944, a few days just before I was
arrested, CANLAs told me that the French Concession Police Station
refused to issue new Resident Certificate to Filipinos unless they
first produce membership card from the Filipino Association,
otherwise, they will be decl ared Stateless.
(signed) H.C. EVANGELISTA.
Evaluation C-3
7. The following is an extract made from a statement on 6 Nov.
1945, by G. ABELARDO :
"On Oct. 14, 1943, we celebrate the INDEPEvDENCE day at the
RACE CoURSE. I was asked to pray I thank God for having our
Independence and also prayed for peace that all nations will be
friends again and also I prayed the New Government will lead the
people in order again.
At the celebration Mr. CELIS was the Master of Ceremonies
and told the people the real meaning of the Filipino flag. And
Mr. CaSINO delivered a speech thanking Jap for giving us Indepen-
dence without asking and reviewed the Filipino struggle for
SECRET

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
A. Y. CELIS - 470 House 11 Seymour Rd. (continued)
for independence against
Spain and U.S.A. He also attacked America for not giving us a
chance to develop our own Commerce trade and Industry."
(signed) GREGORIO ABELARDO
Evaluation C-3
8.
The following is an extract from a statement mede by
B.F. LUCERO on 8 November 1945 :
"In a meeting of the Committee of the Filipino Musicians
Union, he said that the ASSOCIATION should cooperate to the Japs
as Mr. SUGANO promised to give a house to the ÀSSOCIATION, but
this suggestion was turned down by the Committee. At the time
of the registration of all the Filipinos at the CATHEDRAL CELIS
canvassed of the Members of the Committee of the FILIPINO'MUSI-
CIANS UNION and said that he wanted them to attend meeting previous
to the registration so that they may be able to have a 100% YES
of all the Directors."
Evaluation C-3
9. According to A. MTOs, the subject took part in the follow-
ing activities :
"Among the Filipinos here in Shanghai, here are the names of
those who collaborated with the Japanese:
UY Conrado
ALOBOG Vicente
CASINO Vicente
ASUNCION Claro
CONTRERAS Jose
CONSTANTINO Buena Ventura
CELIS Agapito
TRIA Guan
SALES Armando
MALABANAN Leon
CADA Maximino
AQUINO Paul
etc..
Entertainment of the Japanese Wounded Soldiers, headed
by CELIS. CONTRERAS. CONSTANTINO, RUIVIVAR, ALINDADA.
Philippine Puppet Government Independence, headed by
UY. CASINO, V. ALOBOG, ASUNCION, CONTRERAS, ALINDADA,
CONSTANTINO, CELIS. ORDEN and MALABANAN Leon.
Evaluation C-3
SECRET

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
A. Y. CELIS - 470 House 11 Seymour road (continued)
10. The subject on 14 October 1943, took part in the Parade and
ceremony celebrating the Independence of the puppet Philippines
Regime. On 18-19 November 1943, the subject answered "YEs" and
pledged allegiance to the puppet Philippines Regime. On 19 May
1943. he affixed his signature as Vice-President of the Constitu-
tion of the LIPUNANG PILIPINO, Article II. Sections d. & e. of
which read :
(a) To co-operate with the Philippine Government in the
pursuance of our political emencipation under the
guidance of Japan.
(e)
To pledge our determination to co-operate whole
heartedly with the Japanese and Chinese Governments
and other Asiatic countries in the successful es-
tablishment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere.
Eveluation Al
11. On 20 June 1943, the subject affixed his signature as Vice
President of the following resolution :
To His Excellency
General Hideki Tojo
Prime Minister
TOKYO, Japan
WHEREAS
The Japanese nation received the Philippine delegation
with due courtesy and respect befitting their mission;
WHEREAS
Your excellency proclaimed at the Diet that the Phili-
ppines will be granted independence within this year;
RESOLVED
That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record to thank
the Japanese nation and express our pride to be destined
an independent member of the GREATER EAST ASIA CO-PROS
PERITY SPHERE.
(signed)
President
Vice-President
Secretary
Treasurer
Evaluation F-6
12. On 20 June 1943. the subject affixed his signature as Vice-
President on the following resolution :
Hon. Jorge B. Vargas
Chairman
Philippine Executive Commission
MANILA Philippines
SECRET

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Pago-12.
A. Y. CELIS - 470 House 11 Seymour Rd. (continued)
WHEREAs You have courageously led our people throughthe hours
of trial;
WHEREAS You have sent a goodwill mission to the Empire of Japan;
WHEREAS
Your leadership marks a new era in our annals graced by
the recent statement of Premier General Hideki Tojo
that the Philippines will be granted independence with-
in this year;
RESOLVED That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record to express
our gratitude to you and join you in saying, "This is
the happiest day in the history of the Filipino poople."
(signed) President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer
Evaluation F-6
13. On 11 May 1943, while subject was Vice-President of the Asso-
ciation, the following telegram was despatched by the Officers :
To His Excellency
General Hideki Tojo
Prime Minister
TOKYO, Japan
WHEREAS
We take this opportunity of paying our sincerest
respects to the Imperial Japanese Government, their
leaders and soldiers;
WHEREAS
We admire your overwhelming triumph in Malaya, Burma.
East Indies and the Philippines;
WHEREAS
We appreciate that through the untiring efforts of your
dauntless army, navy and air force. the Anglo-merican
imperialism has vanished from the Orient where peace
once more reigns;
WHEREAS
We receive with joy the glad tidings pronounced by your
Excellency in the Diet promising us our independence;
RESOLVED
That we, officers of the LIPUNAN PILIPINO, on behalf of
the Filipino Residents of Shanghai, go on record to con-
vey to the Imperial Japanese Government, through your
Excellency, the assurance of our full co-operation in
the establiahment of the GREATER EAST ASIA CO-PROSPERITY
SPHERE.
Evaluation F-6
BDOBET

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
BIDASTO (VEDASTO) CONDE
The following signed statement was made on 19 November 1945
by DR. EVANGELISTA. pro-American Filipino leader :
"CONDE is a musician by profession. During the war, e
dealed in selling mostly contraband or military controlled cargoes
together with some Japanese and was said to have accumulated plenty
of money.
He is a pro-Jap and was seen and moved only in a Japanese
atmosphere. He was used by CONTRERAS, pro-Jap leader, as an
interpreter and is believed to be a paid informer by the Japs.
CONDE. never attended the Filipino Association meetings, never
registered as a Filipino at the Jap Gendarm office; did not regis-
ter at the American Association; never registeredat the Shanghai
American and Swiss Consulate and did not register at the CATHEDRAL
where every Filipino was required by the Jap Consulate to register.
I believe he was under protection of the Jap Military aathorities
or at least has an understanding with them or would have been
punished for disobeying Jap orders.
Once, CONDE came to the SWISS CONSULATE and tried to apply
for relief; he gave as an estimate for his daily living expenses
every item in term of Yen or Jap money, and as he was never
registered at the SWISS CONSULATE, his request was rejected.
From information I gathered from others, CoNDE, was never
in need of relief and was very well off financially.
His brother in TIENTSIN was one of the most active pro-Jap
Filipino leader there."
(signed) H.C. EVANGELISTA
Evaluation C-3
The following is an extract from a signed statement made by
LAURENTINO GONZAGA. The CONRADO UY referred to is Shanghai'
foremost pro-Japanese Filipino leader and propagandist who made
a Japanese-sponsored tour of Chine in addition to his other
activities :
"VEDASTO CONDE :- Somewhere around the months of January.
February and March 1944 (not quite sure of the dates mentioned)
MR. CONDE and MR. CONRADO UY went to China interior for a tour,
whereby MR. CONDE acted as interpreter to MR. CONRADO UY, who
cannot speak Japanese."
Eveluation C-3
SECRET

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 1.
SECRET
8 November, 1945,
BLANGHAI.
LUNNAVHNTURA (BENNY) CONSTANTINO
LANE 41, CANTFR ROAD, HOUSE 84
1.
The following si ned statement was made by the
subject on 6 Novemper, 1945:
"I, BUENAvENTURA CONT. NTINO, do hereby declare
the followin, of my own ree will:
I was invited by CJnTh AaS and C. UY to visit
the Japanese Con. ulate in connection ith the
relief promi ed by the Japanese authorities to
the YESiEn. On this visit to the Consulate I was
able to find out that cuch a relief was not forth
comins, but s only a promise. Since then I
never go to the Japanese Consulate.
Re: APJLONI) O. EN. Few ays before the
meeting at LIDOs hich took place on April 18,
1943, ORDEN came to see me at COSM0 Ballroom and
reminded the Filipinos in my oan: of the meeting
trat will take place at LIDos. At that time he
Was the Secretary of the FILIPINO AS OCIATION.
I admit that I tole otmers that the NO-MEN
will be sent to camp or a jeil. I .as just re-
peating what a Japanese Consular official told us
(CONT RAS, C. UY and me) wnen e were at the
Consulate in connection ith the supposed relief.
I admit that I told some Filipinos that if I
will be sent to jail, it  ould only be for a few
months, but CoNTrHhas would be in jail for six
years. I told this only for fun unmindful of
any serious consequences. As everybody knows he
is the biggest shot among all the pro-Japanese,
I made this statement of six years sentence.
Signed: B. CON TANTINO."
Witness: H. EVANonLISTA (Signed)
Witness: A. C. PINDER
(Signed)
EVALUATION: C-3.
BECRET

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
B. CONSTANTINO (COntinued):
2.
The following signed statements were made on 25 Oct.,
1945, by C. AMPER:
"I, C. AMPER, make this statement of my own free
will.
In October, 1945, B. CONSTANTINO stated to me that
if he was arrested by the Americans, he would tell
everything about Filipinos and pro-Japanese activities.
He said in June, 1945, that four Filipinos who were
paid by the Japanese had an office in the CATHAY HOTEL
but would not tell me who they were, but that he was
one of the four.
In March, 1944, CONSTiNTINO told me at a dinner
with F. MONTES and S. ANDRIS that he was responsible
for F. MATEOS being in prison. He stated that he
had caused MATEOS' arrest because of a grudge and for
revenge.
CON: TANTINO said: "I committed a very big sin.
If not for me he will not suffer so much as this.
You know that MhTEos is in jail and suffering very
much - it is because of me. I don't think he will
live much longer - he is vomiting blood, T.B. already.
I made a big mistake.
Signed: C. AMPER."
Witness: A. C. PINDER (Signed)
Witness: A. L. mnNDoA(Sined)
VALUATION: C-3.
3.
"b. CON:TaNIINO - He often tells his musicians at
the bandstand that EVANuELISTA is the most hated person
among those Filipino prisoners in the Japanese jail.
That if he would be arrested by the Americans, he will
reveal everything.
That the Japanese Consulate promised UY, CONTRERAS,
CONSTANTINO, ALOBOG, CASINO that next month, October,
1944, the Filipinos wil1 have no more loans. CONSTAN-
TINO was betting on this with any "no-man" in Shanghai.
He told C. AMPER that they sent a petition to
Japan. (Did not specify what was in the petition).
That only four of them and he was one of them. (Did
not reveal the names).
SEGRET

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
B. CONSTANTINO (Continued):
That all "no-man" will be sent to prison or to
camp.
That he was pointed by UY and CONTRERAS to be a
group head of the pro-Japanese Filipinos.
CONTRIRAS approached CELIS and asked his opinion
as to hat should they do with the "no-man" because
the Japanese had asked CONTRHRAS as to wnether it
would be goon to put all "no-man" into prison or in
camp. CELIS ansvered that since he (CONTRERAS)
planned all tese (meaning the r gistration) at the
Japanese Consulate, it was up to him.
It was all
his work and he should go on  ith it.
He planned it
so it was up to him.
ALINi ADA, LON JOSE - ANPER states that he heard this
man sey to him and three other men that all "no" men
were traltors to t eir country.
I hereby declare t at the above st tements are
true and of my own free ill, as recorded by Mr. A.
MATEDS.
Si ned: C. APER."
PLFION: C-3.
4.
The followins si ned st tement was made by PABLo
A0LINA on ~3 October, 19.5:
"I, P. doLInh, make this :tatment of my own free
A1ll.
Fometime in Aoril, 19.5, J. CoNTRihtS engaged me
in conversation at our place of employment. He
said: "America has promised the Prilipoine Independence
for many years and fooled the Filipinos. Now the
Japanese ave given us indeoendence so what more do we
want?n
When this same CONTRERAS was orgunizing concerts for
the Japanese he said in public: "If you boys refuse to
entertain the Japanese and refuse to go with me you will
get into trouble. I don't know what will hap en to you."
In October, 1945, I was rea ing a newspaper story
of Dr. EVANGFLI TA'S experiences uncer the Japanese.
CONTHERAS spoke to me and I asked him if the Americans

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.97)
Pago4.
SECRET
B. CONSTANTINO (COnt1nued):
had asked him any questions about it. He said:
"Yes, they ask me questions, but after questions
they will say that CONTRERAS is very smart and
clever. I can bully them. I knew how to get in
and I know how to get out. I am like LAUREL, I
know what to do to keep out of trouble."
In Seutember, 1945, B. CON TANTINO stated to me:
"I'm not worried about the Americans, I've only
been cooperating with the Japanese ror a few months
wile CONTh HAS  as been cooperating for three years.
If CONTRI RAS oes to jail for three years, I'll only
be in jail & few months for this."
About a Jear cgo CoNTh RAS said to me: "Why don't
you Filipinos cooperate us officials, after all
even if the Americans cone cack we are only small
frys and they will not punish us."
S1. ned: PABLO MOLINA."
V.itness: A. C. PINLER (signed)
EVALUAPION: C-3.
5.
Tue rolloxing extr cts vere taken from a statement
made by A. Y. CELIS on 28 October, 1945:
"LH. KALML AL  VIVIN T L ILIPINO ASSOCIATION.
At the meeting on Aoril 18, 1943, at the LID0 Ball-
room, hen I asked Dr. KALAlsAkAL, the presiding officer,
to explain "The important subject to be discussed will
be the present situation of arresting our fellow country-
nen and our dangerous sitaation," as stated in his cir-
cular of Aoril 8, 1943, he remarced that I was disturbing
the order of the Meeting.
I learnt after the meeting that the reason for Mr. J.
ALINDADA'S shouting "LIDO BOYS TO THE RIGHT" was that I
would be shot by the Japs 1f I came out as President of
the Filipino Association, considering my anti-Japanese
attitude. In one of K LAMbAKAL'S numerous petitions,
I scratched my name and signature, which action was
brought by Dr. KALAM AKAL to the Gendarmerie and police
authorities, and which became the subject of investiga-
tion. Dr. KALAMBaKAL approached his collaborators,
MeSsrS. CONTRHRAS, ALINLADA, CON TA TINO with a view to
persuade musicians under them to resign en bloc from
the F.M.U. because I declined to in truct F.M.U. mem-
bers to Join the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION.
TECFET

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
Page 5.
SECRET
B. CONSTANTINO (Continued):
ACCUSATIONS AGAINST ME
On May 31st, 1943, Dr. KALAMBAKAL, together with
nis pro-Japanese clique, Messrs. CONTRFRAS, ALOBOG,
ALINI ALA and CON TANTINÓ reported to the authorities
to have me arrested. I was summoned at the CENTRAL
POLICE T TION w ere I I pund myself vefore said clique.
ith te insuector-in-charge of the crime branch pre-
sicing, the tforementioned honourables fired the
folloning accusetions against me:
1. Mr. cONTHihaS accused me of heading a pro-
American Or niztion. He- be ged the pre-
siding Jap to dissolve the F.M.U. or bring
our Union un er the control of the FILIPINO
AS OCIATION on the folloving grounds:
(a) The ..U. as financially supported by
the Americans  rough the Swiss Consulate.
(b) Between the lines of the Rules of the F.M.U.
could be inferred American propaganda.
(c) The F.M.U. Was opposed to the pro-Japanese
eims of the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION (Lipunang
Pilipino).
(d) Mr. CELIS' failure to instruct the F.M.U.
members to join the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION.
2. Mr. COnTBrRAs stated trat I was receiving a
fabulous anount es relief loan rom the Swiss
Conrulate.
3. Lr. KaLadi/fAL alle ed t at I uranded the band-
leaders present "CRoOKS".
4. Mr. BENNY CON T UTINO seCOnded Dr. KALAMBAKAL'S
accusetion.
5. Mr. V. D. ALOBou stated that I said to him by
phone t at I would not return his trophy because
the Americens would be coming ack within three
months and the S. V.C. would be re-orgunized.
6. Mr. J. M. ALINDADA said tiat the F.M.U. had done
nothing but softball and therefore should not
exist.
BECRET

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.96)
Page 6.
SECRET
B. CONSTANTINO (Continued):
APPOINTMENT AND RESIONATION AS
VICE-CHAIRMAN OF RELIEF COMMITTEE.
On written notification from Mr. CASINo I ment to see
the Japanese Vice Co sul, Mr. HAyh IDA, who advised me
that in accor unce witn tne meeting of Consular staff, it
was agreed that Mr. JY, COnTh RAS and myself were appointed
Chairman and Vice Chairman respectively of a Relief
Committee to assist the Fi ipinos. Mr. HAYAsIDA informed
me tat he ad alren dy interviewed Messrs. UY and CONTRERAS
and they had si nified their willingness to serve in the
committee. Mr. YAsILA made me understand specifically
trat the r lief loan rom the Swiss Consulate be discon-
tinued. After about half an hour's hesitation, I promised
to do my best. On reacning home, I crafted and forwarded
a letter of resignation, copy of which is attached hereto.
Messrs. UY AND CONTkPAS still persuaded me to withdraw
ay resi nation but on ceing adamant, Mr. BENNY CONSTANTINO
took my post as Vice-Chair man. In accordance with
circular letter of the Jupanese Consulate No.22 dated
Novexber 22, 1944, I as as  ed twice by Mr. CON TANTINO to
report at the Japanese Consulate, but to date I have NoT
done so.n
EVPION: C-3.
6.
The follo ing si ned :t.te ent r garding the subject
was made on 6 November, 1945, by Dr. H. EVANOELISTA, pro-
American Filipino leader:
"Re: E. COmSTA TINO: CON TAnNTINO is & very active
pro-J p leader and a member of the FILIPINO ASEOCIATION.
He is a supuorter of CJNTR RAS, KALAMBAKAL, UY, ALOBOG
and ot er pro-Jap leaders; si ned pro-Jap petitions and
resolutions ror the Japs, participated in benefit con-
certs ror raising funds for Jap soldiers and entertained
Jap oldiers in Hospital. He signified allegiance to
the bo us Philippines Republic and is one of the three
members or the ILIPINO A6 JCIATION appointed by the Jap
Consulate to handle relief of the Filipinos that owed
alleglance to the LAUREL Governnent.
He instigated the
arrest of pro-American Filipino leaders and threatened
others who r fused to coo erate  ith the pro-Japs to be
arrested also.
Si ned: H. VANGLLISTA."
EVALUATION: C-3.
BECEET

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.93)
Page 7.
SECRET
B. CONSTANTINO (Continued):
7.
P. C. MSPINo, oro-Allied Fi 1pino leader, who was
in prison curin: the War, made the following signed
state ent regarding the subject:
"PUHNAVPNTURA CON T NTINO. Propa andist and in-
foreer.
or ed in close collaborution ith
aLvx ONA ho as ent to the Philippines by the
J nese or e pione e. Promoter of concerts in
J panese varrecks. Tonk cctive part in all pro-
J. panese emonstretions. Furni: hed intormations
to the J: panece regardin doings of pro-American
Filipinos.
is one of the men responsible for the
errest nd inori on nt of sone o! the pro-American
Filipinos."
PV.LUATION: C-3.
8.
BUNA  C T.INO on 18 - 19 November, 1943,
wore allegiance to tne Puopet Sovernnent of the Philip-
pines.
9.
On 8 Muy, ,  uj ot imed he Rolls of
the J panese ponsorsd PunANo PILIPINO.
10.
On 15 June, 19.3, the  ubject arfixed his signature
to petitions adcressee to tre Jopanese Consulate-General
and the Office in Charge of Enemy Property.
These
petitions cont inea she folle ing entence:
" e, te uncer i m d,  i ioino resi ents of
Shangsei, pledge our  uosort in tte est bitshaent
of the rter at Al Co-Proserity tohere,
wou'd a k your kin movour to elp u: in our present
probiem."
EN: -L.
11.
On 15 June, 1943, tue subjuct effixed his signature
to the follov ing document:
"LIPUNANG PILIPINO
(Filipino As: ociation)
ANI.
O PICF RS: DR. Y. TONGU, Adviser
Dr. G. KALAMBAKAL, Pres.
A. ORrEN, Secretary
S. V. HERRERA, Treasurer.
DIR CTOFS: V. CA INO, 2. ARANAS, F. CAMPER, L. SAMSON,
H. V. JOGÚICO, M. CADELINA, J. M. ALINDADA,
J. C. CONTRPRAS.
SECRET

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.93)
Page 8.
SECRET
B. CONSTANTINO (Cont1nued):
"June 15, 1943.
Office in Charge
of Enemy Property
assoon Hou e
CHANOHAI.
Dear irs.
Ve, the unier igued, Filipino residents of
han hai, ple in our  uuport in the establishment
o! the Greater Fast Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, would
ask your kind favour to help us in our present pro-
blem. Several of u: ill be evieted from our present
residence in the next :ew cays and we can find no way
of securing another house  ithin so short a period.
e  eg you, t crefore, to oe kind enough to make some
arrangement in order that we may be ble to occupy
premises owned by Chinese or other neutrals vacated by
enemy nationals.
T.ankins yu, we reain,
 ry respectrully yours,
(i ned:
D..
Prcricent."
IVALJATION: A-1.
12.
The subjeet afri eo is si nature to the following
document:
"
To Mi: Fxcellency
merel I L I ToJ
Prie Minirter
TekYo, J pan
The Japanese nation received the Philippine
dele ation ich ue courtesy and respect
cerittin: teir misslon;
WRAS
Your Exeel ency oroclained at the siet that
the Pailip ines will e granted independence
ithin this year;
sOLv D That we, Filipinos in Shan hai, go on record
to thank the Japanese nation and express our
SHCRET

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
B. CONSTANTINO (Cont1nued):
pride to be destined an independent member
of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere."
EVALUATION: A-1.
13.
The follo ing is an cxtruet from a signed statement
made 7 Novenber, 19.,5, by a MDo wArloS, pro-American
Filipino, who suffered arrest in the hands of the Japanese:
"On or about Novemver, 19 3, I was intormed by
L. Jnzata, ti at ome Filipino: fiied a charge with
the Ja panese encarmerie  inst Dh. IVanubLIsTA,
MaTLJ and oPINo. P at nere Tilipinos wanted to
nake the charge rievous so t at we could be eliminated
from the Filipino community. They charged us on pro-
peganda and espiona e. Accorain to ONZAGA, ALINDADA
was the one who tiled thc charge, but as I was not
sati fied, I made latler inve:ti ations arter my release
from the jail and found out that among those who filed
the charge a inst us are the following: J. CONTRERAS,
B. CON PINO, V. ALOOU nd C. UY.
The following persons in ormed me tat we were to
be arrested: R. DIZOn, V. PUN2. LAN and L. GONZAGA.
E. DIzon was inior ed by L. S).
I was arrested on Feuruary 28, 1944 by three Japanese
Bencar meries mo:e nates I le rned later to be TAKEDA,
ArIAA, I IlA.I s t ken in an automobile to-
ether  1th Dr. F. LI TA and P. CRUZ to their head-
quart rs et 9. Je siiled Ruad. A ter I es searched
and tripped of all per: onal celongings except my clothes
I had on, I was locked up in jail.
On the third ay, I as invertigated by HAsIuAWA.
Among the guestions asced are the follo ing:
1. hy o you frequently visit the Swiss Consu ate?
2. Vhy  o you py on the Japanere? Do you yet paid by
the Swis: Con ulate
3. Wy do you in orm the Swis: Con ulate of the
activities of the pro-Japanese Filipinos?
4. Wiat position oes Lr. EVaNst LI TA hold in the
Swiss Consulate?
5. What is your connection  ith Dr. FV NGWLIsTA?
SECEET

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.96)
Page 10.
SECRET
B. CONSTANTINO (Continued):
6. What did Dr. EVANuELIsTA order you to do? Does
he pay you for the work you render him?
7. Are you orkin With EPINO in spying the
Japanese and the pro-Japanese Filipinos?
I deniec all the above. Then HAsIGAWA got mad and told
ue that I did not lave to tell lies because they had all
our recoros.
A ter t at anstr roup of uestions was asked again,
among those I could re ember are the following:
1. hy co you like the tuericans?
2. y con't you eliuve the Philippine Independence?
(Notc: I discusseu t is matter  ith R. IzoN, there-
fore, it is my bellef t at Dizon informed the Japs
or tiose Jep inormers.)
3. Why did you  ign "so" in the r gistration at the
Swiss Con ulate?
4. Why cid you persuade che Filipinos to sign "Non?
5. Why did you tell the Filipinos tat those who will
ign "Yns" will have t elr loan stooped?
I did not answer the above  de tions and I refused to
answer, tnerepy re u ting in a severe torture I had under-
gone in the hands of tue Jaos. These questions, because I
refused to ans er t em, ere as ed every time I was in-
ve:tiated.
Re: BUENAVLNTURA GUN TANTINO: A taunch supporter of
the Japs. He made the following remarks: kt the band-
stand of ING ON Ballroom "Tne Japanese Consulate assured
us (UY, CONTRLRAS, CAUINO and CON. TANTINO) that on
Octooer, l9 4, the loan to the Pilipinos will be stopped."
He told is boys t at tais is sure to pass and tuat he was
ready to lay a bet.
He said to APLR, "UY, CA INo, CONThhAS and myself
sent a petition to J pan." Did not reveal the contents of
the petition. Told APiR tmat ir e would oe arrested by
the American authorities he will reveal everything. He
told the Filipinos that all the NO MEN will be sent to
camp or to prison. CON TanfINo took part in mo. t pro-
Japanese demonstrations. He told in the presence of
FELICIANO, MONTES, sPRGIO ANDaES and C. AMPER that he was
responsible in my arrest and imprisonment. He further
said that he had committed a sin in causing my imprisonment
SECKET

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.90)
Pago 13.
SEC R ET
B. CONSTANTINO (Continued):
and that I was suffering in jail, vomiting blood.
EVALUATION: C-3.
T

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
30 Cotober19
JCSE CONTRERAS (175 House 12 Seymour Road)
The Subject on 20 October 1945 submitted statements
reproduced herein as well as certain notes, minutes, consti-
tution, petitions, resolutions and other matters pertaining
to the Filipino Association. These documents which Contreras
was careful not to sign despite the signatures of otherFili-
pinos, together with photographs furnished by him, were a
valuable asset to the investigation of the Filipino community.
The Subject admitted during visits to this office that he was
in touch with the Japanese in regard to organizing the Filipinos
and that me wore a Japanese armband when assisting in the regis-
tration of Filipinos who signed "no" or "yes" in swearing alle-
giance to the puppet government of Jose Laurel. Subject also
admitted playing at benefit shows for the Japanese.
Contrera's statements follow:
20 October 1945
"I, Jose Contreras, make this statement voluntarily and
without compulsion.
I have heard with my own ears Conrado Uy and Vincente
Casino make anti-American speeches in public.
Some time before Cct. 14, 1943 I visited Uy in his office
to discuss plans for the Independence celebrations.
Soon after the outbreak of the war I was approached by a
group of Chinese ex-gangsters who said that they wereifrm the
Nanking government. They asked me and my band to play for Charity
and I complied and appeared at the Grand Theater. If the benefits
of this were used to buy airplanes I was not aware of it. Even if
this was true I would have complied since everyone was frightened
at this time.
In late 1942 I was approached by one Yamada, supposed to be
an attache to the Jap Gendarmerie. He said he planned to hold a
concert to make some side money, it was called the Greater East
Asia concert and took place at the ueen's Theater.
At this time F.Mateos had his name crossed out by Yamada at
his own request as he did not want to play in the concert, at the
¿ueen's Theater. Yamada was later exiled from China for blackmail.
I knew Takeda from Jessfield Road Gendarmerie, Terakado and
Hori from the My burg Gendarmerie, also Motomura interpreter at
this latter station.
I voted "yes" at the Japanese consulate and gave allegiance
to the Laurel government because 1) I thought that Secretary Vargas
was purposely left by Quezon in the Philippines to take care of
problems 2) since I was never in sympathy with the Japanese which
Is proven by my not signing the constitution of the Filipino Asso-
ciation I would rather answer "yes" so that they would not with-
draw what little confidence they had in me; I thought that as
SECRET

=== Page 124 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET
JOSE CONTRERAS (Continued).
leader of the Filipino community it would be better if I
was able to maintain this little confidence so the Japs
would listen to me once in a while. I knew I could prove
I believed in allied victory.
I did not go to the Swiss Consulate forrelief.
I played at Japanese barracks twice at the command of
Dr. Kalambakal.
I was requested by one Iwatate, of Domei news, to take
part in a radio program with my band on the first anniversary
of the independence of the Philippines. He asked meto make
a speech but I declined about two days before the broadcast.
During the broadcast he thrust a piece of paper (several)
pages) in my hand and when I asked what it was he said:"Just
read it for me." It was very hard to talk and he then announced
something and beckoned to me. I read this statement which was
in English over the air but since I was excited over pronoun-
ciation and my stammer that I cannot even now remember what it
said. It seems to me at this time that it was something about
the GEA sphere. I remember it said one thing in particular,
though. That was "we don't hate the Anglo-Americans." This was
circled in pencil. I can't remember what happened to this paper.
I made speeches thanking the Japanese for their magnimity
in granting independence to the Philippines at the time of
Independence Day celebrations but I said nothing against the
Americans.
The path I picked in regard to the war was a tough one
since I had the responsibilities of the community whose welfare
I took to my heart, perhaps I stumbled once or twice on my way
to Calvary in the hands of the Japanese but I was not nailed to
the cross because they were not aware of the fact that I did not
sign the constitution which gave collaboration with Japan. In
trying to do what I thought was best I might have made a few mis-
takes.
I was elected by a committee of nine to be vice chairman of
a committee of board control. This was to be connecting link
between Lipunang Pilipinos which seemed to be very inactive and
the Filipino Musicians' Union which could do little, it being
non-political. hen the registration was announced the Japanese
called the control board to maintain discipline and teach the
Filipinos to fill in the blanks. I did do this and helped fill
in blanks. I did not give advice to anyone on how to fill the
blank in."
(Signed): JOSE C. CONTRERAS.
Evaluation C-3.
SECRET

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 3
JOSE CONTRERAS (Continued).
Shanghai, Oct. 22, 1945.
"Several weeks after the registration of the Filipinos
at the Japanese Consulate, Vice Consul Iisuka asked me what
should be done with the "no" men; whether they should be put
in a reformatory institution wherein the Filipinos should be
give hard labor and Orientalization. Those becoming Orienta-
lized soonest to be released soonest. I advised him against
this.
Before registration I approached Dr.Evangelista and
asked him to come to my dancehall and be my guest and I added
that if he would do so I would do anything he said as far as
advice goes. If the doctor id done this I am sure that I
would have been able to lead the Filipino community against
the Japs. The doctor did not come and that is why I had to
sign "yes"."
(Signed): JOSE C. CONTRERAS
Evaluation F-6.
4:24 A.M.
October 20, 1945
Shanghai, China
MEMORANDUM
"Mr.Pinder,
U.S.A.Liaison Cffice
53 Foochow Rd.
Sir:
Do you remember one of braham Lincoln's famous sayings,
"Tell me who your friends are and I'll tell you who you are?"
But if I should tell you that the Filipinos in Shanghai are all
my friends, at least potentially, except"two bad boys", I don't
think it will help you much in your investigation regarding my
activities during the war. Allow me then to philosophy on life's
eternity: I am what my parents were, and my children shall be
what I am. Of course I must give allowances to the effects of
invironment on a human being at his age of puberty and of ado-
lescence.
To begin with, I was bprn in the icol Regions, the south-
eastern peninsula of Luzon, known to me to have never participa-
ted in the war in 1898 between the ünited States of America and
the Philippines. On December 16, 1916 (during the first World War)
my younger brother was born,baptized LIBERATO WOODRON VILSON CONTRE
RAS Y CANET. (LIBERATO meanS LIBERTY). LIBERATO was suggested
by my father who was inspired by your statue of Liberty. WooDROW
VILSON was my mother's suggestion, for to my dear mother, WOODROW
WILSON, then your President, was the man of the hour.
SEORET

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
JOSE CONTRERAS (Continued).
In 1917-1918, while the United States of America was
at war for the sake of Democracy, I received my first educa-
tion. A little later, my oldest brother Francisco, inspired
by the Filipino hero in that first World War, Tomas Claudie,
surprised my father when he informed him that he had enlisted
in the Philippine Melitia. "Surprised" because Francisco was
only sixteen years of age!
At my age of puberty, I learned a good lesson from my
father. I was in the fourth grade. Cne day the class was on
strike. The classroom teacher was going to be changed. I was
the brightest in the class. I thought the change won't matter.
Ly progress in school depended on me. The whole class walked
out except me. Nhen I arrived home I proudly told my father
that the whole class made a "big trouble" and walked out
except me, since I was a "good boy". The next thing I knew
I was down on the floor. My father gave me too strong a slap
for my tender age. fter a while I managed to stand up. My father,
his eyes piercing mine with an almost hypnotic effect on my
trembling body, said in a commanding voice:"Peping (that's my
nickname), remember this as long as you live,-'What the majority
does y-oo-uu got to follow, you rat'". I did never forget, Mr.
Pinder, even during the recent war, when the welfare of my
community concerned me most. But I also learned long before that
if the majority cannot move because of pressing circumstances,
then I got to LEAD. Hence I accepted the Acting-Presidency of
the Lipunang Pilipino.
Now here I am suspected a pro-Japanese, naturally because
I was the Acting-President of the Lipunang Pilipino, the associa-
tion supposed to be in sympathy with Japan. How am I to prove
that my pro- mericanism which dates back from y childhood days,
inspired me to pioneer your Swing Music in China in 1937; made
me dream to go to the United States of America these last six
years, and "swing it out there", - how am I to prove that my
pro-mericanism was not lost in the chaos in Shanghai, especially
during the first stages of the Pacific War when Japan was supposed
to be winning???
Precisely I thought of that. That proofs arebetter than
documentary evidences, especially when no one could be trusted
during the war. Even Dr.Evangelista who I suppose is pro-American
made me doubt him when he gave a party to the Japanese at the Sun
Sun Restaurant. So I took hold of the Association's file in order
to save my neck from the Japs, for if they knew a fact concerning
a document of the Association, I would have been in a jam. Had I
been jailed by the Japs because of that document, I would not have
minded it but for the fact that I did not trust Dr.Evangelista and
Espino, the former being decidedly anti-Filipino and the latter
having manifested some traits of the "modern adventurer".
SECRET

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
JOSE CONTRERAS (Continued).
I am still wondering why Dr.Evangelista resigned from
the S.V.C. just when the Pacific War was almost at sight, while
others remained. And can you imagine that he told one Filipino
to jump out of the window of the Swiss Consulate just because
he requested him to grant his loan one day earlier since this
Filipino musician was going out of Shanghai next day to assume
a job? I also heard that he told one Filipino lady who ms asking
for coal allowance to eat the meat and vegetables raw in order
to save coal expenses, and that if she should get sick she could
take injections? If only you could gather us together in a meet-
ing you would save much time in your investigations and you'll
understand why the Filipinos were divided into two factions, the
"yes" group and the "no" group when we are essentially one as I
had proven since I was elected President of the Filipino Musicians
Union on March 12th last (the members of which were mostly "no"
men) till the end of the war. I wonder if I'm wrong when I say
that Dr.Evangelista together with ambitious Espino failed in
preserving the oneness of the Filipino community in Shanghai, or
should I say, since the Filipinos are essentially one in favor
of the Americans, that they failed to let us answer all "no"
during the registmation at the Holy Trinity Church on November
18 and 19, 1943.
During my Acting-Presidency, I had rendered the Lipunang
Pilipino, a dangerous weapon, virtually useless, since that had
been my aim even before I became Acting-President.
Lost of the Filipinos here as you probably know now are
musicians. On September 1, 1943, the Cabarets were ordered to
close at 10:00 p.m. instead of the usual closing hour of 12:00
midnight, with the accompanying rumour that they would be closed
very soon either due to coal shortage of the Power Company or
that since in Japan all cabarets had already been closed down
by the government Shanghai cabarets would follow, or both; or
that Shanghai would be bombeu very soon and that the people were
expected to be home early in order to be able to protect their
families, and that should bombs begin to fall, naturally the
cabarets would be closed like in 1937 when the Chinese and Japa-
nese were fighting in Shanghai.
Therefore in November, 1943, just before the registration,
the Filipinos figured to depend more on loans than on their jobs.
To the common Filipino, their duty was to support their families,
nothingmore. Their minds reached only up to their stomachs and
I don't blame them. The war was not their business, at least most
of them did not know what America and Japan were fighting for.
So the Filipinos receiving substantiallloans answered "no" while
those whose loans were a joke and those without loans could not
answer "no" since they might antagonize the Japs who might in turn
instruct the cabaret owners to kick them out of the jobs, and they
might be jobless and"loanless".
SECRET

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page:6
JOSE CONTRERAS (Continued).
Regarding the adventurous Espino, I would like to kmow
why he tried to stop Mr.Miranda's petition for loan after the
war. And why he told one Filipino who in turn mads the rest of
us know that those who would not join the Reception Band would
not receive any relief loans.
I remember that you told me I was prosperous during the
war. May I inform you that since 1940 I have been the highest
paid bandleader in Shanghai with my salary in one cabaret alone,
while this sum is trebled since I have three cabarets in my hands.
For reference, kindly look over our registration papers where
you will find that while the average salary of a musician in
November, 1943, was between C.R.B. Two Thousand to Three Thousand
Dollars, mine was Thirty Thousand Dollars. To be more detailed
you can look over the payroll of the cabarets where I work and
find out for yourself.
bay I also inform you that I was notified by the Japanese
in October 1944 that the loans for the "yes" mon had arrived but
I did not get it. In May this year I was called again and I turned
it down. (Dirty money).
Lastly I suggest that you forget about that Registration at
the Holy Trinity Church since that was never authentic."
(Signed):.
JOSE C. CONTRERA
Acting-Presidant of
Lipunang Pilipino
(July 22,1943 till end of the War)
President-Filipino Musicians Union
Chairman-Federation of Shanghai Musicia
ans
Band Director: M.K.M.Ballroom
Paradise Ballroom
Metropole Ballroom
Paramount Ballroom
Former President-Shanghai Musicians
Association
Evaluation F-6.
Pablo Molina: The following signed statement was made by Pablo
LMolina, on 23 October 1945:
Shanghai, Oct.23,1945.
"I, P.Molina, make this statement of my owm free will.
Son? time in April 1945 J. Contreras engaged me in conversation
at our p ce of employment. He said:"America has promised the
Philippires independence for many years and fooled the Filipinos.
Now the Japanese have given us independence so what more do we want?"
SECRET

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
JOSE CONTRERAS (Continued).
When this same Contreras was organizing concerts for the
Japanese he said in public: "If you boys refuse to entertain
the Japanese and refuse to go with me you will get into trouble.
I don't know what will happen to you."
In October, 1945, I was reading a newspaper story of Dr.
"vangeliota's experiences under the Japanese. Contreras spoke
to me and I asked him if the Americans had asked him any quest-
ions about it. He said: "Yes, they ask me questions but after
questions they will say that Contreras is very smart and clever.
I can bully them. I knew how to get in and I know how to get out.
I am like Laurel, I know what to do to keep out of trouble."
In September, 1945, B.Constantino stated to me:
"I'm not worried about the mericans I've only been cooperat-
ing with the Japanese for a few months while Contreras has been
cooperating: for three years. If Contreras goes to jail for three
years I'll only be in jail a few months for this."
About a year ago Contreras said to me: "Why don't you
Filipinos cooperate us officials, after all, even if the Americans
come back we are only small fry and they will not punish us."
(Signed): PABLO MOLINA.
Bvaluation C-3.
Z.Aranas made the following signed statement regarding Contreras:
Shanghai, Oct.25, 1945.
"I, Z.Aranas, make this statement of my own free will.
In February or March 1943 J. Contreras came to my place of
employment with two Japanese and informed me that he was staging
a benefit performance for the Japanese at ueen's Theater, He
asked me to order some of my musicians, among them A.Mateos and
S.Abundo, to take part. I refused to do this and these two
men refused to appear. Contreras said that the show would be
sponsored by the Japanese so I as a bandleader should compel
my men to take part.
Some time later Jose Alindada called me to a meeting
of bandleaders at his home. Present were Alindada, Contreres,
SECRET

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
JOSE CONTRERAS (Continued).
Constantino, L.Samson, Victor Tulio, Tony Diaz and othere. Dr.
Kalambakal outlined his plan to form an association and said
that he was acting under Japanese orders.
Contreras said to Kalambakal: "If I were to choose between
the Japanese and the Americans, I will go for the Japanese because
they are Asiatic."
Before the close of the meeting I antioned the case of
bundo who had been arrested the night before (that was why I
went to the meeting to ask Kalambakal to help him). In conclusion
I told those assembled "Let us not be stoolpigeons for the Japs."
Contreras took offensec at this and asked if I referred to him,
denying that he was a stool-pigeon and had had anything to do with
bundo's arrest."
(Signed): Z. ARANAS
118/27 Rte.Des Soeurs.
valuation C-3.
P.Vila offered the following signed statement regarding the Subject:
Shanghai, 0ct. 24, 1945.
"I, Porfirio Vila, make this statement of my own free will.
In early 1944 I met J.Contreras an the street and he said to
me: "I saw the list of guys to be arrested and your name was among
them. The Japs asked me about you and I told them you were all right.
I said you concentrated on ycur music and didn't talk politics."
Demetrio Valdevarona told me before the registration: "It's
about time you changed your ideas. The Americans are not coming
back here." Valdevarona also threatened me with arrest ar punishment
by the Japanese if I did not attend the Lido meeting.
After the war was over Contreras asked me to vouch for his
good qualities if there was an investigation of his activities.
I refused to do this.
hen I failed to attend the Lido meeting Jose Alindada said to
me: "You didn't go, you're as good as in jail."
(Signed): PROFIRIO P. VILA,
1220 House 57 Avenue Rd. #13
Evaluation C-3.
SEGRET

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
JOSE CONTRERAS (Continued).
Jose Canlas offered the following statement regarding Contreres:
Oct. 20, 1945.
"Some time in Februasy 1942, Contreras and some other
Filipinos among them I was one, said: "Although I was edu-
cated in an American way and have learned American music, as
an Criental, I will stay on the side of the Japanese."
I declared the above statement true to the best of my
memory as statement said by Contreras heard by me."
(Signed): JCSE CANLAS.
Evaluation C-3.
The following are excerpts from a signed statement made on
21st October 1945 by Apolonio Crden.
" Mr.Jose C.Contreras: After Dr.Kalambakal's departure, he left
another menace in the person of Jose C.Contreras who insisted
that by virtue of Dr.kalambakal's appointment he was the head
of our community. fter a Director's Meeting on August 22, 1943,
in his house, he mentioned to r.Claro Asuncion and me, that he
would have a book in which he would register every important
statement made by any Filipino, noting down the date and time
when and the place where said statement was made so that the
marked person could not deny the statement before the authorities.
I whispered to myself, "Dr.Kalambakal is gone but this individual
may even be worse. How would we Filipinos fare along with this
eyes and ears of the Jap authorities?" He being very intimate with
Messrs. Motomura and Takeda, under what condition could we live?
During the registration under the order of the Japanese Consulate
in November 1943, of  ilipinos at the Cathedral School, all those
registered were required to approach l.r.Contreras in order to
receive his blessing in his capacity as leader of the people. At
the Filipino Community Board meeting held in October 1943, he
stated that he telegraphed President Jose P.Laurel to the effect
that 90% of the local Filipinos were getting relief, 50% signed
for repatriation, 48% of which were not really anxious to go, and
30% jobless. He was probably contemplating to get the relief Ion
through the Jap sources. Sometime last summer this year, he issued
a challenge at the Pacific Gardens and when Battling Dundee (a
boxer, Pangan by name) took the challenge he climbed down. Pangan
arked him why he stopped the loan issued by the Swiss Consulate
and he answered that Messrs. lindada and Tony Diaz persuaded him
to do so. ho prevailed upon the Japanese authorities to compel
the Swiss Consulate to discontinue the relief loan? He was appointed
SECRET

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 10
JUS CONTRERAS (Continued).
by the Japanese Consulate as Vice-Chairman to take charge
of a certain relief loan that did not materialise. Rumours
had it that the enormouse sum of money was already in his
chest at home ready for distribution at over $100,000,per
person. Under his leadership and the opposition put up by
the F.M.U. and the so-called Filipino Community, his Filipino
Association died a natural death."
"REGISTRATION IN NOVEMBER 1943: On arrival at the Cathedral
School, I found Lessrs. Uy and Contreras wielding the batons,
while the other green-banded honourables were Vincente Z.
Casino, V.D.Alobag, ClaroASuncion and Lamson."
(Signed): APOLONIO ORDEN.
valuation C-3.
The following is an excerpt from a signed statement made by
Ramon V.Joquico on 18th October 1945:
"......bedalm broke loose, many fellows both anti and pro
Kalambakal clamored at the same time for the right to speak.
Finally order was restored and the meeting proceeded, but at
this point my memory seems to be a blank regarding what followed.
I am not sure whether at this juncture Mr.Jose Contreras obtained
the floor and harangued the audience to the effect that being
orientals the Filipinos should forget the past and thenceforth
assimilate oriental culture. He said that although he himself
was wearing accidental clothes, yet he was an oriental in his
sentiments. He also dared any one among the Filipinos present
to stand up and declare himself pro american. (He spoke in English!)"
(Signed): RAMON V.JOQUICO.
valuation C-3.
Apolonio Crden claims to have written a statement concerning
Shanghai Filipinos on January 22, 1943. An excerpt from this
statement pertaining to Contreras follows:
" The other man is another Jose surnamed Contreras, bandleader
of New Paradise and Mee Koo May Ballrooms on Yu Ya Ching Road.
This individual compelled his men to play on performances and
concerts at Hongkew, Cathay Hotel and Grand Theater. He threatened
a certain nrique Fernando that the gerdame would invertigate him
if he would not allow his children to dance at a certain performance.
SECRET

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 11.
JOSE CONTRERAS (Continued).
Messrs.Suplicio Abundo and Elfredo Mateos on December 18th,
1942, were questioned by the endarme for their refusal to play
for Contreras on a concert. The most recent affair arranged
by him was the participation of a 40-person orchestra at the
Greater East Asia Coneert held at the Queen's Theatre on
January 8th, 1943. The audience who attended the concert were
of the class unable to distinguish a folk song from the mystic
hant of the Ganges or the fugue from a cacophony. Although
Contreras and his men were paid, their efforts sadly failed to
attract the admiration of the crowd.The children of Messrs.
Jose Contreras, Apolo Arevalo, Isidro Monserate, Mariano Nano,
Jose Nanas, Lanuel Veloso, Pablo Molina and Puring del Rosario,
i.e. five poys and five girls, danced the carinosa on the occa-
sion. Jose Contreras is ambitious, draws a good income, labours
under the impression that he is a born ieader, crazy about popula-
rity and seeks a powerful backing. The other Jose has the same
aim, but although equipped with glib tongue, he is very far from
being a good musician.
(Signed): APOLONIO ORDEN.
valuation D-3.
The following are excerpts from a signed statement made on
28 October 1945 by A.Y.Celis:
FILIPINO MUSICIANS UNION
versus
FILIPINO ASSCCIATION
" On April 17th, 1942 a reliminary Meeting was held in my
house in response to the complaints of many musicians regarding
compulsion under threat to join the Filipino Association and to
play at the  idnight Ball scheduled to take place at the Paradise
Ballroom on April 25th, 1942. In the evening of pril 17th Mr.
Jose c.Contreras asked me to explain why I was forming another
organization against the Filipino Association which was already
formed for the whole Filipino Commnnity under the protection of
the Japanese. Mr.Contreras accused me of persuading the musicians
not to play at the proposed Midnight Ball which affair was can-
celled owing to a telephone call received by the Central Police
Station advising them that trouble would accur if the ball was
held. Congequently the affair was cancelled. The Filipino Musicians
Union was formally inaugurated on May 1st, 1942, and in the evening
of May l2th I was assaulted by Lessrs. Alfonzo Navarro and Contre-
ras and dismissed from work by kr.Contreras immediately. F.M.U.
members increased inspite of Lr.Contreras' instructions to all
musicians not to join this pro-American organization, the F.M.U."
SECRET

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 12.
SECRET
JOSE CONTRERAS (Continued).
ACCUSATIONS AGAINST ME.
" On May 3lst, 1943, Dr.Kalambakal, together with his
pro-Japanese clique, Messts.Contreras, Alobog, Alindada and
Constantino reported to the authorities to have me arrested.
I was summoned at the Central Police Station where I found
myself before said clique. ith the inspector-in-charge of
the crime branch presiding, the aforementioned honourables
fired the following accusations against me:-
1. kr.Contreras accused me of heading a ppo-American Organi-
zation, He begged the presiding Jap to dissolve the F.M..
or bring our Union under the control of the Filipino Asso-
ciation on the following grounds:-
(a) The F...U. was financially supported by the Americans
through the Swiss Consulate.
(b) Between the lines of the Hules of the F.M.U. could be in-
fermed merican propaganda.
(c) The F..U. was epposed to the pro-Japanese aims of the
Filipino Association (Lipunang Pilipino).
(d) Lr.Celis' failure to instruct the F.M.U. members to
join the Filipino Association.
2. Ir.Contreras stated that I was receiving a fabulous amount
as relief loan from the Swiss Consulate.
3. Dr.Kalambakal alleged that I branded the bandleaders present
"CROOKS".
4. lar.Benny Constantino seconded Dr.Kalambakal's accusation.
5.
Mr.V.D.Alobog stated that I said to him by phone that I would
not return his trophy because the Americans would be coming
back within three months and the S.V.C. would be re-organised.
6. Ir.J.M.Alindada said that the F. .U. had done nothing but
softball and therefore should not exist."
IHAUGURNTION OF PHILIPIIIE INDEPENDENCE.
(n (ctober 10th, 1943, lr.Contreras, as Acting President of
the Filipino Association, took charge personally of everything
pertaining to the parade and ceremony at the Race Course in the
morning, while kr.Conrado ..Uy and V.Z.Casino, together with V.D.
Alobog as chairman of the Reception Committee, made all necessary
arrangements including financial matters, at the Cathay Hotel in
the afternoon. The Minutes of the Meeting written by Lorenzo
Eugenio on Lee Keg May letterhead and the Memorandum in the hand-
writing of Mr.Contreras, written in green ink testiy to all of
his efforts to make the day a complete success. Mr.Orden and I
raised the Filipino flag and I explained its symbol. Mr.Orden
spoke on the same tenour at the Cathay Hotel in the afternoon."
SECRET

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 13
JOSE CONTRERAS (Continued).
DEPARTURE OF DR.KALAMBAKAL.
" To bury the diseased body of the Filipino Association,
its Board of Directors lead by the writer, resigned on block
on announcement that Dr.Kalambakal is leaving Shanghai. This
doctor was pleased to received our resignation for he saw a
loyalist in the person of Mr.Jose C.Contreras, an heir to his
lofty aims and pro-Japanese ideals.
REGISTRATICN AT THE CATHEDRAL SCHOOL IN NOV. 1943.
The same party, essrs.Uy, Contreras, Casino, Alobog,
Asuncion and Lamson, with their colorful green arm band, took
charge of the registration, persuading our people to pledge
allegiance to the Philippine Republic by answering YES.
SECOND SUI. CN BY THE POLICE CN MONDAY, FebruarY 28,1944.
On Friday evening, February 25th, 1944, a Jap detective
ordered me to report at the Central Police Station on the follow-
ing Monday. On arrival at the station on the latter date, the
Japanese Inspector in charge cross-examined me on complaints
about my activities. The charges against me were exactly the
same as the accusations fired by Messrs.Kalambakal, Contreras,
Alobog, lindada and Constantino on May 31st, 1943. The Japanese
Police officer in his statement recognising me as a good commu-
nity leader advised me to cooperate and be in good terms with
Lessrs.Uy, and Contreras, and join their Filipino Community Board.
I promised to do so provided that the self-appointed committee
would be accepted by the Filipino Community and work for the
welfare of our people. (n my return home at noon I was surprised
to learn of the arrest of some Filipinos.
APPOINTMENT AND RESIGNATION AS VICE-CHAIRLAN OF RELIEF COMMITTEE
n written notification from Mr.Casino I went to see the
Japanese Vice Consul, r.Hayasida, who advised me that in accor-
dance with the meeting of Consular staff, it was agreed that Mr.
Uy, Contreras and myself were appointed Chairman and Vice Chairman
respectively of a Relief Committee to assist the Filipinos. Mr.
Hayasida informed me that he had already interviewed Messrs.Uy and
Contreras and they had signified their willingness to serve in the
committee. Mr.Hayasida made me understand esficifically that the
relief loan from the Swiss Consulate would be discontinued. After
about half an hour's hesitation, I promised to do my best. On
reaching home, I drafted and forwarded a letter of resignation,
copy of which is attached hereto. Messrs.Uy and Contreras still
persuaded me to withdraw my resignation but on being adamant, Mr.
Benny Constantino took my post as Vice-Chairman. In accordance with
circular letter of the Japanese Consulate No.22 dated November 22,
1944, I was asked twice by Mr.Constantino to report at the Japanese
Consulate, but to date I have NOT done so.
SECRET

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
JOSE CONTRERAS (Continued).
CANDIDACY OF MR.CONTRERAS AS F.M.U.PRESIDENT.
During the election in March 1944, Mr.Contreras in
presenting his candidacy as President, promised bigger
relief to all Filipinos through benefit dances, concerts
and midnight balls whose permits he could easily secure
from the Japanese authorities or relief from the government
of the Philippine Republic. He failed miseraly in this
election because the voters were well aware of his empty
promises. In March 1945 F.L.U. election he succeeded because
of his promise to increase the salary of musicians and give
up POLITICS. (Mhat does he mean by this word?)"
(Signed): A.Y.CELIS
Cct.28,1945.
Shanghai, China.
Evaluation C-3.
Dr.H.Evangeiista, pro- merican Filipino, on 31 Cctober 1945
made the following signed statement regarding Contreras:
"Re J.Contreras. Contreras vas one of the organizer and
Director of the Filipino Association, later becoming its
Fresident. He and his wife were both very active in all the
pro-Jap activities of the Association. They entertained Jap
soldiers, sponsored benefit shows to ais funds for the Jap
army. Contreras compelled and intimidated that any Filipino
who refuse to cooperate with him or to Japs may lose his job.
He gave speeches in gatherings and spoke through the Radio
advocating Jap. cooperations. He was one of the organizer of
the Filipino Independence parade and Reception at the Cathay
Hotel. He was one of the acting official wearing a green arm-
band at the time of the registration of the Filipinos at the
Church House. He and his wife gave up allegiance to U.S.A. by
signifying their allegiance to the bogus Philippine Republic.
In one of his conversations here at the U.S.n.Liaison office
to the investigator, he said that Tria told him that when Tria
went once to the Louza Police Station he saw Celis waiting
downstairs at the folice Station while Tria went up to see a
Policc officer, and on his desk he saw a sheet of paper where
he saw written the name of vangelista, ateos and Espino; he
dould not see the midcle part as there was another paper covering
it, but at the bottom he saw the signature of A.Y.Celis. This
he continued, I would not like to include in my signed statement
today beaause I do not want to implicate either Celis or Tria.
SECRET

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 15
JO CONTRERAS (Continued).
He also said that I told him "what is this that you are
sticking in my mouth" because he told to me at the time of
registration at the church house that I must take a member-
ship card from the Filipino Assn. and it will be a counter-
signed by the Japanese Consul."
(Signed): H.EVANGELISTA.
valuation C-3.
P.c.Espino, pro-.merican Filipino, made the folloving signed
stetement regarding Contreras:
"Pro Japanese to the bones. Loves publicity. One time president
of the Filipino Association. Made speeches and wrote articles
in Local Japanese and Chinese papers denouncing the allies and
championing the Greater East Asia movement under the leadership
of Japan. Pleaded for greater cooperation of Asiatics for the
successful prosecution of the war. Formed public musical concerts
the proceeds of which vere donated to the Japanese military.
Entertained Japanese barracks with Filipino band. Sponsored all
pro Japanese movements and demonstrations. Terrorized pro American
Filipinos. Frequently seen with Japanese Gendameries. One of the
quent surrendering of many Filipinos• allegiance to U.S. One of
the men responsible for the arrest and imprisonment of some pro
merican Filipinos."
(Signed): P.C.ESPINO.
valuation F-6.
The Subject, Jose Contreras, Was in possession of a number
of valuable documents relating to Filipino affairs. These in-
cluded petitions anc resolutions to Premier Tojo and Jorge Vargas
and the constitution of the Lipunang Pilipino all of which con-
tained incriminating passages and which Contreras did not sigh
though appropriate blanks for his signature as director were pro-
vided. Jince he was in possession of these documents the absence
of his signature was easy to conceal. He did swear allegiance to
the puppet Philippines government.
Contreras did affix his signature to the rolls of the Fili-
pino Association--which association sent incriminating resolutions
to Fremier Tojo and others. The Subject also signed petitions sent
to the Japanese Consulate General, Shanghai, and the Officer in
Charge of nemy property, Shanghai, which contained the following
passage:
"We, the undersigned, Filipino residents of Shanghai, pledging
our support in the establishment of the Greater East Asia Co-Pros-
perity Sphere, would ask your kind favor to help us in our present
problem."
Evaluation A-1.
SECRT

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
S E C R E T
Page 16
JOS CONTRERAS (Continued).
Attached to the office copy of this report are photographs
showing Contreras' present at Japanese celebrations, dinners and
concerts as a performer, speaker or spectator.
Evaluation A-1.
SECRET

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 1.
SECRET
15 November, 1945,
SHANGHAI.
TERSO CRUZ
The following signed statement was made 22 October,
1945, by the SUBJECT:
"In March 1943 I went to AMERICAN SCHOOL with
KALANBAKAL, NAVARRO, VALDEVARONA. and F. SALVADOR.
My cousin, A. ROSETE, was at that time in Japanese
custody.
When we arrived there a Japanese told me: "If
you want your cousin to come out you had better sign
this paper. You just tell that DR. EVANGELISTA is
pro-American and that he is a very bad man."
VALDEVARONA spoke up and said EVANGELISTA is a
spy and a crook.
SALVADOR, NAVARRO, VALDEVARONA and myself signed
the paper.
My cousin was released in a few days.
Signed: T. CRUZ."
(Note: It appears that the paper signed was a record
of the conversations and answers to questions)
EVALUATION: C-3.
DR. H. EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipino leader
made the following signed statement 14 November, 1945:
"Re: T. CRUZ: A pro-Jap and member of the Jap
sponsorred FILIPINO ASSOCIATION; supporter of
KALAMBAKAL, NAVARRO, UY, TRIA, CONTRERAS and CELIS,
pro-Jap leaders here in Shanghai. CRUZ is one of
the complainants to the Jap. Gendarmerie for the
first arrest of some pro-American Filipinos here in
Shanghai; he signed petitions and resolutions
addressed to Gen. TOJO and to LAUREL'S puppet Republic;
participated at the Independence Parade on Oct. 14,
1943 and at ceremony at the RACE COURSE; signified
allegiance (Yes-man) to LAUREL'S GOVERNMENT. He is
opium smoker.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
EVALUATION: C-3
SECRET

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2.
SECRET
TERSO CRUZ
The following is an extract taken from a signed statement
made 17 October, 1945, by JOSE CANLAS concerning his arrest
19 March, 1943:
"One week after my arrest, I was taken out of my
cell and was taken into a room and asked me the following
questions: "Do I love my Country, I said yes; Do I like
the Americans, I said yes, and then HIRANO punched me in
the face several times.
Then he read a list of names and asked if I knew them.
Included were KALANBAKAL (yes), ALFONSO NAVARRO (yes),
DEMTRIO VALDEVARONA (yeS) FRANCISCO SALVADOR (yeS) T. CRUZ
(yes). All of these except SALVADOR I had heard were
cooperating with the Japs.
HIRANO then read me an affidavit signed by these men
accusing me of being anti-Japanese, an American propagan-
dist and an American spy. Though, in substance, this
was true I denied it.  I was beaten and forced to kneel
with a piece of wood thrust behind my knees.
They asked me if I received instructions from DR.
EVANGELISTA and asked for information concerning him
and ESPINO. I replied that I did not know anything.
Twice they asked me if I would continue to go around
town and I replied yes, it was necessary to my business.
He asked me if I didn't get paid by DR. EVANGELISTA and
if DR. E. didn't get paid by the Americans. I said no
and was slapped. He then asked if DR. E. had told me to
tell the boys in the orchestra not to sign up on the side
of the Japs. I said no. Slapped again.
HIRANO then asked me if I wanted to cooperate with
the Japanese. I said that I would accept any job.
(However I did not cooperate and did not work for them).
I was then removed to a cell ......"
EVALUATION: C-3.
The subject on 18 - 19 November, 1943, answered "Yes"
and swore allegiance to the puppet Government of the
Philippines.
On 14 October, 1945, he took part in a parade and
ceremonies celebrating the independence of the puppet
Philippines regime.
SECRET

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3.
SECRET
TERSO CRUZ
On 19 May, 1943, he signed the Rolls of the LIPUNANG
PILIPINO, which bound him to uphold the Constitution,
Article II, Sections (d) and (e) of which read:
"(d) To co-operate with the Philippine Government
in the pursuance of our political emancipation
under the guidance of Japan.
(e) To pledge our determination to co-operate whole-
heartedly with the Japanese and Chinese Govern-
ments and other Asiatic countries in the success-
ful establishment of the Greater East Asia Co-
Prosperity Sphere."
EVALUATION: A-1.
a
On 15 June, 1943, the subject signed/petitions addressed
to the Office in Charge of Enemy Property, which petition
contained the following sentence:
"Dear Sirs: We, the undersigned, Filipino residents
of Shanghai, pledging our support in the establishment
of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, would
ask your kind favour to help us in our present problem."
EVALUATION: A-1.
The following is an extract from a signed statement
made by A. ROSETE on 25 October, 1945, telling of his
arrest by the Japanese on 17 March, 1943:
"About a few days after, I was taken out of my
cell and brought to a room where I saw DR. KALAMBAKAL,
D. BALDEVARONA, A. NAVARRO, F. SALVADOR, T. CRUZ and
the Jap investigator, all sitting around a big round
table.
BALDEVARONA brought out Dr. EVANGELISTA'S picture in
military uniform and said. "Here is your American Chief's
picture." I answered, "He is our Chief." Then A.
NAVARRO told me that they came there because they wanted
to take me out of jail on condition that I must tell the
Jap that I have been telling DR. EVANGELISTA news about
Japanese and Filipinos in Shanghai and that I do not co-
operate with the Japanese because the Americans will come
back.
SECRET

=== Page 142 === (confidence 1.00)
Page
SECRET
TERSO CRUZ
I was wondering what their intention was for they
were forcing me to say the above statement. As the
above conversation was in Tagalog, the Jap told us
that we should talk in English. I was silent all the
while because I was thinking what to say. Then the
Jap toId me to say all what I know about DR. EVANGELISTA.
I kept quiet. Then A. NAVARRO told me that if I would
not say what they wanted me to say to the Japanese, I
could not come out of jail. The Jap told me that he
must investigate me again.A. NAVARRO and his gang left
telling me not to forget what they told me to say so
that I could be released. I did not answer him for I
knew that if I tell what he told me to say, since it was
not true, it might bring trouble to DR. EVANGELISTA and
myself also.
I was investigated again, but by another investigator
but the same interpreter. They cross-examined me and
they were kinder this time, but I did not trust them.
I told the investigator that I did not like what the five
Filipinos were teaching me to say because by that way I
am a spy. The investigator said that NAVARRO and his
gang told the Jap that I am not a good man. I answered
that they are the ones who are bad because they are
smokers of heroine. The investigator look at me and
shook his head. He talked to the interpreter in Japanese
I was returned to my cell."
EVALUATION: C-3.
SECRET

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Shangha1, 15 Nevember, 194
W. CRUZ
Details:
The follewing is a signed statement made 7 November,
1945, by the subject:
"I, W. CRUZ, signed yes to the question
of allegiance of the Laurel government
because I had pistol bullets in my safe
deposit box at the Chase Bank and I was
afraid of the Japanese.
I signed my name to two petitions to
the Japanese. I cannot remember why I signed
these."
signed: W. CRUZ
EVALUAT1ON: F-6
The following is a signed statement made 14 November,
1945, by Dr. H. C. Evangelista, pro-American Filipine who
suffered imprisonment at the hands of the Japanese:
"Re: W. Cruz:
Of all the Filipinos that cooperated to
the Japs and gave comfort parcels to the Jap
soldiers, Cruz, was probably one amongst the
firet if not the firet. He was onee married
to a Jap woman and has daughter now about 15
yrs. of age and educated in Jap school. He
1s a pro-Jap; member of the Jap sponsorred
Filipino Association; attended gatherings of
pro-Jap Filipinos and a very active supporter
of Kalambakal, Tria, Uy, Contreras and Asuncion,
pro-Jap leaders here in Shanghai; played in
concerts for Jap soldiers; signed petitions
and resolutions addressed to Gen. Tojo and to
Laurel's Republic. He participated at the
Independence Parade and ceremony at the Race
Course on Oct. 14, 1943 and signified allegiance
(Yes-man) to Laurel's puppet Republic."
signed: H.C. EVANGELISTA
EVALUATION C-3
SECRET

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
SEGRET
Page 2.
Shangha1, 15 November, 1945
W. CRUZ
The subject en 18-19 November, 1943, answered "Yes"
and swore allegianee to the puppet Government of the Philippimes.
On 15 June, 1943, he signed petitions addressed to the Japanese
Consulate-General, an office in charge of enemy property, which
petitions contain the following sentence:
"we, the undersigned, Filipino residents of
Shanghai, pledging our support in the estab-
lishment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere, would ask your kind favour to help us
in our present problem."
EVALUATION A-1
SECRET

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 1.
SECRET
16 November, 1945,
SHANGHAI.
I. DIZON
(360 AVENUE DU ROI ALBERT, HOUSE 1)
The following is a signed statement made by the SUBJECT
on 3 November, 1945:
"Dear Sir:
With regard to information concerning MR. CONRADO
UY, all what I know is that I heard him giving a speech
over the radio against the United States government.
I know that he used to go quite often to the Japanese
Consulate, but what they talked about I have no idea.
DR. KALAMBAKALL and MR. CONRADO UY formed a new
organization called the LIPUNAN FILIPINO. The first
time a meeting was called, only a few Filipinos attended.
Because of this, DR. KALAMBAKALL and MR. CONRADO UY
threatened to put the Filipinos in jail in the AMERICAN
SCHOOL. This news scattered around. A second meeting
was called and this time all the Filipinos turned up.
When I attended these meetings, it was known that
the society would be called the FILÍPINOS RESIDENTS
ASSOCIATION. A paper was given to us in which we had
to sign our names for membership. Most of us signed
our names, but we later found out that the association
was not the FILIPINO RESIDENTS ASSOCIATION but the
LIPUNAN FILIPINO, a Pro-Japanese Society.
The meeting was held at the LIDO BALLROOM.
DR. KALAMBAKALL was elected by the Filipinos as the
President of the LIPUNAN FILIPINO.
This election was
forced. We Filipinos, were threatened that the
Japanese would put us in jail, and besides DON JOSE
(JOSE ALINDADA) shouted to his musi c ians that "all the
LIDO boys turn to the right" so all were compelled to
SECRET

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2.
SECRET
I. DIZON
stand up. This was how finally, DR. KALAMBAKALL
was elected as President.
A few months after this, DR. KALAMBAKALL was
supposed to return to the Philippines. He turned
all his responsibilities to MR. JOSE CONTRERAS as
the acting chairman. Since MR. CONTRERAS was
chairman of this association, he never asked for a
meeting or anything concerning the association, for
reasons which I don't know.
I know that MR. CONTRERAS used to visit the
Japanese Consulate quite often for purposes which I
do not know. I have worked for him for about six
years, and I have found him to be a man who never
tells of his activities.
As I have no interest whatsoever in politics, this
is all what I can tell you.
Yours truly,
Signed:
I. DIZON."
Signed: A. C. PINDER (Signed)
EVALUATION: F-6.
According to a signed statement made on 15 October,
1945 by R. V. JOQUICO, the SUBJECT acted as a spy and
informer for one JOSE CONTRERAS, who was influencing
Filipinos to cooperate with the Japanese.
EVALUATION: F-6.
The following signed statement was made on 15 Nov.,
1945 by DR. H. EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipino leader
who suffered imprisonment in the hands of the Japanese:
"Re: I. DIZON: Member of the Jap sponsorred
Filipino Association; bodyguard and supporter
of CONTRERAS. DIZON gave full support to all
the activities of the pro-Jap Filipinos, such
as entertaining Japanese wounded soldiers;
playing at benefit shows to raise funds to buy
aeroplane for the Japs; give concert and furnish
music for the benefit of the Jap RED CROSS; par-
ticipated at Independence Parade and Ceremony on
Oct. 14, 1943 and attended all meetings and
gatherings of pro-Jap Filipinos. His close asso-
ciateS are, ALINDADA, CONTRERAS, UY, ASUNCION,
SECRETV

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3.
SECRET
I. DIZON
ALOBOG and CELIS.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
EVALUATION: C-3.
The SUBJECT on 19 May, 1943, signed the Rolls of the
LIPUNANG PILIPINO, binding himself to uphold the Constitu-
tion, Article II, Sections (d) and (e) of which read:
"(d) to co-operate with the Philippine Government
in the pursuance of our political emancipation
under the guidance of Japan.
(e) To pledge our determination to co-operate whole-
heartedly with the Japanese and Chinese Govern-
ments and other Asiatic countries in the success-
ful establishment of the Greater East Asia Co-
Prosperity Sphere."
EVALUATION: A-1.
The SUBJECT on 15 June, 1943 affixed his signature to
petitions addressed to the Japanese Consulate-General and
the Office in Charge of Enemy Property, which petitions
contained the following sentence:
"Dear Sirs, We, the undersigned, Filipino residents
of Shanghai, pledging our support in the establish-
ment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere,
would ask your kind favour to help us in our pre-
sent problem."
EVALUATION: C-3.
SECRET

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 1.
SECRET
16 November, 1945,
SHANGHAI.
R. DIZON
(LANE 281. ROUTE VALLON. HOUSE 4)
The following signed statements were made by the
SUBJECT on 3 November, 1945:
"I, RICARDO B. DIZON, do hereby make the following
statement of my own free will:
That J. ALINDADA,who was at that time my band-
leader, convinced his musicians to vote for KALAMBACAL
for the presidency of the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION for the
simple reason that KALAMBACAL was very influential to
the Japanese and whatever he asked the Japanese will
be granted.
ALINDADA is a staunch supporter of
KALAMBAKAL. I have heard him say at a certain time
while we were having our dinner (all his musicians to-
gether), "Why should we like the Americans since we
are orientals and they discriminate and insult us?"
That before the concert at the QUEEN'S theater (I
could not remember the date) two Japanese whom I believed
to be of high rank in the Japanese government service,
came to interview him at LIDO'S BALLROOM. After the
Japs left, he came to us and told us that the Japs re-
cognized only two Filipino big shots and he referred to
himself as one.
That JOQUICO and SaMpER used to voice their dis-
satisfaction with the SWISS CONSULATE regarding the
granting of loans to the Filipinos. SAMPER has especially
told me of his hatred of DR. EVANGELISTA and ESPINO.
That MADRASO, a very close friend of C. UY, has told
others that he knew beforehand that DR. EVANGELISTA would
be arrested by the Japanese. After the arrest of DR.
EVANGELISTA and his gang, he told methat the Japanese are
punishing them severely, inflicting all conceivable tor-
tures. He told this in a conversation with me at the
CANIDROME.
He is known to be a staunch supporter of the
Japanese.
SECRET

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2.
SEC RET
R. DIZON
UY, widely known to be the father of the FILIPINO
ASSOCIATION, cooperated with KALAMBACAL and threatened
all Filipinos of arrest by the Japanese if they refused
to be members of the said Association. I believe that
he was the head of the gang that had six pro-American
leaders arrested. He is known as an arch-anti-American
judging from his speeches and articles in the CLARIoN
and in the SHANGHAI TIMES. UY has tried his best to
make the Japs authorities to put the NO-MEN in camp. UY
induced the police not to issue resident certificates to
Filipinos unless they produce membership card with the
said association, but after a considerable argument be-
tween CANLAS and the police, the latter phoned the CENTRAL
POLICE STATION who finally consented to issue resident
certificates. UY has also said that he would have the
Japanese authorities stop all food rationing to Filipinos
unless they are members of the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION.
That CONTRERAS became the president of the FILIPINO
ASSOCIATION after KALAMBACAL left Shanghai. He presided
in all the meetings and delivered speeches also in the
presence of some Japanese. CONTRERAS called a meeting
in his house few days before the independence celebrations.
Among those present were SALES, E. LORENZO, and others.
That I used to have an argument with LEON MALABANAN
and in the argument he praised the Japanese and upheld
their ideals thus exposing his anti-Americanism. He
once made a coment and betted that some Filipinos would
be arrested by the Japanese.
That in my several conversations with M. CADA, he made
several statement of his pro-Japanism, praising the
superiority of the Japs in military tactics, their power,
their patriotism, and their discipline. In our dis-
cussion, he exposed his hatred to America and to DR. EVAN-
GELISTA. I made a comment that why should he hate
America if he hated DR. EVANGELISTA, since there is no
connection between DR. EVANGELISTA and America.
I took part in only two concerts because I was forced
by J. ALINDADA, Once at the JAPANESE NAVAL HOSPITAL and the
next was at the QUEEN'S THEATRE. We were paid for the
concert at the QUEEN'S THEATRE, but only very little. We
believed that J. ALINDADA pocketed a great portion of the
money. I know him to be very proficient in this.
SECRET

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3.
SECRET
R. DIZON
With regard to my membership as one of the directors
of the LIPUNANG FILIPINO, I wish to state that my name
was suggested by J. ALINDADA who induced me to accept
such position as he thought that it was another way for
me to make a name. I answered him that I did not want
to be a director and I refused to accept the position.
Signed: R. B. DIZON."
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA (Witness)
Signed: P. C. ESPINO
(Witness)
"I also played at CATHAY HOTEL for Jap RED CROSS
benefit at invitation of JOSE ALINDADA. The sponsors
were Chinese."
Signed: R. B. DIZON."
EVALUATION: C-3.
The following signed statement was made 15 November,
1945 by DR. H. EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipino leader,
who suffered arrest in the hands of the Japanese:
"Re: R. DIZON: Member and Director of the Jap
sponsored FILIPINO ASSOCIATION; supporter and loud
speaker of CONTRERAS, UY, ASUNCION and other pro-Jap
Filipino leaders here in Shanghai. His close associates
are CONTRERAS, JOQUICO, F. SAMPER, ALINDADA and UY. He
signed petition and resolutions addressed to the enemy,
pledging support and cooperations. He participated at
the Philippine Independence Parade and Ceremony at the
RACE COURSE on Oct. 14, 1943; played in concerts and
benefit shows for Jap soldiers.
DIZON claimed that MADRASO told him that I was going
to be arrested by the Jap Gendarmerie many days before
I was arrested.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
EVALUATION: C-3.
The SUBJECT on 15 June, 1943, signed petitions addressed
to the Japanese Consulate-General and the Office in Charge of
Enemy Property, which petitions contained the following sen-
tence:
SFGRET

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 4.
SECRET
R. DIZON
"Dear Sirs: We, the undersigned, Filipino residents
of Shanghai, pledging our support in the establishment
of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, would ask
your kind favour to help us in our present problem."
EVALUATION: A-1.
On 19 May, 1943, the SUBJECT signed the Rolls of the
LIPUNANG PILIPINO, binding himself to uphold its Con-
stitution, Article II, Sections (d) and (e) of which read:
"(d) To co-operate with the Philippine Government
in the pursuance of our political emancipation
under the guidance of Japan.
(e) To pledge our determinationto co-operate whole-
heartedly with the Japanese and Chinese Govern-
ments and other Asiatic countries in the success-
ful establishment of the Greater East Asia Co-
Prosperity Sphere."
EVALUATION: A-1.
SECRET

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 1
Shanghai, 15 November, 1
ALFREDO FIGUEROA
Details:
The following signed statements were made November 10,
1945, by the subject:
"I, ALFREDO FIGUEROA had sign Yes, because of my
family. My wife is a Japanese and I have two
children. As I know that Japanese militarist are
very cruel so I dont want to have any trouble with
them.
I had been in three or four meetings which I forgot
the date. The speaker were Dr. KALANGBAKAL and C. UY.
They were trying to unite the Filipinos here in
Shanghai.
I participated in the parade of the Independence
which Mr. CASINO was the speaker. According to Mr.
CASINO'S speech that the U.S.A. had prom1se Independ-
ence to P.I. which they did not fulfill. Mr. C. UY
had the same speech in one of the meeting in Lido
Rallroom."
S1gned: ALFREDO FIGUEROA
"P.s. mollowing names are listed behind the music
sheet. I wrote it just for fun, in fact I did not
hide it but showed it to my fellow musician:
Dr. EVANGELISTA
SPINO
JAVIER
CRUZ
VILLA
RULL E. NICHOLAS."
Signed: ALFREDO FIGUEROA
(N.B. The P.S. referred to above refers to a list of
Filipinos made by the subject which branded certain Filipinos,
some arrested and some free, as criminals, crooks, and publie
enemies. It appears that this list of names made and displayed
by the subject, was not of a political nature, but was made for
other reasons - - psychological or otherwise.)
EVALUATICN C-3.
DECRET

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 2
ALFREDO FIGUEROA
Shangha1, 15 November, 19
The following signed statement was made 15 November, 1945
by Dr. H.C. EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipimo leader, who
suffered arrest and imprisonment at the hands of the Japanese:
"Re: A. FIGUEROA
A loud pro-Jap propagandist and member of the
Jap sponsored Filipino Association. Active supporter ef
Celis, Contreras, Tria, Kalambakal and Uy, well known
pro-Jap leaders here in Shanghai. He attended all
gatherings of pro-Jap Filipinos; played in concerts
and benefit shows to raise funde for Jap soldiers;
attended the Independence parade and ceremony at the
Race Course on Oct. 14, 1943; signed petitions and
resolutions addressed to Gen. ToJo and to Laurel's
puppet Government; signified allegiance (Yes-man) to
the puppet Philippine Republic on Nov. 18, 1943. He
has a Jap wife, and like the others with Jap wife,
gave contributions to Jap war funds and cooperated
fully to the Japs."
Signed: H.C. EVANGELISTA.
The subject appeared to be under the influence of his
Jap wife during the war and is said to have made financial
contributions to the Jap Cause, and purchased War Bonds. On
18-19 November, 1943, the subject answered "Yes" and swore
allegiance to the puppet Philippines Government. On 14 October,
1943, he took part in a parade and ceremonies celebrating the
independence of the puppet Philippines Regime. On 19 May, 1943,
he signed the rolls of the LIFUNaNO FILIFINO, binding himself
to uphold the conetitution of which Article II, Sections (a) and
(e) read:
"(∂)
To co-operate with the Philippine Government
in the pureuance of our political emancipation
under the guidance of Japan.
(e)
To pledge our determination to co-operate whole-
heartedly with the Japanese and Chinese Governments
and other Asiatic countries in the successful
establishment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere."
EVALUATION A-1
SECRET

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
ALFREDO FIGUEROA
Shanghai, 15 November, 19
On 15 June, 1943, the subject signed petit1ons addrossed
to the Japanese Consulate-General, an effice in charge ef onemy
property, which petitions contain the following sentenee:
"we, the undersigned, Filipino residents of Shanghai,
pledging our support in the establishment of the
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, weuld ask
your kind favour to help us in our present problem."
EVALUATION A-1
The following 1s an extract made from a signed statement
submitted 3 November, 1945, by M. Javier, pro-Amerioan Filipino,
who suffered arrest at the hands of the Japanese:
"ALFREDO FIGUEROa used to threaten Filipinos during
the war. I heard him say, "the Japanese will shoot
the Filipinos who refuse to cooperate."
EVALUATION C-3
SECRET

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
Details:
1. FRANCIA, AMADO C., Born in the Philippines, age 38 years
height 5'3", weight 125 lbs., possesses American-Philippino
passport, musician by trade.
2.
Worked many years as a musician on a ship after leaving the
Philippines before coming to China. Speaks Japanese fluently
Member of the Tientsin Philippino Association. Made record-
ings and radio broadcasts for the Japanese and did much
entertaining for the Jep Military relief. Informer states that
FRANCI is actually pro-American but was forced by CADZ and
WILLIAMS to work for the Japanese.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 1.
SECRET
15 November, 1945,
SHANGHAI.
L. GONZAGA
The following signed statement was made 14 November,
1945, by the SUBJECT:
"I, L. GONZAGA, make this statement of my own free
will.
I have always been a loyal subject of the rightful
government of the Philippines and did not cooperate with
the Japanese during the war.
During the war I kept a record of the doings of
disloyal Filipinos which I have turned to the Americans.
Despite the accusations of several Filipinos I did not
"work for both sides" and gave no information to the
enemy which would embarass my countrymen or cause their
arrest or investigation to be made by the Japanese.
Perhaps I did wrong in approaching the SWISS CONSULATE
and attempting to clear S. DASMARINAS of suspicions held
against him. I was sorry for him and thought he was
innocent and he was having a very hard time regarding
relief. He asked me to help him.
Signed: LAURANTINO GONZAGA."
Signed: A. C. PINDER (Witness)
EVALUATION: C-3.
The following signed statement was made 15 November,
1945, by DR. H. EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipino leader,
who suffered imprisonment in the hands of the Japanese:
"Re: L. GONZAGA: Apparently, GONZAGA is supposed
to be a pro-American, but evidences shows that he was
playing a double game. He cooperated actively to
DASMARINAS first secretary of the Jap sponsorred Filipino
Association and tried to clear him of suspicion by the
SWISS CONSULATE of his (DASMARINAS) pro-Jap inclinations.
He is a member of the Filipino Association and attended
meetings of pro-Jap group. His frequent company are
PUNSALANG, CADA and other pro-Jap Filipinos. He kept
SECRET

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2.
SECRET
L. GONZAGA
notices of Pro-Jap Filipino Association, newspaper
clippings and other records of activities of Filipinos
here in Shanghai without fear of being found and arrested
by the Jap Gendarmerie and made many affidavits clearing
the Jap from blame for the arrest of some pro-American
Filipinos. It is also evident that the pro-Jap group
tried to place DASMARINAS in my place at the SWISS CONSU-
LATE in order that they may know some of the proceedings
at the SWISS CONSULATE to inform the Japs.
During the arrest of some Filipinos at 69 JESSFIELD
ROAD by the Jap Gendarm., we found out that the Japs
knew all our conversations and doings with GONZAGA when
we were positively sure that no one knew of these.
MATEOS, ESPINO and JAVIER may be able to testify to this
effect.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
EVALUATION: C-3.
The following signed statement concerning the SUBJECT
was made by P. C. ESPINO, pro-American Filipino:
"A double traitor. Helped pro American group in
gathering information regarding the pro Japanese. He
turned traitor and it was too late when he was suspected.
He gave us up to the Japanese and was most important wit-
ness against those pro American Filipinos arrested by the
Gendarmerie."
EVALUATION: F-6.
The subject, in addition to his own signed statement,
made several very helpful reports regarding Filipino colla-
borators in Shanghai and submitted a book compiled by him-
self during the War containing clippings, documents, news-
papers and a commentary by himself on the activities of
Filipinos in Shanghai.
SECRET

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 1.
SECRET
17 November, 1945,
SHANGHAI.
A. HERRERA
The SUBJECT, now deceased, was an active member of the
pro-Japanese Filipino group in SHANGHAI. As Treasurer of
the Japanese sponsored FILIPINO ASSOCIATION, he signed a
total of five documents. Four of these documents were
addressed to the enemy and besides pledging co-operation
lauded the Japanese Military Forces on their achievements
in the War.The Fifth document which he signed as Treasu-
rer of the association was the Constitution which pledged
co-operation to the puppet Philippines Government in the
pursuance of political emancipation under the guidance of
Japan as well as pledging co-operation with the establish-
ment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.
The SUBJECT answered "Yes" on 18 - 19 November, 1943,
thereby pledging allegiance to the puppet Philippines
Government and on 14 October, 1943 took part in a parade
and ceremonies celebrating the independence of this puppet
Government.
EVALUATION: A-1.
The following signed statement was made 16 November,
1945 by DR. H. EVANGELISTA, American Filipino leader:
"Re: A. HERRERA: HERRERA, now deceased, was one
of the pro-Jap leaders here in Shanghai.He was a
member and later Treasurer of the Jap sponsorred FILI-
PINO ASSOCIATION; attended meetings and gatherings of
pro-Jap Filipinos and signed petitions and resolutions
addressed to the enemies. He played in concerts for
the Jap RED CROSS to raise funds and entertained Jap
wounded soldiers.
His pro-Jap associates are, SILAB, KALAMBAKAL, CELIS,
TRIA and A. ORDEN.
He took allegiance to the puppet Philippine Republic
on Nov. 18, 1943 and participated at the Independence
Ceremony on Oct. 14, 1943.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
EVALUATION: C-3.
CECRET

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 1.
LEON B. JANGOZ
Shanghai, 15 November, 19
The following signed statement was made 14 November, 1945,
by the subject:
"I attended the meeting in Lido cabaret on
Apr1l 18, 1942, because before the meeting,
Dr. Kalambakal sent to all cabarets invit-
ation for the meeting. In the invitation
Dr. Kalambakal said something will happen
to the Filipinos that will not attend the
meeting. I was afraid as nobody will support
my family, if I am arreeted. All Filipinos
attended as they are afraid too, and we all signed
in one note-book to say we are present in the
meeting."
Signed:
LEON B. JANGOZ.
EVALUATION F-6
The followins signa, statement was made 15 November, 1945,
by Dr. H.C. EVANGELISTA, pro-American wilipine who suffered
arrest and imprisonment at the hands of the Japanese:
"Re: L. Jangos.
I believe, Jangos was just misled, induced
and used as a tool of F. Samper, Joquico & Diaz F.,
his pro-Jap friends. He is supposed to have been
giving informations to the above mentioned men, of
Espino's movements, his visitors and their activities.
I alse believe that he was used as an accessory by
his friends of their pro-Jap activities without
Jangos knowledge.
I was told by Espino, that Jangos, during Espino's
imprisonment, had Jap and many other pro-Jap Filipino
visitors and it is possible that due to their per-
sonal differences, Jangos had given false and damag-
ing informations for Espino to the Jap Gendarmerie.
Jangos friends are mostly pro-Japs and due to
his lack of education he is easily led to make false
testimony.
He is a member of the Jap sponsorred Filipino
Association, attended meetings of pro-Jap Filipines;
signed petitions and resolutions addressed to Gen.
Tojo and to Laurel's puppet Republic, pledging
support and cooperation."
Signed: H.C. EVANGELISTA.
EVALUATION C-3
BEORET。

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page2
Shanghai, 15 Novembor, 19
LEON B. JANGOZ
The subject did not swear allegiance to the puppet
Filipino Government, nor did he take part in ceremonies eele-
brating its independence. However, on 15 June, 1943, he sigmed
petitions addressed to the Japanese consulate-General, an
office in charge of enemy property, which petitions contain
the following sentence:
"We, the undersigned, Filipino residents of
Shanghai, pledging our support in the estab-
lishment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere, would ask your kind favour to help us
in our present problem."
EVALUATION A-1
SECRET

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page1
3rd November, 1945.
ROMON V. JOQUICO. Lane 41. House 10 Carter Road.
1. The following signed statement was submitted
voluntarily by the subject on October 15, 1945.
n
How I came to be a Director of the
LIPUNANG FILIPINO. SHANGHAI.
About the beginning of April 1943, I received
a circular letter, dated April 8.1943, and signed
by Dr. Gertrudo Kalambakal.
The substance of this letter was that a
meeting would be held on April 18,1943, at 9.00 a.
at the Lido Ballroom on Medhurst Road. Every
Filipino in Shanghai was asked to attend this meet-
ing which would be for the purpose of discussing the
arrest of some of our compatriots and our precarious
situation. This letter ended with the threat that
dire consequences would follow failure to attend
said meeting. (Note. The arrested persons referred
to were Evangelista, Espino, Carlos and Andres, who
were taken into custody by the Japanese Gendarmerie
some time the previous month)
In view of the fact that these four persons
were still under detention when Kalambakal circularized
the Filipino community and since everybody believed
that he was behind their misfortune, when the meeting
was called to order on the morning of April 18th, the
Lido Ballroom was packed with Filipinos.
When I got to the Lido Ballroom I saw Espino and
Carlos. (Later I learned that together with Evangelista,
they were released the previous day, while Andres was
released earlier.) As if to give weight to Kalambakal's
threat, present also were several Japspsome in uniform
and some in plain clothes.
After the preliminary formalities, the meeting
got under way, with Mr. Conrado Uy in the chair. He
made a rather long speech in English, the substance of
which, as far as I can remember now, was that as president
of the Filipino Association he was ashemed to say that
SECRET

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
RAMON V. JOQUICO (COntinued).
he had not accomplished anything to the benefit of the
local Filipino community and that the local Filipinos
on their part must also be ashamed fer their failure
to give him their full cooperation and support in his
endeavours to better their situation. He ended by
tendering en bloc his resignation and that of his col-
leagues as officers of the Filipino Association.
Kalambakal then took the chair. What happened
next, I can't quite remember. I think he got up
and started to make a speech in Tagalog about his experiences
in the Philippines, painting himself as having always
been a champion of the under-gog, and he related how he
was called "the angel of the Philippines." because at one
time, he said. he got the Japs to release some starving
Filipinos who were caught by the Japs stealing rice and
were bound with rope.
Mr. A.Y. Celis got impatient and internupted
Kalambakal's peroration.He obtained permission to
speak and he pointed out that according to Kalambakal's
circular letter of April Sth, the purpose of this meeting
was to discuss the arrest of the four Filipinos mentioned
above, and he asked Kalambakal to explain forthwith the
reason for their arrest.
I can't recall Kalambakal's
reply, but I beliey, he denied any connection with their
arrestand told Celis that if he wanted to know the reason
he should ask the Japanese Gendarmerie.
After that evasive reply. bedlam broke loese, many
fellows soth anti and pro Kalambakal clamored at the same
time for the right. to speak. Finally order was restored
and the meeting proceeded, but at this period my memory
seems to be a blank regardin what followed. I am not
sure whether at this juncture Mr. Jose Contreras obtained
the floor and harangued the udience to the effect that
being orientals the Filipinos should for et the past
and thenceforth assimilate oriental culture. He said that
although he limself was wearing occidental clothes, yet he
was an oriental in his sentiments. He also dared any one
among the Filipinos present +o stand up and declare him-
self pro-American. (He spoke in English)
S E C R E T

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
RAON V. JOQUICO (Continued).
I think that a discussion of the Filipino Association
then followed.
I believe some suggested to carry on with
Uy's organization while others advocated the formation of a
new one. Here my memory again fails me. I cannot recollect
which suggestion was adopted but I remember that some one
(I think it was Mr. A. Sales) suggested that the association
be called Lipunang Filipino instead of Filipino Association.
The motion was seconded and adopted.
The decision was then made to nomin te and elect
officers right then and there.
Kalambakal ceded the chair
to one of his men, Mr. D. Valdevarona, and stepped down from
the rostrum. He and Celis were nominated candidates for
president.
As the Lipunang Filipino as yet had no constitution,
the voting procedure came in for a lot of heated argument.
Celis demanded for secret balloting while Kalambakal asked
for counting of raised hands. Some way or another,Kalambakal's
wishes prevailed.
When voting for Kalamhakal took place, he must
have been greatly chagrined to see that only a few hands were
raised but Mr. Jose Alindada came to his rescue and claimed
that as it was difficult to count the raised hands, it would
be better if the voters stood up when the name of the candi-
date they favored was called to indicate that they were voting
for him. Celis agreed to this new procedure and when
Kalambakal's name was called, Alindada's now famous battle-
cry, "Lido boys, up!" rang throughout the big ballroom, and
the Lido boys (his band) and a few others stood up. But even
this failed to produce a majority of votes for Kalambakal,
as most of the audience (including mvself) remained seated.
Alindada must be a resourceful fellow and at his suggestion
the voting procedure was once more changed and again I heard
his voice. but this time it was, "Those for Dr. Kalambakal,
stand on the right, and those for Celis, on the left,"
followed by the terse command, "Lido boys, to the right!"
This new procedure caused a lot of confusion, because what
was Alindada's right was left to the audience, and as majority
of the voters started moving towards the left, Alindada be-
came frantic and started waving his two arms in opposite direc-
tions, in the meantime shouting directions, and the confusion
became greater. (Truly, it was a great farce.)
I seized this opportunity to edge my way out
of the ballroom by the back door and go home, because at that
S EC R ET

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 4.
RAMON V. JOQUICO (Continued).
time I was suffering from rheumatism in both feet,
my ankles being badly swollen, and as it happened
to be a rainy day, the pain became almost unbearable.
I got into a rickshaw and went home. Shortly
after arriving at home, Mr. T.. Villaflor and Mr.F.L.
Samper came together. Samper and his famtly were
living with me at that time. Villaflor whom I saw at
the meeting came to see my feet at my request. (Later
he brought me some pills which helped to ease the
pain.)
Sometime later, Salvador Samper, F.L. Samper's
vounger brother, also came to my home. As soon as he
entered my room, Salvador told me that I had been
elected a director of the Lipunang Filipino and
that it was he who submitted my name at the meeting.
I upraided him for being a meddlesome fellow and told
him that he had no right to submit my name without
my consent. I told him I had no desire to be iden-
tified with the Lipunang Filipino and he said that
if that was the case he would ask Kalambakal to delete
my name from the list of directors.
I believe that it is quite relevant to mention
here that soon after Evanglista, Espino, Carlos
and Andres had been taken into custody by the Japanese
Gendarmerie, I learned from F.L. Samper that he was
asked by Kalambakal to go with him to the Gendarmerie
Headquarters on Avenue Petain to answer some questions.
R.L. Samper also told me that he had learned that y
name was on the Jap black-list, and that Kalambakal had
asked him for information about my movements and accord-
ing to him he told Kalambakal that as far as he knew
I stayed at home most of the time and that I neither
went to people's houses nor nosed into their affairs.
In view of this information and what happened to
the four Filipinos mentioned above, naturally I had to
watch my step in dealing with Kalambakal. Therefore,
when Salvador Samper said that he weuld ask him to
delete my name, I told Salvador to let matters stand
as they were.
I raked my brains for some reason
to resign without incurring Kalambakel's animosity,
but I c~uld not find one that I thoughtwould bear
close scrutiny by such a wily old fox as Kalambakal.
SECRET

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 5.
RAMON V. JOQUICO(COntinued).
However, a solution to my problem presented itself
unexpectedly. Exactly two and a half months after I had
been elected, willy-nilly, a director, we had an officers
and directors! meeting. During this meeting a bitter
altercation took place between Kalambakal and Celis
(president and vice-president, respectively) and as a
result a resolution was made that, with the exception of
the secretary and treasurer, all the other officers as
well as directors of the Lipunang Filipino should resign
and a fresh election held. This resolution was eventually
put into effect and on July 10, 1943, I handed my resigna-
tion to the secretary.
In conclusion, I might add that during the short
period I was a director, Kalambakal and Celis did nothing
to foster soliaarity and cooperation, but rather dissension
among the local Filipinos.
Signed: B.V. Joquico
Shangha1, October 15,1945."
EVALUATION: C-3.
2.
On 8 May, 1943, the subject signed rolls of LIPUNANG
PILIPINO.
RamON V. JOqUICO, as a Director, signed the Constitution
of the LIPUNANG PILIPINO. Article II, Sections (d) & (e)
of this Constitution read as follows:
"(d) To co-operate with the Philippine Governent in the
pursuance of our political emancipation under the
guidance of Japan.
(e) To pledge our determination to co-operate whole-
heartedly with the Japanese and Chinese Governments
and other Asiatic countries in the successful estab-
lishment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere."
EVALUATION: A-1
3.
On 15 June, 1943, the subject signed petitions addressed
to the Japanese-Consulate-General and the Officer in Charge
of Enemy Property, Shanghai. These petitions contained the
following sentence:
"We, the undersigned, Filipino residents of Shanghai,
pledging our support in the establishment of the

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 6.
SECRET
RAMON V. JOQUICO (COnTinUed)
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, would ask your
kind favour to help us in our present problem."
EVALUATION: A-1.
4.
On 20 June, 1943, the subject signed the following resolu-
tion:
"June 20th, 1943.
Hon. Jorge B. Vargas
Chairman
Philippine Executive Commission
MANILA, Philippines
WHEREAS You have courageously led our people through
the hours of trial;
WHEREAS
You have sent a mission who presented our
cause before the Japanese nation;
WHEREAS
You have been answered by the recent state-
ment of Premier General HIDEKI TOJO that the
Philippines will be ranted independence within
this year;
RESOLVED That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record
to express our gratitude to you and join you
in saying, "This is the happiest day in the
history of the Filipino people."
EVALUATION: A-1.
5.
On 20 June, 1943, the subject signed as a Director the
following document:
"Hon. Jorge B. Vargas
Chairman
Philippine Executive Commission
MANILA, Philiprines
WHEREAS You have courageously led our people through
the hours of trial;
WHEREAS
You have sent a goodwill mission to the Empire
of Japan;
WHEREAS
Your leadership marks a new era in our annals
graced by the recent statement of Premier
General HIDEKI TOJO that the Philippines will
SECRET

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
PageT.
SECRET
RAMON V. JOQUICO (Continued)
be granted independence within this year;
RESOLVED That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record
to express our gratitude to you and join you
in saying, "This is the happiest day in the
history of the Filipino people."
EVALUATION: A-1.
6.
On 20 June, 1943, the subject signed the following documents
"To His Excellency
General Hideki Tojo
Prime Minister
TOKYO, Japan
WHEREAS The Japanese nation received the Philippine
delegation with due courtesy and respect
befitting their mission;
WHEREAS
Your Excellency proclaimea at the Diet that
the Philippines will be granted inaependence
within this year;
RESOLVED That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record
to thank the Japanese nation and express our
pride to be destined an indepenaent member of
the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere."
EVALUATION: A-1.
7.
While the subject took part in the affairs of the Filipino
Association as an Officer, the following telegram was despatched:
"11 May, 1943.
To His Excellency
General HIDEKI TOJO
Prime Minister
TOKYO, Japan.
WHEREAS We take this opportunity of paying our sincerest
respects to the Imperial Japanese Government,
their leaders and soldiers;
WHEREAS
We admire your overwhelming triumph in Malaya,
Burma, East Indies ana the Philippines;
WHEREAS
We appreciate that through the untiring efforts
of your dauntless army, navy and air force, the
Anglo-American imperialism has vanished from
SECRET

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 8.
SECRET
RAMON V. JOQUICO (Continued)
the Orient where peace once more reigns;
WHEREAS
We receive with joy the glad tidings pronounced
by your Excellency in the Diet promising us our
independence;
RESOLVED That we, officers of the Lipunan Pilipino, on
behalf of the Filipino Residents of Shanghai, go
on record to convey to the Imperial Japanese
Government, through your Excellency, the assurance
of our full co-operation in the establishment of
the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere."
EVALUATION: C-3.
8.
P.C. ESPINO, pro-Allied Filipino, who suffered arrest in
the hands of the Japanese, offered the following signed state-
ment regarcing the subject:
"RAMON JOQUICO
Brain of the pro-Japanese gang. Bitter in denouncing
U.S. rule in the Philippines. Hated white people even
before the war. Advocated orient for the orientals and
the expulsion of all the whites. Member of the board of
directors directing the policies of the Filipino Associa-
tion. Member to the Nanking Conference. Suspected spy.
Worked in close collaboration with Demetrio Baldevaroma,
a Japanese spy who was sent to tho Philippines about the
middle of last year to do espionage work.
Was one of the
men responsible for the arrest and imprisonment of some of
the pro-American Filipinos."
EVALUATION: F-6
9.
On 18 or 19 November, 1943, the subject swore allegiance
to the Puppet Government of the Philippines.
10.
On 14 October, 1943, according to an affiaavit signed by
A. MATEOS, M. NANO and L. GONZAGA, RAMON JOQUICO toOk part in
a parade and ceremony celebrating the Independence of the Puppet
Philippines Government.
11.
The following statement was made by Dr. H. EVaNGELISTA,
pro-American Filipino leader on 5 November, 1945:
"RE: RAMON V. JOQUICO.
JOQUICO is a Director of the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION and
Adviser of F. SAmPER; signed many pro-Jap statements and
resolutions; participated in all the meetings of the pro-
SECRET

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 9.
SECRET
RAMON V. JOQUICO (ConTinued)
Jap Filipinos and Independence Parade. He is kmown to be
a very active collaborator of BALDEVARONA, DASMARINAS, A.
ORDEN and A. Y. CELIS. He obtained his picture and negative
taken at the Independence Parade by threat together with
F. SAMPER from C. de VERA. Threatened to do bodily harm
to ESPINO for being an informer to the Relief Committeo of
the American Association at the beginning of the Jap-American
War.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
Witness: M. JAVIAR (Signed)
EVALUATION: C-3.
SECRET

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 1.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
There is evidence to show that the subject was in Shanghai in
1925 when he was engaged in writing radical and communistic leaflets
which he had printed in NAnkING and distributed to Filipinos.
Presumably he spent the years between 1925 and 1941 in Shanghai and
in Japan where he claimed he had attended Medical School. He
re-appeared in Shanghai in November 1941 end was associated with a.
Dr. TONGU who claimed to be a Japanese at FOO MING Hospital in
North Szechuen Road. In early December 194l, the subject, according
to evidence, told V. ALOBOG, 78 Nanking Road, who in turn told Dr.
EVANGELIST that he was leaving for the Philippines in order to help
the Japanese and that war would be declared in two days.
Ir. EVANGELISTA states that he left Shanghai in a Japanese Navy
boat in early December. Upon his return to Shanghai. KALAMBAKAL
claimed to have landed in the Philippines aboard a Japanese plane.
In late January or February 1942, he returned to Shanghai. His pi
ture appeared in the SHANGHAI TIMES on February 9, 1942, together
with Japanese newsmen whom he was telling about the situation in the
Philippines.
The subject claimed to have received an appointment with the
Japanese Navy in Shenghai as Advisor and showed certain papers to
confirm this. Certain Filipinos claim to have seen the subject in
Jepanese ilitary uniform. These informants claimed that they saw
Japanese soldiers saluting and bowing to the subject. The subject
claimed to be backed and financed by the Japanese. The subject
brought back with him from the Philippines, Japanese printed pesos.
During the period of February 1942 to April 1943, as wil1 be
shown oy signed statements, the subject worked to enlist Filipinos
in the Japanese cause. During this period he was instrumental in
causing the arrest of certain pro-American Filipinos. On April 18.
1943, he was elected President of the LIPUNANG PILIPINO. During
June and July, the subject wrote, signed and circulated for signa-
tures, petitions and resolutions adoressed to the Enemy pledging
Filipino co-operation and lauding them upop their achievements.
The subject resigned as President of the LIPUNANG PILIPINO on
10 July 1943 as he claimed he was making a trip to TOkYO and the
Philippines. No further information is available concerning his
whereabouts though some Filipino informants state that he is dead.
The subject was born in SANTA CRUZ, LAGUNA Province, Philippine
Islends and is 50-55 years old. He spoke Japanese fluentiy and is
easily mistaken for a Japanese, being 5'1 in height, weight 100-110
pòunds, Stature very slight, face; small, complexion: very dark,
skin: rough.
Evaluation C-3
Upon his return from the Philippines in February 1942. the
subject circulated leaflets in English and Tagalog. Though on these
appeared the date of 18 December 1941, they were believed to be
printed in Shenghai. The wording of the two leeflets we have in our
possession are similar, the English version being as follows :
SECRET

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Pago2.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
"My dear countrymen:
You must think over our beloved country is now in the critical
situation. This does not belong to us. This belongs to Japan and
U.S.A. For this reason the Imperial Japanese troops came here to
fight against their enemy, not to the Filipino people. The Japa-
nese aim is to drive out the American power here in the Far East.
The Japanese policy at present is to help the whole Asiatic
peoples to be free from the power of his enemy. The Japanese troops
came to our islands without any intention to take any territory.
Now is the time we Asiatic peoples should unite and at the same
time have close relation each other and take swords to our common
cause. The Japanese, the Chinese, the Thei people, the Malayan
peoples and our Filipino people are brothers. We find several
different way in custom dress and religion, but in almost other ways
we are same. If this is true you must cooperate with the Japanese
soldiers and not better fight against them, because they are not our
enemy. If we resist our country will be cestroyed and the lives of
our people will be regretful.
My countrymen we must find out that the intention of Japan is
for our benefit, and the principal aim and policy of the Japanese
Government at present is to help all Asiatic nations for the emanci-
pation of their liberties. Do not believe the American people any
more. It is 4l years now since merica got her sovereignity in our
island but all her promises for our freedom were in vain. We must
study the present condition of her diplomacy.
I repeat to you that the Japanese troops who landed on our soil
are to fight against the merican soldiers, end at the same time
they help the Filipino people to take independence by force. not by
word. This is our opportunity to join the Japanese troops and fight
against the enemy of our liberty. after the peace is established
the Japanese Government will recognize and grant our independence.
If you are the true ilipino who love your mother country, I
hoe, you will make a good relation this time with the Japanese
soldiers to take freedom of our country. Your humble countrymen,
I talked to you in the same feeling as you wish to have independence
of the Philippines."
BAGONG LIWAYWAY.
Evaluation B-1
In April 8. 1943. the subject sent to the Filipino Community
in Shanghai the following signed invitetion in Tagalog :
"All the Filipinos living in Shanghai ere cordially invited to
SECRET

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 3.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
a big meeting which will be held at the LIDO BALLROOM 306
Medhurst Road. on April 18th. 1943 at 9:00 A.M.
The purposes of this meeting is about the Filipinos that
were taken in, and also about the conditions of ourselves at
present. So we must attend the meeting to avoid the serious
occurences of our future.
In case you fail to attend this meeting, don't be sorry
for the danger of your life, and repent at the end."
(signed) Dr. GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
Evaluation A1
On 15 April 1943, the following article appeared in the
SHANGHAI EVNING POST with the subject's picture :
"FILIPINOS HERE SET AIL TO GIVE MORE COOPERATION TO JAPAN IDEAL
In order to enable Filipinos in Shanghai to do their share
in supporting Japan's cause in the GREATER EAST ASIA war and
thereby attain the independence of the Philippines as promised
by Premier General HIDEKI TOJO in his speech on January 28, local
Filipinos will hold an open meetin& at the LIDO BALLROOM on
Sunday morning when the existing FILIPINO ASSOCIATION will be
reorganizeå end new officials elected, Dr. GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
well-known Filipino patriot, revealed to the SHANGHAI EVENING
POST in an exclusive interview today.
Dr. KALAMBAKAL, who, with the late Dr. SUN YAT-SEN and
other prominent Asietic leaders, founded the Pan-Asiatic Asso-
ciation in 1922 in Shanghai. said that he felt that the time
had come when Filipinos in Shanghai should play a more active
part toward the estaplishment of the GREATER EAST ASIA CO-PROS
PERITY SPHERE.
JAPAN'S GREAT TASK
"Japan", Dr. KAlABAKAL declared, has set out to achieve
the great task of emancipating all the Asiatic peoples on the
basis of racial equality, and thereby give the Asiatic nations
the freedom and independence which they have long desired.
"We Filipinos," he went on, "are very grateful to these
aims of the Japanese Government and realize that it is also up
to us to do our share by cooperating with Japen."
TO ELECT NEW OFFICERS
Dr. KALAMBAkAL said that at Sunday's meeting new officers
SECRET

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
will be elected to serve on the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION. The
meeting will also study the ASSOCIATION's constitution and
discuss other problems in connection with the welfare of
Filipinos here.
Dr. KALAMBAKAL was born in SANTA CRUZ. LAGUNA in the
Philippines; he is 46 years old. He studied at the Japan
Medical College and took a post-graduate course in the Depart-
ment of Surgery at the Imperial University in TOKYO.
"I TH RED CROSS
During the First world War he worked with the Japanese
Rea Cross in TokYo, later continuing his studies in surgery
under Professor OCHSNER at the AUGUSTINE UNIVERSITY in America.
In 1922, together with the late Dr. SUN YAT SEN and other
siatic leaders, he became one of the founders of the Pan-
Asiatic ssociation, and also served as editor of the Asiatic
Review which was published oy the Association.
PRACTI SES HERE
During the Sino-Japanese hostilities in Shanghai in 1932
he joined the FOO MING HOSPITAL here and worked under Dr. TONGU
present heac of the Hospital.
Dr. KALaBAkiL later returned to the Philippines and star-
ted the PHILIFPINES EMANCIPATION MOVEMENT of which he became
Fresident and hed more than l000 followers.
Shortly before the outbreak of the GREATER EAST ASIA war,
Dr. KALAMBAKAL arrived in Shanghai end rejoined the FOO MING
HOSPITAL as surgeon."
Evaluation B-1
On 19 April 1943, the following article appeared in the SHANGHAI
TIMES with the picture of the subject and other members of the
Filipino Community:
"KALAMBAKAL NAMED PRESIDENT OF FILIPINO ASSOCIATION IN
POLLS - OLD COMMI TTEE QUITS"
"Elected by an overwhelming majority, Dr. GERTRUDO KALAMBA
KAL, veteran in the fight for Philippine independence, was named
Fresident of the Filipino Association to succeed the outgoing
Mr. CONRADO A. UY, who, together with the provisionary committee,
SECRET

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
resigned at a meeting held at the LIDO BALLROOM yesterday
morning.
Immediately following his election, Dr. KALAMBAKAL. in
an interview with a representative of THE SHANGHAI TIMES
outlined the aims of the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION, stressing that
its main object is to co-operate with all Asiatic peoples. and
especially with Japan, as it is within the power of the latter
country to srant long-hoped for independence to the Philippines
and achieve the emancipation of the Filipino people.
Further. Dr. KALAMBAKAL declared, the ASSOCIATION will
strive to alleviate the condition of Filipinos here and start
relief work for the needy.
UY URGES CLOSER TIES
The elections were preceded by a speech delivered by
Lr. UY, outgoing president of the Association, who together
with the other provisional officers resigned en bloc at
yesterday's meeting.
Mr. UY declared that the time is now ripe for Filipinos
here to unite with the people at home to form a solid bloc
behind Japan and strive for independence. It is only through
unity, perseverance and trust in Japan that the independence
of the Philippines can be accomplished.
Taking the chair, Dr. KaLABAKAL enlarged upon the sen-
timents expressed by r. UY, saying that he will stand behind
whatever power which will rant Philippine independence. and
expressed the sincere belief that Japan at the successful
termination of the GREATER EAST ASIA WAR will grant autonomy
to the Filipino peoples, while voicin& gratitude to the
Japanese Government for its understanding of problems of
various Greater East Asie peoples.
LANDED WITH JAPANESE IN P.I.
Dr. KALAMBAKAL, who has during the past 10 years worked
for the independence of the Philippines, declared that he was
privileged to be with the Japanese forces when they landed in
the Philippines to drive out the Americans.
Dr. KALAMBAKAL further revealed that he has been able,
through his position, to instil confidence in the Filipino
people, laying great stress on the fact that the Japanese
SECRET

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Pago 6.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
forces did not land in the Philippines as a force to conquer
the land out to free the peoples who were enslaved under tho
yoke of Anglo-Americen imperialism.
The four-hour meeting was terminated with the election
of Dr. KALAMBAKAL to the post of President, while Mr. A.Y.CELIS
President of the FILIPINO MUSICIANS' UNION was elected Vice-
President.
r. A.J. ORDEN was nominated secretary, while the post
of treasurer went to r. S.V. HERRERa. The following were
elected to sit on the Board of Directors: - Messrs. L. SAMSON
M. CADELINA J. CONTRERAS. S. ARANAS R.V. JOQUICO. J.M.
ALINDADA. V.Z. CASINO and'D.D. ALOBOG."
Evaluation B-1
On 19 may 1943. the subject signed as President of the
Constitution of the LIPUNANG PILIPINO, which contained Article
II Sections d. & e. us follows :
"(a) To co-operate with the Philippine Government in the
pursuance of our political emancipation under the
guidance of Japan.
(e)
To pledge our determination to co-operate whole-
heartedly with the Japanese and Chinese Governments
and other Asiatic countries in the successful es-
tablishment of the GREATER EAST ASIA CO-PROSPERITY
SPHERE."
Evaluation h-l
On 15 June 1943, the suoject signed as President, peti-
tions addressed to the Office in charge of Enemy Property and
the Japanese Consulate Generel; which contained the following
sentence :
""e, the undersigned, Filipino residents of Shanghai
pledging our support in the establishment of the GREATER EAST
ASIA CO-PROSPERITY SPHERE. would ask your kind favour to help
us in our present problem."
Evaluation 1
On 20 June 1943, the subject signed as President, the
follcwing resolution :
SECRET

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Pago 7.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
"To His Excellency
General Hideki Tojo
Prime Minister
TOKYO, Japan
WHEREAS
The Japanese nation received the Philippine delegation
with due courtesy and respect befitting their mission;
WHEREAS
Your exc ellency proclaimed at the Diet that the Phili-
ppines will be granted independence within this year;
RESOLVED
That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record to thank
the Japanese nation and express our pride to be destined
an independent member of the GREATER EAST ASIA CO-PROS
PERITY SPHERE."
(signed) President
Vice-President
Secretary
Treasurer
ivalution 1
"Hon. Jorge B. Vargas
Chairman
Philippine Executive Commission
MAILA, Philippines
WHEREAS
You have couregeously led our people through the hours
of trial;
HEREAS
You have sent a goodwill mission to the Empire of Japan;
WHEREAS
Your leadership marks a new era in our annals graced by
the recent statement of Premier General HIDEkI TOJO
that the Philippines will be granted independence with-
in this year;
RESOLVED
That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record to express
our gratitude to you and join you in saying. "This is
the happiest day in the history of the Filipino people."
(signed) President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer.
Evaluation -1
On 1 July 1943, the subject signed as President, a letter
addressed to His Imperial Majesty's Government, TOkYo, containing
the following sentence :
SEGRET

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 8.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
"We, Filipino residents of Shanghai, express our gratitudo
for your benign promise of independence of the Philippine Islands
and pledge our support in the establishment of the GREATER EAST
ASIA CO-PROSPERITY SPHERE."
Evaluation 1
On 11 May 1943, when KALAMBAKAL was President of the LIPU-
NANG PILIPINO, the following telegram was despatched :
"To His Excellency
General Hileki Tojo
Prime Minister
TOKYO, Japan
WHEREAS
We take this opportunity of paying our sincerest
respects to the Imperial Japanese Government, their
leeders and soldiers;
WHEREAS
We admire your overwhelming triumph in Malaya. Burma,
East Indies end the Philippines;
HEREAS
We appreciate thet through the untiring efforts of your
dauntless army, navy and air force, the Anglo-American
imperialism has vanished from the Orient where peace
once more reigns;
WHEREAS
We receive with joy the glad tidings pronounced by your
Excellency in the Diet promising us our independence;
RESOLVED
That we, officers of the LIPUNAN PILIPINC, on behalf of
the Filipino Residents of Shanghai, go on record to con-
vey to the Imperial Japanese Government, through your
Excellency, the assurance of our full co-operation in
the establishment of the GREATER EAST ASIA CO-PROSPERITY
SPHERE."
Evaluation 1
On 16 July 1942, the following communication was despatched.
On the copy in our possession, the subject's name is typed, not
signed :
To His Excellency
To His Excellency
General Hideki Tojo
s. Togo
Prime Minister
Foreign Minister
Tokyo, Japen
Tokyo, Japan
SEORET

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 9.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
His Excellency:-
We, the undersigned Filipino Residents of Shanghai. China,
do hereby respectfully submit to the Imperial Japenese Govern-
ment, through your Excellency, for your kind information and
consideration, the following:-
"e first of all take this opportunity of paying our since
rest respects to the Imperiel Japanese Government, their
leaders and soldiers.
We hereby express our sincerest admiration and appreciation
for your greatest achievements in Singapore, Burma, Sumatra,
Celeoes and the Philippines, etc.
Now that the Anglo-merican Imperialism in the Orient has
totally been liquidated and that your objectives have been
successfully achieved by the most untiring efforts of your brave
army, navy end air forces, and as peace once more reigns in the
Orient under the Imperial Japanese flag, we, the undersigned
Filipino Residents of Shenghai, believing in your words and in
accordance with your pr mises, respectfully request that through
the Imperial Japenese Government's guidance and influence the
Filipino people be granted as soon as possible, their full inde-
pendence which they have ardously been longing for many years
past.
Following closely and sincerely the steps taken by our
leaders, we the undersigned Filipino Residents of Shanghai.
China, also believing in the great ideals, the freedom and the
happiness of our country, we hereby take this opportunity of
conveying to the Imperial Japanese Government, through your
Excellency, the assurance of our full co-operation in the es
tablishment of the Greater East sia Co-Prosperity Sphere and
that we are ready to render our services to the Imperial Japa-
nese Government to the best of our ability and within the means
at our disposal.
Respectfully submitted:
Dr. Gertrudo Kalambakal M.D.
C. Asuncion
Joe Samonte (deceased)
Alfonso Navarro
Apolonio J. Orden
Victorino G. Clara
valuation C-3
SEGRET

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Pago 10.
GERTHUDO KALAMBAKAL
The following is an extract from a signed statement made
on 15 October 1945 by CONRAD0 UY, leeding pro-Japanese Filipino
leader and propegandist :
"Dr. GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL, a man without scruples, approached
me end proposed the reorganizetion of the ssociation on a radical
oasis. He wanted the organization to declare itself unequivoce-
bly pro-Japanese and effect the incarceration of detractors by
the Japanese Gendarmerie. He reveeled that he had made previous
consultations with certain Japanese Army officers who, he said,
were prepared to give any amount of financial help. Meanwhile,
he was stealthily telling other Filipinos, mostly musicians, that
he was authorized to set up a separate and altogether a different
body and that he would obtain the arrest of those blocking his
efforts. His surreptitious movement agained impetus with the sub-
sequent detention of two innocent musicians by the Japanese Gen-
darmerie supposedly at KALABAKAL's instigation.
Ly answer to this dangerous man's suggestion was clear and
precise: I would not object to any reorganization and general
election as long as ay name was dissociated from it. I abhorred
him as a man; as a self-styled leader he earned my bitter contempt.
I then consulted with my colleagues in the Association and they
readily shared my views and sentiments. We, therefore, decided
to resign en bloc should he succeed in calling a general meeting.
For the purpose of obtaining the necessary police permit to hold
the meeting. we designated CLARO ASUNCION to represent the board
of directors. t a subsequent meeting held at the LIDO BALLROOM
Medhurst Hoad. all the provisional officers of the Filipino A
sociation of Shanghai resigned and after making a few remarks.
I left the gathering with added anger and disgust because I di
covered that LlaldnkAl had sent out threatening letters
(Ehibit 3) to the members which fact was responsible for the
record attencance. I must state at this juncture that I have
always tried to avoic any movement that employs force or intimi-
dation as a weapon to accomplish its aims and purposes. From then
on I kept aloof from KAlAMBAKAL end his cohorts. Of what happened
later in the LIPUANG PILIPINO, as the new body was called, I
kmow very little. Aside from entertaining Japanese wounded
soldiers in a military hospital and cavorting with a number of
Japanese officers, the LIPUNANG PILIPINO accomplished nothing.
And like its precursor, it died a natural death. KALAMBAKAL
was later found to heve used the Association only as a stepping
stone to TOKYO, leaving the organization under JOSE C. CONTRERAS."
Evaluation C-3
The following is an extract from a signed statement made
oy JOSE ALINDADA on 16 October 1945 :
"In that same year (1942) another Filipino by the name of
BEORET

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 11.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
Dr. KALAMBAKAL appeared among the Filipinos and announced
throughout the community that he was assigned by the Japanese
government to form a political organ to oust our own Filipino
Musicians' Union a non-political, none-religious, none partisan
boy, and in my opinion it was that man (KALAMBAkAL) who was
responsible for all the mess and cisunity amongst the Filipinos
in Shanghai as if it were not for his threats of arrest or
maltreatment to all Filipinos by the Japs, the Filipinos in
Shanghai would have been united as one through the leadership
of that able Dr. EVANGELISTA as our faith and hopes were already
taking into shape until KALAMBAKAL came and disappeared.
Eyaluation C
The following sined statement was made on 23 October.
1945 by A. NAVARRO :
"I. LFONSO NAVARRO. make this statement of my own free
Will. On or about the beginning of March, 1943, Dr. KALAMBAKAL
came to see me in my house and told me that he wanted me to
sign a paper to ask for the Philippine independence and relief
to Filipinos fron the Japanese. Then he handed me the paper
and told me to end the other boys that were also present in my
house at that time to read it. Among those that were present
and read the paper were the following: J. CANLAS, F. DIAZ. E.
MARTINEZ, F. SAÍVADOR, T. CRUZ, nd M. SANTILLAN. CANLAS, DIAZ
and MARTINEZ refused to sign the petition.
KALAMBAKAL was a frequent visitor at my house and almost
every night at the dancing hall where I play. I remember KALAM-
BakiL having told me once at the dancing hall that he will do
his best to have Dr. EVANGELISTA taken away from the office of
the SiISS CONSULATE and to be replaced by another Filipino. He
has also told me that he is also a member of the Pan Asiatic
Association which is working for the independence of the
Philigpines. He has also showm me written articles written in
Spanish and Tagalog advocating Philippine independence and these
articles are supposed to have been published in Manila papers.
He asked me to help him make the Filipinos understand his good
intentions for our country and ask the Japanese for our indepen-
dence. I answered "yes".
One day, KaLaiBAkAL met me on my way home and tol me to
come with him and the other boys to tea at the TRICOLOR where
he will tell us where A. ROSETE was. With us were S. FRANCISCO
T. CRUZ, D. BALDEVARONA. During tea we telk about common topics.
After tea KALAMBAkAL invited us to take the motor car which was
parked outside of the TRI COLOR and drove us to No.1O Avenue
Petain, Gendarmerie Headquarters.
SECRET

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Page 12.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
There a Japanese asked us if we knew anything about Dr.
EVANGELISTA. I said that I had been told by others that EVAN
GELISTa showed favoritism in giving loans to Filipinos. They
also asked some questions about A. ROSETE. I then signed a
paper which was a record of our conversation with the Japanese,
regarding EVANGELISTA and ROSETE.
(signed) ALFONSO NAVARRO.
valuation C-3
On 25 October 1945, 2. lAS made the following signed
statement regarding the subject :
"I, Z. uls, make this statement of my own free will.
In February or March 1943 J. CONTREhAS came to my place
of employment with two Japanese and informed me that he was
staging a benefit performance for the Japanese at QUEEN's
theater. He asked me to order some of my musicians, among them
A. MaTEOs and S. ABUNDO. to teke part. I refused to do thi
end these two men refused to appear. CONTRERAS said that the
show woula be sponsored by the Japanese so I as a bandleader
should compel. my men to take part.
Some time later JOSE ALINDADA called me to a meeting of
bandleaders at his home. Present were ALINDADA. CONTRERAS.
CONSTANTINO, L. SAMSON, VICTOH TULIO, TONY DIAZ and OtherS.
Dr. KALAMBAkAL outlined his plan to form an association end said
that he was acting under Japanese orders.
CONTRRAS said to KALALBAKAL: "If I were to choose between
the Japanese and the mericans, I will go for the Japanese
vecause they are Asiatic."
Before the close of the meeting I mentioned the case of
ABUNDO who had been arrested the night before (that was why I went
to the meeting to ask KaLaBAkAL to help him). In conclusion
I told those asembled "let us not be stool-pigeons for the Japs."
CONTRERAS took offense at this and asked if I referred to him,
denying that he was a stool pigeon and had had anything to do
with BUNDO's arrest."
(signed) &. ARANAS
118/27 Rte. des Soeurs.
Evaluation C-3
The following is en extract from e signed statement made
by F. SAPER on 6 November 1945 :
BECRRT

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.98)
SECBET
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
"October 1942, I moved to Carter Road sharing with H.
JOQUIcO's room. Since then I sterted realty business with
other side lines. 1942 goes away or passes away with lots ef
compatriot disgruntled on the relief loan and registration of
repatriation, specially to ESPINO. While myself was implicated
too, I was under observation by Dr. KALAmBakAL. I meet Dr.
KALAMBAKAL in ALOBOG shop and was introduced to him. We did
not talked much. One day I meet NABA also in LOBOG shop and
I was introduced. We never talked each but ALOBOG so friendly.
ALOBOG told me in Tagalog cialect  ying that without NAMBA
his shop has been confiscated. Although ALOBOG is my brother-
in-law and I knew him since 1919, yet up to this date, I cannot
uncerstand him. Specially now, he is more changed. He likes
to talk and make ffiend with high class people.
Cne day in …arch 1943, I heard A. ROSETES has been arres
ted. then J. CANLAs and finally ESPINO and Dr. EVANGELISTA
charges of which, I don't know. Rumors around Filipinos
community that there were more in the black list and  hat among
myself, which was confirmed. About one week or more fter their
arrest, I meet Dr. KALAMBAKAL in ALOBOG shop and he told me
better I go with him to the mericen School. Then Ms. ALOBOG
intervened with us. He threaten me being pro-American and
propagandist, and if not of my sister-in-law, Mrs. ALOBOG, he
will put me in too. He intimidated me and unless I won't changed
my view. I will be in troubled. This time I answered him that,
my conscience is cleened. So he told me to go to the American
School in Rue Petain tomorrow afternoon at 2 P.M., the date of
which I forgot. On the next day I meet him in the appointed time
and place in Ave. Joffre corner Rue Sayzoong. He reminded me
that Petain place is a bad place. When we arrived he handed me a
2 or 3 pages of written notes in ink in small size of paper to
let me reed and signed it. while I am perusing, he called the
officer. "On! ihat kind of discriminating letter" When he came
in with the Japanese officer and a plain cloth Jap, he asked me
in Tagalog Language, whether I signed it, and I replied him no.
He ot med and I feeled uneasy. Then they talked in Japanese.
After that the officer asked me if I kmew EVANGELISTA.  I replied,
yes. He asked me whether I have been living in ESPINO's place.
I replied, I have been living in ESPINO's place. I replied, yes.
He asked me whether I can tell something about. I replied, I
knew something personally but not in political. He asked me if
I can write. I said, yes. Then Dr. KALaMBAkAL handed me again
his note but, I refused. The Jap notice this and the Jap handed
me his small note pad and a pencil. While I was thinking what
to write, Dr. KALAlBAKAL talked to the Jap but I found out he is
not well versed in Jep language. The conversation became mix,
Jap end English. Hence it was my chance, I started my letter
from ESPINO's place, just to become long. Then Dr. EVANGELISTA
often visit and dines with ESPINO. Telephone cell and discu
SCBET

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 14.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
sing about newspaper news. While still I am writing my ears
were in their conversation, but som ething about people insido
and once in a while he intervened me and reminding me not to
forget the radio set. When I finished. I handed to Jap without
signature. This I am sure. We left the room and Dr. KALAMBAKAL
told me to wait a little while outside. Which I did. As far as
I remember, there were no charges whatsoever in my unsigned sta-
tement. Then not long enough news goes around that ESPINo died.
On pril 8, 1943, a strong circular signed by Dr. KALAMBA
KAL were distributed among Filipinos to attend the meeting on
April 18. Afraid something may heppened and the same time to
find out whet news, I attended the meeting. But before the 18.
EVANGELISTA, ESPINO, CANLAS and ROSETES were released. All
minus EVAnGELISTA attended the meeting. To my surprised I saw
ESPINO more friendly to KALABAKAL and seems jolly entertaining
people. Eighty to ninety percent attended the meeting with Jap
gendarmerie end plain cloth man. The meeting was presided by
UY and DASARINAS, Secretary. Before opening the minute, UY and
the rest of the officers resigned. Dr. KALAMBAKAL took the
place of UY and. kept DASARINAS, temporary secretary. Before
nomination for officers, CANLAS made a disperated speech to find
out why he was arrested, but Dr. KALAMBAKAī stopped him. Nomi-
nation for President were opened. Dr. KALAMBAKAL and A. CELIS
were nominated. Here come a ganster system of voting. Those
who are in favor for Dr. KALAlBAKAL, raised your right hand.
Very few. Those (again) who are in favor to Dr. KALAMBAKAL.
stand up. Little more. Then suddenly a louded voiced came,
LIIO boys, stanć up. It was DON JOSE (ALINDADA). Everybody
were upset. Knowing himself that his man will be beaten,
ALINDADA shouted again. Those who are for Dr. KALAMBAKAL to
the right - weving his hant to the right. Frightened in that
moment and to avoid trouble, being watched by gendarmerie and
plein cloth police. 95% has gone to the right. Voting for CELIS
was useless. CELI's fight for his right, being very ambitious,
and demanding for secret voting but of no result. He refused
to accept as Vice-President but finally consented. People
came back to their respected places. Here again ALINDADA asked
the crowd who are pro-American cen talked. but nobody answered.
The meeting became disorder and nomination for other officers
were so repid. The result as follows:
President
Dr. G. KALAMBAKAL
Vice-Fresident
A. CELIS
Secretary
A. ORDEN
Treasurer
F. HERRERA (S.V.)
Board of Directors :
V.Z. CASINO
J.M. ALINDADA
R.V. JOQUICO
L. SAMSON
SECRET

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Page 15.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
Board of Directors : M? CADALINA
(cont'a)
J. CONTRERAS
S. ARANAS
V.D. ALOBOG
The meeting was adjourned is cisordered. Table for tea were
given to the Jap officials and to the new members. Not long
after this meeting, wounded Jap soldiers were entertained by
CELIS. As per clipping ettached end the telegram sent to TOJO.
Sometime on June or July 1943, a meeting was called by
Dr. KALABk as he is going to Japan and Manila. True or not
nobody kmows. Before the meeting the constitution showned to
all officers by KALAl BakaL. Who made this nobody knows. But I
think ORDEN by direction of KALnBAKL. It was decided to be
corrected by CONTRERAS, CADELINA and JOQUICO. ALOBOG resigned
eno I was elected. I refused but no result. In this meeting
I answered KaLAkBAkAL regarding Indian and Filipinos in as much
to CoNTRas, the subject I forgot. It was agreed in absent fo
KALAMBAKAL that CONTRERS will oe acting President as CELIS
resigned or refused to take responsibility, being he is President
of F.M.U. From this time I put my ear and eye to CONTRERaS, but
difficult to get some news from him. I have some house and
machine deal to him but no luck. Only I knew he had some
association in Jap Consulate and civilians.
When KLAMBAkAL left. I remember I signed with lots of other
boys two kinds of form, one for Tojo and one for Vargas, contained
of which about thankin to them. also I signed on the constitu-
tion. However, before KALaBaKAL left, we made a Directors
neeting in Chlts house and decided to resigned all officers.
except secretary and treasurer. Here gain CELIs, as an ambi-
tious men for power, he take advantage in case of absent of
KALAMBAKAL. But he meet another more ambitious. CONTRERAS. We
all resigned but KALAMBAKAL called a meeting to CONTRERAS house
after a few days or a week and had been decided to withdraw all
resignation - and CoNTRERAS to carry the responsibility. Mean-
while not long enough I resigned myself."
Evaluation C-5
The following signed statement was made on 31 October 1945
by F. DIAZ :
"I, FRaNCISCO DIAZ, make this statement of my own free will.
On February 6, 1943 while I was working with ALFONS0!
NAVARRO's band Dr. kALAMBAKAL came to our place of business
together with CLARO ASUNCION and CONRADO UY. KALAMBAKAL took me
aside and said to me: "What's the matter, why don't you come
to my meetings? You better look out, Diaz, some day the Japanese
SECRET

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Pago16.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
will catch you and put you in jail if you act like this. We must
cooperate with the Japanese."
NAVARRO then broke in: "DIAZ, you'd better cooperate
with the Japanese. The Americans cen never come back to the Orient
any more because Japan is very strong and the Americans are not
strong enough to fight. To tell you the truth DIAz, as you are
my good friend, I am a Japenese spy now."
KALA BAKAL then urged me to sign a statement against
EVANGELISTA. I asked what it was about and KALAMBAKAL said it
statec that he was anti-Filipino, pro-merican and had cut the
loans of Filipinos.
NAVaRRO said: "You'd petter sign, efter all you have a big
family and if you don't sign nobody will look after them when
the Japanese put you in jeil."
I asked for 24 hours to think it over and next day asked
r. KAY of merican Association for advice. KAY said "Just to
protect yourself, sign it. I know you are pro merican."
fter a few days KL. BkAL came to see me again with a
piece of paper which said that if I dia not attend the meeting
that he was to hold, you will be arresteć by the Japanese. I
went to se ir. KaY to consult about this threat showing him the
letter. As it was in Tagelog, I translated it to him word by
word. r. KAY told me to leave the paper with him. Mr. KAY
tvised me to do what KLABAKaL asked me to do because the Japs
were in power and he could not do anything. I attended the
meeting which was held the next day.
In the meeting e paper was passe around where those who
attended signed their names. I should say that the meeting was
disorderly because those that wished to express their opinions and
slightly in favor of the Americans were called out of order by
ALINDADA vho was the sergeat at erms. Only the pro Japenese hed
the voice. In the election that followed, ALINDADA showed his aggres-
siveness in favor of the Japanese candidate, that is KALAMBAKAL.
In the votation by acclaimation, KALAMBAKAL lost. Seeing that
they lost, ALINDADA stood up and said that it was hard to determine
or count the votes by acclaimation so he ordered that all those in
favor of KALAiiBAkAL must go to the right side of the hall and those
for CELIS to the left. He fcllowed this in a loud voice calling his
boys to go to the right. As there were Japenese gendameries present
in the meeting, most of the pro-CELIS were afraid of the Japs so
they went to the right side. KALAMBAKAL won by force.
Sometimes before this meeting took place, NAVARRO approached
me and invited me to a party that was to take place in his house.
When I went to the said party, I saw NAVARRO and S. SAMPER. Then,
SECRET

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 17.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
E. MARTINEZ, J. CANLAS, T. CRUZ, F. SALVADOR and FRANCISCO LUCIANO.
KALAMBAKAL came and told us to read the paper he had with him and
asked us to sign it after reading. This paper was a petition to
TOJO for independence. NAVARRO was trying to force me to sign the
said petition, but I told him that I desire to go to the toilet
first before I sign it. I was allowed and I left them finally.
(sined) FRANCISCO R. DIAZ
veluation C-3
The following signed statement was made by F. SALVADOR on
22 October 1945 :
"I F. SALVaLOR, make this statement of my own free will,
In March 1943 KALABAKAi invited me to tea also present
Were ALFONSO NaVARRO DEMETRIO VALDEVARONA and T. CRUZ. After
tea we got in a car and I was surprised when we arrived at the
merican School and were taken into a room with Japanese in uniform.
KALAMBAKAL spoke in Japanese to these men and I did not understand
what he said.
KALAMBAKAL spoke to us in Tagalog and instructed us to
tell the Japanese about Dr. EVANGELISTA and other pro-American
Filipinos.  The Japanese showed me & picture of Dr. E. and I seid
I knew him. They asked me if he was & spy and I did not answer
yes or no. I can't remember what the others answered.
The Japanese held a small piece of paper in his hand as he
asked us about the Filipinos end whether we knew of any Filipinos
who are pro-Americen and making propaganda against the Japanese.
Dr. KALABAkAL then took this piece of paper and said :
"Come on we better sin this paper in case we need some
other pass or papers and then the Japenese will know us and we
can obtain from them easily."
Then he handed each of us the paper and we signed.
Then we went home. KLA BAKAL, VALDEVARONA, and I think
NAVahRO went back the next day but I don't kmow what they did.
In June 1943 KALAMBAKAL brought a petition to me to sign
saying that if we signed it we would have some unity and we could
send to TOKYO for some help. It was on LIPUNANG PILIPINO letter-
head and started: "Dear Sirs: we the undersigned, Filipino
SECRET

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Page 18.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
residents of Shanghai, pledging our support in the establishment
of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, would ask your
I signed this because times were very hard and many others
had signed before me.
(signed) F. SALVADOR
Evaluation C-3
The following is en extract from a signed statement made on
29 October 1945 by 4.Y. CELIS :
- I -
FILIPINO MUSICIANS UNION
versus
FILIPINO ASSOCIATION
On pril 17th, 1942 a Preliminary Meeting was held in my house
in reponse to the complaints of many musicians regarding compulsion
under threat to join the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION and to play at the
Micnight Bell scheduled to take place at the PARADISE BALLROOM on
April 25th, 1942. In the evening of April 17th Mr. JOSE C. CONTRERAS
asked me to explain why I was forming another organization against
the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION which was already formed for the whole
Filipino Community under the protection of the Japanese. Mr. CONTRE
RAS accused me of persuading the musicians not to play at the proposed
Lidnight Ball which affair was cancelled owing to a telephone call
received by the CENTRAL POLICE STATION advising them that trouble
would occur if the ball was held. Consequently the affair was
cancelled. The FILIPINO MUSICIANS UNION was formally inaugurated on
May 1st,1942, and in the evening of May 12th I was assaulted by
Messrs. ALFONSO NAVARRO and CONTRERAS and dismissed from work by Mr.
C.NTRERAS immediately. F.M.U. members increased inspite of
Mr. CONTRERAS' instructions to all musicians not to join this pro-
Anerican orgenization, the F.M.U.
- II -
DR. KALAMBAKAL'S BLACK LIST
In the presence of the musicians in March,1943 at CIRO'S
BALLROCM I asked Dr. KALA BAKAL whether it was true that he wanted
me to be arrested and he answered that my name was included in his
Black List. So I went to the SWISS CONSULATE to enquire whether
SFCRET

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Page 19.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
any step could be taken by the CONSULATE in connection with those
arrest during the month, as I thought I was then on my way to the
same fate. Mr. ESSIG replied that as this was a political case all
they could do was to report the matter to the U.S. Government.
- III -
DR. KALAMBAKAL REVIVING THE FILIPINO ASSOCIATION
At the met ting cn April 18.1943. at the LIDO BALLROOM, when
I asked Dr. KALAl BakAL, the presiding officer, to explain "The
important subject to be discussed will be the present situation of
arresting our fellov country-men and our dangerous situation." as
stated in his circular of April 8. 1943, he remarked that I was
disturbing the order of the Leeting.
I learnt after the Meeting that the reason for Mr. J. ALIN-
DADA's shouting "LIDO BOYS TO THE RIGHT" was that I would be shot
by the Japs if I came out as President of the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION
considering my anti-Japanese attitude. In one of KALAMBAkAL's
numerous petitions, I scretched my name and signature, which action
was brought by Dr. KALAlBAkAL to the Gendarmerie and police
authorities, and which beceme the subject of investigation. Dr.
KALABAKAL epproached his collaborators, Messrs. CONTRERAS, ALIN-
ILA, CONSTANTINO with a view to persuade musicians under them to
resigm on bloc from the F.M.U. because I declined to instruct
F.M.U. members to Join the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION.
- IV -
ACCUSATIONS AGAINST ME
On May S1st, 1943, Dr. KALAiBAkAL, together with his pro-
Japanese clique, Messrs. CONTRERAS, ALOBOG, ALINDADA and CONSTAN-
TIÑO reported to the authorities to have me arrested. I was
summoned at the SENTRAL POLICE STATION where I found myself
before said clique. With the inspector-in-charge of the crime
branch presidin, the aforementioned honourables fires the
following accusations against me:-
1. Mr. CoNTRRs accused me of heading a pro-American
Orgenization. He begged the presiding Jap to dissolve
the F.L.U. or bring our Union under the control of the
FILIPINO AsSOCIATION on the following grounds:-
(a) The F..U. was financially supported by the Americens
through the SWISS CONSULATE.
(b) Between the lines of the Rules of the F.M.U. could
be inferred Anericen propagende.
(c) The F.M.U. was opposed to the pro-Japanese aims of
the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION (LIPUNANG PILIPINO)
SEORET

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Page 20.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
(a) Mr. CELIS' failure to instruct the F.M.U. members
to join the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION.
2. Mr. CONTRERAS stated that I was receiving a fabulous
amount as relief loan from the SWISS CONSULATE.
3. Dr. KaaaBakA alleged that I branded the bandleaders
present "CROOKS".
r. BENNY CONSTANTINO seconded Dr. KALAMBAKAL' accusa
tion.
5.
Mr. V.D. LOBOG steted that I said to him by phone that
I would not return his trophy because the Americans
would oe comins b ck within three months and the S.V.C.
would be re-crsanised.
6.
Mr. J.M. LINDAIA said that the F.M.U. had done nothing
but softball and therefore should not exist.
- V -
INAUGURATION OF PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE
On October 10th, 1943, r. CONTRERAS, as cting President
of the FILIPIKO ASSOCIATION, took charge personally of everything
pertaining to the parade and ceremony at the RACE coURSE in the
morning, while r. CONRADO A. UY and V.Z. CASINO, together with
V.D. LOBOG as Chairman of the Reception Committee, made all
necessary arrangements includins financial matters, at the
CATHAY HOTEL in the afternoon. The Minutes of the Meeting
written by LORZO UGIO on K KOO MAY letterhead and the
Memorandun in the handwritin& of mr. CoNTRERaS written in green
ink testify to all of his efforts to make the day a complete
success. ar. ORDN and I raised the FILIPINO flag and I explained
its symbol. kr. ORDE spoke on the same teneur at the CATHAY
HOT in the afternoon.
Messrs. UY and CAsINO in their fiery speeches attached the
mericans, as may be read in the SHANGHAI TIMES dated October
15, 1943.
Correction of a newspaper item is attached hereto.
- VI -
DEPARTURE OF DR. KALANBAKAL
To bury the deceasec body of the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION, its
Board of Directors lead by the writer, resigned en block on
announcement that DR. KALAMBAKAL is leaving SHANGHAI. This
doctor was pleased to receive our resignation for he saw a loyal-
ist in the person of Mr. JOSE C. CONTRERAS, an heir to his lofty
aims and pro-Japanese ideals.

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
Evaluation C-3
The following extract is from a signed statement made by
M. JAVIER on 3 November 1945 :
"My arrest and imprisonment was brought about through the
whole hearted collaboration of the pro Japanese group headed by
J. CONTRERAS, V. ALOBOG, J. ALINDADA, C. UY, G. KALAMBAKAL. V.
CASINO. R. JOQUICO, F. SAMPER and J. PAJARILLO. aliaS "CLARO
ASUNCION". They were constantly on the lookout for every move we
meke and every worå we say. They eagerly supplied the Japanese
informations."
Evaluation C-3
The following are extracts from statements made by P.C.
ESPINO, pro-merican Filipino who twice suffered arrest at the
hands of the Japanese :
Shanghai, 16 October 1945.
"I heard that the Japanese were watching me around February
1943 and I was arrested 14 Merch 1943 by three Japanese gendarmes
(including HIRaNO who was in charge). I was taken to BRIDGE
HOUSE after they searched my house and seized all documents and
pictures. I was not allowed to talk or say goodbye to my family.
I was questioned by HIRanO and the others at home and at
BRIDGE HOUSE. They asked: "Do you know EVANGELISTA, J. CANLAS,
A. HOSETA, S. TOLEDO (now deceased)1 hat did you do last
Christmas? (They were suspicious of my pert in raising funds for
Xmas dinner for wer prisoners)."
At BRIDGL HOUSE they examined my papers but found nothing
incriminating. I was then out in confinement for the night.
The second day I was feč two meels put not questioned. The
third day I was questioned agein (HIkkO) and asked: "Why did
you refuse to join the (Japanese sponsored) Filipino Association?"
On the paper he held while he questioned me I noticed Dr.
KALAMBAKAL's signature. He showed me this paper.
He then asked me why I solicited Filipinos to get funds for
the dinner. He showed me this paper also and it was signed by
VALDEVARONA."
Shanghai, September 21, 1945.
"A week after I was arrested. I was called for investige-
tion. I was taken into a spacious room on the topmost part of
the building. This must be investigation room and a torture
SECRET

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 22.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
chamber because I saw in another table torturing pharapernalia
like clubs, rods, big knives, apparatus for generating electri-
city, etc. Oh how I prayed that I may not experience the use
of these gadgets. After taking down all the particulars about
my identity, they asked me if I knew Dr. KALAMBAKAL D. BALDE-
VARONA, FRANCISCO SAMPER, SALVADOR FRANCISCO anD A. ORDEN. I
answered that I did. They asked me if I had anything against
them. I said nothing. The chief investigator took a paper
from his file and asked me several questions all relating to my
refusal to join KALAMBAKAL and his group. I stuck to the idea
that I will never join any political group because I was not a
politician."
Evaluation C-3
The following extracts are taken from signed statements
made by JOS CAiLAS, who suffered arrest at the hands of the
Japanese :
Shanghai, October 1.1945.
"A week after my arrest, I was taken out of the cell for
investigation. The first question I wes asked was if I loved
my country. I said I did. The second was if I liked the Ameri-
cans. I said I aid and I got slapped. They asked me if I knew
the following persons : G. KALABAKAL, ALFONSO NAVARRO, D.
BALDEVARONA, FHANCISCO SALVADOR and TIRSO CRUZ. Then 1ike a
flash it came to my mind that these Filipinos were the ones
that turned informer to the Japanese. fter that they read to
me the charge. I was charged of beine anti Japenese, merican pro-
pegandist and spy. I was so dazed for it was not too easy to
be called a spy. In support of this charge they read to me
affidavit signed by the persons mentioned above. KALAMBAKAL
charged me for refusing to join the Filipino Association, a
Japanese sponsored orgen for disrupting Filipino loyalty to the
United States. That I refused to sign the association's
petition for Philippine Indenendence. BALDEVARONA charged me
for being a spy receiving instruction from Mr. HALE through
Dr. EVANGELISTA. A. NAVARRO charged me in diseminating ideas
and transmitting instructions to pro Americen Filipinos. FRAN-
CISCO SALVADOR charged me for going among the Filipinos instruc-
ting them not to sign the independence petition. TIRSO CRUZ charge
me with gathering informations and submitting them to Dr.
EVANGELISTA. I denied all the charges."
Shanghai, 17 October 1945
"One week after my arrest, I was teken out of my cell and
was taken into a room and asked me the following questions:
"Do I love my Country, I said yes; Do I like the Americans,
BDORET

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 23.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
I said yes, and then HIRanO punched me in the face several times.
Then he read a list of names and asked if I knew them.
Included were KALAMBAKAL (yes), ALFONSO NAVARRC (yes), DEMTRIO
VALDEVARONA (yes) FRANCISCO SALVADOR (yes) T. CRUZ (ye). Al)
of these except SALVADOR I had heard were cooperating with the
Japs.
HIRAlO then read me an affidavit signed by these men accusing
me of bein anti-Japanese, an merican propagandist and an Ameri-
can spy. Though, in substence, this was true I denied it. I was
beaten and forced to kneel with a piece of wood thrust behind my
knees.
They asked me if I received instructions from Dr. EVANGELISTA
and asked for information concerning him and ESPINO. I replied
that I did not know anything.
Twice they asked me if I would continue to go around town
and I replied yes, it was necessary to my business. He asked me
if I didn't get paid by Dr. EVANGELISTA and if Dr. E. didn't get
paid by the Americans. I said no ena was slapped.
He then asked if Dr. E. had told me to tell the boys in the
orchestra not to sign up on the side of the Japs. I said no.
Slapped egain.
HIRANO then asked me if I wanted to cooperate with the
Japanese. I saic that I woulc accept any job. (However I did
not cooperate end did no work for them).
I was then removed to a cell."
Evaluation C-3
The following signed statement was made on 22 October 1945
by T. CRUZ :
"In March 1943 I went to American school with KALANBAKAL.
NAVARRO. VALDEVARONA and F. SALVADOR. My cousin,A. ROSETE, was
at that time in Japanese custody.
When we arrived there a Japenese told me: "If you want
your cousin to come out you had better sign this paper. You just
tell that DR. EVANGELIST is pro-merican end that he is a very
bad man."
SECRET

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 24,
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
VALDEVARONA spoke up and said EVANGELISTA is a spy and
a crook.
SALVADOR, NAVARRO, VALDEVARONA and myself signed the
paper. My cousin was released in e few days.
(signed) T. CRUZ."
(Note: It appears that the paper signed was a record of the
conversations and answers to questions)
Evaluation C-
The following is an extract from a signed statement made
on 21 October 1945 oy A. ORDEN, pro-Japanese Filipino :
"Ishell start my narrative with the creator of all evils
but who called himself "The Angel of the Philippines" probably
by dropping leaflets attached (Enc.4 & 4). I know this man
ever since I was fourteen years of age. e boys talk about him
as a freak, a medicine-man, of peculiar cheracter, and a man
vith funny ideas. iy first altercation with him was shortly
after New Year in 1932, when he brended the musicians IGNORAMUS.
He had a mania for leadership but he never had a chance in
Shanghai. The war, however, was a turning point in his life
and he seized his opportunity. DR. EVANGELISTA and I were
surprised to meet hin at MR. AOBOG's store in Jenuary 1942
and he related to us his heroic exploits end the dire calamities
our people were experiencing in the islends. My fether became
very il1 in Feoruary 1942 end he requested us to call DR. KALAM
BAkL but after some treatment he signed my father's death
certificate on pril 16, 1942. I met him now and then at Mr.
ALOBOG's store and at one time he handed me the Independence
Petition (Enc.2) After the arrest of Messrs. EVANGELISTA,
ESPINO, CANLAS, ABUNDO and ROSETE, DR. KALAMBAKAL, under the
threat of further mass arrest, celled two or three meetings of
bandleaders at MR. ALINDADA's house. In one of the meetings
Lr. Z. ARaNAS referred to the arrest of Lr. S. ABUNDO mention-
ing that said ABUND0 was questioned on December 18, 1942,
shortly after refusing to play at a certain o ncert. thus
virtually pointing to ir. CONTRERAS. Later efter this second
threat he issued his third threat in the form of (nc.1)
calling a meeting at the LIDO BALLROOM. DR. KALAMBAKAL
dregged me along to distribute this threat to the various
cabarets.
SECRET

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
During the meeting at the LIDO BALLRO0M on pril 18, 1943
I thought this medicine-men would meet with failure as MR. CELI'S
was very popular, but the thundering voice of MR. ALINDADA exclai-
ming "LIDO BOYS TO THE RIGHT" changed the situation. MR. CELIS
drefted a letter of protest egainst this high-handed conduct but at
a meeting of the F.M.U. we asked Mr. CELIS to hold the letter.
We had several Director's Meeting but we decided nothing for there
was always a scuffle. On several occasions he insisted on the
dissolution of the F..U.. alleging that in the eyes of the Japs
this was a pro-hmerican organisation. How to get rid of thi
menace was e. real problem, out then I would still have CoNRaDo A.
UY, VICENTE Z. CASINO and JOSE C. CONTRERAS on the way1 I consulted
r. S.V. HERRERa (deceased) who said that he would talk with Mr.
JOSE CANLAS. Lr. HERRERA told me two or three days later that
Mr. CANLAS would be glad to accompany me to the American School.
There wes e hovering uneasiness over the Filipino community with
the presence of this man for we did not know what would happen next.
I mustered enough courage to go to the American School alone and
got an interview with a certain YAMANISHI. He was rather rough at
first, but after explaining my purpose and showing him DR. KALAMBA
K's letter (Enc.l), he showed signs of civility. He said he would
look into the matter. A week or so later Mr. HERRERA and I went to
see a certain M. OGin, also of the mericen School, in rogard to
DR. KALAMBAKAL. and LR. OGAWA said that their headquarters were
doing everything to banish this man from Shanghai. DR. KALAMBAKAL
convoked a General Meeting at LIDO'S BALLROOM. which I did not
attend, where he delivered his farewell address and appointed MR.
JOSE C. CONTRERAS as Vice-President and successor."
valuation C-3
The following extracts ere from signed statements made by
A. ROSETE :
Shanghai,October 25,1945.
"About a few days after, I was taken out of my cell and
brought to a room where I sew DR. KALAMBAKAL. D. BALDEVARONA. A
LAVARRO, F. SALVADOR, T. CRUZ and the Jap investigator, all sit-
ting around a big round table.
BALDEVARONA brought out DR. EVANGELISTA's picture in
military uniform and said, "Here is your American Chief's picture."
I answered. "He is our Chief". Then A. NAVARRO told me that they
ceme there because they wented to take me out of jail on condition
that I must tell the Jap that I have been telling DR. EVANGELISTA
news about Japanese and Filipinos in Shanghai and that I do not co-
operate with the Japanese because the Americans will come back.
SECRET

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page26.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
I was wondering what their intention was for they were
forcing me to say the above statement. As the above corversa-
tion was in Tagalog, the Jap told us that we should talk in
English. I was silent all the while because I was thinking what
to say. Then the Jap. told me to say all what I know about
DR. EVANGELISTA. I kept quiet. Then A. NAVARRO told me that
if I would not way what they wanted me to say to the Japanese.
I could not come out of jail. The Jap. told me that he must
investigate me again. a. NaVakRo and his geng left telling me
me not to forget what they told me to say so that I could be
released. I dic not answer him for I knew that if I tell what
he told me to say, since it was not true, it might bring
trouble to DR. EVA GELISTA end myself also."
"I suspected tnat KALABAKAL and A. NAVARRO reported me to
the Japanese beceuse at one time, because I refused to attend
KALAMBAKAL's meeting, he told me in TAGALOG that he will have
the Association arrested (by Association he means people working
in the merican association).
A. NaVARO also reported me because at one time when I
was still working with him, I refused to play for the midnight
ball under the euspices of the Filipino Association. He was
one of the promoters of the ball. He took me to the office of
the Filipino Association where with BALDEVARONA they forced me
to play. I refused and told them that I was not at all very
necessery ant that they could hold the ball just the same.
Then NaVARRo told me thet beceuse I was pro-American so I refused
to play. As a result of his attitude to me, I left him before
my contact expired.
Sometime before KALAMBAKAL left Shanghai, he told before
a group of musiciens at COlLUCk that he would have six pro-
merican Filioinos arrested."
"I, A. ROSETE, make this statement of my own free will
When I was arrested by the Japs in March 1943 I was taken
to : roon fcr my second interrogation. There I saw DR. KALAMBA.
KAL, A. NAVARRO, D. BALDEVARONA. F. SALVADOR,T. CRUZ and a
Jap investigator all sitting around a big round table. BALDE-
VARONA brought out apicture of DR. EVANGELISTA in military
uniform and said, "Here's your American chief's picture." I
answered: "He is our chief." Then A. NAVARRO told me that e
they wanted to take me out of jail on condition that I must
tell the Jap that I have been telling EVANGELISTA news about
the Japanese and Filipinos in Shanghai and that I d not
cooperate with the Japs because the Americans will come back.
BDORDT

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 27.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
Then the Japanese told me to say all I know about EVANGELIS.
TA. I kept quiet. Then A. NAVARRO told me that if I would not
say what they wanted me to say to the Jap I could not come out
of jail. The Jap told me he must investigate me again. A. NAvARRO
and his gang left telling me not to forget what they told me to say
so that I could be released.
Some time before KALAMBAKAL left Shanghai he told me before
a group of musicians that he would have six pro-American
Filipinos arrested.
I suspected that KALAMBAKAL and A. NAVARRO reported me to
the Japs because I did not attend KALAMBAKAL's meeting. NAVARRO
I think reported me because I refused to play at the midnight ball
and said I did this because I was pro-merican. He said: The
Americans can never come back because the Japanese are very
strong. I feel sorry for your.
(signed) ANDRES R. ROSETE
78 Tsepoo Rd.
Evaluation C-3
House 5.
The following signed statement was submitted on 16 November
1545 by DR. EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipino leader, who twice
suffered arrest at the hands of the Japenese :
"GERTRUDO KALABAKAL is believed at present to be in MANILA.
but possibly in SANTA CRUZ, LAGUNA Province, P.I. Certain people
says that he may be hiding somewhere in Japan, probably in TokYO.
He passes as an M.D. and calles himself doctor. KALAMBAKAL has
had some medical training in Japanese schools.
Two days previous to the declaration of war, KALAMBAKAL left
Shanghai on board a Jap warship. He told other people two days
before the war actually broke. that in two days there is going to
be war and said that he was going to help the Japanese landings in
the Philippines.
After the capture of the Philippines by the Japs, KALAMBAKAL
showed up here again and boasted of the Jap fighting strength and
kindness to Filipinos in the P.I.
It is at this stage that KALAMBAKAL, jelous of UY TRIA.
CELIS, CONTRERAS and other pro-Jap Filipino leaders, toid the
Japs that the pro-Jap movements of Filipinos here was not quite
satisfactory, he therefore, called a meeting of the Jap sponsored
Filipino Association that has been started and led by UY, TRIA
DASMARINAS and ASUNCION and compelled them to turn in their
resignation and called for an election of permenent officers.
Due to ALINDADA's support, KALAMBAKAL was elected President with
SDORET

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 28.
GERTRUDO KALAMBAKAL
CELIS as the Vice-President.
Then KALAMBAKAL. as President of the Filipino Association
made petitions and resolutions addressed to Gen. TOJO and to
LAUREL's Regime and compelled almost every Filipino in town to
sign. To this, ORDEN, CONTRERAS, ALINDADA, CELIS and UY gave
their full support. KALAMBAKAL, with BALDEVARONA, CELIS.
NAVARRO, F. DIAZ. T. CRUX and F. SALVADOR plotted the arrost
ESPINO, CANLAS and me.
Then A. ORDEN, CONTRERAS, ALINDADA, UY and CELIS bogan
to organize entertainment to Jap wounded soldiers, gave benefit
shows to rais funds for Japan to buy aeroplane and canvased
every dancing Hall to ask Filipinos to give full cooperation to
the Japs.
KALAMBAKAL armed with an authority as President of the
Filipino Association, plus the resolutions and petitions addressed
to Gen. TOJO and to LAUREL's regime, left Shanghai with the idea
of presenting in person these resolutions to Gen. TOJO and before
his departure, eppointed CONTRERAS as President of the Association
in spite of CELIS opposition to the appointment.
From this time on, CONTRERAS took a full control of the
Association, surpassing even KALAMBAkAL's aggresivenese. Accor-
ding to MADRASA and ALABOG, KALAMBAKAL has an appointment as a
Jap Navy Adviser and they saw him in Jap soldier's uniform and
saluted by Jap sentries.
(signed) H.C. EVANGELISTA.
Evaluation C-3
The following is an extract from a signed statement of
16 November 1945 by V. TULI0, pro-Japanese Filipino :
"After the occupation of P.I. by the Japs came KALAMBAKAL
who claims himself the Angel of the Philippines; boasted of his
connections with High Military Command in Shanghai and elsewhere
and who threatened and forced up to attend meetings and signed
petitions to the Jap's government for something that I could not
remember."
Eveluation C-3
SECRET

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 1.
A.N. MADRASO - Lane 14. 11 Nanking Road
1. The following signed statements were voluntarily submitted
by the subject :
Shanghai, October 30, 1945.
CONRADO UY was the man who advised me to swear allegiance
to the LAUREL Government and I did so for the sake of my job and
my family. I said that I had voted "no" when I went to SWIss
CONSULATE because I wanted to get relief from them for my family.
I sent my son, ALBINO MADRASSO, on the FILIPINO YOUTH tour
to NANKING after being requested to do this by CONRADO UY.
My daughter MODESTa is married to a Japanese and he still
calls on her at times.
I signed certain petitions and resolutions addressed to
PREM IER TOJO and others oecause of my friendship to Dr. KALAMBA
KAL and lr. UY. I sometimes went to dance halls and gambling
places with Dr. KALAMBAKAL. Dr. KALAMBAKAL told me in advance
that Dr. EVANGELISTA was to be arrested and I told EVANGELISTA
about this.
Lr. ALOBOG is very friendly towards the Japanese and gave
parties for them several times. These included NAMBA and SUGANO.
I heard that ALOBOG's car was not confiscated beceuse ofKALAMBA
KAL's arrangement with the Japanese.
(signed) A.N. LADRAS
valuation C-3
Shanghai, November 7, 1945.
Regarding Dr. KALA BAKAL. I have to say that he comes to
me once in a while for hair cutting and sharpening of his razors.
As I remember, that on two instances, he invited me to go out to
cabarets where we only danced and afterwards, we joined poker
games with other Filipinos. Sometimes he tried to ask me some-
thing about the Filipinos, but before starting his questioning I
always jumped on him and stopped him by telling that I am not
interested in the matter which he wanted to ask me, because I
have nothing to do with the affairs of other Filipinos. When
Dr. KALAMBAkAL was about to go away from Shanghai, he mentioned
to me that may be Dr. EVANGELISTA will be arrested the cause of
which, he did not divulge to me. As soon as I received this news,
I right away informed Dr. EVANGELISTA to this effect.
Regarding Mr. UY, I should say that he is my friend but I
have no any dealings with him.
About lir. CAsINO. I should sey that I know him but I have
no dealings with him whatsoever.
SEORET

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
A.N. MADRASSO - Lane 14, 11 Nanking Road
About Mr. CONTRERAS. I should say that I know him by name
only on account of his popularity of being a good band leader but
I never met him in person.
About Mr. ASUNCION,I should say that he is my friend but we
never discuss anything, and as I know he is also a friend of Mr. UY.
and CASINO.
About Mr. ALOBOG, I know him many years but we are not friend-
ly and never greet each other, because he is proud and look down
those poor Filipinos. Also I'overheard from other Filipinos that
LOBOG used to entertain Japanese friends and offer presents.
About knowing Japanese, I should say that I do not know any
private Japanese except those my co-workers in the Oustoms.
About my answer "Yes", I should say that Mr. UY advised me
to do so, because he said that if I do not answer "Yes", it might
cause the loss of my position in the Custom House for which I have
served for about twenty nine years.
(signed) A.N. MADRASSO.
Evaluation C-3
2. The following signed statement was made by Dr. H. EVANGELISTA.
pro-merican Filipino leader on 10 November 1945 :
"MADRAS.0 is the loud speaker of KALAMBAKAL and has frequented
with him, gambling places and Dancing Halls. He is a pro-Jap and
cooperated actively with all the pro-Jap Filipino leaders here. He
attended all pro-Jap meetings, sined petitions and resolutions to
Gen. TOJO and LAUREL's Government. He has induced KALAMBAKAL to
have the pro-Americen Filipinos leaders here to be arrested by the
Japs oy suggesting that the only way to make Filipinos believe in
his leadership is to have the pro-American Filipinos be arrested by
the Gendarmerie. Informer to Japs. He and family all said "Yes"
at the registration at the CATHEDRAL. but went later to the SWISS
CONSULATE and said under oath there that he said "No" (meaning he
did not signify allegiance to LAUREL's Republic) in order that he
may continue taking relief from the SWISS CONSULATE. When questiond
once by some one, why is that he is a "Yes" man and yet he is
taking loan from the SWISS CONSULATE, he responded, "one must know
how to play ball." One of his daughters which he has been claiming
relief, was married to a Jap without informing the SWISS CONSULATE
and his son, ALBINO was one of delegate to NANKING in May 1944. His
close associates are KALALBAKAL, UY, TRIA, ALOBOG, ASUNCION and
CONTRERAS. the leading pro-Jep leaders here."
(signed) H.C. EVANGELISTA.
Evaluation C-3
SECRET

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page S.
A.N. MADRAS30 - Lane 14, 11 Nanking Road.
The following is an extract from a signed statement made on
24 September 1945 by P. CRUZ :
"The Japanese that tortured me are the following: HAsEGAWA,
ISHIDA and the interpreter whom I could recognize if I see him.
The Filipinos responsible for my arrest are the following: JOsE
ALINDADA JOSE CONTREAS, CONRADO UY, VICENTE CASINO, FRANCISCO
SAMPER, RAMON JO UI CO, CLARO ASUNCION, VI CENTE ALOBOG, D BALDE
VARONA, A. MADRASO, A. CELIS and A. ORDEN."
Evaluation F-6
4.
On 8 May 1943, the suoject signed the rools of the Japanese
sponsored FILIFINO ASSOCIATION. On 20 June 1943, the subject signed
the following document :
To His Excellency
General Hideki Tojo
Prime Minister
TOKYO, Japan
HEREAS
The Japanese nation received the Philippine delegation
with due courtesy end respect befitting their mission;
WHEREAS
Your Excellency proclaimed at the Diet that the
Philippines will be granted independence within
this year;
REsOLVED That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record to
thank the Japanese nation and express our pride to be
destined an independent member of the GREATER EAST ASIA
CO-PROSPERITY SPHERE.
veluation 
5. On 20 June 1943, the subject signed the following resolution :
Hon. Jorge B. Vergas
Chairman
Fhilippine Executive Commission
ANILA, Philippines
WHEREAS
You have couregeously led our people through the hours
of trial;
WHEREAS
You have sent a mission who presented our cause before
the Japanese netion;
WHEREAS
You have been answered by the recent statement of Premier
General HIDEKI TOJO that the Philippines will be granted
SECRET

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
A.N. MADRAS 0 - Lane 14,11 Nanking Road.
independence within this year;
RESOLVED
That we, Filipinos in Shanghai, go on record to expross
our gratitude to you and join you in saying, "This is the
happiest day in the history of the Filipino people."
Evaluation A1
6. On 15 June 1943, the subject signed petitions addressed to the
Japanese Consulate General and Office in charge of Enemy Property;
which petition contained the following sentence :
"We, the undersigned, Filipino residents of Shanghai. pledging
our support in the establishment of the GREATER EAST ASIA CO-PROSPE
RITY SPHERE, woulc ask your kind favour to help us in our present
problem."
Eyaluation 1
7. The subject, together with his family, on 18-19 November 1943,
answered "YES" end swore allegiance to the puppet Government of the
Prilippines. The subject stated to the SWI'Ss CoNSULaTE that he had
enswered "No", in order to continue receiving relief from American
sources via the SWISS CONSULATE. The subject sent his son ALBINO
as a delegate to the Youth Conference in NANKING, sponsored by the
Japanese.
Evaluation A1
8.
P.C. ESPINO. pro-american Filipino who suffered arrest, made
the following signed stetement regarding the subject :
"Propagandist. Loud speaker of the gang. Very bitter
towards mericans. Denounced U. S. rule in Philippines. A great
gambler and a cheat. Took active part in all pro Japanese demons-
trations. Swore allegience to LAUREL Government and also to U.S.
Quick in circulating rumors to terrorize pro American Filipinos.
Was one of the men responsible for the arrest end imprisonment of
some of the pro merican Filipinos."
Evaluetion F-6
SECRET

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 5.
A.N. MADRASO - Lane 14. 11 Nanking Road.
9.
The following is an extract from a signed statement made on
3 November 1945 by R.B. DIZON :
"That MADRasO, a very close friend of C. UY, has told others
that he knew beforehand that Dr. EVAnGELISTA would be arrested by
the Japanese. After the arrest of Dr. EVANGELISTA and his gang, he
told me that the Japanese are punishing them severely, inflicting
all conceivable tortures. He told this in a conversation with me
at the CANIDROME. He is known to be a staunch supporter of the
Japanese."
Evaluation C-3
SECRET

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 1.
LEONARDO MALABANAN - 41 Carter Road House 10
1.
The subject made the following signed statements on 6
November 1945 :
Mr. Pinder,
Present.
Dear ir. Pinder,
Herewith I am enclosing my statement of my visit
to lankin& as I have asked to do so.
If you recall I have been questioned by you once
the past weeks I was down your office. The main reason of my
visiting Nanking was to get away from my family and troubles.
During the duration of war Foreigners are not permitted to tra-
vel and as I've been offered to join the "Scouting Party, " I
thought to myself here's where my chances of getting away for
a while till I can forget at least part of my femily worries.
As a prove to my statement since my departure till date I have
been separated from my wife and children.
Hoping this explains everything, I remain,
Respectfully yours,
(signed) L. MALABANAN
Casino offered me the free trip to Nanking.I was not aware
that I was going as a delegate representing Filipinos. He gave
me the ticket, in Nanking I stayed in the camp and paid nothing.
After sic days I returned to Shanghai. I sang Tagalog songs on
the radio when ASUNCION made his speech.
I marched in the Independence Day Parade of October 14.
1943 because I saw them marching on the street and so joined them.
I attended the ceremony at the Race Course.
(signed) L. MALABANAN
Evaluation F-6
2. The following signed statement was made on 13 November 1945
by Dr. H. EVANGELISTA. pro-American Filipino leader who suffered
arrest at the hands of the Japanese:
MALABANAN is known by all Filipinos as a very active and
boastful pro-Jap. He played in concerts and benefit shows for
the Jap Soldiers; attended all meetings of pro-Jap Filipinos:
signed petitions and resolutions for General TOJO and LAUREL's
SECRET

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 2.
LEONARDO MALABANAN - 41 Carter Road House 10 (continued)
puppet Republic; member of the Filipino Association and supporter
of Contreras, UY, CELIS, ALINDADA, ASUNCION and BALDEVARONA: grand
marshal at the Independence Parade and ceremony at the RAcE COURSE
on Oct. 14, 1943; Delegate to the pro-Jap or Japanese sponsored
conference at Nanking on May 1944. He did not signify allegiance
to the Philippine Republic at the time of registration at the
CATHEDRAL because of his fear to lose relief from the SWISS CONSU-
LATE,but his daily conversations is anti-American and his associates
are all of his leaning.
(signed) H.C. EVANGELISTA.
Evaluation C-3
3. According to the Affidavit made on 14 October 1943. before the
SWISS CONSUL the subject took an active part in the Parade and
ceremony on i4 October 1943 celebrating the Independence of the
puppet Philippines Regime. The subject on 8 May 1943, signed the
resolution of a Japanese sponsored Filipino Association. On 15 June
1943, the subject signed petitions addressed to the Japanese Consu-
late General and the Office in Charge of Enemy Property; which
petitions contained the following sentence:
"We. the undersigned, Filipino residents of Shanghai
pledging our support in the establishment of the GREATER EAST ASIA
CO-PROSPERITY SPHERE, would ask your kind favour to help us in our
present problem."
Evaluation A-1
4.
The following is an extract from the signed statement made on
3 November 1945 by R.B. Dizon:
"That I used to have an argument with LEON MALABANAN and in
the argument he praised the Japanese and upheld their ideals thus
exposing his anti-Americanism. He once made a comment and betted
that some Filipinos would be arrested oy the Japanese."
Evaluation C-3
SEORET

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Pago 1.
VALENTINE PUNSALAN - l027 House 70 Broadway.
1.
The subject made the following signed statem at on 15 C ober 1945:
I. VALENTINE PUNSALAN am making this statement of my own free will.
Late in 1943 I was visited at my home by a Japanese called M. Takkn
The first few visits he talked in a friendly manner and brought presents
for the children. From this conversation I gathered that he thought that
I was a pro-Japanese Filipino. Thus he was very friendly towards me and
said that he was going to fix it up so that I could get a loan. In fact.
he stated that he was going to get all pro-Japanese Filipinos loans. Some
time after these talks TAkEDA called on me three times and each time I
was out. The third time he left a note asking me to call at his office on
the eighth floor of the Foreign Y.M.C.A. I therefore called at this office.
TAKEDA asked me to give him information on members of the Filipino commu-
nity who were pro-American and who might cause trouble. He said that he
wanted information on Dr. H. EVANGELISTA, P.C. ESPINO or any other
Filipino who might feel as they did. I stated that I did not know any-
thing about these men; he then said that I must know something about them.
Our conversation continued for about half an hour as we discussed various
matters in a friendly way. Some time between two and three in the after-
noon someone knocked on the door end J. ALIND. (alias DON JOSE) came
into the room. He appeared very surprised to ste me. The three of us
telked for some time in a friendly way and I t lieve DON JOsE was convinced
by TAkEna's manner that I was pro-Japanese anć herefore could be trusted.
After some time TAKEDA asked DON JOSE: "What is Dr. EVANGELISTA?".
DON JOSE replied: "ell, this guy is pro-American and he is always
making propaganda for Americans. He is the one who gave advice to some
Filipinos not to attend the PAN-ASIATIC ATHELETIC MEET at the RACE COURSE.
He is working against our organization. EVANGELISTA is their leader and
ESPIKO is helping him. MATEOS and some other Filipinos are mixed up in
this too. I think that we must take these people out of the way."
The subject was then shifted to counteract the effect on the
Filipinos of the relief that they are receiving from the SWISS CONSULATE.
DON JOSE therefore suggested that they should put a notice in the paper
that a relief from the PHILIPPINES would be given to Filipinos though
they know positively no relief could come from this direction. Mr.
TAkED then offered us tea and cakes and he left the room and during that
time DON JOSE said to me: (in a whisper) "This must be between you and me,
don't let anybody know about this meeting or that you have seen me here.
We are now here, we ere Filipinos, and everybody wants to live and don't
forget that this is an occupied area and they can do anything they want
with us."
At this point Mr. TAkEDA re-entered the room and after having coffee
we left his office. As stated above I heard DON JOSE advise Mr. TAKEDA
that he thought the best way to counteract the good news of Allied loans
through the SWISS CONSULATE to the Filipinos was to publish a statement in
the newspapers that relief hed arrived from the LAUREL Government. DON
JOSE stated that of course this was not true but it would be good propa-
SECRET

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
o2.
VALENTINE PUNSALAN - 1027 House 70 Broadway
ganda in the papers. TAKEDA said that this sounded like a good idea
to him.
Some time after 27 February 1944, the date EVANGELISTA, MATEOS
ESPINO and CRUZ, JAVIER, VILLA were arrested TAKEDA called at my
place of work. COMLUCK RESTAURANT and asked me about E. LORENZO.
He said: "How about this man LORENZO? Is he doing any talking
against the Japanese to the boys in the band or to other Filipinos,
because so far I heard that he is a big mouth always talking against
Japanese." I replied that as far as I knew LORENZO was not talking
about anything about politics. Mr. TAkEDA then stated: "I am ready
to take LORENzo tonight, what do you think about. do you think it
will spoil your bano?" I replied: "Well, I can 't say yes or no to
you, this action is up to you, but don't forget as I told you the
first time what he has been talking about and also don't forget that
he is a sick man." TAkEDA then said: "Well, I will think it over.
I'll leave hin alone this time. I will find out something more
about him." Then TAKEDa left me.
Previous to TAkEDA's visits a Lieutenant MUKOYAMA of the
Japanese Gendarmerie called on me. He said that since I )VALENTINE
PUNSALAN) wes merried to a Japanese woman naturally I must
cooperate with the Jap nese. He asked me what I knew about the
Filipino community in general and whet I knew in particular about
.Y. CELIs ald what kind of man he was, and what was doing in the
MUSICIANS UNION as well as the Filipino community. I replied that
I dian't kmow much about what was going on. kUKOYAnA then changed
the subject and said: "I know you are not making much money, if
you want to make extra business here is what you should do. Report
to me on what you hear outside avout mericans and other Allies in
town. Report to me if you see anyone giving signals during black-
outs." He then gave me the name of some foreigner (which I do not
now recall) and said that he was suspected of being a spy. He seid
that he wented me to check up on this man for him and get informa-
tion. I replied that I woulo try but I took no further action on
the matter. He left me after advising me to turn in any information
to his office on Canton Road. Some time later I met MUkOYAMA on
the street and told him I was having housing trouble. He said to
call at his office and I did so. I was greatly surprised to see
MUKOYAMA appeer in an army uniform, with officer's insignia as I
thought that he was just a plain service man. We had a converse-
tion and he told me that he was going to fix my house. Nothing
came of it; that was the last time that I saw Lieutenant MUkoYAMA.
In conclusion I wish to go on record as stating that I was
never guilty of actively aiding the Japanese. Because I spoke their
language they thought that I would aid them, but I never did.
(signed) V. PUNSALAN.
Evaluation F-6
SEGRET

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Page 3.
VALENTINE PUNSALAN - 1027 House 70 Broadway
2. The subject on 18-19 November 1943, answered "YES" and pledged
allegiance to the puppet Government of the Philippines. He appeared
at the SWISS CONSULATE and stated that he had said "NO", and obtained
relief thereby from American sources. On 8 May 1943, he signed the
rolls of the Japanese sponsored Filipino Association. On 15 June
1943, he signed petitions addressed to the Office in Charge of
Enemy Property and the Japanese Consulate General, which petitions
contained the following sentence:
""e, the undersigned, Filipino residents of Shanghai
pledging our support in the establishment of the GREATER EAST ASIA
CO-PROSPERITY SPHERE. would ask your kind favour to help us in our
present problem."
ivaluation 1
3. The following signed statement was submitted on 13 November
1945 by Dr. H. EVNGELISTA. pro-American Filipino leader who
suffered arrest at the hands of the Japanese :
"FUNSALAN is a double crosser. He gave informations to the
Japs as to the activities of the Pro-American Filipinos, acted as
an interpreter to the Japs and then comes to the pro-American
group and says that so-and-so is watched by the Japs. His house
was frequented by the Jap Gendarmerie and so is his place of work
where he entertained MUKOYAMA, TAKEDA and ISHIDA all members of
the Jap Gendarmerie. PUNSALAN was a member of the FILIPINO ASSO-
CIATION. attended all meetings of pro-Jap Filipinos and signed
petitions and resolutions addressed to General TOJO and to LAUREL's
puppet Government. He said ("Yes"), signifying allegiance to
LAUREL's puppet Republic but denied having done so to the SWISS
CONSULATE in order thet he may oe able to continue to receive aid
from American sources and not to be suspected as a pro-Jap. He
has a Jap wife and like the other Filipinos with a Jap wife were
all active supporters of the Japs and were buying "Jap war bonds."
His associateS like CONTRERAS, UY, CELIS, TRIA and ALOBOG, are
all pro-Jap leaders here in Shanghai. His personal adviser. is
L. GoNZAGA, another man of doubtful activities.
(signed) H.E. EVANGELISTA.
valuation C3
4.
B.F. LUCRO on 8 November 1945, made the following signed
statement containing the following comment on the subject :
SEORET

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 4.
VALENTINE PUNSALAN - 1027 House 70 Broadway
"At the beginning of the war, PUNSALAN said that if the Jap
will send him to the P.I. he could explein and convince the Fili-
pinos of the good intentions of the Japanese, thus avoiding
unnecessary bloodshed. He has always praised the Jap even before
the war and he said that in fighting ability, one Jap is equal to
ten -mericans. He frequently entertained Jap Gendarmeries at his
home. He has also entertained Jap Gendarmeries at his place of
work."
(signed)
B.F. LUCERO.
Evaluation C-3
SECRET

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.98)
Details:
1. QUAmSON, Romiro. Born in the Philippines, age 38 years, he1g
5'6", weight 140 lbs., wears mustache, has Philippino-
American passport. Occupation, musician. Speaks Japanese
2.
Born in Cabite Province, Philippines, spent 6 years as a facto
worker in the United States during approximately 1928-34. Le1
the U.S.A. for Hong Kong, then to Shanghai, then to Indo-China
then to Tientsin - working all the while as a musician.
Arrived in Tientsin in 1935. Has a wife in Shanghai who is
half Chinese and half Phillippino. Now living with a White-
Russian girl and they have a baby born to them. Hel& office
in the Tientsin Philippino Association with Pedro CADz, (see
local file No. l22) and was one of the Japs' best collaborators
among the Philippinos. Now working in a Japanese night club
in the Japanese Conceseion.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 1.
SECRET
9 November, 1945,
SHANGHAI.
ARMANDO J. SALES
(833/10 AVENUE JOFFRE. ROOM 16)
1.
The following signed statement was submitted by the
subject on15 October, 1945:
"833/10 Avenue Joffre,
Shanghai, China.
15 October, 1945.
Mr. Pinder,
c/o United States Army Liaison Office,
53 Foochow Road.
Dear Mr. Pinder,
As per your request I hereby declare the following
statements:
I am a citizen of the Commonwealth of the Philip-
pines owing allegiance to the United States of America.
Reference: Swiss Consulate.
Profession: A businessman. The last time I
came down here in Shanghai was in March, 1941, from
Manila, P.I. Sent as a Representative and Branch
Manager of the "Islands Supply Co", head office, Manila.
I was married and have two children - all in
Shanghai. I got separated with my wife and two children
in 1942, due to financial difficulties because of the out-
break of Pacific War. I have a monthly income of US$600.00
or Pesos 1,200.00 before the war in Shanghai from my com-
pany.
Subsistence and maintenance for myself, wife and
two children comes from the "American Relief Committee of
the American Association of Shanghai," my personal guaran-
tor an American business-man named R. S. BoYD - owner of
the "NORTH AMERICAN SYNDICATE", 41O SZECHUEN Road, Shanghai
for the relief. Later our relief was transferred. Came
from the Swiss Consulate up to present.
SECRET

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2.
SECRET
ARMANDO J. SALES (Continued):
I could say I am loyal to my government "Common-
wealth of the Philippines," by declaring myself that I
owe only an allegiance to the above-mentioned govern-
ment and no other more, before the Force Meeting as I
called it, by the Japanese Consulate - represented by
its Consuls. Made Black and White - meaning has to
sign up papers. Also second proof, I quite remember
and signed, and declared myself before the Swiss Consul
that I was an enemy of Japan. All these things
happened as the final showdown for us Filipinos here in
Shanghai. That was the time when we Filipinos here
became divided into two parties.
As a loyal citizen of my country, I only request
and suggest that each and everyone of those who separated
from our old government and have sworn into the "Puppet
Japanese Philippine Government," be asked any questions
before - I suggest and what mostly of us here wants. A
Compulsory Meeting of all Filipinos to be given in a desig-
nated place you may desire. I knew my countryman very
well - talk too much but nothing happened. Besides of
what I always hear is that it's in every one of those
who, whom we called "YES MEN" have his or her own personal
reasons and they said they would like to voice it out
before us. So what I think those ideas are very fine.
As to your request that I help the government to find out
those Bad Filipinos here, this meeting will be a nice
place to hear and see for you and for me, who are the real
ones what we call criminals.
As to the meetings you have been asking me, I might
as well say what I see, heard and been to:
On or about January 5, 1942, a meeting was called
for all Filipinos through newspaper. Held at METROPOLE
Ballroom. Present: All Filipinos and Japanese high
officers. An association names "Filipino Association of
Shanghai" was formed - motto: Relief and mutual benefit
for the Community. President: CONRADO A. UY. (Doubting:
We know he is half-caste Chinese and he is Filipino, but
some say he's got Chinese Passport.) Mysterious. Know
him only during meeting war.Later, he published a news-
paper called "FILIPINO CLARION" making propaganda. I
think so as to what I have read. I'm sorry I have not
got one. Some of my countrymen have them. They are
only being given to members. I was not and never been a
member even if this was a community organization. I was
very busy myself struggling for my daily needs.
On or about April 18, 1943, a mysterious man named
Dr. G. KALAMBAKAL appeared in Shanghai - issued to all
Filipinos a threatening letter, forcing all of us to attend
that meeting. Present: Filipinos and Japanese High
SECRET

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3.
SECRET
ARMANDO J. SALES (Continued):
Officers. Frightened mostly of my countrymen and what
comes out he becomes President of the newly formed associa-
tion called "LIPUNANG PILIPINO" meaning Filipino Community.
An association that membership is being done by force
through threatening and have had the members signed up
first before making the Constitution. Comes out a
political party or association after the Boajd of Directors
have made the Constitution.
On or about July, 1943, as I quite remember, Mr. JOSE
C. CONTRERAS, that time my Capitalist and Partner in
business "Secondhand and Bicycle Dealers" took over the
association due to Dr. KALAMBAKAL'S departure. I don't
know where he went.
On or about October 14, 1943, a meeting and
Independence Day (Japanese giving Independence) celebration
was held. Almost all were there. An invitation card was
given to mostly Filipinos as I have received one also.
On or about November - December, 1943, the State
Department through the Swiss Consulate have asked us
Filipinos that those who want to remain loyal to the
"Commonwealth of the Philippines" must swear once more
an allegiance to the U. S. Government through the Swiss
Consul here - made to sign up declaring ourselves as an
enemy of Japan. I was one of those Filipinos. Swiss
Consulate records will show. I think the Japanese knew
all about us. Lucky they did not harm us, only they made
a Force Closing of the U. S. Government Relief Loan for us
in the Swiss Consulate from August, 1944, up to this peace
time. They made us hungry and some of us died of starva-
tion. I was able to manage by making and opening a "Second-
hand Commission Open Air Storen in the streets of Shanghai,
travelling from one street to another. This is what we
called in the States - Junk Business.
Lastly, I suggest and request the United States
Government through your kind office or its representatives
in Shanghai concerned to investigate very well and thorou-
ghly our case here in Shanghai without any exceptions or
eliminations if concerned. I mean most of my countrymen
regardless if he is a "Yes" or "No" man, be he or she got
some complaints against Dr. EVANGELISTA and Mr. C. ESPINO.
I have nothing against them but as a loyal citizen, I
would suggest and request that of what I heard from them
they they would like to see them before a Compulsory
Meeting of all Filipinos (compulsory in order that they
will be there) to be done before U. S. Liaison Officials
SECRET

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 4.
SECRET
ARMANDO J. SALES (Continued):
to witness, to hear their voices, each and everyone
of them. If this Compulsory meeting will be done
to our request, it will at the same time save you
trouble of investigating us Filipinos. There you
will see who are the Real Bad Filipinos before the
crowd.
So help me God, I hereby swear - for pride,
dignity and honour, for the sake of my countrymen and
country, once more request that Compulsory Meeting and
Investigation be imposed on us to find out the Real
Criminal.
I testify that all the above mentioned statements
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
So help me God!
Very sincerely yours,
Signed:
ARMANDO J. SALES.
833/10 Avenue Joffre,
Room 16."
EVALUATION: C-3.
2.
The following signed statement regarding the subject
was made on 9 November, 1945, by Dr. H. EVANGELISTA:
Re: A. SALES: A lieutenant and courier of
CONTRERAS. Very active pro-Jap leader, but due to
fact that he was taking relief from the Swiss Consulate,
he said no at the registration of Filipinos at the
CATHEDRAL. SALES was very out spoken in all the meet-
ings of the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION and was heard once by
CANLAS and other Filipinos to have said in his conversa-
tions to some Filipinos, that the money that the Swiss
Consulate was giving to Filipinos, was not money from
the Americans, but it is money that belongs to the
Philippine Government (meaning the LAUREL Government)
and for that reason, Filipinos should all be given
relief irrespective of his political affiliation and
belief. He distributed notices for the meetings of
the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION, attended all gatherings of
pro-Jap Filipinos. Signed petitions and resolutions
that are pro-Japanese.
SECRET

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 5.
SECRET
ARMANDO J. SALES (Continued):
There are numerous reports at the Swiss Consulate
of SALES, shady or undesirable business transactions and
has made many false statements in order to obtain
additional relief money.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
Witness: P. C. ESPINO (Signed)
EVALUATION: C-3.
3.
The following signed statement regarding ARMANDo SALES
was made by JOSE CANLAS:
"Re: ARMANDO SALES: Was one of CONTRERAS' lieutenant
and ardent supporter.
Was the one who distributed cir-
culars to pro-Jap Filipinos. Carried messages from on
pro-Jap leader to another. Has told several Filipinos
that the money (relief) for the YESMEN has already arrived
from the LAUREL government.
Signed: JOSE CANLAS."
5 November, 1945.
Witness: H. EVANGELISTA (Signed)
Witness: P. C. ESPINO
(Signed)
EVALUATION: C-3.
4.
P. C. ESPINO, pro-Allied Filipino made the following
statement regarding the subject:
"ARMANDO SALES: A double face. Mingled in both
camps.
Runner and messenger of the pro-Japanese.
Took part in all demonstrations.
A great agent provo-
cateur."
EVALUATION: C-3.
5.
The subject on 8 May, 1943, signed the membership Rolls
of the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION, which swore to uphold the
Constitution; Article II, Sections (d) & (e) of which read:
"(d) To co-operate with the Philippine Government in
the pursuance of our political emancipation under
the guidance of Japan.
SECRET

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
Pago 6.
SECRET
ARMANDO J. SALES (Cont1nued):
(e) To pledge our determination to co-operate whole-
heartedly with the Japanese and Chinese Govern-
ments and other Asiatic countries in the successful
establishment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere."
EVALUATION: C-3.
6.
The subject also affixed his signature to petitions
directed to the Japanese Consulate-General and the Office
in Charge of Enemy Property, which petitions contained the
following sentence:
"We, the undersigned, Filipino residents of Shanghai,
pledging our support in the establishment of the
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, would ask
your kind favour to help us in our present problem."
EVALUATION: A-1.
SECRET

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
14 November, 1945,
SHANGHAI.
F. SALVADOR
The following signed statement was submitted by the
SUBJECT on 22 Qctober, 1945:
"Shanghai, Oct. 22, 1945.
I, F. SALVADOR, make this statement of my own
free will.
In March 1943 KALANBAKAL invited me to tea also
present were ALFONSO NAVARRO, DEMETRIO VALDEVARONA
and T. CRUZ. After tea we got in a car and I was
surprised when we arrived at the AMERICAN SCHOOL
and were taken into a room with Japanese in uniform.
KALANBAKAL spoke in Japanese to these men and I did
not understand what he said.
KALANBAKAL spoke to us in Tagalog and instructed
us to tell the Japanese about DR. EVANGELISTA and
other pro-American Filipinos. The Japanese showed
me a picture of Dr. E. and I said I knew him. They
asked me if he was a spy and I did not answer yes or
no. I can't remember what the others answered.
The Japanese held a small piece of paper in his
hand as he asked us about the Filipinos and whether
we knew of any Filipinos who are pro-American and
making propaganda against the Japanese.
DR. KALANBAKAL then took this piece of paper and
said: "Come on we better sign this paper in case
we need some other pass or papers and then the Japa-
nese will know us and we can obtain from them easily."
Then he handed each of us the paper and we signed.
Then we went home. KALANBAKAL, VALDEVARONA and
I think NAVARRO went back the next day but I don't
know what they did.
In June 1943 KALANBAKAL brought a petition to me
to sign saying that if we signed it we would have
some unity and we could send to Tokyo for some help.
It was on LIPUNANG PILIPINO letterhead and started:
SECRET

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2.
SECRET
F. SALVADOR
"Dear Sirs: we the undersigned, Filipino residents
of Shanghai, pledging our support in the establish-
ment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere,
would ask your kind favour to help us in our present
problem ........"
I signed this because times were very hard and
many others had signed before me.
Signed: F. SALVADOR."
EVALUATION: F-6.
The following is a extract from a signed statement
by P. C. ESPINO, telling of his arrest by the Japanese in
March, 1943:
"The following Filipinos are responsible for my
arrest - and imprisonment. G. KALAMBAKAL, APOLONIO
ORDEN, DEMETRIO BALDEVARONA, FRANCISCO SAMPER and
SALVADOR FRANCISCO. These people filed affidavits
with the Gendamerie in support of the accusations.
I do not know the name of the Japanese gendamerie who
slapped me, but I could identify him if I could meet
him.
On February 28, 1944, I was rearrested with
DR. EVANGELISTA, ALFREDÓ MATEOS, MARIANO, JAVIER,
PRIMITIVO CRUZ and GORGONIO VILÍA. I was accused
of the following: (1) For being one of the leaders
of an association hostile to Japan. (2) For having
a secret office in the SWISS CONSULATE.' (3) For
receiving instructions from WASHINGTON thru the SWISS
CONSULATE.
(4) For making periodical reports to the
SWISS CONSULATE regarding the Filipinos who were co-
operating with JAPAN. (5) For thwarting all pro
Japanese demonstrations by the Filipinos. (6) For
circulating rumors that the Filipinos who would attend
the Philippine Independence celebrations will have
their loan stopped. (7) For taking pictures during
the independence celebrations. (8) For not recogniz-
ing the LAUREL GOVERNMENT and instructing other Fili-
pinos not to recognize said government. (9) For dise-
minating news and ideas derogatory to Japan.
(10) For
using my house as a center of propaganda."
EVALUATION: C-3.
SECRET

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3.
SECRET
F. SALVADOR
There is evidence to show that the SUBJECT partici-
pated in a parade and ceremonies marking the independence
of the puppet Philippines regime. There is evidence to
show that the SUBJECT is an opium addict.
On 15 June, 1943, the SUBJECT signed petitions
addressed to the Japanese Consulate-General and the Office
in Charge of Enemy Property, which petitions contained the
following sentence:
"Dear Sirs: We the undersigned, Filipino residents
of Shanghai, pledging our support in the establish-
ment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere,
would ask your kind favour to help us in our present
problem ........"
EVALUATION: A-1.
The following is an extract from a signed statement
made by ANDRES ROSETE:
"October 25, 1945.
About a few days after, I was taken out of my
cell and brought to a room where I saw DR. KALAMBAKAL,
D. BALDEVARONA, A. NAVARRO, F. SALVADOR, T. CRUZ and
the Jap investigator, all sitting around a big round
table.
BALDEVARONA brought out DR. EVANGELISTA'S picture
in military uniform and said, "Here is your American
Chief's picture." I answered, "He is our Chief."
Then A. NAVARRO told me that they came there because
they wanted to take me out of jail on condition that
I must tell the Jap that I have been telling DR. EVAN-
GELISTA news about Japanese and Filipinos in Shangha1
and that I do not cooperate with the Japanese because
the Americans will come back.
I was wondering what their intention was for they
were forcing me to say the above statement. As the
above conversation was in Tagalog, the Jap told us
that we should talk in English. I was silent all
the while because I was thinking what to say. Then
the Jap told me to say all what I know about DR. EVAN-
GELISTA. I kept quiet. Then A. NAVARRO told me
that if I would not say what they wanted me to say to
the Japanese, I could not come out of jail. The Jap
told me that he must investigate me again. A. NAVARRO
and his gang left telling me not to forget what they
told me to say so that I could be released. I did
SECRET

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
Page
SECRET
F. SALVADOR
not answer him for I knew that if I tell what he told
me to say, since it was not true, it might bring trouble
to DR. EVANGELISTA and myself also."
EVALUATION: C-3.
The following is an extract from a signed statement
made by P. C. ESPINO regarding his arrest:
"Shanghai, 16th October, 1945.
I heard that the Japanese were watching me around
February 1943 and I was arrested 14 March 1943 by
three Japanese gendarmes (including HIRANO who was in
charge). I was taken to BRIDGE HOUSE after they
searched my house and seized all documents and pictures.
I was not allowed to talk or say goodbye to my family.
I was questioned by HIRANO and the others at home
and at BRIDGE HOUSE. They asked: "Do you know
EVANGELISTA, J. CANLAS, A. ROSETA, S. TOLEDO (nOW
deceased)? What did you do last Christmas? (they
were suspicious of my part in raising funds for Xmas
dinner for war prisoners)."
At BRIDGE HOUSE they examined my papers but found
nothing incriminating. I was then put in confinement
for the night.
The second day I was fed two meals but not questioned.
The third day I was questioned again (HIRAnO) and asked:
"Why did you refuse to join the (Japanese sponsored)
Filipino Association?"
On the paper he held while he questioned me I noticed
DR. KALANBAKAL'S signature. He showed me this paper.
He then asked me why I solicited Filipinos to get
funds for the dinner. He showed me this paper also and
it was signed by VALDEVARONA.
Another paper he showed me was an accusation sighed
by FRANCISCO SALVADOR - "Why did you induce Filipinos
to repatriate to the United States?"
The Salvador paper also accused me applications for
repatriation from Filipinos.
SECRET

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 5.
SECRET
F. SALVADOR
An accusation signed by FRANCISCO SAMPER stated
that I and EVANGELISTA held political meetings in
my home. This was not true although I did have
many Filipinos call at my home for advice.
An accusation by A. ORDEN said that I refused
to sign the petition for (puppet) Filipino independence
(true).
Most of these things I admitted I had done but I
stated that these were my duties and I had done nothing
wrong.
They tried to make me admit I had held political
meetings and when I denied this I was slapped and
beaten by HIRANo for one and a half to two hours.
Then I was returned to my cell, where I spent 7 days
before being questioned again."
EVALUATION: C-3.
The following signed statements were made by JOSE
CANLAS regarding his arrest on 19 March, 1943:
"Shanghai, October 1, 1945.
A week after my arrest, I was taken out of the
cell for investigation. The first question I was
asked was if I loved my country. I said I did.
The second was if I liked the Americans. I said I
did and I got slapped. They asked me if I knew
the following perSons: G. KALAMBAKAL, ALFONSO NAVARRO,
D. BALDEVARONA, FRANCISCO SALVADOR and TIRSO CRUZ.
Then like a flash it came to my mind that these Fili-
pinos were the ones that turned informer to the
Japanese. After that they read to me the charge. I
was charged of being anti Japanese, American propagan-
dist and spy. I was so dazed for it was not too easy
to be called a spy. In support of this charge they
read to me affidavit signed by the persons mentioned
above. KALAMBAKAL charged me for refusing to join
the FILIPINO ASSOCIATION, a Japanese sponsored organ
for disrupting Filipino loyalty to the United States.
That I refused to sign the association's petition for
Philippine Independence. BALDEVARONA charged me for
being a spy receiving instruction from MR. HALE through
DR. EVANGELISTA. A. NAVARRO charged me in disemina-
ting ideas and transmitting instructions to pro American
Filipinos. FRANCISCO SALVADOR charged me for going
among the Filipinos instructing them not to sign the
independence petition. TIRSO CRUZ charged me with
gathering informations and submitting them to DR. EVAN-
GELISTA. I denied all the charges. I have been
GECRET

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 6.
SECRET
F. SALVADOR
tortured to make me confess to all these charges.
Since they did not any concrete evidence against
me, I kept on denying altho I had to suffer. A
week after, I was again called for investigation
on the same charges. I had nothing to say but to
deny. This time I did not suffer as in the first
investigation. One day, I was called for investi-
gation but it finally turned to be my release with
DR. EVANGELISTA and MR. ESPINO. They made me sign
a written promise not to have anything to do with
any British or American and that I should cooperate
with the Japanese and KALAMBAKAL and his gang for the
prosecution of this war. I wanted to get out of
the hole and I wanted to do some more service to my
country and the United States, so I signed the docu-
ment with the firm intention of not carrying it or
its obligations."
"Shanghai, 17 October, 1945.
One week after my arrest, I was taken out of my
cell and was taken into a room and asked me the
following questions: "Do I love my Country, I said
yes; Do I like the Americans, I said yes, and then
HIRANO punched me in the face several times.
Then he read a list of names and asked if I knew
them. Included were KALANBAKAL (yes), ALFONSO
NAVARRO (yes), DEMTRIO VALDEVARONA (yes), FRANCISCO
SALVADOR (yes), T. CRUZ (yes). All of these except
SALVADOR Thad heard were cooperating with the Japs.
HIRANO then read me an affidavit signed by these
men accusing me of being anti-Japanese, an American
propagandist and an American spy. Though, in sub-
stance, this was true I denied it. I was beaten and
forced to kneel with a piece of wood thrust behind
my knees.
They asked me if I received instructions from DR.
EVANGELISTA and asked for information concerning him
and ESPINO. I replied that I did not know anything.
Twice they asked me if I would continue to go
around town and I replied yes, it was necessary to my
business. He asked me if I didn't get paid by DR.
EVANGELISTA and if DR. E. didn't get paid by the
Americans. I said no and was slapped.
He then asked if Dr. E. had told me to tell the
SECRET

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 7.
SECRET
F. SALVADOR
boys in the orchestra not to sign up on the side of the
Japs. I said no.
Slapped again.
HIRANO then asked me if I wanted to cooperate with
the Japanese. I said that I would accept any job.
(However I did not cooperate and did no work for them).
I was then removed to a cell. In a week I was
again questioned this time by a Jap whose name I do not
recall."
EVALUATION: C-3.
The following signed statement regarding the SUBJECT
was made by DR. H. EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipino
leader:
"November 14, 1945.
Re: F. A. SALVADOR: A pro-Jap and follower of
KALAMBAKAL, NAVARRO, CONTRERAS and TRIA, prO-Jap
leaders.He is a member of the Jap sponsored
Filipino Association; attended meetings and gatherings
of pro-Japs Filipinos; complainant for the arrest
(First) of pro-American Filipinos; signed petitions
and resolutions addressed to Gen. TOJO and to LAUREL'S
Government; attended Independence Ceremony at the
RACE COURSE on October 14, 1945.
Signed: H. EVANGELISTA."
EVALUATION: C-3.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
VICTORINO TULIO
The following signed statement was made on 16 November 1945
by the subject :
"There was one Association headed by UY and some notable
Filipinos when I came to SHANGHAI. I was approached by Mr. CONRADO
UY, the President of the union to support him in his political aims
for which I flatly refused since I am not interested in any campaign
politically.
After the occupation of P.I. by the Japs, came KALAMBAKAL who
claims himself the Angel of the Philippines; boasted of his connec-
tions with High Military Command in SHAnGHAI and elsewhere and who
threatened and forced up to attend meetings and signed petitions to
the Jap's government for something that I could not remember. Prior
to this, some of our Filipino boys were rounded up, brought to the
Bridge house for detention and Investigation and who did it was far
beyond my knowledge. As to my personal opinion, these incidents
brought forth hatred, jealousy and revenge among the Filipinos.
One of the co-campaigners and propagandist in the UY group by
the name of VICENTE CAPINO who dislike the American rule in the
Philippines said, "Once and for all the American should be extermi-
nated in P.I."
Being the husband of a Japanese girl for 14 years and to save
the situation for my family and skip all troubles, I did answer yes.
I regret to say that should there be no Filipinos that colla
borated with the Jap and stooges that spilled things in the SWISS
CONSULATE. split and disorder won't occur and all Filipinos here
would be solid and firm in their co-operative movements.
Witnesses:
(signeā) VICTOR TULIO.
H.E. EVANGELISTA ) signed
A.C. PINDER
) signed
Eveluation F-6
The subject on 18-19 November 1943, answered "YES" and swore
allegiance to the puppet Government of the Philippines. On 14
October 1943, he took part in the ceremony celebrating the Indepen-
dence of the puppet Philippines Government. On 19 May 1943, he
signed the resolution of the Japanese sponsored Filipino Association
thereby binding himself to the Constitution, Article II Sections d.
& e. of which read :
SECRET

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 2,
VICTORINO TULIO
"(a) To co-operate with the Philippine Government in the
pursuance of our political emancipation under the
guidance of Japan.
(e)
To pledge our determination to co-operate whole-
heartedly with the Japanese and Chinese Governments
and other Asiatic countries in the successful es-
tablishment of the GREATER EAST ASIA CO-PROSPERITY
SPHERE."
Evaluation 1
The followin& signed statement was made on 14 November 1945
by DR. EVANGELISTA, pro-American Filipino leader who twice suffered
arrest at the hands of the Japanese :
"TULIO is a very active and boastful pro-Jap; he is a lieute-
nant of CONTRERAS, KALAMBAKAL, TRIA, all pro-Jap leaders of the
Filipino Community here; he is a member of the Jap sponsored
Filipino Association; attended meetings and gatherings of pro-Jap
Filipinos; delivered anti-American speach; signed petitions and
resolutions addressed to Gen. TOJO and to LAUREL's Government:
participated at the Independence Parade, Reception and Ceremony on
Oct. 14, 1943; signified allegiance (Yes-man) to the puppet
Philippine Republic on Nov. 18, 1943. Has a Jap wife and like any
of the rest with a Jap wife, their riends and associates are
mostly pro-Japs."
(signed) H.C. EVANGELISTA.
Evaluation C-3
On 5 November 1945 JOSE CANLAS, pro-American Filipino, made
the following signed statement regarding the subject :
"100 percent pro-Jap. Praised highly the Japs in all lines,
especially military. That they are superior than the Americans.
That the Americans are only bluffing in all their actions. He
said that it could bempossible for the Americans to come back to
this part due to their losses and the weakness of their army and
navy. That on this line the Japs are far superior."
(signed) JOSE CANLAS
Witnesses:
H.C. EVANGELISTA ) signed
P.C. ESPINO
) signed
Evaluation C-3
SECRET

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Page 3.
VICTORINO TULIO
LAURENTINO GONZAGA offered the following extract of a signed
statement regarding the subject :
"Few days after the surrender of Japan, as I was talking to
VICK NEYHOFF about Filipinos who collaborated with the Japanese and
the difficulty of convicting those collaborationist. he mentioned
VICTORINO TULIO as an example. MR. TULIO, in one of the banquets
held at PARK HOTEL (date unknown) and in the presence of Japanese
offials and NANKING puppet government officials, delivered speech
which he thinks was an act of collaboration and MR. TULIO might be
acting as a propagandist too."
Evaluation C-3
The following is an extract from a signed statement made
November 8. 1945 by B.F. LUCERO :
"100 percent pro-Jep. He said, "If the P.I. were not under
the Americans, but the Japanese instead, the P.I. would now be a
well developed and a progressive country in all lines, economically,
scientifically, commercially and socially." He said that in the
short period of Jap occupation, the P.I. has progressed tremendous-
1y. He praised Jap military stategy and said that Jap only baited
the mericans to take the Philippines and other islands in the
Pacific, with the aim of encircling the mericans in the counter
attack. TULIO also said the Japs are using a explosive balloon
which if let loose, will drift towards NEW YORK and explode when
just above the city. He believed that the riches Government in
the world is the Jap Gov't ano so believed in the ultimate
victory of the Jap."
Evaluation C-3
SECRET

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.98)
October 19, 1945.
Shanghai.
CONRADO UY.
The subject called at the Army Liaison Headquarters at our
invitation and prepared a signed statement pursuant to our in-
structions.
Durin an interview, he stated that what he had done he had
done for the good of his country and tnat he was willing to
suffer the congecuences or punishient. His signed statement
follows:
"MY ACTIVITIIS DURING THE PACIFIC
RAR 1ROM DECLBLR 8, 1941
TO ..0.0ST 11, 1945.
At the outbreak of the war I was a member of the reportorial
taff of The Eritish-operated morning daily called the Shanghai
Tines, now The Shnshai Herald. It wes while I was covering
previous press conferences lon before December 8 that I had made
the accuaintance of American-educated Lieut. M. Matsuda, assis-
tant spokesman of the Imperial Japanese Arny in Shanghai, whose
tclephone call I reccived a few days after the occupation of the
foreign settlements. VWhen I went to see im he inquired into
the living conditions of the Filipino residents and appeared to
have been deeply interested in our welfare.
"This war," he said, "is a war between Japan and the Allied
nations. It is not your war - we ave nothing against your
eople. If our forces have landed in your country, much to our
regret, they are to expel the American orces and not to conquer
the Philippines for Japan." Lieutenant Matsuda then explained
that Allied nationals were to be required to wear red armbands and
later to be interned. Pointing out t at techmically the
Filipinos registered with the local Auerican Consulate-General
were American nationals, he stresscd trat they were in fact and
above all Ariatics. "This is a war  the oppressed Asiatics
ajainst th ir Occicental oppressors," he. said, "to bring about the
emancipation of Greater Ea:t Asia fron imperialistic domination.
The Filipinos being Asiatic will not be classified as enemy
netionals hy the Imneri:1 Japanese Covernment."
With this piece of infor ation in my hands and cognizant
of the rowing dirficulties of living in the city as a direct
result of the war, I saw an opportunity for me and a few other
civic-minded frionds to work out a lon or mut al assi tance.
Vith this end in view, the Filipino Association of Shan Iri mas
conccived and counded at a meeting of Filipino residents at the
Metropole Ballroom, Gordon Road, at he  inming of January 1942.
Elected as provisional officers were: President, Conrado A. Uy;
Vice-President, Claro Asuncion; Secretary, Simon Dasmarines;

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 2.
Treasurer, Juan C. Tria; and Publicity Ofricer, Vincente Z.
Casino.
In a brief manifesto (Lxhibit 1) subsequently issued, the
provisional officers reaf irmed the aims and purposes of the
Association to orestall any suspicion that the body had any
distinct political character. Inasmuch as most of our work
was concerned vith relief, I had taken the view that all the
Filipino residents should be rawn into the Association for their
own welfare irrespective of their political beliefs and incli-
nations. I clun to this view consistently by enlisting the
co-operation of the musicians who composed more than 8o percent
of our community. With great patience and perseverance, I
held various conferences ith bandleaders asking them to give
us their unstinted co-operation. As a result, we worked out
the det ils of a midni ht ball (xhibit 2), hich was to be held
at the Mee Kao Mee Baliroom, Yu Ya Ching Road, on April 25,
1942. Notvithstanding all police assurances of assistance,
however, the ball was not held. The Japanese Gendarwerie,
acting on a malicious report, prevented us from going ahead
ith the affir.
The failure of this project proved fatal to our entire
r lief plan : ecause of inncial di ficulties. Inasmuch as no
membership fees ere ever collected ue to the impecunious state
of most of our nembers, e na to ap etl for voluntary con-
tributions from our riends  nd ymputhiers but help ves very
low in comin. The rent o our temper: ry office at 66 N nking
Road, the ex enses or t tionery und the entire cost of the
preoar:tions for the ill-starred call ere to be paid from these
contributions. In the end, ho ev r, I pore the orunt of the
in ncial recoonsibility and hen I re:i ned from The Shanghai
Times about three years l ter, I as still paying in instalments
the Association's bills for printed matter I lad uaranteed.
The l ck of funds and the L ek of time (I Lecane city editor of
The Chen hai Times) re hi  ly res onsible Tor the collapse
of the Assocition ithout visible accom lishments.
Of all my co-o:ficers only Vicente . C sino neld pronounced
tnd unmist kable political views  ich ere characterized by
pro ound nationalism, and like ne he sacririced his time and
energy or the enh ncement of a movement looking tow ra the
r generation of our people. Ho. ever, the political or ocial
views Casino and I shared ere purposciy ithheld from the rest
of the Association members because e did not ant to put any
political complexion to the ssociation's ork hich mi ht
imnediately bring about onfusion :nd scuabbles among our people.
All that I said as Pr sicent of the Associ tion, be it in
meetings, conf rences, rallies, ccl oretions or in :ny other
function, hich had anythin to do with politics was intended
to evoke the sympathy and moral assist nce of the uuthorities
for our community.

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.95)
Page 3.
Long after the Filipino Ass cition d closed down its
office, Dr. Gertrudo Kalambakal,  man wi nout scruples,
approached me and proposed the r. rganization of the Association
on a radical asis. He wanted the orgnization to declare
it:elf uneguivocauly pro-Japenese and effect the incarceration
of detr tors by the Japonese ten rlerie. He revealed that he
had mede orevious consult tions ith cert in J punese Army
officers  ho, he s id,  re re pared to sive any amount of
financial lp. mean ile, he as te lthily telling other
Filipino:, mo. sly mu i i ns, t t he s  uthorized to set up a
sepurate and altogetler a different body and that he would obtain
the arrent o those blocking his efforts. His surreptitious
move ment ined inpctus ith the sub e uent detention of two
innoccnt musicians by the Japanese Gend rmerie supposedly at
K lambekal's in tiation.
Wy ans er to this c   rous aan's  u  e tion was clear and
precise: I  oulo not object to ny reorg nizction and general
election as long as my ame as dissocicted from it. I abhorred
him as a man; us a elf-styled le der he earned my bitter con-
tempt. I then consulted i  my colis  ues in the Association
ino they readily shared my vi vs und sentiments.e, therefore,
decided to resiin en bloc should he succeed in calling a general
meeting. For the purpose o obtaining the necessary police
permit to hold the meeting, me designated Claro Asuncion to re-
oresent the board of cirectors. at a subsecuent meeting held at
the Lido Tallroom, Medhur:t Road, cll the provisional officers
o the Filioino association or Shn hai resi ned and after making
a few re arks, I left the s t ering ith added anger and disgust
recause I di covered tiat  lamukal nad sent out threatening
letters (e ibit 3) to the members ich ct vas responsible for
the r cord ttandance. I must t: te t tnis juneture thet I
I ve al ays tried to  void  ny auve ent tn t cmploys foree or
intimidation as a etpon to accomolish its aims and purposes.
From then on I keot aloof from K lambakal and his cohorts. Of
at  poenee I ter in the isunng Piiipino, as the new body
es  l cd, I kno. very Littie.As ice irom cnt rtaining
Jupanere  ounded .oldiers in & milit ry hosoital nd cavorting
ith a nuaoer of Japanere orficere, uhe Lipun ng Pilipino
accompli: hed nothing.nd ike its precursor, it (ied a matural
eth.
 Lam akal as lter founc to mave used the Assocition
only s  : tep ing  tone to Tokyo, le ving the org nia tion un er
Jo. e u. contrer.s.
Five 'or er members of the Lipunang Pi ipino - Contreras,
A. Orcen  apito Celis, Jo:e Alinoada und Vicente Alobog - Mere
later in touch ith me ror   ile to consider nother plan for
relief  ork o in to t e extreme living dirlicu ties the
community s oin through.But gin no united front could be se
up because  hen Celis lost to Contrerts for the vice-oresicency,
Celis, Alindada and Orden did not  nt to continue ith us.
Later the remaining roup was designated by the Jupanese Consulate-
General to help its personmel in conuucting the registration of
Filipinos at the Holy Trinity Cathedral, Kiangse Road, in spite

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.96)
Page 4.
of the fect that Celis and Orden had previously offered their
services to the Consul:te. The nembers of our roup, however,
had agreed not to influence anybody inside or outside the
Cathedral to register 'yes' or 'no' to a question whether they
accepted the sovereignty of the Republic of the Philippines.
I must admit, however, that I did advise one friend of mine of
long standing, A. Madraso, to unswer 'yes', knowing full well
that he would lose his job snould pe answer otherwise. Employed
in the Chinese Maritime Customs for 30 years, he had five or
six children to sup ort besices nimself and his wife. Another
case in point was that of Geronimo, accountant in the International
Red Cross. If he re istered 'no' he .ould have lost his status
of neutrality and thereby lost his job under existing recuire-
ments. Tierefore, in t at registration all of us were between
two evils and e ch one as leit to his oin  its to decide vmich
as the les:er evil tor im.
Chortly efore the registr tion, e were iniormed by the
Japanese consular ofiicials tmut ome money was rortheoming
from  nila in aid of the ilipinos mere and that it was coing
to be i tributed mon tue re. lly needy ones first. The
sur lus mas to be ci:tributed cmong t e less needy ones later.
I sunoose the Consul te-General conductcc the registration for
the purpose of seertaining t e ctual livin onditions or the
Pilibinos (re. I was tutnori: d to announce the arrival of the
loney but I cesisted ron  oin so pecause I was skeptical about
it. fometime I ter, the Con ul te  ci eo to create a committee
of three, one a non-mu: i ian tne the t.o others musicians. I
as the non-musician namber,  ile Contreras and Celis completed
the pronosed embership. The Consulate nelc the vier that the
musicians should ve the sig er repres ut:tion in the comnittee
necause they composed the ov r elmin jority in our com unity.
e all c reed to ac ept our repective responsibilities but Celis
again  ith rew and as a sub titute ve asked Benny Con tantino,
Iso a bnaleader, to t ke his place. At this time, the Consulate
told us t t the sum of Yen li0,0o0 ad arrived or relief, and
"e ere aske to reoare a plan ior its distribution. e pro-
tested by s yin that the noney :s too  mall even ror the medical
care of our mo.t ne dy members. The con ular officials s mared
our viev, o they deciced to : k the m nila authorities or more.
Before doing tht, ho ever, they proposed to hold nother regis-
tra tion o t  ibly to ina out hov uch more money vas needed,
but .e blocked their efrort mecause Contreras und I did not Went
to urther iden the alre ay ide cle va e vetneen the so-e lled
'yes! nd 'no' roups. e tuck to our ori inal view that in
relier  ork the clen nt of political inelin tion should be
elininted, so auch so t at eere er to unite our people.
The proposed second registration never took place and the Japanese
Consul te-General kept the Yen 150,000. Many months later,
Contreras telephoned me and asked Tor my opinion on a proposal
to distribute the money among the needy members of the Filipino
Musicians' Union, of vhich he secame the president, but I
advised him not to rec ive it for the reason that it might later
be represented to have been iven to his organization as a gift from

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 5.
the Imperial Japanese Government instead of from the Philippine
Republic. Contreras took my advice.
Although Alobog appeared to have been interested in our
welfare projects, he was too ignorant and too selfish to be of
any help. He spent more time bragging about himself and his
friends in the Japanese Navy Whom he frecuently entertained.
But I was never interested in his affairs, and I am sure that he
did not knov. half of hat he as doing.
Reg: rding myrelf, my political ideologies, and my work as
a journalist curing the war, I can as ure you that everything
I did was always in the interest of my country. Personal
ambitions I had none; wealth I never aspired for. My life has
been since my student days dedicated to the cause of my country's
independence for v.hich our heroes and martyrs had shed their
precious blood. Between the J panese and the Americans, I
vould take the Americans any time - to do othervise would be
incompatible ith my education and truining. A school child,
nourished lavishly ith Christian precepts and democratic ideals,
would not suddenly become in later years a bigoted fascist. A
student who used to be thrilled at the mere sight of George
Weshington's picture on the wall, would not suddenly open his
arms to Emperor Hirohito in later years. A nan who still loves
to shout Patrick Henry's "Give me liberty or give me death" and
recite Lincoln's "All men are created free and equal", could not
be so esily persuaded to becone a brainless, willing tool of
milit ristic tin gods  no came running roughshod over my country
and over China, my futher's native land.
Yet ay love of A  rica, Which was systematically instilled
in me or bout l8 yeare of cehooling, could not subnerge a
greater and sublimer love - the love of my own n tive land whose
independence the United £tates had filed to rant. For over
40 years the Filipino people had clamoured for independence from
America, and for 40 years they ad een fed wi h empty promises
tret never saw fulfilment. In spite of their disillusionment,
however, the Fili inos rad r resorted to the arbitrament of
arms, as they had done againt Spain in l896, to obtain their
indepe: ad they annealed to any other foreign
country to aid them in their darkest hour. They just kept
plodding alon rom year to year along the road f their cruel
destiny still trusting to the magnaninity of the United States
of Anerica, land of the most liberty-loving people on earth.
Then the Pacific War proke out. Shot and shell rained the
thickest in the P ilippines and about 30,J0o Filipino ouths were
mowed down by Japanese uns. For what? For the cause of
democracy and for the preservation of the United States of America.
If I were at home, I would have also gone into battle and plunged
into oblivion. But in spite of everything, the Philippines was
conquered. A new national government was "orned and independence
was later granted by the Japanese Government. And here, in
Japanese-occupied Shanghai were about 6o0stranded Filipinos

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 6.
hanging cetween the twin horns of a dilemma; U.S. or Japan.
Were we expccted to behave like Americans and play the role of
damned fools? I can cay with cortitude t at it has always been
America down deep in our heirts, cut by tne compulsion of
circunstrnces oeyond huncn control most of us followed the
policy of lesrt resistance by simulating co-operation vith the
Jepanese. ven those so-ealled 'no' men c nnot be honest to
them elves if they say t et they did not try to please the
Jepanese authoriti's in ony way or nother. It was merely
e cese ofresli sic : utitude dict ted by the exi encies of war.
In making the : bove  tateent, I am not trying to apologize
for my ects ich  ve inv ri: bly been overt end cnaractcrized
by : inccrity nd intellectual honesty. ing a realistic
nationalist, I took an attitude premi:ed on (1) that the Americans
and the Japanese were quarelling over the Philippines through
no fault of the Filipinos, (2) trat independence was granted to
the P'ili  in s by the conoucrors anc (3) that a republic was
set up by the Filipinos theaselves. To me it was enough that
good Filipino blood was sned to immortalize the self-abnegating
spirit of the Filipino people in the universal struggle for
democracy and to show incontrovertible proof of unshaken Filipino
loyalty to the United itates. T at the Philippines Was con-
uered by the Japanese forces us a hard and inescepable reality
ich stared cvcry Filinino in the face..ere the people to
carry on America! r in t  ir own country by using knuckles
insttanks?
?cre they to let the Japanese militarists rule
the Philippines circctly un er totalitarian nethods? Mere they
to sink deener in the rut of cconomic cespondency?
It as not cificult or true Filipino patriots to recognize
the soriousness of our plight. If the Batann martyrs could only
rise from tieir hallo ed raves, they kould lso have seen the
futility of openly continuing a hopcless armed  truggle. It did
not t: ke lon cfore nationa1 eroes like Gen. Emilio Aguinalão
and intellectual giants like Laurel, Roxas, Aguino, Recto,
Parcdes and Osias to cone to the rescue o. their surfering oeople.
Well  soned in the art or t tesmanship, universally honored
for t sir past petriotic services to their country, and respected
for t eir unbl mished morel interity, there men came forward to
steer the  hip of state t rough tormy vaters. The voice of the
people was eard  hen these men were elected to their respective
eats in the liation's council. Who was I, a puny being, to
challenge the political sa acity or impugn the patriotism of
of t ere revered national figures  ho only a few months back
ormed the prain-trust of the late President Manuel Quezon?
Who was I, at this distance, to profess a wetter understenaing of
the conditions actually obtainin; in the Philipnines?
"hen these men accepted Japan's offer of "independence with
honor", I was erely constrained by the lo ic of historical
events occurring in my country to take th ir act as a synthesis
of the people's will. Treir duty was clear as dayli ht: to
pefioatof boan dterdesich their people had teen fignting over a
and as a loyal Filipino nationalist I

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.95)
Page 7.
also say my duty: to r cognize the exi. tence of an independent
overnment at home. That ine ependence mi ht as well nave come
rom the Chinese, or the Indians, or the Negroes, as long as it would
conier upon our govern ent the inviolable ttribute of sovereignty
nd allow our people to a:k freely in the sun. When the Re-
oublic of the Philiopines joined the ureater L st Asia Co-Pros-
serity Sphere spon: ored by J pan, I also accepted the fact of it
s  necessery move lo king to.rd t e eventual emancipution of
the siatic peoples ho nad lon been roaning under the yoke of
Furooean oporession. Thouh in iniiic nt us my effort might
be, I  ii li continue to add my little voice to the millions of
Tittle voicer now thun erin: acros: the  hole of Asia for the
mi neip tion of ell cutject raees no matter hich nation will
take un the letd, be it mmerica, China, In ia, or even thiopia
for thatatter.
My  ork as  journalist curin the wr was inspired by
t cre i eals :nc atever I rote . ich appe red to be pro-
Japancse or nti-nerie n, as inteneed to be ror the cause of
Philionine indeoen ence tne or the romotion of an Asiatic
r ternity in the :elief thet J pan as honest and sincere in her
acts nd oronounce ents. As a reporter, I rote nothing but
news; ubse uently us ity  itor, I as too busy to vrite anything
of sone con: c uence; later as ane ing ditor of The Times eek,
I rote  nuwer on rticles ( ibit 4) nd one py-line article
on the  i ni ie nce of Philip ine indepencence to the Filipinos
(T i it 5). Besi cs, I person lly put out an ersta ile weekly
tobloid (: hortly tfter the outure k oi the war) called The
ilioino Cl: rion, but ter iour or rive issues I had to abandon
it or lack of inncial sup ort. Un ortunctely, I could not
mo ace a s ple is. ue ecause my rile as inadvertently des-
troyed. Ill the t in's t: t I c id und written on Asiatic
issues cre pro ucts and by-oroducts of my honest and sincere
conviction tint Jepan as transl:ting er ords into action in
the Philip ines in particular and in Asia in eneral. If I had
ten other selves, all o. them .ould ve poolcd their energies
together or the reeli ation of the aims tnd purposes of the
As cmbly of Est Asiatic nations.
In the late spring of 1944, tro Filipino scientists, Dr.
Ane lang of the Bureau of He lth and Dr. Airica of the University
of the Philigpines, ere :cnt by the Philippine Government to
Stan hai and Nankin to attend a ledical conierence. In a
sccret conversation I ad ith them t roughout the night at the
Cathay nsions, Careinal Mercier, they ave me a shocking
picture of conditions in the P ilipoines. They told me how the
J panese inter ered ith the aiieirs of the P ilippine Govern-
ment, how they altreated innocent peopl-, how they robbed the
country, how they raped our .omen, how they burned down towns
ind villages und other anton :nt diablical activities. At
first it  as ard or me to celieve their tories ecause even
the public statements made by the rilipino leaders reacning
Shanghai throuh Domei incic ted tnat the machinery of overnment
and the life of the people were oing on smoothly. But I could

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.95)
Page 8.
not so easily dismiss t ese t..o nen's reports in view of the
ract that they ere public servants of probity, so much so that they
Peprer nted the Republic of the Philippines. Besides, Dr. Africa
told me that his trother Francisco Lirica, ormerly Dean of the
Institute of Arts and Sciences of the Far Eastern University and
my prg essor in En lish, vas one of the technical advis rs of
Hon. Claro Recto, Ioreign winister. Mis story of untold atro-
cities s ma:ed on i port: -rom v rious towns and villages all
over the country hich were pouring into the Foreign Office for
renres ntation to the Japanere uthorities.Deep-seated though
my  licr as in J panese honety und sincerity, my conviction
s now ruely  aken nd couot be an to t lk my mind.I took
a ev Iriencs, in lucing Cisino anc Trie, into confidence and
told v en hat I ad  ecrd. Like e they  ere shocked and there-
a ter e rounc ours lves in  atete of uandary. Subsequently,
lile ithhol in the ad neis rom t e rest of our comaunity,
the t ree of us tried to formulate & line of action to check up
on its ver city. One cay I visited a me aber of the Japanese
Navy Liaicon Ofrice and asked him i. it cre possible for any
ilipino to so to M nile t rou h the Navy's itcilities.He in-
ormed me t at by : ea it was impossible to o but that he would
try to arr age it by air. The man  no as to make the trip is
Tria, ho long iore ad intended to ke  trip to the
Phili, ines or business nd fanily reasons.
In the menti e,e triec to et  urt er e s from  mila
but J o nese censorshio id not allow ny cad nevs to filter
trou;h to Shan hai.
sut y i ntina morale was lredy
shatt red; ny pen was no lon r inspired; ay mind  as totelly
dreined of any new L eas. I s ed into inactivity. Suddenly,
late in  y I ot a phone e 1l rom one Japanere Navy  ere I
as later tole  at Tri:  ul o to  nil. It was expleined,
ho ver, t t in's ueh teriv te trips ere not clloved, Tria
would  ve to be assi ned as un econonie investiator ith
assi nuent in i nilu. Tria aic he as willin to o under "any
con itions"  or e las aixious to see nis folks. Only Casino,
Tria and I kher the true r csons or is trip. being suspicious
of theJ: panese intentions, I instructed Trie to be c reful and
to carry out the folloving in tructions: (1) to obtain correct
in orm tions bout the re ported atrocities, () to arcertain the
attitude of the beople ton: rd the J pane:e ne the overmment,
(3) to  esist irom any orn of espion e or unything that might
bring m rn to the Filicinos, nd (4) to come mack at any cost es
soon s posible.It as arren ed in the Navy o fice that he
Would be llowed to rend letters to his amily ane to me in
Shan mi but I ic not rec ive ny letterrom him until a few
months l ter. This lsct lone accentuatcd y sus icion that
something terrible w's oing on in the Pnilip ines. I lost all
my spirits in my ork in The Times eek nd in ny un erteking
that had something to do ith writing. So, I resi ned from
The hanghai Times in July 1944 but my resi nation was accepted
on my insistence only in eptember aiter I lad ritten a bitter
letter (nhibit 6) without mentioning the real cause for fear of
reprisals. Throughout autunn and vinter I batt ed my ay out
of hunger by oing all sorts of buying and selling anything
from needles to partments.

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 9.
Suddenly Tria came back in the early part of January,
this year, just before the Americans launched their attack
on Lingayen. Under extreme difficulties he found his way
back to Shanghai a wiser but disappointed man. For three
nights he related to me many gruesome tales of cruelty and
corruption and various forms of bestiality committed by our
professed benefactors and how the Philippine Government was
trying to check further atrocities. He told me that some of
his beloved relations and friends met their untimely death.
He also in ormed me that some of my colleagues in former
nationalist campaigns were butchered in cold blood. Tria
substantiated his stories Aith two docunents which he smuggled
into Sh nghai: one Was a copy of Foreign Minister Recto's
confidential letter to Lieut.-Gen. Wati setting forth various
misdeeds committed by the Jipanese orces and civilians alike
and seeking renedy for the apalling situation; the other was a copy
of Tria's report to the Jupanese cuthorities in Manila giving the
reasons why the inhabitants of the Bicol region (southern
Luzon), of wnich his cousin Jose Fuentebella was the Commissioner,
ere not co-operating with the Japanese at all.(Both docu-
ments had been turned over by me to Mr. Pinder on October 12).
That was the last traw hich broke the proverbial camel's
back. I was in a state of flux mentally, morally ...... I was
broken by a great disillusionment. For a whole week I was
spiritually depressed and I could not sleep. I wanted to keep
the secret and told Tria to keep it at first, but later I felt
it was my duty to let it out to the rest of our comnunity.
Throwing discretion to winds, I started retailing the stories to
the musicians and the news spread like wildfire. At this
juncture, a number of Japanese hewsmen wanted my comnent on
Gen. McArthur's landings in Lingayen, but I flatly refused to
make any statement. They became suspicious. I became a
marked man. About a week later a Japanese friend tipped me that
a report was received by the Japanese Gendarmerie on my alleged
anti-Japanese activities since my resignation from The Shanghai
Times and warned me to be very careful. But nothing happened
for thereafter I kept my mouth shut much as I id not like to.
During the following montns up to Aug. ll, I realized that I
became persona non rata to the Japanese authorities because
they never even once asked me to do anything for them.
In giving you an account of my disillusionment brought
about by Japanese uplicity and mpty pretensions of magnanimity
and scuare deal, it is not my intention to whitewash my previous
acts but to point out the fact that the sense of realism that
had prompted me to applaud Japan's policy towi rd the Philippines
vas the same sense of realism that later impelled me to renounce
my co-operation  ith them and revise my concepts and beliefs
about their avowed policies. The ideals involved have never
changed - they are Tixed and steadfast as the stars. The issue
of Philippine independence is still awaiting just solution
from the Unit d Sta ues  mile she e lancipation of other Asiatic
nations, oopresse nd tr uuc a  or centuries by iaperialistic

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 10.
forces, is still in the lap of the gods. Even confirmed pro-
American postles like rigadier-General Carlos P. Romulo, who
is now in Washington, could not ignore the inexorable realities
of a chan ed world. In a recent statement carried by U.P. he
said, "Japan's call for a co-prosperity sphere is still basi-
cally v lid and morally unassail ble ue to the exploitation of
European powers, but the J panese failed due to their crudity."
The United States of America today is the leacing country
in all the  orld. She i: the enbodiment of power, the biggest
res rvoir of wea th, the rountain source of robust democratic
ideals and the protector of weak ations. Will she allow pre-
Victorian impericlism to tirottle tle athering movenent of
nationslism in Est tsia? ill he allow European powers to
continue their exploitation o the eaxer nations in the East?
Will she help supject peoples to obtain their emancipation from
orein omination? The Asiatics want to know.
Si ned: CONRADO UY.
October 15, 1945."
EVALUATION -O.
xiibits referred to in the statement are attached.
MR. P. C. SPINO.
A pro-Allied Filipino leader, who twice suffered arrest
in the hands of the Japanese, furni hed the following statement
concerning the subject on 13th October, 1945. This statement
was hended "Pro-J panese  ilipino Leaders and their Activities
urin the har."
CONRADO UY.
100% anti-American. Organizer and first President of the
ilipino Issociation, a Japanese pon ored organ to control the
i ipinos in han hai.
CITY DAY.
Editor of the Shanghai Times, Publi her and E itor of the
Clarion, u ed those papers in attackin the Americans. Made
propaganda tours, delivering speeches throughout the important
cities in China, bitterly aenouncing American rule in the
Philippines.
Fi i ino Delegate to most Japanese sponsored
conferences.
Actively :ponsored all corts of pro-Japanese
demon tr tions like parades, dinners, musical concerts, sports
meetings, etc.
One of the officials dele ated by the Japanese
to conduct the r gistration of Filipinos, resu ting in the

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.94)
Page 11.
subsequent relinquishing by many Filipinos of their allegiance
to the United States. One of the men responsible for the
arrest of some pro-American Filipinos.
EVALUATION C-3.
DR. H. EVAN LISTA.
The lea ing pro-Allied Fi ipino leader, who twice suffered
arrest in the hands of the J. panese, urniehed the following
tet munt conc r ing the subject on 19th Octouer, 1945:
"CONLO UY. O geni er n rirst President of
the Filipino Asmociation an also irst President of
the Filipino Community Association. Made many anti-
Imerican spece es at meetings or ri ipinos, public
tnerings und ra io speeches. Toured many parts of
Chin deliv.ring nti-merican speeches.Accounts of
uch tour were publiched in The Shanghai Times from
time to time.He iso rote many nti-American and
pro-Japenese articles in The Shanghai Times.
Though mr. Uy consi ers him elf a Filipino, yet,
he naver registered at the Anerican Association vhere
all  mericans und ilipinos ere re uired to regis-
ter  ter the outure k or the Jup-Americen War, and
hen the American .ssociation ean to give relief
to needy ilipinos, Uy or  nised the Filipino Assn.,
in order to prevent them  or co-oper ting ith the
Alli s anc ake them co-oper te in te d to the Japs.
Uy, s  v ry :ctive pro-Jepenese Leader and
orstni c the i ipinos ralse umde to buy ceroplanes
or the Jups.I   rd him ucxno le e here at the
Liai on 0 fie t at he iitroueed rtl ev.rona, Lamzon
nd Tria to the Ja ps, o t at tney coald se  ent to
the  ilio ines.he lso e any crr meements for
the arrest of Espino, m teo., oruz, P. Javier and Villa.
t the time of re i tr tion of the i ipinos at the Japan-
ese consulate, Uy s earins  reen arm band to ether
ith lobos, C sino, L m on nd Contrer, ne hn I
asked mim  t s the arabane ror, he told me they ere
actins s J p con ular o ficial.. During my conv rsation
with Uy t che registration, he told e that he und the
Japs knew all at I as coing, thougn he denied this
tere tt the Liaicon Oiiice when que tioned about it.
I believec that Uy ie not r istereu t the American
Consuls te as he vas selling Golu mine Shares  ithout
pernit from the Filipino Government and had fled to void
pro:ecution.
Cigned: H.  VANGMLISTA.
EVALUATION: C-3

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.95)
Page 12.
V. ALOBOG.
Shanghai Filipino bu:iness man and Japanese collaborator
turned in the follo. ing si ned statement on October 14, 1945:
"This is my personal opinion of the following
facts.
Mr. Conrado Uy is responsible  or all the trouble
to the Filipinos in Shun hai, ho do not know nything
about politics. Ar. Conrado Uy is the man ho started
to m ke a kine of associ tion ana those who id not
join the sid aseoci tion, he tireutened to report to
the Jap nose dene: r uerie.
ometime in M y in 1944, Mr. Conrado Uy came to
my store and asked me to go ith him to the Shanghai
Times (at oresent called Shanghai Herald.) He ex-
plained to me that t ere was a form to be signed
appointing me to be treasurer. This form was supposed
to be cent to Tokyo. Imnediat ly I replied that I
as not interested in politics.
Sometime uin in My, r. Conrado Uy came and
sked ne to accompny rin to N nking as a representative
ror the  ilipinos.I ain I r used. From hat I
un er. t ne, ar. Conrtco Uy und r. Claro Asuncion (or
Pedro P  illo) nt to h nkins.
hen the Tilipinos r i tered in the Trinity
C th ral to the J panese Con ul te, I meard r. Conrado
Uy su et to r. Tizuka, the Vice Con ul, that those
ho an .ered "no" were to put armoands and be put in
c: ap.
He  Iso asted the J po lese O ficer to stop the
relief.
In 194l-1942 or earlier, r. H. Lvan elista vas a
very good friend of mine.
At trut time in 1942, just
ant r the outbrerk o. tue r, he very orten lunched at
ay tore.One y he tol  tmt he as  ing
c llet t ice uy the do monealth or the Prilipoine
Governnent,  ince he as a res rve Captain Orficer, and
thet the Gov rnnent promisea to ofier him a hih rank.
ar. h. v ngelista told ne that he did not see any r a-
son  hy he should sacrifice ninself.
igned: V. LLOBOG."
itness: A. C. Pinder
EVALUATION: C-3
MRS. SARA LALABANAN:
Telophone operator at the Shan hai Times  urnished the

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.96)
Page 13.
following signed statement concerning the subject on 15 October,
1945:
"I, SARA ALAbANAN, make this statement on my own
free will and ithout uuress.
On or about the cy of 6 Fepruary 1944, while
acting as t ephone operator at the Sh nghai Times
I ov rne ro n importint te ephone conversation. At
apout 11:00 on tmat day CLArO ASUNCIoN called from
outside and asnca ror VIo NTL CAsINo, the advertising
onar.
The ollo. ine conv r ction took pluce:
1.:
het': the ne..s?
C:
ell, so iur goou nens. connalo UY ent to see
ome J: penese  ficial and UY ys tt in a rew
ay: time they  ill put Dr. H. V NLITA and his
ang in ridge house.
They ill be seratching
und full of lice and et some beatings from the
Japanese.
A:
Oh, tiet's vory sood.
They deserve it.Why
should they be in avour of the whites (men)
While ve are Asiatics.
C: ell, e shall see to it what will happen soon.
A: Hell, I'll see you some other time, goodbye.
C: Goodbye. 
End of conversation.
That day I id not Care to see Dr. EVANGELISTA.
However, the next (ay at 12:oo I went to his house.
My sense of fair play made e tnink he (EVANGELISTA)
should be warned. I did not know Dr. E.----I had
never even spoken to him ----- I am Spanisn (paseport);
though I vas or merly married to a Filipino we separated
in 1943.
I told Ir. E. he mu't promise not to divulge my
i entity pecause I needed my job to support my children.
Dr. E. oromised and I told him oi the conversation.
Dr. E. said: "ell, I suspected this is comin..
They are wate hing me and I have been arrested once
already."
(NB. not rom s. LabANAN, Dr. E. knew Jap. plain-
clothes (Chinese apparel) of encarmes had taken a
room next to hi: roon.Chinese lady  ho Tormerly
occupied the room - she was marrieu to Jap. Eurasian -

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.96)
Page 14.
told another Filipino to warn Dr. E. that Japs were
following and watching Dr. E. day and night) End of NB.
Mrs. MALABANAN continues:
I told no one of this because I trusted no one.
CONRADO UY got telephone calls from Japanese -
espscially irom 11O20 (J-p. Navy) ana from ICHIDA,
Jupanese genaarmerie and irom other Jupanese hose
names I cannot remember. He uiso cullea them.
On 27 reoru:ry 1944 pout 10:00 I heard UY talking
to a J p. I was busy and heard only part of the
conversation.
Jap: (In English) Everything is fixed.
UY:
When
Jap: In the afternoon
End conversation.
(Dr. E. was arrested 27 February 1944).
On 28 Feb. 1944 UY as called by some Filipino.
In ta alog:
Fil: Is it true WVANGhLISTA is arrested?
UY: Yes. Yester ay. Now they'll taste their own medicine.
 Ino  e p oint ents ith Japs for UY on phone.
CASINO a UY ere friend ly  ith ALOBOG and talked
requently oy phone.
/ LOBOG told one sime:
A: Hllo, UY. This i LOBOG.
hen ill r.  LI TA
n the othere be arrested.
UY: Very soon.
I ne conv reetion.
 APITO  LIS alro cullcd CAr INO often.
IVAN TRIA called UY rre uently to arrange meetings and
spoke of trip to manila.
PAUL ACUINO called at office frequently to see CASINO.
APOLONIO ORDEN also came to see UY. VICTORINO

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 15.
TULIO came once or twice to office to see UY or
CASINO. JOSE ALIN ADA came once.
I. CONTRERAS phoned and called often to see UY
about meetings.
B. CONsTArTINO called once about Filipino
comnunity meeting - he was boasting he was a
irector.Said Fi ipinos would get no relief
from Swiss Consulate. He made bets with people
that certain people wouldet no relief.
E. DE JESUs cane to office quite often with
ASUNSION.
A. MADRaSO was also in clique.
W. CRUZ came to see UY to get Ioan from Japs.
. LAMSON called by phone very often.
F. SA aPER tried to get in clique but was
rejected by UY.
I lave read the above and found all six pages true.
Signed: irs. L. Malabanan
Sara Malabanan."
Witnesses
A. C. Pinder (si ned)
E. F. Leung (si ned)
EVALUATION: C-3
JOST IIA.
Tuany lai ili ino, ho coll: bort ted ith the Japanese
nade the ollon ing i ned st te ment:
"I, Jose m. Alimuada, make this statement of
my on ree  ill.
Conrado Uy intimi ated me with the follo ing
statement: "You mi ht as  ell join : ith my associa-
tion, otherwise the Japanese can put a stop to your
pro ession  erever you work.
What rill happen to
you ir the cuparets are closed?"
I ts frightened by this secause I depended on
my work for a living and know no other pro ession,
so I agreed.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.95)
Page 16.
I was afraid of UY for fear he would turn me
in to the Japanese so my band took part in
Independence Lay celebrations.
I pleyed or the ounded Japanese solciers
at Kiangwan because Ke lanoakal threatened me with
arrest unless I did this. Once he even told me
I man on the next arrest list.
Linec: Jose m. Alindada
October 22, 1945."
VLUTION C-3.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.97)
Details:
1.
The following extract is taken from an article appearing in
THE SHANGHAI TIMES on 19 Apr11, 1943:
"UY Urges Closer Ties
The elections were preceded by a speech delivered by
UP. UY, outgoing Presicent of the Association, who to-
gether with the other provisional officers resigned en
bloc at yesterday's meeting.
Mr. UY declared thet the time is now ripe for
Filipinos  ere to unite with the people at home to form
a solid bloc behind Japan and strive for independence.
It is only through unity, nerreverance and trust in
Javan that the independence of the Philippines can be
accomplished.
Taking the c air, Dr. KALA AKAL enlarged upon the
sentiments expressed by Mr. UY, saying tnat he will
stand behind whatever power : ich ill rant Philip-
oine Independence, and expres: ed ine sincere belief that
Jpan tt the successful termination of t e Greater East
Asia War will rant auconomy to the Filipino peoples,
hile voicing ratitude to the Japanese Goverhment for
its understanc ing of oroblens of verious ure ter East
Isia ouoples."
EVATUPTION: C-3

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
CONRADO UY (Co. inued:)
Page 2.
2.
Following his defeat as President of the FILIPINO ASSN.,
CONPADO UY continued to take an active role in the affairs of
the Association.
In May, he was partially Instrumental in
the formulation of the follol.ing telegram, which is copied from
THE SHANGHAI TIMES of 11 MaY, 1943:
"To His Excellency
General HIDEKI TOJO
Prime minister
Tokyo, Japan.
WHEREAS
We take this opportunity of paying our
sincerest respects to the Imperial Japanese
Covernwent, their leaders and soldiers;
WHEREAS
We admire your overwnelming triumph in
Malaya, Burma, East Indies and the Philip-
pines:
WHEREAS
We anpreciate t at t rough the untiring
efforts of your dauntless army, navy and
air force, the Anglo-American inperialism
has vanished from the Orient where peace
once more reigns;
WHERLAS
We receive with joy the glad tidings pro-
nounced by your Excellency in the Diet
promising us our independence;
PESOLVED That we, officerE of the LIPUNAN PILIPINO,
on behalf of tue FILIPINO FESIDENTS OF
SIANGHAI, o on record to convey to the
Imperial Japanese tovernient, tirough your
Fxcellency, tne assurance of our full coopera-
tion in the establishnent of the GREATER
EAST ASIA CO-PROSPERITY SPHERE."
EVALUATION: C-3.
3.
ALLAN PANKER of 939/6 SINZA ROAD, on 22 October, 1945
submitted the following statement regarding the subject:
"Name
Nationality
Profession
Address
CONRADO Y. UY
Filipino
Journalist
101 Ave. Victor
Emanuel III,
House 4.
Being a fervent pro-Japanese propagandist, the above
person could not have chosen a more suitable position
or carcer to attempt to mislcad the English reading pub-
lic t rough the mediums of either the newspaper (THE
SHANGHAI TIMLS) or THE TINMES WEEKLY, of WhiCh he Was
T

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.94)
SECHET
Page 3.
CONRADO UY (Continued:)
payment if accepted. Many (inclucing foreigners)
became his followers, via this route.
He is  ell knovin, the newspaper itself  as operated
by Japanese and ne eytended all the journalistic abilities
within his pover to co-oper te. It  as learnt that
(pecr use or his position) he felt J pan  ould, eventually
lose tle ar and in or er tat he would not pe caught "at
hi: post" he very conveni ntly resi ned to enter into
pi ivete business. he spent the period between his re-
signation and che teri tion or nostilities in specula-
ting . ith tie Jpanere ii n.,  pert rom those of the
 orfice na hich ne d c reully kept "on tab"
curing hir tenure of orfice ut T S m HhI TIats."
FVLLUATION: F-6.
4
C. 1ASnhnInt& on 22 Octoutr, 1945, in a si nca note sugtes
ted tut Joh . bInI st interrogtted ror foreing the Fili
vinos to vote ror Lr. h wiAnl curing the meeting held at the
LIDO ALLROOM.
PV.bUATION! C-1.
5.
S. LAS AkInAS in a si ned state nent on z0 October, 1945,
made the follo.ing renarks concerning CON ADo UY:
"At that mestin, the Filivinos were notified that
the Japanese Authorities hd authorized a r. CONFADO
A. UY to Iorm such an Aszociation. There were many
Japanese oificials and men ith arms present. At that
meetin it was exulained uy r. UY tnat the Association
was a non-political one and its object was purely and
solely a relief work, tnat is, to take care of any
Filipino .ho may becoue destitute and needy as a result
of the var. Part of mr. UY's speech contained an
attack on the United States of America and was published
in some local papers.
But wratever ir. UY did publish
in those papers, he vas fully and solely responsible for
it. Mr. UY did publish soa  in about the undersigned
without his consent and without his sivin any informa-
tion about it. The meeting was held at the METROPOLE
ALLROOM on 4 January, 1942."
FVALUATION: C-3.
6.
JOSE M. ALINDADA: On 22 October, 1945, made the following
statement regarding CONiADo UY:
"I, JOSE . ALINDADA, make this statement of my own
free will.
CONPADO UY intimidated me with the following state-
ment: "You might as well join with my association
otherwise the Japanese can put a stop to your pro ession
SFORFT

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
Page 4.
CONRADO UY (Continuted:)
wherever you vork.
What will happen to you if the
cabarets are closed?"
I was frightened by this hecause I depended on my
work for a livin; and know no other pro ession, so I
agreed.
I was a raid of UY for rear he would turn me in to
the Japanese so y hand took oart in Independence Day
celebrations.
I played for the wounded Japenese coldiers at Kiang-
wan pecause K  w I AL t reatened me with arrest unless
I did this. Once he even tolc me I was on the next
arrest list.
SL TC: TOSE . ALTHDADA."
: -.
7.
The followine ecer  is taken rom THE SBAloHAI PIMES of
5 January, 1y/2:
"Ja crese Authorities Attend
P meetime,  ich terted at 10 a.., was organized
by a  ittee a ter obtainin the necessary
nermit from the Japanese authorities in Suanehei. Re-
senta s  the Japanese Aray and enfer erie and
Feecial Pranch of the Snanki unicipal Police, attended
the secti to nsure the maintenance of peace and order.
In his opening re rts, Mr. UY, who resided, explained
the chief purpo es ror  hich the athering was organized,
aiter pointing out nis " eep r ret" tet anila had lallen
into the m's o. the Japanese forces a ter as urances had
been  iven by tic American aattorities to the Tilipinos
tet " nila was even more impre nable than the rock of
Gibral ser" snd csuld wit sta  terri fie atteck by the Japanese
forces.
Mr. UY expressed rief over   fact vuat 75,o00 Tili-
oinos ave cen fignting at the "front line" wihile most of
the American troops mere entrencued iu Manila.
"Perhaps
tt  n why anila ad been declared an open
city by the Americans," r. Uy added.
For Relief Work
However, he pointed out that the meeting was esoeclally
called to meet and solve the innediate relief problems of
the Filipinos ho heve been thrown out of employnent as a
result or the Far Eastern crisis:
"We propuse to obtain
assistance directly ro. the Japanese authorities and not
SECRET

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.90)
SECRET
Page 5.
CONRADO UY (Continued:)
through any organization like the American Association
or the American Red Cross," he stated.
In this connection, he exoiained that the Red Cross
is using funds which are released from the banks only
by permis: ion or tne Japanese authorities and the money
is witn rawn only on a limited seale. He stated that
tere are  ny American gitizens who are no in need of
such funds nd mint re uire tnem all for themselves.
"Besices, who crn dara ee t t the Rad Cross or any
ot er merin ornlion can alays ct the necessary
money  or relief our o. or" r. UY asked."
EV LUAPION: C-3.
The rotl) in cerot  tten rom Tt  AaI TIms of
L4 J u ry, -:
" cirie tion  nd cco truction ork in the Philip-
mines by se J oa e oecution utnoriti ill be
r  tly asond  ith dener 1 AGuIn Llo's etatement that
he is " illine to co-op-r te ith the Japenese in re-
habitating tne hini ies at p rt oi ureater Asia under
Japanese lcnder ip, mo txt ve country is sple to free
it. eif ron Aurlen yoke," r. co. Do . Y, president
of TE  Iofrfho Af  ffon or  n i statd yesterday."
1V1U1N:C-3.
9.
The follo. ing cre excurpte appearing in the 7 February, 1942
issue or the  LIPINO Cu ION publisned and cated by CONRADO UY:
"Unsavoury Triex on P.I. City Lared.
Yet anotuer uns: veir, trick of United States propa-
vanda a ainst Jr on vns exposcd in the Puilio ines when
Jeoanese trooos, follo in t eir entry into  nila Jan.
2, indiseriminately o ferea  omplately religious free-
com to the population.
Blasphemous reports, blasphemously attemotine to play
on the r ligious sentiments of devout Filipinos, falscly
accused Japanese troops of bombing churcnes in manila.
Tris char e ves already put ap for puplie riticule by the
Japanesc authorities in Manila, mo on January lx exposed
fla rant violetious of reli Lous sanctity by United States
orces w lch Pled roa  e eaitel.
Toc American forces, it was announced, ad seen us ine a
vell-knoan Catholic onact ry in tne :uburbs to assemble
nilitary aircrart, as vell as to anufacture parachutes
and probellers orior to tne Japanese cntry."
DECRFT

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.89)
Page 6.
S E C R E T
CONPADO UY (Continued:)
"Filipinos in U.S. Aray Underpaid.
"All Filipino o ficers in the American Army are given
only half of the pay of tle American officers. Filipino
privates are enerally iven 14 pe:os a month.And yet
t ere ofricers and men, Amerlcans end Filipinos alike -
have but one aim: tne efense of Anerican interests and
maintenance of American presti e."
Thus upoke  IIlipino m jor in the United States Army
in tn int rvie. ith J: pn: e ne. s en  nortiy arter his
ceta ent de ding a st cott ton in Luson vas cap-
tured by Japune: e iorees on L comser tJ.
It L0 on t e t ornin, te oricer suid, the
tonn as avened ty te booming of Jepanese artillery
and ptner ea cons or ofit.
"oo in, cown upon us
from  cort: i.. co: tI tn, tne Jepane:e forees took
the hunicipe lity in an hour, t ro in beth the inhabitants
an the Americ n Iimy into utt r confus ion," he continued.
Imericen Crart riven J:f.
He pointed out thet nortlyire c m. o the se
ay, ci it Amerioon   rpl  rlen over tre toun but they
ere riven oif y J pa e irer it.
"hen I vas ir t rou at before the Japenere," he went
on, "they looked ro uin tile y  n crot rs shat I did
not feel :s if I ere in oe rt.  nee of or igners."
Then he was later iniormed or the all or Hongkong, he
imnedis tely ave the oinlon t t sne aclrie tion or the
ili iner cutu   ou ut tout itn conp tive ease,
"in vicn o te er  enees ut u y e loud-mouthed
Pmerican  uthoricies in one I tnes."
"I ve not to ir   J: pan cure or e t lish
ment a Co-P u: rity  re in r ser trt i, vecause
e tre not llo cd to li: ten in to tme Japane:e broad-
carts," tne  ptive rev led.
Filipino zttituce Toward Ja an.
Toucning on the Filipino geople!: attitude toward Japan
before tue outureck or the Paciric ar, the Filinino officer
told the isterviewers that "ie was not rerlly avoratle."
Anti-Jananese feeling as rife because of tne mliuious
reports circulated by Aerican propeeneists, ne pointed out,
stressing the American urning to the very Catholic Fi ipino
people that treir reli ious faith sula ue eredicated from
the country.
SECRET

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.90)
Page 7.
SECRET
CONRADO UY (Continued:)
"Japanese say the Filipinos very much resemble the
Japanese. I should like to add that it is the Japanese
themselves who look like Filipinos and now that I am
seeing the thruth, I will endeavor to do my part in im-
narting the true intentions of the Japanese toward the
Fili ino people," the major concluded."
"Sheltered   overful catural cefenses - jungles,
steep sunmits  tween tvo volcsnoes - on the Bataan
Peniasula and Corregicor,  a rired, oeffudled General
POUGLAS MACARTLUR founc ilent, onnipresent Motner
Nature far :tronger than rattle-lipped, still-absent
American aried force.
Perched atop nis rocky p ren, ueneral MacArthur
indeed resenbled a tartled, ormered cockatoo attempting
to  vade cepture. Wil is  rces were still holring
out, none reelized  tter
he their stand was,
at best, tenporary. The Pilip ines, meanwhile, were
rapialy r turnin to norral es far mers returned to their
crons, urban Filipinos re ad t  ir pccupt tion."
 : -3.
P  tnt on 25 October,
1245:
 on free
11.77.
ra rma de and asked
a if I wanted to o home, wmeem  mila. Ho cald t t
a a se arlarelit of
,  wan to o oe, ut I t to now wt I
oing to do cre.
UY re licd: "You lil o ome Ju o to feel out the
i si  to ce vetr vhey are pro-American
or pro-J pane. t. Puen you'll mase us t fepurt tnd a
cortin  poere "ill ot et you in mil che you ill
ive im your report. You  on't mve to vorry asout your
tomily, cney  ill e t ken  re o."
I sned im if otner Fillpinos ere soing thie for
him ant he soid "yes". I  ncd vno, put he voule not
tell me, out inferred tuut trere  cre at leest tro.
fince te stuted tmat I coule r turn in curee months
time I asked mim why ue didn't co the job hisself, but he
caic ne s too ell- nown in m nila and  as very busy.
I told hin I cidn't trust nim since he wouldn't tell me
SLCRET

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.94)
Page 8.
S E C R E T
CONRADO UY (Continued:)
the names of the people orking for him. He stated
that if I consented he would tell me the names.
I saw D. BALDEVARONA talking to UY about this time
and I heard that he and JUAN TRIA made a trip to Manila
which UY arranged. It is my opinion that these two men
carried out UY'S assignment. I believe that UY asked
me because my family is prominent and my uncle speaker
of the House under LAUREL'E rogime.
ihile taese discussions ere oing on UY told me that
he mentioned our t: lks to fhIA and TRIA had said: "Why do
you ar k this man.
He is pro-Americ:n na on Dr. EVANGE-
LI: Th'E side."
In May, 1944, . Lh ON asked me if I nanted a free
trip und visit to N ncin as a Filipino Youth Corps dele-
cate.
They loaned me money to get y possession out of
pawn.
I eurd tiat my uncle, . AUINO, would be there
so I vent. Goin vith e ere V. CASINO, CLARO ASUNCION,
M. LAMEON, L. ALABANAN, C. BUENSUCESO and sOme other
boys incIuding A. mALRACLO, L. LACEON, J. CALILO, L. BLANCO.
CL/RO ASUNCION received a medal for broadcasting a
speech while in Nanking.
e sang several Filipino songs
over the radio.
UY told me several times tnat .e . ere siatics and we
should stick to our colored srotners, the Japanese instead
or tne A mericans.
CigneC: PIUL UINO."
itnes:: A. C. Pincer
(si.ned)
itne se: H. Evangelista (Sined)
EVALUAPION: C-3.
SL Ch F T

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.93)
141946
DECLASSIFIED
NND760175
By. NARS. Date /7NoU:'78
COMP IPHOTIAL
To the
Amerioen Consular Offiser in Charge.
Shanghai, China.
The Acting Seeretary of State has ressived &
report concerning the activities in Shanghai of
John Henry Turber, an American Gitizen, the salient
points of whish are as follows:
Turner was born in Shanghai on August a8.
on December 8, 1939. Although he remained in
Shanghai during the Pasirie war, he was not
Interned due to the offorts of the Japanese
Consulate General and was never observed wearing
a red arm band. He was at one time refused
financial assistance by the Swiss authorities on
E
the grounds that he was working for the Japanese
(N.Y.K. Steamship Line). E supervised passenger
arrangemmnts on the repatriation ship TRIA MARU in
1943.
446
The report that Turner worked as an agent for
the Japanese Mavy during the Sino-Japanese hostili-
ties in Shanghai in l95? is corroborated by a
British former member of the Shanghai Customs
River Police.
turner is said to be presently oceupying a
at 88 Manking Road.
be taken in this ease.
4.
SS
CRNE
CASPI
/VJ
Rey.
KV
JAN 16 Dist.P.M.

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.93)
FreP
WARDEPARMENT
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTAN? RETARY OF WAR
STRA EGIC SER CES UNIT
KOTJA
2oth & E STREETS, N.W.
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
DC/R
FC/ORV
fl file
894.20293/2-25464
-10,223
25 February 1946
Memorandum for: Mr. Jack D. Neal
Department of State
π8
Subject:
The Japanese South China Intelligence Group
Five Provinces Information Department
1.
Attacht is copy of a field report on the above
subject, made at Canton China and dated 29 September
1945. The sources are many and the report is comprised
10
of a number of more fragmentary ones. The material
was evaluated B-2 in the field.
1.1
2. It is not known whether or not this information
has been made available to any representatives of the
State Department.
Asn rije . J
Jason Paige, Jr.
Liaison Officer
DECLASSIFIED
NND ISUULY
ByTag/AB D. 10/20/78:
JAN 10 1949
FILED
SECRET

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
THE JAPANESE SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP FIVE PROVINCES INFORMATION DEPT.
1. HISTORY
THE SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP deyToped in 194O as a product of the
Japanese espionage leader General DoIHARA Kenjiro who is the founder of
the present Japanese plainclothes espionage system.
In l94O General DOIHARA sent an agent Major General OkUBO to Canton to
establish an espionage system for the five provinces of Southern China.
OKUBO establ shed his headquarters at 26 Pearl Road Central, Canton,
but received his orders fron the Japanese Puppet Secret Service Headquar-
ters in Nanking. At first this new agency was to be a section of the
Nanking Puppet Central Covernment Propaganda Department which is headed
in Nanking by LIN Po Sheng, a very good friend of General OkUBO. About
two months after its founding, this new agency became known as the SouTH
CHINA INTELLICENCE GROUP FIVE PROVINCES IMFORMATION DEPARTMENT. JaPIn-
ese supervihion was still maintained, however, through the Puppet Secret
Service Headguarters in Nanking. The part played by LIN Po Sheng in
this SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROU: is not clear.
With the esteblishment of central headquarters at No. 26 Pearl Road, the
following brench offices were cstablished:
Shanghai -
26 Szechuan Road Central
Sha Ping -
Room No. 22, Golden Gate Hotel
Hong Kong -
Fu Cheong Trading Company
Macau -
No. 34 Man Wai Road (The Asia Trading Company)
Macau -
11th Floor, Central Hotel
Kwangchouwan - Room /206, South China Hotel
Kwangchouwan - Fu Cheong Trading Company
The main wireless station was located on the third flcor of the Canton
Headquarters. A branch wireless station which is believed to be the
receiving station is located on the 6th floor of the Aoi Chun Hotel in
Canton. A recreation hall which is used as a meeting place is located
at 27 Pearl Road Central, Canton, just across the street from the main
headquarters.
At prosent, information regarding 26 lmown agents and seven suspected
agents of the SOUTH CHINA INTE LIGENCE GROUP has been received.
Available information indicated at least four main sections to the SOUTH
CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP to be as follows:
HEADQUARTERS SECTION
Major Ceneral OKUBO in charge
ESPIONAGE SECTION
CHAN Chi Kong in charge 東 子光
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
TSUN Chi Kong in charge 秦 志
PROPAGANDA SECTION
"FATTY" LAU in charge
There is evidence also of a probable Counterespionage Section which
worked directly under Major General OKUBO and which may have been headed
by LI Pei Lo, a woman who has been arrested by the Chinese authorities
and who is detained at present somewhere in Kwangsi Province.
SECRET

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
- 2-
II. IEADQUARTERS SECTION
The headquarters section of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP estab-
lished its main office at 26 Pearl Road Central, Canton. Seven kmom
branch offices were established in addition to two known radio stations
1
and a recreation hall.
Mejor General CKUBO, FOK Wing Kai and WOK Wing Kan are known to be the
main leaders. In addition, LI Pei Lo, who is intimate with OKUBO, is
believed to have been used as a check upon the other agents and as a
counterespionage head to combat allied penetration. Her position in the
espionage section is not clear and for that reason she will be considered
under the Headquarters Section.
Available information of the officials of the Headquarters Section is as
follows:
OKUBO, Vajor Ceneral, Japanese Army
Subject is a graduate of the Japanese Officers' Infantry Academy in Tokyo.
Shortly after his graduation he was appointed an army division commander
by KoNOE. After the l931 incident he was sent to Manchuria to organize
a Japanese Secret Service under the direction of General DOIHARA Kenjiro.
In 1940 he was sent to Canton by DOIHARA to organize a Japanese Secret
Service. Under DOIHARA's direction he organized the SOUTH CHINA INTELLI-
GENCE GROUP FIVE PROVINCES INFORIHATION DEPARTMENT to cover the five
southern provinces of Kwangtung, Kwangsi, Hunan, Fukien, and Anhwei. He
established the headquarters for this organization at No. 26 Pearl Road
Central, Canton.
OKUBO's doscription is given as follows:
Name
OKUBO
Rank
Major eneral, Japanese Army
Nationality
Japanese
Birthplace
Tokyo
Age
42
Height
5 feet 7 inches
Woight
130 pounds
Face
long and dark
Mannerisms
Very quiet and kindly, always smiles when speaking
Languages
Japanese, Mandarin, some nglish
Dress
Usually Japanese military uniform. At times wears
Europoan suit. Has never been kmown to wear Japan-
ese or Chinese civilian gown.
Subject is the officer in charge of the main office of the SOUTH CHINA
INTELLIGENCE GROUP and tho brother of FOK Wing Kan, the assistant
SECRET

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-3-
officer in charge. He was schooled in Japan and returned to China in
1924. Informants believe that subject attended a Japanese intelligence
school in Japan and started to work for the Japanese as soon as he
arrived in Canton. Subject at one time worked for the Chinese Intelli-
gence as an informant. He was a good friend of LIN Po Sheng, Puppet
Chief of the Nanking Puppet Central Government Propaganda Department.
Subject was an associate of CHAN Chi Kong, the officer in charge of the
espionage section of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP. Subject was
also an associate of CHAN Wai ung and FUNG Men Kit. All of them had
been members of the Tiger Gang of rascals and gangsters in Hong Kong
prior to the war.
Subject's association with the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE CROUP was sub-
mitted by C AN Wai Hung just before his execution.
No additional information is aveilable regarding subject who is at
present still in Canton.
FOK Wing Kan (Chinese) 霍 水 金
Subject is a graduate of the Hong Kong University Physical Culture
Class. After graudation he went to Japan where he attended the Tokyo
Physical Training College for two years. He returned to Hong Kong via
Shanghai and established a business as a docter with his office in
Room 8 on the third floor of the China Building in Hong Kong. He was
not a famous doctor and had very little business. However, he spent
money like water and associated mainly with the poorer class. No sus-
picion was placed on him before the fall of Hong Kong.
After the fall of Hong Kong he associated with CHAN Chi Kong who was
known as a traitor to China. Informant believes that like his brother
FOK Wing Kai, he was trained for espionage work while in Japan.
Subject's connection with the SOUTII CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP was admitted
by CHAN Wai Hung just before CHAN's execution in Kweilin.
Subject's description is iven as follows:
Name
FOK Wing Kan
Nationality
Chinese, a native of Nan Hoi District of Kwangtung
Birthplace
Canton
Age
52 years
Height
5 feet 7 inches
Weight
125 lbs.
Face
Long, then, wears glasses
Hair
Long
Languages
English, Japanese, Cantonese, Shanghainese, Mandarin,
and a little Haka
Dress
Usually Turopean
Residence
#161 Bonham Road, Hong Keng
Office
Room 8, 3rd Floor China Bldg., Hong Kong
PCADCT
SECHET

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
- 4 -
LI Pei Lo (Chinese, female) 李 比露
Subject arrived in Shanghai from Tientsin in 194l and remained for six
months. She then went to llong Kong where she worked for a Japanese
firm nemed the Fu Cheong Trading Company. This firm was the Hong Kong
office for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE CROUP. In October 1942 she was
sent to Kweilin where she lived in Room No. 37 of the Paris Hotel, a
room frequently used by suspected agents in Kweilin.
On 10 September 1942 she was arrested by TAI Li agents in Kweilin. A
search of her room revealed two identification cards issued to her by
the Fu Cheong Trading Company in Hong K ng. Many inquiries have been
made into subject's case, but to dato the Chinese have not executed her.
Her position is somewhat obscure. ubject claims to have come from
Hupeh Province where her father was born, but she has no living relatives
in Free China. Subject's mother is Australian and living in Australia
at the present time. There were two entries in her diary which indicated
that she was not a native of China. The first entry stated, "When I
arrived in Shanghai I then understood the greatness of it. I saw all the
beautiful and great buildings which I had heard about." Another entry
stated, "By the introduction of one of my friends to a Mr. CHAN, a
Chinese friend, and after several talks with him, I felt that the Chinese
were very lovely and kind, so made me love him."
Informants believe subject to be a Formosan schooled in Japan. Subject's
connection with the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP is not clear. She
is an intimate friend of General OKUBO. Informants believe that subject
was used as a check on other members of the group and also as a counter-
espionage agent.
At present subject is detained somewhere in Kwangsi Protince by the
Chinese officials - probably in Pai-se (Poseh).
III. ESPIONAGE SECTION
The espionage section of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP is under the
direct supervision of CHAN Chi Kong.
Agents were employed who were familiar with the areas to which they were
to be sent.
Available information indicates nine Inown agents of this section and
two suspected agents. Associates of the lmown and suspected agents are
not included and will be handled in a later section.
Details of the members of this section are as follows:
CILAN Chi Kong (Chinese) 陳子光
Subject is the net controller and director of the espionage section of
the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP.
SECRET

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
- 5 -
Subject was not dismissed from his duties with the SOUTH CHINA INTELLI-
GENCE GROUP as stated in referenced report. He is believed to still be
in Canton.
Present information indicates that he employed nine known agents and two
suspected agents.
There is no additional information available.
CHAN Wai Hung (Chinese - executed) 陳惠共
Subject was an a gent for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP and was under
the direction of CHAN Chi Kong. Subject was arrested by the Chinese
officials on 1 February 1944 and was executed on 25 June 1944.
Subject made a full confession which has been instrumental in placing
guilt upon other members of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP. Subject
admitted that he was sent to Kweilin by CHAN Chi Kong of the SOUTH CHINA
GROUP and that his instructions were to obtain information regarding
allied air activity in the Kweilin area. Subject was to report to CHAN
Chi Kong by letter, using a pre-arranged code. Subject further admitted
that a runner by the name of II Hung was to transmit the letters to CHAN
Chi Kong. Subject admitted close association in Hong Kong and Canton
with CHAN Chi Kong, LEM Tsun, Billy FUNG, FUNG Men Kit, LI Hung Fai, and
LAI Kong Chi. These men were all members of the Tiger Gang of rascals
and gangsters in Hong Kong and Centon.
The connection of subject with Susan Soc, Japanese Navy Secret Service
Agent, is not clear. ubject would not admit any connection of wonG Ang
and FUNG Men Kit with the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP. Informants
believe that wolig Ang was aware of subjectftibut that she was not a
member of the group. It is felt also by informants that FUNG Men Kit
was an urwitting informant for subject.
YANG Wai (Chinese) 楊偉
Subject is an espionage agent for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP under
the direct supervision of CHAN Chi Kong. Two conflicting stories exist
about his arrest in Kweilin. One informant states thet subject was
arrested in Kweilin with James "Darkey" CHAN and that in September 1944
they were both guaranteed by somebody and released and that both returned
to Macau. Another informant states that during the evacuation of Kweilin
they both escaped and went to Chao Ping and then on to Macau where sub-
ject is at the present time.
At present, subject is in  acau where he is working for the group.
There is no additional information available re subject.
SEGRET

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
SEGRET
YIU Ping a.k.a. IU Ping (Chinese)女非 萍
Additional information recently received,which conflicts slightly with
previous information, indicates that subject was born in Singapore.
In l9ll he le ft Singapore for Shanghai where he studied in the Chi Nan
University and sang for operas at the same time. In l923 he worked for
the Yo Hua Company as an actor and singer.
In l937 he went to Hong Kong where he joined the Nam Hua Film Company
and closely associated with Billy FUNG.
At the fall of Hong Kong he worked for the Japanese Propaganda Department
with FUNG Ying Sheung, YIM Moong and CHIU Shiu Tai. In 1942 he went to
Canton where he remained for two months and then went to Kukong where he
worked for the 7th Wer Zone Headquarters as a director of the Opera Propa -
ganda Department. In June 1943 he went to Kweilin where he joined the
Cantonese old opera group for a few months and then suddenly left for
Canton. On arrival in Canton he contacted CHAN Chi Kgng and is in Canton
at the present time working for him as an agent for the SOUTH CHINA
INTELLIGEICE CROUP.
Hung (Chine se) 李 系工
Subject is a runner for CHAN Chi K ng and an agent for the SOUTH CHINA
INTELLIGENCE GROUP. CHAN Wai Hung confessed that subject was sent to
Kweilin by CHAN Chi K ng as a runner to take back CHAN Wai Hung's reports
to Canton. Subject is at present still in Canton working for the SoUTH
CHINA INTELLIGEICE GROUP.
There is no additional information available.
CHAN Chong Ming (Chinese) 陳昌明
Subject is known by the alias of TSENG Ming. He is an agent for the
SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP working directly under CHAN Chi Kong.
Subject wes a leader of the counterespionage section in Canton for the
SOUTH CHINA GROU: Subject was intimately  ssociated with WONG Ang,
CHAN Wai Hung, FUNG Men Kit, and Fatty FOnG. Subject's association with
FUNg Men Kit and his wife, suspected agents now in Kweiyang, is not clear.
CHAN Chong Ming is still in Canton working for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE
GROUP.
There is no additional information available.
LEM Tsun (Chineso) 木木 全
Subject is an agent for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP working under
the supervision of CHAN Chi Kong. Subject had been a member of the
Japanese Military Police Force in Canton as a detective. Additional
information indicates that subject is in Hong Kong at the present time
and not in Canton. Subject's name appeared in the WNG Ang interrogation
report as LING Chien.
SEGRET

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
- 7 -
There is no additional information available.
Subject is a suspeoted agent for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP work-
ing for CHAN Chi Kong under the direction of CHAN Wai Hung.
Informants believe that WONG Ang knew that CHAN Wai Hung was an espionage
agent. They further believe that WoNG Ang was not a member of the group
herself. In his confession, CHAN Wai Hung did not admit WONG Ang's par-
ticipation in the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP.
No definite proof has been obtained to date and subject is still detained
by the Chinese in Kunming.
For additional information see summary memorandum, THE HOLLYWOOD GROUP
OF ESPIONAGEAGENTS.
FUNG Man Kit (Chinese) 馮文傑
Subject is a suspected agent of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP work-
ing for CHAN Chi Kong under the direction of CHAN Wai Hung. Subject's
position in the Group is not clear. His close association with CHAN Wai
Hung, CHAN Chi K ng, WONG Ang and "Fatty" LAU cannot be explained. Sub-
ject was an associate in Canton and Hong Kong with the above individuals
who were all members of the Tiger Gang of gen gsters.
At present subject is in Kweiyang. It is understood that no action is
contemplated by the Chinese ageinst subject or his wife.
There is no additional information available.
"Fatty" FONG (Chinese-female) “肥婆”方
Subject is a known agent working for the SOUTII CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP
under CHAN Chong Ming. It was suspected that FUNG Man Kit was reporting
to CHAN Chong Ming via subject and that FUNG Man Kit may have been using
his wife as a runner to Canton.
In Canton subject was responsible for the errest and execution of a
Chinese agent who shot and killed the Puppet Kwangtung Provincial Governor
CHAN Iu Tso in 1944.
Subject is at present in Canton where she is acting as a counterespionage
agent for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP.
There is no additional information available.
LAI Kong Chi (Chinese) 賴 江希
Subject is a known agent for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP working
for LEM Tsun. He is a graduate of the St. Josephs College in Hong Kong.
BECRET

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
8
He joined the South China Athletic Association and played football for
several years.
In 1942 subject worked for the South China Navy Headquarters in Canton
with the rank of Naval Lieutenent. In l933 he was sent to the Chinese
Naval Academy of Huang Pu for training. On the completion of this
training, he returned to Hong Kong in 1935 where he again joined the
South China Athletic Association.
In l939 he went to Haiphong, Indo-China, where he engaged in a transpor-
tation business driving new trucks to Kunming, Kweilin, and Kweiyang.
After the fall of Iong Kong in 1942 he returned to Canton where he joined
the Japanese Military Police Headquarters as a detective. He then became
an agent for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLICENCE GROUP under LEM Tsun.
Subject's description is given as follows:
Name
LAI Kong Chi
Nationality
Chinese, a native of Kwangtung
Birthplace
Canton
Age
35
Height
5 feet 4 inches
Face
Round and ruddy, has a beard
Weight
135 pounds
Languages
English, Cantonese, Mandarin, Baka
Ther is no additional infonmation available.
WU Tak Wing (Chinese) 吳德、榮
Subject was born in Hong Kong. Both parents died shortly after and he
was sent to St. Josephs College by a mission. After graduation he worked
for the Japanese-controlled Formosa Gang. He then joihed the Tiger Gang
of gangsters in Hcng Kong and associated with CHAN Chi Kgng, CHAN Wai
Hong, LEM Tsun, and FUNG Man Kit.
Subject then joined the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP as an agent for
LEM Tsun.
Definite proof of subject's participation in this Group was admitted by
CHAN Wai Hung in his confession.
Subject is at present in Hong Kong, working for the Group.
There is no additional information available.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
- 9 -
IV.CCMMUNICATIONS SECTION
The communications section of the S(UTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP is under
the direction of TSUN Chi Kong, ex-member of the Central Government
Communications Ministry.
There are nine known agents and one suspected agent in this séction. In
addition, there is one agent whom informants believe is a Chinese Intel-
ligence agent.
Details of the agents of the communications section are as follows:
TSUN Chi Kng (Chinese)秦志刚
Subject is a known agent of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP and is in
charge of the communications section for that group. He is the uncle of
SAU Su Yee, a suspected agent of this section. Subject was a former
member of the Communications Ministry of the Central Government.
There is no additional information available re subject.
At present he is in Canton still working for the Group.
Subject is the god-mother of SAU Su Yee and a known agent of the communi-
cations section of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUT.
Subject was a. barber before in  acau and Canton. In 1934 to 1936 she was
in Manking and Shanghai. In l937 she went to Formosa where she had some
relatives. At the fall of Canton subject and SAU Su Yee went to Wuchow
where she started a barber shop. During 1939 and 1941 subject traveled
frequently between Canton and Wuchow. In Cctober 1942 subject and SAU
Su Yee moved to Kweilin where they worked in the New Life Movement Barber
Shop for more than two years. In December 1943 subject bought the barber
shop and then began to associate with Colonel PAI Chi, Kweilin Puppet
Carrison Commander. In June 1944 subject went to Chao Ping with FUNG Chi
Men, wife of PAI Chi. They then went to Wuchow and back to Canton.
Subject is at present in Macau working for the group.
There is no additional information available.
PAI Chi (Chinese) 白 琪
PAI Chi was the Puppet Garrison Commander of Kweilin. He is a known
agent of the communications section of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP.
Available information indicates that subject was more or less in charge
of the agents in Free China and is most responsible for the close associ-
ation of the Hollywood Group. Subject was one of the owners of the Holly-
wood store and a close associate of most of the members of this group.
SEORET

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
- 10-
Durinn; the Japanese attack on Kweilin, subject evacuated to the hills
andreturned to Tweilin after the occupation to became the Puppet
Garrison Commander.
It is kmown that subject has sent agents into Chinese zones for espionage
purposes, but it is not clear whether these agents were working for the
SOUTH CHINA GROUP or for PAI Chi. One such agent, TANG Sui Jen, was sent
by subject to gather information on the Chinese Fourth War Zone Headquarters.
Subject's second wife is FuNg Chi Men, another known agent of the Group.
During the recent recapture of Kweilin by the Chinese, an attempt was made
by Chinese intelligence officials to arrest subject but they found that
he had left. At present, his whereabouts is unknown.
There is no further information available.
FUNG Chi Men (Chinese-female) 馬 志文
Subject is a kmown agent of the communications section of the SOUTH CHINA
INTELLIGENCE GROUP working through TSUN Chi Kong. Subject is a close
associate of SAU Su Yee, WCNG Ang, and CHIU Shiu Tai.
Subject's present whereabouts is unliown but it is assumed that she is in
Macau with YAn Sau Lan.
There is no additional information available.
CHEN Wah Tak (Chinese)陳華德
Subject is a kmown agent of the communications section of the SOUTH CHINA
INTELLIGENCE GROUP. In 1942 he was sent to Centon from Nanking by the
Group headquarters to operato the main wireless station which is located
on the third floor of Mo. 26 Pearl Road Central. Subject also maintained
the branch station on the seventh floor of the Aoi Chun Hotel in Canton.
CHEN Wah Tak is a native of watow, age 25, lon thin face, 5 feet 6 inches
tall, 125 lbs. weight. He is described as being very handsome. He speaks
good andarin, Cantonese, han hainese, English, and Japanese.
At present subject is in Canton
There is no additional information available.
HU Sui Ching (Chinese) 古月 瑞 即
Subject is an intinate associate of TU Chang Kang and TAnG Chi Hua who
are reported to be in Kunming at the present time. Subject handled some
communications for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP through the Asia
Company, a smuggling and trading company solely backed by the Japanese.
At present subject is in Macau still working for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLI-
GENCE GROUP.
SECRET

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
No additional information is available at this time.
LUNG So (Chinese) 龍 蘇
Subject is a known agent for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP working
in the communications section. He employs runners and smugglers to Free
China.
At present subject is in Canton where he is working for the Group.
No additional information is available at the present time.
KAI Chung Chow (Chinese)又鳥 虫 周
Subject is a known agent of the communication section of the SOUTH CHINA
INTELLIGEICE GROUP.
At present he is in Canton still working for the Group.
There is no additional information availabie.
LI Hung Fai (Chinese) 李 雄 光軍
Subject is a known agent of the conmunications section of the SoUTH CHINA
INTELLIGENCE GROUP.
Subject is in charge of the transportation department and handles the
traffic of agents to and from Free China.
Previously subject was an informant for the Hong Kong Police Detective
Department.
At present subject is in Canton still working for the Group.
There is no additional information available.
FOK Tso I (Chinese) 霍祖貽
Subject's status with the SOUTH CHINA INTELLICENCE GROUP is uncertain.
Informants believe subject to be a member of Chinese intelligence who
penetrated the SOUTH CHINA GROUP at an early date.
Subject is an associate of SUSAN SOO and CHAN Wai Hung.
Subject is at present in Macau.
There is no additional information available.

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
12 -
V. PROPAGANDA SECTION
The propaganda section of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP is under the
direction of "Fatty" LAU. This section has three known agents and three
suspected agents.
The connection between this section and the Hollywood Group of Espionage
Agents is unknovm at the present time. In addition there is a close
association of the members of this section with movie stars in South China.
Following is the available information re the members of the propaganda
section:
"Fatty" LAU (Chinese)
Subject is a known agent of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP and the
head of the propaganda section.
At present subject is in Macau working for the Group.
There is no additional information available.
CHIU Shiu Tai (Chinese) 趙 树泰
ubject is a kmown agent of the propaganda section of the SOUTH CHINA
INTELLIGENCE GROUP and works for "Fatty" LAU.
Subject's wife, KONG Tek I and sister CIAO Ming Li, are at present living
in Kweiyang. Close surveillance of them has indicated nothing of a
suspicious nature.
At present subject is in Macau where he is still working for the Group.
There is no additional information re subject.
Jemes "Derkey" CHAN (Chinese) 陳 占士
Subject is a known agent of the propaganda section of the SOUTH CHINA
INTELLIGENCE GROUP.
One saurce indicates that subject was arrested during the evacuation of
Kweilin with YANG Wai. In September 1944 he was guaranteed by someone
and released. He returned to Macau where he continues to work for the
Japanese.
Another source verifies subject's arrest with YAnG Wai but states that
during the last evacuation of Kweilin subject and YANG Wai escaped and
went to Macau where they are working for the Japanese now.
There is no additional information available.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.95)
SEGRET
-13-
FUNG Ying Sheung (Chinese)馮應
Subject is a suspected agent for the propaganda section of the SoUTH
CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP.
Constant surveillance of subject for a period of five months has indi-
cated no subversive activity.
Information in the form of a blind memo has been turned over to CIc for
transmittal to the Chinese authorities for their action. TAI Li autho-
rities feel that proof is not sufficient to warrant arrest.
At present subject and his wife Jeannie TAng are living in Kweiyang.
YEUNG Kung Leung 楊工良
and wife Kam Yee (Chinese) 金衣
Subjects are suspected agents for the propaganda section of the SoUTH
CHINA INTEILICENCE GROUP.
Constant surveillance of subjects have indicated no evidences of sub-
versive activity.
Information in the form of blind memos have been turned over to CIc for
transmission to the TAI Li representatives, but no action is contem-
plated by the Chinese because of the lack of sufficient proof.
Subjects are at present living in Kweiyang.
VI. LOCATIONS OF SO UTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP AGENTS.
The following information indicating the locations of known and suspected
agents of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP was obtained from a Chinese
agent recently returned from Canton and Hong Kong. This agent intimately
knows the leaders of the SOUTH CHINA GROUP.
CANTON:
MACAU:
FOK Wing Kai雀 永 楷
YANG Mai 杨偉
CHAN Chi Kong陳 子光
YAN Sau Lan 思秀蘭
YIU Ping
姚萍
TSUN Chi Kong秦志副
LI Hung
李红
HU Sui Ching 胡 王瑞卵
CHAN Chong Ming 陳昌明
FOK TSO I 霍相胎
"Fatty" FONG
“肥婆”方
James "Darkey"CHAN 陳占士
賴江布
趙樹泰
LAI Kong Chi
CHIU Shiu Tai
CHANG Wah Tak 陳華德
"Fatty" LAU
LUNG SoKAI Chung Chow龍蘇，鸟虫周
LI Hung Fai
李雄輝
EXECUTED:
Major General OKUBO
CHAN Wai Hung 陳惠、洪
HONG KONG:
DETAINEDE
霍永鑫
WONG Ang (Kunming) 黄篤
FOK Wing Kan
英德蘭
SAU Su Yee (Kunming)仇 
WU Tak Wing
LEM Tsun
木木全
LI Pei Lo (Kwangsi Province)
李比露

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
SEGRET
-14-
KWEIYANG:
WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN:
FUNG Man Kit
FUNG Ying Sheung
PAI Chi
YEUNG Kung Leung
FUNG Chi Men
KAM YEE
VII. OPERATIONAL DATA
There has been little data obtainable regarding the operations of the
SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP.
For convenience, the available operational date is divided as follows:
1.
Hission
2.
Personnel
3.
Recruiting
4.
Training Schools
5.
Training
6.
Priority
7.
Pay
8.
Cover
9.
Comnunications
10.
Group Finance
11.
Codes
1. Mission
The mission of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP is one primarily of
espionage and morale operations. There has been no indication of
sabotage or assassination activities on the part of known agents,
although the training schools include demolition instruction in their
schedules.
From available information, the Group missi on is as follows:
Report on - Military movements in the South China War Zones.
American Air Force and the locations and strength of fighter
and bomber bases.
Intelligence organization of the Allied forces.
Quartermaster depots, torage godowms, and supply dumps.
- Allied camouflage systems.
- Conditions and morale of Allied forces.
In addition, agents of the Group are instructed to carry the doctrines
of Puppet Government and to further the meaning of the Co-prosperity
Sphere.
2. Personnel
The headquarters staff of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP is composed
primarily of educated Chinese puppets who have at one time or another
studied in Japan. Available information indicates that the staff may

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.99)
- 15 -
have at one time been indoctrinated in the Japanese nationalistic ideals
while they were in Japan.
The group leaders or agents appear to be recruited from the tough class
of gangsters and gang laaders in Canton and Hong Kong. Cantonese
Chineso predominate and most of the leaders speak English.
The informants and lesser agents are recruited from the lower class
gangsters, doctors, backward military officers, dissatisfied politicians,
fortune tellers, loafers, and prostitutes.
3. Recruiting
Available information indicates that SOUTH CHTIA GROUP agents are re-
cruited only through personal contact with members. A prospective agent
is reported to the group and he is watched. Propaganda is fed to him by
a trusted friend who is a member of the group in order that his reactions
and sympathies may be observed. If the prospect is found to be favorable,
he is first placed on duty wi th the puppet police force so that his
abilities may be watched and he may be more completely indoctrinated. He
is then asked to work for the Group and sent to the training school.
Only in the case of agent PAI Chi has there been any indication of coercion
and intimi dation used in the recruiting or employment of agents.
4. Training Schools
The training schools for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP change their
locations quite often. At present the main training school is located
at the old Police Club on Tung Ming Road in Canton. Previously this
school was held at both the Wampoa Military Academy and the old Chinese
Air Force Club. This main school is knon as the Special ervice Train-
ing Academy.
5. Training Procedure
Special Training is given from three to six months. If the student is
capable, he may graduate in the minimum time of three months.
Subjects taught include dialects, custams and habits of localities, pro-
cedure of interrogation and cross examination, methods of communications,
ideals of cover, and puppet indoctrination. Instruction is also given
in the identification and use of Allied weapons and radio operation and
repair is teught to some. Instructors are mostly puppet officials who are
Japanese returned students. Some Japanese intelligence officers are used
as instructors for special courses.
The president of the training branch of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP
is Lt. Colonel KUO Wei Ming who is the Chief Commander of the Police
Department of the Puppet Kwangtung Province.
SECRET

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.96)
6. Priority
Agents are eppointed to an area either just in advance of Japanese attacks
or right after. Long-term agents are sent to areas of military impor-
tance for deep penetration. Agents in occupied areas have the right to
control opium, gambling, prostitution, and to smuggle within certain areas.
7. pay
Agent's pay is from 200 dollars Jap Military yuan to 800 Jap Military
Yuan. Arents are allowed to smuggle and squeeze. For certain operations,
large sums are given in either gold or silver. CHAn Wai Hung was paid
9000 in silver plus 10 taels of gold in addition to his regular salary
of 800 Military Yuan. Informants are paid $40 to $150 Jap Military Yuan.
8. Cover
The main cover used hy leaders and agents in free China is that of a
business man or doctor. Lesser agents and informants take the cover of
fortune tellers or refugees. All agents enter Free China as smugglers.
Couriers back to Cccupied areas use the smuggling cover.
9. Communications
Communications are usually carried out by courier or runner carrying
coded messages in the form of letters. An agent very seldom leaves Free
China but goes near the border using a smuggling or running merchant
cover. Near the border he contacts certain gangsters who usually carry
the information across the border as smugglers.
10. Group Finance
The finances for the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE CROUr are derived primarily
from puppet levies. Additional finance is received from goods smuggled.
11. Codes
Little information is available regarding codes used by the SOUTH CHINA
INTELLIGENCE GROUP agents in Free China. Available information indicates
that codes made from commercial products were used however.
The known codes are as fcllows:
Large size tubes of toothpaste indicate B-29's
Small
1n
11
1”
B-24's
Twin sisters brand hair oil
P-40's
Another brand
t9
11
P-38's
Troops are referred to as metal. Numbers of troops are referred to by the
numbers 1 to 9 indicating thousands. This is indicated by an intercepted
letter which read "Mr. WoNG bought the metal which you requested and left
Liuchow for Kweiyang on the 2oth instant." This was decoded to read General
WONG departed Liuchow for Kweiyang with 20,O00 troops.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 1.00)
17
Before his execution CHAn Wai Hung admitted that the code he used was
the trade name "Twin Sisters Vasoline" to mean P-38's and tooth paste
indicated bombers.

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
MAIN WIRELESS STATION -#3rd FLOOR OF #26 PEARL ROAD, CENTRAL, CANTON
廣州，海珠中路，开六號三樓
(
RECREATION CLUB LOCATED AT /27 PEARL ROAD. CENTRAL, CANTON
(廣州，海珠中路升七號)
ESPIONAGE SECTION
*CHAN Chi Kong
*LI Pei Lo.
(陳子光)
(李比露)
*CHAN Wai Hung
*YANG Wai
*YIU Ping
*LI Hung
*CHAN Chong Ming
*LEM Tsun
陳惠洪
楊偉
姚萍
李工
林全
--WONG
Ang
*"FATTY" FONG
*LAI Kong Chi
黃鶯
“肥婆”方
賴江希
--FUNG Man Kit
--FUNG Man Kit
*WU Tak Wing
馮文傑
馮支傑
吳德榮
SECRET

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.95)
BECRET
THE JAPANESE SOUTH CHINA INFORMATION DEPARTMENT FIVE
PROVINCES INTELLIGENCE GROUP
***非本水**冰*****************************************冰*
*OKUBO
(Advisor for the Japanese Army)
*FOK Wing Kai (霍 永 楷
(officer in Charge and Treasurer
Canton Office)
*FOK Wing Kan (霍永金
(Assistant Officer in Charge - Hong Kong Office)
COLLUNICATIONS SECTION
*TSUN Chin Kong
*CHENG Wah Tak
*HU Sui Ching
*LUNG 30
*LI Hung Fai
FOK Tso I
秦志剛
(陳華德)
(胡王瑞卿)
(龍蘇)
(李雄光軍)
(霍祖貽)
*YAN Sau Lan
*KAI Chung Chow
(思秀蘭)
(鸡虫周)
--SAU Su Yee
（仇淑儀
*PAI Chi
(白琪)
*FUNG Chi Men
(馮志文)
SECRET

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-81-
MAIN OFFICE #26 PEARL ROAD CENTRAL, CANTON
海珠中路，开六號
BRANCH WIRELESS STATION ON THE GTh FLOOR AOI CHUN HOTEL, CANTON
愛群酒店，六樓
南京偽特務機関
PROPAGANDA CCTION
*"FATTY" LAU (
*CHIU Shiu Tui
趙泰
* James. "Darkey" CHHAN
--FUNG Ying Sheung
--YEUNG Kung Leung
--KAM Yee
(陳占土)
(馮應湘)
(金衣)
Legend:
* Those individuals about whom
Chinese Intelligence has def-
inite proof and who are
slated for execution.
Individuals upon whom no def-
inite proof has been obtained.
SECRET

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
CANTON
29 September, 1945
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORIATION TO KWEIYANG X-2 REPORT DATED 2O AUGUST 1945 ON
SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE CROUP, FIVE P:OVINCES INFORMATION DEPARTMENT.
SCURCE: Drafter.
The South China Five Provinces Intelligence Office is under the
control of the Nanking  ang Regime. After the loss of Kweilin, its name
was changed to the South China Political Peace Preservation Board. About
70% of its finance was supplied by the Puppet Government through the
Ministry of Propagande. The remaining 30% was from Jap military sources.
From authorization given to them, no other organization, civil or mili-
tary, had power to interfere or arrest any of its members.
The main headquarters was located in Nenking. Its South China head
office was located at 26 Pearl Piver Road (海 王朱路) and there was a
glub at the Ci Kwan Hotel on the 6th floor. The above room at Oi Kwan
was rented by CHAN Pak Yung (陳 伯 容) and used as a false radio station.
Actually, all information was handled at the Pearl River Road address.
The organization in Canton was formed by YUN Yan (熊 容). His assis-
tants were WoNG Kee (汪 紀) and LEE it Tsung (李式 曾). This or-
ranization was divided into six sub-groups and they were as follows:
Intelligence
Counter Espionage
Political Intelligence
Training
Finance and Administration
Each of these sub-departments was headed by a Chinese. The chief
of the organization changed annually. nce 1940, the successive chiefs
were:
(熊容
YUNG Yan
(何同義)
HC Kwok Yee
LIU Kung Tsung 
廖公
WONG Yuk Wah
SIU Tong San
FOK Tsung Kai
(霍仲佳)
Of the above named, WONG and SIU are dead.
The chiei of the Intelligence Bureau was CHAN Pak Young (
)。
Fach year it had a Jap adviser. These advisers came from the South China
Cendarmerie. They were. as follows:
1.
NAKASHDAA
2.
OKABAYASHI
3.
TAURA
4.
DOI
5.
ABE
SECRET

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
100
-20-
This organization had little or nothing to do, as far as exchange
of information is concerned, with any of the other Jap intelligence
groups. They had liaison with the Navy and the Army mainly for the pur-
pose of getting priority in communications and transportation. Their
work wi th the Japanese Consulate was also limited, however, they did
report any Japanese or Formosans who might have had revolutionary inten-
tions. The type of information that they sought was military targets
of Allied Air Forces in China, political changes, economic changes,
diplomatic relations and Allied intentions that might effect China. They
were also interested in the Reds.
The following is the most recent information that can be obtained
on the high ranking members of this organization.
Native of Kwangtung, age 44, height
5'5" medium weight, pasty complexion.
He habitually wore foreign clothes.
He used dark glasses and spoke Can-
tonese, Mandarin and English. He is
at present in Macau.
b. CHAN Pak Yung (陳伯容).
Native of Kwangtung, age 42, 5'7",
thin, speaks Japanese and Hakka.
He is most prominent one of the
officials and has been working for
the organization for six years.
Present whereabouts is unknown.
YUNG Loung (容 良).
C.
Native of Canton. Pale, myopic,
(May be YUNG Yan)
wears glasses. His work was mostly
in political intelligence and he
reported directly to Mr. FOK Chung
Kai. He had worked for two years in
this organization and passed as a
business man. He habitually went to
Fah Ti and circulated freely amongst
the Japs.
d. CHAN Tak Kwong (陳德光).
Native of Canton, short, fat, dark,
(Yay be CHAN Tse Kwong)
always wore Chinese clothes, has been
a member of the organization for two
years. Had additional job in the
Gendarmerie as detective. His area
was the East River with about 10 men
under him. He made personal reports
both to this organization and to the
Central and est Gendarmerie.
e. LEUNG Bun Shing (梁本勝).
Native of Kwangtung, 30 years old.
Not much is known about him except
that he used his position to his
advantage financially.
SECRET
JECHE

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.96)
OCGDT
OLUNLT
- 21 -
Te training rogram undertaken by this organization was handled by
HO Yan an (叫 人 云). Each class, composed of about 33 persons, was
trained for a period of three months. The classes were held every night
for a period of l hours. No one was excused unless he had been assigned
to sane specific duty. The training consisted of lectures and few demon-
strations on the use of arms, and particularly the recognition of Allied
equipment. One of the lecturers was lirs. LEE who has been one of the most
prominent Jap arents in the Gendarmerie since the War. She is a Jap and
her name is IMAI (今 # ). She is 413", 40 years old. Her former address
was Kwong Tap Road，Peach Lane, 61 (光±答路杏花巷 61 號後通。 The
school was their headquarters on Pearl Road. Most of the students were
uneducated individuals such as detectives, petty gangsters, etc. After
training each of the graduates, could have 10 followers upon authority
given. Because these agents were uneducated, they were compelled to make
their reports personally or by going to the nearest Jap or Naval seoret
radio station or by sending verbal reports by courier back to headquarters.
According to the source, there is a considerable number of "stay
behind" agents left in Free China. These agents have no definite assigm-
i . t but are to report whatever information they can get..
The radio station is mostly handled by Shanghainese and except by
£ cial permission, they were not allowed to travel freely. They were
isolated from other members of the organization and were kept under sur-
veillance by the Gendarmerie Secret Police.
Further report on this organization will be availab le on the com-
pletion of the Marlin Mission. Many members of the organization are still
free in Macau where they enjoy comparative safety. Not until these mem-
bers are brought in for questioning will there be a true picture of this
organization.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.94)
3-5-46
DATE:
TO : PD
mem
670
FROM : Jack D. Neal - FC
8-13-0+6.
suBject: Cit1zenship of Hajimu MASUDA
Please see the attached Strategic
Services Unit memorandum of March 1, 1946,
paragraph no. 2.
Will you please furnish me with
the requested information in order that it
may be transmitted to SSU.
Attachment.
MAR 251946
opi
FC:OPVarney

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.94)
DC/R
SECRET
WAR DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF WAR
STRATEGIC SERVICES UNIT
1 March 1946
L4-10,236
25th & E STREETS, N.W.
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
Memorandum for: Mr. Jack D. Neal
Department of State
1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject:
Hajimu MASUDA
note
A report from Canton, evaluated as being
Hojimee
from an extremely reliable source, states that subject
was found working for the Japanese intelligence in a
German intelligence office in Canton. Subject claims to
894.20293/3-146
be an American citizen, as indicated by his statement in
the attached memorandum.
2.
It will be appreciated if the information
regarding subject's citizenship could be checked against
the State Department files for verification.
Jason Paige, Jr.,
Liaison Ofricer
APR3-1946
884293
ByTQIAB D. 10|20/78
JI
Tn
3.
①
Dis

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.96)
MEMORANDUM
RE:
Hajimu MASUDA
According to his own statements, Hajimu MASUDA was born in
Los Angeles, California, on 8 June 1915, the son of Kiyonobu and
Haruno MASUDA. He was issued an American passport in June 1937 and
in the same month left for Japan where he arrived on 28 June 1937.
Although MASUDA did not return to the United States, he claims that
he has never renounced his American citizenship. He claims to have
been forced to join the Japanese Army (in October 1942) and to have
had Japanese citizenship conferred upon him by the Jepanese autho-
rities against his will. He also claims that he had his passport
renewed at theAmerican Consul ate in Mukden in 1939 and that he
registered as an American citizen at the American Consulate in
Yokohama in September 1941.
5C

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.97)
In reply refer to
FC
March 18, 1946
SECRET
Memorandum for:
Mr. Jason Paige, Jr.,
Liaison officer, SSU.
894.20293/3-
Subject:
HeJ1mu MASUDA
With reference to the request contained in your
secret memorandum, L4-10,236, subject, Hajimu MASUDA,
the following information conoerning the subject's
citizenship has boen received from the Passport
Division:
"... the records of this Division disclose
that passport No. 448184 was 1ssued to Hajimu
Masuda on June 22, 1937 upon an application in
which he stated that he was born at Los Angeles,
California on June 8, 1915 and that he desired
to travel to Japan for two years for the purpose
of pleasure. This passport was renewed by the
American Consulate General at Mukden, Manchuria
on June 17, 1939. It may be stated that the f1le
in Mr. Masuda's case does not contain an applioa-
CS/A9420293
tion for registration as an American citizen."
Contidential File
Oa
Dist
Jack D. Neal
FC:GSmith

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.97)
TO : FC - Mr. Varney
DATE: March 12, 1946.
FROM : PD
suBject: Citizenship of Hajimu Masuda
With reference to your memorandum of March 5,
1946 you are informed that the records of this Division
disclose thet passport No. 448184 was issued to Hajimu
EW894.20293/3-146
Masuda on June 22, 1937 upon an application in which he
stated that he was born at Los Angeles, California on
June 8, 1915 and that he desired to travel to Japan for
two years for the purpose of pleasure. This passport
was renewed by the American Consulate General at Mukden,
Manchuria on June 17, 1939. It may be stated that the
file in Mr. Masuda's case does not contain an appllca-
tion for registration as an American citizen.
3/18/46
1946
130 - Masuda, Hajimu
PD: EHPhillips:MGF
6MP

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.96)
FORM WRA 26 - REV. T
INDIVIDUAL RECORD
1. Name:
Last
First
Middle
OFFICE
14. Individual number:
USE
MASUDA
KIYOROBU
L117B.A
1a. Other names: (Include maiden name if a married woman)
15. Family number:
2O-Sp-321
2. Relocation Center:
Address
911145
Entry date
16.
Sex:
1Male
2 □ Female
20-6-F
10/19/42
17.
Race:
Spouse's race:
3. Assembly Center:
Address
Entry date
White
1 □ White
Sants Anita
2-6-96-11
4/5/42
Japanese
2Japanese
3Other
3 □ Other
4. Previous address: Street and nuniber, or R.F.D. number
City
State
98. Marital status:
Rt. 1. Box 414-A
Lomita, Calif. Deuetry
Kinoko
Single
2Married
(Kiyptossi)
5. Parents:
Name of father; nmaiden name of mother
Country of birth7
Widowed 4☐Divorced
Separated
MASUDA, KAKICHI
Japem
Father.
19.
Relationship to head of
family group:
Mother.
TANIGOCHI. IWA
Japam
Hoad
20. Birthdate:
20a. Age:
5a. Father's occupation: in U. S.
Abroad..
2/5/89
Dawi IWANAgA,TAyeKO (NO.?)
21.
Birthplace: (City, county, state
WIf - MASUDA HARUNO
or province, and country)
Cow: feiomlm- ge come
daw: Koma, Emi
710147
Jeromm 20-6-P
Totteri
7. Education:
dam:sugiino, MAsAt - Rrhnai
To
See 31
18961902
Grammar school
Kamifukuda. Janan
22. Alien registration number:
Junior high school
High school
Tottori. Japan
1902.
1906
5668659
Business school
23.
Attending school:
College
Yes
2
No
Postgraduate
Grade:
7a. Degrees, educational specializations, honors, and significant activities:
R.S.2
Major-Agriculture
25.
Language:
Speak Read Write
English.
Japanese...
8. Residence outside the United States:
Country
From-
To
German..
2/89 5/06
Italian..
9. Military or naval service:
26. Major activity or status:
Country
Branch
From—
To
None
10. Public assistance:
None
27. Occupation:
Aid to dependent children
2□ Aid to blind
Old age assistance
Pri Truck farmer
3-09
11.
Pension:
Source.
Amt. $.
Pay period.
12. Height:
12a. Weight:
13. Physical condition:
Sec.
(Inches)
(Pounds)
63
125
No major defects
27a.
27b.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.93)
From—
To
Employer, Business, Address
Position and Duties
Pay
12/42
1/10
4/42
Self employed
leval.
Lodta Calif
hire...morkers
29.
Skills and hobbies: (List skills other than those indicated in the above employment history. Include types of ability or experience such
as carpentry, electrical work, auto and machint repair work, music, arts and crafts, etc.)
O.P.Truak farming
Read
29a. Social Security Account No.....nona
30. Religion....Christian
31. Additional information: (Enter here additional information on any item for which adequate space is not provided. Indicate in the margin
next to the item that it is continued here, and number cach entry here according to the item number)
7- Grammar school
3 years-1907-1910
Informant, if other than the registrant:
Date of interview:
Signature of interviewer:
11/28
194.2...
.MaryEm...143.
M.u
J..

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.98)
FORM WRA 26 - REV.
INDIVIDUAL RECORD
1. Name:
Last
First
Middle
OFFICE
UBE
14. Individual number:
MASUDA
HARUNO
X-1IV8-B
1a. Other names:
(Include maiden name if a marricd woman)
15. Family number:
YONEDA,
HARUNO
30-Sp-32I
2. Relocation Center:
911145
Entry date
16.
Sex:
2Female
Jerame
10/19/42
Male
17.
Race:
Spouse's race:
3. Assembly Center:
Address
Entry date
1 □White
1 □White
Santa Anita-2-6-96-II
4/5/42
2Japanese
2Japanese
Other
□ Other
4. Previous address: Street and number, or R.F.D). number
City
State
Rt. I Box 4I44 Lomita. California
18.
Marital status:
Single
2Married
5. Parents:
Name of father; maiden name of mother
Country of birth
Widowed
4□Divorced
(Yo-ahi)
Father.
YATA. KUMAKICHI
JAPAN
5
Separated
19.
Relationship to head of
family group:
Mother.
YONEDA, MOTO
JAPAN
Wife
20.
Birthdate:
20a. Age:
5a. Father's occupation: in U. S.
Abroad.
Farmer
6. Person to notify in case of emergency: (Relationship, name, and address)
3/25/94
48
relotve : 
Husband- MASUDA, KIYONOBU
21.
Birthplace: (City, county, state
or province, and country)
Jerome
20-6-F
Tottor!
7. Education:
Name and location
From-
To
Japan
Grammar school
Kamafukuda. Japan
1901
1909
22. Alien registration number:
Junior high school
High school
575I464
Business school
23.
Attending school:
College
Yes
2No
Postgraduate
24.
Grade:
7a. Degrees, educational specializations, honors, and significant activities:
G.S.-8
25.
Language:
Speak Read Write
English.
Japanese.
8. Residence outside the United States:
Country
From-
To
German.
Japan
3/94
8/14
Italian.
9. Military or naval service:
26.
Major activity or status:
Country
Branch
From-
To
NONE
10.
Public assistance:
NONE
27. Occupation:
Aid to dependent children
2
Aid to blind
Old age assistance
11.
Pension:
NONE
Pri.
Source.
Amt. $.
Pay period.
12. Height:
12a. Weight:
13. Physical condition:
Sec.
(Inches)
(Pounds)
High blood pressure.
Seamstress
6-25
60
π5
27a.
Hand knitter
6-14
27b.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.85)
28. Employment history: (List most recent employment first and account for all periods of unemployment)
From—| To—
Employer, Business, Address
Position and Duties
Pay
House wife-
Fouse-wifs cook.sm.alman.
and general up keep of the
house.
…
……
.
.
……
……
…
……
……
……
…
29. Skills and hobbies: (List skills other than those indicated in the above employment history. Include types of ability or experience such
as carpentry, electrical work, auto and nrachine repair work, music, arts and crafts, etc.)
Hand craft- sow and knit(unspecifimd).
Duddhist
30. Religion..
31. Additional information: (Enter here additional information on any item for which adequate space is not provided. Indicate in the margin
next to the item that it is continued here, and number cach entry here according to the item number)
Informant, if other than the registrant:
Date of interview:
Signature of interviewer:
11/28
MARY LA -14
194.......
711
J.A.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.97)
FORM WRA 26 - REV.
INDIVIDUAL RECORD
1. Name:
Last
First
Middle
OFFICE
14. Individual number:
USE
MASUDA.
KIYOKO
x-1178-0
1a. Other names:
(Include maiden name if a married woman)
15.
Family number:
30-8p-322
2. Relocation Center:
Denver l 71:
Entry date
16.
Sex:
1□
Male
2Female
Jerome
20m6-F
10/19/42
17.
Race:
Spouse's race:
3. Assembly Center:
Address
Entry date
White
1□ White
Santa mita
2-6-96-11
4/5/42
Japanese
2 □ Japanese
Other
3 □ Other
4. Previous address: Street and number, or R.F.D). number
City
State
18.
Marital status:
Rt.#1. B0x 414-
Lomita, Calif.
Single
2 □Married
5. Parents:
Name of father; maiden name of mother
Country of birth
Widowed4Divorced
Separated
Father....MASUDA...KIYONOBU
19.
Relationship to head of
family group:
Mother... TOMRDA.HARUHO
Japa
20.
Birthdate:
20a. Age:
5a. Father's occupation: in U. S.
Farmer
Abroad..
3/13/21
22
6. Person to notify in case of emergency: (Relationship, name, and address)
21.
Birthplace: (City, county, state
Father - MASUDA. KIYOHOBU
or province, and country)
Jerome..
20-6-1
7. Education:
Name and location
From—
To
Los..Amgales,
Calif
Grammar school
Del Ray. Vanice. Calif.
9/27
6/33
22. Alien registration number:
Junior high school
Narbonne.Lomita. Calif.
9/33
6/36
High school
Narbonne,. Lomita, Calif.
9/36
6/39
Hone.
Business school
23.
Attending school:
College
Yes
2
No
Postgraduate
24.
Grade:
7a. Degrees, educational specializations, honors, and significant activities:
H.B.4
Major - Commercial - Bookkeeping. shorthand. typing
25.
Language:
Speak Read Write
60 w/p/m  Honor society - 1} yra (Sr. High)
English.
Japanese..club president. Class treasur...e. & GAA
Japanese.
8. Residence outside the United States:
Country
From-
To--
German.
Italian.
None
9. Military or naval service:
26. Major activity or status:
Country
Branch
From-
none
10. Public assistance:
None
27. Occupation:
Aid to dependent children
Aid to blind
Old age assistance
11.
Pension:
Hone
Prithursery..helper.
3-39
Source.
Amt. $.
Pay period.
Clerieal work
1-24
12. Height:
12a. Weight:
13. Physical condition:
Sec.
(Inches)
(Pounds)
60
105
No major defect
Gen'l office elerk
1-05
27a.
27b.
Group work
0-27

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.94)
From—1
Employer, Business, Address
Position and Duties
Pay
Typist
Type..letters,..filing...
42
11/42 WO0A. Ut111ty
Bearetary ..type...file...take.
Santa Amita, Calif.
various divisions
5/42
8/42
Moss hall
Waitress
wait on tables
Santa..nita...Calif.
7/39 4/42
Tather..Hutsery
Hursery..helper.
Lomita. Calif.
toak..aare...af..gresn.honse
kept ledger and journal
29.
Skills and hobbies: (List skills other than those indicated in the above employment history. Include types of ability or experience such
as carpentry, electrical work, auto and machine repair work, music, arts and crafts, etc.)
O.P. General industry clerk
Hand araft, knit, crochet, and embroidery (ummpecified)
Sports - basketball. tenni* and badmington (participamt)
29a. Social Security Account No......
....Bone
30. Religion.
none
31.
Additional information: (Enter here additional information on any item for which adequate space is not provided. Indicate in the margin
next to the item that it is continued here, and number each entry here according to the item number)
Japane.se...schoal
3. years
Informant, if other than the registrant:
Date of interview:
Signature of interviewer:
11/26
., 194...2.
Mary Bma. 145
M.M. J.A.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.93)
SEORET
WAR DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF WAR
STRATEGIC SERVICES UNIT
25th & E STREETS, N.W.
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
L4-10,360
29 March 1946
APR1946
O
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
aL
E8
894.20293/3-2946
Memorandum for: Mr. Jack D. Neal
Department of State
Subject:
Post Surrender Japanese Activities in China
1.
The attached memorandum is transmitted for your
interest.
2.
It is not inown whether this intormation has been
made available to any representatives of the Department of
State.
3.
The attached report is also being furnished the
Office of Naval Intelligence, G-2, and Office of Research and
Intelligence.
APR 25 1945
FUED
CS
/LF
fa Oaye J.
594.202
Jason Paige, Jrt
Liaison Officer
Conic
Attachment
CF F Tut
na
DECLASSIFIED
2946
Ual
Bylg inb D. 10|00 78
Dist.
SECRET
(D

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
ACPPET
MEMORANDUM
Re:
Post Surrender Japanese Activities in China
A report received from Shanghat, dated 26 January 1946, and evaluated
C-2 states that The National Salvatron and Resurreotion of the Motherland
Center is an outgrowth of "The Ideological Center," an organization established
in June 1945 at Shanghai by certain Japanese individuals who realized that the
defeat of Japan was approaching. The general situation prevailing at that
time made it imperative that the members work in absolute secrecy for any hint
or suggestion about the possibility of defeat would lead to arrest by the gen-
darmerie. This fact severely restricted membership and the individuals who
ostablished "The Ideological Center" were closely and intimately connected among
themselves.
The sudden end of the Pacific war caught the "Center" while it was still
engaged in the process of preliminary organization. The actual conditions and
the terms of surrender imposed upon Japan were astoundingly different from what
was expected. The "Center" was confronted with the immediate problem of speed
rnd drastic readjustment of its program or of quitting entirely. It is interesting
to note that until the surrender none of these Japanese believed Manohuria,
Korea and Formosa would be taken away and thet all Jap civilians in China would
be shipped back to Japan together with he Japanese military personnel. The
"Center" chose to continue in existence and this decision was made possible by
the fact that even the most chauvinistic and reactionary army and navy circles
were willing to support it. Consequently, a new program was set up and the
organization assumed the new name under which it is now functioning.
Program:
Phe Program of "The Tdeological Senter" bofore the termination of the
war was based on the following principles:
1. Japan's defst should be explained es a Divine Trial of the whol•
Tapanes, Race on the road to eventual achievement of the lofty aims of HAko-
ISuIl. Through the temporary misfortunes and difficulties of the Post Surrender
Period the Japanese would emerge as the fully qualified conquerors and rulers
of East Asia. This Divine Trial was necessary beceuse many Japanese were not
worthy of these high aims. They lacked unity, perseverance and the spirit of
self-sacrifice and complete devotion to the Emperor.
2. Irrospective of the terms of the surrender it was proposed to main-
tain and strengthen the unity of purpose of all the Japanese nationals who would
have to stay in China after the conclusion of the peace treaty and to guide the
Japanese overseas organizations for the maintenance of dignity as well as to use
properly and effectively their material and spiritual assets for the ultimate
glory of the Japanese Empire.
S. In order to meet any possible situation which might arise after the
conclusion of peace with the Allies it was decided to use the "Idealogical
Center" as the nucleus for a secret underground organization devoted to the pro-
motion of the cause of reater Japen in all fields of economic and political
activity by ussuning fir: leadership over all local Japanese social and private
associations and gradually extending its influence to unify the whole Japanese
community in Shanghai.
SECRET

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
octnet
-2-
4. Without waiting for future developments it was also decided to
commence at once the work of establishing secret filial organs whioh would
permit the start of necessary activities immediately after the conclusion of
peace and in aocordance with the actual requirements.
After the surrender of Japan and the subsequent broadening of the
scope of the activities of the organization a new fundamental ooncept was a-
dopted as the basis for a program of notivity. This concept is reported to be:
Japan had not been occupied by the enemy when the Emperor had com-
manded the surrender of ell the armed forces nor had the Japanese Army been
beaten in actual combat with the enemy and defeated militarily. Thus the
Emperor's comnand for surrender was caused by other reasons whioh do not cast
a shadow upon the honor of the Japanese Army. These reasons were: First and
foremost, the use by the allies of the terrible new invention called the atomio
bomb which murders horrible numbers of non-combatant women and children with-
out any direct effect upon the fighting forces and therefore which must be
termed as an atrocity and a crime against humanity and civilization. Secondly,
the treachery of the Soviet Union which had occurred simultaneously with the
7
atomic bomb made his Majesty in his profound concern over the sufferings of
the innocent population graciously decide to assume the full responsibility
for surrerdering upon his august and divine person. This latter fact must be
imprinted in the hearts of all true Japanese and it must be made absolutely
clean to them that their first and foremost sacred duty before their Emperor,
their country and posterity is to redeem his Ma iesty's personal sacrifice by
concentrating their whole energy, effort and life for the task of redemption.
This must be attained at any price and through any conceivable means. Immortal
glory would crown the achievement of this aim.
Members of Organization
The following have been identified as members of the former
"Ideological Center" and ere still members of the "National Salvation and
Resurrection of the Motherland Center:"
K. MORIYAMA - is chairman of the group. He wes e former High
Adviser to the Japanese Ambassador in Washington (1923-25). Later he was re-
tired from official service. His address as of 1 November 1945 is 104-11
Scott Road.
T. HAYASHI - is an ex-naval officer who was retired in 1918. He has
been engaged as a small coal merchant. And since his brother's death he has
acted as the sole proprietor. His home and business address as of 1 November
1945 is 159 Boone Road.
Dr. Arita YOSHIDA - was formerly on the staff of WASEDA University.
His address is unknown. Formerly he lived in Hangchow in the Japanese Medical
College Faculty House.
Activities
Since the adoption of their new fundamental concep the activities
of the organization have been expanded and various branches o. the "National
Salvation and Resurrection of the Motherland Center" are using all available
methods and resources for the attainment of their aims. "Emergency" measures
are devised on the spot according to necessity and may include sabotage,
CCCDCI
SEENET

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
SEGRET
anti-foreign propaganda and assistance to all nationalistic patriotio political
movements of natives in Asiatic countries. Some of the activities of the "Center"
are given below.
1. Asiatic Communism - This tern was only recently invented by the
Japanese "Ideologists" to denote the difference between Occidental and Oriental
economic, social rnd cultural conditions which makes "European Communism" as
evolved in Russia absolutely unadoptable in Asia. This new Japanese politioal
invention, it is reported, has been very efficiently carried throughout the
occupied territories in China and the Pecific regions ever since the surrender.
This campaign is designed to increase the disorder in China and other Asiatic
countries and to obstruct Allied efforts to stabilize the situation and thus
directly or indirectly assist Japan in regaining its political importance as the
stabilizing power in Asia and as the only dependable power in the Far East which
is Anti-Communistic and which might later be used to suppress the Communists.
2. Arms Smuggling - Another "Emergency" measure is the smuggling of arms
and ammunition to dissident Chinese groups in Shanghai. Some agencies inoluding
those run by Koreans with extensive Japanese connections were known to have ef-
fected the transfer of new Japanese machine guns and other weapons. Several
foreigners were also used to effect the transfer of arms on a smaller scale.
Those persons identified in this connectior are:
N. Shturtz RoMOSLAVSKy - a large arms and ammunition dealer during
the war who worked with SAITO, Chief of the Foreign Affairs Section of the puppet
police.
A report, deted 1 November 1945, and evaluated C-3 states that
ROMOSLAVSKY was arrested in the spring of 1942 by the Frenoh Police for selling
to a Japanese a police pistol belonging to A. M. GLUCk (See comnents on GLUCK
below). He was imprisoned fer two weeks.
Adrian KASHIN - Three reports dated Oct. 3, Nov. 29, Nov. 30, 1945
and evaluated as F-2, C-3 and B-2 report that KASIIN resides at 803 Bubbling
Well Road, Apt. 8. He has worked for the Japanese Gendarmerie, Army and Navy
and has participated in much swindling and blackrailing on behalf of these
services. Ie was arrested for selling false shares of the Ewo Cotton Mills
but the Jap Gendarmerie secured his release. The apartment in which he is
living was given to him by the Gendarmerie when the owner was placed in a con-
centration camp. In September 1945, he was in contact with Colonel AMAYA of
the Japanese Military Mission and also with O. A. K. WITTINSKY, ex-D.S.I. of
the Shanghei Municipal Police. He is also reported to be the closest friend
of a man named HOVAlS for whom he has worked.
Two reports, dated 1 November 1945 and 30 November 1945, and evaluated
as C-3 and B-2 state that IOVAIS had been imprisoned for 15 years for murder
when the war broke out. The night the war started he was released by the
Japanese. He then began to work for the Japanese Havy and became the No. 1
Naval Intelligence Agents' Supervisor. By his direction many people were re-
ported to have been imprisoned and killed. Before the war he is reported to
have worked for the American Secret Service. It is also reported that this
fact was known to the Japanese.
M. JIMBO - Also of the firm of J. H. Way.
Arkady Michailovitch GLucK and many Koreans, Chinese, Portuguese, etc.
The names of the units and groups receiving these arms are under investigation.

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
A report, dated 1 November 1945, and evaluated C-3 states that
prior to the civil war GLUCK was employed by agents of the U. S. Naval
Attaches office in Shanghai. After the outbreak of the war he assisted the
Japanese in locating radio receiving and sending sets owned by Allied nationals.
He is a radio expert and a member of the Amerioan International Radio Amateurs'
Association. He was arrested in 1943 and again in 1944 for partioipation in
burglary and received varied terms of imprisonment. At present he is displaying
large sums of money and is boastinf that he has resumed his old contacts with
the American Intelligence Service receiving especially liberal pay.
3. Japanese Communist Pretenders - The "Center" is carrying but aprogram
designed to penetrate the Soviet Union. Japanese who pretend to be Japanese
Communists are applyirg confidentially for Soviet papers. One example of such
an attempt it be seen in the case of a certain T. koliArsU who is known to
the Chinese as Siao PEI. He is a notorious Gendarmerie Sergeant who was mys-
teriously discharged and is now an innocent "civilian resident". He is applying
for Soviet papers. KoYATsl has succeeded in getting three necessary guarantors
from among, local bonafide Soviet citizens. He has also applied for a Chinese
Gendarmerie Pass through other channels to protect himself in any "misunderstanding."
4. Japanese Propapanda - The Center is conducting vigorous propaganda
amonp their own netionals to the effect that the U. S. is peparing for a war with
the Soviet Union over the luestion of world control. This World War TII, they
state, must occur within the next two or three years (i.e., before giving time
to Russia to develcp the atonic bonh end other modern secret weapons), and that
before this third World War has cormenced the U. S. is frantically trying to
reeducate the Japarese so that Japan can serve as the base of operations of the
American Air Forces carrying atomic bombs against the Soviet Union. When World
war II breaks, Japan will have her chance to make a good bargain with the
U.S.A. at the expense of Soviet Russia.
5. Japanese Special Agents in Foreign Affairs Section of Chinese
Organizations - It is deserving of attention from the point of view of the above-
descrihed secret Japanese activities that the newly established headquarters of the
Chinese 25th Division located in the Medhurst Building in Bubbling Well Road,
has engaged several Japanese Secret Agents for supplying the Chinese Command
with information about the Soviet, Chinese Communists and the foreigners. The
term "foreigners" includes the British, the French and the American Sections.
Among the newly enrolled Japanese Secret Agents is a former official of the
Japanese Military Mission, K. uROkI, wio is residing at present in 20l Quinsan
Road. KiRoki is working on the Soviets.
A report, dated 1 November 1945, and evaluated B-2 states that
KURokI is a former official of the Jepanese Military Mission in charge of the
Russian Section. He was chief editor and publisher of a Japanese undercover
newspaper "Novae Vienia" (New Times) written in Russian end now circulated under
a new name "SHANGHAISKIE WOVOSTI" (Shanghai Hews). He has been attempting to
sell large quentities of Japanese Military stores and has tried to purchase a
Swedish or Portuguese passport.
otuftt

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.87)
Rto
SECRET/R
FG
file
DC/R
11
25th & E STREETS, N.W.
20-46
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
EA
21 May 1946
AJNDD
In reply refer to
MAY 2 1 194d
L4-10,789
emorantwun for:
F. JaokHeal
opartrent of State
jubject:
Princess Sumair of Patiala
894.20293/5
The atoache  e orantum te forwarded For your inforaetion.
It xxtx(s net) rej orted uhat tnis infor. tion has been
tlo to state Department representetives in the fiend.
10
46
em Paige
894.20293
A
Jason Paige,
Liaison Officer
oto
JUN 2 0 1946
PECLASSICIED
Xxx
15-2146
OLASOT
XXX
NND 8009
DECLASSIFIED
XXX
ByH D.10/20178

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
SEGRET
MEMORANDUM
Re:
Princess Sumair of Patiala
Princess Sumair, one of the more notorious members of
Shanghai's cafe society, a former associate ofprominent Nazis and
high-ranking Japanese and presently a favorite companion of American
military personnel and rich Shanghailanders is the wife of an American
citizen of Japanese ancestry, Morihiko TAKAMI. TAKAMI, who played the
black market during the war and who served as an informer for Japanese
Naval Intelligence, is now in jail in Tokyo. The Princess, however,
is not disconsolate. She is said to be currently the mistress of a
well-known American war correspondent. She is making money on the side
by selling property she loesn't own and by blackmailing her past lovers.
She is also getting money from Japanese on the pretext that her husband,
who, according to her is a major in the U. S. Intelligence Service, can
get it into Japan.
The Princess - her clain to that title is not too well es-
tablished - first entered the worlu of high society in 1938 in Paris,
as an "intimate of Madame Schiapparelli". According to one report,
she is the wife of a Sikh from Patiala named Sumair. According to
another, she is the wife of a Maharujah with two children by him.
According to a third and more likely report, she is the illegitimate
daughter of the Maharaja of Patiala. On hearing of her existence, the
latter is renorted to have said, "She may very well be my daughter.
I have twenty-three of them." Mhatever her antecedents, the Princess
seems to have been accepted by Parisian society and later by the
Shanghai smart set.
In 1940, Trincess Sunair arrived in Shanghai for the second
time with plenty of money to spend and prominent and wealthy men like
Sasson to spend it with. (ler first visit had gone unnoticed and was
evidently of a less spectacular character.) Her friends - and her
friendships were eldom of a Platonic nature - were many, both men and
women. Helen Bascha, now escorted everywhere by American military men,
an Italian boy friend for whom she bought a motor car, her secretary
Olga, and Roger Pierrard, rich Frenchman not accepted by the local
French colony, all helped to make Princess Sumair's first free spending
years in Shangnai pass pleasuntly. Eventually, her money ran out but
she continued to live as usual on money obtained by borrowing and by
blackmailing her friend M. Pierrard. But the girl friends multiplied
and all sources of credit, including Pierrard, ran out. The Princess
began to move from place to place, one step ahead of the numerous bill
collectors.
In 1942, the Princess met Morihiko TAKAMI and moved into
his appartment. But she gave up neither her men nor her women friends.
In 1943, TAKAMI married the Princess and their house on Route Coulty
became a center of the champagne-drinking, caviar-eating crowd. Most
of their friends were Japanese and both TAkAMI and his wife spent a lot
SECRET

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
of money on extra-marital activities. Although nothing that the Princess
could do would surprise anyone, TAKAlT's conduct is surprising in view of
the fact that he is an American citizen, born in New York City in 1914 and
educated at Lawrenceville and Amherst. In 1944, TAKAMI was sent to Manila
(with the Ilushina-Hovans Group), as adviser on economic affairs to the
Japanese Navy. hile in Manila, he managed to trade on the black market
between Shanghai and Manila. Ilushima learned of these black market
activities cnd, by threatening to tell the Gendarmerie, made TAkAmI act
us an inforner for Japanese Naval Intelligence. In February or March,
1945, TaKI was arrested by Aaerican occupation forces on charges of
black market trading and posuible treason and sent to Tokyo for trial.
After the departure o r husband for LHanila, Princess Sumair
extended the circle of her friesde to include such Nazis as Leide, Durakopp,
and Seidel, such Hankine puppete as Chen Kung Po, Hayor of Shanghai, and
un in luertial Japanese nh ed asat of whom it was said that he could
send anyone to Bridge House Jail, a Tact of which the Princess used to
boast. It was at thie tin that Lydia Milanawska present favorite of
Imerican generals, became her secretary, and Vicent Tang, iaportant Sino-
French engineer, her friend.
ecentl he Trinccss sold the house in which she was living
but which she did not om for 5,ooo. gold, and moved to Hungjao where
che is now living. In Hungjao she is usually seen with Lydia Milan (alias
Hilanawska) and Dick Cushins, a U.S. war correspondent. As stated above,
she has been taking money Trom certain Japanese on the pretext that her
husband, TaK. I, is an merican intellizence officer in Tokyo and can get
the money Into Japan. The Princess has stated that she is going to fly
to Tokgo soon in an acricam lame.
The Prineess is said to have a Pritish pussport on which all
the travel visas were annulled in 1941 une a Japanese passport given her
in 1945 by a Japanese cfficial "whose money she was taking care of."
(the above is a swemary of a report fron Shanghai, dated
27 February 1946 and evaluated B-2.)
SECRET
