894.503133 Economic Matters., Capital., Investment Of, Or Field For Investment Of, Capital Of Japan In Uruguay., August 2, 1934 (File 827)
ID: 894.503133-827   Pages: 8   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.503133-economic-matters-capital-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, August 2, 1934.

No. 910.

Subject: Japanese Industrial Penetration of Uruguay Planned.

Letter to Commence Dept
Sent. to Tokyo

File
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG 27 1934
Department of State

NOV 9 1934

894.503133/1 FILED DEC 11 1934

CONFIDENTIAL

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

Assistant Secretary
of State
NOV 14 1934
MR. SAYRE

Sir:

I have the honor to report that the Uruguayan Chargé d'Affaires in Tokyo, Mr. Eduardo Arteaga, has informed me that he has been approached by representatives of certain important Japanese industrial firms with the proposition that those firms, united in a consortium, be granted permission by the Uruguayan Government to establish manufacturing plants in the recently inaugurated Free Port of Colonia. A Free Port has just been established at the town of Colonia, Uruguay, just across the River Plate from Buenos Aires, and it includes approximately 250 acres

note
633.0024

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

acres of ground. The proposition was made by a representative of the OSAKA SHOSEN KAISHA (Osaka Mercantile Steamship Company), which company is to form part of the proposed consortium. It contemplates constructing five or more factories in the Free Port Zone - one for the manufacture of porcelains, one for toys, one for woolen textiles, one for cotton and woolen textiles, and the other probably for the manufacture of silk or artificial silk textiles. In addition a flour mill may also be established. The proposed investment will be about ¥ 100,000,000., and the principal stipulation is that the personnel and capital involved shall be 100 percent Japanese. It was understood by Mr. Arteaga that several of the most influential Japanese industrial firms will be members of the consortium, although he was given no definite data at the time of the interview. He believes, however, that the firm of Mitsui, the strongest commercial firm in Japan, is involved.

In answer to Mr. Arteaga's query regarding the reasons for the establishment of factories in Colonia, and the benefits to be derived, the Japanese spokesman stated that from the standpoint of the consortium the products enumerated could be supplied from the factories there much cheaper than from Japan because of the following reasons: the high Japanese internal revenue taxes would be eliminated; the freight charges from Japan to South America would be cut off; the proximity to consuming markets would assist the factories in producing only those articles for which a demand existed at the time; the nearness to wool and cotton production

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

production in both North and South America would cut down freight rates on those raw materials; as there are no surtaxes or taxes of any kind in the Free Port Zone the cost of production would be less; and, having headquarters in South America would keep the factories more up to date with customs, legislation and other local influences affecting the sale of their products. The consortium representative seemed to be very enthusiastic over the proposed plan, and intimated to Mr. Arteaga that the saving through manufacturing in Uruguay would be very appreciable as compared with the cost of production in Japan.

His conclusion was to the effect that of course cheaper production would greatly benefit the Uruguayan and other South American markets. The consumer would enjoy lower prices on commodities of general consumption, and the country as a whole would benefit from the investment of such a large amount of capital. Local building materials would be purchased, local labor would be used in construction, and after operation began the employees' wages would be spent within the country.

Mr. Arteaga communicated the proposition to his Government with the recommendation that it be refused on the grounds of being injurious to the infant textile industries in Uruguay, and to the larger textile plants in Buenos Aires. He also believed his Government would object to the 100-percent-Japanese-personnel proposal. His Government refused the offer for the time, but he seems to fear the influence of the labor element in his country,

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-

country, which conceivably might welcome the Japanese proposal. The Uruguayan Government, he says, has given broad powers to the Free Port Authorities, and on that account he strongly recommends that the question of Japanese penetration be controlled by the Uruguayan Foreign Office because of its international political character.

Mr. Arteaga has personally appealed to the Embassy for assistance in preparing convincing data to present to his Foreign Minister (who is his cousin) in the hope of inducing him to persuade the Uruguayan Government that it is not in its best interests to grant the request of the Japanese consortium. Mr. Arteaga expressed his belief that the establishment of a Japanese industrial center in Uruguay would operate to the detriment of American manufacturers and exporters, who could not hope to compete with Japanese prices. He requested any and all information the Embassy could supply him regarding any studies which our Government has made relative to the growth of Japanese exports to the United States, tariff and other restrictive measures applied to limit the increase of Japanese commodities on the American markets, and concerning any prohibitive measures which the United States Government has invoked in the interest of home industries.

Mr. Arteaga was informed that the Embassy could of course not give him any assistance that could be construed by the Japanese Government as an unfriendly act. He was, however, offered certain published import statistics, and the gist of the recent restrictions applying to imports of pencils and cotton rugs, which are readily available to the public

611.9417
943
946
611.9417
946
public

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-

public in Washington. But those data, he observed, would only serve to supplement any basic arguments he might present, and he hoped that the Embassy would feel sufficiently concerned to help his prepare a report, based on data showing the inroads which Japanese in the material expansion has already made in America markets in spite of protective tariffs.

Not having sufficient data on here, and after consultation with the Commercial Attaché, the Embassy told Mr. Arteaga that it would be better if the matter were referred to the Uruguayan Legation in Washington for study. He agreed to that, but was especially eager that any available data be transmitted to this Embassy, because he feels sure that a complete exposition of the case prepared by himself will have far greater weight with the Uruguayan Government than if it were submitted through either the Uruguayan Legation in Washington or the American Legation in Montevideo. He explained that should the United States Government submit the information through its Legation, Uruguayans favoring the Japanese proposal would doubtless say that the Americans had "an axe to grind": the possible loss in sales of manufactured goods. Should the Uruguayan Legation in Washington submit the data, Mr. Arteaga fears that his Government would believe that it was at the instance of American interests, whereas, Mr. Arteaga claims, if he himself prepares and submits the argument, supplemented by the necessary data, showing how enthusiastically the Japanese are supporting the project, and how seriously

they

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.93)
-6-

they regard the necessity of penetrating Latin America industrially, his Government is more likely to be impressed by the report because it would come from Japan and would have been volunteered by a native Uruguayan, thus giving it more of the Uruguayan national interest flavor. Mr. Arteaga also puts great store in his close relationship with the Foreign Minister.

Further than living in the U. S. and is formally such published statistics and other published material as are readily available in Washington I am, for obvious reasons, reluctant to deal with the subject from this angle. If, however, the Department feels that the Embassy can, without impropriety, furnish Mr. Arteaga with further material of the nature he desires, I suggest that it be forwarded to the Embassy by pouch, to be handed to him personally and informally, with the understanding that the same material would be available to the Uruguayan Legation in Washington if asked for.

Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.

865.
MNH:r

4 carbon copies rec'd in
4 carbon copies cut off
Nov. 17, 1914. EAT
Jan. 15, 1914. EAT

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 633
MOV 9 1934

The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.

Sir:

Reference is made to the Embassy's despatch No. 910, under date August 2, 1934, informing the Department of a request made by the Uruguayan Chargé d'Affaires at Tokyo for information in regard to the "growth of Japanese exports to the United States, tariff and other restrictive measures applied to limit the increase of Japanese commodities on the American markets, and concerning any prohibitive measures which the United States Government has invoked in the interest of home industries". It is noted that the Embassy offered to supply the Chargé d'Affaires certain available published data, but that he wished to obtain from the American Government further information.

After careful consideration of the Embassy's despatch, the Department suggests that the Embassy take no further action in the matter unless the question is again raised by the Uruguayan Chargé d'Affaires, in which event the Embassy might inform him orally and tactfully that it is doubted whether there is available in Washington any information on this subject in addition to that which the Embassy has offered to supply; that in case the Uruguayan Legation

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.90)
Legation in Washington should desire to pursue the matter further, the Department would be prepared to render appropriate assistance in endeavoring to place at the disposal of the Legation such information as may be on hand for dissemination to interested inquirers. In suggesting that this matter be handled by the Uruguayan Legation in Washington rather than by the Legation in Tokyo, attention might be called to the fact that it is possible that there might also be available in Washington some data which could be consulted personally but which might not be in a form which could be sent by mail to you for transmission to the Chargé d'Affaires there.

Very truly yours,

William Phillips
Acting Secretary of State.

204.303133/1

CR # 1
NOV 5 1934 PM
NOV 6 1934 PM
PAID
A true copy of the signed original
JM

HB
11/5/34
HB
11/5/34
PAID
JM
11/5/34
