894.628 Animal Husbandry., Japan, Fisheries. Sponges. Sponge Fisheries., July 8, 1930 - September 24, 1936 (File 928), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.628-928-1   Pages: 587   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.628-animal-husbandry-japan-6/894.628%20Animal%20Husbandry.%2C%20Japan%2C%20Fisheries.%20Sponges.%20Sponge%20Fisheries.%2C%20July%208%2C%201930%20-%20September%2024%2C%201936%20928-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
RECD
12
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
9
3
WASHINGTON
6
5
July 8, 1930.
lick'd + cohy sent
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
to Tokyoy
JUL 11 30
JUL1:1930
The Honorable,
1820.
The Secretary of State,
1y
19
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Feegs,
My dear Mr. Secretary:
A situation has recently arisen in Bering Sea that may easily be-
come of serious import to the salmon fishery in Alaske waters, partic-
ularly in Bristol Bay where the most important red salmon fishery of the
2
world is located.
894,628/
On June 28, 1930, the Conmissioner of Fisheries, who is now enroute
to Alaska, wired from Seattle that he had been advised that a Japanese
steamer of about eight thousand tons accompanied by a smaller steamer of
about nine hundred tons, a large sailing ship, and twenty-five or thirty
large power launches were fishing off Port oller, Bering Sea, with gear
out for thirty-five or forty miles. Fishing operations were apparently
directed toward cod, halibut and crais.
The Bureau of Fisheries took up the matter with the U. S. Coast
Guard which issued telegraphic instructions to the Conmander of the Ber-
ing Sea Patrol Force to investigate fully the activities of the Japanese
vessels operating off Port moller. A telegraphic reply received by the
Coast Guard from the Conmander of the Berin Sea Patrol Force is as fol-
lows:
9901 your 9930 1400 Early vodey/CHELA! boarding officer along-
side Japanese cannery steamer TAI OYU MARU of Fuchu from
Hakodate period Oma Master Nippon Kosen Kaisha owner period
JUL22193
Anchored Baird Bank twenty one miles off of Melson Lagoone
FLLD
fifty six eighteen North One sixty one thirty west thirty seven
fathoms engaged fishing crabs and canning same period TAIHOYU
MaRU formerly Canadian Vessel period Three power boats one
steam beam trawler MYOGI MARU engaged trawling in vicinity
period Japanese steamer is seven thousand eight hundred thirty
four tons five hundred feet long fifty two feet beam crew of
about three hundred men period Can find no law applicable to
case will endeavor to confer wi th Winn Naknek period Letter
follows 0105
Mr. Winn who is referred to in the message is the chief agent of the
Alaska fisheries service of the Bureau of Fisheries. He is now at Naknek,
Bristol Bay, Alaska.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
The building up of an extensive fishery by the Japanese in waters of
Bering Sea close to the coast of Alaska is fraught with serious possibili-
ties to American fisheries. While it appears that operations are at pres-
ent being confined to taking and canring crabs, the extension of these
efforts to other fishery products is uch more than a possibility. An ar-
ticle appearing in the October, l929, issue of the Pacific Fisherman, pub-
lished at Seattle, Washington, is as follows:
JAPANESE FLOATING CAINERY PROJECT
A Japanese floating cannery project of noteworthy size and
of more than usual interest to North Anerican fishery operators
is being formed in Tokyo. The fact that the company plans to
operate in the Bering Sea, as well as the Sea of Okhotsk, and
that it has connections with Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., of London
gives it particular signiricance in the eyes of American and Ca-
nadian interests.
The company, known as the Kokusai Floatin Cannery company,
will have a capital of 10,000,000 yen, approximately $4,670,000.
The promoters of the company expect to be operating in the Bering
Sea during their first business year with two trawlers of 80 tons
each, one 11,000-ton floating cannery, five x64-ton trawlers and
a floating salmon factory of 6,600 short tons.
The Nichiro Fishery company will have 80,000 of the 200,000
shares of stock, the pronoters of the company will take 70,000
shares and the remainin: 50, 000 shares will o to interested in-
dividuals.
The output or the new company is said to have been contracted
to Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., wich will make an auvarce payment of
1,260,900, it is reported. This 'und, witn the paid-in capital
of $1,167,500, will be devoted to defraying initial expenses.
The company's prospectus estinates a nual income at 2,568,500,
with a profit of $887,300. Allowing $233, 500 for depreciation of
fixed property and ll6,75o for fis ine ri hts, it is estinated a
20 per cent dividend can be paid.
If the Japanese extend their activities to salmon fis ing in the Bristol
Bay region of Lerine Sea, they will no doubt work havoc wit the salmon in-
dustry of that region. his recion supports the largest red salmon fishery
and the annual output is worth millions of dollars to Aerican industry.
This fishery within territorial waters is  rotected by Federal law and regu-
lations which are strictly enrorced. Even if the Japanese fishery operations
are not extended to include salmon, it is entirely within the realm of possi-
bility that present activities may interce t and deflect reat numbers of red
salmon while on their annual igratory movenent from orfshore or high-sea
waters to the teiritorial vaters of Bristol Bay.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
If operations of the Japanese are extended to halibut it is evident
that the benefits that arise fron the conve tion between the United States
and Canada for the protection of the alibut lis eries of the North Pacific
may ultimately be largely if not al to ether nullified.
The situation as it exists is bro it to the uttention of the Depart-
ment of State for its information ad with the hope tat consideration of
the matter may su  est some course of action to be pursued in the event
that the Japanese operations under consideration become a detriment to the
American fishery industries of the Pacific coast.
The Bureau of Fisheries and the Coast Guard are keepin the matter
under carerul observation. m furt.er im ortant developments will be com-
municated to the De ert ent of State.
Very truly yours,
EfMryan
Acting Secretery of Conmerce.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.93)
Jul19 1930.
8
My dear Mr. Secretary:
1
The receipt is acknowledged of the letter from your
力
Department, dated July 8, 1930, on the subject of the
9
recent activities of the Japanese cannery steamer TAIHOYU
MARU in the Bering Sea.
8
Further information from your Department on the above
subjeet will be awaited with interest; and in the meantime
力
a copy of your communication above referred to has been sent
0
to the Amerioan Embassy at To yo with the request that it
obtain and forward to this Department any further available
information conoerning the activities and plans of the
Kokmsai Floating Cannery Company.
Very truly yours,
H. L. BTIMSON
The Henorable
Robert P. Lamont,
Secretary of Commeroe.
Rautine
Rm
!M FE
CR
FE:RSM/ZMF
mp
Jul. 18.1980.
7/17/30
m

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.91)
81
July 19 1930.
Béwin L. Beville, Esquire,
Ameriean Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
8
Terye.
S1r1
6
力
There is tranmmitted herewith for your information
a copy of a letter from the Department of Commeree, dated
9
Jaly 8, 1950, relating to the activities of the Japanese
2
eannery steamer TAIHOYU MARU in the Bering Ses.
You are requested to obtain and forward to the Depart-
ment any available information concerning the activities
and plans of the Kokusai Floating Cannery Company referred
P
to in the letter from the Department of Commeree.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Franois White
mP
A true cpy of
the
CR
21.10 1980.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
AM RECD
BURE
12
ARTMENT OF COMMERCE
FFICE OF THE SECRETARY
山
WASHINGTON
5
Division of
July 23, 1930.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ack'd + copysentt
The HonorableJU! 2630
JUL 98 1530
The Secretary of State,
Tokys
Washington, D. C.
Department of Staté
My dear Mr. Secretary:
August 2. Y980.
The receipt is acknowledged of the Department of State's lotter.
of the 19th instant, File FE894.628/40, advising that the American
力
Embassy at Tokyo has been requested to obtain and forward any further
available information concerning the activities and plans of the com-
pany which has dispatched the Japanese cannery steamer Taihoyu Maru
9
to waters of Bering Sea adjacent to the north side of the Alaskan
peninsula. The Department of Commerce will be very much interested
2
in the further developments along this line.
As bearing upon the subject of the invasion of these waters by
Japanese fishing vessels, there are transmitted herewith copies of two
reports sent to the Commissioner of Fisheries by the Acting Commandant
of the United States Coast Guard. These reports are from the Command-
er of the Bering Sea Patrol Force, one being dated July 2 and the
other July 7, l930, and refer to observations made by the Commander of
the Bering Sea Patrol Force in respect to the operations of the Japa-
nese fishing vessels under consideration.
It is of interest to note that the master of the Japanese steamer
Taihoyu Maru, although freely giving information in regard to the ves-
sel, would not, when requested, lower a ladder and permit the boarding
officer from the Coast Guard Cutter Chelan to go aboard the Taihoyu
Maru. It is said that the master of the latter vessel stated that he
had orders from his owners not to permit any foreigners on board.
The Department of State will be advised promptly of any further
developments of interest in this matter.
Very tryly yours,
i
Acting Secretary of Commerce.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
U.S.S. CHELAN
c/o Postmaster,
CHELAN
Seattle, Washington.
Valdez, Alaska.
7 July 1930.
From:
Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force.
To :
Commandant.
Subject:
Japanese Steamer TAIHOYU MARU; fishing in Bering Sea.
Reference:
(a) Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force letter 2 July 1930
(611).
(b) Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force despatch 9904-2025
(July 1930 - C..Code).
(c) CHLAN despatch to Dennis Winn, Naknek, Alaska, 4 July
1930.
(d) Despatch from Dennis Winn to CHELAN 7 July 1930.
Inclosures: (1) Copies of References (c) and (d).
1.
Supplementing my report contained in reference (a), relative
to Japanese Steamer TAIHOYU MARU, fishing in Bering Sea, Headquarters is
informed that the CHkLAN while en-route from Port Heiden, Alaska, to
Valdez, Alaska, 4 July l930, steered a course so as to pass through the
position of subject vessel as given in reference (a). The weather was
thick and foggy, and it was expected that the position would be reached
about 4:00 p.m. 4 July 1930. However, at 3:00 p.m. that day, the lookout
roported a large steamer close aboard on port bow and the CHkLAN was
immodiately stopped. It was found that the steamer was the Japanese
floating cannery TAIHOYU MARU of Fuchu, and from our dead reckoning posi-
tion it was seen that the subject vessel had moved about nine miles east-
ward of her former position, to Latitude 560-20' N, Longitude l610-17' W.
These facts were reported to Headquarters by reference (b). In the
vicinity of the Japanese steamer five small tenders were seen hauling in
nets and catching spider crabs. Large piles of crabs could be seen on
the forward and after decks of the steamer. The Japanese steam beam
trawler MYOGI MARU reported in reference (a) as seen in the same locality,
was not observed in the vicinity, probably on account of the thick fog
prevailing. Particular efforts were made on the part of the Commanding
Officer of the CHkLan and the officers on the bridge to observe whether

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
mot any fur seals were being taken by the Japanese steamer, by steeming
elose to that vessel and the small tenders. No signs of seals or sealing
gear whatsoever were seen and only large piles of crabs were noticed, on
the steamer, and the tenders hauling in nets were fishing for spider crabs.
In this conneetion Headquarters is advised that the writer has never seen
any fur seals in the waters of Bristol Bay. Usually the fur seals come
from the Pacific Ooean through Unimak Pass, Akatan Pass and other passes,
to the Westward, and proceed directly to the Pribilof Islands.
8. As stated in reference (a), a conference was held at Naknek, Alaska,
with Mr. Dennis Wimn, Agent of the Bureau of Fisheries at that place, rela-
tive to subjeet floating cannery. At this conference it was suggested by
the writer that the Bureau of Fisheries maintain a guard in the locality of
the Japanese steamer, which Mr. Winn said he would do, if at all possible.
Reference (e) is a copy of CHkLaN despatch to Mr. Winn at Naknek advising
him that the Japanese cannery vessel had changed her position nine miles
to the Eastward. Referenoe (b) is a copy of a despatch from Mr. Winn to the
CHMAN, received 7 July l930, stating that he will observe their activities.
Enroute to Valdez, Alaska, with the floating court, the Foree Commander has
been endeavoring to get in communication with Mr. O'Malley, Commissioner
of Fisheries, in order to give that officer first hand information of the
situation off Port Moller, Bristol Bay. From information received, it is
believed that Mr. O'Malley is enroute to Juneau on U.S. Bureau of Fisheries
Steamer BRaNT. Should the Commissioner of Fisheries arrive in the vicinity
of Valdez or Seward within the nert few days, full information will be
given to him by the Foree Commander, and transportation furnished him to
Bristol Bay on the CHAN, should he decide to proceed to the present loca-
tion of the TAIHOYU MRU. Should the Force Commander be in a position to
obtain any further information in this matter, it will be forwarded to
Headquarters by despatoh, and by letter in detail.
R.W. DEMPWOLF.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.95)
0 OPY
Copy of despateh from the Coast Guard cutter CHELAN to
Dennis Winn, Naknek, July 4, 1930:
Floating cannery and tenders have moved nine miles
eastward to fifty six twenty north one hundred sixty one
seventeen west. Recommend you observe operations basing
at Port Moller Signed Dempwolr (Commanding Officer, CHELAN).
Copy of despatch received by the Coast Guard cutter CHLLAN,
from Dennis Winn, July 7th.
Appreciate your information relative floating cannery
near Port Moller and will observe their activities.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
U.SS. CHEAN
Naknek Anchorage, Alaska.
2 July 1050.
Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Foree.
Commandant.
Subjeet: Japanese steamship TAIHOYU MARU; fishing in Bering Sea.
Reference: (a) Headquarters' despatch 9930-1400 (June 1930).
(b) Bering Sea Patrol Force despateh 990l-0l05 (July 1930).
(c) Bering Sea Patrol Force letter te UNAgaa 8 June 1930
(64-611) copy to Headquarters and CHELAN.
(a) Cruise report UNALGA, 24 June 1930 (601-611) paragraph 3.
1.
In accordance with instructions of reference (a), the following
report on subject is submitted:
On 20 June 1930 the UNALGA reported to Force Commander by
despateh that the Japanese Government Training Ship HAkUYO MARU of Imperial
Fisheries Institute, Tokyo, Japan, was anchored off Port Moller, on Baird
Bank, 560-08'N l6l -32'w, fishing for crabs; also that another unidentified
steamer was anchored about five miles further off shore (reference (d).)
As reference (e) which contained a copy of despatch from the Governor of
Alaske, accounted for the presence of the Japanese Government Steamer
HAKUYO MARU in Bering Sea, no action was taken or deemed necessary.
2. The CHkLAN arrived in Unalaska with Floating Court 25 June
19se and on 26 June 1930 the above mentioned Japanese Government vessel
HAKUYO MARU anchored in Dutch Harbor. Captain J. Nakakawa called on Foroe
Commander who returned the call and extended the usual courtesies of the
port to officers, students and crew. Inquiry was made of the Japanese
Captain as to the identity of the large steamer anchored North of his posi-
tion on Baird Bank. He stated he did not know, in the presence of Foree
Commander and Commander Starr of the UNALGA, who was present in cabin of
CHELAN when Captain Nakakawa called. On 28 June 1930 U.S. Bureau of
Fisheries steamer CRank reported passing a large four masted steamer
anchored off Nelson's Lagoon with three steam tenders and one deisel tender
in attendance with fishing gear spread over a radius of so miles. The
CRANE could not identify the steamer account of bad weather. On same date
American steamship STARR reported a Japanese steamer, evidently a floating
cannery anchored in same locality.
On 88 June 1930 the CHILAN with Force Commander and Floating
Court proceeded to St. Paul, Pribiloff Island, landed court on 29
June 1930 to seleet and appoint U.8. Commissioner for St. Paul. The
CHELAN left same date fer reported position of Japanese steamer anchored
efr Welson Lagoon on Baird Bank, arriving O6s0 on 30 June, prior to
receipt of reference (a).

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
The CHmaN stopped elose aboard the Japanese steamer anchored
l8'w lel-Sa'w. Lieutenant (j.s.) L.B.Tollaksen, as boarding
ficer, went alongside, and obtained the following information from
The steamship is the Japanese Cannery steamship TAIHOYU MARU of
Fuehu, from Hakodate, Japan and bound to return same port about 1 August
1930. Y. Oma 1s Master and the steamer is owned by Nippon Kosen Kaisha.
The vessel is a four masted, one funnel steamer of 7834 tons, 500 feet
long, 52 feet beam, having a crew of about 300 men. She was formerly of
Canadian registry, the master stated. Three power launches hauling in
nets and a stean beam trawler MYOGI MaRU engaged in trawling were seen in
same locality, besides numerous markers and floats, spread over a large
aroa.
The Japanose steamer TAIHOYU MARU with its outfit of launches and
trawler is engaged in fishing for spider crabs and canning same. The
boarding officer reported that although the Master gave him all the above
information freely, he would not when requested lower a sea ladder and
permit him to go aboard the TAIHOYU MARU. He notified the CHILAN'S
boarding officer that he had orders from his owners not to permit any
foreigners on board. As there was no evidence that the vessel was or had
been engaged in pelagic sealing, the Force Commander did not resort to
foreeful boarding and search, inasmuch as the TAIHOYU MARU was outside
torritorial limits and had not violated any of the Articles of the Con-
vention dated July 7, 19ll to protect Seal Herds and Sea Otters in the
North Pacific Ocean including Bering Sea, or Department of Commerce
Circular No. 251.
5. The position in which the Japanese Steamer TAIHOYU MARU was
found anchored in 37 fathoms water, is 21 miles from shore off Nelson
Lagoon, Alaska, on Baird Bank - Latitude 560-18'N - 161º-32'W. The
position was checked by dead reckoning, two observations of.sun and by
taking a sounding of 37 fathoms, close aboard the steamer.
6. On 1 July 1930 the Force Commander conferred with Mr. Dennis
Winn, Agent of Alaska for Bureau of Fisheries, on board the CHELAN at
Naknek Anchorage and furnished that official all of the above information,
which he will no doubt transmit to the Commissioner of Fisheries in the
Department of Commerce.
7. The Japanese Government Steamer HAkUYO MaRU is a training ship of
the Imperial Fisheries Institute, Tokyo, Japan. When Force Commander visited
that vessel in Dutch Harbor, it was found to be a modern steel vessel of
about 2000 tons, Deisel Drive, well equipped with all modern appliances. The
personnel consisted of 30 crew, 32 students, and 10 officers and instructors.
▲ regular class room with tables, benches, and blackboards was located aft
on main deck and forward on main deck, a minature canning outfit of mchinery.
Although reference (c) would indicate this Japanese Government vessel is in
Bering Sea to observe the route followed by the seal herd and the mothods
employed in enforcing the regulations against poaching, it is believed they
are and have been this season and previous seasons (vessel was reported in

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
ttu, Atka and Bristol Bay l929) engaged in locating fishing banks; also that
sp1der crabs were located on Baird Bank last season by the HAkUYO MaRU, the
discovery being commercialized this season, by the subject Japanese Cannery
Steamer TAIHorU MARU, now engaged in fishing for and canning these crabs in
large quantities.
R.W. DDMPWOLF.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.92)
August 2, 1980.
In reply rofer to
FE - 094.628
The Honorable
894.628/41
The Secretary of Commerce.
Sir:
The receipt is aokmowledged of your letter of
July 28, 1930, with its enolosures, on the subjeot of
the recent aotivitiea of the Japanese oannery steamer
TAInOYU MaRU in tho Boring Seu. A copy of your letter.
with ite enolosures, has been sent to the American Embasey
at Tokyo.
In this connection it is suggested that it would be
of great assistance to thie Department if future letters on
the above montioned subjoot, toge ther with their enolosures,
might, if convenient, be sent in duplioate, for poesible
referenoe to the Embassy at Tokyo.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
W. R. CASTLE, JR.
Assistant Seoretary.
Rau
FEIBOO
Ae copy of
sighad 
1..

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
0.85
August 2, 1980.
Rawin L. Neville, Esquire,
Amerioan Jhargó a'Affaires ed interim,
Tokyo.
894.628/41
Sir:
Referring to the Department's instruotion No. 81 of
July 19, 1980, there is enclosed herewith a copy of a
further letter, dated July 23, 1930, with its enclosures,
from the Acting Seoretary of Commeree, on the subjeot of
the recent activities of the Japanese camery steamer
TAIHOYU MARU in the Bering Ses.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
W. R. CASTLE, JH.
Enelosure:
Copy of letter from Department
of Commerce with enolosures.
cgc.
Aam
MP
A trme copy of
the signed edg
inal.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
July 30, 1930.
Division of
The Honorable,
894.628/42
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Secretary of State,
AUG 2 1930
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Referring to previous correspondence in regard to the activ-
ities of Japanese fishing vessels in waters of Bering Sea off the
coast of Alaska, this occasion is taken to advise that under date of
July 28, 1930, the Commander of the Bering Sea Patrol Force sent a
telegram to the Conmandant, United States Coast Guard, Washington,
D. C., as follows:
9928 Sighted Japanese Steamer TAIHOYU MARU Trawler MYOGI
MARU Three tenders and six launches thirteen miles Northeast
last position reported July four period Now anchored twenty
three miles off of Cape Kutuzof in 56-27 North 160-57 West
engaged catching and canning crabs 2207
Any further important developments in regard to this matter will
be communicated promptly to your office.
FICEO
Very truly yours,
5
Phlitri
193
Acting Secretary of Commerc.
4

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.91)
FA
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, August 20, 1930.
12
No. 232.
temtor
£5
894.628/43
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
N E ADMINISTRAT
SEP 11 1930
SILTE
SX
e
DEPA
Depearnt 
File
SEP 10 30
EBC
2
7
The Honorable
The Secretary of state,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to Instruction o. 81
of July 19, 1930, in wlich was enclosed a copy of a letter
from the Department of Commerce dated July 8, 1930, re-
lating to the activities of the Japanese camery steamer
TAIOKU MRU in the Bering Sea. The name TAI OYU NARU
appearing in the Instruction is apparently an error.
The Department directs me to obtain and forward any
available information concerning the activities and
plans or the Kokusai Floating Cannery Company, referred
to

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
to in the letter of the Department of Conmerce.
I imediately took the matter up with the Foreign
Office and was slown a report that the Japanese Government
had received from the Japanese consul in Seattle. The report
contained substantially the facts as outlined in the letter
of the Department of Commerce enclosed in the Instruction
under reference. The of.icials informed me orally that the
TAIfOKU LARU and the recently formed Kokusai Floating Canne ry
Company were interested only in crabs, and that, so far as was
known, tnere was no intention on their part to engage in
halibut or salmon fishing. I was also informeu t at the
Japanese fisnery interests had been advised t.at their
operations in waters adjacent to the Alaskan litoral were
interfering with the flow of salmon to the coasts, and that
they would be warned not to conduct their operations in that
region when the salmon were making their way to the rivers
for spawning.
In this connection, I may state that Japanese fisning
interests have for a number of years had contracts for the
sale of canned crab to Cross and Blackwell and to other London
suppliers. So far as I know, the Japanese do not engage in
the extensive export of other forms of sea food. Fish in
sufficient quantities for the Japanese market are available
in Japanese waters or from the fishery concessions which the
Japanese have along the Russian coast. I am further informed
that the only fishing profitable to Japanese in the Bering Sea
is crab, as other forms of sea food are available in nearby
waters and it is not remunerative to bring fish from a distance
to

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.92)
-3-
to Japanese ports
Respectfully yours,
Edui T. muilh
Edwin L. veville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
September 12 1930.
The Honorable
The Secretary of Commeroe.
894.628/43
Sir:
With referenoe to previous correspondenoe with
your Department on the subjeot of the activities of
the Japanese cannery steamer TAIHOKU MARU (referred
to in the correspondence as the TAIHOYU MARU) 1n
Alaskan waters, there is enclosed herewith, for your
information, a copy of a despatoh, dated August 20,
1930, received from the American Embassy at Tokyo
on the above subject.
Very truly yours.
For the Seoretary of State:
W. R. OASTLE. JR.
Assistant Secretary.
Enclosure:
Copy of despatoh No. 232.
dated Angust 20. 1930.
frem American Embassy at
Teryo.
RAyy.
FE: RSM/ZMF
A true copy of
9/12/30CK
the
orig-
inal
Sep. 12 1930.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
INDEX BUREAU
761.948/80
FOR#239
SEE
FROM .Japan
(Neville
) DATEDAu.22,1930
TO
NAME
1-1127
L
REGARDING: Importance which Japanese attach to the maintenance of
their interests in Soviet waters and to the development of
their fisheries in other directions.
Advises of the draft budget drawn up by Departments of
Agriculture and Forestry for admission to Department of Fin-
ance which contains estimates amounting to Yen l00,000 for
encouragement of fisheries in southern seas, Yen 80,000 for
enforcement of Russo-Japanese Fishery Convention; Yen 70,000
for encouragement of whalin industry: and Yen 150,000 for
encouragement and improvement in equipment of small fishing
ports.
1eb

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.92)
FA
RECD
EMBASSY OF THE
:UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
10
Tokyei September 8, 1930.
3
No. 247.
5
Division of
6
OF
S
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 25 1030
SEP4 30
Dopertment of Some
F
894.628/45
File
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CCT 1 1930
DIVISION OF
WESTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
CASTERN EURUPEAN AFFAIRS,
RRK
E P-6000-
The Mo.oruble
1319
the Secvetury of State,
Wushington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
894.628 +1
instiuction No. 85 of August 2, 1930, unt to the
Embassy's reply thereto regarding the uctivities of
Japanese crab canming steamers in Bering Sea. I desire
also to invite attention to despatch No. 259 of August
22, 1930 and other co respondence in regard to Japanese
difficulties with the Soviet authorities over fishing
in waters near the Siberian coast. The Japanese consume
large quantities of fish of all kinds. It is & stable
article

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
artiole of diet in this country. Certain fisheries
products like canned crab, whale products and dried
abalone are exported. These represent really a small
portion only of Japanese fisheries activities. By far
the greatest part of the Japanese catch each year is
consumed at home. The exports are an insignificant
portion of the fisheries as a whole.
The development of refrigeration in the past few
years has enabled the Japanese fishery companies to
send their ships farther afield. Modern cannery prac-
tice is another factor aiding deep sea or distant
fishing activities. I feel that we must expect a con-
tinuance of Japanese fishing in Bering Sea, assuming
that an abundance of fish is to be had there. While
at the moment their activities in the Alaska coast
region are confined to crabs, I have no doubt that
they will be extended to include other sea food if
and when improved methods of refrigeration and canning
at sea make it profitable.
These questions, it seems to me, should be
studied and threshed out by experts familiar with
the matters in hand.
For the moment the Fur Seals
Treaty governs the sealing industry in North Pacific
waters.
This treaty, however, can be denounced at
any time now by its own terms. I do not say that the
Japanese have any immediate intention of denouncing it.
I do not think they have, but they desire a modifica-
tion of its terms.
While the Fur Seals question is under control for
the

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
the moment, the fishing industry proper is under no
control at all, so far as we and the Japanese are
concerned. As I indicated in my despatoh under re-
ference, the Japanese authorities have warned their
orab fisheries to keep away from areas near the
Alaska coast where they are likely to interfere with
the movements of salmon. There is, however, no law
under whioh the Japanese Government can compel them to
do so; nor can we do so, so long as they remain outside
of strictly territorial waters.
All things considered, therefore, I am inclined
to the belief that the only remedy or preventive is a
comprehensive fishery treaty. As matters now stand,
neither the Japanese nor ourselves have any law to
711.948
proteot salmon, halibut or other fish in non-terri-
torial waters. If such protection is necessary, the
action of all interested govermments should be ap-
proximately identical or at least similar. A matter
of this kind cannot be arranged without concerted
action.
Respectfully yours,
Edin I. hoitk
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.93)
Cetober 1. 1930.
894.628/45
The Searetary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of Commeroe and, with
reference to previous correspondence on the subjeot of
Japanese fishing activities in Alaskan waters, trans-
mits herewith, for the consideration of the Department
of Commeroe, a copy of a despatoh from the American
Embassy at Tokyo, Japan, dated September 8, 1930, in
which the Charg6 d'Affaires ad interim expresses the
opinion that "we mst expect a continuance of Japanese
fishing in Bering Sea, assuming that an abundance of
fish is to be had there", and states that he is
"inelined to the belief that the only remedy or pre-
ventive is a comprehensive fishery treaty".
Enelemure:
Gopy of dempateh Ho. y,
dated September 8. 1950,
A true capy of
the signed orig-
Tekye, Japen.
ina
WRP
Ram.
a-c/c
WE
FE:RSM/ZHF
FE
127120
1980
Sep.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
CD
9UA
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
September 29, 1930.
Diviston of
ans'd't
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Honorable,
Johy sent o Jokyo
The Sdcretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
8
Depeartzovut of Soade
6
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The receipt is acknowledged of the Department of State's lettef of
GgC.
.62
September 12, 1930, file FE 894.628/43, with inclosure of a despatch
dated August 20, 1930, from the American Embassy at Tokyo in regaru to
28/46
the activities of the Japanese can ery steamer Taihoku aru in Alaska
waters.
The information thus conveyed is of particular interest to the
Department of Connerce. In the despatch the followine statement appears:
I was also informed that the Japanese fishery interests
had been advised that t.eir operations in waters adjacent to
the Alaskan litoral were i teriering wit the flow of salmon
to the coasts, and that they would be warned not to conduct
their operations in that region Wien the salmon were making
their way to the rivers for spawning.
It is not entirely clear from the roregoing extract as to whether
the Japanese Government would warn fishery interests to rerrain from
interfering with salmon in waters aujucent to the Alaska coast. It is
assumed that such is the case and that the Japanese Government will in-
struct and warn nationals of that country that there is to be no inter-
ference at any time or place with the runs of salmon ap roaching the
Alaska coast. Verification of this understanding will be appreciated.
It is respectfully requested that a furt er more detailed report be
secured fron the American Enbassy at Tokyo after the retuin of the Taihoku
Maru to that country this season. It is desired that such report convey
information particularly as to the (a) character and quantity of fishery
products prepared, (b) fishing rear and boats employed, (c) persons en-
gaged, (a) places and duration of operations, and (e) any other pertinent
matters deemed of importance. A statenent also is desired, if procurable,
as to plans for future operations.
This information is needed not only in regard to the Taihoku Maru but
also in respect to the Japanese trawler Kakusai Maru, which put into Dutch
Harbor, Alaska, on September 1, 1930, for fresh water while enroute from
the Bristol Bay region of Alaska to Tokyo. The vessel was detained by the
Coast Guard Cutter Haida, but was released September 2 when the ensuing
investigation disclosed that it had been fishing in waters of Bristol Bay

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
outside a fifteen-mile line and had aboard three tons of salt cod, three
hundred pounds of crabs, and thirty halibut. This vessel was ll8 feet
in length, manned by a crew of twenty-five, and belonged to the International
Fisheries Company of Tokyo.
The master reported to the Boarding Officer from the Haida and the
Deputy Collector of Customs that the vessel was equioped with four trawls.
He said that this was an experimental vessel launched in July, and would
return next year with two others. He stated that the purpose this year
was to get samples of fish for the owners of the vessel. The Kakusai Maru
left Dutch Harbor on September 3 after taking water.
Information has been received that there is considerable talk in
Seattle to the effect that two Japanese steamers canned about 50,000 cases
of salmon off the Alaska coast this summer in addition to their pack of
canned crab meat. It is also said that quantities of salmon were frozen
and salted. It is suggesteu that the American Embassy at Tokyo make a
special and cautious inquiry as to the truth of the discussions at Seattle
that salmon were canned by Japanese interests off the coast of Alaska this
season.
Occasion is hereby taken to reiterate and emphasize what vas said in
this Department's letter of July 8, 1930, to the effect that any extension
or development of Japanese fishery interests in waters off the Alaska
coast which in any way menaces or t reatens the runs of salmon, will re-
sult in great damage to American industry. The Bristol Bay region of
Alaska produces more red salmon than any other body of water in the world,
with an average annual value of ap roxi ately ten million dollars. It is
urgently felt that every possible means must be taken by the Governnent
of the United States to protect this valuable fishery from foreign invasion.
Very truly yours,

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.93)
0.12
OCT 101930
The Honerable
894.628/46
W. Cameron Forbes,
American Ambassador.
Tokyo.
Sir:
with reference to previous correspondence on the
subjeot of Japanese fishing activities in Alaskan waters.
there is enclosed herewith for the Embassy files a copy
of a communication, dated September 29, 1930, from the
Acting Seoretary of Commeroe.
Your attention is invited partioularly to the request
for a detailed report from the Embassy conoerning the
TAIHOKU MaRU and the trawler KOKUSAI MARU ("Kakasa1 Maru").
There is also enolosed for your information a copy
of the Department's reply to the letter from the Depart-
ment of Commeree referred to above.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
W. R. OASTLE. J.
nelemures:
From Department of
A true copy of
the signed grig-
inal.
num
EE
CR ≤
Aル
MOP
Oct. 10.1930 nm

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
OCT 1 0 1930
The Henorable
The Seoretary of Commeroe.
894.628/46
Siri
The receipt is aoknowledged of the letter from
your Department, dated September 29, 1930, on the sub-
jeet of Japanese fishing activities in Alaskan waters.
A eopy of the abeve letter has been sent to the
American Embassy at Tokyo with a request for a detailed
report cencerning the TAIHOKU MARU and the trawler
KOKUSAI MARU ("Kakusai Mara") such as you desire.
with reference to the statement whioh you quote
frem the Tokyo Embessy's despateh of August 20, 19s0,
relating te the attitude of the Japanese muthorities on
the subjeet, your attention is invited to the further
dempateh from the Embassy at Tokyo, dated September 8,
19s0, a sepy of whish was sent to your Department on
the first instant. For convenience of reference the
last

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
last twe paragraphs ef this later despateh are queted
below
"While the Par Seals question is under
esatrel fer the mement, the fishing indastry
preper is anter ne sentrel at all, se far as
we and the Japanese are cencerned. As I
indieated in my despateh unéer referenes,
(1.e, Angast 20. 19s0) the Japanese anther-
ities have warned their orak fisheries to
keey away frem areas near the Alaske coast
where they are likely to interfere with the
mevements of salmon. There is, however, no
Law under whieh the Japanese Government can
sompel them to do so; nor can we do mo, so
long as they remain outside of strietly
territorial waters.
"All things considered, therefore, I am
inelined to the belief that the only remedy
er preventive is a comprehensive fishery treaty.
As matters now stand, neither the Japanese nor
ourselves have any law to protect salmon, hal-
ibat or other fish in non-territorial waters.
If mmsh pretection is nesessary, the sstion of
all interested governments should be approx-
imately identical or at least similar. A matter
of this kind cannot be arranged without coneerted
astion."
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
W. R. CASTLE. JR.
CR SO
Assistant Sesretary.
Oct. 10.1930.
EE
arn.
WEAN
FE:RSM/ZMF
FE
A true copy of
MMP
10/8/30
the signien orig-
Inal.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
AN RECD
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
October 4, 1930.
Division of
Popy sont to Toky.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
1930
1930.
11
Washington, D. C.
€9.c
Depertment of State
October
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of the lst instant, file
FE 894.628/45, inclosing copy of a despatch from the American Embassy at
Tokyo, dated September 8, 1930, in which the Charge d'Affaires ad interim
expresses further views in regard to the activities of Japanese vessels
fishing in Bering Sea.
554.
As this Department has expressed in previous correspondence, it is
felt that the valuable salmon fisheries of western Alaska may be very se-
riously injured and American industry suffer great loss if there is any
C
extensive exploitation of this fishery by Japanese vessels operating in
心
international waters. If such vessels would stay on the banks twenty or
more miles offshore, as in the case of the Taihoku Maru in the summer of
1930, and confine their operations to the taking of crabs, there appears
to be no cause for apprehension in respect to the salmon fisheries.
There has never been any effort upon the part of American citizens
to engage in crab fishing in Bering Sea; therefore no logical reason ap-
pears to exist as to why we should object to the taking of crabs in those
waters by Japanese, as long as they do not interfere with the fisheries
conducted by our nationals. As a matter of fact, it seems entirely pos-
sible that a considerable part of the pack of crabs prepared by Japanese
vessels off the Alaskan coast may ultimately find its way to the United
States, as quite extensive imports of canned crab meat are made from Japan.
A difficult situation is presented if Japanese vessels undertake the
capture and utilization of salmon in international waters off the coast of
Alaska. Apparently the only possible remedy appears to be along the line
of a treaty whereby Japanese vessels would be restrained from engaging in
such operations. So far as the fisheries in general are concerned, it is
not clear that we have anything to offer the Japanese Government in return
for prohibitions which might be made effective under any treaty against
Japanese vessels operating off the coast of Alaska. American vessels do
not fish in Japanese waters nor is there any likelihood of their doing so.
It may be the course of wisdom to keep the entire situation under
close observation and await developments in the fishing season of l931.
While very likely Japanese vessels will appear off the Alaskan coast for

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
the purpose of packing crabs, it may be that, as has been presumed to be
the case in l930, there will be no interference with the runs of salmon.
The American Embassy at Tokyo may be able to develop further information
from time to time bearing upon the situation before the beginning of the
fishing season of 1931.
Very truly yours,
Actihg $ecretary of Commerce.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.88)
844.628
13
October 11 19z0.
To the Ameriean Ambassador,
894.628/47
Tokyo.
The Seeretary of State tranamits herewith, for
the information of the Ameriean Ambassador at Tokyo,
a sopy of & further communication from the Department
of Commeree, dated Ootober 4, 1930, on the mbject of
747
Japansse fishing activities in Alaskan waters.
Enclosure:
Copy of letter from
Department of Commeree,
as stated.
P
nam,
PEIEM/ELL
PE
山
X-10-80
A true copy of
the signed orig-
zM
LKH
OR /27
vot. 11.1

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.92)
0.39
December 23 1970.
894.628/47
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Seeretary of State refers to recent corres-
pondence on the subjeet of Japanese fishing aotivities
in Alaskan waters and transmits herewith for the
information of the Ambassador a copy of a memorandum
of a converaation on December 12, 1930, between officers
of the Bureau of Fisheries, the Bureau of Foreign and
Domestio Commerce and the Department of State relating
to this matter.
Enclosure:
Memorandum.
894.628/47
FE:EGO/VGD
FE
12/20/30
S4
W24
C
1.30.p

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE 123 Forbes. W. Cameron/52
FOR
894.628/
FROM Japan
Forbes
) DATED Oct. 31, 1930.
XBUREAU
TO
NAME
1-1127
48
REGARDING:
Salmon fishing in Hokkaido.
Comments on -.
pc

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.93)
13
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
m.m.N
WE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Chy sent to Tohyo
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
1880.
DEC 23 00
Déc
he
Subject: Japanene fisting
actintile m alacan waler. December 18, 1930.
Dept. of State
Fur seale.
DEC
Mr. Neville and Mr. Miller, in company with
8
6
INDEX
Mr. Moser of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic
Commerce, called by appointment at ten o'clock en
の
28/49
Mr. Radcliffe and Mr. O'Malley of the Bureau of
44.628
Fisheries. Mr. Neville and Mr. Miller explained that
they were calling to discuss certain questions which
had been raised by the Bureau of Fisheries in regard
to fishing by Japanese vessels in waters adjacent to
the Alaskan coast.
In letters which had been received by the State
119
Department, and which had been forwarded by the De-
partment to the Embassy at Tokyo, the Bureau of Fish-
eries had raised the question as to whether there was
any means of p venting or restraining the Japanese
from conducting  shing operations in that region.
The Embassy in replying to these letters had pointed
out that there was i. domestic Japanese legislation
whereby the Japanese Government could prevent Japan-
ese ships from carrying on these fishing operations;
that practioally the only means whereby any restraint
could be imposed would be the conclusion of a treaty.
After some discussion of the correspondence, Mr.
O'Malley

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
O'Malley was asked if the Bureau of Fisheries was in a
position to make a clear statement of what measures were
considered necessary to protect American fisheries in
view of the rapid development of refrigeration and can-
nery methods on ships on the high seas. Mr. O'Malley
said he thought he could do this but was in doubt as
to what inducement the United States could offer the
Japanese in return for abstention on their part.
Mr. Neville said that all the information he had
indicated that the Japanese at the moment were in-
terested in orab fishing only; that he had been so in-
formed by the Japanese authorities but that he had also
been informed that it was possible that in the future
there would be Japanese ships sent to the waters of
the Bering Sea for other types of sea food. Mr. O'Malley
said that the crab fisheries were of no particular in-
terest to the United States at the moment because there
were no Americans engaged in crab canning to any extent.
Mr. Neville suggested that if anything were to be done
to protect our fisheries in Alaskan waters, the time
to do it was now before the Japanese had built up
any larger financial interest in fisheries in that
region.
Mr. Miller and Mr. Neville then said that perhaps
the Japanese would seek compensation in some alteration
of the fur-seal treaty. They added that they did not
711.948
know

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
know what modification the Japanese might wish. Mr.
Neville was inclined to guess that the Japanese de-
sired a larger kill of fur seals because the Robben
Island herd was said to have reached large propor-
tions. Mr. Neville said further that the Japanese
olaim that the fur seals were consuming edible fish
probably meant that it was the Japanese herd. He
thought that the Japanese desired to reduce their
herd perhaps or stabilize it and that they would
like to retain the 15 per cent of the furs which
they now give to us. He and Mr. Miller were in-
olined to think that compensation in this form or
some analagous arrangement might meet the Japanese
wishes. Mr. O'Malley stated that in such case he
believed we would be justified in relinquishing our
claim to a share of the Japanese catch and might
even also somewhat increase the share of our catch
which we turn over to Japan.
Mr. Moser suggested that another "trading
point" might be a reduction of our import duty
on canned orab meat inasmuch as that industry was
of more importanoe to the Japanese than to us.
Mr. O'Malley said that he was anxious to pre-
serve the fur seals and the fisheries and to pre-
vont indisoriminate fishing in the open sea which
might interfere with the salmon runs in Alaskan
waters.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.89)
- 4 -
waters. He said that he was prepared to take the ques-
tion up with the Secretary of Commerce and to suggest
some action which might be taken by the State Depart-
ment through the Embassy at Tokyo.
cm
FE: ELN: RSM: MSD

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 12, 1931.
No. 101.
Division of
fe
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
N 2731
IAN 28 1331
9.9
7
Denestrrnt of Beat
894.628/50
CUμm TE
FEB4- 1931
FLLLED
The Honorable
The Secretury of State,
Wus nin ton.
Sir:
I have the honor to acknow leige the receipt or the
dateu october 10, 19oc, and
No. lo, aated cctober ll, lose, re uruing Jupanese rishing
activities in laskan waters, ha instructin e to prepure a
detaileu report on the aTHokU aRU anu the tra.ler UiusI .ARU.
The only "floating cain.ery operating in alaskan waters
is the lAIhokU aRu* which is uneu by vhe aihoku tea ship
co.apany
*
Gross tonnage
1,20= tons
uraft
15.9 feet
Registered"
717 tons
Deck
Single
Length
220 feet
Built
ugust,1919
Width
33 feet
Engine
Triple
Depth
18 feet
xpansion
Registered at
Kobe

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
Company of Hakodate. It was accompunieu lust summer by the
motor ship YouI ARu, a trawler of szo gross tons, owhed
by the hayashi hane Shoten. The latter is employed to fish for
crab and to supply the TaIllokU .RU witn its catch. In aduition
to the crew, the TI okU RU curries 50 fishermen and Zo0 men
to can the catch.
In adaition to these ves els, the KUR Ha  aRU ani the  AkUo
aRU, ovned respectivel  the orab Fisnery Invest gation
Station und the ishery Institute of the Jepurtment of agriculture
and Forestry, muve been cutcning und canmin cruos in luskan
waters for experimentul und ins ructional pur eses. hese two
vessels are sailing vessels  tn uxiliury engines.
he No. loo ROnU nI RU (the .O..UI . U reTerred to
in the Depart ment's instruction .o. li, is sneu b. the Kokusai
Flouting sunnery ooipany. is vessel is  orawler, unu, like
the HUsnlRo .aRU, is suid to be enguged in cutching fish vhich
are compressed into cukes and used for ho -feed. it is under-
stood that the lurger part o. the proaucti n is exported to
Germany.
It has been learned tnat the aI oKU aRU, Wit the YOGI
MaRU, operated last su Lier off beard.., Bank, whicn is suiu to
be in the vicinity of butch narbor, unu tnat it returneu with a
total catch of 30,oou cases of canned crab, each case consisting
of 48 one-pound tins. .ccording to an oiricial in the Fishery
Bureau, the AIHokU ARU was licensed to catch crab only, and
that it was instructed by the Jupanese autnorities not to operate
within a distance of 20 miles from the shore. The authorities
are confident that the TAIHOKU ARU and the MYOGI MARU caught
nothing but crab, as, in addition to the terms of the license
issued

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.93)
-3-
issued to them, they are forbidden by article 8 of the
Regulations Regarding Ploating sanmeries to use or to carry
nets with a mesh of less tnan 1 shuku o suim , nich is
equivalent to about lo inches. so rar as the mbassy can le arn,
the statement that the aI ioU RU ca gnt notnin but crab is
true, as a careful seurch of the various trade j urnals does
not reveal any mention or sulmon or ouher rish cuu nt by
Jupanese in .luskan vaters. It seems i aly inr buble, in uny
event, that uny suen quantity us o, ooo cuses of sulion had
been pucked, as any lurge amount woula Pusnma ly ve been
referred to in tne trude Journ is.
he mbassy finds t at the Foreign rrice hd the
Department of griculture und lorestry ure fnlly ulive to the
difri culties which interierenee by u  m se itn the luskan
fisheries may create, und I Peel c nriuent t at they puve not
connived ut ucuivities n the purt ti ir at ohuls to wich
our lovernnent can tuxe excepui n. t she sae vime, te. re
reelin the ressure r the uesire r their fisning inverests
to explot new rields- a uesire creuteu  the inereusing
difficalty of operating in Kamc atkan waters. so far us one
can observe, the cupanese risnin interests have s own no
intention or engaging in fisling Por sal mon unu other fish
which are prized us roous, lthoun i ust be udmitteu that
the discovery of  tons or salt cou und t irty hulibut on the
KOKUSAI ARU, which was licensed to cutch fish for hog-reeu,
may be cause for disquietuue.
The TAIhokU lRU is now lying at HMakodate, but I am
informed that it vill be sent again to laska next sun er,
presumably with its feeuer, the .YOuI  RU. It is also
understood

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.89)
-4-
understood that the OusI RU and the US IRo RU will
operate in laskan vuters  is yeur, to etner iun one or to
aduitional snips seing  hst ueteu oy tir n rs. so far
as can be ascertuineu, thuse re the only .upanese vessels
which will operate cslercially; but ir the auccions or the
fishin stutions in ussian uters to de nela hext month should
result unravrabl  ese, tlee e
nuaber vill we e oued.
If it i true, us stutei in t I oor or et oer a, leou,
of the ct n pee etury o o ree,  the orinnt of
operutione oy tae i t lo t ue taxin or crab would
give " no cause for up rehension in rus eet te the sulion
fisheries", it occurs te me that the possibilities of
difri culties arising could largely be uverted by stricter
regulation and supervision by the Japanese auvnorivis over
the trawlers seeking ho-feed. If the bepurt ent sures t is
opinion, I eli ve t at un jnfor ul discussion ulens tnese
lines between the moussy u the Foreign Orrice Would be pre-
ductive cr oou results.
he Embassy received s e ti  u o un l  uir rre. the
PAcIFIc FIs R N, a ruae j urnal or   le, ushin ton, ith
regard to this suoject, wnd the  bassy took the liberty of
stating in re ly that the be urtment w ulu be lau to furnish
the journal with such orticns of this desputch as it may
consider desirable to discioe to the public.
Respectfully yours,
Jhes
W. Cameron Forbes.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MET
1—1836
must be closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated January 29, 1931
to anyone.
Rec'aam.
WWDivision of
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIBS
AN 29 1931
894.62
FFB
Washington
894.
lege
13; January 29, noon.
844.67 8
(GREEN) Department's instruction No. 39, December
8
23rd.
5
Japanese crab interests appear to be anxious to
have all Japanese fishing operations in Alaskan waters
regulated in some manner, but I am not ya! certain how
the Japanese Government and fishing interests will
respond to this suggestion. The crab canners have
found operations cannot be made profitable unless empty
tins can be procured in Alaska and arrangements made
77
3
FILED
with American distributors to take delivery of pack
co
1
in Alaskan waters whereas certain American interests
1931
the Japanese have approached are apparently reluctant
to cooperate unless Japanese fishing operations in gener-
al near American waters are regulated (END GREEN).
I believe that it would be possible to take advantagt
of these circumstances to persuade the Japanese Governmen:
to exercise such measure of control as we should consider
adequate over trawlers catching fish. The Japanese
Government

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
FE
MET
CORRECTED PAGE 2
13, Tokio, January 29,
1931.
Government had adequate power to do so through licenses
issued to all types of fishing vessels and it may possi-
F.W.894.628
bly be induced to lay down in its licenses such restric-
tions as we may desire in return for some compensatory
feature, such as permitting crab fishers to operate in
territorial waters. (GREEN) I have been asked to have
a member of my staff meet certain Japanese officials
and representatives of fishing interests to see whether
5
any method of regulating Japanese operations can be sug-
gested. It would be helpful if the Department could give
this matter immediate attention and inform me by telegraph
whether it desires me to carry on informal discussions
along the lines above suggested and if so the limitations
desired to have imposed on fishing trawlers and the con-
ditions under whtch it would be considered desirable for
Japanese trawlers and also crab fishers to operate. I am
in accord with the opinion expressed by Mr. Neville that
protective measures should be taken before the Japanese
have built up large financial interests and I am hopeful
that some arrangement can be made by only a normal con-
cession on our part.
SB
FORBES

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
MET
2–#13, Tokio, January 29, 1931.
Government has adequate power to do so through licenses
issued to all types of fishing vessels and it may possi-
bly be inducad to lay down in its licenses such restric-
tions as we may desire in return for some compensatory
feature, such as permitting crab fishers to operate in
territorial waters. (GREEN) I have been asked to have
a meeting of my staff meet certain Japanese officials
and representatives of fishing interests to see whether
any method of regulating Japanese operations can be sug-
gested. It would be helpful if the Department could give
this matter immediate attcntion and inform me by telegraph
whether it desires me to oarry on informal discussions
along the lines above suggasted and if so the limitations
desired to have imposed on tishing trawlers and the con-
ditions under which it would be considered desirable for
Japanese trawlers and also crab
fishers to operate. I am
in accord with the opinion expressed by Mr. Neville that
protective measures should be taken before the Japanese
have built up large financial interests and I am hopeful
that some arrangement can be made b only a normal con-
cession on our part.
FORBES
WSB

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.95)
9nay
PM RECD-C
TELEGRAM SENT
ARING OFFICE
1-138
TO BE TRANSMITTED
INDICATE WHETHER
Department of State
NOI
large Department
10
OR
Charge to
Washington,
8
7
6
5
February
61931.
50
REB 631
AMEMBASSY,
TOKYO, JAPAN.
18
Your telegram No.13/January 29, noon.
894.628/51
This question/is being/disoussed with the
Department of Commerce% Reply Will be sent/
shortly.
Stieceso
(026)
894.628/51
nrm.
FE: RSM: EJL
FE
H.N.H.
CA
Vob. 6,1981.
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19.
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1.188

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.94)
feRE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 24, 1931.
Index Eurean
21931
1931.
JAN 29 1931
29
F
A-E:
MR CASTLE
MB
Mr. Castle:
January
Dept. of State
894.628/
his conversation with Mr. O'Malley on this subject on
894.628/49
December 12, 1930.
I understand from Mr. Neville that both he and
5
Ambassador Forbes are keenly interested in this
2
question and think that the time to take it up is
now before the Japanese interests in the Alaskan fisheries
become any larger, as they are bound to grow in course
of time; but that the Embassy has thus far not felt
authorized to discuss the question of an agreement with
the Japanese officials nor has it had any clear state-
ment of what measures were considered practicable and
necessary to protect American fisheries or what we
might be able and willing to give in exchange.
The next practical step would seem to be to
reguest Commerce to formulate a statement such as is
E
B
FILED
indicated above; and then to instruct the Embassy to
c3
take the matter up informally with the Japanese author
161
31
ities and see what agreement might be reached along
those lines.
Bsuu
RSM/VGD

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
30 1981.
Jannary
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
Supplementing my letter to you of date January 29,
894.628
1931, on the subject of Japanese fishing vessele in
waters off the coast of Alaska, I enclose herewith for
your confidential information a copy of the substance of
a telegram on the same subject from our Ambassador in
1
Tokyo, dated January 29. 51
5
2
I would appreciate having your suggestions concern-
ing the reply which should be sent to the Ambassador,
partioularly with reference to his request for informa-
tion as to "the limitations desired to have imposed on
fishing trawlers and the conditions under which it
would be considered desirable for Japanese trawlers and
150
orab fishers to operate".
I also enolose herewith a copy of a mail report on
the same goneral subject from the Embassy at Tokye,
dated
The Homorable
Robert P. Lament,
Secretary of Gommeroe.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.91)
dated January 12, l93l, which was prepared in response
so a request from your Department.
Sineerely yours,
W. R. Castle, Jr.
Emclosures:
Copy of substance of
telegram from Ambassador
in Tokyo, dated January 29, 1931;
Copy of report from Eabassy
at Tokyo, dated January 12, 1931.
A true copy of
the signed orig-
M
nym.
m.m.H.
FE
FEIRSM:EJL:8S

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.81)
RTMENT OF STATE
ON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1.628
.24-31
M.. Ct
Ws rle drlt
,1 70 no
inh, 5 Connnn.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.72)
Pemt.mno
I
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
pam
Sker
Momgy lm. a y
nese am sene to ha u
TanA. Pat
1.d

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.92)
80
January 29 1931.
My dear Mr. Beezetary:
894.628
I return herewith, with thanks, the memorandum of
date January 17, 1931, prepared by Commissioner O'Malley
en the subjeet of Japanese fishing vessels in maters off
the coast of Alaska.
1
5
I understand that both Ambassador Forbes and
2
Mr. Meville, to whom Mr. O'Malley refers in his memoran-
dwm, are kesnly interested in the question of protecting
our interests in the Alaskan fisheries, which they be-
lieve is a question that should be considered before the
Japamese interests in that locality become mmek larger.
I would suggest, therefore, as the next practival
step, that your Depertment prepare an oztline of (1)
what measures are considered practisable and mecessary
to protest the Ameriean fisheries, and (2) what we might
be willing te effer in return fer the eoncessiess which
the
The Rble
Rebert P. Lamens.
Seszetary ef se.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
the Japanese interests might be asked to make. I under-
stand that these points were disoussed at some length by
Mr. O'Malley and Mr. Neville in their recent interviewe
The Bmbassy will them be instrusted to take the
matter up informally with the Japamese officials and see
what agreement might be worked out along the lines of
your Department's memorandum.
Sincerely yours,
W. R. CASTLE. J
Enslesure:
Commissioner O'Malley,
Jammary 17, 1931.
UR
Jan.29 1931
ms
A true copy of
the signed orig-
wem.
0.AN
inal.
X
FE:RSM:EJL:SS
FE
jasx

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
copy for Llapartuent
PY:EJL
f state filer
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Index Bureau
Bureau ofFisheries
Washington
IAN
Dept. of State
January 17, 1931.
Subject: Japanese fishing vessels in waters off the
coast of Alaska.
MEMORANDUM TO THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE:
During the past summer Japanese fishing vessels
visited Bristol Bay and Bering Sea about 2l miles off the
Alaskan coast. The largest vessel of 7,844 tons, 500
feet in length and manned by a crew of about 300 was en-
gaged in the canning of crabs. Accompanying this vessel
was a steam beam trawler and a number of power launches.
Another commercial trawler belonging to the International
Fisheries Company of Tokyo, was also in Bristol Bay on a
prospecting trip. The presence of this latter vessel was
unknown until she put into Dutoh Harbor on September 1,
for fresh water while enroute to Tokyo. A training ship
of the Imperial Fisheries Institute of Tokyo, a modern
steel vessel of about 2,O00 tons, also visited Dutch
Harbor in June, the personnel consisting of 30 in the
crew, 10 officers and instructors, and 32 students. The
ship was fully equipped for giving instructions in
fisheries work, including canning, et cetera.
The presence of Japanese vessels in these waters so
close to the American coast in proximity to areas passed
through by some of the schools of salmon enroute to their
spawning grounds in Alaska, raises questions which merit
most serious consideration by our Government. Under
existing international law it would appear practicable
for such vessels engaged in fishing for salmon there to
partially, if not wholly, nullify the efforts of our
Government to conserve this great resouroe.
Not long ago I had a very interesting discussion of
this entire subject with Mr. Edwin L. Neville, Counsellor
at our Embassy in Tokyo. It was the consensus of opinion
at

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
this meeting that if the Department of Commerce were to
express an interest in the desirability of having the
State Department give consideration to this whole ques-
tion, Mr. Neville might be able to contribute, in time,
valuable information which might be used as a basis for
treaty negotiations with Japan to solve this difficult
situation in a manner agreeable to both parties.
HENRY O'MALLEY
Commissioner.
LR-BB

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
REUL
EE
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
Copy sent to Tokyo
WASHINGTON
894.628
January 31, 1931.
Division of
fiC
The Honorable,
FEB 331
FAR EASTERN ÀFFAIRS
The Secretary of State,
0gc
1o 3 1931
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.628/
The receipt is acknowledged of your letters of January 29 and
January 30, 1931, inclosing communications in regard to the subject of
Japanese vessels fishing in waters off the coast of Alaska.
In regard to your request particularly for the views of this De-
partment as to "the limitations desired to have imposed on fishing
trawlers and the conditions under which it would be considered desir-
able for Japanese trawlers and crab fishers to operate", I desire to
5
submit the following:
3
1. The Department views with disfavor any movement having
for its objective the lending of encouragement to foreign in-
terests to fish off the coast of Alaska, particularly for the
reason that if foreign interests were to engage in fishing for
such species as salmon, such action might result in entirely
nullifying the efforts of this Department to properly conserve
the supply of salmon which breed only in fresh water.
2. It is the Department's belief that any efforts to ob-
FEB 11 1931
tain concessions such as those mentioned in the despatch from
FIT.ED
Ambassador Forbes, along the line of procuring empty cans and
the delivery of the pack in Alaska, would be vigorously opposed
by American fishery interests.
3. As a possible concession to Japanese industry, the De-
partment would look with favor upon an effort to reduce the
duty on canned crab meat imported into this country.
4. Should it become necessary this Department would not
oppose a concession to the Japanese Government whereby we would
relinquish the share of fur-seal skins which the Government of
the United States now receives from the Japanese fur-seal herd
on Robben Island, as stipulated in the fur-seal convention of
711.417
1911.
5. The Department has issued regulations prohibiting the
use of any trawl for the taking of fish in Alaska. This prohibi-
tory action has been necessary in order to avoid a type of fishing
operations considered to be destructive in character.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
Were it possible, this Department would like very much to see the
entire withdrawal of all Japanese fishing vessels from all high sea waters
off the Alaskan coast, particularly in the eastern half of Bering Sea.
Very sincerely,

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 5, 1931.
Index Buroau
BVD
gC.
Alaskan waters.
FEB 13 1931
Bureau of Fisheries, Department of Commerce, on the
morning of February 5. Commissioner O'Malley,
894.628/
Mr. Radoliffe, Deputy Commissioner, Mr. Bower, Assistant'?
Chief of the Alaska Division, Mr. Moser, of the Bureau
of Foreign and Domestio Commerce, and Mr. Miller, of the
State Department, participated.
194.62853
5
The letter of the Secretary of Commerce to the De-
partment of State dated January 31, 1931, was made the
basis of discussion. Mr. Miller presented a rough draft
(copy attached) of a proposed reply to the telegram from
the Embassy at Tokyo dated January 29, noon, which reply
FEB16
FILED
was designed to  ver the points raised in the letter
from the Secretary f Commerce above referred to and
other points which nad been raised in the previous dis-
cussion of this quesi_in.
The proposed draft was approved, with certain
amendments, and it was understood that the final draft
would be formally submitted to the Department of Com-
merce before the reply to Tokyo was sent.
Concerning

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
Concerning point 3, it was stated that the proposed
reduction in duty was within the powers of the President.
Concerning point 5, it was stated that while
foreign vessels were prohibited by our laws from using
our ports in this way, no objection could be seen to the
Japanese vessels making arrangements with American
parties for the delivery of empty tins and the trans-
shipment of their packs outside of territorial waters.
Concerning point 6, it was considered that as the
amount involved was so small and the possible complica-
tions in reopening the Fur-Seal Convention were so great,
it would be best not to raise this question at all ex-
oept as a last resort.
ruu.
FE:RSM:EJL

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
DRAFT
1) This Government is deeply interested in the con-
servation of the supply of salmon in Alaskan waters and
would deprecate any action on the part of foreign fishing
interests which might result in entirely nullifying the
efforts of this Government to that end.
2) We appreciate the measures now being voluntarily
taken by the Japanese Government, as reported in your
despatch No. 101 of January 12, 1931, to confine the
aotivities of Japanese fishing vessels in the above
region to the taking of orab, in waters 20 miles off
shore and with 18 inch mesh.
3) In return for an assurance of the continued co-
operation of the Japanese authorities in the above manner
the Departments of this Government concerned would favor
and endeavor to secure a reduction in the duty on canned
crab meat imported into this country of which practically
all, amounting to approximately 5,000,000 annually,
comes from Japan.
4) It is not considered feasible to permit crab
fishers to operate in territorial waters as suggested in
your telegram No. 13 of January 29, noon.
5) Cooperation in arrangements for empty cans and
distribution of packs (?) (Reference: Embassy telegram
No. 13

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
No. 13 of January 29, noon.)
6) Should it become necessary the Departments con-
cerned would favor a concession to the Japanese Govern-
ment whereby we would relinquish the share of fur-seal
skins which this Government now receives from Japan. Any
such concession, however, would require a supplementary
convention.
FE:RSM: EJL

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.94)
AE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Cohy
sent to Jokyo
1071.
February 6, 1931.
Index Bureau
fe
13
NUHLVED
FEB 13 1931
Subject: Regulation of Japanese fishing
9.C.
activities in Alaskan waters.
Dept. of State
Mr. Miller submitted to Mr. Ward (So) draft of an
3T
instruction to the American Embassy at Tokyo based upon
the results of the conference with representatives of
the Department of Commerce held on February 5 (see memo-
894.628/
randum of that date).
Mr. Ward stated that he was doubtful about the
authority of the Tariff Commission to act upon the pro-
posed recommendation that a reduction be made in the
a
duty on imports of crab meat from Japan. He suggested
611.
an inquiry to the Department of Commerce to ascertain
upon what provision of the Tariff Law the opinion was
based that such action was within the powers of the
President.
This point was raised with Mr. Moser, over the
telephone, by Mr. Miller. Mr. Moser's reply, after
FE  1931
consulting with the Tariff Division of the Department of
GELLD
Commerce, was to the effect that under Section 336 of
the Tariff Law the powers of the Tariff Commission
seemed to be confined to changes in the tariff to equal-
ize the costs of production, a factor which did not
appear

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
appear to be involved in the proposed reduction on crab
meat. Moreover, it was considered inadvisable to ask
Congress to make such a reduction.
Mr. Miller pointed out that that left us nothing to
bargain with in our proposed discussions with the Japanese
authorities and fishing interests on this question.
Mr. Moser suggested that Mr. O'Malley be informed of this
development in the situation.
Mr. O'Malley was informed by telephone and stated
that he wished to think the matter over.
Rsu.
FE: RSM: EJL

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.92)
1981.
No. 59
894.6
To the Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo.
3
The Seoretary of State transmits herewith for the
5
information of the Amerioan Ambassador at Tokyo copies
C
of reoent correspondence with the Department of Com-
moroe and of two memoranda relating to the subjeo: 
Japanese fishing activities in laskan waters.
Enclosures:
Copies of letters to
Department of Commerce.
dated January 29 (with
enolosure) and January 30.
1931, respectively:
From Deeartment of Commerce.
dated January 31, 1951;
Copies of two memoranda,
dated February 5 und
February , 1931, 1espootively.
894.628/5
2/10/31
hum
FE: RSM: EJL
FE
mmH
2.100

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
GREEN
MET
1—1336
FROM
Tokio
Dated February 9, 1931
Rec'd 1:43 a.m.
Dep.  B
0
FAR EASTERI AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
FEB 91931
Washington
file
894.628/54
18, February 9, 11 a.m.
.9..
Perrary
Department's telegram 18, February 6, 5 p.m.
I had a meeting with President of Crab Canning
Guild and officials of the Foreign Office and Depart-
4
ment of Agriculture and Forestry. They decided not
to send any floating cannery to Alaska this year, partly
on account of the apprehension in the United States but
largely because the Japanese crab pack is to be reduced
this year to meet Soviet competition. They added that
F
E
C
FILLED
both crab and trawling operations near Alaska last year
1
had resulted in loss and that while there are trawlers
1691
licensed to operate near Alaska their owners were not
in a financial position to operate there this year.
There might be no immediate need therefore of seeking
definite arrangement.
Report follows by mail.
DOOMAN
WSB

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
10 1981.
Ferruary
My dear Mr. Secretary:
With referenee to your letter of January 31.
894.628/54
1081, on the subject of Japanese fishing activities
in Alaskan waters. there are enclosed herewith.
for your information and comment, a copy of th De-
partment's telegram to the American Embassy at
Tokyo, dated February 6, and a copy of the Embassy's
reply, dated February 9, 1931, on the same subject.
Sincerely yours.
W. R. Castle. Jr
Enclosures:
Copy of telegram No. 18.
dated February 6. 1931.
to American Embassy. Tokyo;
Copy of telegram No. 18.
dated February 9. 1l a.m.
from Amerioan Embassy, Tokyo.
The Honorable
Robert P. Lamont.
Seoretary of Commerce.
FE:RSM/ZMF
FE
2/9/31
N.m.N.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.89)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 23, 1951.
No. 115
Dépasion
FAG BASTER APPAIRD
IEB 11 1931
COpy uFE
894.628/55
894.628
Coby
sent to Comnence
Trel. 13
fe
P URECO
120104
e.g.s.
The Honorable
The Seoretary of state,
Wushington.
50
894.62
Sir:
With reference to m ds uten No.lol, of Januury 12,
1931,  urding Japanese riching activities in Alaskan
waters, I have the honor to Peport tut Duron Iwukura,
Presiuent of the Crab cunner  Guild, i . Tukusuki, 
director of the Criental cun Jompany, called ut the mbassy
E
on January 9th with a letter of introuuction from r
Taketomi, Chief of the comeroial bureau of the Forei
Office, to the first secretary o the lba sy.
Baron Iwakura suid thut the Japanese flouting cannery,
TaIHokU MaRU, Wus sent last yeur to Bristol Bay in Alaska,
to

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.91)
-2-
to explore the possibilities of catoning and canning orabs.
Although more than 20, oo0 cases f orabs and sone sulmon vere
put up lust sumier, the experiment wus not financiully
successful, because the ship hud to rturn to Japan to get
supplies of cans ani various ocher t rial. The company
which owned the raIiokU Ru, i suv ral cuher copullies
whion ure thinking of senling flouting caneries to laskan
waters have con lude. that it is i essible to ke this
enterprise prolituble ithout sme coation on the purt
o lcrican can ufacturcrs  uictri utors or culed
crabs. They propose hereulter to ve  lese cover ent
inspsutors o out in te rloucin cu. urius   lussify the
catoh into te various roeolized rades, so tut it vwould
be unnecessary To te caten t Je brought c to hoh
for classification serure it is poruu to ve ited tutes,
thus obviating the ex ense o t uns ortution across the fucific.
Furtherlele, it us  ropo elto muve te l ricun cun llu-
racturers seh ut rom Seatle uplis  ty cns, ich
vould ke it un cessury ror rloavin culmeries to return to
Japan once or even tice uurin te curse f t season.
baron Iakura ten   that he woulu ppreciute ally sistnce
the Eabassy  t s l  ive him in  ito touch
with those mericans who iht be inter steu in c operuting
with the Japanese caimers.
Mr. sooman replied tia the uestion wus ar more
importunt than it uppeured to be on tie surluce. so far as he
knew, no objection existed in the United Stutes to Japunese
orab canners operating ofr the coast of aluska, but that he
had heard that the floatin camery sent out lust sunler had
anohored off the mouth of a river, and had by its presonce
interfered

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
imterfered with the run of salmon.
Baron Iwakura renarked that the TAIHOKU ARU had
operated entirely in Bristol Bay, und that if it had anchpred
off the mouth of a river, it had done so vhile opcrations vere
suspended. r. Takasaki xpluined that the nets used for
oatohing orab were let down to a depth of bout fifty futhoms
below the surfaoe, ana thus dii ot interiere iti. salmon
and other fish which remained near the sur ace; ni that,
further, their mesh was so iurge us to erit salmon and
halibut freely to pas through the nets. They both udnitted,
however, that the trawlers catching supplies for lish-meal
might be interrering itn sulmon.
r. Dooln pointcd cut to Baron Iluiur t ut erican
can munufacturers ere ore interested in the murket in te
United States for saluon tins tla. they ere for crub tins,
and tit, similurly, ericn distriutors f culled crab
meat were also distributors of  ricun cumed sulion; that
in the present ci cumscances there ure some possisilities of
trouble arising tirougn ruuxless prution by Jup-hese flouting
canneries und reckless fishing by Jupunese travlers, i that
he did not blieve  rican can ufucturers nd canned seu
food distributors .oul  interestei in investing t eir cney
in the activities of Jupunese until the lutter cculd be
regulated in sone satisfutory llr.
'r. Lakasuki greeu with tii state nt. He suid that
he hud just ruturnei from the United st-tes,  tut he lad
been told b r. Sullivan of the  ricu. jun Jo ury uu the
Vice-Presilent of Lib e und Joluly, t ut, nil y
were interested in c opuration, t ey first iesire to have
some regulutions established.
1.r.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.95)
-4-
Mr. Dooman then observed that these American interests
presumably took the position that even though the floating
.oanneries did nothing objeotionable or illegal, reokless
operation by Japanese trawlers misht arouse general op-
position against all the activities of the Ju unese along
the Alaskan Coast, thus leuding to d velopments which light
jeopardize their investments ith Jupunese crab caners.
Baron Iwakura said that he understood the circuistances
perfectly, un that it would  the heigint of folly for
his guild to antagonize its principul customers, the e rioan
people. He believed that it was essential ror his uild to
come to so.le understlling it.. tne fis. ing uild, ilu t at
he vould re ort to the Foreigln Oifice if the lupunese interests
could suest so e arr ement hich ulu adequately rotect
the fishing in laskan .uters.
it buron Ilakura's request, the luussy sup lied him
with a copy of the c nvention oetlcen te United states and
Janada for the rotection o hulibut.
I shall no: rail to eport rurt er develop erts.
Respectiully yours,
i. Cameron Forbes.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.87)
EMBASSY OF THE
FE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Ja.uary 27, 1931.
No.128.
Division of
PAR BASTERN APPANS
FEB 11 1031
F
Coky iu FE
Copy seut to Samm
894
2
FE61031
PH R
February 13, 1981:
Fil
eg.C
894.628
The Honoruble
The sy  st
ushimgon.
155
Sir:
Supleoin  dsptch o. lo or se , ll.
I have tn. honor to  or tt ron i uiuru, i nt
o t  r' uil,  cll ut th sy
on January sith, to discuss fu th r the uetivities of
FEB141931
Jupunese lisning interests in l.elm eors.
FILED
uron I kura statc tut the o   his
Guild ure disposed to ab-nion operations in ristol 
sooner thun arouse untugonisn in the united tutes,
which is one of the lurgest consumers uf ed crub.
H0

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
Ho felt, however, that there were prospects of making some
arrangements viun li  ..tirely sutisf ctory to the
United States and still permit the Ju unese to exploit
the resouroes which vould otherwice reain untouched. He
explained this remurk by d scribing tle process of prep-ring
canned crab, Tmich is lurs-ly malual, und by the fuct that
the low wages puid to upiese rers lone  de it cs-
mercially possible to roluce this co.lo ty.
de had also discisse she mue r it. lie purt.ent
of gricalture und Forestry uhd it. the frallers' uuild nd
had founa t.t no i rliculty uli be round in regulating the
operations or Ja mese trunlers. The truwling operutions
referred to in my previous desptch had sun found unpro-
fitable, owing to the dii iculty of uryin tne catcn before
it was coupresseu into cukes; unu uron Ivukur..  lie 
that the tra.lers' Guild ere net purt culurly interested
in extenuin their prutiois unle   could  llge to
have their cu cn lnded in luska md ried nd colressed
shore. e said, Purtner, tt the Depurtcnt of riculture
and Forestry exer isel centrel over .upause ts   tirough
a system of licenses. Each trul ler is requireu to ootuin
a license to oporate on t hih seus s ve l s in donestic
waters; and Baron Ivakura hud learned t_at the uutnorities
would be pr pared to issue licenses on such ter s vould be
satisfaccory to the United Stutes und to revoke them henver
evidence was supplied that the licenses hud bcen violuted.
He suppli  the bassy ith the follo ing tuble descriptive
of trawling licenses now in feot for alaskan wuters:
Operator.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.92)
-3-
operator
Period of License
Trawlers.
Kokusan Floating
Cannery Co.
June 27,1950 to June 26,1951
15 250-ton
ships.
Kyodo Fishery Co.
Expires December, 1931
6 550-ton
ships.
Kojuro Nakagawa
June 27, 1:0 to June z0,19s1 12 600-ton
ships.
At Baron I ukura's request, - e..ber of y stuff will
confer with him, the hief or the sureuu of rine Prouucts
in the Depurt ent of grielture i Forestr, d te hief
of the comercial bureau in the Fossin cffice, to asccrtuin
.hether uny suestions t reulute up se oprations,
which may be sutisluctory to ce l ricun utcrivi s, caln be
sug ested ble t i  e e.
R specc ully yours,
N.lameen
Trhes
W. Jon Fobes.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.90)
February 13. 1981.
894.628/56
The Honorable
The Seeretary of Commeree.
Sir:
With referense to provious correspondence on the
smbjest there are enelesed herewith for the information
of your Department copies of two despatehes, dated
Jammary 23 and Jammary 27, 19s1, respeetively, from the
Amsriean mbassy at Tokye relating to the activities ef
Japanese fishing interests in Alaskan waters.
Very truly yours,
Fer the Seeretary of State:
W. B. CASTLH, JR.
Assistant Seeretary.
8m
48.1981.
A true copy of
the signed orig
FE: MANR EJL
FE
M.u.d.
2/12/31

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
3
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
5
6
February 20, 1931.
ivision of
FAR EASTERD AFFÁIRS
The Secretary of State,
FEE23 1931
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
tarch 2 1981.
The receipt is acknowledged of the Department of State's letters of
the 10th and 13th instant, file FE894.628/54 and FE 894.628/56, respec-
894.628/57
tively, inclosing copies of despatches of January 23, January 27, and
February 9, 193l, from the American Embassy at Tokyo, in regard to Japa-
nese fishing activities in waters off the coest of Alaska.
The Department of Commerce notes with great satisfaction that the
decision has been reached not to send any Japanese floating cannery to
Alaskan waters this year. It is observed that both crab and trawling
operations near Alaska last year resulted in loss and that, wnile trawlers
are licensed to continue such operations, their owners are not in finan-
cial position to proceed to Alaska this year. The Departnent of Comerce
hopes that there will be no resumption at any time of these operations off
the Alaskan coast.
The Department of Commerce is greatly interested in the progress of
the negotiations which are being conducted with Japanese authorities and
fishery interests by the American Embassy at Tokyo. This Department
wishes to express its appreciation of the very competent manner in which
the Embassy is handling the subject. Advies as to the results of further
Very truly yours,
0271.210
ActingSecretary of Commerce.
A 2 191
PELED

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.94)
March 2 1931.
no. 71
894.628/57
To the Amorican Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Seoretary of State tranemits herewith for the
information of the Embassy at Tokyo a copy of a letter
dated February 20, 1931, from the Department of Commeree,
rolating to Japanese fishing aetivities in waters off
the gosst of Alaska.
Enclosure:
From Department of Commerce,
dated February 20, 1931.
894.628/57
Feb1931
SKN
1.m.
FE: RSM: EJL
FE
2/24/31

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 27, 1931.
This despatoh from Tokyo (No. 134),
February 9, 1931, confirms the Embassy's
telegram of February 9 relating to Japa-
nese fishing aotivities in Alaskan waters.
It summarizes the results of an informal
meeting with various Japanese officials
and representatives of the fishing inter-
ests.The discussion dealt largely with
the equipment and methods used by the
Japanese fishermen in Alaskan waters and
brings out the fact that their operations
had not been profitable owing to the fact
that the cost of each case of crab packed
last summer in Alaska was yen 42 as
against yen 35 of the Kamchatka pack.
The President of the Crab Canners'
Guild stated that no floating cannery nor
trawler would be sent to Alaskan waters
this summer by that Guild and it was
thought that the owners of other trawlers
licensed to operate in Alaskan waters
would not be able to operate on account
of financial difficulties. Itwas sug-
gested that "nothing offioial be done
until there were tangible signs of an
expansion of Japanese fishing interests
in the direction of Alaska"; the Japanese
officials would be glad to study any con-
ditions which the American authorities
would like to have applied to Japanese
trawlers and floating canneries.
Ruu
FE: RSM: EJL

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.91)
PII
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 9, 1931.
No. 134.
Division of
FAR EASTERD AFFAIBS
FEB2581
HEB 25 1931
Oih
00
6
Copy sout to Co
4
2
287
fle
Ferrary
εgc
11
The Honorable
FILED
The Secretary of State,
1931
Washington.
Sir:
894.625 54
Confirming my telegram No.18, February 9, 11 A.M., I
have the honor to report that I had an informal meettng on
Saturday, the 7th instant, with Baron Iwakura, President
of the Crab Canners' Guild, Mr. Taketomi, Chief of the
Bureau of Commercial Affairs in the Foreign Office, and
Mr. Nagase, Chief of the Bureau of Marine Produots in the
Department of Agriculture and Forestry, to disouss Japanese
fishing operations near Alaska.
Mr. Nagase gave an outline of the extent of the
operations

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
operations last year by the floating cannery TAIHOKU MARU
and various trawlers, which I shall not repeat as it was
substantially the agcount presented in the Embassy's
5
890.628/5
despatohes No.115, of January 23, 1931 and No. 128
January 27, 1931. He then proceeded to explain the type
of net used by the trawlers. This net is said to have
a width of about 15o feet, but the arc between the two
ends of the net is about loo feet when dragged at the most
effeotive speed of about three knots. The depth is about
30 feet. The lower edge of the net is dragged along the sea
butgvosdling salonon
aee ho. 16
bottom in order to catoh halibut, sole, cod, and other types
Febg20,1911
of fish whioh remain near the surface. Mr. Nagase stated
that the trawling speed is so low that salmon and other types
of fish which move with high velocity are able to avoid
the nets with ease. He confirmed my understanding of the
requirement in the Japanese regulations, that the nets
used for catching orab should have a mesh of at least
l8" in diameter. He then showed me a map of Bristol Bay
on whioh were marked the points where Japanese trawlers
and floating cannery had operated last year, and ex-
plained that, according to the reports presented to his
Bureau, these vessels had not approached the Alaskan coast
to a distance of less than 13 nautical miles, except when
they were entering an American harbor to procure supplies.
The reports further indicated, he added, that these vessels
had caught no salmon in commercial quantities.
I then repeated in outline the reports transmitted
to the Embassy with the various instructions from the
Department. I endeavored to make it olear that there was
no

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
no complaint of the Japanese having acted illegally, and
said that the only reason for complaint thus far had been
the fact that the presence of the floating cannery near the
mouth of a river had interfered with the salmon run. I
repeated the substanoe of my two conversations with Baron
Iwakura, and expressed the opinion, for the benefit of Mr.
Nagase and Mr. Taketomi, that it would seem wise to regulate
the activities of the Japanese trawlers as calculated to
facilitate an arrangement between Japanese crab canners and
American interests for the di stribution of the pack in the
United States.
Mr. Taketomi asked me to explain why I should suggest
that the crab canners should enjoy more liberal privileges
than the trawlers. Baron Iwakura interposed and said
that the explanation lies in the fact that the high wages
prevailing in the United States would make it impossible for
American interests to engage in the crab industry as it
depended almost entirely upon manual labor. I added that
this explanation presumably accounted for a disposition
in the United States not to objeot to the presence of
floating canneries so long as they did not interfere with
the fishing. Mr. Taketomi then asked the nature of the
conditions and restrictions which it was proposed to apply
to the trawlers. I answered that I did not know, but that
in any event it would not seem possible for the Japanese
orab interests to make any satisfactory arrangements with
American interests until the trawlers were subjeot to some
regulation; that I had understood that the trawling operations
last year had been highly unprofitable, and that so long
as there is some promise of the crab canners deriving
advantages in this quarter, it seemed advantageous for the
Japanese to make some concession in respeot of the trawlers.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Mr. Nagase said that there were a number of
trawlers which are licensed to operate in Alaskan waters,
and that, entirely apart from the possibility of these
trawlers going to Alaska this year, he did not believe
it would be possible to cancel the licenses without
good reason. Mr. Taketomi added that he could not see
how the Japanese Government could restrict the operations
of Japanese fishers unless some compensatory privileges
aocrued to the Japanese.
After considerable discussion which consisted largely
of a repetition of the arguments above outlined, Baron
Iwakura observed that the matter was obviously a com-
plioated one, and not capable of yielding an arrangement
without further study. He said that there had been a
meeting of the directors of his Guild, and that he had
suggested the advisability of suspending operations in
Alaskan waters this year, in view of the apprehension
which apparently exi:ted in the United States with respeot
to the Japanese fish  s. According to Baron Iwakura,
the cost of each case of crab packed last summer in
Alaska was Yen 42., as against Yen 35. for the Kamohatka
pack. He said that this difference made it impossible
to do anything with the Alaska orab unless some satis-
factory arrangement could be effected along the lines
which he had outlined to me. Furthermore, the Guild
had decided to reduce the total pack this year by
2o0,o00 cases in order to meet Soviet competition and
to be prepared against the quantities which the Soviets
would presumably dump in the United States and England.
In view of these ciroumstances, the directors had au-
thorized Baron Iwakura, in his judgment and in the light
of the conferenoe which was then being held, to assure
me

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
me that no floating cannery nor trawler would be sent to
Alaskan waters this summer by that Guild.
Mr. Nagase stated that the owners of the trawlers
licensed to operate in Alaskan waters were in a very
unfavorable financial situation due to the fact that the
British interests which had hitherto been financing them,
suoh as Sale and Company of London, had withdrawn their
support; that the trawlers had lost considerable sums of
money last year, and that he was certain that none would
go to Alaska this year.
I then said that, in view of these last statements,
there seemed to be no urgent need of coming to an agree-
ment.
. Both Mr. Taketomi and Mr. Nagase assured me that
the Amerioan fishery authorities would have no reason for
alarm this year, and that, if by any chance a Japanese vessel
is to be sent to Alaska this year, they would issue strict
orders to do nothing to whioh the American authorities
could objeot. They suggested that nothing official be
done until there were tangible signs of an expansion of
Japanese fishing interests in the direction of Alaska,
and that, if I could disclose to them the conditions
whioh the American authorities would like to have applied
to Japanese trawlers and floating canneries, they would be
glad to give the matter further study.
Respectfully yours,
Eugue Noomay
Eugene H. Dooman
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
 804.628/58
894.628/58
The Henorable
The Seeretary of Commerce.
Sir:
with reference to previous correspondence on the
subjeet, there is enelosed herewith for the information
and comment of your Department a copy of a duspateh,
dated February 9, 1931, from the American Embasay at
Tolyo, relating to the aetivities of Japanese fishing
interests in Alaskan waters.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Assistant Secretary.
Enclosure:
Cepy of despatch
from Tokyo, dated
Fobruary 9. 1931.
nem
FE
FE: RSM: EJL
2/27/31

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
RE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Takyo, February 20, 1931.
No. 146.
AR1231
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
14: 13 1931
opy sent to Coumuce
894.628/59
Maren 20 L081.
MAR 2 1 1931
The Honorable
FILED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
894.628/58
I have the honor to request that page two of the
Embassy's despatoh No. 134, dated February 9, 1931, which
contains an important typographical error, be replaced
1/. by the enolosed sheet.
Respeotfully yours,
Edun t. newrth
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
Enclosure:
1.Corrected sheet.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
operations last year by the floating cannery TAIHOKU MARU
and various trawlers, which I shall not repeat as it was
substantially the account presented in the Embassy's
despatohes No. 115, of January 23, 1931 and No. 128, of
January 27, 1931. He then proceeded to explain the type
of net used by the trawlers. This net is said to have
a width of about l5o feet, but the are between the two
ends of the net is about loo feet when dragged at the most
effective speed of about three knots. The depth is about
30 feet. The lower edge of the net is dragged along the sea
bottom in order to catoh halibut, sole, and cod, but avoiding
2
salmon and other types of fish which remain near the surface.
Mr. Nagase stated that the trawling speed is so low that salmon
and other types of fish which move with high velocity are able
to avoid the nets with ease. He confirmed my understanding
of the requirement in the Japanese regulations, that the nets
used for catohing crab should have a mesh of at least l8" in
diameter. He then. showed me a map of Bristol Bay on which
were marked the points where Japanese trawlers and floating
cannery had operated last year, and explained that, a ccording
to the reports presented to his Bureau, these vessels had not
approached the Alaskan coast to a distance of less than 13
nautical miles, except when they were entering an Amerioan
harbor to procure supplies. The reports further indicated,
he added, that these vessels had caught no salmon in commercial
quantities.
I then repeated in outline the reports transmitted
to the Embassy with the various instructions from the
Department. I endeavored to make it olear that there was
no

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.94)
March 20 1981.
894.628/59
The Searetary of State presents his compliments to
the Monorable the Seeretary of Commeree and, with refer-
ense to previous correspendence on the subjest, encloses
herewith fer his imformation a sopy of despatch No. 146
of Pebruary 20, 1931, from the Embassy at Tokyo, with a
eepy of the enclesure thereto, relating to Japanese
fishing activities in Alaskan waters.
Eeelesures:
Gopy of despatch No. 146 of
Pebruary 20, 1931, from the
sepy of the enelomure thereto.
A tfue copy of
um.
FE:RSM:EJL
FE
the signed orig-
Mar.20,1981
inal.
CB
3/19/31
mm/

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.95)
PM RECD
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
01
3
Tokyo Japan, February 24, 1931.
No. 153
Division of
MAR 1 2 31
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1A: 13 1931
894.628/60
628
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAR 16
WESTERN EUHUPEANAFEAIRS
A 1 131
FILED
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
8
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the mbassy's
despatoh No. 134 of February 9, 1931, and to previous
correspondence in regard to the operations of Japanese
fishing vessels in Alaskan waters. It appears that
there will be little or no fishing there by the Japanese
this year. I am convinced, however, that this is only
a temporary condition, due to special oiroumstances.
In succeeding

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
In succeeding years it seems probable that Japanese
will resort to the Alaskan crab fields if there promises
to be any profit in it.
It would seem advisable to work out, in the mean-
time, a plan for the proteotion of our fishing resouroes
whioh would permit reasonable exploitation of deep sea
fishing in the Alaska waters of Bering Sea. It might
be advisable to discuss such plan with the Japanese au-
thorities who are, I am sure, deeply concerned with
fish conservation as a permanent souroe of food.
I am inolined to the belief, from what I have
recently heard on the subject, that the Japanese seal
herd on Robben Island has reaohed the limit of profit-
able expansion. The seals, it is stated, are becoming
a menaoe to the fishing industry ofr the Japanese coast.
The Japanese would like, I think, to reduce it, or at
least stabilize it. They do not desire a return to
pelagic sealing, but they probably desire to control
their rur seals on their own terms without obligation
to deliver part of the skins or accounting to foreign
governments. If our authorities could work out a plan
for a comprehensive handling or fisheries and fur seals
in Bering Sea on a humane and scientific basis, it seems
likely that the Japanese would be willing to consider
it. As I have remarked previously it would be better
to do this before a vested business interest intervenes
to make it difrieult and expensive.
Respeetfully yours,
Eduin t-Truilk
Kawin L. Neville
Chargé d'Arfaires ad interim.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
March 19, 1931.
The consideration of
this question left off at
the point where Commerce
could not make good on its
suggestion that a reduc-
tion in the duty on crab
meat be held out tó the
Japanese as a "trading point",
and the Embassy at Tokyo
telegraphed that the ques-
tion would probably not
arise this year.
Neville has now sug-
gested to Mr. O'Malley that
he, or a trusted renresenta-
tive, come to Tokyo and dis-
cuss the whole question,
including fur seals,
directly with the Jananese
authorities. I think it is
a good suggestion.
Ram
FE: RSM: EJL

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.95)
L
1
Tokyo, Japan, February 24, 1931.
894.628/6
Dear Miller,
I am enolosing a copy of a letter which I have
written to-day to Mr. O'Malley of the Fisheries Bureau.
It contains a suggestion which I would prefer not to
make in an orricial despatch because it would probably
be seized on by someone along the road as an excuse
for a joy-ride. At the same time, I do not want to
do anything that the Department doesn't know about.
We arrived here safely a week ago yesterday.
Mr. Forbes is down in the Philippines or somewhere on
the ooean at the present writing. We have not had an
opportunity to see Jack yet as she is somewhere in
Kyoto, or thereabouts, and I have no doubt greatly
engrossed in her own pursuits.
Remember me to Hornbeck and the other worthies
and to your good wife.
Sincerely yours,
Idurn I. huill
R. S. Miller, Esquire,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department or State, washington.
OFE
6-17-31

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo, Japan, February 24, 1931.
Dear Lr. O'Malley,
I greatly regret not having seen you again berore
leaving washington as I had counted on having a talk
with you and giving you some notion, ir possible, or
fishery work here in Japan.
As you are aware, the rishing industry plays a
large part in the lire or the Japanese people. There
1s a well organized Bureau or Fisneries and tney know
E great deal about the habits of the fisn in the Pacirio
Ocean. I was somewhat surprised to learu, for example,
that they are familiar with the habits or the salmon on
the Alaskan coast and are well aware of the importance
or Unlak Channel and its approaches north and south to
the salmon inaustry. s you have undoubtedly noticed
in the
Henry O'Malley, Esquire,
Comaissioner, Bureau, of Fisheries,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
in the despatohes rrom the Embassy there has been some
oonversatlon with the Ja anese uuthorities. I may say
at once that muy impresslon is that they are pronounoed
conservationists. They vish to prccerve all rishing
grounds Irom inaisoriminate e loitation end sursequent
depletion and perhaps destruetic- throrgh unwise fishing
methods.
153, Fem 24/31
In our latest despatch, which will probably reach
894.628/00
you in due course, you will note that the subiect or fur
seals is toucheu on.
The situation seems to be what I
thought it was whon I talted to you in December: the
Japanese heru is as large s the rookery at Robben Island
will stand and the eeuls re beoonin? a d cided nuisance.
The Japanese cousequently woula like to have the mir seals
Treaty modified, not ror the purpose of permitting pelagic
sealing but because they wial to stabilize or perhaps re-
duce their herd. Besides, the domestic arrangements which
they made in l9l2 for corpensation to the seal hunters
who were put out of business by the Treaty will expire in
1932, or thereabouts.
These arranzements consisted or
a subsiay and perhaps some other consideration ror a
pariou or tuenty years.
I think 1t would be a good thing, if you could arrange
to do so, to oome to Japen or send someone in your organi-
zation in whom you have complete conridence to go over
the question

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.96)
一3一
the question or Proiric fieneries with the Japanese.
You would rind that they have a great deel or inrormation
whioh wight be userul to us and I think they woula be wiil-
ing to ooopernte with a view to oonserving fisning grounds
on the high seas.
I realize that this would be something of a departure
fron orainary methods of prooedure but I think 1t would
be worth while to make the efrort. If enyone comes he
should, I think, oome quietly; otherwise, it might be
turned into a joy-ride or junketiog expedition, with per-
haps & lot or pleasant personal experiences and no great
results in other airections. Ut course there may be
nothing 1n this idee at all but I am nopeful because, as
1 told you, 1 have seen cooperation between our Departuent
of Agrioulture and the Japanese Department of Agriculture
grow rrom less than zero to as near one hunureu per cent.
as anything can be.
Sincerely yours,
(Signed) Eawin L. Neville
ELN/AA

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON
ile
IN REPLY REFER TO FILE
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO
COMMISSIONER OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON, D. C.
March 1
GDivinion of
17
FAR EASTER AFFAIRS
N171931
Subjeot: Japanese fishery and fur-seal matters.
Desertumut o 
894.628/62
Mr. Ransford S. Miller,
PERSONAL
Division of rar Easteri. Afiairs,
State Department,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Miller:
Thanks very much for your ersonal note or the l4th instant, trans-
mitting informally a copy of r.  eville's despatch No. lso of February
24, 1931, in regard to Japanese fishery and Pur-seul  atters. particular-
ly with respect to our alaskan i terests.
I note that Mr.  eville sent you in coniidence a copy of his letter
of February z4 to me. I a. lad that he did so; I n pleused to send
you herewith a copy of my answer to hin dated arch 13.
It is my feelin that t use matters wi ich are now uier considera
tion will require our most thou,  tful attention. at the sae time I am
confident as to the outcome because of t e very efficient treat ent-being
given by your office and representatives of the Stete Depart ent in Japan.
I shall always welcome most heartily any sug estions w ich you may
care to initiate, cither formally or informally, in rcupect to this en-
tire situation.
Very truly yours,
Commissioner.
WTB-GC
Inclosure
~OFE

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
March 13, 1931.
17
Japanese fiahery and fur-seal matters.
Mr. Eawin L. Neville,
Embassy of the United States of America,
Tokyo, Japan.
Dear Mr. Neville:
I am pleased to acknowledge the receipt of your etter of the 24th
ultimo. I had anticipated a further talk with you regarding fishery
work 1n Japan before your deperture for that country. It is realized,
however, that you had many matters requiring attention before you left
here.
I have been interested in the communications which have been re-
ceived from time to time from the State Department as to the action
being taken by the Embassy at Tokyo with regard to Japanese activities
in the fishery off the coast of Alaske. I am of the opinion that the
negotiations have been handled in most excellent fashion. My mind has
been much relieved by reason of the probable decision of Japanese in-
terests not to resume fishing operations in Bering See off the laskan
coast 1n the season of l93l. I am glad to note your opinion that the
Japanese authorities are pronounced conservationists. This fact, to-
gether with the improbability of financial success of operations off
the Alaskan coast,'may'mean that such activities are not likely to be
undertaken.
Of course, I realize that we must be on the alert so far as the
situation is concerned and must be prepared to meet any development
along this line which would threaten the salmon fisheries of Alaska.
As yet I have not seen your latest despatch, in which you say men-
tion is made of the subject of fur seals. I can appreciate that as
Robben Island 1s of very limited extent the Japanese herd at that place
has now grown as large as available space will accommodate. I do not
quite see how the seals are becoming a decided nuisance.
If there are more seals than Robben Ialand can take care of, it
seems to me that the Jepanese authcrities can resort to the very simple
expedient of increasing the number of seals killed each year. Years ago

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
fur seals were known to have breeding grounds on some of the Kurile
Islands. There is a possibility that if there is a lack of breeding
ground on Robben Island some of the fur seals might reestablish them-
selves in the Kurile Islands. I gather, however, that there is oppo-
sition in certain Japanese cireles to any extensive development of that
nation's fur-aeal herd because of the alleged more or less extensive feeding
of these animals upon fish. Perhaps, though, this may not have important
bearing upon the matter.
I am interested in your suggestion that it would be advisable for
me to come to Japan or send some one to go over the question of Pacifio
fisheries with the Japanese. This will be kept in mind with a view to
serious consideration should further action along this line become ad-
visable. I realize that, as you say, further useful information might
thus be developed in respect to our fishery interests. I am glad to
note that you think the Japanese will be willin to cooperate with a
vlew to conserving the fisheries of the high seas.
Very truly yours,
Henry  Maney
Commissioner.
WTB-GC

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.97)
ON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 13, 1931.
SH:
Commissioner O'Malley
is out of town for two or
three weeks, but I repeated
this telegram to Mr. Bowers,
of the Bureau of Fisheries,
who is handling the matter
in Mr. O'Malley's absence.
Mr. Bowers stated that he
would send the substance of
the telegram to Mr. O'Malley
to consider in connection
with Mr. Neville's recent
letter to him.
Mr. Castle to sign?
RSM: EJL

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MET
GREEN
1—1836
FROM
TOKIO
Dated April 13, 1931
Tel oohyo apr. 17
Rec'd 7:24 a.m.
Seoretary of State,
Pel.to Bu. o Fihenia
894.628/63
FAR EASTERO AFFAING
Washington
13 1931
Com ta Com:
ain.13/31
Apri:
feeg
1
52, Apri1 13, 1 p.m.
I believe Japanese fishing interests will undbubtedly
become more active in Bering Sea next year. Despatch number
195 of April llth contains detai ls of plans of Japanese
interests in this direction.
I urge attention to this matter before large interests
become involved or before a situation arises that will
involve questions of fishing in territorial waters or
disputes affecting our fishing interests.
APR 14 1931
FILED
WSB
FORBES

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.88)
April 13.1981.
aeto
894.628/
The Homorable
The Seeretary of Commeree.
Sixa
9
With reference to previous correapondence relating
3
to Japanese fishing aetivities in Alaskan waters, there
is emelosed herewith for your consideration a copy of a
telegram from the American Ambaseador at Tokyo, dated
4p11 18, 1931.3
A eopy of the Embassy's despatch of April ll, re-
ferred to in the above telegram, will be sent you as
mo on as reeeived.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
W. R. Castle, JrJ
Under Secretary.
Apr.13, 1981.
CRA
MiM:EJL
FE
4/13/81

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MET
GRAY
FROM
Tokio
Dated April 17, 1931
MB
Rec'd 6 :03 a.m.
Copy sent to Commence  telto
894.628/64
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAHS
Washington
APR 17 1931
to hw.  malle'si
Yu.1731
um.
JUN 6- 131
56, April 17, noon.
My 52, April 13, 1 p.m.
Referring to letter from O'Malley to Neville, dated
62
March 13, I am of the opinion that now is the strategic
time to begin negotiations if only informal. I think
some one should come out to Japan and meet tne Japanese
fishery authorities as soon as possible.
APR17
FORBES
WSB

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 17, 1931.
102：
These two telegrams (Nos. 56 and
57 from Mr. Forbes have been tele-
phoned to the Bureau of Fisheries for
transmission to Mr. O'Malley, who is
not expeoted back in Washington for a
couple of weeks.
Mr. Bowers, who is in charge of
the matter in Mr. O'Malley's absence,
thinks it will be difficult for the
latter to get away until after the
summer beoause of his engagements.
The attached telegram to Tokyo
is to prepare the Embassy for the
unavoidable delay in sending a reply.
num
RSM: EJL

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM SENT.
OFFICE
TE WHETHER
Department
Department of Sta
OR
Charge to
Washington,
Apri1 17, 1931.
APR17:31
6P
894.628/64
AMEMBASSY
TOKYO (JAPAN)
62
Your telegrams 52, 56 and 57 transmitted to
Bureau of Fisheries for Commissioner O'Malley who is
out of Washington for several days on inspection trip.
hiusm
894.628/64
APR171
pem
FE:RSM:EJL
FE
3.2%.
CR
8
Apr.17,195
01
12
Enciphered by-
M.,
PM RECD0-61'
Bu.—No. 50.
1-188

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
GREEN
Tokio
FROM
Dated April 17, 1931
Rec'd 6:09 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Tesphmee to fistlefhiers
FAR EASTINN AFFAIRS
APR 17 1931
Epri:7/2, .
Washington
894.628/65
57, Aoril 17, 2 p.m.
6f to
Embassy's telegram 18, February , 11 a.m., nd 56,
Tohy
apr! 17
April 17, 1 p,m.
5
Notice has just been received orally from Department
of Agriculture and Forestry that floating rab cannery
NAGATO MARU is sailing for Alaskan waters for experimental
operation. This vessel io owned by Hayashi Kane Shoteen
which does not belong to crab guili. I am informed that
strict instructions were issued egainst interfering with
fishing and that this is the only vessel to operete this
year.
FORBES
RR-CSB
FLHD
1931

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.93)
Apr1l 17 198
165-
In zeply refer to
FB 004.688/64
894.628/65
The Honorable
The Bearetary of Commeree.
Sir:
With reference to my letter of April 13, 1931,
relating to Japanese fishing aotivities in Alaskan
waters, there are enolosed herewith for your information
Ameriean Ambassador at Tokyo, dated April 17, noon,
and Apr11 17, 2 p.m.
Very truly yours,
For th Seoretary of State:
Enelosures:
From American Ambaseador
at Tokyo. April 17, noon;
From Amerioan Ambassador
at Tokyo, April 17, 2 p.m. 6
Rum
apr. 17. l0th.
FE: RSM: EJL
FE
4/17/31

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 29, 1931.
Mr. Bower, of the Bureau
of Fisheries, suggested that
no action be taken on this
despatch until Mr. Booth ar-
rives in Washington, as he
presumably will, and reports
the results of his interviews
with the Alaskan Packers.
I concur.
num

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.92)
PM-RECD
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
2
Tokyo, April 11, 191.
No. 195.
Division of
copy hamae to
APR2531
FAN EASTEHU AFPANS
n. Towers, Bu
APD 27 1991
Früaeriu.
am.27/31
MB
F
COpy uFE
Rum.
fie
894.628/66
MA 1931
11.4
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
Supplementing the Embassy's despatch No. 134, of
February 9, 19s1, regarding Japanese fishing activities
in Alaskan waters, I have the honor to report that Baron
Iwakura, President of the Crab Canners' Guild, and Mir. F.S.
Booth, an officer of Sale and Company and an American
citizen, called recently at the Embassy for the purpose of
explaining certain plans which were being put in train
to effect cooperation with American fishing interests
on the Pacifio Coast.
Baron
2

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Baron Ivakura suia that the Japunese puckers had
recently formed a company which had been granted the
sole exporting rights of crab packed in Japanese and
Siberian vaters, thus making it possible for the packers
to avoid competition among each other and otherwise to
stabilize prices.
He renarked that the Japunese crab packers had
realized the difficulties which aight arise if their
operations in laskan waters vere to excite the hostility
of merican fishing interests, anu they hoped, therefore,
it might be possible to effect some form of cooperation
between Japanese and American interests i. the packing
of crab in alaskan waters.
. He saia that the Alaskan
Packers, a corporation vith ofrices in SanFrancisco, is
planning to engage in the packing of crab, but he dia not
believe that it would be co..ercially possible to put up
crab with American lubor, par ly because of the high wages,
but chiefly because persons skilled in packing are not
available in the United States. The Jap-nese packers,
he continued, are about to propose to the Alaskan Packers
that the latter furnish financial help and necessary
materials for the packing of Alaskan crab by Japanese
floating canneries and then take delivery of the pack for
distribution in the merican market.
Mr. Booth said that he has had many years' experience
in the salmon anu crab trade; that his firm has financed
the operations of several Japanese fishing companies, and
that

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
that he was convinced that the plan outlined by Baron
Iwakura would prove more proritable to merican fishing
interests than to prevent Japanese from participating in
the laskan crab industry. He believed it would be
practicable to make some triangular arrangement between
the Japanese packers, their export agency, and the Alaskan
Packers, to ether with such other merican concerns as might
be interested.
r. Booth said that he planned to suil for the United
States in a few days, and that he would call on the Alaskan
Packers und Skinner, ddy and company, t rough whom he pro-
posed to put himself into touch with orficials or the Bureau
of Fisheries.
Respectfully Jours,
.. Jumeron Forbes.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.95)
fite Eg.C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PARTMENT OF
Y 4 183111 29 4Y19311931
DIVISION OF
84.628
Mr. Bower$ of the Bureau of Fisheries called this
Mf
morning and stated that Commissioner O'Malley, who had
now returned from his inspeotion trip, was considering
894.628/67
favorably the suggestion, made by Mr. Neville and
endorsed by Ambassador Forbes, that Mr. O'Malley visit
Japan and talk over informally with the Japanese
authorities and interested parties the question of
Japanese fishing activities in Alaskan waters.
Mr. Bowers stated that Commissioner O'Malley's
time would be fully occupied until the end of the
summer but that he contemplated visiting Honolulu some-
time in the autumn; and that Mr. O'Malley thought that
it would be possible for him to continue on to Japan
from there.
I told Mr. Bowers that the Embassy's suggestion
appeared to be the most practicable way of reaching an
understanding on this important question before it be-
came more involved and that I sincerely hoped that
Mr. O'Malley would find it convenient to make the pro-
A  131
FLILED
posed visit to Japan sometime this autumn.
Mr. Bowers stated that he would confer with
Mr. O'Malley

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.90)
-2 -
Mr. O'Malley and others in his Department concerned in
the decision and hoped that they would be able to give
a definite answer to the proposal within a short time.
Rsu.
RSM:EJL

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.94)
PM RECD
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WILL INDIOATE WHETHER
MDONFIDENTIAL CODE
Collect
AIO
MCQNPDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
Charge Department
2
PLAIN
OR
Charge to
Washington
June 1, 1931.
JUN1 31
894.628/67 A
Eugene H. Dooman,
45 Prospeot Place,
New York (New York).
Commissioner O'Malley is leaving Washington for
the summer June eleven or twelve. Could you conveniently
come down for conference some day this week? If so,
will make definite appointment.and allow you three
for consultation
HECA
days in Washington on assignment to the Departmont.
W.R. arl
七
on SecrotaryorStete.
puik
Jonel 19s1 20
7aHc
FE: RSM: EJL
GH
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1-138

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.93)
Division of
FAB EASTERN AFFAIRS
TELEGRAM RECEIVE
JUN 2 1931
STATE
DEPARTMENT OF
WP
RECEIVED
FROM
file
New York, N. Y.
ege.
DIVISION OF
June 1, 1931
Rec'd 10:06 p. m.
M.B
Til.to Mn. Dooman dh. 123
Secretary of State,
Jm
Wasrington, D. C.
894.628/68
Can arrive Friday morning early.
DOOMAN
JS
6
111931
CFILA

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.91)
PM RECD
TÉLEGRAM SENT
COM&
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
PLAIN
Washington,
B
24g
June 2, 1931.
JUN 2- 1931
JUN
894.628/68
Eugene H. Dooman,
45 Prospect Place,
New York City.
Your telegram June 1.
Conference arranged Friday, 1l am.
Report Department for consultation. Transportation expenses,
per diem in lieu subsistence, authorized subject Travel Regulations.
Hocery h. Stccuson
大
Secretary of State.
(2028)
123D72
fu2
Jon.2.1931 P
nam
FP
H1.
20N5170
Sond by operater ..
19.
PN
Inden Bu.—No. 50.
B
1-188

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.96)
Cohy sent t Jokyo
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
June 8
FE
file
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Conversation:
May 20, 1931.
Mr. Bowers, of the Bureau of Fisheries;
28
Mr. Dooman and Mr. Miller.
MB
Sub ject:
Japanese fishing act ivities in Alaskan
π
894
6
waters.
Taking advantage of the presence of Mr. Dooman at the
894.628/6
Department, Mr. Bowers of the Bureau of Fisheries was
asked to come to the Department to talk over the situation
in relation to Japanese fishing activities in Alaskan waters.
Mr. Bowers began by summarizing the situation as he
had reported it to Mr. O'Malley following telephonio con-
6
versations with Mr. Miller on April 29, which in turn were
based on the recent reports from the Embassy at Tokyo re-
newing the suggestion that Mr. O'Malley come to Japan to
discuss the question with the Japanese authorities.
Mr. Bowers stated that Mr. O'Malley's conolusion
after hearing these reports was that he deemed it better
to have the Japanese authorities come to Washington than
JUN 1TTU 1931
for him to proceed to Tokyo for any discussion of the sub-
FILA
jeot.
Mr. Dooman then reviewed the course of the discus-
sions in Tokyo which he intimated had been undertaken in
February last as a result of communications received
through the Department from the Department of Commerce
during

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
during the preceding six months relating to Japanese fish-
ing activit ies in Alaskan waters. and intimating that the
preservation of our important salmon industry in those
waters appeared to call for some understanding on the sub-
jeot with the Japanese authorities and interests.
Mr. Dooman stated that the Japanese authorities had
met the Embassy in a friendly and cooperative spirit.
They had intimated, however, that they could not with pro-
priety restrain Japanese vessels from lawful fishing on
the high seas but that strict instruotions had been given
to the Japanese vessels packing crabs off the Alaskan
coast to in no wise engage in commercial salmon fishing.
Mr. Dooman stated that crab fishing was an important
industry to the Japanese, in which they were especially
fitted to engage because of the manual dexterity of the
hands employed in the packing of crabs; and that, although
they were not at the present time actively interested in
any other form of fishing in the Alaskan waters, it must
be borne in mind that the Japanese nation largely depended
upon fishing for their food supply and that in proportion
as they were driven out of the Russian fisheries the
pressure to seek their food supply in other waters would
be inoreased, and that we could not expect that they would
overlook the Alaskan fisheries as a source of such supply.
He

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
He stated that the Embassy felt that if an under-
standing on this subject were to be reaghed with the
Japanese authorities now is the time to do it - if indeed
it were not already too late. He therefore thought it
important that if Mr. O'Malley were not able himself to
go to Japan some other member of the Bureau of Fisheries,
who had a technical knowledge of the subjeot, should go
to Japan to talk the matter over with the Japanese
authorities, adding that naturally such conversations
would not be for the purpose of making any commitments on
the subject but of exploring the situation and of obtain-
ing information which might clear the way for an under-
standing.
He further stated that, inasmuch as the crab industry
was of importance to Japan, provided they could conduct
it on an economically profitable basis, and was not of
any especial importance to us, we might well assume a
friendly attitude toward their efforts to sell their
produts in the United States, which was their great market.
He referred to the fact that Mr. Frank Booth, representing
the combined selling agencies of the various firms
Japane se
interested in the crab industry, was now in the United
States discussing the matter with American packing
interests; and that it might be well to ascertain what
suooess

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.93)
- 4 -
sucoess he was having and to assist him in such ways as
might be consistent.
Mr. Bowers stated that he would report the results
of the conference to Mr. O'Malley when the latter returned
to Washington, and Mr. Dooman intimated that he would be
willing to return to Washington for further conferences
if it should be deemed desirable.
Ruu
RSM:EJL
S

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1 1931
A-C
EAR
70
Mr. Castle has approved the sugges-
tion made in the attached memorandum
dated May 25, 1931. page 4, that
Mr. Dooman be asked to return to thedra
Department for a few days, on assignment,
for a conference with the Bureau of
Fisheries on the subject of Japanese
fishing activities in Alaskan waters
(see penciled memorandum on first page).
It is believed that three days
FW 894.628/70
would be sufficient for the purpose.
Do you approve?
Aum
RSM: EJL

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.95)
Copy sent to Jokyo
gunle.8
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
E
May 25, 1931.
RECEIVED
21031
Dooma heneath hur
JUN 8
wihe
1931SH:
DIVISION OF
withy
The present attitude of the Bureau of Fisheries
COPDS
ely
toward the repeated suggestion of the Tokyo Embassy that
8
Commissioner O'Malley come to Japan to talk over with the
MB
Japanese authorities the question of Japanese fishing
aotivities in Alaskan waters appears to be that we have
8
nothing in particular to worry about at present; and that,
894.628/70
as the Japanese appear to want something, it would be
better if they came to us than that we go to them.
In a recent conversation with Mr. Bowers, of the
Bureau of Fisheries, to which the memorandum hereunder re-
lates, it was pointed out by Mr. Dooman that the disous-
sions in Tokyo relating to this subject were begun as a
result of a series of communications from the Department
of Commerce, through the Department of State, intimating
that the Japanese fishing activities were becoming a men-
ace to our salmon industry and that something should be
JUN 10 1931
FILED
done about it.
It was also pointed out that fish were an important
item in the Japanese food supply; that in proportion as
the Japanese were driven out of the fishing in Soviet
Russian waters they would be forced to seek other sources
of

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
of supply; that, while the Japanese authorities were at
present disposed to discourage any fishing by Japanese in
Alaskan waters, other than for crabs, they had intimated
that they could not consistently restrain their nationals
from lawful fishing on the high seas; and that if anything
in the way of an understanding were necessary to conserve
our salmon industry now was the time to attempt to reach
such an understand ing - if indeed it were not already too
late.
It was therefore suggested (1) that if Mr. O'Malley
were not himself able to go to Tokyo some other qualified
representative of the Bureau of Fisheries be sent to dis-
ouss the matter with the Japanese, together with the
Embassy, with a view to ascertaining what the situation
actually was, from a practical standpoint, and what
measures were necessary and feasible; (2) that, as an off-
set to the restriction of their fishing activities in
other lines, all possible encouragement should be given to
the Japanese crab industry in preparing and marketing
their products at a profit; and (3) that, as a step to
that end, the Bureau of Fisheries endeavor to get in touch,
through its agencies on the Pacific coast, with the repre-
sentative (Mr. Booth) of the combined Japanese crab sel-
ling agencies, who was reported to be now in the United
States

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
States,to disouss this matter with Amerioan packing
interests.
It is not now clear whether the Bureau of Fisheries
does or does not consider that our salmon industry is at
present, or may be in the future, menaced by the Japanese
fishing activities; nor what measures, if any, they con-
sider necessary and practicable to meet such a menace,
should it exist; nor what, if anything, might be offered
to the Japanese by way of compensation in return for the
voluntary restriction of their right to fish outside of
territorial waters.
The solution of these questions seems to call for
the combined special and technical knowledge and experi-
ence of the officials of the Bureau of Fisheries and the
special knowledge and experience of the officers of the
Embassy at Tokyo, who are familiar with the Japanese
officials and interests. The step suggested by Mr. Dooman
to send a qualified representative of the Bureau to Tokyo
to join with the Embassy in discussing the question with
the Japanese appears to be the only practicable way (other
than by rendering such encouragement to the Japanese crab
industry as may be possible) in which a satisfactory solu-
tion may be found, if such is desired.
Mr. Dooman has intimated his willingness to return to
Washington

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.95)
-4 -
Washington toward the middle of June if requested to do so;
and it is regommended that he be asked to return to the De-
partment, on assignment, for a period of a wek or ten days
in order to bring the matter to the point of a definite de-
cision by the Bureau of Fisheries, which is primarily con-
oerned.
Ru
RSM:EJL

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.93)
71
8
ga
June 10, 1931.
WM
Dear Mr. Bower:
For your information and files I enolose herewith
a copy of a telegram which was dempatohed to the
894.628/71
Embasay at Tokyo following our conference, on Saturday
last, on the sub ject.
I trust you will find it in order.
Yours sincerely,
Ruum.
Mr. Ward T. Bower,
Chief. Alaskan Division.
Bureau of Fisheries,
Washingt on. D. C.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.95)
Copy cent to
Jokyo
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
STATE
June 8
fie
June 6, 1931.
1UN 1951
1age
Conversation:
MB
Mr. O'Malley, Mr. Radoliffe and Mr. Bowers,
of the Bureau of Fisheries;
Mr. Miller and Mr. Dooman.
894.628/71
8
Sub je ot :
Japanese fishing activities in Alaskan
waters.
Mr. Miller and Mr. Dooman called yesterday morning by
appointment on Mr. O'Malley, Commissioner of Fisheries,
Mr. Radcliffe, Deputy Commissioner of Fisheries, and
Mr. Bowers, Chief of the Alaskan Division, also being
present. Mr. Dooman related at some length the disoussions
whioh had taken place by the officers of the Embassy at
191T193
Tokyo and the Japanese offioials and representatives of
Japanese organizations interested in the fisheries re-
sources of Alaskan waters. He tried to make it olear that
these discussions had been initiated upon instructions from
the Department issuing out of wishes of the Department of
Commerce to procure adequate protection of the Alaskan
salmon industry. He said that the Embassy, whichwas unable
to indioate to the Japanese what measures of proteotion are
desired, had given the Japanese to understand that we
wished to come to some understanding by which the Japanese
fishing

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
fishing interests might be restrained from interfering
with the fishing in Alaskan waters; that the Japanese had
shown a willingness to join in such an understanding but
that they were unable to restriot the lawful activities
of their nationals without some compensation. He said
that the Japanese Government had informally given its
assurances that it would instruct all Japanese fishing
vessels approaching Alaska not to interfere in any way
with the salmon. In this conneotion he pointed out that
the initiative had been taken by us and that, while the
Japanese were apparently cooperating on the proteotion of
the salmon industry, it would be unreasonable to expect them
to maintain their present attitude indefinitely without
further evidence of our appreciation of their attitude.
Mr. O'Malley appeared to be thoroughly alive to the
possibilities of serious injury being done to the Alaskan
salmon industry by the Japanese and he expressed entire
sympathy with the view of Mr. Neville that an understanding
should be reaohed before the Japanese had made a substantial
investment in the Alaskan fisheries. He said, however, that
he was reluctant to follow Mr. Neville's suggestion of going
out to Japan and disoussing the question with the Japanese.
He was unable to see what compensation could be offered the
Japanese in return for an undertaking on their part not to
engage

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
engage in fishing for salmon and other forms of edible fish
unless it were to give Japan more favorable terms than
those granted under the present fur seals treaty. He re-
marked, nevertheless, that the Alaskan salmon industry is
of such great importance that he would be prepared to make
substantial concessions in respect of the killing of seals.
Mr. Miller remarked that, as the questions that had
arisen concerned our fishing industries, it seemed to be
quite in order for us to take the initiative in case those
interests appeared to be menaced. As to the advantages of
a visit to Japan by Mr. O'Malley or one of his representa-
tives to disouss this question, three things might be said:
first, that it would afford an opportunity both to give
and to get information which would lead to a better under-
standing of the situation by both sides; second, that such
an exohange of information would enable us to deal with
the matter in a spirit of mutual understanding and confi-
denoe, rather than of suspicion and distrust; and that,
third, in so dealing with the questions that might arise,
there was a good prospect that some arrangement might be
arrived at for the conservation of our salmon resources,
in the conservation of which the Japanese as well as our-
selves might reasonably be expected to be interested.
Mr. Radoliffe expressed the opinion that the Japanese
might

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
-4 -
might consider any effort made on our part to obtain an
understanding as a sign of weakness in our position. He
believed that the situation as it exists today might be
left alone until further developments take place. However,
Mr. O'Malley, as well as Mr. Miller and Mr. Dooman, be-
lieved that the situation with which the Japanese were
faced in Siberian waters, together with the evident
sincerity of the Japanese in their expressed desire for
some form of cooperation, made it desirable for us to
explore the possibilities of reaching an understanding
without undue delay. After some further discussion
Mr. Radoliffe appeared to concur in the latter point of
view.
Mr. O'Malley said that he was prooeeding shortly to
Alaska in company with members of the Senate Committee on
Wild Life Resouroes and that he thought he would have a
very favorable opportunity to conv lce the Committee.
whose support would of course be ne ssary in any measure.
that might be taken hereafter, of th: serious possibilities
inherent in the present situation. He *aid that after his
return from Alaska in the autumn he would be prepared, if
ciroumstances were favorable, to proceed to Japan with the
purpose of disoussing the fisheries with the Japanese.
DAM
EHD:EJL

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM SENMBEGD
NNG OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CATE WHETHER
12 NONÇONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
Department
2
PLAIN
10
On
3
Charge to
Washing
5
June 6, 1931.
6P
JUN 6 31
AMEMBASSY,
894.628/71
TOKYO, (JAPAN).
92
64
Department'8 62, April 17, 6 p.m.
After recent/conferences O'Malley. who is leaving/
shortly for Alaska, hopes to be able to/visit Japan
towards the end of the present year if oiroumstances
are favorable. Further details by next pouch.
Stinsono
Suot
894.628
t£ 9 Nn
FE: EHD: EJL
FE
9
FICE
8
C
C
Enciphered by
0!
12
Sent by operator
M.,
A1O
PM REC0
Index Bu.—No. 50.
1-188

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.95)
June8 1881.
894,628
0.113
894.628/71
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Seeretary of State refers to previous correspond-
enee on the subjeet of Japanese fishing activities in
Alaskan waters and transmits herewith, for the information
of the Embassy, copies of memoranda, dated May 20, May 25,
and June 6, 1931, respeotively, on that subject.
Enclosures:
Three memorande, dated
May 20, May 25, and
June 6, 1931.
894.628
vssm.
A true copy of
FE: RSM: EJL
FE
the signed orig-
6/8/31
CR-203
1981

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
CD
12
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
9
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
July 9, 1931.
JUL 14 31
Gek'd t cofy sent to
894.
D1 t1sion of
FAB NASTERN A
Tokyo
JUL 14 1931
The Honorable,
Jaly 171081
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.628/72
A telegraphic report has regched the Bureau of Fisheries that
the Japanese floating cannery Nagato Maru was observed on June 28
in Bering Sea waters off the coast of Alaska in 54 degrees 50 min-
utes north latitude and l64 degrees 45 minutes west longitude.
This report was made by Captain Anderson of the Ameri can commercial
steamer Starr.
The report stated also that Mr. Hendrickson of the War Depart-
ment was on the Starr at the time and observed several smaller craft
alongside the Nagato Maru and that men were engaged in transferring
something to the ship in baskets. This material could not be iden-
tified because of the distance of the Starr from the Nagato Maru.
The position where the Nagato Maru was reported on June 28 is
about f ve miles northwest of the nearest adjacent shoreline of
Unimak Island and is about ten miles in a north by east direction
from the lighthouse at Cape Sarichef on the west end of Unimak Island.
It is assumed that the Nagato Maru is engaged in experimental
packing of crabs off the Alaskan coast and that it will be t e only
? tel.?
vessel to operate in such waters this year, as stated in the despatch
of April 17, 1931, from Ambassador Forbes to the Secretary of State.
Very truly yours,
Aoting Secretary of Commerce.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.95)
July17.1981.
 M t
The Homorable
The Seoretary of Commerce.
Sir:
894.628/72
The Department has received your letter of July 9.
1931, in regard to a report that the Japanese floating
cannery NAGATO MARU was observed on June 28 in Bering
Sea waters off the coast of Alaska. The Department has
forwarded a copy of your letter under acknowledgment to
the American Ambassador at Tokyo with a request for his
comments. The Ambassador has also been requested to
endeavor to ascertain the date on which the floating
eannery left Japan.
Very truly yours,
For the Aoting Seoretary of State:
Harvey H undy
Assistant Seoretary.
A true py
jul. 17.1981.
the signed fig-
FB:MIH:REK

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.95)
July17 1981.
.136
To the Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Aoting Secretary of State refers to telegram
No. 57 of April 17, 1931, 2 p.m., from the American
Ambamsador at Tokyo and enoloses herewith a copy of a
letter dated July 9, 1931, from the Department of
Commeroe in regard to a report that the Japanese floating
894.628/72
cannery NAGATO MARU was observed on June 28 in Bering Sea
waters off the coast of Alaska. It is desired that the
Ambassador forward his comment with regard to the state-
ment made in the last paragraph of the letter from the
Department of Commerce and that the Ambassador endeavor
to asoertain, unlese he perceives objection thereto,
the date on whieh the floating cannery left Japan.
Enelosure:
From the Department of
Commeree, July 9, 1931.
896.628/72
FE: MOH: REK
FE
Mm..
EAX
A tros sony sf
Ju1.17.1981.on
SKH

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENTOFICOMMERCE
OFFICE OFTMEECRETA
WASHINGTON
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
5
Tohyo
ust 10, 1031.
1231
61882.
M13
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
T
ly dear l.r. Secretary:
894.628/7
Referring to the  atter or Jupanere fisiher vessele operatin: ofr
the coast of laska, the Actin Jo issioner er isheries has received
from the Alaska Packers ssociation, lll Culifornia Street, Jan ran-
cisco, California, a copy of a report datel uguss 8, l931, from Captain
A. H. Schu z, master of their vessel Chirikof, re ardin is observation
on August 1, 1951, or a Japanese sterrer, launches, and nets operating
in Berin: Sea waters in the vicinity of  ak Islan! ubout ls riles
northerly of the mainlana or the luska Peninsula.
C.
The report subritted  aptuin seluls is as tollows:
Please accept the followin report re ardin tie si ating
and activity of the Japanese fishin: fleet in verin: Sea.
On au ust 1st, 9:27 a.m., Seuhon lock (mak Island) abeam,
bearing 140 true, distance 3 iles; veather fo , but clearing.
Then Seahon xock pore l10 true, distance 4 niles, passea the
east end of net larked by buoys, steamin between buoys a dis-
tance of about 3 miles. e then si hted u nu ber of snall
launches bearin S.E. by . from us. e chan ed course, steam-
ing S.28 . magnetic for 5 niles, tatin soundings and bearings.
Depth of water 30 futhoms, distance off fro: the : ain land 14
miles and 6 miles, 245 from Amak Is und. e then noticed a
large steamer, resuably the  other s ip of the fishiny fleet
steaming out from inshore toward the launches. At 10:45 a.m.
proceeded on our way steerin S.44 . ma metic at this time
Anak Island bore 6 true, distance  miles.
3
It is thought that the foregoing may be of interest
FLED
Depart-
ment of State.
7
AUG 2
Very truly yours,
E. Moryan
十
Actin Secretary bf Conmerce.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.93)
August 26 1981.
157
To the Ameriean Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Acting Seeretary of State refers to previous
894.628/73
correspendence on the sub ject of Japanese fishing
aetivities in Alaskan waters and transmits herewith,
for the informstion of the Embamey, a copy of a letter,
dsted August 19, 1931, from the Department of Commeree.
on that sub jeot.
Enalosure:
From Department of Commeree,
Auguet 19, 1931.
894.628/73
A true copy of
the signed orig-
inal. M
veum
m.m.H.
CRr co
mmx
FE: RSM: EJL
FÉ
Aug. 25 1: 51. pm
8/24/31

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.95)
PM TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE
1-138
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WILL INDIOATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIACCODE
Collect
NONCONTDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
Charge Department
PLAIN
OR
Charge to
Washington,
August 25, 1931.
C
AMEMBASSY,
AUG2531
TOKYO (JAPAN).
With reference to Alaskan fisheries please see
894.628/73
Department's telegram No. 92 June 6, 6 p.m., and mail
71
1nstruotion No. l13 of June 8.
aell
AOTING
A
24/2/32
894.628
Ram
FE: RSM: EJL
FE
m.m.N.
A625 31
Hd
10
OR
9
Aug.25. 1981.
C
Enciphered by
01
Sent by operator
M.,
19
PM REG
Index Bu.—No. 50.
U. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1029
1-138

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
FAR FASIERN AFFAIRSAugUBt 28, 1931.
SEP 1 31
SEP 1 1031
 Joky
The Honorable,
The Seoretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
feege
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Reforring to the matter of the operation of the Japanese fishery
894.628/74
vessel Nagato Maru in waters off the Alaska Peninsula, it is suggested
that if possible there be secured through the American Embassy at
Tokyo detailed information regarding the activities of this vessel.
A track chart showing exact places of operation and movements of the
ship would be most useful. It is felt that an effort should be made
to asoertain whether any operations were unlawfully conducted in
coastal waters of Alaska over which the United States has jurisdiction.
Very truly yours,
Acting Secretary of Commerce.
FILED
31

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.94)
September 4 1931.
Konorable
The Seoretary of Commeroe.
Sir1
The Department has received your letter of August 28,
894.628/74
74
1981 in regard to the operation of the Japanese floating
eannery NAGATO MARU in waters off the Alaske Peninsula.
The Dopartment has forwarded a copy of your letter under
aoknowledgment to the Amerioan Ambassador at Tokyo with a
request that he investigate the matter and forward a
report thereon.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
JAMES GRAFTON ROGERS
Assistant Secretary.
DALA
A true copy of
FE: RSM: EJL
FE
the signed orig-
.H.
9/8/81
inal
Sep.3 1981.PV

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.94)
September 41981.
163
To the Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Seeretary of State refers to previous correspond-
once in regard to the operation of the Japanese floating
cannery NAGATO MARU in Alaskan waters and transmits here-
with a cepy of a letter, dated August 28, 1931. from the
894.
Department of Commerce, on this subject. It is desired
that the Ambassador investigate the matter and forward a
628/7
repert thereon.
4
melosure:
From Commeree Department,
Angust 28, 1931.
96.620/14
A true copy of
the signed orig-
inal.
Sep.5 1081.Pv
CR

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.95)
PM RECD
EMBASSY OF THE
O1
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
10
9
Tokyo, August 27, 1931.
ACA SATE
SEP4431
W
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 1 4 1931
DEP TE
Department of State
F
Yes
FOR DISTRIBUTION - CHECK
To the Field
Copies
In U. S. A.
894.628/75
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
94.628/22
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
Instruction No. 136, of July 17, 1931, enclosing a
copy of a comnunicution fron the Depurtment of com-
merce in regard to the floating cannery, "Nagato
Maru."
of April 17, 1951, 2 P.,
In my telegram No. 57
I informed the Department of the intended departure-
of this vessel. I understand that there has been no
S
change

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
change in the plans for the operation of this ship.
I an further informed that the ship sailed from
Hakodate on May 2nd of this year.
Respectfully yours,
W. Jameron Forbes,
Ambassador.
Embassy File lo. 862.8
ELN/hln

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
October 21, 1931.
@ckd
OCT2431
FARDBASTERN AFFAIRS
The Honorable,
OCT 26 1931
The Secretary of State,
F
Washington, D. C.
301981.
Gupartmont of State
894.628
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Coicher
Referring to correspondence in recent months regarding
894.628/76
the operation of the Japanese fishing vessel Nagato Maru in
waters off the Alaska Peninsula, blue prints have been received
from the Alaska Packers Association, lll California Street, San
Francisco, California, showing the place where Captain Schulz,
master of that company's steamship Cherikof, observed Japanese
fishery operations in the season of l931.
One of these blue prints is being forwarded herewith, as
the thought occurs that it may be of interest to the Department
of State.
Very truly yours,
061190
Acting Secretary of Commerse.
ILA
Inclosure

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.92)
October 80 1931.
A  
The Honorable
The Seoretary of Commerse.
894.628/76
Sir:
The Department acknowledges with thanks the receipt
of your letter of October 21, l93l, with reference to
the operation of the Japanese fishing vessel NAGATO MARU
in waters off the Alaska Peninsula, enolosing a blue
print received from the Alaska Paokers Association,
San Francisco, Calirornia, showing the place where
Captain Sohulz, master of that company's steamship
CHRIKOF, observed Japanese fishery operations in the
season of 1931.
Very traly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Harvey H. Bundy
Assistant Secretary.
Oot.80,1981
BRe
Ram
FE:CBC/VDM
FE
M.l..
10/28/31

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
Confidential.
CG-CO-611-64
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
29 October, 1931.
FAH EASTER AFFAIRS
NOW4 1931
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Deparmont of State
Washington, D.C.
Sir:
894.628777
There is inclosed herewith for the information of
your Department a copy of a report received from the Commander.
Bering Sea Patrol Force, U.S.Coast Guard, season of 193l, re-
lating to Japanese activities along the Aleutian Islands.
Copies of this report are also being sent to the Director of
Neval Intelligence end the Commissioner of Fisheries.
By direction of the Secretary,
Respectfully,
.A. Birgfe1d,Chip
Inclosure (1).
Assistent Secretarys
CONFIDENTIAL FILE
No
JM

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
6GO P Y
ONFIDENTIAL
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
UNITED STATES COAST GUARD
BERING SEA PATROL FORCE
1 October, 1931.
From:
Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force.
To :
Commandant.
Subject:
Japanese activities along the Aleutian Islands.
During the current season an andeavor has been made to ob-
tain information relative to the activities of the Inperial Japanese
Fisheries Steamer HAkUHo LARt along the Aleutian Islands. This vessel
has not been seen nor heard from durin the present year. Also, infcrma-
tion was obtained relative to the activities of the Japanese who visited
the Islands in connection with proposed "Good-Will" flight across the
Pacific. The information obtained is put down in the forn of notes as
obtained from the persons interviewed.
2.
Mr. Fred Schroeder, trader and fur rancher of Attu Island,
states that the HAkUHO  ARU came into Attu Harbor from the westward on
June 29, 1930 and 1eft the following day. They came in for water and
said they were coming back at a certain time. The officers and crew of
the ship did not as: permissio to land and seemed to do about as they
pleased. They wanted to fish but were refused permission, Mr. Schroeder
telling them that there were very few fish and these were needef for
the natives. In spite of this refusal, they went to the n tive gill
nets and helped themselves to the fish and made no offer to pay for the
fish taken. Mr. Schroeder states that this ship always left about a
day or so before a Coast Guard Cutter arrived. The HAkUHO :ARU visited
▲ttu twice in 1929, arriving: ther first on June 24 of that year. They
sent boats ashore for vater and landed again July 13. The Attu natives
said that at the first landing on June 24 the bottoms of the boats were
in good condition, the natives particularly noted this fact when the
Japanese were cleaning out their boats for boating off water. On the
second arrival, however, the natives noticed that the boat bottoms were
all chewed up, showing evidence of landing on beaches. The native and
Mr. Schroeder thought the Japanese were taing live foxes on the various
Fox islands as that was just the right time of year to catch foxes, and
it is known that Japanese are startin blue fox farns somewhere in
Northern Japan. On West Semichi, an island near Attu, the natives found
a target made of driftwood during the winter of 1929 and 1930, and
alongside the target were several used cartridge cases from pistols. They
also found a Japanese tea cup. Mr. Schroeder reports that in the winters
following the summers that the Japanese visited the Aleutians, the catches
of foxes on the different Islands were distressingly small. In view of
this fact, white men were brought up from San Francisco as watchmen, but
they stayed only one year. This vessel, the HAYUHO :ARU visited along
-1-

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
the Islands during 1929 and 1930 and both natives and whites were very
much distrubed about the Japanese activities along the Aleutians. Attu
is a native community Fox island, but as stated before, lir. Schroeder
says the Japanese Government vessel never requested permission to land.
3. During the present season, the Japanese trawler KOKUSAI MARU
No. 100 visited Attu, Atka and Unalaska, in connection with the proposed
"Good-Will" flight across the North Pacific and Mr. Schroeder reports
the trawler as reaching Attu on May 2. They showed great familiarity
with the water around Attu and came in the narrow entrance to Attu harbor,
which has a depth of only fourteen feet, on a dark night at good speed.
This trawler landed three Japanese, two of whom said they were Staff
correspondents for the Japanese newspaper HOCHI SHIBUN of Torio. The
names of the correspondents are: E. Sugimoto and S. Kondo. The third
Japanese landed at Attu, named Imarnura, said he was the cameraman of
the party. He had a regular camera and a movie camera. The cameraman
took pictures, so many that he finally ran out of films, both still and
movie. These Japanese conducted theaselves in a very proper manner and
did nothing all summer but wait for the return of the trawler. They were
very liberal with money at Attu and seemed to have plenty.
4. The foregoing information was furnished by  r. Fred Schroeder
who visits Attu each year and remains about six months. r. Schroeder's
address is: 345 - 3lst Ayemue, San Francisco, California.
5. Captain A. M. Nelson of the gas screw EUNICE, belonging to the
Alaska Commerttal Company of Unalaska, heard various reports about the
Japanese during his cruises between Unalaska and Attu, at which times
he touched at the various Islands. The cook on the EUICE, a native of
Attu, told Captain Nelson that in 1929 when the Japanese Government boat
HAKUHO MARU was in Attu, he, the cook, told the Japanese that the Coast
Guard cutter would be in the next day. The Japanese aslted him how he
know, and he said the news had come by radio. Then, he said, the Japanese
ship left the following day and before the cutter arrive . This native
cook could talk some Japanese and so was able to converse with them. The
Japanese asked the cook about what season the fish ran out along the
Islands, the locations of the crmeks where the fish would be running, the
kinds of fish, etc. Also, they asked how the foxes were trapped along
the Island and the season for trapping, and where the best trapping was
to be had along the Islands.
6. Captain Nelson stated in regard to the movements of the
trawler KOKUSAI MARU during the present year, in connection with the
proposed "Good-Will" flight, that this vessel proceeded to Atka from Attu
and put three men ashore on the latter island, the party consisting of
one correspondent, one botanist and one cameraman. The botanist was busy
all the time collecting specimens while at Atka, but he went on to Dutch
Harbor later on and joined the trawler at Unalaska. During the first night
of the trawler's visit to Atka, May 7, all of the native men in the village
were drunk on liquor obtained from the crew of the Japanese vessel. The
correspondent got free with the native women, especially the young girls,
and a seventeen year old girl named Amastasia Sokolnikoff is reported
-2

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
pregnant by the cameraman. The cameraman at Atka took pictures from
all angles and from the mountains on either side of the bay.
7. Mr. E. K. Pedler, Agent in Charge of the Alasla Comaercial
Company's station, Unalaska, Alaska, reports that the Japanese trawler
KOKUSAI MARU No. 100 arrived Unalaska May 9, 1931, after having placed
parties on Attu and Atka. Four men from the trawler came ashore and took
up quarters at the Alaska Comnercial Company's house at Unalaska; H. Kimura,
T. Tanaka, Araio Toichiro and I. Aoki. H. Kimura is correspondent for
the HOCHI SHIMBUN, daily paper of Tollo. T. Tanaka represented himself
to be an aeronautical expert. Tanaka stated that he had over 3, Oo0 hours
in the air and was a Captain in the Japanese Navy, having been detached
from the Bureau of Comminications of the Imperial Japanese Navy for the
purpose of observing the "Good-Will" flight. Araio Toichiro said he was
a scientist and was connected with Japanese Bureau of Fisheries. Toichiro
was particularly interested in the activity of all vessels at Unalaska and
spent his time where here in hunting for fish scales which he claimed to
be able to read. He was also very much interested in nets, size of the web,
and other fishing gear. He also had considerable curiosity in regard to
the halibut boats, the amount of fish they had aboard and their gear. The
fourth member, I Aoki, as a professional cameraman of the ShoCHIKU Moving
Picture Corporation. This man came well prepared with supplies of films
for both the still camera and moving picture camera and took pictures dur-
ing his entire stay, of all activities. The Unalaska dock was under con-
struction at that time, and this, as well as the arrival or departure
of every vessel, Coast Guard, Navy, or merchant was photographed. He also
climbed the high mountains in the Unalas a locality, to take panoramic
views. The Captain of the vessel, who did not stay ashore, was H. Honda.
This man had the rank of lieutenant conmander in the Japanese Naval Reserve.
The chief officer was on detaded duty from one of the large mercantile lines
of Japan, and they also had aboard the vessel two radiomen, who stood con-
timual watches. These radiomen were of a higher type than is ordinarily
found on a trawler.
8. The KOKUSAI lMARU, Mr. Pedler stated, stayed only a few days at
the Dutch Harbor dock when she first arrived. Afterwards, she moved into
the bay and anchored a few hundred yards off shore, in front of the town
of Unalaska. Shore liberty was given to the crew of the bot, and they
spend considerable time ashore. The habits of the crew were objectionable
to the people of the town, due principally to the fact that the Japanese
custom of urinating wherever they stood was kept up. A protest was made
about this, and the Company permitted the KOYUSAI  ARU to tie up at the
Dutch Harbor dock, which is a more isolated place, and the men stayed aboard
the vessel for longer times. The crew had free access to the village at
all times, spent money freely here and made many friends anong the native
Aleutians.
9. The fish expert, Mr. Toichiro, after a comparatively short stay,
left Unalaska under orders from his home office, bound for Japan on the
Steamer STARR to Seward, and thence to Seattle. From statements made just
before his departure, he said that he did not think that the flight would
-3

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
take place, and that as he had gathered all the information we could
furjish about the fishing industry, he was pleased to be ordered home.
T. Tanaka, who was somewhat of a pessimist in regard to the flight and
thought it never would take place on account of the small size of the fly-
ing ship, left on June 29 for Seattle and thence home. Tanala had re-
ceived instructions from the Imperial office to report back to Japan as
quickly as possible. Kimura and Aoki left on the KOkUSAI LiARU when she
left here, bound for Japan via Atka, Attu and Petropavlosk on August 3rd.
The activity of the Japanese representatives in inquiring into the fish-
ing industry here was very noticeable. In fact, at a dinner given in the
Company's house, Captain Honda made a statement that the fish did not have
any flag, and speaking on behalf of his Company, the International Fish-
ing Corporation of Japan, stated he thought that some arrangement should
be made for the conservation of this food supply.
11. The Japanese were all well supplied with American money, some
of which they had brought with them from Japan, and during their stay in
Unalaska, several deposits were made by the Hewspaper to the credit of
H. Kimura. The Japanese were particularly anxious to acquire American
footwear, but did not purchase any woolen clothing. We had no trouble with
them whatsoever in regard to breaking our laws, and outside of their
personal habits, which I mentioned before, their visit could not be talten
exception to.
12. The Japanese crab-canning ship, MAGATO MARU FUCHU, arrived
Bristol Bay in the spring of the present year and left during the month
of August. This ship repeated her operations of last year and renained in
practically the same locality.
13. The Coast Guard cutter CHELAlr visited At a and Attu later on
in the summer and interviewed the natives relative to the Japanese activ-
ities this year. It was ascertained that at Attu the three Japanese took
pictures and gathered rock specimens, but tool no soundings so far as was
known. Last year the Japanese sounded out Holtz Bay, according to the
native chief. At Atka the three Japanese stayed at the chief's house.
There were two scientists (one botanist and aoparently one marine biolog-
ical) and a reporter. They were said to have taren a reat many pictures,
many of them distant views. They were active in their variois pursuits
during their stey, and the marine man may have taren soundings, although
nothing definite is kmown. Both scientists were graduates of Tokdo Uni-
versity. This information was obtained from Mr. Brown, storeleeper of
Atka.
(Signed) L. C. COVELL.
-4

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.96)
AM
EMBASSY OF THE
ÚNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Digisionof
Tokyo, Japan, Ootober
LASTERN AFFAIRS
NOV1 0 1931
No. 373
Unnattment ot State
November 13 1981.
Lette drafted to
8
6
4
9
74
2
8
894.628
NOV 1 4 1931
FILED
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
instruction No. 163 of September 4, 1931, in which
there was enclosed a copy of a letter from the
Department of Commerce requesting information in
regard to the operations of the NAGATO MARU. Upon
inquiry I oould only learn that this ship was reported
to have left Bering Sea on September 30, 1931, for
home.
Respectfully yours,
Shim Phanilk
Edwin L. Neville
Embassy's File
No. 862.8
Chargé d'Affaires ad
ELN/AA

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.89)
November 18 1981.
The Honorable
894.628/78
The Searetary of Commerce.
Sir:
The Department rafers to its letter of September 4.
1951, in regard to the operation of the Japanese floating
Gannery NAGATO MARU in waters off the Alaska Peninsula,
and encloses herewith for your information a copy of a
28
despateh, dated October 24, 193l, from the American
Embamay at Tokyo on the sub jeot.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
JAMES GRAFTON ROGERS
Assistant Secretary.
Mmolosures
FromD
y Tokyo
Des 373, Oatober 26,
Raun
16, 10%ka
FE: RSM: BJL
FE
M.N.H.
217 11/11/81

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC3 0 1931
REF
FROM
GRAY
Decartment of Srat
Dokio
Dted December 30, 1931
Ruc'd 4:46 a. m.
F/L
Secretary of State,
1.4.3
Washington.
S
287, Decembor 30, 3 p. m.
Dupartment's :2, June 6, 0 p. m.
894.628/79
May we oxpect C'vlley soon? It would be advisable if
anything is to be ccomplished before the next boat suason.
FORBES
McL
HPD
1619
FILED

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
zle
RECETVED
IAN
Conversation:
F/G
Mr. Bowers of the Bureau of Fisheries;
Mr. Miller.
Sub ject: Commissioner O'Malley's vis it to Japan
F.W.
(See telegram from the Embassy, Tokyo,
No. 287, December 30, 3 p. m.)
The telegram,from the Embassy at Tokyo, under refer-
894.628/79
ence, was repeated over the telephone to Mr. Bowers of
the Bureau of Fisheries, on December 31, 1931, with the
request that it be brought to the attent ion of Mr. O'Malley,
and an intimation be given as to what reply should be sent
to Tokyo.
Mr. Bowers telephoned on January 2 that he had con-
sulted Mr. O'Malley and that the latter's reply was to the
effeot that no aotion was contemplated at the present time.
Mr. Bowers intimated that reasons of economy and other
considerations made it improbable that any further action
would be taken on this matter for some time to come unless
there were some decided change in the situation.
161932
FI FD
RMM
RSM: EMU

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
 OFFICE
TEWHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL OODE
Departmentof=State
Department
PLAIN
OR
Charge to
1932 JAN - 5 - PH 5 : Washinglon,
5
DIVISION OI
CATIONSRECORDS
of
894.628/79
AMEMBASSY
TOKYO (JAPAN)
4
Your 287 December 30, 3 p. m. Commissioner 0"Malley
informs the Department that for reasons of economy and
other considerations, no further action in this matter is
contemplated at present.
woth
894.628/79
nm.
m.m.H.
FE: RSM: EMU
FE
sun
Jan.5.1932
Enctphered by
Sondt by operalor ...
M.,
Indes Bu.-No. u0.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.79)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN 30 1332
π.Iπ. J
P thk Hmatl
ove of 
ance to justipy a can.
h.
Rasille a ltt
Commered brmey 
some of Mr Farbes pant.
A
FEB 3 1932

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.97)
AR LASTERN AFFAIRS
Division
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
THE UNDER SECRETARY
Department of Stato
JAN 22 1932
REOETVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LEGAL ADVISER
IAN 2 3 1932
JAN 22 1932
DIVISION OF
894.628
Dear Bill,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
When I got here last year it seemed to me that
the only real thing pene ing between our Govern-
ments was the matter of settlin: the Alaska fish-
eries question. It is ver important to do this
F/LS
while there is no important controversy pending
and while times are dull and the fisheries not
active. The minute they all begin making money
S
and operating off the coast of Alaska then the
question gets vital, large investments are apt to
be involved which require pro ection, or proposed
investments headed off. Now is the strategic time
to settle the thing.
894.628/80
Referring to the Department's telegran 92,
I understood that Commissioner o'Malley was com-
ing out about this time; but accoraing to the
h9
Department's telegram 4,79received today, in
reply to #287, this trip is indefinitely post-
poned on the ground of "economy". It is mighty
poor economy to fail to settle something wich
may involve many millions of dollars and good
relations between Japan and the United states,
just to save the cost of a trip of one agent out
here who is on the pay-roll already. Cannot you
stir this thing up and get action?
Of course the Manchurian situation has developed
since that time and everybody's attention has been
so focussed on it that there doesn't seen to have
been room to think of anything else. But I believe
in watching both the little and big things, and have
PUHD
1932

=== Page 155 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
seen too many people, while looking at the big
thing afar off, trip on some little thing which
they might have avoided by lifting the foot and
looking the right way, and get a nasty fall. I
have done it myself, and do not doubt the rest
of us have. So I do not want to let the fisheries
thing go because Manchuria happens to be the bigger
issue at present.
Cordially yours,
Ambassador.
Hon. William R. Castle, Jr.,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.20212/326
FOR#371
894.628/81
FROM .Enaenada
(..Snale) DATEDFeb.20,1932.
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Activities of Japanese fishing vessel KAkINk in harbor
of maenada. Hexico. on Feb. 19. 1932.
3s

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AFFAIRS
Memorandum
Dewartmont of State
Subjeot: Japanese Fishing Aotivities in
Alaskan Waters.
F
In a letter from the Aoting Seoretary of Commerce
R
dated July 8, 1930, the Department of State was informed
894.628/82
that certain Japanese fishing vessels had been operating
off Port Moller, Bering Sea; that if the Japanese ex-
tended their activities to salmon fishing in the Bristol
Bay region of Bering Sea, they would no doubt work havoc
with the salmon industry of that region; and that it was
hoped that the Department of State after consideration
of the matter, miht suggest some course of aotion to
be pursued in the event that the Japanese operations
under consideration should become a detriment to the
American fishery industries of the Pacific Coast.
PU HD
The matter was at once taken up with the American-
1032
Embassy in Tokyo, since which there have been numerous
exchanges of correspondence between the Department of
State and the Embassy in Tokyo and between the Depart-
ment of State and the Department of Commeroe. There
have also been a number of conversations between offi-
cials of the Department of State and the Department of
Commerce,

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Commerce, at some of which there were present officers
from the Embassy in Tokyo. The last communication ex-
changed between the Department of State and the Depart-
ment of Commeroe was the letter from the Department of
State dated November 13, 1931. The last conversation
on the subjeot was that between Mr. Miller of this
Department and Mr. Bowers of the Bureau of Fisheries
on January 2, 1932.
The Embassy in Tokyo reported that the Japanese
were prepared to consider favorably an understanding
which would restriot their activities in the waters
in question, provided compensation could be provided.
The Embassy suggested that, as it was the opinion of
the Bureau of Fisheries that the interference of Japan-
ese fishing with the salmon industry might subsequently
beoome a matter of considerable importanoe, and as it
was possible that by that time the Japanese interest
in the fishing industry in the Bering Sea might have
become greater on account of the investment of capital,
it would probably be easier to reach an understanding
now rather than later. However, the Embassy was unable
to proceed further in the matter without specific sug-
gestions from the Bureau of Fisheries concerning the
nature

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
nature of the restriotions desired and the concessions
whioh could be offered to the Japanese as an inducement
to restriot the activities of Japanese fishing vessels
in the Bering Sea.
In a letter of February 24, 1931, to Mr. O'Malley,
Mr. Neville, Counselor of the Embassy in Tokyo, suggested
that Mr. O'Malley, or someone in his organization go to
Japan to go over the question with the Japanese. At
one time it was the understanding of the Department of
State that Mr. O'Malley, Commissioner of Fisheries,
was inclined to agree with this suggestion, and that
he contemplated making a trip to Japan with a view to
disoussing the question with the appropriate Japanese
offioials.
On Deoember 30, 1931, the Department received the
following telegram from the Ambassador in Tokyo:
"May we expeot O'Malley soon? It would be advisable
if anything is to be aooomplished before the
next boat season."
Mr. Miller of the Department of State made inquiries
concerning this matter of Mr. Bowers, 'Chief of the Alaskan
Division of the Bureau of Fisheries, on January 2, 1932,
and asoertained that Mr. O'Malley's proposed trip to Japan
has been abandoned and that the Department of Commeroe
contemplated

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.94)
-4 -
contemplated taking no aotion in regard to this matter
in the near future. Consequently, the following telegram
was sent to the Embassy in Tokyo on January 5:
"Commissioner O'Malley informs the
Department that for reasons of economy and
other considerations no further aotion in
this matter is contemplated at present."
Mm
JKC;AT

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.90)
15 1982.
March
The Monorable
The Seoretary of Commerce.
894.628/82
Sir:
The newly appointed Ambassador to Japan, Mr. Grew,
is expeoted to be in the Department for a few days in
the near future en route to Tokyo, and it seems ad-
visable at that time to bring to his attention the mat-
ter of the possible damage to Amerioan fishery industries
on the Paoifio Coast through the operations of Japenose
fishing vessels in Bering Sea, referred to 1n the letter
eo
20
from the Acting Seoretary of Commeroe of July 8. 1930.
and subsequent correspondence and interviews, as it is
poseible that this matter may be taken up with the Embassy
at Tokyo after Mr. Grew's errival at his post.
n
Befcre taking up this matter with Mr. Grew, I should
somomy
appreoiate being 1nformed whether the statement in the
attaohed memorandum is in accordance with the underatand-
~0
ing of your Department conoerning the status of the case.
Very truly yours.
CR
y
For the Seoretary of State:
MAR15. 1982.
Enclosure:
JAMES GRAPTON ROGERS
Momorandum
dated March 10, 1932.
Ran
Ansistau Searatury.
FE:UKC: CLS
FE
3/10/52
m.m.H.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.95)
PM RECO
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
March 17, 1932.
M
MAR 19 82
4AR 1 9 1
FK
The Honorable,
Vopa rment at State
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.628/83
The receipt is acknowledged of the Department of State's
letter of March 15, 1932, file FE 894-628/40, enclosing copy of
memorandum of March 14, 1932, in regard to Japanese fishing
activities in waters off the coast of Alaska.
Careful examination of the memorandum shows that it is
entirely in accordance with the understanding of the Department
of Commerce concerning the status of the case.
The matter will be called to the attention of Commissioner
O'Malley, of the Bureau of Fisheries, promptly upon his antici-
pated return here on March 28, 1932. If there are then any
further developments of importance, you will be notified im-
mediately.
Very truly yours,
E a an
Acting Secretary of Commerce.
1TLED
211932

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.96)
REGU
DEPARTMENTOFCOMMERCE
OFFICE ONTHE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
May 9, 1932.
24.80
Division of
894.628
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Honorable,
MAY 131932
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
-lettn
F/LS
My dear Mr. Secretary:
231
The Commissioner of Fisheries has received a telegram sent recently
by J. J. O'Donnell, master of the Bureau of Fisheries vessel Crane, en
route between Seattle, Washington, and Bristol Bay, Alaska, reading as
follows:
Large steamer apparently Japanese anchored at approximately
fifty five degrees thirty three minutes north latitude one
894.628/84
sixty three degrees thirty minutes west longitude smaller
tenders setting fishing gear approximately seven miles off
Amak Island.
Upon plotting this position on Coast and Geodetic Survey chart No.
8802 it is noted that the steamer is anchored approximately 13 miles north-
west of Amak Island off the Alaska Peninsula coast in Bering Sea.
As the smaller tenders are setting fishing gear approximately seven
miles off Amak Island, it is apparent that their operations are between the
place where the ship is anchored and the nearest part of Alaska, which is
Amak Island.
This steamer is anchored only a few miles from the place where the
Japanese vessel Nagato Maru and fishing launches were observed on August 1,
1931, by the master of the vessel Chirikof operated by the Alaska Packers
Association, lll California Street, San Francisco, California. The cir-
ment of Commerce under date of October 21, 1931. /.
AD
5
C0
The substance of the information contained herein-above has been 
communicated by the Commissioner of Fisheries to the Commandant of the
United States Coast Guard, with a request that vessels of that service as-
signed to the Bering Sea patrol make observations and check up from time
to time in respect to Japanese fishing activities off the Alaskan coast
this season.
It is suggested that the Department of State obtain a statement through
the Embassy of the United States at Tokyo 'regarding the names and dates of
departure of Japanese vessels which may operate in waters of the high seas

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
off the coast of Alaska, together with a general report concerning the
character and extent of their activities.
It will be remembered fron previous correspondence which this
Department has had with the Department of State that this Department is
not concerned particularly with regard to the activities of Japanese
vessels which may be engaged in the taking and canning of crabs off the
coast of Alaska, but it is much concerned as to the possibility of such
vessels engaging in salmon fishing. Great damage to our highly valuable
salmon fishery might result through the operations of Japanese vessels
in waters of the high seas adjacent to Alaska. The correspondence in-
dicates that the Japanese do not intend to undertake any such salmon
operations off the Alaskan coast, and it is sincerely hoped that there
will be strict observance of this policy in the future.
The Department of Commerce will be interested in any further in-
formation on this subject which may be secured by the Department of State.
In the meantime, it is the purpose of this Department to inform the De-
partment of State of any important developments coming to attention on the
sub ject.
Very truly yours,
Adtine Secretey of Commerce.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.96)
May 24 1982.
Im reply refer to
FE 894.628/84
The Honorable
The Seeretary of Commerce.
Sir:
894.628/84
The receipt is acknowledged of a letter from your
84
Department, dated May 9, 1932, reporting that a large
steamer, apparently Japanese, with smaller tenders set-
ting fishing gear, was observed recently ofr the Alaska
Poninsula, and suggesting that certain information be ob-
tained from the Embassy in Tokyo.
A oopy of the letter under acknowledgment has been
transmitted to the Embassy at Tokyo, with a request that 1t
roport as fully as possible concerning the activities of
Japanese fishing vessels which may operate in waters of the
high seas off the coast of Alaska. Any information received
from the Embassy in Tokyo will be transmitted to your De-
partment.
Very truly yours,
A true copy of
May. 24
CA
For the Seoretary of State
the signed grig-
inal.
W. R. Castle, jr.
Under Secretary.
M.m.H.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.95)
184
May 24 1982.
674.628
3/7
Kéwim L. Neville, Esquire,
American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo
Sir:
79
Referring to the Department's telegram of January 5.
1932, and to previous correspondence regarding the activi-
ties of Japanese fishing vessels in Alaskan waters, there
894.628/84
1s enolosed herewith, for the information of the Embassy,
a copy of a memorandum reviewing the developments in regard
82
to this matter up to March 14, 1932; a copy of a letter
82
to the Department of Commeroe, dated March 15, 1932, trans-
mitting a copy of the memorandum and inquiring whether the
statement therein was in accordance with the understanding
of the Department of Commerce concerning the status of the
83
case; mna a copy of a letter, dated Maroh 17, 1932, from
the Department of Commeree stating that the memorandum was
correet.
There is enelosed, also, a copy of a letter from the
84
Departmont of Commeroe, dated May 9. 1932, reporting that
a large mteamer, apparently Japenese, had been observed
d in fishing operations off the Alaska
 suggesting that a statement be obtaized
vessele mhich y perete in atere ef the
hr witl

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.95)
-8-
report coneerning the character and extent of their ac-
sivities".
You are requested to report as fully as possible
the information desired by the Department of Commeroe.
A sopy of the letter from the Department of Commeree,
176
dated Ootober 21, 1931, to which referenoe 1s made in that
84
Department's letter of May 9 is32, has not been sent to
the Embassy as it merely transmitted copies of blue prints
showing the places where Captain Schulz, master of the
Alaska Packers' Association Steamship CHERIKOF, had observed
Japanese fishing operations in the season of l931. A copy
of the report of Captain Sohulz regarding this matter was
contained in a letter from the Department of Commerce, dated
173
August 19, 1931, and was sent to, the Embassy in the Depart-
73
ment's 1nstruotion of August 26, 1931.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
W. R. Castle, jr.]
Enelosures:
Memorandum, Mareh 14, 1952;
A true copy of
To Department of Commeree,
the signed uriy
Mareh 15, 1952;
inal.
From Department of Commeree,
March 17, 1952;
Begartment of Commeree,
1982.
ay 9, 1932.
006.688/84
s/zs/se

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.96)
July 1 1953.
The Homorable
894.628/84
The Seoretary of Commeroe.
Sir:
The receipt is aoknowledged of your Department's
letter of June 22, 1932, stating that according to the
Commandant of the United States Coast Guard the
Japanese steamer NAGATO MARU was reported to be near
Amak Island and to be accompanied by nine 30-foot boats.
A copy of this letter has been transmitted to the
Embassy at Tokyo for its information.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
W. R. Castle, Jr.
Under
A true copy of
FE:LES:CLS
FE
the signed orig
7/1/32.
H.n.H.
URon
Jul. 2,1982.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.95)
JUL 1 -1982
28
To the Ameriean Ambassador,
894.628/84
Tokyo.
Referring to the Department's instruetion No. 317
of May 24, 1932, with regard to the activities of
Japanese fishing vessels in Alaskan waters, there is
enolosed, for your information, a copy of a letter from
the Department of Commeree whioh contains comment received
from the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard re-
garding the Japanese steamer NAGATO MARU. This vessel,
ascording to this report, was accompanied by nine 30-foot
boats although according to information obtained by the
Embassy and transmitted in its despatoh No. 604 of May 5,
1932, the NAGATO MARU was to be accompanied by two
auxiliary motor boats.
Goay ef letter from
ment of Commeree,
FE:LES:CLS
FE
A true copy of
7/1/32.
M.m.N.
the signed orig-
nalM
mm青
BR
Jul. 2,1952.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, May 5, 1932.
No. 604.
Subject:
Japanese floating canneries in Bering Sea.
MAY 21 32
27 1982.
M
F/HS
tode
Dept ofe
89
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
.628/85
MAY 23 1932
Depertment of State
The Honorable
心
The Secretary of State,
α
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch No. 373
of October 24, 1931 and to other correspondence in regard to
Japanese floating canneries in Bering Sea, and to report that
I have been informed that the NAGATO MARU left Hakodate on April
26th for the purpose of catching and canning crabs on the high
seas. I am further informed that the vessel will sail difectly
to Bristol Bay in Bering Sea. The NagaTo MARU will be accompanied
by two auxiliary motor boats, the KASUGA MARU and the ISE MARU,
both of less than 50 tons.
Respectfully yours,
Eduim Paailk
Imbassy's File No. 862.8
ELN/SR.
Edwin L. Neville,
Charge d'Affaires ad interi

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.96)
May. 27 1959.
In reply refer to
FI
FE 894.628/84
SH
The Honorable
The Secretary of Commeroe.
894.628/85
Sir:
Referring to a letter from your Department dated
84
May 9, 1932, reporting that a large steamer, apparently
Japanese, with smaller tenders setting fishing gear, had
been observed recently by the master of the Bureau of
Fisheries vessel CRANE near Amak Island off the Alaska
information, a copy of a despatoh dated May 5, 1932, from
the American Embassy in Tokyo, reporting that the Japanese
cannery steamer NAGATO MARU, wi th two auxiliary motor
boats, sailed from Hakodate on April 26, 1932, to cateh
and can orabs on the high seas.
It is probable that the NAGATO MARU is the vessel re-
ported by the master of the CRANE, inasmmch as it was plan-
ning to sail direet to Bristol Bay in Bering Sea, according
to the Embassy's information.
Very truly yours,
May. 27. 1952.
For the Seeretary of State:
the
inal.
qu
W. R. Castle, Jr.
Emelosure:
Copy of Despatch No. 60s.
Under Secrelery
Matod Tekye, May 5. 1932.

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
E
AM RECD
RTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
tember 2 1982.
6
June 22, d032.
Divle nt
1/32
N95 32
FAR EASTER
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
F/LS
Washington, D. C.
Department of State
1 1932
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Referring to correspondence of last month with the Department
of State, file FE 894.628/84, in regard to the Japanese fishery
activities in waters of Bering Sea a few miles north of the Alaskan
Peninsula, this occasion is taken to advise that under date of
894.628/86
June 20, 1932, the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard ad-
dressed a letter to the Conmissioner of Fisheries as follows:
On June 18th the Japanese steamer NAGATO MARU, 385
feet length, was reported anchored in 42 fathoms of water
about 10.5 miles distant from Amak Island and that she
had nine 30-foot boats. This report came to Coast Guard
Headquarters from the Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force,
with advice that the Coast Guard patrol boat MONTGOMERY
was observing the activities of the NAGATO MARU.
This information is tranamitted to you as a matter
of information.
Any further information of importance on this subject received
here will be communicated promptly to the Department of State.
Very truly yours,
EF Morg au
Acting Secretary of Commerce.
FILED
46

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.91)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, June 30, 1932.
No. 32
Subject: Activities of J panese fis in: vessels in
Alaskan waters.
F/HS
JL 16 32
A EC0
5
894.628/87
DI
1E
Ail
874.62
22
b:yon of
FAR EASTR A
UL1932
Department of Stato
UL 9 6 1932
The Honorable
The secretary of tate,
Washington.
Sir:
8
The Department's instruction No. 317 of Hay 24, 1932
in regard to the activities of Japanese fishing vessels in
Alaskan waters h s been received. Such inforuation as the
Embassy h s been able to obtain indicated that the NiGio
IARU is the only Japanese ship that has been authorized to
proceed to Alaskan waters for fishing ur oses. This as
It seems probable that this was the vessel observed by the
2
Bureau of Fisheries steamer, as the Japanese authorities state
that

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
that the HAGiTo aRU proceeded irect to Bristol Bay, Where
sle should huve urrived : bout  ay 6.
The Japanese aut orities state t.at this ship is
equinped only for crab fishing and ca ing; t hat her owners
are not inter sted so far as this shi is concorned in other
branches of fis eries, and t at in  ny case the tal ng of
salmon or halibut so fu from Jup mese urkets vould not be a
profitable enterprise.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
862.8
ELN:sr

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
July 15, 193z
t
4x0
/HS
Division of
22 1982
The Honorable,
FAR EASTERH AFFAIRS
The Secretary of State,
JUL 1 1932
Washington, D. C.
Department of State
394.628/88
My dear Lir. Secretary:
Referring to previous correspondence with the Depurtment of State,
file FE 894.628/84, in regard to the Japanese fishery activities in
Bering Sea, there is enclosed copy of report received from the Commandant
of the United States Coest Guard setting forth in detail the observations
of the Coast Guard patrol boat  ontgomery with respect to the activities
of the Japanese steamer Nagato
.aru.
Very tmuly yours,
au
Actin Secretary or Conmerce.
FD

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.90)
(C O P Y)
Address the Conmandant,
U. S. Coast Guard
HEADQUARTERS
and refer to No. 611-601-62
TRLASURY
DEP
U ITED
OAST RD
Hashinrton
11 July 1932
Second Irdorsement.
From:
Jommmandant, Jonst Cuard.
To:
Jommisstoner of Fir heries, beoartaent or ormeree.
Washing ton,.
Subject:
Gruise report l: -foot oast Guard  atro? lont
0, 1724 J, 195.
Inclosure:
1. Sopy of said cruise re ort 4 une, l932, with
indorsement mender,ri  e Patrol oree
dated F,
1.
Respectfully forwarded oro irortion.
y direction,
ord., L. ovel
assistart omandat.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.94)
(C O P Y)
Bering Sea Patrol Force
lst Indorsement
Unalaska, Alaska,
611-601
26 June,1932.
From:
Commander, Bering Sua Patrol Foree.
To :
Commandant.
Subject: MonTGeml RY; Cruise Report, 17-24 June, 1032.
1. Forwarded ror the information f  eadpuarters. It is
requested that one copy of this re ort te forwaraed to the ormi-
sioner of Fisheries, bepartrent of rer,sh ir t.
cohn sedeer.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.95)
(C O P Y)
601
MONTGOMERY
Unalaska, alaska.
24 June, 1932.
From:
Officer in harge,.
To :
Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Foree.
Subject:
MONTGONSRY, Jruise Report, 17-24 June, 1932.
Reference:
(a) Movement Order dated 16 June, 193z (611-601).
(b) Force Jommander's dispatch 6Ozz-1750 (June).
1. In compliance with reference (a) immediutely
upon arrival of ITasen at  nalaska, unmoored und  roceered
on patro1 1050 17 June, at 11z0 moored to leska mereial
Jonpany dock at Jutch car or and took on three tons coal and
left butch Harbor at lzzo and stood out on patro. from
Unalaske Bay.  ntinued on toward Amak Island to the end of
the day. No vessels sishted this day.
2. at 0420 18 June si.hted a vessel at anchor. at
0455 found her to be apanese teamer laGto R of Fuchu
at anchor in forty fathoms of water Amak Island bearing 9!
degrees (T) distance 8.3 miles. The PAGafe  has nine to
ten small rishing craft of a' out thirty feet out from her
during the daytime and moorine astern at nicht. She alse has
two oil serew tenders of nbout fifty tor anchoring in the
vicinity at night. at oso a anese freisht stearer Sh.
MaRU of Fushiki cene in f or southward und secured alongside
and began dischareine carco al oard : att H. Reported the
finding of the apanese vesse' te he  rmander, Berins sea
Patrol Foree, and received orders to observe their activi ties.
The IT ARus is said to be the canery company's supply
vessel bringing supplies from Jepan to the canery vessel o
the high seas. S ITh kl continued discharging cargo a' oard
NAGATo AnU until O200 nednesday, . June then departed south-
westerly. It was said that she discharged le40 tons veneral
supplies and was returning to Japan in ballast.
3. Japanese canery steamer : AGaTo  operations
are confined to rishing and cani crabs only. Fishing with
nets and caning about nine thousand crabs daily.  sing about
fifteen thousand nets in ell. Half that amount in operation
while other half undergoing overhaul, and repair. all fishing
operations are said to be in water depth of twenty to fifty
fathoms and well outside and beyond three miles from coast
line or islands and in the area from north latitude 56 degrees
25 minutes and west longitude l6l degrees zero minutes to

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.90)
MONTGOME.RY - Cruise Report.
601
55 degrees 25 minutes north latitude and 163 degrees 2 minutes
west longitude. This canery is said to have been operating in
this vicinity for the past three years and expects to be here
again next year. Operations each year beginning about the first
week of May and terminates about the last week of u ust. The
canery vessel operates about eight or nine small cruft, thirty
foot gas boats and two larger tenders of about forty to fifty
ton oil screw in settin und fisl ine tie nets and the handl ing of
the erabs. The nets are of bout 20 fat oms in length and ten
feet deep and of otto: twi'e i. sbout t elve ineh mesh (stretch
measure) anehored to the ott m in a stroirht line by concrete or
cement weichts of about three pounds faeh at intorvals of about
two to each fathom of net lenrth tne the top of the net is held
in upright position y lass lotes as buoys of sbout four inehes
in diameter secured to to ed e of net about one to every lineal
fathom or net. The nets ure secared end or eee other and larted
to the bottom in a trai ht line of a nilr or nore hetween mirker
buoys or light bal oo e tae vit v plously colored ees u-
risht on a surrace buuy md nttached ly a lon li to the ends
of the net stretehed  ttn. he crew e the atate 
is said to be about 43 men ana the fishing and canin operations
employ 40t men wit. ompmy's doctor und de tist in attendanee.
The cannery vessel is ai t move at intervals ( ostly ni-ht
time and anchor ror a ne or tw at c end un middle of the
area makin the e lete irit abut mee in ae w ek.
4.Continued  sorvin  ie.anese canery
vessel in cen, liance with urders  radio Pron  mander, ering
Sea Patrol oree and ror lowed her t hor next o ehorage lati tude 55
degrees 52 minutes north lonr1tude 1o deerees 48 minutes west
arriving 023e 23 une. at 18z0 3 June ree-jved crdere from
commander,erine poree t reur tlask onteing
relieved of resert duty . Tason. At Jose Pmsoa cane close
anchored und rel i ved t veasel o"res at uty. Iunedietely
upon beirs rel ieved proeoode tomard  nalassa prrivinc entrance
of Unalaska ay yiait. tinen te lska and
moored to alnsk. jori
 1k  010 24 e.
(a)ter ion

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.95)
July 32 1932.
In reply refer to
file 896.628
The Honorable
894.628/88
The Seoretary of Commeroe.
Sir:
The receipt is acknowledged of your Department's
letter of July 15, 1932, forwarding a oopy of a report
from the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard
that sets forth in detail the observations of the Coast
Guard patrol boat MONTGOMERY with regard to the activi-
ties of the Japanese steamer NAGATO MARU. A copy of
this letter has been sent to the Embassy at Tokyo for
its information.
There is enolosed a copy of a despatoh from the
American Ambassador at Tokyo reporting certain informa-
sion with regard to the NAGATo MARU, whioh was obtained
in sompliance with the request contained in your Depart-
JUL
pent's letter of May 9, 1932.
21
Very truly yours,
For the Searetary of State:
A true copy 
Enelesure:
the signed opin
JAMES GRAFTON ROGERS
inal.
76/380LS 
M/4
Assistent Secretary.
m.2.D.

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.97)
July 22 1982.
.39
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
87
894.628/88
In referenoe to the Embassy's despatch No. 32 of
June 30, 1932, reporting activities of Japanese fish-
ing vessels in Alaskan waters, there is enolosed a copy
of a letter from the Department of Commerce of July 15,
1932, forwarding a copy of a report from the Commandant
of the United States Coast Guard setting forth in detail
the observations of the Coast Guard patrol boat MONTGOMERY
with regard to the Japanese steamer NAGATo MARU.
Enclosures:
Gopy of letter of
July 15, 1932, from
Department of Commerce.
Copy of report from the
Commandant of the
United States Coast Guard.
894.628
FE?LES:CLS
FE
7/21/32.
m.m.H.
A true copy of
the s urig
inal.
JUL 21 1952.PM

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
August 8 1988.
8gt
JS
GRAY
c
FROM
TOKIO
29/32
F/HS
Dated July 27, 19320
Secretary of State,
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington, D.C.
AUL 27 1932
894.628/89
Department of State
200, Ju1y 27, 4 p.m.
Embassy's despatch 32 June 30.
The Foreign Office states that the SHUNKOTSUMARU
a Government fishory patrol boat now stationed off the
Kamchatka Coast will sail for Bristol Bay about July
29th. The purposo of the voyage which will take about
three wecks is to survey the operations of NAGAToliRU.
GREW
CIB JS

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.98)
August 3 1989.
In reply refer to
F/HS
file 894.628
The Honorable
The Seoretary of Commeroe.
894.628/89
Sir:
With reference to this Department's letter of
July 22, 1932, forwarding a copy of a despatoh from
the Amerioan Ambassador at Tokyo reporting oertain in-
formation with regard to the Japanese steamer NAGAto
MARU, there is enolosed a copy of a telegram from the
American Ambassador at Tokyo reporting that the Japanese
Ministry of Foreign Affairs states that the Japanese
Government fishery patrol boat SHUNKOTSU MARU will sail
for Bristol Bay about July 29 to survey the operations
of the NAGATO MARU.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
AMES GRAFTON ROGERS
Enclosure:
Copy of telegram
from Tokyo,
July 27, 1932.
Assistant Secretary.
A true copy of
FE:LES:CLS
FE
7/29/32.
m.m..
CR
Aug. 3.1902. pm

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.96)
7
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, August 2, 1932.
No. 75
3
Subject:
Activities of Japanese Fishing Vessels in
Alaskan Waters.
18232
F/G
894.628/90
Al
CopymFE
tept,
DiVision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
sopt.1,193
AUG 29 1932
Department of Stater
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 28
of July 1, 1932,(File No. 894.628/), it has been ascertained
from the Foreign Office that the boats referred to in the
Department's instruction under reference must have been
the so-called "Kawasaki-sen" attached to the NAGATO-MARU,
as she carried eight boats of that category in addition to
two auxiliary motor launches. The Foreign Office likewise
stated that a " Kawasaki-sen" is a small fishing boat,
about 30-40 feet in length, generally having a capacity
of 6-7 tons, and 10-15 h.p. if equipped with a motor; it
is

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
is this kind of craft that actually carries on fishing
operations on the spot, and, therefore, at least eight
or nine "Kawasaki-sen" are deemed natural and indispensable
accessories to a floating cannery.
Apparently these "Kawasaki-sen" are considered as
normal equipment and consequently were not included in
the previous mention of "two auxiliary motor-boats".
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
862.8
ERD:r

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.95)
September 2 1982
Im reply refer to
894.628/86
The Honorable
The Seeretary of Commeree.
Sir:
894.628/90
With reference to your Department's letter of June 22,
1932, giving certain informa tion with regard to the Japaness
steamer NAGATO MARU and to this Department's letter of July 1,
1932, stating that the information had been forwarded to
the Embassy at Tokyo, there is enolosed, as of possible
interest, a copy of a despatch from the Embassy at Tokyo
deseribing in some detail the amall boats mentioned in your
letter, as accompanjèng the NAGATo MARU.
Very truly yours,
W. R. Caotlo, Jr.
Acting Secretary of State.
Enclosure:
From Embassy,
Tokyo, dated
August 2, 1932.
KS
FE:LES:KC
A trug copy of
9/1/32
SEP
the siened priz.
3.m.1).
inal.
2
415

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.91)
E
RECO
10
TI
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
9
WASHINGTON
5
8x
epteber zz, 1932.
F/DEW
S5P 97 52
sent to 2oleyo
74.628
Division of
at.1014
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ZX
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
SEP 27 1932
Washington,.
Depertment of State
Iy dear :r. Secretary:
heferring to correspondence re ardiny t e opumation or te tupanese
894.628/91
fishing vessel agato
aru in waters orf the Alasla Peninsula, a chart
has been received from the laska Packers sseciution, lil Julivormia
Street, San Franciseo, Califor ia, showine the locatio of the Jupanese
steamer and auxiliary outfit enguged in cral fishery operutions in ering
Sea, as observed on  ust 6, l93, by ptain Joharnesen, master of that
company's steamer elaror.
A tracir of the chart is eing forwarled herewith for tie infor e-
tion of the Jepartmeit o".tate.
Very truly yours,
a

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.97)
In reply refer to
Oatober 10 1932.
FE 894.628/91
F/HS
The Honorable
The Seoretary of Commerce.
894.628/91
Sir:
The Department has reoeived your letter of
September 22, forwarding a traoing of a ohart received
from the Alaska Paokers Assooiation, whioh shows the
looation of the Japanese fishing vessel NAGATO MARU
in Bering Sea, as observed on August 6, 1932. A oopy
of your letter and the traoing have been sent to the
Amerioan Ambassador at Tokyo for his information.
Very truly yours,
W. R. Castle, Jr.'
Aoting Seoretary of State.
FEILESICLS
FE
A true copy of
10/10/32.
m. m.H.
the
signed gig-
OCT
1982

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.94)
October 10 1932.
105
F/HS
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
894.628/91
The Department refers to your despatoh No. 75 of
August 2, 1932, and to previous correspondence with
regard to the activities of Japanese fishing vessels
in Alaskan waters, and enoloses a copy of a letter of
September 22, 1932, from the Department of Commeree,
with the original enolosure, whioh shows the looation
of the NAGATO MARU and its auxiliary boats in Bering
Sea, as observed on August 6, 1932, by the master of
a vessel of the Alaska Packers Association.
Enclosure:
Copy of letter of
September 22, 1932, from
Department of Commerce
with original enolosure.
894.628
A true copy of
PRILESIOLS
FE
the signed orig
10/10/s2.
H.m.W.
onley
OCT 10 195A.
mmt

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
SHINGTON
STATE
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO
IN REPLY REFER TO FILE
COMMISSIONER OF FISHERIES
RECEIV
WASHINGTON, D. C.
OCT :1 1C2
October 11, 192. 17
COMN
VISION OF
M. O'Malley was
niformed by tilephone
F/H
Subjeot: Japanese crab fisheries.
that  Galetonng
would attind the
S
Divisionor
r. L. E. Salisbury,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Division of Far astern arfairs,
Department of State,
OCT 14 1932
894.628/92
Washington, ). C.
Depertment of State
Dear Ir. Salisbury:
Referrins to my telephonic conversation with you today, regarding
the call at this ofiice at 1l o'clock on ectober 17 by r.  enikichi
Ueki and Mr. T. Takasaki, with re ard to cooperation between Japan and
the United  tates in respect to the Tapanese crab meat in u try, I am
enclosing herewith a copy of the letter a :dressed to me n ctober & by
Ir. aurice Holland, Director of Pivision of n ineering und Industrial
Research of the lational Research Jour cil, z9 est 39th  treet, Lew York;
there is also enclosed a copy of my answer of yesterday to r.  olland,
advising of my will ngness to see these entlemen on uct ber 17.
I shall be very glad ir you, or some other representative of the
Department of State, can arrange to be present at the conference in my
office at 1l o'clock on vctober 17.
Very truly yours,
AUG 1 4 1933
FILED
Conissioner.
WTB- J
Enclosures.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTI T OF CO: IRCL
Bureau of Fisheries
Washington
October 10, 193z.
Mr. Maurice Holland,
National Research Council,
Engineering Societies Building,
29 West 39th Street,
New York City.
Dear Mr. Holland:
I am in receipt of your letter of October 8 regarding the
proposed visit of Mr. Kenikichi Ueki and Mr. T. Takasaki with refer-
ence to cooperation between Japan and the United  tates in the
Japanese crat meat industry.
I shall be very glad to see those gentlemen at eleven o'clock
of the morning of October seventeen, and shall be glad to be of whatever
service possible to them.
Very sincerely,
Henry O'Malley
Commissioner.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
(C O P Y)
NATIONAL RESLARCH COUNCIL
DIVISION OF ENGINEERING AND INDUS TRIAL RESEARCH
Washington office: zlOl Connecticut Ave.
New York office, Engineering Societies
Bldg., 29 West 39th Street.
New York, October 8, 193z.
Honorable Henry O'Malley,
Commissioner of Fisheries,
Department of Commerce,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. L'Malley:
This letter will serve to introduce r. Kenikichi
Ueki, Managing Director of the Japan Floating Canneries
Corporation and Mr. T. Takasaki, Managing Director of the
Tokyo Seikan Kaisha, Ltd., who desire to seek your counsel
and advice in the preliminary organization work l oking
towards closer cooperation between Japan and America in
the Japanese Crab Meat Industry.
I have told these gentlemen of your deep interest
in establishing cordial and friendly reletions in inter-
national fishery projects and vour deep sympathy with the
Japanese efforts in this direction. Mr. Ueki and .r.
Takasaki will be in Tashington on October 17th and 18th
en route to the Pacific Coast to embark on a steamer to
Japan. If you will be good enough to drop me a line here
at the New York office of the Cou cil which of those two
days would be most convenient for you, and name the hour,
I will pass on the information to them and have them con-
form with that schedule.
I have & general idea of the outline of their
program and feel that you would be interested to hear their
story and to give them the benefit of your advice in the
sarly stages of organization.
Any courtesies extended to them by you will be
considered a personal favor to me.
With kindest personal regards, I am
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) Maurice Holland
Director, Division of Engineering
and Industrial Research
mh.1b

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.87)
I-12-32.
Jn.H.:
Miss Hanna thinks
this letter falls inthin
mental lettew which
are not ack'd.
SG.C.

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Dece.ber 6, 1932.
Ir. ecretary:
While the memorandwn
I was informed by : r.  c)ernott
that the ar De ert. ent an
rive out  press relerse on
t'e basis of t'e ove r
General's r Pen.
193:
207

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DeceeEARy U S
DEC 7 1932
Mr. Secretary:
The Secretary of War sends, for your
information, a copy of a radiogram from
the Governor General of the Philippine
Islands which consists of a statement
for the local press (Manila) which will
be released in Manila on December 7.
The account relates to the arrest
and detention of the crews of two Japanese
vessels found fishing unlawfully in
Philippine waters. The Governor General
reports that he will handle this matter
as any other routine violation of
Philippine laws.
Opinion of and/or action by this
Department are not requested; and this
Division perceives no reason for other
than a negative attitude on he part of
this Department.
* Reed in TE at 4
CEILA
SICI:CLS
7.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.93)
LEC 7 1932
WAR DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
Anvision or
DEC 6
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
EC 6-1932
1932
Department of State
REOETVED
DIVISION OF
Jan.16.1533
The Honorable
BORDS
DFC 6-1932
X
The Secretaryof State.
SECRETARY'S OFFICE
G
Dear Mr. Secretary:
There is inclosed herewith for your information a
894.628/93
copy of a message received by this Department in a radio-
gram (No. 626, December 5th) from the Governor General
of the Philippine Islands relative to an incident which
occurred in Philippine waters between the Philippine
revenue patrol and two Japanese fisning boats on Decem-
ber 2, 1932.
Sincerelydyoups,
Tatrtes I Hrley
Secretary of War.
894.678
1 Incl:
(Copy radio #626,
December 6, 1932)
BTLED
030

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.94)
Tremslation of Rahegram Recei ved ecember a, 1932.
deb.
( M 1 PO BR 154 MAO AY - MANILA)
SEO WAR,
Wachington, D. C.
Parker.
Deemmber 6. - No. 626.
Followimg statemmt for the local press will bo released Manila, Mednesday
mernimg. December 7th: "tatmment of Mr. Aldanese: The Revemue Cutter AlaYAT
Is conetantly patrolling the watere of the Philippine Ialande, fulfilling her
funetion as customs patrol, prevonting and suppressing violations of the law.
Recently she was diapatched with ordere which directed her Commsnder to sail
'at four o'eloek in the afternoon of Docember End, l952, for patrol duty along
the mesterm comst of Luzon up to the Batanes Inlands.' In tho afternoon of
Deeember 4th, during the oouree of this patrol, she found two Japanese fishing
boats at Fugm Island, Province of Cagayan. The firet of these wes at anchor.
The AlaYaT sent a boat alonginde of her and found that she was flahing in
Philippime waters without au thorization. The second was under way. The ARAYAT
purmudd her signaling her by a ren and by flags to comw alongeide which ahe re-
fused to do evan though the AhaYAT ran up the American Flag. The ARAY ondeavored
furthermore to get her to lie to by firing across her bow. She ignored this also.
She stayed in the mhoal water into which the ARAYAf, on account of her deeper
draft, could not go. She wms finally stopped by a launoh of the ARaYAT, and the
too was found to be in Philippime waters without authorization. The chase of this
second veamel involved in all some four and one-half to five hours along the coast
of Juga lsland close in shore. The AiaYAt took the crews of both boats, mumbering
34, on board and endeavored to tow tho beats to Manila. Thare wore no injuries
to persomnel although the transfer of crews was mede at night in very rough water.
In view of the rough weather, after repeated ondeevors, towing proved to be
imposaible and the veasels had to be abandoned. The case is being givan a ore-
ful hearing before me. V. Aldanese, Insular Collector of Cus toms.
Arayat arrives Manila Tuesday night. Mm jor idgway, of my otaff, was aboard
and cortifies to accurmey of above statanont. Japanese Consul Guneral, Manila,
will be no tafied Wednesday morning. Jurther details by mail if you desire than.
Will forward detailed report by mail. hall andle matter as any other routime
violation of Philippime laws.
ROOSEVALT.

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Divipd
cotober 11, 1932.
FAR EASTÈRN AFFAIRS
AUG 14 1933
F/HS
Depertment of State
SKII:
Mr. O'Malley, of the Bureau of Fisheries, Depart-
ment of Comnerce, telephoned to say that certain
Americans and Japunese interested in the Japunese fish-
894.628/93-1/
ing uctivities in  ering Jea vould meet at his office
at 1l a.m., cetober 17, to discuss tiis sub ject. r.
o'Malley stuted that he thougnt it vould be well for
someone from the Stute Depurtient to be present.
Hamilton suxgested t ut I icht attend the meetine.
hat do you instmuet?
5
 ED
FL:LES:CLS

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
4.
Division of
FAR EÁSTERN AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG 14 1933
Ootober 17, 1932.
Department of State
Conversation.
Mr. K. Ueki, Managing Director of the Japan
F/HS
United Floating Canneries Fishing
Company (Nippon Godo Kosen Gyogyo
Kaisha).
Mr. T. Takasaki, Managing Direotor of the
Oriental Can Company, Limited (Toyo
Seikan Kaisha).
894.628/93
Mr. S. Masui, representative of the King
Crab Paokers Sales Corporation (Nihon
Kanikanzume Kyodo Hanbai Kabushiki
Kaisha).
Mr. Henry O'Malley, Commissioner, Bureau of
Fisheries, Department of Commeroe.
Mr. Lewis Radcliffe, Deputy Commissioner,
Bureau of Fisheries, Department of
Commeroe.
2
Mr. Bowers, of the Bureau of Fisheries,
5
Department of Commeroe.
Mr. Salisbury.
Subject: Japanese Fisheries in Alaskan Waters.
The above mentioned gentlemen met at Mr. O'Malley's
office at ll a.m. today.
Mr. Ueki, through Mr. Masui, who acted as Mr. Ueki's
AUG141933
interpreter, stated that he desired to obtain Mr. O'Malley's
FILED
opinion as to how cooperation of Amerioan business interests
with Japanese fishing interests in Alaskan waters might' be
effeoted, as Mr. Ueki understood that Mr. O'Malley had
suggested that such cooperation would be advisable. Mr.
O'Malley

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
O'Malley replied that he was not the author of this sugges-
tion, that his Bureau was interested in the preservation of
fish, and that such cooperation would rest entirely with
Amerioan private business interests. Mr. O'Malley added
that it was his understanding that two lawyers in San
Francisoo had first suggested the possibility of cooperation
in Alaskan waters of Amerioan private interests with
Japanese fishing interests.
With regard to Japanese crab fishing in Alaskan waters,
where it is confined to Bristol Bay, the Japanese visitors
gave the following information. Several Japanese crab
companies were amalgamated last year into the Japan United
Floating Canneries Fishing Company (Nippon Godo Kosen Gyogyo
Kaisha), which is the only Japanese crab company now licensed
by the Japanese Government to catoh crabs in Alaskan waters.
By this license the catoh is limited to ll0,Ooo cases. The
catoh this year was estimated at 35,000 oases but actually
33,000 cases (of 96 one-half pound tins) had been packed.
An annual deorease in the amount of crabs caught is
anticipated. A deorease in the large-sized orabs is indicated
by the faot that whereas formerly a case averaged fifty orabs
the average is now more than one hundred crabs. In this oon-
neotion it was stated that by license the size of the orabs
whioh may be caught by this company is limited to orabs with
shells of at least six inches in diameter and that it takes
seven

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
seven years for the shell of a spider crab, whioh is the
kind this company packs, to attain this size. Mr. Takasaki
said that in a fishing area near Hokkaido 100,000 cases of
orabmeat had been packed in one season but that the supply
of orabs had been so depleted that crab catohing in that
area had been prohibited for a period of six years. The
industry has now been resumed there with the limit of catoh
fixed at 50,O00 cases. In Soviet waters the large crabs
have been very greatly reduoed in number and small crabs
are now being caught. At Bristol Bay the Japanese receipts
have been slightly larger than expenditures.
Mr. Takasaki said that unless some arrangement for co-
operation with American interests were arrived at, which
would considerably lower the cost of production by making
possible the landing of the oatoh at an American port and
the purohase of tin and miscellaneous supplies from
Amerioan ports, Ja anese fishing vessels might undertake
the oatohing of other kinds of fish with resultant injury
to the salmon of Alaskan waters. He said that Japanese re-
cently had been fishing close to the three mile limit in
Soviet waters in.the path of a salmon run as a result of
whioh the Japanese had paoked 25,000 oases of salmon while
Soviet establishments along the river whioh opened into
this part of the sea had paoked only 5,000 oases.
Mr.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
Mr. Radoliffe inquired of the Bureau of Navigation
of the Department of Commeroe whether there was any legal
obstaole whioh would prevent a Japanese floating cannery,
whioh left Japan oleared for an Amerioan port, from land-
ing its paok at an American port before its return to
Japan. He was informed that apparently there was no
legal obstacle to such a procedure.
Mr. O'Malley made an appointment for the three
Japanese gentlemen to call on Mr. Arthur J. Tyrer, of the
Bureau of Navigation, at 2 p.m. today in order to disouss
the legal aspeots of the question.
After the departure of the Japanese visitors Mr.
Radoliffe stated that apparently their real objeot in
attempting to obtain cooperation of American private
interests was to evade the American import duty on canned
orab and to avoid financial loss, for the Japanese company,
in Mr. Radoliffe's opinion, must now be operating at a
loss.
LES:CLS

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.97)
Divierbaf
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG 14 0
AUG 14 1933
Department of State
October 17, 1932.
F/HS
Conversation.
Mr. K. Ueki, Managing Direotor of the
Japan United Floating Canneries Fish-
ing Company ( Nippon Godo Kosen
Gyogyo Kaisha).
Mr. S. Masui, representative of the King
894.628/93
Crab Packers Sales Corporation (Nihon
Kanikanzume Kyodo Hanbai K. K.)
Mr. Arthur J. Tyrer, of the Bureau of
Navigation, Department of Commerce.
Mr. Salisbury.
Subjeot: Japanese Fisheries in Alaskan Waters.
3
The above mentioned gentlemen met at Mr. Tyrer's
5
office at 2 p.m. today.
Mr. Ueki stated that he desired to know the require-
ments for retention of American identity of an Amerioan
vessel in case an American vessel were employed as a re-
sult of cooperation between his company and Amerioan
interests. He asked whether the vessel would have to be
officered by Americans, whether it would have to be of
AUG 14 1933
FlLLD
American origin, and whether a Japanese orew could be
employed. Mr. Tyrer, after referring Mr. Ueki to Sections
4131, 4132 and 4311 of tne Revised Statutes of the United
States, informed Mr. Ueki that if suoh a vessel were to be
allowed to bring its oargo into an Amerioan port free of
duty,

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
duty, it would have to be of American origin with Amerioan
offioers. Mr. Ueki said that he understood that it would
be necessary for the Japanese orew to understand commands
in English. Mr. Tyrer replied that in some instances this
requirement was ciroumvented by having a "head man" capable
of interpreting orders to those of the orew who did not
understand English. Mr. Ueki then stated that the difficulty
with regard to the entry of a vessel into an American port
with a Japanese crew on board was that some of the crew might
run away, thereby breaking the immigration laws of the United
States. Mr. Ueki finally decided to consult a lawyer for
the reason that the question of cooperation of American
interests with his company involves the questions of
immigration, tariff, fisheries, and shipping.
FE:LES:CLS

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.98)
40l0g
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG 14 1933
October 17, 192 Denment of State
F/HS
Conversation.
Mr. Henry O'Malley, Commissioner, Bureau of
Fisheries, Department of Comneroe.
Mr. Lewis Radoliffe, Deputy Commissioner,
Bureau of Fisheries, Department of
Commeroe.
894.628/93-4/5
Mr. Bowers, of the Bureau of Fisheries,
Department of Commeroe.
Mr. Salisbury.
Subjeot: Japanese Fisheries in Alaskan Waters.
The above mentioned gentlemen met at 2.45 p.m. to-
day.
Mr. Radoliffe stated that it was apparent that Mr.
Ueki, the Managing Director of the Japan United Floating
Canneries Fishing Company, was seeking American coopera-
tion in order to avoid payment of the duty on crabmeat.
Mr. O'Malley expressed grave apprehension that, whether
or not there should be American cooperation, there might
develop, with the decrease in the oatch of crab, danger
to the salmon industry, as there would be nothing to prevent
FILED
Japanese or American fishers from netting salmon on the hfgh
6
3
seas in their run to the rivers of Alaska. He hoped that
some agreement might be reached with the Japanese to prevent
interference with the salmon run. He stated that the only
conoession

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
concession which the Amerioan Government might offer, in
oase of negotiations with the Japanese, would be the reduc-
tion of the duty on orabmeat but that this would be diffi-
oult of negotiation for the reason that a reduotion of the
tariff could not be definitely promised to the Japanese
during negotiations. The three officers of the Bureau of
Fisheries agreed that such a reduction could be obtained
if the oase were presented to the proper offioials, that,
however, initiation of negotiations with the Japanese by
the United States would indioate to the Japanese a weakness
on our part, and that nothing should be done at the present
time except to await developments as negotiations could be
better carried on after danger actually threatened the
salmon industry. Mr. Radoliffe suggested that by some
international convention the conservation of fish generally,
inoluding salmon, might be arranged. He was of the opinion
that Soviet Russia would be interested in oonservation and
that the Canadian point of view would more or less agree
with the Amerioan point of view. Mr. O'Malley seemed doubt-
ful that any agreement could be reached whioh would recog-
nize American proprietorship of salmon in the high seas.
Mr. O'Malley stated that he would be very interested to
have Mr. Hornbeok's views with regard to the matters dis-
oussed and expressed the hope that Mr. Hornbeck might have
some conorete suggestions.
2
LES:CLS

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.94)
REOEIVED
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
16 1932
DEC 17 1932
SCCRETARY'S OFFICH
(SC)EF37/A4-5(2)
OFFICE OF T
TATE
Contiial
RECET
894.628
DEC 17 102
F/H
884.20211
DIVISION OF
My dear Mr. Secretary:
S
Forwarded herewith are excerpts fron reports received by this depart-
ment which indicate that Japanese subjects, some of then officials of the
Japanese Government, have been enguged in the gathering of informution and
894.628/94
the taking of photographs in United States harbors in the leutian Islands
for purposes of military intellicence.
So far as this department is awure, there is no international lav or
agreement, and no domestic law or regulation which would prohibit Jupanese
subjects or vessels from ent ring United States harbors in the Aleutian Is-
lands other than iska, which is by Executive urder a closed harbor under
the jurisdiction of this derartment. It is, however, manifestly unethical
and contrary to international custom und usage for the agents or subjects of
one nation to enter the territorial jurisaiction of another nation for the
obvious and manifest purpose of cathering military intelligence. In so far
as these acts were committed in connection with the praparatious for a trans-
Pacific flight by a Japanese mane, he i ht of which within merican
jurisdiction was authorized by this covernm nt, they constituted a breach
of good faith. There is no doubt thut the Japunese Government  ould actively
resent any similar actions by citizens of the United states in harbors and
territory under Japanese jarisdiction.
This information is furnished your depurt ent for such use as you
may choose to make of it.
Sincerely yours,
1
Cenf
C F. Alm
Inclosures (2).
FILED
-1
1-1
Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
(Inclosure to Secnav letter (SC)EF37/A4-5(2),
December.)
Jontidentiul
Inclosure - A -
Excerpts from a report submitted by the Commander, Bering Sea Patrol
Force, Coast Guard, dated 1 October, 1931:
"During the current season an endeavor has been made to obtain
information relative to the activities of the Imperial Japanese
Fisheries Steamer HAKUHO MARU along the Aleutian Islands. This ves-
sel has not been seen nor heard from during the present year. Also,
information was obtained relative to the activities of the Japanese
who visited the Islands in connection with the proposed 'Good-will'
flight across the Pacific. The information obtained is put down in
the form of notes as obtained from the persons interviewed.
"Mr. Fred Schroeder, trader and fur rancher of Attu Island,
states that the IAkUHO MARU came into Attu Harbor from the westward
on June 29, 1930 and left the following day. They came in for water
and said they were coming back at a certain time. The officers and
crew of the ship did not ask permission to land and seemed to do
about as they pleased. They wanted to fish but were refused permis-
sion, Mr. Schroeder telling them that there were very few fish and
these were needed for the natives. In spite of this refusal they
went to the native gill nets and helped themselves to the fish and
made no offer to pay for the fish taken. lir. Schroeder states that
this ship always left about a day or so before a Coast Guard cutter
arrived. The HAKUHO MAHU visited Attu twice in 1929, arriving there
first on June 24 of that year. They sent boats ashore for water and
landed again July 13. The Attu natives said that at the first land-
ing on June 24 the bottoms of the boats were in good condition, the
natives particularly noticed this fact when the Japanese were clean-
ing out their boats for boating off water. On the second arrival,
however, the natives noticed that the boat bottoms were all chewed
up showing evidence of landing on beaches. The natives and lr.
Schroeder thought the Japanese were taking live foxes on the various
Fox islands as that was just the right time of year to catch foxes
and it is known that Japanese are starting blue fox farms somewhere
in northern Japan. On west Semichi, an Island near Attu, the natives
found a target made of driftwood during the winter of 1929 and 1930
and alongside the target were several used cartridge cases from pis-
tols. They also found a Japanese tea cup. Iir. Schroeder reports
that in the winters following the summers that the Japanese visited
-1-

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
the Aleutians the catches of foxes on the different Islands were
distressingly small. In view of this fact white men were brought
up from San Francisco as watchmen but they stayed only one year.
This vessel, the HAKUHO MARU visited along the Islands during 1929
and l930 and both natives and whites were very much disturbed about
the Japanese activities along the Aleutians. Attu is a native com-
munication Fox island but as stated before, Mr. Schroeder says the
Japanese Government vessel never requested permission to land.
"During the present season the Japanese trawler KOKUSAI ARU
No. lo0 visited Attu, Atka and Unalaska in connection with the pro-
posed 'Good-will' flight across the Torth Pacific and Lir. Schroeder
reports the trawler as reaching Attu on Liay 2. They showed great
familiarity with the water around Attu and came in the narrow en-
trance to Attu harbor which has a depth of only fourteen feet on a
dark night at good speed. This trawler landed three Japanese, two
of whom said they were Staff correspondents for the Japanese news-
paper HOCHI SHI.BUI of Tokio. The names of the correspondents are:
E. Sugimoto and S. Kondo. The third Japanese landed at Attu, named
Imarnura, said he was the cameraman of the party. He had a regular
camera and a movie camera. The cameraman took pictures, so many that
he finally ran out of films both still and movie. These Japanese
conducted themselves in a very proper manner and did nothing all sum-
mer but wait for the return of the trawler. They were very liberal
with money at Attu and seemed to have plenty.
"The foregoing information was furnished by Ir. Fred Schroeder
who visits Attu each year and remains about six months. Lir. Schroeder's
address 1s: 345 3lst Avenue, San Francisco, California.
"Captain A. M. Nelson of the Gas-screw EUNICE belonging to the
Alaska Commercial Company of Unalaska heard various reports about the
Japanese during his cruises between Unalaska and Attu at which times
he touched at the various Islands. The cook on the EUNICE, a native
of Attu, told Captain Nelson that in 1929 when the Japanese Govern-
ment boat HAKUHO MARU was in Attu,he, the cook, told the Japanese that
the Coast Guard cutter would be in the next day. The Japanese asked
him how he knew and he said the news had come by radio. Then, he
said, the Japanese ship left the following day and before the cutter
arrived. This native cook could talk some Japanese and so was able
to converse with them. The Japanese asked the cook about what season
-2-

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.98)
the fish ran out along the Islanus, the location of the creeks where the
fish would be running, the kinds of fish, etc. Also, they usked how the
foxes were trapped along the Islands and the season for trapping, and where
the best trapping was to be had along the islands.
"Cartain Nelson stated in regard to the mov ments of the trawler
KOKUSAI MARU during the present year in connection with the proposed
'Good-will' flight, that this vessel proceeded to Atka from Attu and
put three men ashore on the latter island, the party consisting of one
correspondent, one botanist and one cameraman. The botanist was busy
all the time collecting specimens while at Atka but he went on to Dutch
Harbor later on and joined the trawler at Unalaska. During the first
night of the trawler's visit to Atka, May 7, all of the native men in
the village were drunk on liquor obtained from the crew of the Japanese
vessel.* The cameraman at Atka took pictures from all angles
and from the mountains on either side of the bay.
"Mr. E. K. Pedler, Agent in Charge of the Alaska Comnercial
Company's station, Unalaska, Alaska reports that the Japanese trawler
KOKUSAI MARU No. 100 arrived Unalaska May 9, 1931 after having placed
parties on Attu and Atka. Four men fron the trawler came ushore and
took up quarters at the Alaska Commercial Company's house at Unalaska:
H. Kimura, T. Tanaka, Araio Toichiro and I. Aoki. H. Kimura is cor-
respondent for the HoCHI SHIMBUN, daily Paper of Tokio. T. Tanaka
represented himself to be an aeronautical expert. Tanaka stated that
he had over 3,Oo0 hours in the air and was a Captain in the Japanese
Navy having been detached from the Bureau of Conmunications of the In-
perial Japanese Navy for the purpose of observing the 'Good-will'
flight. Araio Toichiro said he was a scientist and was connected with
the Japanese Bureau of Fisheries. Toichiro was farticularly interested
in the activity of all vessels at Unalaska and spent his time while
here in hunting for fish scales which he claimed to be able to read.
He was also very much interested in nets, size of the web and other
fishing gear. He also had considerable curiosity in regard to the hal-
ibut boats, the amount of fish they had aboard and their gear. The
fourth member, I. Aoki, was a professional cameraman of the SnocHIkU
Moving Picture Corporation. This man came well prepared with supplies
of films for both the still canera and moving picture camera and took
pictures during his entire stay of all activities. The Unalaska dock
was under construction at that time and this as well as the arrival or
departure of every vessel, Coast Guard, Navy, or Merchant was photo-
graphed. He also climbed the high mountains in the Unalaska locality
-3 -

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
to take panoramic views. The Captain of the vessel who did not
stay ashore was H. Honda. This man had the rank of Lieutenant Com-
mander in the Japanese Naval Reserve. The Chief Officer was on de-
tached duty from one of the large mercantile lines of Japan and
they also had aboard the vessel two radiomen who stood continual
watohes. These radiomen were of a higher type than is ordinarily
found on a trawler.
"The Fish expert, LIr. Toichiro, after a comparatively short
stay left Unalaska under orders from his home office bound for Japan
on the Steamer STARR to Seward and thence to Seattle. From state-
ments made just before his departure he said that he did not think
that the flight would take place and that as he had gathered all the
information we could furnish about the fishing industry he was
pleased to be ordered home. T. Tanaka, who was somewhat of a pessi-
mist in regard to the flight and thought it never would take place
on account of the small size of the flying ship, left on June 29 for
Seattle and thence home. Tanaka had received instructions from the
Imperial office to report back to Japan as quickly as possible.
Kimura and Aoki left on the KOKUSAI MARU when she left here bound
for Japan via Atka, Attu and Petropavlosk on August 3rd. The Activity
of the Japanese representatives in inquiring into the fishing industry
here was very noticeable. In fact, at a dinner given in the Company's
house, Captain Honda made a statement that the fish did not have any
flag and speaking on behalf of his Company, the International Fishing
Corporation of Japan, stated he thought that some arrangement should
be made for the conservation of this food supply.
"The Japanese were all well supplied with American money, some
of which they had brought with them from Japan and during their stay
in Unalaska several deposits were made by the Newspaper to the credit
of H. Kimura. The Japanese were particularly anxious to acquire Amer-
ican footwear but did not purchase any woolen clothing. We had no
trouble with them whatsoever in regard to breaking our laws and out-
side of their personal habits which I mentioned before their visit
could not be taken exception to.
"The Japanese crab-canning ship NAGATO MARU FUCHU arrived Bristol
Bay in the spring of the present year and left during the month of
August. This ship repeated her operations of last year and remained
in practically the same locality.
4

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.98)
"The Coast Guard cutter CHELAN visited Atka and Attu later on
in the summer and interviewed the natives relative to the Japanese
activities this year. It was ascertained that at Attu the three
Japanese took pictures and gathered rock specimens but took no sound-
ings so far as was known. Last year the Japanese sounded out Holtz
Bay according to the native chief. At Atka the three Japanese stayed
at the chief's house. There were two scientists (one botanist and
apparently one marine biological) and a reporter. They were said to
have taken a great many pictures, many of them were distant views.
They were active in their various pursuits during their stay and the
marine man may have taken soundings, although nothing definite is
known. Both scientists were graduates of Tokio University. This in-
formation was obtained from Mr. Brown, Storekeeper of Atka."
-5

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
(Inclosure to Secnav letter (SC)EF37/A4-5(2), December.)
ntidenti
Inclosure - B -
Excerpts from a report submitted by the Commanding Officer of a survey-
ing expedition sent by the Navy Department to Alaska during the summer of
1932.
** * * During the sojourn of this Expedition along the Aleutian
Islands, the report of Commander Bering Sea Patrol, U.S.Coast Guard,
was checked and verified in every detail. The reports submitted be-
low are therefore, for the most part, repetition of information al-
ready on file in the Navy Department. In some cases, however, ampli-
fication is indicated and in others new details are brought out. The
reports are therefore submitted as received.
"Ir. G. R. Gardner of Unalaska submitted the following report:
Unalaska, Alaska, June 20,1932.
"The Kokusai Maru anchored close to the blank buoy Unalaska harbor
at 9 p.m., May 9, 1931. She was the tender ship for the Japanese Good-
will Flight of the Hochi Shimbun Newspaper of Tokio. The Kokusai Maru
is owned and operated by the International Fishing Company, Showa Bldg.,
Marnnouchi, Tokio, Japan. Captain I. Honda was in command of the ves-
sel.
"Captain Honda was fishing in Bering Sea with the Kokusai Maru
in 1930 and came into Dutch Harbor for water at which time Captain Shan-
ley in Command of Coast Guard Cutter Haida, arrested the crew and de-
tained the ship, for illegally enterin: an American Port. The vessel
and crew was released in about twenty four hours on orders from Washing-
ton, D.C.
"The Kokusai Maru, en route to Unalaska, left three men at Attu
and three at Atka, reported to be Press representatives, engineers and
photographers. The personnel stationed ashore at Unalaska were: Toichiro
Sari, an engineer with the Hokkaido government; Rear Admiral Tanika, auro-
nautical expert; H. Kimura, News Reporter, representing the Hochi Shimbun
newspapers and Isamo Aoki, professional photographer, all well educated
men, including Captain Honda.
"Toichiro Sari, the engineer left here on the 'Starr' for Seattle,
via Seward on June 29, 193l. Rear Admiral Tanika left here for Seattle,
on July 'Starr' via Seward. Kimura and Aoki remained here until August
3, 193l, when they left on the Kokusai Maru, stopping at Atka and Attu
to pick up their representatives.
-1-

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
"During the visit of the Unalaska delegation I saw the engineer
Sari, taking pictures of the waterfront. That is: he would take a
picture then walk about one hundred yards up the street, take another
picture and continued in this manner until he had covered the full
distance of the waterfront.
"Aoki took pictures of this harbor, the Taval Radio Station, Dutch
Harbor docks and oil tanks and of the Unalaska village and docks and
of the adjacent bays and mountains from every angle possible. Aoki
was in no hurry -- he had plenty of time and repeatedly went on picture-
taking trips to the mountains in this vicinity. Ir. Farley, Chief Radio
man at that time, (since retired) caught Aoki taking moving pictures of
the station. Farley stopped him and demanded the film. Aoki hurriedly
cut the film and gave it to him only to find he had received the unex-
posed end of the film! Aoki was still in possession of the pictures he
had taken."
The Commanding Officer of the surveying expedition further states:
"Mr. G. L. Devenny, Master of L..S.ALAsco IV at Adak Island, reported
on 12 June, 1932, the following:
"Captain Devenny was given passage on the MOlUsAI  ARt from Atka to
Unalaska during the summer of 193l, having lost his owm ship, the Isc0,
by stranding on south side of Atka Island. The Captain of the KOkUSAI
refused passage to other applicants, but granted it to Captain Devenny
and his engineer as shipwrecked mariners.
"Captain Devenny said that he believes every officer on the ship
was a naval officer, most of them wearing uniforns, an unusual thing on
trawlers. He was unable to read their charts, as they were marked in
Japanese, but they seemed more in detail and larger scale than the cor-
responding C. & G. S. charts. Both he and the engineer were questioned
as to details of the waters of the Aleutians with which they were fam-
iliar.
"Thile entering Unalaska Bay, Captain Devenny warned the Captain of
the KOkUSAI that he was running into danger. Phis caused creat consterna-
tion, the engine was stopped and there was a good deal of confusion in
the wheel house. Captain Devenny was finally requested to conn the ship
clear and pilot it into the harbor which he did. lotion and still pictures
of entrances of both Nazan Bay and Dutch Harbor were taken from the vessel.
-2-

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
"Captain Devenny gained a strong impression that the trans-Pacific
flight for which the KOKUSAI MARU was supposed to be the advance base
was a blind to enable the ship to operate in the islands, it having
been ordered away by the Coast Guard on a previous trip. He believed
that there was never any intention of actually completing the fliht.
"Mr. W. C. Brown of Atka Island submitted enclosure (B), croup
pictures of the three members of 'KOKUsAI I ARU' that were left at Atka
during the absence of that ship at Unalaska - Dutclh harbor area. Ir.
Brown also verified the Coast Guard report regardin the Japanese activ-
ity at Atka.
"On 23 June at Unalaska, Alaska, during the course of conversation
with Doctor Eric Hulten, Sweedish Botanist, of Stockholm University, he
produced two pamphlets, Vol. I and II (translations from the Japanese)
Notes on plants of Western Aleutian Islands, collected in l929, by L.
Tatewaki.' These pamphlets dealt with the plant life at Chichagof Harbor,
Attu; Constantine Harbor, Amchitka and lazan Bay, Atka.
"Doctor Hulten had but one each copy of the above mentioned pamphlets
and desired to used them in connection with his study of plant life among
the Aleutian Islands, but stated that duplicates would be readily obtained
from the author, c/o Imperial University, Sotanical Department, Sapporo,
Japan.
"According to the best information available, no Japanese botanist
was kmown to be operating in this group of islands during the year 1929.
"Note: Doctor Hulten is a very interesting character who has
spent years in the Kamchatka Peninsula area, and ad-
jacent islands, in connection with his studies of plant
life of that region and which he is now ostensibly fol-
lowing in the Aleutian group. He apparently has en-
joyed many privileges of the Japanese while operating
in the Kamchatka area, having been decorated by them
for heroism displayed some years ago when a Japanese
man of war was wrecked near Petropovlavsk. He frankly
admits the greatest esteem for the Japanese, and quite
as frankly displays malice toward the United States, as
a result of treatment received at the hands of the U.
S. Customs officials at San Francisco. He also severely
criticized the U.S. Coast Guard Service, because, it is
understood, he was refused admittance to Kiska in con-
nection with his studies. Captain Boedecker, Comnander
Bering Sea Patrol, U.S.C.G. did not trust Doctor Hulten,
-3-

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
believing that he might be in the service of the In-
perial Japanese Government. Captain Boedecker did
not state upon what grounds he based these suspi-
cions, except lulten's insistance upon visiting
Kiska and his long association with the Japanese.
Doctor Thulten, due to his long association with
the Japanese, can not be placed above suspicion. It
was the concensus of opinion of officers of this Ex-
pedition that he is a scientist whose whole interest
in life is to carry on his botanical studies, and that
he would undcubtedly make creat sacrifices in order to
carry on these studies. His personal finances, from
observation based upon the way he lived in Unalaska,
were, apparently, quite limited."
-4-

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.96)
December 27 1962.
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/94
CONFIDENTIAL
S
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.628/94
I aoknowledge the receipt of your confidential letter
of December 16, 1932, forwarding exeerpts from reports re-
ceived by the Navy Department whioh indioate that Japanese
subjeots, some of them officials of the Japanese Govern-
ment, have been engaged in the gathering of military in-
formation in the Aleutian Islands.
The subjeot matter of your letter and of its en-
olosures is receiving oareful consideration and I thank
you for your oourtesy in bringing it to my attention.
Sinoerely yours,
瓦 L. 871M80M
The Honorable
 copy of
C. F. Adams,
the signed orig-
Inal.
Seoretary of the Navy.
FB
DEC 25 1932.P

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.628/
SEE
892.00 P. R./43
FOR .Despatch # 213.
FROM ....Siam
()Potter) DATED Noy.12.1932.
6
5
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Arrival on October 2lst of the Japanese fisheries
vessel "SHONAN MARU aroused much interest.
h8

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.81)
danonelahing Intereota
uoh intereat wes arcused a one locel fishermen
by She arrivel un etober Flst of the Japenose fishories

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.85)
-13-
vessel "Sheman Mara." The vessel, whieh wes on a
voyage of Luvestigation of the wostern Feolrie pald
a three-dey viait to Bengkok, during whieh time a
domonstretion of the sclentifie equipment or the
vossel wem piven to ofriolele of the loem) Depertment
of Pisheries.
The vieit of the " honer  evy" to Ber ekek Lende
woight to the ramer thot Jepepose fiaht a lntereats
are endeeverin" to obteir " foothold in slam. If they
ere suecossful, e mevere tlow veule to donlt the loeal
fimhereon, who, it is feared, wouls be unabio to cos-
pete with the more cclontirie methode of the Jaornuse.
It in understood that eppliostion nes cirendy peon
made for the erentine of a licenn- to the Jeprne so,
but ee yot no cotien has beo te er by the covorn wnt.
There is wome wneertainty no to whether,  vlew of
treatiee betwee the two countries, the Japomeso cn
be preveated fr fahine eose
waLare.
e l00l
fiehermos have alreedy sutTered fro
the capotiii n
or Japenose wnd Chiveae fi ohin veosels vhic? heve an-
gaged in fiahins operatlone 1 Loome waters without
l10cases.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.628/96
SEE
611.943/7
FOR
Letter
2
FROM Association of Pacific
Friele
) DATED
Dec.21.1932.
Fisheries
TO
NAME
1127
REGARDiNG: Japanese fisheries. Governmental assistance furnished -
and their localities.
J

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.96)
FF
WAR DEPARTMENT
D
WASHINGTON
JAN 1 0 1933
16 1985
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN 1 1 33
The Honorable,
JAN 12 1933
F
201.1611933
/HS
The Secretary of State
partment of State
594.628/93
Dear Mr. Secretery:
With reference to this Department's letter of Decem-
894.628/97
ber 6, 1932, relative to the seizure of Japanese fishing
boats in Philippine waters, there is incloseu a copy of a
letter from the Governor General of the Philippine Islands,
dated December 9th.
Sincereyours,
Secretar of
Anclosure:
(Copy let. fro.
G.G. of F.I.,
12-9-32)
JAN1 7 1933
FILD

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.90)
The Henerabln,
The seoratary o. tate.
Juar Mr. Secretary:
oh ro aruoe to thin voparuont letter of Dece
her s, ly5z, ralative to the eeizure of Japameee rishing
hoats in hiltppino atere, there is inclomeu a oony of
letter from the Governor Genaral of the Philinpine Iolands.
asted Decembnr 9th.
Sincarely youre,
Seeretery of Tor.
Inclosure:
(Copy let. from
C.G. of F.I.,
12-9-321

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.94)
Manila, December 9, 1983.
SUBJROT: Seisre of Japemese Fishing Beats.
TO:
Seevetary of War (Taru' the Chief, Bureen of meuler Affe
1. Sapplementing my cable No. 626 of Deommber 7, 19se, there are
forwarded herewith -
(a) Comfidential "Report on meizures by Revemme Cutter
ARAYAT, 4th December 1932", by Major R1dgway to
the Governor-General.
lo0
(b) lipping frem "The Mamila Trine", of Deeember S,
1052.
S. Major G. C. Dunham, Medical Corps, and Major M. B. Ridgway,
Imfmtry, both attached to my staff, were traveling on the ARaYit to
make offieial inspections in the Babuyan and Batanes Ialands north
of Lumen and their presenoe aboard when the seisures were mede was
fertuitons.
3. The statement for the press, incorporated in my cable No.
e2s and released on the morning of December 7th, was the first
information the press reosived of the incident. It was publisked
with commeats in the afternoon pepers that day, and the moming
pepere Deesmber Sth. The artiele in the "Manile Tribune" was the
cmly eme cemteiming additional information of value, and it is
therefore ferwarded herowith. The morning papors of this date
contain no further reference to the mmtter.
4. The ARAYAT arrived Manila 6:15 P.M., Deoember 7th, the
Japanese fishermen remaining aboard until the morning of the 8th,
whem thay attended the hearing conducted by the offiee of the
Insuler Calleotor of Customs. This hearing was condusted by the
daly mathorised asular efficials in the same manner as emy ether
rewtime imvestigation of a violation of Customs las. Majer
Ridgway atteméed the hearing by my direction as an obeerver. The
ostablided:

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
(a) hat both beats weve fishing in Philippime waters
without a liesmse.
(b) That both had sailed from Taiwan ports.
(a) hat they and their erews ware well treated by the
mster and erew of the ARaYAT.
(d) That the master and erew of the ARaYAT made every
reasonekle effort at grent risk to save their
boats.
(o) That they had no complaint to make against the
master or orew of the ARAYAT.
(f) That mither boat had a license from the office
of the Gowemor of Taiwam as requirod by a
reeent Taiwen law, effeetive July 1, l932.
S. At the comelusion of the hearing the Japamese Vice-Gonsul,
pressnt throughout, stated he was convineed that both boats had
been illegally fishing in Philippine waters, and expressed him-
self eatisfied with the hearing.
6. The thirty-four Japanese were released to the Japanese
Consul-Gemeral after the hearing, December 7th, and it is under-
steod will be returned to Japan on the next available transporta-
sion.
7. In view of the aetion of the Japanese Consul-General
as reperted in the melosed newspaper alipping, no protest will be
presented to the Japanese Consulate General. I consi der the
imeidemt as closed and will take no further action.
8. The ARAYAT will leave Man ila Deommber l0th, to complete her
interrupted patrol of the waters around the Babuyan and Batsmes
Ialemds, will pie up the eight Japamese left on FUGa ISLaND, if
still there, and astempt to locate the two abandoned beats.
ns.
DR

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.97)
Janvary 16 1938
no.177
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
894.628/97
Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
There are enolosed, for your information, copies
of 1ettera of December 6, 1932, and of January 10.
1933, with enolosures, addressed to the Department by
the Seoretary of War, with regard to the seizure on
December 4, 1932, of two Japanese fishing boats in
Philippine waters by the United States Revenue Cutter
ARAYAT.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Enolosures:
From the Seoretary of
War, December 6,
1932, with enolosure.
From the Seeretary of
War, January 10,
1933, with enolosure.
894.628/97
FE:LES:0L3
FE
1/16/33.
JAN 16, 1088.

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
GRAY
COPIES SENT TO
WP
FROM
Tokyo
Dated April 25, 1933
Dept.
Rec'd 2:53 a. m.
Secretary of State,
F
Division of
e
Washington.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 25 1933
87, Apri1 25, 3 p. m.
Depariment of State
894.628/
894.12
My 200, July 27, 1932.
Embassy is informed by the Foreign Office that
two floating Japanese canneries TAIHOKU MARU 8,252 tons
and the SHOHEO MAKU 3,71l tons left Hakodate on April
5
20th to fish for crabs in Bering Sea. During the fishing
8
senson a cargo boat will make probably two trips to the
floating canneries to carry away the catch. It is stated
that the steamers will be engaged as in previous years
strictly in offshore fishing and will not enter any
American port.
GREW
APR 27 1903
D
CIB JS

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.95)
April 88 1923
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/98
894.628/98
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
With referenoe to this Department's letter of
Ootober 10, 1932, with regard to the looation of the
Japanese fishing vessel NAGATO MARU: in Bering Sea, and
previous correspondenoe, there is enolosed a copy of
a telegram of April 25, 1933, from the Amerioan
Ambassador at Tokyo, containing information, supplied
by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, with regard to the
movements of the TAIHOKU MARU and the SHOHEO MARU,
floating Japanese oanneries.
Sinoerely yours,
Enclosure:
Unier Seoretary.
Telegram No. 87,
April 25, 3 p.m.,
from Tokyo.
Apr.
The Honorable
CR
26,1988
Daniel C. Roper,
Seeretary of Commeroe.
18
FEI1KSI0LS
FE
m.m.A.

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.95)
PM RECO
12
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
10
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
9
3
WASHINGTON
8
april 2, 1933.
6
8
MAY - 2 33
Division of
F/H
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The ..onorable,
AMAY 2-1933
S
The Secretar of . tate,
Washiryto,
Department of State
y dear r. Secretary:
894.628/99
The receipt is ac mowled, ed or a letter fur ep rt. et,
dated pril 26, 1933, transmitting copy of a teleram o1 pril 20,
1933, from the merican bessador at okye, advisin t tt two
Japanese floatin canneries, Jaihoku Maru und hoheo  aru have de-
parted frem akodate to enpage in crab fishi m the hi  seas in
ering see.
This information is of interest to the ur u of  i  ries,
and observations will e nade or this fis ery as in ust yoare. e
Department of tate vill he aivised of :ll lovelopme ts roporteu.
Your courtesy in this mtter i.  re ciat.
Tery yyly you ,
MAY 4
FILED
3
ctin ecretuy of Jo erce.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.94)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 31, 1933.
MO：
Tokyo's despatoh No. 375
of May 2, 1933, reports that,
aocording to the Foreign Office,
the two Japanese floating
oanneries going to Bering Sea
will be aooompanied by a total
of five auxiliary motor launohes.
AES:CLS

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.92)
60206
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, May 2, 1933.
No. 375.
F/ESP
Subject: Departure of Japanese Floating Canneries for
the Bering Sea.
0D7 aso to Fislei.
894.648
01
and
EBC
0
ATE
C
5
JUN
894.628/100
41.
A月
COPSENT TO
Division of
FAR ÉASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 26 1933
JUN 9 - 1933
FILED
Depertment of State
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
174078
With reference to my telegram No. 87, April 25,1933,
3 p.m., in which I informed the Department of the departure
of two Japanese floating canneries for Bering Sea for the
purpose of fishing for and canning crabs, I am now in re-
ceipt of information from the Foreign Office to the effect
that these canneries will be accompanied by auxiliary motor
launches as follows:
Taihoku

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Taihoku Maru:
Kasuga Maru, 49 tons
Ise Maru, 48 tons
Aki Maru, 80 tons.
Shohei Maru:
Choun Maru, 48 tons
Kameshima Maru No. 2, 45 tons.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
862.8
ELN:r
X

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.92)
894.628/
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
8
)
4.628/+2
611.006-Fish/16
letter
SEE
FOR
FROM
Disabled Veterans of the
) DATED
Feb.26, 1934.
U.s., Inc. (Long Beach, Calif)
TO
NAME
p
REGARDING:
1
States that fishing vessels on California coast, owmed by Japanese
citizens, are potential enemies. Endorses prohibition of importa-
tion of Japanese seafood products into U.S.
bo

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.91)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.628
SEE 211.801/547
FORLether
FROM Corce D purtment.(
) DATED Mrc1,194.
TO
NAME
1—1127
102
+2
REGARDING:
Japonose Fishin: Yess ls on the Pucific Coast und in Alaska
opertin: out o m rieun orts to t e igh seus in te
fisheries.t i p pa so fur us aterestsentrusted to this
Depertr nt  re co cornet has no objection to enactment of pro-
posed le islation by Co. eree D partment cemcernin prorosed
O
anendnent to Secti 43ll .s."wherein a fine not execedin: bo
may be i rosed for vy violoti
of is sectio..
drp

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apri1 13, 1934.
It is only the first eight pages of the
attached report on Japanese fisheries from
MoClintock at Kobe that is strictly of interest
to this Division. That section of the report
describes in outline the nature of the Russo-
Japanese dispute over the fisheries question,
and contains no information of importance that
has not already come to the attention of the
Division either through press reports or
through reports from other offices.
The remainder of the report is devoted to
the possibility that there may be a merger
between the two largest fishing enterprises in
Japan - the Nichiro, which is the biggest
concern operating in Russian waters, and the
Kyodo, which engages in pelagic fishing.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.86)
FOR DEPARTENT OF STATE.
VOLUNTARY.
Hte
  A
9
S
2i6
DEPARTMENT OF OTATE
ESP
APR -: 34
894.628
NOT FOR PUBLICATION
Yct
Gr
A logpies
F.0
FILE
x
894.628/103
Fisherien
m3
2.8
Tariy
83
Pee Mil M
Fromyice Consul
Ropert Mills McClintock.
Kobe, Japan. Date of Completion: March 11, 1934.
SEP 241
FILED
MA
Date of Mailing:
1934
Approved:
Howard Donovan,
American Consul.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Table of Contents.
Page.
THE RUSSO-JAPANESE DISPUTE OVER EXCHANGE
RATE FOR FISHERY RENTALS
3
Treaty Rights
3
The Exchange Problem
4
The Present Dispute
5
FISHERY MERGERS
9
Renewal of Talk re Merger of Nichiro
and Kyodo Fishery Companies
9
More Kuhara Mergers
10
GOVERNMENT CONTROL OF FISHERIES
12
Draft Marine Products Export Control
Bill
13

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
THE RUSSO-JAPANESE DISPUTE OVER EXCHANGE RATE FOR
FISHERY RENTALS.
From the nature of the dispute, the issues
involved and the acerbity of the argument it would
seem that history were repeating itself in the matter
of the current Russo-Japanese altercation over the
exchange rate at which Japanese fishing interests
shall pay for the use of Soviet salmon grounds. It
sounds much like the difference of opinion in l931
over the same issue and serves to show that the
Shidehara-Troyanovsky ▲greement of that year was but
a palliative and not a permanent solution of the
exchange question.
Treaty Rights.
The right of Japanese to fish in the territorial
waters of the Maritime Provinces and Kamchatka derives
from the provisions of the Treaty of Portsmouth of
1905. Since 1928 this right has been interpreted and
more clearly defined by the Russo-Japanese fishing
convention of that year, which was successful in
clarifying most outstanding issues but was silent on
the since exacerbating question of the exchange rate
at which Japanese operators were to pay in Yen for
fishing grounds rented in Rubles. The treaty of 1928
is to expire in l936 and negotiations for the agreement
which is to replace it will commence in 1935 if not
sooner. Within the general framework of the existing
treaty the fisheries of the Siberian marginal sea have
been apportioned between Russian and Japanese operators.
In 1933 Japanese fished 52.7% of the grounds and
Russians

=== Page 239 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-
Russians 47.3%, the Japanese catch amounting to 58%
of the total for the season and the Russian to 42%.
These figures do not include the less important crab
(1)
fisheries.
The Exohange Problem.
Between 1928 and 1931, when conditions became so
involved as to require the temporary alleviation
provided by the Shidehara-Troyanovsky Agreement, there
was no definite arrangement as to the payment of
fishery rents in rubles by Japanese operators.
Auctions were held every year in Vladivostok, at which
time the aggregate of Soviet fishing grounds was put
up for bidding, the highest offer taking the districts
in question. In 1928 the Japanese fishers secured
85.7% of the coastal grounds, in 1929 65.2% and in
1930 55.2%, since which time the apportionment of the
(1)
areas has been at about that ratio.
There was no
official rate of exchange between Yen and Ruble,
al though there was worked out a de facto rate of
(2)
around 40 sen per Ruble during the period.
However,
the Bank of Chosen in its Vladivostok branch, purchased
"bootleg" Rubles at a rate under that which was regard-
ed by the Soviet officials as more or less the going
figure and the Japanese fishing companies naturally
purchased their Rubles from the Bank of Chosen at a
more advantageous rate, reported to be at from 27 to
(2)
28 sen per Ruble.
 This activity on the part of the
Bank of Chosen resulted in its closure by the Russian
authorities and was the immediate issue which called
into being the negotiations between Foreign Minister
Shidehara

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Shidehara and Ambassador Troyanovsky.
The outcome of these negotiations was the
Shidehara-Troyanovsky Agreement of April 26, 1931,
which provided, in substance, that in the payment of
fishery rentals the exchange rate should be 32 1/2
sen per Ruble, pending a final settlement of the
question. The Russian and Japanese Governments would
continue negotiations with a view to such a permanent
(3)
settlement.
This protocol governed the si tuation until
January 1, 1934.
The Present Dispute.
On the first of January, 1934 the representatives
of the Japanese fishing interests in Vladivostok were
informed by the Soviet authorities that the State Bank
had announced that the exchange rate for the forth-
coming fishery auction in February would be 75 sen per
(3)
Ruble instead of 32 1/2 sen.
In response to a protest
from the Japanese fishing companies, the local Russian
authorities declared that the matter was out of their
hands and that they were acting upon instructions from
(4)
Moscow.
On February llth, nine days before the annual
auction was to be held in Vladivostok, the Japanese
Ambassador, Mr. Ota, drew the attention of the
Commissar for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Litvinov, to the
question of the alleged violation by Russia of the
Shidehara-Troyanovsky Agreement, receiving a polite
but non-committal reply. The efforts of the Japanese
Embassy at Moscow to address protests to high officials
in the Commissariat of Foreign Affairs met with little
success

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
success, as the officials became suddenly indisposed
or unavailable. An under-official finally informed
the Embassy that the matter of the exchange rate was
a concern of the Central Commercial Commissariat, to
which the protests of the Japanese Government had
(5)
been referred.
Impatient, the spokesman of the Foreign Office
in Tokyo informed the press on February l9th that
"the attitude of the Moscow Governnent is making a
very bad impression on the Japanese Government".
He
went further and was reported to recall in this
connection the statement by Viscount Kikujiro Ishii
in his recent diplomatic memoirs that "the Russians
do not observe treaty commitments when matters of
(6)
importance to them are involved."
The following day, on February 20th, the auction
of fishing grounds was held in Vladivostok. One
hundred and seventeen grounds were presented for lease
(7)
during 1934, of which all but six were salmon fisheries.
The other half-dozen precincts were for crab. Japanese
operators bid for 84 of the grounds. Seventy-four
were bid for by the one Nichiro Fishery Company, the
great monopoly in which the majority of the Japanese
fishers in Russian waters is amalgamated. The Showa
Fishery Company bid for 9 grounds and there was one
individual bid. All the Japanese bids were accompanied
by certified checks for Ruble amounts at the old exchange
rate of 32 1/2 sen per Ruble. Russian representatives
(8)
bid for 69 fishing grounds.
The Soviet authorities at Vladivostok threw out
the

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
the Japanese bids on the ground that the exohange rate
should have been 75 sen per Ruble instead of 32 1/2
sen. Sixty fishing grounds were awarded to Russian
(8)
bidders.
The auction had been preceded by an
unsuccessful three day campaign on the part of the
Japanese Consul General at Vladivostok, who conferred
with Russian officials on the 17th, 18th and 19th and
was still attempting to win his case at 12:30 on the
(9)
morning of the 2oth when bidding officially commenced.
The next step of the Tokyo Government was to
instruct its Ambassador at Moscow to request that the
Soviet Government either recognize as valid the
Japanese bids made on the 20th or hold an entirely
(10)
new auction.
Mr. Ota called on Mr. Litvinov on the
23rd, presenting this view and indicating that the
Japanese Government regarded the Shidehara-Troyanovsky
(11)
Agreement as still controlling the exchange rate.
Mr. Litvinov was reported to have proposed that
a second auction be held at Vladivostok, but only for
the 57 fishing grounds remaining after the Russian
bids for 60 grounds had been accepted on the 20th at
the first auction. Japanese bidders at a second
auction might present checks for Rubles calculated at
the 32 1/2 sen rate, but these would be considered
only as payments in part, to be followed by additional
payments after the exohange rate had been finally
determined by negotiation. The second auction might
be held on February 28th. The proposal of the Foreign
(10/11)
Commissar was rejected by the Japanese Ambassador.
Representatives of the Japanese Foreign Office,
the

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (in direct
control of fisheries) end the fishing interests were
reported to have conferred on the situation on
February 27th, after which the Japanese Ambassador
at Moscow and the Consul General at Vladivostok were
instructed to inform the Russian authorities that the
Soviet proposal for a supplementary auction on the
(12)
28th was rejected.
The month closed with the stalemate persisting.
Russia insisted that, although the exchange rate might
be open to negotiation, it must be higher than the
old rate of 32 1/2 sen per Ruble. Japan was firm in
its stand that the provisions of the Shidehara-
Troyanovsky Agreement still controlled the fishery
auction, and made not the slightest suggestion that
the rate fixed in 1931 might be subject to negotiation.
FISHERY

=== Page 244 === (confidence 1.00)
-9-
FISHERY MERGERS.
Renewal of Talk re Merger of Nichiro and Kyodo Fishery
Companies.
There was an echo in February of the loud rumor
and speculation in December over the prospects of a
merger of Japan's two largest fishing enterprises, the
Nichiro Fishery Company and the Kyodo Fishery Company.
Nichiro, in which the Mitsubishis are interested,
already has a practical monopoly of Japanese operations
in Russian waters, while Kyodo, a subsidiary of the
Kuhara interests, specializes in pelagic fishing. In
December Kyodo made a determined effort to acquire
control of the Nichiro company and was only defeated
when the Government indicated that it regarded the
Kyodo project as inimical to the best interests of the
(13)
fishing industry.
During February there was renewed talk of an
amalgamation between the Kyodo and Nichiro companies.
Nichiro was still hostile to the Kyodo overtures, but
appeared willing to listen to its representations.
The ostensible advantage of a merger was stated to be
that of presenting a united front against Russia in
regard to the current troubles over fishery auctions,
but since the Kuhara company is engaged in high seas
fishing and does not have to secure Russian permission
for its activities, this excuse was nothing but a
pretext. The real reason was the one so attractive
to large Japanese capitalists: the securing of an
absolute monopoly and the profits to be derived from
a monopoly.
The

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
The month closed with the negotiations between
(14)
Nichiro and Kuhara still in progress.
More Kuhara Mergers.
February was a month of mergers for the Kuhara
dynasty of Tokyo. Not only were the initial steps
taken for the acquisition of the great Osaka Iron
Works, but in addition the Kyodo Fishery Company made
arrangements to absorb the Toyo Whaling Company, while
at the close of February it was announced that the
greatest Kuhara firm, the Japan Industry Company,
would take over both the Kyodo Fishery, the Toyo
Whaling Company and the Dai Nihon Ice Manufacturing
Company. The Kuharas were integrating their industrial
empire with a particular view to the rationalization
of their fishing interests. They already control the
Daido Fishing Company in the pelagic industry and were
reported in December to be organizing thirty small
independent high seas operators into the Kuriles New
(13)
Development Company.
On February 5th the Kyodo Fishery Company signed
a contract with the Toyo Whaling Company of Osaka for
the taking over of the latter firm on the basis of an
exchange of stock: one share for Kyodo for two and
one-half of Toyo. Toyo Whaling has a nominal capitali-
zation of ¥6,000,000 with paid up capital of ¥3,750,000.
The acquisition of the whaling enterprise by Kyodo
would have given the latter company a nominal capital
of 16,600,000 of which 14,185,000 would be paid up.
The contract specified that Kyodo would take over all
the assets and liabilities of Toyo Whaling as of
January

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
January 1, 1934, the actual merger to take place on
(15)
June 5, 1934.
However, at the close of the month it was announced
that the Kyodo Fishery Company itself would be
amalgamated with its parent firm, the Kuhara-controlled
Japan Industry Company. In this case, the Toyo Whaling
Company would be taken over directly by the Japan
(16)
Industry Company. The Japan Industry Company later
indicated that it had decided to absorb in addition
the great Dai Nihon Ice Manufacturing Company, which
(17)
has a paid up capital of 28,670,000.
It was clearly evident that the Kuharas were
reorganizing their fishing enterprises so as to
incorporate them under one direction. The result will
be one of the mightiest fishing enterprises in Japan
and one that may well bid for the control of the
heretofore supreme Nichiro Fishery monopoly. Should
the proposed mergers go into effect, the capitalization
(17)
of the Japan Industry Company will exceed ¥100,000,000
and the Kuharas will enter the ranks of the other great
family dynasties of Japanese industry, the Mitsuis and
Mitsubishis.
It would appear that internal developments in the
Japanese fishing industry are fraught with almost as
much potentiality for conflict as the international
questions raised in the northern seas.
GOVERNMENT

=== Page 247 === (confidence 1.00)
-12-
GOVERNMENT CONTROL OF FISHERIES.
The Japanese Government has long exercised control
of the national fisheries with a view to the development
of this highly important industry. Dating from 1897
and before, legislation has continually been passed with
a view to the subsidizing of fishing enterprises, the
creation of harbors for fishermen, the provision of
storage facilities, the protection of vested fishery
rights and the organization of fishery guilds. The
fishing industry presents the anomaly of being at once
the enterprise most carefully encouraged and supervised
by the Government and the industry most dominated by
the monopoly of private capitalism. The question of
State control of fishing was again raised in February.
The Government was interpellated in
the Diet on
the matter of whether closer supervision would be
exercised over the north-seas fisheries.
Premier Sai to
replied that he saw the need of State control and that
the Foreign Minister was already looking forward to the
revision of the Russo-Japanese fishery convention.
The
Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, Mr. Goto,
expressed similar views and added that his Ministry
was investigating the possibility of creating harbors
for Japanese fishing craft in the Kurile Islands. He
thought that the Government would not sanction the
establishment of any new Japanese fishing companies
this year. Foreign Minister Hirota was reported to
have suggested that it would be advisable for the
Japanese fishing industry to station a permanent
representative in Moscow who, although not a Government
official

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
official, could conduct negotiations with the Soviet
authorities looking to the revision of the fishery
(18)
treaty in 1936.
Draft Marine Products Export Control Bill.
▲ repercussion of the recent instances in the
United States of the condemnation of Japanese exports
of decomposed tuna may be seen in the draft of a Marine
Products Export Bill which has beenprepared by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for submission
to the Imperial Diet.
The Ministry is reported to regard the unfortunate
cases of shipping inferior products abroad as resulting
from the chaotic condition of uncontrolled competition
which prevails in the Japanese export trade for marine
products. In an endeavor to slash prices exporters
have neglected to maintain minimum standards for the
products sold abroad.
A summary of the draft control bill indicates that
no exports of marine products will be permitted without
official inspection by the Ministry of Agriculture.
The bill confers on the Government authority for the
supervision of manufacturing processes and special
treatment for export lines. No one may manufacture
for the foreign trade without a Government permit.
The Government will have the power to order fishing
guilds and organizations to comply with certain
standards for the export trade. The exports to
Japanese colonies will be considered as in the category
of foreign trade for the purposes of the bill.
It is understood that the Government plans to
apply

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
apply the new legislation first to the tuna industry,
which was the subject of recent complaint in the
United States, extending it later to the exporters
(19)
of salmon, trout and crab.
780
RMMcC/mh
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Commercial Attache, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Sources

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
Sources of Information.
1. Japan Year Book, 1933, p. 487.
2. A. Morgan Young, Editor, the Japan Chronicle, Kobe,
in leading article of February 22, 1934.
3. Spokesman of Japanese Foreign Office as reported
in Japan Advertiser, Tokyo, February 22, 1934.
4. Vice Consul Mcclintock: Shipping in the Japanese
Empire, January, 1934, p. 12.
5. Japan Advertiser, February 20, 1934.
Japan Chronicle, February 20, 1934.
6. Japan Advertiser, February 20, 1934.
7. Japan Chronicle, February 18, 1934.
8.
t1
11
February 22, 1934.
9. Japan Advertiser, February 22, 1934.
10. Japan Chronicle, February 28, 1934.
11. Japan Advertiser, February 27, 1934.
12. Japan Advertiser, February 28, 1934.
13. Vice Consul McClintock: Shipping in the Japanese
Empire, December, 1933, pp. 16-19.
14. Japan Chronicle,
February 3, 8, 1934.
Osaka Mainichi,
February 7, 1934.
Japan Advertiser, February 14, 1934.
15. Japan Chronicle, February 8, 1934.
Japan Advertiser, February 6, 1934.
16. Japan Chronicle, February 23, 1934.
17. Japan Advertiser, February 27, 1934.
18. Osaka Mainichi,
February 1, 1934.
19. Japan Chronicle, February 22, 1934.

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6
SEE
811.114-1: AT0.E/3594
FOR
leter
2
8
RAM
) DATED
July 5, 1934.
0
Gee. W..epper
4
TO
NAME
:127
OPO
REGARDING: Clipin s from the Sydney HoRi RaD for April 13
and April 16, 1934 coacerai the operat: s of Ja anese
trochus shell poachers in the waters of Northern ustralia,
transmit ed to the De artment by the American C nealate General
at Sydney. Australia. It is mierstood that these trochus shell
fis eries are outside the thres-mile territ rial li it of
Australia.
th

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.94)
4
Aeo
DEPARTMENT O CTATE
WASHINGTON
August 24, 1974
1934 AUG 27 AM 10 43
To Conmer
Dctober 15 1884.
Letterr
Rept.t
Honorable Cordell Hull
AUG·218·1934.
JVI
COMMUNIATHONS
Secretary of State
AND RECORDS
Washington, D. C.
711.947
Letter to
Dear Mr. Secretary:
August
894.628/105
sioner of Fisheries relative to Japanese fishin: operations in
Bristol Bay, Alaska.
At the present time the Japenese are not interfering with
the salmon industry in this area, because they are operating
floating crab canneries, the product of which has its chief mar-
ket in the United States. The attached memorandun states that
the Department of State has had edvices from the Japanese inter-
ests urging marketing and ship ing concessions in conn ction with
their crab products. They have wanted to negotiate an agreement
with the United States whereby the canned crabs packed on Japan-
ese floating canneries off the Alaska coast could be marketed
directly in the United States without being returned to Japan.
The Commissioner of Fisheries feels tnat Japanese vesscls and
activities in the Bristol Bay region constitute & possible threat
that might seriously interfere with or even ruin the nighly impor-
tant American salmon inaustry.
The Commissioner of Fisherier suggests the wisdom of taking
up with Japan the possibility of negotisting  trcaty whereby all
nationals of that country woulc refrain from engaging in uny sal-
mon canning in the waters of Bering tea and Bristol Bay east of a
line from Cape Avinof near the West entrance to Kuskokwim Bay to
Cape Sarichef at the west end of Unimak Islano. This proposed
line is shown in red on the accompanying map of Alaske.
FILED
In order that you may have for your information full details
from the Commissioner of Fishorics in reference to any possible
consideration of this matter, I am bringing his memorandum and re-
commendations to your attention at this time.
Very sincerely,
L，
DANIEL C. ROPER,
Secretary of Commerce.
N
F/G
Enclosure

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO
IN REPLY REFER TO FILE
COMMISSIONER OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON, D. C.
Au ust 23, 1934. 17
Subject:
Japanese fishing operations in Bristol Bay, Alaska.
The Secretery of Commerce:
The Bristol Bay region of westem Alaska is the chief producer
of the world's supply of red salmon. In the season of 1934 over
1,700,000 cases of 48 one-pound cans ecch were packed by Anerican
canneries operating in these waters.
There is a creat concentration of salmon in the offshore waters
of this area. The sulmon, at the age of four or rive years, are re-
turning from their abode in the sea to the streams tributary to iristol
Day. Here they will spawn and complete their life cycle.
More than a thousand Anerican fishermen operate gill net boats on
the high seas waters of Bristol Bay in the annual catching of the
15,000,000 or more salmon which, on the averae, make up the pack from
this region. These boats for the most part operate in waters beyond
the three-mile limit.
A little farther offshore for a nuaber of years several Japanese
floating canneries have been engaged with their tenders and small boats
in the packing of crabs. This industry has not attracted merican
capital or fishermen, probably because or the high labor costs involved.
There is nothing to prevent Japanese interests from enga in: in
commercial fishing operations for salmon in these waters, if they so
desire. It is true that in the period of five yeers since floating
crab canneries have operated in this region there is no authentic record
of the taking of salmon for thhis purpose.
In former discussion with the Department of State re arding the
matter, officials of the Department of Commerce have pointed out the
great danger to the American salmon industry if the Japanese should un-
dertake the packing of salmon. They would not be bound by the regula-
tions and restrictions as to time and method of fishing, which are
applicable to those operating from the laska canneries.

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
It is understood that tnere has heen more or less of a gentle-
man's agreement upon the part or the Japanese not to invade the
salmon fisheries of Alaska. They have wanted to continue our good
will in connection with the operation of the floatin crab canneries,
as the United States is the chief market for the Japanese pack of
canned crabs. It is understood that the Japanese have asserted their
intention to refrain from any operations in the offshore waters of
Alaska that would result in the capture of salmon.
The Department of State hes had advices from the Japanese in-
terests urging marketin and shinping concessions in connection with
their crab produets. They have wanted to n otiate an a reement with
the United States whereby the canned crabs packed on Japanese float-
ing canncries off the Alaska coast could be marketed directly in the
United States without being returned to Japan. This would be of real
advantage to the Japanese inasmuch as the United States is the chief
market for the Japenese pac: o: crabs.
Hothing of a definite nature nus ever come about alon t is line,
so far as this o fice is awar . It is understood that the matter is
simply coing along fron season to season, - the Japanese ve sels con-
tinuing to pack crabs and, as rar as kiowm, not molestin the runs of
salmon.
The point of ti is co munication, mowever, is that the Japanese
vessels constitute a threat that might seriously interfere it or
even practicaily ruin an important merican inlustry.
This leads to the thought of considerin: the wisdo. of takins u
with the Depurtment of State the matter of negotiating a treaty with
Japan, Whereby all nutionals of t at country would rofrain from en-
gaging in any salmon packing in the vaters of Terin Sea and ristol
Bay east of a line fron. Cape Avinof near the west entrance to Kuskokwim
Bay to Cape Sarichef at the west end of Unimak Island. This proposed
line is shown in red on the accompanyin up of Alusku.
of course, this matter must be approuched with caution because of
the possibility of arousing Japanese interests and causing thom to de-
mand so much in return that this nation would be the loser.
If the matter is taken up with the Japanese Government, it may
be that they will ask for elimination of the tariff on canned crabs,
or for the privilege of direct shipment of canned crabs from Bering
Sea to ports in the United States.

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.97)
-3 -
An important point also is that the Japanese mitht ask for a
revision of the fur-seal treaty of l9ll, particularly to the end
of securing an increase over the 15 per cent of sealskins from the
Pribilof Islands, or the proceeds thereof, which they now receive.
As a matter of fact this has been taken up by Japanese authorities
in recent years, but the matter was quieted by officials of the
State Department.
It is understood that when discussion of the matter of Japen-
ese vessels in Bering Sea cane up a rew years ago, the Japanese
made representations to the Department of State that they would
seek definite advanta es not enjoyed oy them, in return for a
guarantee that they would not interfere with our salmon fisheries
in Alaska.
This office also understands that when the matter was under
consideration previcusly, officials of the Department of State felt
quite certain thet it would not be to the advantage of the Govern-
ment of the United States to raise any issues alon this line.
It was the view of these o ficials that the United States was
better off us lon as it did not actually develop that the Japanese
were interfering with American industry. So far there hus been no
such interference in respect to the salmon fishery of westemm Alaska.
JrankBul
Corunisioner.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 6, 1934.
SKH:
The attached draft letters were
prepared after consultation with Mr.
Sayre and with Messrs. Grady, Livesey
and Hawkins.
I called up Mr. Bowers, of the Bureau
of Fisheries, and asked him whether
the Department of Commerce would have
any objection to this Department sending
a copy to the Tariff Commission of our
letter to Commerce. He said that there
would be no objection.
I have selected from the rather
voluminous file certain documents which
present "background" information.
TREATY DIVISION
SEP 11
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
In re Japanese t amere
Craert salmon fishery utersts.
(Sce last par. jn achinion case

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.93)
BCR
Angust 31 1954.
My dear Mr. Seeretapy:
I acknowledge receipt of your letter of August 24,
1954, in regard to Japanese fishing operations in Bristol
894.628/105
Bay, Alaska, and raising the question of the advisability
of negetiating a treaty with Japan, whereby all Japanese
nationals would refrain from engaging in any salmon
canning in the waters of Bering Sea and Bristol Bay east
of a line from Cape Avinof near the west entrance to
Kuskokwim Bay to Cape Sarichef at the west end of Unimak
Island.
I assure you that attentive consideration will be
given to the matter and that the Department will expect
to send a further letter to you at an early date.
Sincerely yours,
William Phillipa
Aoting Secretary.
The Homerable
A true gopy of
the pigned origi-
Deniel C. Reper,
nal
OR
F
AUG B1 1934
PNDI
m.H
mih

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.96)
September 25 1934
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/106
十
CONFIDENTIAL.
My dear Mr. O'Brien:
There is enclosed a copy of the Department's letter
to the Secretary of Commerce in regard to a suggestion that
a treaty be concluded with Japan, whereby all Japanese
nationals would refrain from engaging in any salmon packing
8
394.628
in certain waters off the coast of Alaska.
The letter will serve to indicate that during the
years 1930 and 1931 the appropriate author1ties of this
3/1
Goverrment were concerned lest Japanese fishing vessels
0
operating on the high seas near Alaska injure the Alaskan
5
salmon industry and that informal discussions were held
between officers of the American Embassy at Tokyo and Japa-
nese officials and representatives of Japanese fishing
interests, during the course of which disoussions the
suggestion was considered that a treaty be concluded between
the United States and Japan by which Japanese nationals
would
The Honorable
Robert L. O'Brien,
Chairman, United States Tariff Commission,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
would refrain from fishing in waters off the Alaskan coast
while the United States would undertake inter alia to grant
concessions in regard to the import duty on canned orab. In
l931, it was conoluded that it would be impracticable at that
time to effeet any reduction in the duty on imports of canned
crab, and for this and certain other reasons the disoussions
with the Japanese Government were suspended.
This Department shares the desire of the Department of
Commeree that the fishery resources of Alaska be safeguarded,
but it believes that the Japanese Government would not agree
to restrain its nationals from engaging in salmon packing on
the high seas unless some compensation can be offered by
this Government. It is the opinion of this Department that
if and when discusaions with the Japanese Government are re-
sumed, this Government should be in position to offer some con-
cession which would be regarded by the Japanese as a substantial
inducement and which would at the same time entail no great
sacrifice of American interests.
It would be appreciatod if the Tariff Commission would
render for the confidential information of this Department
and the Department of Commerco an opinion in regard to the
praoticability of reducing or eliminating the existing duty
on canned orab.
Sincerely yours,
22
r. true copy of
CR
Cordell Hull
ed origl-
Enclosure:
Be2
Odpy lotter to Do-
65
m.m.W.
PE:/DLY
FE
TD
AS
AST
EA
Conce
AS
9-7-34

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
September 25 1934.
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/105
CONFIDENTIAL.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I refer to your letter of August 24, 1934, the re-
ceipt of which was acknowledged by my letter of August 31,
894.628/1.
1934. The question has been raised of the advisability of
seeking to negotiate a treaty with Japan, whereby all Japa-
nese nationals would refrain from engaging in any salmon
packing in the waters of Bering Soa and Bristol Bay east of
a line from Cape Avinof near the west entrance to Kuskokwim
.05
Bay to Cape Sarichef at the west end of Unimak Island.
It is believed that a brief review of previous de-
velopments in conneotion with the question of Japanese
fishing operations in Alaskan waters may serve to set
forth the oiroumstanoes which appear to be involved in the
suggestion under reference.
In 1930, the Department of Commerce expressed to this
Department interest in the operations of certain Japanese
vessels in Alaskan waters and, 1n its letter of October 4,
1930, the Department of Commeree pointed out that a
diffioult
The Honorable
Daniel C. Roper,
Secretary of Commeroe.

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
一8-
diffioult situation would be presented if Japanese vessels
were to undertake the capture and utilization of salmon in
international waters off the coast of Alaska. It suggested
that perhaps the only possible remedy would be the conolusion
of a treaty whereby Japanese vessels would be restrained
from such operations.
Through a series of disoussions carried on by the
American Embassy at Tokyo with various Japanese officials
and persons interested in the fishing industry, it was
ascertained that the Japanese Government could not invoke
any legislation to prevent Japanese ships from carrying
on lawful fishing operations in non-territorial waters,
and that as a practical measure the only means whereby any
restraint could be imposed would be the conclusion of a
treaty between the interested countries. It was pointed
out by the Japanese that fish 1s an important: item in the
Japanese food supply; that in proportion as difficulties
are encountered in fishing in Soviet waters the Japanese
would be forced to seek other sources of supply; and that
in the oiroumstanees then existing the Japanese Government
could not consistently restrain its nationals from lawful
fishing on the high seas.
A suggestion was made by representatives of the Japa-
nese crab packing interests that if some provision were made
by private Ameriean interests to facilitate the packing of

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.97)
-8.
erab by Japanese floating canneries operating in waters off
the coast of Alaska, and if some concession were made by way
of redueing or removing the duty on canned orab imported into
the United States, the Japanese Government would take suitable
measures to prevent Japanese fishing vessels from operating
in those waters and from thus injuring the Alaskan salmon
industry.
It was believed by the Embassy at Tokyo, and in that
belief this Department conourred, that it would be the part
of wisdom to provide adequate restraint against operations
by Japanese fishing vessels injurious to the Alaskan salmon
industry before substantial sums were invested by Japanese
in suoh operations, but that the ciroumstances would not
warrant expectation that the Japenese Government would
participate in a treaty restraining its nationals from
operating on the high seas off the coast of Alaska unless
compensatory privileges could be offered to the Japanese.
In view of certain administrative measures which the
Japanese Government was understood to have provisionally
taken to restrict operations of Japanese trawlers off the
coast of Alaska, pending the presentation by this Government
of some definitive proposal, officers of this Department and
of the Department of Commeroe tentatively agreed in l931
that it would be desirable to detail to Tokyo a representative
of the Bureau of Fisheries in order that the possibilities of
aa

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
an arrangement being made with Japan might be explored by
informal discussion with the Japanese. It may be recalled
that for reasons of economy and other considerations it was
later found impraotioable to detail to Tokyo an officer of
the Bursau of Fisheries.
It contimes to be the view of this Department that a
satisfactory arrangement with the Japanese Government look-
ing toward the regulation of fishing operations by Japanese
in waters off the coast of Alaska should be effected as soon
as practioable. Careful consideration has been given to the
suggestion that there be proposed to the Japanese Government
the conelusion of a treaty along the lines suggested in the
memorandum of the Commissioner of Fisheries whioh is enclosed
with your letter under reference, but the Department peroeives
no ciroumstance warranting expectation that the Japanese
Covernment would undertake in the absence of some compensatory
privilege to restrain its nationals from engaging in lawful
activities on the high seas.
The Department is furnishing to the Tariff Commission
a copy of this letter with the request that the Tariff
Commission render an opinion in regard to the practicability
of reducing or eliminating the duty on canned orab. If the
opinion of the Tariff Commission should be of an affirmative
character, and if no objection should be perceived to a re-
dustion in or elimination of the duty on sanned erab from the
pos

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.88)
5-
oims of view of poliey, it is the opinion of this
Department that the greatest possibilities of effeoting
an agreement with the Japanese Government would be offered
by diseussions at Tokyo between officers of the Ameriomn
Embassy and a representative of the Bureau of Fisheries,
on the one hand, and the appropriate Japanese authorities
and vested private interests, on the other hand.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
U0.
AST AS
EA
:EHD/DLY
D
FE
108
Wu
SKH
n
TAs
AF
SEP13,1984
8EP 11 1984
MA

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.87)
174
178
178
170
160
189
R
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
U.S GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
lcyCa
MAPOF
ALASKA
C.Lisburne
C.Sabine
(iti
Coslmine
mprled by Akar r
PtHope
authentic soot ce,  nierry from
C.Thompson
U. S. Geologinal Sorve, and he
C.Seppings
and Geogethe Sor
Kivadina
U S. Governmenr Radt
VASVIV
Scale soobo00
Approximately 80 miles to 1 inch
C.Unikin
C.Krusenstern
BAIRD
50
1
50
JINI
150
200 Miles
541
150
20 Kilonmetes
Kotzebue
East Cape
RAIT
C.Espenberg
CBlossom
KOTZEBUE
SOUND
ALッp
SulukR.
SEWARD
AndK
PESINSTLA
Kingt.º C.Dougias
Koyuk
Shelton
C.Rodney
lt
Silmunt.
C.Chibukak
WestCape
Nojth Cape
NORTON
Rocky
C.Darby
CDenbig
SWCape
NORTON SOUND
BeisboroI.
NE.Cape
East Cape
5.ECape
Stoon
StMichhel
Pt.Romanof
lfk
心
H4
Auvik
S
C. Romanref
HolyCros
HallI.
ledge
StMaw1
Himoper Pdy
Kunhunuk
Ruaminng Minnio
1:unA
CVa
Huzen Bai
C
C.Mohican
Nelson
9
Nunivak
CCorwin
C.Mendanhall
58
Hany

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.86)
PENINSTLA
GChibokak
th Cape
02
BECope
S
Amvik
Smmun
aark
C.Romenzef
Holy Crop
CHallI
inn Mission
Huzen Had
C Mohicam
42
Nunivak
CCorwin
C.Mendanhall
5H
C.Avinof
H
C Newenham
E
StPanlly
B
545
B R
Kudobi
C.Mondy
Alartan
C.Ta
E
170°
102
15

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.83)
170
102
1:H
1541
1468°
142
1
PrBarrow
R
C
E
A
Franklin
HalkoC
UnniBn
1.116
PilA
Kohrlih
Ruk. R.
C.Sobin
G
E
DELONG
MTS.
N
C.Sompings
41119
Kivalina
R
0
0
Eavlul
K
R
S
Chanller
B
MTS.
nk
BAIRD
MOUNTAINS
Chamndader
Wineman
Kotses
Eust
Hut Hiver
Hun R.
Filitkon
Bluck Bi
NRCTIC
Lite Bluck R.
Bai H
Állákaket
Ruvh
Kuuti
maidi
Roer
VIllN
1D
Allughen
Kuziir
Koyuk
Dubli R
Rampan
1meng
Kutrrl
River
Fi Gabbon
R
Nulatod
Melortia
NORTON SOUND
Dopotoro1.
Kaltag
S
PtRomanof
G
E
N
Oph.
tirst tork
Pass
Puxson
higun
lakotmes
cKinley
Auvik
RIVER
Ruahunuk
TALKEETNA
Thickalooy
Aiun
Mt.SPuTT
Anchora
Foreland
RodoubtPh
10200
emno

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.85)
Fi Gäbbon
Nulatod
165
NORTON
Kaltag
Khotol K
SulunAR
Ophir
Hivst fit
Juahna K
Takotmd
Tunaina H
Aurvik
Holy Gron
RIVER
Mt.SpWT
Anchora
EForeland
RodoubtPh
10200
amna
Anchor PL
C.Cleere
lbamus B
PORC
Togiak R.
Angst .
LitoHl
OF
Koggiing
Shuar1.
GULF
P.Banks
STRAIT
B R
Anio ichank Craper
1
178
B
Chirilauf 1.
1.
RAT
East of (Greenwich
17H
162
1518
West of (rrmnwich
1540
I'H5

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.86)
165
L385
120
N
E
Pass
Rorr
Hu! Hiver
Snake
Blick Ri
Nabon
Kovw
Bongetplume
Pass
Hol Sprug
NeQwten
MtKimball
V. AnVh
NUTZOTIN
Sanford
Siautlin 1.
YUKON
Chilkai

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.84)
Ogtlvie
Hart
Bongetplume
Bolt Sprugh
Col
amh P
02°
btike R
Indian
R.
Ogilvie
Stewiut
Rie
Fi. Hejork
Sialiny K
whie
ur
owi.k.
Ninutiun1.
Whnueborse
LiMarsh
YUKON
Irazaiteash
nl1 1.
BIRNTISH COLU MOLLN
MtLogan
Au
Chilkat
Pasb
Chilkoot
hlch
White Pas
2888
Skagtwny
Yakutat Bay
OceanC
MILITARY CABLE
Mt.Fa
C.Fairweather
hichagof
Scud R.
Winlliau
C.Edward
Chichigolt
KupresatofI
1skut
Kruzof
Stewat
(hristion
Soinid
1711
PHGEN
BAY
S
E
hey
Seguaml
ISLANDS
178
West of Greenwich
174
142°
138°
134
1:30
ALASKA MAP A

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 5, 1934.
I do not believe that the information
contained in the attached letter from the
Navy Department is of any particular
significance. In fact the information in
several respects is inaccurate. Whaling
is a well established industry in Japan.
My reference books do not give the number
of ships engaged in whaling, but I find
that in 1932 there were caught by Japanese
whaling ships a total of 1,235 whales.
DEPARTMENT OF STA
FE:EHD/DLY
SEP 22 1934
. UF
WESTERN EUROPEANAFFAIRS

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.97)
XCR
September 8 1954
NAVY. DEPARTMENT
WE
Office of Chief of Naval Operations
OFREOEOFNAVAL INTELLIGENOE
In reply refer to No.
PARTMENT WAJAINGTON
0p-16-B-3
AG311934
L11-4/EF37(8-21)
1934
CONFIDENTIAL
FAR EASIERN AFFAIRS
SEP41934
DIVISION OF
Dear Sir:
CONPIOATIONS
Department of State
ANDS
OF STATE
The following report, which is considered reliable
your information:
22193
"Hvalfangerselskapet Antarctic A/S, through thefr
Vonder Lippe, Tonsberg, Norway, have sold their entire whaling flet
to Japanese interests for a price said to be 1,000,0Kr. It 
894.628/106
seas'.
The vessels are all under Norwegian registry with the
characteristics:
ANTARCTIC, whaling factory ship, 80,000 berrels capacity, 9,593
tons gross, twin screw, steel hull, 460.4' in length, 3 decks, built
1906. Equipped with wireless and direction finder.
SITKA, whale killer, 192 tons gross, steel huil, 106.5' in length,
built 1912.
GALICIA, whale killer, 218 tons gross, steel hull, 110.4' in
length, built 1924.
WILLIAM WILSON, whale killer, 22l tons gross, steel hull, 1ll.2'
in length, built l925. Wireless and direction finder.
LESLIE, whale killer, 224 tons gross, steel hull, 1ll.2' in
length, built l926. Wireless and direction finder.
This is apparently a new industry for Japan. The peculiarities
FILED
of whaling present a water-tight excuse for extended voyages in
心
search of whales and sheltered bascs for the factory ship in
reduction operations, and for the killers in heavy weather. Up to
C
this time whaling has not created the friction or suspicion now
(2
4
attached to fishing enterprises carried on by Japanese along the
West coast of North merica and among the islands.
In view of the present interests of the Army and Navy of the
United States in Alaska, Bering Sea, and the Aleutian Islands, the
future activity of this whaling fleet may be of definite conse-
quence, and this thought has prompted the above report."
Very truly yours,
894.628
W. D. Puleston,
Captain, U. S. N.,
Director of Naval Intelligence,
By direction.
Chief,
F/G
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.95)
September 7, 1934.
My dear Captain Puleston:
894.628/106
I ackmowledge with thanks the receipt of your
letter, under date August 31, 1934, in which there 1s
quoted a report with regard to a sale to Japanese
interests of whaling ships of Norwegian registry.
Sincerely yours,
S
Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Captain W. D. Puleston, U.S.N.,
Director of Naval Intelligence,
Navy Department,
Washington, D. C.
m.m.√.
FE
NR
SEP
1884
Wx

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.97)
TREATY DIVISION
UNITED STATES TARIFF COMMISSION
8TH AND E STREETS N. W.
OCI 5 - 1934
WASHINGTON
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SeptembeDEPRATMENT OF STATE
ROBERT L. O'BIEN.
001 3- 1934
CHAIRMAN
Assistant Secretary
bepartment of State
of State
OCT 16 1934
dear Mr. Secretary:
GCT 2 34
MR. SAYRE
SARY
I have your letter of September 25, enelosing  cony'of your
16 934.
ouggestion that a treaty be concluded with Japan, whereby all Japanese
stionals woulc refrain from engaging in any salmon packing in certain
waters off the coast of Alaske and whereby the United States import
894.628/107
uty on cenned crab would be reduced or removed.
00
In the opinion of the Tariff Commission the domestic crab in-
ISSI
canned crab. An investigation nade by the Commission in 1932 showed
thet the bulk of domestic production of creb meat is not like or similer
to the bulk of the imported, being produced from widely different seecies
of crabs, each yielding meat distinguishable in taste, color, and texture.
Imports consist of about 97 percent Jupunese deep-set crab ana 3 percent
Korean crab; domestic production consists of about 93 percent blue creb
and 7 percent dungeness crab. Imports are nonperishable, packed in seal-
ed tins, and capable of national cistrilution. Only about ? percent of
the domestic production is so pecked, the remaining 98 percent being highly
perishable cooked meet packed ir unsealed tins. Prices and costs of uro-
duction of the imported product put up in sealed tins are higher than
prices and costs of oroduction of the donestic pack put up in unsealed
tins. The domestic pack put up in sealed tins, representing about 2 per-
cent of total domestic production is more nearly comparable with imports.
It consists mainly of meat from the dungeness crab of Alaske and sells for
about the same price as the Japenese deen-see crab end for more than the
Koreen crab.
We have also considerec the suggestion made by Japanese packers
of crab meat that provision be made to facilitate their operations off the
coast of Alaska. From an economic standpoint the use of Alasken ports by
Japanese crab canning vessels, to purchase supplies, land the finished
product, end for other purposes connectcc with crab fishing and canning,
would not seriously affect the domestic crab industry. Such a concession
would, however, be objected to by the domestic fishing industry and would
probably lead to a protest by Canada or a request that the same privileges
be extended to Canadien nationals. The port privileges sought by Japanese
crab canners operating off the coast of Alaske ere accorded United State
fishing vessels by Canada, but no such privileges are accorded foreign fsh.
ing vessels by the Unitea States.
5
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
2
In lieu of the concessions sought in regard to the use of United
States ports, consideration might be given to reductions in import duties
on fishery products other than crab meat. Japanese products on which
duties could be lowered without seriously affecting the domestic industry
include dried unsalted fish, canned oysters, and certain canned fish
specialties.
Imports of dried unsalted fish, excent stockfish, dutiable at
l4 cents per pound, come mainly from Japen and consist of smell dried fish
consumed by Orientals principally in Hawaii. In 1933 the imports of these
from Japan amounted to 1,201,991 pounds, valued at $104,775. Domestic
production is negligible.
Imports of canned oysters from Japen over the 8 cents per pound
duty (equal to about 50 percent ad valorem) are negligible, but & reduction
of 25 or 50 percent in duty might lead to a small trade. Large imports
would be unlikely at the lower rate because there is a substanti:l donestic
supply, part of which is exportec.
Canned fish specialties, such as fish cakes, pastes, and sauces,
are importec in rel&tively large quantities from Japan for consunption by
Japanese. As there is no domestic production of some of these products
and no domestic production of competitive products, a reduction in the dutics
would have no effect on the domestic fishery. The present cuties on canned
fish specielties range from 25 to 30 percent ad valorem.
Consideration might also be given to a reduction in the duty on
canned tuna and on canned clems, but as these tro products are importec from
Japan in substantial quantities and are directly competitive vith the domestic
pack a concession might not be warranted. Then, too, if excessive concessions
are grantec to Japan for the purpose of excluding Japanese vessels from the
salmon fisheries of Alaske, such concessions might become & precedent should
the vessels of another country, such as Canade, enter the Alasken fishery.
The Conission has & large file of unpublished data concerning
fisheries trede with Japan and concerning fishing vessel port privileges in
the United States and foreign countries. Should negotiaticns be undcrtaken
with Japan, these papers would be places at your disposal for conficential use.
Very sinccrcly yours,
RolutiO'Bien
Robert L. O'Brien,
Chairman.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
In reply refer to
October 15 1984.
FE 894.628/107
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
With further reference to your letter of August 24,
1934, in which there was raised the question of the advis-
ability of negotiating a treaty with Japan whereby all
894.628/107
Japanese nationals would refrain from engaging in any
malmon packing in certain waters off the coast of Alaska,
and supplementing the Department's reply, dated
Soptember 25, 1934, I enclose a copy of a letter, under
date Soptember 28, 1934, which the Department has received
from the United States Tariff Commission, in regard to the
practicability of removing or reducing the duty on canned
orab and on other sea foods that are imported into the
United States in relatively large quantities from Japan.
In the event that the Department of Commeroe is
disposed to consider favorably the suggestion set forth
in
The Honorable
Daniel C. Roper,
Seeretary of Commoroe.

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.88)
-8-
in this Department's letter above-mentioned, that the
possibility of effecting an agreement be explored by dis-
cussions at Tokyo between appropriate officers of the
Ameriean and Japanese Governments, the Department would
expeet to consult the American Embassy at Tokyo in regard
to the advisability and timeliness of approaching the Japa-
nese Government in the matter before decision to take action
is reached.
Sincerely yours,
Enclosure:
From Tariff Commission,
dated September 28, 1934.
WD2
F1S
84
m.m.6
TD A-S A-S/T
EA
FEXRHD/DLY
FE
Wun
LS
10-4-34
HH
OCT 8 194

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.92)
October 15 1934.
In reply refer to
FE 894.828/107.
My dear Mr. O'Brien:
I aoknowledge with thanks the receipt of your letter,
894.628/107
dated September 28, 1934, in regard to the praoticability
of removing or reducing the duty on canned crab and certain
other sem foods.
I appreciate your courtesy in making available to the
Department the information contained in your letter under
ackmowledgment and in offering to place at my diaposal for
confidential use certain unpublished data concerning the
fisheries trade with Japan.
Sincerely yours,
The Honorable
Robert L. O'Brien,
OCT
Chairman, United States Tariff Commission,
Wamhington, D. C.
1934
以2
TAS.
141
m.m.bt.
TD
A-S
A-S/T EA
FEtNHD/DLY
—
1d24-34
Asms

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.96)
OFFICE OF ECONOMIC ADVISEN
PM RECU
AN 3 1935
332
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENTOFCOMMERCE
TREATY DIVISION
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
SISTARY
1034
DEPACTMENT OF STATE
06T 2534
STAIL
894.628
Secretary of State,
Iuct. to dokyr
shington, D. C.
19 1984
STATE
My dear yr. Secretary:
The receipt is acknowledged of Department of State letters qet5d
September 25, 1934, and 0ctober 15, 1934 (file FE 894.628/T07) and copy
/108
ing the advisability of seeking to negotiate a treaty with Japan which
would prohibit all Japanese nationals from engaging in salmon packing
operations in the waters of Bering Sea and Bristol Bay east of a line
extending from Cape Avinof to Cape Sarichef.
It is noted that previous inquiry by the Department of State has
developed that the Japanese Covernment could not invoke any legislation
to prevent Japanese vessels from carryin on lawful fishing operations
in non-territorial waters, and that such restraint would be possible
only through the conclusion of a treaty. It is noted further that the
State Department is of the belief that it would be advisable to provide
adequate restraint a ainst operations by Japenese fishing vessels in-
jurious to the Alaska salmon industry as sooi as practicable, and before
substantial investments are made by Japanese .Iterests in such operations.
This Department is entirely in accord with these views and is of
the belief that progress toward effectin: such an agreement would result
from informal discussions at Tokyo between officers of the American
Embassy at Tokyo and a representative of the Bureau of Fisheries and
Japanese authorities and vested private interests of Japan. It is under-
stood that arrangements for such informal discussions should be held in .
abeyance pending & report from the American Embassy at Tokyo as to the
advisability and timeliness of approaching the Japanese Government in
the matter of effecting such a treaty.
AR
It is to be expected that the Japanese Government will not enter
FILED
into an agreement which will restrict the fishery operations of nation
als of that country on the high seas off the Alaska coast without re-
ceiving certain compensatory privileges. In this connection the Tariff
Commission has stated that there would be no serious injury to American
industry resulting from the removal of import duties on canned crab,
dried unsalted fish (except stockfish), canned oysters, and various
canned fish specialties now being imported from Japan.

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.98)
333
- 2 -
It is the opinion of the Bureau of Fisheries that assured
protection of the valuable Alaska salmon fisheries from threatened
interference by Japanese cannery vessels operating in non-territorial
waters would be far more important to the United States than the
small revenue derived from import duties on the products mentioned
above.×
This Department will await with interest the report of the
American Embassy at Tokyo as to the propriety of approaching the
Japanese Governm nt in the matter at this time.
Sinceroly yours,
Secretary of Co merce.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
334
.639
November 1a 195
CONFIDENTIAL -- STAFF USE ONLY.
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
8
6
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
Reference is made to the Embassy's despatch No. 2ey.
under date September 8, 1930, in regard to Japanese fiah-
ing activities in the Bering Sea and certain waters pff
the Alaskan Coast. The question has again been ruisad in
regard to the advisability and timeliness of negotiating
a treaty with Japan, whereby all Japanese natiorals would
refrain from engaging in any salmon packing in the waters
of Bering Sea and Bristol Bay east of a line from Cape
Avinof near the west entrance to Kuskokwim Bay to Cape
Sarichef at the west end of Unimak Island. In this con-
nection, documents, as listed below, bearing upon the
subjeet of the protection of the Alaskan salmon fishing
industry are enelosed for your information.
Owing to its present exposed state, the best interests
of the Alaskan fishing industry appear to make important
the negotiation of a protective treaty; and there seems
good reason to have such a treaty concluded before Japanese
interests will have made substantial investments looking to
salmon fishing operations in the area defined. The Depart-
ment

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.96)
335
-2-
ment has no evidence that Japanese salmon packing opera-
tions in Alaskan waters are an immediate prospeet, but
desires to provide safeguards against such an eventuality.
The Department is not at this time prepared to insti-
tute motual nogotiation of a treaty of the kind herein
described or to authorize the Embassy to approach the
competent Japanese authorities, but desires to receive an
expression of the views of the Embassy in regard to the
advisability and timeliness of approaching the Japanese
Government in the matter. In the meantime, it is requested
that the information contained in the doeuments supplied,
herewith, be treated as confidential; and that should the
Embassy's reply to the question herein raised be in the
affirmative, the Embassy make reply by telegraph.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of States
William Phillipe
Enclosures:
105
From Department of Commerce,
August 24, 1934.
105
To Department of Commerce,
September 25, 1934.
105
To United States Tariff Commission,
September 25, 1934.
September 28, 1934.
07 To Department of Commeree,
October 15, 1934.
108 From Department of Commerce,
October 24, 1934.
NOV 17 1904
894.628/108
TB.S.
mns
FEILDS/DLY
FE
TD
A-S
U
mmt

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
336
OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
E WHETHER
LCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
his cable was sant in condential Code.
PARTAIR
RECEIVED
It should be careiuly parephraegg3
PLAIN
being communicree te anyene.
8 PM 5 37
March 7, 1935.
unm
AMEMBASSY,
DIVIS ON OF
COMMUNCATIONS
TOKYO (Japan).
AND ALOORDS
35
Department's instruction/ No!($39,' November|19) 1934.
We would appreciate receipt las soon as practicable
of expression ofyour views./
An official /of the Bureau of (Marine Products Japanese
894.628/
Department of Agriculture and Forestry, who is(now in) the
United States, manifested to an officer of/the Department/
and to(an officer ofthe Bureau of Fisheries Anterest in
faver revision of the Fur Seals(Treaty. Have there been)
8
indications of a revival of (interest in \Japan in this
matterd
Please
It is assumod that you will refrain fromconsulting)
7.10
Japanese/officials in connection with either of/these
matters
Hele
ew
894.628/108
m20.1
FE:EHD/DLY
FE
SM+
Enciphered by
MAR 8
Sent by operator
M.,
19.
D. C. R.—No. 50.
1-138
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1934

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.96)
Confidential
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
RECEV
DERTVENTIF STATE
WASHINGTON
31 October 1934
1934 NOV 3 AM 9 41
894.629
DIVISION OF
Division
The Honorable
COMMUNICATIONS
FAR EASTERN 
The Secretary ADBECeRDS
Washington, D. C.
AOV 5- 1934
Sir:
Department of State
894.628/109
There is inclosed herewith for the informa-
tion of your Department copy of report dated 24 October
1934 from the Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force, U.S.
Coast Guard, dealing with Japanese activities in Ber-
ing See during the season of 1934, as observed by ves-
sels of his Force.
By direction of the Secretary,
Respectfully,
nclosures (1).
Assistant Secretary.
26 1934
PPI
C
F/G

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.96)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
United States Const Guard
ffice of Commander
Lare Island. Culifornia,
Bering Sea Patrol Force
2 Cctober, 1934
CONFIDENTIAL
From:
Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force.
To :
Commander, Western Area.
Subject:
Japanese activities in Bering Sea, Season 1934.
References: (a) Western rea letter, 26 July, 1934 (W-601-611).
(b) Headquarters letter, 2 July. 1934 (Ac-611-623).
1.
On 15 May, 1934, the TaHcH identified the Jupanese cannery
vessel T0TEN MARU, No. 72. at anchor in lati tuce 55-1 N., 163-28 W.,
9 1/4 miles from nearest land. Eight tenders were ooserved, three of
which, loaded with crab, were approaching the cannery vessel.  line
of buoys marked by various colored flags and pennants, extendin to the
westward for a di tance of about fifteen miles fron latitude 5-15 N..
longitude 163-18 ., marked the crab nets of these Jaanese fisning
vessels.
2.
On 23 lay, 1934, the k1 identified the Japanese crab
cannery momyy MaRU (formerly the Facomo MaR) in lati tude 55-14 N.,
longitude 163-32 W. Her eight tenders were hauling nets in the general
vicinity and it was noticed that considerable crabs were tayen. Cn
25 May, 19z4, the EWINc identified the Japanese crab cannery YASarC MARU,
No. 82, at anchor in 1atitude 56-20 N., longitude 16l-45 W. Tvo diesel
travlers were operating in the vicinity. These trawlers, the IITal I and
aZucI, used beam trawls and were catching halibut, lounders, cod and
crab. The Japanese crab cunnery T.IHCHU MARy was identified by the
DWING in 1 titude 56-14 N., longi tude 16l-00 V. Ten tenders were ob-
served hauling nets and three diesel povered tenuers for setting nets.
Nets belonging to this vessel were seen in an arer forty miles long
and eight miles wide. Each string of net: was estinmuta c be six
miles 1ong. The TaIHckU LaRU was identified on 25 May. 1934. Cn 11 June.
1934. the EING identified the LaSar0 laRv in latituce S6-35 T., longi tude
161-53 W.
3.
On 11 June, 1934, the EwING observed the Japanese Fisheries
Institute training ship HAYUYo NaRU at anchor in lati tude 56-15 N.,
longi tude 161-05 W. On this same aate the EWING observed the ToTHF MaRU
in position 55-42 N., 102-40 W.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
01
Ing Sea Patrol Force
apanese Activities in Bering Sea
Season 1934
24 0ctober, 1934.
4. Cn 12 June, 19 4, the HaIrA identified the Japanese
Fisheries Institute training ship HakUYC MaRU, in latitude 56-13 N.,
longitude 160-56 W., and on this same date identified the Japanese
floating cannery Ta.IHOKU MRU in latitude 56-25 N., longitude 160-51 W.
The commanding officer, HAIDA, questioned the Masters of all the American
codfishing vessels about relations between them and the Japanese vessels
in the vicinity and reports indicated that relations were amicable.
5. Cn 22 July. 1934, the EWING identified the TOTEN MRU at anchor
in latitude 57-01 N., longitude 169-40 W. Tenders were observed in the
vicinity of the cannery vessel. The crab net area southwest of mak Island
was estimated to be twenty-three miles long and tro miles wide.
6. Cn 14 auuust, 1934, while in the vicinity of the Japanese cannery
vessel TAIHCKU LARU, which was anchored about 51 miles offshore, wi th nine
small tenders operating in vicinity, the officer in charge BoNhiaM, accepted
the invitation of the Master of that vessel and called on him. he Master
of the TAIHOKU IARU gave the followin information relative to the movements
of the crab fishing vessels: that the TN MaRU was en route from Bering
Sea and Bristol Bay for further crab fishin in the immediate vicinity of
the west coast of Yamchatka: that all other vessels had departed for either
Kamchatka Peninsula area or the Siherian coast. He stated that the TaIHoyU
MARU would probably remain in Bering Sea until about 15 Sey tember, 1934,
on which date they would depart for Habuko, Japan.
7. The Japanese Consul at Seattle, We shington, informed the Con
mander, Bering Sea Patrol Force by letter, that the Japanese Governnent
Fishery Institute training vessel HAkuYo MARU was to make its "tenth"
cruise for the purpose of instructing its students in pelagic fishery
and also to afford them practice in navigetion and seamanship. An itinerary
of the contemplated cruise accompanied the letter. The HfUYo MARU arrived
at Dutch Harbor on 3 July, 1934, and departed 7 July 1934. It is noted
that the letter received last year from the Japanese Consul at Seattle
stated the HakYo ARU would make its "ein th" cmiise and the letter this
year stated "tenth" cruise.
G. T. FINLAY

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.92)
FOR TE OMMERCIAL OFFICE,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
Voluntary.
Copyin 7E-381
DEPARTMINT OF
A
5
894.628
894.628/110
DEAT
logeies 8
901934
FILL
6.9
Fisheries
A-0/
JAPAR
THE
WHALING INDUSTRY
OF
之
1934
Nncber He  
From Vice Consul
Robert Mills McClintock.
Kobe, Japa . Date of Completion: October 13, 1934.
Date of Mailing:
61934
NOV 2 3 1934
Hononl Ponnror
FILED
Approved:
Howard Donovan,
American Consul.

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
History of the Japanese Whale Fishery.
The seas surrounding the Japanese islands have
long been known as the habitat of whales, although
it was not until the nineteenth century, with the
advent of the Yankee whaling ship, that the fishery
was developed in those waters.
Prior to that time
Japanese fishermen occasionally brought in small
cetaceans, but there was no regular industry. The
proscription imposed by the Tokugawa Shogunate against
the building of vessels capable of deep sea navigation
was also a factor which for almost three centuries
made a Japanese whaling industry impossible.
The New Bedford and Nantucket whalers came to
Japanese waters primarily in search of the sperm
whale, then the most valuable of the species; and for
a while the Japanese fishery rivalled that of the
Seychelles in the number of sperm taken. The Bering
Sea whalers, however, working to the westward along
the Aleutian fringe, soon discovered that baleen whales
were also to be taken in Japanese waters and came in
search of right whales, humpbacks and grey whales.
Whether the American whalers of that day attempted to
take the great blue whale or fin back, the writer is
not aware, although it is certain that until the advent
of the explosive harpoon this most enormous of living
things was relatively immune from human attack.
It will be recalled that almost the first direct
interest of the United States in Japan developed from
the activity of American whalers in waters contiguous
to the coasts of the Empire. It was the necessity of
American

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
American whalers securing supplies from Japanese
harbors and the difficulty to which shipwrecked
American whalers had been subjected by the laws of
the Tokugawa regime which formed one of the principal
reasons for the intervention of Commodore Perry; and
one of the chief aims of Townsend Harris in negotiating
the first commercial treaty of a western power with
Japan was to provide for the assistance of the
American whale fishery in the seas adjacent to Japan.
Following the decadence of the New England whale
industry the waters of Japan lay fallow for almost a
generation. It was not until the Norwegians and
others had perfected the technique of the small killer
vessel armed with an explosive harpoon and serving a
shore station or floating factory that there developed
a domestic whaling industry in Japan.
. Early in the
present century the Toyo Whaling Company introduced
the new technique, which was speedily adopted by three
other small enterprises. The four little firms were
amalgamated in 1909 by the Toyo Whaling Company and
from that year may be said to date the inception of
(1)
modern whaling in Japan. Toyo Whaling itself was
founded in 1899.
Since 1909 the Toyo Whaling Company has followed
a policy of acquiring smaller enterprises until the
point has been reached where the parent firm practically
controls the whaling industry of Japan. Today there
are five independent companies engaged in whaling, but
of the total fleet Toyo Whaling owns 25 out of 3l killer
vessels, representing 2,898 gross tons of the 3,705
tons

=== Page 290 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-
tons of all Japanese whalers. Similarly, of the 38
(1)
whaling stations in Japan, Toyo owns 30.
The story
of Japanese whaling, therefore, is practically the
history of this one firm.
Government Aid.
Mention should not be neglected of the role of
the Japanese Government in the development and
regulation of the Japanese whaling industry.
Under the heading of development, the principal
work of the Government has been in the application of
the Act for the Encouragement of the Pelagic Fishery.
This legislation dates from 1897, but has been subject
to numerous revisions.
As now in force, the law
provides for two types of subsidy to high seas
fishermen; one for the construction of vessels, and
one for the maintenance of actual operations. The
whaling industry benefits only from the former type
of assistance, receiving no state aid to defray cost
of operations.
The effect of the Act for the Encouragement of the
Pelagic Fishery upon the whaling industry of Japan has
been the construction of special killer vessels under
terms of a Government bounty. The little ships must
be built in conformity with the Regulations for the
Inspection of Vessels Engaged in Pelagic Waters in
order to receive the subsidy. The construction
(2)
bounties granted are as follows:
For

=== Page 291 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-
For Vessels Under 60 Gross Tons.
Per ton of vessels constructed of steel - ¥60 maximum.
Per ton of vessels constructed of wood --
¥45 maximum.
Per horsepower of steam engines
¥22 maximum.
Per horsepower of diesel motors
¥40 maximum.
These rates of subsidy may be made less than the
maximum, depending upon types of vessels built, need
for aid, and other factors.
Vessels of Over 60 Gross Tons.
Vessels of over 60 gross tons are constructed with a
bounty of not exceeding 20% of the total cost of
(2)
construction.
Another provision of the Act stipulates that under
certain circumstances the cost of repairs or special
improvements for vessels engaged in the open seas
fishery may be defrayed by the Government up to one-
(2)
third of the total cost of such repairs or improvements.
Government Regulation.
As a counterpart to Government aid, the Japanese
whaling industry is subject to Government regulation,
under the Ministry of Forestry and Agriculture, which
supervises all the fisheries of the Empire. The
authorities have been quick to recognize the danger of
unrestrained whaling and in order to preserve the
fishery have placed the industry under a system of
lioenses. The total number of killer vessels which
are allowed to operate in Japanese waters is set at
thirty. At the present time some twenty-seven such
craft are in operation. Similarly, there is a limita-
tion on the number of whaling stations. Whaling
oompanies may not operate without licenses specifying
the

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
the period during which operations may be conducted,
the areas to be worked and the types of cetaceans
(1)
which may be taken. It is understood, however, that
this supervision applies only to contiguous waters and
not to open ocean activity in the North Pacific or in
(3)
the South Pacific.
In spite of these restrictions on operations, the
number of whales in Japanese waters has been steadily
diminishing. Part of this diminution has been due to
gradual extermination and part to the fact that the
animals are moving off the coasts to the greater safety
(1)
of the open sea.
. It is likewise possible that a shift
in the supply of food, such as plankton and cuttlefish,
has had effect upon this movement.
Types of Whales in the Japan Fishery.
The kinds of whales taken by Japanese killers
are best represented by the following table, which
indicates the numbers and value of each variety of
whale captured during the years 1923, 1928, 1929,
(3)
1930 and 1931:
WHALES

=== Page 293 === (confidence 1.00)
-7-
WHALES CAUGHT (Value in yen)
Whales caught
1923
1928
1929
1930
1931
In home waters
Total
No.
1,166
1,118
1,220
1,368
1,004
Value 1,416,280 1,453,618 1,473,835 1,473,835 1,246,671
Finback whale
No.
258
149
203
142
171
Value
351,111
268,570
338,024
224,530
181,206
Blue whale
No.
32
17
13
48
17
Value
120,430
46,279
46,927
129,550
34,649
Sperm whale
No.
364
617
606
751
359
Value
455,713
762,746
690,537
556,062
222,257
Humpback whale
No.
17
31
12
12
30
Value
45,851
70,955
25,097
41,327
42,036
Sei whale
No.
488
299
381
410
419
Value
409,961
293,585
356,279
285,258
267,243
Grey whale
No.
7
Value
Right whale
No.
5
5
5
8
Value
33,214
11,483
15,971
9,944
18,817
Whales caught
1923
1928
1929
1930
1931
In colonial waters
Total
No.
256
332
255
349
221
Value
629,796
683,010
558,340
612,132
375,423
Finback whale
No.
173
261
178
258
166
Value
484,628
530,149
389,605
433,662
295,190
Blue whale
No.
3
2
3
8
3
Value
6,728
7,991
11,725
29,255
8,775
Sperm whale
No.
2
Value
3,836
Humpback whale
No.
53
60
62
50
40
Value
88,960
121,663
133,278
91,693
50,129
Sei whale
No.
1
2
Value
374
1,487
Grey whale
No.
9
12
30
10
Value
27
23,207
23,732
53,312
19,842
Right whale
No.
Value
49,430
The

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
The distribution of the whale fishery is wide,
ranging from the Kuriles in the far north, where right
whales are taken, to the semi-tropical waters around
Formosa. Sperm are found principally on the Pacific
coast of the main island off Sendai, about a hundred
miles to seaward of Kinkazan Point, although they are
sometimes encountered as far north as Hokkaido. The
wide geographical distribution of the industry is
instanced by the location of the stations of the
principal operator, the Toyo Whaling Company, compris-
ing 30 of the 38 stations under license from the
(1)
Government:
1 station
Karafuto
5 stations
Kurile Islands
3 stations
Hokkaido
8 stations
Honshu
1 station
Shikoku
4 stations
Kyushu
1 station
Taiwan
6 stations
Chosen
1 station
Kwan tung Leased
Territory
The dimensions of the whales taken in the Japan
fishery vary, of course, with the species, but the
(1)
following data convey a fair conception of their size:
Average
Species
Length
Weight
Greenland whale
42 to 60 feet
115,920 pounds
Southern Right whale
50 to 70 feet
78,660
n
Humpback whale
36 to 50 feet
82,800
n
Sperm whale
30 to 54 feet
107,640
1"
Pacific Grey whale
25 to 40 feet
49,680
Finback or rorqual
50 to 90 feet
124,000
n
Whaling Operations.
It is not necessary to describe at great length
the methods of the Japanese whale fishery, as they were
brought over in toto from the technique of the Norwegians
and British as prinoipally developed in the Ross Sea and
the

=== Page 295 === (confidence 1.00)
-9-
the other Antarctic grounds. The small killer ships,
most of them averaging around 120 tons, slip up on the
prey while it is breaching or basking and discharge
into it a bomb harpoon. The dead whale is reeled in
by winch and either inflated with air to await the
return of the killer boat or is at once towed into
the shore station. There are at present no floating
whale stations, although recently the Toyo Whaling Co.
bought the old Norwegian factory ship ANTARCTIC and
four killers of Norwegian owners, for use in the South
(4)
Pacific.
. At the shore stations the whale is hauled up
on the beach, the carcass is flensed and the blubber
tried out. The various uses to which the products of
the whale are put will be discussed below.
Whaling Companies.
In addition to the great Toyo Whaling Company
there are four other firms in the Japanese fishery.
(1)
The industry may be summarized in tabular form
thus:
Killer
Vessels
Name of Company
Capitalization
Number
Tonnage
Toyo Whaling
¥6,000,000
25
2,898
(¥3,750,000 pa1d up)
Tosa Whaling
¥1,000,000
2
210
(nominal)
Daido Fishing
¥800,000
2
212
Ayukawa Whaling
¥300,000
1
190
Enyo Whaling
¥200,000
1
195
Toyo Whaling was recently acquired by the huge
Japan Industrial Company, the holding company of the
Kuhara interests, but has been maintained with its own
autonomy. It is understood, however, that Toyo Whaling
will henceforth be known as Nippon Whaling Company.
The

=== Page 296 === (confidence 1.00)
-10-
The following statistics showing the number of
whales caught by Toyo Whaling from 1909 to 1928 are
principally of interest because they are a fair index
of the activity of the industry as a whole since its
inception, in view of the predominance of this one
(1)
firm in the Japan whale fishery.
Year
Number
Value
1909
897
¥1,404,090
1910
898
1,444,976
1911
937
1,234,114
1912
824
1,300,427
1913
978
1,536,486
1914
952
1,439,120
1915
1,083
1,342,775
1916
1,261
1,941,270
1917
1,354
2,950,955
1918
1,488
3,516,877
1919
1,234
4,116,952
1920
975
3,500,384
1921
1,091
2,755,896
1922
1,110
2,740,974
1923
1,149
3,104,522
1924
1,247
3,504,488
1925
1,177
3,206,418
1926
1,243
2,997,283
1927
1,161
3,066,217
1928
984
2,984,510
Production.
The number and kinds of whales caught in Japanese
waters within recent years have already been indicated.
The sole remaining question is the utilization of the
animals caught.
Whale Oil.
It is, of course, obvious from the entire history
of whaling that the principal use of the whale is as a
source of animal oil, rendered from blubber. Of the
whales oaught in Japan the best from the point of view
of the quality of the oil are the Greenland and
Southern Right whales and the sperm. The humpback,
grey and rorqual whales do not yield oil of such
richness

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
richness. That special oil tried from spemicetti
comes solely from the brain case of the sperm whale.
The uses to which whale oil is put in Japan are
manifold. It is devoted to the making of soaps,
artificial butter, candles, hardened oil, as a
substitute for vegetable oils, for lamp oil, for
machinery and leather grease, and for the special
greases used in weaving.
In l929 the total production of whale oil in
Japan amounted to ¥704,925. During the following year
the total declined to ¥517,520, and in 1931 it slumped
(5)
to ¥168,92l. Statistics on production are not available
for later years, but the data for whale oil exports
indicate that there was a considerable increase in
production from this very low figure.
Exports of
(6)
whale oil have been as follows:
Year
Value
1928
¥220,000
1929
43,000
1930
361,000
1931
146,000
1932
465,000
1933
131,000
The bulk of this exportation goes to Germany and
Great Britain, although Denmark took a large quantity
in 1932.
Baleen_or_Whalebone.
Baleen or whalebone from all the whales caught
in Japan except sperm (which have teeth in the lower
jaw) is utilized for stiffening, although its classical
contribution to the corset is no longer of importance,
least of all in Japan where corsets are unknown.
Inferior baleen is made into bone meal or fertilizer.
Meat

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
Meat.
In Japan the whale is an important source of
food. It is sold fresh, the same as beef or horse
meat, but the principal utilization is in the salted
or preserved form. The Toyo Whaling Company salts
meat which is said to keep for one year. Other whale
meat is preserved in the lees of sake or rice wine.
Skin.
Whale skin is salted the same as meat and forms
the basis for at least nine different dishes, according
to the unique "whale cook book" compiled by the Toyo
Whaling Company.
A special kind of skin called une is that along
the ventral side of the whale, from the mouth to the
genital organs. This is prized for its culinary
possibilities, both in the raw and salted state.
Flukes.
The flukes of the whale are bottled and are eaten
in the form of yubiki: strips scalded and then eaten
when cool with vinegar and bean paste.
Irikasu.
Irikasu is a sort of hardened gelatin made from
the skin and tongue of the whale after the extraction
of oil. It is first soaked in water until it becomes
soft, after which it is used as the basis of soup or
(1)
other dishes.
Ambergris:
Ambergris comes only from the sperm whale and is
generally found as the result of stomach ulceration
caused by the beaks of cuttlefish, the principal article
of

=== Page 299 === (confidence 1.00)
-13-
of diet of this species. While it is but rarely
encountered, it may be listed as one of the products
of the Japan whale fishery.
Fertilizer.
Almost as important as the varied uses of whale
by-products for food is the utilization of by-products
in the form of fertilizer. Every vestige of the whale
not devoted to the uses above described is made into
fertilizer: inferior meat, viscera, skin and bones.
There are three principal types of whale fertilizer:
bone meal, flesh fertilizers and blood fertilizers.
Steamed bone meal contains an average of 3.19%
nitrogen and 23.75% phosphate. It is principally of
value for fruit orchards. It is claimed that whale bone
meal is superior to other bone meals because it is less
soluble in water. It is said to be superior to
superphosphate on account of the fact that it does not
oxidize the soil. It is understood to be especially
effective when used in conjunction with whale flesh
(1)
fertilizers.
Whale meat meal contains an average of 1l.49%
nitrogen and 0.79% phosphate. It is used for mulberry
(1)
trees and other plants requiring nitrogen in abundance.
Whale blood fertilizer is composed of nitrogen
10.52% and phosphate 0.90%.
Its uses are similar to
(1)
those of meat meal.
According to the Toyo Whaling Company, an average
rorqual of a length of 75 feet will be utilized as
follows:
For

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.96)
-14-
For Food.
Meat
58,954 pounds
Sunoko (tissues between
meat and skin).
3,974
n
Skin
19,872
19
Flukes
1,159
11
Une (ventral skin)
7,949
1"
For Oil.
Tongue
2,484
Viscera and fat
4,637
Bone
12,420
11
Other Parts.
Baleen
1,242
1"
All other parts
7,949
11
NOT FOR PUB
Total:
120,640 pounds
The writer would state his frank suspicion of the
above statistics with regard to the low proportion
TION
of "fat" (presumably blubber) and the high proportion
of edible meat. It would seem more logical if the
proportions were reversed.
Such in brief is the whale industry of Japan.
It is not a large industry, nor an important one, nor
does its production at all compare with the vast output
of the Antarctic grounds. At the same time, the whale
fishery of Japan is of interest as the principal
industry of this character in an ocean once haunted
by many whaling ships; and as the residuary legatee
of the fishery first conducted in Japanese waters by
the whalers of New England.
862.8

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
862.8 (780)
RMMcC/mh
In quintuplicate to Commercial Office,
Department of State.
Copy to Commercial Attache.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Sources of Information.
1.
Toyo Whaling Company, Head Office, 14 Kawaguchi-cho,
Nishi-ku, Osaka. Interviews and letters.
2.
The Foreign Affairs Association of Japan: Japan
Year Book, 1933, pp. 494-5.
3.
Idem., p. 484.
4.
Vice Consul McClintock: Shipping in the Japanese
Empire, July, 1934, p. 14.
5.
Japan Year Book, 1933, p. 700.
6.
Japanese Customs Returns.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.94)
ADDRESS THE COMMANDANT, U. S. COAST GUARD
AND REFER TO No.
w
C0-64
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
TNTUNITED STATES COAST GUARD
Lisr of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DQUARTERS
WASHINGTON
19
10.1934
8 November 1934
CONFIDENTIAL
Departmen! of State
JF
MEM RANDUM for Mr. Baldwin, Room 388, State Department.
Referring to your telephonic conversation
with this office this morning, there is inclosed here-
with a copy of report made under date of 24 October
1934 by the Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force, to
the Commissioner of Fisneries, concerning the activi-
894.628/
844.625
ties of Japanese vessels in Bering Sea during the
season of 1s34, as obeerved by his Force.
H. G. HAMLET
Rear Admiral, U.S.Coast Guard
Inclosure (1)
Commandant
DEPARIMENL OF SIATE
NOVI
WESTERD CUG PEAN AFFAIRS
NOV 1 9 1934
FILDD

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.87)
Mare Island, California,
24 cctoper, 1934
COIFIDENTIAL
Fro.:
Commander, Bering set Petrol Foree.
To :
Commissioner, Bureau of Pisheries, Lent rtment
of Connerce, Wa shington, D. C. (via on  nuer,
Western Area, and Conms nuant, .s. C est Gr ra).
Subject:
Jananese vess 1s in Berin se, son 1.
Reference:
(a) Coast Gurd Feacqnarterr! letter,  uly, 1
(A0-611-123).
1.
The ollovin is a report e ativities of
Japenese vessels in Berins set us oberved veesris e..
Co st Guard Berine Sea Fatrol Force, Seuon Th:
2.
Cn 15 My, 195u, te mHo identified the Japanese
cannery vessel Tomn Ru, lo. 7, at anerer in lati tude -1 "..
163-25 ., ? 1/4 miles fr neerest land. t tnders "ere otservec,
t ree of which, loaded wit crat, were a oachiny te cannery vess l.
A lin of buoys murked b vasione colored fl gs are en a ts, extent
ino t the wostward for a distance of al out fiften miles fron lati-
tude -15 , 1onritde 1-1 ., par  t crar ts et tese
Japanese fisling vessels.
1se cr
conneryea-1
lon16
general vicinity ane  was w iced t oe eras  tu.
On 25 Ly. 12 4, the  ientiieu tt e me era annery 1Is0
Pa, No. 2, at tmehor in latitude p-2o N., lon1tde l6l-:.
Two diesel trawlers were operatin in the viciity. ese travlere,
the KITamI and aZucHI, used beam trawls ane were tein nalihut,
flounders, cod and crab. Te ttuunese cre cannery aIHokU lARU was
identified by the EWING in latitude o-1 - , lor itmce 16l-00 . Ten
tenders were ohserved hauling ets ande  ieselrea tenders
for setting nets. Nets belonsin o thi: vesael were seen in an area
forty miles long anc eimt miles viae. ec strin of nets wes
estima ted to be six niles lone. T TaIHcYt lnu was identified on
25 May. 1934. Cn 11 June, 194, the Ewre teenti t e  C 1A
in latitude 56-35 ., longitude 1 1-52.

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.91)
611-64.
Bering Sea Patrol Force
Japanese vessels in Berinf Sea,
Season 1934
2(ctober, 19
4.
On 1l June, 1, the WING observeu the Japanese
Fisheries Insti tute training ship taYy Yo afy at une.or in lati tude
56-15 N., longitude 16l-06 W. Cn this sane cate the EWING observed
the ToTEN 1aRU in posi tion 55-42 1., 162 wo W.
5.
On 12 June, 1h, the HaI identifieu the Japanese
Fisheries Insti tute trainine shi Hakuy Lanu, in latituce s-1? N.,
longi tude 160-5 ., and on this sa e date i ntifies te punese
floating cannery maIHor LRU in lati tuce  ., lon itu  1 1 .
The commanding officer, It, oetienee the aster: ef ll the
Anericon codfishins vessels atout relations betxeon then ane tue
Japanese vessels in  e vicinity and repurte insicateu that relari ms
vere amicable.
6.
On  ly, , the   te  
at anchor in latitude 7-01, loni1 .ronders were
observed in the vicinity of t e cunnery vessel.  e crab net area
southwest of nay Islanu was estimatea t be t y-t ree miles lon
and twe viles vide.
7.
On 14 w ust, 1 34, while in the vicinity of the
Japanese cunnery vessel TaTroyU :aRU, vhich vas anc ored about  1
miles offshore, with. nine sroil tenders op eratine in vicinity, the
officer in charge Bofial, acce ted the invi tation o the aster of
that vessel and called on tim. The laster  me Talery tak rave
the follovine information relative to tie pover ente af the erat
fishin vessels: that the pota hl wes enate rom Berine sea
ana Bristol Bay for further crat fishine in the in euiate vicinity
of the west coast of Kanei atira; that all et ur vens 1s tae epartee
for either Kamchatka Peninsula area or the siberian coast. He stated
that the TAIHoRU IRU would probably remain in Berin Sea until about
15 Sey tember, 1934, on wicn uate they voula depart for Habuko, Japan.
2

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.96)
611-64
Bering Sea Patrol Force
Japanese vessels in Bering Sea,
Season 1934
24. cctober 1934
8.
The Japanese Consul at Seattle, Washington, informed the
Commander, Bering Sea Fatrol Force by letter, that the Janenese Govern-
ment Fishery Institute training vessel ayiyc lRy was to make its
"tenth" cruise for the purpose of instruetin: its students in  elagic
fishery and al so to afford t em practice in n vigc tion ane seamanship.
An itinerary of the contemplated cruise accompanieu tie letter. The
HAKYC MARU arrived Dutch Haroor on 3  ly. 1y4 and departed 7 July,
1934. It is noted that the letter received last year fr e Jananese
Consul at Seattle stated the ary  weulo muke its "eie th" cruise
and the letter this year st ted "tenth" ruise.
G. T. Finluy.

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.89)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDERSECRETARY
December 13, 1934.
4
Will you speak to
me about this some time?
I told Wlr. Philligts
what the Trosent stahes
of the mather rs.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FA EASTLNAARS
4
111994
m.m. H.
RECEIVED
DEC14934
COUNIATIONS NRECOS
FE
Mr. W. Cameron Forbes reminded me this morning
that he had, during the last Administration, tried to
elicit the Department's interest in reaching some sort
of an agreement with Japan with regard to the protection
894.628
894.628/1
He said that large numbers
note
of salmon in the Pacific.
of Japanese fishing vessels had been approaching the
7111948
mouths of our rivers (probably within 7 or 8 miles);
that these ships carried also canning appara us and
combined therefor the qualities of fishermen with that
3
of canners; the Japanese vessels were taking far more
than their share of salmon and, because of the cheap-
ness of their industry and the low wages involved, they
were in a position rapidly to undersell our own canned
salmon products; he felt that now was the time to work
out some sort of an understanding with the Government
DEC
F丘L6
of Japan on the subject.
1
I asked Mr. Forbes what he had in mind as a quid
1934
G
pro quo for Japan, in order to induce them to reduce
their fishing activities. Mr. Forbes replied that re-
pair facilities for their fishing vessels in our ports
and possibly concessions in a trade agreement would, in
his opinion, be worth considering in this connection.
U WP/AB
William Phillips.

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.83)
mont
Jo mote
Enclozur2 to
Trasmiys 12/21,
Under Ptranis-
mitting letter
n 12/28.
L28

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.77)
Dec.27
H
Please
Jioce Frear
d
that it
12'8s to andeal.
Cheeed Gillm's
fice-Inclosurt pemised
128

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.94)
PE
5
110432
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
RECEIVED
DEPARTMEHIF STATE
WASHINGTON
1934 DEC 24 AM 9 24
894.628
FARRS
COMMUNCATIONS
The Honorable
ANDBECORDS
 1934
St
The Secretary of State.
Departmont of State
Sir:
There is inclosed for your information a copy
of a letter from the Collector of Customs, Los Angeles,
California, dated November 26, l934, concerning the desire
894.628/114
of certain Japanese commercial interests to bring their own
fishing fleet across the Pacific, with which it is represented
they would bring lobster catches to Los Angeles, California,
for transshipment to Japan.
▲ copy of the reply of the Bureau of Customs to the
Collector of Customs, Los Angeles, is inclosed.
By direction of the Secretary:
Respectfully,
AtphinlB Gi thare
F/FG.
Assistant Secretary or the Treasury.
MAR 30 1935
70
FILED
no uclosarer received
Y

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.94)
GE
110432
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
ATE
WASHINGTON
1935 AN353
Divis
FAR EASTER AMARS
LNS
1
Departmant of State
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
574.625/114
Sir:
There are transmitted the inclosures which were
894.628/1
inadvertently omitted from the Department's letter of
December 21,1934, concerning the desire of certain
Japanese commercial interests to bring their own fishing
fleet across the Pacific, with which it is represented
they would bring lobster catches to Los Angeles, California,
5
for transshipment to Japan.
By direction of the Secretary:
Respectfully.
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.
Inclosure No. 35864
MAR 30 103
FILED

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.95)
110432
4
The Collector of Cu toms,
Loe ng les, lffornia
ir:
eference is ade to your letter of ovember 6,
1934 (45), cone rning an inquiry of n atto ney represe t ng
Japanese commerctnl intereste as to hcther it is vermissible
for these nterests to br'n t eir n fi hing fleet aoross
the uoific, ith hich  t s planned to rine the l bster
catches to yo r ort for t nsshinment to Japan on the r gular
trans-Pacific liners.
There ap eare to be no b ection so far as Cust ms laws
ani regulatiois ure concern d to the transshi ment at your ort
of fish from Japanese f shing vessels to r gular trans-Pacif c
liners for shipment to Japan, and the rocedure in rticle 912
of the Customs Regulations f 1931 governin entry for immediute
exportation should be followed.
Copies of your letter are being ent to the Navy Denartnent
and tate Department for t e r information. A copy of your letter
is lso being :ent to the Bur u of Navigution nd teamboat In-
anection so that it mey advi: e you as to whether tho proposed ction
is permissible under the navigation laws.
espectfully,
Commissioner of Cu:toms.
1.J: JB 12/12/34

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
45
TRASURY DEPART NT
United tates Customs ervice
LOS VG L. LIF.
Vovember 26, 1934
CONF IDE VTLAL
The Commissioner of Custome
Treasury De artment
Washington,..
Sir:
Referring to my letter to the Burenu  tod vovember 5. 1934,
relative to the employment of onres: tont f shermem, have the honor
to inform th Bureu tht an meric n attorne renresent ng certain
Ja anese commeroial nterests has made inguiry to t is ffice regarding
a matter which I believe to be very significant. He stated ti. t the
interests he renresents have im ortant 1 bster ish in concessions in
Mexican waters along the coast of Lower  lif rnia.
He aske th theuld e any bjecti n by the Govement
of the United  tates hould the artis c nce ned dosire to brins across
the aciric thir n ishing leet, hich it is lanned would bring
the lobs er catch to Los  el  for transehipment to Japan on the
regul r trans-Pacific liners.
marently, ther is no le al bar to
operations of this kiad, rovided that he Cu toms regulations und
those of the Co meree o artm nt ure observed.
Pe atto ney w o
informed.
It is my mer onal opinion t t : is matter uld be ree rded
by the Navy nd t te De rt nts as ne ich would re uir very close
sorutiny.
Respeotfully,
(Sgd.) .1fred . Cohn
Collector of Custons.

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.84)
FE
11418100 01
FAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AN15 1935
1934 C 26 PM 1 04
Nov.7,1074
Department of State
Ail
FE - Mr. Hamilton:
SYISGN0Faftennoon of Mr. Kesting, ID, I
American vessels: In 1970 8 suiling versels, vith
pover uories, Fir neu for cod in Peri t ; 17 in l97l, and
894.628/
5, equippea with to po er dortes, in l9:? . at tutch narhor,
about 15 to 50 pover bouts of sm 1l size , unr vi: creu (less
than five tons), make tne ir noaueurters. purie the present
year, no he ling vessels r, the t isthLine
station at akatan (?), une 4 vess l: re toere ahout Loro.
9
at Bristol Bay, soatr lloo ll s Lmon v, l, otrora,
etc., center. the Court tu ru hr hour thr.
nelibut fisninr is son or Fo ik trland.
No Conaain ner rus: Ln  nave reen rp rted.h
Coast cuara has roportea 4 Jp nee ve in lors,ith:1
pover tenaers ss suxiliori, trrlore, ain
as sell at crabs, he  pome vos connin erers this
year, vtth their cupportinr po tr teneere.
A
infor ation, I shall be lu to t tnem
aat
Ser
1.12
F/G

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.95)
THE UNDER SECRETARY
up
DEPARTMENT OF STATE Y 3U 1934
7
RLCEIVED
DEPARLMENT OFSLATE
DCR
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 8, 1934.
Division of
CONFIDINTIAL.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 1- 1934
The Aleutian Islands: Japanese
Espionage Activities Therein.
Department of State
94.6
During the past few years there has come to the
0
894.628
notice of the Department a number of reports indicating
that visits of Japanese vessels to the Aleutian Islands
8
have given rise to statements in American quarters that
in connection with such visits there occurs a certain
y
amount of Japanese espionage activities.
The information available to the Department indicates
that the number of Japanese vessels which visit the Aleutian
Islands is not great (though probably increasing); that the
visits of Japanese vessels do not occur with any great
frequency; that the visits are made for the declared purpose
of fishing, observing and investigating the migration route
of fur seals, and engaging in general experimental work con-
nected with fishing operations. Some of the Japanese
vessels which visit the Aleutian Islands are Japanese public
vessels. When a Japanese public vessel desires to visit
the Islands, it is customary for notice to be given this
Government through diplomatic channels with request that
117
FILED
the usual courtesies and facilities be granted. This
一
Department does not make reply to such communications from
9
the Japanese Government until there have first been con-
F
sulted the Navy Department and the Department of Commerce.
G
For

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
For the past eighteen months, we have, at the instance of
the Navy Department, informed the Japanese Government that
there is no objection to Japanese public vessels visiting
ports in the Aleutian Islands where there are stationed
American officials. This is in line with the reply usually
made by the Japanese Government to requests that American
public vessels be permitted to visit ports in the Japanese
Mandated Islands. At times Japanese public vessels have
put in at ports other than those where American officials
are stationed and in such instances this Department has
called the matter to the attention of the appropriate
Japanese authorities.
In addition to Japanese public vessels, it is under-
stood that Japanese private fishing vessels also visit the
waters of the Aleutian Islands. In connection with the
visits of Japanese fishing vessels, it needs to be remembered
that Japanese fishermen are as a class of a rather truculent
and adventurous type. In connection with the visits of
Japanese public vessels, it needs to be remembered that
Japanese military and naval personnel seems to be afflicted
with almost a mania for espionage activities.
The query has been raised whether it might be desirable,
with a view to preventing Japanese espionage activities in
the Aleutian Islands, for the American Government to declare
the Aleutian Islands a closed area not open to the visits
of foreign vessels or nationals. In case the competent
military

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
military and naval authorities of the United States should
be of the opinion that such action is necessary from the
point of view of national defense, there would seem to be
warrant for considering the taking of such a step. However,
insofar as Japanese espionage activities in the Aleutian
Islands are concerned, the information available to this
Department does not indicate that any such activities are
of a particularly serious character. The establishing of
the Aleutian Islands as a closed area not open to the visits
of foreign vessels or nationals would be open to objections
as follows:
1. Such action would create in Japan
ill will toward the United States and would
be interpreted in Japan as a military act
directed solely against Japan. Aside from
American vessels, Japanese vessels are the
only ones which visit the Islands;
2. Such action might be considered by
Japan as an unfriendly act not in conformity
with the provisions of the Fur Seal Treaty
of 19ll, Article VIII, which provides that
"All of the High Contracting Parties agree
to cooperate with each other in taking such
measures as may be appropriate and available
for the purpose of preventing pelagic sealing
in the prohibited area mentioned in Article I";
3. Such action might cause Japan to
seek to modify the Fur Seal Treaty of 19ll.
For a number of years there have been indica-
tions that the Japanese desire to obtain a
revision of the Treaty which this Government
has consistently desired to avoid. Abrogation
of the Treaty would result in a return to the
destructive practice of pelagic sealing, no
doubt chiefly by Japanese vessels, and the
great fur-seal herd now numbering about
1,250,000 animals would shortly be reduced to
comparatively

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
comparatively insignificant proportions, probably
fewer than the 135,000 animals in 191l when the
Treaty became effective;
4. Such action by the United States would
probably influence adversely any prospect of
working out with Japan means for protecting the
Alaskan salmon industry. For several years this
Department has been in communication with the
Bureau of Fisheries in regard to this question
and a formula has just been worked out by the
competent American authorities which affords some
basis for hope that an approach may be made to
the Japanese Government and an agreement worked
out which will accord protection to this important
American industry.
MMH/REK

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.99)
337
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 23, 1935.
M
The Navy Department's letter of
January 19, 1935, 1n regard to radio
equipment of Japanese fishing vessels
operating in American waters:
I called up Major Chipman, secretary
of the interdepartmental committee set up
under instructions from the President, and
suggested that the matter under reference
is one which might properly be studied by
the committee. Major Chipman promptly
agreed and said that he would take the
matter up with the representatives on the
committee of the Navy Department and
the Department of Commerce with a view to
inserting an appropriate provision in the
bill that is being drafted "to regulate
vessels in the fisheries" (see copy
attached).
EHD/DLY
894.628/118

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.92)
1
26 198b.
T
January
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
alid
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
(SC) QS1/EF37
WASHINGTON
11193
Dapartment of State
Sir:
Enclosures (A) and (B) are forwarded as a matter of interest
to the Department of Stete.
894.628/1
Information, in the files of the Navy Denertment, shovs con-
clusively that the Japanese Fishing Vessels already engaged in fishing
on our coasts are in many cases equipped with long range radio, and
when the Fleet goes out for exercises they are stationed so that the
exercises are observed. They have also been knovn to make contect
8
with Japanese vessels at sea. Somc members of the crew of thesc ves-
sels are not of the fisherman type. Should the situation as outlined
in Enclosure (A) materialize the present situation would be aggravated
and the National Defense would be jeopardized.
Respectfully,
Craude Twrinsm
E
C3
PILED
1
a
1935
F/FG.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
Enclosure (2)Y
Confidential

=== Page 321 === (confidence 1.00)
339
COPY
In reply referto
45
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
United States Gustoms Bervice
Los Angeles, Calif.
CONFIDENTIAL
November 26, 1934.
CONFIDENTIAL
The Commissioner of Customs,
Treasury Department
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
Referring to my letter to the Bureau dated November 5, 1934,
relative to the employment of nonresident fishermen, I have the honor to
inform the Bureau that an American attorney representing certain Japanese
commercial interests has made inquiry to this office regarding a matter
which I believe to be very significant. He stated that the interests he
represents have important lobster fishing concessions in Mexican waters
along the coast of Lower California.
He asked whether there would be any objection by the Government
of the United States should the parties concerned desire to bring across
the Pacific their own fishing fleet, which it is planned would bring the
lobster catch to Los Angeles for transshipment to Japan on the regular
trans-Pacific liners. Apparently, there is no legal bar to operations of
this kind, provided that the Customs regulations and those of the Commerce
Department are observed. The attorney was so informed.
It is my personal opinion that this matter would be regarded by
the Navy and State Departments as one which would require very close
scrutiny.
Respectfully,
(Sgd. Alfred A. Cohn
Collector of Customs

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
370
Copy
110432
December 21, 1934.
CONFIDENTIA
The Collector of Customs,
Los Angeles, California.
Sir:
Roference is made to your letter of November 26, 1934 (45), o∞n-
cerning an inquiry of an attorney representing Japanese commercial interesta
as to whether it is permissible for these interests to bring their own
fishing fleet across the Pacifio, with which it is planned to bring the
lobster catches to your port for transshipment to Japan on the regular
trans-Pacific liners.
There appears to be no objection so far as Customs laws and regu-
lations are concerned to the transshipment at your port of fish from Japanese
fishing vessels to regular trans-Pacific liners for shipment to Japan, and the
procedure in Article 912 of the Customs Regulations of 193l governing entry
for immediate exportation should be followed.
Copies of your letter are being sent to the Navy Department and State
Department for their information. A copy of your letter is also being sent
to the Bureau of Navigation and Steamboat Inspection so that it may advise
you as to whether the proposed action is permissible under the navigation
laws.
Respeotfully,
Commissioner of Customs.
LPJ/MJB 12/12/34
CONFIDENTIA

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.96)
341
January 26 1936
2
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/118.
CONFIDENTIAL
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
January 19, 1935 (reference (SC) QSl/EF37), bringing to
894.628/1
my attention certain considerations arising out of the
fact that Japanese fishing vessels engaged in fishing on
the Pacific Coast are equipped with long range radio.
An officer of this Department has brought this matter
informally to the attention of the secretary of the inter-
8
departmental committee that has been set up to consider
ways and means to regulate vessels in the fisheries and
it is understood that the secretary will present the
matter to the committee for its consideration.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
The Honorable
nal.
Claude A. Swanson,
Secretary of the Navy.
LND
v
m.mkd.
PB:TDZELY
FE
TD
s
1/23-35

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.87)
CHARGE SLIP
894.600
Fue No.
ENCLOSURE
CAG O—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
REmarks
Resp
216 SgenN-L 5-1642 N.T.
-219  Stigin N-L 516-40 N.T
Deap
名18
119FE-Ballarlane1-12-43 CFH

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Bower, Bureaw o
McL
This telegram must be
Fis heries, informedhy
closely paraphrased be-
Tokyo.
leti phone. EtD. march11,35
fore being communicated
FROM
to anyone. (b)
Dated March 9, 1935.
Received 6.05 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
2
10
A
51, March 9, 1 p.m.
108
Department's 35, March 8, 6 p.m, fisheries.
894.628/1
Report mailed today, suggesting delay pending
Russo-Japanese fishery di cussi ns.
CRET.
McL
HPD
2
APR 4 1935
FILED

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, March 4, 1935.
No. 1190.
Subject:
Fisheri s.
Tokyo
8941628
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
11
OF EAST
MAR 25 1935
TUROPEAN AFFAIRS
761.945
Department of State
711.94
1.)
0 13
TREATY DIVISION
MAR 2 6 1935
DEPARTMENT CF STATE
894.628/122
in tSA
For
Assietant Secretury
The Honorable
MAR 29 1935
The Cecretary of tate, :
SAF
Weshington.
Sir:
I have the honor to rer r to the Denartment's confiaential
instruction No. 650 of November 19, 1054, in rogara to the
advisability of an roachin th Jananese Government ith a
view to an agreement for prot etin the stlmon fisheries off
the Alaska coast.
The mbassy has carefully considered this matter, has
had several discussions ith the officials of the Foreign
Office and some discussion on the general subject of fishing
in Northern waters with priv:te inuividuals vh are or
Ha
FYLED
been

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.96)
- -
been interested in fisheries. In all cases care has been
taken to give no intimation that the United States is orepared
to initiate negotictions ror a fishery tr aty.
From all that can be learned, the present situation
seems to be that the Japanese are not interested in op rating
floating canneries to fish or s lnon off the Al: skan coast;
but they are interested :nd nereusingly so in fishing and
canning crab; in los4 two veseels vore operttin:, with
smaller ships in uttenuance, in Al: skan vters for this ur-
pose ane in lor5 it is tnticinated that there will be, the
Embassy is informed, three vess ls so occu ied, b sides
another vessel or ca.. ing fish meal; the  berey is further
inforned that the fish meal is to be or pt rec from "K: rei"
(flat fish) tnd cod. These vessels vill not be c uinped to
1
take saluon, and the J: t mese sish ry bureau states that
there is no fear of their cein so.
The chief c ncern of the J: p: nese uthorities :t the
moment is the settlement of the fishery a' Piculties in
waters adjtacent to Jupan. The musso-J: p ese Fichery Con-
vention, signea t moscow J:nu ry :, l 8, (imbassy's
741.948/66
des atch No. 877 of J ne 9, 10: 8) wil1 ex ire next year,
and it is reported that the Japanese Government intends
to ask for a revision in accoraance vith the terms of Article
XV. The Embassy is informed that formal negctiations will
begin at Moscow in May. It is robable that these negotiations
will be somewhat protracted, as it is understood that severel
new factors will have to be discussed. Recent improvements
in technique, for example, h ve mude it possible for Japanese
fishing

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.94)
--
fishing concerns to enguge proritably in deep sea salmon
fishing. One eifect of this has beon to nt rfere seriously
with the selmon rns in Sioerian rivers where Japanese canning
interests have been operating under the tr aty, causing many
disputes between the hussians tnd Japanese land comners on
the one hana nd the ooen se fichine inter sts on the other.
The Japanese Goverament hus introouccu : pill into the pre-
sent session of the Diet hich iun to ive it reatly en-
larged control over fishin opert tions. 1. cu t ry of the
1/ roposed legislation, as it  metred in the T Y0 tiHI
SHI. BuN of February :7, is encloeed, ne : full tr nslation
of the law  ill be sent uoon its promul  ti n. The mmbassy
is informed that it is not the Government's intention to en-
force the law in res pect of Jt otnese shios ooer: tin sust
of the 180th mericitn, but that it ill h ve the ower to do
so in case of necessity. The objcct o t is I risl: tion is
to give the Goverament the nower to oir ct Jinmse fishing
companies ope: ting in pen waters.
The foregoine c nsiderations ineicate that the present
is not un o) ortune ti e to a roach the J: punece Government,
and that it vould be better to wt it until the rojected
legislation is en: ctea na ut into effect, :nu the negotiations
with Russia concluded. It is further a ptrent that our s lmon
fisheries re not likely to be :ffect u in the i ediate
future, or at ny r: te during the current year. It is possible,
however, that as Japanese deep sea fishers tre deprived of in
opportunity to take salmon ner home they may extend their
operations to more distant waters, if it is profitable to do
so.
To

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.91)
- 4 -
To meet this o sibility I beli ve it vould be wise
to approach the Jop mese Covernment inrormally, st: te what
the American Goverient desires, tno ask vhet steps the
Japanese Government can t ke to mect it. It is likely, in
my judgment, that the Je punese will brin i) the uestion
or fur seels nd verheoe art for t: rirf eone reioor r env's ped
in the Leperts nt's instruetion uno rof nce. I d not
believe, no. over, the t it voule be of uct ne to ttke t ir
ste until the end of the su er or e rly cutumm f this year
Ly Which time the new J: pt ose isi y Co t 1 liv ill be
in eer ti n. ii tll rob bility, ne the cur ent fi hery
di ficulties with the Soviet Goveran nt out o? the vay, at
1:st for the tim being.
i spectiul ly yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
nclosures:
iemorancum of converstion-
r. Neville na r. Rurusu.
Summery of pronosed legislation-
-from TORYO ASAHI SHI BUN.
86.8
ELN:r

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.92)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1190 of March 4, 1935,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation
February 25, 1985.
Mr. Neville :nd r. Kurusu,
Chief of the Co me ci: 1 Bureau
of the Foreign Office.
Ficheries.
I saw mr. Kurusu t the Tokyo Club. he tolo me he
hao t sked me to c e to the Club to t voic too uch oubli-
city. he suid the he wnt t to s  me to tttk sheries
and oil. He hendce me n noter he hed :de ot con-
versttion vith the thier or the tirries mureeu, hich
he stid he  ould like back, s it ws ts only copy he
had. (A t un 1 tio o tuse ot s is eneeo). ie told
me that tuere s et every osc or  continu nee of
fishing in merin See; thn t s far :s he coulo learn
the tre lic bas been profit ble, ne ts mould be seen
fr m the notos he ve me, there  ould be versels leaving
for crab firhing oif the 1luske cot st.
He suid thtt oil had occu i a him tno that the new
fishery law hed occupieu the Fi heries Bureau tnt that he
had not he etefere had tn onort ity to telk wit? the
Chief of the letter Bur :u. r. Sensom then ae red
and the conversation turned to oil.
J.L.N.

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.93)
- 1 -
Translation.
A Statement of r. Ide, Chief of
the Section of Supervision of the
Fisheries Bureau, the Lepurtnnt
of rgricuiture : ad For. stry, on
February , Tb.
From r. Kurusu, Lirector o: the Bureau of
Comrerce, the Dep: rtmnt of Fore i n Affairs.
(1) Crub C nning Incustry on bo rd ve.. 1c.
(A) In l054, two veescle  ere ene se in ish ry
in the seas east of 180 cer s Ltst Lon itade i cluding
the Bey of bristol tno nei hborhood.
no vessel vis al-
so eng geo in fishery in the cirection o? Cupe Olyntorovsk(?
in the huscian tarritory.
(B) In l085, it is tnticin tec thnt fishery will be
operated in : si iler  r ts in l4 on the hole. It
is, however, projeet th in loas three vesselr vill
cperate in the seas east o 180 c r es : st Lon itude ind
that in a ition to three veseels t other vessel for cunning
fish meal will : lro ) : ts.
(c) The fish-meal-cunning vesrel bove montioned will
orincip: lly ea: se in the c tch or "k rei" (fl:t fish) and
"tara" (cod fish). Th se rish  ive :t th: bottom of the
seas und for this reuson the vessel's op r tions heve no
r lation whatever vitn st lmon onoe there is no fear of selmon
being captured.
In crab fishery,too, there ir no fear of salmon being
captured because they live in diff ent pl ces nd because
there is a difference in the mash of nets hich are used
for fishing crab and salmon.
(2) The Deep Sea Fishery Law.
This law has for its object the control of fisheries
in the direction of the littoral district of lussian territory.
Under

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.96)
Under the Law, it is not intend d to control the deep
sea fishery east or l80 degrees Last Lon itude above men-
tioned for the time being. However, since the Law is stated
in general torme it i: ot i possible to :  ly the Law to the
control of fishery in the sets e st or 130 cegr s.

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. ? to des atch
No. 1190 of march 4, 1055,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
New measures for North Set Fishing
The Bill r l:tin to th control of fishing in-
terests in
Northern waters, which was presented to
the Diet on February :6, : ms ut ensurin: the business
interests of the Nichiro (nusso-Ja) nese) Fishery Comptny
which has almost enopolistic privileger o? cngaging in
fishing in Northern waters on the basis of the Fishory Con-
vention betwen Jaoan uno Soviet ussi: :nd :t the same time
firnly establishin the ri ht na :uthority of the Lepart-
ment of Agricultur. nd Ferostry in xe cisin strict con-
trol une suoorvision ovar th businerr or th sr id Conany.
In other orus, the new entctm nt is int neeo to sveep eway
the sources of oft-rep: tee dis utes in th fis ins inter sts
in those weters, such us tuction of or contest for fishing
grouns frequently indul ed in by competin fishing bodies,
etc. und :t the  e time or enesci. ing a vi orous control
over those fishing bocies mhose burinees forms : menace to the
business interests of the Nichiro Fishery Co pony (num ly
those fishing e ne rns or inuivicual rishers   o eng -ge in
the so-c lleu "O itori" rishing by usin oepot-ships and
engaging in fishing n the onen sea). Thus the new me rures
V171
* Note. The Nichiro Fishery Company, recently enlorged,
is a combination of practically every J: panese fishery
concern of imoortance operating in Russian waters. The
Government insisted upon consolid: tion as one method
of avoiding disputes among Japanese over the auctions
at Vladivostok (see Article II of the Fishery Conven-
tion), and of controlling open sea fishing by Japanese
in those regions.

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.94)
一-
will in a sense ive an as urance to the Nichiro Company
in securing its business inter sts tnc contribute to s li-
difying the fishery rights in the fusein northern waters
pledged to Jupan by the tre ty stipul: tions trranged bet een
the two countries. It is not worthy th:t the new measures
have been enacted with  view to proviuing for the forth-
coming revisi n o: the  usro-Juo: ese Fis ery Convention
scheduled to tuke l: ce in y this yer.
TOKYO AI.
Ltw for Control of Fis ery in Northern
viaters.
With : view to s lioiryin: th basis of fi: hing
inaustry in Northern Weters the Dept rtment of
Agriculture nd For stry he r: fteo meesur s
pertainin to th control u the is:n inter sts
in those w ters. The araft Iiw wer  h itt d to the
House of Pours yestorcy or its l'b r tion nd
ap rovel. The text of the (reft I: is s rollows:. ...
Article I. y the term "Compuny" useo in the oresent law is
meant a joint stock co puny carrying on ri hin: buciness in
accordance ith the treuty (tre ty stipulations) provided for
in Article 6 of this l w :nd desirn: t c by the como tent
Minister of state, or  jo it stock co y curry ne on such
fishing busi ess  ith depot ships as dasin ted by oroinnce
and recogni ed by the competent Miniuter o t:te.
Article 2. The ppointment or dismissul of directors and
auditors, lteration of th: articles of  sociation, dis-
posal of profits, rlotation o debenture loans or r solution
of amalgamation or of dissolution of the company sh.ll be invalid
unless a sanction of the comp tent-minister of State thereof
is

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.94)
一-
is obtained. The company c nnot tr n fer or offer as
mortgege importint :rsets it osre ses unless the stnction
of the competent Minister is obt iheu therefor. The scope
of the imoort:nt ussets mentione in the recedin: o: ra-
gruph sh 1l be aetermin a by septr te regulutions.
Article 3. The comp ny sh: 11, : ccoroin to the rovisions
of regulations, c termine its businese ororra for each
business year no obt: in the s nction of the competent
minister of tate therefor, this lro  lyin, then the
company cesires to tlter rucn pusiness orogr m. The co oetent
minister may exmine the bu iners or f n nciel condition of
the company, or ort er th com  y to s o it  r ort on its
business or fin nclal coueition, or iunue other orders necessary
in the way of xecutin its coat ol.
Irticle 4. The com tent L i. t r ay, tccoroin to the ro-
visions of regul: tione, ore r the e o ny te m ke necess: ry
arrangemente for the :int mance,  velo ment or control of
the fishing busineee in northern  t ro.
Article 5. In cuse the rosolution o ti company or the
action or its cirectors or :uuitore is c led contrry to
the provisions o orain nces, or orc rs o the e petent
Minister, or trticles of ts ocit n, or it is prejudicial
to the public benefit, th co petent inicter m y or  the
cancellation o' such resolution, or uie iss   roctors or au-
ditors, or temporarily suspend the business of the company.
Article 6. Those desirin to eng in fichin or to :ccuire
fishing ri hts in accordance  ith th. treaty (tre ty sti u-
lations) designated by oruer sh ll obt: in a s nction for so
doing

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.89)
一 -
doing according to the roviions of ordinnce r culations.
Article 7. One ho eng ges in fishin or  tt mots to eng ge
in fishing or :c uirin. or : tt mots to : c uire lisning
rights without obt: inin th stnction  ntie in the ore-
ceding Article uha l1 be punis ed by on: 1 e vituce not
exceeding one y r or Pine not xe euin t, o.
Article 8. then in cou  eti n ith th m  tnt of fishing
busines oi thete inin ii te toxy of
the parson et gt in ishin, or herd or sthr r of
the fe ily or such oron, otnr mm t ly,
or e loyeer o' cuch  reon or ot re m a irmingets
in contraoiction o te provis one or th r : nt lew, the
person carrying on the fienin bu: in e  ot ev de ue
ounishment thereror on t ceout o  is tot  vin  r cted him
or the to co so.
The punel el use, in e se tn
on ci rryin on the
fichim urinerr is
inor or "kinjis nshe" (one acjudned
incomnetent), sa l apply to hr lept1 proxy exe ting, how-
ever, such a minor e h ving simittr ability s in i ult in the
execution of businer  ment. in the c se of the tro
preceding r pr hs pant1  rvitude can ot be on lied (the
offender sh 1 not b. puaishee ith penal servitude).
Article 9. The p nal rules of tha or sent liv shull, in ese
the person ctrrying on the bu: iness is : juric ical percon, upply
to "riji" (cirector), "torishim: riyaku" (m naging (irector)
or other ofiicers in charge of its business,
Article 10. The penal cleuses or the present 1: sha11 be
applicuble to the offences committe in th pl ces wher the
oresent

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.86)
- 5 -
present law is not in force by t ose h vin their head o fices,
or prineioel  ba tese, or r ne e 1 ce
where the rr ut tee, or by their roni s, e
ployees, or other persons eng g d in th bnriness.
Additional nule. -- The o te or t r' veent of the ores nt
law shell b c ter in  by an I neri:I ordin nce.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.98)
March 30 1935
Im reply refer to
R 894.628/122.
894.6
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I refer to your letter of Ootober 24, 1934, and to
previous correspondence between the Department of State
28
and the Department of Commerce in regard to the advisa-
11
bility of there being concluded between the United
2
States and Japan a treaty which would prohibit Japanese
2
nationals from engaging in salmon fishing in the waters
of Bering Sea and Bristol Bay east of a line extending
from Cape Avinof to Cape Sarichef.
There is enclosed a copy of a despatch (No. 1l90,
dated Maroh 4, 1935) from the American Ambessador at
Tokyo, who reports that the Japanese Government is at
present preoccupied with forthcoming negotiations with
the Soviet Government in regard to fishing by Japanese
nationals in Soviet territorial waters. He recommends,
therefore, that no approach in regard to the regulation
of
The Honorable
Daniel C. Roper,
Seoretary of Commerce.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.90)
- 2-
of fishing operations by Japanese nationals in the waters
of Bering Sea and Bristol Bay be made to the Japanese
Government "until the end of the early summer or early
matun of this year by which time the new Japanese
Fishory Control law will be in operation, in all
probability, and the current fishery difficulties with
the Soviet Government out of the way".
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
William Phillipe
Enclosure:
From Embassy Tokyo, No. 1l90,
Under Secretary
March 4, 1935.
mm.H
A-S TD
FEEAD/DLY
FE
W.7.
DFBs
3--26-05
HH
MAR 27.935
OR
A
nal.

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.628
811b.011/16
Tel. #68, 10 a.m.
SEE
FOR
FROM Japan
Grew
) DATED
March 29, 1935.
TO
NAME
1-1127
2
3
REGARDING: Commercial fishing in Japan. Legal provisions
restricting the exploitation of natural resources
by foreigners-.
Copy of Tel. attached.
2
IN
Jw

=== Page 341 === (confidence 1.00)
FE
GRAY
MP
Tokyo
Dated March 29, 1935
Rec'd 12:05 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
68, March 29, 10 a.m.
Department's 42, March 10, 8 p.m.
Aside from the mining law there is no specific
legislation restricting the exploitation of natural
resources by foreigners. The benefits of subsidies
are restricted by law in each case to Japanese subjects.
There are a number of administrative policies which in
practice would probably prevent foreign exploitation
of resources. In the case of water power rights an
628
application by a foreigner to dam streams and build
power plants would probably be rejected, although there
is no law which forbids foreigners to go into the
business. A number of foreigners have been interested
in these enterprises as investors, but the authorities
would very likely insist that the concession be issued
in the name of a Japanese. The same applies to com-
mercial fishing, which requires a license. It is
extremely improbable that an application by foreign
interests

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.98)
MP
2-#68 From Toky0, March 29, 10 a.m.
interests would be considered favorably, despite the
absence of legislation on the subject.
Agriculture is not restricted to Japanese.
There are a number of foreigners, mostly mission or
missionary institutions, who conduct farmin: enterprises
without interference. There is no legislation, regu-
lation or restrictive policy in vogue in this matter.
It would probably be impossible to import labor to
operate an agricultural establishment, although there
is no specific legislation on the subject. Immigration
is controlled not by law but by administrative ruling
of the Home Department, by which the police keep out
persons whose presence is considered undesirable. As
habeas corpus proceedings are unknown in Japan there
is no way to interfere with administrative rulings in
this connection.
GREY
HPD

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.97)
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
342
A-S/T
Dile
T.MAY 24 1935
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
FD
OFPICE OF THE SECRETARY
1938
WASHINGTON
22
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1935 APR 1 1913
Copy to Trkyp
apri
April 16, 1935.
sslstant Secretary
of State
The Honorable,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Secretary of State,
APR 18 1935
MAY1-1935
Washington, D. C.
VR. SAYRE
农
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.623/124
The receipt is acknowledged of the Department of State's letter of
March 30, 1935, file No. FE 894.628/122, enclosing a copy of dispatch No.
1190 dated March 4, 1935, from the American Ambassador at Tokyo in regard
to the advisability of negotiating a treaty with the Japanese Government
to prohibit Japanese nationals from salmon fishery operations in Bering
Sea and Bristol Bay east of a line from Cape Avinof to Cape Sarichef,
Alaska.
It is noted that the Japanese Government is preoccupied with forth-
coming negotiations with the Soviet Government in regard to fishing by
Japanese nationals in Soviet territorial vaters, and that the American
Ambassador therefore recommends no approach in regard to the regulation
of fishing operations by Japanese nationals in the waters of Bering Sea
and Bristol Bay until the end of the early summer or early autumn of this
year, when in all probability the new Japanese Fishery Control law will
be in operation and current fishery difficulties with the Soviet Govern-
ment will be concluded.
The Department of Commerce has the highest regard for the opinion of
the American Ambassador at Tokyo and would not suggest any overruling of
his recommendation in the matter. In view, however, of the importence of
the situation and its effect upon the American salmon fishing industry, it
is the opinion of this Department that we should enter into such a treaty
with the least possible delay consistent with diplomatic considerations.
It is observed from the dispatch of the Ambassador at Tokyo that
recent improvements in technique have made it possible for Japanese con-
JUN 10 1935
cerns to engage profitably in deep-sea salmon fishing. It is noted that
FILED
one effect of this has been serious interference with salmon runs in
Siberian rivers where Japanese interests have been operating.
Notwithstanding assurances conveyed by the note that the Japanese,
as far as can be learned, are not interested in operating floating canner-
ios for salmon off the Alaskan coast, and that the floating canneries en-
gaged in handling crabs and fish meal will not be equipped to take salmon,
almon fishery.
this Department realizes the potential danger
TREATY DIVISIUN
MAY 2 - 1935
1.0
G
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.99)
343
- 2 -
The undesirable situation which has grown up on the Siberian
coast might be duplicated on the Alaskan coast, particularly in the
waters of Bering Sea and Bristol Bay eastward of a line from Cape
Avinof to Cape Sarichef. This is especially true in view of the
improvements which enable Japanese operators to fish successfully
in deep-sea waters. Therefore, it is hoped that as prompt action
as possible may be taken to initiate a treaty that will protect
American interests.
Sincerely yours,
Secretary of Commerce

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.98)
344
April 25 1935
In reply refer to
894.628/124
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
Apr1l 16, 1935, in which the opinion was expressed that
a treaty which would prohibit Japanese nationals from
894.628
ongaging in fishing in certain waters of Bering Sea and
Bristol Bay should be entered into with the least possible
delay consiatent with diplomatic conaiderations.
11
This Department, in sending to the American Ambassador
2
at Tokyo a copy of your lotter under acknowledgment, ex-
4
pressed conourrence in the views therein set forth of the
Depertment of Commerce. The Department stated to the
Embamsy that it seemed inadvisable to await the enactment
by the Japanese Government of the bill for the control of
fishing in North Pacific waters, referred to in the Embassy's
despatoh No. 1l90 of March 4, 1935. The Embassy was in-
struoted to follow attentively the forthooming negotiations
between the Japanese and Soviet Governments in regard to
fishing
The Honorable
Daniel C. Roper,
Sesretary of Commeroe.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.95)
345
fiahing by Japanese in Soviet waters, and to inform the
Department as soon as the situation favored an approach
by this Government to the Japanese Government in regard
to the conelusion of the contemplated treaty.
There is enelosed a copy of the Embassy's despatch
No. 1228 of April 5, 1935, received by the Department
after the instruotion above outlined was sent, reporting
that the bill for the control of fishing in North Paeifie
waters failed of enactment by the Diet during the session
ended in Maroh, last.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
William Phillips
Under Secretary
Enclosure:
From Embassy Tokyo, No. 1228,
Apr1l 5, 1935.
A true
the
nal
FEDLY
FE
s
mim.
4-25-35
7R
sory
APE 95 1985 PM

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.98)
346
28/124
894.
Apr1l 22 1930
CONFIDENTIAL -- STAFF USE ONLY.
o.748
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
894:628/1
894.628/122
Sir:
Roference is made to your despatch No. ll90, dated
March 4, 1935, in regard to the advisability of the Japanese
Government being approached with a view to there being con-
2
cluded between the United States and Japan a treaty to regulate 4
salmon fishing in certain waters of Bering Sea and Bristol
Bay. The Department made available to the Department of
Commerce a copy of your despatch under reference, and there
is enclosed a copy of a letter, dated April 16, 1935, from
that Department, in which there are set forth circumstances
which, it is believed, make it important that a treaty such
as that under contemplation be entered into with the least
possible delay consistent with diplomatic considerations.
The Department shares your view that the Japanese Govern-
ment should be approached informally, that it should be in-
formed of the desires of this Covernment in connection with
the preservation of the fishery resources of Alaska, and that
the Japanese Government should be asked to indicate whether
it would be prepared to cooperate in the matter.
The

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.98)
347
● 2 ●
The Department associates itself with the Embassy in the view
that the results of projected negotiations between the Jape-
nese and Soviet Government in regard to fishing by Japanese
nationals in Soviet waters would have important bearing on
the attitude which the Japanese Goverrment may take in the
matter of salmon fishing off the coast of Alaska, and it
believes, therefore, that no approach should be made to that
government until there has been presented to the Japanese
and Soviet Goverrments reasonable opportunity to conclude
between them an agreement.
The Department does not, however, concur with the
Embassy in the view that an approach to the Japanese Govern-
ment should await the enactment and enforcement of legislation
by Japan to regulate fishing in northern waters by Japanese
ationals. It is realized that the enactment of such legis-
lation would place the Japanese Government in relatively
favorable position to cooperate, if it should so desire,
with the American Government to preserve the fishery resourees
of Alaska. In view of the fact that the Japanese Government
was reported in l951 by the Embassy to be favorably disposed
toward cooperative regulation of salmon fishing off the coast
of Alaske and of the fact that operations by Japanese would
seriously affeot the American salmon fishing industry, it is
requested that the Embassy attentively follow the fishery
negotiations between the Japanese and Soviet Governments, and
that the Embassy report to the Department as soon as the
bemey believes that it would be epportume, in the light of

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.94)
348
the views set forth in the present instruction and in the
enclosure thereto, to approach the Japanese Government.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of States
William Phillips
Enclosure:
From Department of
Commeree, April 16, 1935.
894.620/124
m.m.A.
A true eepy of
the sianed orig-
FE
ing
4-22-35
OB?

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apr11 23, 1935.
MNA:
You will note that the bill to
control fishing in northern waters was
not passed by the Diet.
I am of the opinion that, whereas a
law of this kind would be helpful to the
Japanese Government to control its nationals
engaged in fishing in Siberian waters, the
lack of any such law would not prevent
that Government in keeping in hand those
who would fish off Alaska. As you know,
Japanese fishing vessels are required to
obtain a license, and it would be practica-
ble, by using discretion in the issuance
of iicenses, for the Japanese Government
to insure the observance by its nationals
of the contemplated United States-Japan
fishery convention,
EHD/DLY

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.91)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, April 5, 1935.
No. 1228.
Subject: Northern Fisheries.
For Dist-iburion-Check
Grude 
1ofi
Yc4
No
For
In U S A.
94.628
SECRETARY
OF
STATF
A
ae
MR. MOORE
694.628/1
Cn
AR2 193
N
5
The Honorable
APR 20
The Secretary of State,
FILED
Washington.
Sir:
193
B
G
I have the honor to report that among the im-
portant bills introduced by the Government before the
Diet which were not passed was the "Law for the Control
of Fishery in Northern Waters".* Although the House of
Peers passed this bill, it was not acted upon by the
Lower House before the regular session of the Diet ended.
In
*Embassy's despatch No. 1190 bf March 4, 1935.
894.628/122

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
In this connection the NICHI NICHI reported on
April 1 that Mr. Ohta, the Japanese Ambassador to the
USSR who is now on leave in Tokyo, will return to his
post on April 1o with instructions to take up the
matter of the revision of the Russo-Japanese Fishery
Convention of 1928 when he arrives in Moscow. It is
rumored that even before his arrival the subject will
be broached by the Japanese Chargé d'Affaires.
It will be recalled that the Japanese Government
had undertaken two general steps in anticipation of
these negotiations, first, the amalgamation of the
northern fishing interests and, second, the bill which
has just failed of passage. The importance of the
fishery bill lies in the fact that it would legalize
strict regulation of certain irresponsible fishing
concerns which have tended to endanger the coastal
fisheries (as opposed to the off shore fisheries) and
to divide the Japanese interests. The situation was
confused and, it was thought, would handicap Japan in
negotiating with the USSR.
Despite the failure of the bill it is widely
believed in Tokyo that the authorities are prepared to
take strong measures against the undesirable elements
in the fishing industry. The unfortunate aspect of
the situation is that it tends to prolong indefinitely
the confused state of affairs which produced violent
disagreements

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
disagreements and uncertainty among the Japanese
concerned with this industry.
Respectfully yours,
Noseb
Joseph C. Grew.
862.8
JGP:a
Copy to Embassy, Moscow.
AM

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.98)
FAR EASTERA
DEPARTMENT OF STÀTEA
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Sran
May 9, 1935.
I telephoned Dr. Bowers of the Bureau
of Fisheries and stated that we did not feel
quite sure that we understood the purport of
the second paragraph of Commerce's letter of
May 7, 1935, attached. I said that our view,
as expressed to the Embassy at Tokyo, was as
follows:
The Embassy should follow closely the
Soviet-Japanese negotiations on fish-
eries, and should report as soon as
the negotiations had been developed to
a point'whieh created a favorable
opportunity for this Government to
approach the Japanese Government in
regard to Alaskan fisheries. We did
not, however, feel that such approach
should be withheld until the Japanese
had enacted their bill for the control
of fisheries in the North Pacific, for
the reason that the Japanese Government
had at present sufficient power to
regulate the fishing operations of
their nationals on the high seas, as
well as in Japanese waters.
Dr. Bowers stated that the above expres-
sed his conception of this Department's view,
with which Commerce is in entire accord. It
was, therefore, agreed that the letter
attached required no action by us.
H/DLY
894.628/126

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.96)
DCR
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
1955
May 7, 1935.
OFHCHE SERAYY
The Honorable,
Division of
The Secretary of State,
A 7 1935
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington, D. C.
MAY 8 1935
HPORVD
   T
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Depertment of State
The receipt is acknowledged of the Jepartment of State's letter of
April 25, file 894.628/124, forwardin & copy of despatch No. 1228 of April
5, 1935, from the American Ambassador at Tokyo re garding the matter of a
treaty to prohibit Japanese nationals from ris ing operations in certain
waters of Bering Sea and ristol ay off the coast of Alaska.
894.628
As the Department of Conmerce understands the situation, the failure
in the Japanese Diet of the bill to give the Government the power to direct
Japanese fishing companies in open waters, means that at least for the present
season and until there are definite results from negotiations which it is un-
derstood are to begin at oscow in May, l935, in regard to revision of the
Russo-Japanese Fishery Convention of 1928 which expires in 1936, there may be
11
little or no likelihood of any occurrence that will modify the present status
of the situation affectin the fisheries of the United States adjacent to the
2
coast of Alaska.
9
In view, however, of the dirferences not only between Japanese and
Russian fishery interests along the Siberian coest, but elso between the
Japanese inshore and offshore operators, this Jepart. ent reels that the en-
tire situation constitutes a threat to the valuable salmon risheries of Alas-
ka which Japanese vessels might invade shoul con itions on the isiatic side
cause them to seek other fields of endeavor.
It, therefore, will be a distinct relief to the apprehersions of this
MAY 9
Department if and when a treaty can be negotiated which would prohibit Japan-
ese natiorals from ene in in fishing in the waters of  ering Sea and ristol
Bay eastward of line from Cape Avinof to Cape Sarichef, Alaske.
1935
The active interest taken by the Department of State ani its representa-
tives at Tokyo in this matter is greatly appreciated.
MAY 9
Sincerely yours,
Secretary of C6nmerce.

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.96)
H
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
RECEIVED
Tokyo, May 1DEPARPENT OF STATE
1935 JUN 1 AM 11 04
No. 1298
Sub ject:
Fisheries.
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
Cofy
Divicien of
FAR CASTERNI AFFAIRS
Departuent dr State
894.628/1
27
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
JAN 7= 1936
Washington.
FILED
Sir:
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of
the Department's instruction No. 748 of April 22, 1935,
directing the Embassy not to await the enactment of
new fishery legislation in Japan before approaching
the Japanese Government in regard to measures to be
adopted

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
adopted to conserve the salmon fisheries of Alaska. The
Embassy will follow the situation closely and report by
telegraph as soon as the time seems opportune to take
up the question informally with the Government here.
In the meantime I respectfully urge a careful examina-
tion of our own needs and interests, and request specific
instructions as to the fish, if any, other than salmon,
whose pelagic taking it is desired to restrict, as well
as the areas in which the restriction should operate.
 After discussions are started it will be difficult to
include new items without meeting a demand for concessions
on other points, and I suggest, once the way is prepared,
the assignment of an expert of the Bureau of Fisheries
thoroughly fimiliar with the fisheries of the Bering
Sea area to participate in the negotiations.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
ELN:m
862.8
x

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
hetter to Commerce
349
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FS
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased be-
7 1935.
Juno
fore boing communicated
Dated June 3, 1935
to anyone.(B)
FROM
RECEIVED
JUN 3- 1935
FAR AST EAIRS
Washington
A x4
2
DIVISION OF
118, June 3, noon
Dxpartuent of State
894.628/1
894628
As the Russo-Japanese fishery negotiations are
likely to be protracted, I suggest that authority might
now be civen the Embassy to discuss informally with
28
the Foreign Office our wishes in regard to the Bering
Sea activities of Japaneso fishing intcrests. Progress
will probably be slow, but it may be desirable to have
the government here aware that we re ard the matter
seriously and wish to have legal restrictions placed
upon Japanese fishing vessels operating off the coast
FILED
of Alaska at as carly a date as possiblc. The Embassy
cannot judgo the situation accurately without some dis
cussion and feels that a tentative approach might be
made now, even if the prospects for speedy settlement
do not appear bright in view of the Japanese Government's
preoccupation with the Russian fishery qucstion.
WVC:HPD
GREW

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.97)
FA
3.50
'June 7 1935
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
894.628/1
Reference is made to your letter, dated May 7, 1935,
in regard to the matter of the conclusion of a treaty be-
tween the United States and Japan which would prohibit
Japanose nationals from ongaging in fishing operations in
cortain waters of Bering Sea and Bristol Bay off the coast
2
8
of Alaska.
There is enolosed a copy of despatch No, 1298, dated
May 14, 1955, from the American Ambassador at Tokyo, in
which it is urged that, before any discussions are initiated,
careful examination be made of the needs and interests of
the United States, for the reason that "After discussions
are started it will be difficult to inelude new items
without meeting a demand for concessions on other points".
A telegram, under date June 3, has been received from
the Ambassador, who suggests that he might be authorised now
to
The Homorable
Damiel C. Roper,
Department of Comperee.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.97)
361
-2-
present informally to the Japanese Foreign Office the
wishes of the Amerioan Government in regard to the
activities of Japanese fishing interests in the Bering Sea.
It is the opinion of the Ambassador that rapid progress
will not be made, but that it may, nevertheless, be de-
sirable to make kmown to the Japanese Govormment that the
American Government desires to have restrictions imposed
as soon as practicable upon Japanese fishing activities off
the coast of Alaska. The Ambassador believes that a tenta-
tive approach to the Japanese Covernment at this time might
be made with a view to affording an opportunity to make an
accurate estimate of the situation. The Ambassador empha-
sises at the same time that, as the Japanese Government is
now preocoupied with the Russian fishery question, an early
settlement of the matter could not be anticipated.
It would be appreciated if the Department of Commerce
could at its early convenience indicate to this Department
its views in regard to the character of the reply which
should be made to the Ambassador.
Sinoerely yours,
Enclosure:
Cordell Hull
From Embassy Tokyo
No. 1298, May 14, 1935.
FEAARD/DLY
m.m,kd.
FE

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.90)
124
EMBASSY OF THE
A=4
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, May 29, 1935.
FE
No. 1318
Subject
FISHERIES.
<4 1930
ISSISTA
1个
une
894.628
Eg om
010
761.948
ECURDING DESK
E-WHB
STATSE
EIVED
5
11
No
REE
DEPARTE
15
Ycu
05 520
Tofi 
For Distribution-Check
In U S A.
Grade
2nostintn
894.628/1
For
The Honorable
TREATY DIVISION
The Secretary of State,
JUN 
Washington.
2
6
Sir:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
I have the honor to refer to this Eabassy's despatch
127
No. 1298 of May 14, 1935, in regard to Japanese pelagic
1/
.fishing in Bering Sea, and to enclose a memorandum of
JAN 14 1936
conversation which the Counselor of the Embassy had with
the Chief of the European Bureau of the Foreign Office.
The memorandum indicates that the Foreign Office is oc-
cupied with the Russian fishery question and would not,
at the moment, be able to take up effectively the making
of a fishery agreement with the United States.
According to newspaper and other reports which seem
to be authentic, the Japanese hoped to confine the dis-
cussion

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
cussion to such items as they wished altered, particularly
questions growing out of the auction of fishery lots. The
Japanese feel that the auctions are a farce because there
is no private enterprise in Russia and the local people
who bid at the sales are nothing but creatures of the
Soviet Government. They wish to pay a fixed sum over a
period of years and do away with the auctions. The
Russians, however, were reported to be unwilling to ne-
gotiate until the Japanese gave notice that they would
denounce the treaty. This has now been done, which means
opening up the whole fishery question. This is apparently
what Mr. Togo had in mind when he said that there was a
year in which negotiations could be carried on.
I shall continue to watch the situation and report
to the Department. As soon as there appears to be an
easing of the present tension in the Russian negotiations
it may be worth our while to ap roach the Japanese. I do
not believe it would expedite matters to do so before that
time.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
1/ As stated above.
862.8
ELN:f

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1318 of May 29, 1935 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation
May 21, 1935.
Mr. Neville and Mr. Togo,
Chief of the European Bureau
of the Foreign office.
Subject:
Bering Sea Fisheries.
I called on Mr. Togo at 3:00 P.M. I thanked him
for his letter giving us information as to the vessels
proceeding to Bering Sea for the purpose of taking crabs
and fish. I asked him whether the information we had
received that these ships were not equipped to take salmon
was correct. He said that it was. He said that these ships
would not be nearer than twenty miles or so to the Alaska
coast. I said that I should appreciate learning more about
the places in which the vessels going to Bering Sea would
operate, and he promised to get the information as soon as
he could.
I then asked him what proress was being made with the
Soviet fishery negotiations. He smiled and said that the
preliminaries had begun; that the present treaty had a year
to run, during which time negotiations could be carried on.
I asked him how long he thought it woulā take, to which he
replied by reminding me how long the railway negotiations in
Manchuria had taken.
After some discussion of the defunct fishery law, Mr.
Togo said that the authorities here realized our interest in
Japanese fisheries in Bering Sea and our fear that open sea
operations might affect the shore canneries. He said there
was no fear of it at present. I said I should appreciate
going over the whole situation with him at his leisure with
officials of the Fishery Bureau. He said that he would be
glad to do so, but he could not promise to do much in that
direction while the Kamchatka fisheries are unsettled.
From

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
From his manner I gathered that both he and the
fishery officials are pretty well occupied, and would
not welcome additional problems just now. He also gave
me the impression that the alterations desired in the
Soviet fishery treaty are not extensive, but that he did
not anticipate a speedy settlement.
E L N.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.99)
FE/
June 24 1935
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/129.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Supplementing the Department's letter of June 7, 1935,
with wh1oh there was enclosed a copy of despatch No. 1298,
dated May 14, 1935, from the American Ambassador at Tokyo
894.628
in regard to the matter of the conclusion of a treaty be-
tween the United States and Japan which would prohibit
Japanese nationals from engaging in fishing operations in
certain waters off the coast of Alaska, there is enclosed
a copy of the Ambassador's despatch No. 1318, dated May 29,
2
6
1935, relative to the matter above mentioned.
It wil1 be obaerved that on May 21, 1935, the Counselor
of the Embassy conversed with the Chief of the European
Bureau of the Japanese Foreign Office, and that he received
the impression that officials of the Japanese Government
having competence in matters related to fishing were pre-
oacupied with the Russian fishery question "and would not
welcome additional problems just now". It 1s, however, to
be partieularly noted that the telegram from the Ambassador
outlined
The Honorable
Daniel C. Roper,
Department of Commeree.

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.91)
-8-
outlined in this Department's letter of June 7, 1955,
recommending that a tentative approach be made to the
Jepanese Government at this time, was despatehed on June 3.
It may, therefore, be reasonably assumed that subsequent to
the oall on May 21 of the Counselor of the Embassy at the
Foreign Office there were developments which occasioned a
change in the opinion of the Ambassador in regard to the
timeliness of such approach being made.
With relation to the suggestion of the Ambassador, as
set forth in his despatch No. 1298, that there be assigned
to Tokyo an expert of the Bureau of Fisheries thoroughly
familiar with the fisheries of the Bering Sea area, it is
the opinion of the Department that the prospeots of the
projeoted negotiations being successfully conoluded would
be enhanoed by the negotiations being carried forward as
rapidly as possible. It is hoped, therefore, that the
Department of Commeroe may be in position to make available
to the Ambassador adequate technical assistance in order that
occasions for reference of questions to Washington for de-
oision may be reduced as far as practioable.
Sincerely yours,
William Phillip
J7
Acting Secretary
elosure:
From Embassy Tokyo, No. 1318,
May 20, 1055.
A true copy of
In
the  
nal.
N.1.
alaent
m.m.H.

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 10, 1935.
S:
Mr. Secretary.
In response to your
instructions of yesterday, I have
prepared the attached memorandum.
I have also learned that
this question has been previously
discussed with the Under Secretary
by Mr. Dooman of this Division.
LDS
LDS/REK
m.m/

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.68)
FE-Hal
I be uin frum f res
furn the sar Abee. Roper
HEC

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 10, 1935.
FAR EASTERRAFFARS
S:
02
Mr. Secretary.
12193
Dadartmant of Srate
STATE
July
Por your convenience there are given below the chief
S
treasons whien prompted this Department to bring to the
4M
C
山
S
R
June 24, 1935) the desirability of the Department of
to the Ambassador at Tokyo in connection with the proposed
894.6
Alaskan Fishery Convention.
Correspondence between the Department and the Embassy
894. 628
at Tokyo during the several years that the Alaskan fishery
28
question has been under consideration repeatedly points out
the need of technical assistance when the Embassy shall take
C31
O
the matter up with the Japanese. Such technical assistance
is expected to minimize the need to submit questions to
Washington during negotiations, thus facilitating progress.
It appears particularly important at this time that the
Embassy be prepared, once negotiations are begun, to carry
JAN 7- 1936
FILED
them through as smoothly as possible, as the Japanese are
preoccupied with fishing questions between themselves and
the Soviet. In view of the circumstances involved officers
of this Division who have been familiar with the fishing
problem to be dealt with have considered it impractical
for the Embassy at Tokyo to initiate negotiations with the
Japanese in the absence of technical assistance.
In

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
In a memorandum left by Mr. Dooman, before departing
on vacation, it is stated that "If Commerce is unable to
send an expert to Tokyo, my recommendation would be to t ele-
graph Tokyo that no action should be taken at this time".
The Department's letter to the Secretary of Commerce
was based upon Ambassador Grew's suggestion to arrange
(Despatch No. 1298, May 14, 1935) "......... once the way is
prepared, the assignment of an expert of the Bureau of
Fisheries thoroughly familiar with the fisheries of the
Bering Sea area to participate in the negotiations". It
also has been noted that in 1931 Ambassador Forbes urged
that someone from the Bureau of Fisheries visit Japan to
go over the question of Alaskan fisheries with the Japanese
(Telegram Apri1 17, 1931).
It does not appear to be the desire of the Ambassador
at Tokyo to have a technical expert assigned immediately,
but only after the way for negotiation is prepared. It
of course seems advisable to have the necessary arrangements
completed in advance.
The question of negotiating a fishery convention with
Japan has been pending several years, and has grown out of
the wishes of the Department of Commerce to secure adequate
protection of the Alaskan salmon industry. Naval Intelligence
reports, and reports reaching the Department from other
sources, indicate not infrequent approaches of Japanese
fishing craft to this area. The Japanese Government has
cooperated

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.95)
- 3 -
cooperated informally to prevent Japanese fishing vessels
from interferring with the Alaskan salmon industry, but as
protection by this means is not expected to be procurable
indefinitely, the Departments of State and Commerce have
long had under consideration the conclusion of a formal
agreement. It has seemed highly advisable to negotiate
an agreement before the Japanese will have made substantial
investments in the Alaskan fishing industry. As to
advantages of a convention, past consideration of the
matter, and correspondence on file, make it appear that
American interests distinctly have more to gain than do
the Japanese.
m.m.
LOS
LDS/DLY

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.98)
July 12 1935
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/129.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
In reference to our personal conversation of July 9,
there are given below for your convenience the chief rea-
8
sons which prompted this Department to bring to your atten-
6
4.628
tion, in the Department's letter of June 24, 1935, the de-
sirability of your Department being prepared to provide
technical assistance to the Ambassador at Tokyo in connec-
tion with the proposed Alaskan fishery convention.
3
0
Correspondence between the Department and the Embassy
at Tokyo during the several years that the Alaskan fishery
question has been under consideration repeatedly points out
the need of technieal assistance in any conversations which
may be held with the Japanese. The questions to be discussed
are of course highly technical in character and the afford-
ing of expert assistance would, it is thought, obviate the
necessity of submitting numerous questions to Washington
during negotiations. As the Japanese are preoooupied with
fishing questions between themselves end the Soviet, it
appears
The Honorable
Daniel C. Roper,
Secretary of Commoree.

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.97)
appears partieularly important at this time that the
Embassy be prepared, once nogotiations are begun, to carry
the shrough as smoothly as possible. In view of these
miretwmstanees, officers of this Department whe have been
familiar with the general aspects of the fishing problem
to be considered, have believed that it would be impracti-
cable and inadvisable for the Embassy at Tokyo to initiate
negotiations with the Japanese unless adequate technical
assistance is assured. Officers of the Embassy at Tokyo
also have, on the occasion of visits to Washington, dis-
oussed this matter with members of the Bureau of Fisheries
and have consistently pointed out the desirability of an
American expert being sent to Tokyo.
The Department's letter under referenoe was based upon
Ambassador Grew's suggestion to arrange "... onee the way
is prepared, the assignment of an expert of the Bureau of
Fisheries thoroughly familiar with the fisheries of the
Bering Sea area to partioipate in the negotiations". The
Depertment's files also show that in 193l Ambassador Forbes
urged that someone from the Bureau of Fisheries visit Japan
to go over the question of Alaskan fisheries with the
Japanose.
It does not appear to be the desire of the Ambassader
at Tokye to have a teshnical expert assigned immediately.
bat emly after the way for negotiation is prepared. Pinal
authorsty

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
autherity to initiate the negotiations is being withheld
by this Department pending receipt of a statement from
your Department indicating whether or not the technical
assistance suggested by the Ambassador oan be provided.
The question of negotiating a fishery convention with
Japan has been pending several years, and, according to
our records, has grown out of the wishes of the Bureau of
Fisheries of your Department to afford adequate protection
for the Alaskan salmon industry in the Bering Sea area.
Naval Intelligence reports, and reports reaching the Depart-
ment from other sources, indicate that Japanese fishing craft
not infrequently are seen in this area. For some time the
Japanese Government has informally cooperated to prevent
Japanese fishing vessels from interferring with the Alaskan
salmon industry, but as protection by this means is not
expected to be proourable indefinitely, officers of the
Bureau of Fisheries of the Department of Commerce have
long favored endeavoring to obtain a formal agreement. In
1951, according to our files, a decision was reached by
that Bureau to send a fisheries expert to Japan, and it is
understood that only considerations of personmel prevented
this course from being carried out at that time.
I may add that it has seomed highly advisable to nego-
tiate an agreement before the Japanese will have made sub-
stantial investments in the Alaskan fishing industry. As
to

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.85)
the prebable advantages of a convention, past son-
sideration of the matter, and correspondence on file,
make it appear that American interests distinctly have
more to gain than do the Japanese.
sineerely yours,
220
1.8
LDS
FBILDS/DLY
FE
hono ng
10
7-11-35
skt

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.96)
TREATY DIVISION
DRFE
352
SEP 4 1035
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OFCOMMERCE
JUL S1 1935
WASHINGTON
1935 JUL 31 PM 3 43
Division of
The Honorable,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Secretary of State,lv!SiON OF
Washington, D. O. COMMUNATIONS
Letto to Coumerce
AND REOORDS
Dreertms o1 Stat
Rapy.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letters of June 7, June 24, and July
12, 1935, file FE 894.628/129, together with enclosures mentioned in the first
two named communications, in regard to the matter of the conclusion of a treaty
between the United States and Japan, which would prohibit Japanese nationals
from engaging in fishing operations in certain waters of Bering Sea and Bristol
Bay off the coast of Alaska.
If not inconsistent with diplomatic and other considerations, the Depart-
ment of Commerce suggests favorable action upon the expression of the Ambassador
that an informal approach be made to the Japanese Foreign Office in Tokyo, as
soon as possible, concerning the wishes of the American Government in regard to
activities of Japanese fishing interests in the waters of Bering Sea eastward
of a line from Cape Avinof to Cape Sarichef, Alaska.
In any such presentation of the matter, it is this Department's belief
that reference to American wishes should be confined to the subject of preser-
vation of the salmon fisheries. There are no other extensive fishery opera-
tions in the waters of the area specified, nor are there likely to be any such
Cv
operations of particular value to American interests that would be harmed by
Japanese activities.
It is further suggested that in any approach in this matter made by the
Embassy at Tokyo, it would be appropriate to indicate, with due discretion,
readiness on our part to make some concessions in re ard to crab fishing in
the waters of this area, recalling in this connection informal suggestions
made several years ago by Japanese crab-canning interests.
In regard to the desire of the State Department that adequate technical
assistance be made available to the Ambassador at Tokyo, so that occasions of
reference to Washington for decision may be reduced as far as practicable, I
wish to say that when conversations regarding the treaty have progressed to
the extent that the services of one of our experts is needed in Tokyo, this
Department will be glad to have Mr. Ward T. Bower, Chief of the Division of
Alaska Fisheries of the Bureau of Fisheries, who has had many years of experi-
ence regarding the fisheries of Alaska and who has been in Japan and along the
Siberian Coast, proceed to Japan to render assistance in regard to the propoed
F/FC
Alaska fishery convention.
The Department of Commerce wishes to renew expressions of appreciation of
G
the active interest taken by the Department of State in this matter.
Sincerely youra
Secretary of Commerce.

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.94)
353 TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMIYTED
OONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
Department
OR
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
Charge to
Washington
carefutly parapheamed before
August , 1935.
2p
AMEMBASSY
COMMUNICATI
TOKYO ( JAPAN
AND RECURDS
B
Your 118, June 3, noon.
One. You are authorized in your discretion to inquire
informally of the Foreign Office whether the Japanese Govern-
mont would be prepared to enter into discussions with the/
894.628/1
American Government with a view to the conclusion of a con-
vention whereby Japanese nationals would refrain from/
engaging in salmon packing in the waters/of Bering Sea,
eastward of a line from Cape Avinof to Cape/Sarichef, Alaska.
Two. With reference to last paragraph of your despatch
No.1298 of May 14, Department of Commerce states:
QUOTEWIt is this Department's belief that
reference\to American wishes should be confined
to the subject of preservation\of the salmon/
fisheries. There are no other extensive fishery
operations/in the/waters of the area specified,
nor are there \likely to be any such operations/of
particular value to American interests/that would
be(harmed by Japanese activities. UNQUOTE(Eay)
Three. You are authorized in your discretion to
intimate
Sxy
to the Foreign Office that the American Government
would be\prepared to consider sympathetically\proposals/
in regard to crab fishing by Japanese interests in the
19
D. C. B.—No. m,
1-138
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OPFY E 1024

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.97)
B TELEGRAM SENT
OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
TE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
epartment
PARTAIR
PLAIN
arge to
Washington,
- 2-
waters of this area, recalling in this connection informal
suggestions made at various times during the past few
years by Japanese crab canning interests.
Four. The Department of Commerce has expressed/
readiness to instruct Mr. Ward T. Bower, Chief of the/
Division of Alaska Fisheries of the Bureau of Fisheries,
who has had many years of |experience regarding the
fisheries of Alaska and who has been in Japan and /along
the Siberian Coast, to proceed to Japan as soon as the
conversations in regard to the proposed convention have/
progressed to the extent that the services of(an American/
fishery expert are needed in Tokyo. Decision as to when
the services of Mr. Bower are needed in Tokyo must
It is our opinion, however,
necessarilyrest with you.
that, in view of the highly technical character of/the
subject,\you should endeavor in your/conversations with/the
Foreign Office to give the Japanese Government only such/
information as it would require in formulating its reply
to inquiry made by you on the basis of paragraph one above.
If and when the Japanese Government has manifested some
degree or eagerness or at least active interest in the
conclusion of the proposed treaty, you should request that
Sent by operator.
M.,
19.
D. C. R.—No. 80.
1-188
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFI E: 1984

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.94)
355 TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
DICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department
PARTAIR
Charge to
PLAIN
Washington,
- 3 -
Mr. Bower proceed to Tokyoland you should,(if possible,
suspend disoussion with the Foreign Office until the/
arrival of Mr. Bower.
Five. Before approaching the Japanese Government/
please study carefully\previous correspondence, especially
Department's 1nstruction 639 of November 19, 1934, and
748 of Apri1 22, 1935,( and enclosures \to both instructions.
Six. Please keep the Department\currently informed
Hule
shoting.
n
m.m.6
FE
TD
894.628/131.
on
AUG 3 1935
19.
D.C.R.-No.
1-188
U.S, GOVERMENT PRINTING OF EI I9SE

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.96)
356
august 9 1935
My éear Mr. Seeretary:
Reference ie made to your letter under date July 30,
l955, and to previous correspondence between our respective
Departments in regard to regulation of fishing by Japanese
89
in eertain waters of Bering Sea and Bristol Bay off the
coast of Alaska.
9
2
The Department has telegraphically instrueted the
8
1
Embassy at Tokyo in the sense of the Department of
Commeree's letter of July 30. The Department at the same
time advised the Embassy to prooeed with caution during the
initial stages of its diseussion with the Japanese Foreign
Offiee in regard to the conelusion of the proposed conven-
tion whieh would forbid Japanese nationals from engaging in
the pasking of salmon in the waters above mentioned, and to
await manifestation by the Japenese Government of active
interest in the matter before requesting that an expert of
AUG9
the Bureau of Fisheries procesd to Tokyo.
opy of
Simeerely yours,
1935P
som
origi-
Cordell Hull
miel C. Roper,
sNse

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.98)
7E
357
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
1-1336
FROM
FS
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated August 7, 1935
14 1935
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington.
894.628
163, August 7, 4 p. m.
Degartmant of State
note
711.948
894.628/1
I called on the Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs today and took up with him informnlly the
question of a convention ior the control of sa lmon
fishing in Alaskan waters. He asked me if I would
put the conversation in writing and I gave him a
O!
2
written statement as follow:
"Would the Japanese Government be prepared to
enter into discussions with the American Government
with a view to the conclusion of a convention whereby
JAN 15 1936
FILED
Japanese nationals would undertake not to engage in
salmon packing east of a line drawn from Cape Avinof
to Cape Sarichef, Alaska?
In this connection, the American Government would
be prepared to give smypathetic consideration to pro-
posals in regard to crab fishing by Japanese interests
in these

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
358
FS
2-No. 163, August 7, 4 p. m. from Tokyo
in these waters recalling informl suggestions which
have been made by Japanese crab canning interests at
different timos during the past few years."
Mr. Shigemitsu then asked me if, assuming his
reply would be in the affirmative, the American Govern-
ment would then make formal proposals. I said that
I assumed so but that I would communicate with my
Government and confirm this later. He then said that
he would send for me as soon as he had consulted the
Department concerned. I said that we were anxious to go
ahead as fast as possible and he promised to expedite
the matter to the best of his ability.
HPD:MCL
MEVILIE

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.97)
359
In reply refer to
August 14 1935
FE 894.628/138.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I refer to the Department's letter of August 9,
1035, in which it was stated that the American Embassy
at Tokyo had been directed to approach the Japanese
Government in regard to the possibility of there being
894.628/1
concluded a convention for the control of salmon fishing
in certain waters off the coast of Alaska.
There is enolosed for your information a copy of a
telegram under date August 7 (No. 163) from the American
CN
Charge'd'Affairos
reporting that he had that day
2
disoussed the matter with the Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs.
Sincerely yours,
William Phillips
Enclosure:
Telegram No. 165,
Embassy Tokyo,
August 7, 1955.
AUG 13. 1935
AUG 14, 1935
The Honorable
tru
6R3
Daniel C. Roper,
Beeretary of Commoroe.
FE
8
m.m.N
8-12-55

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.93)
46940
EMBASSY OF THE
360
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, August 9, 1935.
AUG 30 
2l.t 2oley
No. 1425.
SUBJECT:
FISHERIES.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAH
894.628
not
Cofyin FE(381)
711.
For D-trbyior, he
Gmde
For
KeND
894.628/133
Caltention ofMr Boevert
SEP 9
1925
Eke.
FIL
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
telegraphic instruction No. 119, August 3, 2 p.m., and
132
to the Embassy's reply thereto No. 163, August 7, 4 p.m.
relating to the informal inquiry made of the Foreign
Office whether the Japanese Government would be pre-
pared to enter into discussions with the American
Government with a view to the conclusion of a con-
B
vention whereby Japanese nationals would refrain from
engaging in salmon packing in the waters of Bering
Sea

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
361
-2 -
Sea eastward of a line from Cape Avinof to Cape Sarichef,
Alaska.
During the course of my conversation with the Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs on the subject I received
the impression that he was interested in the matter and
that the authorities concerned would probably recommend
an affirmative reply. The Embassy will not fail to
communicate the reply by cable as soon as it is re-
ceived.
With reference to the last paragraph of the Embassy's
telegram under reference, I assume that the government
is prepared to make formal proposals at once in the
event of receiving an affirmative reply from the Japan-
ese Government. In such event the Embassy believes it
would be desirable for Mr. Bower, the fishery expert,
to proceed to Tokyo immediately bringing with him the
formal proposals, presumably in the form of a draft
convention. There would then appear to be no necessity
for further conversations with the Foreign Office on
the subject pending the arrival of Mr. Bowers.
1/
For such interest as it may contain, there is enclosed
a copy of a memorandum of a conversation which I had
recently with Mr. F.S. Booth, an American connected with
the Nichiro Fisheries Company which, as the Department
is aware, is controlled by the Mitsubishi interests.
From this conversation it would appear that this company
has absorbed the open sea fisheries and that in the
judgment

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.98)
362
- 3 -
judgment of Mr. Booth when the fishery negotiations
with Russia were over, the company would allow the
floating canneries to lapse inasmuch as they are
too expensive to operate compared with land canneries.
Respectfully yours,
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosure:
1/ Copy of Memorandum of conversation,
Mr. Neville and Mr. F.S.Booth
of the Nichiro Fisheries Company,
June 14, 1935.
862.8
ESC:g

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
363
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1425 of August 9, 1935, from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
C O P Y
Conversation
June 14, 1935.
Mr. Neville and Mr. F.S. Booth
of the Nichiro Fisheries Company.
Fisheries.
I met Mr. Booth, whom I have known for a number
of years, at lunch at the Tokyo Club. I asked him
how serious a menace he thought the off shore fish-
ing of salmon was likely to prove for the shore
fisheries. He said that the situation was very com-
plicated, so far as Kamchatka was concerned, but in
his judgment, the nuisance value was greater than the
profit. I asked him what he meant by that statement.
He said that there are now two kinds of pelagic fish-
ing for salmon. One consists of small boats that
operate with the Kurile Islands as their base, and
bring their catch to canneries there. These ships have
a sort of mother ship that receives and ices the fish
that are caught, and then makes off with a full cargo
to the canneries in Japan. They cannot work too far
from their base, or the fish will spoil if kept too long.
The other type consists of floating canneries. The ship
sets out to the northern seas with motor boats in at-
tendance, and cans the fish that are gathered by the
small boats. They all operate off the Kamchatka coast
with gill nets. These are floating nets that drift
with

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.99)
344
-2 -
with the tides or currents, and as salmon always swim
against the current, they are caught in the drifting
nets.
He then told me that the Nichiro had absorbed
the open sea fisheries, and it was his judgment that
when the fishery negotiations with Russia were over,
the company would allow the floating canneries to die
out; that is, as the vessels become too old to operate
they would not be replaced. I asked him why. He said
that, compared with land stations, they are too expen-
sive to operate.
I then asked him about crab fishing in Bering Sea.
He said that it really was not profitable, but as the
fishing companies had a number of ves els that could
be used for the purpose, it was better to put them to
work than to have them idle. He said that the London
market for crab meat had held up well, which made it
possible to continue the crab fishing. I asked him
whether vessels equipped to take crab could interfere
with the salmon runs. He said they could not; that
salmon is a surface fish. He then told me that there
was, in his judgment, absolutely no probability of
Japanese taking salmon in Alaska waters. The Japanese
Government objects to it, and besides, said Mr. Booth,
there would be no profit in so long a voyage because
the catch would have to be very large and the market
very good to warrant it. Nichiro, which is controlled
by Mitsubishi, would never countenance trying to establish
a

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.96)
65
-3 -
a nuisance value, because their trade relations with
the United States are too important. He said that
salmon packing would have to become much more profitable
than it is before floating canneries would be sent to
take Alaska salmon.
E.L.N.

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.91)
366
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANMITTED
Department of State
This cable was sent in con dential @ede.
Washington,
TA
August 29; 1935.
8E
AMEMBASSY,
5pm
DIViSION OF
TOKYO (GAPAN) S
132
Your despatch 1425 August 9/
third
paragraphy
One You may inform the Foreign Office that this !
Government is prepared to present to the Japanese Govern-
ment speciric proposals.
894,628/1
Two./ Should the(reply of/the Foreign Officelto your)
inquiry be in the affirmative, you may inform the Foreign
office/that arrangements have been madelfor an expert/ of
the Bureau of Fisheries to proceed immediately (to Tokyop
3
Three. For various reasons po repeat no/draft( con-
3
vention/has been propared. However,/Bower/will be/ fully)
instructed/in regard to/ inducements to be held out in the
various/contingencies(which might be/expected td arisq in
the course of the negotiations.
Four. We concur(in the thought expressed in the last)
sentence ofparagraph under/ reference.
thee
894.628/133
3.m.H.
TD
FE
19
U.S. GOVERT PRING OFICE: 10

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Haude t lo Tr. Dooman
Bureau of
Washington
Bureau d Jishehex, ou
02.2-2
Auguch16,1935.
August 14, 1935
CONFI DENTIAL
aib
Kemorandum for the Commissioner
of Fisheries:
The Bureau has given careful constderation to your memoran-
91.628
dum of the 9th instant in regard to the entry into and clearance
from ports of the United States of foreign vessels engaged in
fishery operation on the high seas.
Replying to question mumber 1, if any foreign vessel on en-
tering our ports presents a proper clearance from a foreign port.
there is no navigation law which would prevent her enterin: with
a cargo of fish taken on the high seas and landing: the same, the
lending of the cargo being subjeot of course to the requirements
of the customs laws.
Answering question mumber 2, there is no provision of statute
for elearing a vessel either foreign or American for the "high
seas". Sections 4197-4201 R.S. preseribe the procedure for clear
ing a vessel to a foreim port. The procedure for "permitting"
a foreign vessel to proceed coastwise from one United States port
C
to another is found in sections 4367-4369 2.5. and sect1ons 442
446 of the Tariff Act of 1930. Thore 1s no provision in our law
4
for granting a permit to a vessel to proceed from a United States
port to the "high sers" and return to the seme port of clearance.
The permits authorized by law contemplate either a designated
foreign port or another desi mated domestic port as the destina-
tion.
As you are aware, the "high seas" are not foreign within the
meaning of our navigation laws. As stated by Justice  tory in
Taber et al, vs United States, ederal Case no.13722. "he ocean
1s deemed the common highway of all nations and foreign to none".
There is likewise no provision ir he law for entering a
vessel at a United States port from t "high seas". Vesgels
are entered from a "foreign port or place": sections h33-136
Tariff lot of 1930.
Answering question mmber 3. we have no law which would pre-
vent an American vespel from receiving and transporting ashore.
the output of a floating plant stationed on the "high seas". You
are of course familiar with the provisions of seotion 43ll ..
F/F
which reads as follows!
"Vessels of twenty tons and uxard, enrolled in pur-
muance of this Title (R.s. 4311 to 4390: U8c title
G
46, se0s.251 to 336), and having e l1conse in force.

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.97)
or veesels of less than twenty tons, which.
although not onrolled, have & license in
foree, as required by this Title, and no
others, shall be deemed vessels of the United
States ontitled to the privileges of vessels
employed in the coasting trade or fisheries."
You also are aware that there is no ponalty for violation
of section 4311 . S.
J. B. WEAVER
Director
AJT/MS

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.94)
317
ND
BUDEAU OF FISHERIES
ARASHINGTONA
Y93516 AM 10 33
ugust 9, 1935.
17
F
Entrance into the taited states of foreign vessels
engaged in fishery operetions on the high seas.
AIRS
894.628
Memorandum for r. Tyrer:
Confidential
Referring to the discussions yesterday between apt in  lanert of
your offiee and Mr. Bower of this Bureau. in regerd to the ntrance into
and clearance from ports of the United tates or loreign v ssels en asd
in fishery operations on the high seas, an early statement will be appreci-
F
ated from you upon questions as follows:
W 894.6
1. Can a Japanese floating crab cannery which clears
4
from a port in Japan and anehors in and en ged exclusively
on the high seas in the taking (by its tenders) and proces-
sing of crabs or other fishery products, land such can ed
products direct from the high seas at a port of laska or
the United Stetes, upon payment of the prescribed duty?
2
2. After diseharging the fisheries cargo secured on
8
the high seas, can sueh foreign veenel cleer fr an merican
port for the high seas to seeure further fislery procucts,
with a view to again entering an mericun port, or must such
clearanee after discharging the initial cargo, be for a
foreign port?
3. If it is not peraissible for a Japenese vessel to
land its high seas catch product in an American port direct
from the high seas, would it be proper for such vessel to
transfer its pack to an Anerican vessel for landing in the
United States upon payment of the duty?
Aceurate determination in respect to the foregoing is necessary in
view of the fact that Seeretary Roper hes communicated to the tate De-
partment his desire for the promulgation of a fishery treaty with Japan,
whereby Japanese nationals would be prohibited from engaging 1n salmon
fishing in certain high seas waters edjacent to the Alaskan coast.
In return for any such concession upon the part of the Japanese
Govermment, Secretary Roper has indicated his willingness that the United
States may make certain concessions regarding the fisheries of advantage

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
to Japan. One such coneession is the possibility of reducing the
tariff on canned erabs, a matter of importance to the Japanese
Government, in viow of the fact that the United States is the lar-
gest eonsumer of this product.
Another concession which has not as yet been su gested to the
State Department, but which  ay be of material aid in securing the
above-mentioned treaty, is allowing the Japanese floating crab can-
neries, which operate in Bering ea in internation l waters a few
miles off the Aleskan coast. to land their finisned pack either at
ports in Alaska or in the United states, u on paynent of any pre-
seribed duty.
A few years ago unorficial representations wers made by some
Japanose business men who called at this o fice, that it o id be
of greet advantage to them if th ir pack of canned crabs, prepared
a few miles off the laskan coast and most o. which vould ultimately
come to American markets, could be landed at a port in laske or in
the Unitod States, without first being heuled all the way b ck to
Japan and then trens-shipped to the United States.
They also spoke of the possibility of procuring merican-made
cans or other supplies while th vessel wes in an  rican port
after diseharging its pack of crabs.
The foregoing. submitted to you conrid ntially. will convey an
idea of the importance of the uostions raised regarding the entrance
of foreign vessels engaged in high seas fishery op retions into ports
of the United States and their clearance therefrom.
Your careful consideration of th se yuestions, or any other re-
lated questions which may be helpful in dealing with this subject,
will be eppreciated greatly.
  J 
Acting Conmissioner.

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
367
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MJP
This tolegram must be
Tokyo
closely paranhrased
before being communicRom
Dated November 12, 1935
ted to anyone.(B)
Rec'd 10:10 a. m.
Division/of
FAR EASTERN AEPAIRS
Secretary of State,
ANOV121935
Washington.
Department of State
113
Ryd
208, November 12, 5 p. m.
Department's 119, August 3, 2 p. m.; and
16 1935
894.625
NOVETPET
894.628/1
One. I have just been orally informed by
the Foreign Office that the Japanese Government
would prefer not to enter into negotiations on
the question of salmon packing and crab fishing
35
at the present time. The reasons given are as
follows:
(a) Japanese fishing interests in the Bristol
Bay region are limited. The crab fishing is of
no great importance although it does provide a
livelihood to some of the fishing population.
At present there are no Japanese authorizod to
engage in salmon fishing in the open sea anywhere
except around Kamchatka. It appears unlikely that
Japanese interests in this industry will develop
to an extent that would be detrimontal to
American interosts and that consequently thore
seems
7
K

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.99)
368
FS
2-No. 208, November 12, 5 p. m. from Tokyo
seems to be no sufficient reason for negotiating a
treaty as the matters involved have too little immediate
value.
(b). The Japanese Government would in any event
prefer to reserve its liberty of action in regard to an
area as large as that indicated and while the authorities
have no present intention to authorize Japanese floating
canneries to take salmon in those waters the Government
would prefer not to enter into negotiations for a fishery
treaty which present conditicns do not seem to require.
Two. I replied that my Government would be dis-
appointed and inquired whether the compensation offered
seemed inadequate; that 1s, whether they felt that salmon
fishing had greater possibilities for development than
crab fishing. I asked whether there were any possibility
of the authorities reconsidering their decision; that my
Government regarded the question of open sea salmon fish-
ing very seriously; that our land canneries represented
a large investment which might well be impaired by open
sea salmon fishing; and that finally it needed little
imagination to picture the situation which might be
created if Japanese fishing vessels came to be regarded
as a menace to American shore canneries and that we wished
to prevent such a situation arising by taking suitable
measures

=== Page 397 === (confidence 1.00)
369
fs
3-No. 208, November 12, 5 p. m. from Tokyo
measures beforehand.
Three. I was informed that the matter was simply
of not sufficient importance from the Japanese point of
view and that the Department of Agriculture and Forestry
preferred at this time to retain their liberty of action
in regard to the granting of fishing licenses over so
large an area.
Four. My impression is that the authorities will
probably continue to refuse applications for open sea
salmon fishing by floating canneries in the eastern part
of the Bering ea for the time being and that they will
notify us when the pressure for permits becomes too
strong. I am unable to obtain a more definite statement
than this at the present time but it is possible that
they may adduce a counter proposal if sufficiently pressed.
Please instruct.
CSB
NEVILLE

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
370
November 18 1935
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
With reference to my letter of August 9, 1935, and
to previous correspondenoe between our respective Depart-
894.628/135
ments in regard to regulation of fishing by Japanese in
certain waters of Bering Sea and Bristol Bay off the coast
of Alaska, I enclose a paraphrase of a telegram, dated
November 12, from the American Charg6 d'Affaires at Tokyo,
who reports that the Japanese Government has indicated
reluctance to enter into negotiations at the present time
in regard to the conclusion of a treaty for the purpose
above described.
Your attention is especially invited to the conclud-
ing paragraph of the telegram from the Chargé d'Affaires
in which he suggests that the Japanese Government might be
disposed, if sufficiently pressed, to present a counter
proposal.
It
The Homorable
Damiel C. Roper,
Becretary of

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.92)
371
-2-
It would be appreciated if you would be so good as
to indicate the character of the reply which should be
made to the request of the Chargé d'Affaires for further
instructions in regard to this matter.
Sincerely yours,
Cordo Hum
Enolosure:
Paraphrase of
telegram No. 208,
November 12, Tokyo.
nai.
8010
m.m.H
FEfEHD/DLY
FE
A
SKH
11-13-35
NOV 14,1936

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.99)
FIDENTIAL)
372
PARAPHRASE
A telegram (No. 208) of November 12, 1935, from the
Ameriean Chargé d'Affaires ad interim at Tokyo, reads
substantially as follows:
One. The Foreign Office has just informed me orally
that the Japanese Govermment would prefer not to enter at
the present time into negotiations in regard to orab fish-
ing and salmon packing. The following reasons were given:
(a) There are no extensive Japanese fishing
interests in Bristol Bay. Although crab fishing provides
a livelihood to some fishermen, it is of no great
importance. There are no Japanese licensed at present for
salmon fishing in the open sea anywhere except in the
vicinity of Kamohatka. It does not seem liksly that
Japanese interests in salmon fiahing will so develop as
to be detrimental to American interests, and therefore
there does not appear to be adequate reason for the
negotiation of a treaty, the matters involved not having
sufficient immediate importance.
(b) In any event the Japanese Government prefers
to reserve its liberty of action in any area as large as
that under reference. Although the Japanese authorities
have no intention at the present time to permit Japanese
floating sonneries to pask salmon in that ares, the
Japanese Government prefers not to enter into negotiatioms
im regard to a fishery treaty not required by existing
conditions.

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.98)
373
Two. I stated in reply that my Government would be
dimappointed and I inquired whether the consideration
offered did not seem to be adequate; that is, whether the
Jepenese felt that salmon fishing offered greater possibility
of development than crab fishing. I inquired whether there
was any likelihood of the appropriate Japanese authorities
reconsidering their decision, and I stated that the question
of open see salmon packing was very seriously regarded by
ay Government; that open sea salmon fishing might well
Impair the large investment represented by American land
canneries; that the situation which might be created if
Japsnese fishing vessels came to be regarded as a menace
to American land canneries might easily be imagined; and
that it is cur desire, by taking appropriate measures in
advance, to prevent such a situation arising.
Three. The Foreign Office informed me that from the
Japanese point of view the matter was not of sufficient
importance and that the Department of Agrioulture and
Forestry preferred for the present to retain full liberty
of action in regard to the granting of licenses to fish
in an area so extensive as that under reference.
Pour. It is my impression that the Japanese authorities
will in all probability continue for the time being to
refume permission for open sea salmon packing by floating
emmmeries in the eastern pert of Bering Sea and that we
will be netified whem the pressure for permite becomes teo

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.85)
374
strong. I cammot obtain a more definite statement at the
prement time, but it is poasible that if we sufficiently
press the Japanese they may present a counter proposal.
Your instruotions are requested.
600
m.m,H.
FEINHD/DLY
FE
1112-55
OR
1
MM

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.83)
375
STATE
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
S
S
ICATION
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
LL
A CRD
WASHINGTON
r-
OONWON
C
11
10 193
E
R
 to Tolago
1.1
ett.to
The Secretury of State,
Sommerce Dept
n
Washington, D. 0.
Ly dear . Secretam:
The receipt is tclmoled ed o te oprtt o st te's letter
894.628/1
of lovems l, le (lile  coe.os/lss.,  nsitoi  p rephrase
of a telegre aubeu loveser ls fro the e d d'reuires  t lolyo
in wlieh it is st bed shat the s panese ovem eat t the present ti e
would prefer not to ant r inso ne oti siois in re trd to the conelusion
of a treaty lor re uatia Pis in  top e in cereain ters of
the hi h seas in ristol jey.
It is note t  s peuson iven y t  p nes dovern ent for
reluctnce to enter ihee suel ne oti. sto s is t the  tters con-
36
cerned do not eve su iei at ie i  i port ne . e re twre tt
Japanese flo-tin c hery oper tions olf t l se co s, no re of
ne ligible ip rasanee. Suc opemestoae,  ever, conssitate  poten-
ti 1 dan ep to se lae  sul on Pishery  lol, is sooe, soul' ost
be avoidea by breae pel bione es olis  lor  rtensive prepur-
ations tse r de oy panese lie iae ese ser nes sields of
endeavor.
In spite  ootee sao mw aeies in l prooe
bility will co msin   si  i bo  ase pe ission fop opn
set sulonp c in lo  meis i e  os erin
Sea, thie soprt ent foele s ws ne    peon o
 eicen intepests i  h i e s   sis sies is lusirable.
Incs uch s he   o d ires  o su ests te possibility
st t poaese lover  ene  pe pen d countep propos l is
t. is sattop is prease, I .ope th  martmoat of Soate will Pina it
consistent to  in ppro c the  plese ver e a tis subject.
It is the opinion os tis epart eis a  s .e s amt enter ints a treaty
for the purpose bove desceribed wit. e s st possi le deley consis-
JAN 14 1936
tent it. diplomtie consicer tions.
Sincesely yours,
F/FG
Secretarr or Conmerce.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.95)
376
ARING OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
Departnent of State
Department
LNONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Charge to
PLAIN
Washington.
1935 NOV 29 PM 4 45
November 27, 1935.
AMEMBASSY,
5P
DIVISION OF
TOKYO (Japan) COMMUNICATIONS
186
AND RECORDS
Your 208, November 12, 5 p.m.
On November 27, the Department discussed the matter
orally with the Japanese Ambassador, who stated that he
would lay before his Government our view in regard to
894.628/136
the desirability of there being concluded a convention.
Please take no further action pending the receipt
of the instruction which the Department will expect to
send you as soon as a reply will have been made by the
Japanese Ambassador.
S. W.
894.628/136
0
HOV 29 193€ PM
WETN
EA
FE:EHD/DLY
FE
Enciphered by
HF
Sent by operator
M.,
19.
D. C. R.—No. 50.
1—138
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFF: E: 1934

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.98)
377
November 30 1935
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/136.
My dear Mr. Beeretary:
I refer to your letter of November 19, 1935, in which
the hope is expresaed that the Depertment will find it con-
sistent to make a further approach to the Japanese Govern-
ment in regard to the conclusion of a treaty to regulate
894.628/13
fishing by Japanese in certain waters of the high seas in
Bristol Bay.
On November 27, an officer of the Department discussed
the matter at length with the Japanese Ambassador and re-
36
quested that the Ambassador lay before his Government the
benefits which would result from the conclusion between
the United States and Japan of a convention of the char-
acter above desoribed. The Japanese Ambassador stated that
he would promptly inform his Goverment in Pegard to the
purport of the conversation, and that he would commmiate
with the Department as soon as a reply had been received
by him from the Japanese Government.
In
r
The Honorable
Daniel C. Roper,
Gesretary of Commeree.

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.93)
378
- 2 -
In view of the new approach that has been made to
the Japanese Government, the Amerioan Charg6 d'Affaires
at Tokyo has been directed to take no new aotion in this
regard until the recsipt by him of further instruetions.
sinoerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Sutler Welles
Assistant Secretary.
hai
WTT
FE:EHD/WTT:DLY
FE
A-S
m.m.H
11-29-35
NOV 20

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.96)
FORN DS-516
5-13-47
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CHARGE SLIP
CLERK'S
FILE NUMBER
DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT
CHARGE TO-
DATE OF CHARGE
INITIALS
PB-
7/6/50
Zeu
894.628/137

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
A lnt  Deaember 9, 1935.
MMH:
DECI 2 1935
A-8:
Nr. Sayre
MR. SAYRE
Tokyo Embassy's No. 1558, November 20,
1935:
This despatch confirms the Embassy's
telegram No. 208, November 12, 1935, stating
that the Japanese authorities are reluctant
to enter into discussion of a convention
whereby Japanese would be restrained from
engaging in salmon packing off the coast
of Alaska.
Although the Foreign Office seems
disinclined to enter into commitments be-
fore the situation shows definite need for
action, Mr. Neville thinks that the
authorities intend to continue to refuse
applications for open sea salmon fishing
in the eastern part of the Bering Sea.
Mr. Neville thinks that if after a brief
interval we press the matter further the
Japanese authorities may be willing to
reconsider their decision.
It will be recalled that on November 27
Mr. Sayre discussed this matter with the
Japanese Ambassador and requested that the
Ambassador lay before his Government the
benefits

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
benefits which would result from the con-
clusion of a treaty to regulate fishing
by Japanese on the high seas off the coast
of Alaska. The Ambassador agreed to
submit the matter to his home authorities
in the effort to make them "think" some
more about it.
894.628/137
WTT
WTT/DLY

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.90)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 20, 1935.
No. 1558.
SUBJECT: FISHERIES.
divrsien of
PAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
C
J.4
2l.to
Department of Stal
15
S
2
0
云
December 11 1935
4
894.628/137
1935 060
Ceky Io Bureand
of fediueies tenace
894.425
icttu
MAR 2 0 19
Assistant Secretary
DECI 2 1935
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
MR. SAYRD
ashington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
133
No. 1425/of August 9, 1935, relating to the informal in-
JAN 14 1936
FILED
quiry made of the Foreign Office whether the Japanese
Government would be prepared to enter into discussion
with the Americen Government with a view to the con-
clusion of a convention whereby Japanese nationals would
refrain from engaging in salmon packing in the waters of
Bering Sea eastward of a line from Cape Avinof to Cape
F
Sarichef, Alaska, and to confirm the Embassy's telegram
No. 208

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
135
No. 208, November 12,
5 p.m., renorting that the Japa-
nese Government would prefer not to enter into nego-
tiations on the uestion of salmon p cking and crab fish-
ing at the present time.
Since first approaching the Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs on this guestion, as reported in the Embassy's
132
telegram No. 163, August 7, 4 p.m., I have from time to
time inquired concerning the matter and I was informed
that it had been referred to Mr. Horinouchi and that he
was awaiting a reply from the Fisheries Bureau of the
Department of Agriculture and Forestry.
On November 12 I called agein on IMr. Horinouchi
who informed me that on that very morning he had just
received the reply from the Fis eries Bureau but that
it appeared the Bureau did not favor entering into dis-
cussions on the subject at the present time. after lis-
tening to the reasons advanced by the Bureau I expressed
disappointment and endeavored to learn whether the Bureau
perhaps felt that the compensation Wich might be offered
would be inadequate, but he renlied that while this may
have been a consideration he felt that the subject did not
have sufficient importance from the Japanese point of view
and that the Department of Agriculture and Forestry preferred
not to be restricted in the metter of issuing licenses for
open water salmon fishing over so large an area as that
under consideration. I then asked Mr. Horinouchi whether
there was any possibility of the authorities' reconsidering
their

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
their decision and impressed upon him the seriousness with
which the American Government regarded the question of
salmon packing and its possible effect upon merican in-
terests. He did not reply directly to my question but
confined himself to an expression of opinion that there
was no present intention to permit open vater salmon fish-
ing by Jepanese vessels in waters adjacent to Alaska. He
said the authorities did not like to idea of entering into
commitments before the situation showed definite need for
action.
I left with the impression that the authorities in-
tended to continue to refuse aplications for open sea
salmon fishing by floating canneries in the eastern part
of the Bering Sea but that if the pressure for permits
should become too strong they would then notify us. It
is possible that if after a brief interval we press the
matter further the Japenese authorities may be willing to
reconsider their decision. For the immediate present, how-
ever, there appears nothin more that can be done.
1/
A memorandum of my conversation with Mr. Horinouchi
on November 12 is enclosed herewith.
Respectfully yours,
Sduin .trlle
Enclosure:
Edwin L. Neville
1. Memorandum of con-
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
versation as stated.
862.8
ESC:r

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No./ to despatch
No. dated November 20, 1935,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
CONVERSATION HELD ON NOVE.BER 12, 1935
BETWEEN
MR. NEVILLE AND LR. HORINOUCHI, CHIEF
OF THE ALERICA BUREAU OF THE FOREIGN
OFFICE.
Salmon Fishing in the Bristol Bay Region.
I called on IIr. Horinouchi at ll A.. I told him
that I had called to ask him whether he could cive me
some indication of the Fisher Bureau's views on the
proposal to restrict prospective open sea salmon fishing
by Japanese interests in the Bristol Bay region. He told
me that he had just been in communication with the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and Forestry and that their reply
had been that they would prefer not to enter into nego-
tiations on this subject at the present time. The reasons
civen for this decision were two:
1. Japanese fishing interests in the Bristol Bay
region are limited. The crab fishing there and even else-
where is of no great importance to Japan, although it does
provide a livelihood to some fishing population. Still,
it has relatively limited possibilities in the way of
future development, and cannot be considered as of suffi-
cient importance to be the subject of treaty negotiations.
At the present time there are no Japanese authorized to
engage in fishing salmon in the open sea anywhere but
in the seas around Kamchatka. It seems unlikely that
Japanese interests in this industry far away from Japan
will develop to any considerable extent, certainly not to
an

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
an extent that would be detrimentel to American interests,
and that consequently there seems to be insufficient reason
for negotiating a treaty, as the matters involved have too
little immediate value.
2. In addition to the reasons given above, the
Japanese Government would prefer to retain its liberty
of action in regard to an area so large as that indicated.
It is several hundred miles from Cape Avenof to Cape
Sarichef, and while the Japanese authorities concerned
have no present intention to authorize Japanese floating
canneries to take salmon in those waters, the Government
would prefer to enter upon no negotiations for a fishery
treaty which conditions just now do not seem to call for.
I told Mr. Horinouci that my Government would be
disappointed. I asked him whether the decision was caused
by the belief that the compensation offered was inade-
quate - that salmon fishing had greater possibilities for
development than crab fishing. He said that while that
may have entered into the picture, he thought that it
was a definite decision on its merits; that the subject .
was not of enough importance from the Japanese point of
view (the point of view of the Department of Agriculture
and Forestry) to be the subject of treaty negotiations,
and they would prefer to retain their liberty of action
in regard to granting or refusing licenses for open
water salmon fishing over so large an area.
I then asked Mr. Horinouchi if there was any
possibility of the authorities' reconsidering their
decision

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
decision. I said that while I was not authorized to
speak, I felt sure that my Government would be glad to
listen to any counter proposal which the Japanese might
care to make; that my Government regarded the possibility
of open salmon fishing very seriously; that our land
canneries represented a large investment which might
well be impaired by open sea salmon fishing, and that
finally it needed no great intellect to picture the
situation which might be created if Japanese fishing
vessels came to be regarced as a menace to American
shore canneries, and that we desire to prevent diffi-
culties arising by taking suitable measures beforehand.
He said that he fully undcrstood my point of view; that
he would take the matter up again, and ask the fishery
authorities to reexamine it. He then said that there
had been two or three applications for licenses to fish
for salmon in the Bering
Sea area which the Fishery
Bureau had, by direction of the Iinister of Agriculture
and Forestry, refused to grant.
He said that they had
told him that they would consult the Foreign Office
before granting any such licenses; that he did not
believe there was any present intention to permit that
type of fishing by Japanese vessels in waters adjacent
to Alaska, but the authorities preferred to make no
definite commitments in the matter. He said that there
seemed no probability that Japanese would be engaged in
such fishing, but the authoritics do not like the idea
of making international commitments before the si tuation
shows definite need for action.
Presumably

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Presumably what we may count on is that the authori-
ties will refuse applications for open sea salmon fishing
by floating canneries in the Eastern part of the Bering
Sea for the time being; and that they will notify us if
the pressure for permits becomes too strong. I cannot get
more than this at the present time, but they may come for-
ward with some scheme of their own, depending on the
amount of rersistence they meet.

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.94)
Becember 11 1955
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/137
Hy dear Mr. Seoretary:
With reference to my letter of November 15, 1935,
enelosing a paraphrase of a telegram, dated November 12,
from the American Chargé d'Affaires at Tokyo reporting
that the Japanese Govermment has indicated reluctance to
894.628/137
enter into negotiations at the present time in regard to
the conclusion of a treaty to regulate fishing by Japanese
in eertain waters of Bering Sea and Bristol Bay off the
coast of Alaska, there is herewith enclosed a copy of
despatoh No. 1558 of November 20, 1935, from the American
Chargé d'Affaires at Tokyo, which confirms the telegram
above-mentioned and gives further details in regard to
the matter.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
Tokyo No. 1558,
20,1935.
DEC
Crur
ut1n6
The Bemorable
DT..S.
Daniel G. Roper,
Bemretary of Co
A-S

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
of State
19355C 4 PM 3 49
MR. SAYRE
PROPOSED CONVENTION WITH JAPAN TO REGULATE
FAR EASTIRRA
FISHING BY JARANTSE HN SBRISTOL BAY, ALASKA
ANDDS
In 1928, it was noticed that there was an increasing
number of Japanese fishing vessels operating in the non-
territorial waters of Bristol Bay, off the coast of
Alaska. The apparent growing interest of the Japanese in
894.628
this area created considerable apprehension among the
American fishing interests in Alaska, particularly among
salmon fishers and salmon canners. The common Alaska
salmon is the red salmon, which is the most valuable of
/1
the salmon family. This type of salmon breeds almost
3
8
entirely in the rivers flowing into Bristol Bay. At the
end of the second year the fish leave fresh water and
Weot
migrate to waters off the coast of the continental United
states, and at the end of the fifth year, the fish return
to Bristol Bay to spawn in the rivers, the salmon running
season being from June 25 to the end of July. It has been
established that the fish return to Bristol Bay through a
passage between two of the Aleutian Islands known as
FN 14136
Unimak Pass. It has been stated by experts of the Bureau
CET
of Fisheries of the Department of Commerce that intensive
fishing operations, during the period above mentioned, in
open waters in the vicinity of Unimak Pass over a period
of
G

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
of a few years would result in the complete destruction
of the Alaska red salmon.fDuring the past seven or eight
years, Japanese vessels equipped to pack the giant crab
which is also to be found in Bristol Bay have been operating
in this area. In 1930, there were informal conversations
in Tokyo between representatives of the Japanese crab
canners, representatives of the Japanese Government and
officers of the American Embassy in regard to the
possibility of making some arrangement whereby the Japanese
Government would undertake to forbid Japanese fishermen
from fishing for salmon in Bristol Bay in return for the
American Government lowering the tariff on canned crab,
the entire arrangement to be conditional upon the formulation
of a working agreement between Japanese crab packers and
American distributors of canned crab (the United States
being the most important market for Japanese canned crab).
This arrangement fell through, due to doubt whether it
would be practicable.
In the summer of 1934, Mr. Roper, the Secretary of
Commerce, visited Alaska and was strongly impressed by
the increasing apprehension felt by American salmon
interests in Alaska in regard to the activities of Japanese
fishermen. Upon Mr. Roper's return to Washington, the
Department of Commerce requested that the Department of
State enter into negotiation with the Japanese Government
looking toward the conclusion of a treaty whereby Japanese
nationals

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
would be prohibited from fishing for salmon in that part
of Bristol Bay lying east of a line drawn from Cape Avinof
in Alaska to Cape Sarichef, Unimak Island, which is one
of the Aleutian Islands. The Department replied that it
would be prepared to propose to the Japanese Government
the conclusion of such a convention if something in the
way of compensation could be offered by this Government
to the Japanese Government for renouncing its right to
permit its nationals to fish in what ere open waters.
The matter was referred to the Tariff Conmission, which,
after completing a study of the question, concluded
that duties on canned crab and certain other types of
sea products could be reduced without American interests
being adversely affected. Accordingly, on August 3, 1935,
the Department instructed the American Embassy at Tokyo
to inquire whether the Japanese Government would be
prepared to enter into negotiations with a view to
the conclusion of a convention whereby Japanese nationals
would refrain from engaging in salmon packing in the waters
Embassy reported to the Department that the Japanese
Government expressed reluctance at this time to enter into
such negotiations. The report indicated that the Japanese
Government is not permitting Japanese nationals to fish
for salmon in the Bering Sea and that it has no present
intention of authorizing Japanese to take salmon in those
waters.

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
waters. The opinion was expressed by the Embassy that,
if the Japanese Government were sufficiently pressed, it
might present a counter proposal. The substance of the
135
Embassy's report of November 12 was communicated to the
Department of Commerce, and that Department, in its
13L
letter of November 19, 1935,/expresses the hope that
"the Department of State will find it consistent to again
approach the Japanese Government on this subject".
It is to be emphasized that the principal consideration
which makes desirable the conclusion at this time of the
proposed convention is not the existence of salmon packing
by Japanese in Bristol Bay, but the fear that Japanese may
at any time operate in those waters -- it is the fear that
Japanese may operate in an improvident manner and thus
destroy a valuable natural resource and thus render
valueless the large investment of American capital in
salmon canneries and other equipment, to say nothing of
depriving a large number of American fishermen of a live-
lihood. These circumstances make the Alaska salmon situa-
tion analogous to the various trade problems arising out
of Japanese imports which the American and Japanese Govern-
ments have been endeavoring to adjust by means of "gentle-
men's agreements". In the case of most of these trade
problems, the principal factor has been the fear of
increased

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
increased importations from Japan at low prices, rather
than the quantities actually imported. The Japanese
Government on several occasions requested that this
Government consult the Japanese Government before taking
any unilateral action designed to restrict imports from
Japan, and it is on the basis of these requests that
this Government has proposed the conclusion of the various
gentlemen's agreements that have already been entered
into.
It is recommended that a new approach be made to
the Japanese Government through the Japanese Ambassador
at Washington along the lines above suggested. The
Japanese Ambassador might be informed briefly in regard
to the salmon situation, the analogy as above suggested
between the salmon situation and the various trade
problems covered by gentlemen's agreements might be
emphasized, and in conclusion the Ambassador might be
requested to urge upon his Government the desirability
of entering into an arrangement with this Government
whereby a source of apprehension to an important
American industry would be permanently removed.
ZHD/DLY

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.91)
F6
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
7
LUE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARTMEN-OF STA!!
Jr
WASHINGTON
RECEIVED
1935C7 ec8m5 6, 1935.
DEC B-1935
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNCITIONS
AND RELORDS
De
The Honorable,
A
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The receipt is acknowledged of the Department of State's letter
of November 30, file FE 894.628/136, advising that the desirability
894.628/13
of concluding a treaty to regulate fishing by Japanese in certain
waters of the high seas in Bristol Bay had been discussed at length
with the Japanese Ambassador, who agreed to present the matter to his
Government.
I am pleased to know of the action thus taken and will await with
39
much interest the results of this new approach.
Sincerely yours,
A
Secretary of Commerce.
A4N 14 1936
FLLED
F/FG

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
611.946/252
FOR ...
Letter
FROM
S.O.BlandMC
-) DATED ...Dec.17.,1935.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Fishery industry of Japan.
Information regarding the interest of the
Japanese Government in the Oriental Development
Co.,Ltd. which indicates that Janan is subsidizing
her fishery industry.
FU

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.97)
4DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
DEPARTMENTPFEICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
1935 DEC 20 AM 9 16
December 19, 1935.
Aly
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
211
Division of
FAR EASTERN AS
The Honorable,
DEC 2 0 1935
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of December ll,
file FE 894.628/137, transmitting copy of despatch No. 1558 dated
November 20, 1935, from the American Charge d'Affaires at Tokyo,
894.628/141
confirming his telegram of November 12, reporting that the Japa-
nese Government has indicated reluctance to enter into negotia-
tions at the present time in regard to the conclusion of a treaty
to regulate fishing by Japanese on the high seas in Bristol Bay.
The information thus conveyed is of much interest to this
Department.
JAN 11936
Sincerely yours,
Tust g. Draper
Assistant Secretary of Commorce.
F/FG

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.96)
379
AS
11 1936
Division of
C fettoito Comnerce Dept.
DCR Bue
FAR EASTERRAFFAS
Department of Styp
of State
Mr. Sayre,
JAN3 - 1936
894.625
Mr. Turner,
Mr. Veatch.
MR. SAYRE
SUBJEOT: Proposed Treaty on Alaskan Salmon Fishing.
Mr. Yoshizawa said that he was instructed by his
Government to give essentially the same reply to the
894.628/1
American suggestion as had been given earlier to the
United States Charge in Tokyo. His Government had
referred the suggestion of this Government, presented
through the Japanese Embassy in Washington, to the proper
42
authority of the Japanese Government (Mr. Yoshizawa thought
this was the Minister of Agriculture) and this authority
had intimated that it had no intention of entering nego-
tiations on this matter and could think of no quid pro
quo which would lead it to be interested in such negotia-
tions. At the same time this authority continues to dis-
FILED
courage salmon fishing in the waters mentioned in the
suggestion placed before the Japanese Government.
16
F
F
the Japanese Government issued no licenses for salmon
G
fishing in this area and that he personally had no
expectation

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.97)
380
-2
expectation that this policy would be changed. The idea
in suggesting a formal treaty commitment based upon the
existing policy of the Japanese Government was to allay
the unnecessary fears of the American salmon fishing
industry.
Mr. Yoshizawa said that he fully understood our
position and that this had been explained in full in the
despatch of the Embassy to Tokyo.
Mr. Sayre accepted the response of the Japanese
Government as final and as definitely closing the matter.
EA:RV:EB
WF

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.99)
381
111938
January
In reply refer to
FE 894.628
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I refer to the Department's letter of November 30,
1935, and to previous correspondence between our respeetive
Departments in regard to regulation of fishing by Japanese
894.628/1
in certain waters of Bering Sea and Bristol Bay.
On December 30, the Counselor of the Japanese Embassy
informed the Department that he had been instruoted by his
Government to give essentially the same reply to the
Department as had been given earlier to the Amorican Embassy
42
in Tokyo, i.e. that the Japanese euthorities had no intention
of entering into negotiations in regard to the conclusion
of a treaty for the purpose above described, and that they
could think of no quid pro quo whioh might lead them to be
interested in such negotiations.
The
The Honorable
Daniel C. Roper,
Seoretary of Commerce.

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.93)
82
—2*
The Counselor added that the Japanese muthoritiss
continue to disoourage salmon fishing by Japanese in the
waters mentioned above.
Although it appoars that the conclusion of an agree-
ment of the kind envisaged is preeluded at present by the
attitude of the Japanese authorities, the Departmant would
approoiate any further suggestion or comment that you may
wish to offor in this connection.
Sincerely yours,
for the Secretary of State:
Sumner Wollea
ABslBtant Secretary.
Enclosure:
Conversation,
December 30, 1935.
JAN.10 10836
CR
NT
themigni-
m.m.H.
nal.
FE:WTT/DLY
FE
1-8-36

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.94)
83
COPY
Department of tate
OFFICE OF TIT ECONOMIC ADVISER
ecember 30, 1935.
COIVTTTION:
: r. Seijiro Yoshizawa, Counselor
of the Japanese mbassy,
ir. Sayre,
Mr. Turner,
r. Veatch.
UBT:
roposed Treaty on laskan Salmon  ishing.
Ur. Yoshizawa said thst he was inatructe by his
Government to give essentially t e sare cenly to the
Amer'can sug estion as lind boen Iven earlier to the
Unite tates Crarg6 in Toltyo.
aovornment had
referred the suarestion of t is povermment, resented
ti rough the Jenanese mbassy in osi in ton, to t o preper
euthority of the Jananese ovemment r.eb savo thousht
tris was tle  inister of rleultre ane t is authority
hed intimated thrt it hnd no intent'on of ontoring noro-
tlations on this matter and could thin: of no quic ro
quo which woul lead it to be interested in such negotlations.
At the same timo this althority continues to discourage
salmon fiahing in the waters mentionod in the suggestion
placed before the Japanese Government.
Mr. Sayre said that he had understood all along that
the Jananese Government issued no licenses for salmon
fishing in this area and that he personally had no
expectation

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.93)
4
●2-
expeotation that this policy would be changed. The idea
in sug"esting a formal treaty conmitment based upon the
existing polioy of the Japanese Government was to allay
the unnecessary fears of the American salmon fishing
industry.
. Yoshizawa said that he fully understood our
posit:on and that this had been explainod in full in the
despatel o. t) o m assy to Tokyo.
Yr. eyre accepter the response of the Jananese
coverment as final anc es cofinttcly closing tle matter.

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.96)
385
-921
January 11 1936
Henorable
Jomeph C. Grew,
American Ambassedor,
Tokyo.
81r:
With reference to the Embassy's dospatch No. 1558
894.628/142
of November 20, 1935, and to the Department's telegram
No. 186 of November 29, 5 p.m., there is hereto appended
e copy of a memorandum of conversation between Mr. Sayre
and the Counselor of the Japanese Embassy in regard to a
proposal to regulate fishing by Japanese in certain waters
of Bering Sea and Bristol Bay.
Although it appears that the conelusion of an agree-
mant of the kind envisaged is preoluded at present by the
attitude of the Japanese authorities, the Department would
appresiate any further suggestion or comment which your
atudy of the matter may lead you to offer.
Tory truly yours,
For the Seoretary of States
Sumner Welles
m.m.A.

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
RECEIVED
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
1936 FUB 4 M 9 39
February 1, 1936
A1
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Wasl.ington, D. C.
A
894.628/143
My dear Mr. Secretary:
142
The receipt is aclnowledged of your letter of January
594 628
11, 1936, file FE 894.628, advising that the Counselor of
the Japanese Enbassy was instructed by lis Government to de-
cline consideration of negotiations in regard to the conclu-
sion of a treaty to regulate fishing by Japanese operators
in certain waters of Bering See aud bristol Bay adjacent to
the Alaska coast.
It is noted that the response from the Japanese Govern-
ment is considered as final and thnt this matter is definitely
closed for the present.
Any further develcpnents of inportence coming to the
attention of this Department will be conmunicated to you fer
appropriate consideration.
FIILDD
Sincerely yours,
E
mst J. Draper
Acting Secretary of Commerce
F/FG

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
847h.00 P.R./44
FOR
Report #3
FROM Wellington
(Bucklin.) DATED  eb.?.1936
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Uneasiness has been occasioned by the interest being
taken by the Japanese in the South Seas Tisheries.
mb
144

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.97)
386
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 12, 1936.
EHD:
MMH:
SKH:
In connection with the refusal by the
Japanese authorities to consider a proposal
by this Government to regulate salmon fish-
ing by Japanese in Bering Sea, the Embassy
comments that the Japanese will not undertake
negotiations in such direction until the
present Soviet-Japanese fishing difficulties
are disposed of. With those difficulties out
of the way, the Japanese may agree to a
restriction on salmon fishing in return
for a modification of the fur seal convention,
with which they are dissatisfied.
894.628/145
WTT/DLY

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.95)
387
a
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 21, 1936.
No. 1698.
SUBJECT:
PROPOSED TREATY ON ALASKAI SALMON FISHING.
Liayin FE (381)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR 1 0 1936
Department of State
59
Yette to
ET
Honorable
894.628/145
The Secretary of State,
5
Washington.
Sir
I have the honor to refer to Instruction No.
94.68/142
of January 11, 1966, in Which the Department en-
-elosed a memorandum of conversation between Assistant
Secretary of State Sayre and the Counselor of the
Japanese Embassy in regard to a pro osal to regulate
fishing by Japanese in certain waters of Bering Sea
MAK 18 1936
FILED
and Dristol Bay. The instruction stated that although
it appears that the conclusion of an agreement of the
kind envisaged is precluded at present by the attitude
of the Japanese authorities, the Department would ap-
preciate further suggestion or comment from the Embassy.
The
F/FG

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.97)
328
- 2 -
The Embassy is inclined to the view that the
Japanese will not be willing to undertake negotiations
in regard to fishing in northern waters until the pre-
sent Russo-Japanese fishing difficulties are straighten-
ed out, which may require some time. Meanwhile, it
seems unlikely that the Japaneso Government will en-
courage salmon fishing by Japanese interests in waters
adjacent to Alaska.
For some years, as the Department is awere, the
Japanese have hecn dissatisfied with the fur seal
treaty, and it is possible that when the Russian
fishery difeiculties ar put of t yoy, or in  fair
way to settlement, the Japenose my mopose some modi-
fic tien of tae present orrngement one offer rest iction
of salmon fishing es un induceuent. Thir i pure specu-
lation, but the Jepanese desire to reserve liberty of
action as rcgard: salnon fishins together with their
known attitude towards the present provisions of the
fur seal trcaty lend some force to the supposition.
Respectful"y yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
862.8
ELN:g

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.95)
389
March 16 1936
In reply refer to
FE 894.688/145.
My dear Mr. Becretary:
With reference to the Department's letter of
January 11, l936, and to previous correspondence between
our respective Departments in regard to regulation of
fishing by Japanese in certain waters of Bering Ses and
894.628/145
Bristol Bay, I enolose for your information a copy of
despateh No. 1698 dated February 21, 1936, from the
American Ambassador at Tokyo.
Sincerely yours,
William Philli.
Acting Secretary.
Enclosure:
From Embassy Tokyo No. 1698,
February 21, 1936.
MAR 14 1950
sory
OR
The Honorable
Daniel C. Roper,
A true of
the gned
Secretary of Commeress
n21.
m.m.bt.
FE
Sx

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.84)
CR
OFFICE OF CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
MECETTED
m.H
MAR 1 3 1936
tthre wold le
DIVISTON
RECOR
tent
cl took ale trnins dta
ant th ser attere to the
Fisl. Commme
thata and
all.
B I baray-
FAR LASTERN ALFAINS
JAN 16193
4
MAR 13 1936
FILED
894.

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.90)
Extracts from Confid ntiul reports received from
Commander, Berine Sea Putrol Force, re Jaranese
activities in Bering Sea-luskan wat rs.
"(F) while the HAkUHO LARU  is t Dutch Harbor, severul of her
officors were seen ashore, busily eng ed in photogr phing the oil
tinks of the  Iuska Conn rcial Com ny. hen detected they immediately
assumed u nonch lance not in keepi. with the  revious int rest di layed'.
"Agai on lo Au u t, 1935, the RYOKA1 LRU nd DI HOKU AU ere
reported o r ting ith their 11 tr v1 rs bout 75 miles northe ot
of Amak Is nd. The former v v ry evidently li ht but the latt r
heavily lo ded".  * * "wrile there is no evidence to sust in this
suspicion, i is semerally believed that bo t from these vessels
must from ti e to time 1 nd in territor l wut re to ohtnin fresh
Witr".
8
6
"On 24 June two 40-f et cov red moter 1 nches, Lieutenent (JG)
4
Sell in charee, were b ed on Const atine duri the terporary buence •
of the Oglla. Onet ith an Snsi hd one sevr 1  s befo
to report on the visini ity n t st c  st. Te Ogl l, Kingfisher,
und Taunacer  ere orkin round eniso ochmoi, Little Sitkin, nd Segul
respectively. bout O7oo Li tet e I s the Hkuho Maru, wite hu
tuo nastu, on s ck, tr ler ty, out to ent r the h rher fro the 
e nt rd. He ot uno e y  st rted t  mot hr, sh moticed im
wben el.
ub t sooe y rde ofr the cot fr the entr uce, und
9
suddenly chn ed e r t the ri 't ont up the co st trd
Kirilof y keeinr only Sooe y ru orr e e t until r t ae of
onr s rveyi si n:1 calle. "ve", 4 I r: e st  itine, then stood
out of si ht t the north t. The O I a thein sweer r did not
see h r. The Hakuho kar .  evid tly v ry famili r i t the rocky
const w pe the wat r sho 1s fro. s5 to  f tho doomly in vari us
spots neur the mtrmce of Cons atime. Li bet  ell ent urond
East Cape ( luhou b t) ere ce tide rips t th ie c pe, the sho 1 here
only runs out  co le of i en to the seu ott r co st d he,  ether
with a civilin byurorphr, sn n th be ch dre: sed like one
of the sorvey :rt, wind-proof clot in, bb r boots, etc., - they
assumed th t the other bo t who was verl.ing e'i ur the coast h d dropped
him there for so e reason. Latr in the day hen they l d mde contact
wish the otler bout, they found tt no one hrd been I uded.  on return
there  as no sign of the un or the Hukuho Laru."
Message of 2 July 1935 "otter mp r to be spreadin to Rut and
nei hboring Is mds nd re fo md in dense kelp bed  out one cighth
mile from shore wrich is cenerally una prouchable from Pacific side
period Suspected th t Ja. nese Forestry Vessel mklht nU h s been
hovering in vicinity to obtein live specimens possibly for Kurile Island.
F/FC
propag:tion period.
G

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.84)
If herd is surrounded ith de te teetlen it sh ld ra iuly
increuse nd spr d thr ugh louti n ch in  lod  ut ti at 
new hydregr phic in crm tion concuruin thie  rt of le ti n Chain
as developed by Navul urvey of t) is year nd 1 st ar be withheld
from public period Recommend th t immediate conferenceo be held vi th
oth r Federal Der rt ents conc rned  to subse  ent seu md shore
rutrol me.sres .d t t uestion be s eci ily conmid red of decl urine
cers in islunds in vicinity cl uet  rta eo  ei ly C met mtine  rbor".
Ne1.1t100t
ne ed reI fthtit in f  ho of orin fr J crb
notyre et. t ierrondine us making
f'shin lmost iupossibl t'ey h u nc lighte on b ye  ieh re len.ce
to n vi tion also they lave not come no r a ts since s ttine ve fouled
one et yest raay nd tore it to  iuces r mehors ro f u1 on aother
nov is ve e mot ee it ni it  re they re e e n.ot h ve up ut ni ht
account  et n unehor a is d ng rons i y h re presunt he vy  ther
they re definitely dane rous a wis  at  etest to n ts with buoys
1 1 1i. ts".

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.96)
310
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TAT
March 27, 1936. 
CONVERSATION:
T
'Dr. Ward T. Bower,
Bureau of Fisheries.
1N
Subject:
Reports in Regard to Fishing Activities
of Japanese off Alaskan Coast.
Dr. Bower called by telephone to state that he had
received a communication from a Mr. McGovern, prominent
fish broker of the west coast and chairman of the fishery
0.
94.628/147
advisory committee appointed by the Secretary of Commerce.
Mr. McGovern informed Dr. Bower that he had received in-
formation that Japanese vessels had obtained licenses for
salmon fishing in the waters off the coast of Alaska and
were engaged in such fishing.
Dr. Bower also stated that a few days ago he had re-
ceived a copy of an article proposed to have been published
in a fishery trade journal (PACIFIC COAST FISHERMAN (?)) in
which substantially the same statement had been made.
APR
Dr. Bower stated that in view of the fact that he has re-
FIL
ceived reports from two important sources to the effect thet
the Japanese are engaging in salmon fishing off the coast
Alaska he would be appreciative if the Department would
ascertain through the Embassy at Tokyo whether there is any
F/FG
basis in fact for these reports.
Mr. Turner reminded Dr. Bower that the Embassy had
recently been assured by the Foreign Office that no licenses
had

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.95)
391-2 -
had been issued to Japanese vessels for salmon fishing in
northern waters near Alaska and that the Japanese Govern-
ment had no intention of issuing such permits at the pre-
sent time. Dr. Bower stated that he was aware of those
assurances by the Foreign Office but that he would like to
be informed whether any change of policy had occurred since
those assurances were given.
W1Tm.m/d.
WTT/DLY

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.95)
39TELEGRAM SENT
OFFICE
TO BE TRANGMITTED
EWHETHER
Department of State
NONCONFIDENTIAL
rtment
PARTMENT OF STATE
OR
to
Washington,
1936 MAR 28 PM 2 20
3
AMEMBASSY,
DIVISION OF
TOKYO (JEBMHYNICATIONS
894.628/137
ARD RECORDS
37
Embassy's despatch No. 1558, November 20, 1935.
The Department of Commerce has received reports from
unofficial sources that Japanese vessels have obtained
licenses for salmon fishing in waters adjacent to Alaska
and are 'now 'engaged in such fishing.' It is believed that'
894.628/147
circulation of such reports might'most 'effectively'be'
discouraged by the Department of Commerce making known
to Alaskan'salmon fishery interests the assurances'given
to you last year by the 'Foreign Office 'as reported 'in
your despatch above cited.
Please bommunicate 'the foregoing to the Foreign
Orfice and inquire whether there'would be objection'to
the procedure above outlined, reporting reply of the
Foreign Office promptly by telegraph.
Hule
nD
(u)
WT
0.211.
FE:WTTDLY
FE
EA
19.
D. C. R.—No. I0.
1-188

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
392
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
CA
Gray
1—1836
FROM
TOKIO
Dated March 31, 1936.
94.
62
Rec'd 6:49 a.m.
Dap.
8
Secretary of State,
Division of
Washington.
FAR EASTERN/AFFAIRS
1a
MAR311936
82, March 31, 5 p.m.
April
Departiment of-State
Department's 37, March 28, 3 p.m.
The Foreign Office informs the Embassy orally that no
894.628/148
licenses to take salmon in waters adjacent to Alaska have
been issued to Japanese vessels; that such acticn is not
contemplated at present and that the Japanese authorities
have no knowledge of any Japanese fishing craft in Bering
Sea at this time. The Embassy is further informed that
there would be no objection to giving this assurance to
interested persons.
GREW.
49136
JS
Jugorened Dt. Bowen S
PLED
Becrean
telephams. 3/31/36 wat.
F/FG

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.92)
394
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/148.
April 2 1936
894.628/148
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I refer to my letter of December 1l, 1935, and to
other correspondence between our reapective departments
in regard to rogulation of fishing by Japanese in waters
adjacent to Alaska. Reference is also made to the con-
versation between Dr. Bower of the Bureau of Fisheries and
an officer of this Department in regard to a report from
unofficial souross to the effect that Japanese vessels
have obtained licenses for salmon fishing in waters
adjacent to Alaska and are now engaged in such fishing.
There 1s herewith enclosed a copy of a self-explanatory
telegram dated March 31, 1936, from the Americen Embassy at
Tokyo which indicates that the report mentioned above has
no basis in faot.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Bt
Enclosure:
From Eabassy Tokyo No. 82,
March 51, 1936.
nai.
son lsh
Daniel C. Roper,
.
3-51-36
Routing
HRTV/MY
B7.3.

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apri1 22, 1936.
This despatch (No. 1764
of Apr1l 4, 1936, from Tokyo)
confirms the Embassy's tele-
graphic report that the Foreign
Orfice has denied that licenses
to take salmon in waters
adjacent to Alaska have been
issued to Japanese vessels and
has declared that there is no
intention of so doing.
894.628/149
WTT/DLY

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.93)
AE
63031
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 4, 1936.
NO. 1764.
SUBJECT:
FISHERIES.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.L ANDA.LD.
some
111
C!
L..
94.623/149
For DPr cribution- Check
1.111
Grade
InUSA
For
530
ANT
spy unFE(281)
A C/C
RECORDING DESK
FILE - WHB
30m
9
The Honorable
APR 30 1936
FTEED
m
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
telegram No. 37, March 28, 3 p.m., in regard to the
alleged taking of salmon in Alaskan waters by Japan-
ese vessels and to the Embassy's reply thereto, No. 82
1/2
of March 31, 5 p.m., and to enclose a memorandum of
the conversations on this subject between the Counselor
of the Embassy and the Chief of the American Bureau of
the Foreign Office. It will be noted that the Foreign
Office

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Office denies, on the authority of the Fisheries Bureau,
that licenses to take salmon in such waters have been
issued and states that there is no present intention of
so doing, and that there is no objection to giving this
information to interested persons.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
1/2 As stated above.
862.8
ELN:C

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1764 dated April 4, 1936
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation
March 30, 1936.
Mr. Neville and
Mr. Horinouchi.
I called on Mr. Horinouchi about 1l:30 and invited
his attention to the reports which had reached the American
Government that Japanese vessels have obtained licenses
for salmon fishing in waters adjacent to Alaska and are
now engaged in such fishing. I told him that my Govern-
ment believed that the circulation of such reports might
most effectively be discouraged by making known to Alaskan
salmon fishery interests the assurances given last year
by the Japanese Government. (Department's telegram No. 37,
March 28, 3 p.m.).
Mr. Horinouchi said that he did not believe any li-
censes had been issued or that Japanese vessels were en-
gaged in open water salmon fishing in the Bering Sea. To
begin with, the Fishery Bureau had promised to inform the
Foreign Office before issuing licenses of this character,
and in the second place, from all that he knew of northern
waters, it seemed improbable that Japanese fishermen would
be operating there at this time of year. He promised,he
said as a matter of form, to make inquiry of the Fishery
Bureau and to inform me of their reply, which he said he
was quite sure would be to the effect that no licenses
have been issued or are con templated.

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No. 1764 dated April 4, 1936,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation
March 31, 1936.
Mr. Neville and
Mr. Horinouchi.
Mr. Horinouchi called me on the telephone and
stated that the Fisheries Bureau had just informed
him that no licenses to take salmon in waters adjacent
to Alaska had been issued to Japanese fishing in terests,
nor is such action contemplated at present, and that the
Japanese Government has no knowledge of any Japanese
fishing vessels in the Bering Sea at this time. I
asked him if there was objection to making this informa-
tion available to interested persons. He said we were
at liberty to do so.

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.95)
Handed y dr Bover 8
WiT ou much 31, 1436
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
STATE
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
RECEIVED
WASHINGTON
LAVISION DE
March 26, 1936.
17
Proposed article concerning Japanese salmon
fishing in Bristol Bay.
Mr. E. B. McGovern,
McGovern and MeGovern,
A
Colman Building,
Seattle, Washington.
894.6
Dear Burt:
Thanks for sending me a copy of the letter which you wrote on
March 24 to Mr. Paulin, in connection with en article in regard to
628
salmon fishing by Japanese vessels in Bristol Bey, Alaska, which Wr.
Stodman H. Gray, Editor of Pacific Fisherman, plans to run in the
/1
April edition of that publication.
Yesterday I wrote Mr. Gray on this suhject end I am enclosing
51
a copy of my letter to him. You will note that I consider it unwise
0
to print the article, at least in its present form, as I think the
salmon industry undoubtedly will gein in the lon run by not stirring
up the situation.
In my opinion, it will be muct wiser to let us han le the sub-
jeet through the usual official channels. Considerable has been done
already without any publicity whatever, un: we feel that, unless there
is some unforeseen development, there will be no salmon carning by
Japanese vessels in Alaskan weters. Of course, I reelize there is
always a chance that th-re may be an unfavorable turn of affuirs, but
if it comes I think we will show good judgment in placing dependence
upon the ability of officiels of the State epartment to secure 
satisfactory outcome.
In view of the confidential nature of the negotiations which
have been under way for some time between our State Department and
the Japanese Government concerning the fisheries of Alaska, I think
it inadvisable to bring the matter to the attention of the Fishery
Advisory Committee. I cannot see that any marked advantage would re-
sult therefrom, at least in the present status of the case.
7
Very truly yours,
F
T:FH 
G
Commissioner.
Enelosure

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.97)
(C O P Y)
Seattle, ashington,
675 Colmen Building,
March 24, 1936.
Mr. Leo J. Paulin, Secretary,
Fishery Advisory Committee,
Room 583?, Jept. of Commerce Bldg.,
vasl.ington, . C.
Dear ar. secretary:
On July 17th, 1935, I mailed to you a report with re-
ference to the activities of Jupanese fishing, packing,
and reduction in the Bering Sea area of Alaska. Since
then I have had the matter up with the alaske Comittee
of the Seattle Chamber of Commerce anu mailed copies
of the reports to elegate Dimond, Senator Copeland,
and Congressman Bland.
In the meentime, the Japanese companies have demanded
licenses to pack salmon in Fristol Bay. Stedman.
Gray, Editor of the racific Fisherman, has furnished
me with a copy of his letter which he wrote to Com-
missioner Bell under date of March 17tn - also copy
of an article which will anpear in the april edition
of the lacific risherman, copies of which I attach
hereto.
The threat of Japanese invasion of aleska salmon
fisheries is a serious one and 1 feel it should be
called to the attention of al! members of the ishery
advisory Council so thut the matter car be thoroughly
discussed et our next meeting.
Fuithfu ly v urs,
.. McGovern
BM:m
cc: Hon. Frank I. bell.

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON
March 25, 1936.
17
Japanese fisheries.
Mr. Miller Freeman,
Publisher, Pacific Fisherman,
71 Columbia Street,
Seattle, Washington.
Dear Mr. Freeman:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of March 18, commenting
upon the letter addressed to me on March 17, 1936, by Mr. Stedman H. Gray,
Editor of Pacific Fisherman, in connection with the Japanese fishery situ-
ation on the Pacific Coast and in Alaskan waters.
Enclosed is a copy of my answer of today to Mr. Gray. I feel that
it would be a mistake to print just now an article alon the line set
forth in the story prepered by Mr. Cray. In any event, it would need
some revision or verification es to the proposal that the Japanese are
going into the salmon fishing business in these waters.
I have been interested in your historical review of Jaoanese fishery
activities. I wish to assure you our Government is keenly alive to the
situation and there has been extensive corres, ndence, through official
channels. with the Japanese Government. The metter is not dead and buried
by any manner of means so far as we ar concernei.  are not siving any
publicity to exchanges between the two governments concerned; to do so
might defeat or interfere with our objectives.
You spoke of enclosing a copy of a letter written on March 10 by you
to the Commandant of the Thirteenth Naval istrict; may I say that you
failed to make the enclosure.
As to your question concerning my proposed trip to Hawaii, I can
only say that there is nothing definite at present, lut I am more or less
counting on its occurrence next fall.
Very truly yours,
Frank
WTB:FJH
mB
Commissioner.
Enclosure

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.98)
(C O P Y)
F ISHE RAN
Street
Washington
March 18, 1936
Mr. Frank T. Bell,
U. S. Commissioner of Fisher es,
Washington, .. C.
Dear Ar. Bell:
With reference to the letter addressed to you arch 17 by
S. H. Gray. oditor of PACIFIC FIsH RMAN, you may be nterested
in a history of the Jupanese relations in the fisheries of the
Pacific Coast based on experiencesof the writer for more than
thirty years:
In 1905 the late J. T. Barron, then operating the Thlinket
Fackin: Company, came to my office with a deleg tion of fisher-
mon with the information thet two Japanese schooners hed entered
Funter Bay, erected camps on shore, and were engaged in cutch-
ing and salting salmon. Mr. Barron an: associates wanted to
know what ought to b done about it. e ot up a memoriul
addressed to the Department of Commerce and the Deportment of
State reciting the facts. The then president was Theodore
Roosevelt, who wasted no time in note writing, but sent up a
gunboat. The Jap vessels "ere seized, the camps on shore
burned, nd the crews deported back to Japen.
As a sequel to this incident e reguletion sas promulgated,
presumably prompted by the.. ureau of isheries, that
aliens ineligible to citizens: ip ahould not be allowed to fish
in the territorial waters of lask..
We followed this with legislat ion enucted by the states of
Oregon and Nashington identical in charucter and intent as
the Alaska regulation. There were no commerciel fisheries of
importance in California at the time, and no effort was made
to secur the adoption of like legislation in that state.
At the outbreak of the world War I entered the U. .
Navy in the rank of Commander of the Navel Reserves. uring
the war the Culifornia fish ries were suddenly greatly ex-
panded, a considerable number of expert Jepanese fishermen being
imported. At the end of the war my attention was called to the
situation on the California coust. An effort was made to secure
the passage of an uct similar in its effect to that of the rest
of the coast, but by that time the Japanese had become entrenched
so strongly with thoir financial and business inter-relations with
American operators that the bill was beaten at Sacramento; it is
said by the use of a large sum of money.

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.97)
Mr. Frank T. Bell
March 18, 1936
Second Page
On the creation of the International Halibut Comission in
1925 the members of the conmission intermittently discussed the
possibility of Japanese invadin our offshore fisheries. My
recollection is that the commission at that time made some
representations to the United States and Canadian governments,
suggesting thet the question be studied.
About fifteen y ers ago a d legation of Japanese celled on me.
Shen they enlarged on the possibilities of entering th- Western
Alaska Calmon Fisheries with skilled Jepunese fishermen and types
of gear they had 'evised, I tol? them that I didn't think such a
move on the ir cart ouid be popular in this couatry.
Looking back over the history of t is metter it is viient
that the United tates overnment has bren evasive, dilatory,
and I believe blind to its seriousness an! ultimate consequences.
You now heve th Japanese activeiy ntrenched in tne ristol
Bay area.
C. I. Hale. head of the Union Fish com any, the oldest cod-
fish company on the Pacific Coust, says that due to the extensive
ani disturbing charucter of the Japanese fishing op-mitions, nis
company has been obliged to abundon the grounds they have fished
in from the very eariy days.
The question is now, "what is the merican government going to
do about it?"
I enclose copy of a letter written yesterduy to the Conmandent
of the 13th Naval 1strict.
The Naval Intelligence Service in the Pacific area is of little
real velue for the reason that naval officers on temporary shore
duty are asaizned to Maval Intelligence as a sideline. Thore is no
continuity about thoir work brcause they are soon transferred. what
is needed ia a complete reorganization of the Maval Inte  1gence
Service with permanent personnel, complete records, and exchange of
all information.
Like Mr. Grey, I em writing you personally rather than to the
Secretary of Commerce because yours is the bureeu thut is now
coming fac to fece with the issue.
Yours vry truly,
(Sed.) MILLER FREEMAN
Enc.
Miller Freeman
：
When are you going to Hawaii?

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON
March 25, 1936.
17
Proposed article concerning Japanese salmon
fishing in Bristol Bay.
Mr. Stedman H. Grey,
Editor, Pacific Fisherman,
71 Columbia Street,
Seattle, Washington.
Dear Mr. Gray:
I have your letter of March 17, enclosing copy of an item which you
are considering for publication in the April 1ssue of Pacific Fisherman
on the subject of Japanese operations off the Alaska Peninsula.
I am considerably concerned about the printing of any such article.
I feel that it would be unwise at this time and that it might embarress
officials of this Government in approaching Japanese authorities to re-
strain Japanese activities so that American int rests long established
in these waters will not suffer.
Certainly before printing any article of this nature, consideration
should be given to the accuracy of your source of information that Japa-
nose are entering, or may enter, waters in the Alaska Peninsula region
to engage in salmon fishing. I think it highly important to secure con-
firmation of any such information for th reason that it is not in accord
with the latest official information available here. I shall be glad if
you will let me know how vou learned of the matter.
Through the State Depertment we have been kepping in close touch
with the situstion and, as a result, it s ems clear that the Japanese
Government has not licensed any vessels to engage in salmon fishing in
waters along the Alaskan coast. It further seems clear that there is no
likelihood of the isauance of any auch licenses in the near future.
This statement is based upon reliable official sources.
My best judgment is to let the matter rest for a while, for I feel
that by so doing we shall avoid any controversy that will rise up to
plague us when, a little later on, we have hopes of making formal arrange-
ments with the Japanese authorities whereby our salmon fishery interests
along the Alaskan coast may not be harmed as a result of Japanese offshore
salmon fishing activities.

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
I think we must take a sufficiently long-range view of the
situation to avoid embarrassment in the future in connection with
negotiations which are likely to develop. It does not seem the
course of wisdom to publish aäything which may stir up the Japa-
nose along this line.
It must be remembered that the Japanese for a number of years
have been sending their floating crad canneries and subsidiary
fleet to the waters of Bristol Bay. Japanese officials have re-
peatedly asserted that there was no intention of licensing these
vessels to engage in salmon fishing. To date, so far as this
office has been able to ascertain from official sources, there hes
been no infringement of this agreement. of course, there may be
a few stray salmon picked up during the progress of their activi-
ties, but they have made no definite or concerted effort to can
salmon in these waters.
Under the circumstances, I think that you should withhold
publication of the proposed article. I appreciate very much your
thoughtfulness in iving me an o portunity to review the item,
and likewise I shall esteen it a privilege if you will give me a
chance to pass upon sny similar item which you mey think of pub-
lishing in the future. I mention this hecause we have sources of
official information here thet may put a very lifferent face upon
some item which at first might appear suitable for publication.
Very truly yours,
Bli
Commissioner.
TB:FJH

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.99)
CFISHERMAN
(C O P Y)
bia Street
Washington
March 17, 1936.
F. Frank T. Bell,
U. S. Commissioner of Fisheries,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Bell:
We would ask your attention to the attached item, concerning Japanese salmon
fishing in the vicinity of Bristol Bay, on which we have just received some new
information. No doubt you have observed the item in our January issue (page 21)
on the demand of Japanese companies for licenses to pack salmon in Bristol Bay.
For many years we have felt uneasy over the danger of the Japanese invading the
Bristol Bay salmon fishery, but have carefully refrained from any publicity on
the subject, in the view that any comment might hasten the trouble. It now
seems, however, that the invasion has already comnenced, so there is no apparent
reason for avoiding the subject.
It will be greatly appreciated if you will inform us whether the American Gov-
ernment has taken cognizance of this matter, or done anything or formulated any
policy in that connection.
I thought it best to write you about this matter rather than take it up direct
with Secretary Roper, but would like to suggest that you discuss it with him,
and would urge him to place it before the State Department for any action that
can be taken. We consider it of vital importance that our government take
action. and that a definite policy be developed t rough collaboration of the
best ability and knowledge in the Commerce and State departments.
While we cannot lawfully extend any control over Japanese activities in extra-
territorial waters, we believe that our government should stand firmly on the
principle that the Bristol Bay salmon runs, spawning in American waters and built
up and maintained by Americans, are listinctly an Anerican resource; that we
should be able to find some diplomitic means of obtaining Japanese recognition of
this principle, so that their nationals vould be required to keep their salmon
gear out of those waters.
We also consider it of the utmost importance that some branch of our government
maintain en active, thorough patrol of those waters during the packing season,
to check up on what the Japanese are doing and see that they do not invade our
territorial waters.
The preservation and upbuilding of the Bristol bay salmon resources have cost
our government and our packers a great deal of expense and trouble, and are of
enormous value. However, if they are now to be invaded by the Japanese, it is
doubtful whether any further effort at conservation would be warranted -- we
might about as well suspend the regulations and grab what we can in the five
years or so before the run is exterminated. But we earnestly hope that a bet-
ter way can be found.
Other Bristol Bay questions have no doubt already given you plenty of concern.
We have your letter about the number of boats, which will be used in our April
issue. It is unfortunate that this Japanese trouble has come up, but the issue
is apparently one that cannot longer be avoided, and the time has come for our
government to take a firm and vigorous stand.
Very truly yours,
S.H.Gray
PACIFIC FISHERMAN
D
(Sgd.) Stedman H. Gray, Editor
Eno

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.99)
(C O P Y)
FOR APRIL PACIFIC FISHERMAN
Japanese Operations
Off Alaska Peninsula
(12)
From Japanese sources, presumably authentic, comes a report that three or
four Japanese "mother ships" operating last season in the vicinity of Bristol
Bay, produced, in addition to canned crabmeat, large amounts of salt codfish,
frozen fish, oil and meal, cod liver oil, and a substantial quantity of canned
sa lmon.
This is the first time that any salmon pack has been reported on the part of
Japanese outfits operating in the vicinity of Alaska, although they have been
working in thet district for a number of years -- originelly fishing only for
spider crabs, which have not been utilized commercially by Americans. In the
last few seasons, however, it has been known thet some of the Japanese "mother
ships" were accompanied by extensive trawling outfits, working over grounds
commonly frequented by American cod fishermen; although Americans have not been
permitted to use drag trawls in these waters.
These vessels, as far as is known, have not ettempted to fish within American
territorial waters, but little is known in this country about their operations.
Americans, whether of private or official status, have renerally been refused
adm1ttance to their shins. In 1934, however, it was reliably reported that
they were actively trawling an: takinz a heavy tonnage of bottom fish -- mainly
Alaska hake, but including also considerable yuant ities of codfish and halibut,
If they are now seeking to intercept the salmon run bound for the streams of
Bristol Bay -- the greatest source of Red salmon und the most valuable fishing
area of North America -- it will inevitably raise questions of unusual gravity,
even though the Japanese vessels remain in extra-t-rritorial waters.
The Bristol Bay salmon fishery is distinctively an American resource, even though
the fish at some stages of their life pass outside of territorial waters. The
American government, and American packers through many years by rigorous regula-
tion and other measures of protection, and at great expense to themselves, have
succeeded in maintaining and building un the Bristol Bay salmon resources. Any
relaxation of effective control would result in their rapid destruction, and it
is up to our government to see that they are adequately protected.
What policy or course of action the United States government will adopt in this
connection is unknown at this writing, but it is not to be expected that a matter
of such importance will be allowed to pass unnoticed.

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 2, 1936.
NOTE
I discussed over the tele-
phone with Mr. Bower, Bureau
of Fisheries, Department of
Commerce, the press despatch
to the NEW YORK TIMES referred
to in the attached draft tele-
gram. Mr. Bower had not seen
the item, but he expressed
great interest in the report.
He agreed with me that it
would be desirable to obtain
as soon as possible further
information from the Embassy
at Tokyo.
EHDXDLY

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.97)
New York Times
STATL
MAY 3 0 1936
RECEIVED
JUN 3 1936
DCR
DIVISION OF
Japanese Plan to risn
Off the Coast of Alaska
11
Wireless to Th Nw York Times.
TOKYO, May 29.—A Japanese
trawler with experts aboard will
be sent to Alaska to investigate
the prospects of open sea fishing
enterprises there. Hitherto the
government has refused permis-
sion to operate in Alaskan waters
Division of
because of American fishing in-
terests, according to the news-
FAR EASTERN AFFAIBS
paper Asahi.
JUN 2 - 1936
It is now considered feasible to
extend the Japanese fisheries to
Alaska, and the Tenyo Maru, a
894.628/151
Department of State
vessel of 600 tons, will sail next
month to begin scientific investi-
gations. A recent session of Par-
liament voted 89,000 yen for the
inquiry, which will continue three
years.
894.628
JUN 17 1936
FILED
93

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.95)
397
TELEGRAM SENT
OFFICE
TO BETRANSMITTED
GATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department
Department of State
PARTAIR
OR
Charge to
This cable wa
ARTMENT OF STATE
PLAIN
$
Washington,
June 2, 1936.
AMEMBASSY,
TOKYO (Japan).
COMMUNIC
67(m)
1148
AND RECORDS
Embasay's No. 82, March 31, 5 p.m
and previous
dati!
A'despatch &rem Tokyo
NEW YORK TIMES states t QUOTE A Japanese trawler with
experts'aboard'will be sent'to Alaska to investigate
the prospects of open sea fishing enterprises'there.
Hitherto the government has refused permission to
894.628/151
operate in Alaskan waters because of American fishing
interests * * * It is now considered feasible to extend
The Department would appreciate receipt at your
early 'convenience of your 'comment and of available
information with regard to the project referred to
in above-mentioned press despatch.
Huee
894.628/
SKH
B:BHD/DLY
JUN S 20666
mA

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.96)
Ly Mr. Bovers.
Jume 11.1936.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMÉRCE
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON
1977
June 5, 1936.
17
7.W.89
F/W894.628/15
Japanese vessels in Bering Sea.
FAR FASTIN ALLAIHS
Mr. Stedman H. Gray,
Editor, Pacific Fisherman,
71 Columbia Street,
Seattle, Washington.
Dear Mr. Gray:
If you have not already seen it, I think that you will be interested
in the wireless dispatch from Tokyo regarding Japanese vessels in Bering
5
Sea printed in the New Iork Times of May 30, 1936, as follows:
"A Japanese trawler with experts aboard will be sent to
Alaska to investigate the prospects of open sea fishing enter-
prises there. Hitherto the government has refused permission
to operate in Alaskan waters because of American fishing in-
terests, according to the newspaper Asahi.
It is now considered feasible to extend the Japanese fish-
eries to Alaska, and the Tenyo Maru, a vessel of 6oo tons, will
sail nert month to begin scientific investigations. A recent
sossion of Parliament voted 89, 0 yen for the inquiry, which
will continue three years."
This matter has been receiving appropriate attention by officials of
the State Department. A recent cablegram from Ambassador Grew at Tokyd
advises that the Japanese Bureau of Fisheries intends to conduct certain
investigations in the open waters of Bristol Bay, and that such investiga-
tions probably will extend over three seasons. A trawler, or other ship,
will be chartered for this purpose.
Ambassador Grew was informed also that no private ventures will be
authorized.
In addition, the Japanese Goverament volunteered to keep the Embassy
advised and that further informatiom would be furnished.
You may wish to make use of this in the naxt issue of Pacific Tisher-
Very truly yours,
F
my
Gommissioner.

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Handed do hr. Doour an
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON
Jume 11, 1936
Jume 6, 1936.
17
Japenese fiahery activities in Bristol hay, Al ska.
FAR FASTEGR AFFAIRS
Nr. L. G. ingrd,
1030
Durenu of Fisheries,
Seattle, Yashington.
Via Airma1l
Enclosed i. copy of e letter eddressed to me on June 4 from
Mr. Edward W. Allen of the International Fish ries Commirsion,
Northern Life Tower, Seattle, in regord to the v sit of Professor
Konda of Hakodate to the Bristol Bay rorlon for the puroose of
promoting a penceful adjuetrent between Jadan and the in: led States
with respect to fishery watters.
Please notify lar. Lucas, or other employees concerned, of
Profeesor Ronda's visit and have him extended all rousonable
courtesies. This will include transportation on the Bureau's vee-
sels, if requested, when such action wi 1 not interfere with the
regular work.
It is hoped that the frie conteots rode with Profeseor
Konde wil! eneble the sec ris of inforn tion in reepect to at
least some of the objectives and purposes of his visit. Anything
of importence thus developed should be sent romptly by tr. Lucas
by means of airmail to the Bureeu.
Commisaioner.
mam
TB J
Enclosures

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.95)
Handed to he Doomenr by
DEPARTLENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
Mr. Bucuers.
WASHINGTON
Jue 11, 1936
June 6, 1936.
17
Japanese fishery activitles in Bristol Bay, Al ska.
Mr. dward . Allen,
International Fiaherios Conmission,
1 
Northern ife Tower,
Seattle, ashington.
Dear Mr. Allen:
This office is very much interested in your irmail letter of
June 4, 1936, calline attention to the tri now being made by Profes-
sor Konda, a member of the staff of e fisheries college in Jiakodate,
who left Seettle recently for Brietol Bay for the alleged purpose of
promoting a peeceful adjustnent of fishery metters between Japan and
the United States. Copies of your letter and of this ackmowledgement
are being sent by airmail to Mr. ineard, so that he will know of
Professor Konda's trip to Brietol Bay and may inform Assistant Agent
Lucas, who will bo in charge of that r gion this summer, to meet
Professor Konde in a fr: endly vay and secure such inforwation as he
can in respect to the objectives nd purmoses of the visit.
The Bureau's representatives will be instructed to extend the
usual courtesies to Professcr Konda and give him transportation on
our boats, if requested to do so, when such action will not interfere
with the regular work.
I m enolosin for your inform tion a copy of a letter of today
to ir. ingard on this sut ject.
It occurs to me also that you may be interested in the enclosed
copy of a letter which I wrote yosterdey to Mr. Stedman H. Gray,
Editor of Pecific Lisberman, 71 Columbia Street, Soattlc. rogarding
Japansse vessels in Bering Sea.
Very truly yours,
Cormisaloner.
Enclosures

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.99)
(C O P Y)
INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES COMMISSION
Northern Life Tower
Seattle Washington
June 4, 1936.
AIR MAIL
Honorable Frank T. Bell,
U. S. Commissioner of Fisheries,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Frank:
Doctor Thompson called me yesterday
morning to tell me that a Professor Konda, a Japanese
professor from some fisheries college in Hakodate,
was here in towm looking into the possible fishery
difficulties between Japan and the United States.
I endeavored to contact him but found he had already
left for Bristol Bay. Professor Konda purports to
be making this trip for the purpose of promoting a
peaceful adjustment between Japan and the United
States of fishery matters. It is to be hoped that
he is sincere in this regard and that his government also
is sincere. You may draw your own conclusions. In any
event I thought you might like to have this information,
if you did not already have it, so as possibly to com-
municate with your representative in Bristol Bay.
Very truly yours,
(Sgd.) EDWARD W. ALLEN
EWA:T

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.89)
and the south Seme Fiaberies:
Homed by the iaterest being taken by the Jupanese in the
Jeath Sees fieheries. an oditorial of the "New Zonlend Horald"
ea Jamary Sörd voices thia fooling:
"A plee in the Japanese Souse of Feors for the
ansouregesent of fisheries is the Southern Seas has
received a avourable reply from the remior and the
Minister of Agrieulture. mhile Admirel Osumi romis
ed the Navy's full co-oporation.From Now eolad's
point of view it would be interesting to leern what
part of the Southern Jees the Jepenese Governeent he
in sdnd. Japonese fisbemmen alrondy pursve their
Galling over vast areas of the Pmeifie Ceesn.A-
parently their owm watere sre alrondy tished to the
limit and trewling in the rimeipal grounds, the
Sastern Chien ans Tellow eas, lo subjeet to striet
regulation. Japanoso have taken the place of mus-
siem fishermen in other adjecent sons and ooonmie
pressure hes apperently sent thee even furthor afiek.
Thus they are to te founn in eonsieeratle muobers on
the comats of Britisb Columbis and California end
down tarough the East Indies to Northern Austrlia.
If they penetrate mueh farthor south Hew eelend in-
teresta may begin to lo affeeted, a result that moy
coear in any cave through the announeed determimation
of Japan to devolo: her whaling industry. That my
onse agoin brias up the mes tion of the uosinion'e
respommibillties in the oss oo Dependeney, olready
raieed by the ineursi ns oe yoars ego of other
mationa....., Sow malend miget do wall to inquire
In advaneo as to Jo, anese Lane in Jouthern eae uné
as to the nature of the full naval co-operation
promised to Japanese fishermen."

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JS
ray
1—1336
FROM
TOKYO
Dated June 4, 1936
FAR EASTIAIAIHS
Secretary of State,
. Bowers, Burean i
isheries.
Washington, D.C.
Jane 4, 1936
120, June 4, 10 a.m.
Department's 67, June 3, 2 p.m.
In conversation yesterday the Vice Ninister f r
094.
Forein Affairs stated that the Fisheries Bureau of the
Japanese (overnment intends to c nduct an investigation of
fish runs and tidal flowe in the open waters in the
/152
vicinity of Bristol Bay and for this purpose will charter
a travler r ther ship. io private ventures will be
2
authorized but the Fisheries Bureau's investigations will
probably extend over three seasons. le said that s soon
as he c uld obtain fuller information he vould ive it
to the mbassy.
GREW
JS
UN 17 1936
FILD

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.96)
Jume 10 1936
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/152.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
There is herewith enclosed for your information
and file a copy of a telegram dated June 4, 1936, from
894.628/152
the Amerioan Ambassador at Tokyo in regard to the
intention of the Japanese Government to send a trawler
or other vessel to conduct an investigation of fish
runs and tidal flows in the vicinity of Bristol Bay.
This telegram was sent by the Embassy in reply to an
2
inquiry from the Department which was oceasioned by
a news item in the NEW YORK TIMES of May 30, 1936, in
regard to a Japanose trawler, the TENYO MARU, reported
as being sent to Alaska to investigate the prospects
of open sea fishing enterprises.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
A true copy of
Enslosure:
The siaped oriel-
From Embassy Tokyo,
som
No. 180, June 4, 1956.
101938
Routino
The Homorable
u
Claude A. Swanson,
Cus
alsent
Secretary Of the Navy.
T/DLY

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
COPE SENT TO
U. N.I. 
FS
1—1336
FROM
GRAY
Tokyo
Division of
Dated JunE 11. 1936
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
$0
UN 1 1 1936
REc'd 12:30 a.,m.
894
Copyhanded to hr Bovers.
Burean I Jisherces
Washington.
Jutke 11, 1936, 202
94.628/1
124, JunE 11, noon.
Embassy's 120, JunE 4, 10 a. m., BEring SEa Fishing.
The Embassy is now informEd by thE Foreign OfficE
151
that thE Dep artment of AgriculturE and Forests had
arrangEd for thE TENYO MARU 657 tons, with auxilliary
53
motor boat 61 tons, to lEavE HakodatE about JunE 15 for
thE purposE of making investigations concerning manner
and density of distribution of salmon and other fishes,
fishing grounds and murinE and meteorological conditions
in thE North Pacific. Forei gn OfficE states that thesE 
vEssEls arE scheduled to rEturn to HakodatE in mid-August,
UN 12 1936
will conduct thEir investigations on thE high sEas and
will not Enter American waters.
HPD
GREW

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washington,
July 3, 1936.
5pm
AMEMBASSY,
87
TOKYO (Japan).
Your 82, Maroh 31, 5 p.m.; 120, June 4, 10 a.m.; and
124, June 11, noon.
Department is reliably informed that a Japanese
894.628/153
fishing vessel, CHICHIBU MARU, of whioh the Department
had previously no knowledge, has been observed fishing
with gill nets for salmon in Bristol Bay.
In view of the assurances mentioned in your 124
the Department would appreciate receipt of your comment
and of available information.
Hull
(3.m.1).)
894.628/153
1936 JUL 3
W11
COMMINICATIONS
FR:WTT/DLY
DIVISION OF
PM 4 50
OF STATE
GB
1936
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19.
D. C.R.—Na.80
1-1408
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.96)
THE UNDER SECRETARY
TMENT OF
JUN 12 1936
AECEIVE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OPPARTMENT OF BTATE
A5
JUN·1N1936
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF
June 4, 1936.
NOTE
Mr. Bower of the Bureau of Fisheries
adled this afternoon to furnish me with
copies (attached) of correspondence between
the PACIFIC FISHERMAN and the Department
of Commerce with regard to Japanese fishing
operations in the Bering Sea.
We discussed Tokyo's telegram No. 120,
June 4, 10 a.m., and we agreed that there
appeared to be little prospect of persuading
the Japanese Government to enter in the
Co
near future into any agreement which would
have the effect of prohibiting Japanese
nationals from fishing in Bristol Bay.
Earlier today, I discussed the questi
with Mr. Metzger of Le. Mr. Metzger said
C8
that, if the Japanese engaged in fishing
in the open waters in Bristol Bay, this
Government would have no basis for protest
5
to the Japanese Government until or unless
4
the Japanese operations were such as to
do serious injury to the salmon resources
of the United States. He thought that it
might be possible to invoke one of the
principles underlying an argument success-
fully used by this Government in the 
Alabama Claims against the British Govern-
ment -- a government renders itself liable
7
to damages if it should permit its
6
territory to be used as a base for
Ti
operations injurious to the interests
G
of another government.
I

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2 -
I repeated to Mr. Bower that which
Mr. Metzger had previously said to me.
We agreed that nothing further should be
done in the matter for the time being
and until there had been further develop-
ments.
Mr. Bower and I agreed that Tokyo's
telegram No. 120 contains information of
a disquieting character. The telegram
indicates, in our opinion, that the salmon
resources of Bristol Bay are being explored
with a view to the use by Japanese fishermen
of that area should the time come when it
will not be possible or profitable for
Japanese to fish for salmon in Russian
waters.
894.628/152
FB:HD/DLY

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.96)
2x4
Division
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1936
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON
Department of State
June 1, 1936.
17
June 10 1936
Japanese vessels in Bering See.
Mr. Stedman H. Gray,
Editor, Pacific Fisherman,
71 Columbie Street,
Seattle, Washington.
Dear Mr. Gray:
894.628/1
Note is made from your letter of May 25 that you will make the in-
formation conveyed in the Bureau's letter of May 20, 1936, the basis of
an 1tem regarding Japanese vessels in Bering Sea for the June issue of
Pacific Fisherman.
It seems clear you do not have much faith in assurances of the
Japanese Government that its vessels are not permitted to engage in any
line of fishery operations except those for which specifically licensed.
In this connection may I remind you that in the past six seasons opera-
5
tions by Japanese floating fishery plants north of the Alaska Peninsula
4
there is no evidence that they have interfered with the runs of salmon
passing through those waters en route to the spawning grounds of Bristol
Bay er olsewhere. It may be that a few salmon have been picked up in-
cidemtally but, as stated by you, such number probably is not large.
I agree with you in regard to the necessity of doing all that we
can to safeguard the salmon fisheries of Alaske from exploitation by
foreign vessels. Along this line, hewever, I have complete confidence
N17 1936
in the high ability and fine judgment of officials of the State Depart-
ment who have this subject under close observation. If there are any
indications that Japanese vessels may engage in the salmon fisheries of
Alaska, the State Department will ascertain that fact promptly and ac-
tion will be taken to protect our fishery resources.
Until there is evidence of any overt act by Japanese fishing ves-
sels, or unfriendly intention upon the part of the Japanese Government,
we must assume that their assurances along this line are valid. There
is nothing to indicate disturbance: of the present friendly relations of
the two governments in regard to the salmon fisheries of Alaska.
F/
Very truly yours,
F
G
Boll
Commissioner.
IN MY

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.99)
(COPY)
PA C I F I CF I S H E R M A N
May 25, 1936.
71 Columbia Street
Seattle Washington
Mr. Frank T. Bell,
U. S. Commissioner of Fisheries,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Bell:
Yours of May 2Oth, with notes about Japanese vessels for the Bering Sea
fisheries in the vicinity of Aleske, is greatly appreciated and will be
used as the basis of an item for our June issue.
I note your remark that the Japanese government does not permit its
vessels to engage in any type of fishery operations other than that for
which they are licensed. That, no doubt, is theoretically true. However,
I am pretty well convinced that salmon from the Bristol Bay runs have been
taken and processed by such vessels, in quantities not known to us (prob-
ably not large), incidentel to other operations. My anxiety is based on
the thought that this may just be the thin edge of a wedge.
I personally have little confidence in any official assurances that the
Japanese may offer. I feel that the whole record of their international
relations shows a policy of encroachment, accompanied by reassuring state-
ments, until such time as their activities are entrenched, when they come
out flatly with declarations of what they will, and will not do. For that
reason, I feel that our government should seek to establish some definite
principles concerning the salmon fisheries off Alaska, and see that they
are adhered to.
The question in my mind as to the taking of Alaska salmon by Japanese, is
not what the Japanese government tells us is being done, but what actually
is being done; and I feel very strongly that our government should insist
on maintaining a fairly close scrutiny of such operetions. Assurances
from the Japanese government are not worth the paper they are written on.
Very truly yours,
PACIFIC FISHERMAN
(Sgd.) Stedman H. Gray
Editor
S.H. Gray
C

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.98)
May 20, 1936. 17
Japanese vessels in Bering Ses.
Mr. S. H. Gray,
Mditor, Pecific Fisherman,
71 Columbie Street,
Seattle, Washington.
Dear Mr. Gray:
In the matter of activities of Japanese vessels in international
waters of Bering Sea off the Alaskan coast, it is belioved that you
may be interested in a cablegram dated  ay 9, 1936, from Ambassador
Grew at Tokyo, as follows:
"Foreign Office informe Embassy that two vessels
with a total of twelve aocessory motor boats left
Hekodate for Bering Sea for crab fishing purposes.
One of these vessels will be engaged principally
in making fishing meal. Mail despatch follows"
Perhens you may wish to make use of this information in the next
issue of Pacific Pisherman.
As orab fishing and the meking of meal wiil comprise the ectivi-
ties of these vessels, there should be no cause for alerm that our
salmon fisheries will be invaded. It must be remembered that the
Japanese Government does not permit its vessels to ensage in any type
of fishery operations other than that for which they are specifically
licensed before leaving Japanese ports.
Ver truly yours,
FRANK T. BELL
Commissioner.
WTB:YJH

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
1—1836
FROM
JS
Cray
TOKYO
Dated July 6, 1936
Division of
Secretary of State,
894.628/1
Washington, D.C.
Department ut State
894.625
148, July 6, noon
Department's 87, July 3, 5 p.m.
The Embassy has no information whatever in regard to
5
this maiter and in informal conversatin today respon-
5
sible offici:ls of the For. n Office stated that they
knev nothing of the activities of the CHICHIBU MARU but
would investigate and give the Embassy a report as soon
as possible.
GREW
JS
894.628/153
71936
FILED

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.95)
DCR
1936 JUN 3M33,33936.
Mn:
The copies of lettens attached hereto
Bureau of Fisheries
You will note on the third sheet that
the Commander of the Bering Sea Patrol
reports that a Japanese vessel, the
CHICHIBU MARU, is using salmon fishing
apparatus. This is the first time that
Japanese vessels have been reported as
fishing for salmon in waters near Alaska.
In view of assurances given to our Embassy
in Tokyo by the Japanese Government that
no licenses have been issued to Japanese
vessels to engage in commercial salmon
fishing in those waters r. Bower is
inclined to doubt the report. It may
be that crab nets have been mistaken
for salmon nets.
Dr. Bower has requested corroborative
information, and has agreed to keep this
Department informed of developments.
W11
WTT/DLY

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.96)
RECEIVER
JUN1936
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
DIVISION OF
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON
June 27, 1936.
17
ld
894, 628
Japanese fishing vessels in Bering Sea off Alaskan
coast.
894.6
The Commandant,
United States Coast Guard,
Washington, D. C.
Confidentisl
Deer Sir:
8
The receipt is acknowledged of Captain Covell's letter of June
24, f1le No. oP-611 601, enclosing copy of a telegram of June 23, 1936,
from the Commander of the Bering Sea patrol force in regard to the
5
presence of Japanese vessels in Aleskan waters.
9
It is of particilar interest to note that the Japanese steamship
Chichibu Maru is reported as fishing with salmon gill nets at 56 de-
grees 30 minutes north latitude and l66 degress 29 minutes west longi-
tude. It is surprising to note the use of salmon fishing apparatus
at this point about 90 miles east of St. George Island and about 125
miles away from the Alaska Peninsule, as there is no inform tion at
hand that salmon are obtainable at this place.
The aost recent information received from the Stote Depertment
indicates that the Jacanese Government hes not licensed ony vessels
to engage in coamercial salmon fishing in Bering Sea or Bristol Bay
waters off the Alaskan coast. Two floating crab canneries, the Toten
Maru (6,000 tons) and the Taihoku Meru (8,253 tons), vith a nunter of
accowpanying auxiliary vessels, have been licensed by the Jonanese
Government for crab operations in these high see waters off the
Alaskan coast. In addition, the Tenyo Mary (657 tons), a trawler
type vessel with an auxiliary motor craft of 6l tons, will make in-
vestigations this surmer concerning the manner and density of distri-
bution of salmon and other fishes, fishing grounds, and marine and
meteorological conditions in these waters.
In view of the foregoing, it may be realized why the Bureau is
surprised to learn of salmon fishing by the Chichibu Maru. Corrobora-
tive telographic information upon this point and any other data here-
after concerning the activities of this vessel vill be appreciated.
Very truly yours,
Gaeles F. Jacksor
Acting Commissioner.

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.98)
(C OP Y)
T R E A S U R Y D E P A R T I E N T
Refer to
United States Coast Guard
Washington
OP-611
601
24 June, 1936.
CONFIDE TIAL
Commissioner of Fisheries,
Department of Comerce,
Washington, D. C
Sir:
There is inclosed herevith for vour informetion, a cony of a dis-
patch received from the Comander, Berin Sea Patrol Force, relative to
the presence of Japanese vessels in Alaskan weters.
By direction of the Conmandant.
Very truly yours,
(Sgd.)
L. C. COVELL
L. C. Covell,
Captain, U.S. Coast Guard,
Assistant Commandant.
Incl. 1.

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.98)
(C O P Y)
U. S. C O A S T
GUARD
Official Dispatch
Dete
23 June 1930
Incoming Reading
CG11S Z QUAH V QP Q QUAW NRUV NITE GR
From
Commander Bering Sea Patrol
To (for action)
Coast Guard Headcuarters
Nite
To (for information)
Commander Seattle Division
Chelan
TEXT
PA R APHRA S E "C"
992 Japanese Training Ship Hakuyo Laru of Tokio Fisheries Institute Capt
Jignakaknw passed Attu Island eight June arrived Kiska nine June official
calls made courtesies extended by Cyane period crew twenty nine men twenty
three cadets sixteen officers and professors period denarted Kiske ten June
declined escort but trailed at limit visibility oy Cyane towards Bristol Bay
period letter follows period Japanese steamship Chichibu Maru oner ting using
long salmon gill nets fishing fifty six thirty north one sixty six twenty
nine west period Japenese steemship Toten Maru floating crab cannery operating
fifty six thirty five north one sixty forty five west period Japanese freignter
sekino Maru all gear aboard fifty seven thirty five north one sixty nine fifty
five west course two fifty true speed eight knots probably suooly ship above
vessels period request Com sea div notify commandant thirteenth naval district
1802
Operator's Record
TOD 0669 navy 1n

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.87)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Office of the Secretary
Washington
June 18, 1900.
The Honorable
The Searetary of the Treesury,
Weshinrton, D. C.
y dear r. Secretary:
For some time thie Dopartment, in ocnumction i she Denrtment
of stete, has been giving csreful coneideration to the threatened in-
vmeion oy Japanese vossels of the valuabl red arlmon isheriee now
conduoted by American industry in the watere c" Prietel , l ake.
Dogtralw n l Jaanoee floattr orel oo meriee vo rated 1
rinl tr orisly oe
poratlone ter hae not mleatertrd sonesir rown
theo watere en route to the nmtntouns is e and Inkes tribu
tary to rletol ay.
On June 11, 1o, Am.seedor rew onbled fro otro to the State
Depertment as followe:
"y1lenhi.
The Emteeey is nor informed by the orel ffice
that the epart ont of ericul ture  or sts hed
arraneed for they? ton, lth muxtllary
motor boat 6l tons, t Imave akodate bout Junr 1.
for the purpose of akin investiratlone coneormi 
manner and denaity of distribution ef anlmon and
other fishes, fiahine rounde and marine and meteor
ologieal conditiona in the North nelfic. Jorai
Offiee stutee thet these vessele are echeduled to
retum to Narodete in mid-anrst, will conduot their
investigations on the hih seas and wi'l vet anter
Amerloan matere"
Upon the beele of the forogolnt, and in line with other aneral
information ebtained from time to time, there seene to be fustification
for earious anprebenelon tat the Tenve ar and Its socomanving
auxiliary vessel will meke an effort to determine the time, menner,
meens, ond plece of fishing for salmon in internetionel watere of iris-
tol Bay, witn a view to havine smch informetion avellable to floating
canneries and other Japmnese vessels desiring to envepage in the peoking
of salmon there in future years.

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
In view of this threatened interference vith vmericon salmon
cenneries located on the shores of ristol hey, it mesms highly
desirable thet elose obeervations be mnde of the time, plece, ex-
tont, end sheracter of the sotivities of the Tenze an end its
muxiilery vessel. It is warmestly hoved, therefore, that a Coest
Puard vessel can be detailed this mumer to keep as close sur-
veillanee as precticable of the Tage Enry emedition in such:
way as would net sive cmuse for offenee, end revort perttoulers
promptly to thds Dovartment mon the conelu ion of the fimnin
oason. the Lafermstion thn seouren by the oetard ll 
of sreet lnterest and i i ih ve important  rines in ahomine the
future poliey f line of metion by the cov m ent nf the mited
States.
Your courtosy in tds  lter wiil be areasly e oreclatel.
stneeroly youre,
(aga) Danil C. Ropu

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.98)
From - PACIFIC FISHERMAN
June - 1936
p. 37
JAPANESE FLOATERS START FOR BERING SEA FISHERY
Ambezeador Grew at Tokyo was informed May 9 by the
Japanese Foreign Office of the departure from Hakodate of
two vessels with twelve accessory motor boats for Bering
Sea (presumably in the vicinity of Alaska) for crab fish-
ing. One of the vessels will be engaged principally in
making fish meal.
Commonting on the above, Commissioner Bell says:
"As crab fishing and the making of meal will comprise the
activities of these vessels, there should be no cause for
alarm that our salmon fisheries will be invaded. It must
be remembered that the Japanese government does not per-
mit its vessels to engage in any type of fishery operations
other than that for which they are specifically licensed
before leaving Japanese ports."

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Bureau of Fisheries
Washington
June 1, 196.
17
Japanese vessels.
Mr. L. G. Wingard,
Bureu of Fisheries,
Juneau, Alaska.
Confidential
This office his received copy of a cablegrem sent from Tokyo
on Jume 11, 19s6, by Ambassador Grow to the Secret ry of State, 1n
reard to fishery investig tions in Bering Sen waters off the Al skan
cost, as follows:
"Enbasay's 120, June 4, 10 a.n., Beri  Sea
Fishing. he Embassy is now informed by the
Foreign Office that the Denortrent of Agricul-
ture and Forests hed arrenged for the Tenve
Hary 657 tons, with auxilliary motor boat 61
tons, tc leave Hakodate about June 15 for the
purpose of makin: investig tions concerning
manner and density of distribution of salmon
and other fishes, fishing grounds nd merine
and meteorological conditions in the North
Pacific. Foreign Office states thet these
vessels are scheduled to return to Hakodate
in mid-Aurust, will conduct their investiga-
tions on the high seas and will not enter
American waters"
If any of the Bureau's vessels observe the Tenvo haru, or its
auxilliary, report should be m de promptly to this office concerming
the time and place and the ap arent nature of the activities of such
vessels.
Pursuant to the wishes of the State Department, the infor tion
herein convayed is to be regarded as confident al.
Frank T. Bell
Commissionr.
NTBIPJR

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Bureau of Fisheries
Washington
June 18, 1936.
Japanese fishery activities off Alaskan coast.
Mr. Stedman H. Gray,
Editor, Pacific Pishermon,
71 Columbia Street,
Seettle, ashin-ton.
Dear r. ry
The receipt is acknowledzed of your letters of June 9 and 1l with
regard to the possible invasion of the salmon fisheries off the Alaskan
coast, partioularly in Bristol bay, by Javanese flosting ca neries and
accompanying fishing veseele.
The information conveyed by you is of real interest. It is evident
thet you heve an active corres ondent in Japan who kesus you wosted con-
Cerning important fishery develovmonts of int rest to American industry.
We appreciste very much the informstion thus received, as it comes from
a different source and reflects the point of view of versons not directly
conneoted with the Covernment. This is almays heluful in sheving the
polioy to be pursued.
Ageneies of our Covernment concerned in the matter have not been
ignorant of develomments pertaining to this situs ion. The probability
that the Japanese would eventually manifest interest in this industry
has been realised for many yeers end develouments ave been cerefully
followed since le29. Maturally, there are feetures of diplomatic moment
that cannot be made wublie.
Five years ago a setisfactory arrangement was on the poimt of being
consmmated but fell through. If en understanding hed been reached with
the Japamese Government at that time, it seems probable the present diffi-
culties would not have arisen, or, in any event, would have been minimized.
At that time the Jepanese Government seemed definitely committed to the
poliay of kmeping its fishing weseels entirely ewey from hish sea watere
off the const of Alaska, insofar as they might in any way affect salmon
fishing: they were content with crab fishing activities.
It promises to becosw a difficult wroblem to deel with, however, if
the Japanese Government insists upon permitting its vessels to engege in
salmon fishing n waters of the high seas off the Alaskan coast; they are
within their international legal rights in any such undertekin, unless
we can reach an agreament with them not to do se.

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
If the Japanese Government should insist upon permitting its
nationals to engage in salmon fishing in waters of the high seas,
there would be created a situation which has features of similarity
between the present salmon fishery situation and that which existed
years ago with respect to the fur seels of Alaske, ond which cul-
minated in the Bering See Award, no doubt familier to you.
We are not entirely eatisfied, however, that there would be
no legal warrent for this Government taking reasoneble and empropri-
ate measures for the conservation of an i dustry in wh ch there is
invested large sums of Americen cavital and on which the liveli-
hood of many Americans devends.
This office has thought of the feasibility of sending en
expedition o" our owm to determine how and to what extent salmon
can be caught in high sea waters of bristol bey. The experienes
of a mumber of years ago by the Carlisle Pecyins Commany, under the
immediate supervision of Mr. J. N. Gilbert, demonstrated clearly the
feasibility of operations of this character. Furthermore, e large
part of the catch of salmon in Bristol Bay is now being made on the
high seas by American fishermen. The necessity of an official in-
vestigetion of this nature now, therefore, is not clenr; moreover,
ny such demonstration at the present time mi tht ive Jauanese i-
tereste heloful ideas in reeerd to the conduct of offshore sol on
Pishinp opsretiona.
Mo doubt one of the objectives of the Tenyo Haru, which we hay
recently learned is to go to Bristol Bey this sumer and for the
next two years, is to asoertain how, when, end where salmon may be
caught in international waters. Plans are under way to have the
sctivities of that vessel cheeked closely so we may know very defi-
nitely what is done by this Japanese investigative exmedition.
In the New York Times of June 14, 1936, there was printed an
article from Sydney under the title "Japanese Pearlers Annoy Aus-
tralia." nclosed is a copy of that item. It will be noted there-
from how Javenese pearlers conducted overations just outside the
three-mile limit and in addition indulged in the practice of recondi-
tioning their vessels within territorial limits, and procured fresh
water without regard to the requirements of local lavs and regulations.
You may rest assured thet this Government will take a firm stand
in dealing with the Japanese fishery eituation along the Alaska coest
as it now exists.
Yery truly yours,
mob
WTBIEJB
Enclosure
Asting Commissioner.

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.90)
TOM - NEW YORK TIMES
Jme 14, 196.
JAY ASL
SYDPY. - Peerls are the cause of inoreasin teision betmeen
Austrelin and Japen, and the incessent irritation which is being
set uw by Javanese acte is likely to find relense in some cable-
searin incident.
Bnor ? the dolionte situ tion nov levolopine over the pearl
ficherice ts the mmaront intention or sore of the  penoee omere
to loere vatr len to r toriel laws, to lo wdbited watere
and to dery custome, irmigration e qrantine cts y overhauling
their shive on uatralian te tor.
Last Tall twenty two Jr anese pearlere Leached to the pouth-
west of Bathmret Island end leiaurely cleaned their vessels. Leter
they journeyed to inlend poole to replenish their ater mu mly.
Custome lawe demend that the  lere slhould ut in at the firat
aveilable port: immierntion md c arantine cts deny them the right
of londing vithout official preliminaries hich, in this country
intent on a white destiny, e feirly exacting. Neverthelens, the
peorlers helped theneolvos.
Host Jooonese earlers oporatin in the mnur Sea, north
of Anstrelie, are believel to leve cefied strrlian tew at differ
ent tinee. then tho ahiee re soraped nd r winted they move
beer mst cutaide the threo mile linit, to berin divin wor vain.
For too venre protests have boen made at the intrusior of
pearlers on torritorial waters, at the renoval of liv shel? to
the Pellew Islande, where the Japaneve are ttemptine to ecolime-
tize oyeters, and at the persistent presence of the ahi»s mhich,
attended by three schooner mothor-vessels, ro a to cruiee ahout
for lone perlods. he schoonars rin tood and lo a the shell.

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.98)
(C O P Y)
IFICFISHERMAN
Columbia Street
attle Washington
June 11, 1936.
Mr. Frank T. bell,
U. S. Commissioner of Fisheries,
Washington, D. C.
Referring further to the Japenese-Alaska question, I have just received a
private letter from Japan dated May 23rd, which says:
"In the extra session of the Diet now oven, a petition was raised an
accepted by the government as for one wortn considering. Its appearance was
rather of a sudden to us. It was raised by a out 1o0 members of the lower
House, including both the Seiyukai and Minseito, the two major political par-
ties of Jauan.
.. . . The petition reads as fo lows:
"'The government should, in acccrdance with the requirements and hopes
of the civil people engaged in the industry, immediately estanlish a policy of
development of the open-sea salmon fishery industry on the northeastern waters
of the Pacific Ocean, and should endeavor to realize the scheme fruitrully."
"The reason attached to the petition rencs:
""There is little roon for the further expansion of the selmon isheries
that have been develoved by our people on and off the Far Eastern coast of
U.S.S.R., where the output is gradually dwindlin. Of late the depression of
the coastal fisheries of Japan proper, and the exhaustion of the domestic
fish:ng villages necessitate the develooment of newlv-onened fields, this nec-
essity being accelerated by the increased vooulation of fishery peoole. At
this time there exist best salnon fisheries of the world to the east of the
North Pacific Ocean.
"At present we watch the fact of canned salmon production in the anount
several times as much as ours yearly on the coast of Alaska. Thus our fishery
people are keenly hoping for fishing salmon on those waters. Tue governnent
snould make en epoch in Japen's fishing industry and correspond to the timely
need by inmeciately granting permission to the selmon fishery on the motner-
ship system to operate on the North Paciic Ocean incl ucing that cood loca+ion."
I think the above substantiates some of my former co: ments on the subject. It
reminds me of one of the early Turkish conquerors, who bequeathed to his sons,
the ermire of "Roum" or Rome -- all they had to do was go and take it away
from the Romans.
Very truly yours,
PACIFIC FISHERMAN
(Sngd.) Stedman H. Gray
S.H.Gray
Editor
C

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.98)
(C O P Y)
F I C F I S H E R MA N
Humbie Street
attle Washington
June 9, 1936.
Mr. Frank T. Bell,
U. S. Comnissioner of Fisneries,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Bell:
Meny thanks for your letters of June 1, end June 5tn rerarding Jananese
fishery operations in Berin Sea. Any further infornation vou can send us
on this subject will be greatly anpreciated.
I fully understand that o ficial state ents fren our gov rnment -- n the
absence of concrete evidence to the contrary -- must be based on an assumo-
tion of good faith on the part of foreign govern ents. On the other hand, I
feel that it is a duty of our government to maintain a constant watchfulness
as to what is actually bein done in matters of this kind, and I do not know
of eny way in which the State Department can maintain such a watchfulness ex-
cept through the co-operation of other agencies, such as the Coast Guard, the
sureau of Fisheries, Navy vessels, etc., end the authentic observ: tions of
private parties.
While statements fron private sorces ere, of course, not toune y such rules
of internetional courtesy or diplomacy, I do not feel thnt inaccurete or un-
duly provocative statements from any source are justiried.
The Japanese dispatcn which you quote seens to be more or less addled. It is
a matter of common opinion, and I believe, of kmowm fact, tnat many previous
Japanese expeditions to waters near Alaska, heve been accomoanied by govern-
ment officials and fishery experts -- this is by no means the first one.
Whether or not the Jaoanese government has "hitnerto refused permission to
operate in Alaskan waters", we know thet they have operated in waters closely
adjacent to Alaska for a number of years. The statement, "It is not considered
feasible to extend the Jepanese fisheries to Alaska", strikes me as extremely
raw, as neither foreign fisnery onerators, nor scientific investigators could
properly be permitted to operate IN ALASYA WATERS (that is, witnin territorial
waters of the United States).
However, the dispatch, with the further report from Ambassador Grew, will prob-
ably be of interest to our readers.
Very truly yours,
PACIFIC FISHEHMAN
S.H.Grey
(Sgd.) Stednan H. Gray
C
Editor
P.S.-- Studying over Mr. Grew's report, I an struck with the suspicion

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Frank T. Bell, Page 2.
June 9,1936
that the scientific exoedition mentioned is carrying out the intention
reported in the January PACIFIC FISHERMAN, page 21, in regard to Bristol
Bay Salmon fishing: that the Japanese government "would never give the
license for some time, but that they would investirate the problem both
politically and scientifically", etc. It looks to me as if the present
purpose is to determine whetner t: ey can catch salmon in worth-while
numbers in the "open" waters of Bristol Eay, outside the three-mile limit.
If this proves to be physically possible, I think our government will have
to exercise a lot of firmness and diplomatic resourcefulness to preserve
the Bristol Bay salmon run as an American resource. There is no doubt in
my mind that the Japanese are preparing to demand & share of the Bristol
Bay salmon (provided they can be caught successfully more than three miles
offshore), and I feel that our government should now be layin the ground-
work for a determined resistance of such demands.
Further, it seems to me tnat it would be a very wise action on the part of
our government -- and a thing taat ought to have been done lon- ago -- to
make a little scientific investigation of its own to determine the economic
possibility of conmercial salmon fishing, with all kmovn types of gear, just
outside of the three-mile limit on Bristol Bay. Aside from providing knowledge
which our government ought to have for conservetion, regulatory and other pur-
poses, this would give an onportunity to keep an eye on what the Japanese ex-
pedition is doing, and also show then that our government is not asleeo at
the switch.
S.H.G.

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division 
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE LEGAL ADVISER
JUL 1-1936
MEMORANDUM
Department of State
June 30, 1936.
Yette;to
FE
sumerce Papt,
TD
20.to Jolbys
I am pleased to send you herewith a
confidential letter whion I have received
from Edward W. Allen, Esquire, Seattle,
Washington, who 1s one of the American
members of the United States and Canada
Halibut Fisheries Commission. It is sug-
gested that this letter be placed in the
Department's confidential files.
I have acknowledged this communica-
tion and advised Mr. Allen that it has
been referred to the appropriate officers
of t he Department.
137
Le:JOM:MG:SS

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.94)
ALLEN, FROUDE & HILEN
LAWYERS
1308-1318 NORTHERN LIFE TOWER
SEATTLE
A. R. HILEN
WILLIAM E FROUDE
EDWARD W.ALLEN
GERALD DE GARMO
MATTHEW W.HILL
Jume 16 1956
VIA AIRIAIL
CONFIDE TIAL
EOCIVED
Mr. James 0. Turrock
Assistant Lerol Adviser
894.628
Departrent of Stste
Washington, D. C.
894.628
Dear Brother urdock:
It is possible t st  e oe n your depertuent may be
8
interested in sone intormetion the  receivet yesterday. of
course it is also possill thet you may slready have this informa-
tion, and more.  have marked this confidential for the reason
5
that the pereon from w om I procured this information des red it
7
to he so treated.
I un? ratend that tae Japanese D'et het presented to it
a very stron petitior ur  thet the Jopauese fih' i terests
be allowed to conduct uurestricted risheries on the Alsnka side
of Bering Sea, particular enpthesis bel Isid upen the cannia of
selmon aboard mother ships or flostie cenreries. ust what action
is being taken on this petition I do not know.
I have previously been informed thet the dapamese mere
sending over onother fishery investi ation vessel, end that re-
cently a menber of the faculty of the Fisheries Colle e at lakodate
who was bere in Seattle left for ristol hay to study the situation.
One of the idees expressed in this pet'tion we? that
the Siberien fisherles were playiny out. The Jeoanese, as you
know, have for many years had speciel privileges in Siberian
waters, in sddit'on to which they have fished salmon extensively
three miles off the kamchatkan coast, where they have onerated
floating canneries in these international waters. It is my under-
standing that a fishery of this kind is very destructive.
F/G

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.92)
Mr. James O. Aurdock
June 26 1.6
Page?
Apparently the reason the Jepanese wish to come over
to the American side and fish for salmon is lecause of the in-
evitable effect of their ruthless fishin methods on their own
side of the ocean.  can see serious trouble shead if they stould
send their mother ships into uristol say, even thou h they re-
main more than three niles off sore.
It oceurred t me thel  he ir your lepartoent  ht
wish to have t is enlled to is attent:on if it is not tIready
well known.
EWA:TI
Cfm

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.94)
July 3 1950
In reply refer to
FE
CLASSIIO'TIC: CANCEL' ED Arthority: letter
CONPIDENTIAL
of 5-20-64 froin Donaid 1. Simon, State Dept
By GA Dowle Date 3///67
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I refer to my letter of April 2, 1936, and to other
894.628/1
correspondence between our respective Departments in re-
gard to fishing by Japanese in waters adjacent to Alaska.
There is enelosed for your information a copy of a
portion of a personal letter received by an officer of
57
the Department from one of the American members of the
United States and Canada Halibut Fisheries Commission
in regard to the same matter. It is requested that the
information contained therein be regarded as confidential,
in conformity with the request of the writer of the
letter.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
yng copy of
Enclosure:
the yeled origi-
As stated.
The Honorable
Daniel C. Roper,
Seoretary of Commerce.
1936
N1T
FE:WTT/DLY
FE
m.m.i).
7-3-36

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSFICATION CACELED A tberity: lotter
of 5-20-64 from Dunsid 1. Sincn, State Dept.
Boculer Date 3///6
I understand that the Japanese Diet had presented to
1t a very strong petition urging that the Japanese fishing
interests be allowed to conduot unrestrioted fisheries on
the Alaske side of Bering Sea, particular emphasis being
laid upon the canning of salmon aboard mother ships or
floating canneries. Just what aotion 1s being taken on
this potition I do not know.
I have previously been informed that the Japanese were
sending over anothor fishery investigation vessel, and that
recently a member of the faoulty of the Fisheries College
at Hakodate who was here in Seattle left for Bristol Bay
to study the situation.
One of the 1deas expressed in this petition was that
the Siberian fisheries were playing out. The Japanese, as
you know, have for many years had speoial privileges 1n
Siberian waters, in addition to whioh they have fished
salmon extensively three miles ofr the Kamohatkan coast,
where they have operated floating canneries in these inter-
national waters. It 1s my understandiny that a fishery
of this kind is very destruotive.
Apparently the reason the Japanese wish to come over
to the Ameriean side and fish for salmon is beoause of the
inevitable effeot of their ruthless fishing methods on
their own side of the ocean. I can see serious trouble
ahead ir they should send their mother ships into Bristol
Bay, even though they remain more than three miles off
shore.

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.96)
(C O P Y)
EASURY DEPARTMENT
Ated States Coast Guard
Washington D C
30 June 1956
Headquarters
Refer to No. CO-611-601
CON F I D E N T I A L
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
7941. 608
Mr. Charles E. Jackson,
Department of State
Acting Comrissioner of Fisheries,
Department of Commerce,
894.628/1
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Jackson:
RAOEVEL
With reference to your letter of June 27th
(file 17) there is quoted below a paraphrase of despatch
dated June 29th received from the Cormander, Bering
Sea Petrol Force, U. S. Coast Guard, concerning the
operations of the Japanese fishing vessel CHICHIEU MARU:
58
"Position 56º 30' North 166º 29' West,
surface gill nets about two miles long using wooden
floats. Nets about 15 feet deep contained adverage
catch pink salmon. MORRIS observed entire opera-
tions 8 June and reported fur seals feeding out of
nets."
Very truly yours,
(Sgd.) R. R. WAESCHE
R. R. Waesche
Rear Admiral, U.S.Coast Guard
Commandant
月

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.84)
June .7, 190.
17
Japenese fishin vesmels in Berinr See off Alaskan
comst.
The Comaandant,
United States Cost avrd.
Weehington,
onfident
Dear Jir:
The recefat is cocse ar trt ovell lotter of The
24. f1e No. o 611 6 1, enclos1n cosy of  teleum of Juno , 196,
from the Commeender ef the arin e atrot foree in roe r to the
presenee of Jananese veasels  l ak vst rs.
It is of partic lar inter st to note that the lenonese steemship
Chtehtbe Mery is reported as fisl tng with salmon cill nete at 56 de-
grees 30 mimutes north lat1tude and lu6 derrees 29 mimutes west lon 1-
tude. It ls srnrieing to note the uee of selnon fiehtnx oretue
at thie point alout 90 milee soat of t. Soorae Telond and  out 12s
milee amay from the Al-ake Teninsule, ss there ts no lotore tion at
hand thet selmon are obt iv ble at this plece.
The peat recaat tor tn reeetred rm he stote Pert at
tease thti rnrot lcenseveenl
to ensacte n cormerelal s or fiartn  Por a sen or ptate ay
watere off the Alasken co st. Two flo tine cret canneries, the Toten
 (6 c00 tone) d the Tte  (8,2 tons), 1th  mum r of
accompanying suxilir vessel, ve te Iicensed  the  anese
Government for crab opor tions in these hi ch ser vatere off the
Alasken comst. In eddition, the Tenxe Yary (657 tons),  trewler
type vessel with an auxiliary motor craft of 6l tons, wi ! make in-
vestigstions this srmer conc rul the menner and deneity of distri-
bution of salmon and other fiahes, fishing premds, snd marine and
metoorological conlitlonr in thene mters.
In view of the foreroing, it mey be reelieed my the Bureen 1e
surprised to learn of selmon fiohing by the Chichity Mary. Corrobora-
sive telegrephic information upon this point and any othor dets here-
after coneerning the activities of this vessel wi'l be anpreciated.
Ver truly vo urs,
L
Jc
Actins Comrissioner.

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.98)
(C OP Y)
TREASURYDEPARTMENT
Refer to
United States Goast Guard
Washington
OP-611
601
24 June, 1936.
CONFIDENTIAL
Commissioner of Fisheries,
Department of Commerce,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
There is inclosed herewith for your information, a copy of a dis-
patch received from the Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force, relative to
the presonce of Japanese vessels in Alaskan waters.
Dy direction of the Commandant.
Very truly yours,
(Sgd.)
L. C. COVELL
L. C. Covell,
Captain, U.S.Coast Guard,
Assistant Commandant.
Incl. 1.

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.98)
(COPY)
U. S. COAST GUARD
Official Dispatch
Date
23 June 1936
Incoming Reading
CGL1S Z QUAH V Q3P Q QUAW NRUV NITE GR
From
Commander Bering Sea Patrol
To (for action)
Coast Guard Headquarters
Nite
To (for information)
Commander Seattle Division
Chelan
TEXT
PARAPHRASENCH
9923 Japanese Training Ship Makuyo Maru of Tokio Fisheries Institute Capt
Jignakaknw passed Attu Island eight June arrived Kiska nine June official
calls made courtesies extended by Cyane period orew twenty nine men twenty
three cadets sixteen officers and professors period departed Kiske ten June
declined escort but trailed at limit visibility by Cyane towards Bristol Bay
period letter follows period Japanese steamship Chichibu Maru operating using
long salmon gill nets fishing fifty six thirty north one sixty six twenty
nine west period Japanese steamship Toten Maru floating crab cannery operating
fifty six thirty five north one sixty forty five west period Japanese freighter
sekino Maru all gear aboard fifty seven thirty five north one sixty nine fifty
five west course two fifty true speed eight knots probably supply ship above
vessels period request Com sea div notify commandant thirteenth naval district
1802
Operater's Record
TOD 0669 navy 1n

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.95)
MISHERMAN
Nen, Mich.,
-1936
MODERN RESEARCH SHIP SKS N OFDS O
JAPANESE IRIES
The Japanese government has alvays shovm a marked interest
in the commercial fishin industry of their country and has
spent considerable time and money in developin both coastal
and deep sea fishing. One of the 1 test steps taken by the
government to aid their fishermen is the ext nsion of an already
progressive researoh progren. In an effort to locate new fish-
ing grounds to replace the ones that are now su'ferine from
depletion the covernment has placed in conmission modern
floating laboratory to carry on extended off phore voyages in
search of the new fish ng aroes.
The now ship constructed alon the lines of the trawers
usod by American producere operating out of Bouton, Mass., and
other eastorn porte, 1s 15 Sect lone, ith beam mene   ent
of 27 feet and a draft of 1? ft. It is constructed of steel
and is equipped vith e series of ntert: cht bulkheads that
divide the ship into six compartmonts. Tho cabin is specially
construoted and is inoulated with two inch corkboard so the
crew will be comfortable even when worling in the hot climate
of the Chine Sea. Th roome of the officere on! scientists
can be cooled with electric fans and hented vith electric
heaters.
The ahip is equipoed mith a 1 the latest navigating in-
struments and con eniences including wireless, redio compass
and depth findors. The deck equipment of the fishin- depart-
ment is coplete to the smallest items and every detail for
efficient operation has been incorporated in the layont. Be-
low deck 1s a modern canning departrent, cold storare plant,
and eperimental laboratories occuy the bulk of the space.
A unique feature of the now ship is found in the en-ine
roon where a special gear arrangement makes it po sible to
disconnect the two 40 h.p. four cycle eirless injection
diesele from the main shafts and drive the propellers with
alectric motors through reduction gears. The alectric drive
1s used when a very slow speed is desired for trolling opern-
tione. The main oil ongines drive the ship at a speed in
excess of 10 miles an hour when on extended cruises covering
a radius of several thousand miles.
101001001

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON
June 27, 1936.
17
Japanese salmon fishing operations in Bering See.
Mr. R. R. Parish,
Manager, New England Fish Company,
Spokane Street Terminal,
Seattle, Washin ton.
Confidential
Dear Mr. Farish:
As Commissioner Bell is now on his way to Alaska, I am acknow-
ledging the receipt of your confidential letter of June 24, enclosing
a copy of a memorandum of May 29, 1936, from the office of the Com-
mercia! Secretary of the Canadian Legation at Tokyo, concerning
Japanase salmon fishing operations off the Kamchatkan coast, and in-
timating the possibility of extending such activities to the Alaskan
coast.
We are keeping very close watch of this situation. Officials of
the State Department, both here and in Tokyo, are prepared to take e
firm stand in dealing with the situation. Naturally, the problem is
difficult, should the Japanese Government insist upon allowing its
vessels to fish for salmon on high sea waters off the Alaskan coast.
In so doing, they would be within their international legal rights
unless some other agreement is reached with them.
Thanks for the information which you have forwarded. Should aay-
thing else along this line reach vou, your courtesy in sending it to
this office will be appreciated.
Very truly yours,
ckson
Acting Commissioner.
WTB1FJH

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.98)
(C O P Y)
NEW ENGLAND FISH COMPANY
Spokane Street Terminal
Seattle Washington
June 24, 1936.
AIR MAIL
Mr. Frank T. Bell,
U. S. Fish Commissioner,
Bureau of Fisneries,
Washington, D. C.
COL IDENTIAL
Dear Mr. Bell:
Throun our President, Mr. A. L. Hager, we are providin you
with the attached cony of a leuter from the ofrice of the
Commercial Secretary, Canacian Legotion, Tokyo, Jaoen, bearing
date of May 29, 1936. The nature of the communication is such
that we are passing it on to you in coniidence.
It is apparent to us that H. Sawa, the writer of the communica-
tion, was confused regarding the location of the Guli of Anedyr,
the statement being that those waters are close to the Guli of
Alaska. The Gulf of Anadyr is actually on the Western Coast of
Siberia - 150 to 200 miles South of the Arctic Circle - apout
1,000 to 1,200 miles North of Kamchatka, and lies in aoout the
same latitude as Nome, Alaska.
With the very best of good wishes from the undersigned, we are
Yours very truly,
NEW ENGLAIID FISH COL PANY
(Scd.) R. R. Farish
Manager.
R.R.Farish
GG

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.98)
(C O P Y)
MEMORAIDUM
OFFICE OF THE CO ERCIAL SECRE ARY
CANADIAN LEGA ION
Copy
TOKYO
May 29th, 1936.
From.....H. Sawa........
To..........Mr. James A. Langley.....
Salmon Pack Prospect: in Kamchatka
Salmon pack of the Nicniro Fishery for this season in Kanchatka,
according to the estimation of the company, is expected to amount to
360,000 cases of reds and 630,000 cases of pinks as against the actual
pack of 179,714 cases of reds and 654,658 cases of pinks for the 1955
season and also as against the actual pack of 500,oll cases of reds and
889,138 cases of pinks for the 194 season. It is expected by the
company that reds pack in the west coast of Kanchatka for this season
will show far better result then tnat shown during last season when,
despite an anticipation of good result by the fishing cycle year,
resulted in a very poor pack. Salnon fisin in Hokkaido which
commences as tne forerunner of the Kamcnatka salmon fishing is not very
good by the floating ice and cold waves while that of Saghalien shows
an activity for this year. The reneral expectation of reds pack in
Kamchatka is that the Nicniro Fisnery will nrocure a normel pack for
this year.
It is reported that the Nichiro Company's supsidiary company
by the name of the Taiheiyo Fishery chartered a floating cannery and
sent it on Mey 7th to the Gul: of Anadyr for fisning investigations.
It is said that the Gulf of Anadyr is considered to be orospective
salmon grounds owing to the fact that waters are adjoining to the
famous salmon grounds in the Gulf of Alaska. It is also reported that
if this expedition results in good catch, the Japanese company will
positively advance to these grounds.

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
July 11, 1936.
1936 JUL 13 AM 10 34
Confidential
Aily
DIVISION OF
division of
FAR EASTERK AFFAIRS
COMMUNICATIONS
The Honorable
AND RECORDS
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Department of State
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.628/1
544.628/157
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of July 3, 1936,
file FE, enclosing copy of a personel letter received by an officer
of the Department of State in regard to fishing by Japanese in
waters adjacent to Aleska.
The information thus conveyed corroborates reports received
from the Depertment of State and other sources in respect to the
apparent determination of the Japanese Government to consider seri-
5
ously the licensing of vessels to fish for salmon on high sea waters
6
off the Alaskan coast. Beginning in 1930 such operetions have been
confined to the taking and packing of crabs without encroachment on
established American enterprise. If Japanese floating canneries
extend their operations to include the taking of salmon from these
waters, which in all probability cen be done successfully, our
salmon packers will suffer seriously.
Arrangements have been made whereby vessels of the Coast Guard
will devote particular attention to observations of Japanese vessels,
both government and private, in the waters of Bering Ses and Bristol
Bay this season. It is believed that, as a result of such observa-
tions, information of much value will be available at the close of
the current season's fishing operations for use in determining the
policy to be followed in deeling with the situstion.
Sincerely yours,
An cwd
Secretary of Commerce.

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.95)
400
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
1—1336
FROM
FS
GRAY
Tokyo
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 211936
Recd 2:22 a, m.
Sittu 5 Crrmmuce
Secretary of State,
107
Navy
1
Washington.
July 22 193f
Kee
894.628/160
894.62
159, July 21, noon.
Department's 87, July 3, 5 p. m.
The Foreign Office states that according to a report
from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry the CHICHIBU
MARU is a vessel of the Pacific Ocean Fishing Company
which is licensed to fish for salmon with drift nets only
along the coast of Kamchatka. No license was given that
vessel to fish in Bristol Bay. The vessel left Hakodate,
May 7, for the Gulf of Anadyr but could not operate
owing to drifting ice and turned back from Kamchatka bé-
FILED
fore reaching the Gulf of Anadyr. On July 4 it reported
that it had abandoned fishing for the season. It is
now operating as a transport ship for the other fishing
vessels of the company.
McL
GREW
2月

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.97)
July 22 1956
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/160
My dear Mr. Secretary:
There is herewith enclosed for your information
894.628/160
a copy of a telegram dated July 21, 1936, from the
American Ambassador at Tokyo in regard to a Japanese
fishing vessel, the CHICHIBU MARU, which, according to
information received from the Bureau of Fisheries, had
been reported by the Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force,
United States Coast Guard, to have been observed fishing
for salmon in waters adjacent to Alaska.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
Enclosure:
From Embassy Tokyo
No. 159, July 21, noon.
origl-
The Honorable
Claude A. Swanson,
NT
Sesretary of the Navy.
FE:WTT/DLY
FE
7-22-36
2xw
08
S
JUL 28 1936 P

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.96)
July 22 1936
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/160
My dear Mr. Trimble:
I refer to correspondence between our respective
Departments in regard to fishing by Japanese in waters
adjacent to Alaska and particularly to a confidential
894.628/1
letter dated June 30, 1936, addressed by Rear Admiral
Waesche, United States Coast Guard, to the Acting Com-
missioner of Fisheries, a copy of which was handed on
July 3, 1936, to an officer of this Department by
60
Dr. Bower of the Bureau of Fisheries.
The Department made inquiry of the American Embassy
at Tokyo in regard to the CHICHIBU MARU, the vessel
referred to in the above-mentioned letter. There is
enclosed for your information a copy of a telegram dated
July 21, 1936, from the Amer1can Ambassador in regard to
the above-mentioned vessel.
Sincerely yours,
A true copy of
the sd origl-
Cordell Hull
Enclosure:
From Embassy Tokyo
No. 159, Ju1y 21, noon.
The Honorable
sny
u
South Trimble, Jr.,
S
JUL 22 P
111
Acting Seeretary of Commeree.
FEIWTT/DLY
FBRWSTH

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.91)
7
END
FAR CAS
tex
E STATE
In reply refer to Initials
NAVY DEPARTMENT
eee
and No.
1936 JLUL 28 AM 9 18
OFFICE OF CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
Zil
14-5(1)(360722)
WASHINGTON
DIVISIOOF
是
COMMUNICATIONS
JUL 27 
AND RECORDS
894.828
Sir:
The Secretary of the Navy has requested that I aokmowledge
1/6
with thanks your letter of 22 July, 1936, which forwarded copy of
894.628/161
a telegram from the American Ambassador at Tokyo in regard to a
Japanese fishing vessel, the CHICHIBU MARU, which had been observed
fishing for salmon in waters adjacent to Alaska.
Respectfully,
N.&h
W. S. Pye,
Rear Admiral, U.S. Navy,
Assistant Chief of Naval Operations.
The Honorable,
The Seorotary of State.

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.95)
401
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DEPARTHENTSTATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1936 JUL ? 2 33
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, July 7, 1936.
No. 1930.
SUBJECT:
FISHERIES.
Jol
30 1936
Lettests Commeres
394.623/1
Nw
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
0
Sir:
2
I have the honor to refer to the Department's tele-
gram No. 87 of July 3, 5 p.m., 1936, and to the Embassy's
1/
reply thereto, No. 148 of July 6, noon, 1936, and to en-
close a copy of a memorandum of convervation between the
1935
Counselor of the Embassy and the Chief of the American
Bureau of the Foreign Office in regard to fishing in the
Bristol Bay region. The discussion on this subject took
place during an informal talk which covered a number of
other matters.
The Department will note that Mr. Okamoto brought up
revision of the Fur Seal treaty in the course of the con-
F/FG
versation. This lends some force to the idea that the
Japanese

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Japanese Government may wish to use our apprehensions
of Japanese pelagic salmon fishing in Bering Sea to bring
about an alteration in the Fur Seal Treaty, a possibility
to which the Embassy has previously invited attention.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1/ Memorandun of Conversation between the
Counselor of the Embarsy and the Chief
of the umerican Bureau of the Foreign
Office, Tokyo, of July 6, 1936.
862.8
ELN:g
rhen Copies

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1930 of July 7,1936, from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation
July 6, 1936.
Ir. Neville and r. Okamoto, Chief of the
American Bureau of the Foreign Office.
I told ir. Okamoto that the Embassy had received in-
formation from Washington that a Japanese vessel named
CHICHIBU MARU had been observed fishing for salmon with
gill nets in Bristol Bay, and asked him whether the
Foreign Office had any information in regard to this
vessel. He sent for the file and the Section Chief in
charge of it, and after some conversation with him and an
examination of the dossier, Mr. Ckamoto said that there
was no information on file at all, and that the Foreign
Office knew nothing about it. This statement was confirmed
by the Section Chief who was emphatic that the Fisheries
Bureau had given the Foreign Office no information in re-
gard to this vessel. Mr. Okamoto said that the Foreign
Office would investigate the report and give the Embassy
what information it could obtain.
Mr. Okamoto then stated that he had first become ac-
quainted with this question when he was Consul at Seattle.
He said that the Japanese Government was under some pres-
sure from time to time to grant licenses to fish in Bristol
Bay, but so far had refused, because in the first place
such action would irritate the Americans and secondly it
was doubtful whether such fishing would be profitable. He
said

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.96)
91
- 2 -
said that one object of the investigation which the
Fisheries Bureau was making was to ascertain the com-
mercial feasibility of fishing off Alaska.
He then said that another question which was brought
up from time to time was the problem of fur seals. He
said that the Japanese Government had first raised the
question of revision of the fur seal treaty some ten years
ago, but that the American Government had been unable to
consider the matter because it had no diplomatic relations
with the Soviets at that time. I told him that I was
unable to discuss that question because I had no instructions
to that end, and asked him if the Japanese Government wanted
to raise the question now. He said that so far as he knew
the Japanese were not ready to do so now, but the treaty
had expired, was in force only from year to year and there
were certain features of it which he understood the Japanese
wish modified. He seemed unable to give more detailed
information.
E.L.N.

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.97)
July 80 1936
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/162
The Secretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Acting Secretary of Commerce and, with
reference to previous correspondence between the Depart-
ment of State and the Department of Commerce in regard to
fishing by Japanese in waters adjacent to Alaska, encloses
894.628/162
a copy of despateh No. 1930 dated July 7, 1936, from the
American Ambassador at Tokyo.
It will be noted that during the course of a con-
versation between the Counselor of the American Embassy
at Tokyo and the Chief of the American Bureau of the
Foreign Office reference was made by the latter to the
question of revision of the so-called Fur Seals Treaty.
JUL 30 1936
Enclosure:
From Embassy Tokyo No. 1930,
July 7, 1936.
FENHD/DLY
FE
yeu
7-29-36
recus

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.93)
r 1930
RECONSTRUCTION FINANCE CORPORATION
ile
WASHNGTON
JESSE H. JONES
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOAROO
auid,
5
9
hugust 26, 1936.
S
1936
Dear Mr. Secretary:
It has been brought to the attention of this
Corporation that the Jupanese Diet has recently voted
funds for the purpose of sending Jupanese trawlers to
the sea coasts of this country nd of Alaska to investi-
94.
gate the prospect of open sea fichin: enterprises. An
article ampeurin in the July issue of the periodical,
"Pacific Fisherman" contains further ciscussion relative
thereto.
344.62
It is statea thy t the real purpose behind such
investigation might be to establish floating cunneries
outside the United States' threo mile limit und net calmon
in the open seu while on thcir way to our inland water-
ways for spawming. And that such mi ht destroy tho four
year cycle of salmon breeding with conse ment losses to
our American fisheries.
C
As there are now outstan ing unp in bulences
C1
owing to this Corporation on account of louns made to
concerns engaged in the sulmon fishiny inoustry, it has
been deemed ndvisble to bring this matter to your atten-
tion.
Yours cincerely,
Chairion.
The Honorable Cordell Hull
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
F/F
G

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.99)
tract - from Pacific Fisherman
July 1936 -- p. 24
JAPANESE EYE NORTH AMERICAN FISHERIES
A Tokyo press dispatch of May 30, in which the facts seem to be
pretty badly garbled, said: "A Japanese trawler with experts aboard
will be sent to Alaska to investigate the prospects of open sea fish-
ing enterprises there. Hitherto the government has refused permission
to operate in Alaskan waters because of American fishing interests,
according to the newpaper "Asahi". It is now considered feasible to
extend the Japanese fisheries to Alaska, and the Tenyo Maru, a vessel
of 600 tons, will sail next month to begin scientific investigations.
A recent session of Parliament voted 89,000 yen for the inquiry, which
will continue three years."
In this connection the U. S. State Department is advised by
Ambassador Grew at Tokyo that the Japanese Bureau of Fisheries intends
to conduct certain investigations in the open waters of Bristol Bay,
and that such investigations will probably extend over three seasons.
A trawler or other ship will be chartered for this purpose. Mr. Grew
was informed that no private ventures will be authorized, and that the
Japanese government will keep him advised on the subject.
Japanese fishery operations within the territorial waters of
Alaska could not, of course, be legally permitted. Whether with or
without government authorization, it is well known that a number of
Japanese floeting fishery plants have operated in extra-territorial
waters for some years past, engaging primarily in the crab fishery and
oil and meal manufacture; and it was announced a month or two ago that
one of them was leaving for waters in the general vicinity of Alaska.
Japanese Demand Development
Private advices from Japan, dated a week earlier than the above,
state that a petition on the subject was presented in the special
session of the Diet in May, and accepted by the government as worthy
of consideration. While its appearance is said to have been unexpected
by the larger fishery operators, it was brought up by about lo0 members
of the lower house, including members of both political parties of Japan.
The petition is to the effect that "the government should, in ac-
cordance with the requirements and hopes of the civilian population en-
gaged in the fishing industry, immediately establish a policy of develop-
ment of the open sea salmon fishing industry in the northeastern waters
of the Pacific Ocean, and should endeavor to effectmatte the plan."

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
The petition was based on the statement that "There is little room for
further expsnsion of the salmon fisheries that have been developed by our
people on and off the far-eastern coast of U.S.S.R., where the output is
gradually dwindling. Of late the depression of the coastal fisheries of
Japan and the exhaustion of the domestic fishing villages neoessitate the
development of new fields, this necessity being augmented by the increased
population of fishing people.
"At this time the best salmon fisheries of the world are to the east
of the north Pacific Ocean. We now observe the production of canned salmon
on the coast of Alaska to an amount several times as great as ours yearly.
Thus our fishery people are keenly hoping for the opportunity of salmon
fishing in those waters.
"The government should make an epoch in Japan's fishing industry, and
meet the present need by imnediately granting permission for the salmon
fishery on the mother-ship system to operate on the North Pacific Ocean,
including that desirable location."
It is also stated that the government had included in the budget for
1936 and for the two years following, an item entitled "Investigation of
the Fisheries of Alaska," under the Department of Agriculture and Forestry.
Japanese in Australian Waters
In this connection it is interesting to note a recent news item from
Sydney, Australia, reporting "increasing tension" and "incessant irritation"
resulting from the epparent intention of certain Japanese vessel owners
engaged in the pearl fishery "to ignore Australian laws to fish in prohibited
waters and to defy customs, immigration and quarantine acts."
Last fall, it is recounted, twenty-five Japanese pearlers beached south-
west of Bathurst Island and leisurely cleaned their vessels, and journeyed
to inland pools to replenish their water supply, in defiance of customs,
immigration and quarantine laws. "Most Japanese pearlers operating in the
Arafura Sea", it is stated, "are believed to have defied Australian law at
different times. When the ships are scraped and repainted, they move back
just outside the three-mile limit to begin diving work again." Such intru-
sions have been the subject of protests for two years.

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.97)
September 22 1938
In reply refer to
FE 894.628/165
CLASSIFICATION CANCELLED Arthority: letter
of 5.20.64 fr C1. Sm Dept.
By ASPomly 3/1/C7
My dear Mr. Jones:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
August 26, 1936, in which reference is made to an
894
appropriation of the Japanese Government for conducting
investigations of the fishery resources of waters off
62
the coast of Alaska and in other parts of the eastern
8
Pacific, mention being made in this connection of an
9
article appearing in the July issue of PACIFIC FISHER AN.
The possibility that Japanese fishery interests
might operate in waters off the coast of Alaska,
especially in the non-territorial waters of Bristol Bay,
has engaged the attention for several years past of the
Department and of 1ts representatives in Japan. So early
as 193l, the desirability was suggested to the Japanese
Government of the withholding to Japanese fishing vessels
of licenses to fish in Bristol Bay, into which, as you are
no
The Honorable
Jesse H. Jones,
Chairman, Reconstruction
Finanoe Corporation.

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
no doubt aware, flow the rivers where are spawned the
highly prized red salmon. Unfortunately, the Japanese
Government did not find it practicable to give this Govern-
ment a formal undertaking that it would take effective
measures to prevent Japanese fishing vessels from operating
in Bristol Bay, but informal assurances were given that no
licenses would be issued to private Japanese fishing
interests to fish for salmon in that area without previous
notification having been given to this Government.
Since 1932, the Japanese Government has each year
sent, with the previous Imowledge and consent of this
Government, one or two of its public vessels to American
territorial waters off the coast of Alaska for the purpose
of studying the fishery resources of those waters, and not-
withstanding reports which have appeared in periodicals in
this country to the contrary, this Government had no know-
ledge, until the early part of this year, that Japanese
vessels had engaged in the catching of salmon. In view of
the evidences of increasing interest of the Japanese in the
fishery resources of Bering Sea, the American Embassy at
Tokyo was instructed last year to inquire whether the
Japanese Government would be disposed to enter into
negotiations with this Government looking toward the con-
clusion of a convention whereby Japanese nationals would
be prohibited from engaging in fishing for salmon in
certain

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
certain non-territorial waters of Bristol Bay. The
Embassy was informed that the Japanese Government would
not be in position to decide whether or not it would
enter into suoh negotiations until after investigations
which were being made into the fishery resources of Bristol
Bay had been concluded. However, further assurances were
given the Embassy that no licenses would be granted for the
time being by the Japanese Government to private fishing
vessels to fish for salmon in Bristol Bay. It is under-
stood, however, that one or more vessels belonging to
the Bureau of Fisheries of the Japanese Government have
recently been conducting experimental operations in
Bristol Bay.
The preceding paragraphs may perhaps evidence to you
the solicitude and concern with which this Department has
been following developments affecting the livelihood of a
large number of American nationals and the investment of
substantial sums of money in one of the most important
industries of Alaska, and which might conceivably destroy
a valuable national resource. The Embassy at Tokyo and
the Department, together with the Bureau of Fisheries of
the Department of Commeroe, are attentively following
the situation, and you are assured that no effort will be
spared to preserve the salmon fishing industry against
operations

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.82)
operations by foreign nationals whioh may be deemed to be
injurious to it.
Sinoerely yours,
Cord
FE:KHO/DLY
As
SEP 19 1936.
FE
m.m.
aHt
9-19-36
8
rBs
人
mur
The eigned 
mai,

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.99)
FE
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON
September 9, 1936.
17
894
Japanese fishery investigations off the Alaskan coast.
Mr. Edward W. Allen,
Seeretary and Acting Chairman,
International Fisheries Commission,
Northern Life Tower,
894.628/164
Seattle, Washington.
Dear Mr. Allen:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of August 28,
forwarding at the request of Mr. Miller Freeman a copy of his
letter of August 2, 1936, addressed to you concerning the in-
vestigations in Alaskan waters this season by Dr. Seiji Kanda,
of the Hakodate School of Pisheries, and the report which he
submitted at Yosemite, California, in August before a committee
of the American Council of the Institute of Pacific Relations.
The information thus furnished is of great interest to me.
The subject of Japanese fishery activities in the high sea waters
of Bristol Bay will require our most careful thought and consid-
eration. I plan to look into the matter further when I em on
the Pacific Coast next month.
Very truly yours,
Commissioner.
1936
WTB1FJH
F/FG

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.99)
(COPY)
INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES COMMISSION
Edward W. Allen, Secretary and Acting Chairman
Northern Life Tower
Seattle Washington
August 28 1936
Mr. Frank T. Bell,
U. S. Commissioner of Fisheries,
Department of Commerce,
Washington, D. C
Dear Mr. Bell:
Mr. Miller Freeman
requested that I transmit to you a copy
of his letter of August 23, which copy
is enclosed herewith.
Yours very truly,
(Sgd.) EDWARD W. ALLEN
EWA:L
ene

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.99)
(C OPY)
Yosemite Lodge
Yosemite, Cal.
August 23, 1936.
Mr. Edw. Allen,
Northern Life Tower,
Seattle, Wash.
Dear Mr. Allen:
On my reaching here Aug. 15, Dr. C. L. Alsberg, Chairman
of the American Council of the Institute of Pacific Relations, in-
formed me that Seiji Kanda had arrived at Yosemite and had requested
he be heard with reference to certain proposals re the fisheries
of the North Pacific, which he wished to offer for consideration by
the Institute of Pacific Relations.
Dr. Alsberg informed the writer that Kanda had not been
invited; that he had appeared of his owm volition; and that he would
call a few men together to hear him privately, on the following
afternoon. Those present:
Dr. C. L. Alsberg, Stanford University
Dr. Chas. E. Martin, head Political Science Dept.,
U. of Washington, Seattle
B. H. Kizer, Spokane
Miller Freeman, Seettle
Dr. V. E. Motylev, Director Institute Great World Atlas;
Professor in Institute National Economy, Moscow,
U.S.S.R.
Vladimir Romm, U. S. Correspondont, "Izvestia", end
delegate to the I. P. R.
Dr. Shiroshi Nasu, Professor Agriculturel Policy, Tokyo
Imperial University
Dr. Kanda
Dr. Kanda stated he was connected with the Hakodate School
of Fisheries, and an official of the Jananese government; that the
Japanese government had conducted some research work in Bristol Bay,
including the visit during the early summer of a scientific vessel;
that he had to offer two points for consideration by the Institute
of Pacific Reletions, namely:
1. That joint research be undertaken by the governments
of the United States and Japan in Bristol Bay, and along
the Aleutian chain of islands of the salmon fisheries
of that area for the purpose of establishing a basis of
negotiations for a treaty by which the rights and in-
terests of each nation would be determined.
2. The Russian-Japanese fisheries problems of the
Asiatic Coast, including questions of administration and
means to be adopted to preserve the salmon fisheries of
that area which he feared will be depleted by over-fishing.

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Mr. Freeman asked Dr. Kanda if the views and attitude of
the United States government had been solicited in advance of the
dispatch into the Bristol Bay area of the Japanese fisheries re-
search vessel. Dr. Kanda replied that he had been given a copy of
the telegram sent by Mr. Wingard from the Seattle office of the
U. S. Bureau of Fisheries to its Bristol Bey agent, instructing the
latter to extend any possible courtesies to the expedition; that he,
Dr. Kanda, had been hospitably entertained by cannery operators of
the Bristol Bay area.
Dr. Motylev stated that while he was not fully informed
on Asiatic fisheries problems, he felt that all questions in that
area were being satisfactorily dealt with by the two governments,
Russia and Japan.
While the possibility of a scientific study of the fish-
eries of the entire North Pacific area to be participated in by the
United States, Canada, Japan and Russia was briefly referred to,
it was not pursued to any definite conclusion.
During the discussions Dr. Kenda expressed his pleasure,
as well as his surprise, that the United States government should
so generously receive the visit of the Japanese fisheries vessel;
that Japan would not be as willing to allow a scientific expedi-
tion to conduct operations along its shores.
As agreed to in advance, the conference came to no con-
clusions, agreeing that the matter should not come before the
sessions of the Institute of Pacific Relations, but that the matter
would be considered by the National Research Committee of the In-
stitute, when decision would then be reached as to whether it
should be made a subject of study by the Institute.
Yours very truly,
Miller Freeman

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.99)
EPARTMENTOF
COMMERCE
Fisheries Service Bulletin
ISSUED
MONTHLY
WASHINGTON
July 1, 1936
Number 254
RETIREMENTS
Mr. Kerns had a wide familiarity
with the details of the Bureau's field
On July 1 retirement for disability
fish cultural activities and knew his
will remove from the rolls of the
railroad sehedules and routings from
Washington office two employees
beginning to end. He was also the
whose aggregate of approximately so
recipient of good wishes and a memen-
years of service exceeds the longevity
to from his fellow workers in com-
of the Bureau itself. Mrs. Lillian
pamy with Mrs. Webster.
Webster (Ma Hurdle) will close her
All hands from the Commissioner on
desk after a career which started with
down join in saying. "Well done and
her appointment in 1s93 and has been
good luck" to these two veterans who
continuous except for a brief interval.
will enjoy a well-carned rest.
During this time when her typewriter
has been clicking merrily, there have
SOCKEYE SALMON TREATY
been years of expansion, years of re-
trenchment, war years, and moves and
After almost 40 years of considera
other important changes. Any histo-
tion and discussion, a treaty for the
rian wishing to write the chronicle of
protection of the sockeye salmon of
the Bureau of Fisheries, could well
Fraser River was ratified by the
afford to consult Mrs. Webster regard-
United States Senate on June 15. 1936.
ing the days in the old building at
with certain reservations which are
Sixth and B Streets SW.
believed to be aeceptable to Canadian
However, Mrs. Webster was a Gov-
interests. This treaty, signed in 1930
ernment employee with considerable
and ratified by Canada in the same
service to her credit before entering the
Pear, provides for an international
Bureau. She was originally employed in
tisheries commission of six members.
the Bureau of Printing and Engraving.
three on the pari of the United States
having received appointiment from her
and three on the part of Canada. The
native Alabama on November 21, 1887.
commission is charged with the duty
Forty-nine years in harness is a long
of making extensive investigations of
time, and her colleagues took the op
the natural history of sockeye salmon
portunity to express best wishes for a
runs to Fraser River and is granted
long and happy retirement at a gath-
authority to regulate the stlmon fish-
ering in the oflices on June 30, at which
cries in international and territorial
time a souvenir of their esteem was
waters through which Fraser River
presented.
sockeye salmon pass on their spawn-
Jacob H. F. Kerns retired at the
ing migration. Although the reserva
same time from the position of Assist-
tions to this treaty completely nullify
ant Superintendent of Distribution of
the regulatory authority of the com-
the Car Service. Mr. Kerns' name
mission for a period of s years during
first appeared on the Bureau's records
which scientitic investigations shall be
in 1899 as a spawn taker at the Woods
conducted, it is feli that a forward
Hole (Mass.) station. He was em-
step has been taken to proteet this
ployed temporarily in various capaci-
resource, which has declined enor-
ties, including hatchery assistant, car
mously since 1913.
laborer, and laborer until 1908 when he
The sockeye salmon bound for
received a permanent appointment to
Fraser River pass through territorial
the Northville station. He progressed
waters of both the United States and
through the various ratings in the car
Canada where intensive commercial
service and was for a considerable
fishing is prosecuted. An important
period detailed to the Washington
fishery also is conducted on the high
office, taking up the duties of Assistant
seas by nationals of both countries.
Superintendent of Distribution in
This fishery resource is international
1930.
in scope and only through interna-
78906—36

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.98)
EXTRACT - from Semi-monthly Report
Ralph C. Baker, Acting Assistant Agent
Juneau, Alaska
July 16 - 31, 1936
1936
July 18 - Professor Seiji Kanda of the Hakodate Fisheries
School of Japan was taken from Juneau to the
Funter Bay area on the Widgeon to study the
type of salmon traps used in Alaska. After
being shown a pile trap and a floating trap Mr.
Kanda was taken from the Alaska Pacific Salmon
trap No. 36-364 back to Naked Island where he
made connections with the commercial passenger
vessel Bstebeth and returned to Juneau. The
Widgeon then continued the patrol toward Hawk
Inlot.

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.98)
Daily Alaska Empire
agust , 1936.
JAPAN STUDYING FISHING, BRISTOL BAY REGION, NOW
Operations Constitute Serious Threet to American Exports
Seattle, Aug. .- Scientific investiration of the possibilities
of salmon fishing in extra-territorial waters in the vicinity of Bristol
Bay has been carried on during the last two months by scientists and
students aboard the Hakuyo Maru school ship of the Imperial Japanese
Government Fisheries Institute. The Halnuyo Maru is now in Seattle pre-
paring to sail south to study fishing opportunities off the California
coast.
Carrying twenty-three members of the Imperial Institute's graduating
class the Hakuyo Maru left Japan May 1. Purros  of the institute
curricula is to fit students to command and onerate floatiny canneries.
Students are thoroughly trained in methods of findins the fish at
sea, in freezing and canning operations, and in navigation. The Hakuvo
Maru carried experimental enuipment for the packing of salmon, halibut,
tuna and shell fish.
Samples of water are also being drawn along the
route of the vovage.
These sanles will be shipped to Janan for
analysis.
Although a large part of the ponulation of Japan is encaged in
fishing, that country consunes very little of its annuel canned salmon
pack. Most of the output is shipped abroad. The success the Japanese
have had in world marketins of canned salmon, crab, and cther items is
an indication of the ability of their fisheries, with the aid of low
labor costs, to go into a market at substantially lower prices than
packs of other countries. The projected expansion of Japanese fishing
operations constitutes a serious threat in American export markets.
-0-0-0-0-0-0-

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.99)
Japanese fishery investigator in Bristol Bay, Alaska
According to the report submitted for the month of
June, 1936, by Captain 0. H. Elveness, master of the
Bureau's Alaska patrol vessel Scoter, S. Kanda, Pro-
fessor of the Hakodate Higher School of Fisheries,
was transported from Naknek to Egegik and Ugashik and
back to Naknek in the period from 9 a.m. June 25, to
the morning of June 28, 1936.
No other details in regard to the matter are given
by Captain Elveness in his report.

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.99)
Cordova, Alaska, Daily Times
July 11, 1936.
HIGH JAPANESE TO VISIT NORTH
Ketchikan, July 1l. - Isaku Okomoto,
Japanese consul at Seattle, arrived here
today aboard the steamer McKinley enroute
to Alaskan coast cities and Fairbanks on
a pleasure trip.

=== Page 532 === (confidence 1.00)
Cordova, Alaska, Daily Times
July 11, 1936.
STUDIES ALASKA FISHING INDUSTRY
Anchorage, July ll. - S. Korda, a student officer
of the Japanese government, is here studying the Alaska
fishing industry.
He said there was vital need for the formation of an
international committee between Japan and the United
States to study the salmon movements in the western
Bering Sea and north Pacific districts.
Korda is a professor of Hakodate College of Fisheries
in Japan. He left Friday for Seattle.

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.99)
m Pacific Fisherman
agust - 1936 (p. 22)
JAPANESE COMMENCE INVESTIGATION OF ERISTOL BAY SALMON FISHERY
Some further details have been learned concerning the Japanese in-
vestigation of salmon fishery possibilities in extraterritorial waters
adjacent to Alaska, for which the Diet durine the soring voted an appro-
priation, as reported in these columns last month.
No time has been lost in starting the n st gation which, it is
understood, is to be continued for a period of three yenrs. The purpose
is to determine the feasibility of floating salmon cannery oneration in
those waters, in response to a demand of Jananese fishery interests, with
the aim of locating Japanese floating canneries outside the three-mile
limit in Bristol Bay.
It is now announced that the Tenyo Maru, a cs?-ton vessel of the
trawler type, and an accompanying auxiliary motor vescel of el tons, have
been assigned to this work, inv sti atinr the abundence of salmon end other
fishes and studying marine and meteorolorical conditions of the Alaskan
coast.
Aside from this, two Japanese floating factories, accompanied by
accessory vessels, have been operating this season in offshore waters of
Bering Sea adjacent to Alaska. These are the Toten Maru, 6,ooo tons, en-
gaged mainly in canning crabneat; and the Taihoku Maru, 8,253 tons, en-
gaged in fish reduction and miscellaneous operations.
TRAINING SHIP IF BRISTOL BAY
What appears to be an initial step in the salmon iavestigation was
carried out early in July, at the berinning of the Red salmon season,
through a visit to that district of the fisheries training ship Hakuyo
Maru, operated by the Tokyo Fish ng Institute. After spending several
weeks in Bristol Bay, she put in at Seattle July 24, renaining for the
week-end, and proceeded to Monterey, Calif., and the Hawaiian Islands.
The Hakuyo Maru is a good-sized modern steel vessel with diesel
power, well equipped with machinery and gear of commercial type for fish-
ing and processing experiments, and with laboratory and scientific
apparatus for oceanographic research. On the present voyage her officers
and crew, with teaching staff, number over 40, with about 30 students.
She is commanded by Capt. Jinzo Nakagawa, who is also a professor in the
fisheries school; other faculty members being Prof. Saito, marine biologist
and oceanographer; Prof. Yamasaki; Prof. Yasuhara and Prof. Dunno. The
mate also teaches navigation, while the engineer gives instruction in
diesel engine operation.

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
he vessel's equipment includes a small but complete and very compact
ming line, with hand-filling tables, vacuum closing machines for talls,
etort, ete., with a daily capacity of avout 150 full cases of halves,
suitable for packing salmon, tuna, crabmeat, ete.; a reduction outfit of
about 5 tons daily fish capacity; a small freezer and cold storage room,
and facilities for salting salmon in the Japanese style. Fishing is done
by means of small boats, including two launches about 10 metres long with
45-hp. gas engines, which renain out all day with crews of 8 men each, and
are equipped with radio direction finders; also two large rowboats of whale-
boat type. None of these boats appeared to be especially designed for any
particular kind of fishing.
While in Bristol Bay, Japanese gill-nets were used for salmon fishing,
and no difficulty was found in making fair catches of Red salmon. The
catch, when canned, produced about 60o full cases of helves, which was con-
sidered hiphly satisfactory as an experiment.
FURTHER INVESTIGATION
The vessel also carried large-mesh gillnets for spider crabs; halibut
gear, somewhat resembling the American type, which is handled from the small
boats; and tuna gear of a Japanese type. In using the latter, barbed hooks
with squid as bait are hung by long, stout leaders or gangions from a long
line; the latter being suspended horizontally at considerable depth from
floats at the surface. Experiments in tuna fishing will be made during the
latter part of the voyage. It was stated that no fishing for pilchards is
contemplated on this trip, and the reduction plant has not been in operation.
The Hakuyo Maru touched at several points in the Aleutians on the east-
ward run, and proceeded direct to Seattle after completing her work on
Bristol Bay. From Monterey she is going to the Hawaiian Islands, and thence
to San Cristoval in the Solomon Islands, stopping every four hours to take
soundings and collect oceanographic data, with tuna fishing experiments
wherever conditions seems favorable.
PROF. KANDA ON TOUR
In addition to the investigations aoove mentioned, Prof. Seiji Kanda of
the Imperial Fisheries School at Hakodate has been making an extensive study
of the Pacific salmon and herring fisheries and looking into the research
and conservation methods followed in this country. During May he visited
the Seattle laboratories of the Bureau of Fisheries and the International
Fisheries Commission, and the California Fish and Game Commission and other
fishery research agencies in California. Later he went to Alaska for a
first-hand survey of fishery operations and returned the end of July, plan-
ning to attend the Institute of Pacific Relations at Yosemite this month.
He has suggested the development of an international program of scientific
research on the salmon of the north Pacific.
He has expressed particular interest in the regulatory methods of our
state and federal governments in connection with the salmon fisheries, as
the Japanese government has come to see the necessity of effective regula-
tion to preserve the salmon resources of Kamchatka and northern Japan. He
has given attention to salmon tagging operations, taking the view that such
work may be an important feature of an international study of salmon migrations.
-0-0-0-0-0-0-

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON
July 31, 1936.
17
Japanese vessel in Bristol Bay, Alaska.
The Commandant,
United States Coast Guard,
Washington, D. C.
Confidential
Dear Sir:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of July 29, 1936,
file No. OP-62, enclosing copy of a dispatch received from the
Commander of the Bering Sea Patrol Force, conveying information
in regard to the Japanese vessel Tenyo Maru, with accompanying
75-foot trawler, in Bristol Bay, Alaska.
It is noted that this vessel was at 57 degrees 55 minutes
north latitude and 158 degrees 16 minutes west longitude, and
that no fishing operations were under way at the time.
The information thus conveyed is of interest and value to
this office. The courtesy of the Coast Guard in the matter is
appreciated.
Very truly yours,
Charles E. Jackeen
Acting Commissioner.
WTB: PJH
mom

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.99)
(C OP Y)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
Refer to No. OP-62
United States Coast
Guard
Washington D C
29 July, 1936.
Headquarters
CONFIDENTIAL
Commissioner,
Bureau of Fisheries,
Department of Commerce,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
The inclosed copy of a confidential dispatch received
from the Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force, U. S. Coast Guard, to
Coast Guard Headquarters, Washington, D. C., is for your information.
The DAPHNE and ALERT referred to in the inclosure are both Coast
Guard vessels.
By direction of the Commandant.
Very truly yours,
(Sgd.) L. C. COVELL,
Captain, U. S. Coast Guard,
Assistant Commandant.

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.98)
(C O P Y)
U. S. C O A S T
G UARD
Official Dispatch
27 JULY 1936
Incoming Heading
CG7ØKD Z QUAH V Q3B Q NRGD GR 65
From
COMMANDER BERING SEA PATROL FORCE
To (for action)
COAST GUARD HEADQUARTERS
ROUTINE
To (for information)
DAPENE
ROUTINE
TEXT
PARAPHRASED-A-
9927 REFERENCE YOUR 9925 1746 JUNE ALERT LOCATED TENYO MARU
TWENTY JULY ANCHORED WITH ONE SEVENTY FIVE FOOT TRAWLER IN
BRISTOL BAY ALASKA LAT FIFTY SEVEN FIFTY FIVE NORTH ONE HUNDRED
FIFTY EIGHT SIXTEEN WEST PERIOD NO FISHING OPERATIONS NO NETS BEING
USED PERIOD VESSEL PAINTED WHITE APPROXIMATELY TWO THOUSAND TONS
DISPLACEMENT TWO HUNDRED FEET LENGTH CRUISER STERN SIMILAR TO
HAKUYO MARU OF JAPANESE FISHERIES INSTITUTE 1405
REF:- 9925 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE REQUESTS COAST GUARD TACTFULLY
OBSERVE OPERATIONS FISHING VESSEL TENYO MARU REPORTED PROCEEDING
TO INVESTIGATE SALMON AND OTHER FISHERIES BERING SEA AND PACIFIC
TO EVENTUAL DETRIMENT AMERICAN INTERESTS
Operator's record.
TOR 231 NAVY # 7ø WD

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON
Jul 1, 1936.
17
Japanese vessel Hakuyo Maru off Alaskan coast.
The Commandant,
United States Coast Guard,
Washington, D. C.
Confidential
Dear Sir:
The receipt is acknowledged of Coast Guard letter of July 30,
1936, file No. OP-60l 623, transmitting copy of a confidential re-
port of the Commanding Officer of the Cyane regarding activities of
the Japanese vessel Hakuve Maru, together with & photographic copy
of the schedule of that vessel.
The information thus conveyed in regard to the activities and
movements of the Hakuyo Mary has been read with much interest by
this Bureau, and will be added to the file of information bsing ac-
cummlated on the subject. Tour courtesy in the matter is g tly
appreciated.
Very truly yours,
Charles E. Jacxs
Acting Commissioner.
UTB1FJH

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.98)
Y
DENTIAL
TREASURY
DEPARTMENT
United States Coast Guard
Boat CYANE
Unalaska, Alaska,
13 June, 1936.
From:
Commanding Officer, CYANE.
1L31
To :
Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force.
Subject:
HAKUYO MARU and activities.
Inclosure: (1) Schedule of cruise of HAKUYO MARU, 1936.
1.
The HAKUYO MARU entered Kiska Harbor at O850, 9 June, 1936, and
anchored about five eights of a mile off shore southeast from observation station.
Shortly thereafter the boarding officer from the CYANE boarded the HAKUYO MARU and
was met at the gangway by the chief officer. He was shown to the saloon and there
was introduced to the captain, J. Nakakawa and two professors of the Tylo Fishing
Institute of the Japanese Imperial Government. He was shown around the ship
gonerally and ascertained, in general, the followin; information: The crew proper
was 29 men, 23 cadets, or students of the Tyko Fishing Institute, and 16 officers
and professors. The quarters for the cadets is separate from that of the officer
or crew. It consisted in generul of staterooms, one for every four students, a
chemical laboratory for the study of marine life and a combined study room and mess
hall. The HAkUYo MARU is a two masted diesel powered vessel about two hundred
thirty feet in length at the water line, with well deck forward and deck and pilot
house approximately amidships. The vessel is painted white all over except for a
band at the top of the dummy stack, which is painted black. The stack is just aft
of the pilot house. The vessel has about & thirty-five foot beam and draft of
between twelve and fifteen feet. The H kUYo MARU is equipped with two 7oo horsepower
diesel engines, each drivin a screw, and is capable of making approximately 12 knots;
an Aoton (British( yro canpass with  hree repeaters; electric or hand steering;
sonic dopth finder of British make accurate up to 450o fathoms; a radio direction
finder in the starboard wing of the bridge. The hold in the well deck forward con-
tained a small experimental cannery.
2.
The motor sailer of the l KUYO MARU cume alongside the CYAE at about
lo30 towing the CYAnE's surfbout, the boarding officer having accepted Captain
Nakakawa's offer to tow them back. Capt in Nakakawa and a professor came on board
to call on the commandin officer. Both understood English if spoken slowly, and
could speak it as well, and were able to read and write English. Captain Nakakawa
stated that he had made several previous cruises from Japan to the Bering Sea and
was familiar with the waters, but hed never been in Kiska Harbor before. He stated
that they were using British Admirality chiarts for the Bering Sea. Captain Nakakawa
also stated that the Japanese cannery ships TAIHOKU MARU and TOTEN MARU were fishing
in Bristol Bay and the RYOKAI MARU was crab fishing off the Komandoraky Islands and
with them would be four trawlers of about 2o0 tons. The professor stated that the
students were making the cruise to get experience in the various types of fishing
encountered in the various places. The captain asked permission for the students
to go ashore for exercise. This permission was granted. The motorboat went ashore
at about 13oo towing a small surfboat in which the men landed on the beach.
The mon, after getting on the beack, walked around for a short time and then
climbed the high hill at the head of the bay. They returned to the beach in
about an hour and a half and were picked up by the motorboat and surfboat
and roturned to the HAKUYO MARU.

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
S. Captain Nakakawa stated that he planned to sail from Kiska
Harber about noon the next day. The HAkUYo MARU got underway about 1520,
10 June, and stood slowly out of Kiska Harbor going about three quarters
of a mile off shore until reaching the northern end of Kiska Island and
then steamed north northeast until about three miles north of Segula
Island and then stood east northeast (about 65 true) sailing the general
great circle course toward Bristol Bay.
4.
The CYANE got underway at 1550 and stood slowly out of Kiska
Harbor attempting to keep at the limit of visibility astern of the HAkUro
MARU averaging a speed of about 10t knots. The CYANE, on the two nights that
the HAkUYO MARU was trailed, ran dark. The trail was dropped ina position
approximately 54-51-00 N., 171-25 W.
(Signod)_J. A._Dirks.
Bering Sea Patrol Force
First Indorsement
Unalaska, Alaska,
601-CONFIDENTIAL
24 June, 1936.
From:
Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force.
To :
Commandant (Via Commander, Seattle Division).
Subject:
CYANE - Roport of HAKUYO MARU and activities.
Reference: (a) Headquarters letter 20 May, 1936 (C0-64-601-611) to Comander,
Bering Sea Patrol Force.
(b) Headquarters dispatch to Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force
0220-0951 (May, 1936).
(c) Dispatch Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force to Headquarters
9923-1802 (JUNE, 1936).
(d) Headquarters letter 31 January, 1936 (OP-6ll-63)(CoN).
1.
Forwarded for information of Headquarters. In accordance with
references (a) and (b), the SHOSHOnE was directed to take station at Attu and the
CYAnE at Kiska in the Aleutian Islands, in order to ertend customary courtesies
and acilities to HAkUyo MARU upon arrival in territorial waters of the United
States. As reported by reference (c), the foregoing vessel passed Attu Island
8 June and arrived Kiska 9 June, 1936. The names of other Japanese vessels oper-
ating in Bering Sea up to and including this date, were also reported in reference
(c).
2.
In compliance with reference (d), it is requested that the Commander,
Seattle Division deliver in person copy of this correspondence to the Commandant,
Thirteenth Naval Distriet, and forward by confidential mail a copy of same to the
Commandant, Twelrth Naval District/
(S1gned) R. W. DEMPWOLF.
601 CONFIDENTIAL
End Indorsement
Seattle, Washington,
14 July, 1936.
SEATTLE DIVISION
1.
Forwarded.
(Signed) M. J. RYAN,
Acting.

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.99)
Extract from -
CORDOVA Daily Times - July 20, 1936.
(Anchorage Times)
Formation of an international committee
composed of representatives of Japan and the
United States for a study of salmon movements
and conditions in the western Bering Sea and
North Pacific Ocean is a vital need of the
salmon fishing industry of these two countries,
S. Korda, student-officer of the Japanese gov-
ernment, said today during a brief stay in
Anchorage.

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.97)
Extract from -
ilncka
CORDOVA Daily Times - July 20, 1936.
JAPANESE OFFICIAL VISITS
K. Okamoto, Japanese consul at Seattle, passed
through here southbound on the Yukon Saturday on the
final lap of a trip through Alaska which he stated
he has enjoyed immensely.
The visit of Mr. Okamoto marks the first time
a Japanese government attache of his rank has come
in Alaska. He has been at the head of the Seattle
consulate since June, his previous duties having
been as an attache of the Japanese embassy at Wash-
ington.
He called on Mr. Mitamura while in Cordova.

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.99)
August 19, 1936.
17
Japanese motor vessel Tenyo Maru.
The Comandant,
United States Coast Guard,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
The receipt is ackmowledged of your letter of August 17, trans-
mitting copy of a confidential report from the commanding officer of
the Coast Guard Cutter Alert, dated July 27, 1936, relative to the
activities of the Japanese vessel Tenyo Maru. The informmtion con-
tained in this report is of interest to this office and at your re-
quest it will be kept in a confidential status.
Very truly yours,
Cormissioner.
IFC

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
OP-611
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
623
United States Coast
Guard
601
Washington
17 August, 1936.
Commissioner,
Bureau of Fisheries,
Department of Commerce,
Bashington, D. C.
Sir:
Inclosed herewith please find copy of a confidential report of the
Commanding Officer, U. S. Coast Guard Cutter ALERT, dated 27 July, 1936,
relative to the activities of the Japanese Motor Vessel TENYO MARU of
Shomonoseki. The inclosure is forwarded for your information, and it is
requested that the report be kept in a confidential status.
Very truly yours,
(sgd.) L. C. Covell
L.. COVELL,
Captain, U.'s. Coast Guard,
Actin Commandant.
Inc. 1.

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.98)
C O N E I D E N T I A I
Guard Cutter
TREASURYDEPARTMENT
ALERT
UNITED
STATES COAST GUARD
27 July, 1936.
From:
Commanding Officer, ALERT.
To :
Commander, Bering Sea Patrol Force.
Subject: Japanese Motor Vessel TENYO MARU of Shomonoseki.
1. The TENYO MARU was located by the ALERT on July 20, 1936,
anchored in Latitude 57-55 North, Longitude 158-15 West. She had one
crab trawler, a vessel of about 75 feet, with her. The trawler had
completed taking in all gear prior to the arrival of the ALERT, and
no further activities were undertaken while the ALERT was in that
vicinity.
2. The TENYO is a vessel on the beam trawler type, about 200
feet long, 40 feet beam, and drew 4 meters aft and three one half meters
forward; her displacement is about 2,000 tons. She is painted white,
the cfficers on the bridge are in uniform, and all her actions and
appearance lead to the full belief that she is a Government vessel
conducting some research work for further expansion of Japanese fishing
activities.
3. The radio antennae equipment of subject vessel is very
elaborate and she unquestionably guards at least 4 frequencies at all
times. Her radio direction finders are also of the latest type, two
on the wings of the bridge. In addition she is equipped with a battle
ship type range finder.
(Signed) H. IANSON.

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.99)
(C O P Y)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Bureau of Foreign and Donestic Commerce
809 Federal Office Bles.,
Seattle, Wash.,
Aucust 4, 1936.
Mr. F. H. Rawls, Chief,
Foodstuffs Division,
Bureau of Foreign & Domestic Commerce,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Rawls:
There is inclosed an editorial taken from the Alaska Weekly of
last Friday, telling of the trip of the Hakuyo Meru, school ship of
the Imperial Japanese Government Fisheries Institute.
In visiting trade publicetions with Mr. Hayward while he was here,
we met and talked with Mr. Miller Freemen who mentioned the Hakuyo Maru,
and Mr. Hayward and I went down and visited the ship. So far as I can
see, the situation is pretty much as described in this editorial, and
you can readily imagine from the fact that there were some twenty odd
graduating students abroad and some 5C odd regular students of the amount
of activity. Essentially, each one of th se students is bein& trained
and equipped to operate floating canneries on the east coast of the
North Pacific Ocean outside of the three mile limit.
The question is, "Are we goir: to let our fisheries go by defeult
to the Japanese, who will not regard the restrictive meesures placed
on the American fisheries by our Bureau of Fisheries, or whether sone
action is to be taken to preserve the Alaska salmon fisheries to American
fisherman?"
I would appreciate any co ments you wish to give me on this situation.
Very truly yours,
(Sgd.) CRAWFOFD
Philip M. Crawford
Assistant District Menager.
PMC:T
Inclosure 21553

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.98)
aska Weekly
5th Ave.,
Washington
dy 31, 1936.
A SERIOUS SITUATION
What appeers to be the usual interesting and innocent news iten is con-
tained in the story of the scientific investigation of the possitilities of
salmon fishing in extra-Territorial waters in the vicinity of Bristol Bay
which has been carried on during the last two months by scientists and students
aboard the Hakuyo Maru, school ship of the Imperial Japanese Government Fish-
eries Institute. The Hakuyo Maru is now in Seettle preparing to sail south to
study fishing opportunities off the Celifornia cost. Let us exemine the
objectives of this little party.
Carrying twenty-three members of the Imuerial Institute's graduating
class the Hakuyo Maru left Japan May l?. The purpose of the institute curricula
is to fit students to command and operate flcetin canneries. Students are
thoroughly trained in methods of finding the fish et sea, in freezing and can-
ning operations, and in navigation. The Hakuyo Maru carries exoerimental
equipment for the pac ing of salmon, halibut, tuna, and shell-fish. Samples of
water are also being drawn along the route of the voyage. These semles will
be shipped to Japan for analysis. Floating canneries and trainint ships are
officered by naval reserve officers and trained naval observers.
Although a lerge part of the population of Janan is engaged in lish ng,
that country consumes very little of its annual canned salmon pack. Most of
the output is shipped abroad. The success the Janenese have had in world
marketing of canned salmon, crab, and other items is an indication of the
ability of their fisheries, with the aid of low labor costs, to go into a
market at substantially lower prices than packs of other countries. The pro-
jected expansion of Japanese fishing operations constitutes a serious threat
in American export markets, in the domestic markets and to the industry itself.
The Japanese have demonstrated that they can catch red selmon with gill
nets on the high seas and it appears that there is nothing we can do about it
unless international agreements can be arrived at. If they can fish outside
the three-mile limit off Bristcl Bay and take 25 per cent or more of the red
salmon before they come wi+hin the bay it presents a problem of serious and
baffling nature for the most important industry of Alaska. Salmon are, how-
ever, worthy of a slightly different classification than strictly "high ses"
fish. The salmon is born in American waters and must return to American
waters to complete his life cycle. He is, in effect, an American citizen.
pen discussions in the Japanese Diet are convincingly clear on one point -
namely that the Jaranese do not intend to leave us to the peaceful exploitation
of this great national asset. Aggressive action on the part of American in-
terests is mandatory if the salmon packing industry of this coast is not to be
seriously crippled. The Association of Pacific Fisheries has been making ex-
haustive investigations, Mr. Miller Freeman is doing valuable work, but com-
munity, Territorial, and national consciousness should be aroused to the
situation and all possible aid given the industry.
-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.99)
(C O P Y)
August 17, 1936
To:
Seattle District Office
30e.
From:
Foodstuffs Division
Attenticn Mr. Philip M. Crawford,
Assistant District Manager.
My dear Phil:
I want to acknowledge your letter of August 4, wherewith you
enclosed an editorial taken from the Alaska Weekly of July 31, 1936,
relating to the schhol ship of the Imperial Japenese Governnent
Fisheries Institute.
I am turning this over to Mr. Charles E. Jackson, Deputy Com-
missioner of the Bureau of Fisheries, for his information, md I
want to thank you very much for forwarding the some to me.
Kind personal re ards.
F. H. Rawls,
Chief, Foodstuffs Division.
Forwarded:
Robert Sevey,
Chief, Division of District Offices.
fhr et

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF FISHERIES
WASHINGTON
August 29, 1936.
17
Japanese fisheries in Bristol Bay.
Mr. Stedman H. Gray,
Editor, Pacific Fisherman.
71 Columbia Street.
Seattle, Washington.
Dear Mr. Gray:
In answer to your letter of August 22, l936, wherein you ask about
a decision under which the waters within Bristol Bay, Alaska, more than
three miles from the shore line are designated as ertraterritorial waters,
I wimh to say that there is no decision which mentions specifically Bris-
tol Bay in this connection.
No doubt you are well acquainted with the long-recognized principle
that jurisdiction ertends three miles offshore. This was set forth in a
lotter written by an official of the State Department on August 10, 1936,
to Captain F. K. Dedriok, Vice-President and General Manager, California
Whaling Company, 1l90 St. Charles Street, Alameda, California, from which
I quote the following:
Jos 8' 1Be16.
Generally speaking, the rule adopted by this Government is
that which is set forth in the case of the Cunard Steamship Com-
pany v. Mollon, 262 U.S. 100. That rule is stated as follows:
"It now is settled in the United States and recognized else-
where that the territory subject to its juriadiction includes the
land areas under its dominion and control, the ports, harbors,
bays and other enclosed arms of the sea along its coast and a
margimal belt of the sea ertending from coast line outward a
mrine league, or three geographic miles."
In view of observations mede by me on my trip to Alaska this summer,
I can see no objeetion to the publicatiom in the Pacific Fisherman of in-
formation comcermimg the Japamese salmon fishery situation in the Bristol
Bay region.
In amy sueh artieles it is urged that there be a clear-cut statememt
of faets, mot mrked by vituperation or animosity. It seems to me that

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.91)
-2
Amin statement of facts and of the coneequences to American resources
and investments will present a strong case in bringing to the people of
this country the seriousness of the situation confronting a long-established
Ameriean industry. Not only will this affect those who are ongaged ac-
tually in fishing operations, but it may have serious bearing upon the manu-
fmeturers of sin plate, cans, fiahing gear, and other iteme and comodities
of wide variety whieh are used extensively in the salmon fishery of Bristo!
Bey.
Very truly yours,
Frank T. R
Jommissioner.
/TB-DC
2B

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.98)
(C O P Y)
PACIFICFISHERMAN
71 Columbia Street
August 22, 1956
Seattle Washington U S A
Mr. Frank T. Bell,
U. S. Conmissioner of Fisheries,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Bell:
Referring to the Japanese-Bristol Bay matter, you mentioned a
decision under which the weters within Bristol Bay more than
three miles from the shore line are desineted as extraterr-
torial aters.
We should inforn ourselves of the exact terms of this decision,
and will therefore appreciate it if you wi'l refer us to the
published records cont ining the decision and discussions lead-
ing to it. I suppose copies of these records are available at
the Seattle public li: rary, so that we can look them up if we
have the references.
Cordially yours,
PACIFIC FISHERMAN
(Sgd.) Stedman H. Gray
Editor
S. H. Gray
D

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.96)
7E
omnered
Division of
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
M0V171936
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Department of State
938
No. 2108.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, October 29, 1936.
SUBJECT: FISHERIES.
1
894.628
894.628/1
711.948
teits-file
9
5
TREATY DIVISION
NOV 20 1936
DEPARTMENI OFLAT
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
F-J
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the informal in uiries
made of the Foreign Office by the Embassy last year whether
the Japanese Government vould be prepared to enter into
discussion with the American Government looking toward
1936
the conclusion of a convention reguleting and restricting
Japanese salmon packing in Alaskan waters and especially
to the Embassy's despatch No. 1558/of November 20, 1935,
reporting the refusal of the Japanese Government to enter
into

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
into negotiations on the question.
Evidence that the Japanese Government has not altered
its viewpoint since that time is to be found in a brief
newspaper discussion of the salmon fisheries uestion
which appeared in the CHUGAI SHOGYO SHIPO of October 23,
1936. Referring to the fact that Canedian fisheries
interests showed concern because of the operations of
Japanese ocean-going fishery vessels off the coasts of
British Columbia and Bristol Bay, Alaska, last summer,
the newspaper remarks that Japanese fisheries operations
in those vaters are threatening to develop into a tri-
partite affair between Japan, the United States and
Canada. The following is a summary translation of what
purports to be the combined views of the Foreign Office
and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry:
"What the Canadian fishery industry most fears
is the possibility of Japanese fishermen reducing the
quantity of red salmon in Canadian waters, the great-
est fishery resource in that region.(Whereas Japan
annually produces 500,000 cases of red salmon in the
northern industry as a whole, Canada produces 2,o00,000
cases). It is quite clear that Cenada's concern is
based on this danger.
"The authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry, however, have already adopted the policy of
prohibiting Japanese salmon floating canneries from
operating in Canadian and Alaskan waters. In the case
of last summer's fishery operations off British Co-
lumbia the authorities restricted the operations to
catching crabs only. Even in the future the authori-
ties have no intention of permitting fishery opera-
tions in that region.
"Supposing that the Canadian Government approached
Japan in co-operation with the United States authorities
for conclusion of an international agreement regarding
prohibition or restriction of fishery operations off the
territorial

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
territorial waters of Canada and Alaska, the Japanese
Government should refuse to respond favorably to such
a proposal, considering that there is no reason for the
conclusion of such an agreement".
Respectfully yours,
E.n. Dickover
862.8
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
ESC:r

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.94)
11|18-2:50
11/14-4:25
119-2:45
In reply refer to
Novemper 24 1938
FE 894.628/165
The Asting Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seeretary of Commerce and, with ref-
erence to previous correspondence between their respective
894.628/16
Departments with regard to fishing operations by Japanese
in certain waters of Bering Sea and Bristol Bay, enoloses
a copy of despateh No. 2108, dated October 29, 1936, from
the American Embassy at Tokyo with which there is forwarded
a summary translation of an artiole from the Japanese press
9
5
purporting to set forth combined views of the Japanese
Foreign Office and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
with regard to the question whether there should be con-
eluded an international agreement relating to fishery
operations in the waters above mentioned.
π
G
NOV 24 1936.
Enclosure:
From Rmbassy Tokyo No. 2l08,
1181
October 29, 1936.
Mrilt
11/20/36
FE:JAD/DLY
FE
WE
TD
m.m.d.
2043
11+26-36

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.87)
ENT OF STATE
ON OF FAR EASTERN AXIE
Nov. 25.7936.
Lin extremely mleresting
and mformative paper by
Mr. Stheer ou the subpith.
yfis hing righlo as a source.
interaational dispules
A copy is being gent to
Yoken
SND

=== Page 557 === (confidence 0.96)
U1V181
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
14
DIVISIONOF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 3 1936
936 Summarybyofz Eisheries Disputed
The question afyfishery rights has been a particu-
FE
COMMUNILATIONS
larly fertileNtause:of international disputes since the
beginning of the fifteenth century when, in l410, the
against Netherlands fishermen. The conflicts and re-
prisals which took place, particularly under the reign
894.6
of James V, and which resulted from the refusal of the
Scots to permit fishing by foreigners along the coasts
TREATY DIVISION
2
of Scotlend were suspended by a treaty negotiated in
8
After EC 30 1936
1541 between the Netherlands and Scotland.
6
9
vened a second treaty wes negotiated in 155o between
the same two States with a view to settling the contro-
versy.(1)
From the same period dates the origin of fishery
disputes between England and Norway and Denmark, as to
the right to trade and fish at Iceland and along the
Norwegian coasts. In spite of a treaty concluded in
1490 between Henry VII and King John II of Denmark and
Norway and renewed in 1523, granting to English sub-
jects the right, subject to obteining licenses from
Danish
(1)
Fulton, T. W., The Sovereignty of the Sea, London
Edinburgh, 1911, pp. 77-80.
F

=== Page 558 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Danish authorities, to sail to Iceland for fishing,
disputes frequently arose and during the last decade of
the sixteenth century the Danes began to interrupt the
English in their fishing off the coasts of Iceland and
to seize their vessels. These acts called forth strong
(1)
protests from Queen Elizabeth.
Particularly acrimonious was the century-long
dispute between England and the Netherlands over the
herring fisheries along the British coasts. This
dispute dated from the Proclamation of James I, of
May 6, 1609, prohibiting fishing by foreigners along
the British coasts except by yearly license from British
authorities. This proclamation, notwithstanding its
general terms, was, in fact, directed against the Nether-
lands fishermen, who, towards the end of the sixteenth
century had begun to designate the herring fishery on
(2)
the British coasts as their "great gold mine".
The
bitterness of the conflict may, in no small measure,
be attributed to the fact that the belief was prevalent
in England that this herring fishery along the British
coasts was the primary source of the "commerce, wealth
and naval power"(3)
of the Netherlands. Fulton, in his
excellent
(1)
Ibid., 108-110.
(2)
Ibid., 62.
(3)
Ibid., 428, 441.

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
excellent book "The Sovereignty of the Seas", declares
that "the Dutch in the reign of James, and again in the
reign of Charles, were prepared to go to war with Eng-
The capture by the Netherlands authorities in 16l? of
one Brown sent by the Duke of Lennox, on the orders of
King James I, to levy the assize-herrings from foreigners
fishing along British coasts led almost to a rupture be-
tween the two countries. It will be recalled that the
position of James I on this question of the fisheries
was criticized by Grotius in his Mare Liberum appear-
ing in the same year as the above proclamation.
This proclamation was followed on May 10, 1635 by
that of Charles I, referring to and approving of the
position adopted by his predecessor. A fleet was sub-
sequently dispatched by Charles I to enforce the pro-
visions of this latest proclamation.
The question of the fisheries played an important
part in the negotiations preceding the outbreak of the
First Dutch War and during the ensuing peace negotia-
tions.
After the Restoration, the fishery question was
again the object of protracted negotiations preceding
the
(1)
Ib1d., 420.

=== Page 560 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
the Second Dutch War and following the Third Dutch
War which negotiations terminated with the abandon-
ment by England of the claim to tribute for the
liberty to fish along British coasts.
This long dispute between England and the Nether-
lands over the herring fisheries off the British coests
was accompanied by a dispute between the same two
States regarding whaling rights along the coasts of
Spitzbergen. In 1613, the Muscovy Company, chartered
by James I, sent to Spitzbergen a fleet of seven armed
vessels to defend such rights as were granted by
charter and to catch whales. These vessels proceeded
to despoil two Netherlands vessels of their catches and
fishing gear. In the following year, eighteen Dutch
whalers sailed for the Arctic under the convoy of
three States' men-of-war. However, attacks by the Eng-
l1sh upon Netherlands whaling vessels were resumed in
1617 and reprisals were taken in the next year by the
Netherlands.
A protracted dispute between the Netherlands and
Denmark concerning fishing and wheling rights off the
coasts of Greenland, Iceland, Norway and Spitzbergen
troubled the relations between these two States in the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Danish decrees
of

=== Page 561 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
of 1616, 1636 and 1639 prohibited foreigners from fish-
ing at Faro, Iceland and on the coast of Norway, and
in 169l. a decree prohibited to all but Danish sub-
jeots, whaling off the coasts of Greenland. The attempts
by Denmark during the seventeenth century to enforoe
(1)
these decrees were sporadio
but during the years
1738-1740 this State displayed considerable energy in
their enforcement. Reprisals and diplomatic controversies
were followed by the dispatch of a Danish squadron to
the north to defend Danish claims, and the Netherlands
provided an armed convoy for its whalers and cod-smacks.
By the mediation of Sweden and of the British and French
(2)
ministers at Copenhagen, hostilities were averted.
It is to be noted that in the various disputes to
which reference has been made, the claims as to the
extent of territorial waters reserved exclusively to
fishermen, nationals of the riparian State,we not
based upon any common or precise criterion. por this
reason, the phrases fishing "along" or "off" th" coasts
have been used in this disoussion.
In
(1) 1615.1639.1698.
(2)
In 1763 the controversy was renewed by the seizure,
by a fishing concession-holder off the coasts of
Greenland, of four Netherlands schooners. Fauchille,
Traite de Droit International, I, pt. II, p.48.

=== Page 562 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
In their disputes with Netherlands fishermen,
the Scots claimed as waters reserved for themselves
those extending up to a "land-kenning" from the
coasts, i.e., a distance of fourteen to twenty-eight
(1)
miles.
Denmark, in its disputes with England, claimed
generally sovereignty over the Sound Belts, the Baltic
(2)
and the seas between Norway, Iceland and Greenland.
In its disputes with the Netherlands, Denmark asserted
varying claims as to the extent of its territorial
waters reserved to nationals of that State. In 1636,
a zone of sixteen to twenty-four geographical miles
was declared by the Norwegian Government to be re-
served to its nationals. In 1692, whaling was pro-
hibited, by edict of Denmark, within forty geographical
miles of the coasts. In 1733, Denmark reserved by
decree in favor of her subjects a zone extending four
(3)
leagues off the coasts.
Finally, in the disputes between England and the
Netherlands, the British claims to exclusive rights of
fishing off the British coasts were of the vaguest
character. In l6l6, the British Government asserted that
it
(1)
Fulton, op. cit., 77, 79, 84.
(2)
ibid., 108.
(3)
ibid., 530.

=== Page 563 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
it had the right by treaty to levy assize - herrings
in a zone extending up to one-hundred miles off the
coasts. The vague character of the British claims
transformed the question into a discussion of the issue
Mare Clausum v Mare Liberum which took place between
England and the Netherlands at this time, the British
Government availing itself of the arguments advanced in
(1)
Selden's well-known treatise "Mare Clausum".'It was in
the course of this long discussion that Netherlands
plenipotentiaries advanced for the first time the
criterion of the cannon-shot for the determination of the
(2)
width of territorial waters.
The question of the North Atlantic fisheries led
to protracted disputes between Great Britain and France
(3)
and Great Britain and the United States.
The dispute
between Great Britain and France takes its origin in the
provisions of the Treaty of Utrecht of April 11, 1713,
confirmed by the treaties of Paris (February 10, 1763),
Versailles (April 3, 1783), Paris (May 30, 1814), and
Paris (November 30, 1815), and was settled only by the
agreement of April 8, 1904.
The
(1)
ibid. 504.
(a)
Ibid. 156.
(3)
Jessup. The Law of Territorial Waters and Maritime
Jurisdiction, declares, "The question of the right
of American fishermen to fish off the shores of
British possessions in North America, troubled the
diplomacy of the United States and Great Britain
for over a century." p.364.

=== Page 564 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
The dispute between Great Britain and the United
States originated in the provisions of the Treaty of
Versailles (April 3, 1783). On October 20, 1818, a conven-
tion was concluded on the fishing rights of American and
British (including Canadian) subjects on the Atlantic
coasts of North America. Article one of this convention
accorded rights to inhabitants of the United States to
fish along certain parts of the coasts of Newfoundland
and Labrador, and to dry and cure fish on the unsettled
parts of the southern coast of Newfoundland and of the
coast of Labrador above mentioned. Furthermore, the
United States renounced the right to "take, dry, or cure
fish on, or within three marine miles" of the coasts of
British dominions in North America not included among
those above mentioned. This article was at issue in the
North Atlantic Fisheries award of l9lo delivered by the
Hague Arbitral Tribunal.
The numerous difficulties occasioned by the enforce-
ment of this convention(1) and of the Hovering Act of
Nova Scotia of 1836(2) resulting in numerous seizures of
Reciprocity
(1)
MOOre, INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATIONS I, 487.
(2)
ibid. 710
(3)
Ibid. 711

=== Page 565 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
Reciprocity Treaty of June 5, 1854, according recip-
rocal rights to American and British fishermen as
regards sea fisheries but reserving "salmon and shad
fisheries, and all fisheries in rivers and mouths of
rivers"(1)
to nationals of the respective States.
The treaty also provided for the determination of the
places so reserved. The arbitral award was delivered
on April 8, 1858(2).
However, after the termination of this treaty in
l866, new disputes arose which led to the negotiation
of certain articles of the treaty of Washington of
l87l which accorded certain privileges to British and
American fishermen, and provided in its Article XXII
for determination by arbitration of the amount of
compensation, if any, which should be paid by the
Government of the United States to the British
Government
(1)
Articles I and II, Malloy I, pp. 669, 670.
(2)
Moore, op. cit., 431, 449.

=== Page 566 === (confidence 0.99)
-10
Government. The award, in 1877, of $5,500,000 in
favor of the latter government was paid under protest
by the United States and led, in 1885, to the termi-
nation of the articles of the Treaty of Washington
of 1871 relating to fisheries.
In 183l, a particularly bitter dispute arose between
the United States and the Republic of Buenos Aires by
reason of the capture, by authority of the latter Repub-
lic, of American vessels in the Falkland Islands on the
pretext of violation of certain laws of the latter Re-
(1)
public for the protection of the fisheries.
The
United States held such seizures to be a violation of
the acquired right of American fishermen to use these
islands for shelter and for purposes incident to the
exercise of fishing rights. An American war-vessel was
despatched to the Falkland Islands for the protection
of American commerce. On February 14, 1832, the Minister
of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Buenos Aires in-
formed the American Consul at Buenos Aires of the deci-
sion to suspend official intercourse with him; and on the
same day the Government of the said Republic issued a
proclamation to the effect that the commander of the
American
(1) Moore, Digest I, pp. 876, et seq.

=== Page 567 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
(1)
American warship had invaded the islands, et cetera.
Mr. Baylies, the American Chargé d'Affaires, finally
demanded his passports, which he obtained after much
(2)
insistenoe on September 3, 1832.
In 1837, a mixed Anglo-French commission was
instituted to settle complaints concerning the conduct
of British and French fishermen off the coasts of
Great Britain and France. A convention regulating
the various controversies was concluded in l839. Similar
difficulties between Great Britain and Belgium led to
a convention concluded between these two States in
1852.
Numerous difficulties occasioned by the close
proximity of British, Belgian, French and Netherlands
fishing vessels in the North Sea led finally to the
North Sea Fishery Convention concluded in 1882 between
Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Great Britain and
(3)
the Netherlands.
The claims advanced by Russia with regard to
fishing rights off the coasts of that State have led
to numerous controversies with other States and particu-
larly with the United States and with Great Britain.
In 1821 a ukase issued by the Tsar of Russia declar-
ing the Bering Sea closed to foreign fishermen provoked
protests
Ibid., pp.886-887.
20 Br. and For. State Papers, p.440.
This Convention is entitled, International Convention
for the Purpose of Regulating the Police of the Fish-
eries in the North Sea outside Territorial Waters.

=== Page 568 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
protests on the part of the United States and Great
Britain and led to the negotiation of the conventions of
April 17, 1824, and of February 28, 1825, between Russia
and these two States respectively.
In 1891-1892, Russian cruisers captured American
whaling vessels in the Bering Sea outside territorial
waters. This incident was submitted to the arbitration
of Judge Asser who awarded damages to the owners of the
(1)
seized vessels.
A Russian law of l9l0 prohibiting fishing by for-
eigners in the White Sea at a distance less than twelve
miles from the coasts drew forth protests from a number
of States.(2)
A Russian law of May 29, 19ll, extending "Russian
jurisdiction over all open-sea fisheries on the Pacific
coasts within twelve miles of the lands of the Russian
Repeated protests were made
by the British Government against the seizure, by Soviet
authorities, of British vessels on the grounds of having
violated
(1) Fauchille, op.cit., I, pt.II, p.49.
(2)
Ibid.
(3)
See despatch No. 173, Ambassador Guild (St. Peters-
burg) to Secretary of State, February 3, 19l2, For.
Rel. 1912, 1304.
(4)
Ib1d. 1304-05; see also despatches No. 231 of April 13,
1912, 1bid. 1306-07; No. 257 of May 15, 1912, from
Chargé Wilson to Secretary of State, ibid. 1307;
No. 367, September 10, 1912, 1bid. 1308-09.

=== Page 569 === (confidence 0.99)
violated a Soviet decree of l92l establishing a twelve-
(1)
mile limit for territorial waters.
Finally, the
capture by a Russian gunboat on May 7, 1923, of a
British trawler, the LORD ASTCR, while fishing ten
miles off Teriberski on the Murman coast(2) led to the
despatch of the H.M.S. HAREBELL in order to prevent
further interference with British vessels outside the
three-mile limit and led also to the inclusion of the
fishery question in a formal note delivered to the
Russian authorities on May 7, 1923, demanding satisfac-
tion on this and other points of dispute with the Soviet
Government.(3) In its reply, delivered to the British
Foreign Cffice on May 23, 1923, the Soviet Government
agreed to pay compensation for seizures of British
There remains, finally, to be mentioned a dispute
which had its origin in the Imperial Russian claims to
jurisdiction in the Bering Sea. This dispute concerned
the
(1)
163 Par1. Deb. (1923), Co1. 960-962.
(2)
Ibid. Co1. 2576.
(3)
NEW YORK TIMES, May 3, p. 6. According to a des-
patch of May 8 from London appearing in the NEW
YORK TIMES of May 9, a delay of ten days only was
allowed by the British Government for a reply from
the Soviet Government, lacking which, the British
Government would consider itself free from the obli-
gations of its trade agreement with the Soviet Union
of March 16, 1921.
(4)
NEW YCRK TIMES, May 24, p. 4.

=== Page 570 === (confidence 0.98)
-1
the right to protect fur-bearing seals on the high seas.
The dispute with the British Government over the
(1)
enforcement of American legislation
for the protec-
tion of fur-seals in the Bering Sea arose out of the
seizure by American authorities of British vessels and
their condemnation in the United States Court at Sitka
for violation of such legislation. Such seizures took
place in 1886, 1887, and 1839. The controversy growing
out of these seizures and condemnations and involving
the question as to the right of the United States to the pro-
tection of and property in fur-bearing seals of the
islands of the Bering Sea, was, by the Convention of
February 29, 1892, submitted to arbitraton. The regula-
tions established by the arbitral tribunal in its award
of August 15, 1893, and by the subsequent convention of
July 7, 19ll, concluded between the United States, Great
Britain, Russia and Japan for the preservation and pro-
tection of fur-seals, were effective in terminating
this dispute.(2)
*
*
*
In conclusion,it becomes evident from an examina-
tion of the history of fisheries questions that in this
f1ela
(1)
See Revised Statutes, Sec. 1956 et. seg., and the
1aw of March 2, 1889; Sec. 3, 25 Stat. L. 1009.
(2)
See Moore's Digest, I, pp. 890 et seg.

=== Page 571 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
field conflicting international claims tend to assume
very readily the character of disputes of a nature to
trouble the good relations between the interested
Statea The riparian States feel often obliged, for
the preservation of their local industries, to assert
jurisdiction over coastal waters to an extent deemed
by other States to be incompatible with their own exist-
ing rights and with the freedom of the high seas in the
matter of fisheries.
That, however, these questions are readily susceptible
of solution on the hasis of bilateral and multllateral
agreements and of arbitration is proved by the bilateral
conventions between Great Britain and France (1839) and
Great Britain and Belgium (1852), by the multilateral
convention of 1882 regulating fishing in the North Sea,
by the North Atlantic Fisheries Arbitration of 19lo, and
by the arbitral award accompanied by the bilateral (1893)
and multilateral (l9ll) regulations with respect to
the protection of fur-seals in the Bering Sea.
Jf
JHS:VCI

=== Page 572 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.628/
SEE
711.128/112
FOR Memo
Stato Department
FROM Mexican Division
Burshby
...) DATED 
D90.11,1936
TO
NAME
-1127
GPO
167
REGARDINGProposed investigation of Japanese fishing activities in Mexican
waters:
Consultation with R.H.Fiedler of Bureau of Fisheries regarding -.
The investigation, prompted by California fishing interests
(copy of resolution attaohed), was discouraged because of dis-
trust with whioh it might be regarded by Mexico and Japane
jah
167

=== Page 573 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE.....71l.008.North.Paaific.50
FOR
Despatch #2328
FROM .....Japan
(raw)DATEDarc22,1937
894.628
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Japanese salmon fishing in American an: Canadian waters.
C lipping from th JAPAN ADVERTISER of March 21st, con aining
translation of pampllet is ued by tho Kaiyo Gyogyo Shinko
aiyo (The Opon Seas Fisheries evelopment Association),
The statomen of the a ssociation defends tho Japaneso point
9
of viow with regard to -.
8
fp

=== Page 574 === (confidence 0.95)
894.628
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.628
SEE
845.00/937
FOR22
FROM ....Caloutta
(....ane
) DATED Mar..23,.1937
TO
NAME
1-117
69
REGARDING:
Announcement that 40 Japanese trawlers have ini tiated
an experiment in providing Calcutta with fish. Other
vessels of the fleet serve angoon, Sin apore and
other Lar Eastern Ports.
mb
61

=== Page 575 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MSM
May 20, 1937.
JCV
Reference Hong Kong's No. 509,
April 2, 1937, entitled "Japanese Activi-
ties in the Fishing Industry of South
China and the Philippines".
The fishing inductry of Hong Kong
and surrounding South China wa ters is
largely in the hends of Jepanese na tion-
als by virtue of their uu-to-aate couip-
ment and general efficiency.
Jepenese fi chermen who use Honr Kong
as a base ucuclly work wi thin a radius
of Boo miles, especially in the jirection
of French Indo-China.
The Chinese fishing in erests in
Hong Kong have formed e plla to levis vays
and m ans of meetins Jrponese conort:tion.
During 1939, 35 Janancce boate suly
licensed were engared in flshinr in Philip-
pine waters.
142
FE:HES: VCI

=== Page 576 === (confidence 0.95)
E
MAY 861937
H
No. 509
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
894.628
Hong Kong, April 2, 1937.
SuBJEcT: Japanese Activities in the Fishing Industry
of South China and the Philippines.
AR LASTLR ALTAIRS
R. Pol
A
THE HONORABLE
Röheries out
THESECRETARY OF STATE
3mnc
WASHINGTON.COPS SENT TO
O.N.L NEED.
SIR:
I have the honor to enclose herewith for the
Department's information a copy of a memorandum prepared
CO
94.6
for this office by the Chief of the Fish and Game
Administration of the Philippine Islands on the ac-
2
tivities of Japanese nationals in the fishing industry
n that area.
7
O
It is interesting to note that the fishing industry
of Hong Kong and the surrounding South China area is
Wargely in the hands of Japanese nationals by virtue of
their up-to-date equipment and general efficiency.
The leading Japanese fishing company in Hong Kong
is the Horai Gyo Gyo (The Horai Fishing Company). The
head office of this company is at Keelung, Taiwan, and
it has a branch at Takao in southern Taiwan.
The company has been fishing off the China coast
since about 1915 but the Hong Kong office was not opened
until 1930. In 1935 the Hong Kong branch increased in
size. It now has an office staff of 18, mostly of the
Japanese race. It has one office on a main business
street of Hong Kong and a purchasing department near
F/FG
Causeway Bay
1.

=== Page 577 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Causeway Bay where its trawlers, like some Chinese
vessels, seek shelter inside the breakwater.
Usually about 12 to 16 trawlers of this company
make Hong Kong their base.
At one time most of the
trawlers were operated by steam but in recent years the
company has been inclined to favor trawlers with Diesel
engines for its fleet.
The original cost of most of the
trawlers is said to have been about Y350,000.
The trawlers
have cold storage plants on board with an average capacity
of 40 tons each. They also have radios so that they can
communicate with one another.
Occasionally some of the trawlers of the company are
detached from the Hong Kong base and sent to greater dis-
tances. During the first part of 1935 one of the trawlers
which had been operating in South China waters and which
had been transshipping its catch every two months at
Hong Kong went thousands of miles away and started fish-
ing in the waters off western Australia. This trawler
now transships its catch to Japanese vessels at Singapore
instead of Hong Kong.
. On one trip back to Singapore
recently it brought more than 2,000 cases of frozen sea
bream and red porgy with a reported weight of 83 tons.
The trawlers which still use Hong Kong as their
base usually work within a radius of 800 miles especially
in the direction of French Indo-China. The average
cruise lasts two weeks but they may stay away from Hong
Kong for periods varying from one week to six weeks or
more.
The trawlers sometimes carry a crew of as many as
25 men for fishing and preparing the fish.
During the past three months, however, there have
been

=== Page 578 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
been indications that local Chinese fishermen are
awakening to the danger of their position. On
December 14, 1936, a Guild of Fishermen and Fish
Dealers was formed for the first time in Hong Kong.
The SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST of December 15, 1936,
commented as follows on the formation of the Guild:
"This Guild is the reply of the
local dealers, whose position, in common
with other dealers in South China ports,
has been seriously challenged by competition
from Japanese interests.
In its wider aspect, the Guild is
intended to include in due course, fishing
operations carried out from Macao, Swatow,
Pakhoi, Haihow, Kwangchowwan, and other
South China centres which now import more
Japanese than Chinese marine products."
In the discussion which attended the formation
of the Guild it was pointed out that local fishermen
retain only about 30 per cent of the Hong Kong fishing
trade and it was admitted that the business had been
lost to Japanese interests due to lack of up-to-date
equipment. How to remedy this defect is a difficult
question in view of the clumsy and obsolete procedure
of Chinese junks as compared with the speedy steam
driven Japanese trawlers.
According to the SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST of the
same date a large number of the 70,000 inhabitants of
Hong Kong formerly engaged in the fishing industry have
been thrown out of employment while the circumstances
of whose who remain have been greatly reduced.
On Jenuary 14, 1936, the SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST
reported that large numbers of fishermen in the Swatow
and Chaochow area had been thrown out of employment as
a reault of Japanese penetration in the fishing industry
of that area. Commenting on the subject, the POST
said:

=== Page 579 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
said:
"The situation at Nannao, an island off
the Kwangtung coast, which is one of the most
prosperous fishing grounds in the area, is said
to be the worst, where most of the able-bodied
men, driven by poverty and starvation, have
fled from the place. Previously the total
population there was about 50,000 of whom about
70 per cent. were fishermen and 20 per cent.
farmers. After the exodus of the unemployed
fishermen, there are now only about 34,000 left."
It was reported in the local press of February 20th
that the local Fishermen and Fish dealers Guild had
presented a petition to the authorities in Nanking
requesting a subsidy of Mex$200,000 per annum and on
March 2, 1937, the local press stated that such a sub-
sidy had been granted.
The Secretary of the Guild informed the Consulate
General that such a petition had been presented but
that reports of the granting of a subsidy were in his
opinion premature.
Respectfully yours,
Howard Donovan,
American Consul.
Enclosure:
Memorandum, as stated.
862.8
HD:em
Distribution:
In quintuplicate to the Department.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 580 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure to despatch No. 509 dated April &, 1937
from Howard Donovan, American Consul at Hong Kong, on
subjoct of "Japanese Activities in the Fishing Industry of
South China and the Philippines."
COPY
March 15, 1937.
MEMORANDUM regarding the activities of the
Japanese National Fishermen in the
Fishing Industry in the Philippines.
Under the provisions of Act No. 4003, the Fisheries
Act, which took effect on December 5, l932, only aliens
who were already operating fishing boats of more than
three tons gross and alien fishermen already engaged in
fishing business prior to the enactment of the said Act,
may be duly licensed to fish within the territorial waters
of the Philippines.
During the year 1936, 35 Japanese boats duly licensed
were engaged in the fishing business in the territorial
waters of the Philippines. During the same year, 21
fishing boats were registered in the names of corporations,
39% of the capital of which or perhaps more is Japanese.
It is suspected, in addition, that of the l28 commercial
fishing boats registered under Filipino names in the Bureau
of Customs, about 18 may be owned and operated by Japanese
nationals.
In the year 1936, 614 Japanese nationals have fishermen
licenses to work in boats of more than three tons gross.
This number is a little less than the number in 1933 (701).
No fishermen's licenses have been issued to Japane se nationals
in 1934, 1935 and 1936, except those as renewals of the 1933
licenses
Japanese fishing boats and fishermen using the beam
trawl operate mostly in Manila Bay, Lingayan and Ragay Gulfs
and market their catch in the Manila and Baguio markets in
the ieed state. A number of boats employ the muro-ami
syatem of fishing and fish around the islands north of
Palawan. These return to Manila every 10 days and deposit
their catoh in the Royal Ice Plant. ▲ few operate in
various parts of the Visayas using Iloilo and Cebu as bases.
Most or the Japanese fishermen now in the Philippines
are from the Okinawa-ken district of Japan.
HILARIO A. ROXAS, Chief,

=== Page 581 === (confidence 0.93)
295
tHH
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
DIVISION OF
Yokohama, Japan, April 6,
1937
AY12 1937
LATINAMERICAN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.625
note
PA A.
Com
IONS
COPIES SENT TO
ANDOORDS
De partment of Soste
O.N.I. AND.D.
719.94
SUBJECT:
JAPANESE ATTEMPTS TO XTEND FISHING
—1086 GPO
ACTIVITIES TO PANAMA.
CN1
THE HONORABLE
MID
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
Legation-Panaa.
A
WASHINGTON.
894.628/1
SIR:
I have the honor to report that Mr. Julio pri-
cenio, Panamanian Consul at Yokohama, reports that
47
during the last few months Japanese interests, with
71
agents in San Pedro, California,and in Panama, have
been trying to arrange for lim to license one or more
7b
newly buil Japanese fisning boats under Panamanian
registry to engage in fisning off tne Pacific coast
of Panama. It is unuerstood that one boat, called
the AMANo is completed, and a Mr. Kristan Olbertson
M
has arrived in Japan to take the boat from Shimuzu,
29112
Japan, to Panama via San Pedro, California. The own-
er is believed to be engaged in the fishing inuustry
at San Pedro. The boat is to be equipped with wire-
less apparatus. No other details regarding the boat
are available as yet. Mr. i. Shiraishi has repre-
sented the Japanese company in conversations with
the
F/FG
1

=== Page 582 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
the Panamanian consul.
Thus far mr. Bricenio has hesitated to fur-
ther the efforts to register tue boats under Pana-
manian registry as he doubts the wisdom of per-
mitting the Japanese to operate in nis country's
fishing grounds and thus to jeopardize the inter-
ests of Panamanian fishing companies.
Very respectfully yours,
RoTnce
Richard F. boyce,
erican Consul.
862.8/780/850
RFb/glj

=== Page 583 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE 711.008 North Pacific/75
FORDespatchh 2379
00
FROM
Japan
(Grew
) DATED....Apri1 22.1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
GPO
Japanese Assrola tion for the Dovelopment cf Coeanic
REGARDING:
Fisheries.
Copy of the articles of association of the,.
7
List of menbers of the Doard of Directors. Te President of
the association is Mr. Tokujiro Koshida, grad ate of the
Fisheries Institute of the Department of Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry.
fr
2

=== Page 584 === (confidence 0.86)
Enelesure Ne. 1
Gospatob
Frem the Ambasny et Tekyo.
Artlelee of the Xaiyo Gyogyo chinko Fyokei
(Asscsiasion for the Jevelepment of Cecanie
risheries).
Chapter I.
Generel rules.
Arsiele 1. The objeet of tnis aseoelatlon is the
development end eneouregoment of deef ses fienin: within
and wishout Japanese serritorial waters.
arsiele 2. The nane of tls assoele: lon Is the aiyo
Gyosge hiake Xyoka! (Ass cietion for the evelepment of
Ceoanle risheries).
*reiele S. The eetivition of thle secceiation ehall
be tae followins:
(1) To furmulate and rin Into exooution polloles
for doer moe fishing wit In mnd without Jayen-
ese torritorim: waters, end to uide punlle
opinion wita e nrd thereto.
(2) To plan end exoeute other enterprises in as-
sordanee witn tüe objeat ur this es oolation.
arslole 4. The office of this asmoelation fünll be im
Tokye, amd traneh ofriees may  e opened in other plaees.
Chepter II.
semberahip.
Arstele s. fmere shall be stree prades of membershlp

=== Page 585 === (confidence 0.89)
In the essceiasiom es followes
(1) Creinary membere.
(s) Speelal members (juridieal persons, corporatiees,
end other publie bodies bevins an jateremt in
She obgeet of the assvelationi.
(3)
lenores memeere (havinr unueuel knwledge of
finberies cr avs , resdered cutstandinr sorviee
in tnis fieldj.
Areiele s. The dues of ordinar mem ers sall e taree
yon per nnm. The dues of speelal mom err shall e not loss
than thirty yon per ennum. There sheli be no dues for honorary
members.
Arsiele 7. Juriaical persons, surporstions, and otner
publle sodies parsleipeting in the aem ershlp of the mesoeia-
siom srall e peint one representative enek and stall motify
Sne essoeintion of suen e point ont. he, pueh represontative
is ebenged the assooitlon sball "e no ntified.
Juricieal pe rons and corpurations shall a point respeetive
represontetives from e one offieere or mom ore; other publie
bodies "ein: mom ers shall appoint as reprosent-tives pereoms
wh ere ofrieere or are aetively enga ed l the manegement of
such hedies.
Arsiele s. Thuse desiring to become crdinary or speeial
members nhell apply to the mssceiation stating mame end sddress
and emelesims mmberahlp fee. on rery mem ers ahe!l he reeem
memesd by tue direeters of she assosistion.
Assiele 9. Memberakip is she essceiation sall be lest
by reesse of the followings
(2)

=== Page 586 === (confidence 0.87)
● s ●
and other publse bedies.
(8) #ishdromal from the assceiation.
(4) Mupulsion.
Arsiele 10. Any member desiring to withdraw from membes-
shãp shall notify the assesiation in advanee.
Artiele 1ll. empers sbell be expelied for diaregare of
the purpose of the a oeoietion, t e artiules, other rulee,
of resolutiome adopted by reners? meetings.
shapter TII.
Sreotere end rere of the ounoll.
artiele 1?. The asnoeletion ehall cav" the rollowing
offieers:
Not less than etgnteen direstors.
t ltht
rlele l3. The ooixtlon unl ave ot lee then
fifty mombers of ccunell. embers of the counell snall investi-
sate questione at the request of te ebairman of the direetore.
and shell eive expresslon to thelr viewn wit regard to im-
porsans metivities uf the msmccimtion.
rtlcle l4. ireetore and mom ere of tns emneil srell
be seleeted et sonern) meesinge frem the assoelntion's momter-
anip.
Arsicle It. The direetorr shell seleet one aheirmen and
ene manegins direstor.
The emmirman of she direetore stall wupervise all the
affairs of the eseceiatiem end shall convene and preslde ever

=== Page 587 === (confidence 0.91)
gemerel meesimgs, direesers' meetines, and meetings of
she coumsil.
The mamagime direeter shell have the same dutles in
the abeonee of the ehairman.
Artiele le. The term of offiee of directore and som-
bors of she oounell shall ne three yesre, and the: ahall
be ellgible to re-eleetion.
If a veeaney eeour on tne ceard of direetore or on
she eouneil e special eleetion shal e held at a ceneral
mooting.
Direetors and memrere or the counell who have assumed
offlee shrough suen speelsl electton shall fill out the
remminder of the terns of their predecessora.
Direetors end mom err of the eouneil nhull, rogerdless
of expiretion of their terms of crfice, dirennrge tueir duties
until Sheir sueeessore take cver sue duties.
Artlele 19. The assosiation mmy select mdvisers.
«dvimere shell ne nominated by th" chairman of the direetors
In seeordance with resoluti ns pessed by the direetors.
Artiele l8. The ansoelmtion ahe! have eom ittees.
dommittoee shall te appointed by the abairman of the
direesors in secordnnee with resolutions pessed by the direetors.
rticle 19. The assoeiation shell have the followind
empleyees, suhjeet to arpointment end dimmissal Dy the ehair-
men of the direstors:
Chief elerk.
severel elerks.
