894.61 Japan, Agriculture., February 9, 1945 - December 23, 1949 (File 1822)
ID: 894.61-1822   Pages: 341   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.61-japan-agriculture-february
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
No.:
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
RESTRICTED
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Vladivostok, U.8.S.R.,
February 9, 1945.
5aga
hm
SUBJFCT: Roquest of Dopartment of Agrioulture for
4/21
Gurrent Information on Agrioultural
Iroduction and the Food Situation in
Jaran and Jajanese-Ogeupied Areas.
19
AP:
945
11
To. the Honorable
The Socretary of State,
Washington.
894.61/
The Consul Genoral has the honor to aoknowlodge
receipt of the Department's un-numbered instruction of
December 22 transmitting a cory of a letter dated De
cember 19, 1944 received by the Division of Communioations
and Records from the Director of the Dejartment of Agri-
2-945
oulture requesting current information on agrioultural
production and the food situation in Japan and Japanese-
ooupied areas, and to report in the first instanoo that
investigation has thus far failed to disoover in Vladi-
vostok sources of current information regarding economic
conditions in the areas in question.
The Consulate General will of course continue on
the alert for any olportunities whioh may present the-
selves to obtain information of the character desired, an
and will not fail to forward promitly any material which
may be thus obtained.
FC
CS/MAJ
861.
FC:1 m
Original (ozalid) to the Department.
Copy to Embassy, Moscow.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
157
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR 16 A945
MAR 6 1945
DIRECTOR
PEPARTMENT OF STARE
Department of State
SUBJECT: Report on Fare Operations in
PM 12 49
Prefecture,
For Distribution-Check
Grade
To f11
For
Iu U.S.A.
10
The Ambassador has the honor to enclose five
MAR 9 1945
pies or a report dated January 26, 19e5 on farm
operations in Gumma Prefecture, Japan, premered by
De. A. B. Lewis, agricultural expert attaehed to
FEA, New Delhi, on the basis of information obtained
from a Japanese war prisoner. The enelosed coples,
made available to the Embassy by FEA, Chumgking. are
894.61/
transmi tted to the Department on the assumption the
report was not forwarded by the American Mission at
New Delhi.
Dr. Lewis' report contains an index of subjeots
covered and an adequate summary. It is believed the
Department will find this report, whieh appears to
have been carefully prepared and which contains
information not otherwise readily available, of value
and interest.
My
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL POLICY
MAR 1 2 1945
Nev
DEPARTME OF STATE
at.
Dist.
241945
E
LED
SS
anclosure:
Five copies of Enemy Intelligence Service
Orfice Memo No. 219, January 26, 1945,
from JICA/CIB, New Delhi.
Ozalid original to the Department.
850-JAP
CHB/cow

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
Orriee Meme Ne. 212
EUBJECTEL
JAPAN
INTRODUCTION
LAND HOLDINGS
METHOD OF COLLECTING RENT
FARM OPERATIONS
Livestock Crops Raised
Number of persons in the family, Daily rice ratien.
Wheat and barley supply for the family.
Seed requirenents.
Sale of grain to the Government.
Family grain carry-over
Rice quotas for 1944.
JAPANESE AGRICULTURAL ORGANIZATIONS. RECENT CHANGES.
NO KAI
SANGYO KUMIAI
KANGYO GINKO (Hypothec: Bank of Japan)
NOGYO KAI
JAPANESE GROP ACREAGE CONTROL
KATIONING OF FERTILIZER
Fertilizer purchase periods
No fertilizer for minor staple crops
Ammonium sulphate
Calciup superphosphate
Potassium chloride or potassium sulphate
Calcium cyanamide
Mixed fortilizer
Other fertilizers
Distribution of fertilizer
Effect of fertilizer ration on crop yields
FARN TAXATION
COLLECTION AND STORAGE OF RICE BY THE GOVERNMENT
MIGRATORY LABOR UNIT
AIRCRAFT FACTORIES
UTSUNOMIYA
SUMMARY:
This report contains a description of farm operations on a farm in Guaa-
in 1943 and early 1944. New information includes the statement that farm peoplo,
except children under 7 and persons 60 years of age or older, were considered as
laborers when celculating the rice rations to be retained on the farm, above that
sold to the Government. In addition to the market-quality riee which the farmors
were allowed to keep, they also kept the cull rice for their own use. Whem the
1943 crop was harvested, the family hed left only a small amount of rice and
wheat in their private storage, but the Government storehouses located on their
farm were still about one-third full of rice. Rice was kept for a period of
months in the better storehouses such as theirs, and drawn out of the poorer
storehouses for distribution after a comparatively short time. Fertilizer
CONFIDENTIAL
From JICA/CIB Now Delki
Repert No. R-125-D-45
26 Januaxy 1945

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
sold during the period April to August for rice, and during the peri
to Maroh for wheat and barley, and it was not supposed to be put on an
less than it wms before the war with fertilizer unrestricted. In April
amalgamated to form the NOGYo KAI. This was intended to tighten the adai
tion of agricultural affairs by the Government.
This report does not agree in all respects with Office Memo No. 2l6, JIc
No. R-12l-D-45, and the two should be read together. It is possiblo that
fertilizer rations and other features of agricultural management differ as
between different areas in Japan.
INTRODUCTION
The following report is based on interviews of M-92l, of Japanese national-
ity. He is the son of a Landlord-Farmer vho lived in O_NO-OAZA, HOSEN-MURA,
NITTA-GUN, GULDA-KEN. This is west of the town of OTA. M-921 was first indueted
July 26, 1943. After spend ing about 3 months in regular military training at
UTSUNOnIYA, he wes discharged October 23, 1943. He was recalled to military
service June 5, 1944. The family to which M-921 belonged apparently oceupied a
leading position in the community, and he wambetter informed than most farmers
would be concerning the cooperative and governmental organizations to which
Japanese fermers. belong. However, since he was not the head of the family, there
were some matters, such as taxes, on which he was not in possession of full
details. He talked freely and appeared to be cooperative. He was not in a
position to have knowledge concerning industrial plants in OTA except as to their
location, but there is a possibility that he did not tell all he knew on this
particular subject. The report is rated F-3.
LAND HOLDINGS
The father of M-92l owned the following land:
7 cho of rice paddy,
5 " " garden land, mainly mulberry,
1 " " second-growth forest
13 cho
Of this comparatively large land-holding, the family itself farmed only 1.9
cho, that is, 19 tan. The remainder was rented out to other farmers. (1 ehe
equals 2.451 acres. 10 tan equals 1 cho.)
METHOD OF COLLECTING RENT
The rent charged to the tenants was 2 or 3 hyo of rice per tan, depending on
From JICA/CIB, New Delhi
Report No. R-125-D-45
26 Jamary 1945

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
sility of the land.(1 koku of hulled riee equale lo
1 keku equals 322.4 lbs.) The landlord did not colleet
tm rive. The temants took the rent rice to the Nogto kaíar (d
further on in this report), collected the Govermment riee pr
a certificate of delivery.The tenant then passed the certifiestet
lord, who then received from the KulIAI the Govermment basie prico of ri
If a landlord did not himself farm, he was permitted to colleet rieo it
FARM OPERATIONS
Crops raised. In the summer of 1943, the private farm of M-921 and family
raised the. following crops:
Crop
Area
Yield per tan
Total production
8 hyo
128 hyo
Paddy rice
16 tan
Garden
3
19 tan
These crops were harvested in the autumn of 1943. The 3 tan of garden
yielded a variety of products for home use.
The following crops were planted in the autumn of 1943 and were harvested
in late spring of 1944:
Crop
Area
Yield per tan
Total production
Irish potatoes
1 tan
6 hyo
12 hyo
Wheat
Barley
12 "
5
60
Rice seed plots
16 tan
Liyestock. The family kept no water buffalo, exen, pigs, sheep, goets, nor
rabbits. They kept one horse for draft purposes, and 45 chickens. M-921
volunteered that they also had a cat and a dog, which ate rice.
Number of persons in the family.Daily rice ration.
Person
Age
Rice ration per day
Father
55
4 go
57
Mother
76
(approx.)
Grandmother
60
Widowed aunt
26
M-921
20
Brother
19
Sister
From JICA/CIB. New Delhi
Report No. R-125-D-45
26 go

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
sed that the offioial rice ratiome
need to keep for the use of his
ke the Geverament, were 4 go per day for a laberer
infaste and children up to and ineluding 6 years. Elderly
ever, received a lower ration, but he was not certain as to tl
persens frem 7 years upwards, whether male or female, received the
in his family except the grandmother received the 4 go due to a labe
koku. 1 go equals approximately 146 1/4 grams of hulled rice.)
(Interrogator's comment: The total annual supply of good-quality riee for
the family of M-921 would be 9,490 go, or 23.7 hyo.)
The Government buys only good rice. The crop, in this case 128 hye, 1s
passed over a grader before the rice is sacked for the Government, and the all
and broken grains are removed. These constitute something less than lo% of the
total crop. These are kept by the farmers and cooked with the 4 go por poroom
regular rice ration. On this farm the smell and broken rice added about lo hye
of rice to the family supply, making the total available about 34 hyo. (Interro-
gator's comment: This is a detail which had not previously come to light from
other sources. The cull grain probably has approximately the same food value as
the good grain.)
Wheat and barley supply for the family. The horse consumed all of the barley
As to wheat, the regulations provided that all of this was to be sold to the
Government, except the amount required for seed, but they were actually allowed
to keep about 7 hyo to make into flour.
Seed requirements. The farmers were allowed to keep the following amounts
of grain for seed:
Wheat
6 to 7 sho per tan planted
Barley
7 to 8 "
Rice
2 sho 4 go of unhulled rice per tan planted
(Note: 10 sho equals 1 to. 2 sho 4 go of unhulled rice is equivalent to
about 1 sho 2 go of hulled rice. Tha yield. is always figured in terms of
hulled (brown) rice.)
The total seed, food, and feed consumption of grain during the year
succeeding harvests in the autumn of 1943 and the spring of1944 was to be as
follows:
Good rice, family
24 hyo
Cull rice, family
10
Seed rice
*
Wheat, family
7
Seed wheat
2
Barley, feed
12
Seed barley
Total
55
* 1/2 hyo or less.
From JICA/CIB, New Delhi
26 January 1945
Report No. R-125-D-45

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
mle of grain to the Gevermment. The family ms required to mell
As M-921 remembered it, his father sold about 90 hyo to the Govermm
harvest of 1943. According to the foregoing caloulations, there would
been 94 hyo available to the Government after subtracting food, oull riee,
seed. This is a reasonably close check.
The official prices paid by the Government for rice were not preeisely
remembered by M-921. He believed that the price received for the 1943 crop ms
¥33 per koku plus ¥5 or ¥8 subsidy. In April or May 1944, the price for the
1944 crop was announced as y40 per koku plus ¥8 subsidy. (M-921 first maid-that
the subsidy received in 1943 vas ¥5 and later changed it to ¥8, but was umcer-
tain which was correct.)
In 1944, the family probably sold to the Government about 51 hyo of wheit
and no barley. In 1943, the Government paid ¥18 basic price plus ¥2 subsidy per
hyo of wheet. This would be at the rete of y50 per koku, price plus subsidy.
M-921 could not remember vhet was to be paid for the l944 harvest of wheat.
Family grain carry-over. At the time of the harvest of crops in the
autumn of 1943, the family of M-921 had two or three hyo of rice left from last
year's harvest and about 3 hyo of wheat left from the spring of 1943. (The
wheet was not ground into flour all at one time, but teken to the local mill
little by little as required.)
Rice Quotas for 1944. M-92l remembered thet a national rice quota for the
harvest of 1944 was given out in the spring, but he could not remomber what it
was. He believed that the Government begen by raising the quota for the entire
nation and parceling out the increase first to prefectures, then to smaller
units, down to the individual farm. He believed that the quota for his father'
farm would be about the seme as it was in 1943. He based this belief, however,
mostly on the fact that in his opinion it would not be possible for his
family to grow any more rice; nor for them to consume any less.
In 1943, the farmers had delivered to the Government warehouse the amount .
of rice which they had in excess of that which was required for their own needs
at the retes previously noted. M-92l did not know of any plan to chenge this
procedure in 1944. The Government warehouse for the village was on his father?s
farm, and he was therefore in a good position to know about these matters.
JAPANESE AGRICULTURAL ORGANIZATIONS - RECENT CHANGES
M-92l said that in April 1944 the two principal agricultural organisations
in Japan, the NO KAI and the SANGYO KUi IAI, had been combined into one organ-
ization knovn as the NOGYO KAI. He described in considerable detail the
organization and functions of these two institutions. It is through them that
the Japanese Government menages the agricultural wer effort.
NO KAI. Before the amelgametion in April 1944, the NO KAI was organized
from the top down, as follows:
TEIGOKU NO KAI (This is headed by a peer.)
KEN NO KAI
GUN NO KAI
CHOSON NO KAI
26 January 1945
Report No. R-125-D-45
From JICA/CIB. New Delhi

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
 ares respectively, the imperial, prefestural,
wal associations. M-921 said that the NO KAI
armors and not a Government organisation. Its funotion
ut experiments and to perform educational work.
ANGYO KUHIAI. M-921 said that the SANGYO KUMIAI, before the
versa.
The smallest division was the CHOSON SANGYO KUMIAI, which was divided into
the following four sections:
I. RYo (usage or rental)
II. KOBAI (purchasing)
III. HANBAI (selling)
IV. SHINYO (credit)
On the prefecturel level there were the following three organizations,
centralizing the activities of the corresponding tovmship organizations:
KEN KOBAI RENGOKAI
KEN HANBAI RENGOKAI
KEN SHINYO RENGOKAI
On the national level there were the folloving three organizations:
ZENKOKU KOBAI RENGOKAI (abbreviated as ZENKOBAI)
ZENKOKU HANBAI RENGOKAI (abbreviated as ZENKOHAI)
CHUO KINKO
The last organization, loceted in TOkYo, is essentially a central, bank.
At the township level the functions of the RYo were to rent out toole and
equipment to fermers. The function of the KOBAI was to purchase equipment,
fertiliser, seeds, and other f rm supplies. The HAnBAI formerly sold agricul-
tural commodities and acted to control agricultural prices, but M-92l belioved
that with national price control in effect they no longer performed any prico-
control function.
The function of SHInYo was to lend money to farmers and also to receive
savings deposits. Loans to farmers were limited to about ¥5,0oo per farmer.
These were not mortgege loans, but vere secured by the guarantor system; that
is, the borrower persuaded two or three guarantors to sign the note with him
(the note vas called a "SHAKUYO SHOSHO"). There were two forms of guarantee.
In one case each guerantor was responsible for the entire amount of the loan
if the others failed to pay. This system may be celled "Unlimited liability
guarantee". In the other case, each guarantor wes responsible for only 
certain proportion of the debt and could not be called upon to pay any more.
This may be called "Limited liability guarantee.
These loans were made for a period of three or four years. Interest was
calculated on a per diem basis. (M-92l remarked that in Japan interest paid
From JICA/CIB, New Delhi
Report No. R-125-D-45
26 January 1945

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
 frem banks is oaloulated on a per-diem basis, while
mle is calculated on an annual basis.)
3.4%, compounded annually, on March 1. No personal-property tax a
Bank.)
M-921 did not know the connection between the collection of deposits and
the making of loans by the SHINYO -- whether, for example, the deposits wore
used as the basis for the loans which were made.
KANGYo GINko (Hypothec Bank of Jepan). This is a farm-mortgage bank, not
connected with the foregoing orgenizations, which lends money to farmers on real
estate security. One of its principel interests in assisting tenants to
purchase the land which they farm. -921 said that he believed this bank m
very active at the present time.
NOGYO KAI. The effect of combining the NO KAI and the SANGYO KUwTAI will
be merely to abolish the cooperative festures of these two agricultural organ-
izations and make them into stronger instruments for carrying out the war-time
policy of the Japanese Government. Under the present arrangement the line of
authority in agricultural affairs is as follows:
(A) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.
(B) Prefectural NOGYO KAI. This organization is headed by a member of
the Prefectural Government, who has to be a "powerful man".
(c) District Headquarters of the Prefectural Government, the head of
which is appointed by the Prefectural Government.
(D)
GUN NOGYO KAI.
(E)
CHOSON NOGYO KAI. At this level the elements of the NO KAI and of tho
SAIGYO KU IAI are both present. The head of the organization is
appointed by the Prefectural Government. The village couneil
nominete one man for the approval of the Prefectural Govornment,
but he will not be appointed unless he meets with their approval.
If a nominee is disapproved, another has to be offered.
(F) NOJI KUMIAI. There is one of these organizations in each BURAKU BLOK
which is a very small village sub-division usually containing 15 to
30 families. The leader of the NOJI KUaIAI is chosen from among
the farmers and is usually an educated person, a member of the
gentry. The father of M-92l was leader of the local NOJI KUTAI
up until 1943. The NOJI KUMIAI passes on to the individual farmer
the crop-acreage quotas, distributes fertilizer rations, and performs
similar duties related to agricultural control. It is the liaison
agent between the farmer end the CHOSON NOGYO KAI.
In the administration of agricultural affairs, orders usually come from tho
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to the Prefectural NOGYO KAI, past the
district headquarters of the Prefectural Government, past the GUN NoGYo KAI,
to the CHOSON NOGYO KAI and to the NOJI KUMIAI. The district headquarter of
the Prefectural Government and the GUN NOGYo KAI act as cooperating organizations
but not as directing organizations.
From JICA/CIB. New Delhi
Report No. R-125-D-45
26 January 1945

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-ACREAGE CONTROL
Only the staple crops are subject to acreage control. Rice,
barley, in that order, are considered the principal crops under 
followed by Irish potatoes, sweet potatoes, maise, soybeans, taro, md
(millet). The acreages of vegetables are not under control, exeept that
is provided that only a restricted acreage of melons can be grown.
The quotas are handed on down to the CHOSON NOGYO KAI from tho higher
authorities, and it determines the quotas for each staple crop which shall be
furnished by each NOJI KUMIAI. The NOJI KUMIAI in turn notifies each farmer
what percentage of his acreage he shall plant to each different crop.
RATIONING OF FERTILIZER
M-921 had charge of fertilizer distribution in his NOJI KUMIAI, tho BURAKU
farm organization, in 1942. He had to give up these duties in 1943 becauso of
his army-training period. The following informaticn on fertilizer rations, he
stated, applied to the wheat and barley crops harvested in the spring of 1943
and to the rice crop harvested in the autumn of 1943.• He could not speak for
the fertilizer rations allotted for the wheat crop harvested in the spring of
1944 or to be available for the rice crop harvested in the autumn of 1944.
Fertilizer purchase periods. The fertilizer year is divided into the first
period, April to August, and the second period, September to March. Fortiliser
purchased during the first period is to be applied on rice, and fertiliser
purchased during the second period, on wheat and barley.
No fertilizer for minor staple crops. Only the three principal staple crops,
rice, wheat, and barley, were provided any commercial fertilizer ration. The
other staple crops in the list beginning with Irish potatoes and ending with
millet, were not supposed to receive commercial fertilizer, but were to be for-
tilized with whatever home-produced material was available. M-92l said that
farmer could actually use alloted fertilizers for other than the intended
purposes if he wished, but if he did so he would have insufficient for his
staple crops.
Fertilizer is distributed a little at a time, and not all at the boginning
of the season.
Ammonium sulphate. Fertilizer rations were determined on the basis of the
number of tan of rice in the first period, or of wheet and barley in the second
period.
Ammonium sulphate retions per tan per year were as follows:
Rice - 15 kan (1 kan equals 3.75 kilograms.)
Wheat - 12 kan
This means thet on 1 tan of lend which grew rice in the summer season and
wheat in the winter season, a farmer could apply 27 tan.
26 January 1945
Roport No. R-125-D-45
From JICA/CIB, New Delhi

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
amparphesphetee This contaimed variously 14%, 16x
as per tan per year weres
Rice - 10 kan
Wheat - 8 
Potassium chloride or potassium sulphate. The rations per
Rice - 5 kan
Wheat - 2 "
Calcium cvanamide. The rations per tan per year were:
Rice - 3 kan
Wheat - 1 "
M-921 said that these rations could be purchased in addition to, and mot as
a substitute for, ammonium sulphate. (Interrogator's comment: This statomemt
is contrary to that made by another source, reported in E.I.S. Offiee Memo No.
216, JICA No. R-121-D-45.)
Mixed fertilizer. This fertilizer, manufactured by SumItouo, was rationed
as follows, per ten per year:
Rice - 2 kan
Wheat - 1 "
It contained nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash in proportions not
remembered by M-921.
Other fertilizers. Soybean cake and fish meal were available in all
amounts, but there wes not enough to provide a regular ration. Another ferti-
lizer was called "Thomas Rimpi". by M-92l. "Rimpi" is an abbreviation for
Rinsan Hiryo, that is, phosphate fertilizer. (Interrogator's comment: This
material is undoubtedly whet is knovn as "Thomas Slag", a by-product of the
basic Bessemer process of steel manufacture.) M-92l said thet the material oon-
tained 16% P,05 and was issued as a substitute for calcium superphosphate.
Very little of it was available, but if a farmer purchased any Thomas Rimpe
his ration of calcium superphosphate was reduced correspondingly. He aid that
the Thomas Rimpe could not be mixed with other fertilizer components, such as
ammonium sulphate. He did not know why, because he had followed diroctions and
never mixed them.
Distribution of fertilizer. When purchasing fertilizer, the farmer,
through the NOJI KUMIAI, gets a certificate from the CHOSON NOGYO KAI. He then
takes the certificate to the fertilizer dealer end obtains the material. The
fertilizer dealer obtains his supply from the ken NOGYO KAI, which, in turn,
obtains it from fertilizer manufacturers through the national NOGYO KAI.
The only fertilizer material which can be bought and sold commercially with-
out restriction is human waste from the towms.
From JICA CIB, New Delhi
Report No. R-125-D-45
26 January 1945

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
ffect of fertilizer ration on crop vields. It was not possible to obtaim
from M-921 a olear cowparison between the amounts of fertilizer used by his
father after rationing went into effect and the amounts used previously. Ro
stated that before rationing his father used mainly mixed chemioal fertiliser,
while under rationing the unmixed fertilizer materials, previously listed, were
purchased and mixed. He believed that the quality of fertiliser used by
farmers had improved considerably since rationing went into effect, because the
mixed fertilizers sold before rationing were often low in quality. (Interroga-
tor's comment: There may be considerable truth in this. Mixed fertilisers
which are sold to fermers ordinarily contain considerable inert material, called
"filler", and the farmer must pay for the purchase, mixing, storage, and trans-
portation of this material. Pre-mixed fertilizers also often contain materials
which are neerly insoluble even though they are included as fertiliser elemonts
in chemical analysis. When farmers purchase the unmixed ingredients and mix
them on th ferm, considerable economy usually results and the fertilising power
per pound of fertilizer as applied is likely to be higher.)
M-92l made the interesting statement that because of the extreme shortage of
potash fertilizer, a limit hed had to be placed on the application of nitrogen
fertilizer. If as much nitrogen as formerly had been applied, without the
usual quantity of potash, the gre in stocks would have been weak and the grain
would have lodged before harvest. Limiting the nitrogen fertilizer naturally
limited the crop. He believed thet if sufficient potash fertilizer had been
available, so that the usual amount of nitrogen could have been applied, crops
would have been as large as pre-wsr.
He stated that if fertilizer had not been limited in any way the yield of
rice would have been 9 to l0 hyo per tan, instead of the 8 hyo which was
actually harvested. A yield of 9 or 10 hyo per tan was usual on this farm before
the wer.
(Interrogetor's co ment: If 9.5 hyo per tan is taken as the pre-ration
yield, it appears that yields have been reduced about 10% due to the shortage of
fertilizer.
The fertilizer rations given by -92l are considerably larger in most
respects than the fert ilizer r tions given by M-927, E.I.S. Office Memo No. 216,
JICA No. R-121-D-45, vhose ferm vaε in IBARAKE-KEN. It is quite possible that
both men told the truth, and that fert ilizer rftions do differ in different-type-
of-farming areas. M-927 lived in a section which produced comparatively littlo
rice and where crop yields were lover than on the ferm of M-92l. The difference
in yield is undoubtedly due to a difference in soil. M-927 lived in a sandy-
soil erea.)
FAR: TAXATION
M-9?l wes not familiar vith all the deteils of taxetion, because his father
kept such metters in his own hands. He s id that farmers paid three principal
kinds of taxes, nationel taxes, prefecturel taxes, and town-and-village taxes
(CHOSON ZEI). Under the headinF of netional taxes, fermers peid an income tax
on a net income above v6o0, a personal-property tax, end a household tax
(SHoToniZEI). The household tax depends on the velue of land and buildings on
Fron JICA/CTB.New Delhi
Report R-125-D-45
26 January 1945

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
and the rats per l,000 is uniferm for the country,
The prefectural tax is also a land tax, but M-921 could gi
letails about it.
The tom and village tax is levied on income and is for the parpese
publie health, fire department, and maintenance of civic buildinge: There
a limit to the percentege of income which can be taken for a towm and ville
tax, but M-921 could not remember it.
So far as he could remember, these taxes were collected in April and im
August.
He believed it was true that the land was taxed twice,, once by the prefee-
ture and once by the National Government.
The forests are taxed by the prefecture. The rate is one-tenth of the
rate for agricultural land.
COLLECTION AND STORAGE OF RICE BY THEGOVERNMENT
As previcusly stated, grain verehouses of the NOJI KUMIAI were situated on
the farm of M-921. There were two of these buildings, 6 ken long, 5 ken deop.
11.5 shaku tall. (1 ken equals 1.99 yards. 6 shaku equals 1 ken.) Each of
these werehouses holds 500 hyo of rice, and M-921 said that the rice was piled
7 bags deep. (1 bag equals 1 hyo.)
The new crop vas put in the warehouse in the form of hulled (brown) rice.
Just after the rice was p cked in, the varehouses were fumigated with one litre
of chloropicrin. This was sufficient for both warehouses. About June, the
warehouzes were again opened and fumigated with the same amount of chloropiorin.
The walls of these verehouses are dirt sheethed with wood, and the ware-
houses were considered very good. For this reason the Government allowed the
rice to be stored in these warehouses for a comparatively long time, using the
rice from other warehouses first. In the autumn of 1943, before the new rieo
crop was put in, these two warehouses were still about one-third full of ice.
The rice had begun to be shipped out of these warehouses in September. After
the 1943 crop had been put in, the warehouses were sealed, and they had not yet
been re-opened to take cut any rice by the time he was recalled to the Army on
June 5, 1944. The warehouse of the CHOSON NOGYO KAI was built in 1941. Thi
was 15 to 16 ken long, about 8 ken wide, and about 15 shaku tall, a one-storey
building enclosing one large room. M-92l could not report on the amount of
rice left in this storehouse et the time of the 1943 harvest nor later. He
said he had not been in it.
M-92l did not know who manufactured the chloropicrin used in fumigation.
(Interrogator's note: On one occasion during 1944, the Japanese sent a ship-
ment of chloropicrin to SAIGON to fumigate 5,Oo0 tons of rice held there in
the MITSUBISHI warehouses.)
From JICA/CIB, New Delhi
Report R-125-D-45
26 January 194

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
el wae asked what effect industrial develepments in on
he mallod the "RORYOKO IDO HAN" (Migratory Labor Unit), the drammi
whieh had been a project of the NO KAI and was now a responsibility
meved from one part of the country to another as planting and harveet
KEN, where the planting season was later.
AIRCRAFT FACTORIES
M-921 could give no informetion of consequence on aircraft plant in ora
and vicinity. The only aircraft plant that he knew of in OTA was the makAJm
plant, located just east of OTA town, as indicated on Map M-4 of Air Objoctive
Folder No. 90.12-13, July 24, 1944, and on the Emergency Edition Map of the
OTA-KOIZUMI Area, issued October 1944 for use with that Folder. The factory
which he knew is the one listed as 1544 on Map M-4. The last time he passed
the plant was in May 1943. He could see very little, because the compound was
surrounded by a concrete wall 10 shaku high. Nobody in his family worked in
the NAkAJIMA factories. Those who lived in the village and worked thore
left for the factory on bicycles et 6 a.m. and came back at 5 or 6 p.m.,
"unless they were late." If they vere working late they sometimes returned
during the night. He did not know of eny night-shift being worked.
His village wes ebout 5 kilometers from the plant.
M-921 did not know of any factory at position 789 on Map M-4. On June 2
1944, when he had last seen this aree, he believed it was only vacant lots and
paddy fields.
He had never been to KOIZUI.
Several times a year he had gone to ISHIKAGA, and he said that there were
no lerge factories there, only small textile fectories.
He believed thet the airport was south of OTA, but had never seen it.
Many planes were seen flying over his neighborhood. There were several types,
including planes of 1, 2, and 4 motors. All were monoplanes.
UTSUNOMIYA
M-92l had never heard of any new Army Air Forces arsenal being built near
UTSUNOuIYA. He believed there was an air training school somewhere north of
UTSUNOMIYA, but had never seen it.
A. B. LEWIS
for Head of E.I.S.
26 January 1945
From JICA/CIB. New Delhi
Report No. R-125-D-45

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.93)
-13-
NEW, 1
osnIc, 30
Grogory Hewlett, FEA, 9
Lt. Col, R.R. Forrester, JIS, SEAC, 1
Commmnder H. Hughes, RN, ISTD 2
Superintendent, ISTD (UK), Oxford, 1
David ayer, AS, EAC, JICA/B
CO, ATIS, Hoadquarters, SWPA, 1
Branch, 2
14th Air Foree, through JICa/CIE,
CIO, AC, SEA, for F/Lt.VAndere,
OWI (J. R. Andrus), 1
Int. 9, 1
EIS, Red Fort, 1
File, 2
Shannon McCune, FIA, Chungking, 1
From JICA/J, Lew Delhi
eor -1--45
26 January 1945

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.89)
April 2
Broply refor to
Seathdential
Bear Les:
I ahould appreciate 1t 1f you would permtt Mr. ladejancky
5,c00 werds en Japanese agrieulture. If pessible.
like to have the paper eompleted by April 25, 19kg.
I sheula like to have an estimate as to what meuld be
894.
(a) five pereent, (b) tem pereent, (e) twenty peseemt.
to prepare this study.
Sincerely yours,
DCR,- ECA Un
0
B. F. Naley
m.Am
Direeter, Office
JK/
list
Mr. Leslie A. Wheeler,
Direeter,
Office ef Pereign Agrioultural Relatiens,
wel
Department ef Agrioulture,
Washingten 25, D. 0.
CP: DHBuchanan: LD
3-28-45
ITP
8

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
Grand'Anse Division
PIWMidw
ShadaJeremie, Baiti
May 7, 1945
AY 21 1045
30861
MR. FRANK P. LOCKNART,
Chief Division of Philippines Affairs,
Department of State
WASHINGTON, 25, D.C., U.S.A.
Ref. P 1
My Dear Mr. Locknart:
Thenk you very much for your letter of January 30, regarding the
disposal of Japanese owned plantations.
Dehydrated, flaked coconut meat is needed to keep the armed forces
supplied with certain kinds of candy.
Please advise me if a private American firm can secure permission
to set up a coconut dehydrating plant on Guam or another of the Ma-
rianas or in the Philippines. At present ships returning from the
wer zones are only partially loaded and could bring this much nee-
ded product hack. If permission can not be secured at present could
you give me some idea of what the future policy will be.
Probably there are areas in which the inhabitants depend entirely
on the sale of coconuts for their living that cen not sell their
crop end who are destitute. It would seem that a coconut dehydra-
ting plant located in such a place would greatly releive the econo-
mic condition, help the return to normelicy and supply a part of
our needs. Sioh a project would seem to help all parties concerned
and hurt no one.
Let me make one comment on the disposal of the Japanese plantation
The longer they are untended the less valuable they become. The un-
dergrowth gradually at first and then with ever increesing rapidity
takes over until the time comes when it is cheaper to clear new lond
and start over than to try to reclnim the abandoned plantations.
Allow me to thank you agein for your courteous letter,
Sincerely yours
oman
NORMAN ORME

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.93)
Suly 18;1
In regáy refer to
PI 094.61/5-745
894.61/5
My dear Mr. Orme:
Reference is made to your letter of May 7, 1945
addressed to Mr. Frank P. Leckhart eonserning the
disposal of Japanese ewned plantations in the Philippines.
-745
The Department has now been advised by the
Consulate General in Manila that persennel frem the
Alien Property Custodian's offiee in Washingten are
now making investigatiens in the Davao ares and that
an Alien Property Oustodian Offiee is to be established
in Manila in July 1945. After this effiee is set up,
steps will be taken te dispese of the land ewned and
leased illegally to Sapanese mationals.
The Department hopes that this information will
be of some use to you.
Sincerely yours,
For tae Acting Secretary of State:
894.61
JMS.
Joseph W. Ballantine
Directer
Office of Far Eastern Affairs.
S
Mr. Norman Orme,
Grand'Anse Division,
Shada, Jeremie, Haiti.
CR
PI:EN111:DW
J0L77
July16, 1945.
D.M.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.81)
Suly 18, 19487
UNNESTRICTED
n.406
894.61
To th
Offleer in Charge of the Amriemm Mesten,
5
Port-am-Prinee.
The Depertment enclesse a eogy of & letter frem
Mr. Nermen Orme, Sada, Jeremde, Halte, reganting
the diapesnl of Japabese emmed plantatione in the
Pailippines. Tere is alse emslesed a lotter is regly
addressed to Me. Orme which the Department deskres
tranedtted to the addressse 1f thare is ao ebjestion
en the part of the Xabasey to so doing.
1. Frem Mr. Nerman Orme,
dated May 7. 1045.
2. To Me. Norman Orme in
CS/D
regay.
r
FE HE
EEO
J 17 . P.M/4
Jmo
894.61/5-745

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.96)
UNRESTRICTED
o.
To the
American Consular Officer in Charge.
Manila.
894.61/5-745
The Aoting Seoretary of State transmdts copies of
correspondence between the Department and Mr. Norman
Orme on the subject of Mr. Orme's request for inform-
tion on the disposal of Japanese owmed plantations, and
requests that a report on the matter be submitted by
the Consulate General to the Department in order that
an appropriate reply may be made to Mr. Orme' letter of
May 7, 1945.
Enclosures:
1. From Norman Orme,
Haiti, May 7, 1945.
2.
To Norman Orme,
Hait1, January 30, 1945.
3.
To Norman Orme.
Hait1, January 30, 1945.
4.
To J. W. Ballantine.
January 15, 1945.
CS/D
5.
From Norman Orme,
Haiti, Docember 12, 1944.
69
Lwet
OR
MA

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
REGISTERER
6S
JUL 301945
No. 119
AMERICAN CONSULAT
Mamila, Philippime, Jum 
BESTRICTED
Subject:
Mr. Norman Orme's Request for Information on
the Disposal of Japanese-owned Plntatioms.
DC/R
oine 7/12/45
OFFILL OI
201945
M:lliow
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL1.71945
The Secretary of State,
DIRECTOR
Washington.
Department of State
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's unmumbered
894.61/6-2045
instruction of June 2, 1945, requesting information for Mr.
Norman Orme of Shada, Jeremie, Haiti, on the disposal of
Japanese-owned plantations.
Col. Shattuck of the Office of the Enemy Property Custodian,
Civil Affairs Section, USASOS, Manila, advises that personnel
from the Alien Property Custodian's office in Washington are now
making investigations in the Davao area and that an Alien Pro-
perty Custodian office is to be established in Manila in July,
1945. Upon arrival of the Alien Property Custodian from Wash-
ington, steps will be taken to dispose of the land owned and
leased illegally to Japanese nationals. A detailed report en
this subject will be despatched as soon as plans for the dispe-
sal of these lands are decided upon by the Alien Property Cus-
todian.
Respectfully yours,
Paul P. Steintorf
Ameri can Consul Geperal
CS
861
JMB/BsL
DCR -ITP Unit
DEPARMENT OF STAIE
1945
Anal.
prr JUL 23
00
Rev.
@后
Division of
Cat.
Economic
Dist.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.90)
AUG 7 1945
1a msay roefer to
 dear r. Floed:
I have reeesved your lotter ef July 30, 194
894.61/7-3045
I appreciate your courtesy La alloria
Boenemie Peliey Temard Japan.
sineerely yours,
CS/ LE
Clair wileer
Mrester, efrice
Mr. F. A. Floed,
Asting Birester, Office of
Pereign Agrieultaral Relations,
aited States Department of
Washingten 25, D. 0.
CP: DHBuchanan: LD
8-3-45
45
AT
B

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
DC/R
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
on indesing
OFFICE OF FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL RELATIONS
and fil
WASHINGTON, D. C.
RECEIVED
JUL 3 0 1945
DIVISION OF
OFFICE OF
INTERNATIONAL TRADE POLICY
JUL 3 0 1945
Mr.Clair Wilcox
Director, Office of International Trade Policy
2.
BEPRTMENT OF STATE
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Wilcoxs
In a letter to Mr.Wheeler, Director of this Office, dated
894.61/7-3045
April 2, 1945, Mr. Haley has asked that Mr. W.I.Ladejinsky
of cur staff prepare a paper on agricultural production in
post-war Japan resulting from an increase in "the proportion
of the people dependent on agriculture for employment and
support." I am forwarding you herewith the paper under the
title "Can Japanese Agriculture Support a Larger Farm Popu-
lation?" (with special reference to an increase in agricul-
tural preduction).
nc.
166
While it was originally intended, as stated in Mr.Wheeler's
reply of April 7 that the paper would be completed much earlier,
unfortunately pressing work on a Japanese Guide requested by
the Military has upset our time schedule. Meamhile the author
of the paper has been in contact with Dr.Buchanan of your staff,
and has discussed with him the findings and the conclusions.
894.50
CSLE
Mr. Ladejinsky, of course, would be willing to discuss and
amplify any point in the paper about which questions might be
raised by the Comittee for which it was written.
Prancuatlooe
89
F.A.Flood
Acting Director
Enclosures
7-3045
AUG S - 1945
FORVICTORY
FILED
BUY
UNITED
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.92)
CIVIL CENSONBNIP DETAGHDENT
0-2
Neadquarters
DSAFFE
CONFIDENTIAL
ber 1945
(Station)
To:
DOMEI
Number of inclosures:
000
Commmieation: 23 September 1945
DCR
Serrar humber of previous records:
None
Disposal of original letter:
Passed.
Deleted.
Condemned.
Photographed.
Returned.
Photostated.
((hech actlon taken)
08
6
Comment by
L. I. MoCloud
Date
4
Capt. AUB
Type of Commmication: Press Copy
COMMENT
Langage: English
DISTi
rovalatian of lts aoaleaes la ag
d 32. as acdd.
0-2
AGRICULTURE: MANY PRORLRMS IN FARM KXPANSION
ASF
Ch Engr
"In order to undertake the oultivation of
CD
new land totalling 2,900,000 aores in Japan Proper
IDS
and 1,450,000 acres in Hokkaido for the self-
NOS
sustemanee of the Japanese people, the Ministry
PRO
of Agriculture and Forestry is rushing necessary
proparations, looking for arable lands, acquiring
D DIST
quipment and fixing appropriations.
2 Nov 45
T
"It is reparted the Ministry has already
B
filed orders for agricultural machinery sush as
5
80
tracters, harrows and plows, with various mamu-
088
facturing companies. It is also considering
ONI
ways and means of proouring new land now in the
ROH
possession of the Government, public organisations
DB(2)
and the military.
C
Lee
F/od
(S
"It is said that the ministry is swamped
daily with applications for iand reolamation
projects.
COPY TO
DATET
"However, the bottleneeks of the Government-
sponsored enterprise are the aoquisition of pri-
MI1
vately-ommed lands and the supply of required
numbers of large-sised agrioultural mmehinery.
ONI
e

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.81)
P0 2
"That will aggrevate the siteatiem in
enterprise will require ever 2,000 tresters. Pose
atiom at preseat.
"The Ministry ef Agrieulture and Fersstry epeets that
average of 8.7 aares of arable land, while eesk
indwstries."

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.96)
1/2/c
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
894.61
File Designation
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
SEPT.27,1945
Date
894.61/9-2745
CIUWL CENBORSHIP DETACNMENT
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
☑
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
4/8/76
INTECEPT
Authority
DSP
GSA FORM 7117(2-72)
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GPO : 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
PRINCETON
1946
Frle-1416
DEC21946
D-K
163 Little Hall
Princeton University
Princeton, N.J.
November 15, 1946
Department of State
894.61/11-1546
Washington, D..
Gentlemen:
The School of Public and International Affairs,
here at Princeton is conducting a conference on United
States Occupation Policy Towards Japan. One of the more
EED
ARTMENT O
significant nhases is of course, what we intend to do
with Japanese Agriculture.
5
As one concerned with'this important phase, I
wogder what thoughts your department, as the unit concerned
with policy, has on the problem of democracy and welfare in
Japanese Agriculture. I em especially interested in the role
of Japanese Farmer Cooperatives in achieving these ends.
Any material or suggestions you have on this
subject will be greatly appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
CS/A
Milton I. Vanger
8/
DEC 13 1946

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.94)
DEC 2 1946
In reply refer to
JA
My dear Mr. Vanger:
1546
The receipt is scknosledged of your letter of
Novemter 15, 194f, requesting zateriel end suggestions
regarding the democratization end refcrm of Japanese
agriculture.
As yon are daubtless aware, severel rather
extended conferences rnve been held recently by
members of this livision with representetives of the
Princeton School of Public end Iiternational Affairs.
In sore of these conferences the subject of Japanese
agriculture was treated at some length. Referenee
is made in particular to an interview held with Mr.
Robert A. Fearey of this Division by Kr. Warren
Eginton on November 22.
In view of the comprehensive nature of the sub-
ject it is difficult in e letter to present informa-
tion which would be of value to you. It is therefore
upgested that you consult with those members of the
School who were recently in Washington and obtain from
them the views and material wh ch was made available
ti them. Should you have additicnal specific questions,
paease feel free to communicate with the Department at
部
894.6
aly time.
EM
sincerely yours,
04
S
40
Eugh Borton
Chief
Division of Jepanese Affairs
xr: vilton I. Vanger
163 Little Hall
Princeton Univers!ty
Frineeton, New Jersey
FEAC
JA:JKEmnenson:xa
DEC 2 1946
11-26-46
3

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.81)
//
Peoo 2
"Prieee af land la now an thse wpoard trond. tThe
Land asrionit.
tresters heve no far been ardered and are now in the eours
atiem at presemt.
"The Ministry of Agrieul ture and Ferestry empeete that
Ln Makkaido will possess 14.5 aeres. With sash compare-
alestrieity as a result of the rescaversion of mmitiems
industries."

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
THE AGRICULTURAL
EXPERIMENT STATIONS
894.61/
OF JAPAN
Experiment Stations of Japan"
Dec. 18, 1946, from the U. S.
9y
Political
1946
ser for Japan,
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
NATURAL RESOURCES SECTION
REPORT NO 59
TOKYO 1946
Tokyo,

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
THE OHARA IHSTITUIE OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AT KURASHIKI, OKAYAMA PREFECTURE

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
REPORT MUMBER 59
15 October 1946
THE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS OF JAPAN
(A Preliminary Report)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Resources Section

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
NATURAL RESOURCES SEOTION
REPORT MUMBER 59
15 October 1946
THE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS OF JAPAN
(A Preliminary Report)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Summary
Introduction
11
11
A. General
B. Agricultural Research Institutions of Japan
11
12
The Japanese Agricultural Experiment Stations
12
A. History ...
B. Number of Agricultural Experiment Stations
14
C.
Land Area of Agricultural Experiment Stations
16
D.
Buildings and Greenhouses . ..
16
E.
Laboratory Equipment, Tools, and Machinery
F.
Agricultural Education and Extension in the Experiment Stations 19
G.
Education and Training of Experiment Station Employees
19
H. Budgets
I. Freedon of Research
Work of the Agricultural Experiment Stations
21
A. Co-ordination and Co-operation
21
B. Duplication of Effort
32
C. Objectives of Agricultural Experimentation
22
D. Methods of Research
24
26
E. Field Plot Techniques
28
Achievements
28
A. General
B. Improvements in Silk Production
28
C. Improvement of Rice Varieties
31
D. Improvement of Wheat Verieties
33
E. Plant Disease Control
35
F. Per Unit Area Yields of Rice, Wheat, and Barley
38
G. Improved Tea Culture
41
42
Discussion
42
A. General
B. Relation of the Stations to Future Food Production
45
C. Farmer Education
47
D. General Appraisel
47

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Cont'd)
Figures
Figure
Figure
334567
Figure
Figure
Figure
Figure
Figure
rigure
8
Figure
9
Figure
10
Figure
11.
Figure
12
Figure
13.
Figure
14.
Figure
15.
Figure
16.
Figure
17
Figure
18
Figure
19
Figure
20.
Figure
21
Figure
22.
Tables
49
Table
1234567
50
Table
50
Table
51
Table
54
Table
56
Table
85
Table
8
86
Table
87
Table
12
17
88
Table
89
Table
16, 17, 18,
90
Table
22,
23
91
Table
24,25,26
93
Table
27
List of Natural Resources Section Reports
Distribution

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
NATURAL RESOUROES SBCTION
REPORT MUMBER 59
15 October 1946
THE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS OF JAPAN
(A Preliminary Report)
SUMMARY
1. In relation to area of cultivated land and agricultural income,
Japan has one of the most extensive systems of agricultural research in
the world. This research is conducted principally by the Imperial and
prefectural agricultural experiment stations and also by the Imperial
universities, a number of colleges, private institutions, and corporations.
They have played an important role in making it possible for Japan to
increase agricultural production greatly in recent years.
2. The egricultural experiment stations of Japan are relatively mall
and numerous. This appears to be due to a tendency to establish mall
independent stations with limited responsibilities instead of large
stations with multiple duties as in the United States. Also a wide
diversity of climate makes it desirable to have many stations to serve
relatively small areas..
3. The over-all objectives of Japanese agricultural research have
been to increase production, improve the quality of agricultural products,
and decrease the costs of production. Because of a large population and
scarcity of arable land, increasing the yields per unit area of land has
been regarded as of paramount importance.
4. In order to achieve these objectives, specific researches and
experiments have been conducted with practically every science relating to
agriculture.
5. In general, the Imperial experiment stations devote their main
effort to the discovery of basic principles and the solution of problems of
national importance. The prefectural stations generally center their
attention on local problems with emphasis on results of immediate practical
value. However, considerable basic research is conducted at these
stations.
6. Co-ordination of effort appears to be good, and little unnecessary
or undesireble duplication of work occurs between the Imperial and the
prefectural stations. Co-ordination of the work of the stations of the
different prefectures is not so evident except as it has been affected
through co-operation with the Imperial stations. The number of livestock
stations seems to be in excess of actual neede.
7

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
7. A few of the more important achievements of prectical value of
the agricultural experiment stations include the creation of new and
superior races or varieties of silkworms and rice, new methods of caring
for end rearing silkworms, marked decreases in costs of harvesting tea
leaves and in curing them, control of diseases and insect pests. and
studies of the relative yields of varieties of rice and wheat with and
without fertilisers.
8. An outstanding contribution is the use of B1 hybrid silkworms
for the production of silk. Specific methods for using them developed
as a result of experiments conducted by the Imperial Sericultural
Experiment Station. Other notable achievements of this station are the
treating of silkworm eggs, the development of methods of storage, and
artificial hatching so that monovoltine races may be hatched any time of
the year. As a result of these and other improvements due in part to
research, the production of cocoons per unit area of mulberries increased
about 150 percent and of silk more than 400 percent between 1890 and
1940. Production of silk per metric ton of cocoons increased more than
100 percent during the same period.
9. Rice, the most important crop in Japen, has been the subject of
extensive investigation. A large number of new varieties adapted to
particular regions or for special conditions have been produced. It has
been extimated that about 69 percent of the rice area grows varieties
produced and distributed by the agricultural experiment stations. A
special feature of these are early maturing varieties that make it
possible to grow rice on paddy land in practically all parts of Hokkaido.
10. Wheat occupied a relatively minor position in Japan until the
early 1930s. A five-year plan inaugurated in 1932 by the Imperial
Government resulted in an increase in acreage and marked increases in
yield per unit area. Chief among the reasons for the latter are early
maturing disease resistant varieties produced and distributed by the
Imperial and prefectural agriculturel experiment stetions. These
varieties now total 19, each of which is grown on one percent or more of
the wheat area. Together they are rown on about 66 percent of the wheat
erea.
11. Development of methods of controlling plant diseases has been
an important function of the egricultural experiment stations. Breeding
resistant varieties has been a favorite method but is not applicable or
feasible with respect to all diseases. Soil sanitation, seed treatment,
spreying plants with fungicides, end roguing ere other generel methods
for which specific procedures have been developed. Few importsnt
diseases exist in Japan for which effective methods have not been devised
larcely as a result of research.
12. The yields per unit area of rice, wheat, common barley, and
neked barley have increased about 70, 140, 119, and 62 percent,
8

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
respectively, in the past 60 years, using as bases for comperison the
average yields for the five-year per1ods of 1878-82 and 1938-42. The
increases for rice and wheat are all the more remarkable because they
have been accompanied by an increase in the acreage of rice of 25 percent
and of wheat of ll9 percent. They are believed to be due to the more
extensive use of commercial fertilisers and of better varieties singly
and in combination.
13. A significant discovery in this connection is that improved
varieties often are no better than others with inadequate quantities of
fertilizer, and alsc that the best results with fertilisers will not be
obtained if improved varieties are not grown. Both are necessary for
maximum yields.
9

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
WATURAL RESOURCES SECTION
REPORT NUMBER 59
15 October 1946
THE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS OF JAPAN
INTRODUCTION
A. General
1. Few countries surpass Japan in the efficient use arable
land 1/, or in the increased productior per unit area that has been
accomplished in recent years. Although Japan has more than one-half the
population of the United States and less than one-twentieth es much
cultivated land, she has been alle to produce from 80 to 85 percent of
ner domestic food requirements as well as considerable quentities of non-
food crops for export either as raw materials or as menufectured goods.
Yields per unit area of the important food crops (rice, wheat, and barley),
have been almost doubled since about 1880. Production of silk per hectare
of mulberry trees has increased more than 500 percent during the same
period. The agriculturel experiment stations heve played en important
role in making these improvements possible.
2. A preliminary eppraisal of the agricultural experiment
stations of Japan has been made to ascertain whether the number, location,
organization, physicel facilities, personnel, and budgets are such as to
assure the greatest possible essistance in maximazing the production of
food and critical raw materials in accordance with the objectives of the
Occupation. Since this study cannot be regarded as complete, any con-
clusions or opinions should be considered tentative.
B. Agricultural Reseerch Institutions of Jaran
1. Agricultural research in Japan is conducted by many public
and private institutions or agencies. The most importent research insti-
1
This report is based on data supplied by the Japanese Ministry of
Agricuiture end Forestry, except as otherwise indicated, and on
observations at about 50 Imperial and prefectural agricultural experi-
ment stations and branch stations and on interviews with about 240
members of the various station staffs between 1 January and 30 June
1946. It does not include the Fisheries and Forestry Experiment
Stations.
This report was prepared by S.C. Salmon, Scientific Consultant,
Agriculture Division
11

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
tutions are (1) the Imperial agricultural experiment stations . f
and administered by the Ministry of Agrieulture and Forestry: (2) the
of agriculture of the Imperial universities, financed and administered
by the Ministry of Education; (4) private institutions and corporations;
and (5) a number of colleges financed in various ways including done-
tions by religious organisations, endowments, and grants of public funds.
2. With respect to number and amount of expenditures the
agricultural experiment stations of the Imperial and prefectural govern-
ments are the most important. This report deals only with these insti-
tutions. Lists of the various institutions and agencies that have major
responsibilities for agricultural research in Japan are given in Tables
1 to 6.
3. Japan does not have any formally organised institutions
whose primary function is adult education of farmers or vocational
training of students, such as those found in the United States. Much of
the responsibility for whatever is done in Japan along these lines fells
upon the experiment station systen.
THE JAPANESE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMNT STATIONS
A. History
1. The present system of agricultural experiment stations in
Jepan dates from 1890 when the Imperial agricultural experiment station
was established at Nishigahare in Tokyo to conduct research with field.
fruit, and vegetable crops (Figure 1). .Six branch stations were added
in 1893 and three more in 1896. Six of these were discontinued in 1903
coincident vith the esteblishment of the prefectural stations which were
expected to assume their functions. Two more were discontinued in 1924.
Later additions were made end Japan now has nine brench stations. These
include the Konosu Experimental Farm which functions as a field station
for the main station at Nishigehera, which has no land for field experi-
ments (Table 1)
2. Facilities for resesrch in animal husbandry were provided
by the estaulishment of the Imperiel Zootechnical Experiment Station at
Chiba, Chiba Prefecture, in 1916 end four branch stations in other
ally throughout this report to include all experiment stations
dealins with egricuiture such as the so-called egricultural experi-
ment stations, the sericulture experiment stations, zootechnical
stations and tea stations. Occasionally it is necessary to use the
term in a restricted sense in accorasnce with Japanese usage to
indicate the eericultural experiment stations proper. The text will
show when such is the case.
12

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
regions of Japan. A cattle-
breeding farm was established in
1900 at Nanatsukahara, Hiroshima
Prefecture, the principal purpose
of which was to import bulls of
foreign breeds to serve native cows.
These branch stations were discon-
tinued in 1924. One was restored
in 1937 and another in 1938. Five
of these livestock branch stations
now exist.
3. The first attempt to
improve fruit crops appears to have
been in 1871 when the central
government imported l08 varieties
of apple, 126 of pear, 100 of
grape, 31 of cherry, 18 of apricot,
Figure 1: - Greenhouse at the
17 of peach, 16 of nectarine, and
Imperial Agricultural Experiment
ε of plum from Europe, America,
Station, Nishigahara, Tokyo
and China. Seedlings were grown
and listributed throughout the
country.
4. Experimental studies with fruits and vegetables were under-
taken at Naito-Shinjuku in Tokyo in 1874, and with vine culture at
Banchu, Hyoo Prefecture, in 1380
Studies with horticultural crops were
included as a part of the work of
the Agricultural Experiment Station
at Nishigahara in 1893. A horti-
cultural experiment station was
established in 1902 in Okitsu-
machi, Iobara District, Shizuoka
Prefecture (Figure 2). In 1912 it
was organized n3 a separate station
and designated The Imperial Horti-
cultural Station. The Tohoku
Branch Station wes established in
1938 at Fujisaki-machi, Aomori
Prefecture.
5. Research with tea was
added to the responsibilities of
the Agricultural Experiment Station
at Nishigahara in 1896. A separate
station known as the Imperial Tea
Figure 2. - The Imperial Horti-
xperiment Station was established
cultural Experiment Station, Okitcu-
in 19le on Makinohara Hill, Kanaya-
machi, Shizuoka Prefecture
machi, Shizuoka Prefecture (Figure
3).
13

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
6. The Imperial Seri-
cultural Station was established
in 1912 in Tokyo (Figure 4),
together with a Mulberry Experi-
mental Farm at Tachikawa near
Tokyo Eleven branch stations
have been established and are now
operating in various regions of
Japan. The Silk Conditioning
House, at which a certain amount
of research in the processing of
silk is conducted, was established
at Yokohama in 1895
B. Number of Agricultural
Experiment Stations
1. The most striking
Fi ure 3. - The Imperial Tea-
feature of the agricultural
Experiment Station, Kanaya-machi,
experiment station system of Japan
Shizuoke Prefecture
is the relatively large number of
independent organizations and
individval stations of various kinds. No single department or bureau is
charged with the responsibility for all agricultural research of either
the Imperial or prefectural governments. Instead, usually a separate
orgenization exists for each general field of agriculture, each responsi-
ble to end administered by separate independent bureaus. This is evident
especially in the prefectures
which have an agricultural experi-
ment station for field crops or
for field crops and horticulture;
one for sericulture; another for
livestock: in several cases an-
other for horticulture; and
occasionally a fifth for tea.
Such stations have separate land,
buildings, laboratories, equipment.
and personnel located in a differ-
ent part of the prefecture. Each
is entirely independent except
for such co-ordination as may be
effected by the higher prefec-
tural officials. Hokkaido is an
exceptior. to the extent that in
this prefecture a single agri-
cultural experiment station is
Figure 4. - Adninistration
responsible for all lines of agri-
building. The Imperial Sericultural
cultural research.
Experiment Station, Suginami, Tokyo
14

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
2. Most of the prefectural stations also have a mmber of
branch stations, experimental farms, and one or more demonstration famms.
Frequently!the central prefectural stations have one or more farms or
stations, the function of which is to grow seed, seedlings, or livestook
for distribution to farmers: to grade cocoons; and to perform other
services. They are here designated as service stations. A certain
amount of research or experimentation is done by some of them, but in
general it appears tó be of minor importance.
3. The agricultural experiment stations of Japan may be classi-
fied according to whether they are (1) administered by the Imperial or
prefectural government; (2) owmed by private individuals or corporations;
(3) devoted to general type of agricultural research; and (4) classified
as main stations, branch or substations, experimental farms, service
establishments, or research laboratories (Table 7).
4. The classification is necessarily somewhat arbitrary because
of duplication of functions in many cases, and because the distinctions
are not clear in others. So far as possible the classification is in
accord with the official designation of each station. A prefectural
"agricultural experiment stetion", for example, may be included under
"crops" even though it may conduct some research with livestock. Many
subsidiary stations are aesignated as "branch stations" and "experimental
or substations" by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and they
are so classified here. On the other hand, the Ministry does not desig-
nate "service" stations as such. The term is used here to include
stations whose primary function appears to be to educate or inform
farmers or to perform direct services for them.
5. In eenerel, main stations are edministrative centers of the
lmperial or prefectural governments for research dealing with each agri-
cultural industry. Usually each prefecture has an Agricultural Experi-
ment Station, & Sericultural Experiment Station. and & Livestock Ferm.
There may also be a Horticultur l Experiment Station or more Eenerally en
Apple Experiment Station or a Citrus Experiment Station Such stations
have been included with the main stations vhen administratively inde-
pendent of others in the prefecture. The sane is true of tea stations
and tobacco stations, except that they are cla sified as industrial
rather than es horticulturel or generel stations.
6. The research conducted at the brench stations and substetions
is elong the same lines as thet of the main stations but on a emeller
scale. The experimental farms ere not only saaller then branch stations
but are charged with fewer responsibilities. Often they are limited to
e single crop or to a special problem of limited scope.
7. A total of 595 Imperial, prefectural, and private; main,
branch, and substations; experimental farms, service stations, and
research laboratories serve agriculture in Japan (Teble 7). Excluding
15

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
the 171 classed as service stations, 424 remain whose primary function
is research. Of these research stations 203 deal with general cropsyd
45 with horticultural crops, 38 with industrial crops (tea, tobaceo,
hemp, and cotton), 102 with sericulture, and 14 with livestock. Wine of
the livestock stations are laboratories, four of which are privately
owned and probably function as much as service or control stations as
they do for research. This classification provides only an epproxi-
mately accurate picture of the over-all relations.
8. The geographical distribution of those stations which con-
duct research with field crops is shown in Figure 5. No agrioultural
locality in Japan is not provided with one or more stations.
C. Land Area of Agricultural Experiment Stations
1. The area of land available for research for all main,
branch, service stations and experimental farms, for which data are
available is shown in Table 8.
2. Stations with 10 hectares or less of land greatly pre-
dominate. Five hectares or less is the model size for other than the
crops main stations. Many of the livestock stations are limited to
poultry or small animals which require only mall areas of land. The
predominance of small stations emphasizes the tendency of the Japanese
Government to set up special stations for particular purposes rather
than single lerge stations with multiple responsibilities as in the
United States.
3. Even the main stations are much smaller than corresponding
establishments in the United States. Nowhere in Japan does one find
10-, 20-, or 40-acre fields devoted to crop rotation, fertiliser, and
crop sequence experiments; or from 5,000 to 10,000 varieties and strains
of a single crop being tested for yield and resistance to diseases; or
extensive feeding tests of cattle or swine involving more than a few
heads. Land for such purposes in Japan is limited and for various
reasons is not needed to the same extent as in the United States. Nost
of the field work is done by hand which means that plots and experi-
mental fields are amall. In comparison with Japanese farms (average
size 1.0 hectare or about 2.5 acres) the stations ere larger, that is,
thoy are equivalent to a larger number of farms than are those of the
United States.
D. Buildings and Greenhouses 3/
1. The frequency distribution of the various stations with
3 Data are available for a part of the stations only.
16

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.90)
FIELD CROPS
EXPERIMENTAL STATIONS
HOKKAIDā
IN JAPAN
Legend
Imperial stetions end broneh atations
Prefesturet experiment edetions
Prefestural brameh stetiens
Prefestureal ezperimental forme
8
HONSHū
0
SHIKOKU
KYÜSHÜ
Figure 5
17

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
respect to floor space of buildings and greenhouses available for
research is shown in Tables 9 and 10 4/.
2. The floor spece of buildings evailable for research at the
crops stations averages 4,675 square meters for the main stations, 730
square metere for the branch stations, and 40l square meters for the
experimentel farms. The sericultural main stetions average a little
more than helf as large as the main crop stetions, but the branch
stetions are larger then the corresponding stations for crops.
3. Since practically ell livestock stations were classified as
service establishments they are not segregated in Table 9 into main and
subsidiary stations. The livestock stations proper are tabulated sepa-
rately from tho se wnose only or primary responsibilities relate to
poultry. The former have more building space, but the difference is
less then might be exoected.
4. Four experimental farms end seven poultry farms were
reported es havin, no land available for research work.
5. Some creenhouse space for research is available in two-
thirds of the main stations, about 40 percent of the branch stations.
and 17 percent of the experirental farms (Table 10). Only two of the
sericultural stations have reenhouse facilities vhile, as would be
expected, the livestock stations have none. The everage greenhouse
space at the main crop stations having greenhouses is only 159 square
meters and at the brancn stetions and experimental farms only about 100
square meters.
6. Observations et several stations indiceted that buildings
and greenhouses suffered from neglect during World War II. They may be
described as in fair to good conlition, but a few were in a deplorable
state of disrepair. One prefectural station lost two or three buildings
and greenhouses in an air rcid and practicelly all lass in the remaining
greenhouses. It is evident thet considerable sums will le necessery at
some stations to provide suitable facilities for research.
E. Laboratory Equipment, Tools, and Mechinery
1. No quantitative de ta relative to laboretor. equipment.
tools, or farm machinery on experiment stations were obtained in this
study. Farm equipment plays a relatively less important role in. Jepsn
then in the United States. There seems to be no reason to suppose the
experiment stations are seriously lecking in these rospects. A comron
complaint voiced at most stations heving chemical leboratories is leck
of reagents. In some cases, supplies of fungicides and insecticides
were said to be insufficient for carrin: out plenned research.
4
Buildings end reenhouses primarily used for instruction, damon-
stration, or services are not included.
18

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
2. Much of the special laboratory equipment, where any exdisted.
appeared to be old and out of date. Some of it is in need of repair.
F. Agricultural Education and Extension in the Experiment. Stations
1. Only about 50 percent of the budgets of the prefeotural
stations is expended for research according to Japanese official estimates.
(Table ll). Host of the remainder goes for direct service to farmers
including such items as growing seed of approved varieties, raising
animals for distribution to farmers, and grading cocoons. While 5 to 10
porcent of the budgets of the agricultural and sericultural stations is
spent for student training, only about one percent of the budgets of the
livestock and poultry farms is used for that purpose. From two to six
percent of these budgets is used for farmer education, the average for
all stations being three percent.
G. Education and Training of Experiment Station Employees
1. The classification of employees of the agricultural experi-
ment stations of Japan as to their education and training is showm in
Table 12. According to the Ministry of Agriculture and Jorestry, practi-
cally none of the graduates shown in this table received degrees outside
of Japan.
2. The Japanese educstional system for students in agriculture
is shown in Figure 6, 5/. A student who spends only four years in the
middle school ordinarily will spend three years in the higher school, or
if five years in the middle school, two in the higher school, so that the
total schooling when he enters the university will be 13 years. Ik-
ceptional students may graduate with fewer years of formal training.
3. A graduate in agriculture of a Japanese university usually
will have spent about one more year in primary and trade schools and in
a university than will a graduate of a state college or university in
the United States, and a graduate of a Japanese college one or two years
less. ▲ graduate of a high (middle) school in Japan is equivalent in
number of years of training to a junior high school in the United States
The requirements for a doctorate are substantielly alike in the two
countrios.
4. Data are not available for making comparisons with agri-
culturel experiment stations in the United States. However, it is ap-
parent that the Jepenese Imperial stations and many of the prefectural
stations have well trained personnel for leadership in various research
5/ The author is indebted to Dr S. Nasu and to Dr H. Terao, formerly
professor of agricultural economics, Tokyo Imperial University, and
director of The Imperial Agricultural Experiment Station, respectively,
for information regarding agricultural education in Japan.
19

=== Page 48 === (confidence 1.00)
THE JAPANESE SYSTEM OF EDUCATION FOR STUDETS IN AGRICULTURE
350 to 400 graduates per year become
Imperial Universities
professors in agricultural colleges.
3 to 4 years
technicians in the agrioultural ex-
periment stations and in industry, and
Department of
apprentices leading to positions in
Agriculture
the Imperial Government.
Several hundred graduates per year.
Agricultural
Graduates become officials in the
Higher School
College
prefectural government, experts for
2 to 3 years
3 years
agricultural assbciations, apprentices
and eventually technicians in the
agricultural experiment stations.
Graduates of these schools become.
Prefectural
apprentices and eventually technicians
Middle School
Agricultural
in the Agricultural Experiment Station
4 to 5 years
School
and obtain employment with the agri-
4 to 5 years
cultural associations.
Primary School-- 6 years
Figure.6
20

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
projects. I larger proportion of assistants with seme traiming is s
culture, but without advanced degrees, seems to be employed in the Ja
nese than in United States agrioultural experiment stations.
H. Budgets
1. The average annual budget of the Imperial and prefectarel
agricultural experiment stations for the 1936-40 and 194l-45 periods are
shown in Table 13. Increases in wages, salaries and other expenses
probably absorbed much of the increases in budgets for the latter peried
although no data bearing directly on this point have been collected.
2. Direct comparison with expenditures for agrioulture research
in the United States is difficult because of differences in responsi-
bilities as well as in wages, salaries, and other expenses. In general,
wages and salaries in yen in Japan were less than comparable items in
dollers in the United States. It appears that in relation to areas of
cultivated land and probably also in relation to agrioultural income;
Japan spent considerably more for agricultural research than did the
United States during these periods.
I. Freedom of Research
1. Interviews and casual examinations of Japanese sciontific
literature indicate that employees of the Imperial universities have a
surprising degree of freedom in choosing subjects for research as well
as in methods of approach. This appears to be true in many cases even
to the extent that colleagues in the same laboratory and the adminis-
trative officer in charge may not be informed as to what is being done.
2. Freedor of choice is not so evident in the agricultural
experiment stations. Most projects appear to have been planned in
relation to others in the same institution and to other institutions
belonging to the same subject matter classification. Where such projects
are of nation-wide significance and importance, conformity with the over-
all plan seems to be expected. Aside from this the leaders apparently
have as much choice with respect to individual research projects as would
be expected in the United States.
WORK OF THE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS
A. Co-ordination and Co-operation
1. Although theoretically independent of each other, consider-
able co-ordination of effort is found between the central government and
prefectural experiment stations, expecially in problems of national
importance or of particular interest to two or more prefectures. For
example, Tables 14 and 15 indicate respectively the prefectural stations
21

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
(1) co-operating with the Imporial. Agricultural Experimeat Statiome inc
breeding paddy rice, upland rice, barley, and wheat and with the Impesial
Tea Experiment Station in improving tea, and (2) those co-operating wit
the Imperial gricultural Experiment Station in studies with fertilisers,
studies of damage from cold sumer weather, deep snow, drought, insects,
and diseases. Co-operative projects involving two or more prefectures.
also are under way with breeding sweet potatoes, white potatoss, corn,
rape, soybeans, cotton, and flax.
2. Little co-operation or co-ordination of work seems to. eist
between prefectural experiment stations except in so far as this is
effected through co-operating with the Imperial stations. Likewise,
little co-operation exists between the different Imperial stations, for
example, between the Zootechnical Experiment Station and the Agrioultural
Experiment Station. The research projects of the Imperial stations are
so different from each other, hovever, that lack of co-ordination and.
co-operation seem to have cesei、little duplication of effort.
3. The sharp division of responsibilities has apparently led
to considerable unnecessery duplication of physical fecilities and of
personnel in the prefectures. In many cases a single station in a
prefecture would effect considerable reduction in expenses for upkeep.
make it possible to have better facilities and better trained personnel,
and assure more efficient adninistration.
B. Duplication of ffort
1. That unnecessary duplication of effort may take place is
strongly suegested by Tables 16, 17, and 18 in which are shown the .
number of prefecturel stations perticipating in similar or identical
pro jects or lines of work. A more critical study of the kinc of work
under way in each case would be necessary for definite conclusions.
However, it is difficult to conccive of & situation which would make it
necessary or desirable to breed new varieties of rice in 35 prefectures
(Table lo) or to conduct cultural projects in 42 of them.
C. Objectives of Agricultural Experimentation
1. The over-sll objectives of the egriculturel experiment
stations are to increase yields per nit area of land. improve the
quality of the product, and reduce costs of production. Because of a
large population end scercity of arable land. increasing yields per unit
are of land is of paremount importence.
~. Studies desined to improve farm equipment and adept it
for use on Japenesc farns, to increase the use of power or of other meens
of iolieving the Japanece farmer and his famil: of arduous labor do not
appear to have been a subjoct for extensive reseerch except as they have
been incidental to increasine production. Some enpirical trials or
22

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
comparisons of mechinery and power equipment imported from the Unitedo
States or other countries have been made at a number of stations. Utili-
zation of waste land or so-called "wild land" for grasing or for other
purposes appears to have attracted practically no attention from the
experiment stations although tris has been a popular subject for speou-
lative discussion for many years.
3. The specific researches and experiments conducted to meet
the over-all objectives heve involved practically every field of science
related to agriculture including εenetics, cytology, nutrition, physiology.
ecoloy and patholosy of plants and animals, and in some cases of their
parasities; plant end animal breeding; control of insect and diseese
pests; the chemistry and physics of various soils end soil types, soil
surveys, and analyses of fertilizers; kinds, rates, dates, and methods of
applying fertilizers, and cultural methods.
4. In eneral, the Imperial stations devote their main efforts
to the discovery of basic princinles and the solution of problems of
national sienificance. The prefecturel stations center their attention
on local problems with emphasis on results of immediate practical
importence. However, individual investigetors who are making important
contributions to basic science may be found in the prefectural stations.
5. The particular lines of work done et various stations or by
particular subject metter orgenizations vary a reat deel according to
respective responsibilities, location of the stations, and intereste of
the personnel concerned.
6. A generel idea of the principal lines of work designed to
provide immediatel useful information done by the prefectural ari-
cultural experiment ststions and sericulturel stations may be had from
Tebles 16, 17, and 18. These tables show that major ettention is devoted
to the breedin end testin of better varieties; studies of cultural
methods; control of diseases and insect pests; and the storage, manu-
facture, end processin of agricultural products.
7. The principal investigations of the prefectural sericultural
stations center on such problems es methods of reerin:: and breeding silk-
worms, manuring mulberry fields, trainin mulberry trees and gathering
leeves, breeding multerries, control of insect and dieeane pests of
mulberries anu oi silkworms, variety tests of mulberries and silkvorms,
studies of "wri-rilk" 6/, and the rowint of cetch crops in mulberry
fiels.
S. The fruit, vegetable, end tea prefecturel experiment
st tions are relatively few in number. Breedin., new vericties, cultural
netiiods, fertilizers, and.control of insects end diseese pests receive
6/ Silk fror. vild silkworms that feed on castor bean plants.
23

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
most attention. The tea experimemt stations are much concerened with
manufacturing processes.'
9. The prefectural livestock breeding farms were essablished
primarily to acquaint farmers with different breeds of livestock and
poultry and to provide them with representatives of the preferred breeds.
Conventional research has a minor part in their programs. Such research
or experimentation as is conducted has to do with comparisens of ess-
laying ability of fowls and artificial insemination of cattle m& sheep.
Feeding tests, the growing of feed crops, and the breeding of farm
animals receive attention at a few stations.
10. The research of the Imperial stations has led them into
practically every phase of the technical biological field with which
they are concerned.
D. Methods of Research
1. The over-all methods and philosophy of research appear to
be substantially the same as in the United States. In research with.
field crops, relatively more attention is given to laboratory research
and less to field experiments, possibly because land for the latter is
limited. This means relatively more dependence is placed on deductions
from general principles believed to have been established, and less on
empirical trials; also that much attention is given to establishing
principles. Nuch work has been done on the development of special
methods that will provide information on the adaptation of different
varieties and cultural practices to specific localities. Some of these
are reminiscent of similar developments in the United States; others are
new or quite different. Some of the modifications in breeding technics
are of general interest.
2. A few of the developments in methods, facilities, and
technics designed to furnish information to serve as a basis for better
practices or for breeding new varieties are (l) special experiment
stations end facilities for determining the response of rice varieties
to unseasonably low temperature; (2) the response of varieties of rice
to cold water; (3) a series of stations with environments and facilities
suitable for studying the effect of deficient sunshine on yields of rice
and of different varieties of rice; (4) special environments favorable
to the pericularia disease of rice in order to facilitate the selection
of resistant varieties; (5) provisions for raising and lowering the
water table in order to determine the effect of deficient water supplies
on the yield of rice and the response of different varieties thereto;
(6) means for determining the response of varieties of wheat and of rice
to length of day; (7) a potassium chlorate injury test for preliminary
evaluation of the resistarce of varieties and selections of wheat to
freezing temperatures; (8) special stations for determining the
resistance of varieties and selections of barley and wheat to snow
24

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
blight and the relation of damage to depth of snow, period snow lies on
the ground. carbohydrate exhaustion of the plants, and eusceptibility to
specific disease organisms; (9) methods for determining seed dormancy or
post harvest sprouting of varieties and selections of wheat, and (10)
selected stations and special methods for determing the resistance of rice
varieties to the rice borer.
3. Study of the principles that govern the adaptation of varie-
ties of wheat and rice to particular localities has been emphasised. For
this purpose the distribution of native varieties and of new varieties
adapted to restricted areas only, have been studied with respect to vari-
ous plant characteristics and the relation of these to specific climatic
and soil conditions and to disease and insect pests. Of special interest
are current studies on the response of wheat and barley varieties to soil
acidity and to deficiencies of specific mineral elements, especially
phosphorous and potassium.
4. The extensive practice of distributing F3 and F4 generations
of wheat and rice to subsidiary or co-operating stations appears to be
unique. In the United States hybrid populations ordinarily are not re-
leased to other stations until selections have been made, purified, and
subjected to preliminary tests. In Japan early distribution of new
selections is regarded as an important and integrel part of the breeding
program. Since the procedure is substantially the same for both wheat
and rice, it will be described only for wheat.
5. The crosses are made at four central or primary breeding
centers: Konosu in Saitama Prefec-
ture (Figure 7), Morioka in Ivate
Prefecture. Himeji in Hyogo Prefec-
ture, and Hainuzuka in Fukuaka
Prefecture. Varieties used as
parents are those considered most
likely to contribute the charac-
teristics needed for the region
served by each center. The third
and fourth generation hybrids are
distributed to certain prefectural
stations designated as local or
secondary centers, chosen because
of location, facilities, or person-
nel (Table 14) The particular
function of these stations is to
make selections from the hybrids
on the basis of preliminary tests
for resistence to diseases, yields,
and other desirable traits. Seed
Figure 7. - The Konosu Experi-
of the more promising Belections
mental Farm, Saitama Prefecture
is distributed to other prefectural
25

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
stations in the region, krown as tertiary breeding centers. The location
of the primary, secondery, and tertiery breeding stations end the channels
of distribution are shown in Figure 8.
6. From 10 to 20 of the more promising strains are included in
a uniform series of tests throughout each region, the results of which are
assembled at the wheat-breeding centers, summarized, and reported to all
co-operating stations.
7. The edventages claimed for this  ihod are (1) it takes
advantege of end mekes use to the fullest extent of the better facilities
and generally better trained personnel of the primary breeding craters;.
and (2) selections ere more likely to include the best segregates because
they ere made in the arees the program is intended to serve.
2. The back crossing technique, extensively used in recent
years in bre- ding small rains in the United States, appears to have been
practiced little in Japen.
E. Field Plot Techniques
1. Few date have been collected regaraing rield plot techniques.
Such observations as it hes been possible to make, interviews, rd exami-
nation of Japenese literature indicate that statistical methods.
received little attention. Experiments are onerally conducted in single,
duplicate, or occasionally in triplicate plot tests. In meny cases.
however, variety tests and perheps others are repcated on different fields
with different fertilizers, dates, or ratcs of secding. Also the same
experiment may be repeated in substantially the seme way at several
stations.
2. Plots are generally smell. The usual sizes for small grain
plots appear to be 5 to 10 tsubos (approximately 20 to 40 square yards).
So-called field experiments such as used in the United States with plots
large enou h to be seeded, and harvested with horse or power-drewn
equipment are prectically unknown in Japen. The grein is seeded by hand,
harvested with a sickle, end threshed with a flail or a simple threshing
machine consisting of a wooden cylinder with looped-wire teeth end
opereted by a motor.
5. The size of plots end number of replications used in ferti-
lizer experiments at severrl prefecturel stations as reported by the
Imperial Agricultural xperiment Station at Nishigahara ere shoim in
Table 19. These experiments are with paddy end uplend rice,wheat, sweet
potatoes, d white potatoes. Experiments with small plots (less then
about one square meter) are known as "freme" experiments. Esch of there
plots is surrounicd by a metal or concrete freme sunk into the grouni.
26

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.92)
GNG SCAP NRS
WHEAT BREEDING STATIONS
IN JAPAN
-TOKACHI
HOKKAIDO
LEGEND.
HIDAKA
PRMARY STATION
BECONDARY STATIONS
TENTIARY STATIONS
TOHOKU
HOKURIKU
KANTO
KINKI
3
CHÜGOKU
E
TOKAI
SHIKOKU
4
P
KYūSHÙ
27

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
ACHIEVEONTS 7/
A. General
1. Because several years would be required to assemble the
necessary information and interpret the achievements of the various
experiment stations, the discussion will be confined to only a few con-
tributions which appear to have resulted in outstanding practical beme
fits.
B. Improvements in Silk Production
1. Improvements in silk production in Japan provide en exemple
of an outstanding contribution of science to an agricultural industry as
well as useful avenues of approach. Probably no Japanese industry is so
dependent on research as is the silk industry, and certainly none has
profited more from research.
2. The sericultural experiment stations, which have the major
responsibility of research in this field, have investigated practically
all problems related to the silk industry. The studies that have con-
tributed to the most importent practical results include: (1) selection
and breeding of superior races or varieties of silkworms and of
mulberries; (2) relation of environmentel conditions to voltiam; (3)
nutrition and rearing methods for silkworms: (4) control of disease and
insect pest of mulberries and silkworms; (5) improvement in the methods
of testing silkworm moths for the presence of the pebrine disease; (6)
economical methods of. producing silkworm eggs and of increasing the
supply for distribution to farmers; (7) improvements in filature
practices; (8) methods of gathering and feeding leaves to reduce losses
from rapid drying while simultaneously avoiding losses of silkworms
from diseases favored by high humidity; and (9) culture of mulberries
including varieties, methods, and rates of fertilisation.
3. A notable achievement is the use of I1 hybrids between
certain Chinese and Japanese races of sill:orms now used almost ex-
clusively for the commercial production of silk in Japan (Figure 9)
These Fi hybrids are more vigorous, less susceptible to disease, and
spin larger cocoons than any pure race of silkworms. The same basic
genetic principle (heterosis) is involved in silkworm hybrids as in the
prbduction of hybrid corn in the United States. The basic discoveries
leading to the use of F1 hybrids in silk production were made by K.
Toyama of Tokyo Imperial University in 1909 8/and put to use about five
years later. The sharp upward trend in silk production per metric ton
reported elsewhere.
8
Toyama, K., Breeding Silkworms and the Protection of Egg Producers,
San-Shu-Ron (Treatise on Silkworm Races), 1909, pp 735-747
(Japanese)
28

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.95)
of cocoons, which began with the
1915 to 1917 period, probably às
due largely to this eontributiom
(Table 20 and F1gure 10).
4. The use of F1 hybrids
requires controlled mating of the
silkworm moths, a laborious and
time-consuming process because of
the difficulty in distinguishing
the sexes. This problem has been
largely overccme recently by trans-
ferring sex-linked markers to
three parent races; by this means
the sexes can be readily identi-
fied in the larval stage. Com-
mercial utilization of this
principle was made in Japan in
Figure 9. - Cocoons from F1 hybrid
1945 for the first time. This
silkworms (center), derived from
contribution of genetic science to
crossing Chinese l08 (left) and Japa- a practial problem is analagous
nese 115 (right)
to the transfer of sex-linked
markers in poultry which has
attracted the attention of poultry breeders in the United States in
recent years.
5. Another notable research
achievement has been the treatment of
8oo
UNIT PRODUCTION
OF
silkworm eggs, the development of
COCOONS ANO OF RAW SILK
methods of storage, and artificial
700
IN JAPAN
hatching of the eggs so that monovoltine
Cocoone per hectere of mulberries
races of silkworms may be produced at
600
Rew sllk per hectore of mutberrles
any time during the year. Monovoltine
Row ailk per metric ton ef cocsens
races are preferred because of the better
500
quality of cocoons they produce. Un-
treated eggs, like the seeds of certain
400
plants, remain dormant for a consider-
able time unless exposed to a rather
300
specific combination of environmental
conditions. Because the oggs normally
200
hatch only in the spring, the silk
farmer has been limited to what silk-
100
worms can be produced in a brief period
each year. The new methods permit
0
hatching at any time during the year.
2
-
10-5-01
10-8011
1133-17
1925-27
1920-32
1932-57
8581
Figure 10
29

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
6. Efficient labor-saving methods have be
inspection of silkworm moths for the presence of pebrine, a
parasite (Noseme bombycis). Its importance may be realised from
that about * 1,000,000 are spent in Japan each year for inspeetiom
services. Because of the improved inspection methods, losses in 
are small compared to those of other countries where inspections
made or are inadequate to control the disease: Cosoon production wit
inspection is largely a gamble.
7. Simple but effective improvements in feeding techniques
prevent excessive drying of the young mulberry leaves has resulted im
saving of about 20 percent. The improved method consits of feedingt
young worms in boxes covered with paraffin-impregnated paper to maintain
the humidity at mar the saturation point. At the same time, mildew and
other diseases are prevented by spraying with formalin. After the secemd
instar, the leaves are fed attached to the branches which prevents eze
cessively rapid drying and saves much labor otherwise expended in picking
the leaves. Because of these improvements, it has been estimated that the
over-all saving in labor will be not less than 40 percent.
8. A recent improvement in methods is the development of co-
operative rearing of the worms for the first 10 days after hatching.
During this period they require special care to prevent injury by un-
favorable weather. The co-operative service provide? controlled temper-
ature and moisture conditions, specially trained help and technical
advice. The method is comparable to the mass hatching of baby chicks by
commercial enterprises in the United States, except that it has been
developed along co-operative lines in Japan.
9. A general idea of the over-all
improvement in silk production methods brought
about primarily by these contributions may be
PRODUCTION OF C
gained from Table 20 and Figures 10 and 11.
RANW BILK
JAPAN
10. The area in mulberries and the
production of cocoons reached a maximm in the
1928-32 period while that of silk occurred in
the 1933-37 period. Subsequently, silk pro-
duction dropped because of war-induced demands
for replacement of mulberries dth food crops.
Lack of adequate quantities of fertilizers also
has been an important factor in the decline.
3ince 1889-92, the earliest period for which
mulberry area data are available, the area in
mulberries increased less than 200 percent, the
production of cocoons about 650 percent, and
of sild about 1,100 percent. In other words,
Figure 11
30

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
increased production of silk is due in pert to an increase in the mulbersy
acreage, but more significantly to improvements in methods of producing
cocoons and silk. This is shown most clearly in Figure l0 which depicts
the production of cocoons and of silk per hectare of mulberries, and of
silk per metric ton of cocoons. Also during this period, the production
of cocoons per unit area of mulberries increased more than 150 percent
and of silk more than 400 percent. Production of silk per metric ton of
cocoons increased more than 100 percent. The marked increase in pro-
duction of cocoons per hectare of mulberries, which began with the 1918-
22 period, is believed to heve been lar ely due to artificial hatching and
feedine of silkworms, while the sharp increase in silk per metric ton of
cocoons that began with the 1913-17 period is attributed to the use of
F1hybrids.
11. It should not be inferred that all improvements are to be
credited to the sericultural experiment stations, because they were not
esteblished until after some of the important discoveries had been made.
Some of the improvements are the results of research in the universities
end other research institutions of Japan; others are due to the initi-
ative, originality, and industry of the Japanese farmers themselves. The
sericultural stations may be regarded as one result of these early
achievements just as much as they are the ori instors of those im-
provements which ceme leter. It is obvious that much of the research
thet led to these improvements is far beyond the comprehension of un-
trained personnel.
C. Improvement of Rice Varieties
1. Because rice is the most important crop in Japan, it has
been the subject of more intensive and extensive investi ation than any
other crop. The experiments thet appear to heve been particularly
productive are those on the efficient use of fertilizers, especially the
interrelations of fertilizers and varieties; and those on the impro vement
of varieties by breeding including those concerned with basic principles.
While this discussion will be limited to varicty improvement, it should
be noted that best results are obteined with superior varieties only on
properly fertilized soils and, conversely, the best rcsults with ferti-
lizers cannot be expected unless suitable varieties are rown.
2. Since rice has been grown in Japen for meny hundreds of
years, considerable inprovement in verieties would le expected as a
result of natural selection as well as from conscious or unconscious
selection by farmers. vidence shows improvements have been effected by
all these methods. In a collection of more than 4,C00 local lots
assembled by the Imperial Agricultural xperiment Ststion some 45 yeers
ago, about 700 different types were found thet could be distin uished by
31

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
differences in yield were demonstrated by experimental triale.
3. That farmers have contributed to variety improvemems is
attested by the fact that 17 varieties produced by them were being srowm
as 1ate a 194510/.
4. The earliest improvemente for which definite records and
experimentel proof exist were made by selection from native varieties
both by farmers and by the agricultural experiment stations. One of the
best known of these varieties grown at the present time is Asahi selected
by a farmer in l903. It is now grown on about 11 percent of the rice.
area of Japan, principally in centrel Honshu. Other varieties produced
by fermers are Shinriki, selected in 1877; Aikoku, selected in 1889; and
Bozu, selected in 1895. Aikokn is grown on about four percent of the
rice acreage and the others to a lesser extent.
5. Riku-l32 was selected oy the Imperial Branch Tohoku station
because of its resistence to the pericularia disease. It was first dis-
tributcd in 1925 and is now one of the important varieties in northern
Honshu. It wes considered such a veluable variety by rice growers of
the area that a monument wes erected at Akita to comnemorate the avent.
6. An important forward step wes taken with the introduction
of foreign varieties, the discovery of resistance to pericularia in
certain ones, and the use of these verieties in crosses with native
varieties by the Imperial Agriculturel Experiment Station beginning about
1903. Since pericularie is the most important disease of rice in Japan,
the creation of varieties resistant to it has been an important objective
since that tine.
7. Serious deleys and difficulties were at once encountered
beceuse of (1) a hi h degree of sterility and (2) uncertainty in identi-
fying resistant se, recates because of sporadic occurrences of the
disease. The first difficulty hes been largely overcome by recrossing
and porsistent selection, end the second by rowing rice in special
environments favorable to the development of the diseese. As a result,
several new pericularia-resistant varieties have been produced in recent
years that are adepted for growin in various regions of Japan. The
first of th ese mede its appearance on Jepanese farms in 1930, and the
acrcn e devoted to thew has increased rapidly since that time. It has
been estimated that in 1946 about 46 percent of the total rice area of
Japen grew new hybrid verieties nd an additionel 23 percent grew
selcctions produced by the Imperial Agricultural xperiment Station in
2/ Tarco, H., The Present Status of Rice Improvement in Japen, Third
Pan-Pacific Coneress, Toyo, pp 1179-1185. 1926
10/ Matsuo, Takemine, a History of the Improvement of Rice Varieties in
Japan, No yo Gijitsu (In griculturel Technics) Yo 1. Feb 1946 (In
Japanese)
32

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
co-operaticn with the prefectural stations 11/. In other words, all but
31 percent of the rice area is devoted to varieties produced by these
stetions. In. some prefectures these new varieties are grown on practi-
cally l00 percent of the rice area.
ε. Of speciel interest ana inportance is the creation of early
maturing verieties for northern Honshu and Hokiaido. Hice was first
grown in Hokkaido about 250 years ago in a smell area in the southeastern
part of the island (Figure 12). In about 1868 the distribution of the
carly maturing variety Akage (red avn), discovered by a farmer, permitted
extension of the rice area to the Ishikari Velley which is now the
principal rice growing area of this prefecture. In 1895 another new
variety, Bozu (neked head, i.e. without awns), elso discovered and
selected by a farmer, is credited with increasing the average yield by
about 10 percent. The next important step was the production by the
Hokkaido Agricultural Experiment Station of the variety Hashiri-Bosu by
crossing the two early varieties Sekigake and Bozu. It was distributed
to fermers in l923. This new variety matures earlier then either of the
parents and made possible a further increase of the rice growing area.
9. The latest importent contribution was mede in 1937 with the
introduction of Norin No 1l produced through the co-operative efforts of
the Imperiel end the Hokkaido Agricultural Experiment Stations. It is
the earliest meturin: variety yet produced. Its release to farmers has
made it possible to grow rice on paddy land in practically all sections
of Hokkaido. Several other new and more productive varieties have been
created and distributed for growing in centrel and southern Hokkaido.
10. The increase in the acreage and production of rice and the
average yield of rice in Hokkaido since 1885 when statistical data were
first available are given in Table 2l. The extension of the rice growing
area concomitant with the introduction of early maturing varieties is
shown in Figure l2; the area, production, and yield per hectare are given
in Figure 13.
1l. It might be expected that average yields for Hokkaido as a
whole would decrease with an increase in area because of the extension
of rice growing into presumably less favorable regions. On the contrary
the data show no decrease in yield per unit aree but a materiel increase
when the average for 1885 to 1392 is isnored beceuse of the small acreage
then in rice. From 1893 to 1897 the increase in yield appears to have
been about 400 to 500 kilograms per hectare. However. the fluctuation
in average yields from season to season is so great that an accurate
appreisel of the increases in yield per unit area is impossible from
these data.
D. Improvement of Wheat Varieties
1. Wheat occupied a relatively minor position in Japan until
the early 1930s, when a marked increase in area resulted from a five-year
11/ ibid
33

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.92)
EXTENSION OF RICE PRODUCING
AREAS IN JAPAN
Rabun-Jing
Rissiai
Sima
3.
MABGRO
2.
HOKKAIDO
AUnGRaN
口
HONSHU
EXTENSION OF RICE PRODUCING AREAS IN
JAPAN
1. RICE FIRST GROWN HERE IN ABOUT FFOO.
2.RICE GROWN HERE AFTER THE DISCOVERY OF THE
EARLY MATURING VARIETY AKAGE IN 1B68.
3.NORTHERN LIMIT OF RICE GROWING AFTER THE PRO-
DUCTION OF THE VERY EARLY VARIETY HASHIRI-BOZU
4.NORTHERN LIMITS OF RICE GROWING AFTER THE DIS-
TRIBUTION OF NORIN NO11IN 193O, THE EARLIEST
VARIETY AFTER TERAO KNOWN.
Figure 12
34

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
plan inaugurated by the Imperial Govermment
increase production. During the same period
merked increase is showm in yield per unit aree
Probably the most important reason for this
increase is the production of new early mm-
turing disease resistant varieties by the
Imperial and prefectural stations. Greater use
of mineral fertilizers was also an important
factor. As is true with rice, the use of ferti-
lizers and of improved varieties for wheat sre
interrelated so that the full benefits of
neither can be secured wi thout the other.
2. Crosses between native varieties and
and those of foreign origin have played an
important role in wheat improvement just as for
rice.
Figure 13
3. All new varieties of wheat of
hybrid origin that now are grown on one percent
or more of the Japanese wheat acreage, the total area in varieties of
hybrid origin, and the proportion this bears to the total wheat area are
listed in Table 22. This letter amounts to 66.2 percent. In some prefec-
tures, new varieties produced by the experiment stations occupy 80 percent
or more of the wheat area.
4. Although 19 varieties are each growm on one percent or more
of the wheat acreage, none of them is grown on as much as 10 percent of
the area (Table 22). This points up the faot that no single variety of
wheat is well adapted for growing on any large area because of the great
range in climatic conditions, differences in altitude, and the prevalence
of different diseases. With respect to some characteristics at least, it
is either difficult or impossible to combine in a single variety the many
qualities necessary to cause it to be well adapted throughout even a major
agricultural region of Japan. Norin 20, grown on approximately one-third
of the wheat area of Kyushu, is probably the nearest approach to a widely
adapted variety.
E. Plant Disease Control
1. In order to provide practical control measures, research with
plant diseases has been im important function of the agricultural experi-
ment stations for many years 12/.
2. A list of the principal diseases of field crops, together
with the names of the causal organiams generally accepted by Japanese
12 Prepared by Lt Cmdr E.L. Waldee, USNR, Agriculture Division
35

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
authorities, is given in Table 23. Estimated losses owing to the more
important diseases for the three major crops for each year from 194l to
1945 inclusive are siven in Table 24.
3. Only two diseases will be discussed, i. e., wheat stripe,
and snow blight of wheat and barley. Both are of interest to the United
States. Wheat stripe has been found in the United States, but apparently
it is caused by a different organism. It is much less destructive than
the Japanese form. Snow blight damage is much more. general and hes been
studied more intensively in Japan than in the United States.
4. Wheat stripe first made its appearance in Okayama Prefecture
in 1931. Within three years it was found to be prevalent in 3,000
hectares and had spread to 5,000 hectares in this prefecture by 1941.
Control measures worked out by experiment stetion pathologists and put
into effect reduced the effected area to 2,000 hectares in 1944. In the
meantime the disease had spread to other areas of Japan as shown in
Figure 14.
5. The wheat stripe disease resembles barley stripe, being
caused by a similar organism (Cephalosporium gramineum Nish et Ikata).
It lives in the soil in plant debris and may be carried to new areas by
infected seed, straw, or animal droppings. Occurrence of the disease in
one prefecture in Japan is thought to have been the result of shipping
in infected shrunken grain for chicken feed. The disease occurs particu-
larly on upland fields. In paddy fields the disease organisms do not
ordinerily survive flooding. Infected fields produce either little or
no grain, or,badly shrunken grain only.
6. Control measures consist of (1) the use of disease-free
seed, or immersion of infected seed in a fungicide solution; (2) roguing
diseased plents; (3) avoiding the use of compost containing infected
straw; and (4) crop rotation. In Nagano Prefecture late seeding also is
recommended.
7. Snow blight (Figure l5) or snow damage occurs especially in
a long narrow belt of variable width in western Honshu extending almost
throughout the length of the island. Its occurrence is associated with
the presence of deep snow (50 cm or more) that lies on the ground for
80 or more days. Water from melting snow may be a contributing factor
where drainage is not adequate. The areas where damage is most severe
and frequent are shówn in Figure 16. In some areas damage may occur
nearly every year end in others only occasionelly. In certain areas
where damage is most severe little wheat or barley is grown.
8. Damage is due to fungus infection following carbohydrate
exhaustion of the plants. Fungi involved are Typhula itoana, Fusurium
spp, and Pythium spp. Two or more of the organisms mey be involved in
particular cases, but usually one will predominate. Typhula is
36

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
GHO SCAP NRS
STRIPE DISEASE OF WHEAT
IN JAPAN
HOKKAIDO
TOHOKU
JAKITA
HONSHU
HOKURIKU
TOZAN
KANTO
30
KINKI
GIFU
CHUGOKU
0
TOKAP
SHIKOKU
KYUSHU
LEGEND
AREAS IN WHICH STRIPE DISEASE
08
OF WHEAT IS KNOWN TO OCGUR-
100
290
Figure 14
37

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
generally most important on barley,
Pythium on wheat, and Fusarium on
rye in the few cases where rye is
grown. The predoninating oreanism
seems to depend also on erea. In
general Typhula predominetes in
the Tohoku District, Pythium in
the Hokuriku District, and
Fusarium in the more mountainous
areas.
9. The principal control
measures now recommended ere (1)
use of resistant varieties
developed. in recent years; (2)
early sowin to insure strong
plents before snow fall; (3) high
ridge culture to expedite drainage;
Fi ure 15. - Wheat plants killed
(4) spraying the plants and sur-
by snow-blight, Aizu District,
rounding soil surface with
Fukushina Prefecture
bordeeux mixture or dusting with
Ceresan before the enticipated
date of the first anow likely to remain on the rounu; (5) sprinkling the
surface of the snow with soil to hasten melting (Figure 17); (6) expe-
diting the drainage of water fron meltin: snow; end (7) side-dressing
with fertilizers in the sprin as soon as the soil is ary. Twelve new
varieties of wheet and two of barley more or less resistant to snow blight
and adapted to some portion of the
affected a'eas have been developed
in recent years. It is claimed
that resistant varieties of barley
first distributed ebout 10 years
ago have resulted in a three-fold
increase in the acreage of this
crop after paddy rice in Niicata
Prefecture. Also it is said that
in the mountainous areas of the
Aizu District of Fukusrima Prefec-
ture, berley εrovin is possible
only because of resistant
varieties.
F. Per Unit Area Yields of
Rice, Whest, and Barley
1. Yields per unit erea
Figure 17. - Larth scattered on
of rice, wheet, end barley provide
surface of snow to hasten melting
a convenient over-ell picture of
the improvements made in the
38

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.93)
SNOW DAMAGE ON WHEAT
AND BARLEY IN JAPAN
HOKKAIDO
HONSHU
5
50
/NYOSO
YAMAGUCHI!
0
SHIKOKU
KYUSHU
LEGEND
Moderete Demage
00
Severe Damage
BY ASUYAMA, H.
190
Figure 16
39

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
production of thece crops. Data ere
DUGTIGN PER UNNT AREA OF IGE,
presented in Tables 35 and 26 and
WHEAT, AND BARLEY IN JAPAY.
graphically in Figure 1?. Since pro-
duction per unit area is often related
to area, tote1 arees end total pro-
duction of eaca cron ere also given in
the tables and are presented graphically
in Figures 19 and 20.
3. Production per hectare of
rice ns increased sbout 70 percent; of
wheat, nearly 140 percent, of common
barley, about 119 percent; and of naked
barley, 62 percent, using εs bases of
comperison the five-yenr perinds ending
igure 18
in 1882 and 194?. Since 1942 yielas
have declined somewhat, owing to inade-
quate supplies of fertilizers.
3. The increases in the yields of rice and wheet are all the
more remrkeble since they heve been accompenied by an increase in erea
of rice of ebout 25 percent and of wheet of ll9 percent. The area de-
voted to conmon barley declined about 40 percent and that of ne'red barley
increased about 9 percent.
4. Without doubt an important reason for these larger yields
is the more extensive and more efficient use of inorgnic fertilizers.
Phosphorous was first used experimentelly in Japan in about le75, but its
use and that of other conmercial fertilizers
did not becone general until after 1900 13/.
Conaumption of all commercial fertilizere
increased to a 11ttle more thrn 5,000,000
metric tons in the 1936 to 1940 period and
AREA OF RICE,
then rapidly declined to less than 500,000
metric tons in 1945. Tne use of organic ferti-
BOOO
lizers also incrensed after 19o0 to & maximum
of about 2,000,000 metric tons in 1925 and
1936, declined gradually until about 1938, and
then rapidly to less than 100,000 metric tons
in 1945. It will be seen, therefore, thet the
increeces in the yield per hectare of rice,
wheat, end be rley up to about 1942 and the
declined therenfter are roughly conconitant
with like changes in the use of fertilizers.
Together with experimental evidence, these
13/ Oral conversetion with S. Nasu, fornierly
professor of Agricultural Economics,
Figure 19
Tolyo Imperial University
40

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
facts leave little room for doubting that
fertilizers heve played an importent role
PROSUCTION OF RICE,
in increasing yields. It is equally clear
WHEAT AND BARLEY
that this is not the only factor involved.
LEGEND
RIG
000
EAT
5. It might be thought that the
1
larger yields in recent years are due to
shifts in acresge from less to more pro-
FO000
ductive land as, for example, from upland
to paddy fields or in the case of common
barley to the reduction in area having
1000
taken place primarily on the less pro-
ductive land. Sore changee of this. sort
have occurred, but those thet are known
apperr to be insufficient to account for
Figure 20
more than e minor fraction of the increese.
For example 26 percent of the common
barley was grown in paddy fields in the five-year period ending in 1930
and 32.3 percent for the five-year period ending 1942, an increese of 6.3
percentage points. Comperable changes in the same direction are 5.5 per-
centage points for wheet and 3.5 for neked barley. The proportion of rice
grown on paddy end non-paddy fields hes not changed. Precticelly no
change has teken place in the aree of cultivated land per farm family from
1910 to 1937 14/. Data fron the Ministry of Agriculture end Forestry
indicate no material change to 194). These cata cuggest no increnses in
labor per unit area of cultivated land such es might account for an in-
crease in yield.
8. Available evidence offers no reasoneble explanation for the
greatly incrcased yields per unit  res of cultivated land of these in-
portent crops other than more efficient production brought about by the
use of larger quantities of fertilizers. more efficient use of fertilizera.
improved methods of culture, and better varieties. No wey seems to exist
in which the relative effects of these various items can be evslusted with
aveilable information.
G. Improved Tee Culture
1. Tea affords enother exenple of significent improvement in
production methods brought about to a considercble extent by research.
The production of tea in metric tons by five-yenr periods from l87e to
1942, and each year from 1938 to 1945, and erea end production per unit
area beginning in 1894 are shown in Teble 27. Area, total production,
and production per unit pres are shown graphically in Figure 2l.
14/ ibid 69
41

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.96)
2. Contrasted with most crops, the
sres in tee declined nearly 15,000 hectores
15/ from the 1394-1897 period to the 1938-
194? period or more than one-fourth. However,
totel production incressed 27.000 metrio tons
or ebout 90 percent, end production per
hectere wes neerly tripled.
3. Much of the increase in yield per
hectare undouotedly is due to the use of
Isrger quentities of fertilizers end their
more efficient uses. The msrked decline in
vielde after 194? concomitent with the de-
crerse in the ufe of fertiliver is in line
with this explenation.
4. Equslly ce important s the in-
cresse in vields per unit ares is the
Figure 21
reduction in costs of production brought about
by the substitution of shenring for hand pick-
ing and the development of specirl equinment for curing vlic greetly
reauced costs of processing the lerves. Shes ring hss incresred the rate
of gothering leaves about io times as compsred witis hand picking. Sheping
the bushes facilitigtee sher ring end prevento gathering etems as well es
lervee. Offici: le of the Imperirl Tes Experiment Station estinate thet
over- ll costs of production neve been reauced one-half.
DISCUSSION
A. General
1. Japanese gricultur 1 experiment stations have undoubtedly
played fundamentally importent roles in increesing the production of
food and other crops and crop products essentiel to a balanced economy.
The iiaportance of this can sccrcely be over-emphasized becsuse Japan hes
only aoout as much arable land (15,000,000 ecres) as Kenses farmers seed
to wheat in e single f vorable year end between 70 and 75 million people
who wust depend on this iand directly or inairectly for the wajor pro-
portion of their food  s well es other meens of livelihood. The Imperir1
15
A chenge in methods of estinr ting ares which cppyrently accounts
for a decline of rbout 4,700 hectores in the 1930 crop rs compered
vith the 192s crop renders conparisons before cnd cubsequent to
1920 wore thrn usully uncertrin. Cclculations here re baced on
the ese untion tis t tnc reported creo in tes previcus to l9ro is
4,700 hectsres too grent.
42

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
end prefectural governments have apparently been well aware of the besic
inportance of egricultural research as shown by thc comparatively liberal
finencial support provided for the a ricultural experiment station system.
2. To an otserver from the United States, the most striking
feeture of the Jepanese systen is the lerge nuuber of experiment stations.
The question naturally arises as to whether so meny are neceseary. Among
the fects to be considered ars the wide renee of climatic conditions in
Jepan, the division of responsibilities of the experiment stations, the
tendency to establish several small stations rether than e single large
one, end the role of the prcfecturel stations in farmer educetion.
3. Fron the norticrn tip of Hok:aido to southern Kyushu is
a distence of more then 1, 100 miles and a range in latitude of more than
14°. Merked differences i altitude ere illustrated by Mount Fuji, which
rises to an elevation of about 12,400 feet. Northern Honshu and Hokkeido
are greatly effected in wintcr by cold winds fron Siberia which pick up
moisture frow the Japan Sea na deposit it as a heavy blsnket of snow
elong the coest and adjoinin hi hland. In contrest, southern Japan has
e subtropical climate similar in many respecte to that of the southeestern
United States. The average annual precipitation ran es fror fewer than
40 inches in easters Hokkaido to more than l20 inches in parts of Honshu
and Shikoku. Marked differences in tempersture and cloudiness are found
in different parts cf Japan in summer. Altogether, few countries have
such reat contrasts in climate es are found in such ehort diatances as
in Japen. This means that any experiment stations are necessary in
order to serve all agricultural artes properly.
4. Another reason for nuserous stetions is a tendency on the
part of the Japanese to set up slall stations for specirl protlens end
sin le crops rather than a sinic stations with ultiple responsibilities.
In sone cases this practice is clearly justified, as when a particular
locetion is chosen to study snow damege of wheet or barley in a place
where sno: damace occurs; or one to breed sweet potatoes because the
climate or soil of the main station is not suitcble for growin: this crop.
Whether equally co ent reasons epply in ell cr ses may well be doubted.
The advisability of setting up seperate and independent prefecturel
stations responsiule only to higher prefecturel officials for the study
of citrus fruits, horse-radish, or tobacco is also doubtful. A second
question, therefore, arises es to how much division of responsibility is
desirable.
5. Another inportant fect bearing on the nuwter of stations is
the resconsibility of the prefectural stetions for fermer education,
spocial services, and a certain amount of student training. These
functions are performed in the United States by separete institutions set
up for that purpose and by private individuals or corporations. Rural
travel in Japen is mostly by foot or by bicycle. Meny communities are
more or less isolated by mounteins and poor roads. In order to perform
43

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
these various services, a considerable number of prefectural stations is
necessary.
6. The existence of so many separate independent establishments
in each prefecture for agricultural research herdly seems justified.
Combining the crops, livestock, and sericulturel stations under the
general direction of a single technically trained administrator with
technically trained subordinates in charge of each importent subject
matter branch miht be expected to result in better administration, more
productive research, better trained personnel, and better equipped labo-
ratories and greenhouses. Congregation of students in one placewith
opportunities to become familiar with technical improvements in all
phsses of agriculture should result in a broader education and increased
opportunities for service. The number of livestock stations appears to
be excessive whether considered in reletion to the neads of the livestock
incustry or the opportunities for significant contributions to the
economy of J..pen (Fi ure 22).
7. Some reorganization or better means for liaison seems neces-
sary between the various ministries and bureeus of the central covernment
having administrative responsibilities for the Imperial experiment
stations. For example, to justify one ministry for the Hoikaido Station
and another for all other stations is quite difficult. Some of the
bureaus that have edministrative responsibilities for the experiment
stations have other responsibilities quite foreign to research. In
certain cases, responsipilities for essentially the same kind of reseerch
are shared by different bureaus. Although the subject matter for which
the different'Imperial stations
are responsible is quite distinct,
nevertheless overlapping results;
for example, fertilizers for
mulberries, fruit trees and field
crops; improving crops or grasses
for livestock; storage,and pro-
cessing of foods. Separate
administrations without adequate
provision for liaison as now
prevail sre likely to lead to
unnecessary duplication of effort
or feilure to take prompt
advantage of advances in closely
related fielus.
8. Increased effective-
ness of research pro rems could
Figure 22. - Part of a Holstein
be expected from better co-
herd, Imperiai Zootechnical Experi-
ordination of the reseerch work
ment Station, Chiba
of the different prefectures so
44

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
as to take into account similarities and dissinilsrities of climate, soil.
insect and disease pests, end with the research organised around agri-
cultural problems instead of on the basis of prefectural boundaries. 
reduction in the number of stations breeding rice or conducting cultural
tests with wheat concomitant with better field plot techniques and
interpretations of the results in relation to ecologicel factors could
result in more effective research and greater efficiency. An important
beginning in this direction seens to have been made in certain lines of
wor through co-operation with the Imperial gricultural xperiment
Station.
B. Relation of the Stations to Future Food Production
1. The question naturally arises es to whether the agriculturai
experiment stations can contribute to the current emergency; if so, how;
and whether they are doing all that cen reasonably be expected of them.
The first question can without doubt be answered in the affirmative. The
others require some explenation.
2. Because per wit area production is now hiher probably than
in any other country, the assumption seems prevalent that they can be no
higher. This appears to be an unwarranted assumption, provided adequate
quantities of fertilizers are made available. Fertilizers are so
importent that a discussion of the possibility of hi her yields is lergely
academic when based on eny other premise. However, the stetions can
provide valueble information as to the most effective use of inadequete
quantities of fertilizers.
3. The production per unit area curves (Tables 20, 21, 25, 26,
27, and Figures 10, 13, 18, end 21) were generally on the upgrade until
deficient supplies of fertilizers and possibly of labor owing to the war
began to have an effect. No good reason to assume they hed reached their
ultimate limits is ap arent. On the contrary it is well kmown thet with
favorable conditions, yields far in excess of the average yields for
Japan as a whole are possible. The problem, therefore, is one of avoidin
or removing the unfavorable factors or of reducine their effects.
4. Some of these unfavorable factors are related to weather or
climate which cannot be modifiei by man. It is sometimes possible, how-
ever, to grow crops or varieties that will avoid or escape their effects,
or be tolerant to them, or some of the effects mey be offset by special
management practices. For example, a deficient supply of weter at heading
time may seriously reduce the yield of rice. A relatively small quantity,
supplied perhaps by pumping underground water, would meterially increase
the yields under such conditions. In many small areas it appears
additionel water would be beneficial. Until the subject is investigated
more thoroughly, one can only speculte as to increase in production that
might reasonably be expected by this means.
45

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
5. Other factors that reduce yielus ere insect and disease
pests. Lotable proress in controlling then has been made, but it is
not reasonchle to suppose that all possible or precticel measures have
been used.
6. Inadequate drainage in certei. freas reduces the yields or
oven prevents the seeding of a winter crop of wheat or berley efter rice.
Here also opportunities for improvement seem to exist.
7. Floods cause serious losses in some years 16/. It is not
clear that all practical measures have been taken to prevent such losses.
8. The Japenese people prefer rice to any other crop for food.
Hundreds of yecrs of experience in growing it and a certain degree of
conservatism characteristic of farmers may ave led to rowing rice on
land thet would produce more food from other crops. Indien corn end
Irish potatoes, for example, erow remarkebly well et high elevations in
some localities. Recent studies indicate thet Iriah potatoes in some
locelitics may be rown successfully preceding a crop of rice. Planted
in February, they may be dug in June in amole time for trensplanting
rice. The practice seems especially promising for erees and seasons
where the rice crop matures too late in the fall to permit seeding wheat
or barley at the normal time. However, it is not necessarily limitad to
such situations.
9. Inability to prepare the erouid and serd promptly after
harvestin & crop of rice sometimes reduces yields of the subsequent crops
of wheat and berley. More draft animals or a limited use of labor saving
machinery designed for and adapted to Japanese conditions might result in
material improvements.
10. Losses of food in storege fron insect damage, high moisture
content, and poor storage facilities are not unknown in Japan. Rela-
tively simple and inexpensive studies of such losses, or merely putting
into effect well known and approved prectices could materially increese
the supply of food available for actual consumption.
11. Land reclamatiqn in Japan has for many years been & favorite
subject for speculative discussion, and several attompts have been made at
various times by the central government to add to the area of cultivated
lend. Recent attempts heve not been conspicuously successful 17/.
Another pro ram is under way which contemplates the ultimate reclemation
of approximately 1,550,000 hectares. Many problems are involved to wnich
the experiment stetions could make importent contributions. Some of these
are the fertility ena productivity of the proposed sites, suitable crops
and cultural methods adapted to them, and yields that cen reasonably be
16/ ibid p 7. Nasu
17/ ibid p 77, Masu
46

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.96)
expectod relative to probable iucreases from the some effort exsenced on
present srees of cultivated lend.
la. From e longer time point of viei, & definite need is evident
for improving the stancerd of living of the Japanese populetion especially
as regerds nutritional levels. Livestocs products heye a z latively minor
place in the Japanese Diet, not so much because the Japsnese dislike them
lut rether because they ere not aveilable. Little opportunity exists to
produce nore livestock on cultivated land. Lerge aress of so-celled
"wilaland" are not fully used ana sre not suiteble for cultivated crops
but could support a largor livestock population. Development of better
maiegement prectices, end possibly species end varieties of grasses of
better uelity could be epactea to make important contributions to this
problem.
C. Farmer Educetion
1. The prefectural stations snc thc agricultural associations
have the primary responsibility for bringing to the fermers the latest
restlts of agricultui:l research. They heve done rether effective work
in certsin respects, for example, the use of iaproved varieties of wheat
nd rice. With respcct to other improved practices the naturel conserva-
tisn of the fermers have outwei hed other considerations. The aricul-
turel associations es now constituted hsve other responsibilitics thet
ere not consistont with educationel ectivities while the prefecturel
stations leci: proper fecilities and suitably tre ined pcrsonnel. The
centrel overnment has no organization to co-ordinate the educationel
activities or to preparc perphlets, bullctins, snd press relesses that
will provide feraers and prefccturel officiels with the latest and sound-
est informction in a form thet will be casily understood.
2. Thet the need for fermer education is sencrally recognized
is attested by provision in the 1?45 snd 1946 budrets of the central
covernient for a lerge murber of "instructioncl" or demonstration farms.
The plen appears to be a move in the right cirectior, but may easily prove
to be more expensive than can be justified in Japen in the li ht of
present or prospective finencisl resources. A cereful study of other
possibilities seems hishl: advisable.
D. General Appreisrl
i. The phove cre only & fev exemples of possible ways in which
the Japcnese agriculturel eperineat strtions msy contribute to the
immediste cnd future welfere of the countr. Sone of then may not be
practicel end others may not be souad. all that is intenaed is to
sucgest important possibilities that merit serious attention.
47

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
2. In making these various suggestions the writer is awere
that some of them could with equal propriety be applied to the United
States. The implication that some of the defects are common to both
countries suggests they will not be easily or quickly remedied and that
more study is needed.
5. Nevertheless, the time to consider them seems to be herev
Japan will need an efficient system of agricultural research as never
before. Many of the stations are badly in need of repairs and new
equipment must be provided in many cases for efficient operation. The
fact that the Japanese Government is considering plans for an extensive
(an expensive) organization for farmer education; that her educational
system including presumably provisions for agricultural education is to
be revised; and that reorganization of the agricultural associations,
which in the past furnished much of the technical advice to farmers, is
being discussed, indicates it is not too early to give these various
matters the most serious consideration.
48

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
50
TABIE 2. -- IIIERIAL SERICULTURAL EXIERIMENT STATIONS AND BRANCH STATIONS (CONT'D)
Name
Location
Maebashi Branch Station
Iwakami-cho, Maebashi-shi, Gumma
Matsumoto Branch Station
Yotsuya, Matsumoto-shi, Nagano
Taketoyo Branch Station
Taketoyo-machi, Chita-gun, Aichi
Ayabe Branch Station
Ayabe-machi, Ikaruga-gun, Kyoto
Akashi Branch Station
Okuradani, Akashi-shi, Hyogo
Kumamoto Branch Station
Kamimizu-cho, Kumamoto-shi
Miyazaki Branch Station
Kirishima-machi, Miyazaki-shi
Kobuchizawa Experimental Rearing House Kobuchizawa-mura, Kita-Koma-gun, Yamanashi
TABIE 3. - IMPERIAL LIVESTCCK EXPERIMENT STATIONS, BRANCH STATIONS, & LABORATORIES
Imperial Zootechnical Experimental Station Yagi-cho, Chibe-shi, Chiba
Nishi-Nasu Branch Station
Nishi-Nasu-machi, Nesu-gun, Tochigi
Nagano Branch Station
Toyozato, Kitamaki-mura, Minami-Saku-gun, Nagano
Chugaku Branch Station
Kawai-mura, Ano-gun, Shimane
Nemuro LBS g/
Nemuro-machi, Nemuro-gun, Nemuro-shicho, Hokkaido
Kushiro LBS
Tottori-mura, Kushiro-gun, Kushiro-shicho, Hokkaido
Tokachi LBS
Otofuke-mura, Kato-gun, Tokachi-shicho, Hokkaido
Hidaka LBS
Urakawa-machi, Urakawa-gun, Hidaka-shicho, Hokkaido
Iburi LBS
Oshamambe-machi, Yamakoshi-gun, Oshima-shicho,Hokkaido
Tsukisappu LBS
Toyohira-machi, Sapporo-gun, Ishikari-shicho,Hokiaido
Xitami IBS
Engaru-machi, Mombetsu-gun, Abashiri-shicho, Hokiaido
Aomori IBS
Shichinohe-machi, Kamilita-gun, Aomori
Noheji Branch of Aomori LBS
Noheji-machi, Kamikita-gun, Aomori
Imate IBS
Takizawa-mura, Iwate-gun, Iwate
Miyagi LBS
Nishiosaki-mura, Tamatsukuri-gun, Miyagi
Akita LBS
Jinguji-machi, Semboku-gun, Alita
Fukushima LBS
Saigo-mura, Nishishirakawa-gun, Fukushima
Omiya LBS
Omiya-shi, Saitama
Nagano LBS
Mitsui-mura, Kitasaku-gun, Nagano

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 1. -- ILHERIAL AGRICULTURAL EXPERDMENT STATIONS,
BRANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERIMENTAL FARMS
Name
Location
Imperial Agricultural Experiment Station
1l25 Nishigahara-machi, Takinogawa-ku, Tokyo-to
Konosu Experiment Farm
Konosu-machi, Kita-Adachi-gun, Saitama
Tohoku Branch Station
Hanadate-mura, Senhoku-gun, Akita
Kariwano Branch Farm
Kariwano-machi, Senhoku-gun, Akita
Morioka Experimental Farm
Higashi-Aniwa, Morioka-shi, Iwate
Sambongi-Hara Farming Station
Rokunohe-mura, Kamikita-gun, Aomori
Hokuriku Branch Station
Shinmichi-mura, Naka-Kubiki-gun, Niigata
Tookai Branch Station
Ishinden-machi, Kawage-gun, Mie
Chugoku Branch Station
Tadera, Himeji-shi, Hyogo
Kyushu Branch Station
Haimuzuka-machi, Yame-gun, Fukuoka
Imperial Tea Experiment Station
Kanaya, Kanaya-machi, Haruhara-gun, Shizuoka
Imperial Horticultural Experiment Station
Okitsu-machi, Ihara-gun, Shizuoka
Tohoku Branch Station
Fujisaki-machi, Minami-Tsugaru-gun, Aomori
The Breeding Farm for Seedlings
Ninomiya-machi, Naka-gun, Kanagawa
Laboratory of the Bureau of Staple Food
2 Hamazono-cho, Fukagawa-ku, Tokyo-to
Administration
Branch Laboratory
Shinayo-mura, Mogami-gun, Yamagate
TABIE 2. -- IMPERIAL SERICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS AND BRANCH STATIONS
Imperial Sericultural Experiment Station
2 Chome, Koenji, Suginami-ku, Tokyo-to
Shinjo Branch Station
Shinjo-machi, Mogami-gun, Yamagata
Fukushima Branch Station
Shinhama-cho, Fukushima-shi
69
Iizaka Branch Station
Iizaka-machi, Shinobu-gun, Pukashima

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
50
TABIE 2. -— ILIERIAL SERICULTURAL EXIERIMENT STATIONS AND BRANCH STATIONS (CONT D)
Name
Location
Maebashi Branch Station
Iwakami-cho, Maebashi-shi, Gumma
Matsumoto Branch Station
Yotsuya, Matsumoto-shi, Nagano
Taketoyo Branch Station
Taketoyo-machi, Chita-gun, Aichi
Ayabe Branch Station
Ayabe-nachi, Ikaruga-gun, Kyoto
Akashi Branch Station
Okuradani, Akashi-shi, Hyogo
Kumamoto Branch Station
Kamimizu-cho, Kumamoto-shi
Miyazaki Branch Station
Kirishima-machi, Miyazaki-shi
Kobuchizawa Experimental Rearing House Kobuchizawa-mura, Kita-Koma-gun, Yamanashi
TABIE 3. -– IMPERIAL LIVESTCCK EXPERIMENT STATIONS, BRANCH STATIONS, & LABORATORIES
Imperial Zootechnical Experimental Station Yagi-cho, Chiba-shi, Chiba
Nishi-Nasu Branch Station
Nishi-Nasu-machi, Nesu-gun, Tochigi
Nagano Branch Station
Toyozato, Kitamaki-mura, Minami-Saku-gun, Nagano
Chugaku Branch Station
Kawai-mura, Ano-gun, Shimane
Nemuro LBS g/
Nemuro-machi, Nemuro-gun, Nemuro-shicho, Hokkaido
Kushiro LBS
Tottori-mura, Kushiro-gun, Kushiro-shicho, Hokkaido
Tokachi LBS
Otofuke-mura, Kato-gun, Tokachi-shicho, Hokkaido
Hidaka LBS
Urakawa-machi, Urakawa-gun, Hidaka-shicho, Hokkaido
Iburi LBS
Oshamambe-machi, Yamakoshi-gun, Oshima-shicho,Hokkaido
Tsukisappu LBS
Toyohira-machi, Sapporo-gun, Ishikari-shicho,Hokiaido
Kitani IBS
Engaru-machi, Mombetsu-gun, Abashiri-shicho, Hokkaido
Acmori LBS
Shichinobe-machi, Kamikita-gun, Aomori
Noheji Branch of Aomori LBS
Noheji-machi, Kamikita-gun, Aomori
Iwate IBS
Takizawa-mura, Iwate-gun, Iwate
Miyagi LBS
Nishiosali-mura, Tamatsukuri-gun, Miyagi
Akita IBS
Jinguji-machi, Semboku-gun, Akita
Fukushima LBS
Saigo-mura, Nishishirakawa-gun, Fukushima
Omiya LBS
Omiya-shi, Saitama
Mitsui-mura, Kitasaku-gun, Nagano
Nagano LBS

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
Kita. aki Branch of Nagano LBS
Kitamaki-mura, Minamisaku-gun, Nagano
Shizuoka LB3
Fujioka-mura, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka
Okazeki LBS
Okazaki-shi, Aichi
Hyogo LBS
Issai-mura, Ibo-gun, Hyogo
Tottori LBS
Narumi-mura, Tohaku-gun, Tottori
Shimane LBS
Kawai-mura, Ano-gun, Shimane
Kochi LBS
Kataji-mura, Kami-gun, Kochi
Tokushime Brarch of Kochi LBS
Matsushima-mura, Itano-gun, Tokushima
Kumamoto LBS
Nishigoshi-mura, Kikuchi-gun, Kumamoto
Miyazak1 LBS
Kobayashi-nachi, Nishimorokata-gun, Miyazald
Kagoshime LBS
Lakisono-machi, Aira-gun, Kagoshina
Imperial Veterinary Laboratory
Nishigahara-machi, Takinogawa-ku, Tokyo-to
Kodaira Office
Kodaira-machi, Kita-Tama-gun, Tokyo
Shichinohe Branch Station
Shichinohe-machi, Kamikita-gun, Aomori
Chugoku Branch Station
Madayama-machi, Asoko-gun, Hyogo
Kyushu Branch Station
Taniyama-machi, Kagoshima-gun, Kagoshima
g
Livestock Breeding Station
TABIE 4. -- PRIVATE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENTAL STATIONS AND LABORATORIE3
Japan Agricultural Laboratory
1026-4 Shimo-Takaido, Suginami-ku, Tokyo
Experimental Farm
1800 Minami-Sawa, Kume-mura, Kita-Tama-gun
Ohare Agricultural Research Institute
736 Sumiyoshi-cho, Kurashiki-shi, Okayama
Institute of Natural Scientific Research
for Agriculture and Rural Life
Owmer: Central Agrioultural Association
16 Yokoami, Honjo-ku, Tokyo
Plant Resources Laboratory
52

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
52
TABIE 4. -- PRIVATE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIKENTAL STATIONS AND LABORATORIES (CONT D)
Name
Location
Central Seedling Experimental Farm of
Okami, Kanda-mura, Naka-gun, Kanagawa
Nippon Noji Co, Ltd
Mitg Seedling Experimental Farm of Nippon
817 Miwa, Midorioka-mura, Higashi-Ibaraki-gun,
Noji Co, Ltd
Ibaraki
Homma Farm
Owner: Shinsei Goshi Kaisha
21 Yokomichi, Sakata-shi, Yamagata
Shiraoka Agricultural Experiment Station
1472 Shiraoka, Shinozu-mura, Minami-Saitama-gun
Of Nissan Kagaku-Kogyo Co, Ltd
Saitama
Nawa Insectarium
18-2 Omiya-machi, Gifu-shi, Gifu
Nippon Noyaku Co, Ltd, Agr Chemical Exp Sta
86 Nishi-Shiro, Nagano-cho, Minami-Kawachi-gun,
Osaka
Agricultural Exp Sta of Nipron Tokushu
Nayaku Seizo Kaisha, Ltd
The Agricultural Fharmaceutical Laboratory
2 Muro-machi, Nihonbashi-ku, Tokyo-to
Of the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, Ltd
Laboratory (burned down)
Farm
4 Fukazawa-machi, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo-to
Daido Noyaku, Ltd
3223 Togasaki, Towa-mura, Kita-Katsushika-gun,
Saitama
Sankyo Lab for Agr Chemicals
Owmer: Sankyo Co, Ltd
16-3 Nagarahamador1, Oyodo-ku, Osaka
Sankyo Experimental Farm for Agricultural
1041 Yasu-machi, Yasu-gun, Shiga
Chemicals

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
931-2 Shimo Ochiai, Yodobashi-ku, Tokyo-to (burned dom)
Oshima Chemical Lab
Serum Institute of the Japanese Veterinary Iwamurata-machi, Kita-Saku-gun, Nagano
Medical Association
Yokoyama-mura, Linami-Tama-gun, Tokyo
Yokoyama Brench Office
653 Karagasaki-cho, Lieguro-ku, Tokyo-to
Meguro Branch of the Kitasato Institute
For Infectious Diseases
53-1 Koiwa-machi, Edogava-ku, Tokyo-to
Oshida Institute
Institute of the Central Joultry Association 188 Hotanishinden, Hotani-machi, Kita-Tama-gun,Tokyo
1239 Genchi, Tsukama, Matsumoto-shi, Nagano
Sericultural Experimental Station of
Nippon Sanshiseizo Co, Ltd
Iwasa-machi, Higashi-Yatsushiro-gun, Yamanashi
Yamanashi Experimental'lulberry Farm
Mawashi, Shimajiri-gun, Okinawa
Okinawa Branch Station
184 Omiya, Omiya-shi, Saitama
Laboratory of Katakura Kogyo Co, Ltd
55 Uchigawara-cho, Koyama-Shita, Kami-Kyo-ku,Kyoto
Okumura Raw-silk Laboratory
3898 Konosu-machi, Kita-Adachi-gun, Saitama
Fiber Experimental Station of Nippon
Sanshiseizo Co, Ltd
Institute of Universal Technology of Foods 273 Maruami, Yono-machi, Kita-Adachi-gun,Saitamm
Miteui Research Institute of Food
36 Masago-cho, Hongo-ku, Tokyo-to
Owmer: Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, Itd
(destroyed by fire)
Research Department of the Canned Food
(C0ALD)
Association of Japan
317-3 Yodobashi-ku, Tokyo-to
Shokucho Gakko

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 4. -— PRIVATE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENTAL STATIONS AND LABORATORIES (CONT D)
Name
Location
Noson Kogyo Shidosho (guiding office)
Kamo-machi, Minami-Kambara-gun, Niigata
Toyo Canned Food Laboratory
Owmer: Toyo Kanzune Senchu Gakko
Terabata, Kawanishi-machi, Kawabe-gun, Hyogo
The Institution Part of Alimental
Yuno-machi, Date-gun, Fukushima
Industrial Co, Itd
Laboratory of Gifu Brewing Association
26 Miedera-cho, Gifu-shi, Gifu
(burned down 9th July, 20th year of Showa)
Nagano Prefectural Distillation Laboratory
Owmer: Nagano-ken Shuzokumiai Rengo Kai
419 Tsumatoga, Nagano-shi, Nagano
TABLE 5. -- EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS CARRYING ON AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN JAPAN
Universities
Tokyo Imperial University, Faculty of
Hongo-ku, Tokyo
Agriculture
Kyoto Imperial University, Faculty of
Yoshida, Kyoto
Agriculture
Kyushu Imperial University, Faculty of
Fukuoka, shi, Fukuoka
Agriculture
Tohoku Imperial University, Institute of
Sendai-shi, Miyagi
Agricultural Research
Hokkaido Imperial University, Faculty of
Saproro-shi, Hokkaido
Agriculture
Osaka Imperial University, Department of
Osaka-shi, Osaka
(peg gomz)
Science and Technology

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo University of Literature and
Koishikawa-ku, Tokyo
Sciences
Colleges
Morioka College of Agriculture and
Uyeda, Morioka, Iwate
Forestry
Tokyo College of Agriculture and Forestry
Fuchu-machi, Tokyo
Tokyo College of Agricultural Education
Komaba-machi, Meguro-ku, Tokyo
Chiba College of Horticulture
Matsudo-machi, Chiba
Gifu College of Agriculture and Forestry
NaKa-machi, Inaba-gun, Gifu
Mie College of Agriculture and Forestry
Tsu-shi, Mie
Utsunomiya College of Agriculture and
Mine-machi, Utsunomiya, Tochigi
Forestry
Tottori Agricultural College
Yoshikata-machi, Tottori
Miyazaki College of Agriculture and
Miyazaki-shi, Miyazaki
Forestry
Kagoshima College of Agriculture and
Kami-Arata-machi, Kagoshima
Forestry
Obihiro Veterinary College
Obihiro, Hokiaido
High Schools
Matsue High School
Nishikawatsu-machi, Matsue, Shimane
Matsuyamm High School
Mochida-machi, Matsuyama
Seijo High School
Seijo-machi, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo
Uramm High Sohool
Urawa, Seitama
Tamagata High School
Yamagata-shi, Yamagata
g

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
56
TABLE 6. - HEFECTURAL EXPERILENT STATIONS, BRANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERIMENTAL FARMS
HOKKAIDO
Name
Location
Administration, Agricultural Froducts and
97 Hochiken, Kotori, Sapporo-gun, Ishikari-shicho
General Affairs Section of the Hokkaido
Agricultural Experiment Station
Kamikawa Branch Station
Koriyama-mura, Ishikari-gun, Ishikari-shicho
Biei Subbranch
Biei-machi, Kanikawa-gun, Kamikawa-shicho
Teshio Subbranch
Teshio-machi, Teshio-gun, Rumoi,shicho
Kutchan Subbranch
Kutchan-machi, Abuta-gun, Shiribeshi-shicho
Toshima Branch Station
Ono-mura, Kameda-gun, Toshima-shicho
Setana Bubbranch
Setana-machi, Setana-gun, Hiyama-shicho
Hiyana Subbranch
Assabu-mura, Hiyama-gun, Hiyama-shicho
Hidaka Subbranch
Shizunai-machi, Shizunai-gun, Hidaka-shicho
Tokachi Branch Station
Obihiro-shi, Kasei-gun, Tokachi-shicho
Kushiro Subbranch
Tottori-mura, Kushiro-gun, Kushiro-shicho
Nemuro Branch Station
Shibetsu-mura, Shibetsu-gun, Nemuro-shicho
Wakkanai Subbranch
Tsuiichi-machi, Abashiri-shicho
Kitami Branch Station
Kitami, Abashiri-shicho
Bushiu Subbranch
Bushiu-machi
Yayakita Volcanic Ash Experimental
Abira-mura, Yufutsu-gun, Iburi-shicho
Field
Bibai Mud Ash Experimental Field
Bibai-machi, Sorachi-gun, Sorachi-shicho
Lombetsu Heavy Clay Experimental
Mombetsu-machi, Liombetsu-gun, Abashiri-shicho
Field
Wassamu Pyrethrum Experimental Field
Wassarnu-mura, Kamikawa-gun, Kamikawa-shicho
Shunamatsu Potato Experimental Field
Eniwa-mura, Chitose-gun, Iburi-shicho
Sapporo Corn Experimental Field
Sapporo-shi, Sapporo-gun, Ishikari-shicho
Iwamizawa Wet-land Rice Experimental
Iwamizawa-machi, Sorachi-gun, Sorachi-shicho
Field
Memambetsu Wheat Experimental Field
Memambetsu-machi, abashiri-gun, Abashiri-shicho
Koshin Sugar Beet Experimental Field
Taisho-mura, Kasei-gun, Tokachi-shicho

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
Makomena1 Oats and Rye Experimental
Toyohira-machi, Sapporo-gun, Ishikari-shicho
Field
Livestock Section of the Hokkaido Agri-
Shinkonianai, Toyohira-machi, Sapporo-gun,
culturel Experiment Stations
Ishikari-shicho
Takikawa Sheop Farm
Takikawa-nachi, Sorachi-gun, Sorachi-shicho
Kitemi Horse Breeding Farm
Kunnepru-mura, Tokoro-gun, Abashiri-shicho
AOMORI PREFECTURE
Aomori Frefectural Agricultural Experi-
Sunamori, Kuraishi, Nakage-mura, Minami-Tsugaru-gun
ment Station
Kizukuri Branch Station
Kizukuri-machi, Nishi-Tsugaru-gun
Gonohe Branch Station
Kami-Araida, Gonohe-machi, Sannohe-gun
Fujisaka Experimental Farm
Aisaka, Fujisaka-mura, Kamikite-gun
The Fotato Experimental Farm
Oochise, Rokunohe-mura, Kamikita-gun
The Hemp Experimental Farm
Motomra, Sambongi-machi, Kamikita-gun
The Vegetable Experimental Farm
Ishie, Shinjo-mura, Higashi-tsuga u-gun
Aomori Prefectural Apple Experimental
41 Botandaira Fukutami, Yamagata-mura, Minami-
Stetion
Tsugaru-gun
Kennai Branch Experimental Station
Nekui-mura, Sannohe-gun
Injurious Insects Laboratory
Fulunoda, Itayanagi-machi, Kita-Tsugaru-gun
The Young Fruit-rot Experimental Station
Shimizu-mure, Naka-Tsugaru-gun
Aomori Trefectural Sericultural Expert-
32 Tatceno, Shichonohe-machi, Kamikita-gum
mental Station
Aomori Frefectural Stock Breeding Farm
48 Osawa, Shichinohe-machi, Kamikita-gun
5
Aomori Prefectural Fowl Breeding Farm
Sawamukai, Gonohe-machi, Sennoho-gun

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
548
TABLE 6. -- 1 REFECTURAL EXPERILENT STATICNS, BRANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERDMENTAL FARAS (CONT D)
IWATE PREFECTURE
Name
Location
Iwate Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
12 Nakano Daitaro, Oaza mukai, Morioka
Station
Kimoe Branch Experimental Station
69 Yokaichi, Atago-mura, Esashi-gun
Kunohe Branch Experimental Station
Kamidachi, Karumai-machi, Kunohe-gun
Tono Experimental Farm
Shiroiwa, Matsuzaki-mura, Kamihei-gun
Iwate Prefectural Soricultural Experimental
55 Tokiwa, Mizusawa-machi, Isawa-gun
Station
Ichinohe Branch Station
51 Makimae, Ichinohe-machi, Ninohe-gun
Rokuhara Experimental Mulberry Farm
Nishine, Kanegasaki-machi, Isawa-gun
Iwate Prefectural Stock Farm
Sunagame, Takisawa-mura, Iwate-gun
Sotoyama Branch Farm
Yabukawa-mura, Iwate -gun
Iwate Prefectural Fowl Breeding Farm
Imotamukai, Lakiberi-mura, Iwate-gun
AKITA PREFECTURE
Akita Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
Izumi-shintei, Akita
Station
Odate Experimental Farm
Higashidai, Odate-machi, Kita-akita-gun
Obonai Experimental Farm
Obona1-mura, Semboku-gun
Yonaizawa Experimental Farm
Yonaizawa, Kita-akita-gun
Akita Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
80 Higashi-Liatsuzawa, Yuzawa-machi, Okachi-gum
Station

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
Akita Profectural Stock Farm
Oiwada, Kawazoe-mura, Kawabe-gun
Akita Prefectural Fowl Breeding Farm
Odate-machi, Kita-akita-gun
LIYAGI PREFECTURE
Miyagi Prefectural Agricultuml Station
Higashi-tanichi, Iwanuma-machi, Natori-gun
Branch Experimental Station
Suma, Furukawa-machi, Shida-gun
Miyagi Prefectural Saito Hoon Agricultural
1-4 Ushigai-machi, Kogota, Tota-gun
Branch Station
Miyagi Prefectural Stock Farm
Kannonzaki,Shiroishi-machi, Katta-gun
Kami Miyagi Prefectural Stock Farm
Kiribu, Shikama-mura, Kami-gun
GUMMA PREFECTURE
Gumma Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
28 Maeshirota, Maebashi-shi
Station
Kizaki Horticultural Branch Station
Kizeki-machi, Nitta-gun
Kamiko Experimental Farm
address unknown
Katashina Experimental Farm
Higashiogawa, Katashina-machi, Tone-gun
Gumma Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
187 Maeshirota, Maebashi-shi
Station
Sosha Branch Station
2324, Kannonzawa, Sosha-mach1, Gumma-gun
Numata Branch Station
1860 Juodo, Numata-machi, Tone-gun
Gummma Prefectural Stock Farm
()
59

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.97)
50
TAÉLE 6. -- PR.FECTOREL EXPE LMENT STATIONS, ERANCH STATIONS, AND EXFERINENTAL FARNS (CONT D)
YAMAGATA PHEFECTURE
Name
Location
Yamagata Frefectural Agricultural Experimental Hasegava, Mikka-cho, Yamagata-shi
Station
Yamagata Prefectural Sericultural Experimontal
463 Koshirokawa-cho, Yamagata-shi
Station
Oishida Branch Station
Imajiku, Oishidaymachi, Kita-Lurayama-gun
Oitama Yamagata Prefectural Stock Farm
Akutsu, Takahata-machi, Higashi-Oitama-gun
Mogami Yamagata Prefectural Stock Farm
Takahaji, Shinjo-machi, Mogami-gun
Yamagata Frefectuml Fowl Breeding Farm.
Liyaumi, Nishi-Arase-mura, Akumi-gun
FUKUSHIMA FREFECTURE
Fukushima frefectural Experimental Agricultural Toramaru-cho, Koriyama-shi
Station
Shinobu Branch Experimental Station
Hirano-mura, Shinobu-gun
Aizu Branch Experimental Station
Bange-machi, Kawanuma-gun
Inamashiro Experimental Farm
Inawashiro-machi, Yama-gun
Takami Experimental Farm
Iho-mura, Minami-Aizu-gun
Soma Experimental Farm
Hohata-rura, Soma-gun
Fukushima frefectural Tobacco Emperiment
Minamimoto-cho, Funehiki-machi, Tamura-gum
Station

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
Fukushima Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
12 Kitamoto-cho, Yanagawa-machi, Date-gun
Station
Aizu Branch Station
4 Yahata, Ichiki-mura, Kita-Aizu-gum
Hara-machi Branch Station
Sakurai, Hara-machi, Soma-gun
Tadami Experimental Station
Tadami, Inokita-mura, Minami-Aizu-gun
Fukushima Prefectural Stock Farm
Jizogahara, Arai-mura, Shinobu-gun
Fukushima Fowl Breeding Farm
lll Shimmei-cho, Koriyama-shi
IBARAKI PREFECTURE
Ibaraki Frefectural Agricultural Experimental
345 Hosoya, Ono-mura, Higashi-Ibarali-gun
Station
Ishioka Experimental Farm
Ishioka-machi, Niihari-gun
Niihara Erperimental Farm
Niiharai-mura, Niihari-gun
Iwai Experimental Farm
Iwai-machi, Sashima-gun
Ikisu Experimental Farm
Ikisu-machi, Kashima-gun
Ryugasaki Experimental Farm
Ryugasaki-machi, Inashiki-gun
Ibaraki Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
2182 Atago-cho, Mito-shi
Station
Sekimoto Branch Station
Sekimoto-machi, Makabe-gun
Ibaraki Frefectural Cocoon Testing Station
1208 Shimo-Takatsu-cho, Tsuchiura-shi
Aso Branch Office
Aso-machi, Namekata-gun
Mito Branch Office
iito-shi
Munamichi Branch Office
Munamichi-mura, Yuki-gun

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 6. -- PHEFECTUAL GPERINENT STATIONS, BRANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERILENTAL FARMS (CONT D)
TOCHIGI PREFECTURE
Name
Location
Tochigi Frefectural Agricultural Experimental
1874-7, Imaizumi-machi, Utsunomiya-shi
Station
Tochigi Branch Experimental Station
42 Sonobe-machi, Tochigi-shi
Horigome Original Seedlings Farm
Horigome, Sano-shi
The Hemp Experimental Farm
Minami-Oshihara, Kami-Tsuga-gun
Tochigi Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
Kamitori-dani, Oyama-machi, Shimo-Tsuga-gun
Station
Tochigi Frefectural Stock Farm
Gionbara, Yakushiji, Kavachi-gun
SAITALA PREENCTURE
Saitama Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
1440 Ageojuku, Ageo-mechi, Kita-Adachi-gun
Station
Tamai Branch Experimental Station
1372 Kuboshima, Kumagaya-shi
Koshigaya Branch Experimental Station
3017 Koshigaya-machi, Minami-Saitama-gun
Irumagawa Eranch Experimental Station
333 Irumagawa-machi, Iruma-gun
Saitama Prefectural Tea Experimental Station
967 Toyooka-machi, Iruma-gun
Saitama Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
1201 Kumagaya, Kumagaya-shi
Station
Chichibu Branch Station
683 Omiya, Chichibu-machi, Chichibu-gun
Kawagoe Branch Station
44 Shinjuku, Kawagoe-shi
DFpe-8n

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
Saitama Prefectural Stock Farm
1649 Toro-machi, Omiya-shi
Chichibu Branch Farm
6281 Omiya, Chichibu-machi, Chichibu-gun
TOKYO PREFECTURE
Tokyo Public Agricultural Experimental
208-3 Fujimi-cho, Tachikawa-shi
Station
Edogawa Branch Station
Shikabone-cho, Edogawa-ku, Tokyo-to
Itabashi Branch Station
1388-3 Shakujii-Tanihara-cho, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo
Tokyo Public Sericultural Experimental Station
2525-8 Shibasaki-cho, Tachikawa-shi
Okutama Branch Station
Umizawa, Hikawa-machi, Nishi-Tama-gun
Tokyo Public Stock Fam
208-3, Fujimi-cho, Tachikawa-shi
Asakawa Branch Farm
Kami-Kunugida, Asakawa-machi, Minami-Tama-gun
Tokure Branch Farm
253 Tokura-mura, Nishi-Tama-gun
Kasumi-mura, Calf Breeding Farm
Kasumi-mura, Nishi-Tama-gun
KANAGAWA PREFECTURE
Kanagawa Prefectural Agricultural Experimental 1018 Okemoto, Ofuna-machi, Kamakura-gun
Station
The Original Seedling Experimental Station 791 Yahata, Ono-machi, Naka-gun
Nebugawa Experimental Farm
599 Nebugawa, Kataura-mura, Ashigarashimo-gun
Tobu Experimentel Farm
1255 Yodogawara. Kawasali-shi
Kanagawa Prefectural Sericultural Experimental Naka-Chinden, Ebina-machi, Koza-gun
Station
Kanagawa Prefectural Stock Farm
Arima-mura, Koza-gun
393

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
69
TABIE 6. -- PREFECTURAL EIERILENT STATIONS, BRANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERILENTAL FARIS (CONT D)
CHIBA PREFECTURE
Name
Location
Chiba Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
706 Niyako-machi, Chiba-shi
Station
Awa Branch Station
Kamegahara, Tateyama-shi
Sawara Experimental Farm
Sawara-machi, Katori-gun
Ichihara Experimental Farm
Ichihara-mura, Ichihara-gun
Unakami Experimental Farm
Unakami-mura, Ichihara-gun
Naruto Original Seedling Farm
Naruto-machi, Sambu-gun
Matsudo Original Seedling Farm
Matsudo-machi, Higashi-Katsushiká-gun
Kozu Original Seedling Farm
Kozu-mura, Imba-gun
Kaijo Experimental Farm
Omei-mura, Kaijo-gun
Chiba Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
793-8 Yokaichiba-machi, Sosa-gun
Station
Kamogawa Branch Station
Kamogawa-machi, Awa-gun
Chiba Prefectural Cocoon Testing Station
226-3, Samukawa-cho, Chiba-shi
Mineoka Chiba Prefectural Stock Farm
Maru-mura, Awa-gun
Kimitsu Station
Minato-machi, Kimitsu-gun
Sakura Chiba Prefectural Stock Furm
Sakura-machi, Imba-gun
Chiba Prefectural Sheep Breeding Farm
Toyama-mura, Imba-gun
YAMANASHI PREFECTURE
Yamanashi Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
Shimogawara-cho, Kofu-shi
Station

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
The Cotton Experimental Farm
Ryuo-mura, Nakakoma-gun
Gakuroku Branch Station
Fukuchi-mura, Linami-Tsuru-gun
Horticultural Branch Station
Yamanashi-mura, Higashi-Yamanashi-gun
Yamanashi Prefectural Industrial Laboratory
Shimo-Yoshida-machi, Minami-Tauru-gun
Industrial Branch Station
Uenohara, Kita-Tsuru-gun
Yamanashi Prefectural Sericultural Experimental 517 Kawata, Koun-mura, Nishi-Yamanashi-gun
Station
Kobuchizawa Branch Station
2202 Kobuchizawa-mura, Kita-Koma-gun
Yamanashi Prefectural Stock Famm
Tomioka, Hinoharuymura, Kita-Koma-gun
Sumiyoshi Branch Farm
Naka-Kogawa, Sumiyoshi-mura, Nishi-Yamanashi-
gun
SHIZUOKA PREFECTURE
Shizuoka Prefectural Agricultural Erperimental
851 Kita-Ando-machi, Shizioka-shi
Station
The Vegetable Erperimental Station
Yoshikawa-mura, Hamana-gun
The Original Seedling Farm for Rice and
Saigo-mura, Ogasa-gun
Wheat
Original Seedling Farm for Wheat and Sweet
Tomioka-mura, Iwata-gun
Potato
Fuji Branch Station
Yoshiwara-machi, Fuji-gun
The Cold High Lands Experimental Farm
Gotemba-machi, Sunto-gun
Shizuoka Tea Experiment Station
1806 Kurasawa, Kawashiro-mura, Ogasa-gun
The Growth-Famm of Seedlings
Shimo-Nakabayashi, Udo-mura, Abe-gun
Shizuoke Citrus Experiment Station
2840 Komagoe, Shimizu-shi
Experimental Farm for Extermination for
Nishiura-mura, Takata-gun
Snow Soale

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
TABIE 6. -- PREFECTURAL EXIERIMENT STATIONS, BRANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERILENTAL FARN (CONT'D)
99
SHIZUOKA PREFECTURE (CONT'D)
Name
Location
The Experimental Farm for the Early Satsuma
Ibara-mura, Ibara-gun
Orange
The Experimental Farm for Late Orange
Taga, Atami-shi
Shizuoka Horse-radish Experimental Station
Yugashima, Kami-kano-mura, Tagata-gun
Shizuoka Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
70-1 Ta-machi, Shizuoka-shi
Station
Matsuzaki Branch Station
330 Ena, Matsuzaki-machi, Kamo-gun
Shizuoka Prefeoture Cocoon Testing Station
70-1 Ta-machi, Shizuoka-shi
Mitsuke Branch Station
Mitsuke, Iwate-machi, Iwata-gun
AICHI PREFECTURE
Aichi Frefectural Agricultural Erperimental
Sakaime, Anjo, Anjo-machi, Hekikai-gun
Section
Kiyosu-Branch Station
Kiyosu-machi, Nishi-Kasugai-gun
Tamano Experimental Farm
Tamano, Asahi-mura, Nakashima-gun
Fukugama Original Seedlings Farm
Fukugama, Anjo-machi, Hokikai-gun
Toyohashi Experimental Farm
Ueda-machi, Toyohashi-shi
Inabashi Experimental Farm
Inabashi, Inabu-machi, Kita-shidara-gun
Utsumi Fruit Experimental Farm
Utsumi-machi, Chita-gun
Aichi Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
354 Koga, Hotei-machi, Miwa-gum
Station

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
Iwatsu Branch Station
Dannoue, Iwatsu-machi, Nukada-gun
Experimental Station for the Improvement
Kamizakura, Hongo-machi, Kita-Shidara-gun
of Sericulture in Mountain Villages
Otani Rearing Station for Original Silk-
Otani, Kosugaya-mura, Chita-gun
worm Eggs
Tomio Rearing Station for Original Silk-
Tomio, Shimoyama-mura, Nukada-gun
worm Eggs
Ran Rearing Station for Original Silkworm Ran-mura, Shimoyama-mura, Nukada-gun
Eggs
Aichi Frefectural Silk Scientific Experiment
16 Fuchidoori, Toyokawa-cho, Toyokawa-shi,Hoi-
Station
gun
Aichi Prefectural Filature Experimental
179 Maeda-Minami-cho, Toyohashi-shi, Hbi-gun
Station
Aichi Prefectural Stock Farm
2-1 Mamimatsu, Yoshiai-cho, Okazaki
Aichi Prefectural Fowl Breeding Farm
Shinome, Anjo-machi, Hekikai-gun
Kiyosu Branch Farm
Kiyosu-machi, Nishi-Kasugai-gun
Aichi Prefectural Stallion-breeding Farm
Sakauba, Toyone-mura, Kita-Shidara-gun
NAGANO PREFECTURE
Nagano Frefectural Agricultural Experimental
363 Naka-Gosho, Nagano-shi
Station
Shimo-Ina Branch Station
Ichida-mura, Shimo-Ina-gun
Kikyo-ga-hara Experimental Farm
Hirooka-mura, Higashi-Chikuma-gun
Iiyama Experimental Farm
Omichi-Higashi, Jiyama-machi, Shimo-Minochi-gun
Kashiwabara Experimental Farm
Minokura, Kashiwabara-mura, Kami-Minochi-gun
Sugadaira Plateau Development Farm
Sugadaira, Naga-mura, Chiisagata-gum
Asama Plateau Development Farm
Obayashi, Miyota-mura, Kita-Saku-gun
59

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 6. -- FREFECTURAL EXPERILENT STATIONS, BRANCH STATHONS, AND EXPERIMENTAL FARMS (CONT D)
NAGANO PREFECTURE (CONT'D)
Name
Location
Nagano Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
120 Okada, Nagano-shi
Station
Ueda Branch Station
Tokiwa-jo, Ueda-shi
Matsumeto Branch Station
Asahi-machi, Matsumoto-shi
Iida Branch Station
Zakoji-mura, Shimo-Ina-gun
Tokura Branch Station
Tokura-machi, Hanishina-gun
Ikeda Branch Station
Ikeda-machi, Kita-Azumi-gun
Iiyama Experimental Station
Iiyama-machi, Shimo-Minochi-gun
Nagano Frefectural Stock Farm
Shikayama, Kita-Yama-mura, Suwa-gun
• Matsumoto Branch Farm
2455 Arigasaki, Natsumoto-shi
Nagano Frefectural Fowl Breeding Farm
Kurita, Nagano-shi
GIFU PREFECTURE
Gifu PrefecturalAgricultural Experimental
Matamaru, Nanasato-mura, Motosu-gun
Station
Hida Branch Station
Furukawa-machi, Yoshiki-gun
Tono Branch 3tation
Nakatsu-machi, Ena-gun
Nanno Original Seedlings Farm
Imao-machi, Kaizu-gun
Gifu Frefectural Sericultural Experimental
Shinkano, Naka-machi, Inaba-gun
Station
Shimotedo Rearing Station for Original
Tsunoya, Shimotado-mura, Yoro-gun
Silkwom Eggs

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
Mino Rearing Station for Original Silkworm
Kameno, Mino-machi, Mugi-gun
Eggo
Furukawa Experimental Farm for Mulberries
Furukawa-machi, Yoshiki-gun
Katano Experimental Farm for Mulberries
Katano, Takayama-shi
Takayama Gifu Prefectural Sericultural Experi-
513 Sanno-Kawara, Morishita-cho, Takayama-shi
mental Station
Oi Gifu Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
686 Dodone, Oi-machi, Ena-gun
Station
Gifu Prefectural Stock Farm
Makigahara, Kiyomi-mura, Ono-gun
Takatomi Branch Farm
Takatomi-machi, Yamagata-gun
NIIGATA PREFECTURE
Niigata Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
1015 Nagakura, Yamadori-mura, Koshi-gun
Station
Sado Branch Station
Kanazawa-mura, Sado-gun
Horticultural Experimental Farm
Niitsu-machi, Naka-Kambara-gun
Horinouchi Experiment Farm
Horinouchi-machi, Kita-Uonuma-gum
Niigatn l'refectural Demonstration Station for
Kamijo, Kamo-machi, Minami-Kambara-gun
Agricultural Products
Niigata Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
265 Sambongi, Gosen-machi, Naka-Kambara-gun
Station
Koide Branch Station
Inokuchi, Yunotani-mura, Kita-Uomma-gun
Niigata Prefectural Mulberry Experimental
381 Hiebae, Ojiya-machi, Kita-Uomma-gun
Station
69

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
70
TABIE 6. -- PREFECTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS, BRANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERIMENTAL FARNS (CONT D)
NIGATA PREFECTURE (CONT'D)
Name
Location
Niigata Prcfectural Cocoon Testing Station
c/o Koide Branch Station, 239 Koide-Shima,
Koide-machi, Kita-Uonuma-gun
Ni1gata Prefectural Stock Farm
Tanauroko, Morimachi-mura, Minami-Kambara-gun
Joetsu Branch Farm
Honjo-machi, Takada-shi
Niigata Prefectural Fow! Breeding Farm
Maki-machi, Nishi-Kambara-gun
TOYAMA PREFECTURE
Toyame Frefectural Agricultural Experimental
194 Taro-mura, Toyama-shi
Station
De-machi Horticultural Experimental
Tarcmaru, De-machi, Higashi-Tonami-gun
Station
Sankan (high and cold district) Experi-
Kojina, Yamada-mura, Nei-gun
mental Farm
Toyama Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
2870 Kamishin-machi. Nei-gun
Station
Toyama Prefectural Stock Farm
Kasuga, Osawano-machi, Kami-Niikawa-gun
ISHIKAWA PREFECTURE
Ishikawa Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
Yoneizumi-machi, Kanazawa-shi
Station

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
Z2
TABIE 6. -- PREFECTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS, ERANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERIMENTAL FARMS (CONT D)
SHIGA PREFECTURE (CONT'D)
Name
Location
Kohoku (North of Lake Biwa) Branch Station
Senda, Kinomoto-machi, Ika-gun
Kotoo (East of Lake Biwa) Branch Station
Echigawa-machi, Echi-gun
Kosei (West of Lake Biwa) Branch Station
Ado-machi, Takashima-gun
Yakura Horticultural Experimental Farm
Yakura, Kusatsu-machi, Kurita-gun
Konan Experimental Farm
Sagami, Ohara-mura, Koga-gun
Yuta-Field-crops Experiment Farm
Uchibo, Yuta-mura, Higashi-Asai-gun
Shiga Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
1224 Hirakata-cho, Nagahama-shi
Station
Wanobu Station for Rearing Originals Eggs
51 Imayado, Wanobu-gun
of Silkworms
Shiga Prefectural Stock Farm
Yamamoto, Kita-Hizusa-mura, Gamo-gun
KYOTO PREFECTURE
Kyoto l'refectural Agricultural Experimental
Shimogamo-Hankicho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto-shi
Station
Tango Branch Station
Kurobe, Toyosaka-mura, Takeno-gun
Yamashiro Horticultural Farm
Okito, Tanabe-machi, Tsuzuki-gun
Tango Experimental Farm for Damage by Snow
Tambe, Tamba-mura, Naka-gun
Kyoto Prefectural Tea Laboratory
9 Wakamori, Uji-zato, Uji-machi, Kuso-gun
Kyoto Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
Horino-uchi, Motomiya-mura, Ayabe-machi,
Station
Ikaruga-gun

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
Kurayama Experimental Farm
Koyanagi, Kurayama-mura, Ishikawa-gun
Unoke Experimental Farm
Unoke-mura, Kahoku-gun
The Rice Local Experimental Farm
Fujino-machi, Nanao-shi
Ishikawa Demonstration Station for Farming
Matsumami, Mokuro-mura, Suzu-gun
with animal power
Ishikawa Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
c/o Ishikawa Prefectural Office, Kanazawa-shi
Station
Ishikawa Prefectural Cocoon Testing Station
3 Shokawa, Tsubata-machi, Kahoku-gun
Ishikawa Prefectural Stock Farm
Kushi-machi, Xomatsu-shi
FUKUI PREFECTURE
Fukui Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
34-7 Machiya-cho, Fukui-shi
Station
Ono Experimental Farm
Kamisho-mura, Ono-gun
Minemami Experimental Farm
Kokoji, Mikata-gun
Hosorog1 Experimental Farm
Hosorogi-mura, Sakai-gun
Fukui Prefectural Sericultural Erperimental
15 Machiya-cho, Fukui-shi
Station
Ono Branch Station
Ono-machi, Ono-gun
Shimbo Rearing Branch Station
Shimbo-mura, Sakai-gun
Fukui Prefectural Stock Farm
Kubo, Kami-Xitano-machi, Fukui-shi
SHIGA PREFECTURE
Shiga Prefectural Experimental Station
Shibukawa, Haruta-mura, Kurita-gum
22

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 6. -- PREFECTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS, ERANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERIMENTAL FARMS (CONT D)
SHIGA PREFECTURE (CONT'D)
Neme
Location
Kohoku (North of Lake Biwa) Branch Station
Senda, Kinomoto-machi, Ika-gun
Kotoo (East of Lake Biwa) Branch Station
Echigawa-machi, Echi-gun
Kosei (West of Lake Biwa) Branch Station
Ado-machi, Takashima-gun
Yakura Horticultural Experimental Farm
Yakura, Kusatsu-machi, Kurita-gun
Konan Experimental Farm
Sagami, Ohara-mura, Koga-gun
Yuta-Field-crops Experiment Farm
Uchibo, Yuta-mura, Higashi-Asai-gun
Shiga Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
1224 Hirakata-cho, Nagahama-shi
Station
Wanobu Station for Rearing Originals Eggs
51 Imayado, Wanobu-gun
of Silkworms
Shiga Prefectural Stock Farm
Yamamoto, Kita-Hizusa-mura, Gamo-gun
KYOTO PREFECTURE
Kyoto l'refectural Agricultural Experimental
Shimogamo-Hankicho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto-shi
Station
Tango Branch Station
Kurobe, Toyosaka-mura, Takeno-gun
Yamashiro Horticultural Farm
Oxito, Tanabe-machi, Tsuzuki-gun
Tango Experimental Farm for Damage by Snow
Tambe, Tamba-mura, Naka-gun
Kyoto Prefectural Tea Laboratory
9 Wakamori, Uji-zato, Uji-machi, Kuzo-gun
Kyoto Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
Horino-uchi, Motomiya-mura, Ayabe-machi,
Station
Ikaruga-gun

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
Experimental Farm for Dead-stem Diseases
1254 Jussenbo, Go-mura, Takeno-gun
of Hulberry
Kyoto Prefectural Stock Farm
Nomura, Kogawa-mura, Yosa-gun
Kyoto Frefectural Sheep Breeding Farm
Ono, Ikuta-machi, Ikaruga-gun
OSAKA PREFECTURE
Osaka Prefeotural Agricultural Experimental
Mirihara-cho, Sakai-shi
Station
Experimental Farm for Rice, Wheat and
Tatetsu-machi, Nakakewachi-gun
Rape
The Experimental Farm for Vegetables
Araki-machi, Kishiwada-shi
The Experimental Farm for Oranges
Minami-Ikeda-mura, Izulita-gun
Osaka Prefectural Stock Farm
Kuraji, Katano-machi, Kita-Kawachi-gun
NARA PREFECTURE
Nara Prefectural Agricultural Erperimental
90 Shijo, Unebi-machi, Takaichi-gun
Station
The Tea Experiment Branch Station
1157 Sakabata, Horen-cho, Nara-shi
Nara Prefecturel Sericultural Experimental
2280 Hagihara, Haibara-machi, Uda-gun
Station
Oyodo Branch Station
1268 Higakimoto, Oyodo-machi, Yoshino-gun
Nare Prefectural Stock Farm
Shima-Take, Uda-machi, Uda-gum
25

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
4
TABIE 6. - PREFECTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS, BRANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERIMENTAL FARMS (CONT'D)
MIE PREFECTURE
Name
Location
Mie Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
1809 Eshima-cho, Suzuka-shi
Station
Iga Branch Station of the Original
Oda-machi, Ueno-shi
Seedlings Farm
Nanse Branch Station of the Orginal
Oka-machi, Take-gun
Seedlings Farm
Kinan Agricultural Demonstration Station
Koshiyama-mura, Minami-muro-gun
Mie Prefectural Tea Experimental Station
42 Kameda, Kameyama-machi, Suzuka-gun
Mie Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
2304 Fujikata, Tsu-shi
Station
Ayama Branch Station
101 Marunouchi, Ueno-shi
Doai Branch Station
559 Ono, Komata-machi, Doai-gun
Mie Prefectural Cocoon Testing Station
12 Takasago, Tsuoki, Tau-shi
Mie Prefectural Stock Farm
Suga Toyoda-mura, Ichishi-gun
WAKAYAMA PHEFECTURE
Wakayama Prefectural Experiment Station
157 Ota, Wakayama-shi
Kinan Branch Station
Shimosato-mura, Higashi-muro-gun
The Experimental Farm for Rice Stem Borer
Minabe-machi, Hidaka-gun

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
Wakayama Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
795 Amano-mura, Ito-gun
Station
Wakayama Prefectural Stock Farm
Atsuso-mura, N1shi-muro-gun
HYOGO PREFECTURE
Hyogo Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
365 Kita-0ji-cho, Akashi-shi
Station
Tajima Branch Station
Wadayama-machi, Asaki-gun
The Horticultural Experimental Farm
Ryogen-mura, Muko-gun
The Experimental Farm for making Sake
Fukuda-mura, Kato-gun
The Breeding Farm for Vegetables
Aboshi-machi, Ibo-gun
The Experimental Farm for Tobacgo
Iwaoka-mura, Akashi-gun
The Experimental Farm for Fruits
Kami-Naizen, Sumoto-shi
The Breeding Farm
Aihara-mura, Tsuna-gun
Hiraoka Experimental Farm
Hiraoka-mura, Kako-gun
Hyogo Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
961 Nebu, Hidaka-machi, Kinosaki-gun
Station
Experimental Mulberry Farm for prevention
Takasue, Oba-mura, Mikata-gun
of damage by snow
Eyogo Prefectural Cocoon Testing Station
Nebu, Hidaka-machi, Kinosaki-gun
Takeda Branch Station
Takeda-machi, Asako-gun
Hyogo Prefectural Stock Farm
Imajuku, Himeji-shi
Tajima Branch Farm
Horibata, Okura-mura, Yabu-gun
Yoshikata Cattle Breeding Farm
Wakayama, Onsen-machi, Mikata-gun
Awaji Branch Farm
Unoyama, Sumoto-shi, Tsuna-gum
Mihara Breeding Farm
Okumi, Enami-mura, Mihare-gum
5
Mitachi Branch Farm
Mitachi, Himeji-shi

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
TABIE 6. – PREFECTURAL EXIERÍMENT STATIONS, BRANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERIMENTAL FARMS (CONT D)
OKAYAMA PREFECTURE
Name
Location
Okayama Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
218 Kitakata, Okayama-shi
Station
Mimasaka Branch Station
Yamakita, Tsuyama-shi
The Horticultural Experimental Farm
Saiden-mura, Jodo-gun
Original Seedling Farm for Rice and Wheat
Takamatsu-machi, Kibi-gun
Mimasaka Experimental Farm
Kume-mura, Kume-gum
The Experimental Farm for Rushes (tatami)
Hayashima-machi, Tsukubo-gun
The Experimental Farm for Peppermint
Nishi-Tomii, Kurashiki-shi
The Experimental Farm for Sweet Potatoes
Nishi-Tomii, Kurashiki,shi
The Experimental Farm for Potatoes
Ushimado-machi, Oku-gun
Okayama Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
2249 Ninomiya, Tsuyama-shi
Station
Okayama Prefectural Stock Farm
1690 Kami-Ibuku, Okayama-shi
Chiya Okayama Prefectural Stock Farm
Chiya, Chiya-mura, Atetsu-gun
Nanatsukahara Hiroshima Prefectural Stock
Shimohara, Yamauchi-Higashi-mura, Hiba-gumn
Farm
HIROSHIMA PREFECTURE
Hiroshime Prefectural Agricultural Erperiment
Saijo-machi, Kamo-gun
Station
Jukuyama Branch Station
Kawaguchi-machi, Fukuyama-shi
The Experimental Farm for Vermifuge
Shigei-mura, Mitsugi-gun
Chrysanthemum
Kabe Experimental Farm
Kabe-machi, Asa-gun

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
Hiroshima Prefectural Sericultural Erperimental l677 Shobara-machi, Hiba-gun
Station
Shin-ichi Hiroshima Frefectural Animal Industry
Shin-ichi-machi, Ashina-gun
Demonstration Station
Midorii Hroshima Prefectural Fowl Breeding
Midorii-mura, Asa-gun
Fam
TOTTORI PREFECTURE
Tottori Prefectural Experimental Station
Yoshinari, Tottori-shi
Nishihaku Branch Station
Hatagasaki, Yonago-shi
The Experimental Farm for Cotton
Kusaka-mura, Tohaku-gun
The Experimental Farm for Upland Rice
Urayasu-machi, Tohaku-gun
The Experimental Farm for Vegetables and
Tsunoi-mura, Iwami-gun
Fruit
Tottori Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
Agei-machi, Tohaku-gun
Station
Tottori Prefectural Stock Farm
Matsutani, Akasaki-machi, Tohaku-gun
SHIMANK PREFECTURE
Shimane Frefectural Agricultural Experiment
1940 Shioge-machi, Izumo-shi
Station
Hamada Fruit and Vegetable Experiment Farm
2208 Kurokawa, Hamada-shi
Akana High and Cool District Experimental
912 Akana-machi, I1shi-gun
Farm
Arashima Fruit-tree Experimental Farm
1715 Arashime-mura, Nogi-gum
Shimane Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
1992 Shioya-cho, Izumo-shi
Station

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
8
TABIE 6. — PREFECTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS, BRANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERIMENTAL FARMS (CONT D)
SHIMANE PREFECTURE (CONT'D)
Name
Location
Yakawa Branch Station
Yakawa-mura, Nita-gun
Shimane Prefectural Stock Farm
Nogi, Nogi-mura, Yatsuka-gun
Yakawa Branch Farm
Yakawa-mura, Nita-gun
The Foal-breeding Farm
Ikeda, Sahime-mura, Ano-gun
YAMAGUCHI PREFECTURE
Yamaguchi Prefectural Agricultural Experiment
Hiho, Ouchi-mura, Yoshiki-gun
Station
Tokusa Branch Station
Tokusa, Tokusa-mura, Abu-gun
Bofu Experimental Farm
Iwabata, Mure, Bofu-shi
Hirose Erperimental Farm
Hirose-machi, Kuga-gun
Yamaguchi Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
Kuga-machi, Kuga-gun
Station
Ota Branch Station
Ota-machi, Mine-gun
KAGAWA PREFECTURE
Kagawe Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
220 Momoai, Busshozan-machi, Kagawa-gun
Station
The Erperimental Farm for Fruit-trees
Arai, Hayuka-mura, Ayauta-gun
The Experimental Farm for Olives
2051 Kojin, Nishi-mura, Shozu-gum

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
Experimental Farm for Field-crops
2519 Kitachi, Ikeda-machi, Shozu-gun
Sakaide Experimental Farm
Hiraike, Fukue-machi, Sakaide-shi
Kagawa 'Prefectural Soy Laboratory
Kachiyama, Nishi-mura, Shozu-gun
Kagawa Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
2340 Iketo-nakashiro, Hirai-machi, Kita-gun
Station
Kashima Original Silkworm-ogg Rearing
Unuma, Tonosho-machi, Shozu-gun
House
Kagawa Prefectural Stock Farm
c/o Kagawa Prefectural Agricultural Erperi
mental Station, Momoai, Busshozan-machi
Kagawa-gun
TOKUSHIMA PREFECTURE
Tokushima Frefectural Agricultural Experimental ll-2 Aukui-cho, Tokushima-shi
Station
Ikeda Branch Station
Ikeda-machi, Miyoshi-gun
Tomioka Branch Station
Tomioka-machi, Naka-gun
Ikuhina Orange Experimental Farm
Ikuhina-mura, Katsuura-gun
Tokushima Prefectural Experimentai Sericultural Kamoshimo-machi, Oe-gun
Station
Iwakura Branch Station
Iwakura-mura, Mima-gun
Tokushima Prefectural Stock Farm
2 Kami-Yoshino-machi, Tokushima-shi
Shonai Ehime Frefectural Stock Farm
Fukunaridera, Shonai-mura, Shuso-gun
EHIME PREFECTURE
Ehime Prefectural Agricultural Erperimental
718 Dogo, Matsuyama-shi
Station

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
8
TABIE 6. -- PREFECTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS, BRANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERIMENTAL FARNS (CONT D)
FUKUOKA PREFECTURE
Name
Location
Fukuoka Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
Futsukaichi-machi, Chikushi-gun
Station
Buzen Branch Station
Izumi-mura, Miyako-gun
Chikugo Branch Station
Hainuzuka-machi, Yame-gun
The Experimental Farm for Oranges
Mitsutomo-mura, Yame-gun
Itoshima Experimental Farm
Fuku-mura, Itoshima-gun
Fukuoka Prefectural Cocoon Testing Station
Kawarada, Ono-mura, Chikushi-gun
Fukuoka Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
Kawarada, Ono,mura, Chikushi-gun
Station
Fukuoka Prefectural Stock Farm
Misawa, Mikuni-mura, Mii-gun
Fukuoka Prefectural Fowl Breeding Farm
Hokonoura, Dazaifu-machi, Chikushi-gun
SAGA PREFECTURE
Saga Prefectural Agricultural Erperimental
Kanya-cho, Saga-shi
Station
Kasuga Horticultural Experimental Station
Kasuga-mura, Saga-gun
Mitsuse Cool District Experimental Farm
Mitsuse-mura, Kanzaki-gun
Imari High District Experimental Farm
Imari-machi, Nishi-Matsumra-gun
Saga Agricultural Labor Laboratory
73 Masabara-machi, Saga-shi

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
Tea Manufacturing Demonstration Station of the
Shimano, Ureshino-machi, Fujitsu-gum
Saga Prefectural Agricultural Cooperative
Association
Saga Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
1012 Ogi-machi, Ogi-gun
Station
Saga Prefectural Stock Farm
Okawachi, Imari-machi, Nishi-Matsumra-gun
Karatsu Branch Farm
Kakura, Uchiage-mura, Higashi-Matsumra-gum
Saga Prefectural Fowl Breeding Farm
Kita-Taku-mura, Ogi-gun
NAGASAKI PREFECTURE
Nagasaki Prefecturel Agricultural Experimental
373 Eisho-cho, Isahaya-shi
Station
Nagasaki Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
1100 Sakura-baba, Shimabara-shi
Station
Nagasaki Prefectural Stock Farm
Minami-tahira-mura, Kita-Matsura-gun
Nagasaki Prefectural Fowl Breeding Farm
Kawachigo Tokuizimi, Omura-shi, Higashi-
sonogi-gun
KUMAMOTO PREFECTURE
Kumamoto Prefectural Agricultural Station
1250 Kokufu, Idemizu-machi, Kumamoto-shi
Original Seedling Farm of Rice and Wheat
Shimizu-machi, Kumamoto-shi
The Experimental Farm of Oranges
Kawachi-mura, Hotaku-gun
The Experimental Farm for Cold Meather
Uchinomaki-machi, Aso-gum
81

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
88
TABIE 6. - FREFECTURAL EXERILEIT STATIONS, BRANCH SPATIONS, AND EXPERILENTAL FARLS (CONT D)
KUMANOTO PREFECTURE (CONT'D)
Kumamoto Frefectural Sericultural Experimental
100 Suizenji-machi, Kumamoto-shi
Station
Kumamoto irefectural Stock Farm
Sakae, Goshi-mura, Kikuchi-gun
Amakuse Branch Farm
Nonto-Baba, Hondo-machi, Amakusa-gun
OITA PREFECTURE
Oita Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
425 Kamihira-machi, Oita-shi
Station
Experinental Farm for High and Cool
Shimoji, Kuju, Naoiri-gun
Districts
Experimental Farm for Shichito-rush
liinami-Kizuki, Kitsuki-machi, Hayami-gun
Experimental Branch Station for Cranges
Tsukumi-machi, Kita-Amabe-gun
l'uzen Experimental Farm
Yakkan-mura, Usa-gun
Oita Frefectural Experinental Station for the
1321 Maizura-machi, Cita-shi
Agricultural Froducts Industry
Beppu Demonstration Laboratory for Agricultural Hama-cho, Beppu-shi
Froducts Industry
Oita Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
492 Nagaoki, Oita-shi
Station
Oita Frefectural Cocoon Testing Station
6244 Cita, Cica-shi
Oita Prefectural Stock Pam
Kuju, Kuju-machi, Naori-gum
Démonstration Farm for Horse Utilization
Kuju, Kuju-machi, Naori-gun

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
MIYAZAKI FREFECTURE
Miyazaki Prefectural Agricultural Experimental
246 Kyozuka-machi, Miyazaki-shi
Station
Kawaminami Branch Station
Onigakubo, Kawaminami-machi, Koyu-gun
Nango Orange Experimental Farm
Nango-machi, Minami-Naka-gun
Miyakonojo Experimental Farm
Ichimanjo-cho, Miyakonojo-shi
Miyazald Prefectural Sericultural Experimental
3515 Tsunehisa, Lüyazaki-shi
Station
Miyakonojo Branch Station
Ichimanjo-cho, Miyakonojo-shi
Miyazaki Prefectural Stock Breeding Farm
Hirohara, Takaharu-machi, Nishi-Morokata-gun
Miyazaki Prefectural Fowl Breeding Farm
1 Tenma-cho, Miyazaki-shi
KAGOSHIMA PREFECTURE
Kagoshima Prefectural Agricultural Experimental 320 Kamoike-cho, Kagoshima-shi
Station
Kanoya Branch Station
392 Nakana, Kanoyayshi, Kimotsuld-gun
Tarumi Citrus Branch Station
246 Tagami, Tarumi-machi, Kimotsuli-gun
Chiran Tea Branch Station
3350 Nagasato Chiran-machi, Kawanabe-gun
Kumage Branch Station
4406 Nishinoomote-machi, Kumago-gum
Oshima Branch Station
750 Kanahisa, Naze-machi, Oshima-gun
Makurazaki Black Tea Experimental Farm
Higashi-Shikakago, Makurasali-mmchi, Kamnabe-
gun
Hokusatsu Erperimental Farm
2706 Maene, Hishikari-machi, Isa-gun
Ibusuki Sweet Potato Breeding Experimental
1540 jyu-cho, Ibusukiymachi, Ibusuki-gum
Far
Lagoshina Prefectural Sericultural Erperimental Yuda, Higashi-Ichili-machi, Hioki-gum
8
Station

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
TABIE 6. -- PREFECTURAL EXPERDMENT STATION, BRANCH STATIONS, AND EXPERIMENTAL FARMS (COMT D)
KAGOSHIMA PREFECTURE (CONT'D)
Name
Location
Osumi Branch Station
Yokoyama, Oaira, Kanoya-shi, Kimotsuki-gum
Minami-Satsu Branch Station
Fukumoto, Yamakawa-machi, Ibusuki-gun
Oshima Branch Station
Itsube, Naze-machi, Oshima-gun
Kurino Mulberry Farm
Kurino-machi, Aira-gun
Shikine Kagoshima Prefectural Stock Farm
Kami-no-dan, Shikine-mura, Aira-gun
Kamoike Kagoshima Prefectural Stock Farm
215 Korimoto-cho, Kagoshima-shi
Sendai Branch Farm
Kumanoshiro-machi, Sendai-shi
Oshima Branch Farm
Naze-machi, Oshima-gun

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.85)
Tppe os Inatétten
Dereeting 4geney
Bajest Master
Naia.
Spori-
matal
Parme
Botabisab
Servipe
sante
Labe
50003
Iaperial
AgrioeltaralkSta
111
510
200
ooo
See Éperimsst Sta
Leb of Daroon of Staple
Poodosdmistration
0
0
0
2
stmal Ladmatry
Sootoskaleal ap Sta
10
mo
26
Voterimary Laberatery
0
0
Seriealture kp k
1
10
1
Bubsotal
5
19
4
26
6
e
Prefestural
Special Prebleas
1
6
6
23
Greps
Geaeral
46
76
60
a
1
Sortisultural
io
26
3
1
Indwetrial
6
2
18
2
o
Animal Indastry
Livesteck
1
0
Serioulture
Poultry
44
0
36
0
06
Sabtotal
101
125
118
248.
hugh
Private
JoOdO
060
0
om
10
20
Agriealtural chemicals
Crepe
Aainal iadustry
ma
o
o
1
o
1
4
4
Serieulture
0
3
Sabtotal
11
0
5
22
39
Z0RAL
117
24
127
2n
36
5
Ivclades iadepeadeas statiuas for citrus fraits, apples, and heree-redseh
Inolades imdepeadont stations for teé and tobasse
人
TAE . - DMT BUTIO OF ROP, AINAL. AD BRICTORE PRTURAL ARNS AS O LAND AÀ AVAÉ AE POR 
Bamber of Stations
Land Area
Crope
Animal
Sericulture
(bectaree)
Statiens
Main
Stations
Braach
Experimental
Parme
Livestock
Parme
Poultry
Parme
Stations
Main
Stations
Branch
Loen th 5.0
13
53
85
15
11
20
10.1
15.1
20.1
5.1
10.0
25.0
15.0
20.0
5
14
1
2
16
7
i
2
16
11
0
9
5
26
2
0
2
0
1
o
o
45.1
25.1
30.1
35.1
40.1
30.0
40.0
45.0
50.0
35.0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
o
0
mm
2
2
2
0
0
0
0
o
0
o
0
0
0
2
2
1
More than 50
0
0
o
24
0
0
0
24
TOTAL
56
78
115
62
13
42
37
402
Largoot (Ka)
Average Sino (Ea)g
Smallest (Ma)
32.1
8.29
0.5
13.0
6.54
0.32
14.0
0.5
4.28
147.83
532.0
0.1
4.22
0.44
5.9
20.5
5.40
0.6
11.0
3.90
0.41
27.5
 Woighred
85

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.80)
Éanter of Statlone
Floar Sp0e
(Square Natero)
SteMene
Mada
Statiess
Sreach
Emperisent
Pastme
Livestosk
Favne
Posltry
Parme
Nada
00
0
90
os
1,001
ad
2,001
Nare 
58
58
99
65
25
39
Avorage S150 g/(0a K)
4.675
78
101
1,95
1,479
2,060
2.796
Lasgeot
Soalloos
(8€ N)
(Bg N)
59.697
100
3.807
1,824
20
7.926
78
9.572
5.02
af vosgaiol
TAELE 10. - X STRINUTION OF PRPEOTURAL EPERINENT STATICES AND EPEHIMETAL PANNS AS 90
NDU SPACE AVAILANLI POR
Pamber of Ssasieme
Greeahease
Ares
Orepe
Industry
Animal
tare
Sort-
T000l
(Square Netero)
Hatioss
Masa
Statsons
Reanch
Imperimeat-
al Farms
76
HO1000
Lese then 100
i8
101
201
to
te
300
200
mmooo
2
301
to
600
00o
h01
to
500
than
500
TOZAL
54
56
94
a
8
.376
à e /(G )
159
101
100
oc
136
LArgoes
Smalleet
(a m)
(5a
9.679
299
5
366
18
0
230
Nene
Inelated only strtions hevins creenhouses
RANZ 11. - PEOPCTIOF OF MUDOET EXPMDED POR RSSARCE, STUDENT TRAIMING,
EXTENTION
WON, AD SKBVIOS AOTIVITINS T THE VANCUE TIM OF PRGPKOTURAL STATICNS
OF JAPA.
15k6
Percant of Total Daget Empended
Fumber
Eype of Station
of
Statione
Student
Reperting 
Research
frainig
Exteasion
Servioe
Crope experiment
mino
281
195
Livestoek farms
Poultry farms
8
10
26
Serieulture
山
10
2
83
irorase
52
6
3
50
Hone
Jased on lg46 qucationaaire from the prefectural etatioas to the Mialetry of
Acrieulvare ad Peres
Woighted
86

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.95)
Nember of Seientifie er Tosksieel Baployess
Gradustes of
Un1-
uigh
Treining
Institation
Destorate
versity
College
Sokeel
Institate
Cemtral (Imperial) Stations
Imp Agr Rap Statiens
21
104
山
100
oomo
Imp Hert Kap Statiens
13
16
Imp Tea Rup Station
Lab Bar Staple Foode Ada
4
1
17
6
1
15
2
0
Imp Zooteehnical Exp Sta
Imp Veterinary Lab
Imp Sericaltural Exp Sta
13
4
3
17
37
32
5757
iii
62
37
45
0
0
11
0
0
山
no
Subtotal
26
226
258
257
45
12
20
a6
Prefectural Stations
Sericaltural Stations
Livestock and Poultry Farms
General Crops Statioms
Horticaltural Stations
Industrial Crope Stations
601
1
U
211
11
12
29
3
302
1山
313
22
9
61
104
209
146
66
39
78
1
2
120
山7
29
10
8
50
16
1
5
1,509
Subtotal
8
266
760
1,256
121
31山
7e
2,827
Private Inatitutions
Agricultural Chemicals /
Crops
51
12
33
26
18
2
1
32
0
1
Subtotal
6
45
山
36
2
5
1
139
TOTAL
42
537
1,062
1,579
16m
331
93
3,512
Fertilisers, fungicides, and insecticides
TABLE 13. - AVERAOE ANNUAL PUDOETS POR AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS
FOR THE PERIODS 1936-40 and 1541-45
Annual Budget
Avorage for
Average for
Type of Station
1936-40
1941-45
(yen)
(yen)
Central (Imperial) Stations
Imperial Agr Exp Stations
684,078
1,334,373
Imperial Hort Exp Stations
85,533
178.75L
Imperial Tea Experimental Stations
36,537
57,570
Lab of Bureau of Staple Food Adm
123.000
260,000
Imperial Zootechnical Exp Stations
494,250
756,236
Imperial Veterinary Laboratory
593,111
881,471
Imperial Sericultural Exp Stationa
1,240,000
1,540,000
Subtotal
3,256,709
5,021,704
Prefectural Stations a/
General Crop Stations
4.580,019
8,974,562
Horticultural Stations
264.009
518.036
Industrial Crope Stations
232,667
338,562
Livestock and Poultry Farms
2,45,655
3,396,160
Sericultural Stations
2,218,995
3,555,1月
Subtotal
10,041,345
17,082,768
TOTAL
13,298,054
22,094,472
This table does not include data for the Yamaguchi and Saga Agrioul-
tural Stations, the Iwate and Gifu Sericultural Stations, the fokyo,
Yamanashi, Shimane, and Tokushima Lävestock farme, and a few breneh ste
tions and experimental farms in other prefeetures.
87

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.88)
TABLE 14.- PREFECTURAL AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS CO-OPERATING WITH THE IMPERIAL AGRICULTUBAL EXPERINEET
STATIOE IN THE IIPROVEKENT OF TEA AND IN BRREDING RIGE, WHEAT, AND BARLEY
imprcverent
Paddy
Upland
Prefecture
of Tea
Rice
Rice
Sceat
Barley
Hokknido
0
1
0
1
0
Ivate
0
0
0
1
Hiynci
0
1
0
0
1
xit
0
0
1
0
Picuchima
0
o
0
0
1
Ibaraki
0
0
2
0
1
Gueru
0
0
0
1
0
Sai tana
1
1
0
0
o
Miigatu
0
1
0
1
o
Ishikawa
0
0
0
0
r
Shizuoka
1
0
0
o
0
Gifu
0
2
0
0
o
Kyoto
1
0
0
0
0
Aicht
0
0
C
1
o
liara
1
0
1
0
M1e
0
1
0
1
Eyo50
0
1
0
0
C
Cottori
0
C
1
0
0
Shimane
0
1
0
1
0
Okayaa
C
0
0
1
0
Hirochima
0
0
0
1
Sime
0
0
1
0
Fk
1
0
0
1
SaD
0
0
1
C
Kwiamoto
1
0
0
0
Miyazall
1
0
0
1
0
Kagehiza
1
0
1
0
Kumter
7
8
5
11
7
TARLE 15. - PREFZCTURAL AGRICULTUBAL EXPERIMENT STATTONS CO-OPERATING VITH THE IMPZRIAL AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT
STATIC IN STUDIES OF FERTILIZERS AND OF DAILAGE FRON COOL SUMYER WZATHER, SNOW, DROUGHT, INSECTS, AID DISEASIS
Coo1 Sw.mer
Snow
Ineects and
Preftcture
Fertilizere
Weather
Blight
Drought
Disease
Aomori
0
1
0
0
1
Ivato
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
C
C
Ak1 to
0
1
0
C
1
Yezagnta
0
1
0
0
1
Ficuchica
0
1
C
0
0
Ibaraki
1
C
0
C
1
Tocnigi
0
C
0
C
1
Miatn
0
0
1
0
0
Toym
1
0
1
0
0
Ic.:!taha
0
0
1
0
0
Fuxui
0
C
1
0
C
Naeiane
1
0
C
0
1
Shizuoka
1
C
0
0
0
Shi 5a
1
0
0
0
0
yoto
0
C
2
0
0
Eyoo
1
C
0
1
0
G
C
0
0
1
Smne
0
C
0
0
1
Oknynra
0
C
0
C
1
Rochine
1
0
C
0
0
Yemo 10h1
C
C
2
0
KA.,AWA
1
C
0
1
0
Ehize
0
C
C
0
1
Pa
1
0
0
1
0
Sge
C
0
0
1
Kunxoto
C
C
0
Citn
0
0
0
1
Nusbor.
:c
6
5
L
12
88

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.92)
TANE 16. -  OP PEPECTURAL SGRIOULPURAL BAPERDT STATIOES
Goop.
Damber of Statüoneg/
Prejoste er Maos et Vork
Sber of Étatsone
Breeding Prejects
Galtaral Prejeets
Dentrol et doaooe pnd sqoota
Whess
42
35
Dolatioa of allmate to arep prodeatton
Fertlsere ad m
Sollo (kind of vesk net epeotrsed)
Potasoee
dasafactare er preooseias es agrtoaltural predmate
Barley
Sreet Potatees
Agricultural meakimery
18
a Ome aad pessibly more etatione condess both breoding and cultural
prejeets vith seyheass, cora, pyrethrm, oats, aad hemp; ome or
Browins and dietribátion of eeeda and seedlinge
Crope and methode for high altitudés
Variety teste as diotiagiabed frem breediag
17
23
20
mere pertieipate is salsivatien experimeats vith rape, aad at
storase and preservaties of agrioulteral predéste
lemst oms station ls esgaged in breeding yellow lupine.
Utilisation of agricultural predmate
Fungicides
Soquesce of crops
Insecticices
Double cropping
Drought damage
1
Costrol of woods
1
TANLE 1S. - PRRFECTURAL SRRICULTURAL EPERIMENT STATIONS PARTICIPA
TIBG IN SPECIFIRD RESEARCE PROJBOTS
Fumber of
TANLE 19. - SILE F PLOTS AKD AUBGER OF ELIGATIOES USRD FOR PERPILI-
Bessarch Projects
Stations
ZER EXPÉRIMETS WITH RICE, VRZAT, BALEY, POTATOEE, AND SVT POTATOBS
Number of
Number of Eperimeate ia whiah the
Bearing silkworms
37
Experimente
Mamber of Plots for Bech Freateeat
Breeding silkworms
23
Sise of Plot
Mamuring mulberry fields
22
(squere meters)
Ose
Tore
Three
Training mulberry treee aad gathering leaves
19
Breeding mulberries
16
0.5 to 1.0
28
3
6
5
Dleease and insect pests
16
1.1 t0 5.0
1
1
ID
Variety tests of mulberries
.15
5.1 to 10.0
2
1
ID
Race teste of silkeme
15
10.1 to 20.0
19
12
D
D
"Bri-eilk"
24
20.1 to 30.0
5
1
4
D
Gatch cropping ia mulberry fields
12
30.1 t0 40.0
13
5
2
More than o
2
D
ID
Usilisation of by-produots
8
Smow damage of mulberry trees
4
TOTALS
68
24
11
5
Grafting mulberries
1
ND No data available
TABLE 21. - ARRA, PRODUCTION, AMD YIBLD OF RICE IN
TARLE 2O. - ARA OF MULERRIES AND PRODUCTIOM CF COCOCNS AD OF RAW BILK I
HOKKAIDO, 1805 to 1945
JAPAN, 1878-1945
Gocoone per
Baw Bilk
Raw Silk
Prodestion
Years
Walberry
(1,000 Ra)
Cocoons Raw Silk
Sotal Production
(1,000,000 )
Hectare of
(xiloxrnme)
Mulberries
per Hectare
(riloxrame)
Hulberries
perKT
(kilodrane)
CCncoone
Period
(hectares)
Aree
(metrie tons)
Total
(per hestare)
Kilegrasp
1938
1940
1538
1893
1898
1903
1908
1913
1918
1923
1928
1942
1878-1552
1933
1938
1939
1944
1683
1941
1943
1887
1897
1902
1942
1892
1907
1912
1917
1922
1927
1932
1937
233.5/
267.9
345.1
434.4
L57.6
521.1
551.8
650.8
588.7
30P.2
499.4
543.8
489.3
359.9
302.2
527.5
528.2
408.1
MD
ND
142.1
329.4
109.2
193.7
246.7
284.5
209.4
151.4
252.2
340.6
326.3
202.6
304.3
366.8
261.9
42.3
40.9
49.1
92.8
72.7
151.37
196.46
111.70
203.83
208.95
209.4
195.1
268.4
119.9
201.9
207.5
37.4
16.93
57.67
92.3
11.79
26.25
31.05
77.50
8.36
271.4
326.4
307.5
£23.3
473.4
519.0
645.3
535.2
210.3
340.9
551.5
563.6
559.5
569.7
513.1
562.9
621.5
501.0
nD
ND
170.0
214.3
274.3
313.2
354.9
385.1
305.4
102.7
108.5
132.8
393.4
398.7
412.6
333.1
382.5
392.9
72.5
97.9
ID
ND
197.6
288.2
401.6
389.4
452.8
497.2
555.7
634.3
592.8
344.7
361.1
334.6
342.9
690.5
632.0
591.8
742.0
74.9
609.6
804.2
1939
1898 - 1902
1903-1907
1908 - 1912
1913-1917
1918-1921b
1923-1927
1928 - 1932
1933-1937
1938
1942
1914
191.5g/
1885 - 1887a/
1889 - 1992
1893-1897
1938
1940
191
1943
1-1942
1A1,866
177,225
1614,662
183,645
184,455
181,313
171,231
152,769
,205
129,439
179,818
188,067
10,559
18,951
53,890
77,599
35,325
4,111
2,103
1,236
455,596
206,900
417,497
438,755
151,157
163,426
269,992
391,1
524,337
292,915
300,421
381,677
5114,269
95,835
68,757
114,491
36,740
6,577
2,490
3,996
1,04
1,91
2,086
1,616
2,167
20767
2,872
2,015
1,778
2,106
1,636
2;176
2,836
2,708
20438
1,900
1,600
1,372
1,958
2,029
1945
1946
211.7
193.4
85.5
ND
49.0
D
419.4
ID
231.4
nD
551.5
D
2/ 3 mere only
5/4 yeare only
Latimate of 20 September 1945
89

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.76)
 .-   OF     
MAON Is GVE
Pereens
Partoty
Eestares
os Sotal
Botrsote
Neria Se
2285
2
9.6
Beria lo
5.6
Zaato, Tohad
Berin lo
5.6
Seria Be
51.932
5.8
Bahiza-shinriki
36.001
5.2
Berta So
22.372
3.5
Reate, Sohond
Borin Bo
25.767
3.0
Forix Bo
29.645
2.3
Boria lo
18,h92
2.1
Seria So
17,195
2.0
Beria le
16.795
2.9
Zaste
Éeria Le
16,900
1.9
Beria Ne
15.508
1.8
Tokai
Beria Bo
15,990
1.7
Tolai
Beria Se
24,072
1.7
Vestera Éeaskm
Merin Me
13,300
1.6
Éerthera Éenske and Énsw
Mstriete
Berin Be
9.h23
1.1
Vestera Éeaske
Norin Lo
9.358
1.1
Sorin Be
9,150
1.1
Éerthera Éeache
SOTAL
482.526
55.7
Soureet Terse, E., Imperial Agrieultural Éperiaeat Statien
ZAE 2. - JAPA AND LIS RA AND CAAL  OF T MOT INOANT  OF  L FOOS
CRDSS OF JAPAN
Japenese n
Eaglish Fase
Cavsal Ongasim
Rice Dsepses
Imocki-byo
Mast
Perieularia orpase De es Gav
Neagure-byo
Sehretiesis
Kagaro-ki akaka-kye
Stem ret
Éolmtatheoperim signeidom Gav
Shi re hagare- kye
Dasterial leaf ighs
Gone-bagare-byo
Socame spot
Opklobelne miyabeamma Ite
Iahiku-bye
Doarf
Oka-1ahiku-tye
Yellow warf
Selerespere erysse 
Jakanao-bye
"Bakass"
Ssbberella fajibarei (u) /Wr
Eao-fuhai-bye
Seodling ret
lahlya opp
Vheat Lieeesss
Earosabi-bye
stem rest
Pasctaia cramisde Pere
Aka-sabi-byo
Leaf rust
Passisia triicima Ériks
Kisabi-byo
Stripe rast
Peseiaia álmmaram (Sa) à es E
Eadaka-kure bo-byo
Loose t
Uesilage Srisies (Pere) Jens
Ani-namagase-karobo-byo
Duat
nllesia trisiet (ayork) Wiss
Kara-nasasss-kurobo-byo
alletia lesvie
Udonke-byo
Poviery mildes
Éeyeiphe gramtato Do
Yuki-gusare-byo
Snow biight
Ak-kabi-bye
Soab
Gibberella saubimetis (Neas) Sese
Ishika-bye
Nosaie
Shima-1shika-byo
Take-all
Ophiobolwe gramiais Sese
Tachigare-bye
Take-all
Ophiobelwe gramiaie Sass
Jehan-byo
Stripe
Cophalosperi graminom mih et Ihata
Barley Dissases
Yuki-susaro-byo
Snow blight
Typhala 1 teame Imai, Pasari mo, Pythi p
Akasabi-byo
Leaf rust
Paccinia anemala Restr
Manyo-byo
Stripe
Nelmiathoepori graminem R
Kisabi-byo
Stripe rust
Pacciaia mar I e 
Kurosabi-byo
Stem rest
Pacciaia gramiais Pers
Udonko-byo
Powdery mildes
Érysiphe grasdaie n
Akakabi-byo
Scab
Gibberella seabimetii Sass
Kata-kabore-byo
Covered omut
Vasslase herdei X es 
Ea daka-kabe re-byo
Leese 
Vasllage mada X es à
Kaba-ssoaro-byo
Foot rot
Cortiei graminoum I et N
Ikyabyo
Rsette
viree
Tackigare-bye
Take-all
Opklobolue gramiaio Base
amaguoa-kuboro-byo
sélletia pascteis à et à
Srees Potate DÉsesses
Kekahabye
Black ros
Rasesenidlophera fisbriata
Potato Danes
md-byo
Late blight
Paytophthora iafestane De Bary
Miraom-byo
Viras Éseases
virms
90

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.94)
TALS . - CROP LOSSES FEON THE NAJOR ESEARS OF THE THE INPORTANE CEPS IE JAPAN
(1.000 metrio toas)
1942
1942
1943
1944
1945
Grop
Amt
Ast
Amt
Amt
Rice
8
2.2
0.7
137
1.5
1.0
212
3.3
167
theat
4.1
2.8
19
1.8
3.6
32
2
3.5
Barley
33
2.1
1.6
20
2.0
3.8
58
42
TANLE 25. - ARA AND PRODUOTION OP RICS AND WERAT IN JAPAE, 1878-195
Mee
Wheet
Area
Production
Aree
leare
Netric
Totrle
1,000
1,000
tons per
1.000
1.000
toms per
hectares
metrio tons
hectares
bectares
mtric tone
hestaree
1878-1682
2.527
4.482
1.773
362
286
0.790
1583 -1557
2,595
5.068
1.953
391
351
.898
1855 -1892
2,713
5.829
2.149
429
422
.904
1893-1897
2.752
5.651
2.053
510
1.156
1898-1902
2,813
6.372
2.266
470
573
1.27
1903 -1907
2.562
6.793
2.374
449
Lst
1,062
1908 - 1912
2,933
7.588
2.587
470
649
1.301
1913-1917
3,030
8,286
2.735
508
757
1.690
1919 - 1922
3,083
8,535
2.867
529
822
1.222
1923 - 1927
3,089
5,700
2.516
269
769
2.646
1928
-1932
3,203
9.070
2.833
493
669
2.763
1933
1937
3,168
9.424
2.970
683
1,261
2.046
1938
1942
3,161
9.534
3.016
794
1,504
1.92
1938
3,194
9,580
3.093
719
1,228
1.706
1939
3,166
10,345
3.267
739
1.658
2.2
1940
3,152
9,142
2.900
634
1.792
2.14g
1941
3.156
8,274
2.622
619
1.460
2.103
1942
3,138
10,027
3.195
856
1,384
1.617
1943
3,085
9.
3.061
803
1,094
1.368
1944
2,954
8,784
2.973
831
1,304
1.665
1945
2,994
6.445
2.152
722
896
1.241
Source:
1878-1932 Masu, 8. Aapecte of Japanese Agriculture, A Preliminary Report - Institute of Paoifio Relatiens, 1gk1
1933-1gks Japanese Minietry of Agriculture and Forestry
ZABLE 26. - AREA AND PRODUCTION OF 00MBON BARLBY AND NAKED BARLEY IN JAPAN, 1578-1945
Common Barley
Maked Barley
Years
Aree
Production
Area
Production
1,000
1.000
Ketric tons por
1,000
1,000
Metric toms per
hectares
metric tons
nectare
hectares
metric tons
hectare
1878 - 1852
598
575
0.962
402
495
1.231
1883 -1887
612
696
1.137
522
638
1.222
1555-1892
638
753
1.180
606
701;
1.162
1893-1897
644
873
1.356
657
904
1.376
1898 -1902
646
940
1.455
674
999
1.482
1903 -1907
656
968
1.476
684
891
1.303
1908-1912
653
1,026
1.571
674
1,040
2.543
1913-1917
583
1,066
1.828
692
1,132
2.636
1918-1922
522
963
1.845
643
1,051
1.635
1923 -1927
456
893
1.958
545
930
1.706
1928-1932
365
800
2.075
486
933
1.920
1933-1937
336
745
2.217
442
530
1.876
1938-1942
359
758
2.110
438
874
2.000
1936
355
688
1.938
411
710
1.723
1939
351
sth4
2.405
506
924
2.300
1940
338
816
2.420
402
869
2.162
1941
358
707
2.975
466
937
2.011
1942
392
734
1.872
505
919
1.620
1943
380
573
1.508
451
733
1.523
1944
424
781
2.842
504
913
1.512
1945
399
502
1.258
475
686
1.44
Data for 1878 - 1937 calculated from Nasu, 1bid p 110. Data for 1938 - 1945 from Miniatry of Agrioulture -nd
Forestry.
91

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.97)
TABLE 27. - AREA AND PRODUCTION OF TEA IN JAPAN. 1878-1945 
Area
Total Produotion
Production
Years
(kilograms per
(hectares)
(metric tons)
(hectare)
1878-1882
nD
15.522
ID
1883-1887
D
23.138
D
1888-1892
ND
26.560
ID
1893-1897 b/
58.290
31.369
538.1
1898 -1902
52.303
28.298
541.0
1903 - 1907
49.633
26.252
528.9
1908 - 1912
48,821
31.054
636.1
1913 -1917
48,267
35.490
735.3
1918 - 1922
47.225
36.852
780.3
1923 - 1927
43.540
36.637
841.4
1928-1932
39.697
39.160
986.4
1933-1937
38.718
47,012
1.214.2
1938-1942
38.847
58.623
1,509.1
1938
39.525
54.682
1,383.4
1939
39.771
57.430
1,438.7
1940
40.409
58,180
1.437.8
1941
38.528
61.865
1.601.5
1942
35.904
60.958
1.697.8
1943
34,013
56.401
1.658.2
1944
31.255
47.075
1,506.1
1945
28.708
27.137
945.3
Includes 0xinawa, 1878 - 1911 only
4 years, 1894 - 1897
D
No data available
92

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
MATURAL RESOURCES SECTION
REPORT NUMBER 59
15 October 1946
LIST OF NATURAL RESOURCES SECTION REPORTS
Report No.
1. Classified
31.0ot 45
Report No.
2. Classified
15 Nov 45
Report No.
3. Basic Problems of the coal Mining Industry in
Japan
14 Nov 45
Report No.
Culture and Utilization of "Kozo" and
"Mitsumata" for the Manufacture of High-Grade
Paper in Japan
24 Nov 45
Report No. 5. Ownership and Administration of Japan's
Forests
27 Nov 45
Report No.
6. Administration of the Japanese Mining Industry 1 Dec 45
Report No.
7. Rice Crop Losses from Adverse Weather
Conditions in Japan Proper in 1945
11 Doo 45
Report No. 8. Stockpiles of Logs and Lumber in Japan
11 Deo 45
Report No. 9. Unusual Materials as Foodstuffs in Japan
17 Dec 45
Report No. 10. Classified
20 Dec 45
Report No. 1l. Estimate of the Forestry Situation in
Hokkaido
28 Dec 45
Report No. 12. Sources of Phosphate for Japan
31 Dec 45
Supplement to NRS Report No. 12 (Sources of Phosphate for
Japan, 31 Dec 1945)
15 Mar 46
Report No. 13. Forest Areas, Forest Composition, and Standing
Timber by Volume in Japan
10 Jan 46
Report No. 14. Production of the Fishing Industry of Hokkaido2o Jan 46
Report No. 15. Livestock Feed Requirements for Japan Proper 21 Jan 46
Report No. 16. Soils of Kyushu and Southern Honshu
26 Jan 46
Report No. 17. Nartime Administration of the Japanese Mineral
Industry
29 Jan 46
Report No. 18. Oil Fields of Hokkaido
2 Feb 46
Report No. 19. Soils of Hokkaido and Northern Honshu
4 Feb 46
Report No. 20. Classified
14 Feb 46
Report No. 21. The Coal Industry of Japan in Recent Years
20 Feb 46
Report No. 22. Japanese Fishing Areas
25 Feb 46
Report No. 23. Korean Mineral Industry Statistics
18 Mar 46
Report No. 24. Foodstuffs Used in the Manufacture of Alcoholic
Beverages in Japan
22 Mar 46
Report No. 25. Characteristics of the Japanese Agricultural
Cooperative Association
27 Mar 46
Report No. 26. Estimate of the Charcoal and Firewood Situation
In Japan
1 Apr 46
Report No. 27. Production, Comsumption, and Stockpiles of
Bamboo
5 Apr 46

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
LIST OF NATURAL RESOURCES SECTICN REPORTS (CONT'D)
15 Apr 46
Report No. 28. Estimete of the Pulpwood Situation in Japan
Report No. 29.
The Honkeiko Colliery Disaster
18 Apr 46
Report No. 30.
The Livestock Industry in Japen
18 Apr 46
Report No. 31.
The Japanese Salmon Industry
25 Apr 46
Report No. 32.
Lumber Production in Jepan
26 Apr 46
Report No. 33.
Commercial Fertilizers in Korea
6 May 46
Report Mo. 34.
Veneer end Plywood Manufacturing in Japan
8 Mey 46
Report Mo. 35.
The Mineral Industry of Korea in 1944
14 Mny 46
Report No. 36.
Classified
4 Mey 46
Report No. 37.
Fisheries Education and Research in Japen
31 liey 46
Report No. 38.
A Survey of Timber Control in Japen Since
10 Jun 46
1941
Report No. 39.
Hydroelectric Power in Japen
12 Jun 46
Report No. 40.
Forestry Situation in Kyushu
17 Jun 46
Report No. 41.
Japanese Research Institutions in the Field
of Mining end Geology
25 Jun 46
Report No. 42.
The Japanese Agar-Ager Inaustry
28 Jun 46
Report No. 43.
Hydrology of Japen
1 Jul 46
Report No.
44.
Mineral Resources of Japan Proper 1925-1945
5 Jul 46.
Report No. 45.
Statistics of Fruit Production in Jepen 1926
to 1946
12 Jul 46
Report No. 46.
The Imperial Forests of Jrpan
19 Jul 46
Eeport No. 47.
The Forestry Situation in Southern Kores
26 Jul 46
Report No.
48.
Forestry and Forest Industries in Shikoku
31 Jul 46
Report No. 49.
Japanese Petroleum Methods and Equipment
7 Aug 46
Report No. 50.
Iron and Steel Metallurgy of the Jepenese
Empire
31 Oct 46
Report No. 51.
Forestry Education in Japan
16 Aug 46
Report No. 52.
Econonic Controls in the Jspenese Coal
21 Aug 46
Industry
Report No. 53.
Dolomite Resources in Jepan
26 Aug 46
Report No. 54.
Cobalt Resources in Japen
31 Aug 46
10 Sep 46
Report No. 55.
Fertilizer in Japan
Leport No. 56.
The Wood Pulp Industry in Japen
15 Sep 46
Report No.
57.
Nickel Deposits in Japan
30 Sep 46
Report No.
58.
The Forestry Situation in Northern Honsnu
10 Oct 46
Report No.
59.
The Agricultural Experiment Stations of Japan
15 Oct 46

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.97)
NATURAL RESOURCES SECTION
REPORT NULBER 59
15 October 1946
DISTRIBUTION
10 5
War Department
8th Army, Attn: Mil Govt. Seo
10
I Corps .
IX Corps
10
XXIV Corps:
10
Attn: CG USAMGIK.
2
Attn: Engineer.
26
Regional MG Teams.
68
Prefectural MG Teams
40
G-2, Foreign Liaison
G-2, WDI
G-2, CIS
G-3.
0-4.
6
Diplomatic Section
12
Office of the Chief Engineer
2245222251215
Government Section
CIE
ESS.
ESS, Attn: Research and Statistice Division
Genoral Irocurement Agent
Civil Property Custodian
Civil Transportation Section
SRS
CCD.
ATIS
PRO News
Asst. Chief of Staff, A-2, lst Air Division.
Secretariet Allied Council for Japan
Naturel Resources Section:
25
Agriculture Division
1
Fisheries Division
112
Forestry Division.
Mining and Geology
Library.
1
Historian.
185
File
(Subject to Change)

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.94)
December 23, 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SEORETARY, STATE-WAR-NAVY
COORDINATING BUBCOMMITTEE FOR THE FAR EAST
894.61/12-2346
Subjeot: Draft Paper on Polioy for the Re-
form of Japanese Agrioulture.
894.61
There is attached for consideration of the
Subcommittee a draft paper on "Reform of Japanese
Agriculture".
James K. Penfield
State Department Member
CS/A
Enclosure:
m.x.d
Draft paper, as stated.
894.61/12-2346
inir
CE V
ge<p
JA:JKmanerson:mls
FE
12-23-46

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.87)
CONFIDENTIN
IN SWNO
MEMORANDUM FOR T NE SECRETARY,. SUICO
Subjeet: Propesed Ameandment to Smmo0 356, Befeom
Japanese Agriealture
appreved with the fellowing amendment:
Suggested addition to Appendix "g", Part One and
and of paragraph 4o-"The goverament should reftind the
804.61/4-2847
by owner to government."
J. N. illdring
State Department Member
State-War-Kavy Ceordinating Committee
Confidential File
22
22
CSM
858
ESP
4/28/47
0n 1213

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.78)
LLLLLLeLLL
GAP Tolge Japen
Wae Department fer wDsas
0 51760
12 Apr11 1967
mount paid en the prinoipel by eemer at time as resale
dear to povernment", conferms with Japanese legislatien as
proved by SAP.
nd
(13 Apr1l 947)
BBOTBIOTED

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
May 28, 1947
DATE:
to : JK - Mr. Martin
Rom : NA - Mr. Borton
sumjscr: Attachment of Reference Documents
The attached document has been approved
and initialed by NA.
There have recently been a number of
instances where papers originating in
JK and received in NA and the JK Seere-
tariat for clearance have not had the
reference documents attached. In the
present case, for example, copies of
SWNCC 356 and C-51749 were not appended
and appreciable time and effort was
required to obtain them. It is believed
the clearance process could be expedited
if you would advise drafting officers
in JK to attach all pertinent documents, 
indicating on the documents, where desired,
that they should be returned to them by
1847
the office at the end of the routing
list.
Fui.
ad
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JU2 1947
5
NA: RAE: pm
Kenm
3

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.94)
ck
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM POR THE BEORETARY, SWECO
Bubjeet: Propesed Amendment to swncc S56, "Reform ef
Japanese Agrioulture".
It is recomended that, in view of the eoment re
ceived May 1, 1947 from the Supreme Commander in eable
C-51749, 8WnCc 356 be amended as followst
Add the following sentence at the end of
894.61/6-1847
paragraph 4 in Appenaix "C": "The government
should refund the amount paid on the prineipel
by the owner, at the time of resale by the o
or to the government."
It is further recommended, in view of the comment
later reeeived from the Supreme Commander in his letter
of Apri1 14, 1947, that Swicc 356 be mended as fellews:
a. Add the following as a new sub-paragraph fel-
lowing sub-paragraph "d.", in paragraph i Appemdix
"0
". All agricultural lands owmed by
cérporations whose prinsipal objestives
are other than sultivation, and amy or
all portions of agrioulturai lands owmed
by any corporation whiah may be deemed
suitable by the government fer purehase
and re-sale to cultivators."
b. Delete the following at the end of the firat
sentence 1n paragraph 7 of Appendix "C": "amd te the
prefectural assemblies, at the peefeotural level.
0. At the end of naragraph 9 in Appondix "c".
delete the word "averaging", and insert the werds:
"whiah can probably ue expeoted to average about".
d. Insert the following after the firth word
of paragraph 12 1n Appendix "c": "as soon as prae-
tioablo"
CONFIDENTIAL
. After the

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.88)
CONFIDENTIAL
Arter the first sentenee of paragrapà 15,
desirable that seme land should remain mmder temems
oultivetion."
f. Delote the last three sentemess of pasee
graph 1s, Appendix "c", and imsert the following
in their plase: "Gonaideretion should be givem to
transferring to suck orgamlsatiems, prier to com-
the lands to be reserved fer temant eultivessoms
agreement by sueh organisatiens te mee the land fer rem-
tal purpeses only. This transfer could be effeeted
through weipulsery sale to the govermment by some or
all mon-absentee landlords of the land now retatmed
by them for renting purpeses, and through subeegeemt
govermmemt sale, or grant in leasekeld, of these
lamds to the organisations in questiom.
J. N. Hilldring
State Department Member
State-War-Mavy Coordinating Commistee
Jxen:t
6/19/47
ESP
MS
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.87)
A
1. the aheve amenhnants are propeeol 1a the 1ighs ot saapes cmmte
a sunc0 2s6, a popert by the Subeamndttee fer the Par Bast an matte
of Japanese Agrieulture".
2. The first amendment prevides that where a person who has beught
wishes to sels it (the Gevermeent being the only permisssble yesekamer
alresty paid on the prineipel by the owner.
S. The second menksent brings within the previsiens et the Agri-
culturel Refem Pregrem all egricultural lande of any eesperatées whese
main purpose is not oultivation and any or all portions er the egriealtamal
lemls of any cerporation whieh mey be deemed saitable by the Gorarament
for purehese and resale to eultivators.
4. The third amendment has the effeet of making Govermmest agemsies
which are coneerned with the pregram respomsible only to the Diet and net
alse to the prefestural assemblies.
5. The fourth amenkment couveys the 1dee that this pregram sheuld
result in honsekeld meiatenanée umits which ean be epeeted as a matter
of probability rather than egrtaiaty to everege abeut ene ehe in aise.
6. The firth amentment provides that as seee as preetlegble frmmeme
renting agrioulturel land shoule do se unier written leasss to be rilel
with and appreved by a Gevermment egmey.
7. The mixth amenkment mabes eplieit, in the coxtert ef mate
guards alrendy previded for, the desirebility of having some lant in
Japan remsin umder tenant cultivatien.
8. The seventh smenément makes permissable rather than memdatory
the tranefer ef certain lanks, prier to the eompletien et the refomm
pregrem, to cceperatives, tenent farmers uniems er mew erganisatiems
esteblished for the sole purpese of reating land to tenant farmsrs.
9. I resommend that you appeove these mendmente ane sign the
attashed msmoranium to the Seeretary, SWn00.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.92)
M)Hed
ECEIVEL
10/28/47
It is mest destrakle that seap be
894.61/10-2847
894.5032
Gharlee E. Seltamen
jzt.
A/LEC
(10/7/47)
OEHAEIL
AD O:EKroll;mbv
AS:WARudlin;1k
(10/23/47)
(written coneurrences on other blue
file copy)
A-S:PPC1axton;AM (10/28/47)
3225

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
16
Ostober 7, 1907
2e
LENORANDJE PROM THE STATE-EMHER, SWEOG
SWHCC 356, "REFORM OF JAPAHESE AGRCULTURE".
FW.
1. In view of the extraordinary delay in handling
NCC 356, "HKPOFN OF JAPANESE AGRICULTUHE" tHe P
bility of still further delay as a result of Swnct 36
894.61
having been sent back to BFE, and the fact that there is
now no policy governing the demoeratisation of farmera'
organisations at & time when legislation governing these
organisations is being introduoed into the Japenese Diet
it would appear necessary to separate from the paper that
zations, wh:ioh was originally prepared in the Depertmemt
separately from the economie portions, (parts of pare-
graphs 1, 4, and 6 of APIENDIX "A"; Seetion VI of APPENDIX
0
"B"; and paragraphs 25 through 33 of APPENDIx "C=), in
order that it may nore readily be pessed by Swacs and
placed before the Far Eastern Commission for their poliey
deeision.
2. attached is the separated portion in the form of
a srnct paper to be considered apart frem the esonemio
aspeots of the problem of Japanese agrieultural reform.
SECRET
Charles E. Saltsman
State-War4NavyCoordinating Committse
Air.
3
RAT
ADOLEKrol1:mbv
10/7/47
nAr
SECRET
3225

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
De/R
10
JAN1948
OFD
CONFIDENTIAL
Action:
CBP
E  BUET &
Infc:
E, DEPT.
FE
DIVISION OF OCCUPIED AR :S COntro1 391
OF STATE
OCD
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
CIA
JAN 1 3 1948
OFFICE OF
DCL
DEPARTMENI OF STATE
ITP
CFD
JAN 13 948
OFS
FROM
Tokyo
TOOE
FC
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.61/12-2447
OIE
Secretsry of Scete
DCR
322, December 24
FROM SCAP TOKYO JAPAN FROM SEHALD TO DEPT OF THE ARMY
WASHINGT ON D  AND TO STATE DEPT NO C 57852 SEBALD'S
SVCTEL.
REDEFSVOTEL UNN: JANUARY 5.
"Re Var RaD 473, 1 December l947, Ministry of Agriculture
apd orestry estimates acreage (in 1000 hectares) and
producpion in Joo0 mecric tons) staple food crops Japan
for 1g4? as follows: (acreage figure given first, pro-
duction figure second:, rice 8,950 snd 2,870; wheat 777
and 604; barley 517 ane 353; naked barley 647 and 436;
vhite potatoes 2192 and 227: swest potetoes 4,312 and
377
Disregard Sebald'e 320 re Edwards. Sebald's 320 re
roforence message from Habana ia vrue.
SEBALD
NOPE:
Mosgege delayed in crenamission.
Rb :RA
CONFIDENTIAL
JAN 26 1948
FILED
H
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
16-5201m-1

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.95)
6.
1/26/48
NUS
Attached forwards state-
ment by SCAP official urgig
Japanese farmers to take
an active,personal interest
in organizing the new
agricultural cooperatives
(which will replace the
National Agricultural
Assoclation) and announcing
rules governing the disso-
lution of the National
Agricultural Association.
NB. This statement was
recently reprinted in an
FEC Circular.
MG

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.92)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
NORTHES A ARS
DecembegA1.
No. 1487
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
FEB 3 -1948
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF SLATE
30
194
35
File A
FrankSchul
150
SUBJECT:Statement Encouraging Participation of All
Farmers in the Formation of New Agricultural
1948 JAN
Co-operative Organizations.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to
enclose five copies of the text of a statement re-
leased for publication on December 17, 1947 by
844.5032
Lieutenant Colonel H. G. SCHENCK, Chief of the
894.5043
Natural Resources Section of this Headquarters,
urging the active participation of all farmers in
ACTIO
the establishment of new democratic Agricultural Co-
FE
operatives (organized under the provisions of Law No.
COPIES
132, November 7, 1947) which wil1 replace Japan's
10:
National Agricultural Association (Zenkoku Nogyokai).
C
The latter is to be dissolved in accordance with the
provisions of Law No. 133 passed by the Japanese Diet
1R
on November 7, 1947. (Laws No. 132 and 133 were pub-
lished in Official Gazette No. 6,255 of November 19,
1947 which was forwarded to the Department without a
OE
covering despatch on November 21, 1947. Translations
ocx
of Official Gazette No. 6,255 will be available in ap-
proximately one month and will be forwarded in the
he
same manner).
00
1TP
FFP - 4
agni-gu
OFFICE OF MHELLIBERNGE
Press release issued by
-enc
General Headquarters, Fa
East Command, December 17,
Com-enc
1947 (five copies).
2 copis
att:
1948 JAN 14 AM 10
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
88
Original and ozalid to Department.
861.
ESA ER
RHBushner:cs
1994 1 56
UNCLASSIFIED
入
APR 14 1948
P0LI10Y
INEAATADE

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.94)
GENFRAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMLAND
Fublic Information Ofrice
Press Release:
1330
17 Decet
USAT GENERAL PATRICK DEPALTS FOR KOREA
HEAD UARTERS EIGHTH ARLY, YOKOHAMA--The UBAT General PatFI
after a 1o day stopover ct Yokohama for repair to damages
incurred while enroute from San Francisco, sailed this morning
for Jinsen, Shanghe1, nd San Francisco. A total of 110
passengers vere embarked at Yokohama, including 10 officers, 94
enlisted ren end six PAC's:
-0-
KANSAN ACCOUNTS FOR 31 POINTS IN IX CORPS BASKETBALL LOOP GLME
WITH THE EIGHTH ARLY IN SENDAI--Clifford French, Kansas City,
Kans., went on a 31 point scoring rampage here last night to lead
IX Corps Hendquarters Co. to a 52 to 46 victory over AP0 309 in
he IX Corps Bnsketball League. Herb Agase, Evanston, Ill., end
Kenneth lneCloskey, WestfieId, N. J., were high for the losers
ith 16 nnd 15 points, respectively.
 the opening game of the twin bill 3d MRs toppled IX
 cin1 Service, 45 to 24, s Jack Steffen, Waukesha, Wis.,
1107
nine morkers.
-0-
NOTE TO COR!ESPONTENTS: Copies of the state-
ment madc this morning nt a press conference
by Edword C. Welsh, Chief of the Antitrust
ind Cartcls División, S, are available in
the FIc Preas Bronch Liurary.
Cー
FOOT OFFICIAL ARRIVES TO ADVISE IN ESTABLISHIENT OF
PLOGI A. FOR INPROVING STANDARDS OF FISH INSPECTION
Milton P. Duffy, Chief of the Bureau of Food and Drug
Inspeotion, California Stnte Department of Public Health, has
arrived in Tokyo to serve :s advisor to SCAP's Natural Resources
Section in setting up a progr'm for improving standards of fish
inspction, wi'h special reference to fish scheduled for export
th. United States.
F. pinning in 1936, Japanest fishing interests exported
rozen tuno to Californir for canning purposes end until 1941
h sr shipm nts continucd in incrersing mounts. The fish was
sut j eted to U. S. Food nd I rug idministration inspection and
Iso to inspection by Mr. Iuffy's Californic State Tepartment of
lie Henlth officinls. Fecause Japanese standirds of fish
F etion vere not as high as those enforced in the United States.
oss ue to spoilage ronged from 10 to 50x on some lots and
uch volurtle food had to be conderned.
in cricr to void a repetition of this waste at a time when
here ir  vorld-wide shortage of food, Mr. Duffy will remein in
Jopen for 90 days to ssist the Japanese Government in establish-
ing  more efficient fish inspec:!on system.
(more)
(over)

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.95)
..Eaclosure to Despatch No. 1487 dated December 30, 1947,'fre
Ofrice of the United States Political Adviser for Japam, Takye
the Formation of New Agricultural Co-operative Orgaxisatiomsm.
Mr. Duffy has completed 33 years of service in the Calirorhia
State Department of Public Health nd NRS Fisheries Division
officials anticipate thet he vill be able to encourage establish
ment of policies concerning fish handling and processing which
will have a lasting effect on the Japanese fishing industry.
ir. Tuffy resides at 575 Picrce Street, San Francisco.
-0-
SCAP OFFICIAL U.GLS JAPANESE FLN ERS TO TAKT ACTIVE. PERSONAL
INTI LECTO IN O-GANIZING NFW AGRICULTURAL CO-OPEFATIVES
Lt. Col. Hubert G. Schenck, Chief of SCAP's Natural Resources
Section, today urged Japan se fhrmers to take an active, personel
inter st in oreanizing new cgricultural co-operntives in order
to be crtoin they are derocr-tic-lly controlled by the farmers
themselves.
"P rr re must moke sure that the new co-operative organiza-
tions they join ar true farmer-controlled co-operatives,"
Colone1 cehonck vorned. "The new co-operative law, which be-
come freetive Dec. 15, purposely provide eight months for the
dissolution of J pan's N'tional Agriculturcl Association
(Zenkoku Nogyoka1) nd its effili-ted associations in cities,
towns, nd villog's. This vill give f'rmers cnough time to
orgenize new co-op ratives bullt or cerocratic foundations, without
covernment control nd without domination by unfriendly inter-
erts. Ev ry f rm r should tak I rt in the clection of officers
who will conduet the rusinr ss of the new co-op ratives."
Und: the nw Agricultural Co-ope rative Association Low,
-ll N tionl A-riculturol Associations must hold dissolution meet-
:ng: no 1-ter than F.t. 15, 1948, nd :ust be completely dissolved
by Aue. 15, 1948.
Fcul-tions geverning the dissclutien of cach village,
town, city, or prefectural gricultur: 1 : ssocintion will bé
decided t' grnral memhership meeting et which two-thirds of
the remty rs rust te prescnt to moke a quorum. A minimum
of 10 days public notice rust te piven of the time, place, and
purpose of the meeting. The ley lso provides that the board
of directors or its liquidator must give  financial report
nd in inv ntory of its prop rties to the uditors of the
association seven d ys bifor the reeting.
This finaneial  port and inventory must be presented
to the members for rrrovel at the peneral meeting and the
ronters rust ,lect " Property isposel Be:rd of not less than
Fiv nor ror then nine nemt rs.  Three-fourths of this board
it be f rmers netively engaged in cultivotion, livestock
 ising, or sericulture. This boord vill also make
 comrendations for the disposl f NaA property, which may be
 nsf rred to one of the ner  griculturel co-operatives or-
nized une r th nev Agricultural Co-ope rative Association Lev.
. S. L. T. GFNI BAL MEIGS SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE AT YOKOHALA DEC. 22
TH 2OO TONS OF CHIISTHLS PACKAGES FOF TROOPS IN JAPAN ANT KOPEA
Corryinr some 2o0 tons of Christmas packages for the troops
nd other occup tion p rsonnel in Jopan and Korea, the General
ips is expuct d to reach Yokohamn in time for delivery to
ddressues before Christmas Day, For East Command postal
uthorities reported todey.
(more)
-2-

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.97)
DATE: February 4, 1948.
TO
FROM : NA - R. Fearey
suBJEcT: SFE 185/1, "Policies Concerning Japanese Agriculture".
You will recall that you and Mr. Hamilton asked me to
discuss with General McCoy and Mr. Whitman three alternative
procedures for dealing with the above paper. I wrote the
alternatives down after our meeting, as in Appendix I, and
shortly afterward took them up with General McCoy and
Mr. Whitman, whose reactions are set forth in Appendices II
and III. You will see that both prefer Alternative 3, i.e.
to put a U.S. policy paper such as SFE 185/1 into the FEC.
A further development is the submission of the P&o view
on SFE 185/1 (Appendix IV). An official in the Army Depart-
ment who prefers to remain nameless tells me that it was
written by Colonel Byroade pretty much on his own authority
and was not seen or approved at "higher levels". He (the
above-mentioned ofricial) says that the paper will probably
94.
be withdrawn and a new CAD-P&O paper submitted to SFE. He
feels quite sure, however, that though this new paper will
be milder, the higher levels of the Army Department will not
be willing to approve 185/1.
9
In view of the decision last week to go ahead with the
submission of a revised FEC-230 to the FEC, my personal view
is that we should also go along with the decision to submit
-448
an agrarian reform policy paper. It seems clear, however,
that there will have to be a great deal more discussion of
SFE 185/1 between the State and Army Departments (I hope not
as much as over FEC-230, though it begins to look that way)
before an agreed U.S. position is reached.
I believe Mr. Whitman still hopes for an opportunity
to discuss the matter with Mr. Butterworth as proposed in
his memo of last week.
Perhape waurd
cet
NA:RAF/hhc

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX I
Alternative Procedures Proposed by
Mr. Penfield and Mr. Hamilton
Alternative No. 1
Restate the problem to read something like: to determine
U.S. policy towards FEC O42/1 (agrarian reform paper intro-
duced by the Soviet member). The paper would contain a review
of theSoviet paper and would list the various changes which
would have to be made in it to make it acceptable to the U.S.
Alternative No. 2
To instruct General McCoy to take the position with regard
to the Soviet paper that it was inappropriate for such a paper
to be submitted in view of the fact that General MacArthur had
already carried forward a comprehensive agrarian reform program
under the broad authority and instructions contained in his
basic directives. General McCoy would be asked to point out
that a paper such as that proposed by the Soviet member would
be a purely ex post facto treatment of the problem, and that
the proper thing for the Soviet member or any other member of
the Commission to do if he found fault with the reform program
currently being implemented in Japan would be to call for a re-
view of the SCAP directive of December 9, 1945 to the Japanese
Government, or of some other SCAP action with regard to agrarian
reform, in accordance with paragraph II, A, 2, of the terms of
reference of the Far Eastern Commission as set forth in the
Moscow communiqué.
Alternative No. 2
To adopt SFE 185/1 with certain textual changes in paragraph
6a.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX II
Mr. Whitman's Comments on Alternatives in
APPENDIX I
Alternative No. 1
There would be three disadvantages to this course:
1. We have repeatedly and definitely promised the other
members of the FEC that we would submit an agrarian reform
paper. The British and Soviets have been reminding us of that
obligation about every month or every two months, though they
have not done so in the last six weeks or so.
2. In specifying the unsatisfactory provisions of the
Soviet paper, we would also have to specify what would be
satisfactory to us, with the result that we would have taken a
position in the matter the same as if we had submitted our own
paper.
3. The danger of the U.S. formally approving a Soviet
agrarian reform paper providing for the far reaching farm re-
forms now being carried out in Japan would be about as great
as for us to initiate a paper of our own specifying these re-
forms.
Alternative No. 2
The disadvantages here are:
1. That we have promised to submit a paper.
2. That we have several times submitted ex post facto
policy papers of our own (for example FEC 230, the arms paper,
the agricultural associations paper, etc.) so we would scarcely
be in a position to say that a Soviet agrarian reform paper at
this stage was inappropriate.
3. We don't want deliberately to invite FEC review of
SCAP actions in the matter if we can help it.
Alternative No. 3
OE strongly prefers this course.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX III
General McCoy's Comments on Alternatives in
APPENDIX I
Dr. Blakeslee stated that General McCoy's views were as
follows:
1. Inasmuch as the U.S. has repeatedly promised to submit
a farm reform policy paper, this promise should be honored.
Dr. Blakeslee said that General McCoy was disturbed over the
fact that several similar U.S. commitments in the past had not
been fulfilled.
2. It would be inadvisable to encourage members of the
Commission to review acts or programs of the Supreme Commander
in Japan.
3. It is desirable for the U.S. to submit policy papers
on all our more important programs in Japan so that the Com-
mission may have opportunity to approve them and build up a
dossier of internationally agreed occupation policies.
General McCoy accordingly prefers Alternative 3 (to submit
a U.S. policy paper) for much the same reasons as Mr. Whitman.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
APPENDIX IV
SFE 185/2
Page 1
cogay
29 January 1948
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
FOR THE FAR EAST
POLICIES CONCERNING JAPANESE AGRICULTURE
Reference:
SFE 185/1
Note by the Secretary
The enclosure, a memorandum by the P&O Member, is cir-
culated for the information of the Subcommittee in connection
with the reference.
J. B. CRESAP
Comdr., USN
Secretary

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
BECRET
ENCLOSURE
POLICIES CONCERNING JAPANESE AGRICULTURE
Memorandum by the P&O Member. SFE
1. Although at the moment, the subject of Japanese Agri-
culture (and Land Reform) is not of direct military concern,
certain long-range U.S. military views now being considered
envision a Japan economically self-supporting and of potential
value as a deterrent to further Soviet expansion in Eastern
Asia. A program of socialization of Japanese agriculture, as
complete as that proposed in this paper, even though already
initiated by the SCAP, would tend to weaken the overall re-
covery of Japan, a recovery which would be essential at an
early date should there be adopted by the U.S. Government the
strategic concept of building Japan, to the extent practicable,
into a bulwark against further Soviet expansion.
2. It 1s agreed that some deconcentration of large Japanese
absentee landed estates is necessary and 1s in line with a decon-
centration of excessive economic power, now being implemented.
However, a recent public announcement of a moderation of the
decentralization of Japanese industry has set a precedent for a
reexamination of the idea of completely socializing Japanese
agriculture.
3. Pending an exhaustive reexamination, on the highest U.S.
political and military levels, of our long-range strategic aims
1n Japan, the U.S. Government should be extremely reluctant to
confirm officially the socialization of Japanese agriculture.
4. Therefore. the P&o Member cannot concur in the Conclus-
1ons and Recommendations expressed in SFE 185/1.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.90)
FEB16 1948
TOP SESEET
0.28
Te the
Acting United States Pelitieal Adviser fer Japan,
Tokye.
894.61/2-1648
The Seeretary of State eneleses fer the infermation
of the Aoting Pelitieal Adviser a cepy er srE les/1.
"POLICIES CONCERNING JAPANESE AGRIGULTURE, WHIGR MAS
not yet been appreved by the Subeemmittee fer the Far
East, and a eepy ef SrE l8ß/z, eentaining a memerandus
by the Aray Member ef SFE on the same subjeet.
Alse enelesed fer the Acting Pelitieal Adviser's
1nfermatien 1s a copy ef SANACC "STATUS OF PAPERS",
31 January 1948.
TOP SECRET FILE
Enclesures:
 1. SFE 185/1, eepy no. 2.
 2.  18s/2, eepy ne. 24.
3. Status of Papers,
31 Jamwary, eepy no. 40.
/FK
 Unit
TOP HECBET
the sundd rigi-
nal.
Cian Shut mule
Cas.ZK
FEB-16 1948 P.M.
WW
FE:HSTumas
NA
2-13-48

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.82)
DCR
CONTROL COPY
WHITHD STAEHM POLITIGAL ADVISER
FE
SECRET
POR JAPAN
Noo 276
Tolye, Maveh 3, 2000.
261948
(Fer Departmont Bee Galy)
Subjoet:
Repart ef Piald Trip to NIIGATA to Inwestigate Greup
426
SIV19
()L
MA
1088
warded in its atirety.
CONETNTLAL

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.94)
Tekye's No. 176
March 18, 1948
2-
COTIDTIAL (Per Department Use Only)
The mjer pertien of Ktr. Ladejinsky's repert is dovoted te a
analysis af the suesess of land reform in Miigata, where agrieultere
is charasteristically deveted to one-erep rice predwstiom. Prestisally
all of the land available fer purahase frem landlerds and resale to
tenants has already been taken up. Because the priee paid the lamdl erds
is censiderably belew the ceiling price, there have bem mry appeals
to the prefeetural land cemmissien against what the landlerds believe
to be very low priees. Out af 440 cases befere the eomiesiem 90 per-
eant invelve prise disputes.
A sigmificant observation made by Mr. Ladejimky is that prebably
throughout Miigata the land referm pregram is net being aeeempemded y
any consolidatiem of heldings, and be conoludes that the aumber af
stripe, after accemplishmant of land referm, will be approximately as
large as befere. Reperts frem other prefestares indieate the same
situatiem. Thms, ne basis fer rapid develepment in agrieultural methede
is being laid by the referm itsalf.
Persistent rumers that tenants are reluctant te amedl themsalves a
the oppertunity te perehase land are refuted by Mr. Ladejimstky's
findings La Niigate. It was his obeervatien that the tamests are eager
to bay land and that the lesal land comisai ans sheald, therefere, have
me trowble in finding buyers.
The outstanding feature of the raferm in Niigata is the relatively
amall eppesi tion affered by the landewners, whe have mot reserted to
court astion te test the senstitutiemality af lnd refemm as lamdemers
in several ether prefestures have dene. By querying a mmber of land-
onmers, Mr. Ladejinsky was able te arrive at a partial explamatiem af
their quiescent attitade Ome reasen whieh he puts ferward is that the
landewners all know that the authorities of the Oeempatiam played a
majer rele in the fermalatien of the Land Referm Law and that this fast
restrained them frem epem eppesitien to 1ts implememtatiem. Amether
probable reasen is that, during the first year ef the Ceeapatiem, may
landenmers feared that their land might be confiseated witheut compemse-
tiem. Henee, they experiemeed a sense ef relief at the dissevery that
they were te be paid fer it even though at prices belew these they eould
eand in a free marset. Further, there is a streng temamt miem move
ment in Niigata, a fast whieh may have induced the less disputatiems land-
owmers to subsit quietly. In this prefecture landemers, Mr. Ladejimsky
states, have never been a group apart frem the lamd ar frem the peeple whe
cultivate the Land. Their intimate knowledge of temaney cenditieme there
fore might have had smething to de with the attitude that land referm is
not altegether unreasemble. The most cempelling reasene fer the pesse-
ful subedssien of the landlerds is the lew land rente new prevailing
throughout rural Japam, rents being fixed by the Gevermmeat at 75 yem per
tan (appradmtely 1/4 asre), a value which, even at eurrent affieial
prices fer riee, is but twe pareent of the value of the erep of such
area. Land ewmership, at least fer the time being, is thereughly un-
remmnerative.
Mr. Ladejinsky ebeerves that thr small, resident, nen-oultivating
landlerds are not  easily reconciled to their new status and will
CON IDETIAL

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.87)
Respeetfally yours,
W. J. Sobald
Griginal and asalid to the Department.
sigae
original

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.71)
200.4 (21 Jam 48)AS
Reeeerd
SBJEOT:
Field trip to migate Prefeeture
S. Peyeene Ixterviowed:

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.87)
COSTREETIAL

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.90)
(2)
(8)
(4)
(5)

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.95)
stasus of emer-eultivater.
m. The question of new leadership in the pest-refesm

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.90)
CLASSIFICATION
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATI
Callocl
UNCLASSIFIED
AGR. Department of State
PLAIN
894.61/3-1848
Control X 1279
May 7, 1948
U.S. URENT
CPREE YCAND FR JLIED POG
TYKO
180, Seventh
FUR POLTTT CAL ADVISOR ( LIFO. ARMY CHLEF OF STAFF)
NATTRL. RYRCES CTION FOR OLF I. LADEJTISKY FROM AGRICULTURE
earsion
t infoxron not unswred.
Pyrt to iuve tthout puy status
Hanshall
A
MARSHALL
CS/V
DISTRIBUTION
DEBIRED
OFFICEBONLY
17 
C1
PLAIN
7

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT DETACH THIS
894.61/3-1848
DESP.176 FROM TOKYO
FILE NO.
RECORD COPY
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS
11G-
MATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORII TION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRA
S BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
Confidential File
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R
NG.
OCT 201948
FAP
M-184
9-23-48

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.91)
ACTIC
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United states politieel Adviser
for Japem
No. 201
ASSIS
JUN-1148
CONFIDENTIAL
JUN 1 1 1948
(For Department Use Only)
SUBJECT: ROPOrt of Field TP1P to FUKUOKA, SAGA, KUMAMOTO, OKAYANA
and KAGAMA Prefectures to Investigate Crop Colleetiem
and Land Reform.
PPANCH
0.1
DIVIS ON OF OCCUPIED AREAS
9
acim
JUN 1 5 1948
The Hoserable
DEPARTMENY OF'STHATE F
washington.
FE
xn
1:1
Bir:
A1
Xu.
894.
894.52
Mareh 18, 1948, regarding a field trip to Niigata Prefeeture to
investigate crop collections and land reform, and to fermard here-
with a copy of another report prepared by Mr. Wolf I. LAnzJImkY
of the Depertment of Agriculture, now serving temporarily as e re-
searsh consultant in the Natural Resourees Seetion of this Heed-
quarters. regarding the progress of food collections and land re-
form in the prefectures of Fukuoka, Saga, Kumamoto, Okayama, emd
Kagawe. Mr. Ladejinsky spent twelve days in the five prefeetures
interviewing members of Military Govermment Tesms, Japemese offi-
cials, temant-farmers, owmer-cultivators and landlords. This re-
port, like that sest to the Department with the despatek wader
referemee, is believed to be of interest as reflecting the first-
hand experience of a trained observer in the field of agricultaral
economics.
NAPL
Mr. Ladejinsky, who is ∞-author with Willim M. Gilmartia of
A
the January 1948 issue of "Foreige Affairs", is reported to have 
87
et the latest, l956, although he had never visited Japan until afteg
agriculture for the instructiom and use of military goverament end
lectured before classes in military sovermment at the Universities
8961
Contidential Fi
of Michigan and Chicage. After the capitalation of Japen he served
13
in the Natural Resourees Section of this Headquarters,where he, to-
gether with Messrs. Willim M. Gilmartin and R. S. Hardio,Wumseled
Japanese
COMFIDENTIAL

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokye's No. 201
May 15, 1948
COMFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
-2-
Japamese officials in the freming of the basic lasd referm legis-
lation: the Omer-Farmer Establishment and Speeial Measures Lew
and the Revised Agricultural Land Adjustment Law. It is believed
that in this group of three persons, Mr. Ladejinsky's opimiems
earried the most weight. The somewbat optimistie mote which mr.
Ladejinsky strikes in his two reports may be attribatable to his
keen interest in his subject and his intimate comnectiom with the
legal foundations of Japanese land reform.
The writer's observation, in his earlier report on miigats
Prefeeture, regarding the effective work being dome by wilitary
Govermmest Teems in connection with crop collectiems and farm lend
reform was confirmed in his findings in the five prefestures re-
cently visited. It was also his impression that, to meet this
year's crop colleetions, many farmers have drawn on their allowed
retention of riee and other grains to make up their quotas. Cel-
lections have apparently depleted farm food reserves to a certain
extent, lemding some validity to the farmers' complaimts and insist-
ence that shortly the Government will have to provide them with a
food ration.1) The cause of the situation, he states, lies is mis-
allocation of quotas, in some cases deliberate, and is some useveid-
able. Mumerous petitions regarding quotas, deliveries, and the
chances of rationing reach Military Govermment offiees. meny of
these petitions concern the manmer in which the officials have dis-
charged their duties and the metheds they have used is assigming al-
locations. In the prefeetures visited by Mr. Ladejinsky, erep eel-
lections were completed or wsre being completed akeed of sehedule.
This operation, however, was not carried out easily. It was pessible,
it is indieated, only because of the energy displayed by this Head-
quarters, the Military Government Teams, and the Japamese Govermment.
Considering the difficulties that have to be overcome, Mr.
Ladejinsky believes that the plenned ten pereent inerease in queta
deliveries in the crop year 1948-49 is a most serious matter end
will not be accomplished easily, if at all. He direets critieim
particularly at the incentive goods offered farmers for complete
and timely deliveries, commenting that rice wine should no longer,
as in the past, be the mainstay of the incentive goods progrem. Im
this connection, he recommends that the volume of rice earmarked for
processing into wine ultimately to be distributed smong farmers
should be reduced by not less than one-half. The incemtive soods
thus far distributed have been of little appeal to the farm wemem
of Japan
roborated by reports frem other sourees indieatins that.
in some districts, farmers have already had to apply fer
food ratioms. See article entitled "japenese Farm Reform",
"Nippon Times" for May 13, 194s, page 1.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's No. 281
May 18, 1946
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
-3-
of Japan, who make an important contribution to the raising of a
crop, simce these goods have been designed for male rather them fe-
male consumption.
Mr. Ladejinaky also lays considerable stress upem the defests
of the progrem for the legal marketing of fish and vegetables end
comments on exeessive spoilage. Fishermen, he states, have shemm
a temdeney not to put forth their maximum efforts im fishing epera-
tions. Controls on perishable foods, enforeed simee December 1s,
1947, cas, in his opinion, stand considerable revision emd should,
depending upon the local situation, be eased in some places end
tightened in others.
A notable feature of this crop-year's collection eempaign was
the staunch support given by the late KATaYAMA Cabimet, mhish fel-
lewed the policy of keeping prices dowm and emforeing deliveries by
the use of strong measures. He concludes that the Cabimet, there-
fore, sided with the city against the countryside.
As in the case of his previous memorandum on Niigate, mmsh ef
Mr. Ladejimsky's report is devoted to the acsomplishmemt and sseeess
of the land reform program, under whick a large part of land purekas-
ing activity has been completed in the prefestures in questiem. Frem
ten to twemty-five percent of the origimally estimated ameumt of land
subject to purchase by the Govermment has been acquired threugh sare
remder in lieu of payment of taxes. The selling of land to temsmts
has begus and will undoubtedly, Mr. Ladejimsky states, be cempleted
by the end of the year. Many tenants stress comeerm over the fimas-
cial risks that so with owmership, but in no case kmowm to Mr. Lade-
jinsky was this anxiety strong emough to overoome their cherisked
hopes of becoming owmer-cultivators. The majority of the teaests
who have already bought land have made initial peyments smeunting
to as mueh as sirty to seventy peroent of the entire purehase prise,
a fact refleeting the money prosperity of rural commanities. This
phenomemom has mot been so apparent in villages removed frem large
urban or industrial centers where farmers do not have the opportumity
to sell their vegetables and other produee on the blaek markst.
The farm union movement among the farmers in the prefeetures
which Mr. Ladejinsky visited has had much to do with the pregress
of land reform. In Kagawa eighty-one percent of the villeges have
bramches of ome or the other of the two dominant unions, the redieal
Japan Farmers Union (Nichino) and the more conservative Natiomal parm-
ers Union (Zeano). Union influence bas mmde it possible in this pre-
feeture for tenants to preside over forty-four peroent of the leeal
land cemmissions. (Thirty-one peroent are presided over by owmer-
cultivators and twenty-mime pereent by landlords.) The average per-
centage of tenent-obairmem for Japan as a whole is twenty-four per-
comt.
owmer-eultivator
CONFIDEITIAL

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokjo's No. 281
May 13, 1948
COMFIDENTIAL
(Por Department Use Only)
-4
Owmer-cultivator commission members on both the loeal and pre-
fectural levels generally vote with the tenants and have beem in-
strumemtal in persuading landlords to do likewise even on some
rather crucial issues. In another way, however, the owmer-eulti-
vator has mot been helpful. The problem of comsolidatiom of mall,
local holdings has apparently not been affected by the pregress of
the land reform or any other program, Mr. Ladejinsky states. The
owmer-eultivator's land, which is not subject to the previsiems of
the reform, stamds in the way of consolidation, whieh eammet take
place until this olass of farmer is compelled to submit his holdings
to redistribution by land commissions.
Significant im the past year has been the deoline in the land
owmers' oppositiom to the progrem. In the summer of l947 seme land-
lords initiated a number of suits for the purpose of testing the
constitutionality of the land reform law, but most of these eases,
although mo longer pending, have never come to trial. Rather them
test the constitutionality of the reform laws, landlerds in large
numbers are now attempting, it is stated, to gain possession of tem-
anted land in order to raise food for their own consumptiom. The
permission of the prefectural governor is necessary in order to ter-
mimate or reseind the leases given their tenants. The settlements
in many of these cases have not beem strictly in aceord with the
provisions of the law, but Mr. Ladejinsky is not certain that it is
either feasible or advisable to insist on the letter of the law im
every instance. The net results of the legal and illegal evietiems
is the inerease of the so-called "mall consumption farms", whiek are
relatively less productive and do not contribute to the matiomal food
supply. The landlords involved in these eviction cases are, in the
main, small scale resident owners who have found it impossible to
live on the very mall money rentals permitted them by law.
According to the provisions of the law, rents for rice fields
may be as high as twenty-five percent of the value of the crop. How-
ever, with the progress of inflation, rents have become a frestion
of one percent of that value. This fraction is reduced still further
if one considers that the commutation of rent to a money basis, im-
stituted by the Agricultural Land Adjustment Law of December 28, 1945,
deprives the landlord and awards to the tenant the value of the riee
straw, which is a bi-product of the crop. The value of the strew
alone pays, Mr. Ladejinsky states, many times over the rent of the
land. To correct this situation, Mr. Ladejinsky recommends that tem-
ants be required by law to pay a rental bearing a reasonable relatiom-
ship to the use they make of the land. He asserts that they are mow
in a financial position to do this and that the longer the presemt
situation continues, the more difficult it will become for the temants
to realize that renting land at virtually no ∞st to themselves will
not be possible much longer.
One of the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. B1
May 13, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
One of the important omplaints of the landowmers is that the
twenty-four year annuity bonds, bearing interest at the rate of
3.65%, which they are given in exohange for their land, have beem
decreed by the Ministry of Finance to be non-negotiable withis five
years from the date of issuance. Mr. Ladejinsky believes that this
complaint would be met if landowmers were granted the opportunity to
cash their bonds as ciroumstances dictate.
It was one of Mr. Ladejinaky's observations that the work of the
land commissions which are the administrators and exeeutors of the
land reform program is seriously impaired by lack of funds and com-
sequently by insufficient personnel. On some occasions it has beem
necessary for villagers to contribute voluntarily from their owm fim-
ances to provide a commission with the minimum assistance to permit
its contimued operation.
The eoonomic changes now taking place in rural Japan, Mr. Lade-
jinsky observes, have resulted in the improvement of the lot of the
great majority of the farmers and in the worseming of that of the
landlords. Political end social changes, parallel to the eeomomie
changes, are less obvious. The need for a new rural leedership has
arisen, and the old order can persist in a new guise only in the event
that no suoh new leaderahip emerges. Tenants and ewmer-cultivaters
now have the opportunity, Mr. Ladejinsky declares, and in fast ase
being compelled, to take an active part in the affairs whiek at eme
time were the sole preserve of the landowmers, who with their less
of affluemce have also lost some of their influemee. The farm umiems,
the land commissions, and the agricultural co-operatives will supply
much of the needed talent but not in the very near future. It is
likely that leaderahip in the village in the time immediately akeed
will be shared between the landowners and the other local groups.
Especially interesting, Mr. Ladejinsky comments, is the positiem
of the Communist Party in the Japanese village. He notes that the
party has lost influence because of the failure of its propaganda
against land purohases by tenants. The main line of this attaek was
not against land reform as such, but against the partioular type of
reform now being carried out with its main mphasis on private
rather tham state, individual rather than colleetive owmership ef
land.
Drawing upon his first-hand knowledge of the mistakes of the
Kerensky Govermment at the time of the Russian revolutiom, Mr. Lade-
jinsky evokes a picture of what might have happened in Japan had
land reform never come about, asserting that the country might mow
be a cauldron of unrest and discontent, and fertile grownd for eem-
munist agitation. In this conmestion, he believes tribute should be
paid to the Supreme Commander's thorough appreciation of the lessoms
of histery
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's No. 281
May 15, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
-6
of history and their proper application to the specific conditioms
that exist in Japan.
In conclusion, the writer surveys the effeetiveness of the mil-
itary Government Teams which he calls the instrumemts through which
it is hoped to impart new meaning to Japan's economy, polity, and
society. He takes note of the fact that although some members of
the military Government Teams take exception to the underlying prin-
ciples of the land reform program, these differences of opimiom do
not adversely affect the enforoement of the reform, the effort to
carry out which he regards as very impressive. However, Mr. Ladejimsky
laments the exceedingly small personnel with which the Military Gev-
ernment Teams, burdened with many other duties besides surveillamee
of land reform, must operate. More and better personnel, he states,
has been a basio need in the past; in the days ahead, it will be an
absolute necessity.
Respectfully yours,
6.VBenace
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Copy of memorandum by
Mr. W. I. Ladejinsky,
Natural Resources Section,
dated Mareh 22, 1948, entitled
Field Trip to Fukuoka, Saga,
Kumamoto, Okayama and Kagawa
Prefectures.
861
JDEdwards:n
Original and ozalid to the Department
Dretaisied nin De/R
control ap
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.95)
Enlesure to Pespateh Ne. 
CONPIDENTIAL
deted New 15, 194s from
(For Departmest Use Only)
Japen, msssled moers 
Trip to rameke, .
Investigate crop Colleetéem
COPY
Land Reform".
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREE COMMANDER FOR THE AILLIED POWERS
Natural Resources Sectien
HGS/RHD/WIL/mV
MR 315 (22 Mar 48)A
22 March 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR:
Record
SUBJECT:
Field Trip to Fukuoka, Sage, Kumamoto, Okayama
and Kagawa Prefeetures
1. Authorization: CP 201, 6 February 1948.
2. Mission: To investigate the progress of land reform in
Fukuoka, Saga, Kumemoto, Okayama and Kagawa.
3. Personnel in Attendance: Mr. W. I. Ladejinsky, civilian
consultant, and Mr. Motonaga Ohto, Japanese interpreter.
4. Itinerary: Departed from Tokyo Statiom, Tokyo, at 194o hours,
8 February 1948, arriving Takamatsu l420, 9 February 1948. Departed
from Takamatsu at 1405, 11 February 1948, arrivims Okayeme at 16s9,
11 February. Departed 1l20, 13 February, arriving Fukuoka 00se,
14 February. Departed 0930, 15 February, arriving Saga 14s0, 16
February. Departed 1500, 17 February, arriving Kumsmoto 1600, 17 Feb-
ruary. Departed 1600, 18 February, arriving Fukuoke 1830, 19 pebreary.
Departed 1300, 20 February, arriving Tokyo 2000, 20 February.
5. Personnel Interviewed:
Col. Robert E. Coughlin
Lt Col W. H. Haviland
Capt R. J. Charbonnel
Sgt Gunner
Lt Col Karl L. Springer
Mr. A. F. MoGimpsey
Col S. C. Hilton
Lt Col Charles L. Munake
Capt V. J. Jones
Mr. E. R. Mossman
Maj William P. Keleher
Capt Harry D. Gilpin
Lt Col H. L. Shimaberger
Maj K. D. Davison
Mr. J. Blaine
In addition, Japanese officials and a large number of tememts,
owner-cultivators and landlords have been interviewed in the course ef
this trip.
6. Summary:
a. The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.97)
mel. to Tokyo's
No. s81 dated
May 15, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
a. The prefectures of Kagawa, Okayama, Fukuoka, Kmemote
and Saga have carried out the quotas assigned to them. It was mot 
easy chore, and but for the remarkable performance of the respeetive
M. G. teems the problem of collections would still be with us - and
very largely unsolved.
b. The land reform program is proceeding moothly. Most
of the land subject to purchase has already been purehased by the
Goverament and a fair smount of land, varying from prefeetare to
prefeeture, has already been sold to the tenants. Im these prefeet-
ures the land will be sold and the reform carried out by the end of
1948.
c. The existing rental arrangement is an ecomomie absurdity.
In effect, the landlords receive nert to no rent. This situatiem ealls
for consideration and oorrective action.
7. Food Gollections
a. As was my experience in Miigata on a previous trip, every
tesm was keyed to the whole problem of food oolleetion. This was tree
even in instances where collections were completed. The teeme realise
that this is but the end of one phase, although the most importamt
phase, of the problem. The day-to-day activities in commestiom with
the perishable foods program are still with them, and so are the re-
quests for rations on the part of many farmers. Before long, they
will have to begim the all-important work of launehing the l948-49 prod-
uction and colleetion campaigns.
b. I am under the impression that this year's collections
have reached the limits of reasonableness, and, in some instanses, have
gome beyond. Many farmers have undoubtedly dipped inte their retentien
allowance im order to make up their quota. The contimaed effort of the
M. G. tesms and Japanese Govermment to over-fulfill the quotes are fail-
ing despite the very attractive bonuses to farmers for above quote de-
liveries. Collections have apparently depleted farm reserves of feod
to some degree. The farmers' complaints and insistence on the fast
that shortly the Governmemt will have to provide them with a feed ration
is not altogether groundless. The cause lies in the cases of misallesa-
tion ef quotas, some deliberate and some unavoidable. Lt. Col. Karl L.
Sprimger, co of Okayama Military Goverament Teem, has well sammed up
the situation that prevails in the prefecture and probably in most
other prefeetures of Japan:
"The teem is only one of forty six in Japan and if our experiemees
are 'carbon copies' of those of the other temms in trying to reash the
rice and sweet potato quota on the deadlime date, then something should
be done to alleviate the imequities of allosatioms end retentiems. Hum-
dreds of petitioms reach this office on quotas and deliveries, and, subse-
quent to quota delivery, on the chances of rationing. Most of the eem-
plaints were levelled at the officials for the maaner in whieh they
discharged
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.97)
mmel. te tokyo's
No. l dated
May 13, 1948.
CONFIDEITIAL
-5-
diseharged their duties and the methods they used in assigaing alleee-
tion quotas. The most flagrant case of injustice was the ome in which
an authorized official reported the populetion ef a village almest
700 people short, thus redusing the retentiom by almest 700 keke ef
rice. Through the efforts of Military Govermmemt this case will prob-
ably be settled amicably for all concerned."
c. In the prefectures visited collections were completed or
being completed ahead of schedule. It would be erroneous, however,
to assume that the operation was carried out with ease. my ebserve-
tions im the rural communities and talks with the co's and members of
the teams indicate that success came about only beeause of trememdous
drive on the part of ScAP, the teems and the Japanese Govermmemt. The
farm rs' imherent obedience to authority was clearly mot saffieient to
turn the corner. With few exceptions all means had to be mpleyed,
from diplomacy to stern measures (arrests, fines and comfiseatioms in
some prefestures), in order to ∞llect a larger quota tham the previeus
year. For this reason the planned 10 pereent increase in the quete de-
liveries in 1948-49 is a most serious undertaking whieh will mot be ae-
complished easily, if at all. The higher quota is based on an expested
10 pereent increase in production, but this in turn rests on a mumber ef
expectations, some of which may fall short of realisation. In reality,
therefore, the farmer may be confronted with a l0 pereemt reduetiem in
the 1947-48 retention.
d. In view of the magnitude of the program facing us, the best
use must be made of every measure that will ensure its sueeessful com-
pletion. In this connection the type of incentive goods offered the
farmers for complete and timely deliveries is one of the measures wmorthy
of the most careful consideration. The shortage of goods of all types leaves
the Government with little or no choice as to what the farmers should
be given. Yet one thing is certain: sake must no longer, as in the
past, be the base of the ineentive-goods program. My observations in
village after village in Kagawa, Okayama, Fukuoka, Kumamoto and Saga
lead me to the conclusion that sake bids fair to become a wdrug" on
the market as a collection-incentive itm.
•. The farmers enjoy a drink, of course. Sake (in moder-
ation), as a morale builder, source of energy and as an item of some
importance in ceremonial and religious performances, is welcome. But
what the farmers objeet to is the flood of sake, and one suspests
that a Gallup poll among the womenfolk would reveal evem stronger
views concerning this matter. In the house of a mall farmer in
Sage prefeeture I counted eighteen sho-bottles of this mergy-builder;
most of the farmers received appreciable quantities of the seme. The
village has enough sake to launch a battleship. There is amother as-
pect which must not be overlooked; the case for food imperts is weakemed
when the usage of an inordimate mount of grain for alcohol prodestiom
and distribution is permitted. And whatever the quantity of grein
used for brewing in the past crop-year, it is safe to suggest that the
volume
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.98)
Emel. to Tokyo's
No. 281 dated
May 13, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
volume earmarked for processing and ultimate distribution emens
farmers should be reduced by not less tham 50 pereemt.
f. The farm women of Japem contribute mightily to the raising
of a crop; one is tempted to say that they are responsible fer the
liom's share of the work. But it would seem that the distribasiem
of incentive goods (sake, work-clothes and cigarettes) has beem aimed
at the male rather than the female. The males scored again when the
rubber-soled shoes intended for women ware in many cases mueh teo
large for them. I have listened to many justifiable cemplaimts on
the subjeet of unequal distribution of goods between the two sexes.
It would be well, therefore, for the planners of the incentive-goeds
program to keep in mind a statement made in the village of misaki
(Fukuoka prefecture), and translated, perhaps a bit too liberally,
by my capable Japanese assistant: "Since the Japanese farm mmem ere
not as eivilised as the American women, they are not in the habit of
smoking and drinking; sake and cigarettes have as little value for
them as lipstick and facial cream have for men." Disregarding the
quaint notion of what stemps a woman as civilized, it remmims true
nevertheless that closer attention ought to be paid to the whe is
who" in the Japanese village in order to ensure a more proper sharing
of incentive goods.
g. I had no occasion to study the actual operatiom of the
fish and vegetable control program, nor am I familiar with its mmim
provisions. I m merely recording what seems to be the prevalent
opinion among the members of the tesms regarding this progrem. Gemer-
ally speaking, stress is laid on the diffioulty of enforoing legal mar-
keting of fish and vegetables. This diffioulty stems from provisioms
contained and omitted in the law, as well as from the perishable shar-
acter of the goods.
h. The nature of the probleme encountered by an offieer of
the Okayame Military Government Team is essentially the same as the
ones encountered in all the other prefectures visited. These are as
follows: (1) wholesalers are registered only under the loeal law;
(2) customers are not registered with the retailers; (3) the retailers
keep no records as to the volume of fish and vegetables they reeeive
from the wholesalers; (4) no customer purchase-books are used; (5)
in many communities free sales of fish and vegetables are permitted,
and the only measure enforced is the posting of official prices by
the retailers. Poor transportation facilities and the almost total
absenee of refrigeration results in a great deal of spoilage, thus
reducing still further the volume entering legal channels.
i. The supply of fish at official prices has notieeably de-
clined in the prefeotures of Kagawa, Okayama, Fukuoka, Kumemoto and
Sage, according to the statements of the economie officers of the teems.
But aside from attempts at evasion, the fishermem have shom a temdemsy
of "lying down on the job" as far as actual fishing is comeermed. The
main reason is well known: inability to procure the requisite type end
quentity
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.98)
May 15, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
quantity of gear at official prices. And so long as this situatiem
lasts, the volume of the fish-catch and the legal sales of fish will
be equally retarded.
J. My own observations, plus talks with the members of the
teams and with SCap officials of Price Control and Ratiomins, esuse
me to believe that the fish and vegetable control measeres, the em-
forcement of which was begun on 15 December 1947, ean stand consider-
able revision, from the point of view of both tighteming and easing
the controls. The experience gained from the actual operatiom of the
controls points to such a course of action. More spesifioally, it
shows that what is good, say, for Saga prefecture, an agrieultural
Arcadia, as it were, is not good for Tokyo or the other large metro-
politan centers. The need of vegetable and fish controls in the is-
land of Shikoku, where the urban centers are few and mall, is highly
questionable, whereas the large industrial and urban centers of Homshu
are in need of better, tighter, if fewer controls. It is a refiming
along these lines that might simplify the problem of control en the
one hand, and ensure adequate and legal distribution of sush prodmets
where they are needed most.
k. Despite the difficulties encountered in colleetimg this
year's quota and the proddings employed to overoome them, one eammet
but note the high degree of the farmers' compliance. The tendemsy
of the peasant the world over, when unable to obtain for his prodace
a price with sufficient purchasing power in terms of capital or
consumers' goods, is either to decrease prodnction, or to censme more
of his produce within his family, or to divert as much as he cam to
the black market, where prioes are much higher than the offieiel retes.
The Japanese farmer did not resort to the first alternative, emsept
only in so far as he attempted to shift some of his acreage to mere
profitable food crops. He resorted to black marketing, and, en oese-
sion, at the expense of his own consumption levels. Generelly speak-
ing though, the Japanese farmer furnished the food for the city he has
no special reason for liking, and in return he received cheep paper
money. Since the end of hostilities the lot of the farmer has impreved
greatly, while that of the town has worsened measurably. It is imeum-
best upon the former to help the latter. The only question is whether
he can be oompelled to give until it really hurts, thus lending new
meaning to the old feudal saying that "a farmer is like a sesamm plemt;
the more you squeeze the more you get", or whether we should stop mhort
of that, thereby providing him with an incentive to maintain produetion
and continue quota deliveries.
1. A notable feature of this year's campaign, as observed
on the trip and corroborated by military govermment teems and other
sources, is the unflinching support given by the Katayame Govermment
to the collection program. The dilemma with which it was comfronted
was not a simple one; if it raised official food prices in crder te
placate the farmers and emsure deliveries, it increased the hardship of
its principel supporters, whereas if it kept prices dowm and emforeed
deliveries by the use of strong measures, the result would be political
aliemation
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
Bmel. to Tokyo's
No. 81 dated
May 15, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-6-
alienation of the farmers. The government was compelled, by virtae
of ecomomie and political onsiderations, to risk the latter. Is the
basic politieal conflict between the interest of the famers in free
market prices for food and the interest of the urban populatiem im
rationing at low prices, it sided with the city as against the village.
Only the nert election will reveal the politieal price and soeial
Demooratie Party will have paid for the step taken.
8. Land Reform:
a. The prefectures of Kagawa, Okayama, Fukuoka, Saga and
Kumamoto represent some of the oldest regions of what has been referred
to as Old Japan. This region differs not only from the more resemtly
developed Hokkaido with its ample elbow-room, but from northerm Homshu
as well; it exemplifies to an extreme degree the basic feature of japam's
agricultural economy - too many farmers and too little land. The pre-
feetures visited also have, without exception, too many landlerds and
too many tenants. Less than an acre per tenant family is almost the
rule, and a holding of ten aores rented out to fifteen tenants is a
normal pattern. Eorbitant rentals, reaching as high as 75 pereemt of
the rice crop, were part of the pattern.
b. The fact that these prefectures have so many mall land-
lords has given rise to problems that will be disoussed in subsequemt
paragraphs. In the main they do not affeet the progress of the land
reform. A large part of the land purchase progrm can be considered
accomplished, particularly when one adds the amount of land turmed over
to the gowernment in lieu of taxpayments. The land acquired in the
latter manner ranges from 10 to 25 peroent of the originally estimated
amount subjeet to purohase under the land refom law. Altogether,
the Japanese government has already acquired 86 percent of the pur-
chaseable land in Fukuoka, 97 in Kagawa and Okayama, 99 in Kumemoto,
and 123 percent in Saga. The case of Saga is significant, for this is
one of the prefectures where the domination of the landlords over the
tenants was supposedly impregnable and indisputable. This is perhaps
the very reason why the land commissions are bent on completing the pur-
chases at an early date.
c. The land has been purchased at official prices set for the
respective prefectures. Inquiries elicited no evidence as to mhether
landlords and tenants have been entering into private fimancial arrenge-
ments to bolster up the price of land. My impression is that for the
most part the purchases are bonafide, that, if anything, the tendeney
on the part of the tenants has been to reduee the price of the land to
a minimum. They achieve this by subtracting from the official price of
land the "cultivation right" price paid for by a tenant at ome time or
another. The cultivation right practice is widespread in Kagawa; less
so in Okayama, Kumamoto and Saga, and it exists only im a few gams in
Fukuoke. Where such rights do exist, the official price of land is re-
duced by l0 to 30 percent. In some villages sueh as Kojo village
(Okayama prefecture), which I visited, it accounted for 40 pereemt of
the official price of land. The temants are entitled to these "refunds",
and this is recognized by the landlords. Yet they are umamimous in the
demand
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
Bmol. to Tokyo's
No. B1 dated
May 15, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-7-
demand that they receive the full price of the land as provided
under the law, and that the govermment shoulder the burdem of the
cultivation right payments. In view of the fact that the imflaties-
ary spiral has, to date, reduced materially the official priees fimed
in early l946, it would not be unreasonable for the Japanese soverm-
ment to reviow the "cultivation right" problem im the light of reeemt
developmonts.
d. Sales of land to tenants have begun and will sarely be
completed by the end of the year. I visited Kabe village (Kagawe
prefecture) when the land had already been sold to the tememts. ome
would have to see the remarkable statistical work of the loeal land
commission to appreciate the earnestness emd seal with which it is
carrying out the reform. A glance at the bar graphs, brightly colored,
reveals the amount of land purchased and sold by the village as a mhele
and by buraku, while an excellent map records by mstual measuremems
every plot of land sold to the tenants. It is of interest to mote thet
the moving spirit of reform in this village is a Mr. Oyame, land-
lord-member of the comaission. He not only sold all of his land,
but succeeded in inducing twenty-five other landlords to part with
all of their allowable retention, and ten other landlords to give up
part of their allowable retention. This enabled a mumber of temeats
to acquire land which they could not have bought otherwise. In
Kumamoto some of the villages are setting aside a eertain pereemtage
of the purehased land (usually 10 percent) for such purpose.
e. I have listened to many a tenant expressing comeerm over
the financial risks that go with owmership, but in no case that I
know of was this anxiety strong enough to oweroome the sherished hope
of becoming an owner-cultivator. "A farmer without land," a temamt
remarked, "is like a man without life." The initial paymeats of the
majority of the tenants who have already bought land emount to as mach
as 60-70 pereent of the purchase price of the land, which testifies
to the cash-prosperity of the mural community. Yet the pieture is
spotty. Tenants in certain villages insisted that they canmot make
large initial payments even though fully aware of the advantages of
doing so. These villages are removed from large urban or industrial
centers, and are denied the opportunities of growing and selling vege-
tables or trading other products in the blackmarket. Taxation, whish
they claim is levied on the theory that all farmers engage in bleck-
marketing, and the purchase of fertilizer and other items at black-
market rates, reduce their cash position still further.
f. The farm union movement in the prefectures visited, parti-
cularly in Kagawm, has had much to do with the progress of the land
reform. In Kagawa, for instance, seventy-two villages have bremskes
of the Japan Farmers Union, and sixty-two villages have branehes of
the Natiomal Farmers Union; only the remmining thirty-one villages are
not "union-organised". The prefectural membership in both umioms is
52,000. Its influence is clearly perceptible in the orgmisation of
the local commissions. Kagawa has a total of l7l local commissioms,
and in
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
mel. to Tokyo's
No. 201 dated
May 15, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-8
and in seventy-six of these the chairmanship is held by the temests;
owmer-farmers account for 31 percent and lendowmers for 29 pereemt.
The average pereentage of tenant-chairmen is twenty-four for Japes
as a whole; Kagawe with 45 percent is the leading prefecture im this
respeet.
. In the course of the formulation of the land reform
law, the question of owmer-farmer representation in the lamd cem-
missions came in for a great deal of discussion. It was felt them
that their vote could seriously affect the course of the progrem.
In short, will they side with the tenants or with the landlerds?
This was the question. It can be stated now that both om the loeal
and prefectural levels the owner-cultivator commission members gemer-
ally vote with the tenants. Landlords and temants were agreed on this
point. Their position has influenced also that of the landlords, mamy
of whom do met wisk to register openly their oppomitiom to the reform.
The unanimous vote of the commissions on rather crueial matters may
be attributed, at least in some measure, to the stand takem by the
owmer-cultivators.
h. One of the elements that affect the sales of land md
land adjustment in Kagawa and Okayama is water utilisation, so vital
in the raising of a rice crop. Kagawa is a case in point. The pref-
eeture lacks good rivers from which the water could be diverted inte
rice fields, and is dependent for its supply on some 50,000 water poels.
Often these pools or water utilization rights belong to the landlerds,
who in turs allocate the water to cultivating farmers. The poel is a
property distinet from that of the land. Unless an adjustmemt is made,
the landlord, especially if he is a cultivating one, is in a pesitiem
to supply his own needs as he deems fit, and deny or restriet the use
of water to his farmer tenants. The difficulties of land consolidatiom
can be materially lessened if the water utilisation right is settled
to the satisfaction of all concerned. The land that has accese to a good
pool and is nearest to it is more valuable than the land that depends
upon a poor one and is farther away from it. Clearly, all other cemdi-
tions being equal, no consolidation can take place if the water supply
is in question.
i. In none of the five prefectures can one find my visible
signs of consolidation induced by the land reform or amy other progrem.
Indeed, this will be lacking until such time as the greater part of the
land of a community is pulled together. This was illustrated in a prae-
tical way when a local land commission had the happy thought of taking
me to the fields to show why so little consolidation is taking plase
under present conditions. It became quite obvious that if every piese
of land were perfectly interchangeable, the owner-cultivator's land -
not subject to reform provisions - stands in the way of onsolidatiem.
A land commission will continue, therefore, to sell a tenamt a great
many pieces of land instead of a materially reduced number of the seme,
let alone a holding of paddy or upland in one piece. The owmer-culti-
vator must consent or be compelled to throw his land imto the pool
before
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
mel. to Tokyo's
No. 28l dated
May 15, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-9-
before the real work of land adjustment can commemce, and the waste-
ful border limes begin to disappear.
j. As might have been expected, the landowmers of Kagema,
Okayama, Fukuoka, Saga and Kumamoto are not in faver of the lamd re-
form law for reasons well known. I have encountered exeeptioms; en
ome occasiom a landowner stated that as an individual he is at edds
with the reform, but he supports it mindful of the matiomal imterest.
The virtue of resolving the personal interest in favor of the mmtiemal
is mot given to many, and Mr. Yamai's voice (of Rokka village, Kmmemote)
may be only a voice crying in the wilderness. The more reasom why his
opimion should be recorded. On another occasion I listemed te a lamé-
owmer who put his finger on the need of a reform in the following tell-
ing words: "It is high time for the landlords to step one domm ame for
the tenants to step one up so that the two may meet for the first time."
These are instances of accepting the spirit of the progrem, and, admittedly,
they are few im number. It is significant to note, however, that while
to the great majority of the landowmers the land refom is an wafertus-
ate visitation, in the past few months the opposition to the pregrem
has not been actively pursued. Whatever the nature of the undereover
agitation against the reform, it has had no adverse effect om the pur-
chasing phase of the progrem. In the midsummer of 194? seme lamalerés
of Fukuoka, Kumamoto and Saga initiated a number of court suits for
the purpose of testing the constitutionality of the land reform law.
Since then most of these cases faded out without ever eeming te trial.
Only one such case is still pending in Kagawa, while another, a mom-
constitutional case, (also in Kagawa) is not without passing imterest
since its main prop is the supposed violation of the Potsdem Deslaration.
The plaintiff who had sold his land before entering the military serviee
wishes to have the sale annulled beeause:
"The Japenese military forces, after being completely dis-
armed, shall be permitted to return to their homes with the
opportunity to lead peaceful and productive lives". (Potedem
Declaration, par 9)
Truly, one never knows.
k. The testing of the constitutionality of the Land Reform
Law as a means of obstructing land reform has been abandoned. Imstead,
landlords in large numbers are attempting to,gain possession of some of
the tenanted land in order to raise food for their own consumptiom. The
procedure is for a landlord to file an application with the Prefeetural
Governor in accordanee with Art 9, Par 3 of the Agriculturel Land Adjust-
ment Law, which reads:
"Where a party to the lease of agricultural lands intends to
terminate or rescind the lease or to refuse its renewal, an
approval of the Prefectural Governor shall be obtaized."
The number of such applications in Okayame Prefecture was 20,000 end in
Fukuoka nearly 6,000. There are undoubtedly masy cases that do not come
up for a hearing at all. In Fukuoka prefecture 60 percemt of the cases
were decided in favor of the landowners; in Okayame half of the cases
were settled in favor of the landlords, one-fourth in favor of the tenents,
while
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
Bmel. to Tokyo's
No. 281 dated
May 13, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-10
while the other cases were either withdrawn or pending. The settle-
ment of many of them was not strictly in accord with the provisiems
of the law. Yet I em not at all certain that it is either feasible
or advisable to insist that the letter of the law must apply im every
instance. I am mindful in this connection of a remark made by e jape-
nese on the meaning of LAw; it was to the effect that to a Japemese
of whatever walk of life law is 75 percent sentiment and only 5 persent
law in the Anglo-Saxon sense. Consciously or unconsciously, this idee
seems to play quite a role in dealing with disputes on evietion, where
the acreage at issue is small, and where the attempt to retake and eul-
tivate a piece of tenanted land is conditioned by a diffiealt food
situation rather than by a consuming desire to obstruct the progress
of the land reform. In the main, this is true of the prefestures mem-
tioned; the 20,000 cases in Okayama prefesture involve a total of only
1,600 cho or .8 tan (less than one-fourth of an acre) per case. The
net result of the legal and illegal evictions is the inerease of the
so-called "small consumption farms", which are relatively less produet-
ive and do not contribute to the national food supply. with the im-
provement in the food situation these "fly-by-night" farmers are likely
to disappear.
1. Big or absentee landlords contribute but little, if at
all, to the eviction problem. The main souree is the "moleoular" type
of landlordism characteristic of the prefeetures under discussios, and
particularly the wartime instituted rental arrangememt. This syetem
deprives a resident non-cultivating landlord of rent so effestively thet
the question of relief for this group has been raised in some of the pre-
feetures. The Kagawe Prefectural Land Commission unanimously agreed that
the government should come to their aid in some way. The tememt repre-
sentatives joined in the vote on the condition that the relief problem
should be dealt with independently of the reform program, and that the
latter should in no way be affected by relief considerations.
m. According to the provision of the land reform law, remts
for rice fields can be as high as 25 percent of the value of the rise
crop. Actually, the rents are & fraction of 1 pereent of the value of
the crop. This has come about as a result of war and postwar measures
promulgated by the Japanese government to maintain control over distribu-
tion of food stuffs. official food regulations require cultivators to
deliver assigned quotas of staples to official agencies, part of the
quotas delivered by the tenants representing the rental share due to
the landlord. The collectiom agency then pays the landlord nd tenant
for their respeetive shares in cash. To induce tenants to deliver their
full quota, they are paid a special productiom subsidy. In 1945, for
instanse, a tenant received the standard price of * l50 for his owm keke
of delivered rice; for the koku (rent) he delivered in bebalf of the lamd-
lord, the latter received ¥ 55, while the temant received a subsidy of
95.
n. In accordance with the Agricultural Land Adjustmemt Law
of 28 Deomber l945, payment of rent in kind was to be substituted by
payment
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.96)
Bmal. to Tokye's
No. s01 dated
May 13, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-11-
payment in cash (Art 9 - 2). In april of 1946 the Mimister of Agriemãs-
a tan of land was one koku, the rent was to be a flat 3 75; if l.8 kakse
the cash remt was to be * 75 I 1.3 or ¥ 97.5. When the base of  95 pee
koku was adopted the official priee of rice was 3 so0. the offieial
price of rice for the 1947-8s crop is  1,750 per koke, but the base
cash remtal per koku is still * 75. What this means to the lendlerd
with an allomable retention of tenanted land is illustrated by the
following figures:
Kind
Price
value of grop
Tofrioial)
Rice yield per tan
2 Koku
x¥1,750
5,500
Wheat yield per tan
1.4 Koku
x ¥ 1,200
￥1,680
Total
￥5,180
Rent (base rent beginning 1 April 1946)
75
Ratio of rent to value of crop
.69 pereent
This fraetion of 1 percent is redueed still further if one considers am
instance cited by a landlord-member of Fukuokm Prefectural Land Com-
mission. His rental per tan of paddy level is ¥ l20; as a by-prodmet,
the tenant has loo bundles of rice straw which he cen sell at * s0 per
bundle, or a total of * 3,oo0. The tenant has to sell only four bamdles
to pay his rent. The landlord may have exaggerated the price of strew,
but it highlights a situation that prevails throughout Japan with but
minor variations.
o. The tenants are sympathetic with the plight of the land-
lord with an allowable retention of tenanted land. But sympathy is
all they are ready to give them, shielded as they are by a rental sekeme
which for all practical purposes spells no rent. It is for the Jepamese
Government to put an end so this situation, and it can do that by apply-
ing the rental provisions of the land reform law (Art. 9-8, Agrioultural
Adjustment Law). The tenants are in a position now to pay a legal,remtal
which has a reasonable relationship to the use they make of the lend. By
so doing the dissatisfaction with the land reform on the part of the mall
landowmers would be allayed in some measure. The change should apply to
the l948-49 crop-year. It has been suggested that such a move might im-
terfere with the progress of the land reform. It is not quite elear to
me that it would, and admittedly the matter should be given the most
careful consideration in attempting to set forth all the pros and cons.
For the present I should like to point out that rents will mot fall
due until the wery end of 1948 and early 1949. By then pract1eally all
the land will have been sold to the tenants. The new rent-rates eammot
affect adversely a tenant's ability to make his l948 initial paymemt for
the land. The longer the present situation continues, the more diffioult
it will become for the tenants to realize that renting land at virtually
no cost to themselves must run its course before much longer. It seems
advisable,
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.98)
Enol. to Tokyo's
No. 81 dated
May 13, 1948.
CONFIDINTIAL
-12-
advisable, therefore, that the tenants commence the payment of the
new rental rates on the 1948-49 crop, whem they still emjoy comsid-
erable cash-prosperity, rather than at a later date whes the peymemt
of fair rents as provided by the law might become a more difficult
chore.
P. Interviows with landowmers show that the govermmemt has
not as yet paid for the purchased land. To date they have reseived
only certificates stating the mount of money due them. The astual
payment will be in 24-year annuity bonds bearing interest at the rate
of 3.65 pereent per year. The Land Reform Law makes no referesse to
the negotiability or non-negotiability of the bonds; this, in effeet,
placed them in the former category if a landowner chose to cash his bonds.
However, the Japanese Ministry of Finance decreed that the land bonds are
not negotiable during the first five years of their issuamee. Uader
the cirowmstances the landowners are not concerned whether they reeeive
the bonds now or at a later date, and are very much exereised abeut the
non-negotiable character of the bonds. The complaint is umiversal end
justifieble since the existing financial arrangement, comeeived as eme
of the counter-inflation measures, is preventing the lamdemmers frem
making a mew start in business or industry. There is considerable seope in
the field of processing agricultural products, but it calls for eapital
and initiative. Those among the landowmers who have the latter laek the
capital. This could be corrected to some extent if the landowmers were
granted the option to cash or not to cash a bond as ciroumstamees might
distate.
q. This trip gave me the opportunity to get a glimpse of the
work of the loeal land commissions. It is not easy even for an inter-
ested observer, if he is only a morning or afternoon visiter, te find
out how well a commission discharges its duties - unless comfronted
with a flagrant case of non-performance. I haven't encountered such.
I did find that the preparatory work of a commission in the matter of
purehasing and selling the land is a good index of its coneerm with the
land reform progrem. Judged on this basis, the majority of the com-
missions I dealt with may be rated as good. The unfortumate feature
evem of the best commission is the lack of funds to carry on the werk.
Greater progress would have been registered in mesy cases but for imade.
quate persomnel. A ommission cannot afford to hire more tham ome seere-
tary, whose salary, if single, is only 600-700 yen a month, and double
that if married. He must attend to & great deal of paper and statistieal
work. Delays are inevitable. On occasions the hat is passed around
among the villagers in order to pravide a commission with that mimimm
finanoial assistance without which its work would come to a halt. Nor
are the Prefectural Commissions better off. The remumeration of the
commissioners is totally inadequate and so are the administrative expem-
ses of the commissions. The oommissions are the administrators and the
executors of the land reform program. They should be provided with the
means that would advanee rather than hamper their activities. The ex-
isting budgetary provisions do nothing of the kind.
r. Karme
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.98)
Dmel. to Tokyo's
No. s81 dated
May 15, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-13-
r. Kurume airfield (Saga prefeeture) was formerly a eemter
for "Kamakase" operations. I visited the place, and it was there thes
I saw an authentic example of "beating swords into plowshares". Little,
if anything, has remained of the airfield; most of it is already méer the
plow and in the course of this year one will look in vaim for a shred of
evidence that might testify to its wartime "non-agricultural" use.
Korume is but one instance of the effort on the part of the oeeupatien
to place the former military lands into agricultural produetiom. I
was equally impressed with the eagerness on the part of the M. G. teems
to effect the change as quickly as possible. The main diffieulty with
which they have to contend in carrying it out is prying the land loose
from the Ministry of Finance, (repository of government-owned property).
The problem of unravelling the maze of bureaucratic red tape to whish
all such traasfers are subjected also enters into the pieture. Im as-
cordance with the current procedure, the Prefectural Land Commission
submits a "transfer plan" to the local finance office, which in turm
is supposed to forward it, with recommendations, to the Distriet mureau
of Finance for approval. All of which is easier said than dome be-
cause "OPERATION DELAY" seems to be the motto of the fimanee offiees.
In Kumamoto, for example, out of l26 pieces of land schedaled to have
been transferred by the end of December (l947), the Distriet Bureeu
of the Ministry of Finance acted upon and approved the transfer of mot
more than ten. The M.G. teams are aware of the slow progress, md
under their active prodding the obstructions on the part of officialdom
may yet be overcome. In the meantime, the attention of the Mimistry
of Agriculture has been called to the need for correetive measures with
a view toward simplifying the transfer procedure and selling the re-
leased land to the tenants at the earliest date.
. The economic changes now taking place in rural Japan,
such as the improvement of the lot of the great majority of the farmers
and the worsening of that of the landlords, are quite apparent. What
is less obvious at this stage are the political and social changes.
However, one need not be an economic determinist to realize that they
are bound to come to the surface. An interested visitor to any village
cannot but sense that some aspects of the cake of custom in the lamd-
lord-tenant relationship are giving way as the economic base which made
the relationship possible disappears. The old order, badly battered,
can persist in a new guise only in the event that no new leadership
should emerge. Reeent events all seem to indicate, however, that the
development of this new leadership is imminent.
t. There is no question about the fact that all the leaders
of the rural communities belonged to the landowmer class. They had the
money, the time and the "know-how"; they knew nothing and cared less
about sharing their power with others. Their position, therefore, was
all-important in the economic, political, social and educational hierarchy
of the village. All this was beginning to change with the war. The
war had placed the tenants in a privileged position, at least cconomically,
because they were the food producers. The shift from rent in kind to
rent
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
Emol. to Tokyo's
No. 281 dated
May 15, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-14
rent in cash was another factor that weakened the bonds betweem the
landlord and the tenant, and above all, the dominmee of the fermer
over the latter. The land reform is completing the process. The
loss of affluence has removed one of the main props of their imflmemse.
of course they still have the artioulateness which in itself makes
for leadership. On the other hand, the tenants and the owmer-cultivaters
have the opportunity now, and in fact are being compelled, to take 
active part in the affairs which at one time were the sole preserve of
the landowner. It is realized, however, that even under the most faver-
able circumstances they cannot assume all or most of the cemmanding
positions over night. Many a vacuum will be created and it will be
some time before they are filled. The farm unions, the lamd cemmis-
sions and the agricultural cooperatives will supply mueh of the meeded
talent. But even they will not be in a position to supplamt for some
time to come the leadership which dominated the rural communities for
so many generations past. In all likelihood, therefore, the resalt
will be that in the years imediately ahead leadership in the village will
be shared between the land owners, who have been greatly weakemed econ-
omically and politically, and the other rural groups, which have beem
oconomically and politically greatly strengthened.
u. A feature worth noting is the helpless position of the
Communist Party in the Japanese village. This is best illustrated by
the failure of the Communist propaganda against land purohasing. The
alacrity with which the tenants have already acquired and will contimse
to acquire land in the coming months is a good measure of that. The
policy now is to soft-pedal the issue for it is certainly politieally
unwise, and, in all probability, physically unsafe for a Commamist propa-
gandist to stand up before a group of tenants urging thm mot to buy
land. The Communist main line of attack was not against a lamd reform
as suoh, but against this particular type of reform with its maim m-
phasis on private, rather than state, individual, rather tham celleetive -
owmership of the land. It is quite apparent that the agrariem reform
now in progress has cut the politieal ground from under the feet of the Com-
munists in the Japanese countryside, thereby strengthening the forees
that make for a middle-of-the-road, stable, petit-bourgeois rural soeiety.
v. It is not an idle task to speculate, however briefly,
on what might have happened if the Land Reform Aet had not been emacted
or, having been promulgated, had not been enforced. For one who had
witnessed the Communist rise to power in Soviet Russia, the answer is
quite clear. Failure on the part of the numerically stronger but politi-
cally less astute democratic parties, to deal with the land problem
resolutely in the sumer of l9l7 was tantamount to delivering the
peasantry into the hands of the Bolsheviks, who never tired of telling
the peasants that the land will belong to them when they came to powers.
Not many years later the Communists repudiated the promise; they mation-
alized the land and at the point of the bayonet herded the peasantry
into
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
Enol. to Tokyo's
No. 281 dated
May 15, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-15-
into the collective farms, but the fact remains that a nom-cemmemist
peasantry, bent on ownerahip of land, made it possible for the Cemmam-
ists to climb to power.
w. Comparisons are invidious, and it is not suggested here
that the Russian experience would have repeated itself im postwar japas
if the tenants were not given the opportunity to acquire the land. It
is safe to assume, however, that but for this move rural Japan would be
a sesthing cauldrom of unrest and discontent and fertile ground for Com
munist agitation. A trip through rural Japan in the midst of far-reeek-
ing land tenure changes shows a peaceful, hard-working peasantry, lemd-
ing no ear to political extremism, let alone supporting such. This is
being achieved not by force majeure but through the orderly instituties
of a long overdue land reform program. In a very practical sease we are
witnessing now the emergence of a healthier farm economy, which, ineid-
entally, has promise for all of the Far East. Though the details of
Asia's rural pattern differ from country to country, in essenee the prob-
lm is the same. Throughout the east, the land tenure systems make the
evolvement of sound economic, political and social conditioms impossible.
Hence the not unreasonable presumption that the land reform of Japam is
the seed from which can sprout a new agrarian order in the Orient. But
leaving aside the reform's possible effect on other ountries, it sees that
in the light of the current developments in the Japanese village as
against what might have happened, the conclusion one must draw is imes-
capable: scsp's thorough appreciation of the lessons of history md
their proper application to a specific condition. It behooves the
doubters and the scoffers of the land reform to ponder this lessom asd
grasp the political implications of this basic policy of the Oceupatiem.
9. Military Government Teams:
a. The preceding paragraphs show that the purpose of my trip
was to study the progress of the land reform program and to obteim im-
formation on the collection campaign then in the final stage of eemple-
tion. The work of the military government teams was not (and ism't)
within the purview of my mission, yet it would be a reflection om my
concern with land reform and food matters, as well as other problems of
the Occupation, if I didn't conclude this memo with a few remarks on the
M. Gl teams, the executors of SCAP directives.
b. On this trip I have had direct contact with the Shikoke
and Kyushu regional teams and the following prefectural teams: Kagame,
Okayama, Fukuoka, Saga and Kumamoto. If I may be permitted to add
Niigata (northern Honshu), which I visited at an earlier date, we have
a fairly good cross seotion of the country and its problems and of the
teams that supervise the carrying out of General MacArthur's direstives.
The importamte of their work hardly needs to be emphasised fer the teems
are the instruments through which SCap hopes to impart new meaming to
Japan's eoonomy, polity and society. my stay with the tesms was all
too short to permit anything approaching an answer or, for that matter,
a well-considered
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.98)
Bmel. to Tokyo's
No. ml dated
May 15, 1948.
COMPIDENTIAL
-16-
a wall-considered opinion concerning their activities. Yet if firet
impressions are valid, them it need not be considered presumptueus en
my part to state that, in the main, the co's and the ecomomie offieers
I have dealt with have the understanding and earnestness that are in
tune with the tasks in which they are engaged. They have showm eager-
ness to share the experience and knowledge gained in the day-to-dey
dealings on the grassroots level, for which there can be no sabstitute.
c. For the most part the teams are aware of the responsibil-
ities that devolve upon them as representatives of SCAp to the Japemese
people. The line of demarkation between supervision and commend is
diffioult to draw, but my talks with some of the Co's reveel coneerm
lest they mistake the one for the other. They are careful not to usurp
the role of the Governors; not to make messenger boys out of them, but
to build them up in the eyes of the Japanese people. This in itself
is a difficult chore, and especially since they deal with one of the
worst bureaucracies in the world, with whom compliance is a matter of
form rather than of spirit. Under the circumstances the teems mast
"crack down" occasionally, and "suggest" punishments that fit the erime,
but I have also witnessed a display of measures that make for amity,
confidence and willing compliance, not necessarily among the buream-
crats, but, more importantly, among the people.
d. To this observer the land reform progrm is one of the
pillars of the entire reform movement initiated by SCaP. Not all mem-
bers of the teems share this view; it is a "touchy" subject with a few
of them, and they take exception to some of the underlying primeiples
and to some of the purposes of the reform. All of which is perfestly
legitimate. The concept of "property", it has been said, is one hamdred
thousand years old, and it would be a sorry day indeed if we were of ome
mind on such basic issues as the State vs the individual in relatiom to
"property", and public welfare as affected by the relationship of the
various groups in the community to "property". What is really important
is that the differences of opinion do not affect adversely the edforee
ment of the land reform law. Whether wholeheartedly for it or not, the
effort to carry out the program is very impressive.
. Even a few hours spent with a military govermment teem
reveals a well-known feature, a feature which however is worth under-
scoring time and again: the scope of the work on the one hand, and on
the other, the exceedingly small number of people charged with the dut-
1es of carrying it out. The economic problems with which they deal are
a good illustration of what I have in mind. These include mining and
forestry; agriculture and such directly related matters as food col-
lection and land reform; tar collections; reparations and disposition of
the same; commerce and trade (imports and exports), industrial production
and a whole gamut of things which are part of the main subdivisions.
Add to this the rather extensive reporting schedules, and the all-import-
ant fact that few are the M. G. officers who have even a smattering of
the Japanese language, and the wonder is how the teams do not get smowed
under the avalanche of duties and responsibilities. The greater wonder
is, of course, that things do get done.
f. The occupation of Japan, in its third year, is shifting
its mphasis
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.97)
 15, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-17-
its emphasis from the purely military objectives in the diresties of
the non-military, i.e., to the training and education in ramning the
newly established institutions, in translating into life the gremt
body of legislation enacted since the surrender. The ascempliskmest
of the above is predicated on more and better experts, advisers,
teachers and supervisors. By the same tokem the role of the M. G.
teems should be greater than ever before. If these assumptioms are
correet, then two conclusions may be drawn. First, the rapid turm-
over of personnel, particularly where the cause is woverege" rather
than lack of experience or familiarity with the problems, deserves
a most careful reexamination. One need hardly labor the poins on the
harm done to the team, its work, and to the basic aims of the Oceupe-
tion by the current practice of changes in personnel. Second, the
teams need no longer be kept on "short rations" as far as persomnel is
concerned. This is the case now. The impression I gathered is that
the same would be largely true even if the to of every team were cem-
pletely filled. More and better personnel has always been a basie meed
in the past; in the days ahead it will be an absolute necessity.
B. One my justly question my competenee to touch on mat-
ters under (f). With respect to the organization of the M. G. tems
I am somewhat in the position of an observer looking from the eutside
in, whose view therefore may be somewhat obscured. If I have wemtured
to "trespass", however, it had been because I have an "ame to grimd",
namely, the fulfillment of SCap's policies and the strengtheming of
the M. G. teams in order to ensure this fulfillment.
W. I. LADEJINSKY
Department of the Army Consultant
CONFIDENTIAL
Copied by:
emn

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DR
No. 624
Tokyo, September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
hile
894.61/9-
Subject: Agrioultural Survey Trip to /Northern Japan.
1918 0CT 7
DEPARTME
The Honorable
894.00
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
FC,OCD,
sir:
ACTION
FE
In reference to despatches 299, May 24, 1948 and
COPIES
321, June 3, 1948 with regard to orientation trips by
TO:
officers of this Mission to outlying districts of
Japan, I have the honor to enclose herewith a memorandum
ITP
prepared by Foreign Service Officer Jay Dixon EDWaRds on
the subject of such a trip taken by him into several of
OFD
the northern prefectures of the main island of Japan in
the period from July 14 to July 24, 1948.
OL1
sy
This trip, one in the series instituted by the
Mission with a view both to the gathering of firsthand
AIR
information and the training of officers of the staff,
was undertaken for the purpose of gaining general
information concerning conditions in the area visited,
and for the more specific purpose of gaining insight
into questions of land reform, rice collection, and
ÉEB 17 1949
机
agricultural taxation. With this in mind it was made
in the company of Mr. Robert S. HaRDIE, head of the
Economies Branch of the Agricultural Division, Natural
(1A
Resources Section of this Headquarters.
eon
The memorandum indicates that there has already been
Ton
carried out a fairly high degree of execution of the land
reform measures. Land sales to tenants have been
completed approximately 67% in Aomori prefecture, 67% in
JKB
Akita prefecture, 77% in Niigata prefecture, and 93% 1m
Yamagata prefecture. Common to all four prefectures is
a failure to dispose of reclaimed land and land con-
sidered reclaimable. The organization of agricultural
cooperatives seems to be making wide progress. Complaint
against increases in the national income tax was found to
be general; onsiderable withdrawal of deposits has
followed upon increased taxes and increased oost of
living. The method of assessing the inoome tax is in
several ways arbitrary and poorly worked out, and has
given rise to muoh resentment. In the prefeetures visited
individual complaint against the current rice colleetion
quotas
RESTRICTED

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
BEOTRICTED
- 2 -
quotas is not marked, although certain inequities sm
quotas are thought by some offieials to be the souses
a good deal of the rice in the blackmarket.
Rospeotfully yours,
LBe
W. J. Sebald
: alt
Enclosure:
Memorandum of September 17, 1948
by Jay Dixon Edwards reporting a
survey trip July 14 to 24, 1948
to northern Japan.
852
JDrdwards/eg
Original and hectograph to Department.
RESTRICTED
0.s.B

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.97)
BESTRLOTED
Inelosure to Despateh No. e t
September 21, 194e frem the Ortse
the United States Politieal Adval
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subjeess
"Agricultural survey Trip to Mersmesm
Japan."
Report of Agrioultural Survey Trip by Jay Dixon Epmanns.
Becond Secretary of Mission, to Four Prefestures is epth
ern Honshu, Japan, During the Period July 14 to 24. 1940.
I. AUTHORITY
This survey trip was taken under authority of en order
of General Headquarters, Far East Command, No. 176-5 dated
July 6, 1948 in connection with this Mission's orientatiem
training program, with the particular view of acquiring
information concerning land reform, rice collection, and
agricultural taxation.
II. ITINERARY
In company with Mr. Robert S. HaRDIE, head of the
Economios Branch of the Agricultural Division, Natural
Resources Section of this Headquarters, the following was
the itinerary covered:
Departed Tokyo for Niigata, via Karuizawa,
Nagano, and Naoetsu at 0850, July 14, and
arrived Niigata at 2336, July 14. (Day 0ach
for Occupatlon Forees available but no dining
facilities.)
Departed Niigata for Sado Island at O900,
July 17, and returned to Niigata at 1ls0, July
18. (By Sado Island steamer having eabin
accommodations.)
Departed Niigata via Naoetsu at 1550, July
18, and arrived Akita at O817, July 19. (Trip
made in baggage car for lack of special day
coach for Oocupation Forces and because of over-
crowding of Japanese soaehes. Lay-over of seven
hours in Sakata, Yamagata Prefeeture.)
Departed Akita at 1526, July 19, and
arrived Aomori 2200, July 19. (By baggage car
for lack of special Oceupation Forces coach
and because of crowded condition of Japanese
soaches.)
Departed Aomori at 0815, July 21, and
arrived Yamagata at 2020, July 21, via Akita.
(Aomori to Akita in baggage car - portion of
journey from Akita to Yamagata in second-class
Japanese c∞ach.)
Departed Yamagata at 1450, July 25, and
arrived Tokyo at O607, July 24, via Sendai
with stopover of four hours. (agesial Gesupe-
tiem Ferees ear frem Yamegata-to Sendai. Pull-
man accommodations from Sendai to Tokyo.)
RESTRICTED
III. GENERAL

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624,
September 21, 1948.
- 2 -
RESTRICTED
III. GENERAL PLAN
The plan of the trip was to confer in the four
prefectural capitals with the prefectural officials con-
cerned with land reform, reclamation, farm oredit, taxa-
tion, and agricultural cooperatives, officers of the old
National Agricultural Association (Nogyokai), and local
officials of the Central Bank of Agriculture and
Forestry. Following a conference with these officials,
we planned to interview in the fields as many farmers
as time permitted. All except two of the interviews with
Japanese were conducted through me as an interpreter.. In
both conferences end interviews emphasis was placed upon
the questions of land reform and agricultural taxation.
The latter subject seemed important because the Natural
Resources Section had been receiving, prior to our trip,
numerous intimations of dissatisfaction and unrest among
farmers due to tax grievances.
Incidentally, although I was concerned primarily
with agricultural questions, there were a few deviations.
At Niigata I visited the library for Japanese established
under the information program of the Civil Information
and Education Section of General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers. I was informed by the
American woman in charge that the library contains
about 3,o00 volumes, of which only a few are novels, and
that most of the titles concern technical subjects. The
two-storied frame building in which the library is housed
also contains music and conference rooms. These rooms
are loaned to various Japanese organizations for thoir
meetings without regard to interest shown in the library
itself. However, the librarian felt that the praetioe
had already produced some interest and that more would
develop. The music room is equipped with two non-
electric record players of not very modern appearance
and a collection of American folk music. A more varied
selection of music would undoubtedly add to the appeal
of the facilities afforded. The magazine racks of the
library display the latest available issues of all well
known American publications of every political comploxion.
Daily attendance averages two hundred and thirty-five.
The Niigata library is the only Civil Information and
Education Section library in the four prefectural
capitals we visited.
IV. NIIGATA PREFECTURE
On the morning following our arrival at Niigata, a
meeting was arranged through the Acting Economics
Officer with the following prefectural and other officials:
Lt. HARTLE, Assistant Economics Officer,
Niigata Military Government Team (acting in
absence of Economic Officer).
Mr. GONDAIRA Bunshichiro, of the Agri-
cultural Cooperatives Section, Economics
Department, Niigata Prefectural Government.
RESTRICTED
Mr. WATANABE

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
- 3 -
Mr. WATANABE Kujiro, of the Reclamation
Section, Economics Department, Niigata Pre-
fectural Government.
Mr. OKABE Saneo, of the Agricultural
Affairs Section, Economics Department,
Niigata Prefectural Government.
Mr. SATO Tatsuo, of the Rural Land
Section, Economics Department, Niigata
Prefectural Government.
Mr. IMAI Bumbei, Vice Chief of the
Niigata Prefectural Government, Nogyokai
Agricultural Association.
Mr. TOMITA Takeichi, Manager of the
Niigata Branch of the Central Bank of
Agriculture and Forestry.
Farm Land Reform:
Purchase, Sale, and Reclamation
It was disclosed, in the course of the conference,
that the farm lend purchase program in Niigata Pre-
fecture is virtually completed. 90,383 chot of land
have been acquired to date by the local and prefectural
land commissions. This figure is approximately 93% of
the goal of 97,50o cho expected to be reached by mid-.
September. Of the total land acquired to date, 27,486
cho, or approximately 30% is land surrendered in lieu
of payment of taxes. Accepting the figure of 233,000
cho as the total tillable acreage of the prefecture,
according to a l944 survey, the land affected by the
farm land reform program amounts to 42% of the total
cultivable area of Niigata and to 76% of the land farmed
by tenants in that year. This means that approximately
24% of the tenant-operated lands are not expected to be
purchased. As it is anticipated that the average of un-
purchased, tenant-operated land throughout Japan will
not be more then l0%, the figure for Niigata Prefecture
appears to be a little high. This was pointed out to
the prefectural officials by Mr. Hardie, and the former
were advised to continue the surveys rigorously so that
no purchasable land might be overlooked. By July 2,
1948, 74,999 cho of land, or 77% of the total expected
to be purchased, had been sold to tenants, according to
the Director of the Farm Land Department of the pre-
fectural government.
In addition to cultivable land, the land reform
program (Articles 30 and 38 of the Owner-Farmer Establish-
ment and Speciel Measures Law) provides for the transfer
RESTRICTED
to prefectural
1. A cho equals 2.45 acres and comprises 10 tan.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despateh No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
to prefectural governments of national publie lamd which
is considered reclaimable and also for the purehase of
land for purposes of reclamation and sale to temant-famers
entitled under the land reform program or for immediate
sale if deemed reclaimable by individuals. In Niigata it
is expected that l956 cho of reclaimable land will have beem
purchased by December 2, 1948. In addition, 370s she of
reclaimable public lands have been transferred to the pre-
fectural Farm Land Department for reclamation and disposal.
Of the total of 5639 cho, only l260 cho have been reolaimed
to date. Of the remainder, 2755 cho have been judged
reclaimable by individuals and should have been sold much
before this time, according to Mr. Hardie. (Instructions
to the prefectural governments ordering immediate sale of
land reclaimable by individuals or land already reclaimed,
were sent from Tokyo in December 1947). Furthermore, no
reclaimable land in Niigata had been sold to farm
operators by July 15 for the reason, as stated by the head
of the Reclamation Section of the Economics Department,
that roads and bridges had yet to be built. Mr. Hardie
was not favorably impressed by this record nor by the
reason assigned for delay and took the oceasion to
lecture the prefectural officials regarding complianee
with instructions on this matter and to encourage them to
place this category of land in operation by private
individuals as early as possible. Under the land reform
program in Niigata, lands above 4000 feet are not
scheduled for reclamation. Of the estimated 1l,00o cho
of pasturelands within the prefecture, it is expected
that some 1500 cho will be purchased.
agricultural Cooperatives
The Nogyokai or National Agricultural Association
had 397 branches in various cities, towns, and willages
of Niigata which were destined to cease funetioning on
august 14, 1948 in accordance with the Agricultural
Cooperatives Law. Their replacement by the new agri-
cultural cooperative associations has already begun. 491
of these associations had been approved by July 15; 4 others
were then awaiting approval; and it was expected that by
August l4 at least i00 additional applioations would have
been filed. If all pending and anticipated applications are
approved, Niigata will have approximately 595 agrioultural
cooperative associations. There are 397 cities, towns, and
villages in the prefecture. Or this number, 324 had only
one new cooperative association on July 15 while approxi-
mately 67 had more than one. The chief of the Agrioulture
Section of the Economics Department believes that some
difficulty may be anticipated in exercising the priorities
authorized under Articles 5 and 6 of the Agricultural
Cooperatives Law, which grant a time preference to the new
agriculture cooperatives to facilitate their asquisition of
the properties of the old Nogyokai. The reason for antiei-
pating difficulty in this conneotion is the disparity
in numbers between the 397
RESTRICTED
branches

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
branches of the Nogyokai and the probable 595 new agri-
cultural cooperative associations. In other words, in
some cases, the properties of a single branch of the
Nogyokai may have to be divided between several
cooperatives competing for them. The chief of seotion
was of the opinion that the Property Disposal Board,
set up under the Agricultural Cooperatives Law, could
not smoothly transfer Nogyokai properties to the new
cooperatives without the assistance of prefectural govern-
ment officials. Trouble of this nature is expected in
about 50 cities, towns and villages. In reply to the
section chief's request for the cooperation of General
Headquarters in Tokyo in solving the problem involved Mr.
Hardie stated that instructions on this subject might be
expected soon.
When queried regarding his preference for a single,
prefecture-wide federation of agricultural cooperative
associations or for a number of federations functionally
specialized, the chief of the Agriculture Section
decided in favor of a single federation. This decision
was also endorsed at the conference by the vice chief of
the Niigata prefectural Nogyokai. It was expected that
on July 17 representatives from each of the then
existing agricultural cooperative associations would meet
in Niigata to vote whether to set up one or more pre-
fectural federations. A liaison conference had been held
in Niigata shortly before by 33 representatives of all
the cooperatives that had been approved by June 14. This
conference sent a petition with 200,000 names appended1
to the Diet in Tokyo calling for a single, prefecture-wide
federation. Mr. Hardie explained to me later that this
petition had not been acted upon in Diet committee as the
Social Democratic Party, which is the dominant political
party in Niigata, had changed its stand on this matter,
although it apparently had not informed party representa-
tives in Niigate. Mr. Hardie believes that the petition
may have originated in the Niigata Japan Farmer's Union,
the members of which mainly belong to the Social
Democratic Party.
After eliciting from the prefectural officials the
fact of their preference for a single, prefecture-wide
federation of agricultural cooperatives, Mr. Hardie
proceeded to explain the importance of keeping federa-
tions of cooperatives separated according to their
functions. He used the then existing prefectural
Nogyokai as an example of an undesirable, over-all
federation unsuccessfully combining the functions of
selling at the highest price, buying at the lowest prioe,
dispensing credit, and managing deposits of members.
These functions, he stated, could not all be carried on
competently by the same organization, and the interests
of some of the members were always likely to be hurt.
RESTRICTED
Crop
1. There are 2l2,000 farm families in the prefecture.

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
Crop Quotas
The head of the Rural Land Section of the Economies
Department stated that Niigata's fulfillment of its rice
quota last year had been slightly in excess of lo0 per
cent. Even so, there had been rice available for sale on
the blackmarket. Mr. Sato believed that this was due tó
the inequitable allocation of quotas, leaving some.
farmers with an undue share of their production. In turn,
the inequitable allocation, he stated, was due to the
farmers' untruthful reports concerning their crops.
Furthermore he thought the prefectural quota, both last
year and this year, too high. Colonel Cox, Commanding
Officer of the Niigata Military Government Team, agroed
with Mr. Sato regarding last year's quota. Colonel Cox
said that the prefectural quota had been so high that,
on an average, the farmers had not been allowed to
retain the customary share of their produce, sufricient
to feed each member of the family four go* of rice per
day.
It was also the opinion of the Rural Land Section
head that the combined wheat, barley and rye quota for
this year 1s excessive (19,800 koku? as against 5,000
koku last year, when fulfiilment of the quota was three
per cent short). The prefectural governor has requested
a reduction to 4,800 koku, which represents last year's
actual performance. This year, however, the production
of these grains is reported to be slightly less than the
previous crop.
Local allocation of the 1948 rice quotas may give
less cause for complaint than last year, when allocations
were based solely on area under cultivation, according to
the head of the Rural Land Section. This year the quota
allocation committees have been taking land productivity
as well as acreage into consideration in as many areas as
possible. Although the greater fairness thus practiced
might improve the farmers' attitude toward delivery of
rice to the Government, he did not feel that it alone
would increase collections in comparison with last year.
The reason he assigned was that last year the successful
fulfillment of the excessive prefectural quota was
possible only by compelling partially self-supplying
farmers, that is, farmers who raise less than the amount
necessary to feed themselves and their families four go
of rice per person per day, to give up some or all of
their crop.  This year it is hoped that such an extreme
measure need not again be invoked. If the partial self-
suppliers are not allowed to retain more rice than the
Government's standard 2.5 go ration provides, their
incentive to produce at all is destroyed and they become
an additional burden on the ration supplies. A further
reason assigned by the Rural Land Section head for his
pessimistic view regarding this year's rice collections
was that, if farmers are not allowed to retain an amount
RESTRICTED
of rice
1. A go equals .16 dry quarts or .18 liters.
2. A koku equals 5.12 bushels or l000 go.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
of rice equal to or greater than the ration standard
provides, they will balk at having to buy the difference
at the new price of ¥3,830.40 per koku, instead of the
old price of v2,l38 in effect until July 1l of this year.
This is particularly likely to be the case since,
although there will be en increase in the price paid the
farmers for their 1948 crops, the spread between the pur-
chase price and,the ration price will probably be greater
than last year.
Farm Credit and Deposits
Regarding the fertilizer situation, we were told
that the farmers had obtained about 7o% of their require-
ments for this year's planting. About one-third was
purchased with funds borrowed against the l948 rice crop
under the so-called "bill" system, an administrative
device which empowers the Bank of Japan to re-discount
notes bought by the Central Bank of Agriculture and
Forestry against crop loans. The rest of the needed
fertilizer was obtained by withdrawal of farmers'
deposits in local branches of the Nogyokai. In & few
cases, the branches' resources had not been sufficiently
liquid to permit honoring all requests for withdrawals.
During the first half of 1948 the deposits of farmers
in local branches of the Nogyokai, the deposits of the
latter in the prefectural Nogyokai, and the deposits of
this body in the Niigata branch of the Central Bank for
Agriculture and Forestry all declined at an unusually
precipitous rate. Heavy demand for credit in areas such
as northern Honshu which produce only one crop a year is,
of course, normal. However, it was learned from pre-
fectural officials that the principle reason for the
excessive withdrawals had been the need for cash to pay
taxes. The following table shows the extent of the
decline in deposits during the first half of this year
(figures in millions of yen):
1947
1948
1948
Deposits
Dec 31
Apr 30
Jun 30
Prefectural Nogyokai
deposits with
Central Bank
1,182
242
35
Local Nogyokai
deposits with
2,107
957
650
Prefectural Nogyokai
Deposits with Local
Nogyokai
2,638
1,786
1,400
RESTRICTED
Farm
1.
The differential for the last crop was $388.00. It
has already been tentatively decided to pay something
in excess of ¥2987 for the 1948 crop. The inorease
may be about ¥300, bringing the dirferential close to
¥543.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatoh No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
Farm Taxation
It appeared from interviews with farmers in Niigate
that the greatest single financial burden on the
cultivator is the national income tax. This tax is
calculated by the Finance Ministry for each of the pre-
fectures on an historical basis (the average tax yiold
of the years 1939-1944). In each prefecture the tax
is allocated among the cities, towns and villages
according to their proportionate production of rice. The
breakdown for each farmer is then determined by
multiplying the average production per unit of land in
his locality by the number of units he cultivates. In
this way, no account is taken of variations in the quality
of land within the local administrative unit. In effeet,
therefore, the farmers are instructed what their tar will
be, even though the law now bases taxability upon filed
returns. It was acknowledged by the prefectural officials
at the conference that individual tax returns this year
were frequently increased arbitrarily by the tax
collectors, and this was found to be the case in actual
interviews with cultivators. The farmer has the right to
appeal his assessment, but, the burden of proof is upon
him. Since the average farmer does not keep record books
with which to prove his case, his tax appeal must
frequently result in no reduction. While the arbitrary
rate of assessment is admitted, the tax officials feel
that any resulting inequity is off-set by ertra ineome
from rice straw and other by-products of which no account
is taken in computation of the tax. As of the end of
June, l90 cho of land were reported to have gone out of
cultivation and been abandoned because of taxes or other
financial difficulties. As this is but a fraction of the
total land that has changed hands within the prefeoture
under the land reform program, it may be concluded that
taxation has not to date seriously affected accomplish-
ment of the program. Tax officials stated that a typical
farmer's division of taxes paid the various governmental
entities is as follows: 66% to the national government;
22% to municipalities and towns, and l2% to the prefecture.
Interviews with Commanding Officer and Governor
On the second day of our stay at Niigata, we inter-
viewed Lt. Col. L. H. CoXE, Commanding Officer of the
Military Government team, who, discoursed to us on various
matters concerning public administration in the prefeoture.
He touched particularly upon the trouble given him by the
small but vociferous group of Communists and by the Japan
Farmer's Union, which is strong. There had been a
cleavage in the latter organization, brought about by the
ejection of Communist members. Certain members, such as
the Socialist lawyer TAMAE, had objected to this action
on the ground that the union should not concern itself
with political matters. Tamae had also opposed the
collection of the l947 rice quota but had been persuaded
by Colonel Coxe to abate his opposition.
RESTRICTED
Colonel

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
Colonel Core also spoke of his effort to achieve
a l00 per cent closing of restaurants and tea houses in
conformity of the government's policy on food conserva-
tion. His efforts in this direction had, for a time,
been thwarted by Governor OKADA, who was himself
interested in a certain number of "special tea houses",
which actually functioned as houses of ill repute.
The Commanding Officer further mentioned the diffioulty
which visiting personnel of General Headquarters, Tokyo,
had occasionally given him, and cited the case of several
officers of the Civil Transportation Section of this
Headquarters who had been invited by Niigata transporta-
tion officials to a lavish Japanese dinner in a public
restaurant which had supposedly been closed. The
presence of the American personnel in the city was not
discovered until the police, at Colonel Coxe's instiga-
tion, came and closed the restaurant. He deplored the
"holiday" attitude thus exhibited by some General
Headquarters officials when on official tours.
A unique opportunity was afforded us to witness at
first hand the relations between the Commanding Ofricer
of the Military Government Team and the highest Japanese
civil official of the prefecture when the Colonel
received a visit from Governor Okada during the course of
our interview. The former siezed upon the occasion to
talk to the governor about outlawing prostitutes, basing
his argument upon public health considerations. Governor
Okada, in offering resistance, raised the question of the
welfare cases that would result from prohibiting their
calling to so many people and, in the event, did not seem
to be greatly influenced by Colonel Coxe's arguments.
The governor had just returned from a conferenee of
the seven governors of the Tohoku prefectures held in
Iwate. He informed us that Niigata only recently had
associated itself with this conference and hed thus
become a part of the Tohoku region. Governor Okada made
use of his visit to enter a plea for the loan of road .
making equipment from Military Government, and Colonel
Coxe readily agreed that something should be done about
the public roads in the prefecture. The colonel laid
emphasis upon the need for a good engineer, but the
governor asserted that he could not pick a man for this
position or promote a subordinate to it without first
clearing him with the purge officials, since the position
of prefectural engineer is one that requires such
clearance. The governor was not very clear as to the
precise difficulty in this respect. After his visit the
Colonel commented that the Public Works Office was full
of "stumble-bums" and that he was attempting to achieve
a clean-up by repeated suggestions to the governor. The
Public Works Office, he added, accounts for 19.6 per cent
of the prefectural budget for the fiscal year 1948 ad is
therefore a rich plum for politicos.
RESTRICTED
Visit to

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatoh No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRIOTED
Visit to Sado Island
We took the occasion to ask Colonel Core's permission
to visit Sado Island, a part of the prefecture which lies
in the Japan Sea west of Niigata two and a halr hours by
steamer. The Colonel stated that he did not ordinarily
allow visitors from Tokyo to go to Sado but that exception
might be made in our case since we were on official
business. The reason he gave for the prohibition is the
danger from mines in the Niigata harbor, as yet not
completely swept since the end of the war. He informed
us that the American air force had dropped about 779 mines
of various types but that as yet only 356 had been
accounted for and that a steamer had struok one and sunk
in September 1947.
On the morning of July 17 we departed for Sado with
a jeep on one of the steamers plying between Niigata City
and Ryozu, the port of Sado. The island bears a striking
resemblance to Oahu Island in Hawaii in that it is of
volcanic origin and consists of a broad fertile aree lying
between two parallel ranges of mountains. As on Gahu, the
cultivable area lies open to the sea at both ends. The
central plain is planted almost entirely to rice. The
population of 124,250 is engaged in agriculture and in
fishing which is carried on in all the waters around the
island. Considerable dried squid and seaweed of many
varieties are exported to the mainland. If there were more
suitable accommodations for lodging on the island, it
should be easily possible for the population to inorease
its inoome from the tourist trade, as the scenery well
merits inspection.
Military Government Team Personnel
The Niigata Military Government Team consists of
eight officers, 41 enlisted men and 4 civilians. As
Colonel Coxe did not mention the need for additional
personnel I assume that he had adequate staff. The economic
ofricer being absent, Mr. Hardie and I dealt with his
assistant, Lieutenant HARTLE, who readily proelaimed his
liking for his job but did not appear to have any special
qualifications for it. When I asked him to enumerate for
me the principal industries of the prefecture, I received
in return a query as to what I meant by the question.
Eventually, the Lieutenant's nisei interpreter supplied me
with the information. Evidently the officer personmel at
Niiguta are expected to be jacks of all trades. This
situation may, after all, be due to shortage of personnel,
but it is not altogether omprehensible how a legal
officer ean be transferred to economic work and an economie
officer to information and education work with equal
facility and preservation of efficieney.
Akita Prefeeture
RESTRICTED

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
-11-
V. AKITA PREFECTURE
The pattern of our operations in Niigata was repeated
at Akita with the omission of interviews with farmers.
since there was insufficient time to do more than hold a
conference with the prefectural officials concerned with
the matters in which we were interested. As at Niigata,
this conference was called after our arrival, the ofricials
being summoned by Sergeant E. J. BOURASSA, economics
officer, acting in the absence of Captain Ralph TODD.
Sergeant Bourassa had been in Akita for eighteen months
and seemed to relish his work although he complained of
being overburdened.
The following are the persons who attended the
conference at Akita:
Mr. WATANABE, Vice Governor.
Mr. WATANABK, head of the Land Department
Akita Prefectural Government.
Mr. YAMAZAKI, Chief of the Reclamation
Section, Land Department, Akita Prefectural
Government.
Mr. ABE, head of the Agricultural Land
Section, Land Depertment, Akita Prefectural
Government.
Mr. SASAKI of the Agricultural Cooperative
Section, Economics Department, Akita Prefectural
Government.
Mr. KIKUCHI, of the Cultivation Section,
Economics Department, Akita Prefectural
Government.
Mr. KAKIZAKI, of the Agricultural Section,
Economics Department, Akita Prefectural Govern-
ment.
Mr. HARaDA, Chief of the General Affairs
Department, Akita Prefectural Government.
Mr. OKA, Director of the Prefectural
Nogyokai.
Mr. SATO, Chief of the Accounts Section
of the Prefectural Nogyokai.
Sergeant E. J. Bourassa.
Farm Land Reform:
Purchase, Sale and Reclamation
53,000 cho of arable land in Akita were originally
estimated as subject to transfer under the land Reform
RESTRICTED
program.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
program. A supplementary survey ordered in January 1948
brought to light an additional 3,000 cho. Up to July 19,
the land purchased by the Government, exclusive of land
surrendered in lieu of taxes, amounted to 41,760 cho, or
75 per cent of the area revealed in the last prevlous
survey in January. The goal is to complete the purchase
of the remaining 25 per cent by October 2 of this year.
If 17, 000 cho of land surrendered in lieu of taxes are
added, the total land acquired by the Government up to
July 19, amounts to 58, 760 cho, or 49 per cent of the total
cultivated land of Akita as estimated in 1944. The area
of 56,000 cho representing the purchase goal, plus the
17,O00 cho surrendered in lieu of taxes, together amount
to exactly the estimated total of tenant-cultivated land
as of 1944. When the program is completed, therefore, it
appears that virtually all of the tenant-cultivated land
wiil have passed to the ownership of the tenants. As of
July 1, 39,000 cho, or approximately two-thirds of the
land then held by the Government had been transferred to
private ownership. Mr. Hardie did not think that this
was a very satisfactory showing. The head of the Agri-
cultural Land Section, however, disagreed and stated that
it was planned to sell all but seven per cent of the land
available for sale by October 13, 1948. Purchase and
sale of some 5,0o0 cho of pastureland will be completed
by December 13, 1948, according to the same official.
Out of the total 73,000 cho which the Government
will have acquired under the land reform program and in
lieu of taxes, it is believed that about 5,ooo cho will
remain for some time as state-owned land. This land was
originally purchased before the floods of last year and
was damaged while under state ownership. The Government
intends to subsidize prospective purchasers in order to
bring about its reclemation. Water facility costs on
this land are high. For this reason and because there is,
as yet, no protection from floods, it is recognized by
the prefectural government that immediate purohase by
tenants would not be economical for the purchasers. The
reason for the high cost of irrigation on this land is
the over-all cost of electricity, the rates of which alone
are not especielly high in Akita. In all but the most
fertile areas, there is a tendency among tenants,
according to the heed of the Agricultural Land Section,
not to purchase flood-demaged land both for this reason
and because of high maintenance expenses, inclusive of
taxes. Maintenance expenses are higher in the flooded
areas than the tenancy charges now in force.
There is some evidence of land manipulation in Akita
in evasion of the Land Reform Law. We were informed
that the cultivation rights, but not the ownership of, 20
or 30 cho of land had been transferred for the various
reasons above enumerated and because of the discouragement
entailed by the rice collection program. This land is.
now being farmed by persons interested only in raising
their own food. It was alleged that the land would have
been ruined if the transfer of cultivation rights had not
been
RESTRICTED

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
- 13-
been approved. The fees for cultivation rights are high
and probably exceed the 15 per cent legal lease rate.
Reclaimable land purchased by the Government amounts
to 7,459 cho, including the public lands transferred for
reclamation, the total to be reclaimed and sold or sold
on condition of reclamation amounts to 9,342 cho. of this
land, all has been judged by the prefectural Reclamation
Board to be reclaimable by individuals, that is to say,
has been deemed not to require heavy machinery to restore
its fertility. None had been sold as of the day of the
conference, allegedly because the survey to determine
individual lots had not been completed. Here was the same
situation we had encountered in Niigata, and here too Mr.
Hardie siezed the occasion to lecture the prefectural
officials upon the urgent need for early sale of all re-
claimable land.
Agricultural Cooperatives
Up to July 19, 316 agricultural cooperatives had been
approved in Akita Prefecture. As of that date, three
applications were awaiting approval, and it was expected
that by August 14 ebout ten additional would have been
received. Cooperetives approved to date are sub-divided
as follows:
Ordinary agricultural cooperatives
224
Live stock cooperatives
10
Seri-culture cooperatives
5
Fruit and horticulture cooperatives
2
Reclamation cooperatives
75
As there are 222 towns and villages and two cities in
Akita, the number of cooperatives that may probably be
approved by August l4 will provide less than two for each
town, city and village. We were informed that the guiding
policy of the prefectural government had been to limit
cooperatives as much as possible to one per town or
village. This policy had been recommended by the Agri-
cultural Cooperatives Promotion Society, the members of
which ere principally former Nogyokai members and the
wealthier farmers. It was said that the new cooperatives
program had been adequately propagandized among the
farmers of Akita, some 45 to 54 meetings having been held
for the purpose, but that the attitude of the Akita
farmers regarding the question of federations of coopera-
tives favored a single, prefecture-wide federation. Mr.
Hardie doubted the farmers had been made to understand the
finer points involved in the program, particularly the
advantages of multiple federations. The acting economics
officer of the Military Government Team, Sergeant
Bourassa, remarked to us after the conference that the
apparent reason why the farmers preferred a single
federation was their feeling that the assets of the old
prefectural Nogyokai would not suffice to support more
than one federation. Mr. Hardie's comment on this state-
ment was that the farmers obviously expected a federation
RESTRICTED
of cooperatives

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
of cooperatives to do the seme work as the old Nogyokat.
This, he said, implied thet there would be a change
merely in name. He added that more education appeared
to be needed in the principles of cooperatives and that
farmers should be given to know there is no compulsiem.
either to form a cooperative or to federate in any
Crop Quotas
In the opinion of the Vice Governor and the Chief
of the General Affairs Department of the prefectural
government, about one-third of all the farmers in Akita
sell rice on the blackmarket. The latter official
further gave his opinion that most blackmarket rice is
derived from retention rice intended for the farmers'
own use. If this were the case, then the prefectural
quota last year could theoretically, according to the
Chief of the General Affairs Department, have been higher.
The same official felt that the quotas levied on the
farmers were generally equitable, although there may have
been some cases of injustice. At any rate, the head of
the Agricultural Section of the Economics Department did
not think that inequitable quotas accounted for more than
one-half of the rice in the blackmarket.
Misunderstanding with the Agriculture and Forestry
Ministry had caused some difficulty with regard to the
combined prefectural wheat and barley quota, set this
year at 2,lo0 koku. Last year there had been no quota
at all. The quota assigned to Akita this year had been
based on the Ministry's calculation of 1,975 cho planted
to these grains. The actual area in the spring of this
year wes 590 cho. As of the date of the conference, no
wheat or barley had been collected and it was not
expected that any could be collected. The prefecture
had sought the elimination or decrease of the assigned
quota on the plea that not enough wheat and barley will
be raised this year to cover the farmers' legal
retention. Because of weather conditions, the northern
prefectur of Japan are not, after all, characterized by
a two-crop agricultural system.
Farm Credit end Deposits
The local credit situation in Akita was marked this
year by heavy withdrawals from the Nogyokai before June
15. To meet them the Nogyokai had, in turn, to borrow
from the Akita branch of the Central Bank of Agriculture
and Forestry. As of the date of our conference, with-
drawals from the Nogyokai were at the rate of two million
yen daily. In certain instances, especially in southern
Akita, where farmers' incomes last year were reduced by
floods, local branches of the Nogyokai could not meet
withdrawal demands and had to obtain credit from the pre-
fectural organization. During four or five days in April,
even the prefectural Nogyokai could not honor demands of
the local branches for withdrawals. This situation was
met by granting of loans totaling fifty-eight million yen
from the Central Bank to the local branches. The most
RESTRICTED
recent

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatoh No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
-15-
recent development in the situation has been the approval
by the Central Bank of the loen of l05 million yen to the
prefectural Nogyokai for the months of July, August and
September. There are no Nogyokai deposits to cover this
loan. In July, the prefectural Nogyokai was honoring
approximately sixty to seventy per cent of farmers'
applications for loans. Those whose applications were re-
jected obtained the finances required from certain avail-
able Nogyokai assistance funds and from Government subsidies
supplied through the Nogyokai.
The straitened credit situation of the Akita Nogyokai,
like thet of other Nogyokai throughout Japan is largoly due,
according to Mr. Hardie, to investment of association funds
in non-agricultural enterprises and to the Government's
absorption of large amounts of these funds during the war
in forced bond purchases.
In the opinion of the chief of the Accounts Sootion
of the prefectural Nogyokai agricultural production is
suffering from inadequate credit. Fertilizer purchases
have been facilitated by the Government's agricultural
loan system but central Government funds for repair of
flood damage, which was heavy last year, have not been
properly distributed. It is expected that agricultural
production this year will be reduced by about four or
five per cent for this reason.
The following table records the decline during the
first six months of 1948 of the Akita farmers' deposits
in local Nogyokai branches, the deposits of the latter in
the prefectural Nogyokai and finally the deposits of the
prefectural organization in the Central Bank of Agri-
cultural and Forestry (in millions of yen).
1947
1948
1948
Deposits
Dec 31
Apr 30
Jun 30
Prefectural Nogyokai
Deposits with
Central Bank
347
209
97
Local Nogyokai Deposits
with Prefectural
Nogyokai
568
324
187
Deposits with Local
Nogyokai
892
534
390
Between December 13, 1947 and June 30, 1948, farmers'
deposits in locel branches of the Nogyokai declined by
56 per cent. The reasons alleged by prefectural officials
for this drastic reduction were as follows:
1. Decline of local income because of
reavy floods in 1947.
2. The high rate of the agricultural
income tax.
RESTRICTED
3. The low

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
- 16 -
3. The low official prices for agri-
cultural products as contrasted with the
high prices farmers must pay for manufactured
necessities.
Farm Taxation
According to the estimate of the chief of the Accounts
Section of the prefectural Nogyokai, approximately thirty
or forty per cent of witndrawels of deposits were for the
purpose of paying income taxes. In the opinion of the
same person the farmers' income tax is not fair as compared
with income tax paid by other groups in the prefecture.
Moreover, over fifty per cent of the income tax returns
submitted by Akita farmers were increased by the tax
officials. About twenty per cent of all the farmors pro-
tested this arbitrary procedure. Upon further investiga-
tion by the tax office, some protests were honored d
relief granted.
To sum up the tax situation in Akita, it appears
that the farmers in the prefecture cannot pay their taxes
and operating and living expenses without deposits to draw
upon. The question that arises is: how can such payments
be made next year, when deposits may be much less than at
the beginning of this year
Although we interviewed no farmers in Akita, the tar
situation in the prefecture, as outlined by the chief of
Accounts Section of the prefectural Nogyokai and by Akita
Government officials, was the same as in the three other
prefectures visited. Of the six farmers interviewed in
the fields in Aomori, Yamagata, and Niigata prefectures,
only one paid an income tax this year equal to his own
computation. The five others paid income taxes increased
by 14, 63, 130, 318, and 367 per cent over their own
computations. Only in one case was the increase
apparently justified. On comparison of statistics derived
from the various interviews with farmers, there appears to
be some irrationality in the attitude of tax officials.
For example: A farmer cultivating l.4 cho of paddy land in
Aomori, on which he produced 7o bags of rice, was assigned
a quota of 28 bags and paid an income tax of ¥2,500. 
farmer in Yamagata, cultivating l.3 cho of rice land on
which he produced 75 bags with a quota of 55 bags, paid
an income tax of ¥9,300. We were told that the seemingly
arbitrary attitude of tax officials is based et least
partly on the income which they estimate to be derived from
the blackmarket. The first farmer just mentioned, had
a differential of 42 bags between his production and his
quota which he could have sold on the blackmarket. The
second farmer, although having a differential of but 20
bags, paid a tax three times as high.
VI. AOMORI PREFECTURE
On the morning after our arrival in Aomori, a con-
ference was arranged through the Economics Offioer of the
Military
RESTRICTED

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
Inelosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
-17-
Military Government Team with the following offieials:
Lieutenant Colonel R. K. HALL, Commanding
Ofricer, Aomori Military Government Team.
Captain J. D. MoCULLOUGH, Economics Officer,
Aomori Military Government Team.
Captain P. F. DEaN, Assistant Economies
Officer, Aomori Military Government Team in
charge of natural resources.
Mr. K. ▲OYAGI, Land Department, Aomori
Prefeotural Government.
Mr. Y. KOBaYASHI, Economios Department,
Aomori Prefectural Government.
Mr. S. YAMazakI, Agricultural Land Section,
Prefectural Land Department, Aomori Prefectural
Government.
Mr. K. KOB▲YASHI, Reclamation Section,
Prefectural Land Department, Aomori Prefeotural
Government.
Mr. H. DOI, Agrioultural Cooperatives
Section, Economics Department, Aomori Prefectural
Government.
Mr. S. BaBa, Agricultural Section, Economies
Department, Aomori Prefectural Government.
Mr. K. NODA, Tax Seotion, Finance Department,
Aomori Prefectural Government.
Mr. T. OKITSU, Aomori Branch, Central Bank
of Agriculture and Forestry.
Mr. S. MaTSUO, Head of the Prefectural
Nogyokai.
Farm Land Reform:
Purchase, Sale and Reclamation
The basic survey of arable land in Aomori available
for purchase under the land reform program revealed
38,084 cho of land to be available. A subsequent survey
in the early part of 1948 increased this figure to
44,495 cho, and by July 1 of this year 44,037 cho had
been purohased. The purchase part of the land reform
program in Aomori may therefore be considered completed.
However, through July 2, only 29,048 cho, or approxi-
 mately two-thirds, of the purohased land had been sold.
It was alleged by the prefectural officials that sales
had been delayed intentionally in order to place
RESTRICTED
emphasis

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
Inclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
emphasis on the purohase part of the program, and to give
adequate attention to surveying and to re-grouping plots.
It is hoped that all sales will be completed by Oeteber 8
of this year.
The purchase of an estimated 6,000 oho of pasturelands,
as contrasted with the purohase of arable Tand, has not
made any progress. No purchases have been made to date, but
1t is expected to complete both purchases and sales of this
type of land by December 2, 1948.
Approximately l4,000 cho of reclaimable land have
been purchased under Artioles 30 and 38 of the Owner-
Farmer Establishment Special Measures Law. In addition,
6,773 cho of public lands deemed to be reclaimable have
been transferred to the Prefectural Land Commission. The
total of 20, 678 oho is 46 per cent of the area showm by
the survey early this year to be purchasable under the
land reform program. This is a much higher pereentage
than in Akita Prefecture, where the reelaimable land is
only 17 per cent of the ordinary cultivable land purehas-
able under the program.
Or this total of 20,678 cho of reclaimable land,
10,051 cho have already been reclaimed. Another 5,000 oho
have been judged reclaimable by individuals and should be
sold as soon as possible through the land commissions. It
is likely that the entire remainder of the land not
already reclaimed will have to be reclaimed by individuals
as the central government has informed the prefeetural
government that no diesel oil will be available this year
for its reclamation by mechanical means. None of the
reclaimable land in Aomori has yet been sold. when this
information was disclosed, Mr. Hardie delivered to the
officials at the conference the same warning and injunetion
he had given at the conferences in Niigata and Akita. In
so doing, he stressed the national need for inereasing
agricultural production and the assistance thereto whioh
could be given by disposing of reclaimed or individually
reolaimable land as quickly as possible. It is
interesting to note that of the 20, 678 cho of realaimable
land, 11,O66 cho, or slightly over one-halr, was former
military land. Although this land formerly devoted to
military use and now judged reclaimable is at present
under cultivation, production cannot be maximized, Mr.
Hardie told the assembled officials, until the oultivators
know the land belongs to them.
The head of the Prefectural Land Department asked
for Mr. Hardie's advice concerning the method for deter-
mining whioh timbered areas are to be left as forest land
and whioh are to be taken over for reolamation purposes.
The farm land reform laws are not specific on these points.
Rather, they give the Prefeetural Land Commission broed
powers to buy any land exceeding the owmership limitations
set by the Owner-Farmer Establishment and Special Measures
Law. Early this year, instruotions had gone out from the
Agricultural and Forestry Ministry advising each prefeeture
as to
RESTRICTED

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.98)
molosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
-19-
as to the extent of forest land which should probably be
purehased for reclamation purposes. This adviee was based
on surveys made in 1943, 1945 and 1947, but specified
amaller areas than indicated in the surveys. Aesording to
Mr. Hardie, prefectural officials tended to view this
ministerial "advice" as e quota and had been over-sealeus
in buying up land which, in the interest of the gemeral
prefectural economy, should have been left in forest. He
informed the head of the Prefectural Land Departmemt that
the problem is one for forestry and reelamation experts to
settle among themselves. He added that his interest was
in seeing that, once land had been purchased as resleimable,
it be gotten into production as quickly as possible. ▲
Vice-Ministerial letter to prefectural governments is now
under preparation in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry and the Natural Resourees Section of this Head-
quarters which sets certain standards by whieh forest,
pasture and reelaimable land can be distinguished. For
example, if the land is principally used for the growing
of timber, it shall be left as forest land. If the primary
use is for pasture purposes, it may be purchased by the pre-
fectural land commission as pasture land. The speeifie
criterion will be that, if more than thirty per cent of the
area of the land in question is covered by forest, it shall
remain as forest land; if not, it may be purohased for
either pasture or reelamation purposes depending on its
arability. According to available figures, Aomori Pre-
feeture now contains 1l,000 cho of national forest land and
20,000 cho of private forest Tand.
Agrioultural Cooperatives
In Aomori Prefecture, there were, until theis dissoler
tion on August 14 of this year, 165 bmmehes of the Mogyokai
or National Agricultural Association. As of the date of
our conference, 393 new agricultural cooperative assoeie-
tions had been approved. About fifty communities have enly
one cooperative, while the remainder have an average of
three each. The 393 cooperatives may be broken dowm as
follows:
Ordinary agricultural cooperatives 322
Reolamation cooperatives
41
Live stoek cooperatives
21
Apple growers cooperatives
Sericulture cooperatives
Total -
393
As of July 20, ten additional applications to establish
cooperatives were awaiting approval,whieh was expeeted to be
given. The prefeetural offieials at Aomori stated they were
aware of the fact that the new ccoperatives are givem prierity
in the acquisition of the old Nogyokai properties. In their
opinion, it would require three months to exereise this right
of priority after receiving the relevant instruetions from
Tokyo. These instructions had not been reseived as of the
day of the conference, but were expected in the near future.
The same
RESTRICTED

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.98)
Enelosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
- 20 -
The same length of time would be required to complete
dissolution of the Nogyokai organizations throughout the
prefecture. Mr. Hardie urged that new ccooperatives take
advantage of the priority in question in less than three
months, ir possible. as was the case in Niigata and Akita,
it was anticipated also in omori that difriculties would
be experienced in exercising priority rights over Nogyokmi
properties in those cities, towns and villages which have
more than one cooperative. The head of the Agrieultural
Cooperatives Section stated that such difficulties oould
be anticipated in about 30 communities.
▲ number of the prefectural officials present agreed
with the opinion of the head of the grioultural Coopera-
tives Section that the farmers of Aomori tend to favor a
single, prefecture-wide federation of cooperatives. A few
of the farmers, it was stated, were inolined toward a
system of dual federations, one for oredit and deposits
and the other for buying and selling, but in no case are
multiple federations favored. The disclosure of this
information again impelled Mr. Hardie to lecture, as he had
done in the other prefectural capitals, on the advantages
of multiple federations.
Crops and Crop Quotas
The same complaints regarding the wheat and barley
quota were made in Aomori as in other prefectures. It
appears that this year's quota represents a oonsiderable
increase over that of last year, which was rather low.
Aomori has been assigned by the Ministry of Agrioulture and
Forestry a quota this year of 24, 600 koku on an assumed
planted area of 9,0o0 cho. As the actual planted area 1s
only 4,050 oho, a request has been made to reduce the
wheat and barley quota to 16,Oo0 koku. The quota for last
year's crop was 10,000 koku, of which 120 per cent, or
i2,ooo koku were collected.
Aomori's rice crop this year, like that of the other
northern prefeotures, should be plentiful to judge by the
appearance of the planted fields. About 3,300 cho of rice
have been damaged by insects but this is not expected to
affect the crop appreciably. The prefectural officials
judge that the crop will be better than last year's.
Throughout the four prefectures visited on our trip, I
noticed wide use of a device for trapping destruotive
insects (aokomushi) which have given considerable trouble
this year. Blue lighted tubes about two feet long, similar
to those used in neon signs, are spaced over the fields
on a grid pattern at intervals of one to two miles. Below
the light is a receptacle containing a fluid which kills
the insects that fall into it. The local people say that
this device is fairly effective. I noticed its use also
on remote Sado Island.
In the estimate of the prefectural officials, about
30 per cent of the farmers of Aomori sell rice on the black-
market, and about 50 per cent of last year's orop was
thought to have been disposed of in this manner. The
alleged reason why farmers have enough rice for black-
marketing is that quotas in general are not suffieiently
RESTRICTED

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.98)
Enelosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
-21 -
high. The head of the Prefeotural Eoonomies Department
was or the opinion, however, that quotas have been feirly
distributed this year, although such was not the ease last
year. He felt that inequities in quota alloeations last
year may have accounted for a very small proportion of
rice in the blackmarket (less than one per eeat). Mowever,
Captain MoCullough, economies ofricer of the Military
Government Team, thought that much more blackmarket riee
of the last crop was traceable to this souree.
Farm Credit and Deposits
The farm finance pioture in Aomori was very similar
to that in other prefectures. Demand for credit began in
January, almost simultaneously with the completion of riee
colleetions, and increased to a peak in April and May,
deelining somewhat since that time. In parallel with the
demand for eredit, there was a heavy withdrawal of depesits;
both withdrawals and borrowing were apparently neeessitated
by the need for fertilizer and farm tools and by tax
obligations. The source of oredit was the Aomori Braneh of
the Central Bank of Agrioulture and Forestry from whieh the
prefectural Nogyokai borrowed to meet the demands upon it.
Its indebtedness to the Central Bank by July 22 had amouated
to about 214,000,000 yen. In ten different places in the
prefecture local branches of the Nogyokai were not suffisiemtly
solvent to honor local farmers' requests for withdrawals of
deposits. In some of these cases, the prefeotural Mogyokai
itselr was unable to meet local branches' demands fer
finanoial assistance. The following table shows the deeline
in agrioulture deposits in Aomori Prefeoture during the first
five months of this year (in millions of yen):
1947
1948
1948
Deo 31
Apr 30
May l
Prefeotural
Nogyokai deposits
with Central Bank
230
110
92
Local Nogyokai
deposits with
Prefeetural Nogyokai
154
150
141
Deposits with Local
Nogyokai
382
295
294
(Note: This table differs from those given for the other
prefectures in that May 31 rather than June 30 was the
latest date for which statistics were available.)
Farm Taxation
The heavy withdrawals of deposits in April and May were
largely for the purpose, we were informed, of paying taxes.
This means of paying taxes seems to be fairly general
throughout
RESTRICTED

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
mefosure to Tokyo! s
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRIOTED
- 22 -
throughout single -crop rice producing distriets. The
farmer receives payment for his riee deliveries in Janmary,
whereas he does not have to meet his tazes until the latter
part of Mareh. In the meantime, the income from his erep
is spent on food and artieles of daily necessity, produe-
tion implements and fertilizer. The farmers have, therefere,
little left with which to pay taxes at the present low
official price for rice other than the savings of past years.
In Aomori County, in which Aomori city is situated, thirty
per cent of the farmers protested the arbitrary assessment
of their inoome taxes this year, we were informed by the
head of the tax seetion of the Prefectural Finanee Depart-
ment. He further informed us that about eighty per sent
of all the farmers' tax returns in Aomori County were ad-
justed upwards to take account of the rice each was essumed
to have sold on the blackmarket. The head of the prefee-
tural Nogyokai was of the opinion that about seventy per
cent of the farmers in the prefecture protested their
income taxes. Even with the widespread complaints agaimst
the Government's agricultural taxation poliey, this figure
seemed rather high. As in the other prefeetures, the Japan
Farmers' Union was appealed to for assistance in making the
protests.
VII. YAMAGATA PREFECTURE
Attending our oonference in Yamagata city were the
following:
Lieutenant Colonel Brice C. W. CUSTER,
Commanding Offioer, Yamagata Military Government
Team.
Mr. B. J. SULLIVAN, Economios Offioer,
Yamagata Military Government Team.
Mr. Edwin W. LOFTHOUSE, Assistant Economies
Officer, X Corps, Headquarters, Sendai.
Mr. Michio MURAYAMA, Governor of Yamagata
Prefeeture.
Mr. N. OSHINO, Chief of the Agrioultural
and Forestry Department, Yamagata Prefectural
Government.
Mr. MITsUO Ito, Agricultural Land Section,
Agriculture and Forestry Department, Yamagata
Prefeotural Government.
Mr. T. OTsukI, Reclamation Section, Agri-
cultural and Forestry Department, Yamagata
Prefeotural Government.
Mr. T. SAwaRk, Agricultural Cooperatives
Seotion, Yamagata Prefectural Government.
RESTRICTED
Mr. I. GEJO

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despateh No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
- 23 -
Mr. I. GEJo, Yamagata Branch, Central Bank, of
Agriculture and Forestry.
Mr. M. YOSHIMATSU, Yamagata Prefeotural
Nogyokai.
Farm Land Reform:
Purchase, Sale and Reclamation
The original survey of arable land in Yamagata pre-
feoture to be made available for purchase under the land
reform program disclosed approximately 50,000 cho of land
which would be subject to purchase. A later survey in
January or February of this year raised the available area
to 55,9l2 cho, which is approximately thirty-nime per cent
of the entire arable land of the prefeoture, roughly
estimated at l4l,70z eho. Inasmuch as fifty-six per cent
of the arable area is considered to have been tenant-
operated before the inception of the land reform program,
and inasmuch as on a national average only ten per cent
of tenant-operated land is to escape purchase, approxi-
mately 71,418 cho should be purchased for re-sale to
tenants. Ir the further surveying advised by Mr. Hardie
does not increase the figure of 55,912 sho, Yamagata pre-
feeture will be left with thirty per cent of its formerly
tenant-operated lands still operated on the same basis,
an excessively high percentage. The arable land purehased
by July 22, 55,692 eho, practically equalled the target
area disclosed by the last previous survey. If the
necessity for further surveying as indicated above is dis-
regarded, the purchase program in Yamagata may be con-
sidered virtually complete. We were assured that it would
be entirely completed by the required date, December 2,
1948. A very good showing has also been made on sales to
tenants as 51,487 gho had been sold by July 22.
It is interesting to note that the average farmer in
Yamagata makes a down payment on his land purchase of
fifty-five per cent. This figure is somewhat lower than
the average down payment that prevailed in other pre-
fectures in other stages of the program.
In addition to the ordinary arable land, some 2,500
cho of pasturelands have been judged available for purehase
and will be acquired by December 2 of this year.
Regarding land reclamation, the discussion at the con-
ference revealed that 11,O26 cho of reclaimable land had
been purchased and that a further 3,409 gho of publie land
had been transferred to the prefecture for reclamation.
Of the total of 14,444 cho, the area reclaimed as of July
22 was 8,459 cho. Most of the balance is considered re-
claimable by Individuals. However, as had been the
situation in the three other prefectures, no reclaimable or
reclaimed land had yet been sold. Disclosure of this fast
again elicited from Mr. Hardie severe injunctions to the
prefectural officials to abide by instructions which had
already
RESTRICTED

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
Emelosure to Tokye's
Despateh No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
- 24 -
already been issued on this point. It was recalled that
the instruotions of December 16, 1947, had direeted the
prefectures to establish complete plans for reelammtiem and
had ordered the immediate sale of all reelaimed or
individually reelaimable land. In June another similar
but more emphatio instruction had been issued. Mr. Hardie
stated his opinion that the reclamation boards tend to take
too great a proprietary interest in the land under their
control and show no inclination to release it to the land
commissions for disposal to tenants.
Agricultural Cooperatives
Within the prefecture there were 226 city, town and
village branches of the Nogyokai, including three in the
prefectural capital. By July 22, 379 new cooperatives to
replace the Nogyokai had been approved. These are broken
down as follows:
Capital stock cooperatives:
Ordinary agricultural cooperatives 254
Reclamation cooperatives
Others
Total
262
Non-stook cooperatives:
Ordinary agricultural cooperatives
Sericulture cooperatives
109
Reclamation cooperatives
Livestock cooperatives
Village industry cooperatives
Straw products cooperatives
Total
117
The prefectural official in charge of the agricultural co-
operatives program stated that it would take about one month
after receipt of instructions from Tokyo for the new
cooperatives to exercise their priority in the purchase of
Nogyoka1 properties. Only 24 of the approximately 226 cities,
towns and villages in the prefecture will have more than ome
cooperative. Dirficulty is anticipated in all 24 communities
in effecting the transfer of the Nogyokai properties. We
were again informed that local Property Disposal Boards might
not be able to cope with the situation.
Contrary to the views obtained in the other prefeetures
we visited, the opinion of Yamagata farmers regarding the
matter of cooperative federations, we were told, inelined to
favor five or six prefecture-wide, functionel federations.
It was not apparent why agrioultural opinion in Yamagata Pre-
fecture differed in this respect from that in Niigata, Akita
RESTRICTED
and
The reason for the large number of cooperatives of this
type is that Yamagata is traditionally a heavy silk pro-
ducing prefeeture.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
- 25 -
and Aomori. It is possible that programs to edueate farmers
in the prinoiples of cooperatives were better executed and
more effective, but this subject bares further investigation.
Crops and Crop Quotas
The standing rice which we could see from the train
appeared to be in very good condition. This was true also
in Niigata and Aomori and to a lesser extent in Akita. We
were told by the Yamagata Prefectural officials that it
should be easily possible to attain the ten per cent inerease
in production which the Government has urged upon farmers
this year. In the Governor's opinion, the rice quota is
generally allocated fairly and there are few complaints on
that score. The blackmarket in rice last year derived its
supplies chiefly from Niigata, Akita and Iwate. Little
Yamagate rice was sold outside of official channels.
It is felt by the prefectural government that the
combined wheat and barley quota this year is entirely too
high, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has
been asked to out it in half. The acreage planted to
these grains last year was 4, 500 cho, whereas this year it
is 2,975 cho. This year's quota of 10,400 koku was based
on an estimated planted area almost 600 cho in excess of
that actually planted. Collections for last year were 100
per cent. It is categorically stated that such a reeord
cannot be attained this year unless the request to halve
the quota is granted.
In assessing the attitude of the farmers of Yamagata
toward the Central Government and their willingness to
deliver l00 per cent of their rice quotas, it is necessary
to consider a local situation in the farm lands south of
the lower Mogami River, where considerable dissatisfaction
arose this year. In 1947 the farm lands north of the lower
Mogami were inundated and the crops destroyed. In order to
colleot the prefecture's rice quota therefore, the quota
assigned to the flooded area was largely transferred to the
less damaged territory south of the lower Mogami. The
farmers of the latter region were therefore compelled to
surrender all the rice they had produced, without retaining
any for their own use. For this rice they were paid l800
yen per koku. It was apparent to the Yamagata Military
Government Team that the farmers of the area would there-
fore be entirely dependent upon rationed rice for food.
Accordingly, approximately 150,000 koku were retained, after
collection, in warehouses in the region in question. As
anticipated, it was necessary to use this rice for distribu-
tion of rations. The Government's retail ration price
however was 338 yen more than the price received by the
farmers for their production. This occasioned bitter com-
plaint. Military Government, sympathetic to the farmers'
pleas, succeeded in having the Government set a special
retail price for the affeoted areas which was considerably
lower than the national price although still 65 yen per koku
above the price received by the farmers for their crop. The
incident has left a legacy of ill will in the area which may
hamper
RESTRICTED

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
melosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
RESTRICTED
hamper rice colleotions in 1948.
Farm Credit and Deposits
The decline in farmers' deposits this year was more
drastic in Yamagata than in the other prefectures visited.
During the first six months of this year, the deeline in
deposits on the local level was 57 per cent, on the pre-
feotural level 83 per cent, and in the prefectural branch
of the Central Bank of Agrioulture and Forestry 99.95 per
cent. Table follows (in millions of yen):
1947
1948
1948
Dec 31
Apr 30
Jun 30
Prefectural Nogyokai
deposits with Central
Bank
1,418
58
77
Local Nogyokai deposits
with Prefectural
Nogyokai
1,508
503
260
Deposits with Local
Nogyokai
1,633
915
665
Because of the farmers' pressing need for money to
finance their cash outlays, the deposits of the prefectural
Nogyokai with the Central Bank in Yamagata were orhausted
about the middle of May this year. By July 22, the pre-
fectural Nogyokai had borrowed f1l7,000,000 from the Central
Bank. Farmers had largely exhausted their own deposits in
the branch Nogyokai by the latter part of May. The demand
for credit which then rose markedly continued quite heavy
through the date of our conference. The state of agri-
cultural finances last year was not the same,as the farmers'
fiscal needs were supplied by withdrawals of their own
deposits or through loans financed by the Nogyokai or its
local branches without the necessity of heavy demands upon
the Central Bank. s of the date of the oonferenoe, the
prefeotural Nogyokai was making disbursements for with-
drawals and loans at the rate of about f110,000,000 per
month.
Farm Taxation
It was estimated by prefectural officials that about
83 per cent of the withdrawals of farmers' deposits had
been for the purpose of paying taxes. The balance had been
for the purpose of purchasing production materials and
incentive goods distributed by the government.
According to the information furnished us, about one-
half of the farmers of Yamagata filed inoome tax returns
for 1947. The taxes thus declared amounted to only tem per
cent of the sum finally olleoted. In other words, tax
officials assessed the farmers at an average rate of l000
per cent of their deolared tax. This was evidently not
done without some investigation. The method of investiga-
tion used, however, was such as to work considerable
RESTRICTED
injustice

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
Enelosure to Tokyo's
Despatoh No. 624 of
September 21, 1948.
HESTRIOTED
injustice upon many. Tax officials sampled various villages
investigating the orops of six or seven farmers in each.
Thus an average production per unit of area was worked out
for each community. The individual farmers' produetion was
then calculated by multiplying the average unit produetiom
by the number of units farmed by each. The differenee be-
tween the amount of rice delivered by the farmer and the
amount which he was thus estimated to have produeed was
assumed, allowance being made for retention for food, to
have found its way into the blackmarket. To the income
derived from official deliveries was then added the income
estimated to have been derived from illegal sales. This
system of estimating taxable income did not take into con-
sideration local variations in soil productivity and my
have made too gross assumptions concerning the supposed
diversion of rice into blackmarket channels.
The Governor of Yamagata was of the opinion that it
would certainly be more fair to investigate each individual
case but stated that this was impossible because of the
shortage of tax personnel. The farmers, he thought, had
not made honest returns and were in need of greater
"demooratization" to persuade them of the need to report
more accurately.
Yamagata prefectural officials estimate that national
taxes for the year 1947 consumed about 45 per cent of farm
income and that prefectural and local taxes consumed another
9 per cent. If this is true, the average Yamagata farmer
paid out 54 per cent of his income in various taxes,
national, prefectural and local.
Jay TrinEand
Jay Dixon Edwards
Foreign Service Ofricer
Tokyo, Sept. 17, 1948.
JDEdwards/eg
RESTRICTED

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.92)
ASSISTANTSECRETARY
FOR OCCUPIED AREAS
RESTRICTED
"O"
MBGORANDOM FOR THE UNITED STATES MIBAEER, BAR BASTERE GONREISEDDATE
Subjest: Principles for Japamese Farmers'
Organisations, s0-277 Series.
The following is to confirm the position cemmmmisated frem
894.61/10-548
this offiee to Dr. Blakeslee today by telepheme:
You are authorised to eppose the propesed ritish asend-
ments to 80-277/11 contained in s0 277/14, and to psepose the
following United States amendment:
In paragraph 3, insert a period after the wend
"abolished" and delete the remainder of the seatease.
Add the following new paragraph 4 (remmbesing
the present paragraph 4 and subsequest paragraphe
8.94.5032
ascordingly):
894.5043
"4. This poliey should be put inte effeet
gradually, due regard being paià to the immediate
seonomic needs of the eountry and the meed to
prevent avoidable dislocation of feed semtrel
measures."
It is anticipated that submission of this aemdment may
imdase the U.X. Nember to withdraw his proposed amemémemts in
50-277/14.
Charles E. Saltman
DCR - ITP Unit
Assistant Seerstary
OCT 719
Rev.
Cat.
CSA
flheared in draft by:
Dist.
O: WARudlin: jcd
10/5/48
Pos.
N.A
ILS
he sohules
hr allhion he bulliion.
boay dapt. (cor. Pgs) uo styiction.
PM
3368

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.94)
THE STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
Washington, D. C.
SANA-6302
23 December 1948
DEC 27 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
894.61/12.2348
(Attention: Mrs. A. L. Dunning - NA)
Subject: Directive Transmitted to SCAP by the Joint
Chiefs of Staff
Reference: SANA-6292 (16 Dec 48)
Enclosed are four copies of Directive, Serial No. 97,
transmitted to SCAP by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Copy
No. 1 is for transmittal to the Far Eastern Commission and
Copies Nos. 2, 3 and 4 are for the files of the State
Department.
For the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Comnittee:
Serge H. Haseltmo
GEORGEH. HASELTON,
Executive Seoretary
Enclosure:
Serial No. 97.
Copies Nos.1,2
3 & 4
DIVISION OF
bFse
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFTAIRS
Mons toSee. len, FEC,
in NA
894.61/12-2348
deafted 1stos/48.
STATE Sile
m.P.nK.
DEC29 1948
ODH
FILED
Clan Sheet muis
10328

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
Serial No~ 9
COPY
17 Deod
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POW
PRINCIPLES FOR JAPANESE FARMERS' ORGANIZATIONS
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
The following Directive, serial number 97, prepared by the
State Department to implement the policy adopted by the FEC on
December 9, 1948, under the provisions of paragraph II, A, 1, of
its terms of reference has been received from the State, Army,
Navy, Air Force Departments for transmission to you for your
guidance in accordance with paragraph III, 1, of its terms of
reference:
"1. Japanese farmers should be encouraged to form
themselves into farmers' organizations, including unions
and cooperatives of all kinds, for their mutual economic
894.5043
and social benefit, and for the purpose of preserving and
improving conditions of agricultural work and otherwise
assisting the legitimate interests of farmers.
"2. Farmers' organizations and their members should
be assured of and encouraged to observe in the conduct of
their operations the fundamental freedcms guaranteed by
chapter III ('rights and duties of the pecple') of the
constitution of Japan.
W894
DCR - ITP Unit
ODH

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
"3. Aay existing laws or parts thereof which
to the provisions stated in this policy should be
and any organizations established thereunder abolishod.
"4. This policy should be put into effect gradually,
due regard being paid to the immediate economic needs of
the country and the need to prevent avoidable dislocation
of food control measures.
FARMERS' COOPERATIVES
"5. Farmers' cooperatives should be a means whereby
those who are actively concerned in obtaining their living
by working on the land or in pursuits closely connected
therewith can combine for their mutual advantage.
"6. The right of farmers to organize themselves into
coopcratives should be assured and protected by law and the
frecdom of farmers to join or abstain from joining coopera-
tives should be provided by law. Any farmers' cooperative
should have thc power to make rules admitting to membership
any person who is not a genuine farmer, which rules may or
may not exclude non-farmers from voting. Measures should
be taken however, to prevent cooperatives becoming con-
trolled by any banking, trade, industrial, or other non-
farmer companies and intorests.
"7. Farmers' cooperatives should not be subject to
any adversely discriminatory taxation, nor to any dis-
criminatory restrictions upon their engaging in any economic
activity related to their own agricultural pursuits and
for the benefit of members.
"8. Farmers' cooperatives should be subject to the laws
relating to juridical porsons, but shculd not, in their
intcrnal management and operation, be subject to any control
interference, or supervision by any administrative organ
of the Japanese Government nor should they be subject to
dissolution by administrative order. Where it is alleged
that cooperatives have violated the law, or their articles

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
of incoppbration or by-laws, romedial action shoula
sought and taken through the courts of law and not th
govornmont docrce, or administrative decision.
"9. Farmers' cooporatives should be froo from any obli
gation to take part in, or from any responsibility for,
the enforcoment of government measures, except that they
should comply with government measures to the same extent
as any other Japanesc National or organization under
Japanose Government jurisdiction.
"10. Farmers' cooperatives should be enccuraged and
assisted by the Japancse Government in providing education
for their members, both gonerally in an understanding of
Democratic processes and particularly in cooperative practices
and agricultural techniques. The Japanese Government should,
as far as possible, assist cooperative officials in obtain-
ing information on cooperative activities in other countries.
These objectives should bo given due weight when alloca-
tions of paper supplies and import of foreign publications
are made.
"11. Japanese should be freo to cheose the forms of
organization of their cooperativcs. Cooperatives shculd
be allcwed to associate themselves in regional or national
bodies, with representation in such bodics in proportion
to the membership of the individual cooperatives. Emphasis,
however, should bo placed on the importanco of solid
local basis for future of ccoperative activity in Japan.
"12. The director and officials, other than administrative
officers, of farmers' cooperatives should be elected at
regular stated intervals by the farmers concerned by
secret ballot and Democratic methods. Each member should
have one vote. It should be the responsibility of the
cooperatives to ensure that all their activities are
democratically conducted.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
"13. Nd membor should hold offico in a cooperativo
(1) he is engaged in activities which are likely sub-
stantially to compete with the activities of the coopera-
tive, or (2) he is subject to the purge directive of
January 4, 1946, or subject to subsequent purge directives
by the Supremo Commander for the Allied Powers.
"14. Tho Japanese Government, in so far as practicable
should make available to farmers' coopcratives technical
advisory and other services and should cnsure that credit
is available to them on reasonable terms.
"15. Farmers' cooperatives should be encouraged to
participate in vcluntary measures to promote the objectives
of the occupation.
FARMERS' UNIONS
"16. The principles for Japanese trado unions (FEC-045/5)
should, with the neccssary modifications, be applicable to
farmers' unions."

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.87)
a roply efer to
12-2348
UNCLASSIFIER
MEMORANDUN FOR THE SEGRETARY GENERAL.
FAR EASTERS CONNISSION
In ascordance with a memorasdum dated Desember 25,
1948, from the State-Army-Mavy-Air Poree Coordimating
committee, there is enelosed a sortiried eopw of a
C1reetive, Berial Ne. 97, te the Supreme Commamder fer
the Allied Powere regarding Primeiples fer Japamese
Farmers' Organizations, to be filed with the Far
Lastern Commission uader the provislons of paregraph
Ill, t, of its Terms of Referemee.
Chas sheot mo
Charlee
Saltsmes
Assistad
pseeretary
Enolosure:
Copy No. 1 (eertiried)
of Direetive to soap,
Serial No. 97.
UNCLABSIFIER
9m
FE:NA:MPMKenna
0
12/23/46

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.89)
MAR 10 1949
Ia reply refer to
NA
CONFIDENTIAL
894.61/3-1049
MEMORANDUM FOP THE UNITED STATES NEMBER
FAR EASTERN CONISSION
The United States Nember, Far Easterm Cemmissiem
is authorized te propose that 30-3s5, Agrariam Beferm
in Japan, be amendel as fellows:
1. Paragraph 1 to read: "In the view of the Far
Eastern Commission an equitable and sound agrariam referm
program 1s an important factor favering the demeeratisa-
tion of Japan";
2. In line 2 of paragraph 2: imsert the phrase
"the basie primciples embodied im the" befere "fellewing
steps";
7
3. Delete paragraph Se.
The United States Member is autherizd to assept
SC-335 with these changes.
CS/A
12uri3
W. Walten Butterwerth
心
Director for Far asterm Affairs
MAR 10 1949 P. 
as
aeo
auB.
fedt
FE:NAIALDunningIelB
PEY
OFD
3/9/49
aeb
CONFIDENTIAL
CR/21<

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.97)
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collest
X Charge Department
Charge to
Washington
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
117
TOKYO
MAR 30 19499
INFO: ARMY CHIEF OF STARF
/3-3049
FOR ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER.
Comite
Summary Steering/tommbttme Mtg., Mar. 22, 1949:
Agrarian Reform in Japan (SC-335)
First andsecond US amendments (second slightly revised) appeared acceptable
to all members except Sovoet who had no instniumtbooex Third US amendment to delete
para 3c not acceptable to Brit on grounds that it would defeat ebject of paper. Fr.
and Australam members associated themselves with Brit views. Chilmme member quoted
Tokyo news daspatch that Yoshide Cabinet planned to abandon seeond agrarian land
reforms and concluded that since t land reforms had not been earried to their
completion, it was very important for  FEC to draft & policy including this para.
In summary, 7 members offered deletion para 3c.
Fishing and Aguatic Industries in Japan (SC -271/10)
Sovank member reintroduced Sovimt amendments, contained in C2-271/9, which were
comite
rejected.in working ommmdbbem. He added that his delegation had reservation on in-
UNQTE
clusion of words QTE outside Japanese territorial waters./urevemE Canadim member
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
submitted amendment to para 2b, line 5, that words QTE has informed SCAP.it
(OFFICES ONLY)
UNQTE
/uNQvooEx be deleted. PhilAppdne member stated that in pre-war days his Govt
had much trouble from Japemmse fishing vessels and therefore the PhilAmptme
Delegation, profiting from past experience, would like to stress that area
S
u
CR CLEARANCE
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.95)
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect
COI
DepartmfiheNt State
Charge Department
Washington
Charge to
-2-
UNQTE
that is of QTE direct concern/tneiamE to Philippines is 300 miles from its.
territorial shores. In summary, 9 members approve paper as forwarded from working
No
comite
Th member supports US paper.
Folldng papers retained on agenda:
Complaint against SCAF by Deported German National SC-330/6.
Replacement of Art Cultural Objects SC-272/12.
Removal of Aircraft and Private Munitions SC-312.
(m)
1949  30 AM 11 42
ACCF  E DSK
DCT
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
mird
GLD
FE:NA:ALDunning:ikb
3/28/49
CONFIDENTIAL
CR CLEARANCE
CONFIDENTIAL
MAR 30 1949
OFFICE-1947 736838

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
DIVISION OF
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE NW.
APR
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
28 April 1949
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission provide
that one of the funotions of the Commission should be to "formulate
the policies, principles and standards in conformity with which the
fulfillment by Japan of its obligations under the Terms of Surrender
894.61/4-2849
may be accomplished."
It is further provided that when such decisions are made by
the Far Eastern Commission, "The United States Government shall pre-
pare directives in accordance with the policy decisions of the Com-
mission and shall transmit them to the Supreme Commander through the
appropriate United States Government agenoy."
At the one hundred and fifty-first meeting of the Far Eastern
Commission held at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington,
D. C., on 28 April 1949, the enclosed policy decision entitled
"Agrarian Reform in Japan" was approved. The Soviet representative
abstained from voting on the enclosure.
As Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, I have been
instructed to forward this decision to you on behalf of the Commis-
sion in order that an appropriate direotive may be prepared and trans-
mitted to the Supreme Commander in accordance with the Terms of
Reference.
The Commission
AV
894.
aso shut made
S
S
C
MAY 1 0 1949
FILED
The Honorable
Dean Acheson,
4-2849
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
147923

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
The Commission agreed that the text of the enolosed policy
should be released to the press after the appropriate directive has
been received by the Supreme Commander. In order that we may make
our arrangements for release as expeditiously as possible, it would
be appreciated if you could notify me when the United States direotive
has reaohed Tokyo.
Sincerely yours,
Teleon /rusluJhuen
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Enclosure:
Certified Copy of
Policy No. 60

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.95)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE NW.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
The attached cooy of a documont adopted at the
one hundred and fifty-first meeting of the Far Eastern
Commission, held at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest,
Vashin ton, D. C. on 24 April 1949, has been compared
with the original text and is hereby certified to be correot.
Telern I ruluthom
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
hashinrton, D. C.
28 Apri1 1949

=== Page 225 === (confidence 1.00)
FEC-RESTRICTED
AGRARIAN REFORM IN JAPAN
1. In the view of the Far Eastern Commission an equitable
and sound agrarian reform program is an important factor favoring
the democratization of Japan.
2. The Far Eastern Commission approves the basic principles
underlying the following steps which have been taken since the
gurrender with a view to securing a thoroughgoing reform of the
Japanese agricultural system:
a. the directives issued to the Japanese Government
by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, in particular
that of 9th December, 1945,
b. the Agricultural Land Adjustment Law of 1938, as amended
by the Japanese Government in 1945, 1946 and 1947, which, together
with the Ordinance relative thereto dated 25th January, 1946,
contained provisions desined to bring to an end the system of
rents payable in kind and to prevent the exaction of exorbitant
rents,
c. the Land Reform Law (known also as the "Law Concerning
the Special Measure for the Establishment of Owner Farmers").
enacted on 19th October, 1946, designed to bring about a large
scale transfer of the ownership of land from the landlord class
to the tenantry and thereby to create a numerous class of independent
owner-farmers,
d. the creation of a network of Agricultural Land Commis-
sions covering the whole country to administer the reforms re-
ferred to above,
e. the partial execution of the land transfer program as
witnessed by the latest returns of the Japanese Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry,
f. the Agricultural Co-operative Association Law enacted
on 7th November, 1947, which.facilitated the provision of
credits to operating farmers and the extension of education in
farming techniques.
3. The Far Eastern Commission now decides as a matter of polioy
as follows:

=== Page 226 === (confidence 1.00)
FEC-RESTRICTED
-2-
a. the proper objectives of the reform should be to
improve the economic status of all tenant farmers and as
far as practicable to create a more numerous class of inde-
pendent owner-farmers than has previously existed;
b. to these ends, the basic principles underlying the
measures set forth in paragraph 2 above, should continue to
be applied.
P-60
FEC-335/10
28 April 1949

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.91)
DATE: AP11 29, 1949
TO
: FL - Mr.  utterworth
FROM:
 -r. ond
SUBJPCT
breft .irective hegerciig Arrarian veform in
Japan.
he atteched is a pro-forma memorendum for
the Secretary, l Ac enclosing a draft diroctive
reparding arra ian Refon. in Jepan prepared on
the basis of a p licy decinion epproved by the
.C on .pril 8, 1949 end re uestint t at the
enclosed craft directive be forvarded to JCs for
transnission to SCAl. It is recommended that you
approve and sisn the attached.
aiD
bnink
MAY 9 1949
4/29/49
RESIRICTLD

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.81)
 eyto
MAY 3 1949
RA
Subjest: Drert Direetive Regarting Agrariem Letem tm Sagme
 poliay decistan approved at the lslet meoting of the Bhe
A. 1, of the Tesme of Referenes.
to the Josat Chiofe of staff for tremamissiom to Somemel 
elarificstion befare tranesitting e direetive  the mete
The Seoretary Generel of the Tar Mestere Cesmdasden hms Satemmé
morme! procedure, eaknomledgment of she receipt of the aireettve 
scar 1s roqueetd.
A/SS
R. Walton Batterwerth
Lirector for Par stem Affaire
nolosure:
Lroft 1rootive.
CR
4SP
REBTRICTAL
A true copy 
ul
te sipned ero
CR/2K

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.88)
DRAFT DIREGTTVE KEGAEDING AIRARLAN RXPIN IN JAPAN
The rallomtne direetive prepesed by the stete Degertoset to te
of Referenee:
tion of Japan.
2. The Yar asterm Comission epproves the besis primeiples mées
Lying the followink stupe whiah have been takem slmee the marremder mith
a viow to socuring a thoroughgoing roform of the Jspamese egriemltmm
system:
 the cirootives issued to the Japanese Covesat by 
uprece Comander for the Allied owers, in partieuler that e
9th 10cambur, 1945,
by the Jnpaneau Govermment in 1945, 1946 and 1949, whieb, together
with the Urdinance ralative thereto deted 25th Janmary, 194s
contained provisions designed to bring to an d the et
ronta payable in kind anc to provunt the emetiom of emorbitmt
roats,
c. the land leform lax (known also as the "Lem Cemeeeming
the puciel oasure for the -stabliebpent of Osmer Fammere").
anacted on 19th sotober, 194s, designed to bring about a lasg
oeale transfor of the ownership of land from the lasdlesd eless
to tie tenantry uu thoroby to create a numorous alass ef indepemdemt
oemer-farurs,
d. the croutian of a network of riculturel Land Cod
sions convaring thu whole country to adminiater the fome 
Torred to above,
 the purtial oxucution of the land transfer progrm
itnessod by the iatost returna o: the Jopanese  inistry of
riculture an: orestry.
f. the sric lturel Co-oporative sasocietion La emoted
on 7th : ove er, 1947, w: ich faeilitoted the provision of
credits to  ruting famors und the catension of edueatiom in
itteciu1 s.
3. Ine
ASTRICTD

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.82)
5. The Tar Nestem Comiesien now deeides es a metter of poy
as follomes
to ereete : more numeroue class of inéependest mes-fasmers 
has provioualy existed;
b. to these ands, ths basie prinaiples underlying the
measures set forth in paragraph 2 above, mhould eemtimme to bo
appliod.
RASPRICPAL

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.95)
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
Washington, D.C.
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
SANA-6370
MAY1 01949
9 May 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Mero t FEC 5/11/49all
CLN
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mrs. A. L. Dunning - NA)
Subject: Directive Transmitted to SCAP by the Joint
894.61/5-949
Chiefs of Staff.
Reference: SANA-6367 (3 May 49)
Enclosed are four copies of Directive, Serial No. l03,
5/2,mp
transmitted to SCAP by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Copy No. 1
is for transmittal to the Far Eastern Commission, and Copies
No. 2, 3, and 4 are for the files of the State Department.
For the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee:
Sange H.Hanlt
GEORGEH. HASELTON,
ExecutAve Secretary
Enclosure:
Directive, Serial No. 103,
Copies 1, 2, 3 & 4
A
894.
SS
MAY 1 8 1949
cass sheethmde
FILED
5-949
160740

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.97)
Ser1al No. 103
COPY
4 May 1949
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLTED POWERS
AGRARIAN REFORM IN JAPAN
The following directive, Serial No. l03, regarding agrarian
reform in Japan, prepared by the State Department to implement
the policy adopted by the Far Eastern Commission on 28 April 1949,
under the provisions of paragraph II, A, 1, of its terms of
reference, received from the State, Army, Navy, and Air Force
Departments, is transmitted for your guidance in accordance with
paragraph III, 1, of the Commission's terms of reference:
"1. In the view of the Far Eastern Commission an equitable
and sound agrarian reform program is an important factor
favoring the democratization of Japan.
"2. The Far Eastern Commission approved the basic prin-
ciples underlying the following steps which have been taken
since the surrender with a view to securing a thorough-going
reform of the Japanese agricultural system:
"a. The directives issued to the Japanese Government
by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, in particular
that of 9th December, 1945,
"b. The Agricultural Land Adjustment Law of 1938, as
amended by the Japanese Government in 1945, 1946, and 1947,
which, together with the ordinance relative thereto dated
25th January, 1946, contained provisions designed to bring
to an end the system of rents payable in kind and to prevent
the exaction of exorbitant rents,
MAY18 1949
SS
MH(

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
"c. The Land Reform Law. (known also as the law
concerning the special measure for the establishment of
owner farmers'), enacted on 19th October, 1946, designed
to bring about a large scale transfer of the ownership
of land from the landlord class to the tenantry and thereby
to create a numerous class of independent owner-farmers,
"d. The creation of a network of agricultural land
commissions covering the whole country to administer the
reforms referred to above,
"e. The partial execution of the Land Transfer Program
as witnessed by the latest returns of the Japanese Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry,
"f. The Agricultural Cooperative Association Law
enacted on 7th November, 1947, which facilitated the
provision of credits to operating farmers and the extension
of education in farming techniques.
"3. The Far Eastern Commission now decides as a matter of
policy as follows:
"a. The proper objectives of the reform should be
to improve the economic status of all tenant farmers and as
far as practicable to create a more numerous class of
independent owner-farmers than has previously existed;
"b. To these ends, the basic principles underlying the
measures set forth in paragraph 2 above, should continue to
be applied."

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.94)
STANDARS FORM NO. 
UNCLASSIFIED
D: My 11, 1949
TO
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
Office
FROM :
NA - Mr. Bond
FAR EASTERN AFFAIM
11 1949
SUBJBCT :
DINECTOR
Attached is a pro forma memorandum for
the Secretary General, Far Eastern Commission,
enclosing a certified copy of a directive to
SCAP regarding Agrarian Reform in Japan, to
F.W.
be filed with the FEC.
8
5.
aeD
6
FE:NA:ALDunning:clh
f
MÄY1 8 1949
FILDD
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.83)
In reply refer to
12 1949
NA
UNCLADSITIEL
N 
In aucorunnou w1th a mamorandum datud May 9, l9,
from the tato- my-lavy-ir rorce coordinating Comes.
thure 1s unoroua * curtified copy of a direetive, sorial
io. l0s. to  . pru Cmmar for the llied Pos
ru urcing, rariun doform ln Japan, to be riled xita t
Fur asturn Corission under the provisions of peregrep
ij1, 4, of 1  ur a oi huferamce.
ltonButrorth
irotor 1or Par sstom s
A
nelosure:
S
opy lo. i (oertified)
S
of biroutive to .
surial o. 103.
alD
Fe:ka:niDunning:clh
A true crpy of
5/11/49
the signed urlys-
aal.
U.CLASBIIED
CB/21C
26
MAY 121949

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.95)
THE POREIGN SERVICE
UNITED BTATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Advise
for Japan
894.61/6-2149
Tokyo, June 21, 1949.
40
Ni. 405
REC'D.
JULY 
VICLASSIFIED
A0t1om saom actin
THEAST ASIAN AFFAIR
AC TION:
FE-enc
JuL-C1949
Date of Aotion
INFO:
Sibject: Headquartert Public@fisparon Agricultural Reform.
FR
Aption Offics SymbolALA
DOR
OFD
of ofricor
L
ITP-00.
OLT
The Charge d'Affaires ad interim has the honor to endlose fi
COM 
copies each of the following documents prepared by the NaturaI
AGRT-enc.
Resources Section of Headquerters here in explanation of various phases
of agricultural reform in Japan:
1. Headquarters press release dated June 9, 1949, concerning the
15
land reform progrem in Jepan
2. Headquartere press releese dated June 11, 1949, concerning
Central
JC/R
s Document Must Be Returnea to
agricultural ccoperative program
Les
3. Natural Resourcer Section publication dated May 9, 1949, co
cerning the crop and livestock insurance progrem in Japan.
The first enclosure briefly describes the historical background
of end economic necesrity for the land reform progrem and states that
this program, which wes approve? by the Japanese Diet on October 1946.
has the two principel purpesee of transferring land ownership to farmer
whi actually till the soil and of improving tenancy practices for those
who continue as tenants. The progrem in each village is administered
by e locally and pepularly elected agricultural land commission whose
decisions are subject to appeel. By March 2, 1949, the Japanese Govern-
ment had acquired four and one half million acres of cultivated land
under the program, neerly all of which had been sold by March 31. 1949.
The sale of this land is expected to be :ompleted by June 30. 1949.
The press releese of June 9 aiso nctes that the land reform program
does nct contemplate total elimination of farm tenancy but has made
ellowance for a small reservoir of land subject to tenancy in order to
facilitete maximum food production.
The press release of June ll describes the reform of the farmer
agricultural associations into popularly elected and controlled co-
cperatives. The new cooperatives were legally authorized in December
1947 and have as their primary objective maximum service to partici-
pating membere rather than payment of dividends on inverted capital.
As of March 31. 1949, a total of 31,181 new cooperative associations
end federetions in virtually all fielde of agricultural activity had
CS/ H
been approved under the new law. Memberr of more than 99 of all farm
households belong to at least one cooperative and a substantid mumber
of hotaernds
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.97)
"okyo's Despatch No. 405,
June 21, 1949.
2-
of households are represented in memberships of two or more oco-
operatives.
The third enclosure outlines one of the principal activities of
the agricultural cooperatives, the maintenance of a crop and live-
stock insurance program. Crop and livestock insurance has had a long
history in Japan and the changes made at the instance of the Ocoupe-
tion in this program have been largely uesigned to make the burden of
the individual farmer more equitable. The insurance program is com-
pulsory in the case of silkworms, cocoons, paddy and upland rice.
wheat, barley, and oats, while insurance of cattle, goats, sheep. and
pigs is voluntary. The program is administered on a local and region-
al basis under the general supervision of the Minister of Agriculture
and Forestry.
att.
Enclosures:
i" l. Headquarters press release,
June 9, 1949, concerning the
Land Reform Program in Japan.
i/2.
Headquarters press release,
June 11, 1949, concerning the
Agricultural Cooperative Program.
Natural Resources Section publication,
May 9, 1949, concerning the Crop and
Livestock Insurance Program in Japan.
S521
RBFinn3gnd
Parchment Hat to the Department
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.91)
Publie Ia
Informetion Bulletin:
LAND REFORM PROGRAM IN JAPAN
Abolition of the pernicious land tenure mystem which ham long 
Jepenere egriculture end impeirad dovelopment of  norcaful natfomol
hes bren a basic objective of tho Occunation. Accompliahment of this
is asential to the aconomic end politicel well-baing of Jrpen.
Having an pree of l42, i0 snuere milns, Jenan is smaller than the sta
Californir. Only l porcont of the total aree is prebla. Approximetaly
cent of the totel populetion of pbout 81,600,0co danends on griculture fot
or pert of ite income. Fafore tho surrender, about 70 porcant of the farmer
rented el? or oart of thn lend they cultivsted. Only nine parcant of farm
housoholda cultivated more than 4.9 mcren of land, end 67 narcont cultivated
1oFathncres.
Trie ovorcrowding hnd led to a highly ineouitable lend tenure yetem wit
rente rengirg from 50-70 nercent of tho annuel cron and had raoulted in wide-
snrord ecoromic instability end sociel etrife.
Revuland in trair demende for remodiel legislation, fermerm, during the
docode rroceding World War II, coneciously and unconeciously gave stron sup-
nort to the militery groun wh'ch held out the romiea of naw lende and nros-
nerity to ho won through aepreseivo wer. Thie couren wes thwertad by dafeat
-nd surrond r. he tonent cleee in occunied Jenen, with demonde for relief
from th ir intol-rehl- pituetion etil foromoet in their minde, rompined  fer
tilo fiola for eny othor axtremist id ology nromising a molution to thoir prob-
1me.
The olimination of this malienency wea racognizad es vitel to the nromo-
tion of meximum production of stenlo foods and roguiaite social and aconomtc
atsbility. On Dec. 9. l945, tho Sunr me Commendor for the Allind Poware ioognd
e directive to the Jeoaneeo Government "to take moreurre to insuro thet thosn
who till tho enil of Janen ehell have a mor cquel opportunity to onjoy the
fruits of trir lpbor".
Janan an lend roform  brsed on logielation enected by tho Diat and pro
ulgeted Cct. 1, lecf. It ros two mein ohjictivos: (1) trenafer of land oun-
orehip to fermors who potually till tho anil, end (2) imorovemont of farm tan-
ancy precticoa for those who continuo pe tenenta. The program hes emoheeized
prive'o rothor then ctat. pnd irdividuel rether then collective, owuerehip of
the land.
The rogrem in cech villne ia pdministorad by a local agriculturel land
commieeion, olocted by ona fron tho fermore. Tho ratio of tonente, ownar-cul-
tivetors, prd ownore on e ch comriseion is ectabliahed by lrw et 5. ?. and 3 ;
respectively 1/. Eech category olocts ite oun ropresontetives to the commia-
sion. Eloctnd prefocturel pericultural lend commissione coordinate and super-
viso the work of locel conmiesione under the goneral supervision of the Centrel
Agriculturel Lend Conmission (netionel). of which the Minietar of Agriculture
ard Forustry ie chr:rmen.
Agricultural lende euhiart to nurchese rave hoan: (1) lende ownod by ab-
"orter lendlords: (?) tonant-opornted lends in excoer of epacified rotontion
ratee: () ownor-ooerntoi lande in axcaea of ratantion rater fix d by lew, ax-
cent the ro that cen be rersonebly opereted b. the fermer end his irmediate fom-
ily: (4) coru rrtion-owned lende thet do rot ralate directly to the principal
objoctive of the corooration; nd (5) lends caneble of roclemetion for gricul-
turel usf.
1/ Virtuel completion of the cultivetnd land tranefer phaee of the
reform hss roduced the cultiveted prea under tonant eperation to op
proximetaly 12 parcont of tho totel. It is anticipatnd,  a con-
eeournce, thet legialetion governing the compoeition of the land
commissione wil' b so dified as to vest a majority with wner'
cultivations and balence the reto of tenant with that of owner in-
terest.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.96)
The purchase price of land, eatablished by lawy le
receive peymont in 1,000 yen bonde beering 3.65 percent Intmrme
in 24 enual ennuel installments. Any emount less then a unit mt 1,0
paid in cash. Tenants mey ney for all or eny part of the land at thea
purchase and tho remainder in 24 annuel installments with intoreatmt
cent.
Tenent paymente for the land, -plus othor expenses coincident with
ownership, in any yeer cannot exceed onc-third of the gross income from
in thet yeer. In ceso of crop failure or low ferm prices, tho government
reduce, defer, or cencal the ennual peyment.
Agricultural lands purchesed undor the progrem may not ba sold or uwad
colletoral for loans during the 24-year emortizetion period without spoolrt
approval of tho government. Tonent purchasers desiring to discontinue the
purchese contract during the 24-yeer emortization pariod must sell their
back to the government on terms similer to those of the original contraot
future land transactions are subject to eporovel by the egricultural land
mission.
Through the lend reform progrem, the Jepanese governmant had acmuiroa
4.581.073 ecres of cultiveted lend by Merch 2, 1949, of which 4,389.344
had been sold by March 31, 1o4o. Dieposal of the remaining 191,729 ecra
gethor with smell additional emounts of lend still to be acouired, will
tually complete by June 30, 1949. Tho. cultivated land area operated by
will have thus beon reduc d from en estimated 6,300, C00 acres (46 percent)
approximetely 1,670, 000 ecras (12 percent). As of the same daten. 540.134
acres of pasture lend hed been acquired, of which ?33,149 acres hed beentmold.
An estimated edditional 375, 000 ecres of pesture land awaiting purchese, to
gather with the 306, 985 ecres on hand, will be sold lergely to cultiveting
farmers by June 30, 1949. In eddition to cultivetod lend and pesture lend,
2.402,544 ecrae of land have boen ecquired for reclemetion for sele to owme
farmers as pert of e long-range progrem for incrorsing the totel cultiveted
erea of the country. Of thie amount 100,167 acres had been reclaimed and mold
to individuals, or sold to individuals for priveto reclemetion by Fab. 1. 1949
Although the lend reform progrem is dodiceted primerily to creeting ownor
fermere, total alimination of farm tenancy is not considered feasible. ▲ mell
reservoir of land subjact to tenency is considered nssantiel to a progrem of
meximum food production. Flexibility in the land tenura pettern must be pre
sorved to prevent withdrewal of lend from cultivation in ceses where the owner
becomes temporarily uneble to cultivato for himself, or where no applioent to
purchese land is available.
The lend raform progrem therefore also includes provisions to insure fair
tenency practices for those who remain as tenants. The most importent of the
provisions are: (1) a written farm leese with all principal elements cloerly
stated; (2) cash peyment of rent; (3) ceiling of 25 parcent of the productiom
from peddy and 15 percent from uplend fialde; and (4) rent contrect cencellati
or alteration subjact to approval by the land commission. A modeI leasa con-
tract form to be used by tenants and landlords es e guide in drawing up their
own contracts hes been widely distributed.
The total cost to the Jepanese government of administaring the land
program wae 5,929,648,750 yen for the period Sapt. 1, 1946-Dec. 31, 1948
this emount 4,874, 923, 093 yen was spant for the support of the 11,3?2 loce1
commissions. Principal responsibility end credit for the buccese of thi
involving trenefer of title to. about 30,000,c00 individuel percols of lax
cruns to those local lend commissions. The evarege cost of opereting
dividuel locel lend commission has beon epproximetely $1.450 (computoa
assumed rete of 300 yen to"$1.00) for the poriod September 1946-Jamuma
or ebout $50.00 per manth per commiesion.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.96)
Public Inférmation Office
Information Bulletin No. 4:
THE AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE PROGRAM
Approximetely 5.910,000 farmers ere engaged in farming Jepan's 14 900.000
acras of cultiveted lend. The extrome small size of their individuel opermste
mekos it ossantiel thet they pool their efforts end resources through cooper-
ation to the greptast precticel extent in ordor to schiove economic stability
and meximum production.
Towerd this and, legislation which became effective Dec. 15, 1947, provt
for the esteblishmont of democretic, fprmer-controlled, cooperative associatione
in eccord with intornationally racognized cooporative principlas.
Coon-retiva pssocietions replaco e monopolietic, govarnment-controllnd eye-
tem of agricultural pssocietions which hed baan devoloping in Japen sinca 1899.
Lagisletion onected that year establiahod associetions to improve ferming prao-
ticas. Membershin wes compulsory. A yeer later, industrial cooporetivos were
similerly euthorized to facilitate trade and essential businoss--edpecially in
rural eres.
Although this law provided for voluntary membgrship and parmitted some de-
grec of independent ection, tha Jepenese pgriqulturel cooporetive movament was,
from its inception, primarily a govarnment-sponsorod movemont.
In most instances the cognoratives were controlled by the locel agricul-
tural essocintions which were in turn agents of the government end dominated by
lendlord interasts. Amendmonts to the law, eanacielly betwenn 1930 end 1043.
which culminated in the Aericultural Orgenizetion Law of 19s3. steedily in-
creasnd government control over thaso orgenizetions end served primerily as a
maens of controlling.farm pricas, end thereby the entiro ferm economy.
The lo4? logialetion oliminated ovan the fiction of domecrecy, end tha
egricultural essociations (Nogyokei) which emarged existed primerily to compel
fermars to conform to the aims of the militsry. They servod to control egri-
culturel pricas end production, to handle collections and rationing, end to
bring in rurel cenital for the wer effort. They wern one of the importent
means used to police ferm c mmunities in the wer effort.
Abolition of this totalitarian structuro was racognized by Generel Haed-
quertare, Supremo Commender for the Allied Powers, pe e preliminpry reguisite
to fostering end encouraging an egricultural cooveretive movement free from
domination by nonegrarian intorosts end dndicsted to the economic end cultural
edvancement of the Japenese farmer.
Lew 137, promulgated Nov. 19, 1947, required the dissolution of ell of
anproximata y 11,000 incorporated egricultural aseociatione and 139,959 inpor-
poreted agricultural practice essocietions and sericulturel practico pssoci-
atione by Aug. 14, 1948. After this dste these associatione were prohibited
from trensecting eny business oxcept linuidetion of essete.
By Moreh 1, 199, liquidation of agricultural essociétions wes five percent
complete, whiln thet of the egri.cultural prectice end sericulturel prectico
aseocietions.was 80 percent complete.
The nw cooperetiv, associations organized purauant to Lrw 13?, which be-
came offective Lec. 15, 1947, heve as their primary objective meximum sarvica
to participeting mambers rether then peyment of dividends  on invested cepital
They ere incoroorated enterprises, euthorized to perform practically eny acun-
omic servicn which will contribute to tha advancement of communities.
Fifteen or more farmera may orgenlse e cooperetfva.  A ononarativa
shin is voluntery. Tech Termer mamb-r Heé one vote. Pereona Feslding
the business area of the orgenization mey be associete membera with all
leges excent voting rights.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.94)
förmer la any individuai who poreenally
Thin definition includms all of thosn withinw
makm them olizibio, rnd the nertidinetinn of women in
area in es defined by the crticled of incornoration
wo or more cooparatived mry naganixe a faderetion of aertoultural
atives. Such federatione may porform any rctivity which the local bogoms
pre authoriznd to parform excent thet if e fedaretion is angmged in tha
of loene end receiving of doposite, it ir prohibited from parformine mawiv
functione not connected with these ectivities.
Fedoretions engaging in credit ectivitine mey, howovar, ect in bahelf of
effilieted pssocietions in iscounting bille end guerenteeing debts toward bank
ing orgenizetions with which such essociations ere authorized to do businesm
A cooporetive essociation may cherge axponsas end raquire contributions in
accordence with its erticles of incorporation. It may orgenize es a capital
stock or nonstock pssociption, but no nonstock aasociation may carry on both
the functions of meking loens end receiving daposite.
Liebility for = shere ia limitad to tha pmount of the shere and, in the
caee of a nonstock orgenizetion, the emount of tho suthorized fee.. In a cepitel
stock associetion, pech momber must poseass et lapst one shere, and the maximum
number of sheres vhich one membor mey own is necified in the erticles of incor-
poretion.
Only membors mey hold stock. Tranefar of stock is muhject to the approval
of the associption. Primery responsibility for carrying out the egricultural
cooporetive program is vosted in the Ministry of Aericulture pnd Forestry.
As of Merch 31, 1949, = totsl of 31,181 naw cooperetive essocietions end
fadaretions had boen apnroved undur the naw lrw. Thesa were distributed by
type es followe: 377 federations covering a prefecture or lergar area,, of which
353 wore stock and 24 nonstock; 575 federetipne amaller then e prefacture, of
which 466 wero etock end 10a nonstock; 59 individuel cooperativas covaring a
prefecture or lerger pree, of which 50 were stock pnd 9. nonstock; end 30170.
locel cooperatives, of which 15,815 were stock and 14,355 wore nonstock.
Types of coonaretives included ganerel purpose, maricultura, livastock,
reclemetion, fruits, tea, firawood and chercoal, poultry, deiry farming, end
miscollaneous, of which gan ral purpose, soriculture, pnd reclametion were by.
far the most numoroue.
Mombers of more then o9 porcent of ell frrm,householde belong: to at leret
one cooperetive, end a substentiel numbar of houeeholde pre represented by
mamberships in two or more associetions. About 84 percent of all local cooper-
ative airectora pnd euditors ara not now end never heve baan directors or aud-
itors in the egricultural associetione abolished by tho lew of Tov. 19, 1947.
indicating & substentiel measure of trenefer of leedership in rural economic
affaire into new hands.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
CROP AND LIVESTOCK INSUR
Japan's deficit food position recuires that agricult
be meintained on land which would, in a surplus food proruoti
be cnsidered submerginel. Leintenence of a high level of
fore a metter of national policy and national necessity. The riske
ting poor land or land unusually subject to flood or other ciseetor 
tensified in Japan by the minute scale of Jepenese egriculture end the
ficulties frcec by a farmer in finding essential substitute income in the
event of even a small-scale crop frilure. A fermer must be guarantoed a
mum return for his efforts or he will cease to farm. In order to stsbil
the economic position of the incivicual fermer end to meintain prxuction
a maximum area, the Japanese Government requires farmers to participste in
compulsory insurance program, and in return undertakes on behalf of the whol
community of consumers as well as producers to subsidize & part of the cost
of insurnce benefit payments.
Japan's present insuronce systen represents a revision of the system
existing at the time of surrender to bring it into closer hermony with basic
Occupation objectives and to correct inherent edinistr tive and procedural
difficulties. Vhile public relief in the event of crop feilure hac been
recognized in principle since the Tokugawa Ere, relief in the form of in-
surance w:s instituted in l929 with the pass ge of the Livestock Insurance
A: and in 1939 with the pessage of the Crop Insurance, Act. Under thesd ects
responsibility for dministr tion of livestock insurence rested with voluntary
as sociations orgenized for the purpose, but crop insur nce, which was comoul
sory, was corried on by agricultural associations. These have been cissolved
as part of the agrarian reforr prooram and replacec with cemocratically or-
ganized cooperative associations. Development of a new edministrative.
mechonism to replace that provided by the cissolved organizations thus be-
came necessary. oreover, preexisting insurance procecures were defective
in a nuber of ways. Procedures for fixing crop insur nce premiums feiled
to differentiate between high- and low-risk areas. Farmers in low-risk arees
thus had to assume a part of the cost of insuring crops in the hirher-risk
regions. Premium retes were insufficient to finence insurance obliostions,
and a substntial ceficit had accumulated. Both livestock ano crop insur nce
systems were established to pay losses in amounts which, uncer present econo-
mic concitions, are insufficient to be effective in maintainin? mexirum agri-
culturalprocuction.
The new Compensation Aginst Agricultural Loss Law, promulrated-15
December 1947, substitutes a unifiec compensation systen for the cual system
previously in effect. Its object is to meintain maximum agricultural pro-
duction. It calls for deternination of premiun payrents on the basis of
historical records of losses. Premiums are fixed for epch area in accord
with thet area's past recorc. Ordinery losses are pic insofer as possible
from premiums paic by members. Losses in excess of an arount collectec as
premiums are met by pvernment subsidy. The principle of.subsidy is esta-
blished pertly in recognition of the nation's responsibility to participete
in costs incurred for benefits which accrue to the nation enc partly to keep
preriums within the farmers' cc acity to pay. Insurance of silkorms, co
coons, padcy and upland rice, wheat, barley, and pats is comrulsory. Live-
stock insurence is voluntary, end no government subsicy is euthorized. Cattle,
goats, she ep, and swine may be insured.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.87)
Compulsory crop insurnce covers one-half of the estimated averag
production per tan of crops. Adritionrl coverege is theoretically permissive
but has not been st rted. laxirum payments cover one-half of the losses in
exces o1 30 percent (40 percent for sericulture.) No payments are made for
Iosses of less than  percent (40 percent for sericulture).
Livest ek insur nce cver e on acult animls is limited to 80 percent
f tihe vi lie of the nimrls. n embryo ant newborn aniarls, mexirum cover-
a  i? percent of the v Iue 1 the pirent. The rate incresses up to 80
perot witthe or the aniyl.
nenit.i trtion: the la:t the loe-1 level rests with poriculturrl
rli sciti oraived under the supervision of prefectural
vor.  A t preirctral level, responsibility ror criristration rests
itur I mutuel relief insur: nce essociations orgenized under the
. I  the inister f A riculture nd rorestry. Local associations
Irect r1  eiins, which in turn reinsure ith the national
mnerl urveillance over tne entire structure is mintained by
I rult ur :ne orestry to insure compliance wit the law.
irio itr  mut! relief acsociations esta
uncer the new 1aw of 15 December 1947 numbered
eventual tto1 of 1,84y. By th-t drte, e: ch prefecture
it r nee: ci tion servin. /s a federation of local
1ee 4 prefectur 1 ineur nce federetions, 531 county
wre rte nerter f loerl a peirtions, in addition to
no  ict no in ope ration when the law was enacted
i: liuidation or tr nsfer of assets.
ht.1
(1,1,ar)f lond planted torice,
r1 in 148 the 16,724,374 grams of
 i ve inr nee. Benefits
7,7c ¥1,06,440,821 pa1d by
reI.iioe insur ice covered
ine 5larch 1949, insured
¥31nt 22,718432

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
A3.3
UNCLASSIFIED
TO
DATE: July 19, 196
SUBJECT: Tokyo's No. 405, June 21, 1949
21.844.61/6-2149 ×x894.52
Encloses Headquarters press releases of June 9 and
June 1l concerning the land reform and agricultural cooper
tive programs and Natural Resources Section publication o
May 9 explaining the crop and livestook program.
894
The first release describes briefly historical back
ground and economic and social necessities for land refoj
explains the administrative structure of the program and
reviews progress to date in the purchase and sale of tenasted
land by the Government. 4,500,000 cultivated aores invo jed
sale of which to be completed by June 30, 1949. Notes
that a small reservoir of tenanted land will be allowed
to survive as essential to maximum food produotion.
of
Second release traces reform farmer agricultural
associations into democratically operated cooperatives.
Highly critical of the government-controlled and
landlord-dominated system of the past, it reports new
purpose 1s service to members, not dividends. 31,181
new cooperative associations and federations up to
CS/MDR
March 31, 1949, 99 per cent of all farm households having
a member in at least one such organization.
Third enclosure indicates the previous crop insurance
system, begun in 1929, has been changed so that premium
rates correspond more exactly to the risks of the area
in question. The previous system of flat rates meant
farmers in low risk areas were unjustly burdened by payments
to high risk areas. Insurance is compulsory for crops
easily susceptible to damage and failure, voluntary for
livestock. When losses exceed premium receipts the
difference 1s subsidized by the Government.
F.w.894.
Stegimaier
FE:NA:JLStegmaier/pm

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.95)
DC/R
TO
: Mrs. V. H. Duffus
DATE: 30 September 1949
UNE - Department of State
FRom : Acting Chief, Far Eastern Affairs Group
Office, Under Secretary of Army
sUBJèCT: Report on Japanese Cooperatives for UN/FAO.
894.61/9-3049
The inclosed literature on Japanese Cooperatives and allied subjocts
as received from the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in compliance
With the request from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations, and is forwarded in accordance with your telephone ∞nversation
on 29 August with Mr. Arnold Nestel of this office.
XR 501.5A
P
E. W. HENDRICK
Incls.
Lt. Colonel, G.S.C.
as above
Acting Chief, Far Eastern Affairs Group
SUCIAL AFFAIRS
hoteto TAo
10/10/49
GPC UNIT
00T 5 1949
204586
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CDF
OCF191949
FILED
S
Hq 5SvC-6-335M

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.91)
The Secretary of State of the United States of Amerien
presents his eomplimente to the Director Gemeral ef the Yeed
and Agriculture Organisation of the United Fatiens and emslesss
herevith reperts on the Agrisultaral Coeperative Pregram is
Japan trammmitted at the request of Lieutemant Celomel . W.
Headrick, Asting Chief, Nar Rastera Affairs Groug. fer the Sapreme
Cemmander for the Allied Povers. This is in respease to a request
894.61/9-3049
from the Direetor General of the Poed and Agrieultare Orgamisatien
8
of the United Nations, Washingtom, D. 0.
-GPC UNIT
Xaclosures:
Frop the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Povers, dated
August 29, 1949 and January 13.
1949.
me
OCT 13
Department of State,
CSAH
Washington October 13,19
UNA: UNE: UHDuffps: jev
10-10-49
wotD

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
COT 7 1900
DATE: Ootober 18, 1949
SUBJECT:
Japanese Agrarian Reform
PARTiCIPANTS: Mr. Laurence Hewes, Former Chief of Agriculture Division,
Natural Resources Section, SCAP
Mr. Green
Mr. Fearey RAY
894.61/10-1849
COPIES TO:
FE - Mr. Butterworth
Mr. Merchant
Mr. Hamilton
NA - Mr. Allison
1-1608
In the course of a discussion of the Japanese agrarian reform
program Mr. Hewes made certain remerks of interest in connection
with the problem of whether the Japanese should be required in
the peace treaty to preserve particular sooial and economic reforms
introduced during the occupation.
Mr. Hewes felt that there was great danger that the agrarian
reforme would not survive if a treaty concluded during the coming
year did not contain a provision requiring the Japanese to continue
them. The danger, he stated, does not arise from lack of interest
by the former tenants and other benefited farmers in the continua-
tion of the reforms. Although the farming class was originally
skeptical of them, or rather of our determination to see them
through, they are now convinoed of our sincerity in the matter
and have developed appreciation and enthusiasm for the reforms.
The danger derives, rather, from the oontinuing political
naivete and timidity of the bulk of the farming population, who
are not yet able to tell their friends from their enemies on the
political scene and who remain cowed by former landlords and other
groups
Priny
OCT25 1949
SECRET
218460

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
BECRET
- 2 -
groups still dominant in the rural areas. The influence in the
villages of the former tenants and other poorer farmers is gradually
increasing, but is still well short of the point where they can
effectively protect their interests. Diet Members from the rural
areas are still representative of landlord and commeroial 1nterests,
with almost none devoted to the interests of the poorer farmers.
Mr. Hewes' fears were strengthened by a number of indications
that the Yoshida Government is already beginning an ill-concealed
campaign to sabotage the agrarian reforms. In outline these indica-
tions are:
l. The appointment by Yoshida of an outspoken opponent of
the reforms as his Minister of Agriculture. This individual,
Kotaro Mori by name, was the only member of the Diet who, when
the agrarian reform legislation was up for approval in l945 and
1946, dared openly to attack it.
2. The denial of funds necessary to continue the operations
of the land registration offices. These offices are responsible
for the formal transfer of title to farming land from the landlords
to the tenants under the reform program. Until this transfer of
title ocours, the former tenants do not have legal title to the
land. To date, only 30% of the transfers have been effected.
3. A proposal for amalgamation of the Tenant Owners Aot and
the Agrioultural Adjustments Aot, the effect of which would be to
throw in even greater jeopardy the present title of the former
tenants based on temporary land ownership slips.
4. A proposal to dissolve the local Land Commissions, on which
the tenant class is heavily represented, or to amalgamate them with
the Agricultural Adjustment Commissions on whioh the owner olass is
most heavily represented.
Mr. Hewes position, in brief, is that the farmers still lack
political power to protect the benefits which they have obtained
under the reform programg, and that Yoshida appears determined to
sabotage the reform and feels sufficiently sure of his ground to
move in that direction while the occupation is still oontinuing.
Although there is no assurance that the farmers will gain requisite
political experience and power by any given date, Mr. Hewes believes
they are moving steadily in that direction and that all that is
necessary to place the reforme on a firm basis is more time. This
is a frequent argument, of course, and it will be remembered that
back in 1947 and 1948 SCAP experts argued that the reforms could not
then
SECRET

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.94)
SEORIT
- 3 -
then stand on their own feet but that they would be able to do se
if a few more years were allowed. Mr. Hewes' remarks do suggest,
however, that, with Mr. Yoshida apparently prepared to move agaimst
the reforms while the occupation is still on, Allied influemce and
pressure after the treaty may not be sufricient by themselves to
give the agrarian reforms and, even more important, the educational
reforms, a fair chance of survival.
6A7
FE:NA:RAFearey:pm:olh
SECRET

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
THE NICHPDEI
Telephene
welnee-WAlnut 1-88s0
TIMES
1375 Bddy
Edtorial—WAlnut 1-0021
November 1, 1949
Actis 2a22'49
NA: m. Gree
Ss-cR
The Secretary of State,
le
Washington 25, D.C.
Dear Sir,
RE:
NADocuments from Japan on
Japanese Land Reform
On receipt of the Japanese doauments addressed to certain
Japanese residents of the United States from Mr. John M. Allison,
Director, Office of Northeast Asian Affairs, we printed the notices
in: our issue of above date.
I am enclosing a copy of the paper.
The article in Japanese carried the names of all the persons
bo whom the letters were addressed.
One local resident has already called to claim his letter
and we feel sure that we will be able to locate the others in
a short while.
In the future if there are any other matter in which we can
be of assistance through our news columns, we will be most happy
to be of st vice.
Yours sincerely,
NICHI ÉEI BDMES
y. w. Alik
YWA: SS
Y. W. Abiko, Editor
DEC 2 1949
Lnc.
FILED
225775
CS/H
—

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
veal Drastic
The ist of names appears in
d intricate
the inside pages of this issue.
if of Asia, it was announo
From these forms, it was learn-
Inday by Dr: Wallace Sterling.
esient of the university.
ed that the government bought an
sent by the Ja-
acre for about 5000 or about
tan Tripitaka, 300-odd volumes
It is a priceless copy of the Ti-
et:and the govern-
to the U.S.
$12.50. Pre-war prices for farm
land was about $75 to $100 pèr
bre than 200 years ago from
Buddhist scripture, translated
acre.
The sale is final, according to
rious Indian languages into
ssical Tibetan.
the notice, unless it can be proved
It takes its name from
CONDUC
that the listed owner is an Ame-
rican citizen. However, if the ni-
ovoo Treason Case in
sei is registered in the family
records in Japan at the time the
ew York Postponed
land reform law was adopted, the
law applies to him. U.S. citizens
NEW YORK, Oct. 30—A hear-
sawa Relief league of N
have a year in which to reclaim
was postponed last Friday un-
California.
their property after the notice is
Nov. 14 in the case of John
meils, notepads, colored
issued.
id Provoo, 33, former army
crayons and toys are es
reant of Sausalito, Calif., ac
S.F. ATTORNEY HEADS
of treasonable wartime deal
fts or monetary aid shoul
to Choshin Oda, 84 6th
AREA FOR JAPAN
e adjournment was granted
with the Japanese.
land, by Nov. 20.
J.S. commissioner Edward W.
Donald at the government's
ikland YBA Host to
John L. McNab, prominent San
request. U.S. attorney Irving M.
Tibet.
D.in Halloween Fest
Francisco attorney and national-
ly known figure in the Republi-
Saypol said the case now is be-
fore the federal grand fury.
Japan in
him two o
AKLAND, Oct. 31—Approxi-
can party, has been named area
chairman of the $10,000,000 cam-
Editor at Harvard
tely 150 persons from the Oak-
paign for a Japan International
 Methodist Fellowahip, Ber-
by U.C. Nisel Student club
the Oakland Young Buddhist
Christian University.
ment was made Sunday by Dr.
Announcement of his appoint-
FIRST TIME FOR NISEI OF
LAW REVIEW
ups met at a Halloween party
Tully C. Knoles, chancellor of the
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Oct. 31—
College of the Pacific, and region-
A 1944 nisel honor graduate of
with the latter group as
al chairman of tthe campaign.
the University of Denver has been
McNab was the delegate to the
named as one of the editors of
Unable
he Bocal Bussel committee in
1928 Repubican national conven-
the Harvard Law Review, it was
himself,
tion who nominated Herbert Hoo-
revealed this week.
Buddhist
ver for president and formerly
He is Sho Sate and is the first
served as U.S. attorney in northern
Japanese American to receive the
California.
honor of being on the monthly
be placed for st
Church groups are sponsoring
Harvard publication.
the drive which is headed national-
The Harvard Law School Re-
with an old
ly by Joseph C. Grew, former U.S.
cord (a weekly publication) in
McCandl
anufacturer of Japan
ambassador to Japan.
reporting the nisel appoiritment
Stanford
also said that for the first time
that the Tri
iro Plane Succumbs
Big Crowd Enjoys
in the 133-year history of the in-
university
stitution it will admit women to
POKYO, Oct. 31 (tP)—Chikuhel
Marysville YBA Party
the schoo! starting next year.
were finally
awartime manufacturer
So far as is known only one
MARYSVILLE, Oct. 31 — An
other Japanese American has
overflow crowd enjoyed the Ma-
been on the staff of a law review
and he was George Yamaoka at
party at the YBA hall last Satur-
Georgetown university.
day night, directed by Opal Na-
kao and her committee.
India's Gift Elephant to
al suspect but was later re-
An impromptu jam session was
held by the young people after
Japan Featured in Meet
will not a
the party.
penese Find New Use
Next on the agenda for local
TOKYO, Oct. 31 (tP)—The In
YBA members will be the YBA
Fluorescent Lamps
nembers will be the N.C. YBL
which arrived in Japan recently
conference in Sacramento, Nov.
as a gift to the Japanese child-
20. Local members planning to
ren from Prime Minister Nehru
of India was the star of the mu-
ter with Terry Manji before the
nicipal employees field meet Sun-
dsadline this coming Saturday,
Sac'to. Bussei to Work

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.90)
Nevember 22, 1960
Ia reply refer to
Thein  nle  atyl
S/S-CR
Dear Bir:
I wish to thank you for your letter of
November 1 emolosing a copy ef the Mehi i
Iimee of that date, in which notiees of sales
894.61/1
of lands in Japan under the Japanese lamd reforms
were brought to the attention of your readers.
Your ready cooperation im this matter is
much appreolated.
Bincerely yours,
8
49
John N. Allisom
Direetor,
S
Offiee of Mortheast Asiam Affairs
Mr. Y. W. Abike, Editer
NOV2210
68
Nichi Bei Times,
21C
NOV 1 1949
1376 Eddy Street,
Bam Francisco 15, Calif.
6
88
62
CS/H
FE:NA:MGreen:olh

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FORION'S
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
VISRN of the U. S. Political Adviser
894.61/11-1649
for Japan
SWD
ASIAN AFFAIRS
4Tokyo, November 16, 1949.
REC'D
NOV 21
Roation
NO。.798
ACTION
FE
UNCLASSIFIED
INFO
FR
DCR
ITP ENC
Subject: Transmission of Publication on Japanese
OLI ENC
Agricultural Programs Under the Occupation.
AGRIC ENC
COM ENC
PAR END
FRB ENC
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a copy
of a publication entitled "Japan Agriculture Programs Under the
Occupation," dated September 26, 1949, and prepared by the Agri-
culture Division, Natural Resources Section, General Headquarters,
SCAP.
It may be noted that the essential parts of the summary of
this study were published on November 9 and 10. 1949, by the Nippon
Times, English- language daily published in Tokyo under Japanese
auspices, under the heading "The Agricultura) Cutlook: Sumaries
of Programe Onder ths Orcupation" The Nippon Times, in an editor
note, characterized the study as "one of the best analyses of the
Japanose agricultural program under the Occupation that has yet
been written."
Topics discussed in this study include Japanese agricultural
production statistias, fertilizers, insect and disease control,
the seed situation in Japan. livestock. food storage and preserva-
tion, land reclamat:on and improvement, soil survey, food collec-
tion, crop reporting, agricultural research, agricultural exten-
sion, Japanese land roform program, agricultural cooperative pro-
gram, and crop and livestock program.
Enclosure:
Copy of "Japanese Agriculture Programs
Under the Occupation" (eight copies
to the Department).
MAY 2 1950
FILDD
Parchment Mat to the Department.
521
CHBoshringer:lee
ACTION
BETURN TO DO/B

=== Page 254 === (confidence 1.00)
DISCUSSION OF PROGRAMS

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.97)
GEINERL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREE COLLLANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Rescurces Suction
26 September 1949
JAPAESE AGRICULTURL PRODUCTION STATISTICS
at the boginning of tho Meiji Era (1868) Japan was largoly self-
sufficient from the stancpoint of food, cultivating ebout 12 percent
of the total land area. Rice was the principal crop. By the turn  of
the twentieth century, populsticn increases had alroady caused food
requirements to axceca crop production. Since that time the food ro-
quirenents of the population always have been greater than indigenous
production of food cr ps. By the carly l94o's this deficit was avareg-
ing about 15 purcent of total food requirements cach year. The differ-
ence wus su plicd by imperts, principally of rice und other grsins, soy-
beens an? sugar.
Rapic expansion of trufe and population after the Meiji Restoration
caused & steay increese in production and prices of agricultural products.
By 1948, the cultivated cre: comprised 16 percent of the-tetal land area :
of the country. average annual production of staple crops (rice, wheat,
barleys, sweet potutces and white potatoes) in tarms of brown rice
equivalents1, increesed frem 6,71l,000 metric tons during the ton-year
perio 1881-1890, to 13,115,000 metric tons during the period 1931-40 -
en incre se of 96 percent. In 1939, a recori crop of steple foods was
producod -- 14,615,000 metric tons. During the war yoars, production
held up well until 1945 whon fertilizer ahortages and unfavorable
wecther caused short crcps. Largest production of the staple cr ps for
the war yoars w:s in 1942 -- 14,023,000 metric tons, only four percent
less than the record 1939 outrut. In 1948, ttal producticn of the staples
was 13,927,000 metric tons (brown rice oquivalents). This volune of food
was six percent more than tho averege annual production of theso crops
during the peried l93l-40 but five percent less than the peak production
in 1939.
Producticn of each of the staple food crops in l948, on metric ton
brown ricc uquivalent busis, was as follows; rice, 9,352,C00; wheat,
937,000; bar1ey, 654,C00; neked bcrley, 686,000; swcet potato08, 1,874,000;
and white potatoes, 427, 000. Tho ovurall incrcase in staple food pro-
duction in 1949 as compired with the 1931-40 period, is accounted for by the
1 To facilitate velid comparisons botween crops, and botweon time puriods,
actual product woights of crons other than rico havo been converted to
caloric equivalents of brown ricc:
1

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.96)
weet potatc, whito potuto an? barley crops. Output of thess crops rome
l0s psrcont, 46 purcent und six percent, respectively. Rice production
was almcst exactly equel to tho 1931-40 avarago. The wheat une naked
berley crops wero 18 percent ent 12 percent less respectively than the
averagà for the ebove pre-war pericd.
During the 60 yoar period, 1331 to 1940, rice end wheat accounted
for most cf thu incruased focd cutput fro: staple crops. Of the total
6,403,000 metric ton (brown rice equivalents) increuse in averuge annual
prouction between tho pericds 1881-90 une 1931-40, rice accounted for
70 percent an? whect 13 percent. Barley cnd naked barley production had.
climbec steadily to reuch a peak production in l913 nearly couble the
188l-90 average. Thaso crops declined in inportance theroafter, giving
wcy to wheat. Even so, however, production of these two crops was sub-
stintirlly higher during tho nineteen thirties than in the eighties, and
accountec for five percunt of the total increuse in staple food production.
Sweet potato outout during the years 193l-40 averaged more than twice
the cnnual prcduction indic ted by incomplete date for 188l-90. The crop
accounted for eight p-rcent of the incre.se in staple food production oc-
curring between theso two pericds. White potato production was negligi-
ble prior to l890. On the busis of moager procuction duta for the surly
yeurs, this crop acccunted for four percent of the totel increase in pro-
duction between the two pericds mentioned ubove.
In acdition to the staple creps, minor cereals, bauns and peas con-
tributo to the total culoric output of Jap hese furms. In cidition a
sizable production f vegetables ene fruits contribute valuable calcries
and provide & vitel scurce of vitamins und minerals in the Japenese ciet.
For the years prior to 1920 the production picture f:r these miner crops
is obscurc bcccuse cf inccnplete statistics. Such duta as cre available,
however, inicato thet prcauction f most of these ccm dities showed a
gradual upward trend until about 1920. Annual harvusts cf minor careals,
beans end peas declinsd aftor that time but the trend in vegetable and
fruit production continued upward, ruaching an annual avernge of 6,600,000
metric tons of vegetables (443,000 metric tons brown rice equivalents), and
1,200,000 metric tons of fruits (136,000 metric tcns brewn rice cquivalants)
during the years 1931-40. The average ainnual production of vegetablas and
fruits during this pericd was 17 and 38 percent largur respectively than
during the preceding cecude.
Production of miner ceroals, cnd beans and peas declined to an averago
of 1,015,000 metric tons (brown rice equivalents) during the ducude pre-
cecing World Wer II. This cutput was 15 percent loss then during the
twonties. Because of tho mejor emphasis placed on staple foor crops during
cnd since the war, the downward trend in production of the minor crops
listee abovo hes c'ntinued. Thus, in l948 the tctal harvest of these minor
crops wus only 6ll,000 metric tons -- 40 purcent bolow the prewar lovel.
2

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.97)
Vegotable and fruit production in l948 also was luss than bufe
World War II. The vegutable crop totallud 6,159,000 metrie tons
(413,000 metric tons brown rice equivclents) -- 40 purcent less them
during 1931-40. Fruit output wcs oaly 928,000 metric ton (105,000
metric tons brown rice equivalents) -- 23 percent smaller than the 19si-
40 averago.
Aruc of cultivate! land in Japan increasod steadily from an averago
of 11,596,000 acres during the eighteen eighties to 14,944,000 a0ros in
l92l. The latter figure represents the lergest crec ever cropped in a
single year. Since l92l, the areu has renuined relatively constant. A
slight declino occurred in l929 but most of this reduction wcs restored
during the thirties; and by 1939 the total was 14,750,000 acres. verage
for tho period 1931-40 was 14,677,000 acres. The are of cultivated 1and
declined somewhst during tho wur, cue chiefly tc its being requisitioned
for militery purposes; but by the fall of l949 lant aveilable for crops
was estimated at 14,800,000 acres.
Since the reporting cf crops statistics was begun in Japan in 1880,
paddy land for rice production always has comprised slightly more then
half of the cultivated lund of Japan, except for a brief period (1917-m1)
when  he area of paddy and upland fields was divided sbout equally.
Dur  the tun-year puriod, 188l-90, 57 purcent of all cultivetoi land
was devoted to rice paddies, the proportion dealining gredually until
about l918. During the thirtios pacdy lc.d comprised 53 porcont of the
total; can the proportior has rumained precticully unchanged since that
time.
Though Japanese griculture always hes boon chiefly concernod with
production of the importint foo crons, conaiderable acreage has been
devoted to certain industrial crops. most importunt of thoso is mulberry
for silkwom production. Arec planted to mulborry increcsed from an annual
cverage of 679,000 acres during the pericd 1881-90, to en average of
1,441,000 acres during the years 193l-40. When Jcpan. 1ost her foreign silk.
markets durine World Wer II, most of the mulberry trees wero removed. Land
formerly used for mulberry proouction now is used for production of food.
Even so, 438,000 acres were cevoted tc mulberry in 1948.
Other important industrial crops include tea ind tobacco. Tea pro-
duction in 1948, at 26,000 metric tons, was little more then half of the
1931-40 average cf 48,C0c metric tcns. But the 1948 tobacco crop, es-
timated at 98,000 metric tons of dried 1caf, wes 42 purcent more than the
average during the ubove prewer period.
3

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREAE COMLNDER FOR THE LLLED POWERS
Natural Resources Section
FERTILIZER IN JAPAN
Fertilizer has played an important role in Japanese economy for
centuries. It is not known when the use of commercial fertilizer began
but history records that as early as l624 trade in fish-meal fertilisor
flourished in Osaka. uthoritative Japanese sources claim that ferti-
lizer commerce began in Japan l00 years before it did in Europe. t
first only organic materials were handled. It was not until 1886, which
marked the beginning of the superphosphate industry, that inorganic
fertilizer came into use.
gricultural conditions peculiar to Japan have resulted in farti-
lizer problems which are especielly characteristic of this country.
Soils are low in fertility. This condition as it applies to agricul-
tural land, stems partly from the fact that approximately 25 percent
of the arable.area is derived from volcanic ash material low in ferti-
lizor nutrients. In addition, centuries of intensive cropping have
reduced. the potential supply of plant food elements in the soil to the
point where high crop yields cannot be obtsined without liberal appli-
cations of fertilizer.
Several yeurs before the outbrenk of World War 1I, the soils of
Japan were heavily fertilized in comparison with other countries. Data
compiled by the inistry of griculture and Forustry show that with
respect"to the commercial fertilizor consumed by the mejor agricultural
countries of the world during 1935-1937, in terms of pounds pur acre of
arable land, Japan was third in the total amount of nitrogen (37.4 1bs),
fifth in phosphoric ecid (34.4 1bs), and fifth in the amount of potash
(15.1 lbs). During the same period, Japar was the. world's largest user
of cmmonium sulfcte.
In l94l the nation had emple facilitiee to produce most of her
required nitrogenous and phosphatic commerciul fertilizer. Phosphate
rock for processing into superphosphate, as well as potash, howovor, had
to be purchased from abroud. No indigenous deposits exist eithor of
phosphate rock or of potash.
In l937 Jupun ranked third in world production of nitrogenous forti-
lizers, and sixth. in processing phosphetic fertilizers. Pack production.
of commercial nitrogenous furtilizers (orgunic and inorganic) occurred
during thu period 1936-1940, when an avorage of 1,813,000 metric tons
of ammonium sulfato equivalents were produced annually. Production of
inorganic nitrogenous fertilizer declined rapidly after. l94l to only
323,000 metric tcns in 1945; output of organic forms docreased to 12,000
metric tons during the same period.
1

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
The period l936-40 was also tho peak period for production of 1n-
orgunic and organic forms of commorcial phosphatic and potassic fertil-
imsr. The yearly averagə was 1,936,000 metrio tons of superphosphuto
equivalents, ond 20,000 metric tons of potcssium sulfata equivalents,
More than half of the commurical potassic fertilizer manufectured during
these years was organic material.
At the termination of World War II the Japanse fertilizer industry
was inaserious condition. Immediate steps were taken, however, to re-
habilitate fertilizer plants and, on 17 May 1946, the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers approved the conversion of a number of nitrogen
plants formerly used for munitions manufacture to the production of nitro-
genous fertilizers. These pl:nts, together with those normally supplying
fertilizers, were judged capable of oventuully turaing out about 2,ooo,0∞0
metric tons of inorganic nitrogenous fertilizers annually (ammonium
sulfate equivalonts).
Considereble progress has been mado in increasing indigenous fortil-
izer output since l945. Actual production during this period is summe-
rized in the following table:
Production of Inorganic Commorical F&rtilizer
(Metric tons)
Nitrogenous
Phosphctic
Potcssic
2
US FY 46
345,251
190,141
Negligible
US FY 47
803,484
442,820
Negligible
US FY 48
991,689
871,713
Negligible
US FY 49
1,382,917
1,048,923
Nogligible
The ubove figures do not include relatively small quantities of nitro-
gen, phosphorus and potassium present in organic fertilizers, Roliable data
for these are not evailuble. Production of incrganic fertilizer must be
further increased to supply more nearly the quantities required in Japan.
Immediate needs are estimated at 2,075,000 metric tons of ammonium sulfate
equivalents (20% N), 1,719,000 motric tons of superphosphate cquivalents
(16% P205), and 325,000 metric tons of potash (40% K20).
To help meet the pressing need for fertilizer to incroase food produc-
tion, the Occupation instituted an import program. Under this program
total imports of fertilizor end fortilizer materials from 1 February 1946 to
30 June 1949 ere as follows: ammonium uitrete, 578,000 metric tons (33.2%),
phosphate rock, 1,697,200 metric tons (32% P205), and potash, 376,400 motric
tons (40% K20).
Nitrogenous fertilizor expressed as cmmonium sulfute equivalents (20% N);
phosphatic as superphosphatc equivalents (16% P205); :nd potassium as
potassic equivalents (40% K20).
2/ FY - Fiscal year.
2

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
The combined import and indigenous production programs have stend
increcsed the supply of commurcial fertilizers to farmers. Thet
rose from only 439,000 metric tons in fiscal year 1946 to 1,464.000
tons in 1949. Stocks of phosphatic fertilizar were at an all time low
the end of the war. In fiscal year 1946, only 32,156 metric tons of supe
phosphate equiyalents (l6% Pg05) wero receivad by firmors. Howevor, in
fiscal year 1949, formors race1ved 1,033,125 metric tons. During the same
period, potash supplies to furmers, consisting almost entirely of imports,
incroased from 902 metric tons to 159,000 metric tons of potash oquivalent
(40% Kz0). Though grect progress has baen mde in supplying fertilisor
nesds, tho total of all fertilizer nutrients availuble in 1949 was only
75 percent of the 1931-40 avurage annual supply, and only 64 percent of the
1936-1940 averngo.
Even before the clcse of World War II the Japan se roalized that the
most efficient use or diminishing fertilizer supplies was not possible
without an allocation system. Such a system w a first established by the
Nogyoksi or gricultural Association (lter dissolved by order of the
Supreme Commander for the Allicd Powers). In the fall of l944, the re-
sponsibility for allocating fertilizer to fermors was pluced in the
Ministry of ngriculture and Forsstry.
The essontial of equitable distribution by allocation was one of the
first probloms raceiving attention by Occupation Forces. Close coopera-
tion between furtilizer specialists in the griculture Division of Natural
Rosources Section, personnel in other sections of Gunerl Hoadquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, nd officials of the Japamso
government has brought about n satisfactory solution of most phases of the
problem. One of the important results of this collaborution has been the
esteblishment of an effective fortilizer ullocation progrem for farmers.
Another eccomplishmont hes bjen moro efficient allocution as botwoon
vurious crops, on the bosis of individual crop roquirements. Furmer in-
terest in allocations also has been stimulated. Fermers are loaraing to
insist on fsir allocation pructices, especielly at the village level.
The organization of the Fertilizar Distribution Kodan in the Japanese
government in 1947 facilitated solution of the fertilizer distribution
problem. This organization receives dcmestically produced nitrogenous and
phosphetic fortilizers at the fectory and distributes them to prefecture,
city, town, and villugo warehouses in accordancu with an allocation plan
prepared by the Ministry of griculture and Forestry. The Fertilizor Kodan
also has the responsibility for distributig imported nitrogenous nd
potassic fortilizer on a similar basis.
The ultimate goal which has recêntly been approached in the distribu-
tion of fartilizer is to make fortilizer supplies accossiblc to furmors
when most needed. Prior to.l948, roliable information on disbribution
was not vailable. Such d:te as were at hand, however, indiceted that
3

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.97)
fertilizur wcs not reaching furmers in time fcr effective usc. Figur
on distribution for tho spring poriod of 1948 (1 Junu..ry - 31 July) show
that by 3l July farmers had rucoivod for spriug-plantod orops only e8
percent of the alloceted nitrcgen supply (96l,366 metric tons of emmonium
sulfeto oquivalonts). Doliveries for l948 fall plcntings, homover, were
increased to 97 purcent of an allocation of 440,500 motric tons of
ammonium sulfate equivelonts. This purcent:ge was incroassd to 99.5 per
cont or 1,023, 400 metric tons fcr the spring poriod of 1949. Similarly,
for phcsphctic fortilizers, furmers hed received only 91 porcent of thoir
allocated supply of 360,000 metric tons by the end of the 1948 spring
period. At the ond of the l949 spring period, however, this figure had
risen to 99.6 percent of 613,000 metric tons. The supply of potcsh for
the spring of 1948 amountcd to only 2,648 metric tons and wus so small
thct difficulties were experienced in distributing it to firmors on an
equitubls und ffictive basis. To the ond of July 1948, only 78 percent
was distributed. In contrast, 99.5 percent of  total rllocitud potush
supply of 139,8ll metric tons had been delivered to farmers by tho close
of the l949 spring fertilizur period.
The importance of maximizing the use of such matirials as ccmpost,
unimal manures and night soil ii: crop production has boen emphasized con-
tinuously. Those help mciutain soil fertility and support crop yields.
It is estimated thet during the five-year period, l936-40, the porcentuge
of the total quantities of furtilizer nutrients which were supplied by
farm manures was nitrogen, 43 percent, phosphoric acid (P205), 35 percent,
and potesh (K20), 74 percent. The current use of compost und night soil
is estimated to bu above the 1936-40 everuge.
Natural Resources Soction specialists have advised and guided Japanes
government officials in plauning und carrying out a suitable fertilizer
program. In addition, techniciuns have assisted in the detarmination of
imports neuded and the prcportioning of the total supply botween the spring
and fall periods. Resoarch work on fertilizcrs h:s been stimul:ted.
Japanuse techniciens currently are receiving instructions in experimental
design and fiold plot technique which will encble then more adequstely to
determine the kinds of fertilizer required and their most effective uso on
ferm crops. Assistance is being given also in the solution of fertilizor
probloms pertaining to chomical analysis, storago, transporation and
financing..
4

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Resources Seotion
26 September 19
INSECT AND DISEASE CONTROL
The control of insect pests and diseases of plants in Japan probably
received less attention than any other phase of agriculture prfor to 1947.
This was due partially to a lack of information on damage cauled and.
consequently, to lack of appreciation of control importance. Japanese
Government statistics have indicated a probable annual loss to orop pro-
duction of l.5 percent from insects, and a like percentage from plant
diseases. Occupation force agricultural specialists believe these figures
to be unrealistically low. Japanese professional entomologists and plant
pathologists share this view. Estimates of American specialists after.
four years of first-hand observation are that these two sources of loss
reduce crops at least 10 percent annually.
Most of the entomological work in Japan has been in the laboratory.
and some good results have been obtained. However, field work has been
neglected with the result that for a number of pests practical methods
for field control have not been developed. Equipment for the control of
plant pests has been inadequate. Dusts are more easily applied and less
expensive for the control of many insects than are sprays. Prior to 1947
the use of pesticides in the dust form in Japan was practically non-existent.
Sprays were applied to fruit trees from a limited number (less than 5,000
for all Japan) of antiquated power sprayers, or from 2 - 5 gallon kmapsaok
or compressed air sprayers. All treatment of field and vegetable crops was
done by low pressure hand sprayers, in many instances of low efficienoy.
Because equipment was not available, farmers were unable to earry on a
complete pesticide control program. During 194l-45 the supply of many
pesticides, including the arsenates, nicotine sulfate and derris root, was
inadequate. The combination of inadequate equipment and the shortage of
pesticides probably was partially responsible for continued emphasis on
many comparatively ineffective methods of insect control. Such ineffective
methods include catching rice beetles in a wooden box swung by hand over
rice plants and using light traps for rice borer control.
The high cost and inefficiency of the pesticides was another factor
causing continued use of out-of-date methods rather than chemicals. Limited
quantities of manganese and iron(ferric) arsenate were used for insect con-
trol. These arsenicals have been shown to be inferior to the standard lead
and calcium arsenates by extensive tests in other countries, and the cost
is appreciably higher. Low insecticide content, inferior materials, incor-
rect combinations, and recently for dusts, unsatisfactory grinding, were all
causes of unsatisfactory results from insecticides.
The principal insecticides used in Japan prior to World War II, as
indicated by the l936-40 average annual consumption, include lead arsenate
1,726 metric tons, calcium arsenate. 496 metric tons, nicotine sulfate 129

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
metric tons, derris root 140 motrio tons, and pyrethrum flowors 1,585
tons. The use of caloiumi arsenete inoreased rapidly from the time of
introduotion in 1934. By 1941 the amount of caleium arsenate used mae 3
matric tons and lead arsenate used was l,l68 metric tons. The ohange
partially to the replacement of lead, a war metal, with the relatively
and abundant caloium.
Prior to 1947 lead arsenate was used to control inseot pests of fruits
and vegetables. Caloium arsenate was applied primarily to vegetables and
white potatoe's, with a limited quantity to control rice leaf beetles. Nicotine
sulfate was used primarily as a contact insecticide on fruits and vegetables
and to alimited extent on rice ssed beds. Derris root was used to control
chewing insects on fruits and vegetables when arsenate could not be used be-
cause of the danger to humans. Pyrethrum served as a. substitute for nicotind
sulfate and was used extensively in oil emulsions for the control of rioe
leaf hoppers.
During the years 1936-40 Japan produced more arsenates than were oon-
sumed domestically, and annually exported several hundred tons of lead
arsenate to Far Eastern countries. However, insecticides, partioularly the
arsenicals, were in short supply in 1945-47. The complete change of industry
to war production during 1941-45, and the post-war economic situation, with
reduced mining activities, resulted in Japanese production of little arsenious
acid during 1944-46. Most of that produced was used in industry. The supply
of lead arsenate in 1945 was 250 metric tons, about one-eighth of the estimated
need. All arsenic for insecticides was imported in 1946 and some in 1947.
As a result of increased production of arepious acid during the last two years
indigenous production of arsenates met the demand in 1948-49 and 300 metrio
tons were exported during early 1949.
Insecticide and fungicide supplies generally. have been adequate to meet
farmers' demands during the current year. In the first half of l949 lead
arsenate distributed to farmers was 1,214 metric tons, more than half the
amount used in 1948. During the first half of 1949 consumers also had 805
metrio tons of calcium arsenate, 120 tons less than the total used in 1948
and more than 300 tons above the 1936-40 annual average usage. No derris
root and little nicotine sulfate are produced in Japan. Significant quanti-
ties of thase insecticides were not available during 1946-48. In early 1949
nicotine sulfate, 144 metric tons, and derrie root, 193 metric tons were
imported and released to farmers in late June and July.
During 1936-40 pyrethrum was produced and used extensively in Japan and
was an export item.  The use of pyrethrum as an agrioultural pesticide dropped
from 1,590 metric:tons annually during 1936-40 to 805 metric tons in 1948,
and a first six-months' 1949 sale of 545 metric tons. This reduotion is due
parttally to reduced stocks of pyrethrum resulting from a amaller acreage
planted: Increased use of synthetio organic insecticides, particularly DDT
and BHC (benzene hexachIoride) has reduced the demand for pyrethrum.
The use of DDT and BHC, from imports and indigonous production, reduced
the demand for other insecticides to some extent. DDT, initially for health
and welfare purposes, was first manufactured in Japan in 1946. A amall
2

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
amount was, used experimentally for agriculture in that year, and
metrio tons were used in 1947. In experiments emphasis was p
use of DDt or BHC as a replacement for the laborious Japanese
using diesel oil and pyrethrum to control rice leafhoppere.
control with DDT and BHC was sucedssful, and three million pounde a
percent DDt dust were obtained from Army surplus stocks for agrioultu
purposes in 1948. Use of this dust was instrumental in averting a sarid
rice leafhopper epidemic that year. A total of about l7l metrio tons of
technical DDT was used in 1948. By 30 June 1949, 449 metric tons of toohn1
cal DDT were formulated into agricultural insecticides and distributed.
Benzene hexachloride was used only experimentally prior to l949. An import
of 349 metric tons of 10 percent gamma isomer BC supplemented indigenous
production, and 495 metric tons were distributed by 30 June 1949. The use
of DDT and BHC for leafhopper control in l949 eliminated the requirement
for about 2,650,000 gallons of diesel oil for that purpose, and indications
are that equally or more effective control has been secured despite the
drastic change in method. It is expected that indigenous produotion of DDT
and BHC will meet the agricultural requirements in 1950, and an appreoiable
saving of foreign exchange credits is anticipated.
Other promising new insecticides, including chlordane, toxaphene,
and parathion, have been imported for testing in Japan. Courteay donations
of the manufacturers in the United States have been responsible for such
imports.
Although the supply of fungicides gonerally has been adequate in: recent
years, serious plant disease epidemics have resulted from insuffioient edu-
cation of farmers in the importance of timely use of fungicides. As an ex-
ample; improper and/or inadequate spray ing of white potatoes in 1948 and 1949
resulted in a heavy loss of that crop through late blight. Educational
programs on plant disease control are receiving continuing emphasis from
Natural Resources Section personnel.
Although insecticide and fungicide stocks are generally adequate to meet
current demands of farmers on a national basis, reserve stocks of many
pesticides are small. Allocations of some pesticides still are made to con-
suming areas on the basis of stocks available, and local emergenoy demands
at times result in shortages. Such problems arise from lack of reserve stooks
and problems of distribution that cannot be foreseen. A slight increass in -
reserve stocks would alleviate the situation. Indications from research now
in progress on insect control are that demands for insecticides in the future
will be increased substantially above present levels.
In addition to improvements in the supply and types of pesticides,
Occupation officials are working toward the improvement of control practices.
A large acreage of rice in north Honshu and Hokkaido is seriously damaged
each year by rice leaf miners. Little has been done in the past to control
this insect with pesticides. It is considered highly probabie that timely
applications of synthetic organic insecticides will do the job.
Rice borers are considered generally to cause more damage than any other
insect in Japan. Research work is in progress to develop positive control
mearures. In 1946-49 over one billion yen were spent on the installation
3

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
of blue fluoresdent light traps. This mathod of control has
for many insects in the United States, including those simila
borers, and has been discarded in that country as ineffective.
ducted in Japan indicate that light trape are at best medioare
nomic method of control. Adequate control of rice borers, poner
rice growing areas of Japan, might increase rice production by as mumh
five percent or approximately 460,000 metric tons.
Some improved methods of preventing insect damages would be impossible
under methods of insecticide application used in Japan prior to 19e7. In
June 1947 Japanese engineers were furnished information on the prineiple
and use of insecticide dusts and aerosols (fog), and on the prinoiples of
construction of machines for dispensing insecticides in these forms. One
Japanese company has designed and manufactured a hand rotary duster anda
power dusterfog generator. By 30 April 1949 this company had sold 40,605
durable, aluminum hand rotary dusters, and l67 power-operated dusterfog
machines. With the hand duster a farmer easily is able to treat his entire
farm in one day, and the pcwer machine oan be used cooperatively to apply
pesticides to crops in entire villages.
The low quality of pesticides has been a oritical problem in Japan.
Prior to l948 specific labeling of pesticides showing details of composition,
usage, and effectiveness was not reguired. At the instigation of agricultural
specialists of Natural Resourcos Section, an Agricultural Chemical Control
Law was promulgated in 1948 to alleviate that situation. An extensive edu-
cational campaign is planned to stimulate public opinion for enforoement of
this law. A complete Plant Quarantine and Emergency Pest Control Bill has
been prepared, with assistance and encouragement of Natural Resources Section
personnel. It is expected that the bill will be presented to the next
session of the Diet.
4

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.97)
:GENERL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE COHLNDER FOR THE .LLIED POERS
Natural Resources Sootion.
26:Sopt
THE SEED SITU.TION IN J:P.N
Agriculturists know that remarkable difforences in yields are obtained
from dirferent verieties of the same crop growm under comparable conditions
For centuries in Japan, as in other countries, it was assumed that elr e
was good. Agriculture was not specialized an? different varieties of drop
adapted to the soil and climatic conditions were not used as a means to in-
crease prxduction. About l900 the population in Jepan began to exoeed in
digonous food supply, and industrialization resulted in higher standards of
living. Theso fectors focused attention on soed quality and on improvemonts
as a meens of incroesing yiolds. Improvod seed stock is now a mejor oconomic
factor in food production in Japan.
The possibilities of improved stock heve not been realised fully. 1-
though much progress in plant breeding has been made and improved seed of
many crops is availeble, it is only recently thet hy ridization and beck-
crossing have been omployed. The opportunity for mejor advances trrough
insect and disease resistenco, adaptation, nutritive value, ond mony other
factors is recognized by Jepanese plant sciontists. Mothods of plant
breeding, seed increase, inspection, certificction en! distribution havo
boen worked put but the operational stcndaras, ospociclly for inspection
and certification, in meny instances aro not sufficiontly ricid. Education
of tho fermer to tho veluo of food soed is progressing stoadily, end the
use of improvod varietios offers e practical mothod of increasinc food pro-
duction matorielly with the sane amount of lond an fortilizer.
Improvement of ricc throuch strain colloction and soloction was initiated
with tho ostablishront of tho Imporicl fricultural Expcriment Station in.
1893. From 1904 throuch 1925, puro lino solgction combincd with crossing
produced strains with yields from 10 to 15 percont cbovo tho parent matorial,
and pomitted tho norton oxpansion of ricc crowinc throughout Hokkaido.
Prosent oxporimental broeding strosses discaso resistanco, cspecially to rice
blast, a disoeso which reduces yiola matorially. Approxinctoly 90 percont of
tho rico grown in Japan is from improved strains or verietios. Foundction
soed is producod by tho experimont stations and incroasod by profoctural
farms, torns and villago ferms, and famer cooperatiyos. Tho supply of im-
proved seed of aveilable -varietios is adequate,
Improvod verieties of sweet. potatoes wero first introduced in the oarly
1930's, with major introductions beginning in 1940. Over the years and
especially durins and since World War II, onphasis was placod on high yiold
to meet food shortagos. Diseaso resistance and quality, combined with high
yiold, have not beon oxploitec fully: In the seoi brooding progrom, crossing
is dono in Kyushu. Resulting sood.is. sent to other. rogions whero it is tested

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.98)
for four years, Superior strcins aro numborod n: rown in prefoctural
incroaso farms. From thoso farms tho soed is istributed to plant 
cooperatives, where plents cre grown for farmers. Thc plenting of i
verieties has increased from seven percent of totel arec plented in 1940
83 parcent in l948. The supply of improved seed, except a few new veriet
is adequate.
In Japan, no other crop is so dependent upon the prouction of high
quality seed as whito potatces. The prevalence of virus diseases, and more
rocontly, ring rot, transmittel vegetatively, contributes marimdly to the
low yields. of potatoes. (Japin 166, U. S. 198, Germany 277, end the world
average, 163 bushels per ccre in 1948). 4s c result of recommendetions of
Occupation Force Acricultural Specialists, the Ministry of ericulture and
Forestry, on 10 July 1947 established seven foundation seed farms, four in
Hokkaido with a climate similar to Maine, and three in cool areas of Hgushu.
These farns are in isolated areas. The tuber unit mothod of seed seloction
is practiced. Founiction soed is supplicd to approved seod growers who
prohuce soed primerily for tho spring crop ereas of Jupuü. Since 1946 agri-
cultural specialists of Natural Resources Section havo maintainod closo sur-
veillanco over tho soed potato progrem. Production of cortified seod meets
from 60 to 70 percent of tho planting requirement. Technical improvemonts
still are noeded in the inspection and cortification of the crop.
Seloction of whoat and barloy variotics, begun by tho agriculturcl ex-
poriment stations ebout 19o0, producod most of the lealing varietios of wheat
and barley now crown. Tho pure-line mothod of seloction was followed with
hybrilization of wheat, boginning in 1927, and of barloy in 194l. Foundation
sood is produced ct tho prefoctural stations, increasod at prefectural seed
farms, then distributed to villages or towns for incroase for general farm
usc. Soed supply of available improvod varieties is adequete.
The supply of improvod oat seed, mostly Victory No 1, originally intro-
duced from Svalof, Sweden, is sdequate. Breeding: ond varioty improvenent
in Japan has been negligible.
Little attention has boon civen to the growing nd improvement of corn.
Most corn is grown for table use, or as a soiling crop or silage. Soloction
has been cone without controlled pollinstion. Common seed stock is adequate.
Corn offors a virgin field for improvoment through plant broeding.
∴s a result of long years of solection and introductions from Korea and
China, many superior varieties and strains of soyheans are cultivated in
Japan. In fact, meny of tho varioties now general in the Unitod Stetes come 
from Jepan. futuro improvament throueh further selection and breeaine, is,
howevor, a definito possibility.
Most varioties of vegetables produced cro tho result of plant selection
followed for many yeurs. Improvemnt was initiatod. at the agricultural ex-
porimont stations in 190l-1902 and hybrilization work started in tho carly
l92o's. Sizcble surpluses of sood of carrots, spinach, pumpkin, radish,
leek, cucumbor, ogg plants, and Swiss chard aro available for oxport. 
considerable amount of flower sceds, incluling specialty itoms such as
2

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.98)
double petunies, violets, and lily bulbs, have been developed
being exported.
Historically, Japan has imported substantial quantities of for
or green manure crop seed. Imports of appreciable quantities have
made in the past, and such imports should continue until Japan is
of producing good seed. Improved varieties of green manure and for
crops are a distinct possibility.
Through Natural Resources Section Agriculture Division personnal,
seeds of many varieties of farm crops have been brought into Japan sinee
the beginning of the Occupation. According to the Adcession List, 46
varieties of wheat, 28 of barley, 108 of om, 78 of vegetablos, 17 of
sweet potatoes, 6 of white potatoes, 4 of sweot sorghums, and somo 80
grasses and legumes are among those introduced. These seeds were brought
in with the primary purpose of introducing improved genetic material which
may contribute directly or indirectly, through hybridization, to the in-
crease of food production. Two potato introductions, Sobago and la5-4,
show promiso as roplacements for varieties now growm. It is of intorest
to noto that the Irish Cobbler, known as "Danshaku" introduced from the
United Statos about 1904, is still the leading carly potato grown in Japan.
3

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HRADGUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
NaturalResóurces Septiop
LIVESTOCK·IN JAPAN
The livestock industry in Japan is small and of minor importaboe
as a food source when compared to crop production. Animal foods, other
than fish, have never. been an important part of the Japanese diet.
Prior to the Meiji Restoration in 1868 the Japanese people consumed ml-
most no meat or milk. Since that time they have used increased amounts
of livestock products for food. However, prior to l94l animaI foods
other than fish amounted to only a little more. than one:peroent of the
total food consumed. Even-this meager amount decreased during and after
World War II because of the reductions in the meat animal population:
During 1931-40 about 1,000,000 metric tons of concentrate feeds
were 'imported annually into Japan. Since World War II feed imports have
been negligible in comparison to the prewar volume.: Lack of concentrate
feeds caused an especially large reduction.in numbers of:peultry,:swine,
dairy cows, and rabbits. Populations of those anfmals. aubsisting prima-
rily on roughage were not so adversely affected.
Livestock, although relatively faw in number when compared to the:
United States, play an important role in the Japanese agricultural eoono-
my. .Horses and draft cattle are necessary to provide draft power on
farms and for city transportation. Present populatiops of horses and
'draft cattle are considered sufficient to supply draft power peeds for
the'14;900,000 acres of land now in cultivation if maximum usage is
obtained from these animals. However, small farms, many less than't
aore in size, and inequities in distribution of draft animals will
continue to require that some farms operate without draft power:" Land
reclamation may be expected to. increase the need for draft animals to
a limited extent.
Increased numbers of dairy cows, dairy goats, and sheep are de-
sirable. Milk is needed in larger quantities to supply even the minimum
needs for infants, invalids, and pregnant women. Significant inorease
in population of dairy.cows in Japan appeas feasible in Hokkaido.and
northern Honshu. Hokkaido particularly appears to have a noteworthy
potential for enlargement of its dairy industry. Climatio conditions
are satisfactory for dairy purposes and relatively unfavorable for many
agricultural crops. In addition, the area. is relatively sparsely popu-
lated when compared to the .remaining part of Japan; and farms averago:
several times larger than those in the other islands. Larger farms
provide good potential for roughage and concentrate feed produotion,
and for diversified farming operations essential to maximum food.output
on the island. Milk goats are being encouraged for areas where pasture
or feed supplies are inadequate to maintain dairy cattle. Sheep are

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Resources Segtiop
26 Soptebas
LIVESTOCK·IN JAPAN
The livestock industry in Japan is small and of minor importanoe
as a food source when compared to crop production. Animal foods, other
than fish, have never. been an important part of the Japanese diet.
Prior to the Meiji Restoration in 1868 the Japanese people consumed al-
most no meat or milk. Since that time they have used increased amounts
of livestock products for food. However, prior to l94l animaI foods
other than fish amounted.to only a little more. than one :peroent of the
total food consumed. Even-this meager amount decreased during and aftor
World War II because of the reductions in the meat animal population:
During 1931-40 about 1,000,000 metric tons of concentrate feeds
were 'imported annually into Japan. Since World War II feed imports have
been negligible in comparison to the prewar volume. Lack of concentrate
feeds caused an especially large reduction.in numbers of peultry,:swine,
dairy cows, and rabbits. Populations of those animals. aubsisting prima-
rily on roughage were not so adversely affected.
Livestock, although relatively faw in number when compared to the:
United States, play an important role in the Japanese agricultural econo-
my. .Horses and draft cattle are necessary to provide draft power on
farms and for city transportation. Present populatiops of horses and
'draft cattle are considered sufficient to supply draft power needs for
the'14;900,000 acres of land now in cultivation if maximum usage is
obtained from these animals. However, small farms, many less than't
acre in size, and inequities in distribution of draft animals will
continue to require that some farms operate without draft power: Land
reclamation may be expected to. increase the need for draft animals to
a limited extent.
Increased numbers of dairy cows, dairy goats, and sheep are de-
sirable. Milk is needed in larger quantities to supply even the minimum
needs for infants, invalids, and pregnant women. Significant increase
in population of dairy.cows in Japan appears feasible in Hokkaido.and
northern Honshu. Hokkaido particularly appears to have a noteworthy
potential for enlargement of its dairy industry. Climatio conditions
are satisfactory for dairy purposes and relatively unfavorable for many
agricultural crops. In addition, the area. is relatively sparsely popu-
lated when compared to the .remaining part of Japan; and farms average
several times larger than those in the other islands. Larger farms
provide good potential for roughage and concentrate feed production,
and for diversified farming operations essential to maximum food.output
on the island. Milk goats are being encouraged for areas where pasture
or feed supplies are inadequate to maintain dairy cattle. Sheep are

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
grown. in Japan chiefly for their wool which is ussd primarily for
spuns for home consumption. Sheep usually are maintained in mmall
flooks of 2 - 5 per farm.
Swine numbers have increased markedly in recent years despite the
shortage of concentrate feeds. Decayed and partially decayed sweet
potatoes, other perishables, and feeds not suited for human consumption,
are the principal sources of swine feed.
Poultry decreased approximately 70 percent during 1941-45 because
of the shortage of feed. Only a slight increase has been achieved to
date, largely in small farm flocks.
The livestock industry prior to the Oocupation was bighly organised
and controlled by the Government. Several livestock control companies,
operated for the benefit of a few men in control. supervised the procure-
ment and distribution of livestock and livestock products. These control
companies have been dissolyed as a result of directives from SCAP.
The Government maintains Livestock Breeding Stations to provide
breeding services for farmers. Emphasis in the past was given almost
entirely to horses, largely for military purposes. Currently horses
receive most support, but some attention is given to dairy cattlo and
other classes of livestock. The need for these breeding stations has
not been demonstrated. Observations of Agrioulture Division personnel
have shown that farmer breeders are capable of breeding and growing
animals of equal or superior quality to those produced on livestock
breeding stations. Many breeders of dairy cattle, draft cattle, swine,
horses, and chickens have demonstrated this ability beyond question.
The Livestock Bureau, MAF, currently is engaged in a reduction program
relative to national livestock breeding stations. As a result of recem-
mendations by NR, in 1949 seven national livestock breeding farms of a
total of 25 were eliminated. Others were reduced in size. The Ministry
expects to discontinue some other breeding farms in 1950.
Natural Resources Seetion has established certain policies directed
toward the establishment of an economically sound livestock program for
Japan. Basic tenets of this program are:
a. The program must be based on private ownership of animals.
Private ownership includes ownership by agricultural cooperatives.
b. Sufficient numbers of draft horses and/or draft cattle must
be maintafned to insure maximum food production, facilitate transporta-
tion of material, and alleviate, to the extent feasible, the labor burden.
of the Japanese farn family.
c. Efficient and maximum utilization must be made of draft horses
and cattle.
2

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
perishables that can be utilised by wire, and to forage
forago plants proved by test to be more produetive than tpes
of Agriculture and Forestry.
g. Production of dairy goats, because of their small sise and
ability to utilize roughage, particularly should be enoouraged as
means of improving the nutrition and income of the Japanese farm family.
h. Production of sheep, rabbits, and poultry should be oncoutaged.
particularly where land area or feed supply is insufficient to mhintain
larger animals.
i. Government aid in the form of improved researoh and educatlonal
facilities should be readily available at all times. Long and short-
term credit at low interest rates should be provided.
3

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
FOOD STORAGE AND PRESERVATION IN JAPAN
Storage and preservation of food in Japan is diffioult. The
humid summers throughout most of the country cause stored grein
In addition, the rainy weather usually prevailing in the late sprimg
and fall harvest seasons causes farmers great difriculty in adequataly
drying their grain crops before moving them into market channels. The
approximately 6,000,000 metric tons of sweet potatoes harvested during
the period 20 September - 1 December each year present the major food
storage problem. Consumers will not accept the quantity of potatoes
farmers seek to market during this period and inadequate facilities pre-
vent farm or commercial storage through the winter. Freesing weather
in most areas prevents shipment and handling of potatoes.betiween
10 December - 1 March.
Japan has had adequate capacity to store its grain orops for
number of years. Most warehouses were improved prior to 1940.and are.
of substantial construction. However, few are rodent proof and none
air conditioned. Because of these deficiencies, it will be difricult
to stockpile grains and to make larger purchases of food in periods of
abundant supply and lower prices.
Prior to 1940 sweet potato production approximated 3,000.,000
metrio tons annually, or about 50 percent of current production. Most
of the crop was consumed soon after harvests, and the storage problem
was minimized. However, many farmers stored substantial quantities,of
sweet potatoes in caves. The success of such storage varies greatly.
but in many instances spoilage has caused high losses.
For many years vegetables have been preserved successfully by
salting, pickling, or drying. However, the absence of adequate re-
frigeration and shipping facilities historically has cuased major
losses in these products during movement from producing to consuming
areas.
The Agriculture Division of Natural Resources Section has re-
cognized since the beginning of the Occupation the necessity for an
adequate food storage program, particularly for sweet potatoes. The
need includes also air conditioned grain storages to permit larger
purchases at lower prices on world markets during food surplus periods,
and limited procurement during years of poor crops in supplier coun-
tries. Definito action to implement a grain storage program has been
delayed by the post-war shortage of building materials and by the
financial straits of the Japanese Government.

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
Inoreased weet potatt prbdustion from the l9s1-40 annuel avera
of 3,000,000 metric tonè to the current level of about 6,000,000 metrie
tohs has created a ma jor utilization and storage problem. The 3,600,000
metrid tons of sweet potatoes whieh moved into:commoroial channels in
1948 were sufficient to provide the stapte food oomponent for the rationed
population for about 45 days. However, potatees ip quanbity are available
during about 90 days of the year and the Japanese people will not willing
aacept'potatoes during the harvest period. to :the extent of 50 pdroent of
their staple food diet. Consequently, a significant portion of the orop
must be stored or diverted to other uses. . In 1948-about-725,000 metric
tons word diverted to starch manufaoture. and 265,000 metrio: tons to 1n-
dustrial alcohol production. Daspite this use .of approximately 99,000
metric tons of sweet potatoes for nonfood purposes, innumerable. com
plaints were received from conaumers during October-November l948 that
the percentage of potatoes included in the ration was unreasonably high.
Since 1946 Natural Resources Seotion agrioultural specialists in
cooperation with the Ministry of Agrioulture and Forestry have studied
the sweet potato storage problem. Production. of. this crop must be main-
tained at high levels because sweet potatoes produce from two to.three
times the amount of calories per unit area of:land as do competing crops.
During:1331-40 sweet potatoes produced 3.6 metric tons per heotare in'
brown rioe equivalents compared to l.5 metric tons for corn. Ocoupetion
agricultural specialists and Japanese Government officials believe that
consumers could utilize the sweet potato crop effectively if the period
of use for food were extended from three to six or eight months.
The problem of potato storage on farms has received increasing
emphasis since 1945. Japane'se experiment station personnel. for several
years have studied the possibilities of undergroupd storage. The use
of thermostatic controls for such storage to maintain the proper temper-
ature, with suitable ventilation, has been developed to permit overwinter
storage of small lots without excessive lossess  To encourage more ex-
tensive use of farm atorage the Japanese Government has: instituted.a
pricing program under which it will pay 70 percent more for farm-stored
potatoes after 1 March 1950 than the price during the peak harvest season
in the fa11 'of 1949.
In the spring of 1948 at the instigation of the Agriculture Division
of Natural Resources Section, the Japanese Government-submitted a five-
year plan for construction of sweet potato. storage and curing houses
which would provide 110,O00 metric tons additional storage space each
year thrbughout the five-year period. The program has been initiated and
currently 215 buildings are under construotion. It: is expected that those
building will be completed in time to cure and store about 25,000 metrio
tons of the 1949" potato crop.  Implementation of the Japanese Government
five-year plab will alleviate the atorage problem but will:not provide
a complete solution. Storage for at least 1,000,000 metric tons must
eventually be provided if the Japanese people are efficiently to utilize
the sweet potato crop.
2

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE COLNDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Rosourcus Seotion
26 Septembor
LND RECLM. TION ND IMPROVEMENT IN JPAN
For generations Japan has had nood for increased areas or culeiveted
land, and govorning groups have paid special attontion to the improvement
and increase of farm acroago. But, despite this emphasis, Japan today
has groater need for arable areas than at any time in history. She is
faced with the problem of producing food on 14,900,000 ccres for a repidly
growing populetion, which now has reachod 81,600,000, or more than iye.
people per cultivated acre. To sustain this population on such a limited
arec reguiros intense development of agriculturel productivo pomer The
effoctive use of lnd and wator es a basic productive muans in egricultural
mancgement is. an urgent necossity. The nation's sreatest possibilities
for incrcasing crop production lie in tho roclamation of uncultivatod areas,
improved drainage and irrigtion of rico land, and the meintenance, and
repair of facilities serving or protecting cultivated aroes.
Indicative of the possibilities are cstimatos of the Ministry of gri-
culture and Forestry of tho Japaneso Government, that epproximatcly
3.800,O00 acres of potontislly reclsimable land oxisted in Japan at the
beginnine of the Occupation. Further ostimctes of the Ministry in May 1946,
indicatcd that drainage or irrigation improvoments were neoded on more then
3,000,o00 aores of cultiveted land for mcximum production. Still further
roports of the Ministry, as of March 1949, indicatcs a noed for ropairs to
144,758 acres which have been directly damcgod by floods, earthquakes, and
othor foms of natural disaster. In addition, repairs are roquired to
damagod agricultural fccilities (canals, drcinago ditohes, divorsion dams,
farm roads, bridgos) affocting thc productivity of 1,500,000 acros. The
ropair of theso dcmagos is a continuing progrem or tho Japaneso government
ossential for the maintonanco of crop yiolds. Thesc various possibilities
of substenticlly incroasing indigenous production of food ccused the
Japanose govornmont to cnberk in tho fall of 1945 on an enlarged land de-
velopmont progrem for reclemetion and lend improvement.
Reclamation and improvement over the yoars has rosulted in progrossivo
onlargement end dovelopmont of Japan's cultivated lend. In the ycar 900,
tho cultivated arec was only slightly more than 2,450,000 acros. This arca
gradually incrcasod until in the early days of Moiji Restoretion (1872) tho
cultivated aron was roportei at nearly 10,000,000 scres, of which 5,500,000
acres wore irrigatod and 4,500,000 acros woro upland fiolds. A gradual
incrcaso of the cultiveted area continued and was reportod to about 13,00o,000
acres in 1905, 14,400,000 acros in 1920, cnd 14,700,000 cacros in 1934. Sinco
that poriod, Japen's cultiveted aroa has incroased vory littlo. In fact,
due to acquisition for military purposcs, the cultivatod crea actu lly do-
cronsed cbout 500,000 acrus from 1937 to 1945.
Concurrent with the developmont of new land was tho improvement in

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.97)
wator utilization on existine/farms. As oarly as 700 BC, it is tradision-
ally told that farrs wuro irrigetod by mecns of cenals, cnd in 35 B0
rosorvoirs roportedly wero constructed for tho use of irrigetion in Japan.
Progressive developmont of irrigation cnd drainago facilities continued
throughout the agos. Today, Japen has an intricate net work or irrigation
and drainege canals supplemontod by gates, wiors, diversión dams, water
roservoirs, flumes, pumping stctions, and othur installations. Most of
theso facilities are usod for the irrigation end drainage of Jipcn'a
7,400,000 acros, of irrigatod rice.
Throughout hor history, Japan has offerod some inducemont for rocla-
mation and improvement. In the carly poriods theso inducemonts wore
exemption from taxes, loans to favored inaividuals, and spocial privileges
to privatoly oporated enterprises for land dovolopmont. Beginning in l909,
farmers wore able to obtain loars ct low intcrest rates. In l9l9, payment
of smell subsidies for reclamation and improvomant was provided, and in
1929, this subsidy was increasod to 40 porcent of thc cost. When the.
current land devolopmont progran was sterted in l945, field oporations were
authorized under four lcws passod during l878-194l. The laws wore dosignod
mainly for encourmgonont of lond improvoment and were inadoquato in many
rospects. The local farmers, ospocially cultivators, hcd littlo voice in
deciding the improvomonts undortakon, and tho affcirs of the improvoment
district were ccntrolled by c fow influential land ownors. Thero wero no
provisions for construction of largo scalo projccts, anl tho nntionul and
prefoctural governmonts initiatod improvemont work on tho besis of an in-
formal
agroomont with lend owners. Unor this procoduro, meny projocts
were started without propor regerd for ths noed or oconomic fcasibility.of
the work. Ono of tho luws pomittod field oporations through & qunsi-
government organization callod tho Land Devoloprnant Corporation. This
organization contrectod fiold oporations on a cost plus basis. Tho work
was charactorizod by poor managomont, oxccssivo costs, cnd smell returms
in proportion to funis exponded.
The lund reclenation progrem gained momontum carly in tho Occupetion.
Formor militory land and othor readily available tracts were promptly mado
availeblc for cultivation. Th: Jcpanose governmont estimated that 3,800,000
acres of land were roclaimable as crop lnd. This estimato has beon partially
verified by SCAP cgriculturists who have obsorved large aroas of urreclainod
.land suitable for cultivation. Tho'potential procuctivity of thia land after
reclamation is believed to approximete the productivity of the avorage cuiti-
vatod land which is now producing crops satisfectorily in arons neer the 
reclaimable land. About six percont of the area (229,054 acros) is.potential
irrigated rico land and the romcin er (3,570,946 acros) is.potentiel uplend
fields of not to excoed 15 degrces slopo. Thirty-fivo percent of the ro-
claimable aroa is ostimatcd to be in Hokkaido, tho othar is scattored thrcugh
cut the mein islands, of which e. large amount is in Northem .Honshu.
The logal devices for. implementing the progran sinco 1945 wore abrogetion
of the old laws, the oractncnt of now legislation, ani the issuanco of cabinet
orders and ministorial instructions, associated with tho laws. First action,
under Occupation diroction, came with promulgation on tho 2lst of Octobor
1946, of the Lend Reform Law. This law includod cuthorization for the goyorn-
2

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.96)
mont to ccquire uncultivatud land for reclanation. In rosponso'so
soquont ScP diroctivo, tho Land Dovolopunt Corporation was alomod.
oporutions and fiold officos wero transforred to oxisting national,
and profectural govommont orficcs. Inoroesod rosponsibilitios roquirod
ro-vanping of tho adninistrativo organization. SaP guidanoo romulted in
the passages of Law No 309, 29 Novombor 1947, and Low No. 153, 31 Maroh 1949
whoroby tho Lend Dovolopmont Buroau was rooganized. Tho burem's nome was
changed to the gricultural Land Buronu. This cantrel buroau oporating
through six rogional officos enl 46 profoctural land dopartmonts, is ro-
sponsible for adninistration. of the lni reclamction and improvemont program.
Tho Land Rofom Law providos for aoquisition, nanagamont, and disposition
of land for roclamtion, but it doos not contain provisions conooming
roclamation undortakon on such land or tho oxecution of other land improve-
mont work. These latter provisions woro incorperatod in tho Land Improvomont
Law, No 105, 6 June 1949. .. companion law known as the Enforcpment Law,
No 106, 6 Juno 1949, abrogated tho four oarlior laws under which leni-roola-
mction and inprovement previously was carriod on. The now Lond Improvoment
Law proviies for ovorall dovolopmont cnd consorvation of land rosouroos of
tho nation. Unier tho law cultivators cre quelifiod to participate, through
land improvonont associations, in the dovelopmont prograns. on reclemetion.
croas, settlors cnd local farmors roclaiming the lena partioipato in the.
projoct ovén boforo thoy rocoive titlo. All work must be reviewed by com-
potort spocialists. This roquirona:t is dosigned to climinate selection of
projocts on c pulitical basis rather then on tochnicel cnd economic justi-
ficntion.
The land roclemation end improvomont progrem since the Occupmtion bègen
has rosulted in the following accomplishnants as reportes by tho ministry of
agriculturc ond Forostry. A total of 8o,ooo ccros of unoultivatod Iand has
beon roclaimod fron Scptenbor 1945 to 1 July 1949. Roclamation of thoso arcas
has providod now farns for 172,0o0 new sottlors and cdditionel cultivated
1nd for 503,000 loccl farmers. 4s of 1 July 1949, of thc 2.778,000 acros
ccquirod for reclantion purposos, about 250, 000 acros havo boon so1d;
400,000 acros acditional aro schodulcl for sale by 1 pril 1950. In land
improvonent accomplishments the complotion of mcjor irrigation and drcincco
works es of 1 April 1949 (the lctest cate for which figuros aro aveilcble)
has benefittod 328,000 acrcs, end minor land improvenents havo bonofittod
514,200 acros. The ropair of land damagos to cultivatod land has beon
necomplishod on 275,242 acres s of the samo dato.
Financing of lan reclemation an improvomont is primarily from central
govornment funds. But prcfoctural govornmonts supply somo support for local
personnel nd gonorclly subsidize 10-20 porcent of tho cost of lara improvo-
mont and demage ropair projocts. Lond reclamation is prosontly boing finanood
by a direct subsidy avoraging about 5o% of the cost of roclamation for now
sottlors in renotc aroas. Local ftrmers rocleiming noarby tracts roceive no
subsidy. Sctlters r claiming romote areas roceivod 45, ooo yen as housing
subsily for construction of small houses and cre pomitted to borrow amounts
not oxccoding 60,000 yon for purchsses of tools, livestock, seo?, and
3

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
fortilizer. No loans aro grented for len! improvomont or domego rer
but authorizod work 1s subsidized fron 40 to 60 peroent by the
govornmont. Tho romaining cost is gonerally ividod oqually by
farmors oni tho prefectural govornment.
Tho Japanoso governmart has spcnt substanticl suns for laai realemation
land. improvament, end disaster damogo ropair from 1945 through the 1949
Japanoso fiscal year. In tho 1949 Japanosc fiscal year more thn 16 billion
yen wore appropriatod for raclemation, improvemont, and ropir of disestor
damage of land. Tho eppropriation was about 2.3 porcent of the Japanome
national govornmont budgot, exclusivo of solf-liquiucting special eccounts.
The details involved in tho administration of land dovelopmant are of an
involved end varied nature. Tuo ruclation progran includes the seloction
of roclaimcble land, acquisition of thesc tracts, planning of the creas into
suitable size farms for reclametion by indiviiuals, construction of improve-
ments necessery for settlement such as roads, wctor supply, irrigation or
drainage ditches; allocation of reclaimeble areas to noarby local farmers,
seloction of ncw fermers to settlo end roclain the more remote areas, payment
of roclamation ana housing subsidy to these settlers, grenting of loens for
purchase of tools, animals, seed nd fertilizer; guidence to the iudividuals
in this settlement and reclamation operations and final salo of tho lanl to
the individual roclaimors. A separate phaso of reclanation is the construc-
tion of sea walls wheroby shallow tidal and lake aroas are reclaimod for agri-
cultural use.
Tho lani improvemont program consists of a variety of construetion
oporations vorying from tho builling of concrote dems 180 foot high to small
tilo drainago installations. Each project undertekon roquires a preliminary
analysis of the physical ani oconomic feasibility of the job, dotailed
engineoring lcsign, and supervison of construction operations. Land damage
repair oporations roquire constant survoys of lnd camaged by floods,
earthquakes, volcanocs, typhoons, heavy snow fall, coal nino subsidence,
and drought causins severe cracking of éroun? with water loss fron canals
and ricc fields. Based on these surveys, subsidies aro allocated, and repair
operations ere undortaken.
SC/P technical consultants have given advice and guidance on tho various
phases of tho land development operations. In eddition to aid in imple-
menting logislation and instructions, essistanco has boen givon on many
technical probloma. One major problem receiving special attention has been
the selection of uncultivated land suitable fcr cultivetion. Selection
standards wero developod, under SCiP guidance, which insured thct any lard
involved in reclamation is more suitablo for crop production thon for othor
purposes. To implement those standards, prefectures have committees of land
use techniciens to advise on seloction of land.
Policies and proccdures for planning and sottlament of reclammtion arocs
havo been ivon closc study. A broad policy statemiant wes issued. 22 Juno
1949, to tho Ministry of griculture and Forestry, Japanose Govornnunt, by tho
Chief of Natural Resources Soction. This statanent has sorvod as a basis
4

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
for mure detailed operating procodures.
In the land improvoment program, tochnical guidanco of the regule
SciP consultants was supplemantod by a six woeks visit of en expert
sultant on enginoering design and construction, in February and March
ScAP cttention hes letely tumed to detailod insrection of irrigation and
drainage work in ordor to dovelop critoria for the loan of s countorpert
funds.
Land dovelopment has always beon en importent pert of the Japanese
governnent agricultural program and its importance is likely to continue.
The current program, originally initiated as a 5-year plan, has now do-
veloped into a prcgram of longer curation. bout 23 porcent of the aroa
originally scheduloi for roclamation hcs boen reclaimod, leaving about
77 percont for futuro accomplishmont.
Almost two million acros of lend slready acquirod for reclamation
purposos is aweiting devolopmont en: final sele to inlividuals. Gonorally
speakine, the lane improvement program initieted undor tho Occupation is
only one-fifth or one-sixth conpleted.
5

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADGUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Resources Seotion
26 Septmber 1949
SOIL SURVEY IN JAPAN
Basic information on the nature of the soils, their potentiali-
ties and their limitations is necessary to eveluate Japanese agri-
culture properly, and to develop programs for inoreasing crop produe-
tion. Suitable information has been limited because of defioiencies
in Japanese soil surveys which included differences in soil survey
methods and nomenclature used by Japanese solentists and by solentists
in the United States and Eurcpe. A reconnalssance soil survey of Japan
was initiated by the Natural Resources Section in the fall of 1946 to
classify the soils in a more usable form than that employed by the
Japanese.
The first soil maps of Japan were made by the Agronomy Division of
the Imperial Geological Survey under a program instituted in I8a2. Maps
of about two-thirds of the cultivated land had been completed by 1905,
when the work was transferred to the Central Agricultural Experiment
Station. By 1945 all the cultivated land in Japan except parts of
Hokkaido had been surveyed and maps of the surveyed areas had been
published.
The soils classifioation system used by Japanese scientists was
based on texture of the surface soil, geology of the underlying material
and topography of the area surveyed. Soil units were defined in terms
of the kind and geologic age of underlying material, but texture and
humus content of the surface soil and texture of the subsurface layers
were observed and notod in the course of the survey. Published maps
were on a scale of 1: 200,000; cach map or set of maps covered one
prefecture. The kind and age of underlying material were shown by
colors, and texture of the surfaco soil by varicus types of cross-
hatching. Diagrams showing the mechanical composition of the surface
and subsoil layers of the various soil units were printed along the
margins of the maps. The maps were accompanied by brief roports des-
cribing the area surveyed, discussing the agricultural land as to ge-
ological crigin, and attempting to correlate soil fertility and plant
growth with geological formations. Non-agricultural areas were clas-
sified very broadly on the basis of geology, relief and climate. Com-
parable terminology and classification were not used in the varicus
prefectures, consequently the usefulness of the surveys was limited.
About 1936, Japanese soil scientists, who had become increasingly
aware of the inadequacies of their soil surveys, undertook a study of
Russian, German, and American soil classification methods and began to
develop a more scientific scheme of classification. For the first time
climate, biological activity, relief, and age were considered, in addition

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
to parent material, as important to soil forming processes
y 1/ of the soil profile was amploysd as the basis of clessifioat
Maps of only a few mall areas were completed under this soheme of
classification.
The reconnaissance soil survey of Japan made by American soil
scientists follows the internationally-known system of olassifying solle
by the morphological characteristics of the soil profile. The survey
classes the soils into associations without designating soil series or
delineating soil types. A soil association is a group of sofls with or
without common characteristics geographically associated in an individual
pattern. Each association mapped is designated by the great. sofl group
to which the dominant soil of the association belongs. The associations
are further subdivided by slope groups, drainage conditions and texture
of the surface soils. Persons familiar with soil classification cad
readily grasp the relaticnship between the soils inoluded within any
great soil group:
For convenience in conducting the reconnaissance soil suryey and
in mapping the distribution of the soils, Japan was divided into eight
parts. Field work on all areas has been completed, one report is
published and the seven remaining reports are in the process of publisa-
tion. These reports discuss the relationship of soils to agrfsulturs
and contain basic information which can be used for several purposes,
including:
a. Broad scale planning of programs related to agriculture and
forestry.
b. Application of experimental data on soils in a geperal manner
over wide regions.
c. Selecting areas for more detailed surveys and other studies.
d. Comparing soils of Japan with those of other parts of the
world for which similar studies are available in orderto make practical
use of information from non-Japanese sources on land use and'orop pro-
duction, and to contribute information from Japan that can be applied to
soils of other parts of the world.
e. Locating and planning the construction of highways, airfields
and other engineering projects involving use of soil as a building
material.
Some Japanese soil scientists are now using the system 'of soil
classification used in the Natural Resources Section reconnaissance
survey. Under the guidance of American" soil scientiats, they aro mapp-
ing small areas of forest and grassland that have possibilities of being
developed into cultivated fields.
1 Morphology, soil - The physical constitution of the soil including
the texture, structure, porsity, consistence and color of the various
soil horizons, their thickness, and their arrangement in the soil
profile.
2

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER POR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Resource's :Seotion
26 Sept
FOOD COLLECTION IN. JAPAN
Japan has been a deficit food producing nation for many years,
but until the World War II period a subatantial leml of imports enmbled
the government to avoid direct control of supply and distribution.
The first governmental program for direct collection of food from farmers
was begun in l940. Institution of this control then did not pecessar1ly
mean that the food situation was worse, but reflected the general
tightening of economic and other restrictions by the government to place
the country on a war footing. Only rice was collected in the first
year. In l94l, wheat and the barleys, were added to the program. As
military demands increased and the maladjustment of supply and demand
was accelerated the government broadened the collection program in
1942 to include the other major staple crops, sweet potatoes and white
potatoes. A rigid colleotion system embracing these crops was maintained
throughout the war. At the end of the war. food imports from the former
overseas possessions and Manchuria were cut off.: A critical food shortage
existed and Japan became heavily dependent on food provided by the ooou-
pying powers to maintain a minimum level of sustenance. Under these
conditions it was necessary to. collect the maximum amount of indigenous
food, and the government under SCAP direction has continued and strengthened
the program of staple food collection.
The staple crop collection. program in Japan is intended to make
availablo for rationing to non-farm families, at controlled prices,
staple food in excess of the farmers' minimum needs for food, seed, and
feed. The magnitude of this program is indicated by the faot that about
80 percent of all staple crops (rice, wheat, barley, naked barley, white
potatoes; sweet potatoes, and some minor cereals and pulses) is subfect
to collection. The remainder is produced by farmers who grow no more
than enough food to maintain their families. About 45,700,000 people.
or 56 percent of the population, are carried on the general consumer
ration roster throughout the year, and an add1tionaI 10,800,000 persons
for a part of the year.
The first'step in the collection process is the determination and
assignment of delivery quotas. The Ministry of Agrioulture and Forestry
determines these quotas for each staple crop before planting time. The
preplanting quotas are based on "normal" production, which takes into
consideration the anticipated area to be planted, average yields from
previous years, and the expected supply of producer goods. Quotas also
reflect anticipated changes in rural population as welf as in livestook
feed requirements. Natural Resources Section specialists review criti-
cally all collection quotas to assure that they are established at real-
istic levels. After approval of the national quota by Natural Resources
Section, delivery quotas are assigned by the Central Government to each

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.99)
prefecture. The latter sub-allots the qugtes to counties (a
cities. The county chief, an appointed official of the pr
government, further sub-allots the quotas to towns and villege
each lewel the allocation is made with the advice of an Agrioulture
Adjustment Committee, composed of eleoted farmer representativess
the production and delivery of food in quantities above the preplanting
quota level, the government provides a money and inoentive promium.
The preplanting quotas are subject to revision downmward at the
time of harvest on the basis of production estimates. Revision of the
quotas is closely supervised by Natural Resources Section personnel mnd
is followed by a repetition of the sub-allocation process. In December
1948, GHQ, SCAP directed the Japanese Government to take necessary legal
steps to provide that quota revision may be either upward or dowward.
The law now prohibits upward revision of preplanting quotas. This
directive has not been implemented, but action on it is expected during
the 1949 fall session of the Diet.
Staple foods are.purchased at prices calculated by parity formulas.
To maximize food collections, rural information programs stressing food
production and collection, and the provision of selective monetary and
commodity premiums for deliveries above preplanting quotas to provide
economic incentives for production and for timely deliveries,.are used.
An Occupation-sponsored policy has been to encourage the use of
vital consumer items in short supply as a means of stimulating crop
deliveries. Under this incentive goods system farmers mey purchase
at official prices designated quantities of such items as cotton cloth
and rubber shoes upon the delivery of specified quantities of crops.
Efforts are being made to improve the goods distribution system to
make it more effective as a crop delivery stimulant. Progress was
evident in the summer of l94s when changes were made to speed up distri-
bution and allow the farmer more freedom in selection of goods.
Prefectural and local governments are responsible for planning
and executing crop collection programs in their areas to assure ful-
filment of quotas. Assigned quotas are legally collectiblo and failure
to comply may subject a farmer to prosecution. Local authorities gener-
ally do not rely on legal compulsion, however. They employ such devices
as intensive publicity campaigns stressing the need for deliveries, and
commendations and awards to cooperating farmers.
A major problem is the adequacy of the production estimates, which
are the bases for collection quotas. These estimates are being improved
constantly by the Crop Reporting Service of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry. Development of this recently federalized agenoy has been
greatly stimulated since mid-1948 by the permanent assignment to the
Agriculture Division of an experienced crop reporting specialist from
the United States Department of Agriculture.
2

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
Other bréio probloms that contipue to affeet the food
2
program:arise from the interaction apd net impact of mauy eed
litical, and paychological factors upon the farm family, me ex
which colleotions can be pushed without inducing a declime in pr
or the growth of undesirable political movements, must alway's rematm
matter of subjectie fudgment. This problem is well illustrated by 
Asserting that fulfillment of quotas will leave farmers with insuffieient
food for their own needs, he says, "Desperately farmers are joining
Communist Party in order to escape from disaster. The Communist is
flourishing and gaining power among farmers, especially among young farmer
If farmers' living condition is not stabilized a serious situation may hew
to be anticipated." A similar kind of problem is illustrated by the
"economic decontrol" philosophy expressed by pearly all political parties
during.the campaign for the Diet in January 1949.
That equitable sub-allocation of quotas will continue to be difficult
can also be expected. Political and personal factora entering into quota
determinations transcend adequacy or inadequacy of statistical data and
cannot be fully removed by democratization or by other known means. In
this connection, it has been noted that the provislon of crop production
estimates on a village basis usable within error limits would require the
staff of the Japanese crop reporting service to be enlarged appreciably
over the present level.
Another type of problem, depending upon education and the passage of
time for solution, is a consequence of decentralized government. . Degentral-
ization, essential to democratisation, often results in divergence of
thought at the several levels of government as to quotss and related matters.
To effeot centralised control over the admiuistration of food orop colleptions
under these conditions is difficult, even though the legal basis for..such
control is adequate in theory.
An additional problem relates to implementation of the qurrent economio
stabilization program. In tightening controls on an economy, it is inevi-
table that control programs become somewhat competitive as locally adminis-
tered.
The effoct of less Occupation contral on the collection effort through
dissolution of the prefectural Civil Affafrs teams, scheduled to take place
by 1 November. 1949, remains to be seen. These teams have had a strong
influence on successful collections. Regional teams will assume some of the
surveillance duties formerly exerctsed by the prefectural teams, but Japanese
officials must assume more responsibility than in the past.
Collection by years from 1942 through 1948 is shown in the ohart on
the next page.: A limited colleotion program was in effect in 1940 and 1941.
but it was npt until 1942 that all six staple crops (rice, wheat, covered:
barley, naked:barley, sweet potatoes, and white potatoes) were included in
the collection system. For guota purposes, wheat and the barleys are oounted
as one crop.
3

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
The 1942-44 war years showed a continuously high total oolla
followed by a sharp drop in 1945 and progressive increasest
If the 1942-48 average is taken as 100, the index of total 00
years is:
1942 -115
1946 - 89
1943-113
1947-92
1944 - 115
1948 - 105
1945- 71
In comparing collection by years several factors should be copsidered.
During the principal war years, 1942-44, farmers were subjected to patriotio
and forcible pressure to deliver maximum amounts of food. At the same time
the farm population was relatively low because of departures for military
and war-industry service; the farm population in 1944 was about seven
million, or 20 percent, less than the estimated population in 1948. Low
collection in l945 was due to poor rice and potato crops and the general
economic and political dislocation attending the surrender. Sinoe 1945
production has been steadily increasing. The quantity of food retained
by farmers has likewise been increasing with the farm population.
Comparison of the two most recent crop years is of interest for
current trends. Total collections in 1948 were up sharply from 1947.
As of 31 August 1949 (with deliveries virtually complete) collection of
the crops harvested in 1948 had reached 7,198,000 metrio tons in brown rice
equivalents. This was 14 percent above 1947 and 10 percent below the 1944
wartime peak.
In terms of collection quotas, 110 percent of the assigned 1948 quota
had been delivered. Final deliveries of the l947 crops reached l02 percent
of the assigned quota. The 1948 quota was five percent higher than the 1947
quota.
Deliveries of each of the staple crops in l948 exceeded those of 1947.
Rice collection (including substitutes) was six percent higher in 1948
than in 1947, wheat and barley (including substitutes) 20 percent, aweet
potatoes 58 percent, and white potatoes 28 percent.
The outlook for collection of 1949 crops is encouraging. Deliveries
of summer-harvested crops now in progress are ahead of 1948. As of.
31 August 1949 a total of 1,123,000 metric tons (brown rice equivalents)
of wheat and barley and whito potatoes had been collected, compared with
956,000 tons on the same date last year. This is an increase of 17 percent.
Production of fall crops has not been officially forecast as yet, so that
collection prospects are indefinite. Indications are that the rice crop,
while suffering spotty damage from disease and drought, will exceed the
1948 level. Sweet potatoes may equal or even surpass the record production
of last year. Especially adverse weather conditions between now and harvest
time could, of course, alter the fall crop production outlook. On present
indications, however, the final quotas for both crops are expected to ap-
4

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.94)
STAPLE FOOD COLLECTION BY CROPS AND YEARS
034
0.51
1.3
8
(HL lo iit oon )
0.8
10.2
Éoutd
025
6.0
5.9
5.6
4.6
4.9
4.4
3.0
0
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
Year
Rice
Wheat and Barley
Sweet Potatoes
White Potatoes

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.99)
proximate the 1948 quotas, and the total 1949 collection should
favorably with that of 1948.
Maximum staple crop collection in a controlled economy obvioumly s
the fundamental element in food managoment where indigenous supplies
insufficient to meet the subsistence requirements of the population.
With an ineffective collection program the following major developmonte
would be likely:
The rationing of staple food would break down. The coonomic pressure
on farmers and the spread between official prices and black-market prices
are too great to justify an assumption that staple foods would be delivered
to official channels without existence of a rigid collection program
underwritten by law.
Price controls would not function in the absence of adequate distri-
bution and rationing controls.
Effective consumer prices for staple foods would increase substantially.
as evidenced by past experience in Japan whenever the quantity of rationed
food was diminished.
Rosulting pressure for higher wages for urban workers would accentuate
a wage-price inflationary spiral.
A disproportionate distribution of staple foods among the various
income groups would occur. The lowest inoome groups probably would be
unable to purchase enough food to meet minimum requirements.
Probably at this point emergency requisitions of food upon the United
States would be necessary in order to forestall "disease and unrest"
conditions.
Governmental collection and distribution of staple foods apparently
will be necessary for a number of years to come.The basic condition
under which these controls could be terminated would be possession of a
food supply sufficient to meet the consumption demands of the population
at reasonable prices. Such a supply must be obtained through indigenous
production plus imports that Japan is able to pay for through her own
resources. Production is oxpocted to increase by a relatively small
amount, but not enough to substantially affect the food deficit: probably
not enough, over a period of years, to keep pace with the growing popu-
lation. As the country's industrial and export situation improves more
imports can be financed. However, the use of available exchange for purohase
of food and other consumer gocds should be kept at a minimum. In the Im-
mediate future producer goods shculd recoive import preferance to permit
the fullest measure of industrial recovery on which stabilization of the eco-
nomy will largeIy depend. Certainly as long as food imports are financed by
the United States the indigenous food supply must be utilized with maximum
efficiency. That, in effect, means a continuation of the official collection
and distribution system. Changes in detail may be made, but food collection
probably will continue to be neceasary.
5

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HE.DRUARTERS
SUPRENE COHMNDER FOR THE LLIZD POERS
Natural Resources Section
26 September 1949
CROP REPORTTNG IN JP.N
Statistics on area end proluction for important agricultural crops in
Japan wore first compiled on an organized basis about 1878. Beginning
about that timo, the upwar? trend in population with its attondant food
problems furnishe? tho nocessery stinulus for the initial action in the
compilation of crop proluction rocoris.
Cortain rofinomonts in crop reporting woro mado possible whon tho
National Govornmont directec tho preperation of a land leagor in l880
based on actusl fiold survey measuronents. A dofinite fom for tabulating
agricultural statistics within oach prefccturo was adoptod in l883 and
statisticel survey cormitteos wore appointod in l894 to conduct survoys
within each city, town, an? village. In l92l each city, towm, and villago
was dividod into 15-20 soctions for crop roporting purposos and a surveyor
(enuncrator) appointed for caci. soction. Prefoctural govornors eppointed
officials in cach city, town, ani villago to compilo and report tho data
supplied by tho survey cormittoes. The composito dcte of the cities, towm,
and villaggs wore assomblol an? roported from tho prefocturel officos. Crop
roporting costs wore borne by the local govermments.
Field sampling to dotermino crop yields for taxction purposes was usod
es early as l650 in Japen, but wcs not adopted by tho governont as stendard
proceure by local crop survayors until 1933. In 1940 tho govomment adoptod
dofinito procedures for reporting inter-plcnted crops ond scatterei plantings,
such as fruit trees. it the scne time staniard woihts per "koku" (tho
conmon Japanese volunotric moasure, oquivalent to 5.1 bushels) wore adopted
for each of the conmon cereal crops, ene recular crop and livostock consus
onmorations on 1 February ani 1 ugust of each year were inaugurated.
Tho accuracy of the crop date compiled y the Japenose Government during
the period 1878-1947 was dopendent upon the accuracy and intogrity of crop
reporting agencies functioning on local levels. The Centrel Governmont
accomplished little in the field of crop reporting except to receive reports
from the prefectures enl compilo thom into  statisticcl rocord, by profecture
for all Japan. Littlo attempt was maic accuratoly to forecast production in
advance of harvest. Recommendations for inproving the accuracy cnd roliabil-
ity of the roports wore mado to the profecturos by the Central Government,
but tho government had no authority to offact constructivo changes not
agreeable to the prefoctural officials.
To socure an adequcto supply of food for tho urban population auring the
war period, Japan initiated a crop colloction system in 1940. Howovor, tho
previous year (1939) was tho bcst cror year on roccrd and tho requisite
supplomontal food supplies could easily bo importod from tho Japenose ompiro
at that time. Thorofore, tho fool situation was good in l940; anl rico was

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.96)
the only crop collectod under covernmont auspices durine that yeare In
collection quotas wore osteblishod for whont, barloy) and naked barley
addition to rice. In l942 swoot and white potatoes come under tho coll
systom.
By 1945 outsido sourcos of food for Japen were virtuelly alimated by
allied blockndo. Advorse wöath'r conditions and shortage of fortiliser
roducod tha. production of indigenous food. High food prices in the Fblack
market" ani foar of cetual hunger within tho farm houschold. served as in-
contivos for fermers to, undor-roport planted areas nd omp yiolds as a
moans of justifying rocucea collection. quotas. Thus, tho local system of
crop roporting which hal functionel fcirly woll for nourly 70 yoars yiolded
to prossuro oxertoa by farnors and others intorested in maintaining an
adequpto fool supply in thoir homes and: communities. Consoquently, tho
Ministry of griculturo and Forostry roports, which woro dopondent on the
cccuracy of roports roceivo  frpm tho. prefocturos, no longor reflocted. the
truc situation with rospoct to food production:
Soon after the boginninc of the Japan Occupction it. was roalized in
Natural Respurcos Soction thet the Jepenoso system of crop roporting: could
not bo deponied upon to furnish upbicsed reports under the pressure cf a
compulsory crop colloctine systam. ccordincly, c. crop roporting export
was secured from tho Unite? States Department of griculturo who was assinod
tho task of proparine recommendctions for the. establiahnont of a more
effective system.
In the latter part of 1946 comprehensive.plans wero. formulated end
recommonlations woro made to tho Japaneso governmont for a now crop ro-
portins systom. Tho new plans proviaod for centralizod. control in the
Ministry of griculture and Forestry, with comploto indopendence from
local covomment influence. The result was the ostablishrent of the Crop.
Roporting and Statistics Bureau in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
on 1 pril 1947. Field operations stertel lurine tho. 1948 crop scason..
The central offico of the buroau in Tokyo proparod ficld samplo dosigns
and procoduros in 1948 for uso in thc 46 nowly ostcblishod profoctural orop
roporting offices. Those prefoctural ffices now suporviso, coordinato,
and summarize reports from pproximetoly leo0 brench offices located through
out Japar. Undor this procrom, fermors report thoir plontod acroago of staple
crops to qmumorators shortly after plenting time.. Enumorations are conducted
in tho spring for wintor ani spring crains end in the summer for summer orops.
The ncouracy of farmors' roports is moasurod by moans of samplo survoys in
which samplo fiells, selocted at random, aro cctually meesurod. n addition,
samplo aroas aro checkod to cotormine the. oxtont to which farmers have failod
to roport ontire fiolds. Yiclis cro doterminod by crain counts prior to
harvest, eni harvost samplinc, in randomly selcotod fiolds. In 1948, theso
sample suryeya accountod for moro than a million acros of staple crops that
farners had failod to roport.
.2

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.97)
In the sprin( of 1949, the Japenose covernment reduced the
the now bureau to that of a division in anothor buronu. This roome
was injudicious, end was opposod Sy Natural Resources Section. Crop
their work. For example, Natural Rosources Seetion judgod their Juno 1949
forecast of whoat and barley production to be approximtely a quarter ofa
million tons lowor than indiccted by field data collocted by cop roporting
officos and thorofore rejectod the Winistry forecast. Final harvest data
supportod this action.
Sinco Japen's fooi doficit, at loast for the present, must be mmde up
by imports finenccd by U. S. tax dollers, a reliable crop roporting system
is mendetory. In orier to offect further nocessary improvements in tho new
systcm, Naturel Rosourcos Soction secured the sorvices of a tochnioal adviser
on loan from tho U. S. Dopartment of Aericulturo during the wintor of 1948-49,
to conduct an intensivo study of Japanose crop reporting mothods. Tho romult
of this study pointed to the neod for more rolicble scmpling methods, simplf-
fications of procoiures as a means of reducing costs, end devolopmont of
carlier and more roliable prcharvest forecasts. In cddition, possibilities
for using crop-weather rolationship data in crop forocasting woro pointed
out. Tho prcsent program of the Ministry includos extensivo oxporimonts
along this lino but this work noods a cuidance into channols which will
provido more useful infornation. Serious need exists for reliablo ostimatoa
of crops other than the six staplos; ard production statistics on the staple
crops are needed for cach city, town, en? village to eliminato troublesomo
inequities in allocation of fermer colloction quotes. kn: to aate, littlo
has been accomplished in the fioll of livostock md livestock products ro-
portinca
Considereblo pro ress is beinc made. Natural Resources Sootion is
furnishinc éuidance ond instruction to Winistry personnel on all of the abovo
problons; but procress, necossarily, is slow because of tho linitod number
of personnel availablo to civo cuilanco to the Japenese on those progrems.
3

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE COMLNDER FOR THE LLIED POWERS
Natural Rosources Section
26 Soptember 1969
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN JAPAN
Japan is a country of intonsivoly farmed velleys ond coastal plains
sogrogatod by ruggod mountains. Only 14,900,000 acros or about 16 poroont,
of her total eroa aro undor cultivation. Approximntely 5,91o,000 farm house-
holds consisting of 36,509,000 people, 46 percent of thc tstal population,
cre wholly or partially occupiod with faming. Thouch a wido verioty of crops
cre grown, epproximetoly ono-half of all cultivated lan? is used for paddy
rice production. Approximately 35 porcent of tho cultivated land produces
two crops cach year. Farms averago a little less than two cna one-half acrs
in sizo. Tho soils in meny creas aro inherently low in plent nutrionts.
Dospite tho farmers' best efforts, food yiclds are insufficient to fcod tho
rapiily expanding population, and th. neods for still higher production will
bocome greator cach yoer. The prosure of populetion upon tho lond requiros
that all offort possiblo bo mado to incroase food proiuction. One of the
items most ossontial to such a program is cn aericultural resoarch systen.
A hopoful new cppronch to the coordination and improvamont of Jepan's rosoarch
system was initiate: by logislation rocormendod by the Occupation Forces Agri-
cultural Division nd enactcd by tho Japancso National Diet on 15 July 1948
ORGNIZ.TION
Tho first egricultural oxperiment station was esteblished by Fukuoke
Prefocturo in 1879 at Futsukaichi City. In 1893 the Contral Goverament os-
tcblishod the first main station near Tokyo with branch stations in six
locctions throughout Je on to sarve cach of tho. large agriculturcl rogions
excopt Hokkaido. Most of the profooturcs hai ostablished ono or moro ox-
perinont stations by 1910. In 1916 tho Contral Govornnont began to oxtend
financial aia to profcctural oxperimgnt stations for support of solected
projects. Sinco l926 tho Contral Govornmant has proviced full support for
selected projocts on those stetions.
The prefectures, however, working indopondently of ecch other, dovolopod
their owm systoms to moet their own problons. Overemphasis of minor dif-
fcrencos in environment and of the probloms of spocialized crops lod to the
ostablishmont of 386 national ana prcfectural agricultural oxporimont stations,
l64 soricultural stations, 139 livostock broedirg or animal hygione stations,
and nine tobacco stations. In aidition, thero are 83 educational institutions,
20 miscellaneous govornnent institutes, and 91 priveto institutions dovoting
at least a part of their time to egriculturel rosearch.
Occupation cgricultural specialists eerly saw the noed for a central
egency in the Japerese covernnent with brocd powers to plan, coordirate, cnd
advise on aericultural roscarch pro(rans. Whilo rocognizing thet the Japanose
had cchieved many notable results in agricultural resecrch, espocially in
rice production and in soriculturo, Occupation agriculturists also wore
awaro that the existing acricultural experimont ststion syston, was developod

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.97)
undor concopts not conlucive to efficioncy and ccordination of resoareh
In mny instancos individual stations did not have sufficiont finanoinl
support to cttract highly trainod porscnnol or to buy mxdern equipment.
Too little cttontion wcs paii to tho practioal probloms and noeds of the
farmors. Littlo offort was mado to avoii duplication:of effort end 
poniituro betwoen stations. Pr colures for central coordination of ro-
sosrch work or oxchango of research rosults botween stations wero almost
ontiroly lacking. Cloarly, the situation called far cxtonsive consolidation
and.reorgenization of exlsting exporimont stations.
On the b sis of the cbovo findings, Occupation agricultural specialists
noo rocommendations to the Japanoso governmant for tho olimination of mony
nonossentinl an: inofficient reseerch cnd oxperimont stations, 'tho consoli-
lation of rosearch institutions whorever fensiblo, improvomont in profes-
sionel porsonnol standaris, inoroasod omphasis on practical agricultural
rescarct a plicablo to farm problems nd an adoquato systom for lissemination
of rosocrch rosults to farmors.
In pursuanco of tho rocomandations, basic rosearch logislation was
onacted by the Diot on 5 July 1948 undor.tho titlo, "Inw for Improvemont
and Pronotion of hgriculturo." Tho stcto? purposo of tho law is "to.
promoto tho public wolfaro by providing for tho acquisition, dissomination
and cxchango of impartiel ena practical inf rmation on subjocts rolated
to ericulturo in crier to dovolop moro officiont farminc mothods, incroase
agricultural production ana improve farm living..onditions."
To insuro that agricultural rosecroh is directod towerd tho solution
of practical farm probloms cs well cs to the explomation of fundamental
reseerch concepts on: to provilo for informing farmes adoquatoly of rosoarah
results, thc law further requiros close intocration of extonsion cnd research.
In nddition it ostablishos a mothod for the Contral Govornmant to proviio
financial nil on) cenoral tochnical guidenco to the resonrch cnd oztonsion
prograns administcrod by the profectures.
The gricultural Improvement Burocu, cortcining rosoaroh, extension,
and statistics livisions, was ostablishod in the Ministry of Aerioulturo
and Forestry in August 1948, to administer the provisions of tho "Lew for
Improvomont and Promotion of Agriculture." The burocu promptly startod to
fomulato plans for the consolilation of agricultural xperimont stations.
Profoctural aericultural rosearch needs were reviewed, Rosearch requiro-
monts were consclidated by rogions in order to detormino tho stations
necossary for the nation as a whele. The consolidation plon wes approvod
by tho Cabinet on 22 July 1949, end necossary actions for its implomantation
cre scheluled for complotion by 1 April 1950. It provides for a total of
135 stations to bo closcd and 53 stations to bo combined with the 191 stctions
which are to be continuod. Funds, essanticl projocts, oni tho bost trainod
personnol will be transforrod from stations thct closo to thoso romcining
in oporation. Prefectural agricultural oxporimont stctions an: their
branches will be aaministored by e singlo staff in oach prcfecture. Tho
2

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
National Agricultural Experiment Station and its seven regional station
will each have a seperate administration. The national station,
will direct and conduct the work of the seven branches.
During the past fifteen years improvemonts in the design of egrigul-
tural experiments in Japan havo lagged behind thoso in the United States.
and othor western countrios in terms of plan and layout for utmost effi-
ciency and statistical significance of rosults. Besie principles of ox-
porimental design hevo boon ignored. Plots woro usually not roplieated,
and treatments aro assigned to plots systemically rather than at random.
Conclusions have boen drawn without the propor statistical data to support
them. Occupation agriculturists took an important step toward improving
the quality of experimontcl work on a nationwide basis whon thoy sponserod,
in March 1949, ε school in oxperimental methods for Japanese tochnicians.
Representatives of a large numbor of oxperimont stations and sevoral uni-
versities attended. The lectures given during the course were. mimeographed
and furnished to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for distribution
to all experiment stations. Some of the Japanese technicians have begun
to use the elementary principles of experimental design taught in that
course. Luch remains to be done to improve field plot technigues. This
work is recoiving constant attention by the Agriculturo Division.
NEW RESEARCH PROJECTS
Prior to the Occupation, little exporimental work was carriod on by
Japanese stations to dotermino the adaptability and efficiency of improved
strains of grasses and legumes. Virtually all livostock in Japan are fed
the common indigenous grassos and legumos, which are low in yield and in
nutritive values. To assist in initiating experimonts on grasses and
logumes the Agriculture Division obtained from tho U. S. Dopartment of
Agriculture small amounts of 64 differont species and verieties of grassos
and lcgumes for trial under Japaneso conditions as forago, green manure and
cover crops. The trials were planned according to the improved oxperimental
dosigns now being used in the United States. Since those tests have been
in effect only one yeer, no conclusive information is available. Early
rosults, howevor, indiccto that many of the spocies may be superior to
indigenous species being grown in Japan.
In Hokkeido climatic conditions aro such that sevoro injury occurs
to tho commonly grown wheat and tho barleys from "snow hlight". Rye,
however, is comparatively inmune to those attacks. No experimental data
are cvailable on yield tests in which wheat, rye and the barleys were
grown under identicel conditions. A dotailed yield test is to be carried
on at four expcrinent stations in Hokkcido during the 1949-50 growing
soason. The tosts have boen planned so that all four crops will have
identical conditions and carc. Tho results of theso tests should furnish
valuablo information in doterming the most effectivo cropping systems to
be uscd in Hokkaido.
During the 1948 growing season, oxporimonts were conductod at sovoral
oxperiment stations in which 2,4-D was used for killine woeds in paddy rice.
3

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.96)
Tho data colloctci woro of uncortnin nccurncy bucauso the oxperimonte word
improporly planned. To securo accurato data, griculturo Division spoeial
dosignod a sorios of oxperimonts to tost tho offoctivonoss of &, D as a
killor in rico prddios. Tho Jepanoso Govommont wdll conduet ddont lsel:
tosts in nino profecturos using tho dosigns recommondod by the Agrioulturo
Division:
In the expcrinents listed ebove and others un er considoration, dotniled
plans woro proparod by morican cgriculturel spocialists evon to, the extont
of specifying plot location to insure completo randonizing of treatmants.
Whero land is cvilablo, all plots aro quadruplicatel. These experiments
are serving as demonstrations to Japeneso acriculturel scientists of tho
systom by vhich all agriculturel exporimonts can be most effectively con-
ducted. They are n important mans of creatine a lasting intorost in ex-
perimental dosin amons gricultural oxporiment station workors in Japan.
RESE.RCH·OUTLOOK
Significent progross hes boon mde in the improvomont cf agricultural
research in Japen. Howevor, to make this resocrch a strong factor in the
worli-wido attack on agricultural problems throe moro steps must be taken.
First, cll experiments must: bo plannei and conducted in the light of in-
provod laboratory an! fiell plot tcchniquos. Rit: must bo analyze: so
that thoir statistical significance can be procisely stated. Sicc-,
accepted sciontific lencuage, titles, tatles eni swamrics 'of tll published
technical articlos or bulletins must be usod to facilitate oxchange of
research results with sciontists of othor countries of the world. nd,
thirl, the tie betwoon ricultural oducation, research an: oxtension pro-
crams must bo strengthoned to cnablo the most effectivo atteck possible
on all fam problons.

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERIL HEADCUARTERS
SUPRBLE COLLUNDER FOR-THE ALLDED POWERS
Natural Rescurces Section
26
AGRICULTURAL. EXTENSION IN JAP:N
Prossure of population upon the land has creatod demands upon the
capablo and energetic Japurese farmers'which can'be met only if they are
constantly informod of the most. aivenced ferming practices. The hoceseity
for kooping farmors abreast of latost techniquos in acricultural production
and improvomont in farm living rosulted in tho anectmant of logislation in
July 1948 to replaco anå improvo tho farnor edvisory sorvice discontinuod
by ocrly Occupation actions in connection with tho roorganization of the
agricultural pooperative aystem.
Planned and systamic distribution of teohnical knowledge to farmers
is not new to Japen. Nationel legislation aracted in l899 established a
government-controlled system of agricultural associations to improve cgri-
cultural practicos. Unier this system tho governmont providod each village
with ono or more agricultural tochnicians who worked with farmers in im-
proving their methods of producins crops, livestook, cnd livestock product.
In addition, many of the c riculturel cooperatives, orgenizod throughout
rural Japan under authority of a law onacted in 19o0, supported famms for
the pro huction of suporior seeds for mombers cnd in sone instances amployod
tochniciens to advise furmer monbers on proiuction problems. This tochnical
guidance cnd advisory sorvicc was .offoctivo, anl was a primary factor in
the rocori increeses in tho. yiolds of rny crops in Japan prior to 1940.
Durinc World war II, howover, the farmer-managod cooperatives and the
agricultural cssociaticns wore combined into the covornment controllod 4ll
Japan Aericultural Association (Nogyokai). Farmer mombership was made
compulsory. The esscciction was Civen control of nearly evory phaso of
agriculturel life by its authority to administer crop quotas, colleot orops
by compulsion, and retion critioal matorials. The aericultural toehnicians
wore given so many control and policing juties that their farmor advisory
functions woro neglocted.
In 1947 the agricultural associctions (Nogyokai) with their rigid
national control functions wero dissolved by direction of Occupation
authorities. Since the farm advisory service was a part cf their activities,
it too was eliminated. The acricultural extansion systen now boing do-
veloped under provisions of the "Law for Iprovament and Promotion of
A riculture," onacted by the Diet on 5 July l948, is intonded to roesteblish
an effoctive farm advisory sorvice.
To assure joint support and cooporative effort betwoon tho national
governnent and prefocturcs, tho law provides that central government funds
bo made availuble only to prefectures approprieting at loast ono yon to

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
overy two yen of national monoy appropricted for support of agriculsuval
oxtension. Ninoty porcent of the total national extension budgot is
dividod cach yoar among tho profecturos on tho basis of cultivated area
and farm population. Tho remaining ton porcant is awardod on the basis
of unusual need or oxceptional oxtension porformance. An importent pro-
vision of the law forbids oxtension workers to ssumo responsibility for
regulatory or control programs of the covernment.
The nation-wide oxtonsion systom is administerod under guidanoo of
the Extension Division of tho Agriculturcl Improvomant Bureau ostablishod
in tho Hinistry of Aericulturo end Forestry in fugust 1948. Locally tho
system 'is sdministered by the Acricultural Improvament Section of the
profectural covernment.
Under guidanco of the Agricultural Improvoment Bureau and with advice
of Natural Rosourcos Section agricultural spocialists, prefoctural covern-
monts have made considerable progross in devoloping their local extonsion
systems. Since the procrem was started one yecr aco, all of tho prefectures
have established oxtonsion systoms oligible for crants-in-aid from the
centrel govemmont by cnacting logislation or by issuing rogulations. All
but one of the 46-rrefectures have established agriculturel improvement
committeos tc dovelop local policy and guidanee on reseerch and extonsion.
A totel of more than 6,Oo0 farn advisors have been selected from lists of
qualified candidates and assignod to dutios as oxtension workers in rural
villages of Japan. An advisor for each of Japan's l0,500 villages is tho
goal for the complete proeren. Thirty-nine prefectures have from two to
13 home advisers engaged in field work. Moro thn 3,300 rural youth project
clubs havo been orcanized in farm communities. Subject-matter specialists
to coordinato research results with oxtonsion rractices havo been selectod
in all the prefoctures. Treining schools on oxtensicn mothods have been
held in nony prefoctures nd aro beinc planned in others.
During the next few years rapid advances aro expectod in doveloping
an adequato fern women's adviscry service and a rural youth project club
movement in overy profecture, in improving the skill of the oxtension
workers in advising fermers, in dovoloping famers' interest and partici-
pation in the prograns, cnd in closoly coordinating aericultural rosoarch,
oxtension and cducational programs throu:hout Japan.
2

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Resources Section
26 Soptember
JAPANESE LAND REFORM PROGRAM
Abolition of the pernicious land tenure system which has long blighted
Japanese agriculture and impaired development of a peaceful national
economy has been a basic objective of the Occupation. Accomplishment of
this objective is essential to the economic and political well-being of
Japan.
Having an area of 142,270 square miles, Japan is smaller than the
State of California. Only l6 percent of the total area is arable.
Approximately 47 percent of the total population of about B1,800,000
depends on agriculture for all or part of its fncome. Before the sur-
render, about 70 percent of the farmers rented all or part of the land
they cultivated. Only 9 percent of farm households cultivated more than
4.9 acres of land, and 67 percent cultivated less than 2.4 acras. This
overcrowding had led to a highly inequitable land tenure system with
rents ranging from 50 to 70 percent of the annual crop and had resulted
in widespread economic instability and social strife. Repulsed in their
demands for remedial legislation, farmers, during the decade preceding
World War II, consciously and unconsciously gave strong support to the
military group which held out the promise of new lands and prosperity to
be won through aggressive war. This course was thwarted by defeat and
surrender. The tenant class in occupied Japan, with demands for relief
from their intolerable situation still foremost in their minds, remained
a fertile field for any other extremist ideology promising a solution to
their problems.
The elimination of this malignance was recognized as vital to the
promotion of maximum production of staple foods and requisite social
and economic stability. On 9 December 1945, the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers issued a directive to the Japanese Government "to take
measures to insure that those who till the soil of Japan shall have a
more equal opportunity to enjoy the fruits of their labor."
Japanese land reform is based on legislation enacted by the Diet
and promulgated 21 October 1946. It has two main objectives: (1)
transfer of land ownership to farmers who actually till the soil and
(2) improvement of farm tenancy practices for those who continue as
tenants. The program has emphasized private rather than state, and indi-
vidual rather than collective ownership of the land.
The program in each village is administered by a local agricultural
land commission, elected by and from the farmers. The ratio of tenants,
owner-cultivators, and owners on each commission was originally estab-
lished by law at 5, 2, and 3 respectively. With virtual completion of

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
the land transfer phase of the reform and the rosulting inorease in
the pumber of owner oultivators, it was necessary to change repremwn
tation on these commissions prior to the second general election hold
on 18 August 1949. The new ratio is 2 tenants, 2 landowmers and 6
owner-cultivators. Each category elects its own representatives to the
commission. Elected prefectural agricultural land commissions coordinate
and supervise the work of local commissions under the general supervision
of the Central Agricultural Land Commission (National), of which the
Minister of Agriculture and Forestry is chairman.
Agricultural lands subject to purchase have been: (1) lands owned
by absentee landlords; (2) tenant-operated lands in excess of speciried
retention rates; (3) owner-operated lands in excess of retention rates
fixed by law, except those that can be reasonably operated by the farmer
and his immediate family; (4) corporation-owned lands that do not relate
directly to the principal objective of the corporation; and (5) lands
capable of reclamation for agricultural use.
Lands subject to transfer have been purchased by the government
(through the agency of the land commission) for resale to eligible
buyers. Tenants on the land as of 23 November 1945, other tenants, and
other persons who wish to cultivate the land have had priority to pur-
chase. in that order.
The purchase price of land, established by law, is subject to vari-
ation within legal limits at the discretion of the land commisslon.
Sellers of land receive payment in ¥1,O00 bonds bearing 3.65 percent
interest and redeemable in 24 equal annual installments. Any amount less
than a unit of ¥l,Oo0 Is paid in cash. Tenants may pay for all or any
part of the land at the time of purchase and the remainder in 24 annual
installments with interest at 3.2 percent. Tenant payments for the tand,
plus other expenses coincident with landownership, in any. year cannot
exceed one-third of the gross income from the land in that year. In case
of crop failure or low farm prices, the government will reduce, defer or
cancel the annual payment.
Agricultural lands purchased under the program may not be sold or
used as collateral for loans during the 24-year amortization period
without specific approval of the government. Tenant purchesers desiring
to discontinue thoir purchase contract during the 24-year amortization
period must sell their lands back to the government on terms similar to.
those of the original contract. All future land transactions are subject
to approval by the agricultural land commission.
Through the land reform program, the Japanese Goverument had ac-
quired 4.594. 721 acres of cultivated land by 2 July 1949, of which
4,461,688 acres had been sold by 30 June 1949. The cultivated land area
operated by tenants will have thus been reduced from an estimated
6,300,000 acres (46 percent) to approximately 1,670,000 acres (12 percent).
As of the same dates 590,549 acres of pasture land had been acquired, of
2

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
which 418,984 acres had been sold. An estimated additiona1
acres of pasture land await purchase. In addition to curvivae
pasture land, 2,775,488 acres of land has been acquired rer reela
and future resale to owmer-farmers as part or a Tong-range progh
increasing the total cultivated area of the country. of this me
245,l27 acres had been reclaimed and sold to individuals for private
reclamation by 2 July 1949. Registration in the official land regiotry
book of lands transferred under the program is now being aceomplished.
Although the land reform program is dedicated primarily to creating
owner-farmers, total elimination of farm tenancy is pot considered fea-
sible. A small reservoir of land subject to tenancy is considered es-
sential to a program of maximum food production. Flexibility in the
land tenure pattern must be preserved to prevent withdrawal of land
from cultivation in cases where the owner becomes temporarily unable to
cultivate for himself, or where no applicant to purchase land is availa-
ble. The land reform program therefore also includes provisions to in-
sure fair tenancy practices for those who remain as tenants. The most
important of these provision are: (1) a written farm lease with all
principal elements clearly stated; (2) cash payment of rent:; (s) ront
ceiling of 25 percent of the production from paddy and 15 percent from
upland fields; and (4) rent contract cancellation or alteration subjeot
to approval by the land commission. A model lease contraot form to be
used by tenants and landlords as a guide in drawing up their own con-
tracts has been widely distributed.
The total cost to the Japanese Government of administering the land
reform program was ¥7,825,284,203 for the period 1 September 1946 through
30 April 1949. Of this amount ¥6.257.126.605 was spent for the support
of the 11,322 local land commissions. Principal responsibility and
crodit for the success of this program, involving transfer of title to
about 30,000,000 individual parcels of land, accrues to these local land
commissions. The average cost of operating an individual local land com
mission has been approximately 1,535 (computed at an assumed rate of
¥360 to $1) for the period September 1946 to 30 April 1949, or about $48
per month per commission.
3

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
SUPREME CÓMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Resouroes Seotion
26 Septonbor
AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE PROGRAM IN JAPAN
Approximately 5,910,000 farmers are engaged in farming-Japan
14,900,000 aares of cultivated land. Average farmers operate only about
2 acres. The extreme small size of their individual operations makes
It essential that they pool their efforts and resources through cooper-
ation to the greatest practical extent in order to achieve esonomio
stability and maximum production. Towards this end, legislation which
became effective on 15 December 1947, provided for the establishment of
democratic, farmer-controlled cooperative associations in accord with
internationally recognized cooperative principles.
Cooperative associations replace a monopolistic, government-controlled
system of agricultural associations which had been developing in Japan
since l899. Legislation enacted that year established associations to
improve farming practices. Membership was compulsory. A year Tater,
industrial cooperatives were similarly authorized to facilitate trade
and essential business -- especially in rural areas. Although this law
provided for voluntary membership and permitted some degree or independent
action, the Japanese agricultural cooperative movement was from Its
inception primarily a government-sponsored movement. In most instances
the cooperatives were controlled by the local agricultural associatlons
which were in turn agents of the original legislation, especially between
1930 and 1943, and culminating in the Agricultural Organization Law of
1943, steadily increased government control over these organizations,
particularly in relation to farm prices und thereby the entire farm
economy. The 1943 legislation eliminated oven the fiction of democracy,
and the agricultural associations (Nogyoka1) which emerged existed prima-
rily to compel farmers to conform to the aims of the military. They
served to control agricultural prices and production, to handle collections
and rationing, and to bring in rural capital for the war effort. They
were one of the important means used to police farm communities in the
war effort.
Abolition of this totalitarian structure was recpgnized by GHQ,
SCAP, as a preliminary requisite to fostering and encouraging an agri-
cultural cooperative movement free from domination by nonagrarian in-
terests and dedicated to the economic and cultural advancement of the
Japanese farmer. Law 133, promulgated on 19 November 1947, required the
dissolution. of all of approximately 10,800 incorporated agricultural
associations, and l69,81e incorporated agricultural and sericultural
practice associations by 14 August 1948. After this date these associ-
ations were prohibited from transacting any business except liquidation
of assets. By 31 July 1949, Tiquidation of agricultural associations
was 44 percent complete, while that of the agricultural practice and
sericultural practice associations was 97 percent complete.

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
The new cooperative. associations organised pursuant to Law 15z which
became effective on 15 December 1947, have as their primary objective
maximum service to participating members rather than payment of dividonde
on invested capital. They are incorporated enterprises, authorised to
perform practically any ecooomic service which will contribute to the
advancement of fard communities. Fifteen or more farmers may organise
a cooperative. Membarship is voluntary. Bach farmer member has one vote
Persons residing within the business area of the organisation may be es-
sociate members with all privileges exoept voting. A farmer is defiped
as any individual who personally carries on or. engages in agriculture.
This definition includes all of those within a'household whose activities
make them eligible, and the participation of women is encouraged. The
business area is as defined by the articles of incorporation. Two or
more cooperatives may organize a federation of agricultural cooperatives.
Such federations may perform any activity which the local oooperatives
are authorized to perform except that if a federation is engaged in the
making of loans and receiving of deposits, it is prohibited from per-
forming additional functions not connected with these activities.
Federations engaging in credit activities may, however, act in behalf of
affiliated associations in discounting bills and guaranteeing debts
towa'rds banking organizations with which such associations are authorised
to.do business.
A cooperative association may charge expensea and reguire contri-:
butions in accordance with its articles of incorporation. It may orgapise
as a capital stock or nonstock association, but no nopstock association
may carry on. both the functions of making loans and receiving deposits.
Liability for a share is limited to the amount of the share and, in the
case of a nonstock organization, the amount of the authorized fee. In
a capital stock association, each member must have at least one share,
and the maximum number of shares which one member may own is specified
in the articles of incorporation. Only members may hold stock. Trans-
fer of stock is. subject to the.approval of the association. Primary
responsibility for carrying out the Agricultural Cooperative Program
is vested in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.
As of 30 June 1949, a total of 32,862 new cooperative associations
and federations had been approved under the new law. These were dis-
tributed by type as follows: 382 federations covering a prefecture or
larger'area, of which 357 were stock and 25 nonstock; 61l federations
smaller than a prefecture, of which 514 were stock and 97 nonstock; 67
individual cooperatives covering a prefecture or larger area, of which.
58 were stock and 9 ponstock; and 31,262 local cooperatives, of which
16,202 were stock and 15,600 were nonstock.
Volume of business records for the year l948 showed that cooperatives
handled 36.percent of all farmer purchases, 61 percent of all farmer
sales, 64 percent of financial deposits, and 71 parcent of loans to
farmera.
2

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.98)
Types of cooperatives inoluded goneral purpasm. mrioul
reclamation, fruits, tea, firewood and charcval, poultry, dalay
and miscellaneous, of which general purpose, sericulture and
were by far the most numerous. Members of more than 99 perbent e
farm households belong to at least one cooperative, and substantial
of households are represented by memberships in two or more assoos
In 27 prefectures reporting to date about 86 percent of local cooperet
directors and auditors and about 69 percent of federation directors ame
auditors elected during March through May 1949 have never been.direotore
or auditors in the agricultural associations abolished by Law No. lss or
19 November 1947. This indicates a substantial measure of transfer of
leadership in rural economic affairs into new hands.
3

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
26.Sopt
CROP AND LIVESTOCK ENSURANCE PROGRAK IN JAPAN
Japan's deficit food position requires that agricultural produets
be maintained on land which would be considered submarginal in a surplus
food produotion country. Maintenance of a high level of production,
inclyding use of submarginal land involving high operation risks, is
therefore a matter of national policy and national pecessity. The risks
of operating poor land or land unusually subject to floed or other di
aster are intensified in Japan by the minute scale of Japanese agriculture
and the difficulties faced by a farmer in finding essential substitute
income in the event of even a small-scale crop failure. A farmer must
be guaranteed a minimum return for his efforts or he will cease to farm.
In order to stabilize the economic position of the individual farmer
and to maintain production on a maximum area, the Japanese Goveroment
requires farmers to participate in a compulsory insurance program, and
in return undertakes on behalf of the whole community of consumers as
well as producers to subsidize a part of the cost of insurance benefit
payments.
Japan's present insurance system represents a revision of the
system existing at the time of surrender to bring tt into closer harmopy
with basic Occupation objectives and to correct inherent adminisppetive
and procedural difficulties. Public relief in the event of crop failure
had been recognized in principle since the Tokugawa Era. Rerief in the
form of insurance was instituted in l929 with the passage of the Livestock
Insurance Act and in 1939 with the passage of Crop Insurance Act, Under
these acts responsibility for administration of livestock insurance
rested with voluntary associations organized for the purpose, but crop
insurance, which was compulsory, was carried on by agricultural associ-
ations. These have been dissolved as part of the agrarian refoim program
and replaced with democratically organized cooperative associations.
Development of a new administrative mechanism to replace that provided
by the dissolved organizations thus became necessary. Moreover, preex.
isting insurance procedures were defective in a number of ways. Pro-
cedures for fixing crop insurance premiums failed to differentiate
between high- and low-risk areas. Farmers in low-risk areas thus had
to assume a part of cost of insuring crops in the higher-risk regions.
Premium rates were insufficient to finance insurance obligations, and a
substantial deficit had accumulated. Both livestock and crop insurance
systems were established to pay losses in amounts which, under present
economic conditions, are insufficient to be effective in maintaining
maximum agricultural production.
The new Compensation Against Agricultural Loss Law, promulgated
15 December l947, substitutee a unified compensation system for the dual
system previously in effect. Its object is to maintain maximum agricul-
tural production. It calls for determination of premium payments on the
1

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
as possible from premiums paid by mombera.: Lossds in'exoess of an
collected as premiums are met by government subsidy. The prineiple
bubsidy is establishéd partly in recogmition of the mation's reepomeibiltt
to participate in costs incurred for benefits which acorue to the matiom
And partly to keep premiums within the farmers' capaoity to pay. Imsurame
of silkworms, oocoons, paddy and upland rice,,wheat, barley, and ats le
compulsory. Livestock insurance is voluntary, unless an individual assnel
ation makes it compulsory by majority votes at a general. meeting. Fam
buildings, implements and miscellaneous crops may be insured on a voluntary
basis. ur
Compulsory crop insurance covers. one-half of the estimated average
production per tan of crops. . Additional coverage is theoretically per-
missive but has not been started. Maximum payments cover one-half of the
losses in excess of 30 percent (40 percent for sericulture.) No payments
are made for losses of less than 30 percent (40 percent for sericulture).
Livestock insurance coverage on adult animals is limited to 80
percent of the value of the animals. On embryo and newborn animals,
maximum coverage is 16 percent of the value of the parent. he rate in-
creases up to 30 percent with the age of the animal.
Administration of the law at the local level rests with agricultural
mutual relief associations organized under the supervision of prefeotural
governors., At the prefectural level, responsibility for administration
rests with federations of agricultural mutual relier associations organized
under the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. Local
associations insure with prefectural associations, which in turn reinaure
with the national government. General surveillance over the entire struoture
is maintained by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to insure com-
pliance with the law.
As of 30 April 1949, agricultural mutual relief associations established
on a local basis under the new law of 15 December 1947 numbered 10,663
out of an eventual total of 10,88l. By that date, each prefecture had
one federation of muturl. relief associations. These replaced 46 prefectural
insurance,:531 county associations, and an unreported number of local
associations, in addition to 288 livestock insurance associations In
operation when the law was enacted and now in the process of dissolution
and liquidation or transfer of assets. The total of about 4,556,000 cho
(11,165,025 acres) of land planted to rice, wheat, barley, oats, and
naked barley in 1948 and the 23,644,721 grams of silkworms and coccons
produced in 1948 were covered by insurance.: Benefits paid to members
totalled ¥2,801,897,799 for the 1948-49 fiscal year compared with
¥1,086,084,505 paid by members in premiums as of 16 March 1949. Livestock
insurance covered 306,658 head of cattle, horses, goats, sheep, and swine
as of 5 March 1949, insured for ¥3,003,134,920. Premiums paid totalled
¥62,661,359 against which ¥22,718,432 in benefits had been paid.
2

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.88)
no tesure to Deapatoh Nto. 790,
A3.4
aveer 1h, 1969, tren the 0
the U. s. Politieal adviose
pan, Toye, n the mbjo 
Lesiem of Publieatiom n Japened
prieultural Pregrems Uader the
JAPANESE AGRICULTURE
PROGRAMS UNDER THE OCCUPATION
26 Septomber 1949
8
Propared by the
Agriculture Division of
Natural Resourres Section,
General Headquarters, Supreme Cammander for the Allied Powers

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREE COMMANDER JOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Résburceß Section
26 Soptmb
AGRICULTURE IN JAPAN
Introduction
1. The two most important agricultural problems confronting the
Occupation in Japan have been insufficient food production and the low
economic status of the rural community. Topography and the pressure of
a large farm population on a limited acreage have had much to do with
the relatively small area under cultivation, and with the amall, un-
economic farm units, widespread tenancy, and the low standard of living
of those who till the soil. The Japanese are good farmers, but even thoir
skill cannot overcome the limitations imposed by a total of only 15 million
acres of cultivated land and 82 million people. In the past Japan could
not attain food self-sufficiency even in years of abundant crops, but has
had to rely on imports to make good the deficit. Now that former overseas
sources of supply are no longer available, maximizing food produotion is
one of Japen's most urgent needs.
2. The scarcity of arable land in Japan gave rise to many abuses in
the land tonure system and in the field of agricultural taxe and credit.
These abuses, coupled with domination of agriculture by bureaucratic and
nonagrarian interests, multiplied the difficulties of the Jepanese farer
in attaining a level of economic security comparable to the remainder of
the population. National policies designed to expand industrial production
and foroign trade rolegatod agriculture to an inferior position in the
oconomy. Those dependont upon the land for their livelihood did not sharo
to any substantial degree in the improved standard of living that resulted
from the increased national income.
3. The low economic status of the Japeneso farmers over the yoars
has creeted among that group & foeling of hopelessness and restlossness.
Agrarian unrest in turn hes provided no smell part of the stimulus to
Japan's imperialistic foreign policy. Tonants particularly, end fafmers
generally, have been in lerge measure sympathetic to oxtremist political
movements by Japan's militaristic exponents.
4. In recognition of tho nature of Japan's economy, the Occupation
has directed its agricultural programs toward two major objectives,
namely, maximum food production, and the echievemont of social and
oconomic stability of tho farm population. The briof report that follows
outlinos tho nature and scope of the agriculturel progrems institutod.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
GHINER'L HE DQUARTERS
SUPREME COLALNDER FOR THE ALLDED POWERS
Natural Rosources Section
JAPANESE AGRICULTURE: PROGRMS UNDER THE OCCURATION
INTRODUCTION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SULRY
DISCUSSION
I. Food Production
1. Production Stetistics
2. Fertilizer
3. Insect and Disoaso Control
4. Seed Situation
5. Livestock
6. Food Storage and Preservation
7. Land Reclamation and Improvemont
8. Soil Survoy
II. Food Collection
III. Crop Roporting
IV. Agricutural Rescarch
1. orgenization
2. New Resoarch Projects
3. Resocrch Outlook
V. Agricultural Extension
VI. Land Reform
VII. Aericultural Cooperatives
VIII. Crop Livostock Insurance

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Natural Resources Section
26 September 1949
SUMMARY
Production Statistica
Stimulated by expansion of trade and population, Japan increased it
staple food output 96 percent between the 1880's and the decade immediately
preceding World War II. Rice and wheat accounted for most of this gain.
At the end of World War II hostilities, however, many of its people faced
the threat of starvation. By 1945 fertilizer shortages, combined with bad
weather and other disrupting influences, had reduced harvests. Since
that time production has gradually increased. In 1948 staple food crop
harvests were six percent above the 193l-40 average, but not as high as
e lo3c record cron. Incrense came chiefly from sweet and white potatoes
and barley.
In the period extending from the 1880's to 1921, Japan had expanded
its cultivuted areas from 12 percent of the total land mass to 16 percent,
resulting in a total cultivated area of about 15,000,000 acres. After
that time the area remained relatively constant until the war, when
military requisitions reduced it by about 500,000 acres.
Annual harvest of minor cereals, beans, and peas followed the upward
trend of the staple crops until about l920, but declined thereafter. The
trend in vegetable und fruit prcduction continued upward for a longer
period. However, with major emphasis on staple food crops during and since
the war, the trend reversed. In 1f4? production ranged from 23 to 40
percent less thun prewar for these groups.
Among industrial crops, mulberry for silkworms (which more than
doubled in average annual acreape from the 1881-90 decade to the 1931-40
decade) has been cut back during and since the war to less than two-thirds
of the lael-90 figure. This decrease has been due to loss of foreign silk
markets und need for lund for food producci on. Ten production is little
more than one-half of the prewar uverage. On the cther hand, the 1948
tobucco crop was 42 percent more than in 1931-40.
Fertilizer
With soils naturally low in fertility and with intensive cropping,
Janan must rely heavily on fertilizers. When World War II begnn, the
nation had ample fucilities to produce most of its nitrogenous and phosphatic
commercial fertilizers but had to import phosphatic rock. Limited equipment
and lick of indigenous deposits mnde it necessary also to ship in the
inorganic potash used. Peak fertilizer producticn wus reached during the

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
period 1936-40. When war hostilities ended, the fertiliser indumt
4 serious condition. Since then commercial. fertiliser supplies
ateadily. Largely as a result of action by Allied authorities, ine
Imports of large quantitie's and introduction of measures to inorease d
production, the supply of nitrogenous fertilizer for farm consumption
risen from 439,000 metric tons in fiscal year 1946 to 1,464,000 metrio to
in l949; phosphatic fertilizer used by farmers increased during that porie
from 32,156 metric tons to 1,033,125 metric tons, and potash supplies during
the same period have mounted from 902 metric tons to 159,000 metrio tons.
A system of fertilizer allocations begun during the war has been
recast by the Occupation to insure timely deliveries and equftable distri-
bution between crops and areas. Importance of compost, animal manures, and
pight soil in crop production has been emphasized continuously. Current use
of compost and night soil is estimated to be above the l936-40 average.
Insect and Disease Control
Plant insects and diseases, although estimated to reduce crops in Japan
by at least 12 percent annually, received minor control.attention :prior to
1947. While some good resulted from laboratory investigations, field work
had been neglected. Use of pesticides in the dust form was practically
unknown. Insecticide supplies, reduced during the war, have been adequate
in 1949. The Agriculture Division of Natural Resources Section has encouraged
experimental work on insect control, the use of dusts, and the use of new
insecticides. DDT and benzene hexachloride, newly developed insecticides whiph
can be produced in Japan, have relieved the pressure on other chemicals, par-
ticularly diesel oil and pyrethrum,for control of rice leaf hoppers. Other
insecticides have been imported for testing. In addition to larger supplies
and more effective kinds of pesticides, efforts are being made to improve.
control practices. The principle and use of insecticide dusts and aerosols
are being emphasized by the Agriculture Division to obtain more effective
control of pests. An Agricultural Chemical Control Law was promulgated in
1948 to assist in overcoming the inferior quality of pesticides. A Plant.
Quarantine and Emergency Pest Control measure will be presented to the next
session of the Diet. The Agriculture Division of Natural Resources Section
is assisting the Japanese Government in the programs discussed above and is
sponsoring an extensive research program designed to develop more effective
controls of plant pests, particularly rice borers.
Seed Situation
Improved seed is a major factor affecting crop production in Japan.
Methods of plant breeding, and seed increase, inspection, certification, and
distribution as means of increasing food production have been greatly improved
during the past few years. However, hybridization and back-orossing have only
recently received attention from Japanese scientists. Long-range inoreases
in yields through use of these techniques may be expected.
With advice and guidance from the Agriculture Division, Natural Resources
Section, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has made pronounced advances
in the production of certified seed of white potatoes since the Occupation
began. Seven foundation seed farms were established in 1947 and increased
2

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.98)
emphasis placed on seed production. This program is refloated
potato produotion in 1948 and 1949 despite inolement weather e
potato aren of Japan during the 1949 growing season.
Notable improvement, has also'been made in the seleotion, ourin
storing of seed of sweet potatoes. Methrods of curing introduood
Agriculture Division. now permit long-time storage and the planting
seed; and are paving the way for improving the main crop storage.
Livestock
Livestock plays a mihor role as a diract food in Japan. Before loda
gation consumed almost no meat or milk. Up to l94l animal foods, othor
fish, amounted to only a little more than one percent of the total foog be
sumed. Even this amount decreased during and after World War II, largely
because of lack of concentrate feeds. Horses and draft cattle are necosemry
to provide farm draft power, the present number of draft animals is condidered
aufficient for that purpose. More dairy cows, dairy goats, and sheep are.
needed for inoreased production of protein food and other produots, swine
have increased markedly in recent years despite the shortage of concentrate
fleeds. Poultry has regained only a slight portion of the 70 percent doorease
it suffered during the period 1941-46.
Under SCAP direction, the livestock control companies were dissolved.
Government livestock breeding stations are still maintained, although thesr
need has not been demonstrated. The Agriculture Division of Natural.Resourees
Section is encouraging policies to establish an'economically sdund livestook
program. These policies include increased indigenous feed productions o
pecially improved forage production) to the extent possible without deorarming
the amount of staple food grown, and livestock breeding production and utili-
zation by private enterprise, at maximum levels consistent with feed imports.
Government aid in the form of improved research and education facilitfes and
farmer access to long-and short-term credit at low interest rates are alme
included in these policies:
Food Storage and Preservation
The Japanese climate, with hot humid summers and rains in the lete sprind
and fall harvest seasons, magnifies food storage and preservation problomse
The six million tons of sweet potatoes deluging the fall markets present an
especial difficulty. Storage facilities are inadequate, and freesing weather
in winter prevents later shipment. Grain storage is adequate in capaoity but
is not.rodent-proof or air-conditioned. Vegetables are preaerved by salting.
pickling, or drying, but major lossee result: during market movements from
lack of refrigeration and shipping facilities, At the instigition of the
Agriculture Division, the Japanese are paying partioular atteption 'to potato
spoilage problems. Sweet potato storage on farms has received increasing
emphasis since 1947; the government will pay 70 percent more for farm-stored
sweet potatoes after 1 March 1950 than during the peak season. As a result of
Agriculture Division recommendation's, a five-year plan has been launched to
3

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.98)
provide 110,000 metric tone additional space for po
5,000 motric tons are under construotion.
Land Reclamation and Improvement
Recognising land reclamation and improvement as a basio meane
oreasing food production, the Japanese Government has providede
this activity for many decades. Nevertheless, land reclaimed f
1939 average slightly less than 30,000 acres per year: gains frem reolamat
were largely offset by diversions of agricultural land to other uses
1937 to 1944, because of military acquisition, cultivated areas deoremm
500,000 aores. Afer the surrender, the government placed increased
land reclamation. Under SCAP direction the Land Reform Lew ms writtene It
included authority for the government to acquire uncultivated land for reola-
mation and established procedures for sale of reclaimed land to oultivetors.
A new Land Improvement Law, promulgated in June 1949, provides for more
effective land improvement conducted by associationsof the local people con-
oprned.
With the increased emphasis on reclamation since l945; the government
has acquired 2,700,000 acres of uncultivated land for reclamation and B45,000
acres have been reclaimed.
Agriculture Division specialists have assisted the Japanese authorities
pot only in implementing legislation and instructions but also in tho solutiop
of technical problems in actual field work. Guidance has been given in de
veloping standards for the selection of land to be reclaimed, in planmlng and
settling reclaimed areas, and in designing and constructing land improvement
projects.
Soil Survey
Basic knowledge of the soils is essential to proper evaluating of
Japanese agriculture, and to establishment of policy and development of pro-
grams for increasing food and feed crops. The first soil maps of Japan were
made under a program instituted in 1882, and by 1945 all cultivated land,
except parts of Hokkaido, had been mapped. In 1936, however, aware of the
inadequacies of their soil maps, Japanese soil scientists began the study of
foreign classification methods. Few-maps were completed under the revised
scheme. A reconnaissance soil survey was initiated by the Natural Resources
Section late in 1945. The survey, by United States soil scientists, makes
use of an internationally known system of classifying soils by the morphological
characteristics of the soil profile. Field work has been completed, and
preparation of a series of eight reports is now in progress.
Food Collection
As the Japanese Government tightened its economic and other controls in
the years immediately preceding and during World War II, it instituted a
system of food collection from farmers and rationing to nonfarm families.
4

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.97)
used through the remaining war years.
by the Oacupation of the collection and rationime myat
apparently will be necessmry for a number of years to
About 80 percent of all stapla crops 1s subject to colls
planting time each year, the Ministry of Agriculture and Fore
basis of "normal" production, determines delivery quotad ande
to prefeotures. The prefeotural. governments sub-allpt the que
(guns) and citios; the counties sub-allpt them to towme and mil
in turn assign them to individual farmers. Quotas may be rovise
at harvest time if crop cobditions warrant.  Authority to inore
at harvest. time will be considered at the next session of the 
Consumer goods in short supply are made available to farmerm
incentive to stimulate crop deliveries.
The 1942-44 war. years showed a continuously high total colledts
followed by a sharp drop in 1945 and progressive inorease through 
Deliveries of each of the staple crops. in l948 exceeded those a 10
outlook for l949 collection's is encouraging.
The Agriculture Division of Natural Resources Section maintaina ole
and continuing surveillance over all phases of the food collootiom p
including food production, assignment and revisiop of collootim que
actual collections by the Japabese Government.
Crop Reporting
In le78 Japan began to collect national statistics on area and preaue
crop surveyors as early as 1933, but prior-to 1947 little attempt was mad
to forecast production ahead of harvest.
A lucrative "black market," and fear of aotual hunger growing out 
war served as incentives for farmers and local officials to under-repor
both crop plantings and yields. As a result, the acouracy of national ore
area and production reports was impaired. Following a study by an export
from.the United States in 1946, a new crop reporting system was set upswit
Under this system, the accuracy of farmers' reports. on acreage of crope ts
measured by means of sample surveys, and yields are determined by field
sampling. These operations are conducted by traiped personnel.in profogtural
offices of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Acreage. surweys in l9ss
to report.
Japan's food deficit must be made. up by U. S. tax dollars moxa ralámble
crop reporting system is mandatory. The present system is superiee:to the
used prior to l948, but many problems remain. Effective guidanoe by the
5

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.98)
sulture Divislon of Natural Resouroes Section
orop reporting aystom ob a high ple
Agrioultural Research
Japan's lack of sufficient arable land to provide food for
population makes an effective agricultural research system im
Insure highest returns from thè agrioultural resources. When 
began, research work was soattered, with little coordination, mmons
Kundred experiment stations and research institutions. The erran
gesulted in duplication of effort and inefficient use of funda,
equipment was inadequate in many of the stations.
With advice and guidance of specialists in the Agriculture Divimion
Natural Resources Section, the Japanese Diet enacted legislation in los8 to
provide for elimination of nonessential stations, consolidation of researoh
institutions, application of research to immediate and practical farm
problems, and prompt dissemination of findings to farmers. An Agrioultural
Ipprovement Bureau was established in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
in August l948. A plan for consolidating research institutions was approved
by the Cabinet in July 1949 and is scheduled for accomplishment by 1 April
1950; under this plan, 135 stations wil1 be closed and 53 will be combined
with the l9l remaining. Agriculture Division specialists conducted a sehool
in experimental methods in March 1949. Under the guidance of these special-
tsts, various experiments have been conducted which utilize experimental
design methods only recently known to the Japanese.
Agricultural Extension
Planned distribution of technical knowledge to farmers in Japan was
provided by legislation enacted in l899, establishing a government-controlled
aystem of agricultural associations to improve crop practices. Under this
system, the government provided for one or more technicians in each village
to work with farmers. In addition, cooperatives, organized under a law of
1900, helped finance operations of farms to supply superior seed and, in
some instances, employed technicians to advise farmer members.
During World War II the associations and cooperatives were combined
into a national association which was given control over crop quotas, ool-
lections, and retioning of critical. materials. Agricultural technicians
were given control and policing duties., The national control organization
and its member associations were dissolved by direction of the Oooupation
authorities.
Legislation enacted in July 1948 on advice of Agriculture Division
specialists provided for an agricultural advisory service. Prefectural
governments are completing the organization of Agricultural Improvement
Sections to work with the national government in developing such a system.
More than 6,O00 village farm and home advisors have been appointed, and
more than 3,300 rural youth clubs have been organized. AgricuIture Division
specialists are working with the Japanese on plans for on-the-job-training
programs to develop advisory techniques and leadership skills.
6

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.96)
Land Reform
Priar to the Ocaupation 70 percent of the Japabés
land resources perpetuated a feudal'stic land tenure sm
qf exorbitant rents in kind aften andhting to no to 7o pesment
production. Japanese. lapd reform logislation enacted by the Dls
gated 21 October 1946 hartwo main object1ves: (1) transter  
to farmers who actually till the so!l and (2) improvement of farm
individual owmership of land rather than state or collective pweer
the initial tranafer phaae, whfch is virtuarly completod, almost opp
the cultivated land in Japan, more :than 4,500,000 aores involving about
30,000,000 tracts, has been purchased by the government from former land
for resale to cultivators. An estimated 12 percent or the oulttvated lamd
remain in tenancy to provide the cecessary amount of tenure flexibility.
land reform program also includes provisions to insure fair tepapoy, pr
for the remaining tenants such as written farm leases, rent geilingm
rentals, restrictions on land trinsfer, and safeguarda against arbitrary
in rental contracts. Current operations include the registration of tisle
transfers, collection and payment for lands sold and purohasnd by the goverm
ment, and continued improvement of tenancy practice:
The Agriculture Division of Natural Resources Section provided teahnieal
advice and gufdance in the preparation of the legislation on which the kand
reform program is based. Specialists conaulted with Ministry of Amriculture
and' Forestry officials, furnishing advice and guidance oq administrasi
-policies adopted, and maintaining continupus contact with the progreme of all
activities:
Agricultural Cooperatives
The minute size of the average Japanese farm management, unit requiree
that: farmers pool their efforts and resources through cooperation. The prmr
Japanese Government took advantage of this situation to codatruct e monopollstio.
hierarchy of agricultural associations through which the government contrelled
almost all aspects of farm life. Membership was compulsory for ell .farmers.
SCAP policy has required dissolution of this basically militaristio
set-up and its replacement. by a genuine agricultural cooperative.movement
free from domination by nonagrarian interests and dedicated to the ecenomle
and cultural advancement of the farmer.  The Agricultural Cooperative Associ-
ation Law which became effective on 15 December l947, providas for the.ergan-
ization of democratic agricultural cooperatives based on internationally reoog-
nized cooperative principles. By 30 June 1949 a total of 31 329 looal and
individual cooperatives had been organized. These had federated intere total
of 993 federations of agricultural cooperatives by the same' dataa  Volume of.
busihess' records for the year 1948 showed that cooperatives handled a major
portion of farmer purchases, sales, financial depbsits, and Ioans. Membermhip
in: the'se cooperatives 1s voluntary. Each member has one vote. The primary
purpose of the cooperatives is maximum service to participating members rather
than payment of dividends on invested capital. Results of officer elections
7

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.94)
for these organizations in March through May 1949 show that over 80 percent of
the present officers have never been directors or auditors in the former agri-
cultural associations. This indicates a substantial change of leadership in
rural communities.
Problems remaining include improving the cperating cfficiency and placing
the new organizations on a sound financiul basis, building memberahip loyalty,
retaining the present freedom from pclitical control, and strengthening demo-
cratic management.
The Agriculture Divisicn of Natural Rescurces Section advised the Ministry
of Agriculture and Ferestry in the preparaticn of the pew cocperative legis-
lation, and in administration of the prcgram.
Crop and Livestiek Insurance
Japan's deficit focd positirn requirus that agricultural production be
maintnined (n land wt ich wculd be considered submarginal in a country which
prrduces surpluses ef feed. Compulsiry crep insurance, supperted in part by
povernment subsidy, and veluntary livestcck insurance have been in operation
with linited benerits since ly2y and 1rsy respectively as measures required
to keep submarginal land in preductien.
Juran's present in surance system, as uuthorized in the law of 15 December
194b fer c mpensution A, ainst Agricultural Loss, is a version of the system
existing ut the time of surrender. The changes were designed to bring the
system int( hurm ny with basic Cccuputicn (bjectives and tc correct adminis-
tritive and prccedural difficulties. Insurarce ccverage on staple food crops
is cempulstry in crder tr puerantee maximum effectiveness of the program in
terms of crep producti n. Preniums are fixed for each aren in accerd with that
ureu's past recird if lusses. Livest ck insurance is veluntary unless the
teneral membership (f the l cal agricultural mutual asstciation votes to make
it cimpulsory. Insurunce (f cther pr(perty and prcduce is (ptiunal. Adminis-
tration is pliced in lrcal apricultural mutual relief asstciatiens operated
by farmers, and in prefeetural federatiens ef these lecal asscciations. The
Juponese Soverpment exereises cnly limited peneral supervision.
Agricaltural mutuul relief asscriati ns cstablished in a li cal basis
numbered 10,663 as (f 3) April 1949. Each prefecture hud cne federaticn.
Li cal nsst ciutions in sure with prefecturul federatirns, which in turn reinsure
with the national gr vernment. Li sses in excess if the amcunt ccllected as
premiums are met by g verrmont subsidy. The principle cf subsidy is established
purtly in recognitiin f the ritiir's respit sibility t participate in ccsts
incurred frr bunefits whict wecrue t the tatin, and partly tr keep premiums
within the farmers' cupucity t pay.
The Apriciltur Livisiin f Nuturul Restures Sectin assisted the Minis-
try f Agriculture und Fer stry fricials in prepuring the presont crop and
livestrek insurane lupislati t, in develrpiny and implumunting administrative
ilicies, nd in itulyzinp th proproes if insurarce uctivities under the new
1.1w.
2

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.93)
894.61/12-2349
Office of the U.S, Political Advi
for Japan
Fokyo, December 23, 1949.
No. 893
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFEAIHS
no aile
UNCLASSIFLED
JAN-31950
ust
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2
Sunject: r smission cf Publication on Nission and Accomplish-
Rec'd.
reits of the Cocupation in the latural Resources Field.
Dec.28
ACTION:
FE-enc
 tmg T.al  ser has the honor to refer to this
INFO:
Kis  s depat b . 7s dated November 16, 1949, on the subject
FR
"Pransmis-ion  Publication on. Japanese Agricultural Programs
DCR
Under ths Ccaupation."
OLI
ITP
re  now enrlosed four copies of a publication entitled
COM-enc
i A mpli shmerts of the Occupation in the Natural
TAR
he atural Resources Section (NRS),
AGRI-onc
37A7
Alihough dated September 26, 1949,
FRB-enc
eceived y this Mission until re-
894.61/12-2349
ik
e af mation on agriculture, con-
 is substantially a summary of in-
-n ic sure tc che reference despatch. Addi-
om taon is presented with respect to the
Se corase corditions, and mining and geo-
m8
 th- pr sent study, together with similar
Sections of General Headquarters, was
 f presenting information on various
r or the bemefit of visiting American and
Inclesure:
DEPNSTMENT UP
RECFINED
fpuclicstion entitled
50
plisments of the
JANI
 Vat ral Resources
OTTE  LBBA
JUL271950
Parchmen Mat to the Department
020
CHbsehringerslee
UNCLABSIFI D
ACTION COPY

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.90)
GENERAL HRADUARTEHS
SUPHER COMMANDER POR THE ALLIID POERS
Miasior. and Accomplishente of the Occu ation
in the Hatural Hesourcee Field
Natural Raamurcen Section
26 Septomber 1749

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.95)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I
Introduction..........
1
11
Agriculture.
3
III
Fishing Industry...........
10
IV
Wildlife..
15
 Forest Conditions.........
15
VI Mining and Geology........
20
Charte
Chart 1 Organisation of Matural Resources Section...
2
2 How the "GARIOa" Dollar is Spent in Japan...
3
3 SCap Authorized Area for Japanese Fishing...
14
4
Relation between Coniferous Timber Cat and
Growth..
16

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.97)
MISSION AND ACCOMPLISHBOENTS OF THE GOCUPATION IN THE NATURAL MESOURCES
FIELD
I. INTRODUCTION
1. Production from all the natural resourcee of Japan is the pri-
mary concern of Matural Resources Section. Its field of operations in-
oludes most of the land ares of Japan, and the surrounding seas as well.
The significance in the life of the Japanese of the materials and aotiv-
ities with which the Matural Resources Section is concerned can hardly
be overestimated.
2. 0f the 91.000.000 aores making up Japan. 17.000,000 aares (19
percent) is agrioultural land. About 15.000.000 mcres of this land is
under cultivation, and the remainder is pasture and range land. Forest
areas of 62,000,000 acres account for 68 percent of the total, and lakes
and rivers l.5 percent. The remainder coneiste of inhabited areas. roads.
and wasteland such as mountains above the timberline. These factors re-
veal that a study of the fields covered by the Matural Resourcee Section
involves a study of nearly 90 percent of the total land surface of Japan.
3. The present population of Japan (September 1949) 1s estimated
to be 80.000,000 persons. The Japanese labor force over the age of 14
years totals roughly 36,000,000 persons. About 18.000,000 of shese
workers are engaged in agriculture and forestry. Another 6l0.000 are
engaged full time in fishing and related pursuits, and 500.000 in mining
and the smelting and refining of metals. Thus 53 peroent of the total
adult working population of Japan is engaged in farming, fishing. for-
estry, or mining. If part-time employees. seasonal employees, and
children were considered, these figares would be greatly magnified. In
the United States these fields include only 35 percent of the total
population.
4. Matural Resources Section deals, in large measure, with the
primary products of the country - the items produced from approximasely
90 percent of the land area. and from the seas. These products consist
of food from agrioulture, fisheries, and wildlife, construction mate-
rials, fuel for heating. cooking, and transportation, and mammfacturing
materiale from foreste and mines. From these resources must come the
largest possible supply for the Japanese population, and material for
export as well. In addition to its interest in the basic resources of
the country. Matural Resources Section is concerned with the democra-
tisation and economic welfare of the people whose livelihood comes from
farming. fishing, forestry, and mining - more than one-half of the popu-
lation.
5. In all of the production fields outlined above, thie Section's
mission is (1) to maximise immediate production and promote efficient
utilisation of the materiale produced in order to minimise import re-
quirements, and (2) to maximise long-range production in order to reduce
Japan's future dependence on foreign sources for its supplies.
6. Matural Resources Section was organised with four technical
divisions, to cover agricultural, fishery, forestry, and mining and
geologioal activities, respectively, and the necessary service divisions.
After four yeare of experience, the organisation is as shown in 
Chart 1.
7. Japanese food production is very important not only to Japan
bus also to the United States, for we have taken the responsibility of

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.97)
ORGANIZATION OF NATURAL RESOURCES SECTION
26 SEPTEMBER I949
CHIZF
NATURAL RESOORCES
SECTION
EXECUTIVE
OFFICER
AGRICULTURE
DIVISION
FISHERIES
DIVISICN
DIVISION
FOREBTRY
MINTNO AND
GEOLOGY
DIVISION
BCONCMICS
ECONONICS
ECONOMICS
NIKERAIS
BRANCH
BRANCH
BRANCH
BRANCH
PRODUCTION
PRODUCTION &
PROCESSING
PRODUCTS &
RESEARCH
SOLID FUEIS
BRANCH
BRANCH
BRANCH
BRANCH
RESEARCH
RESOURCES
RESCURCES
PETROLEUM
BRANCH
BRANCH
BRANCH
BRANCH
FERTILIZER
SOIIS &
BRANCH
FACILITIES
BRANCH
PULP &
PAPER
BRANCH
ECOMOMICS
NINERAL
BRANCH
STATISTICS
WIIDLIFE
METALLURGY
BRANCH
BRANCH
BRANCH
PIANS AND
POLICIES
PIVISION
ADMINISTRATION
PIVISION
EDITORIAL &
PRODUCTION
DIVISION
COORDINATIC
OPERATIONS
PERSONNEL
MITORIAL
BRANCH
BRANCH
BRANCH
BRANCH
SPECIAL
PRCJECTS
BRANCH
BRANCH
LIRRARY
TRANSPORTATION
SUPPIY &
BRANCH
PRODUCTION
BRANCH
ER CHART 1
2

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.95)
insuring that the Japasese de met
starve, at least during she peried
HOW THE "CARIOA"DOLLAR
of the Cccupasion. This commits
us to making up any daficit which
IS SPENT IN JAPAN
muy exist betveen Japas's predae-
sion and its mimimm meeds.
FISCAL YEAR 1948
B. The importance of Japan's
food supply to the Supreme Com-
mander for the Allied Povere and
the United States is raflected in
the breakdown of the latest avail-
FOOD 54.35%
able figures on United States funds
expended for aid and relief in Jep-
a. In 1948 more than 50 peroest
of these Gamos funds were pent
PAY 4.93
RULLIZER 501x
directly for food, and food and
POL 7.38%
fertiliser expenditures together
accounted for nenrly 60 peroemt
(Mn Chart a). A large percentage
TRANSPORTATION
19.10%
of the remainder was used indi-
rectly for the production of food.
MERICAL
since mmch of the cost of tress-
OTHER SUPPLIES
SUPPLIES
portasion, supplies, petrolemm
& EQUIPMENT 880%
43%
moving and processing foods. It
products, and pay is applied toward
has been determined that apprexi-
mately 95 cents of each Gakioa
 Chart 2
dollar was expended on importatios,
production, or processing of food-
stuffs.
9. With responsibilities covering nerrly 90 percent of the land
area, 53 peroent of the adult working population, and 95 peroent of the
funds used for relief. Batural Resources Section has realised the urgent
need for detailed sudy of all probleme bearing upon the resouroes situ-
ation. The following general desoription of each of the four fields
covered  this Section sets forth the objectives pursued. progress made.
and the programs under way at present.
II. AGRICULTURE
1. Introduction: a. The two most important agricultural problems
confronting the Occupation in Japan have been ineufficient food production
and the low economic status of the rural commmnity. Topography and the
pressure of a large farm population on a limited acreage have had much to
do with the relatively small aree under cultivatien, and with the small,
meconomic farm units, widespread tenancy, and the low standard of living
of those whe till the soil. The Japanese are good farmers, but even
their skill cannot overcome the limitations imposed by a total of oaly
15 million acres of cultivated land and 82 million people. In the past
Japan could not attain food self-sufficiency even in years of abundant
crops, but has had to rely on imports to make good the deficit. Now
that former overseas sources of supply are no longer available, maxi-
mising food production is one of Japan's most urgent needs.
b. The scarcity of arable land in Japan gave rise to many
abuses in the land tenure system and in the field of agricultural taxss
and credit. These abuses, coupled with domination of agriculture by
3

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.98)
bureancratic and nonagrarian interests, maltiplied the difficalties of
the Japanese farmer in attaining a level of economic security comparable
to the remainder of the population. National policies designed te expand
industrial production and foreign trade relegated agriculture te am infe-
rior position in the economy. Those dependent upon the land for their
livelihood did not share to any substantial degree in the improved
standard of living that resulted from the inoreased national imoeme.
o. The low economic status of the Japanese farmere over the
years has crented among that group a feeling of hopelessmess and rest-
lessness. Agrarian unrest in turn has provided no mall part of the
stimulue to Japan's imperialistic foreign policy. Tenante partioalarly.
and farmers generally, have been in large measure sympathetic to estres-
ist political movements by Japan's militaristic exponents.
d. In recognition of the nature of Japan's economy. the Osou-
pation has directed its agricultural programs toward two major objeo-
tives, namely, maximum food production, and the achievement of secial and
economic stability of the farm population. The brief report that follows
outlines the nature and scope of the agricultural programe instituted.
2. Production Statistice: a. Stimalated ty expansion of trade
and population. Japan increased its staple food output 96 percent between
the l880'e and the decade immediately preceding World War II. Mice and
wheat accounted for most of this gain. At the end of World War II hos-
tilities, however, many of its people faced the threat of starvasion.
By 1945 fertiliser shortages, combined with bad weather and other dis-
rupting influences, had reduced harvests. Since that time prodnction
has sradually increased. In l948 staple food crop harvests were six
peroent above the 1931-40 average. but not as high as the 1930 recerd
crop. Increase came chiefly from sweet and white potatoes and barley.
b. In the period extending from the 1880's to 1921, Japan had
expanded its cultivated areas from 12 percent of the total land mase to
16 percent, resulting in a total cultivated ares of about 15,000.000
mores. After that time the area remained relatively constant until the
war, when military requisitions reduced it by about 500.000 acres.
c. Annual harvests of minor cereals, beans, and peas folloved
the upward trend of the staple crops until about l920. but declined
thereafter. The trend in vegetable and fruit production continued up-
ward for a longer period. However, with major emphasis on staple food
crops during and since the war, the trend reversed. In 194s production
ranged from 23 to 40 percent less than prewar for these sroups.
d. Among industrial crops, mulberry for silkworms (which more
than doubled in average annual acrenge from the 188l-90 decade to the
1931-40 decade) has been out back during and since the war to less than
two-thirds of the l88l-90 figure. Thie decrease hae been due to lose of
foreign silk markets and need for land for food production. Tea prodno-
tion is little more than one-half of the prewar average. On the other
hand, the 1948 tobacco crop was 42 peroent more than in 1931-40.
3. Fertiliser: a. With soils naturally low in fertility and
with intensive oropping, Japan mst rely heavily on fertilisers. When
World War II began, the nation had ample facilities to produce most of
its nitrogenous and phosphatic commeroial fertilisere but had to import
phosphatic rock. Limited equipment and lack of indigenous deposits made
it necessary also to ship in the inorganic potash used. Peak fertiliser
production was reached during the period 1936-40. When war hostilities
4

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.97)
ended, the fertiliser industry was in a serious condition. Since then
commercial fertiliser supplies have increased steadily. largely as a
result of action by Allied authorities. including importe of large quan-
tities and introduction of measures to increase domestie productios.
The supply of nitrogemous fertiliser for fars consumption has risem from
439,000 metric tons in fiscal year 1946 to 1.464,000 metric toms im 1949;
phosphatic fertiliser used by farmere increased during that peried frem
32,156 metric tons to l.033,125 metric tons, and potash supplies consased
have mounted from 903 metrie tons to 159,000 metric tons.
b. A yetem of fertiliser alloontione, begun during the war.
has been recast by the Ocoupation to insure timely deliveries and equi-
table distribution between crops and areas. Importance of compost, ani-
mal mamares, and night soil in crop production has been emphasised con-
timmously. Ourrent use of compost and night soil is estimated to be
above the 1936-40 average.
4. Inssct and Disease Control: Plant insecte and diseases. al-
though estimated to reduce crops in Japan by at lenst 12 peroens annually.
received minor control astention prior to l947. While some good resalted
from laboratory investigations, field work had been neglected. Use of
pesticides in the dust form was practically unknown. Insecticide sup-
plies, reduced during the war, have been adequate in l949. Eperimental
work has been encouraged on insect control, the use of dusts, and the use
of new insecticides. DDt and bensene hexachloride. newly developed
insecticides which can be produced in Japan, have relieved the pressure
on other chemicale, particularly diesel oil and pyrethrum for control of
rice leaf heppers. Other insecticides have been imported for testing.
In addition to larger sapplies and more effective kinds of pesticide.
efforts are being made to improve control practices. The principle and
use of inseoticide duste and aerosols are being emphasised to obtain more
effective control of pests. An Agricultural Chemical Control Law was
promalgated in l94s to assist in overcoming the inferior quality of pes-
tioides. A Plant Quarantine and mergenay Pest Control measure will be
presented to the next session of the Diet. R is assisting the Jspamese
Government in the programs discuesed above and is sponsoring an extensive
research program designed to develop more effective controls of plant
pests, particularly rice borers.
5. Seed Situations a. Improved seed is a major factor affecting
crop production in Japan. Methods of plant breeding. and seed inorease
inspection. certification, and distribution as means of increasing food
prodnction have been greatly improved under the guidance of Matural Re-
sources Section. Eybridisation and back-crossing have only recently
received attention from Japanese scientists, and long-range increase in
yields through these techniques may be expected.
b. Under the Occupation, pronounced advances have been made
in the production of certified seed of white potatoes. Seven foundation
seed farme were established in l947 and incressed emphasis placed on
seed production. This program is reflected in banner potato production
in 1948 and 1949 despite inclement weather over much of the potato area
of Japan during the 1949 growing season.
c. Botable improvement has also been made in the selection.
curing. and storing of seed of sweet potatoes. Nethods of curing intro-
dnced ty Matural Resources Section now permit long-time storage and the
planting of sound seed, and are paving the way for improving the main
orop storage.
5

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.97)
6. Lávestock; a. Livestock playe a minor role as a direet food
in Japan. Before l8ss, the nation consumed almost no meat or milk. Up
to 194l animal foods, other than fish, amounted to only a litsle more
than one peroent of the total food consumed. Even this amount deereased
during and after World War II. largely becanse of lack of concemtrate
feeds. Horses and draft cattle are necessary to provide farm drafts pewer:
the present mumber of draft animals is considered sufficient for that par
pose. Nore dairy cows, dairy goats, and sheep are needed for inoreesed
production of protein food and other products. Swine have imereased
markedly in recent yeare despite the shortage of concentrate feeds.
Poultry has regained only a slight portion of the 70 peroent desrease it
suffered during the period 1941-46.
b. Under Sdap direction, the livestock control compamies were
diesolved. Government livestook breeding stations are still mmintaimed.
although their need has not been demonstrated.  is encouraging policies
to establish an economically sound livestock progras. These policies in-
clude inoreased indigenous feed production (especially improved forage
production), to the extent possible without decreasing the amouss of staple
food grown and livestook breeding prodnction and utilisation  private
enterpriees, at maximm levels consistent with feed imports. Govermmest
aid in the form of improved research and education facilities, and farmer
accese to long and short term credit at low interest rates are aleo in-
cluded in these policies.
7. Pood Storege and Preservation: The Japanese climate, with hot
hamid summers and rains in the late spring and fall harvest seasons.
magnifies food storage and preservation problems. The six million tome
of sweet potatoes deluging the fall markets present an especial diffi-
culty. Storage facilities are inndequate, and freesing weather in
winter prevents later shipment. Grain storage is adequate in ompacity
but is not rodent-proof or air-conditioned. Vegetables are preserved
by salting, pickling, or drying, but major losses remult during market
movements from lack of refrigeration and shipping facilities. The Jap-
anese are now paying particular attention to potato poilage problems.
Sweet potato storage on farms has been receiving increasing emphasis
since l947; the govemment will pay 70 percent more for farm-stored
sweet potatoes after 1 March 1950 than during the peak season. A five-
year plan has been launched to provide llc,000 metrio tons additional
space for potatoes each year. Currently 215 buildinge to provide an
annual storage capacity of about 25,000 metrio tons are under con-
struotion.
8. Land Reclamation and Improvement: a. Recognizing land reole-
mation and improvement as a besic means of incressing food production.
the Japanese Government has provided subsidies for this activity for
many decades. Nevertheless, land reclaimed from l910 to l939 averaged
slightly less than 30,000 mores per year; gains from reclamation were
largely offset by divereions of agrioultural land to other uses. From
1937 to 1944, because of military acquisition, cultivated areas de-
creased about 500,000 acres. After the surrender, the government placed
1ncreased emphasis on land reclamation. Under SCaP direction the Land
Reform Law was written; it inaluded authority for the sovernment to
acquire uncultivated land for reclamation and established procedures for
sale of reclaimed land to cultivators. A new Land Improvement Lew.
promulgated in June l949, provides for more effective land improvement
conducted  associations of the looal people concerned.
b. With the inoreased emphasis on reclamation since 1945, the
covernment has mcquired 2.7 million mcres of unoultivated land for re-
olamation and 845,000 mores have been reclaimed.
6

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.97)
c. sOap consultante have, assisted the Jmpanese authorisies mot
only in implementing legislation and instructions but also in the solu-
tion of technical problems in mctual field work. Guidance has bees
siven in developing standards for the selection of land so be reelaimed.
in planming and settling reclaimed areas, and in designing and construo-
ting land improvement projects.
9. Soil Survey: Bmsic knowledge of the soile is essential to
proper evaluation of Japanese agriculture, and to establishment of pol-
ioy and development of programs for increasing food and feed crops. The
first soil maps of Japan were made under a program instituted is lses, and
by l945 all cultivated land, except parts of Mokkaido, had beem mepped.
In 1936, however, aware of the inadequscies of their soil maps, Japanese
soil scientists began the study of foreign olassifioation methods. Few
mape were completed under the revised scheme. A reconnaissance seil
survey was initiated under the Occupation in late 1945. The earvey. W
United States soil scientists, makes use of an internationally kmows
system of classifying soils by the morphological characterissies of the
soil profile. Field work has been ompleted, and preparation of a series
of sight reports is now in progress.
10. Pood Collection: a. As the Japanese Sovernment tighsemed its
economic and other controls in the years immediately preceding and during
World War II. it instituted a aystem of food collection from famere and
rationing to non-farm families. Only rice was collected in the first
year - l940. Wheat and barleys were added in 194l and sweet potatoes and
white potatoes in l942. The system was used through she remaining war
years. Food shortages necessitated continuance ty the Occupasiom of the
collection and rationing aystes. Use of the syetem apparently will be
necessary for a number of years to come.
b. About 80 percent of all staple crops is subject to colleo-
tion. Bafore planting time each year, the Ministry of Agrioultare and
Forestry, on the basis of "normal" production, determines delivery quotas
and assigas them to prefectures. The prefectural sovernmente sub-allot
the quotas to counties (guns) and cities; the counties sub-allot them so
towns and villages, which in turn assign them to individual farmers.
Quotas may be revised downward at harvest time if crop conditions warrant.
Authority to increase quotas at harvest time will be considered at the
next session of the Mational Diet.
c. Coneumer goode in short supply are made available on a
priority basis to farmers as an incentive to stimulate crop deliveries.
d. The 1942-44 war years showed a continuously high total
collection level, followed by a sharp drop in 1945 and progreasive in-
creases through 194s. Deliveries of each of the staple crops in 1948
exceeded those of l947. The outlook for 1949 collections is encouraging.
. The Matural Resources Section maintains close and continuing
surveillance over all phases of the food collection program, including
food production, assignment and revision of collection quotas, and actual
collectione by the Japanese Government.
11. Crop Reporting: a. In l878 Japan began to collect national
statistics on area and production of all major crops, based on reports
from prefectural sovermment officials. Field sampling to determine yield
at harvest time was commonly used by local crop surveyors as early as
1933, but prior to l947 little attempt was made to forecast production
ahead of harvest.
7

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
b. A lucrative "black merket". and fear of motual henger grew-
ing out of the war served as incentives for farmere and local affieials
to underreport both crop plantings and yielde. As a result, the mcoaracy
of national crop ares and production reports was impaired. Following a
study by an expert from the United States in 1946. a new orop repersing
system was set up. with control and supervision centralised in the Mimis-
try of Agriculture and Forestry. Under this systes, the acouragy ef
farmers' reports on acreage of crops is measured by means of sample sar-
veye, and yielde are determined by field sampling. These operatioms are
conducted by trained personns) in prefectural offices of the Ministry of
Agrioulture and Forestry. Acreage surveys in l948 accounted for more than
a million acres of staple crope that farmers had failed to report.
c. Japan's food deficit must be met by U.s. appropriation. so
a reliable crop reporting system is mandatory. The present ystem is s-
perior to that used prior to l948, but many problems remain. mffective
guidance eventually should place the Japanese crop reporting system on a
high plane of efficiency and effectiveness.
12. Aricultural Ressarch: a. Japan' lack of sufficient arable
land to provide food for her growing population takes an effective agri-
cultural research system imperative to ineure highest returne from the
agricultural resources. When the Oocupation began, research work was
scattered, with little coordination, among eeveral hundred experiment
stations and research institutions. The arrangement resulted in dupli-
cation of effort and inefficient use of funds. Further. equipment was
inadequate in many of the stations.
b. On advice of Matural Resources Section specialists. the
Japanese Diet enacted legielation in l948 to provide for elimination of
nonessential stations, consolidation of research institutions, sppli-
cation of research to imediate and practical farm problems. and promps
dissemination of findings to farmers. An Agricultural Improvement Bu-
rean was established in the Winistry of Agriculture and Forestry in Augast
1948. A plan for consolidating research institutione was approved by the
Cabinet in July 1949 and 1s soheduled for accomplishment by 1 April 1950;
under this plan 135 stations will be closed and 53 will be combined with
the l9l remmining. Matural Resources Section specialists conducted a
school in experimental methods in March 1949. Under the guidanoe of these
pscialists various experiments have been conducted which utilise experi-
mental design methode only recently known to the Japanese.
13. Agricultural Extension: a. Planned distribution of technical
knowledge to farmere in Japan was provided by legislation enacted in l899
establishing a government-controlled system of agricultural associations
to improve crop practices. Under this system the government provided for
one or more technicians in each village to work with farmers. In addition.
cooperatives, organised under a law of l900, helped finance operations of
farms to supply superior seed and in some instances employed teohnicians
to advise farmer members.
b. During World War II the associations and coopemtives were
combined into a national association which was siven control over crop
quotas, collections, and rationing of critical materials. Agricultural
technicians were given control and policing duties. The national control
organisation and its member associatione were dissolved by direction of
the Ocoupation authorities.
c. Legielation enacted in July l948 provided for an agrioul-
tural advisory service. Prefectural sovernments are completing the
organisation of Agricultural Improvement Sections to work with the
8

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.98)
national government in developing such a syetem. More than 6,000 village
farm and home advisors have been appointed, and more than 3,300 rural
youth clube have been organised. Matural Resources Section specialiste
are working with the Japanese on plans for on-the-job-training programs
to develop advisory techniques and leadership skills.
14. Land Reform: a. Prior to the Occupation 70 percent of the
Japanese farmers rented all or part of the land they cultivated. The
pressure of population on limited land resources perpetuated a feudal-
istic land temure system requiring payment of exorbitant rents in kind
often amounting to 50 to 70 percent of grose farm production. Japanese
land reform legislation enacted by the Diet and promulgated 21 October
1946 has two main objectivee: (1) tranefsr f  ownership to farmers
who actually till the soil and (2) improvement o: farm tenancy practices
for those who contimue as terants. The program emphasises private indi-
vidual ownership of land rather than state or collective ownership.
During the initial transfer phase, which is virtually completed. almost
one-third of the cultivated land in Japan - more than 4.5 million mores
involving about 30 million tracts - has been purchased by the govermment
from former land ownere for resale to cultivators. An estimated 12 per-
cent of the cultivated land will remain in tenancy to provide the neces-
sary amount of tenure flexibility. The land reform program aleo includes
provisions to ineure fair tenancy practices for the remmining tenants
such as written farm leases, rent ceilings, cash rentale, restrictions
on land transfer, and safeguarde againet arbitrary changes in rental
contracts. Ourrent operatione include the registration of title trane-
fers, collection and payment for lands sold and purchased by the govern-
ment, and continued improvement of tenancy practices.
b. The Matural Resources Section provided technical advice and
guidance in the preparation of the legislation on which the land reform
program is based. Specialists onsulted with Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry officials, furnishing advice and guidance on administrative
policies adopted and maintaining contimuous contact with the progress of
all aotivities.
15. Agricultural Cooperatives: a. The minute size of the average
Japanese farm management unit requires that farmere pool their efforts and
resources through cooperation. The prewar Japanese government took ad-
vantage of this situation to construct a monopolistic hierarchy of agri-
cultural associations through which the government controlled almost all
aspeots of farm life. Membership was compulsory for all farmers.
b. SCaP policy has required dissolution of this basically
militaristic set-up and ite replacement by a genuine agrioultural cooper-
ative movement free from domination by nonagrarian interests and dedi-
cated to the economic and cultural advancement of the farmer. The Agri-
cultural Cooperative Association Lav, which became effective on 15 De-
cember l947, provided for the organisation of democratic agricultural
cooperatives based on internationally recognised cooperative principles.
By 30 June 1949 a total of 31,329 local and individual cooperatives had
been organised. These had federated into a total of 993 federations of
agricultural cooperatives by the same date. Volume of business records
for the year l948 showed that cooperatives handled a major portion of
farmer purchases, sales, financial deposits, and loans. Nemberehip in
these cooperatives is voluntary. Each member has one vote. The primary
purpose of the cooperatives is maximum service to participating members
rather than payment of dividends on invested capital. Resulte of officer
electione for these organisations in March through May 1949 show that
over 80 percent of the present officers have never been directors or
anditors in the former agricultural associations. This indicates a
subetantial change of leadership in rural communities.
9

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.98)
c. Problems remaining include improving the operating effi-
ciengy and placing the new orgamisations on a sound financial basis.
building membership loyalty, retaining the present freedom from political
control, and strengthening democratic manngement.
16. Crop and Livestock Inurance: a. Japan's deficit food position
requires that agricultural production be maintained on land which would
be considered submarginal in a country which prodnces surpluses of food.
Compulsory crop insurance, supported in part by government subsidy, and
voluntary livestock insurance have been in operation with limited bene-
fits since 1929 and 1939 respectively as measures required to keep sub-
marginal land in production.
b. Japan's present insurance aystem, as authorised in the law
of 15 Decenber 1945 for Compensation Against Agricultural Loss, 1s a re-
vision of the systen existing at the time of surrender. The changes were
designed to bring the aystem into harmony with basic Occupation Objectives
and to correct administrative and procedural difficulties. Insurance cov-
erage on staple food crops is compulsory in order to guarantee mmximm
effectiveness of the progrem in terme of crop production. Premiugs are
fixed for each area in accord with that area's past record of losses.
Livestock insurance is voluntary unless the general membership of the
local agricultural mutual association votes to make it compulsory.
Insurance of other property and prodnce is optional. Administr-tion is
placed in local agricultural mutual relief associations operated by
farmers, and in prefectural federations of these local associations. The
Japanese Government exercises only linited general supervision.
c. Agricultural mutual relief associations establiahed on a
local basis numbered 10,663 as of 30 April 1949. Bach prafecture had
one federation. Local associations insure with prefectural federations,
which in turn reinsure with the national government. Losses in excess
of the amount collected as premiums are met by government subsidy. The
principle of subsidy is established partly in recognition of the nation's
responsibility to participate in costs incurred for benefite which accrue
to the nation, and partly to keep premiums within the farmers' capacity
to pay.
d. The Matural Resources Section assisted the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry officiale in preparing the present crop and
livestock insurance legielation, in developing and implementing adminie-
trative policies, and in analyzing the progress of insurance activities
under the new law.
III. FISHING INDUSTRY
1. Introduction: a. The Japanese. to a greater extent than any
other major nation. have developed the resources of the sea to supply
their neede. This development has been stimulated by the very limited
land areas suitable for cultivation, the pressure of population, and the
need of this population for food. and by the concentration of the popu-
lation on the shores of productive seas with steep mountains at their
back and the open seas before them. More than one million people are
engagod full or part time in exploiting the resources of the sea. Practi-
cally every speciee of sen animal and plant is used for human consumption
or for industrial purposes, and the Japanese fishermen before World War
II had spread out to fish a greater area of the high seas than was ever
before exploited by one nation.
b. In prewar years. the production of Japanese fishermen operating
from the home islande averaged about 9.300,000,000 pounds, This amount
10

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
was more than double the production of the United states, the second most
important fish producing nation of the world. About 7,900,000,000 pemeds
of Japen's prewar production came from the areas now authorized for Jap-
anese fishing, with most of the remainder coming from northern areas
(which are now under the administration of U.S.S.R.) and smaller qumti-
ties from the Yellow Sea and high seas outside the present area. Bwem
though Japanese fishing boats ranged widely aver the high seas about 85
percent of Japen's total production came from waters lying within sight
of the coast of the four main islande.
2. Recent Productioni a. During the last part of World War II
Japanese fishery production decreased greatly as a result of shortages
of petroleum for operating fishing boats, shortages of fishing gear, less
of the larger fishing boats taken over by the Japanese navy. and disrup-
tion of the handling and distribution of fish on shore as a result of
bombing attacks. No dependable data are available for the amount of fish
produced during l945, which was the low point in fish production, but it
was far below the prewar level.
b. Following the surrender, fish production was rapidly in-
creased by the construction of new fishing boats and the distribusien ef
petroleum and of fishing gear made up from manila and cotton fibers re-
leased by the Japenese armed forces when they were demobilised. By 1947
production had been restored to a level approaching the prewar average
for the same area, except for sardines and herring. Before the war these
species supplied about 3,000,000,000 pounds to the annual cateh, but in
recent years their abundance in the sea has decreased, for reasons not
understood by fishermen or scientists. This decline in the sardime runs
has been paralleled on the coast of California where little more is known
about the cause than in the Japanese fisheries.
c. By 1948 the Japanese fishing fleet had been restored to its
prewar level, but supolies of fishing ropes, nets, and twine produced
mostly from manila and cotton left by the Japanese armed foroes had been
nearly exhausted, and current imports of these materials were far short
of requirements. As a result of this shortage of supplies and the con-
tinued scarcity of sardines, aquatic production in 1948 dropped te about
6,000,000,000 pounds, a level considerably below that of the previous
yoar.
3. Fishing Supplies: a. The growing scarcity of fishing supplies
first becmme evident during field surveys made by fishery experte of
Natural Besources Section in the spring and summer of 1947, to determine
the status of fish production. These specialists estimated that pro-
duction would drop at least 25 percent in 1948 and more in the following
years unless funds for purchese of such materials vere greatly increased.
As a result of this warning, an emergency allotment of more than
$15,000,000 was made available late in 1947, and additional funds total-
ing nearly $45,000,000 were spent for fisheries supplies during the
following year. After these funds became available, ray materials,
consisting mostly of manila and cotton fibers and petroleum producte.
were purchased and brought into Japan where thay were processed and
began reaching the fishermen in rapidly increasing quantities during
the fall of l948. As a result of thie program, sufficient quantities
of materials reached the fishermen during l949 to replace most of their
old worn-out gear. With thie restoration of gear, production in 1949
is expected to approach 7,000,000,000 pounds, the highest level since
hostilities ended and considerably more than prewer production from this
area, except for sardines and herring. The large quantities of materials
distributed in l949 have done much to restore the fisherman's equipment
to normal condition so that requirements for l950 and the eneuing years
will drop to the level required for normal replacements.
11

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
b. With adequate supplies of fishing materials and further
development of resources where research shows this to be pessible, pre-
duction of aquatic products in 1950-5l is expected to increase progres-
sively. If sardines and herring return to the Japanese waters in numbers
comparable to those found before the war, production will considerably
exceed the quantities taken during prevar years from the area now opem
to fishing.
c. The current Natural Resourcee Section program in the field
of fisheries supplies requires continued checking, through field trips.
on Japanese requirements for fishing materials, expediting action to ob-
tain adequate funds and procure needed supolies, and maintaining sur-
veillance over dietribution to see that materials reach the fishermsm
and are most effectively used. Surveillance is being continued over the
Japanese fishing boat building program to insure that an adequate number
and tonnage of boats are available to meet changing needs. At present
most categories of Japanese fishing boats include somewhet larger nmbers
than were in service before the war. The entire povered fleet totals
450,000 boats of 1,100,000 gross tons. In order to avoid exhaustion of
the present fishing grounds and inefficient use of limited fishing ma-
terials, no new construction is being authorised except for replacement
purposes. If development of new fisheries or extension of the present
fishing area results in a need for more boats, suitable increases in the
fishing fleet will be authorised.
4. Fishing Areas: a. The problem of fishing areas is extremely
important to Japan, not only because the area available to Japanese
fishermen affects the quantity of fish produced but alse because the use
of high seas areas by the Japanese is of much concern to the people of
the Allied powers and other neighboring nations. The original limitation
of fishing area was placed on Japenese fishing as a security measure and
to prevent complications which might arise from the contacts of Japemese
fishermen with those of other nations. Limitation on area has been con-
tinued for these reasons and also to give the Japanese fishermen an
opportunity to demonstrate whether they had changed some of the attitudes
and activities which had made Japanese prewar fishing objectionable to
the people of many other nations. These activities included over-
exploitation of fishing grounds and failure to observe international
agreements and practices.
b. Matural Besources Section personnel are advising and en-
couraging the Japsnese Government and fishing industry in eliminating
these objectionable characteristics. Violations of the authorised
fishing area have occurred, but at present the Japanese Government is
setting up and operating a fishery inspection system to detect and re-
port boate fishing outside of the authorised areas. The research pro-
gran conducted by the government is being reorganised to increase its
efficiency and effectiveness; it is being redirected to place greatest
emphasis on determining methods for administering the fisheries in order
to provide the largest possible sustained production. This attitude
contrasts with the prewar programs which stressed exploitation and ex-
pansion of fishing grounds and processing of products, with little or
no work on sustained yield. Under the new program the Japanese Govern-
ment has begun an extensive research on the fisheries of the Tast China
Sea to determine the degree of exploitation which will result in highest
sustained yield. Results so far indicate that the present trawling
fleet is considerably larger than the area can support. A program was
inaugurated in the summer of 1949 to reduce the flest by 350 boats.
Additionel reductions will be msde later if further research indicates
that the fleet is still too large.
12

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
c. In recagnition of the progress made by the Japanese Gevern-
ment and the fishing industry in reducing the violations of the authorised
fishing area and correcting over-oxploitation where it had been shown to
exist, the Supreme Commander on 19 September 1949 authorised the Japanese
Government to extend the area of Japanese fishing operations to the east
as far as the international date line. This was the first extensiem
authorised since the susmer of 1946. It indicates that the Japanese
Government is cerrecting those abuses which lead to intensive oppesition
of other nations to the expansion of fishing areas. (mn Chart 3)
5. Processing and Sanitation: Advice and guidance are being pro-
vided the Japanese by MR specialists on methode of handling and precessing
aquatic products to improve quality and eliminate spoilage and ether
wastage. Outstanding examples of this progras in operation are the
Antarotic whaling expeditions authorised by the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers in 1946, 1947, and 1948. Japanese Antarctic whaling oper-
ations before World War II paid little attention to international oon-
ventions which protected small whales and female whales. Processing
methods used did not obtain maximm returne of food producte from the
whales. The post-surrender whaling expeditions have been under the
direct supervision of SCaP representatives who have required that maxi-
mum use be made of all parts of the whales and that all international
conventions be observed. This supervision plus the techmical advice
supplied have resulted in increesing the yield per blue whale unit (eme
blue whale or the equivalent) from the l8-ton average of the Japanese
1940-1941 expedit1on to about 48 tons for the 1948-1949 expedition.
Japanese observance of internationsl conventions regarding sise of
whales, and use of whale parts, also has been exemplary.
6. Democratisation: a. Japanese fisheries operate in a far
different manner than those of the United States, where anyone can nter
most fisheries if he hes the finances to purchase equipment. In Japan
most fisheries are operated under a system of fishing rights which
functions in a menner not greetly different from land ownership in agri-
culture. These rights have been developed over the centuries as a re-
sult of the feudalistic system and of the population pressure which has
forced the people to seek new sources for food production. Under the
conditione existent in Japan, these rights have desirable features for
they help prevent over-exploitation and exhanstion of aquatic resources.
However, these righte also have led to abuses similar to those found in
absentee ownership and sharecropping in agriculture.
b. Another development under the Japanese system was the
establishment of a series of fisheries control associations, with only
one association allowed in each community. These organisations were
dominated by the government and by local village bosses. After a long
period of study by NR experts working with t he Japenese Government.
corrective legislation was developed to eliminate the old control as-
sociations and set up procedures for the operation of cooperatives
based on the democratic procedures found to be effective in western
countries. After public hearings on the proposed legislation it was
passed by the Diet under pressure from fishermen's grouve. This legis-
lation allows fiahermen to organise one or more cooperatives in each
producing area; memberehip is restricted to active fishermen, and secret
balloting with one vote per member is required. Persons not eligible
for membership in the cooperatives may utilize their services but do
not have the right to vote. By September 1949, 89 percent of the 3,131
fishery associations were in the process of dissolution and Bll cooper-
atives had been formed, with many additional cooperatives awaiting anly
formal administrative approval of their applications. It is expected
that about 6,000 cooperatives will be formed to replace the 3,131
associations, and formation will be substantially completed by 1 July
1950.
23

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.90)
110°
120°
130°
140°
150
160°
170°
180
140:00'€
28:00
4830N
:0
U.S.S.R
H
HOKKAIDC
146°30'E
135°00'E
43°00'N
18S O0'E
40°00'N
4000'm
HONSHU
PACIFIC
EXTENSION AUTHORIZED
125'00'E
JF J0'N
OCEAN
19 SEPTEMBER 1949
SHHCOKU
7:00
KYUSHU
30
1:
:RYUKYU 18
180°00'E
24° 00°N
SCAP - AUTHORIZED AREAS
20
FOR
PHILIPPINE 18
JAPANESE FISHING
MAANAS IS
110
120°
130
140°
150°
160°
170°
100
MR Chart 3

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
c. Legislation to reforn'the system of fishing rights, with
the objective of enabling the fisherman to mwm the right which he oper-
ates, has been drafted by the Japanese Government. This legislatien now
is being considered by the Japanese Diet.
7. Administrative Organisation: The Japanese Government and the
fishing industry have been encouraged through example and advice to uti-
lise technically trained persons in government jobs dealing with the
fishing industry. As a result of this program the Japanese Fisheries
Bureau has been reorganised as a Fisheries Agency. All of the afficials
of this Agency, except for the administrative personnel, have techmical
training in the fishing industry for government. They ere graimally re-
organising the Agency to promote more efficient operations and to werk
closely with the industry on problems of greatest impertance to develep-
ment of fishing. This change is obtaining incre-sing support frem members
of the industry but meets with opposition from some quarters for it rep-
resents a reversel of the old Japanese concept that the industry
functions for the benefit of the government.
IV. WILDLIFE
The wildlife of Japan supplies a considerable amount of animal
protein to the rural population in areas where such proteine are most
needed. Nost hunting rights are owned by hunting associations and are
operated to provide game for market rather than recreation. Fnod short-
ages during the war caused excessive killing, resulting in deereases in
wildlife so great that even song birds are rarely seen. Furthermore the
control of harmful insects by birds has been greatly reduced. The Jap-
anese have been encouraged and advised in revising their game laws to
provide protection for beneficial birds and other wildlife and to make
possible the maximum sustained yield from these resources, whether for
commercial shooting or sport. They alen have been assisted in studies
of fur seals to provide information needed in development of interna-
tional treaties bearing on the exploitation of fur seals.
V. POREST CONDITIONS
1. Introduction:' a. Although Japan has the highest ratio be-
tween forest area and cultivated land of any country outside of the
tropics and Finland, it is faced with a serious forest situation.
Stating the problem in its simplest terms, Japen's timber is being cut
much faster than it is being replaced through growth.
b. Forests occupy 68 percent of the total land aree and are
of paramount importance in the general land use pattern of the country.
The resources of these forests are vital to t he national welfare through
their contribution to a self-sustaining economy. Foreste are especially
vital to the Japenese people as a source of fuel and timber since per
capita consumption of wood in Japen is one of the highest in the world.
Becsuse of the extremely mountainous terrain which requires forest over
as watershed protection, the forests have an important influence on food
and power production; they regulate water supply, contrel floods, and
prevent erosion and silting of reservoirs and farm lands.
c. Despite their vast forest areas the Japanese do not have
timber resources to meet their needs indefinitely without rigid conser-
vation measures. Present demands are being met at the expense of feture
requirements. Japen has imported wood since World War I, when this pelicy
was adopted in order to preserve the balance between use and growth.
Importation of wond contiaued, in general, until the late 1920's when
15

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
the demande of Japan's militarists made it neceseary to expend expert .
credits on more strategic war mmterials. As a result of this change is
policy, Japan's forests were subjected to overcutting to such am extemt
that during the years of World War II the drain reached four times the
amount of growth. During the Occupation, demands have continmed at a
high level. Wond has been used primarily for essential recenstructies
and rehabilitation, but, no matter how great the need, the result is
that the coniferous timber stands are being overcut at an annual rate
more than two and one-half times the growth. If this rate of over-
cutting continues, it is estimated that these important stands of timber
will be virtually exhausted within 15 years. Nevertheless, current
production plans of the Japenese call for increased cutting in forests
during the next five yeare. This situation is made even more serious by
the fact that, in successive years of overcutting, replacement of timber
through growth becomes less and less (mm Chart 4).
RELATION BETWEEN CONIFEROUS TIMBER CUT AND GROWTH
(1,000,000 koku log volume)
100
60
Timber cut
60
40
Growth
Estimated timber exhoustion
in about 15 years If cutting
level is maintained.
More timber is being cut than
20
grown. Supply faces exhoustion.
1930
1935
1940
1945
1960
Japonese fiscal year,
! Apr
31 Mor
I koku
= 9.827 cubic feet
MR Chart 4
d. The effects of overexploitation are evident through in-
creasing dameges to agricultural areas, hydroelectric and irrigation
developments, and lines of transportation and communications, as a
result of extensive soil erosion and increesing incidence of floods.
•. Other important contributing factors to Japanese forestry
problems have been and are insufficient reforestation, inedequate re-
search and extension, and depredation of pine bark beetles. of the
forest land in Japan, less than 25 percent supports coniferous timber
stands which supoly nearly 85 percent of all timber cut, and 20 per-
cent supports broadleaved timber stands from which 15 percent of the
16

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
timber is cut. Of the total forest areas at present 1l percent needs
reforestation, another ll percent is wasteland (called "genya"), and
nearly 10 percent is inaccessible.
f. There is no easy formula for the rapid correction of the
results of poor forestry practices in the pest. Trees grow slowly, and
forest progrems require many years. It is estimated that 80 to 100 years
will be required to rehabilitate Japan's forests to approach mmximom
productivity.
6. In order to shorten and bridge the gap between the existing
timber supply and the time when new resources come into harvest, the
Matural Resources Section is furnishing guidance and advice to various
Japanese Government agencies on the following specific programs: improved
silvicultural practices, reforestation, wood preservation, opening of
inaccessible forests, use of wood substitutes, improved timber utilisa-
tion processes, reduction of timber cut by importation, and embargo of
raw timber exports.
h. For more than three years, the forest situation has been
studied and data gathered by the Watural Rescurces Section. These data
illustrate the complete reliance of the Japanese on their forests. They
show the inadequacy of present forest production and the urgent need for
remedial action. On the basis of this information the Natural Resources
Section is now taking steps to formulate an over-all forest conservation
policy, and through guidance and assistance to the Japanese to establish
adequate management plans as a partial solution to the forest and timber
supply problems. Progress has been made during the past yeer in the
development of programs in forestry education, research, and extension.
2. Puelwond Forests: a. Fuelwond forests present an important
problem which is not generally recognised. These forests are, in the
main, the result of clearcutting broadleaved forests. Regrowth has been
mostly by stump sprouting and the resulting stands are known as coppice
or brush forests. The creation of coppice forests and their contimued
cutting without regard to potential productivity have resulted in serious
forest and soil deterioration. Without special silvicultural treatment,
coppice forests produce only low grade timber and that at a reduced rate.
The important problem of the fuelwood forest is to increase productivity
on a portion of the area to the demand level, by special cultural treat-
ment. The remainder of the area can be converted to coniferous stands,
which will result in greatly increased timber production. The pro-
ductivity of the fuelwood forests of Japan is a minor fraction of the
maximam possible; it can be increased to three to five times the present
yield when recommended prectices have been implemented fully.
b. Efforts are being made to incresse yields of these fuel-
wood forests. Forest legislation providing for improved forest manage-
ment practices on private forest lands is being formulated. Under the
Visiting Expert Program, a forest management specialist is being obtained
to analyse the hardwood forest situation and make specific recommen-
dations to this end.
3. Managepent Practices: Better silvicultural practices can
improve the timber supply situation immediately. Hajor advances can be
made by the implementation of silvicultural practices which have beem
recommended by Matural Resources Section foresters. The institution
of selective cutting practices on private forest lands is particularly
important in Japen, where the existing method of forest management is to
clearout the timber stands. A serious flond and erosion problem has
resulted from this practice. Records indicate that enormous losses have
17

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.97)
occurred through dammge to food cropè and soil. kresiem ef ferest sails
is resulting in deterioration of site quality. silting in ef reserveirs
is causing dasage to hydroelectric installations and redacing sterage
capacity of water for irrigation and demestic use. The applicatiem of
selective cutting practices to the timber stands will immediately prevems
an increase in the serionsmess of this situation. Adeptien ef this cat-
ting system would immediately arrest the enlargement of she area is meed
of reforestation, increase the growth rate of existing stands to many
times their present production, materially reduce loss throagh seil
erosion and floods, and conserve forest soil resources. Legislatiem is
being formulated by the Japanese to provide for these impreved ferest
management practices on all forest lands.
4. Reforestations The need for reforestation is recogaised by
foreaters to be one of Japan's most important national preblems. At
present, nearly 8,000,000 acres need reforesting. With  gaidamee.
plans have been prepared by the Forestry Agency, in ceoperatiem with
prefectural officials and private owners, to reforest these 8,000,000
acres. Reforestation of these lands will contribute substamtially te-
ward solving the national timber supply problem. In additiem to the
above program, a five-year school reforestation pregram emvisagins the
planting of 250,000 acres of trees by school childrem was laamohed in
1949.
5. Insect Control: Another serions problem in Japam is the
elimination of ertensive timber losses resulting frem iasect infestatiems.
Several species of pine bark beetles in Japan are taking a heavy tell ef
the pine timber. Losses from insect damage more then offeet the total
anmmal increment in these stands. Nore than enough timber to supply
Japan's entire annual need for railroad ties is killed each year by pine
bark beetles. During 1948 the Japanese estimate that they lest more
than 53,000,000 cubic feet of pine timber through damage by these inseets.
The significance of these losses is demonstrated by the faet that at
present coniferous timber, of which pine is an important cempement, is
supplying more than 85 percent of Japan's sawlog requirememts. Mach ef
the damaged volume is salvaged, but a large portion is ss scattered
through infested areas as to be economically umusable and msalvagable.
High costs of control, lack of recognition of the seriousness of iafes-
tation, ineffective control measures, and lack of techmelegical mewl-
edge of preventive measures have been serious hasdicaps te the centsel
program. Bfforts are currently being made to obtain additional teeb-
nicians in this field to furnish advice and guidance to the Japasese
and introduce the newest technological developments for preventien and
control of the pine bark beetle. Intensified campaigming for the omtrol
of the present infestation and prevention of new attacks by the pine bark
beetle are being encouraged by the Natural Resources Sectiom.
6. Porestry Ertension Prograns: a. Important werk in premeting
good forestry practices has been accomplished under the guidamee of 
technicians in forest extension. One phase of the agricultural extemsies
program started early in 194s was the extension forestry pregram whick
was initiated in Fukushima Prefecture. This pregram is desigmed te
impreve farm forestry practices. The general procedure fellewed in
orgmising these programs is to establish a prefectural extemsien cem-
mittee, after which the directors and staff of techmical specialiets are
selected, and actual work undertaken.
b. Brly in 1948, the Japanese Agricultural Imprevement
Buresm, in cooperation with the Forestry Agency, issmed a balletin te
the prefectural governors encouraging the inclusion of a teshmical
forester on the prefectural extension staff of specialists. Parther
18

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
progress in forest extension was realized when the Forestry Agency was
reorganised into three divisions, one of which was desigmated as the
Extension Division. New legislation is being drafted to establish an
effective forestry extension organization in the Japanese Government.
This legislation will provide for a minimum of seven extension special-
ists at the central government level who will operate as direct liaisem
officers between the Central Forest Exoeriment Station and the prefectural
forestry offices. The new bill will provide for the addition of one or
two extension specialists in each prefectural forestry office, as well as
1,l00 field extension agents to be assigned on the basis of ome agent for
each five forest ownerst associations. Under the proposed bill the pre-
fectural forest extension agente would be subsidized by the central goverm-
ment to the extent of 50 percent of their annual salary. This plan visu-
alizes an energetic program of forest education and extension. In scope.
it would affect all private forest owners in Japan. The importance of
this program is indicated by the fact that five million smail private
owners produce nearly 70 percent of the timber being consumed in Japan.
Forest industry which is largely dependent upon this production for its
raw material is the second most important industry in Japan. The imple-
mentation of this program is dependent upon the appropriation of funde in
the Japanese budget for the 1950 fiscal year.
7. Utilizetion of Materiala: Relatively complete utilisation of
raw forest products is practiced in Japan. Slashings from logging opera-
tions and materials which cannot be used for the production of merohant-
able timber are used for firewood or converted into charcoal. Hovwever,
improvement of millinz processes is definitely needed in Japan. Lack of
proper practices frequently results in logs being used for purposes which
do not utilize their maximum worth. With NR guidance and encouragement,
the Japanese are attempting to use sawmill waste for the production of
alcohol and yeast by the process of wood saccharification. Research on
wood saccharification to investigate the lstest technologies for the
production of alcohol and yeast is being conducted at several universi-
ties. Three industrial concerns have installed pilot plant equipment
for wood saccharification and have indicated their intention to install
large-scale operations, providing experimental operations prove succese-
ful. Two of the largest pulp and paper mills located in Hokkaido have
installed equipment for the production of alcohol from sulfite weste
liquors. These units were put into operstion early in l949. Ome mill
has a capacity of 360 kiloliters of 95 percent ethyl alcohol per year
and the other a capacity of 600 kiloliters per yeer. These developments
represent distinct progress in improving the utilization of timber
resourcss.
8. Wood pulps The wood chemical industry is of major importance
to the economy of Japan. This industry not only provides all of the
paper and paper products so important to the welfare of the people, but
has the potential ability to supply et least 50 percent of their textile
requirements. The principal raw material for this industry is timber.
which is being consumed at a rate far exceeding its replacement throngh
growth. Teohmologists for the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
have been instrumental in improving the efficiency of the use of woed
for the manufacture of wood pulp. Improved technology has resulted is
increasing wood pulp yields about 30 percent using the same amount of
raw material with no changes in processing plants. Further advice and
guidance in the utilization of rew materials, by improving techmology
for the use of broadleaved species and the recovery of by-products, is
necessary to increase utilization of timber resources for wood pulp.
19

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.98)
9. Ultimate Oatloeks a. s a result of the intemsive study ad
investigation of ferest conditions and probleme during the recemt years.
the true nature of the Japamese forest situatien is now being recegmised
for the first time. Imitial progress in improving the situatiem has bees
achieved. Success of the pregrame of recevery and rehabilitatiem cm be
accomplished through continued guidance, advice, and material assistance.
b. Japan's forest situation has not reached the point of irre-
trievable decline. With intelligent, constructive management, complete
forest rehabilitation can be accomplished. Japan then could look fer-
ward to the time when there will be foreste eneugh to support the timber
and fuelwood needs of an even larger population, as well as a surplus to
allow exportation of wood. When that time comes, the forests will com-
tribute their full share toward a stable economy and a lasting prosperity
for the entire Japanese nation.
VI. MINING AND GBOLOGY
1. Introduction: a. Two major requirements in an indastrial
econony are a supply of minerals and metals and a source of emergy which
can provide adequate power for industrial operation. On the basis of
estimated l950 requirements, the mines of Japan are providing at current
rates of production one-sixth of its copper; ene-seventh of its lead;
about seven-eighths of its sinc; less than one-fifth of its iron ore; ene-
half of its sulfur; five-sixths of its coal; and about one-seventh of its
petroleum. It is estimated that production of coal, pyrite, sulfur, and
possibly sinc can be increased to meet full requirements, with some sur-
plus for export, and that Japan can preduce three-fourths of the cepper
it needs, and lesser amounts of other minerals. The greatest possible
utilization of indigenous minerals is extremely isportant, mot only be-
cause foreign exchange will be limited and the United States will have
to finance imports, but because for some years Japan probably will be
foroed to buy on a seller's market. Available foreign supplies will mot
be plentiful.
b. Although Japan's requirements' are far in excess of its pro-
duction of minerals and metals, because of the fuel and power shortage
the actual demand for mine products has been, in some instances, less
than production. As industrial activity continues to increase, the de-
mand for mine products will grow. The Natural Resources Section has
attempted to place the mining industry in a position to meet this dmand
when it does come. Improved drilling and blasting methods have been
introduced; changes have been suggested in stoping methods to cut dewn
the amount of waste rock being mined in narrow veins in Japan's ore de-
posits; developpent work, which was seriously neglected during the war,
has been encouraged; new mining techniques have been advocated to raise
efficiency in Japanese mines.
2. Metallurgy: In the metallurgical industry, operating as it is
at but a fraction of capacity because of power, fuel, and raw material
shortages, the principal step which can be taken is to prepare to meet a
rising demand for the products of the industry by improving techmical
nethods. Possibilities for improvement are exemplified by a copper re-
finery in Tochigi, where introduction of an improved method in the final
step of copper refining reduced fuel consumption 27 percent, while the
purity of copper produced was increased. Improved techniques such as
this can do much to reduce the fuel shortage.
3. Petroleam: a. Japan's production of crude oil from its own
wells has never been much over 10 percent of its total crude oil require-
ments. However, any petroleum produced in Japan at least reduces the
20

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.97)
quaptity which mast be imported. Furthermore, indigemous oil is important
because several types of special purpose oils are derived almost entirely
from Japanese sources. At the beginning of the Occupatiom almost all of
the kmown potential oil producing areas had been drilled, and the explo-
ratien program was falling far short of meeting the need for new reserves
of petrolenm. As an example of the situatien that existed, the 1946-47
exploration and exploitation drilling program was bringing only one suo-
cessful producing well out of every twelve which were drilled. This
condition resulted from the lack of acceptable basic information. This
is particularly true of the exploitation drilling program which merely
involves drilling wells in fields which suppesedly are thoroughly mapped.
As a result of the entire 1946-47 program, only 20,000 kileliters of now
reserves vere discovered, slightly more than one month'e production at
current rates.
b. Under guidance of scap, a long-range petroleum exploration
program was set up by the Petroleum Resources Development Premotion
Council, formerly the Petroleum Erploration Advancement Committee. The
Council, which wes organised in January l947, is composed of leading
petroleum geologists from the Imperial Oil Company, Japanese Geelogical
Sarvey, Mining Bureau, and Japanese universities. As a direct result of
the work of the committee in guiding the petrolens program, is 1947-48
one out of three exploitation wells was successful, and one out of six
exploratien wells was a producer. Two small new fields with receverable
reserves of some 200,000 kiloliters of petrolem were discovered. A more
significant development in the petroleum picture is the discovery that
petrolenm production may possibly be ebtained in Hokkaido frem large
areas previously overlooked by the Japanese. Nuch of the 1948-49 progrem
was directed toward intensive work in that ares.
4. Pyrites: a. Pyrites are used to produce sulfuric acid which
in turn is used ia Japan to manufacture two principal fertilisers, super-
phosphate and ammonilm sulfate (nitrogenous fertiliser), as well as sther
important products. During World War II, pprite mines were exploited by
overproduction and neglect of development and maintenance. The most
accessible ore was mined, and back filling was neglected, leaving large
ore reserves unavailable for immediate extraction. Nachinery and equip-
ment deteriorated from lack of necessary repairs and replacements.
b. In 1946, domestic pyrite production was 630,000 metric tons.
With guidance from the Matural Resources Section, production was raised
to 1,200,000 metric tons in 1948 and is expected to rise to approximately
1,540,000 metric tons in the 1951 fiscal year. The mmnual needs for
pyrite are about 1,700,000 metric tons, so imports have been necessary
to supplement indigenous preduction. The increased efficiency obtained
through improved mining methods introduced by American experts thms has
reduced the imports needed to sustain the Japanese economy. Eventually
Japan is expected to be able to provide enough pyrite from domestic
sources to eliminate the need for further imports.
5. Phosphate Rock: a. Japan has negligible supplies of the raw
material (phosphate rock) which, in addition to pyrites, is needed to
preduce superphosphate fertiliser for agricultural uses. A survey of
the nearest and most dependable sources of phosphate rock indicated that
Angaur Island in the Palau Group has the most available deposits.
b. The Angaur Project, which includes the mining, drying, and
shipping to Japan of phosphate reck from the island, therefore was organ-
ised under the supervision of the Eatural Resources Section and has sup-
plied a substantial proportion of Japaa's requirements since 1947.
22

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.97)
c. The only other source of phosphate rock fer Japam weale.
require the expenditure of United States funds for the outrighe purehase
of the rock, which would cost approximately $24 per ton to impert. The
rock brought in from Angaur has cost less than $1.00 per ton, and the met
saving in United States funds to be realised during the fiscal years 1960
and 1951 1s estimated at $3,000,000 annually.
d. Continued supervision of the Angaur Phosphate Preject is
required to insure the efficient utilization of American equipment and
fuel, as well as to insure compliance with international agreements with
respect to the former Mandated Islands.
6. Coking Coal: Another important program bas as ite primoipal
objective making Japan self-sufficient in coking coal for productien of
metallurgical coke for use in manufacturing iron and steel. During the
past year, coking coal valued at $50,000,000 has been imported from the
United States, because Japanese coal is of such a high volatile nature
that it must be blended with other low volatile coals in order to pre-
duce a usable grade of metallurgical coke. Visiting specialists frem
the United States are assisting in supervision of coke-making techmiques
which will permit use of a much smaller percentage of imported ceal with
the indigenous product.
7. Mine Safety: a. Before and during the war, the mines of Japam
were owned by individuals or corporations and operated with beavy gevera-
ment subsidies. The emphasis was on production with little attentiem
paid to safety practices. Injury and damage were considered an expemse
necessary to production, and such costs were included in the price of
material produced, but the problem was otherwise neglected. Japaaese
miners had little idea of safety, and mine operators neglected what we
consider to be their responsibility for the safety of workers. Conse-
quently, accident rates vere appal'ing, many miners forsook their jebs
to take up less hasardeus pursuits, and the skille gained by experience
were lost through a large turnover of employees.
b. After a study of these conditions, Matural Resourees
Section mining experts recommended mine safety codes, and the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers placed responsibility on the Japanese
Government for implementing these codes. Guided by American experts.
the Japanese established a well-staffed, competent agency to handle the
functioning of the mine safety codes. À groving safety conscieusmess
on the part of both management and labor is already evident. Accidemt
rates which in 1946 were 50 deaths and 2,934 injuries per million metrie
tons of coal produced already have dropped to about 20 deaths and 1,119
injuries per million metric tons. In the United States in 1945 these
rates were 1.72 deaths and 82.9 injuries per million tons of coal pre-
duced. The mine safety codes have not been in operation long emeugh te
approach maximum effectiveness. Hovever, the results to date indicate
that conditions already are so wuch better that much greater imprevememt
can be anticipated. Eventually safety records comparable to those of
the United States may be achieved.
8. Mining Laws: Matural Resources Section technicians and experts
also have advised the Japanese Government regarding the objectives ef
affording greater opportunities for individuals to engage in miming
operations and thereby extend the development of mineral resources:
ending monopolistic practices by shortening the period of prespecting
rights and requiring actual development work by those desiring to retais
mining claims; and establishing a more effective means of settling die-
putes between farmers and mine operators for damage to cultivated land by
22

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
mining operations. Although the necassary implementation of these recom-
mendations is not complete, work is well under way and excellent results
are anticipated.
9. Summery: Through assistance and advice to the Japanese, the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers is attempting to maximise the
production of needed minerals, metals, and petroleum and to introduce
more efficient methods which will promote more effective use of Japen's
scarce supplies. Some of the programs are desigmed to insure maximum
long-term production in addition to increasing the immediate supply.
Results to date have shown that this progran is a sound one.
23
8813-FEC Printing Plant-10 49-250
