894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., March 18, 1938 - December 28, 1939 (File 1169), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.00-1169-1   Pages: 438   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-22/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20March%2018%2C%201938%20-%20December%2028%2C%201939%201169-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPANTMENT OF STATE
EUMPA
THE
SERVICE
MAY 1 91938
OF THE
Tokyo, March 18, 1008.
89400
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2816.
SUBJECT:
REPORT ON CONIITICNS IN J.PAN DURING THE MONTH
OF FEBRU:RY, 1938.
2
C
The Honorable
The Secretary of stte,
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
894.00 P.
IRA
Washington.
MAY 2  1938
Sir:
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93 of
July 23, 1926, I hove the honor to transmit herewith the Embessy's
monthly report on conditions in Jepon for the month of Februery,
1938
2
Rospectfully yours,
C1
FILED
Enclosure:
Joseph C. Grew.
3
1/ Report No. 137.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Embassy, Hankow
Embassy, Moscow
Consulate Generol, Shanghai
Consulate Generl, Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Osoka
Consulate, Dairen
In quintuplicate to the Department.
800
2012/0

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 137.
REPORT ON CONLITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF FEBRUARY,1938.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEX AND SUNAAEY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNI TED STA'FS
(a)
The More Impcrtant Repcesenations maie ry
the Embassy in connection with the Sino-Japaress
Conflict.......
1,2,3,=.5,6,
7,8,9,10,11
(b)
American Government's request for
information concerning Japanese Naval
Building Plans.
11,12,1%
(c)
Salmon Fishing in Alaskan Waters.. 13,14
(a)
Disposal of U.S.S. PANAY Contri-
butions.
14,15
(e)
Diet Statements of Mr. Hirota concerning
the United States.
15
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) China
(1) Military Operations.
15, 16
(2) Aerial Operations..
16, 17
(3) Replacement of General Matsui by
General Hata...
17
(4) Official Japanese Statements.. 17,18,19
(b) Great Britain
(1) Representations made by the
British Embawwy in Tokyo in
connection with the Sino-
Japanese conflict........
19,20,21,
22,23,24,
25,26.
(2) Anti-British feeling in Japan. 27
(3) British Treaty Rights in
Manchuria...
27, 28
(4) Japanese Reaction to British
Cabinet Change.....
28
(c) Soviet Russia..
28,29,30
(a)
Germany and Italy.
30,31,32
(e)
France.
32,33
(f) Bolivia.
33

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS
(a)
The Cabinet.
33,34
(b)
The Diet..
35,36
(c)
Liberalism..
36
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
36,37
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE..
37,38
VI.
GENERAL EC ONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDI-
TIONS.
(a)
Foreign Trade....
38
(b)
Firamial and Economic Trends...
38
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL
INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL
INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. IMMIGRATION.
39
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
39

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES
(a) The More Important Representations made by
the Embassy in connection with the Sino-Japanese
Conflict.
711.9d
Pursuant to the Department's instruotions, the Ambassador
∴anded to the Minister for Foreign Affairs a formal note
dated February 4 calling his attention to depredations by
Japanese armed forces against American property in Soochow
and Hankow and to other numerous depredations of the same
kind. The note stated that the American Government found
it impossible to reconcile these lawless acts directed
against American mission properties with the assurances
repeatedly Eiven by the Japanese Government that American
rights and interests in China would be fully respected by
the armed forces of the Japanese Government; that it appeared
that these incidents had occurred with the knowledge, and some
of them in the presence, of Japanese officials, while other
actions, such as the occupancy of mission properties by Japanese
troops had presumably been taken by the express direction of
military officers; that arbitrary entry and occupation, together
with pilfering, looting and wanton destruction of property, coull
in o sense be regarded as acts of a character to b e expected
from a properly controlled military organization; and that the
American Government expected assuranccs from tho Japanese Govern-
ment that it would take iinmediate and specific steps to put an
end to the depredating of American properties and that it would
make full and complete indemnification for all losses and
damages inflicted.*
Making supplementary oral representations concerning these
acts of the Japanese military, Mr. Grew told Mr. Hirota that the
steadily mounting evidence of Japanese depredation would have ar
inflammable effect on the American public; that the patience of
the
Department's telegram No. 33, February 2, and Embassy's telegrm
No. 75, February 4, 1938).

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
the American people was not inexhaustible; and that he
(Mr. Grew) was becoming inoreasingly apprehensive over the
ituation and the future outlook for Japanese-American
reietions. In reply to the Ambassador's request for a precise
stetement to be conveyed to the American Government, the
Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the strictest possible
instructions had been sent from General Headquarters to be
handed down to all commanding officers in China to the effect
that these depredations must cease; that Major Gonera! Homma
had been sent to Nanking to investigate and to ensure compliance;
and that in the light of the investigations now being carried
out full indemnification would be made fcr Jossen end demages
inflicted. With regard to reports of the doseeration of the
American flag, Mr. Hirota stated that the Jenanese authorities
had as yet been uneble to confirn these reports. *
Ir accordance with tho Devartment's instruations, the
Embassy infcrmally approached the Foreign Officc on Felruary 3
with a view to obtaining its assistence in persuading the
Jepenese military to evusuate those buildings of the lsinghue
University at Poiping now occupied by them and in dissuadine
the from occupying the Scicnee. Chomistry, and Biology bulidings
of the University. Mr. Dooman pointod out to Mr, Yohizwa
that Tsinghua University had been fourdel cs the result of the
action of the United States Government in remitting to Shira
the major portion of the Boxer indemnity, trat the University
had.long been a direct cultural link between the United States
ond the Far East. and thet Japancse military occupation of the
University buildings woula cause an unfavorablc ronstion ir the
United States. Mr. Yoshizuwa replied that it was difficult to
Lave a decision changed after it had been taken by the military
but
Depertment's telegrcm No. 33. February 2, and Embassy:s telegirm
No. 75, February 4, 1938.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
in the War Offioe,
whioh wes gonerally apt to take a larger view of c given situa-
tion than the commanders in the field.*
The Embassy addressed an aide-memoire to the Foreign Ofrice
on February 7 stating that reports received by the American
Ambassador indicated that the Japanese euthorities at Shanghai
had not permitted the Chinese Customs to resume control over
the Japanese wharves; that there had thus arisen a condition
in which Japanese vessels putting into Shenghai had not been
paying the specified tonnage dues; and that cargo carried on
these Japenese vessels was being introduced into China without
the peyment of duty. The cide-mémoire pointed out that these
facts had been substantially admitted on February 3 by the
Jepanese Consul General at Shanghai, who had indicated that the
settlement of the matter of the Shanghai Customs would be a
condition precedent to the correction of the situation under
reference. Characterizing as indefensible the requirement that
observance of customs procedure t Shanghai be made contingent
upon acquiescence in Japanese wishes in regard to the settlement
of the Shanghai customs issue, the Embassy's aide-mémoire con-
cluded by requesting that the Japanese Government issue instruc-
tio..s to the Japanese authorities at Shanghai to permit resumption
of normal customs control over Japanese vessels cnd cargo.**
On February 12 the Ambassador received the reply of the
Minister for Foreign Affairs to his formal note of January 17
concerning acts of depredation against Americen property and
desecration of the American fleg by the Japanese military in
Nanking, Hangchow and other places. The substance of the
Jepanese Government's reply wes as follows: Various cases of
infringement of American rights and interests had occurred in
Nanking on account of inadequate control in thet city resulting
from
Department's telegram No. 28, January 27, to the Embassy at
Peiping, Department's telegram No. 29, January 28, to the
Embassy at Tokyo, and the Embassy's telegram No. 7l, February
3,1938.
**
Telegram from the Consulate General at Shanghai No. 208,
February 4, Department's telegram No. 42, February 5, and
Embassy's telegram No. 81, February 7, 1938.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
trom varioms umavoidable ciroumstences; the Japanese Government
bad, therefore; once more despatched rigorous instructions on
January 15 and January 20 to reenforce previous instructions
to the Japanese military nuthorities in Nanking; at Hangchow
Tapanese soldiers had entered by mistcke houses owned by the
nationals of third Powers either for the purpose of obtaining
needed food supplies or of secrching for the remnants of
Chinese troops; the military cuthorities had discovered no
evidence to show that anything whetever other than foodstuffs
had been removed from these houses in Hangchow; despite earnest
investigations, no evidence had been found by the Japanese
authorities in China to show that the Americen flag had been
desecrated by the Japanese military; the Japanese Government
had ordered instructions to be transmitted to cvery military unit
in China that the Japanese troops should respect the American
national emblem; in addition to the verious monsures already in
force, other steps had been taken by the Japenese Government,
including the despatch to Chinn of a high officer from Tokyo in
crder to ensure the full execution of the Government's instructions,
the stationing of special officers at important points in China
to take charge of matters relating to the rights and interests
of third Powers, and the reenforcement of the militery police
in China; and the Japanese Government earnestly intonded to
devote its best efforts toward the prcvention of any reoccurrence
of "these incidents" in future. *
On the evening of February 15 the Foreign Office conveyed
to the Ambessador through Mr. Dooman an oral statement the
substancc of which follows: the Japenese Government earnestly
desired to settle as soon as possible the question of forcible
entry by Japanese troops into the American Embassy at Nanking
and to that end had dirccted Major General Harada, Military
Attacl
Erbassy's telegram No. 103, February 12, 1938.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
Attachd of the Japanese Embassy and concurrently Chief roliticel
Officer of the Expeditionery Forces, to expross regrets to the
designated officer of the American Government; the Japanese
Government also desired to settlo the case of reported desecra-
tion of the American flag; and Major General Harada was prepared
now to express regrets for desecration of the American flag
"if such desecration should heve been established".*
In his telegram No. 240, February 11, the Consul General
at Shanghai reported that since August 1937 Japanese military
and naval units had been occupying the premises of the University
of Shanghai, a lerge and valuable educational institution jointly
owned by the Northern and Southern Baptist missionary societies;
that some of the University's buildings had been damaged and
the majority had been looted during the period of Japanese
occupancy; that no reply had been reccived from the Japanese
Consul General in Shanghai to his (Mr. Gauss's) repeated written
representations but thct orally he had been vaguely assured
from time to time that efforts were being made to induce the military
and naval authorities to vacate the property. On Fubruery 16
Mr. Dooman informed Mr. Yoshizawa of the substance of this
telegrem from Shanghai and said that such occupation by Japenese
forces of the University of Shanghai could not bc squared with
the officiel assurances repeatcdly given thet American property
would be respectcd. Expressing surprisc ovcr Mr. Gauss's
statcment that the Jepanese Consul General hcd thus far failed
to reply in writing to Mr. Gauss's repcated written representa-
tions, Mr. Yoshizawa stated that he would inquire into the
matter and do his best to see that it was satisfactorily settled.**
Pursuant to the Department's instructions, the Ambassador
addressed an aide-mómoire to tho Minister for Foreign Affairs
on February 17 referring to the former's notes of December 23
*
Telegram from the Embassy at Nenking No. 54, February 12,
and tho Embassy's telegram No. 107, February 15, 1938.
Embassy's telegram to the Consulate General at Shanghai of
February 16, 4 p.m.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
6-
and December 27, 1937, in which was set forth the interuft
of the United States Government in the preservation of the
integrity of the Chinese Meritime Customs and in which dcsire
was expressed for certain assurances by the Japanese Government
calculated to maintain the integrity and authority of the
Custons. The substance of the Enbessy's aide-mémoire was as
follows:
The American Government, before examining any plan
for settlement of the customs problem, oxpected to receive
from the Japanese Government broad and positive assurances
that no action would be taken or countonanced which would
disrupt the Chinese Customs Service or jeopardize the servicing
of foreign loans and indemnity quotas from the Customs revenues
and that the servicing of such obligations would be considered
and trected as first cherges on the Customs revenue after the
doduction of the costs of mcintnining the Chinese Maritime
Customs.*
On Februcry 16 the Ambassador reccived from the Minister
1o~ Foreign Affairs a noto dated February 15 which requested that,
ir raer that grcater facilitics might be provided to Japenese
connanders in China for the protection of lives and property of
Amorican nationals, Americans and administrators of American
proporty outside the zones occupicd by the Jepenese forces be
asked to carry out the following provisions: (a) to set up
horizental beacons clearly discernible from high altitudes and,
in cddition, to set up large vertical beccons cleerly discern-
ible from c grent distence on the ground; (b) to define by
street maps if possiblc the excct location of such American
property cnd to transmit theso maps, together with the designs
of the beacons, without deley to the nearest Jepanesc Army
authorities or to the nearest Japanesc Embassy or Consulato;
(o' not to permit the Chinese forcos to station themselvo: 
th：
"Department's tolegrem No. 59, February 15, Embassy's telecran
No, 112. Fcbruary 17, 1938.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
the vicinity of such property or to set up militcry esteblisl-
ments there; (a) not to permit tho uso of the above-montioned
beacons by the Chinesc forces; and (e) to communicate at the
cerlicst opportunity with the nearest Japanese Army author:vies
or wiir the nearcst Japenese Embessy or Consulate in case of
damago to such property. The Japaneso note requested that in
those cases where it is difficult to communiccte the exact
location of property cnd the designs of beacons to the nearest
military authorities or to the necrest Embassy or Consulate,
the Ambassador so far cs possiblc report this information to
the Foreign Office in Tokyo. In conclusion, tho note stated
that it was believed, aside from the foregoing, that if American
netionals would teko rcfuge in sefety zones this, together with
the fullest care on the pnrt of the Japanese armies, would
contribute greatly to thc prevention of unfortunate incidents.*
Cn February 17 the Ambassador received a further note
from the Minister for Foreign Affeirs which made refcrence to the
above-mentioned note dated February 15 and earnestly requested
that in those cases where Chinuse trcins and other objects of
n military naturc lie in the vicinity of churches, factorics and
the like owned by Amcrican nationals, the Chinese forces be
urged to move these military objects elsuwhere und to refrein
from placing thom in contiguous crens.**
Pursuant to tho Department's instructions, on February 21
the Ambassador addrossed a formal note to the Minister for
Forcign Affairs in reply to the latter's note of February 15.
The Ambassador stated in his note that he had communicated the
text of Mr. Hirota's note to the appropriate American officials
and that he assumed that appropriate communication would be made
them in so far as feasible to American nationals or adminis-
trators
Embassy's tclegram No. 108, Fobruary 16, 1938.
*
Fmbassy's telegrem No. 113, February 17, 1938.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-3.
trators of American properry in China outside zones ov.
occupied by Japanese Imperial forces. The Ambassador's note
then stated as follows:
"I am instructed, however, to point out that
inder the circumstances which prevail end i: connection
with the areas described there rests upon American
officials and otler Anericen nationals in China no
obligation whatsoever tc tak? precautionary measures
requested on behalf of the Imperial forces in Your
Excellency's note under reference; I am to state
that toward safeguarding American lives and interests
involved precautionary measures heve voluntarily been
advised and voluntarily been taken in so far as
possible and that such measures will continue voluntarily
to be taken; but that, nevertheless, irrespective of
whether American nationals take or do not take such
precautionary mecsures, obligation rests upon the
Japanese military authorities to exert the utmost
precaution to the end that American nationals and property
shall not be injured by Japanese military operations;
end thet whether such requests of the Imperial forces
have or have not been complied with, whenever and
wherever merican nationals or property have been or
may be injured in consequence of the operations of
Japanese armed forces the American Government is
compelled to attribute to the Japanese Government
responsibility therefor.
American nationals and property lawfully located
in China possess there certain well-recognized rights
which are in no way altered by the circumstances of the
present conflict; American nationals, although advised
by American authorities to withdraw from areas in which
danger exists, are under no obligation to do so, and
in some cases find withdrawal impossible; merican
property situated in areas which are made or which are
about to be made theeters of military operations can
in most cases not be removed; this is obviously the
cese as regards real property; the presence of Chinese
military personnel or equipment in the neighborhood
of American nationals or property is clearly a circumstance
over which American officials or other imerican nationals
do not and cannot exercise control, and it in no way
alters the rights of such Americen nationcls or lessens
the obligations of the Japenese armed forces or authorities
to respect those rights; disclaimers of the responsibility
by the Imperial foroes will not alter these rights or
these obligations respectively. In the light of these
facts and considerations, failure on the part of American
officials or nationals to have complied with the requests
of the Imperial forces under the circumstances affords
no excuse for injury which has occurred or which may
occur to Amcrican netionals or property by Japanese armed
forces; and any such injury, as has been stated in my
note No. 781 of August 27, 1937, is considered by the
merican Government as upon the responsibility of the
Jepanese Government." *
Department's telegram No. 63, February 18, 1938, and Embacs,'s
telegram No. 121, February 21, 1938.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
In handing his formal reply to the Foreign Office, and
acting under the Department's instructions, the Ambassador
made reference to Mr. Hirota's noto of February 17 and
orally stressed the American Government's position, as set
forth in its formal note, with regerd to American property
in the neighborhood of which Chinese military personnel
or equipmont may be located. *
In a telegram to the Departmont dated February 17, the
Ambassador recommended that he be authorized to make oral
representations to and to leave an aide-mémoire with the
Foreign Officc concerning the fcct thet American citizens
resident in Japen hed received from Japcnose taxation cuth-
orities demands for payment of the North China Incident Income
Special Tax in accordance with thc provisions of law No. 66,
which was promulgated in thc Official Gczette of ugust 12,
1937. ** By its telegrem No: 65 of February 19 the Department
approved the action suggested by the mbassador and the text
of the aide-mémoire proposed by him. Consequently, on February 21
the Embassy addressed to the Foreign Office an aide-mémoire
which pointed out that the above-mentioned taxes, along with
other taxes which might thereefter be laid down for the
specific purpose of providing funds for military purposes in
China, were in their application to American citizens contrary
to the terms of the Treaty of Commerce and Navigation of 19ll
between the United States and Jepan, which provides that the
citizens or subjects of both countries shall be exempt in the
territories of the other country from all forced loans or
ilitary exactions or contributions. Stating that the American
Jovernment would welcome n expression from the Japanese Govern-
rent of concurrence in the view that the taxes under reference
ere
Jepartment's telegram No. 63, February 18, and Embassy's telograr
No. 121, February 21, 1938.
Embassy's telegram No. 110, February 17, 1938.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
..10.
are not applicable to citizens, whether privato or corporate,
of the United States, the cide-mémoire concluded with the
statement that the Americen Government invited an assurance
that measures which had been teken to collect such texes from
citizens of the United States would be discontinucd. *
On February 26 Mr. Dooman left with Mr. Ishii of the
Foreign Office an aide-mêmoire stating that informetion
had been received to the offect that the Japanese military
authorities at Shanghai were planning to impose & postel
censorship. The Embassy's aidc-mómoire added that the censor-
ship of American mail by Japanese consors at Shanghai would be
an unwarranted infringement of the rights of the imerican
nationals concerned cnd rcquusted that the appropriate Japenesc
authoritics at Shanghni be instructed to refrain from instituting
such consorship. **
In his conversation with Mr. Ishii on February 26, Mr. Dooman
brought up the question of the large quantities of Chinese goods
vhich had been imported into China, especially into North China
through Ticntsin, without payment of the prescribed Chincse dutics.
Thc Counselor of the Embessy pointed out that such imports, when
placed upon Chinese markcts, seriously prejudiced the sale of
competitive American goods; referred to the conversation which
the Ambassador had had on the metter with the Minister for
Foreign Affairs on Janunry 17; and read to Mr. Ishii the Ambassador's
momorandum of his conversation on that date with Mr. Hirota,
soressing the point emphasized by Mr. Grew that the importetion
ithout duty and plccing on Chinese markets of Japanese goods was
violation of the assurance given by the Jepancse Government
hat it would refrain from injuring American interests in China.
 ". Dooman then gave to Mr. Ishii the substance of Tientsin's
telegran
Embassy's tclegram No. 110, February 17 and Department's
telegram No. 65, Februery 19, 1938.
Embassy's telegram No. 135, February 26, 1938

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
telegram No. 39, Februery 17, to the effect that 412,000
gallons of kerosene had been imported duty-free at Tientsin
under Japanese military cuspices during February and that
354,oo0 gallons of duty-free korosene hed been forwarded to
Feking by a Japanese pctroleum company between January 1 and
February 12 to be placed on the merket there.
Cousturtion
(b) American Government's request for information
500A1505
concerning Japanese Naval Building Plans.
In accordance with the Department's instructions, on
February 5 the Embassy delivered to the Foreign Office a
note stating that under the London Naval Treaty of 1936 the
American Government was precluded from constructing capital
ships which exceed 35,000 tons or carry a gun of more than
16 inches or which are of less than 17,500 tons or carry
a gun of less than l0 inches and from constructing cruisers
in excess of 8,0o0 tons or with guns of more than 6 inches; that
for some time there had been persistent and cumulative reports
that Japan had undertaken or intended to undertake construction
cf capital ships and cruisers not in conformity with the above-
mentioned limits; that in the absence of explicit essurances
from the Japanese Government that these reports are ill-founded,
they must be deemed to be authentic; that the American Government
must exercise its riht of escalation under the London Naval
Treaty of 1936 unless the Japalese Government could furnish
these assurances and could satisfy the American Covernment that
it would not, prior to January 14, 1943, lay down capital ships
or acquire any vessels which do not conform to the limits in
question, without previously informing the American Government
of its intention to do so and of tonnage and caliber of the
largest gun of the vessel or vessels concerned; and that should
the

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
-12
the Japanese Government be engaged in or intending to engage
in construction not in conformity with treaty limits and
should it be willirg to indicate the tonnages and calibers
of guns of the vessels in question. the American Government
would be ready to disouss with the Japanese Government the
question of the tonnages and gun calibers to be adhered to in
future if Japan were now prepared to agree to some limitation.*
The British and French Embassies delivered notes to the
Foreign Office that were identic with the American note ex-
cepting in minor particulors.
The Japanese press expressed resentment at the requests
of the three Fowers, characterizing such action as an arrogant
attempt to intimidate Japan and asserting that the United States,
Creat Britain, and France were simply tying to throw the burden
of naval armament expansion upon Japan.**
On February 12 the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs handed
o the Ambassador the Japanese Government's reply to the
Emb ssy's note of February 5. The substance of the Japanese
reply was as follows: As a result of the non-accoptance by other
couitries of the "reasonable desires" of Japan in the matter of
disurmament, there is as yet in existence no fair disarmament
treaty to which Japan is a party; in the opinion of the Japanese
Covernment, the mere communication of informetion concerning the
construction of vessels would not, in the absencc of quantitative
Jimitation, contributc to uny fair and equiteble measure of
disarmament; the Japanese Government is unable to comply with the
i sire of the Amcrican Government in the matter of communicating
information; the Japanese Government fails to sce any logical
roasoning in the American Government's assumption that the
Japenese
*Dopartment's telegrem No. 36, Februcry 3, 1938, Embassy's
telcgram No. 78, February 5, 1938.
** Embassy's telegram No. 82, February 7, 1938, and Embassy's
despatch No. 2779, February 18, 1938.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
Japanese Government must be deemed.to entertain a scheme of
construoting vessels which are not in conformity with the
limits provided in the London Naval Treaty of 1936 from the
mere fact that tho Japanese Government will not give the
desired information; the Japanese Govornment is of the opinion
that it is not a matter which should concern the Jepanese .Govern-
ment if the American Government, "on the basis of whatever
reason or rumor", should exercise the right of escclation provided
in any treety to which Japan is not a party; and the Japanese
Government, still holding thc firm conviction that qualitative
limitatior alono would not contribute to the atteinment of any
fair and equitable measure of disarmamont, considers that the
discussion concerning the size of vessels and gun calibers
suggested by the American Government does not conduce in any
measure to the realization of the Japanese Government's desires
concurning disarmament. In conclusion, thc Japanese note stated
that the Japanese Government would be ready at any moment to enter
into any discussions on the matter of disermemont which gave
iimary importance to "a fair quantitetive limitation".*
(c)Selmon Fishing in Alaskan Waters.
On Fcbruery 9 the Embassy received from the Foreign Office
an oral, officicl roply to its representotions of January 25 and
Janucry 26 concerning the Alaska salmon fisheries issue. The
Foreign Office stated that the Japanese Government would grant no
licenses for salmon fishing nd would discontinue its fishery
survey; thet the Japanese Government would not agree to the publi-
nt on of any statement calculated to give thc public the impress-
on that the Japanese Government, in giving such assurances, had
rmanently runounced its right under international law to fish
a wuore on the high seas; that the Japanese Government could not
in
Fmbessy's telegram No. 101, February 12, 1938.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
14
in any ciroumstance extend tho right of friendly search of its
fishing Vessels; that if indisputable evidence proved that the
Japanese orab and fish meal vessels were fishine for salmon
the Japanese Government was prepered to consider the cancella-
tion of the licenses issued to these vessels; and that the
Jepenese Government cgreed to the issuance by the American
Government of a public stetement covering the piition of the
Japenese Government as set forth above, on condition that the
text should be previsouly referred to Tokyo for consideration.*
On Februcry 12 the Foreign Office hended to the Embassy
a statement to the following effect: The Japanese Government
adheres to its prcvious condition that fishing on the high seas
is not subject to any restrictions; however, in view of the
fact that investigations in bristol Bay by a Japanese Government
survey vessel for salmon fishing has created misapprehensions
and haa agitated public opinion in the United Stctes, the
Tapenese Government will suspend such investigetions, not-
withistanding the fact that the thrce-year program would have
xtended such investigations into l938; and the Japanese Govern-
mont will, on its own initietive, continue "for the time being"
jts plan of not issuing licenses to those Japanese vessels which
desire to proceed to Bristol Bey for the purpose of salmon
fishing.
(a)
 Disposal of U. S. S. PANAY Contributions.
In response to the Ambesscdor's request, an official of
394.115
 America-Japan Society prusented to the Ambassador on February
S certain suggestions cs to possible wcys in which to use the
norey contributed by Japanese to the sufferers of the U.S.S. TANAY.
t ntirely satisfied with any of these suggestions, on Februry
hmbassy's telegram No. 92, Februcry 9, 1938.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
-1
28 the Ambassador requested the Depertment's edvice on the
following plan: the contributions to be held in perpetuity
under a trust in Japan to be known as the Americe-Japan trust
and the trustees to be the Americcn Ambassador, the Japanese
president of the Amcricc-Jepan Society, and one other American
to be nominated by the other trustees.*
(e) Diet Stetements of Mr. Hirota concerning the
United Stctes.
In the course of interpellations in the Dict on February
5, Mr. Hirota, the Minister for Foreign Affeirs, said that it
was most important for Japan to promote friendly relations
with the United States; that the United Stetes was maintaining
a good neighbor olicy with Central and South Americe, thus
contributing toward the general pence of the world, while
Jepan was meking cnormous sacrifices for the stcablization
of tho Far East and endocvoring to consolidcte pecce in this
part of the world; that, thus, the two netions had something
in common; and that in his opinion thc United Statos would
"evertunlly be brought to undorstand Japen's policy."
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(n)
Chine.
(1) Military Operations.
793.94
In reply to a Dict interpellation on Februcry 3 concern-
ing the lull in military operations in China, thc Wer Minister
xplained that the comptrative quict on the Chine fronts for
he past month had been due to the fact that the severo fight-
ng in the Shanghai-Nanking arec had caused hecvy casualties to the
nese forces and had depleted their stocks of crms and ammuni-
' n. General Sugiyama stated by inference thnt operations would
be
Entessy's telegrem No. 139, Februory 28, 1938.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.96)
-10-
be resumed on a larger scale as soon as these gaps in men
and  hed boen filled.
With the capturo of Chefoo by Japcnese Army and Navy units
on February 3 it was said by Japaneso sources that the Japanese
forces had practically all of hantung Province in their
possession. Subsequently, offensives were opened on the
Tientsin-Pukow and the Peiping-Hankow railways and in Shansi
Province. At the close of the month the Japanese were reported
to be pressing toward Suchow on the Ticntsin-Pukow Railway.
On the Peiping-Hankow Rcilway the Japanose forces cdvanced
southward toward thc Yellow River, capturing Tangyin and
Chihhsion, the latter point being cbout 60 miles north of
Chengchow, the junction of the Lunghai and Peiping-Hankow
Rcilways. According to Japencse roports, the large force of
Chinese troops massed cround Hsuchow, on the Peiping-Hankow
Rc1lway, estimatcd at from 250,000 to 500,000 men, abandoned
that city during the month cnd retreated in the direction of
Hankow. It will be recallcd thet a largo scale battle had been
uxpocted at this point.
It was in Shansi Province, however, thet the Japenese secm
to have had their grectest successos. In this Province Jeapenese
detachments captured Fengyan, Lingshih, Sihhsien, and finally
Tinfon. At the close of the month it was stcted by Domei that the
Japanese Army hed completely broken the resistcnce of the Chinese
in Shansi Province.
(2)
Aerial Operations.
Durine the month Japanese (irplenes raided Centon, as well
 numerous points in the intorior. Eighteen Chinese planes were
id to have been demolished on February 2l as a result of a raid
the Chinese airdrome at Hengyuang, Hunan Prevince. The largeat
ci.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.96)
-17.
air battlo to take place during ths present hostilities was
reported to have occurred above the Ncnchang air base in Kiangsi
Province on Fobruary 25 when, cocording to tho Jepanese press,
a Japanose cir force engagod a suporior Chinosc air forco of
50 plnnes and destroyed 37 of them.
The first Chinese cir rcid over Jcpancsc territory took
place on Februrry 23 when several Chinese cirplanes conducted
two raids over Formosc. end bombed two villcges. The Embassy
was unable to cscertcin whether any military dcmago hcd been
inflicted by the Chinesc nir raids.
(3) Replacement of Generc1 Matsui by Genercl Hata.
It wcs cmmounced on February 23 that Genercl Shunroku
Hata, Inspector Goneral  Militery Educction, had been appointed
supreme commander of the Japancse forces in the Shanghai crea
in replacemont of Goneral Iwano Matsui. Among the probable
reasons for this decision of tho Japanese High Command were
the following: General Matsui was about 60 years old and was
on the retired list beforc being ccllcd to cctive scrvice in
the Shanghci area; and Gunerel Metsui was a man of strong political
idens and loss cmenable to control by a central authority than
wcu_d be an cfficer of & more censervativo type, such as
Goneral Heta.* It did not appear thet this moasure implicd
censure of Goneral Metsui, who had beon succossful as a command-
er in the ficld.
(4) Official Jepenese Statements.
Gencrel Sugiyama, the ar Ministor, declared at a committcc
nceting of the House of Ropresentetives on Fobruary 4 that the
ry was following a policy of "mcking Chinoso govern Chinese"
i that its policy was different from that dopted at the time
Cf
rmbassy's tclegram No. 125, Fobruary 23, 1938.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.95)
心心
of the Manchurian incident. Ihe Ministor for Foreign Affcirs
stated beforo the Budget Comnitto cf ho House of Poers on
February 22 that the Poiping régine did not yot control
sufficiont torritory to merit Japen's rccognition of it as the
Contral Govornment of China. Mr. Hirota also stated that the
Japenose Govornment hed no intention of using Japenosc troops
to meintain poacc cnd order in China "forever". In rosponse
to an interpellction in c committec mecting of the House of
Represontatives on Februcry 3, the Wer Minister announced that
approximatoly 20,00o Japrnese officors and men hcd been i1lcd
in Chinc since thc outbreck of hostilitics in July.
On Februery 18 the Wor Minister mcdo the following announce-
ment: "In order to onvisage strategic plens for prolonged war-
fare in accordence with the now phase of the China incident,
ord to strengthen thc fighting power of the Jeponosc Expeditionary
rny, part of the dospatched units will bo replcced and other-
Mis: cdjustcd." Tho Embassy's Militery Attachó was informcd
at the War Office thct the moves contomplatcd in the War Minister's
nnouncement did not necossarily mern cither c strengthening or
weakoning from a numoriccl standpoint of the forccs in China
but rather a rcorganization and redistribution with c view to
 otrongtlhening of the Jonenose forces orgenicclly and strategic-
aliy for the prolonecd hostilities which tho Jupanese High
Conmand envisaged. When asked whether General Sugiyama's stato-
.. nt implied any chengc in the objectives of the Japanose Army,
che officer in the Wir Ministry with whom the Military Attaché
spoke asserted that thcse objectives remeined the same, namcly,
 dustruction of thc Chinoso forces opposing the Japaneso Army
 f the anti-Japanosc communistic influcnces in China.*
In reply to en interpellation in the sudget Committee of
 Heuse of Ropresentatives on Fcbruary 3, the Minister for
Forcig1
Empassy's telegram No. 117, February 19, 1938.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
-19-
Foroign Affairs said that the four abstract poace terms which
Japan was unablo to induce General Chiang-Kai-shok to accept
in Decombor would not be alterod whon negotiations for a
settloment of the conflict werc oponcd with the anticipeted
new Chineso régime, sincc these terms constituted the "essential
conditions" for the prevontion of another Sino-Japanese con-
flict. In tho Budget Committeo of the House of Peers Mr. Hirota
declared on Februcry 16 that there was no implication of a
compromise when tho Japanese Government let thc Germen Ambassa-
dor to China show the Japc cse pecce terms to the Chi: ese nuth-
orities, the Jepe:.ese Gover meit's attitude boi.g that it would
be willing to c. tor  egotintio:.s with tho Chi ese if the latter
would suc for porcc.
(b)
Grent Britain.
(1)
Representrtions made by tho British
Embassy in Tokyo in coimcction with
the Sino-Jepcncso conflict.
41.94
19-281
The British Enbossy left with the Foreigr Office en
aido mémoiro dated Februcry 1 reiterating the grcve c ncern
of the British Government over the discrimi-tion gainst
British and other foreign inturusts at Shanghei arising from
the frct that Japenese vessels were prying no tonnage dues and
the passengers and goods carricd by them were not subject to
customs precodure.
Sir Robert Crcigie presented a memorandum to Mr. Horinouchi
on February 1 stcting that c Chinese organization, ccting under
the orders of the Japanese military cuthorities at Shonghci,
had taken over the Chinese Government Internel Revenue Adminis-
tration in the Internationel Settlemcnt. The British Ambassador
pointed out in his nemorondum that payment of the consolidated
tox by British factories wcs the result of various voluntery
agreenents

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
-20.
agreements entered int by the firms concorned with the Jhinesu
Governmont without cny admission of liability for such payment
and that one of tho terms of suoh voluntcry ngreements was
that goods which had pcid the consolidated tax should be
exempt from any furthor intornal texation in cny pert of China.
Tho memorendum requested thnt the Jepenese cuthorities would
tako no action and wculd countenance no cction by any provisicnal
régime in the crocs from whicli the legitimate Chinese cuthority
had withdrawn which would fail cdequatcly to tako into cccount
the obligations of the Chinese Governmont under the aforomentioned
cgrcenents.*
Sir Robert Crcigie mcde oral reproscntetions to Mr. Hirota
on Februnry 5 concerning certcin statononts mcde by General
Metsui in n interview with Mr. Woodhcad of the periodical
"Oriental Affcirs" on Jenucry 28. Sir Robert Crcigie left with
Mr. Hirota a memorandun which pr tested against General Matsui's
remarks concernine the supply of arns by Grcct Britain to China,
and Great Britain's allegedly unncutral cctions vis--is the
Sino-Japenese conflict.
In a conversation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs
on February 9 the British Ambassador informed the Ministcr that
he was in possession of evidence indicating that Japanese
forces had occupicd severel of the snall Chinese islands in
the goneral vicinity of Hong Kong, and again asked for
specific assurances thnt the statements of the Japanose Govern-
ment thet it had no territoricl designs in China cpplied as
well to the islands cs to the meinland.
Sir Robert Crcigie nddressed e formal noto to Mr. Hirota
cn February 10, refcrring to the British Embassy's memorandun
of Dccember 27, and agcin protusted cgcinst the restrictions
enforced by the Japanose military and naval nuthorities on
CCCCSS
*Embassy's telegren No. 69, Fobru~ry 2, 1938.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.94)
…2:..
access by British subjooss to tlci: proporty n th For thern
arees of the Internationol Settlomont at Shcnghai und thoir
extonsions, and against the prohibition erforoed by tho semo
cuthoritics against the reroval of property fren these districts.*
On Februcry 10 the British Aabaascdor cddresscd to the
Minister for Foreign Affeirs  noto roforring to th: British
Embassy's noto of December 27, in which it was stated thet the
British Government would bo grctcful to receive explicit cs-
surances that the Jonenese Government cnd the Jepanese mili-
tary end other cuthorities in Chine would rofrrin from any
attompt to disrupt the custons scrvice nd destroy or under-
mine the cuthority of the Inspectorate Goneral at Shanghai.
Sir Rebert Craigie's note of February 10 statcd that he hed
as yet received no reply to his note under reference and that
he would be gled to lcarn whethcer Mr. Hirota was now in a
position to cive the tssurancus in qucstion.
On February 19 the British abcssador cddressed c further
letter tc the Minister fir Foreign Affoirs with regard to the
frilure of Janenese vesscls to observe customs procodure in
Shanghai, stating that this situation was crerting ? deplorable
improssion in Crcot Britrin.
In a conversation on Februery 2l, the British mbassader
told the Vice Minister for Foreign Affnirs thct Japanese
representetivos at shanghai were still trying to sccure
acceptance of dopesit of revcnucs in the Yokohema Specie Brnk
before the qucstion (f the loen quotes hed been fully discussed
with reprcsentstives of the foreien Governments c ncerned. Sir
Robert Crcigic urged Mr. Horinouchi to instruct Jepaneso repre-
sentatives in Shanghai inmedirtely to begin dutriled discussion
of the loan quotes question with the Financial Adviser and the
Cormissioner
*Embassy's tologren No. 98, February 11, 1938.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
-22-
Commissioner of Custcms, whereupon Mr. Horinouchi said that it
would be useless to ombark on such c discussion if the British
cuthoritics remainod irrovocably opposed to deposit in the
Yokohama Specio Bank, which tho Japrnese Government regarded
cs a sine qua non. The Vice Minister repented his former
exprcssion of doubt as to whether full scrvice of foreign
obligations could be maintained and the British Ambassador
ropliod thet ho strongly doprocated any attompt to curtail
the full sorvice of the foreign lorns. Sir Robert Craigie then
snid that in his opinion the nogotintions would be greatly
fecilitated if the Jrpanosc Govornnent would give the general
assurcnces for which the moricrn imbesscdor had asked in his
aidc-mómcire of February 17 nd for which the British Enbassy
had clso asked in s mewhrt diffcrent turms. Mr. Horinouchi
stated thct general cssurances ssnetimes gavo rise to nisunder-
standings through conflicting intorpretations.*
In response tc an invitetion, the British Imbassador called
on thc Vice Minister for Forcign Affairs on February 26 to
hear his roply to thc British ropresontations with regard to the
China custons. Mr. Horinouchi said in connection with the
question of general assurances thct, while it was the intention
of the Jepanese G: verniont to maintain the intogrity of the
customs and the foruin locn survices to the fullest uxtent
possible in the cbnornal situation prevailing at presont, in view
of the danger of misintorpretation and misunderstanding at a
later dcte the Jeptnese Government was opposed to affording
assurences of the scope which the merican Governnent desired;
that the Japanese Government preferred to regulate the question
by negotictions on detcilcd points end by assurances in specific
cases. The Vice Minister stated that the most inportant factor
from
* Embassy's tolc ram Ne. 123, F.bruary 23, 1938.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.97)
-23-
from the British point of viow was thnt the foreign dobt service
should be maintained, to which thc British Ambcsscdor ropliei
that, whilo this point was cortainly importent, it was the
British view thnt tho rotontion of unimpcired authority by
tho Inspector Gonoral and thc conerel integrity of the customs
woro quite as important, if not more importent, considerations.
Mr. Horinouchi thon stctod thict the British cbjection to having
tho rovonuo doposited with thc Yokohane Specic Bonk was somothing
the grounds of which his Governnent cuuld not understand. Sir
Robcrt Crai ic exprosscd discereonent with Mr. Horinouchi's viows
on this matter. Sir R bort Craigie askcd whethor thero was any
prospcct of the Jrpanese G vornnent's rereeing that the Japenese
share of the lorn scrvice and of such surplus as renained after
foreign loan obligntions hrd been fully met being deposted in the
Yokohamc Specie Benk, whilc the British cnd any other shares would
be deposited in neutral banks. Mr. Horinouchi replicd that his
Government would not find it possible in tho present circunstances
to ccree to this proposal.*
Pursuant to his Govornnent's instructions, in the sane
conversation, i.c., the one held on F-brucry 26, the British
Abassedor put before tho Vice Minister for Forcicn affairs
the followin proposcl: (1) That the full servicus of foreign
obligations will be mrintained without intcrruption on due dates
provided that revenue collcctions rc sufficiunt, but othcrwise
unconditionally. (2)
Thet forein obligations will be trcated
as c first chergo on revenue fter the cost of naintaining the
Customs Administration. (3)
Thet foreign loan quotas will be
settled by crcement with all the powers conccrned at weekly or
monthly intorvals as may be ccreed and emounts so settled shall
be trensferred forthwith by the Yokohant. Specie Bank to the banks
nominated by the powers concerned or responsible for the service
of
* Embassy's tclegrem No. 137, Fobruery 27, 1938.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
-24-
of the loan, 1.e. in the case of Grect Britain there would be paid
to tho Hongkong and Shanghai Bank the quotn in rospect of the
British Boxer Indemnity and in respoot of tho lonns servicod by
the Bank. (4) That cny preventive launches, ot ceterc, still
detained will be rcturned to the Customs. (5) That customs
authority shcll be exercised in regard to all Japanese non-
militcry imports. (6) In addition to the above it is highly
desireble to have a uniform tariff for cll China. in assurance
that the Jopenese nuthoritics will arrange for this with the
Inspector Goneral of ustoms on tho l93l basis or otherwise
would help to relicve the cnxicty of the British Government
regardine the intogrity of thc Customs Administration.*
On the following dny Mr. Morinouchi subnitted a counter-
proposal worded cs fcllows: (1) Total revenue collucted by
the Meritime Customs within thc crucs under Jcpanose occupetion
to be deposited with  Jepcnese bank (tho Yokohana Specie Bank).
(2) Fron the rovenucs thus deposited payments to be made by
tho bank on duc dates for the scrvice of forcign oblicntions,
the quota for cach port being docided upen in accordance with
the principle of thc full service of such forcin obligctions.
(3) A temporery quote for oach port, calculnted on the basis
of the actual eross revonue for a iven recent period, to be
decided after discussien at Shenghai between the Jepenese authori-
tics and representatives of the interested Powers. (4) Payment
of forein obli ations to be trected as a first chargc on the
revenue aftor deductin maintenence oxpenses of the Custons
Administration. (5) Provision to be mcdo for the payment of the
Japanese portion of the Boxer Indennity end of the arroars on
that indcrnity.**
On
*
Embassy's tclegram No. 133, February 25, 1938.
**
Embassy's telegren No. 13s, February 28, 1938.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
-25-
On February 26 the British imbassador addressod a note to
the Ministor for Foroign ffairs rofcrring to the latter's
noto of Jonuary 12 in which it wcs stated that tho Jcpanese
Navy had sent strict instructions to their dotcohmonts in China
to teke adequate preccutions ageinst the recurrence in the
future of such incidents as thct involvine the violation of
Hongkong territoriel waters by a Japaneso warship on December 1l.
Sir Robert Craigie's note drew Mr. Hirotc's attention to a
further serious violction of Hongkong weters on Februery 1l when
c Japanese armed motor-trewlor fired upon and scized four trad-
ing junks, ordered thc crews to abandon the junks, and sub-
sequently set firo to the junks. Tho British note stated that
the British Government took the strongest oxcention to the
carrying out of hostile operations on Hongkong territory or
within Hongkong watcrs, requcsted thiet the Japancse Government
takc steps to insure that Japenuse vessels strictly observe the
orders issued by the Japanese Nevy on this point, and added
that in default of such steps tho British Government w uld be
forced to take aopropriato moasures to prevent the recurrencc of
such incidents.*
On February 15 end February 17 the Minister for Foreign
Affeirs addressed notes to the British Anbassader identic
with those addressed to the merican abassador on the same
dates conccrnin the safety of the lives cnd property of
nationals of third ccuntries in China. (Sce Section I (a) of
the monthly roport). ictin under his Government's instructions,
the British inbessnder cadressed & note to the Minister for
Forcign Affairs on Februery 26 reinterating the British Govern-
mont's v icws as xpresscc in tho British ambassador's noto of
October 13, 1937, to the offect that the responsibility for
insurin6
*Embassy's tologrem No. 140, March 1, 1938.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
-2€-
insuring that British institutions in China are not made tho
subjuot of en attcck must rost with tho Japcuese authorities
concerned. Tho British ncto furnished the following comments
on the detailod points set forth in tho Japenese notes of February
15 and Februcry 17, subject to tho cenorel roscrvation on tho
part of the British Governmont of its rights cs regards holding
tho Japancse Governnent responsiblc for demcgc or loss to lifo
or property which mry be incurred by British subjucts as c rosult
of action taken by Japanese forces in the course of the prosont
hostilitics in Chinc:
"A. It has becn sucgested to thoso British insti-
tutions, vith whon communicction is possible,
that it w uld bo in their intorest to conply
with the request thrt sites and builcincs
should be furnishcd with clerrly distin uishable
verticcl anc horizontal ncrkings. It must be
clecrly uncorstood, however, thrt His Majesty's
Government cannot ssuno that this reconmendation
will be f、llowcd in cvery ccse nor, in the absence
of identificntion morks, can they oxempt the Jepeneso
cuthoritics fron rusponsibility should British
property be dmnged or Gustroyed ns c result of
action by the Jepancse forcus.
B.
The Japenese requcst that the location of ecch
property should be reported to the nearest Japenose
Military cuthoritics, Embassy or Consulte, is
being brou ht to the notice of those British in-
stitutions with which cormunicntion is pcssiblc,
in caso they shoulc wish to aveil thcmselves of
the opportunity of (ivin the desired inforintion
to the Janencse cuthoritics. It will not, however,
be precticable for His Mc jesty's Enbessy to under-
take the formel and comprohensive communication
of such information to tho Ministry of Foreign
Affeirs.
C. and D. The Jepanese Covernment will eppreciate
that the presunce of Chincs nilitary personnel
or cquipment in the neigbourhood of British
subjects or propertics is a situation over which
those responsiblc for British property have no
control. At thc same time it is clcar that
British subjects in their own intorosts would
not connive at any cttempt by Chinose forces to
occupy istricts neer British propcrty for military
purposes or to cbuse the marks doscribed in "A"
cbovc.
E. This request hes buen noted." *
* Embassy's telecran Nc. 141, March 1, 1938.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.96)
-21
(2) Anti-British feeling in Jepen.
The Japanese pross continued its campaign against Groat
ritain. Thero was a tendency on the part of thc vornacular
newspapers to attribute to Pritish initiativo the idontic
requests for naval building informaticn of Greet Britain, the
United States, and France.
An interpellator in the udget Conmittce of the Houso of
Representatives expressed tlic view on Februcry 3 thet the
Foreign Officc should "makc it clear thet Great Britain is
Japan's foe." In roply, Mr. Hirota steted thct Japan intended
to maintain its traditional friendly policy toward Greet Britain,
that there were no recognizable facts showing that the British
Government had espccially cttoripted to causc disadvantage
shioula
to Jepan, and thet/such focts appear it would be the duty of
Japancse diplonacy to urge the British Government to reflect
on its attitud.
(3)
British Tructy Richts in Menchuria.
In February tho British mbessedor prosented to the
Foreign Office a note verbale referrin to his note of
November 30, 1937, and reninuin, the Minister for Foreign Affairs
that the British Govornnent could not acccpt the unilateral
application of treaty ri hts in Manchuric cnc trnt it continued
to rogard the extraterritorial richts of British subjects there
as being still in force. In cddition, the British note contained
a statement of the followin, uncctrcnts by tho Menclhurion Govern-
ment which, in the opinion of the British Governnent, not only
constituted an infringoment of the extratorritorinl rights of
British subjects but also cnstituted or permittcd ciscrimination
in favor of Japen cnd were thorefore not consistent with the prin-
ciples of the Open Door and equal opportunity to which the Govern-
mcnts

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
-28-
ments of Japan and Manchuria wero pledged: the Exchange Control
Law of Ootober 8, 1937; the Trade Control Law of Docember 9,
1937; the Insurence Business Law of December 27, 1937; and the
Foreign Juridical Persons Law of October 21, 1937.*
(4) Japanese Ruccticn to British Cabinet Change.
The Japanese press was favorable to the resignation of
Mr. Anthony Eden as Sccretary of State for Foreign Affairs and
to Premicr Chamerlain's policy of appecsement with Germany and
Itely, most of the newspepers stating the opinion that the chenge
in British policy would be beneficicl to Anglo-Japanese relations
and would tend to discourage China in tho prescnt Sino-Japanese
hostilities.** While the press professed to be optimistic con-
cerning thc British Cabinet chenge and the possibility of
rapprochoments between Great Britain and Germany and Groat Britain
and Italy, there was an undcrtone of concern both in newspaper
editorials and in opinions cxpressed by individuels lest the
amicable adjustment of relations among Great Britain, Germeny, and
Itely give Great Britain opportunity for a more vigorous policy in
the Fer East.
(c) Sovict Russia.
There was no change in the general trend of Soviet-Japanose
741.94
relations during thc month: old issues remained unsolved and
further minor incidents took place, both Governments maintaining
a firm attitude but neither showing cny desirc for en open break.
The Foreign Office published another statement accusing the
Soviet Government of "lack of sinccrity" in its attitude toward
Japan's repeated protests against the forccd migration to remote
parts of Russia of Korean residents of the Meritime Provinces.
According to the Foreign Office statement, the Soviet Government
in
*
Embassy's tclegram No. 93 of Fcbrucry 9, 1938.
**
Embassy's telegrams No. 126, February 23, cnd No. 130, February
24, 1938.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
-29-
in its most recent reply to Jopenese protests had hnd the
"cudaoity to remark thct Scviot Russic is ncither China nor
•Manchukuo', and had failod to reply to Jepan's request for
an inquiry into the truth of the report that 3,Ooo Koreans
had been cither killed or injurcd in the coursc of their
forcible transfer.
It was reported by the pross thct on Februcry 1o the
Soviet Ambassador had domenced of thc Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs tho relcase of Russicns recuntly arrested by "Manchukuo"
cuthoritics for eissing thc b rder end thnt the Vice Minister
hed replicd that the kussicns under arrest hed clearly offendod
against international law and could not bo relensed pending the
conclusion of thcir cxaminction. According to a Domei despatch
from Hsinking dated Fobrucry 14, on thct day the "Manchukuo"
Government protested to thc Soviet Government against the action
of ton members of the Soviet Sccret Policc in cr ssinc the border
near Suifenho and firing on "Manchukuo" border cuards. Further
border incidents said to have beon the most sori us since the
clcsh on the imur River in Junc 1937 took placc on Fobrucry 25,
26, and 27 when, acc rainc to en official communiquć issued by
the Japanese Army in Kerca, over loo Sovict soldiers "invaded"
the territory of "Mcnchukuo" on the Korean border and Soviet
airplenes flew ecross the fronticr.
The Sovict Anbessed r pr tested to the Foreign Officc during
the month cgcinst the reccnt ction of the Japanese cuthorities in
Hokkaido, who detained on tho charge of cspionage e fruighter
belonging to the Sovict State Shipping Bocrd. The Japanose press
stated that in tho Sovict protest it wns intimated that the Soviet
G vernmont might tcke retalictory steps by suizing a Jupenose
freighter.
Domc1

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
Domoi reported that during the early part of the month
the Soviet and Japanese Governments had terminated the 32-year
old arrangement providing for the stationing of Soviet military
officers in Tokyo and of Japanese military officers in Moscow.
The news agency attributed this step to the recent request of
the Soviet Government for the recall of a Japanese officer who
had allegedly criticized the Soviet régime.
(a) Germany and Italy.
Several developments took place to strengthen the Rome-
forthcoming
Berlin-Tokyo axis, including the/recognition of "Manchukuo" by
Germany and statements made by officials of the three countries.
In bidding goodbye to the Japanese good will mission which
departed from Italy on February 17, Premier Mussolini was said by
the Miyako to have stated that Italy and Japan both held the
belief that spiritual power was the prime motive of national life
and that for this reason "the Japanese people are the only ones
who can understand and become true friends of Italy." Meanwhile,
prepurations were made in Japan for the reception of the Italian
good will mission due to arrive in this country in March. The
ASAHI reported that the Italian Government had decided to assign
to the staff of its Enbassy in Tokyo an air corps colonel as
Air Attaché and also a Commercial Secretary.
Reichsfuhrer Hitler wes reported to have told Mr. Seigo
Nakano, Japan's "People's Envoy" to Europe, on February 1 that
Japan was the only Oriental Fower capable of defending the Orient
against the Red menace and of cooperating in the cultural
reconstruction of the world, and that therefore he hoped that
Japan would not exhaust her strength in the current hostilities
but would emerge from them as a wealthier and stronger Power.
In

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
-31..
In reply to an interpellation in tie Budget Ccmmittee of the
Lower House on February 4. M Hirota asserted that Germeny's
friendship for Japan hud not chanzos and was of tiie same degree
as Italy's friendship for Japan. hrt both Germeny and Italy
were strictly contrelliic crns sh.orcats to Clinn, and that most
of the war supplies cf Ceraen manuicaturc which were recching
China had been shipped from other countries. In this connection
it is interesting to note th:t very little prominence wcs given
by the press to current reports that Germon exports constituted
a predominant part of munitions shipments to Chine through Hong
Kong.
In addressing the heichstg on Februery 20, Mr. Hitler
announced thet Germany would extend formel recognition to
"Manchukuo" and decl red thet, whctever the outcome of the Sino-
Jepanese conflict might be, Cerminy regrrded Jrpen as the defender
of Western civilizrtion in the Far Eest nd that the defert of
J: pen in the Fer Egst would profit the U.S.S.k. lone. The
Germen Chergé d affcires in Tokyo cclled on the Ministor for
Foreign Affcirs on Februrry 22 nd stcted, under instructions
from his Governmont, thet Germ ny would recognizc "Manchukuo"*
Mr. Hitler's remarks concerning Jrpan nd the recognition of
"Manchukuo" by Gorm-ny were quite n turrlly rcclrimed by the
Jepenese press as developments of the greatust importance to
Japn. With ree rd to Germ ny's recognition of "Mrnchukuo" the
Jeponese Foreign Office issued  stotement to the offcct that the
step would be  h' rd blow to the "unre: listic Let gue of Nations
and the tottering Chi:ng kci-shek dministration"; thrt this act
would tond to forge closer rul tions cmong Gurmany, Jopan, Italy,
rnd "Menchukuo", cll of them bound togcther by the community of
the anti-Comintern spirit; end thet Japen must ccknowlcdge with
gratitude
* Embcssy's telegrrm No. 122, February 22, 1938.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
-32-
grctitude that Germeny's recognition of "Mnnchukuo" wcn on
expression of her friendly spirit, which transcended considera-
tions of metericlistic interests.
(0) Frcnce.
Acting under his Government's instructions, the French
751.94
Ambosscdor cddresscd c note to thc Minister for Foreign Affairs
on Februery 1 protosting grinst the crbitrery and illegcl
action of the provisioncl régime ct Peiping in putting into
effect c new customs teriff for ivorth Chinn. Thc note stcted
that such ropresentations wore boing made to the Jrpanese
Government becruse of its cuthority over the Peiping régime,
expressed the hope thet the Japanese Government would invite
the cttention of the provisioncl régime to the illegclity of its
cction, nnd asserted thet the Fronch Government would be obliged
to hold the Japenese Governmont rosponsible for damages to
French rights end interests which might rusult from on crbitrary
revision of the customs toriff in Chinc.*
On Februcry 15 end Fubrunry 18 tho Minister for Forcign
Affcirs addrossed to the French Ambassador notcs identic res-
pectivcly with those cddresscd to the Americrn Embessy on
February 15 rnd Fobrucry 17 concerning the safcty of the lives
and proporty of n tionrls of third countrics in China. (Sce
Scction I () of the reeat report.)
The French Ambassador
addressed to Mr. Hirote a notc in ruply dated February 19, 1938,
the substance of which was thet he would bring the Jepenose
notes to the attontion of his Governmcnt but thet he must make
the most formal roservations with respect to the rights of French
citizens to be indemnificd for damagcs which they might suffer
through the action of the Japtnese crmed forecs, that it would be
virtunlly impossiblc for French citizens in Chinc to conform to
the
* Embassy's tclogrrm No. 70, Fobrurry 2, 1938.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
-33
the suggestions contained in tho Japanese noten. and that
failure to conform to thoso sugeestions could in no crse bo
interpreted as dischcrging the Imporial crmed forces from the
responsibilitics which they might incur. *
Having received his Government's instructions concerning
the Jepenese notes of Februcry 5 nd Fcbrurry 18, Monsieur
Arsene-Henry addrcssed c note to Mr. Hirotc on Februcry 25
stating that his Government confirmed the reservations alrcady
mado by him with rospict to tho rights of Frcnch citizens to be
indomnificd for demcgcs which they might suffor through the
cction of tho J panosc armed forccs and that in no case could
the Jupanese authorities cvade responsibility by virtue of the
prosence of Chincse troops in the noighborhood of property
bclonging to French citizens, incsmuch cs thc lntter cre in no
position to remove such Chineso troops.
(f)
Bolivin.
Coloncl Angel Ayoron, thc first Bolivirn Minister to be
stationcd in Japan in clmost 20 ycars, arrived in Tokyo on
February 25. The new Minister wcs reported to have stated in
n newspaper interviow after his arrival thet although Bolivia
remained neutral towerd the Sino-Japenese conflict, it huld
c. sympethotic vicw toward the Jeprnesc peoplc; thet Jepanese-
Bolivicn trnde wes et prusent grertly in favor of Japon; that
ho hoped to work for some readjustment; and thet Bolivia was
cbundant in various raw matericls needed by Jopan, including tin.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS
(a)
The Cabinct end the Political Parties.
Friction dcveloped between tne Cabinet nd the politicel
parties during the month owing to verious incidents nd to
legislation drafted by the Government involving restriction of
privatc
*Embcssy's telcgrnm Nc. 124 of Februcry 23, 1938.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.96)
54~
privato initiative and porsonal liborvics, inclucing he goneral
coonomic mobilization bill. On Febrinry i" four Lundved members
of tho Defense Corps Against Communism forcitly occupicd the
hondqunrters of the Miracito and Seiyukai politiccl pertios and
demanded to seo the lucders of the partios for the purpose of
accelerating the movement fer the o rition of a new political
perty which would represont "tue unitea front of the nation".
Although the police failed to afford rdequnte protection at the
time, the members of the rightist orgenization were subsequently
arrested. In announcing this arrcst, the Metropoliten Police
Boerd declcred thet it had taken this step not beccuse of the
doctrines of the Defonse Corps Against Communism but becnuse of
their manner of expressing their belicfs.
The political pnrtics became suspicious than en element
in thc Government headed by Home Minister Suetsugu and covertly
encourcged by the Premier wcs aiming at bringing bout politiccl
and social chengos clong totclitcrian lines. Although the
politicel parties gave voice to violent criticism of the Home
Minister and demanded his resignation, it did not ppeer that the
friction betwcen the Govcrnment nd the politicnl perties would
develop into a major politicel crisis during the prcsent time of
emergency.*
The movement for the crertion of c. single politiccl perty
through the merger of the existing pertics pponred to be making
headwcy during the month. Frccd with twe lternrtives, either to
become a pnrt of a single politicrl prrty or to undergo complete
extinction through the croction of n entircly. new politicrl
grouping sponsored by the Government, : m~jority of the le: ders
of thc Minseito and Sciyukci showed a willingness to submorgc the
identity of their partics in a single party. In a meeting held
on
Embassy's telegram No. 149, March 5, 1938.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
-35-
on February l6 lecders of the Soiyukci decided to work for
immediato cmalgamation of the Seiyukci and tho Minseito for tho
purpose of founding c. single nctioncl party.
(b) e Diet.
Asido from tho significnt Dict statements mentioned in
other scctions of thc prcsent report, the following interpella-
tions cnd Govornment roplics cre worth noting. At c budget
committee meeting of thc Lower House on Februcry 1 thc Ministcr
for Foreign Affcirs stated that the Japanose Governmont would
not recognizc rights, intcrests, or securitics in China granted
by the Chiang Kai-shck régime to third Powers in return for war
nid. On Fobrucry 7 the Ministor for Foreign Affairs made a
statoment, scconded by the Nevy Minister, to the offect that the
neval policy of tho Japtnese Governmont had undergone no chenge
whatever sincc the London Navel Disarmament Conference of 1936.
Mcjor Gcneral Motokazu Machijiri, Chief of the Military Affairs
Buronu of tho Forcign Office, told a committcc of the House of
Rep:uscntativcs on Fobruary 1 that it wes the Army's policy
eventually to replccc cll tho Japenesc troops in Chinc with men
on the cctive list.
Declcring thet the demands of tho statc teke priority over
those of individucls, the Communicctions Minister said beforo
the committce of the House f Representtives for thc cxaminntion
of the bill providing for thc st te monegement of the olectric
power industry that restriction of proporty rights was inevitable
if such restriction were necessary for the public wclfere. On a
different occnsion, however, the Home Minister asserted that the
Home Office was determined to crush eny idcology that would
chango the nationcl policy and repudicte the principle of private
ownership of property.
Mr.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
-3S-
Mr. Koichi Kido, thc Welfare Minister, assortod in roply
to an interpellation in the Lower House on Februery 4 that
indiscriminate birth control must be prohibited cs a mencce to
national cxpansion.
(c) Liberelism.
On Februcry 1 the police crrestcd 30 liberals or other
persons eccused of belonging to the so-called "Popular Front".
Among those arrostcd wcre 7 university profossors, including
Dr. Ryukichi Minobe, son of Dr. Tetsukichi Mincbc, well-known
exponent of tho "institutionrl theory" of the Emperor.
Appcrently not satisfied with the statoment of the Home
Minister that thc Government must control such liberalism cs
was likely to devolop into communism, Count Yoshinori Futera
made the nssertion in the House of Peers on Fobruary 15 that
liberalism, being incompctiblc with the principles of the Japenese
State, should be kept out of thc country, not merely controlled.
The Home Minister reportcdly expressed greement with Count
Futara's views. In an interpellation on the nccessity for
purifying higher learning in the current nrtioncl emergency,
another member of the riouse of Peers stcted on Februcry 16 that the
Law end Economic Departmonts of Tokyo Imperial University were
"hotbeds of liberalism and cll thrt is un-Japanuse".
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
The Cabinet's bill granting t, the Government cuthority
to carry out, in time of war or "incident" similar to war, c
general cconomic mobilization of the notion's resources and
man-power was introduced in the House of Representatives on
February 19. This bill would give the following extensive powers
to the Government:
the drafting of Jopanesc subjects for generel
mobilization

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
-37-
mobilization purposes; the control cf Joponese urldical
persons; the determination of wcges cnd labor conditions; the
settlomont of lebor disputcs; the c ntrol of imports, exports,
and the customs tariff; tho oxproprirtion of bocks, plants, lnnd,
houses, mining proportics, nd wotur rights; the fixing of
transportation chergos; the limitation of what can be published;
the centrol of cny businoss or enterprise necessary to mobiliza-
tion; ct cetera. Oppositien to the bill was vigorous, but it
did not appear thet tho bill would be defeated in the Diet.
Although the Dict showed a disposition to contost the genoral
economic mobilization bill and other bills dcsigned to circum-
scribe pcrsonal rights cnd privcte initictive there was no
evidence thet such opposition rcflccted discontent with the
Government's conduct of foreign relctions or with its foreign
policics.*
The first bill to be pessed by both houses of the Diet
was that revising the Conscription Lew, the principcl item
of which cstcblishes c uniform twe-ycar pcriod of militcry
sorvice for conscripts end abolishes time exemptions for
graductes of "Young Po plc's Schools" (clcmentory schools)
as oll as for university graduates. Up to the close of the
month only five tler bills, ll of thom reletively unimportant,
were approved by the Dict: a bill relating to the establishment
of Courts of Justice and bills pr viding for the revision of
the Trade Mark Lew, of the Unfeir C mpetitien Law, of the
Attorneys Low, ond of the Law rclating to tho Jurisdiction of
tho Courts of Justicc.
SECTION V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
On February 12 the House of Representctives uncnimously
approved the ordinery budgot for the 1938-39 fiscal ycar
cmounting
Embassy's telegram No. 105, Fcbruary 14 and Despatch No. 2808
of March 3, 1938.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.95)
-53
amounting to  2,860, 000,000. On the last  f the month
the Government presonted to the House of Reprcseutativos
the supplementary budget for the Chinc incidont amounting
t0 1.650.000,000。
SECTION VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AV) FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Foreign Trado.
Japenesc exports for February werc ¥ 161,647,000 and
imports into Japan amounted to ¥ 187,467,000, as cumpared
with Janunry exports of ¥ 162,572,000 cnd January imports
of ¥ 192,517,000. There was theref re an unfavorable trade
belence of ¥ 25,820,000, cs compared with an unfavorable trado
balcncc for Jrnucry of ¥ 29,945,000.
(b) Finencicl and Economic Trends.
he money market was casy; bank deposits and loans
ceclincd; postal savings incrcascd considerably, indicating
in imporvement in the conomic condition of farmers and
smoll wago carners; absorption of neti nal bonds showed a
mat riel increase; the st ck market was quiet but share prices
mairc ined an upward tendency, with the exceptien f clectric
power shares which declined en account of the introduction in
the Dict of the bill providing for state contrel of the
clectric power industry; the hithert) rapid cxpension of
industrial cctivity begen t shuw signs f cbatement, tho most
marked curtailment in productien taking plcce in the cotton
spinning and rayon tcxtile industrius; thc munitions nd
machinery industries centinucd to expend, however.
SECTION VII. Nothing t: report.
SECTION VIII. Nothing to roport.
SECTION IX.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.96)
-39.….
SECTION IX. IMMIGRATION.
In the course of an intorpollation at  mectine of the
Lower House budget committeo on Fcbrunry 8, Mr. Toyokichi
Toyoda, of tho Minseito, statcd thct Japaneso immigration to
"Manchukuo" was slow and that thure wns no ground to ontertain
optimism for the future. A Government spokusman replied that
remarkable results hcd bccn obtaincd since the third group of
Japcnese settlers had left for "Menchukuo".
SECTION X. MISCELLANEOUS.
The JAPAN TIMES of Fobrucry 2 reported that the Japanoso
542.8F3
whaling companies had docided to send an obscrver to the 1938
International Whaler's Conforencc, if invited to the conference.
It will be recallcd that last year the Japanese wheling companics
refused to accopt an invitation from Grert Britain to attond
the intornational conference. According to the JAPAN TIMES,
the Japanose whaling companies heve matericlly altered their
attitude in vicw of the tonse intcrnational situation and of
their desire net to provoke unncccssarily the whaling interests
in Grunt Britain and othcr countrics.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.95)
DESPATCHES SET TO HE DEEARTMENT
DURINC FFBPURY 1938
No.
Date
Subjcct
2751
CC
Feb. 1
Sick leave of Miss Gardiner.
2752
CC
1
1
Promotion of Mr. Jaust.
2753
ESC
"
1
Japanese battjeship HIYEI.
2754
EHD
"
2
U.S. vs. Aluminum Co. of America, et al.
2755
JFM
2
Visit of Mr. Kusama to the U.S.
2756
JFM
”
2
Enemy property.
2757
GDA
"
3
China-Japan; recommendation despatch.
2758
JCG
"
3
Statement to the press of r. Hatoyama.
2759
EHD
n
3
Alaska salmon fisheries.
2760
ESC
n
4
China-Japan; document despatch.
2761
ESC
"
4
Chinese customs.
2762
FAS
n
4
Nationalization of the electric power industry.
2763
FAS
"
4
73rd Session of the Diet.
2764
ESC
”
4
U.S.S. PiNAY; minutes of meeting at Embassy
on December 23, 1937.
2765
PSC
1"
4
Prcmoticn of Miss Arnold.
2766
LHD
4
Criticism of Japanese diplomats:
2767
GDA
"
4
Japanese-Egyptian relations.
2768
CC
4
Pamphlet on Japan's war resources.
2769
CC
4
Diet addresses by Premier and Foreign Minister.
2770
ESC
n
4
Promotions of Miss Collins and Mr. May.
2771
GDA
"
4
Americen navel building plans.
2772
ESC
4
Repairs to Embassy buildings.
2773
GDA
"
4
Diplomatic visa report.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
No.
Date
Suoject
Unnum-
bered
JFM
Feb. 9
Affidavit and bond c. Mr. Joseph F. MeGurk
2774.
GDA
n
12
Section 3 (1) Visa report.
2775
GDA
17
Sino-Japanese
conflict.
Representetions made
2776
ESC
n
17
Gardener.
2777
CC
n
18
Two-year cxamination, Language Officer
John K. Emmerson.
2778
DMP
"
18
Visit of Anna Louise Strong to Tokyo.
2779
ESC
18
Naval armament.
2780
GDA
18
Japanese-Australian shipping conference.
2781
EHD
1"
17
Alaska Salmon Fisheries.
2782
JFM
19
Chinese customs.
Memoranda.
2783
ESC
19
Sino-Japanese relations.
Memoranda.
2784
GDA
19
Diplomatic visa report.
27€5
GDA
19
Trac 3 agreement
between Japan and Netherlands
Indi-s.
2786
ESC
19
Promotion of Mr. John B. Farish.
2787
GDA
19
Monthly report for January 1938.
2788
EHL
20
Mass meeting to express friendship toward U.S
2789
ESC
"
21
Naval Attaché's report.
2790
FAS
23
First quarter examination, G.N. Bruner.
2791
CC
”
24
Japan-Manchukuo Year Book for Library.
2792
CC
n
24
Publication for Department Library
2793
JFM
"
28
Chinese customs.
2794
GDA
1"
28
Diplomatic visa report.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING FEBRUARY 1938.
No.
Date
Subject
62
Feb. 1 noon
Remilitarization of Japanese battleship HT'!
63
Feb. 1 1.p.m. Sino-Japanese situation.
64
Feb. 1, 4 p.m. Allison incident.
65
Feb. 2, * p.m. PANAYrincident.
66
Feb. 2, 5 p.m. Chinese customs.
Kong.
67
Feb. 2, 6 pim. China-Japan. Arms shipments through Hong/
68
Feb. 2, 7 p.m. LADYBIRD incident. British claim.
69
Feb. 2, 8 p.m. Consolidated tax in China.
70
Feb. 2, 9 p.m. Chinese customs administration.
71
Feb. 3, 4 p.m. Tsinghua University.
72
Feb. 3, 5 p.m. American Baptist Mission, Tsining.
73
Feb. 3, 6 p.m. China-Japan. Conditions in Nanking.
74
Feb. 4, ll .m. British claims for killed and wounded
soldiers in Shanghai.
75
Feb. 4, noon
Looting of American property in China.
76
Feb. 4, 3 p.m. China-Japan. Statement of Forengn Minister.
77
Feb. 5, 4 p.m.
Requisitions.
78
Feb. 5, 6 p.m. Naval armament.
73
Feb. 5, 7 p.m.
China-Japan. Statement of Foreign Minister.
30
Feb. 6, 3 p.m.
China-Japan. Declaration of war.
31
Feb. 7, 5 p.m.
Chinese customs.
R3
Feh. 7, 6 n.m. Naval armament.
33
Feb. 7, 7 p.m. Chinese customs.
∴A
Feb. 8, 1l a.m. American Lutheran Mission, Ichang.
30
Feh. 8, noon
Codes.
3.
Feb. 8, 3 p.m. American Lutheran Mission, Ichang.
Feb. 9, 1l a.m. British claims in LADYEIRD incident.
Feb. 9, 4 p.m. Exemption of American citizens from
Jananese military taxes.
Feb. 9, 5 p.m. Naval armament.
(1)
Feb. 9, 6 n.m.
Looting of Anerican nroperty in China
by Japanese forces.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
No.
Date
Subject
91
Feb.9, 7 p.m.
FANAY contributions.
92
Feb. 9, 8 p.m.
Alaska salmon fisheries
93
Feb. 9, 10 p.m.
British representations regarding extra-
territoriality in Manchuria.
94
Feb. 10, 4 p.m.
Naval construction.
95
Feb. 11, 9 a.m.
LADYRIRD incident.
96
Feb. 11, 10 a.m.
Chinese customs.
97
Feb. 11, 2 p.m.
Claim of Adventist Mission, Waichow.
98
Feo. 11, 3 p.m.
Access to foreign property, Shanghai.
99
Feb. 11, 4 p.m.
Chinese customs.
100
Feb. 12, noon.
Conversation with British Ambassador.
101
Feb. 12, 7 p.m.
Naval construction.
102
Feb. 12, 8 p.m.
Looting of American property in China.
103
Feb. 12, 9 p.m.
Looting of American property in China.
104
Feb. 13, 2 p.m.
Alaska salmon fisheries.
.05
Feb. 14, 6 p.m.
National mobilization bill, Japan.
106
Feb. 14, 7 p.m.
Chinese customs.
1.07
Feb. 15, 7 p.m.
Violatior of Arerican property Nanking.
1.08
Feb. 16, 7 pim.
Frotection of American property in China.
1C9
Feb. 17, 3 p.m.
Welfare of Anna Louise Strong.
110
Feb. 17, 4 p.m.
Exemption of American citizens from
Japanese military taxes.
111
Feb. 17, 5 p.m.
Smuggling in North China.
112
Feb. 17, 6 p.m.
Chinese customs.
113
Feb. 17, 7 p.m.
Trotection of American property in China.
114
Feb. 18, 11 a.m.
Frotection of foreign lives and property
in China. British representations.
7.5
Feb. 18, 6 p.m.
Alaska ealmon fisheries.
15
Feb. 18, 7 r.m.
American Southern Baptist Mission Chengchow.
17
Feb. 19, noon
China-Japan - Military Attaché's report.
Feh. 20, 4 p.m.
Cipher tables.
119
Feh. 20, 5 p.m.
Cipher tahles.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
…3.
No.
Date
Subjout
120
Feh. 21, 11 a.m.
Chinese customs.
121
Feb. 21, noon
Protection of American property in China.
∫122
Feb. 22, 6 p.m.
Cermen reccgnition of "Manchukuo".
√:23
Feb. 23, noon
Chinese customs.
124
Feb. 23, 4 p.m.
Frotection of foreign property in China.
N 125
Feb. 23, 5 p.m.
Replacement of General Matsui by
General Hata.
126
Feb. 23, 6 n.m.
Japanese press comnent on Hitler's speech,
Eden's resignation, etc.
127
Feb. 23, 9 p.m.
Bombing of Formosa.
128
Feb. 24, noon
American Lutheran Mission, Ichang.
129
Feb. 24, 4 p.m.
Hankow safety zone.
130
Feb. 24, 6 p.m.
Press reaction to den's resignation.
131
Feb. 25, 11 a.m.
Access to foreign property, Shanghai.
132
Feb. 25, 4 p.m.
Temporary employment of Miss Glaeser.
:33
Feb. 25, 8 p.m.
Chinese customs.
134
Feb. 26, 1 p.m.
Frotection of American property, Chengchow
and Wuchow.
1.35
Feb. 26, 5 n.m.
Jananese mail censorship. Shanghai.
136
Feb. 26, 7 p.m.
Southern Eaptist Mission, Chengchow, and
Lutheran mission, Ichang.
177
Feb. 27, 4 r.m.
Chinese customs.
38
Feb. 28, noon
Chinese customs.
133
Feb. 28, 4 p.m.
TAUAY contributions.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.92)
XESAL ADVIGER
OTHCFS
1938 MAY 21 PM 1210kyo, Apr11 30, 1938.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
MMUNICATIONS
No. 2910
AND RECORDS
SUBJECT:
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN J/PAN DURING THE MONTH
OF M.RCH, 1938.
1N
B
A
$
V
DT
894.00 P.R.71
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
Washington.
INTERNATIONAL ECUNUMIC AFFAIRS
JUN1-19388
Sir:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
With reference to the Department's instruction
of
July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith the Embassy
2
monthly report on conditions in Japan for the month of March,
1938.
Respectfully yours
FLED
2
!1
Enclosure:
Joseph C. Grew.
1938
1/Report No, 138.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Eabassy, Hankow
Babassy, Kosoow
Consulate Gemeral, Shanghai
Coaeulate Genesn),Muden
Consulate @enesal, Harbis
11

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 138.
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN J.PIN DURING
THE MONTH OF MARCH, 1938.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES
(a)
The More Important Representations
made by the Embassy in connection
with the Sino-Japanese Conflict......1,2,3,4
(b)
Chinese Customs.
.4,5
(c)
Indemnification for U.S.S. P/NAY
Incident.
.5,6
(a)
Alnskan Fisheries.
.6,7,8
(e)
Payment by American Citizens of
Special Japanese Texes for Military
Expenditures in China.....
.8,9,10
(f)
Statoments by Government Officials...10,1l
(g) Return of "Peoples Envoys".......
.11
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China
(1) Military Operations.......
11,12,13
(2) erial Operations......
.13,14
(3) Autonomous Régimes under Japanese
Patronage..
.14,15
(4) Officinl Japanese Statoments.....15,16
(b)
Great Britnin
(1) Representations made by the
British Embassy in Tokyo in
connection with the Sino-Japanese
conflict.
.16,17,18,
19,20,21
(c) Soviet Russin.
.21,22
(a)
Germany and Italy.
.22,23,24
(e)
France.
.24,25
(f)
Sweden.
.25,26
(g)
Near Enst.
.26
(h)
Australin.
.26

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS
(a)
The Cabinet and the Political
Perties.....
.26,27,28
(b)
Administrative Decisions and
Proposed Reorganization.......
.28,29,30
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
.30,31
V.
GOVERNMENT FIN:NCE.
.31,32
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC ND FIN.:NCIAL CONDI-
TIONS.
(a)
Summary of the Economic Situa-
tion for tho month of Merch.....32
(b)
Foreign Trade.....
.32,33,34
(c)
Foreign Exchange......
.34
(a)
Money Market...
.34
(e)
Capital Payments..........
.34,35
(f) Commodity Prices.....
.35
VII. ACTIVITIES OF MERICAN COMMERCIAL
INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII.
ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL
INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX.
IMMIGRATION.
.35,36
x.
MISCELLANEOUS.
.36,37

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) The More Important Representations made by
the Embassy in connection with the Sino-Japanese
Confliot.
There was received on March 1 the reply of the Japanese
Foreign Office to the Embassy's note of December 1, 1037.
relating to the extraterritorial rights of Americans ir Manchuria.*
The reply stated in part as follows:
"The policy of the Government of Manchkuo in this
instance, which concerns the treatment of nationals of
third countries and juridical persons of third countries,
is a matter in which the Japanese Government is not
concerned and the Japanese Goverrment, accordingly, regrets
that it is not in a position to make any explanation."
In view of the Department's past instruction, no further
representations were made by the Embassy.**
In compliance with Department's telegraphic instructions
the Embassy addressed a memorandum to the Foreign Office conveying
the information received from the American Consul General at
Hankow to the effect that on February 28, 1938, Japanese airplanes
dropped six bombs close to the compound of the American Lutheran
Mission causing slight damage from concussion. The memorandum
further requested than an investigation be mede by the Japanese
authorities and that the Enbassy be advised of the results thereof
at the earliest possible moment. There was received n reply from
the Foreign Office dated March 16, 1938, enclosing a report from
the Japamose military authorities stating that in view of the
fact that the mission is located near the military objectives of
the air raid one of the bombs directed at the military objectives
may have fallen near the mission. This would seem to indicate
an admission on the part of the Japanese authorities of responsi-
bility for the damage which occurred in the instance under
reference.***
On
* Embassy's despatch No. 2689, December 9, 1937.
Embassy's despatch No. 2856, March 31, 1938.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 2824, March 18, 1938 and Embassy's
telegram No. 152, March 7, 1938 and telegram from the
Embassy at Peiping March 4, 1938, 3 p.m.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
On March 7, the Embassy sent to the Foreign Office a
communication rolating to an attack by Japanese airplanes on
oil tanks at Wuchow, Kiangsi Province, China, belonging to the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company. The Embassy in accordance with
the Department's instructions requested the Japanese Government
to cause an investigation of this attack to be made and the
results thereof to be communicated to the Embassy at the earliest
possible moment. Under date of March 16, 1938, the Foreign
Office replied to this representation and enclosed a report of
the investigation by the military authorities concerned. The
report asserted that Japanese airplanes were about to open such
an attack on two oil tanks near the aerdrome at Woochow when
on descending to low altitude they discovered small American
flags on the top of the tanks and thereupon returned without
firing on the tanks.*
On March 1l, 1938 the Embassy made oral representations to
the Foreign Office regarding the occupation of Shanghai Univer-
sity and  Baptist Mission Property in Chapei and on thc following
day addressed a communication to the Foreign Office on the same
subject.** In reply to the oral representations the Foreign
Office stated thet the matter was being vigorously discussed with
the War Department.
On March 26 in compliance with the Department's telegraphic
instructions the Embassy addressed to the Foreign Office an
aide-memoire regarding the continued occupation of American
property by Japanese forces at various locations in China. The
Embassy referred to its note of March 12, 1938 and invited the
serious attention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the
continued occupation by Japanese military forces of certain
American
Shanghai telegram March 5, 4 p.m. and Embassy's telegram No. 153.
March 7, and Despatch No. 2623, March 18, 1938.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 163, March 12, 1938.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
American mission property in Shanghai. The aide-memoire
further stated that such occupation is not confined to the cases
cited in the note referred to but obtains extensively in
areas in central China; thnt owners have been denied access to
their property; that nearly all buildings have been looted and
damaged and some destroyed by fire; and that under these cir-
cumstances it is impossible to assess the damage occasioned
by Japanese soldiers which is or may be the basis of claims against
the Japanese Government.
The Embassy requested that prompt action be taken by the
Japanese Government to cause the vacation of these American
properties and to direct the Japanese military authorities to
permit American owners or their representatives to occupy or
to inspect their properties.*
In accordance with the Department's instructions and on
the basis of information from Peiping** the Embassy addressed a
third person note to the Foreign Office stating that the
Free Methodist Mission at Chengchow, Honan Province, had been
bombed by Japanese cirplanes on March 8, that no Americens had
boen injured, but that damage to the missionnry residence had
been considerable. The Embassy's note requested that an investi-
gation be made of this matter and that the results thereof be
communicated to the Embassy at the earliest possible moment.***
On March 12 the Embassy addressed a third person note to
the Foreign Office stating that on or previous to March 9 a low-
flying Jepanese airplane had dropped two bombs on property of the
Southern Prosbyterian Mission at Tenhsien, Shantung Province;
that one bomb had fallen twelve feet from a 36-foot American
flag; and that there had been no soldiers on the property at the
time
*
Despatch No. 2858, March 31, 1938, and mbassy's telegram No.
213, March 28, 6 p.m.
**
Department's telegram No. 64, February 18, and telegram from
the Embassy at Peiping March 10, 4 p.m. quoting telegram from
Hankow March 10, 11 a.m.
***
Embassy's telegram No. 167, March 12, 1938.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
time. In accordance with the standing instructions of the
Department, the Embassy requested that an investigation be made
of this attack end that the results theroof be communicated to
the Embassy.*
In accordance with the Dopartment's instructions and after
consultation with the British and French Embassies, on March
19 the Embassy mnde an oral appronch to the Foreign Office
supported by an aide-mómoire, concerning the Salt dministration
in various Chinese cities. The Embassy's aide-mémoire stated
in substance that the Chinese nnd foreign Salt Administration
officers at Kalgan, Taiyuanfu, Hangchow, Tsinanfu, Yangchow,
and Penpu, as well as the Chinese Salt Administration officers
at Tientsin and Wuhu, had been compelled to evacuate their
posts as a rosult of actuel hostilities or of chaotic conditions
associated therewith; that with the forcible evacuntion of
senior foreign nd Chinese personnel from the affected districts
the administrative prooedure governing production, stora,
and relense of salt gainst duty payment hrd either been brought
to a standstill or taken over by the de facto authorities of the
locality for their own benefit; that prospects of servicing
American loans secured by revenues of the Chinese Salt Administra-
tion amounting to $15,000,000 (American currency), were being
adversely affected in consequence of the nction in China of
Japanese armed forces; and thit the Government of the United
Stntes desired to bring to the attention of the Japanese Govern-
ment the substontial American interest in the Chinese Salt
Administration and to make full reservation in regard to
American rights and interests.**
(b)
Chinese Customs.
The negotiations between the British Embassy and the
Foreign
*
Telegram from the Embassy at Peiping March 10, 3 p.m., and
Embassy's telegram No. 168 of March 12, 1938.
**
Telegram from the Consulate General at Shanghai datod March
18, 9 a.m., Department's telegrem to Shanghei No. 205,
March 16, end Embassy's telegram No. 185, March 19, 1938.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
Foreign Office with regard to thc integrity of the Chinese
Customs were carefully followed by the Embassy. Thc guostion
of the Chinese customs wns not made a subject of nogotiations
between this Embassy and the Japanese Foreign Office.*
(c) Indemnification for U.S. S. PANAY Incident.
The Department instructed the Embassy by telegrem tc
communicate the following noto to the Minister for Foreign
Affairs:**
"Reference is made to the exchanges of
communications between my Government and the
Government of Japan regarding the attack upon the
U.SiS. PANAY and Aerican merchant vessels on
December 12, 1937, by Japanese nrmed forces and
to the assurnnces contained in your Government's
note dated Decenber 14, 1937, and reaffirmed in its
note of December 24, 1937, that the Japanese Govorn-
ment would make 'indemnificntions for all the
losses' sustained.
I ar instructod by my Governnent to stato that
it finds (1) that the uiount of the property losses
sustcined is one million nine hundred forty-five
thouand six hundrod seventy dollars and one cont
($1,945,670.01), and (2) that the amount of the
indcrnification which should be paid in the death
and personal injury cases is two hundred sixty-eight
thousand three hundred thirty-seven dollars thirty-
five cents ($268 337.35 ). Therofore the total
amount which my Governient is prepared to accept is
two million two hundred fourteen thousand soven
dollars thirty-six cents (2,214,007.36).
Those figures have been arrived at after careful
consideration and represent only the actual property
losses and a conservative estinate of the daiinges
resulting fron deaths and personal injuries; the
amount includes no item of punitive damngus."
The Embassy deliverud the Merican Governrent's note on
the morning of March 22.***
At the end of the period under review it was still being
studied by the Japanese Government. There is no reason to
suspect that the indemnities will not be paid without question
and in full.
(a)
*Embassy's Despatch Nos. 2801, March 3, 1938, 2825, March 18, 1939
and 2844, March 31, 1938.
** Department's tolegram No. 99, March 19, 4 p.m.
***
Embassy's telugrems No. 187, March 20, 6 p.n., and No. 191,
March 22, 1 p.1., E.bassy's dospatch No. 2857, March 31,1938.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Negotiations on the proposed plan outlined in last month's
report for the disposal of the money contributed by the Japanese
to the victims of the U.S.S. PANAY incident proceeded smoothly
and it is expected that a formal announcement will soon be made.*
(d) Alaskan Fisheries.
Difficulties encountered before the completion of the
negotiations for the settlement of the question of selmon
fishing in Alaskan waters by Japanese subjects centered around
the wording of the press communique on that question to be
issued by both Governments.
The Japanese Government insisted upon avoiding any
implication of an admittance on its part that Japanese subjects
had fished for salmon in Alaskan waters. They further insisted
that the temporary character of the Jepanese Government's
assurances be made more cvident. The Embassy in its negotiations
with the Foreign Office repeetedly emphasized the fact that any
substantial departure from the Department's original draft of
the press communique would not have the effect of alleying
public feeling in the United States and that any stress on the
temporary character of the Japanese assurances to refrain from
issuing licenses for salmon fishing in Bristol Bay would serious-
ly injure the purpose and result of the press communique in the
United States.
On March 24 the final redraft prepared in negotiations
between the Embassy with the Foreign Office was decided upon
and telegraphed to the Department. Approval was received from
the Department on March 25, and the communique was released for
publication on that date.
The press communique was as follows:
"As a result of discussions between the merican Governm.
and Government of Japan in rogard to the snlnon fishing
activities
*
Despatch No. 2811, March 17, 1938.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
activities of Japanese nationals in the off shore
waters of Alaska, especially in tho Bristol Bay
area, reported during the past fishing season.
the Japanese Government hes given without prejudice
to the question of rights under internntional law,
assurances as follows:
(1) That the Japanose Governnent is suspending
the three year salmon fishing survey which has been
in progress since 1936 in the waters in question;
(2) That in as much as salmon fishing by Japanese
vessels is not permitted without licenses from the
Jepanese Governnent and as tho Government has been
refraining from issuing such licenses to those
vessels which desired to proceed to the Bristol Bay
aren to fish for salmon, it will, on its own initiative,
continue to suspend the issuance of such licenses;
that in order to make effective this assurance the
Japanese Government is prepared to take, if and when
conclusive evidence is presented that any Japanese
vessels engagege in salmon fishing on a conmercial
scale in waters in question, necessary and proper
measures to prevent any such further operations.
Tho American Government nppreciates these
assurances which the Japanese Government has given
in the spirit of collaboration in the efforts of the
American Government to conserve and protect the
Alaskan salmon fishery resources and is gratified
that discussions have been conducted by the two
Governments concerned in a friendly manner.
In view of the above assurances it is evident
that if over Japanese vessels, which were present
in the wuters in question to engage in crab fishing
or in production of fish meal, caught salmon in
commercial quantities in the past, such fishing
was conducted without the knowledge of the Japanese
Government.
Furthermoro these nssurances of the Japanese
Government are regarded as regulating the situntion
until such time as the problems involved i. y call
for, and circunstances r y render practicable, the
taking of other mensures."
Release of the above communiquc in full was not given
in Japan.
In the JAPAN ADVERTISER of March 27, 1938, under a
heading "U. S., Japan Agree on Salmon Fishing, Hirota
Issues Statenent on Circumstances and Contents of Guarantee",
it

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
8
it was stated in part, under paragraph one of the assurances
of the Japanese Govornment that : "(1) The Japanese Govern-
ment temporarily is suspending investigation of salmon fishing
on a three-year plan commencing in l936 in the waters in question.
This would indicate that in the Japanese statement the
temporary character of the assurances might be considered to
be emphasized.
In view of the long and difficult negotiations, somewhat
complicated by the deternined attitude of the Bureau of
Fisheries, it may be that, had Jepan's international relations
not been in the present delicate state, this settlement of
the question involved might not have been reached. Later
conditions and a change in Japan's international situation may
bring a rovival of this issue.
(e)
Payment by American Citizens of Special Japanese Taxes
for Military Expenditures in China.
On March 5 a note verbale setting forth the views of the
Japanese Government with regard to the payment of Special Japanese
Taxes for military expenditures by American citizens was
received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in reply to the
Fmbassy's aide-mémoire of February 21, 1938. This reply stated
in essence that the special taxes under reference have the
character of general sources of revenue, which character is
not altered by reason of their payment into the Extraordinary
Military Expenditures Special Account; that convenience in
balancing the accounts of the Government alone dictated this
method of accounting and in no way altered the character of
the taxes; that the term "military exactions or contributions"
of paragraph four, article 1, of the Treaty of Commerce and
Navigation cf l9ll should be defined as meaning military
requisitions

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
requisitions or military contributions enforced by the
military authorities, and is therefore not applicable to
taxes set up by normal legislative processes; that American
citizens cannot escape from the obligation imposed upon them
by article two of the above-mentioned treaty; that the Japanese
Government cannot discontinue efforts to collect these speoial
taxes from American citizens. The reply cited the example of
the law passed in 1904 in connection with the Russo-Japanese
War to which the British Government made no objection to the
payment of the taxes imposed on its nationals under similar
circumstances.
On March 23, 1938, and under authorization of the Depart-
ment, the Ambassador again addressed a note to the Foreign
Office restating the views of the American Government and
emphasizing two points. (1) The proceeds from the taxes are
paid into and disbursed from a special account for military
purposes. It was clearly pointed out that the law in question
provides thet all military expenditures connected with the North
China Incident shall be paid from this specinl account, but does
not provide for the payment of goneral administrative expendi-
tures from this nccount. It is therefore obvious that the
military operations are supported by funds into which the
special taxes are paid and that these taxes re used only for
that purpose. (2) The Americen Government holds the view that
any special taxes which are imposed expressly for the support of
military operations in Chinn are "military exactions or contri-
butions" from which American citizens are exempt under the
provisions of the Trenty of Commerce and Navigation of 19ll.
In further stressing this point, the Ambassador's note brought
to the attention of the Jpanese Government the fact that i
its

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
10
its interpretation of the menning of the term in question were
valid, it would annul the obvious intentions of the Japanese and
American Governments, which was to prevent levies for military
purposes and not merely to proscribe one method by which such
levies might be collected,
The Japanese Government was also informed that, in the
present instance, the views of the British Government coincide
with those of the American Government.*
With regard to the securing of foreign capitnl for the
Manchuria Industrial Development Corporation it wes reported on
March 5 that in answer to a question posed by a member of the
House of Representatives budget committee the War Minister
replied thnt the United States is not the only country being
considered and that they(the military authorities) are well
awarc of possible difficulties rising from the solicitation of
foreign cepital. It wcs further reported thnt in reply to the
question anes the Nar Minister think anyone would invest in a
stock in which he is deprived of c swaying vote?", the War
Minister requested that he be allowed to reply in a closed
session. The public was then excluded and the committee remained
in camera for nearly an hour before adjourning.
Remarks of the Foreign Minister, Mr. Koki Hirota pertinent
to relation of the United Stntes mnde in the Lower House of
the Imperial Diet on March 4, 1938, were translated and cabled
to the United States by press representatives. The press version
of the remarks reed in part as follows: ".......it is, I think,
a matter that should make us feel sorry for the United States."
he
*Imbassy's Despatch No. 284l, March 29, 1938, and Department's
telegram No. 98, Mnrch 19, 3 p.m.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
The effect of press despatches prior to the enactment of the
American Immigration Act of l924 will be readily remembered,
and in view of the fact that this press report might lead to
serious misinterpretations in the United States, and further,
since it is believed to be an incorrect and highly misleading
translation of the Japanese original, the Embassy forwarded its
translation of these remarks to the Department.* The portion
of the remarks mentioned above was revised to read as follows:
".......I am sorry that the United States feels this way."
Mr. Hirota was
also reported to heve stated that
"we are working for American-Japanese amity on the basis of the
message exchanged when Secretary of State, Cordell Hull, took
office, and there will be no change in this policy".
(g)
Return of "Peoplus Envoys"
During the month of March several of the "peoples envoys"
returned to Japan from abroad. Those returning from the United
States were unanimous in stating that they found the attitude
of the United States to be unsympathetic towards Japan. In
explaining this attitude emphasis was pl&ced on the ignorance
of Americans, even of those in "high positions", of conditions
in the Far East nnd also on the traditional sympathy of the
United States for the "under dog".
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(n)
China.
(1) Military Operations.
The War Minister was reported to have steted at a meeting
of the House of Representatives budget committee on March 4 as
follows:
*Embassy's Despatch No. 2808, Morch 15, 1938.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
follows: "In preparing for prolonged hostilities, ample
fighting power must be maintained, cnd the transfer homeward
of the troops at the front in exchange for home troops going
to the front will be necessery, I think. As for the methods
involved, I cannot make ny statement for strntegic reasons".
This statement will servo to explain the difficulty of neutral
observers in Japan attempting to make accurate estimate of the
net movement of Japanese troops from Japan to China.
Military operations in China during the month of March
continued in prectically the same theatres as during February.
Operations in Shansi Province were rapidly pushed forward
to the Yellow River on the west and south boundaries of that
province. Progress was so rapid that the province was not
cleared of Chinese forces, and isolated groups remained active
within tho province causing the Japanese forces to make "zigzag"
manocuvres in pursuit of these guerilla bands. Chinese forces
in small numbers enterod the northern part of the province when
the Japanese "push" was started to the south towards the
Yellow River. At the close of the month, in spite of the
Japanese front line being extendod to the Yellow River, fighting
with guerilla bands within the province was occupying considerable
attention of the Japanese army.
In Shantung province the Japanese continued their attempt
to push southward towards Hsuchow. In this general area the
Chinese succeeded in holding the Japanese forces along the
Grand Canal. Ichow which has long been a Japanese objective
was not taken. Severe fighting occurred north of Hsuchow with
little or no chnnges resulting. A movement north from Nanking
toward

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
toward Hsuohow in conjunction with pressure being exerted
southward from Shantung is an attompt to use forces on both
sides of the Chinese to reach this objective.
Repreated attacks were made by the Chinese along the Hwni
Ho River northwest of Nanking. These cttacks hindered the
Japanese advances towards Suchow.
Further small advances were made by the Japanese northward
from the Yangtze River in Kiangsu Province.
A force of some 30,O00 Chinese was reported in the area
between Nanking and Tnihu Lake. This area had formally been
cleared of Chinese forces by the Jopanese in their advance on
Nanking.
The Chinese guerilla warfare continued throughout most of
the aren occupied by the Japanese. Little cctual military
advantnge was gained from these operations by the Chinese; it
does however offer an offective strategem in deleying the
Japanese and prolonging hostilities.
(2)
Aerial Operations.
Aerial operations by the Japanese continued along the same
strategic plan which has been in operation for some months.
Army plenes were used largely in support of front line troop
operations and attack on front line objectives. Naval planes
were used principally for long range bombing of railways,
particularly the Canton-Henkow line and the Canton-Kowloon line.
Raids were also made on strategic centres in the interior of
Chinn such as Hankow and Nancheng. It is difficult and of
doubtful value to attempt an accurate report of the results of
these long renge bombings. Some resistance was shown by the Chinese
airforces reportedly owing to the presence of new Soviet planes
and pilots.
Japanese

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
Japanese press continued to report rather fabulous
success and almost divine invulnerability for their own
air forces.
(3) Autonomous Régimes under Japanese Patronage.
During the month of March various new régimes were
established in areas in China under the control of the Japanese
military forces. Particularly noteworthy was the inauguration
on March 28 of the new administration for central China,
called the "Renovation Government of the Chinese Republic".
the new régime was installcd under pntronage of the Japanese
military forces and congratulatory messages were sent by both
General Hata on behalf of the Japanose army and Vice-Admiral
Hasegawa for the Japanese navy. Close cooperation with the
Provisional Government of the Chinese Republic at Peiping and
with "friendly powers" in establishing permanent peace in the
Orient and opposing communism nd the Kuomintang régime was
plcdged in the menifesto of the new Government. At the same
time small local autonomous Governments in central China pledged
cooperation with the new Government at Nanking.
The new Government in Nanking stated that recognition would
not be accorded to any treaty or contract concluded after 1927
or hereafter between a power or powers'and the former Nanking
Government. Assurances were given that legitimate rights and
interests of foreign Governments nd nationals in China will be
duly respected in accordance with the principles of international
law end usage. The inauguration was widely heiled in the Japanese
press.
On March 5, Mr. Mc Liang, former president of Peking Univer-
sity, wes formally installed as chairman of the reorgnnized Shan-
tung "Provisional Government" at Tsinan. This reorganization
was

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
was carried out as a move to strongthen tho régime in Peiping.
(4) Officinl Japanese Statements.
On March 19, Foreign Minister, Koki Hirota told the budget
committee of the House of Reprosentatives that it is oly
naturcl to abrogate the Nine Power Pact regerding China and that
the Government is waiting for a suitable opportunity. Withdraw-
al from the International Labor Office may also be carried out,
he was reported to have stated.
On March 12 newspapers carried the report from Shanghai
that on the basis of the joint statement of the Japanese army
and navy authorities issued on February 9, 1938, with regard to
enemy property in districts under Japanese occupation in central
China, the military authorities had decided to take drastic
nction in cnses involving "illegal use", by nominel transfer or
otherwise, of property in central China belonging to the Chinese
Government. What constitutes "illegal use" will undoubtedly
be determined by the Japanese military authorities.
The Japanese army, navy and diplomatic authorities in
Shanghai issued a proclometion effective March 20 regulating
and restricting navigation between Shanghei and inland points
under the control of Japanese forces. Those wishing to navigate
on the specified routes must obtain permits from the Japanese
authorities before proceeding. Violation is to be punished by
detention or seizure of the vessels or the goods carried.
In a plenary session of the House of Representatives on March
19 the Foreign Minister, Koki Hirota, declared that tho North
China régime in Peiping will eventually function as the central
dministrative organ in China. It was also reported that Mr.
Hirota informed the Cabinet on March 24 that the "Provisional
Government of the Chinese Republic" will eventually absorb the
régime

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
in central China. Supposedly looking toward this end, conferenccs
were held during the month between the Nanking and Peiping
officials.
On March 10 General Hatn, who replaced Genercl Matsui as
commander of the Japanese forces in central China, gave his
first press interview. He declared there would be no change in
"Japan's immutable policy" towards China. "Accordingly it may
be necessary for the Japanese forces to remain in central China
for 5 yenrs, or 10 years, or 100 years, depending on the
circumstonces". He gave assurances that neutral rights and
interests will be duly repsccted but said that injustices in the
name of foreign rights and interests cannot bo recognized. Comment-
ing on the fighting spirit of his officers nnd men he said thet
he was convinced they will bo able to continue their drive to
Hankow or nywhere elsc.
(b)
Great Britain
(1)
Representations made by the British
Embassy in Tokyo in connoction with
the Sino-Japan se conflict. *
On March 3 the British imbassador left with the Foreign
Office a memorandum referring to the plen of the Japanese military
authorities at Shanghai to impose  postal censorship and
requesting that the Foreign Office take note that he (the
British Ambassador) could not ndmit the right of the Jopanese
authorities to censor mails dosp tched by or addressed to
British subjects.**
Sir Robert Craigie presented to the Foreign Office a further
memorandum dated Maroh 5 concerning the restrictions imposed by
the Japanese military and naval authorities in the Shanghai
International Settlement on accoss to and removal of property.***
The
*
Embassy's Despatch No. 2822, March 18, and No. 2845, Maroh 31.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 135, February 26 and No. 147, March 4.
***
Embassy's telegrams No. 131, Februery 25 and No. 155, March 8.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
The British Ambassador addressed a signed note to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs on March 8 to the effect that in the
opinion of the British Government the North China Incident
Special Taxation was a levy raised for military purposes and must
be regarded as a military contribution from which British subjects
were exempted by the provisions of Article II of the Anglo-
Japanese Treaty of Commerce and Navigation of l9ll. Sir Robert
Craigie's note ended with the request that he be informed whether
the Japanese Government concurred in the British Government's
view and whether it was prepared to give instructions that the
colloction from British subjects of the taxes in question should
be discontinued.*
Further discussions concerning the Shanghai customs took
place on or about March 1l betwcen the British Ambassador and the
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs with particular reference to
the British proposal presented to Mr. Horinouchi on February 26
and to Mr. Horinouchi's counter-proposcl of February 27. Sir
Robert Craigie nd Mr. Horinouchi had further discussions on the
same matter on March 15. However, no cgrcement on the Shanghai
customs issue was renched, the two Governments continuing to
differ on various points.**
On March 18 Sir Robert Craigie gave Mr. Grew a copy of a
memorandum dated March 14 which he had left with the Foreign
Office regarding the projected formation of a North China Industrial
Development Company to be established under official direction or
encouragement as a Japanese corporation controlling a number of
subsidiary companies to engage in public utilities such es
reilway and air transport, telegrnphs, telephones, electric power
generation, manufacturing and mining. The British memorandum
pointed out that reports of this project hed given rise to
anxiety
Fmbassy's telegrem No. 160, March 9, 1938.
'Embassy's telegrams No. 164 of March 12, and No. 176 of March 16.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
anxiety in financial and industriel circles in Great Britain;
stated thct this anxiety was shared by the British Government
on the ground that the contemplated compeny would have or would
almost inevitably acquire a monopolistic character inimical to
British interests in China and would exclude free competition
by British trade; expressed tho hope that the Japanese Government,
in view of past undertakings, would not countennnce or support
the formation of industrial or commercial enterprises open to
the above-mentioned objections; and concluded with the statement
that it would not relieve the anxiety of the British Government
or British interests to be assured thnt British capitnl might be
invested in the new Japanese enterprise in China, because that
privilege would not necessarily ensure protection of existing
British interests or freodom to compete in trnde in China.*
Sir Robert Craigie addressed a note to Mr. Hirota on March
19 referring to the latter's noto of October 5, 1937, in which
it was stated that the Japanese Government was well aware of the
British Government's considerable interests in the Chinese Salt
Administration and that it was the intention of the Japanese
Government to do its utmost to respect those interosts. The
British Ambassador's notc invited the attention of the Japanese
Government to the foreign loans directly secured on the revenues
of the Chinese Salt Administration and added that the British
Government would welcome an assurance that no action would be
taken or countenanced in regard to the Administration in the areas
now controlled by Japan whioh would prejudice the service of these
loans.**
The British .mbassador left a memorandum at the Foreign Office
on March 19 concerning a report from Tiontsin that Japanese
authorities
*
Embassy's telegram No. 179, March 18 from Consulate General at
Bhanghai.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 185, March 19.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
authorities were supporting the claim of the recently inaugurated
China Federated Raserve Bank to act as collecting bank for North
China Customs in place of the Central Bank of China, and that the
Federated Reserve Bank had delegated the Hopei Bank to undertake
this work. Sir Robert Creigie's memorandum was to the following
effect: If the Hopei Bank should act as a customs collocting
bank this would undermine the stability of the Chinese currency;
such a development would result in serious losses to British and
other foreign interests in China which the Jepanese Government had
expressed its intention of repecting; another consequence of such
a development would be that ell the customs collections from North
China would tend to be in notes of the China Federated Reserwe
Bank which in practice would not be convertible into foreign
currencies; and the customs revenues for North China would therefore
not be utilizable for the service of foreign obligations.*
On Merch 23 the British Ambassador received a reply dated
Merch 22, to his written protest of February 1 against the announce-
mont of the provisional régime in Peiping to the effect that a
revised customs teriff would be put into effect in North China.**
Mr. Hirota's reply was similar to that which he addressed to the
merican Ambassador on March 22, 1938, and covered precisely the
same points.***
Sir Roburt Craigie informed Mr. Grew on Maroh 24 that his
negotiations with the Japanese Government with respect to the
settlement of the Chinese Customs question were coming to a close,
adding that in his opinion the agreement tentatively renched
represented the maximum concessions obtainable from the Japanese
and that it would be generally satisfactory to the British Govern-
mont. The importent points of the agreement as proposed were as
follows: "(1)
All revenues collected by the Chinese Maritime
Customs
*Embassy's telegram No. 197, March 24, 1938.
***
Embassy's telegram No. 206, March 26, 1938.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
Customs at each port within the areas under Japanese ocoupation
to be deposited with the Yokohama Specie Bank or, where the Bank
has no branch, with any other bank or banks agreed upon; (2)
From revenues thus deposited foreign loan quotas to be remitted at
intervals agreed upon to the Inspector-General's account at the
Yokohama Specie Bank in Shanghai in order to meet in full on due date
the service of such foreign lonns nnd indemnities secured on the Cus-
toms revenues as were regularly met up to July 1937; (3)
The
service of foreign loans and indemnities secured on the customs
revenues to be trented as a first charge on the revenues after
deducting the maintenance oxpenses of the Customs dministration."
Sir Robert Craigie stated in a telegram to his Government that he
hoped to receive the cssurances that Japanese non-military imports
would pay customs dues and that the ships carrying such imports
would pay the customary tonnage and herbor dues, as well as the
assurance that customs launches taken over by the Japanese would
be released. The British Ambassador telegraphed the text of the
proposed agreement to his Government but received no reply thereon
before the close of the period under review.*
There wns no outstanding chonge in the general trend of Eritish-
Jepanese relations during the month; the vernacular press became
slightly less vigorous in its display of fears and jealousies in
its attitude toward Britain and the British Government; howver,
its general attitude was to continue to question the sincerity of
the foreign policy of Englind.
The Foreign Minister in roply to an interpellation in the
Diet reiterated the  ssurancos that the British Government has
taken no steps inimicl to Japanese interest, and has attempted
to restrain the cctions of some British nationals who have special
interests
* Embassy's telegram No. 198, March 24, 1938.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
interests in China. The Japanese press followed closely the
negotiations between England and Italy and continued to express
an undertone of concern at the obvious strengthening of England's
position.
Various officials as well as others expressed the hope that
relations would improve following Mr. Eden's resignation.
(c) Soviet Russia.
Questioned at a meeting of the House of Representatives
Budget Committee about reletions with Russia, on March 4, the
Foreign Minister is reported to have replied in part as follows:
"We are trying to bring conditions back to normal, but for that
good understanding on the part of the Soviets with regard to
Japan is more necessary than anything else, it seems to us".
The conditions of Soviet-Japanese reletions during the
month of March was largely the same as that of last month.
There
was continued tension irritated by a succession of various
incidents involving the two countries. In the Japanese press,
there ware no evidences of an organized effort on the part of
the Government to stir up and mobilize popular feeling against
Soviet Russia, however most newspapers published editorials and
erticles during the month concerning the prolonged tension between
the Soviet Union and Japan. Relations with Russin were the subject
of interpelletions in the Diet which were answered calmly by the
Government.
The question of final payments for the purchase from the
Soviet Union of the former Chinese Eastern Railway was an
additionnl factor adding to this tension. It was nsserted that
Russia had refused to pey somc 5,000,000.00 Yen to the North
Mnchurian Railway, and in retalietion, the "Manchukuo" officials
held

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
held up the final payment for the purchase of the railway.
The auction of fishery grounds in Soviet waters for the
a
current year was carried out in/peaceful manner on February 28.
It was reported that the Soviet authorities had placed
berbed wire entanglements around the Japanese Embassy in Moscow
and the Japnnese Consulate in Oha in North Sagahalien at the
same time Soviet officials were reported to have said that wire
entanglements will be put around ell Japanese consulates in
Soviet Russia.
On March 5 it was reported that the Japanese and Manchurian
military authorities will renew their joint efforts to consolidate
border defenses becnuse of the reported "suddenly increasingly
provocative outrages" on the part of the Russian ermy in the Far
East.
It wns reported that the J panese had captured a Soviet
pilot after he had descended behind the Japanese lines in a
perachute. He is supposed to have confessed that he was forced
by the Russian authorities to go to China. This was part of the
basis of a protest mnde by the Japanese Embessy in Moscow.
The question of reciprocal closing of consulates in the
two countries was a further basis for contention between Japan
and Russia.
These incidents nccompanied by the fact that there has been
no solution of important questions involving the two countries
tends to exacerba to feeling between Russia end Japan but there
was no marked change during the month of March.
(a)
Germeny and Italy.
Japan continued to be on the best of terms with her official
friends, Germany and Italy. The Rome-Berlin-Tokyo axis was further
strengthened by the Italian Good-will Mission to Japan, presenta-
tion

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
tion of the credentials of the first Italian Minister to
"Manchukuo", end the friendly exchange of congratulatory
telegrams on the occasion of the achievement of the Anchluss
between Germany and Austria.
The Italian Good-will Mission arrived at Nagasaki on
March 17 and throughout the remainder of the month was
lavisly entertained in western Japan as well as in Tokyo,
including the usuel audiences with the Emperor and a huge
mass meeting attended by high Japanese officials.
Upon the return to Itnly of this mission, which represented
all branches of the Fascist party - political, military,
commercial, financinl, gricultural and cultural, it may well
be thnt negotintions looking to the strengthening and deepening
of Japanese-Italian cooperation and understanding will be
undertaken. The effect of the Italian rapprochement with England
must of course be considered.*
As a further gesture of good-will it was announced on
March 29 that the flag ship of the Itnlien Far Eastern
squadron will visit J:pan shortly after April 1.
On the 26th it was reported that the House of Representa-
tives had decided to send a mission coriposed of members of
the House of Representatives to Italy and Germnny to return
the courtesy of the visit of tho Italian Good-will Mission.
The reply of the Foreign Minister Ribbentrop to the
congratulatory telegram sent by Foreign Minister Hirota on
the occasion of the coup in Austrin said in pnrt "Your Excellency's
message has been received here with great satisfaction as
testimony to thc staunch friendship of Japan towards Germany and
thus will contribute much towards consolidating the German-
Japanese entente".
On March 19 it was reported that Walter Lenke, general
representative
*Embassy's despatch No. 2860, March 31, 1938.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
-24-
representative of the Krupp interests in Germany in the Far
East, as well as two other represontatives of another German
concern, requested the good offices of the Japanese military
authorities in arranging for the opening of foreign trade
with North China on a barter plan. It was further reported that
the Japanese military authorities were favorably inclimed to the
plan and hnd decided to coniply with the German request.
(e) France.
By a note datod Morch 19, 1938, the French mbassador took
action similar to thnt takon also on March l9 by the mericen
Embassy and by the British Embassy concerning the Chinese Salt
Administration.
Monsieur Arsene-Henry received from Mr. Hirota two circular
notes dated March 20, which were also received by the American and
British Imbassadors, concerning vessels nnvigating south of
Penrl River near Canton, and concerning the marking of junks
belonging to third countries end operrting in the vicinity of
Canton. The first note stated that the Japanese Navy was taking
measures "to make even more effoctive" the blocking of communications
at the mouth of the Penrl River near Canton and requested that
French vessels, whenever passing south of the mouth of Pearl River,
pursue a certain coursc in order to avoid the dnnger of occurrence
of unfortunate errors involving the Japanese Navy.* The second
note stated that the Chinese were extensively usine junks for the
trensportation of rris and munitions in the vicinity of Conton in
attempts to pass the Japanese blocknde, and requested that those
who might be concerned be informed of the Japanese Government's
desire that junks belonging to French nationals carry vertical
and horizontal markings cleerly discernible from a distance.**
The French Ambassador addressed to the Minister for Foreign ffairs
two
*
Enbessy's telegram No. 189, March 21, 1938.
**
Embessy's telegran: No. 190, March 21, 1938.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
2
two formal notes, dated March 2l, acknowledging the receipt
of the above-mentioned circular notes, stating that the contents
thereof would be brought to the attention of the French Government,
and meking, meanwhile, full reservations in behalf of French
nationals in respeet of any injury or loss to French property
or of the right ofFrench vossels to navigate any course.*
There were several notices in the press of the use of Indo-
China as a route over which military supplies were being sent
to Chinn.
The French Ambassedor received from the Minister for Foreign
Affairs a reply, dated March 22, 1938, to his representations of
February 1 concerning the arbitrary and illegal action of the
provisional régime in Peiping in putting into effect a new customs
tariff for North China.** Mr. Hirota's reply was similar to the
replies addressed to the merican and British Ambassadors on March
22.***
(f) Sweden.
It was reported on March 4 in the JAPiN TIMES that Sweden
was seeking through its Legation im Tokyo to enter into barter
trede agreement with "Manchukuo" to improve its exports to that
country which have reportedly suffered substantinlly since the
conclusion of the German trnde greement with "Manchukuo" nd
the enforcement of the "Manchukuo" control act. The JhPAN
ADVERTISER on March 15 stated that according to the NICHI NICHI
Japan-Sweden barter trade negotiations are progressing between
interested companies of the two countries under the auspices of
their Governments. The Minister of Commerce and Industry is
reported to have stated in this connection that:
".....Relations between Sweden and Japan-Manchukuo
have become fevorable recently. It was fortunate
that
*Embassy's telegran No. 195, March 23, 1938.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2757, Feb. 3, 1938 and Embassy's telegram
No. 70, February 2, 1938.
*** Embassy's telegram No. 212, November 28, 1937.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
26-
that Mr. Wenner Cren, influential Swedish
businessnan, haprened to visit Japan at
this mement. I saw hin and exchanged cpinions
with him on matters concerning the promotion
of Japan-Swedish trade relations. On his
return home, he will endeavor to bring the
trade promotion project to a successful con-
clusion. After the Diet session is over, I
should like to study this question."
According to the Swedish Legation at Tokyo, the discussions
above-mentioned were initiated by private Swedish interests and
do not in any way involve the Swedish Government.
(g) Near East.
On March 3 the Domei news agency reported that the commer-
cial mission sent by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
to Near Eastern countries for the purpose of promoting Japanese
exports returned to Japan. A menber of the mission is reported
to have said that Japans exports to the Near East could be
increased from the present 60,000,000 yen to 100,000,000 yen.
(h)
Australi.
Owing to the fnilure of the conference between Australia
and Japanese shipping companies, the question of shipping
between Australia and Japan is now reported to be the subject
of conversation between the two countries.
D
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS
(a) The Cabinet and the Political Parties.
There continued to be some friction between the Governaent
and the political parties. An attack on Mr. Isoo Abe, leader of
the Social Mass Party, by two ruffians, was the subject of a
vigorous interpellation in the Diet. In reply, Premier Konoe
promised to redouble protective measures for Diet rembers. The
Minseito and Seiyukai pnrties refused to cooperate with the
Social

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
Social Mass party in sponsoring an impeachment of the Home
Minister. The atmosphere in Tokyo was particularly tense at
this time, but with the arrest of the ruffians as well as some
of those reportedly backing the attack, and the lack of
vigorous action in the Diet, tension eased and the cabinet con-
tinued its efforts to obtain approval of its legislation.
Rumors of the new single state party continued to be
prevalent, and on March 10 it was reported that Premier Konoe
had at last agreed to lead such a party. The incident in which
Lieutenant-Colonel Masaoki Sato told a Diet member to "shut up"
during a committee hearing on the mobilization bill had reportedly
revealed to the Prime Minister the friction between the Government
and the parties and had shown clearly the need of one national
party. It seemed apparent that the Seiyukai was attempting to
push the program, but with the uncertainty shown by the Minseito,
nothing evolved and the Diet closed without a new party being
organized. The possibility that such a party may yet be formed
remains a powerful threat against recalcitrants. On March 28 at
a meeting of "right wing" groups, particularly the Tohokai, a
strong resolution urging the necessity of one party was adopted,
but at the same time it seemed apparent that the two large
parties would continue to support the Konoe Cabinet and to
cooperate with each other without amalgamation. This movement
is one which may be brought to a head at any moment believed to
be propitious for the realization of the aims of those who even
now control governmental policies.
In spite of the support of Mr. Yukio Ozaki, the eminent
liberal, who plead for the principle of free speech, Mr. Suehiro
Mishio of the Social Mass Party was expelled from the Diet for
daring to venture the suggestion that Fremier Konoe should proceed
with

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
-28-
with the boldness and determination of Stalin, along with
Mussolini and Hitler. The mention of Stalin was believed to
betray sympathy toward communism and could not be allowed to
stand without disciplinary action.
(b)
Administrative Decisions and Proposed Reorganization.
To eliminate the lack of coordination between the various
officials and official institutions responsible for Japanese
management of affairs in China, the Legislative Bureau and the
Foreign Office prepered divergent plans. The Cabinet in
commenting on these two plans decided on March 15 to create the
China Economic Affnirs Bureau to be placed under the direction
of the Cabinet. The Legislative Burenu had originally proposed
to establish a board under the direction of the Premier to be
entrusted with political, economical and cultural matters
relating to Chine and to be independent of the Foreign Office.
Foreign Minister Hirota proposed to establish a bureau under
the direction of the Ministry for Foreign ffairs to handle only
FP
the economic exploitation of China; political and cultural
matters were to be controlled as hitherto by the Foreign Office.
Under the plan referred to above as adopted by the Cabinet, there
will be established a China Economic Affairs Burenu which will
have no voico in diplomatic matters and the principal duty of
it will be to supervise the North Chino Development Compeny and
the Central China Rohabilitation Company.
The explanation has been advanced thet rather than because
of his fear that an independent bonrd, such as suggested by the
Legislntive Bureau's plan, might be accused of infringing upon
China's sovereignty and hence be displeasing to third countries,
Forcign Minister Hirota opposed that plan because he is lonth
'o relinquish power which he had wielded up to the present and
o hand over the direction of affairs in Chinn to a board which migh
take

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
take a more moderate view toward the Chinese than that
assumed by the Foreign Office itself.*
On March 22 the JAPAN ADVERTISER published the Lomei
news agency version of the reorganization of the Foreign
Office which is supposedly to be carried out soon after the
close of the Diot session and the following main points were
listed:
"1. Alteration of the Foreign Ministry's
neme to Forcign Policy Ministry.
2. Establishment of the Foreign Policy
Minister's Sccretariat comprising sections of
ceremonies, archives, telegraphy, personnel
and accountancy.
3. Revival of the Political affairs bureau
and inclusion in it of the existing European-Asiatic
bureau and the bureau of American affairs.
4. Retention of the present protocol bureau.
5. Establishment of a Forcign Folicy Planning
Board including the War, Navy, Commerce and Industry and
Finance Ministers. Establishment of an ast sia
Board which will dischnrge part of the work at present
being handled by the Oversees Ministry and the Foreign
Office's East Asia Bureau. Simultaneously an Overseas
Bureau will be established in thc Cabinet but prosumably
the Oversens Ministry will continue in existence.
6. Establishment of a foreign trade bureau
encompassing the work at present being done by the
Foreign Ministry commercial affnirs burunu, the trade
bureau of the Commerce and Industry Ministry and the
tariff section of the Finaroe Ministry.
7. Establishment of an informotion and propoganda
burenu substituting the existing informntion bureau and
the cultural enterprise bureau.
8. The posts of directors of the Foreign Folicy
Planning Board, the East Asin Joard and the information
and propoganda bureau will be open to officicls of
the Chokunin rank.
9. Bureau directors of all the Ministrics will
be automatically called upon to act as counselors of
the Foreign Policy Ministry.
10. Establishment of various commissions comprising
men of ability and experience representing a wide
section of the nation."
T?is
mbassy's despatch No. 2827, March 19, 1938.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
-30
This outline of proposed changes is believed to bo merely
provisional, as there is some talk of drastic changcs in the
Foreign Service, including the reduction to Legations of several
Embessies.
TY. RSE OF LEGYCLATTON
The seventy-third session of the Diet was formally closed
on March 27, 1938, having finished its business th rrevious
day with the passage of the last of the Government's legislation,
the electric power bill. This session, in spite of the heated
debates and vigorous questioning in connittee sessions, marked
a complete triumph for the Governmont and resulted in the
enchancement of Prince Konoe's position and popularity.
In the National Mobilization bill, the Diet relinquished
all power to the Cabinet, to be exercised through mperial decree
in time of war or incidents of the nature of war, or when there
is the necessity for n:tional mobilization.*
By the electric power bill the Government is to b) given
control of the industry through a state-controlled clectric
power company to which private interests must transfor their
frcilities as an investment in that company.
Two other bills worthy of particular note were those
providing for the establishment of government controlled
companies for the economic development and exploitation of areas
occupied by the Japanese military forces in North nnd Contral
hina.
The reports concorning the North Chinn Industrial Develop-
nt Company were the cause of the British Embassy delivering
momorandum to the Foreign Office on the subject.**
The other
unpany is to be the Central China Development Company.
Neither
mbnssy's despatch No. 2300, Mnrch 3, 1938, and Embassy's despatch
c, 2815, March 18, 1938.
Embassy's talegram No. 197, March 18, 1938, and Embassy's
spntch No. 2828, Murch 19, 1938.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
Neither of these companies were operating at the close of
the poriod under review and it is believed to be too early for
careful study of the application of this Legislation.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
It was announced in the local press on March 9, 1938, that
the House of Representatives had approved six financial bills,
including the ¥4,850,000,000 supplementnry budget for the
military operations in China, ¥21,800,000 and ¥386,492,000
supplementary budgets for the general accounts for the current
and coming fiscal years, and the supplementery budgets for the
special accounts for the current and coming fiscal years.
On Merch 12 the approval of the House of Peers to the
supplementary budget for operations in Chinn was announced.
• This
provided for ¥3,257,000,000 for the army, ¥1,043,000,000 for the
navy, ¥550,000,000 for the Finance Minister. Important items
on the revenue side of the budget were ¥4,453,489,000 to be
obtained from bond issues, North China incidunt special taxes
¥9,023,000 and transferring from the general account (revenue
from China incident special taxes) ¥318,301,000.*
At the close of the session the Diet had passed budget bills
totaling approximately cight billion yen.** ∴bout seven billion
of this total is to be raised by issuing bonds. The general budget
for 1938-39 promulgated on March 16, 1938 celled for expenditures
¥2,867,796,855. This represented only a slight increase over the
general budget last year.***
On March 22, the JAPAN ADVERTISER cerried the notification
of the intention to place the third issue of "baby bonds" to
finanoe operations in China on sale some time after pril 15.
The
Embassy's despatch No. 2826, March 19, 1938.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2850, March 31, 1938.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 28l9, March 18, 1938.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
The thesis has been advanced that the relatively slow
issuance of bonds alrendy authorized is caused by the fact that
Jupan has not been able to expand her industrial production
to the extent that had been hoped for and anticipated.*
SECTION VI. GENERAL ECONOM
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a)
Summary of the Economic Situation for the Month of
The gencral economic situation in Japan during the month
under review clearly reflected the strengthening of Government
control and regulation of all economic cndeavors. As regards
those industries connected with the manufacture of ammunition
and war materials in general, the condition was one approaching
a "boom period"; Government expenditures and subsidies were
relatively
large and growing, wages were /high and the munitions industrys
only difficulty was its inability to make sufficiently rapid
expansion. Other undertakings, however, were adversely effected
by the decline of foreign trede and by the Government's control
policies and emphnsis on the necessity of general economizing.
Foreign exchnnge was well stabilized by the Government, bank
deposits increased, the money market was easy and capital pay-
ment were lerge. It is expocted that Government revenues for
the month under higher rntes of taxation will continue to
show large increases over last year. There was a continued
slight inflationary trend and the currency issue was somewhat
further expanded. The commodity price level continued to rise,
The sales of national bond issues were substantially larger than
last year.
(b) Foreign Trade.
Lergely owing to the Government's expansion policy along
with
Statistical data obtained from Commercial Attaché's Office

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
-33-
relatively
with the high wages of the munitions industries and similar
enterprises, manufacturing costs in Japan showed a continuing
rise. This tends to rob Japanese commodities of one of their
principal advantages in the world market and was reflected in
a continuation of the declining trend of the foreign trade of
Japan.
The Government's policy of rigid import and export con-
trol was also a definite factor in this decline in that the
supply of raw materials was limited. Total exports for the
month dropped by 18% and imports by 39% from March, 1937 levels.
Exports of raw silk, silk, rayon and cotton textiles, end tinned
foods all declined, while imports of such commodities as wool,
raw cotton, pulp, rubber and leather also fell off. Excess
imports for the month was ¥18,557,000 against ¥124,683,000 for
March of last year.
(In Yen 1,000)
March 1938
Compared with March 1937
decrease of
Exports
225,553
50,408
18.2%
Imports
244.110
156,534
39.1%
469,663
206,942
30.6%
Excess imports
18,557
106,126
85.1%
Total trade during January to March 1938.
Exports
569,763
131,325
18.7%
Imports
624.096
382,947
38.%
1,193,859
514,272
30.1%
Excess imports
54,333
251,622
82.2%
It was reported by the pross on March 19 that the third
supplementary budget for 1938-39 carried eppropriations of a
total of more then six million yen to be spent for the promotion
of Japan's foreign trade during the fiscal year. The Ministry
f Commerce and Industry is to receive ¥3,200,000 for distribution
to

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
-34-
to various export associations for the promotion of trade. The
Foreign Office is to receive some ¥870,Oo0 for the same purpose.
480,O00 yen is to be used to establish the Temporary Commodity
Adjustment Bureau which among other duties is to decide the
basic policy on the control of forcign exchange and trade. Other
details of the disposition of the approprintions were not
published.
(c) Foreign Exchange.
As noted in
ε preceding paragraph exchange rates were
staple during the month; the verage rate on New Yor having
been $29.O456 for Yen 100. This represents a depreciation of
the yen of $0.l554 in relation with the average rate for February.
(d) Money Market.
In relation to the same month last year interest for short
term accommodations for the month of March 1938 declined by
1.095% to 2.555% per nnnum. The total benk deposits at the
end of the month were ¥16,005,161,000, which is an increase
of ¥253,567,000 over the month of February and an increase of
¥1,700,449,000 over the corresponding period of last year. This
increase mey be accounted for by the large Government expenditures
and the Government policy of regulating investments. Postal
savings, which ordinarily show a decline during the month of
March, continued to gain during Mrrch 1938, probably owing to
the official campaign for economizing by the people.
(e) Capital Payments.
According to statistics by the Hypothec Bank of Japan
apital payments during the month were ¥672,721,150, an increase
f ¥202,316,950 over the preceding month. This again reflects
largely

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
-35-
largely Government issues of national bonds.
(r) Commodity Prices.
As has been the trend ror some time,commodity prices
continued to advence during the month of March. The Bank of
Japan's (1927=lo0) wholesale price index number for March was
251.5 compared with 249.3 in February, 1938, and 239.8 in
March 1937. Retail prices conformed; their index number as of
April 15 (index numbers are available only for the preceding
month) was 197.6 compared with 192.4 on March 15 and 171.9 on
April 15 of 1937.
It was announced on March 2, 1938 that on May 1 a
rationing system for consumption of oil and gasoline would be
introduced. All purchases will be controlled by a ticket system
and severe punishment is provided for violations. Further
restrictions on the free use of other commodities mey be expected
as the need for consorving them is felt.
VII. Nothing to report.
VIII. Nothing to report.
IX. IMMIGRATION.
It was reported on March 16 that the Overseas Ministry had
requested somc 5,570,000 Yen for the purpose of financing mass
:mmigretion movement of about 1,500,000 youths to "Manchukuo"
over e period of 20 years beginning on April 1 of this year. It
i: planned to send 30,000 during 1938 - this in addition to the
 yenr plan now in effect which is to move one million families
io the new country. The youths are to be unmarried and between
ti ages of 16 and 19. They will be trained in a Central Training
ustitute in Ibaraki for two months before going to Manchuria

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
-36-
and will be given actual practico in collective farming in
North Manchuria in some five training camps. Recruiting for
this movement will be undertaken by the Overseas Ministry,
prefectural governmonts, the Manchurian Immigration Socicty and
youth associations. In Manchuria the Manchuria Development
Corporation and the Manchuria Government will supervise the
immigrants. A yearly subsidy of ¥3,000,000 will be granted by
these two orgnnizations.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
On March 18 the locnl press carried the announcement of
a 28 million yen subsidy to the Nippon Yusen Kaisha (Japan
Steamship Company) granted by the Government for the construction
of two large steamships to be placed in the Pacific service of
that company. These ships will be larger than any at present
opernted in regular pessenger service on the Pacific. Outstanding
fentures of the proposed construction plan as reported in the
JAPAN TMES are as follows:
"1. To build two, high speed 26,500 ton class
passenger motor ships;
2.
Construction work shall be commenced from the
bbginning of 1939;
3.
One of the ships shall be completed at
the beginning of 194l and enother a year
lnter;
4.
The construction cost for these ships is
set at ¥900 per ton, or ¥24,000,000 per
ship, the total cost being ¥48,000,000;
5.
Of the above total construction cost,
the Government shall subsidize to the
amount of ¥28,800,000 (80 per cent),
spreading over five years hence;
6.
The ships sh ll bo built for the Nippon
Yusen Kaisha;
7.
The ships shall be placed on the San
Francisco route.
On Merch 16, the Internationnl Olympic Committee in session
 Cairo upheld Japan's right to stago the 1940 Olympic games.
r Minister Gencral Sugiyama stated before a Diet Committee
that

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
37-
that the Olympic games should not be held until the present
"inoident" in China is over, but that preprarations for the
fames could be continued.
It was reported that the volume of tourist travel during
the first part of this year wos only 5% of normal.
In line with the movement to develop the "Japenese
spirit", it has been decided to abolish the teaching of
English in the elementary grade at the Peers' School and to
use that time for lectures on mornls.
On March 3 Rear Admiral Kiyoshi Nada, spokesman for the
Imperial navy declared that the rumors that Japan is building
battloships of more than 35,000 tons and numerous cruizers of
great speed and of 20 to 25 thousand tons are entircly groundless.
The annual grand army manouevers will not be held this
year owing to the militery operations in China.
The Federation of Japen Labor Organizations has decided
to forego a street parade on Labor Day, April 3 of this year.
".......representatives of Japan's l bor organizations will
instead visit Yasukoni Shrine to pray for victories in China."

=== Page 90 === (confidence 1.00)
Despatches sent to the Department
during March 1938.
No.
Date
Cub ject
2795
FAS
March 1
Anti-American military sentiment.
2796
EHD
March 2
Exeuption of Americans from
Japanese military taxes.
2797
GDA
March 2
Recommendations made end steps taken
...Sino-Japanese conflict.
2798
CC
March 2
JAFAN ADVERTISER interview with
General Araki.
2799
CC
March 3
Wartime thought control exhibit
in Tokyo.
2800
CC
March 3
Economic mobilization bill.
2801
JFM
March
3
Chinese customs.
2902
ESC
March 3
Sino-Japanese relations. Documents.
2803
JFM
March 3
Ship inspection laws of Japan.
2804
EHD
March 3
Alaska salmon fisheries.
2805
HSM
March 3
Arrival of Clerks Valenza and Beckley.
2806
ESC
March 3
Promotions of foreign employees.
2807
ESC
March 4
Report on sinking of fishing junks
near Hong Kong.
2808
FAS
March 15
Translation of remarks by the Foreign
Minister on Japanese-American
relations.
2809
GDA
March 15
Diplomatic visa report.
2910
GDA
March 17
Post report.
2811
CC
March 17
Japan-America Trust Fund.
2812
GDA
March 14
Cost of living statement for 1937.
2913
EHD
March 17
Japan's economic position, and
other matters.
2814
CC
March 17
Japanese article on American respect
for flag.
2815
CC
March 18
Mobilization bill.
2816
GDA
March 18
Folitic al report, February 1938.
2817
CC
March 18
Request for publication.
2818
CC
March 18
McGraw-Hill copyright infringement.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
No.
Date
Subject
2819
CC
March 18
Japanese budget 1938-39.
2820
EHD
March 18
Japanese-Soviet relations.
2821
DJL
March 18
Sick leave, D.J.Laing.
2822
GDA
March 18
Representations made. Sino-
Japanese conflict.
2823
ESC
March 18
Attack on Standard Vacuum Oil Co.
tanks, Wuchow.
2824
ESC
March 18
Attack on American Lutheran Mission,
Ichang, February 28, 1938.
2825
JFM
March 18
Chinese customs.
2826
CC
March 19
Japanese budget.
2827
GDA
March 19
Froposed China Economic Affairs
Bureau.
2828
EHD
March
19
North China Industrial Development Co.
2829
GDA
March 19
Japanese press reaction to the
Anschluss.
2830
EHD
March 19
Speech in Tokyo by Mr. F.W.Reeves.
2831
JCG
March 19
Attack on members of Shanghai
Municipal Folice by Japanese forces.
2832
JCG
March 19
Froposed Japanose postal censorship
Shanghai.
2833 JCG
March 19
Japanese'restrictions on access
to foreign property in Shanghai.
2834
JCG
March 19
Japanese violation of British
territorial waters at Hong Kong.
2835
JCG
March 19
Frotection of foreign property
in China and reservation of rights.
2836
JCG
March 19
Frotection of foreign property
in Cina and reservation of rights.
2837
CC
March 22
Contribution to Los Angeles
flood sufferers.
2838
JCG
March 31
Foreign Relations of the U.S.
2839
GDA
∵arch 26
Diplomatic visa report.
2840
ESC
March 29
Intornctiont1 Exposition of Japan 1940.
2841
EHID
March 29
Japanese military taxes.
2842
ESC
March 30
Employment of Miss A.B.Saolton.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
No.
Date
Subject
2843 GDA
March 30
Addendum to despatch no. 2822 -
Sino-Japanese conflict.
2844
JFM
March 31
Chinese customs.
2845
GDA
March 31
Representations made - Sino-
Japanese conflict.
2846
JCG
March 31
Address made by the Ambassador.
2847
JFIA
March 31
Chinese salt administration.
(2848
FAS
April 1
Fassage of Electric Fower Control
Bill ).
2849
CC
March 31
War Office pamphlet.
2850
CC
March 31
Seventy-third Japanese Diet.
2851
ESC
March 31
Seizure by Japanese wership of
British steamship ASIAN.
2852
EHD
March 31
American citizens leaving Hankow.
2853
CC
March 31
Transmission of the ORIENTAL
EC ONOMIST.
2854
EHD
March 31
Alaska salmon situation.
2855
ESC
March 31
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED
STATES, 1924.
295€
JFM
March 31
Extraterritoriality in Manchuria.
2857
EHD
March 31
Indomnification for USS FANAY.
2858
EID
March 31
Cccuration by Japanese forces of
American property in China.
2359
CC
March 31
1937 FINANCIAL ATUAL OF TATAN.
2860
GDA
March 31
The ltalian Good Will Mission
to Jaran.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
Telegrams sent to the Department
during Maroh 1938.
No.
Date
Subject
140
March 1, noon
British protest against Japanese
violation of Hong Kong waters.
141
March 1, 1 pim. Safeguarding foreign lives and
property in China.
142
March a, 1l a.m. Japanese gold shipments.
143
March 3, 3 p.m.
Requisitions.
144
March 3, 4 n.m.
Saito-Lamont interview.
145
March 3, 5 p.m.
Alaska fisheries.
146
March 3, 6 p.m.
Extraterritoriality in Manchuria.
147
March 4, 7 p.m.
Mail censorship at Shanghai.
148
March 4, 8 pm.
Extraterritoriality in Manchuria.
149
March 5 , noon.
Japanese Government and political
parties.
150
March 7, 4 p.m.
Abuse of American property, Shanghai.
151
March 7, 5 p.m.
Alaska fisheries.
152
March 7, 6 p.m.
Lutheran Mission, Ichang.
153
March 7, 7 p.m.
Standard Oil property, Wuchow.
154
March 7, 8 p.m.
Japanese military taxes.
155
March 8, noon.
Access to foreign property, Shanghai.
156
March 8, 4 p.m.
Visits of U.S.S. GOLD STAR.
157
March 8, 6 p.m.
Relation to Far Eastern question
of Anglo-Italian conversations.
158
March 8, 7 p.m.
Japanese military taxes.
159
March 8, 8 n.m.
Japanese Covernment and political
parties.
160
March 9, 4 p.m.
Japanese special military taxes.
161
March 10, 11 a.m. Whaling agreement.
162
March 11, noon.
Alaska fisheries.
163
March 12, noon.
Occupation of American property
in Shanghai.
164
March 12, 1 p.m.
Codes.
165
March 12, 2 p.m.
Codes.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
No.
Date
Subjeot
166
March 12, 4 p.m.
Chinese customs
167
March 12, 5 p.m.
Free Methodist Mission, Chengchow.
168
March 12, 6 p.m.
Southern Fresbyterian Mission,
Tenghsien.
169
March 12, 8 p.m.
Alaska salmon fisheries.
170
March 12, 9 p.m.
Matsukata visit to U.S.A.
171
March 14, 4 p.m.
FANAY sinking.
172
Ma rch 15, 6 p.m. Japanese legation in Vienna.
173
March 16, 6 p.m. Fress wireless interference.
174
March 16, 7 p.m.
Alaska fisheries.
175
March 16, 8 p.m.
Bombing of American Mission property
at Nantungchow.
176
March 16, 9 p.m.
Chinese customs.
177
March 17, 7 p.m.
Alaska salmon fisheries.
178
March 18, noon.
Secretary Hull's statement of
American foreign policy.
179
March 18, 1 p.m.
North China Industrial Development Co.
180
March 18, 4 p.m.
Japanese-lussian relations.
181
March 18, 6 p.m.
Chinese customs.
182
March 18, 7 r.m. Requisitions.
183
March 18, 8 p.m. Alaska salmon fisheries.
184
March 19, 10 a.m. Fay allotment for Miss Beckley.
185
March 19, 11 a.m.
Chinese salt administration.
186
March 19, 6 p.m.
Foreign Minister's statement of
Japanese policy.
187
March 20, 6 p.m.
TANAY indemnification.
188
March 21, 3 p.m.
Fan-American Airways, flight over
Manshan Islands.
189
March 21, 4 r.m.
Japanese blockade of Canton area.
190
March 21, 5 p.m.
Japanese blockade of Canton area.
191
March 22, 1 p.m.
FANAY indemnification.
192
March 22, 4 p.m.
Extraterritoriality in Manchuria.
193
March 22, 5 p.m.
PANAY Indemnification.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
No.
Date
Subject
194
March 22, 6 p.m.
PANAY incident.
195
March 23, 4 p.m.
Blockade; foreign vessels navigating
south of Fearl River, and marking
of junks.
196
March 23, 7 r.m.
Chinese customs.
197
March 24, 11 a.m. Chinese customs.
198
March 24, 8 p.m. Chinese customs.
199
March 24, 9 p.m. Farcel post agreement.
200
March 24, 1l p.m. Alaska salmon fisheries.
201
March 25, 2 a.m. Alaska salmon fisheries.
202
March 25, 3 r.m.
Claim of Seventh Day Adventist
Mission, Waichow.
203
March 25, 6 p.m.
Alaska salmon fisheries.
204
March 25, 7 p.m.
Japanese support of new régime
in Central China.
205
March 25, 9 p.m. Nanking provisional government.
206
March 26, 11 a.m. Chinese customs.
207
March 26, noon.
Chinese new currency.
208
March 26, 5 p.m.
Americ an Presbyterian Mission, Lini.
209
March 27, 8 p.m.
Alaska salmon fisheries.
210
March 27, 9 p.m.
Alaska salmon fisheries.
211
March 28, 1 p.m.
Gold shipments from Japan.
212
March 28, 2 p.m.
Chinese customs.
213
March 28, 6 p.m.
Japanese occupation of American
property in China.
214
March 29, 1 p.m.
Studebaker Corp. shipment of
trucks and automobiles.
215
March 30, noon
Chinese customs.
216
March 30, 5 p.m.
Diet hearings on capital ship
building.
217
March 31, 2 p.m.
Alaska salmon fisheries.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.93)
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DIVISION OF
tokgo, Jmo 15, 1038.
UROPEAN AFFAIRS
JUL 27 1938
AMERICAN EMBASSY
So. Soso
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJBCT:
REPONT OF CONDITIONS IN JPAN DURING THE MONTH
OF APRIL, 1938.
894.00PR
PM 12 43
SNO
RDS
15
ONI MID
18
894.00 P
Divieiopof
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
FAR EASTERY AHS
s
JUL 18 1938
DT
OF STATE
Department ol Sa
心
Honoraple
R-1
1938
The Secretary of State,
OFFICE OF THE ADVSER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
2
Washington.
JUL 3 0 1938
5
Sir:
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
With referenco to the Departrent's instruction No. 93
a
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transnit herowith the
clip
Embassy monthly report on conditions in Japan for the month
April, 1938.
DG
Respectfully yours.
footh.T
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
G-31938
FILED
1/Report No. 139.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Eibassy, Hankow
Enbassy, Moscow
Consulate Goneral, Bhanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Osaka
Comsulate, Dairen
euimsuplicate to the Department.
dilachug
aq

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 139.
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN J.PAN DURING
THE MONTH OF PRIL, 1938.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I. PELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) The More Important Representations
made by the Ertassy in connection
with the Sino-Japanese Ccnflict.....1,2,3,4,5
(b)
The Paney Incident....
.5,6
(c)
Arrest and Dententien of Mr. Elwyn H.
Gibbon.
..6,7
(a)
Notice given to the Japanese Government
of the Aerican Government's intention
to invoke the Escslator Clause of the
London Naval Treaty of 1936..........7,8
(e) American and Japanese Naval Plans....8,9
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China
(1)
Military Operations.....
.9,10
(2)
Japanose and Chinese Aerial
Activities.....
.10,11
(b) Great Britain
(1)
Representations made by the
British Embassy in Tokyo in
connection with the Sino-
Japanese conflict..
.11,12,
13,14,
(c) Suviet Russia...
.15,16
(a)
Germany.
.16,17
(e)
Italy.
.17
(f)
France.
.17
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL SITUATION.
(a)
The Cabinet..
.17,18,19
(b)
The Arry.
.19
(c)
The Navy....
.19,20
(a)
The Political Parties.
.20,21
IV. COURSE OF LEGISL. TION.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Nothing tc report.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FIN.NCI.L CONDITIONS.
(c)
Foreign Trade..
21,22
(b)
Econenmic and Financial Trends..... 22
(c)
Industry.....
22
(a)
Shipping.....
22,23
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERIC.N COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to re ert.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCI L INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. IMMIGRATION.
Nothing to roport.
X. MISCELLANEOUS..
23

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
The More Important Representations made by the
Embassy in connection with the Sino-Japanese
Conflict.
In accordance with the Department's instructions, the
p
Ambassador called on the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs on
April 4 and made strong representations concerning the return
of American citizens to Nanking, urging that Americans who
had interests there be permitted to procceed to and remain
in that city, as Japanese nationals appeared to be doing in
considerable numbers. These representations were supported by
an aide-mémoire and a soparate informal document which presented
certain facts described in a telegram from the Embassy at Nanking.*
On April 5 the Ambassador received from the Minister for
Foreign Affairs a note dated April 2 in reply to his representa-
tions of February 4, 1938, with respect to the looting of and
other deprodations on American property by Japanose forces in
China. The substarce of the Japanese Government's reply was that
Jupanese officials in China were erdeavoring to ascertain the
fects concerning the roported depredations and that the Imperial
Government wns prepared to puy approprinte indemnification in those
cases where, as a result of such investigations, definite evidence
was obtained that injury was improperly caused by Japanese forces.
In conclusion, Mr. Hirota's not: stated that until investigation
or the ectual circumstences should make available ovidunce of the
acts, the Japanese Government could not concur with the following
conclusion or the American Government, as contained in the Ambassa-
or's ncte of February 4, "It appears that these incidents have
ccurred with the knowledge, and some indeed in the presence, of
cpanese orficials, while others, such as the occupancy of mission
property
Department's telegram No. 116, April 1, Embassy's telegram No.
225, April 4, end telegram from the Embassy at Nankine No. 90,
April. i.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
property by Japanese troops, were prcsumably by the express
direction of military officers".*
With a note dated April 4, 1938, the Minister for Foreign
Affairs transmitted a chuck for. Chinese dollars 7,957 in full
settlement of the claim of the American Seventh Day Adventist
Mission for damages causcd on Septomber 12, 1937, by Japanese
army aircraft to the Missicn's hospital proporty at Waichow,
Kwangtung.**
Pursuant to the Department's instructions, on ipril 6 the
Ambassader addressed to the Vice Minister for Foreien Affairs
a letter statine that the Pan- merican Airways System had been
2
informed of the Japanese Goverrment's request of March 20 that,
in viow of the possibility that flights over the Mnshan Islands
by cirplancs of tho Pan-Amorican irways might givo rise to some
uneveidnble error, measures bo urgontly taken with e view to the
disccntinuance of such flights. The tmbessader's letter added,
however, that irrespective of whether airplanes f erican
nationulity ccrplied with the ruquest of the Jepanese Government
to aveic flights cver uny particular areo of Chinese torritory
or Chinese waters, tho merican Governrent confidently uxpected
the Japanese Gevernrent tc take all necessary measures tc prevent
any action by Japanese armed ferces which might endanger American
planes or their occupants.***
In tho course of a conversation on april 7 with Mr. Ishii,
Dirccter of the East Asie Burcau of tho Foreicn Office, Mr. Docnan
said that ho was much ccncerned over the centinued refusel of the
Jeranesc militery to evacuate American property in China, pointing
out that the University of Shanghai and other American c lleges
in
*
Embassy's telograns No. 75, February 4, and No. 230, April 5,
1938.
**
Eabassy's tolograri No. 237, April 9, and despatch No. 2875,
Apri1 11.
***
Embassy's telegrn. No. 188 of March 21, Department's telegram
No. 120, April 5, and Embassy's despatch No. 2872, April 8,1938.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
in that oity were still undor occupation by Japanese troops,
despite the fact that there had beon no fighting in Shanghei
for almost five months. Mr. Ishii then asked Mr. Duomen vhethe1
it was not true that the University of Shanghai had been used
by Chinese troops in and arcund Shanghai, tc which Mr. Doorian
replicd that he did not know, but that the use by Chinese troops
of Ameriorn property cid not justify the occupation of that
property by Jepaneso troops. Mr. Ishii stated that he was working
very hard cn the natter with the War Ministry but that such things
took timo.*
In accordence with the Dapartient's standing instructions,**
e third person noto was addrossed by the Eibassy to the Foreign
Offico on Arril 1l ruquesting that an investigation be made of
e report received through the Ambassador at Hankow to the cffect
that cn Maroh 25 the morican Presbyterian Mission at Lini
(Iohowfu) hed been bcmbed end plundered by Japanese forces, with
considerable danage to the builcings. Tho Enbassy's noto added
that there had been no Chinese scldiers within the Mission conmpound
at the time of the bumbing and that no part of the Chinese military
hed ever occupied the property.*** A further note was addressed
by thc Eubessy to tho Foreign Office on April 1E with which the
Lmbassy transnitted details of the damnge causec to the Mission
es sct forth in a tolegram fron the Embassy at Hankow.****
Pursunnt
水：
E bassy's despatch No. 2880, April 13.
*
Depnrtmont's telogran No. 64, Fubruary 18, 1938.
***
Telegran frcm the Consulate General at Shanghai April 7, 9
p.m.. ropecting Hankow's telegran No. 19l, April 7. Embassy's
telogram No. 238, April 11, and Embassy's despatch No. 2939
May 17.
****
Telegrar. from the Coisulate Goneral at Shanghai, April 13,
11 p.m., qucting Hankow's telegram No. 203, April 13.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Pursuant to the Department's instructions and after consul-
tation with the British and French Ambassadors, the irbussnder
called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs on April l2 end nd
an oral approach, supported by an aide-menoire, regarding reports
that had reached the American Goveriment indicating that discrimin?
tion in favor of Japan's trade with North China was likeiy to he
effective by means of a new currency "pegged to the yen and subjec.
to rigid control". The aide-momoire went on to stato that the
American Government, viewing with great cencern recent doveloprots
in these areas in China where régimes were being esteblished and
maintained by means of Japanese military impulsion and support,
would welcome assurances from the Japaneso Government that it wouli
not support or countenance financial or other measures in the rea
occupied by Japanese forces which discriinated against Amcrican
interests.*
It will be remembored that on March 12 the Embassy addressed
a communication to the Foreign Office concerning a report roceived
fron the Embassy at Hankow to the effect that the Southern Fresby-
terian Mission at Tenghsien, Shantung Prevince, Chinc, had been
damaged by bombs dropped by a Japanese nirpl-ne on or pruvious to
March 9, 1938. On April 16 the Eibassy roceived a reply fron the
Foreign Office which enclosed a report fron the apprcpriate
military aut horities stating that the damages to the Southern
Presbyterian Mission had not been caused by bombs fror Japanese
airplanes but that the damage might have been caused by a "shell
fron either of the two arnies", and that a su of roney had beon
offered as a solatium to the Americans on tho spot but had been
refused.**
In
*
Embassy's telegren No. 240, April 12, 1938 and enclosure No. 8
to the Embassy's despatch No. 2888 of April 14, 1938.
**
Embassy's telegran No. 26l, April 22, and Embassy's despatch
No. 2898, Apri1 22.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
In accordance with tho Departmont's instructions, the
Counselor of the Embassy left with the Director of the American
Bureau of the Ministry of Foreign Affeirs an aide-mómoire
inviting assurances that, in tho event that tho reports of the
establishment of a Japanese controlled oil conpany in North
Chine proved to be true, Aerican oil companies trading in
North and Central China would not be denied equality of
opportunity by reason of the establi shment of such n company or
any systor of import and sales quota which might be iposed.*
The Embassy received a roply fron the Fereign Office, dated
April 2l, to its renresentations of March 12, which requested
an investigation of reported darago caused by Japanuse airplanes
on March 8 to property of the Freo Mothodist Mission at Chengchow,
Honan Province, China. The Japanese reply stated that bofore the
attack in question tcck placo the Japaneso Lilitary forces in
China had received no conmunication fron the mericans regarding
the position of the mericnn Mission in Chengchow, that no
investigation was possible becauso the city was still in the
hands of the Chinese, and that the bombs fror. the Japanese
airplanos had all fallon within tho railway station compound,
inflicting no damage clsewhere.**
(b) The Panay Incident.
On  ril 22 the Eibassy ruceived fron the Foreign Office
a chcck for $2,214,007.36 as indennification for the sinking of
the U. S. S. P.NAY on Decembor 12.***
Tho Japanese newspapers gave prominent mention tc and made
favorable cormont on the announcoment released by the Aibassador
on April 19 reEardine the morica-Japan Trust Fund for the
disposition
*
Embassy's telogran No. 246, April 15, Dopartment's telegran.
No. 273, 4pri1 19, and Enbassy's despatch No. 2899, Apri1 22.
**
E.bassy's telegram No. 222, April 25, Eabassy's despatch
No. 2918, May 2, 1938.
***
Embossy's teleeran Nc. 264, April 22, 1938.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.96)
-6-
disposition of the contributions roceived from Japanese sym-
pathizers for victims of the U. S. S. PANAY. In the Ambassador's
press relea..e it was stated that the fund would be used in Japan
for purposes tostifying to gocd-will between Japan and the United
States anc that the contributions which had gone into the fund
had no relation to the payment officially undertaken by the
Japanese Government for American lossos at the tine of the sinking
of the PANAY. The Foreien Office issued to the Jaranese press
the following statement concerning the Trust Fune: "The Foreign
Office hed no provious knowledge of this happy plan but it
thoroughly approves of it and will sparo no effort to support it.
The syr:pathy of the Japenese people ovor the PANAY incident has
been nfrirably converted to practical use. It now remains for the
Japeneso puople to make the Aorica-Japan Trust as large as
possible".* Bishop C. S. Reifsnicer was solectec to serve as the
third trustee in edrinistering the funt with the other two
trustues, the abassader and Frince Iyesato Tokugawa.
(c) Arrest and Detenticn of Mr. Elwyn H. Gibbon.
Mr. Elwyn H. Gibben, an American citizen who had served in
the Chinese cir ferce (uring the resent Sino-Japanese hostili-
ties, rrived at Yokohema on the S. S. EMPRESS OF ASIA en route
to San Francisco on April 22, anc wes removec fron. the steniship
uncer rretest after he had rofusec t onswer questions concerning
the Chinese air force. The C nsulate nt Yokchala addressed a
letter to the locsl autherities requesting that Mr. Gitbon be
relensed in tire fer hin. t. resume his veyago on the S. S. EPRESS
OF ASIn, saheduled to leave Yokohama on April 23, unluss it had
teen cetermined that infcrnetion hed been obteined which previded
reasonable grounts for his cetontion uncer the chorge of a specific
violatiun
* Embassy's telcgram Ne. 257, Anril 20, 1938.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.96)
-7-
Violation of Japanese law. n April 24 the Consulate at Yokohama
was informed by the Chief of the Toreign Section of the Prefeotural
Polica that e police authoritios bolioved Mr. Gibbon to be
guilty of violation of Article 3, Section 81, of the Crininal Code,
which provides the denth ponalty for nnyone who joins enemy forces
and attacks Japan (irticle 1 of Section 2 of the Crininal Code
makes the code applicable to all porsons guilty thereunder whether
their action takes place within or without Japan). Meanwhile,
the Embassy approached the Foreign Office and informally expressed
the hope that if Mr. Gibbon was guiltless of any infraction of
Japanese law ho be permitted to proceod to tho United States on
the S. S. EMPRESS OF ASIA. Mr. Gibbon was subjocted to repeated
questionine concerning his knowledee of the Chinese air force,
such qucstioning apparently being tho principle cotivo of his
dotention. In a telegram to the Departrent datod April 27, the
bassador stated that in his belief formal representations or
TOIJNEDIINOO
anythin in tho naturo cf a ciplomatic protest should be avoided,
as such action would incvitably tcnd to stiffen the attitude of
the Yokohann police autheritios and night prejudice the efforts
which certain official quarters were believed to be making for
Mr. Gitbon's rolease at an carly date.
Mr. Gibbon was finally relensed on April 28 and took residence
in the Consulate at Yokohann until he sailed for the United States.
several days later.*
(a) Notice given to the Japanese Governent of the American
Governient's intention to invoke the Escalator Clause
of the London Naval Treaty of 1936.
Pursuant to the Department's instructions, the bassador
inforled tho Minister for Foreign Affairs as a ratter of courtesy
on
Eibassy's telecrars Nc. 268, April 24, 270, April 25, 271, April
25, 274, Apri1 27, 275, Apr11 27, and 283, April 28.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.97)
~8-
on April 1 that it was the intention of the American Government to
invoke the esoalator clause Article 25) of the London Naval Treaty
of l936 relating to the upper linit changes in capital ships of
sub-catagory A and to the calibre of guns which may be mounted on
capital ships of sub-catagory A.*
On the same day the British Abassador separately informed
the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the intention of the British
Governnent to invoke the same clause of the London Naval Treaty.
(e) Anorican and Jaranese Naval Plons.
Considerable prominence was given by the Japanese press on
April 5 end 6 to despatches fror the United States containing the
text of the letter writton by the Secretary of State to Senator
Walsh on the maintunance of the naval ratio laid down in the
Washington Naval Troaty of 1922. In general, the vernacular
newspepors interpreted the Secretary's lotter to nean that the
United States had abandoned a "stay et hore" policy and in adher-
ing to the 5-5-3 ratic had in nind overseas offensive operctions
against Jaran.**
The principal Jepanese newspapers expressed agrcerent with
tho staterent reported to have been Lade by Adr.iral Leahy at
a nceting of the Corrittee on Naval Affairs on April 5 to the
effect thnt Great Britain had provoked a world-wide naval race.
At the snre tir.e the press set forth tho view, obviously inspired
by the Jopanose Navy, that while Great Britain was responsible
for sterting the qunntitntive racc, since thnt country wanted to
limit capital ships to 42,000 tons with 16-inch guns, the United
States wes respcnsible for stirulating the qualitative race,
because it supported a policy of large ships of 45,000 tons
cquipped
*
Departnent's telecren No. 221 of April 3.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 231 of April 6.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.97)
-9-
equipped with l8-inch guns, together with small aggregate tonnage.
Acoording to Donei, on April 13 the Japanese naval authori-
ties dosorihed as a "wild story" of a type they could not spare
the tine to deny formally, a report fro Washington that the
United States Navy Department had been inforned that Japan was
building 46,000-ton battleships and a nunber of "super-cruisers".
The news agency also stated that the sae Japanese naval circles
had chnracterized as a "franc-up" the action of the Anerican
Govern ont in invoking the oscalater cleuse of the London Naval
Treety of 1936 and simultaneously placing the blano therefor
on Japan.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTIER COUNTRIES.
(c)
China.
(1) Military Operations.
793.94
The outstanding thentre of military operations during
April was in the nroa nround Hsuchow in Southern Shentung and
Northorn Kiangsu, most of the fighting centering around
Taierhchwang, a stratocic outpost of Hsuchow in Shantung Province
on the nerth bank of the Grand Cancl. Japanese and foreign
reports ccncernin tho fighting arcund Teierhchwang differed
wicely. According to Der.ei rurorts, about 7 or 8 divisions of
Chinese troups attompted to outflank the Jarnnose furces which
were dvancing on the town and in turn were cutflanked by the
Jrynnese treops and repulsed with heavy losses. On the other hand,
fereirr news agencies reported that the Chinese hed succeeded in
(utflanking, surrounding, nd killing from 7,000 to 15,000 Japan-
eso in these operations around Taierhchweng. Japanese army
heedquarters at Peipine announced on April 3 that on that day a
Japenese

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
Japanese unit had captured Taierhchwang after 8 days of
fighting. On April 14 the Eubassy obtained a virtual adnission
from a reliable Japenese source that the Japunese forces which
had occupied this town had been driven out by the Chinese.*
It was announced by the army section of the Inperial Head-
quarters in Tokyo on April 19 that the Japanese arny, continuing
its "mopping up" canpaign in Shansi Province, had between
March 28 and April 17 engaged Chinese forces in at least 70
major bnttles, repulsed 20,000 Chinese who were attompting to
cross tho Yellow River, and suffered casualties during this
period, including killed and wcunded, of only 5o0 as against
15,000 Chinese killed.
Meanwhile, minor fighting was said to have taken plece in
Western Suiyuan Provincc where, according to Donei, Japanese
units fained several victories, one of then gainst reinants cf
General Me Chen-shan's erry.
(2) Japanese and Chinese Acrial Activities.
Dorei of April 10 stated that on that day 24 Chinese air-
planes, out of a tctal of 30 that had ongagud a squodron of 16
Jaranose arny planes, had boen brought down over Kweitoh on the
Lunghai Railway in Northern Honan Province. According to the
sane news agency, on April 29 Japanese naval planes borbed an
air field neer Canton, destroying several hangars.
In an engagelent described by Domei as "one of the most
spectacular aerial battles in histcry", a force of over 50
Japanose naval airplanes was said by an official Japanese
comnuniqué to have engaged over Hankow a Chinese eir force ccn-
sisting of 80 planes and to have brought down 51 of them. The
Japanese connuniqué adnitted the loss of only 2 Jepanese planes
in
Departnent's telegram No. 134, April 15 and Embassy's telegram
No. 252 of Apr11 16, 1938,

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
this encounter. Estirates of the Japanese and Chinose losses
made by foreign sourees were strikingly divergent fron the official
Japanose ac uat of the conbat. An International News Service
correspondent stationed et Hankow reported that 39 Japanese planes
had engaged 50 Chineso planes, 18 Japanese planes being shot down
as against only 6 Chinese. A United Press correspondent who was
near Hankow at the time reported that 23 Japanese planes had met
50 Chinese planes, with a loss of 20 Japanese planes and only 7
Chinese. A reliable merican observer who was present stated that
36 Japanese planes had engaged 65 Chinese planes, 22 of the former
being shot down ns against only 7 of the latter, while a reliable
foreign official in Tokyo stated that, according to his informetion,
a force of 40 Japanese planes had engaged a force of 50 Chinese
planes, with a loss of 23 Jaranesc planes as against 8 Chinese.
The naval pross section cf the Inperial Hendquarters in Tokyo
declared in a communiqué that the Chinese had lost cver l0o airplanes
during March and April, as cuntrasted with only 4 Lachines lost by
the Japenese Naval Air Fcrce.
(b) Great Britain.
(1)
Ropresentations nade by the British
Enbassy in Tcky in connecticn with
741.90
the Sinc-Jaranuse conflict.
A further letter was addressod by the British Abessador
to the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs on April 8 concerning
the infringe.ent of fereign rights resulting fron restrictions
impcsed by the Japanese military cn access to certain areas of
the Internationnl Settlerent at Shenghni occupied by Japanese
forces. Sir Rcbert Craigie requested that irnediate and decisive
steps be taken to enable British subjects who formerly resided
on

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.96)
-12-
Island to have aocess to their residences, and also to
the Mollor Steamship Ccnpany once again to ul the dockyard
cuated on the island and owned by then.*
On April ll Sir Robert Craigie handed to Mr. Hirota an aide-
nnoire concerning the possiblc ostablishnent by Japan of exchange
control in North China. The British aide-nénoire requested assuran-
ces fron the Jepanese Gcvernrient that it would not countenance any
financial or other mensures in the occupied areas of China which
would discriminate in any way agninst non-Japanese interests or in
any way infringe the principle of conplete equality of opportunity
in th se areas.**
Sir Robert Craigie addressod a letter to tho Vice Minister
for F reign Affairs n April 5 on tho subject of reports published
in the press in N rth China to the effect that a further revision
of the North China Cust ns Tariff was under consideration. The
British A bassader requested to be inf r.ed whether there was any
truth in these rep rts nd p inted ut that, while the British
Gevern ent had bserved that the Jaranese G.vernlent hnd in its
note dated March 22, 1938, cisclaimed responsibility fir the changes
already . ade in the custc..s tariff in N rth China, the British
Gevern ent nevertheloss relied on the Japanese Gevern ent to uso
all its influence with the Peking Pr visienal Guvern ent to prevent
further chanees inv lving any sugcestion of discrin ination between
i.perts fre: one c untry and i.ports frer another and eny further
canger te the integrity of the Chinese Cust 1.s.***
A ro.orandu. was left with the Foroign Office on Arril 8 by
Sir Gecrge Sanso., the British Cemerciel Cuunselor, stating that
in view of difficulties latoly experienced by British il interests
as a rosult of ronop listic c ntrol of the cil business in Manchuria,
the
k
Ebassy's dospatch Nc. 288l, Arril 13, 1938.
∵*
Enclosure N.. 4 to despatch No. 2888, Arril 14, 1938.
:**
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 28e9, April 14, 1958.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
British mbassy viewed with misgiving the prospeot that
sinilar methods might be adcpted in North China through the
formation of a North China oil ccrpany in which Japanese oil
interests wculd hold a mcjority of shares. It was requested in
the menorandur that the Foreign Office inform the British Embassy
whether there was any truth in the reports in question.*
On April 1l the British ibassador left with the Foreign
Offico a Lemorandu: pointing cut varicus casos of Japanese
action which had endangored British lives and property and
discrininated against British intorests in China. The momorandu.
concluded with the statemont that in view of the circunstances
in question it was net surprisine that the impression should be
stcadily growing stronger in Great Britain that, despite official
assurences received in Tukyo, it was the deliberate intention
of the Japanese nuthoritios in China to undermine, discredit, and
discri inate agninst British interests in China by every meens
in their pewer.**
A further memorandum was addressed to the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs by the British Embassy on April 1l protesting against the
continued interference by Japanese military and naval authorities
with British shipping on the Yangtze River.***
Sir Robert Craigie received from Mr. Hirota a reply dated
April 18 to his note dated March 8, 1938, which claimed exemption
for British residents of Japan from payment of "Horth China Inci-
dent Special Taxes". The Japanese reply set forth various reasons
why the Japanese Government stated it was unable to suspend the
measures taken to collect these special taxes from British residents
of Japan, the principle reason being that the taxes in question
constituted, in the opinion of the Japanese Government, a source
of general revenue and were not levied exclusively for military
purposes, as claimed by the British Ambassador.****
The
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2899, April 22, 1938.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2913, May 2, 1938.
***
Embassy's despatches Nos. 2876, April 12 and 2914 May 2, 1938.
****
Embassy's despatch No. 2942, May 21, 1938.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
The British Ambassador addressed a note to the Minister for
Foreign Affairs on April 18 pointing out the large British
rights an? iiterests in many of the Chinese Government railways
and requesting the Japanese Governnent to make note of and to
respect those rights.*
On April 16 a memoranaum was addressed by the British Embassy
to the Foroign Office protesting against an attempt by a convoy
of lorries packed with Chinese coolies, under Japaneso leadership,
to stage a demonstrotion in favor of the new Nanking régime
within the British defonse sector of the Intornational Settlement
at Shanghai and an insult to tho British Battclion Commander by
a Japenese who was one of the demonstrators.**
It will be recalled that by a noto dated March 8 the
Ministor for Foreign Affairs told the British Ambassador that
the
in/view of the Japanese Government the Jepanese Navy had not,
as stated in the British Ambassador's note of February 26, fired
upon and seized four junks in British territorial weters on
February 1l in the neighborhood of Tungku Islend, near Hong Kong.
On April 27 Sir Robert Craigic addressed a note to Mr. Hirota
reiterating that, cccording to the evidence in the possession of
the British Government,  Japanese nrval vessol hod, in fact and
as stated in Sir Robert Craigic's note of February 26, fired upon
and seized four junks. In his note of April 27 the British
Ambassador enclosed  mcmorandum giving details concerning the
incident. In addition, on the same day Sir Robert Craigie
addressed a second noto to the Minister for Forcign Affairs
presenting a claim for Hongkong dollars 12,000 in respoct of
this allcged violation of British sovercignty.***
Discussions
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2915, May 2, 1938.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2917, May 2, 1938.
***
Embassy's despatches Nos. 2834 of Merch 19, and 2928 of Mny 8,
193E.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
(2) Chinese Maritime Customs.
Disoussions between the British Ambassndor and the Vice
Minister fc: Toreign Affnirs concorning a proposed arrangoment
between Japan and Great Britain relative to the Chinese Maritime
Customs progressed favorebly. It appeared likely at the close
of the month that an arrengement acceptable to both Governments
would soon be renchod.*
(c) Soviet Russia.
761.94
Mr. Hirota, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, was reported by
Domei to have decl red on April 13 before  plonary sossion of
the Privy Council at the Pelnce that relations betweon Japan and
the Sovict Union were "not ncute at the moment over any one issue"
but that there were many pending questions which he hoped to solve
one by one. The Jr p.nese press, however, played up c number of
incidents and developments in Soviet-Japanesc reletions, as outlined
below.
The Japanese Ambassador in Moscow, Mr. Mamoru Shigomitsu,
on April 4 delivered a strong protost to the Foreign Commissari
against continued Sovict military assistancc to China, which was
rejected by the Soviet Commissar
for Foreign Affairs, Mr.
Litvinov, who was quoted by Domei to havo declared that his Govern-
ment was ontitled under international law to sell armaments to the
Chinese, particularly in view of the Japoneso contention that no
war existed in Chinn; that thore wos no necessity of ruturning to
this question, because arms and munitions were being supplied to
Japon, as well as to Chine, by a number of nations; and that the
Soviet Government had sunt no military units or any individuals
from military ranks to China to participate in the hostilities there.
notwithstanding
Embassy's telegrams Nos. 267, April 23, 285, April 29, end 286,
May 1, 1938.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.97)
-16-
thstanding the alloged testimony of Russian aviators reportedly
etained by Japanese troops. The Japanese pross continued to denounc
the Soviet Union for its "militAry assistance" to Chine.
It was reported that Soviet autholities at Habarovsk had
executed a number of Japanese nd Koroens. According to Domei, the
Government of "Manchukuo" continued to be worried over the year-old
oontroversy arising from the disnuted ownership of severel small
islends on the Amur River. Thero were roports thet the Soviet
authorities in Northern Saghclien were oppressing Japonese subjects,
infringing upon Japanese interests, and putting obstructions in the
way of Japanese consuler orficinls. A spokesman of the Japinese
Foreign Office revenled on April 12 thet the Soviet Government had
demanded the closing of the Japanese consuler offices ct Habarovsk
and Blagoveschensk by April 15. Several days later n Foreign Office
spokesman told press correspondents that the Soviet Government had
rejected Japan's request for caicellation of its order for the clos-
ing of the consulatus. The Japanese officicl added that the Soviet
Union would have to bear the rusponsibility if trouble should arise
from molestation of the two consular offices: in the execution of
their duties. Finally, it was disclosed by a Foreign Office spokes-
man on April l8 that the Soviet authorities were holding under
arrest a Japanese aviator who had been forced down with his bomber
on April 1l in Soviet torritory rear Tungning, on the castern
Soviet-Manchukuo border.
(a)
Germany.
On April 1 Major-General Eugen Ott, Militory Attachó nd Air
Attaché of the Germon Embassy, was oppointed German Ambassador
o Japan in succession to Harr von Dirkson, who was eppointed
Germnn

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
-17-
an Ambassador to Great Britein.*
It was announcod in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE of April 22 that the
Japangse Legation in Vienna hnd been closed end a Consulate General
had been established in its stead.**
(e) Italy.
The Italian Good-will Mission, which hcd arrived in Jepen
on March 17, left Tokyo on April 3 for a visit in Kyushu and finally
departed from Japen about the middle of the month.* Coincident
with the visit of the Good-will Mission in Kyushu, the cruiser
MONTECUCCOLI, flagship of the Italian Far Eastern Squadron, arrived
at Nagasaki on April 2. The following statement was attributed
to the Commander of the cruiser by Domei: "I em glad that our
visit coincided with th:t of the Fascist Good-will Mission. We
heve been in Shanghei for the l~st four months and we well
understood vhat were Japan's intentions and what Japan has done
since the incident st rted. Furthermore, we are glad that we hnd
a chance to witness the glorious victory of tho Jopanose Army and
Navy."
(f)
France.
1
On April 12 the French Ambassador took action similar to that
taken by the British mbassador on April ll and by the American
imbassador on April 12, protesting gainst the proposal of the
authoritios in North Chine to estoblish exchange control and a new
currorcy pegged to the Japonese yen.****
III. INTERN.L POLITIC'I SITUATION.
(5)
The Cabinot.
794
During the eerly part of the month Prince Konoe, the Premier,
1. expressed a desire to resign because of ill henlth and for other
porsonal
*
Embessy's dcspatches Nos. 2869, April 9, nnd 2923, May 2, 1938.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 266 of April 22, 1938.
***
Embassy's despatches Nos. 2860, Mnrch 31, and 2886, April 13,
1938.
****
Embassy's telegrom No. 240, April 12, nd Enclosure No. 10 to
Dospatch No. 2888 of pril 14, 1938.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
ons. Consequently, there wes muoh discussion in the press
of e possible change of Government in the near future. The
most importent element in the Cabinet situation, aside from thé
Premier's illness, appeared to be a difference of opinion that
had arisen within the Cebinet as to the military and political
courses which should be pursued by Japan in dealing with China.
According to information received by the Embassy, Premier Konoe
was the leader of a group which believed thnt it was not enough
for Japnn to "cease denling ith" the Chinese Government (as
expressed in the declaration of Jnnuery 16, 1938) and that the
Chinese Government could be destroyed only by the most drestic
and positive measures; und that the Minister of War was the leader
of on opposition group which held the bulief that the some results
could be more economically obteined by continuation of the "long
duration war" policy through ceusing the economic collapse of
China.*
After en illness of nearly 3 weeks, Premier Konoe resumed
his official duties on April 2l. He issued c public statement
which was generally construed to mean that the differences of
opinion within the Cabinet had in some way been adjusted.
On the
day of his resumption of official duties the Fremier told newspaper
correspondents that unification of policies rugording Chinn was
tho koy to solution of all tho Go ernment's problems; that the
goneral policy toward China fixed by th Government several months
before rem~ined unchanged and woule be followed to the end; that
his absence from official duties ld no political significance;
end th:t his return to such duties would not result in any porticular
change in the Government's plans.
Nothwithstanding the statements of the Premier covering the
Government's fixed policy as announced on Janunry 16, it appeared
to
* Embassy's telegram No. 239 of April 11, 1938.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
-19-
the Embassy that the Army had mado substential concessions to
those persons advocating the resort to more vigorous and more
extensive m: itary operntions.* Toward the end of the month the
opinion was more frequently and widely expressed by Japanese that
n drive to Hankow was inevitable.
Premier Konoe came in for a certnin amount of criticism from
the vernacular press. The HOCHI of April 25 expressed disappoint-
ment at the failure of his public statement to indicate eny inten-
tion to reorgenizo the Cabinet for a more successful conduct of
the hostilities in China. The CHUGiI of April 23 asserted that
Japan's present policy towards China was slipshod and lacking in
unity and that it wns Premior Konoe's duty to romedy this situation.
The NICHI NICHI of April 23 remcrked that thc Promiership wns e
very "busy position", that nobody without a robust physical consti-
tution could stand the duties of Premier very long, and that the
Premier's constitution was not believed to be exceptionally strong.
(b) The Army.
In a lecture before divisionl conmenders on pril 7, General
Sugiyame, the War Minister, stated thnt, since the end of the
China incident was still so remote nnd changes in the internetional
situation were difficult to predict, it was necessary to enforce
genernl mobilization of the entire strength of the nation.
(c) The Navy.
It was announced by the Navy Ministry on April 30 that Vice-
Admiral Koshiro Oikawa, Chief of the Navel Aviation Derartment of
OBF
the Navy Ministry, had been ppointed Comm ndor of the Third Fleet
(and consequently Japan's highest ranking naval officor in China
waters) in succession to Vice-Admiral Kiyoshi Hasegewa, who had
been
*mbassy's telegram No. 282, April 28, 1938.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
-20-
n appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Yokosuka Naval Station.
The Navy Office announced at the scme time that Rear-Admiral
Yoshinobu Shl hido had been appointed to succced Rear-Admiral
Denshichi Okochi as Commender of'the Japtnese Naval Landing Party
at Shanghai. There eppeared' to be no particular significance in
these naval shifts.
(a) The Political Parties.
In a speech made before lendirg members of the Minseito,
1
Mr. Chuji Machida, Prosident of the Party, stated that the China
incident was "yet to be solved"; werned the nation against idle
ease and slackness of spirit thnt might be inspired by the reports
of continued Japaneso victories in Chine; asserted thet no source
of friction must be permitted to exist unsolved mong the Government.
nilitery circles, the political partius, and the nation at large;
and concluded by declrring that he had no other intention than to
enlnrge the scope of his party's cooperation with other political
orgnizntions, notably with the Seiyukni, and to assist the Govern-
ment so that the nation will be able to achieve its objoctive in
China with minimum delcy.
With regard to reports current for the post severel months that
a new political party of a ntionalistic character was in the process
of formation, newsp per corresponaonts ettribut d to Admiral Suetsugu
the Home Minister, the statoment on April 20 that he was disrayed
by reports that he was the central figure in the movement for such
 party but that he favored the forintion of "an impeccable party
which gresps the situation confronting the country nd is ready to
ossist the Covernment in its refor policies". Admiral Suetsugu
is said to had odded that th formation of such a party could not
be

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
-21-
ought about overnight. Mr. Shiono, the Justice Minister,
portedly told press correspondents on the same day that the
new party problem was "still far off".
It will be remembered that on February 17 last 400 mombers
of the Defense Corps Against Cormunism forcibly occupied the hend-
quarters of the Minseito and Seiyukai political parties and demanded
to see their leaders for the purpose of accelerating the movement for
the formation of a new political party which would represent "the
unitod front of the nation". According to Domei of April 14, the
8 men who had been arrested as the leaders of this demonstration
were released on April 14 upon the decision of the Prccurators'
Officc of the Suprere Ccurt thnt the action of the persons arrested
cid nct censtitute a criminal offense.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISL.TION.
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERNM.ENT FINANCE.
Nothing to report.
VI. GENERIL ECONOMIC AND FIN.NCIAL CCNDITIONS.
(a)
Foreign Trado.
Japen's exports for pril amounted to ¥217,000,000, while
imports inte Japen were ¥245,000,000, as compared with March exports
of ¥225,553,000 an March imports 1 ¥244,110,000. Thus, the unfavor-
able balancc of trade was ¥28,000,000, as cumpared with ¥18,557,000
for March.*
Domei of April 22 reported that the Cevernment would permit
no more pulp tc be inported into Jepn during the prusente? year,
since
" Figuros obtained from the Commercial Attachó

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
-22-
ce the amount so far brought in this yenr and the stocks on
hand were considered to be enough to meet the yeer's demand.
According tc the JAPAN DVERTISER of pril 24, the present. year's
rock phosphate imports, fixed at 650,000 metric tpnss by an agree-
ment betweon the Cormerce and Industry Ministry and the .gricultur
and Forestry Ministry, have been reduced by the Finance Ministry
by 130,000 metric tons because of Japan's naverse traco balance.
In this connection it may be notec that, acccrding to the Nikkan
Kcgyo, the largestrock phosphate islane in the Japanese Empire has
been found in the Loochoo Islands.
(b)
 Economic and Finencial Trends.
Business activity during April fell slightly below the level
for Merch, reflecting the uncertcin politicel situation, intensi-
fied ccntrol measures, and higher com.ocity prices. Stock market
prices were weak end the gunornl sentiuent prevailing in the stock
merket was extronoly cnutious. Bank ceposits registered only a very
slight increase over March 1938, but they were nearly double the
figure for ..pril 1937. The average yen rate was $0.290286 as
ccmpared with $0.290456 fer March.*
(c) Industry.
It was rup rted that the Tuye High-Pressure Industry Company,
a subsidiary of the Mitsui intcrests, had been entrusted by the
Japanese autherities in Central Chinn with the operati n of the
Pukow Annmoniun Sulphate Pl nt near Nenking, reputedly the largust
plant ef its kind in Chinc.
(c)
Shipping.
The Osaka Shcsen Krishn announcec that in July 1938 it would
resw e its Jepan-Europo steership service, which had been suspended
since
* Infermatien cbteined frem the Comercial .ttaché

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
-23-
oe l933, and that this sorvico might be by way of the Panama
Canal and New York insteed o. by way of the Suez Canal. It is
understood thet the ronewed service will include twelve rcund
trips a year.
The Nippon Yusen Kaisha announced that it planned to build
21 ships, aggregating 2ll,600 gross tons, in the next few years,
including the following ships: 2 passenger ships of 26,500 tons
each for the Jepan-San Francisco service; 3 passenger ships of
16,500 tons each for the Japan-Eurcpe servico; and 2 pnssenger-
and-cargo ships, each of 1l,400 tuns, for the Japan-lustralia
service.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF MERICAN CONMERCIL INTERESTS.
Nothing tc report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. INMIGRATION.
Nothing tc report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Acccrding to the JAP.N ADVERTISER of April 6, Mr. Tsutomu
Ishii, head of the Planning Department of the Educntion Ministry,
declared that the natien's schcols were on the eve of sweeping
reforns and that they wuuld abandon "the wrong iden of building
up the cenplete personality of the individual" end weulf replace
this iden with the principle f "ecucati n of the pers n as a unit
of the country". Mr. Ishii explained in his statement that of all
the ccuntries in the worlc Japan is the (ne whese principles ere
most contrary to individualisrm, since "Japan is basec on th just
anc equitable spirit of the universe. . . . . . .".

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatches sent to the Department
during April 1938.
No.
Date
Subject
2862
April 2
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2863
April 4
Protection of Foreign Property
in China and Reservation of Rights.
2864
April 5
PACIFIC MERCADO (Intornational
Exposition) and WORLD'S FAIR.
2865
April 6
American-Japanese Trade Coundil.
2866
April 6
Japanose Comment on American
Shipping Plans.
2867
April 7
Japanese Foreign Service List.
2868
April 9
Diplomatic and Section 3 (1)
Visa Report.
2869
pril 9
Appointment of Major General Ott
as German Ambassador.
2870
April 11
Policy of Using Japanese Vessels
for the transportation of Japanese
goods.
2671
April 11
National General Mobilization Law.
2872
April 8
Pan-American Airways Company.
2873
April 6
laska Salmon Situation.
2874
April 11
American Share of Sealskins taken
on Robben Island during 1937.
2875
April 11
Indemnification for damage to
Property of merican Soventh Day
Adventist Mission, Waichow.
2876
April 12
Japanese restrictions on British
Shipping on the Yangtze River.
2877
April 12
Destruction by Japanese authorities
of Taoching Reilway.
2878
April 12
American citizens leaving Hankow
for Hong Kong.
2879
April 13
General Review of Events During
the Six Months Prior to the
Outbreak of the Sino-Japanoso
Hostilities and of Developments
Subsequent thereto.
V 2880
April 13
Occupation by Japanese Forces of
American Property in China.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Date
Subject
2881
April 13
Japanese Restrictions on Access
to Foreign Property in Shanghai.
2882
April 13
Home leave of Miss Virginia W.
Collins.
2883
April 13
File and Code Room Transoms.
2884
hpril 13
Photographs of Offices and Official
Residence Quarters.
2885
April 12
Japanese Restrictions on Return
of .merican Citizens to Nanking.
2886
April 13
The Italian Good Will Mission to
Japan.
2887
April 13
The PANAY Incident Indemnifications.
2888
April 14
Exchange Control In North Chine.
2889
April 14
Chinese Customs.
2890
April 14
Filing Cabinets.
2891
April 14
Looting by Japanese Troops of
American Property in China.
2892
April 16
Section 3 (1) Visa Report.
2893
April 21
Roported Restrictions Upon Travel
in Teiwan Of Officers of The
S.S. PRESIDENT HOOVER.
2894
April 21
Illicit Traffic in Narcotics.
2895
April 22
Narcotics Seizure, S.S. PRESIDENT
COOLIDGE, May 6, 1937.
2896
April 22
Narcotics Suspects.
2897
April 22
Revision Of The Japanese Passport
Form.
2898
hpril 22
Damage To Property Of Southern
Presbyterian Mission, Tenghsien.
2899
April 22
Possible Formation Of A North China
Oil Company
2900
April 22
Japanese attempt to Regulate
Navigation Of Foreign Craft In The
Vicinity of Canton.
2901
April 22
Diplomatic Vise Report.
2902
April 27
Appointment of Japanese Ship
Inspectors Under Fonama Canal
Regulations.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Date
Subjeot
2903
April 27
Charwoman.
2904
April 27
Quarterly Report Of Personnel
Rosiding In Government-owned
Buildings.
2905
April 28
Fuol Oil Contract.
2906
April 30
PANAY Incident Indemnification.
2907
April 30
Rental Allowance For Mr. Frank A.
Schuler, Jr., Third Secretary of
Embassy.
2908
April 30
Narcotics Smuggling on S. S. HEI.N
MARU.
2909
April 30
Electric Power Control Legislation.
2910
April 30
Ruport or Conditions In Japan
During the Month of Merch, 1938.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
Telegrams cent to tie Department during
April 1938
No. Date
Subject
B18 Apri1 1, 3 p.m.
Parcel Fost Agreement.
219 Apr11 2, 6 p.m.
Studebaker transshipment case.
220 Apr11 2, 8 p.m.
Currency control in North China.
221 Apri1 3, 1l a.m. Naval construction.
222 Apr11 3, noon
Currency control in North China.
223 Apri1 4, 1l a.m. Japan-America Trust Fund.
224 Apri1 4, noon
Arrival of Third Secretary Schmidt.
225 Apr11 4, 1 p.m.
Representations regarding return
of Americans to Nanking.
226 Apr11 4, 2 p.m.
Seizure of heroin manufacturing
machinery in Manchuria.
227 Apr11 4, 4 p.m.
PANAY indemnification claim.
228 Apr11 4, 5 p.m.
Requisitions.
229 Apri1 5, noon
FANAY indemnification claim.
230 Apr11 5, 3 p.m.
Japanese note regarding depredations
on American property in China.
231 Apri1 6, noon
Japanese press reaction to Secre-
tary's letter to Senator Jalsh
regarding maintenance of 5-5-3
naval ratio.
232 Apr11 6, 6 p.m.
British representations regarding
tariff revisions in North China.
233 Apri1 6, 7 p.m.
Revisions in draft customs arrangement.
234
April 7, noon
Courier to Shanghai.
235 Apr11 7, 6 p.m.
Japanese press reaction to Admiral
Leahy's reported statement regarding
world-wide naval race.
236 April 9, 10 a.m. Alaska fisheries.
237 Apri1 9, 11 a.m.
Settlement of claim of American
Missionary Hospital, Waichow.
238 April 11, 10 a.m. Representations regarding damage to
American Fresbyterian Mission, Lini.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
2-
No. Date
Suc ject
239 Apr11 11, 6 p.m.
Interral politics. Fossible change
of Gevernment and reorganization of
Cabinet.
240 Apr1l 12, 10 a.m. Currency exchange control in North
China.
241 Apr1l 12, 11 a.m. TaAY indemnification ciain.
242
April 12, I p.m.
FOR IG PELATTCNS OF TIE UNITED
STATES, 1924.
243 Apr11 13 , 10 a.m. PAN4 indemnification.
244
April 14, 1l a.m. British representations regarding
Japanese discrimination against
British interests in 'China.
e45 Apr1l 14, noon
Invitation to Ambassador to become
hororary counselor of the 1940
International Exposition of Japan.
246 Apr11 14, 1 p.m.
Denial of reports of Japanese
request for mediation.
247
April 15, 10 a.m. Japanese gold shipments.
248
April 15, 11 a.m. Formation of a North China Jil Compeny
249
April 16, 10 a.n. Bembing of Mission, Nantungchow.
250
April 16, 11 a.m. Narcotics seizuro on U.S.S. CHAUMONT.
251
April 16, noon. American mail for Shanghai.
252
April 16, 7 p.m. Reported Japanesc reverse in Shantung.
253
April 16, 8 p.m.
Ciphers.
254
April 18, 3 p.m.
Request for Mr. Ccville to visit
Nanking.
255
April 19, 10 a.m. PINAY indemnificution claim.
25€
April 19, 11 a.m. For Jonmerce from Commercial Atuaché.
257
April 20, noon
America-Japan Trust. Japanese opinion
258
April 2l, 1l a.m. Fossille formation of North China
Oil Conrany.
259
April 21, noon
PANAY irdemnification.
260
April 21, 4 p.m. Possible Anglo-American mediation.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
No.
Date
Sutject
261 Apr11 22, 11 a.m.
Damage to property of Southern
Presbyterian Mission, Tenghsien.
262
April 22, noon
PANAY indemnification.
263
April 22, 4 p.m.
Codes.
264
April 22, 5 p.m.
PANAY indemnification check received.
265
April 22, ? p.m.
Jaranese note transmitting
TANAY indemnification check.
266
April 22, 10 p.m.
Japanese Legation at Vienna closed.
267
April 23, 8 p.m.
Text of proposed arrangement between
Great Britain and Japan regarding
Chinese customs.
38
April 24, 4 p.m.
Arrest of Elwyn H. Gibbon in
Yokohama.
269
April 25, 5 p.m.
Temporary employment of Miss Shelton.
270
April 25, 7 p.m.
Gibbon case.
271
April 25, 8 p.m.
Gibbon case.
272
April 25, 9 p.m.
Damage to property of Methodist
Mission, Chengchow.
273
Arril 26, 10 a.m.
Chinese Customs arrangement.
274
April 27, 4 f.m.
Gibbon case.
275
April 27, 10 n.m.
Cibbon case.
276
Anril 27, 11 p.m.
Cibbon case .
277
none sent
278
April 28, noon
Tress radio interference.
279
April 28, 1 p.m.
Chinese Customs errangement.
280
April 28, 5 F.m.
Code clerks.
281
April 28, 6 p.m.
Few Federal Reserve Currency in
Morth China.
282
April 28, 7 p.m.
Internal politics. Cabinet differences.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.97)
Subjoot
Apr11 88, 11 p.m.
Gibbon released.
April 29, 6 p.m.
Chinese Customs arrangement.
285 Apri1 29, 8 p.m.
Chinese Customs arrangement .

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
Febrwery 11, 1939.
Tokyo's monthly repert fer December 1938.
The first thepages summarize Mr. Grew's
conversations with Mr. Arita of December 8 and
86; the summary adds nothing to previous report
of these conversations.
Pages 4 to 8 inclusive repeat information
already received in the Department in regard to
communications between Japanese and American
authorities dealing with American interests in
China. Mr. Grew at one time took oocasion to
inform Mr. Arita that the cases of injury to
American property in China at the hands of the
Japanese forces, inoluding bombing, looting.
assault, et cetera, totally 296.
From the bottom of page 8 to page 12, Sino-
Japanese relations are dealt with. Although
better done than is usual in this monthly re-
port, no new information is given.
Japan's relations with Great Britain are
dealt with on pages 12 to 15; Craigie's and
Arita's conversations are summarized, without
giving new information. The statement is made
that British relations with Japan did not de-
teriorate during December to any appreciable
extent, did not improve, and negotiations were
still largely of an exploratory nature.
A Japan-Pfu Society was inaugurated at
Tokyo December 20 (page 16).
It

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
It was announced December 24 that a
Japanese-German medical pact would probably
be entered into shortly (page 17).
The remainder of the report contains
information which has already been dealt with
by the Embassy at Tokyo in more detail than
dealt with here.
FE:SalJobury:JPS

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION OF
THE FOREIGN SERVIC
ROPEAN AFFAIRS
OF THE
JUL 271938
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 3029
Tokyo, June 13, 1939.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
SUBJECT:
REPORT ON CCNDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE MONTH
OF MAY, 1938.
LEBAL AUVISER
1938
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
a
INTERNATIONAL FCONOMIC AFERS
AUG1-1938
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1?
HHS Cqyn F=
DA
PAR EASTERYAFFAINS
10
The Hombrablet
Secretary of State,
894.00
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93 of
P
July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith the Embassy's
R
monthly report on conditions in Japan for the month of May,
1938
26
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
1/Roport No. 140.
AUG-31938
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
2
FILED
GG
Babassy, Hankow
Embassy, Moscow
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate Generri, Mukden
Consulate Gene.al, Harbin
Consulate, Kr'ue
Consulase, sake
Camealase Dairen
In quintuplicats to the Department.
Tuche or

=== Page 133 === (confidence 1.00)
No. 140.
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF MAY,
1938.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a)
The More Important Representations made
by the Embassy in connection with the
Sino-Japanese Conflict.
1,2,3,
4,
(b) Chinese Customs..
5
(c)
Remarks of General Ugaki, the new
Minister for Foreign Affairs, concern-
ing American-Japanese relations......
(a)
Rumor concerning a proposed American-
Japanese Non-aggression Pact.
6
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) China
(1) Military Operations..
6,7
(2) Capture of Amoy by the Japanese
Navy....
8
(3) Japanese and Chinese Aerial Activi-
ties..
8,9
(4) Japanese Official Statements...... 9,10
(5) Autonomous Régimes under Japanese
Patronage..
10,11,12
(b) Soviet Russia.
12,13,14
(c)
Great Britain
(1) General Relations between the two
countries.
14,15,16
(2) Conclusion of British-Japan Agree-
ment concerning the Chinese Customs.16,17
(3) The More Important Representations
made by the British Embassy in
Tokyo in connection with the Sino-
Japanese Conflict.......
18
(4) Roported Offer of Mediation by the
British Prime Minister..
19
19,20,21
(e)
Italy.
21,22

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
(r)
France
22
(g)
The Netherlands.
22,23
(n)
Australia.
23
(1)
Mohammodans....
23,24
(3)
Hungary.
24
(k)
Poland.
24
(1)
Siam
24
(m)
The Franco Government of Spain.
25
(n)
Egypt.
25
(0)
Internctional
(1) International Whaling Conference 25,26
(2) Proposed Foreign Office Cultur-
al Attachés.
26
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS
(a)
The Cabinut.
26,27,28
(b)
The Army.
28
(c)
The Navy..
29
(a)
The Political Parties.
29
(e)
"Communists".
29
IV.
COURSE
OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
29,30
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a)
Foreign Trade.
30
(b)
Financil and Economic Trends.
30,31
(c)
Demand and Supply.
31
(d)
Avintion.
31,32
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to roport.
IX。LAB.
32,33
X. MISCELLANEOUS
(1)
Tho 1940 Olympic Games.....
33
(2)
Encouragement of National Thrift....
33

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a)
The More Important Representations mnde by
the Embassy in ccnnocticn with the Sino-Japanese
711.901
Conflict.
On May 13 the Fcreign Office acdressed to the abassy a third
perscn note in reply to the Embcssy's reprosentations of .pril 11
concerning the bombing by Japanese fcrces on March 25 of the
merican Presbyterian Missicn at Lini (Ichowfu). The reply statod
that at the time of the bumbing attack the Chinese trcops were
gathering on the city walls back of the merican Mission and
building military omplacenents in the vicinity f the Mission; that,
therefcre, the Japanese nilitary planes had found it necessary to
attack the Chinese for strategic roasc ns; thet the bb which had
fallen within the Mission ccmpound was "untirely an accidental
happening"; and that, as stated in the Fireign Office's note of
Februory 7, 1938, it was of the utnost urgoncy that suitable anc
sufficient mensures be taken by the Alerican Governrent to prevent
the Chinese ary frur. pprecching A oricnn property anc fron using
such propertios.*
Upon the bassader's recomenaations, the Depnrtment author-
izec hin to make nn oral nppr rch te the Minister fur Foreign
∴ffairs concerning the return f ioricen citizens t interior
points in Chinn.** Accercingly, in n extensive ciscussien with
the Minister for Foreign ffairs n May 17 the bassader made
strcng representaticns, supportec by a signed n te, tc the fcllowing
offect: Unnecossary hardship was beine ceused te crican business
men end missionaries by the refusal f the Japanese military
authorities to gront tho ericans passes t perceful arens where
Japenese civilinns were freely pernitted te ge; enc serious reper-
cussions
*
E.bassy's telegrar No. 312, May 16, 1938, nc mbassy's despatch
No. 2939, Moy 17, 1936.
**
Erbassy's telegrnl. N. . 308, Nay 14, Lepartment's telegran No.
171, May 16, 1938 enc Ebassy's telegrrm No. 315, Mny 17, 1938.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
-oussions in the American pess and among the Amorioan public might
result if suoh treatnent continued, especially as it ran directly
counter to repeated assurances given to the American Embassy by
the Japanese Governnent that Amorican riehts and interests in Chine
would be ruspected.*
On the basis of a note addressei on May l8 to the Japanese
Embassy at Peiping by Mr. Salisbury, the First Secretary of the
American Erbassy at Peiping, the Erbassy rado cral representations
to the Foreign Office on May 20 outlining cases of violation of
American rights in the Legation Quarter of Peiping and urging
that the Japanese rilitary be directod to respect such rights.
The Foreign Office stated that it wculd take up the matter at once
with the War Office with a view to having appropriate instructions
sent to the rilitary authorities in Peiping.**
Pursuant to the Department's instructions, the mbassacor
aelivered to the Vice Ministor for Foreign Affairs on May 31 a
signed note addressed to the Minister fer Foreign Affairs concerning
the inability of Arerican citizens in China to reenter their
preperties fror which they had been oxcluded by the Japanese military
and cf which the Japanese military had been and in some cases still
were in occupetion. Tho irbassador's note stnted that this problen
was giving the Amorican Government increasing concern; that the
University of Shanghai, jointly owned by the Northern and Southern
Baptist Missicnary Societies, had boen under ccntinucus occupation
by Jepanese military end naval units since shortly after the outbreak
of hostilities at Shanghai in August l937; that during this period
soveral of tho University's buildings had been canaged and the
majority had been looted; that the cccupation had ccntinued,
despite the fact that hostilities in this locality had long ago ceased
nnd thet
*
Ebassy's despatch No. 2967, May 27, 1938.
**
Tologran from the E bassy in Peiping No. 305, May 18, 1938, and
the E.:bassy's telegru. No. 321, May 20, 1938.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
that repented written and oral representations made by the American
Embassy at Tokyo to the Jepanese Government and by the American
Consul General at Shanghai to the Japanese authorities had not so
far resulted in bringing about restoration of the premises to the
rightful owners. In delivering this note to Mr. Horincuchi, Mr.
Grew informed him that the Department preposed irmediately to
release to the press the text of this note and added that the
effect of this publicity might be faverably cffset if the Japenese
Government shculc promptly give assurances of positive and
favorable action by the Japanese military to meet American desires
in this matter.*
In delivering the above-mentionod and cther notes to the
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs on Mey 31 regarding injuries by
Japenese forces tc nerican interests in Chinn, the Anbassedor
pointed cut in emphatic terms the cumulative effect of these
injuries cn public opinion and feeling in the United States, and
expresse his earnest hope that the assurances civen tc him on thet
day, May 31, by Genoral Ugaki, the new Minister for Fereign Affairs,
thot ho woule "guarantee the pretection of Aerican intorests in
China", woulc promptly bear fruit. Mr. Horinouchi rerarked with
regard te the berbing of  erican mission pr perty that the Japanese
planes in question hnd net been eble te discurn from the air the
Imerican flags and markings, tc which Mr. Grew responded emphetically
that the Vice-Minister's suggestion was astonishing and totaily
unnccepteble. The mbassador concluded his statements by asserting
that the excuse advanced by the Vice-Minister cf pussible poor
visibility cculd nct Por a moment be accepted by the merican Govern-
pent and would not appeal to the imerican people, both of whom
πe
beccming
*
Department's telegran No. 354, May 28, 1938, anc Embassy's telegran
No. 338, May 31, 1938.

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
-4-
becoming inorensingly ccncerned at Japanese depredations carried
out in complete disregard of assurances repeatedly given to the
merioan mbassy.*
During the month the Enbnssy acdressod notes to the Foreign
Office c neerning the bcmbing by Jopanese airplanes of the following
American-owned properties in China: On Mny 16, cuncerning the
bombing on May 13 of the Scuthorn Baptist Mission at Chenghsien,
Honan Province; cn Mey 16, concerning the bombing on May 10 and
11 of the Southern Presbytorinn Mission et Hsuchowfu, Kiangsu
Province; on May 18, cuncerning tho b mbinE on ..pril 29 of St.
Joseph Hospital, Wuchang; on May 23, concerning the bambing on
May 19 cf the Free Methodist Mission at Chengchow, Honan Province;
on May 31, concerning tho bumbing on Mey 21 of the Lutheran United
Mission at Chumetien, Hunan Province; on Mey 31, cencerning the
burbing on an unknown date of the Scuthern Presbyterian Church at
Heichow, Kiangsu Prcvince; on May 31, concernine the bombing on
Aucust 17, 1937, of the American Mission at Nantungchow; and on
May 19, ccncerning the bombing on January 24, 1938, of the merican
∴dventist Mission at Chao Hsien, Anhwei Prcvince.**
Pursuant to the Department's instructions, the imbassador
presented to the Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs a signed note
in May 31 making vigorous representaticns cincerning the assault
by Jepanese on May 19 on the Chinese personnel abeard the Aaerican
launches "TEXACO ONE" nd "D HLAY" in frent of the Asiatic Petreleun
Company's wharf nt Shanghai.***
On May 27 the Er:bassy acdressed te the Foreign Office third
person nctes concerning property losses of various merican citizens
and organizations resulting fron the Sinc-Jnpanese hostilities.****
(b)
*
Ebassy's telegram Nc. 342, May 31, 1938.
**
Department's telegrams Ncs. 311 and 313, May 16; 317, May 18;
326, Mny 23; Ncs. 339, 344 anc 345, May 31; and despatch No.
2982, May 26, 1938.
卜**
Telegram from the Consulate General et Shanghai No. 692, Mey 20,
1938, Department's telogram to Shanghai No. 344, May 26, and
Embassy's telegram Nc. 340, May 31, 1938.
****
Fabassy's despatch No. 2963, May 27, 1938.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
(b) Chinese Custons.
Aoting on the Department's instructicns, the bassador mrde
en oral apprceoh to the Ministor for Foreign Affairs on May 17,
referring to Mr. Hirota's specific cral assurances cf Novenber 28.
1937, that no Imerican interests in the Chinese Maritine Custuns
would be harmed; observing that, nccorcing to the Americen Govern-
ment's information, measures were being ccntemplated by the Japanese
authorities which in effect wculd exempt the Japanese occupied arce
in China fron its bligaticn of fumishing its share of the foreign
exchange necessary tc sorvice the foreicn obligaticns secured upon
the custons revenues for tho whole cf China; that the preposed
measures, if successfully carried out, wculc cause the servicing of
the obligations in which mcrican interests are invelved tc be
jecperdized; and requesting nssurances fron the Japanese Government
that it weuld net approve or agree to eny arrangenent which weuld
nulify the assurances civen tc the Anbassadur by the Minister for
Ferein Affairs n Noverber 26, 1937.
Mr. Hirota appearec to resent Mr. Grew's representations and
made a nunber of orphatic statements with which the Ambassador
uxpressed cisagreerent. The Anbassedor statec that in the belief
of his Gcvernment the failure of the areas in North Chinn tc assume
responsibility fur furnishing a fair shere f the fureien currency
weuld in effect c nstitute non-fulfillrent by such areas of a vital
element in those  blicatiens. To this Mr. Hir.ta said: "I do not
think sc".*
(c)
Renarks of General Ugnki, the new Minister for
Fereign ffairs, concernins merican-Jaranese
rolations.
Genoral Ugaki, the new Minister for Foreign ffairs, received
the diplomatic Chiefs of Missions individually on May 3l. In his
cenversation
*Department's telegrams No. 157, May 4, anc Ne. 170, May 14, 1938, an.
Eibassy's telegrn. No. 314, Mny 17, 1938.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.96)
-6-
conversation with the mbassador, he said that he desired to do
his utmcst to develop cood relations with the United States,
acding that having had no experience in diplomncy he was not
used to the intricacies of the diplomntic profession and would
therefore alweys spenk frankly. The bassador said thet in
reporting to his Government Goneral Ugaki's intentions as above
stated, it would be helpful if he might at the same time say
something ebout General Ugaki's attitude toward the prctection
of American interests in China. The Minister replied definitely
that he would guarantee the protection of ierican interests in
China and that if quostions should arise in connection therewith
he wished the Ambassndor to inforr him thereof.*
(c)
Runor ccncerning a proposed mericen-Japanose
Non-aserossion Pact.
A spokesman of the Fereign Office tolc foreign press represen-
tatives on May 1s that if the United States Government took
the initintive for the ccnclusion of a non-aggression pect with
Japan, the rmatter mieht be favorably c nsidered by the Japanese
Gevernment. Referring to & sterg emonating frr. Tokyo which had
appeared in the imerican press, the spokosman donied that such a
pact had been proposec by Mr. Hir ta, the Minister fer Fereign
Affairs.
II。
RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTHIES.
(日)
Chinc.
(1)
Military Operations.
Finally having retaken Taierhchwans, a strategic outpest of
73
Hsuschow in Southern Shantung Prevince, the Japanese forces
advanced southward intc Kiangsu Pruvince in an attack on Hsuchow.
the
*
Fmbassy's telegram Nc. 341, May 31, 1938.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
-7
the junotion of the Tientsin-Pukow and Lunghai Railways. At the
sane time cther Japanese units advanced on the city from the
south, both forcos joining on Mey 16 on the Lunghai Railway near
the northonstern bordor of Honan Province. Japanese nows sourees
reported that the Chinese had messed 400,000 troops arcund Hsuchew
to neot the Jap nese etteck. fter a battlo lnsting severnl days,
the Japanese forces formnlly ontered Hsuchow on Mey 20.
The Japanese Gevernment disccurnged thrcugh the press and
radio eny disposition on tho part of the public to assume that the
capture of Hsuchcw woulc lced directly to the collapse of Chinese
military resistance. This indicatien of the Government's views
had the effect of bringing ab.ut e goneral realization that the
end of the hostilities in China was still far off.*
Following the capturo f Hsuchow, acc rding to Derei, Japanese
units captured Lanfene in northcastern Hunan Province on the Lung-
hei Railwey, west of Hsuchew, on May 24, anc fuur days later tick
Kweiteh, encther Chinese strenehold on the Lunghai Railway. At
the clese of the month it was stated thet the Chinese were getherin-
together 20 divisions with a view to recovering Lon feng.
Dumei reported that with the capture of Hsuchow the Japancse
Arny had obtained contro1 cf nppr xiriately 60% of the principal
railweys of Chine. The army section 、f the Imperial Headqunrters
stated in a ccimuniqué issuec (n Mny 31 that up to May 24 the
estimatec Chinese cnsualties in tho Hsuchow sector were about
240,000, including beut 103,000 deed. On the cther hend, the
arny secticn cf tho Imperial Headquarters adritted cnly 10,716
Japanese casualties as a result of the perations betwcen March
1 and May 3l nlen the Tientsin-Pukow Railway end the enstern half
of the Lunghai Railway.
(2)
Embassy's telegran Nc. 322, May 21, 1938.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.97)
8-
(2) Capture of moy by the Jepenese Navy.
The neval press section of the Irperial Headquarters anncunced
on May 1o that on that cay a Japanose haval fcroc had lended on
the Island of Amey, Fukien Province, and had occupied the easteen
half of tho Island after a bembnrument ty Jayanese warchips of
Chinese forts and nttacks by Japanoso nirplanes on the Chinese
entrenchments. The following day the press soction of the Japanere
Third Fleet announced the virtual completion of the occupation
of the Island.
(3)
Japanese and Chinese Aerial Activities.
A Reuter ren rt frcr Hankow in the NORTH CHIN. HERALD of
June 8 stated that a major air battle, the first to be staged
over Hankow since the large scale ccibat on April 29, had cccurred
on May 3l in the ccurso (f which, acc rcing to incependent reports,
14 out of 34 Japanese plnnes engagec hnd beon shot cewn by Chinese
plenes. Acc raing te Reuter, the Chinose lest only twe planes in
the enccunter. However, accerding tc Dumei, a cormuniqué issued
by Japanese naval suthorities in Shenghai claimed that 20 Chinese.
plenes had been shot down ant only 1 J-panese plane had been lost
in the encounter f May 31. A Japanese navy spokesian in Shanghni
stated that only 9 Japanese airplanes, out f more than 30, had
been able to engage the 50 Chinese planes in c mbat because of
"peor visibility" anc that if conditi ns had been better all f the
50 Chinese plenes would have been shct dewn.
Toward the clcse of the month several beribings cf Canton were
carriec cut by the Japanese air forces.
Two Chinese airplanes flew ver southern Kyushu, near Kag-
shime, en the nicht of May 2, ana a precautienary anti-air-raid
alnrm was subsequently proclained by the Western Defense eadquart.
ers.
No informatien cculc be cbtnined as to whether these planes

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
-9-
had dropped any bombs or whether they had been shot down or
driven away by Japanese aircraft. It was said that the planes
hed dropped pacifist pamphlets urging the Japanese to cease
fighting agaiist the Chinose.*
(4)
Japanese Official Statenonts.
In an address before the Prefectural Governors Conference on
May 7, Mr. Hirota, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, emphasized
the need of the nation to redouble its deternination to continuo
the hostilities in China until Japan's ultimate goal of "building
a new Chine" had been indisputedly achieved. Two days later
Mr. Hirota reitorated to foreign nowspaper correspondents the
Governmont's oft-announced policy, narely, that Japan would not
deal with the Chiang Kai-shek Gevernment and that the oliination
of the Chiang Kai-shek régine was of the utrost importance for the
prorction of "ecod relations between Japan and China". In addition,
the Minister for Foreign Affairs mace the following significant
statements: that with rogard to the question whother Japan had
territorial uribitions in China it wns "a small ratter" whether
the territory was Chinese or Japanese, since the rmin purpose of
the incident was to nake it possible fer the peoples of China
and Jopan to ocoperate occnonically and sucially; that the test of
this matter wns the present Japanese "policy of letting the Chinese
govern therselves" in torritories occupied by the Japanese Army; and
that the proposed aralgniated Eovernrent to consist of the present
Poiping end Nanking Gevernnents wculd bo asked by Japan to pay
indernity for acts committed undor General Chiang Kai-shek's
Governrent.
On May 18 the army section of the Iperinl Headquarters issued
in annrncoment to the effect thnt the Japanese arriy in China had
nlways
Fabassy's telegram No. 324, May 21, 1938.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.97)
-10
always taken the Ereatest care tc protoct the lives and property
of foreign nationals in the areas of hostilities but that at the
same tine hed requested most earncstly that the nationals of third
Powers not allow the Chinese militery to make use of or to approech
their property. The anncuncerent cutlined the stops said to have
been taken by tho higher Japanese military cuthorities for avcid-
ance of injury to the lives and property of forcign nationals
anc added that thero hac been cases in which Japanese lives had
been sacrifioed in an effort to spare foroign lives and property,
sacrifices which would not have been necessary had the foreign
Powers concorned "shown a little consicerntion".
(5) Autononous Régiries under Japanese Patrenage.
Mr. Wang Keh-rin, chairman of the executive ccmmittee of
the "Provisional Governent of the Chinese Republic" at Peiping,
orrived in Jepan on May 1 for a week's stay in this country, during
which time it was repurted that he woulc be engaged in conferences
with Jopanese officials cncerninc the projected merger of the
Peiping régine with the new "ren vatien G vernment" at Hanking.
it wns said that the f llowine questi ns would also be ciscussed
y Mr. Wang Keh-min with Japaneso cfficiels: f rnel Japanese
recognition of the Peiping régime; financial and cther plans to
strencthen the foundations cf the Peiping rágime; and policies for
crushing the Chiang Kai-shek Government. On the day of his arrival,
Ir. Wan, Koh-min issued a statement to the press through the
Infcr.ation Burenu f the Foreign Office te the fellowine effect:
he Ku nintane, pursuing a policy of resistance to Jaran and ignor-
ing Japan's "eood-will and uncerstandinc", had finally precipitatcc
he prosent hostilities; in cccperetion with those in synpathy with

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
-11-
his ideal of peace with Japan, he had organized the Provisioanl
Government at Poiping; and he haa arrivod at the conclusion tLat
it would  mcst advantageous for the Peiping régine to merg,
with the new rágine at Nanking. acc rding to Domei, Mr. ang
Keh-min had a conference with Prerier Konce on Mey 3 in which
compliments were exchanged and the founcations were laid for
a "solid entente" between the Peiping régimo and Japan. A this
interview Prince Konoe roportcdly stated:"There is absolutely no
possibility, now or at any time in the future, that cur Govern-
ment will negotiate peace with the Chiang Kai-shek régime. The
policy we launched in January is nbs lute and cannot be altered
in any wey. It new is our dosire to maintain close contact with
your Government to settle the Chinn incicent". The visiting
Chinese hed a conversaticn with the Minister for Foreign Affairs
on March 4, pointing out, acc(rding to Dcmei, that "China hence-
forth must roly on Japan's assistance for its national govern-
ment". Subsequently, Mr. Wang Keh-rin cnlled on the Navy, War,
anc Finance Ministers.
It was rer rted by Dcmoi on May 13 that in a recent interview
in Shanghai Mr. Wang Kuh-rin and Mr. Liang Hung-chih, Chief
Executive of the réime at Nankinc, had reached the agreerent
thet their two "Governments" weulc te omalganated after traffic
had been restcred on the Tientsin-Pukow end Lunghai Railways.
On May 31 the Peiping and Nanking régines announced a
revis Bchedule of custems duties to gc into effect on June 1
in the areas of China occupied by the Japanese forces. The
Japenese Foreign Office issued an announcement to the effect
that the revised customs rates for North end Central China
fvcred no one nation but that in the new schedule the previcins

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
-12-
of the forner tariff onforoed by the Chiang Kai-shek Government
and ocnsidered to havo teen aimed at Japan hed been eliminated.
A "poace maintenance ccrmittee" for tho Hsuchow area under
the chairmanship of Mr. Li Aitan, Vice Presicent cf the Hsuchow
Chember of Connerce and Incustry, wns said by Domei to have been
inauguratod on May 31.
(b) Soviet Russin.
Although there were reports of increased nilitary nctivities
along the "Lanchukuo"-Siberian border and at Vladivostok, Seviet-
Japanese rolations showed no material change as campared with
previous months, with nc reater end no less likelihood of an
irmediate cutbreak of hostilities than feriorly.* A nuber of
incidents ccurred and the usual mutual recriminations, with protests
anc counter-protests, were rade.
In the ccurso of a newspaper interview on May 9, Mr. Hirota
saic thet the S viet Union was insi sting thet only urgent pending
questicns bo discussed hetween the twe countries, while it was
Japan's cesire thrt ns "rany questicns as possible be taken up,
inclucing that of the fisheries"; that no break with the Soviet
Union was anticirated, even if Suviet-Japanese reletions for the
settlement cf cutstancing preblens should feil; and that Soviet
ssistance to Chinn, although "c nspicucus", had been less in extent
than expected by China anc that, in his (Mr. Hirote's) opinion, the
Scviet Gevernrent would stup such assistance, realizing that it
had bee extended in vnin.**
Little or no pr-ress wes made in tho negctiations for the
settlement f such pending problens as the release of Scviet ships
held in Japan; the release of several vessels and crews helc by the
Soviet
Eabassy's despatch No. 2976, May 31, 1938.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2936, May 16, 1938.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.96)
-13-
Soviet Russians; the payment by "Manchukuo" to the Soviet Government
of the last instellrent of the Chinese Eastern Railway acocunt; tho
resumption o. parcel post service botween the two ccuntries; and the
closing by the Soviet authorities of the Japanese Consulates at
Habarovsk and Blagoveschensk.
According to Donei, the Jnpanese Foreign Office revealed cn
May 1l that a vigorous protest had been filed on May 7 with the
Soviet Fereign Comissar by the Japanese mbassedor in Moscow over
the May Day spech of Navy Corrissnr Peter Smirnov, who was quoted
by this news agency as having scid: "Jnpanese imperielists, in order
to cut to pieces the body of richly populated Chinn like e blood-
thirsty med dee, are employing the most brutnl methods. On the
Far Eastern borcer, tho solf-inflated and war-mad Japanese troops
daily are offering us provccations. The Red Army and Navy are pre-
pared to repulse such provocations sharply anc thorpughly".
It was reported that six days later the Soviet Government
delivered a fermal reply to the Japenese ibassader flatly rejecting
Tokyo's protest and stating, ar.ong cther things, that until the
Jaranese Governnent changed its attituce, the Soviet Government
woulf not dcen it possible to accept for consiceration the Japanese
Gevornment's pretests on this and similiar natters.
Tho Vico-Minister fer Foreign Affairs mnde a counter-prctest
to the S viet Imbassader (n May 12 against a rrctest which the
latter had presented in April regarcing an alleged attempt by the
Jaranese Charge a'affaires at Kebul, Afghanistan, tc enlist the
services cf the Soviet Minister thure as a Japanese spy. Mr. Kawai,
Chief of the Infcrmation Bureau of the Furein Office, stated on
May 12 thet there was no truth in the Saviet allegation and that what
hać

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
-14-
had taken pleco wes no more than an exchange of courtesies and talk
about the weather on tho occasion of a short interview between the
Chargé d'Ar ires and the newly arrived Soviet Minister to
Afghenistan.
The Jaranese naval basu at Chimkai, Korea, issuod & press
statement on May 16 t. the effect that Japanese destroyers hed on
May 15 rescued a Japanese fishing bont, tho "AK SHI MaRU NO. 12",
which was about tc be seized by a Seviet Patrcl Ship at a point ten
miles ff Kance, the Soviet Maritine Province. Acccrdine to the
staternent, authorities fron the Suviet Patrel Shir had bcarded the
Japanese vessel, hac threatened its crew with pistcls, and had
attenpted to sail the vessel into Scviet territorial waters.
The Soviet Arbassadcr, Mr. Mikhail Slavutsky, who hed presented
his credentials nly in Scptember, 1937, announcec that he had
rusigned as imbassadur ane wuula leave Tukyo cn June 6. He took
foraal leave of Mr. Hircta, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on
Moy 24.*
(c)
Great Britnin.
(1)
Guneral Rulations between the two countries.
7.
Durine the first part of the nenth there appeared te be less
resentment un the surfoce in Ja an toward Great Britain's attitude
c. ncernine the Sinc-Jn: enese conflict than hec been prevalent
in forrer  nths. In an interview with foroicn pross cerrospondents
n May 19, Mr. Hirctn, the Minister for Foreign ffairs, stated
that Jaran's relaticns with tho United States and Great Britain
hrd improved and were "very smocth".** Possible reasons for the
"prarently improved atricsphere were the recent British Cabinet
honees, particularly the withcrawal of Mr. Anthony Eden as Secrotary
of
Embassy's despatch No. 2976, May 31, 1938.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 2936, May 16, 1938.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
of State for Foreign Affairs and tho assumption by Mr. Neville
Chamberlain of direction of British foreign policy, and the
conclusion ot the British-Japancse greement concerning the
Chinese Maritire Customs. The staff ccrrespondent of the NICHI
NICHI, in despatches fron London, went so far us to state that the
British were consicering a change of policy toward China and Japen
and a possible ropprochenent with the latter country with a view
tc safeguarding British vested richts and interests in China.
However, towerd the closo of the month certain reported
develcpments attondant upon the capture of Amoy by Jaranese
naval forces again arcused Japanese ire agcinst the British. n
illustration of the length to which Japaneso suspicions vis-à-vis
Great Britain can go is furnished by a repcrt to the NICHI NICHI
dated May 22 fron its staff correspondent in oy, who alleged that
the Japanese naval landing rarty hed found many cases in which
assistance had been eiven to the Chinese by a "certain Power which
had rot been friendly to Jepan since the outbreak of the present
Sinc-Japanese conflict"; that innodintely befcre the lancing of
the Japanese at my e worship cf this Puwer, which had been supply-
ing arms to China, had unloaded uns fer the Chinese fcrces; and.
that a naval squad of the Power in questicn hnd fired on a unit
of the Japanese laning rarty. The cbvicus conclusion to bo
derived fror this fanciful runor is that tho "Pcwer" under reference
is Great Britain.
A statement was reportedly made by the British Foreign Under-
secretary, Mr. Richard Butler, before the House of Cermons on May
18 to the effect that the British Governient "regretted and ccndenn-
ed" the fact that the Japaneso landing party at imoy had ccrmitted
outrages against the Chinesu rosidents, had shet prisuners, and had
executed

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.97)
-16-
exeouted over loo citizens. Acccrting to Domei, the Foreign Office
instruoted the Japanese Ambassador at London to protest against
these statements, "which compromised the onor of the Imperial
Navy", and sinultaneously representations were filed by the Foreign
Office with tha British Embnssy in Tokyo. The navy section of
the Inperial Hendquarters issued a couniqué denying Mr. Butler's
allogation and expressing rogret that he had made such stater.ents,
because thoy were a "serious abuse against the character of the
Inperial Navy".
(2) Ccnclusion of British-Japan AEroement ccncern-
ing the Chinese Custons.
As a result of unofficial ciscussicns which had been taking
plece since February last botween the British bassador and the
Vice-Minister for Forein Affairs, an agreement was reached by the
British and Japanese Gevernments on Mny 2 regarcine the servicing
cf fcreign cblications securec on the Chinose Meritime Customs
revenue and other relevant natters.*
**
The text of the acreerent fellews:
"1. All cuties, surtaxes, dues and other revenues
cellectec by the Chineso Maritime Custons at each port
within the arers under Japanese occupation shall be
deposited in the nare of tho Cormissioner of Custons
with the Yokohain Specie Benk or, where the Bank hns no
branch, with any other bank or banks to be agreed upon.
2. Fron the import, export and inter-port duties thus
deposited, foreien loen guctas shall be remitted, at
intervals which shoulc nt exceed ten dnys, to the Inspector-
Generel's account at the Yckohana Specie Bank in Shenghei
in order to ieet in full on due dates the sorvice of the
forcien loans and indonnities which were secured on the
Custcns revonues in July, 1937.
3. The service of foreien lcans and indernities
secured on the Cust ms revenues shall bo treated at all
ports in Chinn as a first charge on the revenues after
deducting the maintenance expenses of the Cust cms Ad-
ministrntion (including the shere f the expenses of
the Inspectorate Goneral) es certified by the Inspector-
Genercl
bassy's tolegrar No. 289, Mny 2, 1938.
Despntch No. 2921, May 2, 1938.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.97)
-17-
General of Customs, and such custamary payments and
grants (hitherto decucted fron cross revenues before
rayment of foreign obligaticns) es cro similarly cortified.
4. (a) Fereirn loan quotas for each port shall be
deterr.od nonthly in proportion to the share of that
port in the tctal cr ss colloctions for all ports during
the preceding month.
(t) Calcul-tions in respect of fcreien loan
quetas sheli be based cn the gross inport, export and
inter-port duty ccllections of the Chinese Maritine Custons
and these quotas shall be determined as set out in (a)
above by the Insrectorato-General of Customs, with the
agreement cf Jaran and the other Powers concerned.
(c) Any insufficiency of Custons revenue tc meet
the quota of any port within the arens uncer Japanese
occupation in North Chine anc in Cuntral China shall be
made up out of the Custors revenue of cther ports in
the respective arens.
5. (a) The arrears on the Japnese portion of the
Boxer incennity helc in a suspense acccunt at the Heng-
kong anc Shanghai Bank since Septo.ber 1937 shall be
paid to the Jopanese G vernment.
(b) Future ayments of the Japanese portion of
the Boxer Indennity as well as the Jarinese share of the
Re rganisation Lean of 1913 shall be nade in the same
manner as in the servicing of all foreign lcans and
indcmnities secured on the Custcms revenue.
(c) The arrears on the foreicn loan ane indemnity
service at present ceposited in the Hongkong and
Shanghai Bank et Shanrhai (aacunting to
to be rolensed te moet the relevant cverdraft fir which
they act as security.
(a) The balance of the Cust ns acccunts with the
Hongkong anc Shanehei Bank in ench port under Japanese
occupation shall bo tronsferred to the ccount of the
Conn issioner of Custos at the tranch of the Yekohar.a
Specie Benk in each rort at which such a balance oxists
and utilised for future freign 1 an quuta payments.
6. The abeve arrance ents sholl c .e inte effect on
(acreed cate) anc shall arply to the Custcis ccllections
becinnint with Merch, 1938."
The cirounstances which necessitated the sucden corclusion
of the esreerent on May 2, as expleined te mr. Grew by Sir Retert
Craigie, were rep rted te the Department by telocran.*
(3)
Eabassy's telegram Nc. 296, May 5, 1938.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.97)
-18
(3) The More Important Representations made
by the British Embassy in Tokyo in
connecticn with the Sino-Japanese con-
flict.
Shcrtiy after the niddle of the month the British mbassador
received the Foreien Office's reply to his nenorandum of April
11 concerning interference with British shipring on the Yangtze
River. The substance f the reply wns as follows: There had been
no change whatever in the intention of the Imrerial Government to
respect the freedon. of novigation of shippin: of third Pcwers on
the Yanetzo River and other inlanc waterways in Contral China;
when the safety of navi ation of  onoral shippinc (n these
waterways cculd be cuaranteed and whon the necessity of strategical
consiccrations cisappeered, the freecor. of such navigaticn weuld bo
resumed; but cunitions of ponce nd orcer in the Yanctze aren
were nct yet rest red and the state f affairs wes such that the
free navigation of general shirring w uld as befere be nttended
with consicerable nnger, particularly the canger of letting
Japanese stretoric secrets fall into the hanes of the Chinese.*
On May 18 the British Enrassy adaressec to the Ministry of
Fereign Affeirs a er rendun rererdin the arrest f unc assuult
on Mr. E. S. Wilkins n, a British subject, by tho Jaranose rilitary
autherities at Shanghai on May 13, 1938. The menurandum stated
that Mr. Vilkinson had been subjected te a 'rutal and unnecessary
assnult, being hit in the face, kickec n the shin, anc stabbed in
the back with a bayonet; that he had nct, as charced by the Japanese
Lilitary authorities, crossed a barbec wire barricade and had not
cisobeyed the challonge f the J nese sentry; ane that when
eventually taken t. nilitary headquarters, Mr. Nilkinsen hac been
hel fur tw ur three heurs in spite of the frequent onc insistent
requests of the British C nsul General that he be henuet ver to
hin fer any investicatien that might be necessary.**
(4)
*
Embassy's telogran Nc. 320, Mny 20, 1938.
**
Embassy's 3spatch No. 2956, May 27, 1938.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.96)
-19
(4) Roported Offer of Modiation by the
British Prire Minister.
In reply to a question from foreign newspaper correspondents,
Mr. Hirota cbserved on May 9 that Japan's attitude regarding
mediation in the Sino-Japanese ccnflict by sone friendly Power
was understood by all tho Powers anc that therefcre, in his
opinion, no third Power would teke steps toward medintion between
Japan and General Chiang Kai-shek. Notwithstanding this state-
ment, Mr. Neville Chamberlein, the British Prime Minister, was
reported by Dotei to have ceclrred two dnys later in tho House of
Commons that Great Britain woulc be clnd to offer its services,
either sinely cr juintly with other Powers, in order to bring
about an equitable rence betwcen China anc Jaran, but that no
useful purpose would be served by offering meciation until beth
sices had indicated willingness to accept it.
(c)
Gerrnny.
There wes evicence of the further stren theninc of Japanese-
German relations, cespite rurcrs to the centrery.
An announcement was mnde in the Japanese press on May 13 of
the sicnature et Berlin on the any before of n treaty of amity
between Gerrany ancd "M nchukue".* The treaty is rep erted to
censist of four articles, rulatin te the inaucuration of diplo-
matic anc consular relaticns, reciprecal pr visions fer the free-
dor of resifonce, travel, anc cen uct (f business by nationals of
one ccuntry in the territory of the ther, the protection of
property anc richts, anc an agreer.ent te uncertake necetiations
in the near future for the ccnclusion of a trenty cf curmerce
enc navigation. Unon ratificaticn of the treaty of mity, formal
relntions will be established between Gerany anc "Manchukue"
and
* Eabessy's despatch No. 2971, May 27, 1938.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
and Ministers will be exchanged. In signing this treaty Germany
carried out its intention of extanding de jure recognition to
"Manchukuo", an intention which had been announced by Chancellor
Titler to the Reichstag on February 20 and by the German Chargé
d'ffaires to the Minister for Foreign Arfairs on February 22.*
A Peiping despatch to the NICHI NICHI reported that Germany
had formally requested the Japanese authorities in Peiping to sell
North China wool to Germany on the condition that they buy German
machinery on a barter basis. The despatch also stated that the
Japanese authorities in question would go as far as possible to
meet Germanysexpectations, considering the prevailing relations
between the two countries.
A ceremony attended by Marquis Kido, the Education Minister,
Viscount Mushakoji, former Anbassador to Cermany, and other
prominent persons, was hela on May 5 on the occasion of the
 tion of a party of 25 young men and boys to be sent to Germany
good-will mission.
According to a Domei despetch from Berlin datod May 12, the
Germen Foreign Office denied on that day foreign reports that the
German Government had recently assured the Chinese National Govern-
ment that Germany would assume strict neutrality in the Far Eastern
conflict. The news agency staied further that a spokesman of the
German Foreign Office had assorted that Germany's policy toward
the hostilities in China had been sufficiently clarified by
Chancellor Hitler's address before the Reichstng on February 20.
It will be recalled that Mr. Hitler declared that Germany regarded
Japan as the defender of western civilization in the Far East and
that the defeat of Japan would profit the U.S.S.R. alone.** Domei
of May 14 stated that Jap nese officials had donied foreign press
reports thet the German Foreign Cffice had altered its "pro-Japanese
attitude" and had promised the National Government of China to
*
Embassy's Monthly Report for February, 1938, Section II, (d)
**
Embassy's Monthly Report for February, 1938, Section II, (d)

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
21--
remain strictly neutral toward the Sino-Japanese hostilities.
These officials were said to ragord the report as one of various
steps takn recently by third Powers to damage the friendly
relations betwoen Germany and Jopan.
In this connection it is of intorest to note that, according
to Shanghai news despatches published in Tokyo toward the end
of the month, Dr. Oscar Trautmann, the German Ambassador to China,
on May 23 confirmed tho report thet Chancellor Hitler had ordered
the recell of the German military advisers in China and explained
that Mr. Hitler had taken this step becnuse Germany wished to
remain "strictly neutral regarding the Far Eastern conflict".
At the close of the month it appeared to be undecided whether
the German military dvisers would withdrnw from Chine, in whole
or in part, or whether some of them would remain in the service
of General Chiang Kri-shok in defiance of Mr. Hitler's orders.
(e)
Italy.
The Italinn Economic Mission nrrived in Tokyo on May 7,
hended by Senator Ettore Conti, President of the Italian Commer-
cinl Bank, and consisting of 6 members and 10 tochnical ndvisers.
The Mission held conversations with representotives of Jpan and
"Manchukuo" looking toward tho eventual conclusion of an economic
agreement cmong the three countrios.
At the conclusion of the
conversations, notes were excharged between the Italian and
Japonese trnde delegetions proposing the establishment of perma-
nent trade councils in Rome and Tokyo to bring about closer trade
relations. Domei stated that the concrete object of the proposal
was for Japan and Italy to expand their barter trade limit to
¥30,Oo0,Ooo. The Mission procceded to Osaka toward the close of
the month and in that city Senator Conti told newspaper reporters
that

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
that although no trade agreement among Italy, Japan, and "anohukuo"
had been signed in Tokyo, a draft agreement had been drawn up
which in his belief would be signed upon his return from a tour of
"Manchukuo" and North China.*
(f) Frence.
In an editorial entitled "France's China Advance", the
NICHI NICHI of May 31 reported thct arms and munitions hnd been
continuously sent to Chinn through French Indo-Chinn, notwithstand-
ing the French Government's declrration of November 1937 that it had
prohibited the transportation through the Colony of arms and
munitions to China; that France had lntely contracted with the
Hankow Government for the construction of a railway connecting
Chennankuan, French Indo-Chinn, and Nanning, Kwangsi Province,
China; that it was quite evident thnt the immedinte object of this
railway was to facilitate the tronsportation of arms and munitions
to China; and that such "positive aid" to Chine on the part of
France was difficult to understand.
(g)
The Netherlands.
The JAPAN TIMES reported that, according to a report issued
by tho Statistics Burenu of the Notherlands Indies Government,
export shipments of Japanese cotton toxtiles to the Netherlands
Indies hnd suffered a reduction of 50% during the first two months
of the current year. This newspeper stated that reports from
Batavin indicated that Japanesu products were in danger of being
driven out of the Javn market by Europenn merchandise, partly owing
to a boycott against Japanese goods on the part of the natives of
Java. The Embassy has beun informed by a reliable source, however,
that the boycott against Japanese goods in Java is negligible and
can
mbassy's despatch No. 3012, Juno 20, 1938.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
can have little or no effect on trade relations.*
(h) Australia.
On May 19 Prime Minister Lyons declared before the Australian
Parliment his intention of prohibiting the exportation of iron
ore from Australia as of July 1, 1938. The spokesman of the
Japanese Foreign Office issued en official statement on May 24
to the effect that Japan wished reconsideration by the Australian
Government in this matter; that iron ore was a staple import of
Japan from Australia; that the Yompi Sound Iron Mine, where much
Japanese capital was invested, was being exploited under an
explicit agreement with the Provincial Australian Government; and
that, therefore, tho step announced by the Austrelian Prime
Minister "must be said to be lacking in faith". According to
the NICHI NICHI of May 25, the Foreign Office spokesman's announce-
ment contained the statement that the measure proposed by the
Canberra Government might aggrevate Australian-Jepanese relations,
which had been taking a favorable turn.**
(i) Mohammedans.
The first Mohammodan mosque to be built in Tokyo was
dedicated on Mey 12 in a ceremony attended by approximately 500
persons representing Moslem communities both in Japan and
on the Continent of Asia and by the following prominent persons:
the Italian Ambassador and the Counsulor of the Italian Embassy;
Prince Hussein, third son of the King of Yemen; the Egyptian
Minister to Japan; the Saudi-Arabian Minister to Great Britain;
Viscount Vice-Admiral Ogasawara, Vice-Prcsident of the Dai-Nippon
Islamic Society; Mr. Kiyoshi Sejimo, of the Mitsubishi intcrests,
and others. Several days after the dedication ceremony, Prince
Hussein and the Saudi-Arabian Minister to Great Britain made radio
broadcasts
*
Embassy's despatch No. 3013, June 20, 1938.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 3017, Juno 21, 1938.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
broadoasts to Mohammedans throughout the world on the subjeot of
the dedication of tha mosque und Japanese friendship and hosp tality
toward Moslem believers.
(j) Hungary.
The NICHI NICHI of May 16 stated that the Foreign Office
had instructed the Japanese Chargé d'Affaires at Budapest to
open negotiations with tho Hungarian Government for the establish-
ment of a cultural accord between Jnpan and Hungary and that the
Hungarian Government had agreed to undertake such negotiations.
(k) Poland.
It was reported by the NICHI NICHI of May 7 that the Polish
Government had informally notified the Japanese Government through
the Japanese Ambnssador at Warsaw that it was ready to extend
de jure recognition to the Government of "Nanchukuo" in view of
the proposed removal of the Loague's ban on the recognition of
Italy's annexation of Ethiopia. This newspaper also stated that
the Polish Government was desirous of concluding a commercial
treaty and of exchanging consular representetives with the Hsinking
Government.
(1) Siam.
A new Japanese-Siemese trenty of commerce and navigation,
signed at Bangkok on December 8, 1937, wont into effect on
March 7, l938, with thc exchange of letters of ratification between
the Japanese Minister to Siam and the Siamese Minister for Foreign
Affairs.
It was reported that 8 locomotives built on the order of the
Ciamese Government by various Japanese locomotive works had been
hipped to Bangkok on Mey 20.
(m)

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
(m) The Franco Goverrment of Spain.
A Domei despatch from Biilso dated May 4 reported that Mr.
Santiago Me loz de Vigo, fcruer Minister to Japan of the Spanish
Republic, had been appointed by the Franco Government as Spanish
Nationalist Minister to Japan. It will be recalled that Mr.
Mendez de Vigo, having suvercd his connection with the Republican
Government in July 1936, was removed from office by that Government
in August 1936.*
The Embassy has been informed on roliable authority that
Mr. Mendoz de Vigo has not been appointed Spanish Notionalist
Minister to Japan and that Mr. F. J. del Castillo is to remain
indefinitely in Tokyo ns the Charg d'Affaires of the Franco Govern-
ment.
(n) Egypt.
Donci and the CHUGAI reported on April 16 that the Japanese
Governmont was considering suspending the importation of Egyptian
raw cotton in view of the fact that the recent incrense in the
Egyptian customs tariff threatened to destroy Japan's export trade
with thnt country.
(0)
International
(1)
International Whcling Conference.
The British Embassy received a reply fron the Japanese Govern-
ment, dated May 30, to the British Ambassador's invitation of
April 29, 1938, to the Japaneso Governnent to be represented at the
conference which is to ncet in London during June to study the
r sults of the 1938-39 whnling senson and to consider the modifica-
tion or extonsion of the existing international whaling ngreement.
t reply stated that the Japanese Government had reached the con-
clusion
* Tabassy's despatch No. 2053, Septomber 16, 1936.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
-26-
clusion that the agreement did not accord with tho existing state
of the whaling industry in Japan and that the industry was not
in c posit'on imnediately to submit to severe restrictions, such
as are prescribed by tho agreoment, on equal terms with the
advanced countries. The note of the Minister for Foreign Affairs
added, however, that the Japanese Government was prepared to devise.
on its own initiative, mensures to fall in line with the spirit
of international cooperation and with this in view would send an
observer to the forthcoming International Whaling Conference at
London.
(2) Proposed Foreign Office Cultural Attachés.
The NICHI NICHI of May 29 stated that the Foreign Office
hnd decided to send Cultural Attachés, with a status equal to
that of Counselors or First Secretaries, to the Embassies and
to Japanese information librarios in various foreign capitals as
a means of propogating "true knowledge of Japan", especially
of Japanese culture. It is understood that Japanese infonnation
libraries will be established at New York, London, Paris, Berlin,
Istanbul, and Buenos Aircs.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) The Cabinet.
914
It was announced on Mey 26 that General Kazushige Ugaki
had been appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs in succession
to Mr. Hirota; Mr. Seishin Ikeda, Minister for Finance and
Minister for Commerce and Industry in succession, respectively,
to Mr. Kaye and Mr. Yoshino; and General Sadno Araki, Minister for
Education in succession to Marquis Kido, who now retains only the
pertfolio of Welfare Minister.* The consonsus of opinion emong
competent
Embassy's telegrams Nos. 330, May 25, and No. 332, May 26, 1938.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.98)
-27-
competent observers interpreted these cabinet changes as constitut-
ing a victory of those elements within the Cabinot, led by Premior
Konoe, who had been in fevor of pursuing a more forccful policy
with regard to the warfare in China, over other elements, led by
General Sugiyama, the War Minister, whose China policy had not been
considered sufficiently forccful. Various heterogeneous elements
therefore went into the composition of the reconstructod Cabinet:
General Ugaki, a rnodorate who nevertheless commanded the respect
of the Army; Mr. Ikeda, a sound and conservative financier, who
enjoyed the respect of the business world; and Goneral Araki, who
with Admiral Suetsugu as Homo Minister, would form a coabination
satisfactory to the most erdent chauvinists.*
Toward the end of the month it was an open secret that
General Sugiyame would resign as Wer Minister, and the general
belief was that General Itagaki, the lending officer of the Kwantung
army and one of the four most inportant prompters of the Manchurinn
coup in 193l, would be ppointed to succeed Gonerel Sugiyama, there-
by adding strength to the chauvinist campt of the militarists. On
May 3l General Tojo was appointed Vice-Minister for War in placc of
General Umezu.
The KOBE SHEuBUN reported that at a Cabinet meeting on May 31
General Ugaki, the new Minister for Foreign Affairs, had asked the
War end Navy Ministers to push their military operations vigorously
in China, and not to "trouble their hurds" about the possible cffects
of military nction on the country's diplomatic relations with the
Powers.
General Ugaki is said to have declared hil.self confident
 his ability to doel with all diplomatic issues which might crise,
for the settlument of which he would be entirely responsible.
In a characturistically vegue fashion, Genoral Araki, the new
Education
Thubassy's tolegrar No. 333, May 26, 1938 and Embassy's dospatch
Jo. 2975, May 31, 1938.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.97)
-28-
Eduoation Minister, was snic by the ASiHI of May 31 to have out-
lined his policy as follows: "1. Tho Great Way of the Empire
should be ms. 'fested in accordance with the national policy, and
the prosperity of tho Iperial Thrcne should bo guarded and main-
tained. 2. The principle of the oneness of knowledge and conduct
should be upheld, and education should be devoted to perfecting
character. 3. Efforts should be mace to train the peoplo to act
in a manner befitting a great netion end to do their best to over-
come the difficulties thnt may arise in the future by acting in
accordance with th: correct ccncoption of the current situation".
According to the vernccular press, in reconstructing the
Cabinet Premier Konoe askod Auniral Suet sugu to take the post of
Welfare Minister in plece of Marquis Kido, who was to be made Home
Minister, but Admiral Suctsugu refused to accept the post offered.
(b) The rmy.
A Donei dospatch quoted Lieutonant-Celonel Itsuo Ishinoto,
of the Japanese Special Military Survice in Poiping, as having
said that the Jopanese ary uuthorities in Peiping would not
allow any industri 1 enterprise in China to be monopolizec by
one institution or by one min but w uld insist that such enterprises
be conducted uncer Sine-Japanese anngenent "in principle", and
that capital of third countries would be welc ed.
The War Ministry anncunced on May 11 that Liuutenant-General
Pishizo Nishi, wh had been actively ungaged in military operations
in Nerth China, had been appointed Inspoctor-Genoral of Military
 ention, a pest thet had been vacant since the appeintment of
eral Hata es Conmandor of the Japanese forces in Contral China.
(c)

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
(0) The Navy.
"Tho Mizuho", a new Japanese seaplane carrier and tender of
9,ooo tons. vhich hed been in procoss of construction at the
Kawasaki Dockyard since May 1937, was launched at Kobe on May 16.
(a) The Political Parties.
At a meeting of Seiyukai lenders on May 25, Mr. Toshio
Shinada, one of the executives of the Party, declered that the
Konoe Cabinet lacked determination and thus oaued public unrest.
Mr. Shirada urged that the Cabinet "respect the wishes of the
people" and make up its mind definitely on what it intended to do.
The three men who on Merch 3 attacked Mr. Isoo Abe, Presi-
dent of the Social Mass Party, were sentenced by the Tokyo District
Court on May 25 to 6 months' imprisonment.
(e) "Cormunists".
With the lifting of a press ban on May 30, it was revealed
that nore than 1,30o "ccnmunists" had been arrested on December
5, 1937, and that 235 of them hnd been indicted for "comunist
activities".
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Mr. Ikeda, the now Finance Minister, issued a statenent in
the course of a newspaper interviow on Mny 27, the salient
features cf which were as follows: (1) The yen will continue to
be naintained at one shilling twc pence, so long as that level
does not adverscly affect the prosecution of the hostilitius, (2)
Oniy

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.97)
-30-
Only newly mined gold is to be shippad abroad. The gold production
is to be increased. The gold reserve is to be ccnserved. (3)
In order t educe domestic prices and to promote exports, effort
will be made to relax inport restrictions of ossential primary
commodities. (4) No conr.itment on the question of lowering
interest rates.*
Judging fron this statement, it appeared that Mr. Ikeda
would try first tc reduce prices before taking up the question
of interest rates. In the Eribassy's opinion, the statement
indicated that an intensivo effort woulc be made to proote
exports and that in facing this urgent cconomic problen the
Finance Minister weuld make serious effcrts toward relaxation
of restrictions on the importation of raw cotton and of a few
other essential com:odities simply as a necessary preliminary to
pronote exports, and at the same tine would make an effort to
control dor.estic prices to a level which vould n't divert products
to the donestic censumption market.*
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FIN NCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a)
Fore ign Trnde.
According to the preliminary figures, May exports were
¥210,944,000, whi1e inp0rts were ¥253,263,000, as compared with
pril exports of ¥217,000,000 and Apri1 imports of ¥245,000,000.
Thus, there was an unfavorable balence of trade of ¥42, 319,000
as cmpared with an unfavorable balaice of nly ¥28,000,000 for
April.*
(b)
Finencial and Ecenenic Trends.
The stock market continued to be wunk, share prices falling
even below their April level. Thore were censicerable increases
in
*
Embassy's telegran No. 336, May 28, 1938.
*
Data furnished by the Commercial Attaché

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.97)
-31-.
in benk deposits and postal savings. The money market was easy.
Plans for the promotion anc extonsion of business enterprises,
as reportei by tho Bank of Japon, amountoc to ¥516, 554,000.
representing a gain of v178, 379,000 cver the previous month and
of ¥191,253,000 cver May 1937. There wore continued large issues
of national boncs, which were satisfactorily absorbed. The average
yen rate for May was $0.28947, as compared with $0.290286 for
April.*
(c) Denand and Supply.
In accordance with the provisions of the Law Ccncerning
Temporary Measures for Export and Inpcrt Articles, as revised
at the 73rd Session of the Dict, the Government promulgated
in the Official Gazotte of May 25 Imperial ordinonccs authoriz-
ing the Cermerce and Incustry Minister te issue orders for the
crganizatien f Comcdity Doinnd and Supply Adjustment Councils
consisting of representatives cf impert, precuction, distribution,
and consumption organizaticns for those cumodities the damand
and supply f which nee te be ndjusted wing to the current
import restrictions. After the pr mulgation of these Orcinances,
it was reperted thet the Cumierce and Incustry Ministry
had reached a tentative decision to :pply ther. first to the cotton
spinning and weaving industries and to the woclen industry.
(c) Aviation.
194.116
It was clai uc by the Japanose press thet a Monoplane of
the Japanese Aeronnutical Research Institute, after e flight of
62 hours end 24 ninutes end ing cn Nay 15, had established twe new
worlc recerds, ne for a c ntinuous flight of 11,coo kilometers,
as
* Infemation furnished by the Comercial Attaché

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
as against tho previous mark of 10,60l.48 kilometers, and the
seocnd for having maintained nn average speed for 10,oo0 kilometers
of approximately l80 kiloneters per hour, as against the previous
record of 149.853 kilometers per hour for 10,000 kilometers.
It was reported on May 31 that tho Japan Air Transport Company
would on October 1, 1938, inaugurate an air service connecting
Fukuoka with Hangchow by way of Shanghai and Nanking, and another
service connecting Japan with Peiping by way of Tsingtao and Tientsin.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing tc report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR.
894.5
It was reported during the month that the Feceration of
Industrial Bocies, the All-Japan Labor Union, the Japan Labor
Federation, and the Japan Industrial Laber Group had decided at the
instance of the Welfare Ministry to organize a patriotic league.
for the establishment of "capital-labor harmony cormittees" in order
to ensure the healthy development cf incustrial onterprises and to
promote the welfare and increase the efficiency of enployees.
Measures were reportedly being drafte by the Finance Ministry
for the organization of sovings socicties throughout the country
for the enccuragement of rogular saving by werkers of a certain
porcentage of their wagus.
According to the JAPAN CHRONICLE of May 18, the Japan Federation
of Laber Unions decided to send 5 labor delegates to Germany and
Italy in the fall of 1938 to stucy methots through which labcrers
of

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.98)
-33-
of Japan; Germany, and Italy might collaborate in the "fight
against communisn". This Lewspaper also stated that the Federa-
tion had dran up a resolution urging that there be held in
Tckyo en "anti-comintern international labor conference" in l940,
the year of the 2,6ooth annivorsnry of the foundation of the
Japanese Empire, to which delegates fron Gerrany, Italy, "Manchu-
kuo", the Naticnalist Government of Spain, Hungary, and Poland
would be invited.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
(1) The 1940 Olympic Gamos.
On May 23 the Tckyo Municipal Assembly vcted n total
appropriation of ¥12,130,000,000 for the Olympic Gares to be
held in Tckyo in 1940.
(2)
Encouragerent of National Thrift.
The ASAHI of Mey 25 stated that the Cabinet's Planming
Board had decided to put forth a program for a simplified mode
of living, for the elimination of luxuries, and for a consequent
enccuragement of national thrift. ong the items in the Planming
Board's progran, according to the ASiHI, are the following:
simpli-
fication of men's clcthing; abelishnent of the "meaningless
practice" of exchancing ric-year and yenr-end gifts and of
exchanging greetings of the season by card or otherwise; curbing
of the practice of serving an ostentatious array of cishes at
table; and elinination of "de luxe interier dccorations unnecossary
for maintenance of practical life", including the relinquishient
of foreign style drawing rooms.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.98)
Dospatches scnt to tho Lepartment
during May 1938.
No.
Date
Subjoct
2911
May 2
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2912
May 2
Political Situation in Japan.
2913
May 2
British Representations Rogarding
Jeponose Violation of British
Rights in Chinn.
2914
May 2
Japonese Restrictions On British
Chinping On The Yangtze River.
2915
Mey 2
British Ropresentations Regarding
British Interosts in Chinese
Government Railways.
2916
May 2
Administration of Shenghai Harbor.
2917
May 2
Alluged Insult To British Officer
By Japanese Soldier at International
Settlemont, Shanghai.
2918
May 2
Danage To Property Of .merican
Free Methodist Mission, Chengchow.
2919
May 2
Requcst for Publications.
2920
Nay 2
Activities of Mr. P. .. Reeves.
2921
May 2
Chinoso Customs Administration.
2922
Mey 2
Requisition For Valve Bellows and
Housings, Ray Oil Burner Parts.
2923
Mcy 2
Appointment of Herr Von Dirksen
as German mbassador at London.
2924
May 2
Cipher Tables.
2925
May 5
Communication Lews and Regulations.
2926
Mey 5
Requisition for Long Carriage
Typowriters.
2927
May 7
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2928
Mey 9
Japaneso Violation of Zritish
Territoriel Waters at HongKong.
2929
May 9
British Claim for Indemnity in
Wuhu Incident of December 12, 1937.
2930
May 10
Preparation of Appropriation Bills
in Forcign Countries.
2931
Mcy 11
Jepan's Military Imports.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Date
Subject
2932
May 12
Illicit Treffic in Narcotics.
2933
16
Lddress mado y ths mbassador.
2934
May 16
Anerican Vice Consul Leaving
Hankow for HongKong.
2935
May 16
Chinese Customs dministration.
2936
May 16
Statoments of the Minister for
Forcign ffairs and tho Premier
Concerning the Cino-Japanese
Conflict and Other Internationel
Matters.
2937
May 16
Japanese Interforence with Ship-
ment of the Werner G. Smith
Company on the Yangtzo River.
2938
May 16
Japan's China Policy and Proposed
Reorganization of tho Japanese
Foruign Office.
2939
May 17
Bombing of Property of merican
Presbyterian Mission, Lini(Ichowfu),
2940
Mey 17
Messege from the Ambassador on the
Shimoda Fastival.
2941
May 17
Southward Advance Policy.
2942
May 21
Specicl Japanose Taxes for
Military Expenditures in China.
2943
May 23
Diplomatic Visn Report.
2944
May 23
British Ropresentetions with
regard to Discrimination against
British Interests in Manchuria.
2945
May 23
Japanese Restrictions on British
Shipping on the Yangtze River.
2946
May 23
Appointment of Mr. Kiyoshi Yamagata
as Minister to Venezuela and
Colombin.
2947
May 23
Transmission of the Embassy's
Translation of n mendment to the
Law for Reciprocal id in Compliance
with the Requests of Foreign Courts.
2948
May 24
Reported Reorganization of the
Japanese Consulate General at
Shanghai.
2949
May 24
Visit of Mr. Shiko Kusama, Japanese
Member of the Centrol Opium Committo
of the League of Nations, to the
United States en route to Geneva.

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
No.
Dato
Subjeot
2060
May 25
Transmission of the Embassy's
translations of the North China
Devolopment Company Limited Law
and the Central Chine Promotion
CompanyLimited Law
2951
May 26
Chinose Customs Administration.
2952
May 26
Damnge to Imerican Property by
Japanese Forces: American dvent
Mission at Chno Hsien, Anhwei
Province, China.
2953
May 26
Delivery of Bl ck and Confiden-
tinl Lists Relating to the
Illicit-Traffic in Narcotic Drugs.
2954
May 27
Japanese Attempt to regulate
Navigation of Foreign Craft in
the vicinity of Canton.
2955
May 27
Second Querter Exemination of
Mr. Glen W. Bruner.
2956
May 27
Arrest and Asseult of a British
subjoct by Japanese Military
Authorities at Shanghai.
2957
May 27
Roturn of merican Citizens to
Interior Points in China.
2958
May 27
Proposod Safoty Zone at Foochow,
Fukien Province, China.
2959
May 27
Saluries end llowances of
Japanese Diplomatic and Consular
Officers.
2960
May 27
Sino-Japanese Hostilitios, 1937-
1938 merican Lossos Resuiting
From, Miccia, nthony Clifford,
Claim of.
2961
May 27
Sino-Japnese Hostilities,1937-
1938, American Losses Resulting
From, Utter, Darwin Hewins, Claim
of.
2962
May 27
Sino-Jepaneso Hostilities, 1937-
1938. American Losses Resulting
From, Californic Province of the
Society of Jesus, Claim of.
2963
May 27
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-
1938, merican Losses Resulting
From, Burz, Richard, Clnim of.
2964
May 27
Losses of American Property due
to The Present Sino-Japanese
Conflict; Amorican Catholic
Mission, Sinsiang, Honan.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
Telegrams sent to the Department
durinc May 1938.
No.
Date
Subject
286
May 1, 9 a.m.
.Chinese Maritime Customs.
287
May 1, 11 a.m.
Chinese Maritime Customs.
288
May 2, 11 a.m.
Credit to Japanese autbmobile
companies.
289
May 2, midright
Chinoze Customs.
290
May 3, 11 a.m.
Chinese customs.
291
May 3, noon
For Commerce from Ccmmorcial Attaché.
292
May 3, 1 p.m.
For Commerce from Commercial Attacné.
293
May 3, 9 p.m.
Departure of Mr. Schuler.
294
May 5, 7 p.m.
Chinese Customs.
295
May 5, 8 p.m.
Chinese Customs.
296
May 5, 9 p.m.
Chinese Customs.
297
May 7, 10 a.m.
For Commerce from Commercial Attaché.
298
May 7, 11 .m.
Faramount representative,
receipt of cable.
299
May 7, noon
Requisitions.
300
May 7, 1 r.m.
Chinese Maritime Customs.
301
May 8, 10 a.m.
Chinese Maritime Customs.
502
May 11, 10 a.m.
Transfer of Mr. May.
303
May 11, 11 a.m.
Jaranose occupation of American
property in China.
304
May 12, 4 F.m.
Duty free kerosene imports
via Tientsin.
305
May 12, 5 p.m.
Radio interference.
305
May 12, 6 r.m.
Departure of American Vice Corsui
from Hankow to Canton.
307
May 14, 10 a.m.
Mrs. Allison's visit to Shanghai.
309
May 14, 11 a.m.
Return of American citizens to
interior points in China.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
NO.
Date
Sibject
309
May 15, 6 p.m.
Crounling of PRESIDENT FCOVER -
lighthou.
310
May 16, 4 p.m.
Illegai acrost of Mrs, de Sales.
311
May 16, 5 p.m.
Dema e to property of Boutnern
Baptist  Ission, Chenghsien.
312
May 16, 6 p.n,
Dame e uc noperty of American
esbvierian Mission, Jini.
313
May 16, 7 p.m.
Damage to property of Southern
Presbyterian Mission, lsucrowfu,
314
May 17, 11 a.m.
Chinaso Maritime Customs.
315
May 17, noon
Return of American citizens ic
interior points in Chine.
316, May 17, 3 p.m.
Chinege customs.
317
May 18, 11 a.m.
Damage to property of Saint Joseph
ucspital, Wuchang.
818
May 18, 3 p.m.
heprezentations regarding Werner
C. Smith Company shipment.
319
May 19, 3 p.m.
rpanose gold shipments.
320
May 20, 11 a.m.
Tnierference with British
shipning on the Yangtze.
321
May 20, 7 p.m.
Violotion of Legation euarter, ieipin.
522
May 21, 11 a.m
Cepture of Is lchow.
323
May 21, 1 p.m.
Winant candidecy for directorship
of Incernational Labor cffiet.
324
May 21, 2 r.m.
Roport of eirplanes over Kyushu.
325
May 21. 5 y.m.
cden.
326
May 23, 6 p.n.
Damago to propsrty of Free
Mc thodist Mission, Chengohow.
327
May 24, 10 a.m.
Chinesc Maritime Customs.
323
May 24, 11 a.m.
Chinese Maritime Customs.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
No. Date
Subject
329
May 24, 5 p.m.
Japares, gold shipments.
330
May 25, 7 p.m.
Fossiolo changes in Cabinet.
331
May 25, 8 p.m.
Bombing of Mission, Nantunguhow.
382
May 26, 8 p.m.
Cabinet changes: new anpointments.
333
May 26, midnight
Cabinet changes.
334
May 27, 5 p.m.
Winant candidacy for directorship
of Internetional Iabor office.
8
335
May 27, 6 p.m.
Cabinet changes.
6
336
May 28, 5 p.m.
Statement of Finance Minister Ikeda.
337
May 28, 6 p.m.
Repairs to Ambassador's residence
and Chancery building.
0
338
May 31, 5 p.m.
Return of American citizens to their
property in China.
R
339
May 31, 6 p.m.
Bombing of Lutheran United Mission:
Chumatien, Honan.
340
May 31, 7 p.m.
Assault on Cuinese under American
flag on launches TEYACO ONE and
DAHIAY.
2i
341
May 31, 8 p.m.
Statement of General Ugaki, new
Minister for Foreien Affairs.
C
342
May 31, 9 p.m.
Representations regarding protection
of American interests in China.
343
May 31, 10 p.m.
Japanese occupation of Chinese
islands.
344
May 31, 11 p.m.
Bombing of Southern Fresbyterian
Mission Haichow.
345
May 31, midnight
Bombing of Mission, Nantungchow.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ebruary , 1941.
U
Mr.lles:
With reference to your conver-
sation with the rench ibassador,
the Japenese sosiety described as
"nokokukai" is not knon to rL.
nowever, a reactionary organization
called tne ".eniokukai" has long
been associated vitn the anti-soviet
movement in aj an and has on repeated
occasions in the past five years
distributed literature advocating
war between aan and the oviet
union. rokyo's political reyort for
June 19:8 mentions thet during that
month the r.enkokukai posted handbills
throughout rokyo denouneing the
soviet nion.
28.
Fo: Schuler:

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.90)
YUCL ADVISER
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1938 JUL  PM 1 41
AMERICAN ÉMBASSY
Tokyd, July 7, 1938.
NO. 3094
15
SUBJECT:
REPORT OF CONDITION JAPAI DURING THE MONTH
1941
OF JUNE, 1936.
INTLRN:
1938
DEPAR
川
42
894.00
The Honorable
The Secretary of Stato.
D1
Washington.
Sir:
P
With roference to the Dopartnent's inst ruction No. 93
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transnit herewith the
Eabassy monthly report on c nditions in Japan for the month
27
of June, 1938.
Respoctfully yours,
ce
C)
FILED
Joseph C. Grew.
23 1938
10
Emelosure:
1/Report No. 141.
Gepy to Eabassy, Peiping
Imbassy, Henkow
Babassy, Mosoow
Consulate Gesesel, Shangha1
Comsulate Gemoral, Mukden
2

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 141.
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE
MONTH OF JUNE, 1938.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) The More Importnt Representations
made by the Embassy in connection
with the Sino-Japanese Conflict....1,2,3,4,5,
6,7,8,9,10,
11,12
(b)
) Japanese reaction to Mr. Hull's
attitude toward the sale of Ameri-
can Bombing planes....
.12
(c)
Rumored American Loan to China.....12,13
(a)
Visit to Japan of President Quezon
of the Philippine Commonwealth.....13
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China
(1)
Military Operations.........13,14
(2)
Japanese Aerial Bombing of
Canton, Hainan Island, Nan-
chang, and other places.....14,15
(3)
Statements by Japanese
Officials..
.15,16,
(4)
Closing of the Chinese
Embassy in Tokyo......
.17
(b) Great Britain
(1) General Relations...........17,18,19
(2)
British Protests Against
Japanese Bombing of Canton..19,20,21
(3)
Other Important Representa-
tions mede by the ßritish
Embassy in connection with
the Sino-Jaranese Conflict..21,22,23
(c)
France.
.23,24,25
(a)
Soviet Russia.
.25,26,27,28
(e)
Germany.
.28
(f)
Italy.
.28,29

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
(g)
Australia..
.30
(n)
Siam.
.31
(1)
Chile.
.31
(3)
International Whaling Conference
at London.
.31,32
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL SITUATION.
(a) The Cabinet..
.32,33
(b) The Army..
.33
(c) The Navy..
.33
(d) The Political Parties..
.33,34
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
.34,35
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a)
Foreign Trade.
.35
(b)
Financial Trends..
.35
(c)
Government Control of Raw Materials.35,36
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN CONMERCIAL INTERESTS.36,37
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FCREIGN CONMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR.
.37,38
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
.38

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.98)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) The More Important Representations made by the Embassy
in connection with the Sino-Japanese Conflict.
711.94
It will be remembered that on May 31 the Ambassador delivered
(11
to the Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs a signed note addressed
to the Minister for Foreign Affairs protesting against the continued
occupation by the Japanese military of American property in China,
with the consequent inability of American citizens to reenter their
properties.* The Foreign Office informed the Embassy on June 2 that
a committee consisting of Colonel Nishi of the General Staff,
Commander Kami of the Navy Department, Mr. Ishii of the American
Affairs Bureau of the Foreign Office, and one secretary from the
East Asia Bureau of the Foreign Office, would be sent to China to
investigate the conditions against which the Embassy had protested
and also to formulate means for satisfactory adjustment of such
conditions.**
On June 3 the Embassy's Naval Attaché discussed with the Senior
Aide to the Navy Minister the attacks by Japanese on May 19 on the
Chinese personnel aboard the American launches "TEXACO ONE" and
"DAHLAY" at Shanghai, concerning which the Ambassador had made
vigorous written representations on May 31.*** After attempting to
explain the reasons for the attacks, the Senior Aide requested
Captain Bemis to transmit his explanation to the United States Navy
Department in order that it might be realized in the United States
that such actions of Japanese naval personnel were not directed
against American rights and interests. It was evident to the
Embassy's Naval Attaché that the Senior Aide was gravely concerned
bout this matter.****
On
Department's telegram to the Consulate General at Shanghai
No. 354, May 28, and Embassy's telegram No. 338, May 31, 1938.
Embassy's telcgram No. 348, June 2, 1938.
Embassy's telegram No. 340, May 31, 1938.
、***
Embassy's telegram No. 355, June 4, 1938.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
On the basis of a telegraphic report from the American
Consulate at Tsingtao* , the Ambassador called on the Vice-Minister
for Foreign Affairs on June 9 and made strong oral representatiors,
supported by a note, against the shooting and wounding by a
drunken Japanese soldier at Tsining on June 2 of Doctor Frederick
G. Scovel, an American Presbyterian missionary who was said to
be attempting to protect Chinese nurses in his mission hospital
against Japanese soldiers who were looking for women. In reply
to the Ambassador's representations, Mr. Horinouchi stated that
the Japanese military authorities took a serious view of the
matter and that as a result of representations made by the American
Government's representatives in Peiping end Tsingtno those authori-
ties were making a careful investigation.** A Secretary of the
Japanese Embassy called ut the American Embassy in Peiping on June
20 and read from a document written by the Japanese military
authorities an expression of regret on the part of the latter for
the wounding of Dr. Scovel. The document placcd the bleme on the
"drunken" and "undesirable" Japanose soldier end stated that he
would be punished severely in accordance with the Army's laws
and regulations.***
On the occasion of Mr. Grew's call on Mr. Horinouchi on
June 9 in connection with the Scovel case, the Ambassador said
that he wished to speak informally with reg rd to the bombing
by Japanese forcos of civilian populations in China; that hc had
not received instructions to make official reprosentations and was
rot muking such representations; and that he was acting on his
own initiative and from the point of view of Japsnese-imerican
relations.
x
Telegram from the Embassy at Peiping, June 6, 8 p.m., quoting
telegram from the Consulate at TsingtaoJune 6, 2 p.m.
*
Embassy's telegram No. 366, Juno 9, 1938.
**
Telegram from the Embassy nt Peiping No. 380, June 20, 1938.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
relations. The Ambassador pointed out the deplorable offect on
American public opinion wher large numbers of civilian popl.latirns
were killed or injured by largo bonbing operations anywhere;
raised the question whether tne military advantago to bo gaineu
from such operations was sufficiently important to justify the
inevitable harm that such wholesalo slaughter must have on Japan's
reputation abroad, especially in the United States; expressed
the opinion that this question of Japan's reputation abroad chiefly
concerned the Ministry of Forcign Affairs, which was rosponsible
for Japan's foreign relations; and concluded by stating that to
his mind it was of the utmost importance that the Japanese Govern-
ment should constantly benr in mind the deep humanitarien interest
of the Americen Governmont and of the Amorican people in the bombings
of civilien populations wherover and however such bombings were
carricd out. Mr. Horinouchi said that he appreciated the friendly
way in which Mr. Grew had approached the subjcct, that the Minister
for Foreign Affairs would be equally appreciative, that full
consideration would be eiven to Mr. Grew's observations, and that
i: fact the Minister for Foreign Affairs was negotinting with the
military authorities concerning this problom. It was cgreed by
he Ambassador and the Vice-Minister that no publicity would be
given to their conversation.*
In accordance with the Depurtmont's instructions, on June 9
the Embassy mado representations to tho Foruign Office concerning
the bombing by Japonese nirplanes of the propurty of the Lingnan
University campus in Canton on June 8. In the Embassy's represen-
:otions it was pointed out that noricans hed a substential vested
interest in Lingnan University and thet 37 nerican citizens were
rosiding at the University.**
With
Enbassy's telegram No. 368, Juno 9, 1938.
Department's telogram No. i87, June 8, and Embassy's telegram
No. 369, June 9, 1938.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
With regard to the Embassy's representations of May 31
concerning the occupation by the Japanese military of the
University of Shanghai,* the Foreign Office informed the Embassy
on June 9 that the Japaneso naval and military authorities at
Shanghai would issue an announcemont on the following day that
the University would be returned to the Northern and Southern
Baptist Mission.**
On the basis of a telegram from the Embassy at Hankow**and
in accordance with the Department's instructions, the Embassy
presented a note to the Foreign Office on June 1l inviting ntten-
tion to the presence in and nenr Hankow of American citizens and
property and of American and other foreign naval and merchant
vessels. The note stated that the Embassy confidontly expected
that, in the event of military operations being conducted by
the Japanese military forces against Hankow, the past assuranccs
of the Japanese Governmcnt that American lives and property would
be respected would bo scrupulously observed.****
Mr. Lockhart, the Consul General at Shanghai, received on
June ll a letter addressed by Mr. Tani, Japanuse Minister-at-Large,
to the American mbassador at Hankow, which conveyed cortain
requests of the Japanese navel nuthorities. In substance, these
requests were that no American men-of-war or other vessels would
enter the arca from Wuhu to Hukow on the Yangtze River so long as
the Commander-in-Chief of the Japaneso fleot in China waters should
find it strategically inconvenient for them to enter this area,
in viow of the possibility that the ares in question would become
a "field of hot fighting on and after the cloventh of June"; that
immedinte
to the Consulate Goneral at Shap
*
Department's telegram No. 354,/May 28, and Embassy's tolegram
No. 338, May 31, 1938.
**
Embassy's telogram No. 365, June 9, 1938.
***
Telegram from the Embassy at Hankow No. 278, June 8, 1938.
****
Department's telegram No. 189, June 9, and Embassy's telegram
No. 375, June 11, 1938.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
notification be made of the names, descriptions, and present
looations of such vessels as were in the area concerned and
that these vessels immediately move to safer places, whether
below Wuhu or far up the Yangtze River; that such vessels as were
floating on the upper stream of the Yangtze above Hukow would
sail up beyond Hankow as the hostilities should spread to that
direction; and that tho names, descriptions, present locations,
and sailing schedules of such vessels to the upper stream of the
Yangtze above Hankow be immediately notified and that every actual
movement of such vessels be notified as soon as possible.*
A reply was addressed by Mr. Lockhart to Mr. Tani to the
following effect: According to Admiral Yarnell, there was no
American vossel in the Yangzte between Wuhu and Hukow at thet
date; Admiral Yarnell, however, planned to visit in that vicinity
on June 24 and 25 in the U. S. S. ISABEL; according to Admiral
Yarnell's statements, due care would be taken as to unnecessary
exposure both in the area betwoon Wuhu and Hukow and in the area
above Hukow but assistance to Amcrican nationals evacuating was
of paramount importance to the Anerican Navy and would be carried
out; and tho information given in Mr. Tani's communication of June
11 would not in the slightest degree relieve tho Japanese Govern-
ment of responsibility for any harm that might be done to merican
vessols or persons. Mr. Lockhart's communication addcd that the
American vessels on the Yangtzo River were peinted white, had large
flags painted on their ewnings, and should be apparent from an
altitude of several thousand feot.**
On June 14 tho Embassy
communicated to the Foreign Office the substance of Mr. Lockhart's
letter to Mr. Tani.***
On
4.
Tolegram from the Consulate General at Shanghai No. 812, June
11, 1938.
Telegram to the Embassy from the Consul General at Shanghai
deted June 13, 7 p.m., 1938.
***
Embassy's telegran No. 380, June 15, 1938.

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
On June 17 the Ambassador received from the Foreign Office
a reply to his note of March 23 concerning the payment by American
citizens of spacial taxes levied in connection with the China
hostilities. Basing its position largely on the interpretation
of the phrase "military exactions or contributions", as employed
in the Treaty of Commerce between Japan and the United States,
as meaning forcible levies made during an emergency by the
military authorities themselves, the Foreign Office stated that it
wes unable to withdraw its contontion in regerd to the levying of
such taxes.*
It was telegraphically reported on June 15 by Mr. Allison,
Consul at Nanking, that Dr. J. C. Thomson, an Americnn citizen
and a member of the faculty of the University of Nanking, had on
that day been questioned, searched, and slapped across tho face by
a Japanese sentry.** Pursuant to the Department's instructions,
on June 20 the Ambessador made oral representations to the Vice-
Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning this incident, supported
by an eide-mémoire, requosting that the competont authoritics make
a thorough investigation with a view to ascertaining the facts and
circumstances and if the facts and circumstances wurrented to taking
appropriate steps to punish the guilty soldier, to oxpress regrets
for the incident, and to prevent the recurrence of such unfortunate
and uncalled for incidents. Mr. Grow said to Mr. Horinouchi that
irrespective of the results of an investigation the merican Govern-
ment felt that the ceuses and circumstances which gave rise to such
incidents might readily be prevented if the Japanese military
authorities at Nanking wore to impress upon Japanese soldiers the
importance of maintaining an attitude of civility toward merican
citizens.
*
Department's telegram No. 98, March 19, 1938, Embassy's despatch
No. 2841, March 29, and Embassy's telegram No. 387, June 17, 1938.
Telegrams from the Embassy at Nanking No. 117, June 15, and No. 118,
Juno 16, 1938.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
citizens. Furthermore, the Ambassador spoke of the deplorable
effect of such incidents n Amcrican public opinion and therefore
on Japenese-American relations, end pointed out that these
incidents inevitably served to sot back whatever favorable
effects had been created by reccnt signs of a desiro on the
part of the Japanese Government to give greater consideration to
American interests in China. The Vice-Minister expressed himself
as being in full concurrence with the Ambassador's view and
promised an immediato investigation of the case.*
On June 18 Mr. Allison received from the Japanese Consul
General in Nanking a cormunicetion stating that the result of
investigations of the Thomson incident conducted by the Japanose
military authorities had definitely revealed that the sentry
in question had not slapped Dr. Thonson across his face. The
Consul General's cormunication went on to request that Mr. Allison
give "deep consideration to insults given to the Japanese sentry"
by an exaggerated and groundless report, to state that the
Consul General expected Mr. Allisor to "adnonish Dr. Thomson
adequately", and to assert that the Japenese military authorities
reserved their liberty of taking adequate mensures in the event
that such cases subjecting Japanesc soldiers to insults should
happen in the future.** Acting on tho Department's instructions,
on June 23 the Embassy made further reprusontations to the Foreign
Offico concerning the Thomson incident, stating that the Aiorican
Governnent was not disposed to give publicity to the matter; that,
however, if the case wes not speedily solved in a way satisfactory
to the American Governnent full publicity would have to be given
to the facts; and that as the first stop toward such a solution
the Consul General at Nanking should be instructed to withdraw
iis lutter to Mr. Allison. The Foreign Officc replied that,
acccrding
*
Department s telegran No. 199, June 18, Embassy's tolegram
No. 392, June 20, 1938.
**
Telegrans from the Enbassy at Nanking No. 120, June 18, and
No. 121, June 19, 1938.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
according to a report received from tho Japanese Consulate Generai
at Nanking, the evidence available to the Japanese was that
Dr. Thomson had not been slapped; that the "single allegation
by Dr. Thomson" would not be considered sufficient to overcore
such evidence; but that if the orican authorities at Nanking
could present evidence corroborating that of Dr. Thonson, the
Japanese authorities would be prepared to give further considera-
tion to the mattor.*
It will be recalled that the Foreign Office's reply, dated
May 13, to the Embassy's rupresentetions of April 11 concerning
the bombing by Japanose forces on March 25 of the American
Presbyterian Mission at Lini (Ichowfu), stated that the bombing
was "entirely an accidentnl happening" and that it was of the
utmost ugency that suitable and sufficient measures be taken
by the American Government to prevent the Chinose Army fron.
approaching and using imerican property.** The Enbassy was given
oral essurances by the Foreign Office on June 23 that the latter's
note of May 13 should not be interpreted es an indication of
unwillingness to compensate the merican Presbyterian Mission at
Lini for damages sustained, and that this case would be given
equal consideration with all other similer cascs.***
It was reported telographically by the Consulate at Tsingtao
that on the night of June 20 Mrs. T. H. Massie, an merican
citizen and the wife of Lieutenant Massie of the U. S. S. TULSA,
while boing uscorted by two United States Navy enlisted men, had
been stopped at the hend of a pier in Tsingtao by a Japanese
ntry who had barred her way with his rifle and then had slapped
r across the face.**** In accordance with the Departmont's
instructions
Departmont's telegrem No. 204, June 22, ond Erbassy's tolegram
No. 406, June 23, 1938.
Embassy's telegram No. 312, May 16, 1938, and despatch No.
2939, May 17, 1938.
. v. *
Embassy's te1egram No. 403, June 23, 1938.
*：**
Telegram from the Consulate at Tsingtao June 21, 2 p.m.,1938.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
instruotions and on the basis of the telegram fron the Consulate
at Tsingtao, on June 23 the Embassy made strong representations
to the Foreign Office concerning tho case of Mrs. Massie.* The
Foreign Ofrice stated that the Japanese Consulate General at
Tsingtao, whioh had sent no repcrt cn this incident, would be
telegraphically instructed to rake an investigation. On June 28
the Foreign Office inforned the Enbassy that the Japanese Consulate
General at Tsingtao had reported that the assault on Mrs. Massie
"Had taken place as charged"; that the Japanese military authorities
had been asked to ccnduct an infornal invostigation; and that
the acting Japanese Consul General intended, upon completion of this
investigation, to call on the American Consul end to offer
satisfactory arends.**
On June 2l the Enbassy received fron General Ugaki an identic
note dated June 20, also sent to the British and French Erbassies,
which stated that, with the extension of hostilities in China in
the area south of the Yellow River and east of a line conmecting
Sian, Ichang, Hengchow, and Pakhoi, the Japanose Government desired
to prevent, as far as possible, accidental injury to American
nationals who might be caught in the hostilities between the
Tapanese and Chinese forces and danage to the property of such
mericans. General Ugaki's note expressed the urgent hope that in
order that this desire might be fulfilled the following points be
reught to the attention of and carried out by American nationels:
etionals, vessels, etcetera, renaining within the areas above
ontioned are not to approach Chinese nilitary establishments;
1 pertis of nationels in the areas concerned are to be marked so as
be clearly visible from the air and fron the ground and at the
ro time notification of such property to the Japanese militery
authorities
Departnent's telegram No. 204, June 22 and Embassy's telegram
No. 405, June 23, 1938.
Embassy's telegram No. 417, June 28, 1938.

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
authorities at tho front is to be expodited; arrangements are to
be made to prevent tho Chinose forces from utilizing or approaching
Amerioan property in tho aroc in question, inasnuch as the Japanese
forces cannot accopt the responsibility of prctecting such property;
and it is hoped by the Japanese Governuent that American nationals
living in the stated area will withdraw from it and leave for
safe districts.* In accordance with the Departnont's instructions,
on June 27 the iabassndor nddrossed a note to the Minister for
Foreign Affairs the substantive port of which follows: "In this
connection it appears desirable to recall to Ycur Excellency the
position taken by my Governient that, although morican nationals
have been and are being advised vcluntarily to withdraw to places
of safety, to place distinguishing marks on their property, and to
take other precautionary measures, and that in so far as practicable
and reascnable such nationals nre vcluntarily doing so, obligation
to avcic injuring merican lives und property rests upon the
Japanesc military authoritics irrospective of whether crican
nationals co or co not tako such prccautionary monsures. My Govern-
ment holds, furthorrore, that tho presence of American nationals
and property within the ereas of military comflict and possible
proximity to such imerican nationals and property of Chinese mili-
tary personnel or equipuent -- cluarly a circunstnnce over which
Amcrican cfficials cr other American naticnals cannct exercise
control -- in no way lessen
the aforenontioned obligation of the
Japanesc araec fcrces." **
Tho Japanese Embassy's spokesnan in Shanehai stated to the
press on June 24: "Sono third party nationals now residing in
Japanese cccupied territory in China appear to labor under the
misccnception that they ere above Japancse law because they enjoy
oxtraterriterial
Ebassy's telegrar: No. 396, June 21, 1938.
Department's telegram No. 210, June 24, 1938,and Embassy's
telegram No. 420, June 2E, 1938.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
extraterritorial status insofar as China is concerned. That is
wrong. In the same way that aliens do not enjoy special privileges
in Japan, they are not entitled to special treatment in Japanese
occupied territory in Chinn. It may be possible that they seem
to think differently because of their long residence in China, where
they enjoy extrality."* Pursuant to the Department's instructions,
the Embassy made representations to tho Foreign Office concerning
the statement above quoted, recalling that in Mr. Grew's intorview
on January 10, 1938, with Mr. Hirota, the thon Minister for Foreign
Affairs, the former had stated that tho merican Gevernment would
not give countenance to any attenpt on the part of the Japanese to
exert jurisdiction over Anericen citizens. In the absence of
official information on tho subject of the Shanghai spokesman's
statement, the Foreign Office was reluctant to express any opinion.
The Embassy pointed out, however, that if the Japanese Governnent
were to confirm and approve the statenont mado ns reported, the
position of the Japanese Governnent would be "open to most serious
implicaticns", including that of cleiming rights of sovereignty in
the arens under Japaneso cccupation in disregard of treaty commit-
ments and declarations with regard to respecting the territorial
integrity of China.**
The Eabassy made representations concerning the bonbing by
Japanese airplanes cf tho follewinE American properties: On June
1, concerning the bonbing on or before Mny 26 of the Southern
Presbyterian Mission at Hwaian and of the sano mission at Sutsien;***
on June 25, concerning the bombing on June 21 of the Standard Oi1
Company's installation at Wuchow****; on June 29, concerning the
bonbing on June 15 of the Amorican Southern Baptist Mission at
Pingtu
*
Telegran fron the Consulate General at Shanghai No. 902,
Junc 25, 1938.
**
Telegram from the Consulate Goneral at Shanghai No. 902,
June 25, Department's telegran No. 21l, June 25, and Enbassy's
telegrar No. 416, June 27, 1938.
***
Telegrom fron the:
Embassy
at Hankow Mey 30, 11 n.m.,
and Embassy's telegram No. 346, June 1, 1938.
****
Telegran fron the Consulate General at Shanghei, June 24,
8 a.n., telegrer: fror the Consulete General at Canton, June
23, 4 p.m., and Embassy's telegram No. 413, June 25, 1938.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
Pingtu*; and on June 29, concerning the bombing on or before
June 25 of the American Lutheran Mission at Tsino, near Tsingtao.**
(b) Jepenese reaction to Mr. Hull's attitude toward
the sale of American Borbing Planos.
There was little ccrment in Japan concerning the report that
the Secretary of State was ccnsidoring sone plan with a view to
ciscouraging the sale of Aierican bombing planes to nations where
airplanes were being used to boub civilian populations.*** Mr.
Kawai, the Foreign Office spokosnen, told foreign press correspondent.
on June 13 that it was premature to comment on Mr. Hull's reported
attitude. However, Mr. Kawai was reportod by the JAPAN TIMES of
June 13 to have asked the foreign press correspondents whether an
embargo on the exportation of Arerican bcnbing planes would "solve
the conflict in East Asia". The ASiHI of June 16 stated that Mr.
Hull's "plea" to American airplane exporters was "as much an attempt
to placate domestic opinion" as wore the protests filed by the British
Government with the Japanese Government and with the Franco Gcvern-
ment against air raids on Canton and on Spanish cities,respectively.
This newspaper added that Anerican aircraft manufacturers must be
well aware of the fact that the placing of an enbargo cn tho exporta-
tion of Americen military planes to Japan wculd not affect the iatter
country in the least.
(c) Rumored ALerican Loan to China.
Apropos of reports fren Hongkong and Shenchai regarding large
American loans to China, the ASiHI of June 18 cormentec that Chinn's
negotietions fur lonns in the United States might possibly have made
omc progross; that such loans were possible only as "political loans".
ince a business basis for Ancrican lcons to Chine was lackinc; that
ese
he Arerican policy of purchasing Chinsilver was sustaining the
Chiang
Tolegran frcm the Consulate at Tsingtao June 18, 9 a.m.,Department'
telegrem No. 426, June 29, 1938.
Telegram from the Consulcte at Tsingtao Juno 25, 10 a.m., Depart-
ment's telegram No. 217, June 28, anc Eabassy's telegran No. 427,
Juno 29, 1938.
*Department's telegram No. 192, June 11, 1938.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.97)
-13-
Chiang Kai-shek régime; and that American opinion against Japan had
recently been intensified.* So far as the American Government was
aware, these reports of impending large American loans to China
were without basis in fact.**
(a) Visit to Japan of President Quezon of the Philippine
Cormonwealth.
Mr. Manuel Quezon, President of the Philippine Cormonwealth,
arrived at Kobe on June 29, having advised the bassador by tele-
grem on June 28 that he was raking a brief visit to Japan for
reascns of hoalth. Prior to his arrival in Japan, the Foreign
Office inforred tho Embassy that President Quezon was traveling
in a purely private capacity, that ho had nace all the arrangements
for the trip through a Japanese friend with business interests in
the Philippine Islands, and that the Japenese Governrent would treat
Mr. Quezon as though he were traveling incognito.***
Mr. Quezon was met at Kobe by Mr. Yoshizawa, Director of the
American Affairs Bureau of the Fcreign Office. Upcn his arrival,
according to Domei, Mr. Quezon refused to be interviewed on the
ground that his visit wes wholly informel. The President's aide-de-
canp issued a statement that Mr. Quezon had come to Japan for the
sole purpose of taking a short vacation and thnt ho would renain
in this country for 10 days.
II. REL..TIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(c) China.
(1) Military Operetions.
According to reports available to the E bassy, the Japanese
J1
ferces continued their successful advance toward Hankow, this
acvance being scmewhat slowed up, however, by the Chinese ucticn in
breaking
*
Embassy's tulegran No. 389, June 18, 1938.
**
Department's telegran No. 201, Juno 20, 1938.
***
Embassy's telegran No. 419, June 28, 1938.

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
breaking the dykes of the Yangtze River. According to Domei
news despatohes, the Japanes. took possession of Kaifeng, in Lonn
Province on the Lunghai Railway: on June 7; of Anking: the capital
of Anhwei Province on the Yangtze River, on June 12; and of
Tsienshan, on June 17. The Japanese were apparently unable to
take Chengchow, the junction of the Peiping-Hankow and Lunghai
Railways in Honan Province.
Japanese units reportedly continued their military operations
in Shansi and Ciahar Provinces.
(2)
Japanese Aerial Bombing of Canton, Hainan Island,
Nanchang. and other places.
Intsensive bombing of the Canton area by Jupane se airplanes
continued throughout the month. In his regularly weekly press
conference with foreign newspaper correspondents on June 9, Rear-
Admiral Kiyoshi Noda, Chief of the Press Section of the Navy
Ministry, asserted that Chinese military establishments and arms
and munitions factories were scattered all over the city of Canton
and that Japanese air raids on Chinese military establishments and
on the Chinese fighting forces would continue, despite protests
from foreign Powers.
According to Chinese and Japanose reports, on June 17, 18, and
19 Japanese airplanes bombed and naval vessols shelled the port of
Haihow on Hainan Islend.* It vas reported by the Hongkong staff
correspondent of the NICHI NICIII that on January 24 Japanese air
forces had bombed Paklun, in Kwangtung Province on the border between
China and French Indo-China. Several air raids against Swatow,
Kwangtung Province, were said by Domei to heve occurred during the
month. It was announced by the pruss section at Nanking of the
Japanese Fleet in China Waters that on Juno 26 an undisclosed
number
* Telegram from the Consulate Goneral at Canton, June 20, 5 p.m.,
1938.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
number of Japanese naval planes had reided Nanohang, the capital
of Kiangsi Province, and had shot down 19 Chinese fighting planes,
According to Domei's estimetes, 4 Japanese planes attacked 40
Chinese planes over Nanchang and shot down anywhere from 12 to
30 of them. On the other hand, the "NO.:TH CHINA DAILY NEWS"
reported that in this encounter 20 Japanese planes had engaged
50 Chinese planes with a loss of 5 Japanese planes as against
only 2 Chinese planes.
Meanwhile, according to Domei, 9 Chinese planes bombed
Anking on June 19 and hit one transport on the Yangtze River but
were quickly driven away by Japanese anti-aircraft fire. Accord-
ing to information received from Canton* , on June 16 six Japanese
bombers, unaccompanied by pursuit planes, were attacked by Chinese
planes in the vicinity of Lokchung in north Kwangtung Province
and, as reported officially by the Chinese, five of these Japanese
planes were shot down.
(3) Stetements by Japanese Officials.
The Minister for Foreign Affnirs asserted in a newspaper
interview on June 5 that Japan's actions in China would not cease
even if the war should lest for a decade and that, in his convic-
tion, third Powers would come to alter their conception of Japen
eventually when they had truly realized Jopan's position and
mission in the Far East. On June 25 General Itagaki, the new
War Minister, made a statement similar to that of Goneral Ugnki
when he declared that the Japaneso armies should be prepared to
continue the hostilities "perhaps for 10 more years", since it
might be the intention of General Chiang Kei-shek to "resist
Japen for the rest of his life".
In
Telegram from the Consulate General at Canton June 17, 5 p.m.,
1938.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
-16
In his interview with foreign press correspondents on June i7,
the Minister for Foreign Aff irs stated that Japen might reconsider
its polioy, as announced on Juno 16, 1938, of not dealine with
General Chiang Kai-shek "if any serious change should occur in the
future". A similar statement had been made on June 2 to a well.
known newspaper correspondent by Premier Konoe, who said that the
decision arrived at by the Japnnese Government in January wcs not
beyond the possibility of change end that Japan, whoso chief aim
was peace, was ready to negotiate with General Chiang Kai-shek
whenever he "showed the proper nttitude".*
Mr. Kawai, the Foreign Office spokesman, in a press conference
on the morning of June 22 characterized as groundless and felse e
report in the NICHI NICHI that General Ugaki was contemplating a
recommendation to the Throne thiat war be declared on Chinn as a
means of stopping assistance being given by cortain third Powers to
the Chiang Kai-shek Government. On the vening of the same day,
Mr. Kawai issued a denial of a statement reportedly made by Mr. Wang
Chung-hni, Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs, that Japan was
considering negotiating for peace with the National Government.
In an "informal statement for the information of newspaper
correspondents", the Foreign Office spokesman stated by inference
on June 25 that foreign residerts in China had no claim to compen-
sation from Japan for losses suffered during the fighting there -
that they should look to China for relief - and cited two precedents
in support of his statement, namely, the actions of the American
and British Governments after bombardments in Nicaregua in 1854
and at Copenhagen in 1807 by the Americnn and British fleets,
respectively:
(4).
Embassy's despatch No. 3025, June 21, 1938.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.98)
-17-
(4) Closing of the Clinese Embassy in Tokyo.
The Chinese Embassy in Tokyo vas "temporarily" cl osed on
June 1l and the entiro prerscnnoi of uhe Embasey Jort Jcpan or
that day.  though Mr. Yang, the Chirese Chargó d'affaires,
reportedly stated to a NICI NICHI correspondeit that his depart-
ure did not mean the closing of the Embassy but only a tmporary
suspension, the Nationalists Government's action in withdrawing
its entire Embassy staff constituted an indefinite cessation, if not
a virtual severence, of Sino-Japanese diplomatic relations.* Prior
to the departure of the Chineso Embassy staff, a Hankow despatch
to the YomIURI dated June 4 had reported thet as a result of a
military conference held at Hankow on June 2, General Chiang Kai-
shek had decided to sever all relations with Japan and to close
the Chinese Embassy in Tokyo. According to thc JAPAN TIMES of June
5, Japanese Foreign Office circles stated apropos of this report that
the policy of the Japenese Government with regard to the Chiang
régime had boen clearly set forth in its announcement of January
16 and that whatever General Chiang Kai-shek might do was of no
consequence to Japan.
(b)
Great Britain.
(1)
Genorel Relations.
Relations between the two countries remnined perturbed during
the month and were even exacerbated by the British protests against
Japanese aerial bombings of civilian populations in Canton.
In his first interview with foreign newspaper correspondents on
June 17 General Ugaki, the new Minister for Forcign Affeirs, was
asked whether he had any concrete idea for improving Japanese-British
relations. In reply, General Ugaki stated that Japen had been
aintaining "the most friendly rclations with Great Britain", although
there
Embassy's despatch No. 3026, June 20, 1938.

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
18
there had been somewhat untoward incidents marring this friond-
ship since the beginning of the Sino-Japanese "incident". The
NICHI NICHT of June 28 said that General Ugaki hed gained the
impression from talks with the British Ambassador that the British
Government was continuing to support the Chiang Kai-shck régime
but at the same time was trying to bring about a rapprochement
with Japan through fear that Japanese influence in Chine might
prevail in the end.
It was reported by the staff corrospondent of the NICHI NICHI
in a despatch from London dated June 23 that Lord Halifax, the
British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, had told the
Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Commons on June 23 that
the time was fast approaching when it would be possible for the
British Government to "intorvene with good effect" as a mediator
in the Sino-Japanese conflict. However, upon his arrival in Japan
from Shanghei on June 26, Mr. Masayuki Tani, Japeneso Minister-at-
Large, asserted with regard to reports of Great Britain's offorts
to act as a peace maker that the withdrawal of the Japanese
expeditionary forces from China, reportedly included in the
British peace program, would destroy any such efforts and that
he was definitely in favor of Japan's established policy of
bringing about a solution of the East Asia situation through
"the East Asiatics themselves". In his interview with foreign
press correspondents above referred to, General Ugaki stated
in reply to & question that there was no possibility at present
of mediation by third Powers in the present conflict and that
if in the future some nation should offer to mediate, Japan
would consider "the nature end motive of the mediator" before
accepting

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
accepting the offer. Objecting to any attempt at mohietion
by third Powers, the MIyAko of June 28 stated b: implicat:on
that Great Britain's desire for Sino-Japanese mudi ti n vus
motivated by selfish ends.
A Domei report from London dated June 29 stated th:t when
interpellated on that day in the House of Commons is to whother
Great Britain would recognize any new Chinese goveriment "sc?
up by Japan" as long as the legal Government of China continuod
to exist, Mr. Richard Butler, the Foreign Undersecretary. had
replied that as long as the Chieng Kai-shek régime remained in
existence Great Britain would continue to recognize it as the
legal Government of China. This reported statement met with
little comment in the Japanese press, which dismissed the matter
with the observation that Mr. Butler could not have said anything
else under the circumstances.
(2)
British Protests Against Japnnese Lombing of
Canton.
On June 4 the British Ambassador presented to the Vice-
Ministor for Foreign Affeirs en nide-mémoire in protest against
recent air raids made upon Canton by Japenese airplanes with
their resultant killing and wounding of Chinese civilinns. The
British aide-mémoire pointed out that, according to official
reports received by the British Government, the Japanese raids
of May 28, 29, and 30 had resulted in death to some 450 persons
and in injury to over 1,000; that out of 60 or more sites bombed
during these three days not 10 were of military importance; that
these bombings had aroused great feeling in the United Kingdom
which could not help but affect good relations between Great
Britain and Japan; and that therufore the British Govornment
earnestly hoped thnt the Japanese Government would discontinue such
indiseriminate

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.97)
-20.
indiscriminate bombing of Chinese towns.* Mr. Horinouchi inquirei
whether the British representations were based on groundr of
humanity, to which Sir Robert Crligie replied in he afirmative
and added that they were also made in the interest of gle-
Japenese relations. The Vice-Minister promised that a oprefu
inquiry would be mede into the facts on which the British
representations hed been bnsed.**
Further written representations against the bombing by
Japanese air forces in Juno of the civilian population in Canton
were made to the Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs by the ritish
Ambessador on June 6 and June 8.***
In his reprusentations of
June 8, Sir Robert Craigie invited Mr. Horinouchi's attention to
the fact that there was a tondency in the Jopanese press to mis-
represent the purport of the British reprosentations. The ritish
Ambassador explained that he had not, as had beon implied, ondeavor-
ed to argue that there were no fortifications or other military
objectives in the neighborhood of Cant on, but that in fact he had
endeavored to bring to Mr. Horinouchi's attent ion tho apparently
indiscriminate nature of theso recont Japanose bombing attacks,
which had been carried out in crowded areas, had been frequently
directed against objectivos of no military importancc, and had
inevitably resulted in large numbers of civilinn cnsualties.
The British Ambassador spoke to the Minister for Foreign
Affairs personally on June 8 concerning the Jupanese air attacks
on Canton. After promising that the casualty statistics and
pertinent particulnrs prusentud by Sir Robert Craigie would be
carefully studied and that a considered reply would be given later,
Gencral Ugaki emphatically rejected the charge that there hed been
"apparently
★
Embassy's telegrem No. 356, June 4, 1938.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 357, June 6, 1938.
***
Embassy's telegram No. 360, June 7, and No. 367, June 9,
1938.

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
-21-
"apparently indiscriminate bombing", a charge which suggusted
a procedure entirely contrary to the policy and intentions of
the Japanese Government. General Ugaki concluded his remarks
by stating that Japanese reports showed that Canton had reached
a much higher stage of anti-aircraft organization and equipment
than Sir Robert Graigie's figures predicated.*
In a pross conference on June 6 Mr. Kawai, Director of the
Information Bureau of the Foreign Office, said that Canton was
a well fortified city and hence a legitimato target for Japanese
air rnids; that third Powers which had expressed indignation over
such Japnnese air raids in the belief that the city was not
fortified should investigatc "the true situation there"; that more
than 150 anti-eircraft guns had been deliberately placed in the
vicinity of foreign properties in Canton; and that if China wished
to assure the snfety of its civilians the Chinose euthorities
should remove these guns from residontial quarters. Furthermore,
Lr. Kewai sugcested thet the British Consul General in Centon
might advise the Chinese authcritios to witharaw thcir military
posts to other areas where civilien lives would not be endangered.
The Britieh Government was violently criticized by the
vernacular press for its protests to the Japonese Government against
the bombing of Conton.
(3)
Other Important Representations made by the
British Eubassy in connection with the
Sino-Japanese Conflict.
The British Embassy on Juno 13 addressed an aide-mómoire
to the Foreign Office drawing the attention of the Japanese
Ccvernment to the presence of important foreign interests in
the Hankow area.**
In
*
Enbassy's telegram No. 374, June 10, 1938.
**
mbessy's telegrem No. 375, June 11, 1938.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.95)
-22--
In the course of a convorsation with the Minister for
Foreign Affairs on June 15, the British Ambassador crew attuntich
to the continued disregard of British pights nd interests con-
stituted by the Japanoso refusal to ell ow British subjects to
return to Nanking, end also t. tho quostion of restrictacn of
foreign navigation on the Yangtze River. In nddition, Sin Ruuort
Craigie left with General Ugaki a signed communication concerning
the return of British subjects to Nanking. General Ugaki
promised to look into these questions and expressed his conviction
that there was not the slightest intention on the part of the
Japaneso authorities to discriminate.*
Sir Robert Craigie sent a reply on June 27 to General Ugaki's
identic note (addressod elso tc the American and French Embassies)
concerning the prctection of foreien netionnls and property in
China, with particular reference to the contemplated extension
of hostilities in the area south of the Yellow River and east of
Sian, Ichang, Hongch w, and Pakhoi.** The British Aabassadur's
reply was along the lines of his i to uf February 26, 1908, to
the effect that while the British Governrent t.ok nete of the
anxiety of the Japeneso ferces t av i es far as possiblo dcmage
to the property of noticnols uf third Powers, the British Govern-
ment naintained the view thet the responsibility fer ensuring that
British naticnals and preperty in China were not mede the subject
of attack must rust with the Japanese militury nutherities.***
On June 27 the British ibassador made representatiens to the
Jepanese F rein Cffice sinilar te the represontations made by the
Ar.erican I bnssy on the sare cay cuncernin the reperted stater.ents
(f the Japanese Enbassy's spokosnan in Shangmi on June 24 with
roard to the extraterriterial status f third party nationals
residing
之
Embassy's telegran No. 388, Jun: 18 and No. 395, June 21,1938.
**
Sce Secti n I (n) ef the present report.
***
Enclusur: Ne. 9 t. E..brssy's d spatch N.. 2802, March 3, 1938,
anc :bassy's telera. N.. 415, June 25, 1938, and No. 420,
June 28, 1038.

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.94)
-23-
resicing in Japanese occupied territury in China.*
Sir Robert Craigie tock cccasion on June 28 to teke up with
General Ugaki a roport that Jananese fcrces contemplated the
occupetion of Heinan Islant. The Minister fcr Foreign Affairs
said that it was not intended at present tc occupy Hainan Island
but that if in the ccurse cf the advance on Hankow or a later
advance on Canton such cccupation should become a strategic
necessity, it w uld take place; that should such occupation take
place it would be tenporary; and that, as the Japanese Government
had already cntagorically stated, the territcrial integrity of
China would be respected both as to the meinland and as to the
工
islands. The British Arbassador stressed the bad effect on
IEritish public opinion which even a temperary occupation of Hainan
weulc cause and expressed the hope that this would be carefully
工
kept in rind bef re any decision was taken on the basis of these
F
Istrategical c nsiderations which the Minister fer Fereign Affairs
01
oj had mentienec.**
(c)
France.
Francc-Jopnese relations,which had been fairly smoeth, tuck
a cecided turn for the w rse unon publicaticn cf reports that
France was extendin: substantiel ai t China in the furr of a
recently cuncluced agreerient f r the supply f amis and munitions
by France to Clina enc also in the recent signing of a cintract
with the Hank w Guvernilent f:r the c nstructin of & railway
connectin Chennankuan, French Ind -China, with Nanning, Kwangsi
Pr vinc, Chin.***
The vernacular press was unusuolly veherent
in its attacks n France's reported attituce t ware the Sine-Japan-
ese conflict, uspite  fficial Frunch denials that aris end munit-
i. rs
*
See Secti'n I (a) f the presunt rup rt and Eibassy's telegra.
N.. 416, June 27, 1938.
**
Enbassy's tele ra. N. 423, June 28 anc N.. 425, June 29, 1938.
***
Embassy's ronthly rep. rt f'r Moy, Sectien II, (f).

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.97)
-ions were being shipped into China through French Indo-China.
Furthermore, Japanese official circles appeared to believe that
French aid to China had been increased to a considerable degree.*
∴ccording to the ASAHI of June 20, in c press cunference on June
17 General Ugaki exprossed rogret ver French aid to China and
asserted that, altheugh cooperation with foreign powers was the
keynote of his pclicy, Japen was ready at all times tc cope with
third nations who incited Chinn te further resistance against
Jepan. Upon his return to Japan on June 25 Mr. Tani, Japanese
Minister-at-Large, was reported by Dunei to have declared that there
was evidence that France was extending substantial aid to China.
In the latter half of the month ratters were made worse by
reperts that Japanese ferces intendec to cccupy Hainan Island, by
news despatches fror Paris that the French Gevernment wculd consider
such cccupation as an attu pt against France's pcsiticn and interests
in the Far East and as a violatien of the Franco-Japanese Treaty
of 1907, and by the Fronch G vern..ent's official protests against
any eventuel occupation cf Hainnn. In his interview with fereign
press c rrespencents cn June 17, the Minister fer Ferein Affairs
cenicd that J pan hac any intenti n "at present" of cccupying
Hainen Island. Three cays later the Fereicn Office spokesran,
explaining to press cerresp neents that the Minister for Furein
Affnirs had qualifiec his state ent c ncerrin Japanese ccupation
of Heinan by stating th't Japon hac no such intention "for the
tine beinc", doclared that if it becene necessary Japan weuld in
foct cccupy the Islarc.
Rupresentotions were made by the French  bassy to the Fereign
Office c. ncernin several Latters. On June 6 the French Abassador
loft with the F reign Office a c municatien pretesting against
the babing by Jepanese cirplnes f the civilian pupuleticn in
Canton
* Ebassy's telegran No. 383, Juno 15, 1938.

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.95)
-25-
Canton and roquesting, under instructions from the French Govern-
ment, that the Japaneso Governnent issue the necessary orders so
that "the bonring of Chineso cities made without any military
justification and the events so tregic cnd scrrowful rosulting
therefron will be terminated".* Subsequently, Monsieur Arsene-
Henry presented an aide-ménoire to the Japanese Government protest-
ing vigorously against the buibing of the French hospital at
Canton.
The French Ebassy made representations en June 14 sinilar
to the reprosentutions Lade by the  erican Embassy on June 11**
concerning the prctection of foreign lives anc property in the
Honkow aron.***
On June 27 the Frcnch mbassador replied to General Ugaki's
icentic note (also addressod to the American and Eritish ibassa-
ccrs) c ncernin the protectien (f foreign nationals and prcperty
in China, particularly in view of the conter:plnted extension of
hostilities in the area south of the Yellow River and east of Sian,
Ichan(, Honcch w, and Pakhoi. The French reply was along the lines
of the Aerican and British replies.****
(a) Soviet Russin.
There was ne marke chan o in the conural aspect of Soviet-
Japanese relations, which centinued to present a cuplex picture
of violent c ntreversy ccupled with an ovident reluctance on the
part of either cuuntry to cause e dcfinite brcek.
While General Ugaki stated in his first interview with foreign
newspaper corresponcents on June 17 thet Japan's relations with
Soviet Russia had been "quite friendly", Lieutenant-General Toj,
Wer
*
EImbassy's telegran No. 359, Junc 6, 1938.
八*
Soe Secticn I (a) of the prosent report.
-**
Erbessy's tele ra.. Nc. 377, June 13, 1938.
***
son Section I (a) end II (b) of the present report and
E.bassy's telerar N. 420, June 2ε, 1938.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.97)
-26
War Vice-Minister, told menbers f the Hoise of Peers on June 24
that the presence of Jepanese military foroes in northern
"Lanchukuo" was "having a ccod effectr-cn the procative attitude
of the Soviet Union toward Japan. In this connectien, it is of
interest to ncte that a Japanese nationrlist scciety, the
Kenkokukai, posted signs on Tckyo lanp posts to the following
effect: "People of Japan, be prepared for the inevitable Japanese-
Soviet wer! A fundamental sclution of the China problem can be
achieved only thrcugh chastisecent of Red Russin! Concentrate the
'patriotic nerves' of the entire Japunese nation on Red Russia!
Red Russia is a mcre villaincus enemy than Britoin! Te be off
guard is the createst error! Do not welk into the trap set by
crafty Red Russia! C.nclude an anti-Conintorn military alliance
with Gernany and Italy at once!"
A new series cf developments tended to ruffle the Soviet-
Japancso situation. Princiral of theso was the refusal of the
Soviet Consulato at Hekodate t issue permits nuthorizine Japanese
fishing boats tc visit the Kerchatka fishinc grounds. The
stronrest centroversy on this subject arose cut of the withholding
of a navication rer it for the "KORYU NARU", a supply ship of the
Nichir, Fishery Caipany. On June 13 the Vice-Minister for Foreign
Affnirs repurtedly filed a stren prstest with the Soviet Chargé
C'Affaires against the actien f the Soviet Consul at Hakodate in
refusing such pernits. Accorcin t the JAPAN T.ES f June 21,
the Ministries for F rein Affairs, Novy, ane criculture: end
Forestry decided in ccnference n June 20 to take steps for free
fishine in North Pacific waters if the cviet Governrent should
refuse

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.97)
27-
refuse to grant the "KORYU MARU" a navigation permit. The issue
was apparently settled on June 25 with the issuence by the Soviet
Consul at Hakodate of the desired permit for the "KORYU MARU" and
the sailing of this ship.
There were rumors enenating from Shanghai that a new military
assistance pact had been signed by the Soviet and Chinese Governments
providing for the sending to Chinc of 3,ooo Suviet airplanes and of
500 Soviet military advisors. A berder clash was reported by
Dcmei to have cccurred on June 18 near Hunghchun, Kirin Province,
"Lanchukuo", when a squad of 20 "Lanchukuo" guards were machine-
gunned by abeut 50 Soviet soldiers. A spokesran of the Japanese
Fureign Office revealed in a statement issued on June 29 that the
Jepenese Governnent id not arree with the Soviet Gcvernent's
contention that Japan was violating the Treaty of Portsmcuth by
forbiacing tho entry of f reign vossels into Japanese territcrial
weters around Hokkaido.
This exchanco of complilents arose over
the froquent arrests of Soviet vessels for entering closed Japanese
waters.
The Japaneso Gevernment's reply to the Seviet Government's
protest of June 18 against Japanese aurial bembing of Canten was
patently different in tone fran the reply tiven te the British
mbassader's pretest aceinst such bebin. The Ferein Office
spokesran issued a conmuniqué on June 17 to the effect that the
Soviet Governnent had no right to make such representations to the
Japanese G vernment; that the Suviet pretest was biased, inasnuch
as the Japanese air forces had not airected its attacks against
unjustified objuctives or acainst non-c ibatant Chinese; and that
the Vice-Minister for Forein Affairs hed vigoreusly denanded a
cessation

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.96)
-28-
cessation of Soviet military assisiarce to China.
(e) Germany.
The rapyrechement between Germany and Janrn beoome even
closer, as indicated by various developmeuts.
o treaty of
amity between Gernany and "anchukuc", signed at Berlin on May
13 last, was ratified by the "mperor of Manchukuo" on June 10
and was subsequently ratified by the German Government.* At
the close of the month it appeared thet General Alexandor von
Falkenhausen and the other Geran nilitary advisors to the Chinese
Government would withcraw fron China in cbedience to Chancellor
Hitler's order of recall.** The Japanese newspapers interpreted
the recall of Dr. Trautmann, German Ambassador to China, and
Germany's reported cancellation of contracts for shipment of
war materinls tc China as further evidence of Gernany's desire
to befriend Japen. Accorcing to Dumei, it was reperted that the
Loncon correspondent of the United Press hed learned fron
relieble sturces that Japan hac assured Germany that the letter
country weula be granted en inpertant shere in the ecunenic
exploitatien of the Japanese cccupicd areas in China as scon as
the cenflict was over, these cencessions bcin cranted in return
for Chancellor Hitler's recnll cf the Ger.an  ilitary advisors.
Upen his return to Jepan fren Cernony n June 4, Vice-Adi iral
Godc, "peoplet envoy", stated thet Curny was cfficinlly support-
ing Japan's policy of eracicatiny "the uvil influence of the
C rintern in the Far East and ef bringin peace and security to
this part of the worla".
(f) Italy.
It was reperted by the Japanese rrers en June 22 that as a
t vult or the Italien Eccnomic Missicn's isit to Japan and
"Lenchukuo"
Telegram frcn the Consul te General at Nukeen No. 41, June 11,
938.
**
Embassy's menthly report for May, Section II (d).

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.97)
-20
Yanchukuo", a commercial agreenent between Italy and "Manchukuo"
had been crafted and would be signed after further trilateral
conversations to be hola in Tokyo.* Δi the close of the month it
was repcrted that e complete accori had boen reached on details
of a tripartite trace agrecment by the Japanese Minister for
Fcreign Affairs, the "Manchukuo" Anbassador to Japan, and Senator
Ettore Conti, leader of the Italian Econoric Mission, and that the
agreement would bo forunlly signed on July 5.**
Other reports indicated a continued desire on the part of
Italy and Japan to further the friendly relations between the two
countries. Members of the Italian Econoric Mission were saic by
Domei to have expressed the opinion that there was a bright future
for barter trade between Italy and Korea and that Italy might
establish a trade ccmissicner's cffice at Seoul. A NICHI NICHI
despatch from Rone dated June 23 stated that the Italian Navy
Ministry had on that day decided to despatch the two cruisers,
"EUGENEO DI SAVOIA" and "ELNUELE FILIBERTO DUCE D'AOSTA", to Japan
on a Ecod-will mission. The Japanese Foreign Office announced on
June 17 that Japanose decoratiens had been awarded to 30 high
officials of the Italian Gevernrent in appreciation of their
servioes in crafting the pretucol fer Italian participation in the
Inti-Conintern Pact. It was saia thet Prenier Mussclini had
received the Grand Cordon of the Chrysanthemur: and that the only
other foreigner nut a crowned suvereign whe had been deccrated
with this order was Prince Otte ven Bisrarck of Gerrany, who
received it in 1882. A juvenile Japanese good-will mission, under
the leadership of Viscount Tsuyo Mishina, departed for Italy on
une 21.
(g)
Embassy's despatch No. 3012, June 22, 1938.
Embassy's desretch No. 3072, July 11, 1938.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.98)
-30-
(g) Australia.
In reply to its protest against the Australian Governrent's
prohibition of exports of Australian iron ore, to be effective on
July 1, 1938, the Japanese Government received a note dated June 1
which, according to the Japanese press, stated that the Conmon-
wealth Government was unable to cancel its iron ore erbargo for
the reason that preservation of natural rescurces for use in
national industries was a prerocative of the Australian Government.*
According to a Domei despatch fron Canberra dated June 22, in a
speech before the Australian House of Reprosentatives on that
date Prime Minister Lyons reiterated his Governnent's decision of
May 19 to enforce the embargo on the shipnent of iron ore.
On the other hend, it was reported that negotiations between
the Japanese and Australian authcrities were progressing favorably
at Sydney for the conclusicn of a trade agreement to replace the
existing agreement, which had been effective since January 1, l938,
and was due to expire at the end of June. It was also stated that
in view of the favorable progress being nade in these negctiations,
the conference between Japanesc and Australian shipping interests,
which hed recently been suspended, weula soon be resumed at Kobe
with a view to fixing pocl qu tas for Australian and Japanese ships
on cargoes of raw wocl fron Australie to Japan and on cargoes of
sundry gocds from Japan to Australia.
(h)
*
Embassy's despatch Nc. 3017, June 23, 1938.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
-51-
(h) Siam.
The Japanese built gunbcat "ShI-AYUDTHA" wus launched et
Kobe with appropriate ceromenius cn June 1s an? left for Bankok
on June 26. Acccrding to tie NICEI NICHI of Jine 16. a sistership,
the "SRI-DHouBRY", now under construction at the Kawasaki Dockyard
in Kobe, will be corrissioned on August 5.
According to despatches in the Japanese newspapers, a rumor
was current during the month in the border area of Siam and
French Indo-China that a joint Japanese-Siamese military force
had invaded French Inco-China. Despite this and o ther rumors
concerning a growing frienship between Sian and Japan, the Sianese
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Lueng Pradit, was reported by the
J'PAN ADVERTISER of June 20 to have stated in & recent newspaper
interview that Siam's relations with Japan differed in no way from
its relations with a dozen other countries and that Sian had not
granted anc did not contemplate granting in the future any special
industrial or commercial privileges to Japan.
(i)
Chile.
A radictelephone service between Tckyo and Santingo, Chile, was
formally opened on June 21 with an exchange of messages between the
Communications Ministers of Japan anc Chile.
(j)
International Whelinc Conference at London.
Havin declined to accept the invitation of the British Govern-
.ent to attend the Internation Whaling Conference at Londin in June*,
the Japanese Governnent reversed its decision and sont two official
icgates to the conference. According to a Dimei despatch from
ndon dated June 24, the celegates cf 16 countries, including Jepan:
signed
bassy's monthly report for May, Secticn II (o)

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.98)
-32-
signed a new whaling agreement reached by the conference. The spokes
man of the Japanese Foreign Office Issued a statenent on June 25 to
the offect tn the draft of the whaling agreenent had been partly
revised in compliance with the requost of Japan's delegates to the
conference and that these delegntes had assured the other interested
countries that Japan would cooperate with them.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL SITUATI ON
(a) The Cabinet.
As appeared likely in May, Genorel Itageki was appointed
Minister for War in succession to Guneral Sugiyama, the appointment
being announced on June 3.*
Mr. Sonyu Otani resigned as Overseas Minister on June 25 to
beccme president of the projected North China Development Company
and his duties were taken over concurrently by the Minister for
Foreign Affairs, General Ugaki.
The first of a series of five-Minister conferonces for unifica-
tion of national policies was helc in the Prenier's official
resicence on June 17, the five-Ministers censistinc of the Prenier
and the Ministers for War, Navy, Foreign Affairs, and Finance.
The JAPAN TIMES of June 18 stated that the question of ndjusting
the supply of war naterials in correlati n to the needs of the
people was one of the ipurtant subjects taken up at the conference.
In his first interview with press correspendents since the recon-
struction of his Cabinet, Pro.ier K.nce steted cn June 22 that
because of the new situation brcught about by the progress of
military cperations in China it weuld be necessary for the Govern-
ment to adopt new inrortant rneasures besides these decided upon at
the Imperial Conference on Junuary 11, 1938, and thnt when theso
measures
Fibassy's monthly report for May, Section III (a), and telecran
No. 352, June 3, 1938.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.98)
-33-
measures were formulated as a result of the five-Minister confer-
ences the Government might ask the Throne for another Imperial
Conference.
General Araki, the new Education Minister, stated on June 15
in an interview with a representative of the JAPAN ADVERTISER that
"pacific internationalism", the fundenental principal of Japanese
national policy, must serve as the guidine ideal behind the
education of Japan's future generations and that he had no intention
of following a policy of "isolationism, militarisn, or spartanisn
in the restricted sense". General Araki asserted that Japan of
today was no longer "Jepan of the East" but "Japan of the world",
in other words, a nation with a far wider range of purposes to ful-
fil toward the goal of wcrlc stabilization.
(b) The Army.
On June 23 the War Ministry announced that Lieutenant-General
Kotaro Nakamure, a member of the Suprone War Council and concurrent-
ly Cormander of the Eastern Division Headquarters, had been promoted
to the rank of full General and had been relieved of his position
as Cormander of the Eastern Division Headquarters, which had been
taken over by Lieutennnt-General Fumisaburo Kawagishi.
(c) The Navy.
The Navy launched the naval repair ship, AKASHI, 9,O00 toms,
at the Sasebo Dockyard on Juno 29.
(a)
The Political Parties.
The controversy in the Seiyukai over the question of electing
& new president was finally sottled on June 14 when it was decided
by the four chief executives of the party not to holc en clcction
fcr

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.97)
-34
for president but to maintain the present system of supervision
by the four chief executives.
On June 2 Diet mambers of the Social Mass Party passed a
resclution to the effect that the party would lend its efforts,
"with disregard of self interest", tc the realization of a new
political party whose purpose wculc bo tc consolidate national
unity, to elininato every sourcc of naticnal friction, and to
"cope with the China emergency with a sinele resolve".
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINNCE.
Mr. Seihin Ikoda, the new Finance Minister, was quoted by the
94.51
CHUGAI SHOGYO of June 6 as havin stated cn the dey before that,
owing to the fighting in China, the Government might be cuipelled
to lower the standerd of livin f the people inasruch as the
Government would have t. ad:pt all weasures c nsicered necessary
for the maintenance of e sufficiunt su ply f munitions. In a press
interwiew on Juno 9, Mr. Ikede scic that the Governient would revise
its capital adjustront policy in crler to premote export industries
and would adcpt reasures fr the sc th assinilaticn f Guvernrent
bonds, for the expansion of ir uction capncity, for the adjust-
ment of demand and surp ly of freel ca ital, for the c ntrol of
the consumption ef go s, and fr tne allovietion of the existing
import restricticns. In this ccrhectien, it will be recalled that
in the Embassy's cpinin the stateuent issued by Mr. Ikeda on May
27 indicated that an intonsive eff rt would be made tc pronote
exports end thet in facing this urgent ecenomic problem the Finance
Minister wculd rake various efforts toward relexation of restrictions
cn

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.96)
-75-
on the importation of raw cotton and of a few other essential
commodities.*
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Foreigm Trade.
Acccrding to the preliminary figures, Japanose exports for
June amounted to ¥201,599,000, while imports were ¥251,930,000,
as compared with May exports of Y210,944,000 anc May imports of
¥253,263,000. Thus, there was an unfavcrable balance of trade of
¥50,331,000, as conpared with an unfavorable balance of ¥42,319,000
for May. Total foreign trace showed a decline of 2.4%, as compared
with May 1938, and of 31.6%, as ccmpared with May 1937. Japan's
total foreign trade for the pericd January 1 to June 30, 1938,
amounted t0 ¥2,594,871,000, as cgcinst ¥3,673,696,000 for the
period January 1 to June 30, 1937.**
(b) Financial Trends.
Bank deposits cuntinued to incrcase; the money market was
easy; there waro large issues of Gevernmont bends and their absorp-
tion preceeded satisfactorily; the stcck market showed a slight
improvement over the month of May, although there was a feeling
of uncertainty over the stiffenin of Governlent control of indus-
tries; and the average yen rato was $0.2890625 as compared with
$0.28947 fcr May.***
(c)
Government Control of Rew Materials.
Regulations gcvernine distribution of raw cotton for the
manufacture of export cloth were promulgated on June 29, tc go
into effect on June 30. Those regulations provide that only
spinning mills, most of which have weaving equipuent, shall be
pernitted to use raw cotton for the manufacture cf cxport goods;
that
*
Embassy's telegram No. 336, May 28, 1938, and Monthly Report
for May, Section V.
4. *
Data furnished by the Commercial Attaché
***
Infcrmation furnishod by the Commercial ttaché

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.97)
-36-
that production cf export cloth by others than spinning mills
Shall be piuululied; that exception shall be made for cases in
which the srinning mills themselves ask weavers to turn out cloth,
provided that the request shall receive the apprcval of the Ministry
of Cormerce and Industry; and that spinning mills shall be for-
bidden to sell the yarn and cloth manufactured by them for export
purposes to others then mer bers of the Japen Cotton Spinners
Association and of export cloth guilds.
On June 23 the Cabinet approved plans for further mobilization
of raw materials to aic in the prosecution of the China hostilities
providing that the use of the following 32 raw materials should be
placed under more stringent control, whether imported or produced
donestically: steel products, pig ircn, ccld, platinum, copper,
bronze, zinc, lcad, tin, nickel, antineny, mercury, aluninum,
asbestos, cotten wocl, pulr, paper, herp fibers, skins and hides,
timber, fuel oil, naphthe, crude ruhter, tonning materials, indus-
trial salt, bunzol, toluol, corbclic acic, nitrete of suda, potash,
and phosphorus ores. The Government issued a staterent on the same
day to the effect thet these plans were designed to place nationel
defense n a s lid ftuntation nd t. strengthen national econony,
and that in the distributien f raw materials export g-cds were
to share priority with war suplies.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF MERICAN CONMERCIAL INTERESTS.
The Enbassy was inforied by a representative of one of the
American motion picture cump anies that the latter had proposed
to the Japenese Gevernient an arrangenent which would permit the
importation of merican rction picture filns into Japan in spite
cf

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
37
of present restrictions grcwing out of foreign exchange difricul-
ties. It is inderstood that the plan provides that the American
companies would be permitted to import into Japan a fixed quantity
of films, probably 60% cf the quantity which is inported from the
United States in normal timos; that as soon as payments are made
in yen in Japan, the full amounts of such payments would be convert-
ed into American dollars at the provailing rate (29 American cents
to one yen) and transferred to the Yokohame Specie Bank in the
United Stetes; that these arounts would be held in this bank in
dollar balances, without interest, for three years, at the ccnclu-
sion of which period they would be payable to the respective
American companies. The Emtassy's inforaant stated that he believed
that the Japanese Government had decided to accept this proposal,
and that fcrmal approval was sinply a ratter of time and of certain
fornalities.*
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COLMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR.
Domei of June 24 stated that unemploymont of fron 700,000
to 800,000 persons in Japan - ns corpared with the 1931 high
record unenployment of 400,000 persons - would in the opinion of
the Finance and Welfare Ministers result frem the Governnent's
restriction of the use of 32 raw materials.** The news agency added
that the Finance and Welfare Mini sters believed, however, that
approximately one half of these uncriployed persons would be
absorbed by the war industries and that it would be possible to
provide
*
Embassy's despatch No. 3021, June 20, 1938.
**
See Secticn VI (c) of the present report.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.97)
-38-
provide adoquate relief for the remaining helf.
On June 28 the Cabinet arproved certain measures to assure an
adequate supply of skilled labor for the production of nunitions,
including compulsory registration or tochnicians and trained workmen
in the munitions and allied industries and the regulation that they
shall be employed under license only.
x.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Accorcing to Government statistics published during the month,
the population of Japan increased during the year 1937 by 972,510,
there having Been 2,180,589 births nnd 1,208,079 deaths.
In "Weekly Gazette" No. 86 issued by the Infcrmation Bureau of
the Cabinet, the Department of Justice published an article reporting
that since the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese conflict the majority
of the 60,000 "ex-cormunists" in Japan had voluntarily made efforts
to understand the significance of the conflict and had shown an
attitude of sacrifice for the sake of the country; that such a change
of mind was not a sudden phenomenon but was apparently the result
of "arduous guidance and protecticn y tho authorities" during the
past few years; and that the enforcenent in Ccteber 1936 of the
"Thought Offenders' Protection and Observation Law" had preved
effective in carrying out this "guiance".
Accorcing to the NICHI NICHI of June &, the Forcign Office
received on June 6 a cable frn. Rear-Adniral Shinjiro Yamanoto,
retired, whc stated that "all the Cathclics in Europe sympathized
with and ccmprehended Japan's stand in the China Energency". It
will be recalled that Rear-Adiral Yana oto derarted for Europe toward
the close of 1937 on a visit. the object of which was to explain to
Catholics in various European countries Jaran's positicn in the
*
Jinc-Japanese conflict.
Embassy's despatch No. 2663, Novenber 11, 1937.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatohes sent to the Department
during June 1938.
No.
Date
Subject
2978
June 1,
Japansse Builáings at the New
York World's Fair, 1939.
2979
June 4
Diplomatic Visa Report.
2980
June 4
British Representations regard-
ing Japanese Forcible Arrest of
two Chinese Customs Employees at
Shanghai.
2981
June 6
Address by the Ambassador before
the Americen Association of Yoko-
hama in Ferris Seminary, Memorial
Day, May 30, 1938.
2982
June 6
Damage to Property of Southern
Baptist Mission Chenghsien (Cheng-
chow), Honan, China.
2983
June 6
Bombing of Property of Southern
Presbyterian Mission, Hsuchowfu,
Kiangsu, China.
2984
June 6
Bombing of Saint Joseph Hospital,
Wuchang, Hupeh, China.
2985
June 6
Bombing of Free Methodist Mission,
Chengchow, Honan, China, on May 13
and 19, 1938.
2986
June 7
British Representetions regarding
Japanese Arrest of two Chinese
Customs Employees at Shanghai.
2987
June 7
Japanese Participation in London
Conference on Whaling Agreement.
2988
June 7
Salvaging Standard-Vacuum Oil Ves-
sels.
2989
June 7
Opening of American Official Mail.
2990
June 7
Special Japanese Taxes for Mili-
tary Expenditures in China.
2991
June 8
Return of American Citizens to
their property in China, and in-
juring by Japanese forces to
American Interests in China.
2992
June 8
Bombing of Central Christian Mis-
sion, Nantungchow, Kiangsu, China,
august 17, 1937.
2993
June 8
Assault on Chinese under American
Flag on Launches "TEXACO ONE" and
"DAHLAY".

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
NO.
Date
Subject
2994
June 8
Bombing of Properties of the
Southern Presbyterian Mission at
Sutsien and Hwaian, Kiangsu,China.
2995
June 8
Bombing of Southern Prcsbyterian
Missicn Haichow, Yiangsu, China.
2996
June 8
Pombing of Lutheran United Mission,
Chunurjen, Honan.
2997
June 8
Claim ror Pay, Translator Mogami,
Deceased.
2998
June 8
Masaru Fujimoto employed as Transla-
tor.
2999
June 8
Request for Living Quarters Allovence,
Masaru Fujimoto.
3000
June 3.
Tin :or Minister Ikeda's Policies.
3001
June 10
Sino-Japanesc Hostilities, 1937-1939.
American Losses Resulting from,
Vincent, Frederick E. Claim cf.
3002
June 10
Attack on Dr. Jrederick G. Scovei
by Japanese Soldier at Tsining.
3003
June 11
Claim of F. Catherine Bryan for
compensation on account of property
damage at Nanking, China.
3004
June 13
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3005
June 14
Allowances of Japanese Diplomatic
and Consular Officers.
3006
June 14
Narcotics Seizure on S.S. ASAMA
MARU.
3007
June 15
British Interest in Railways in
China.
3008
June 14
Claim of Robert S. Norman for com-
pensation on account of property
damage at Nanking, China.
3009
June 15
Japanese occupation of American
Mission properties at Soochow and
Sungkiang.
3010
June 15
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1938.
American Losses Resulting from, Uni-
versal Leaf Tobacco Co. of China,
Claim of.
3011
June 15
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1938.
Americen Losses Resulting from,
Turner, Eugene A. and Van Evera,
Kepler, Claims of.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
3018
June 22
Italian Economic Mission.
3013
June 20
Japanese-Netherlands Relations.
3014
June 17
Losses of American Property due
to the present Sino-Japanese Con-
flict. Texas Company (China) Ltd.
3015
June 17
Bombing of Lingnan University,
Canton, China.
3016
June 17
The Principle of Reciprocity with
Respect to Salvage operations in
American and Japanese Territorial
Waters.
3017
June 23
Japanese-Australian Relations.
3018
June 18
Mitsubishi nthly Circular.
3019
June 18
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3020
June 13
Political Report for April, 1938.
3021
June 20
Foreign Exchange Arrangement for
American Film Imports.
3022
June 20
Tsuyama Maru and Lisbon Maru Case.
3023
June 21
Wood Oil of W rner G. Smith Company.
3024
June 21
Protection of Foreign Interests in
Hankow Area.
3025
June 21,
Press Conference, Foreign Minister
Ugaki.
3026
June 20
Closing of the Chinese Embassy in
Tokyo.
3027
June 21
Chinese Customs.
3028
June 21
Pronouncement against Civilian
Bombing.
3029
June18
Political Report for May, 1938.
3030
June 21
Proposed Safety Zone at Foochow,
Fukien Province, China.
3031
June 22
Bombing of Canton.
3032
June 21
Import-Export Control Amendment.
3033
June 23
Speech of General Harbord.
3034
June 22
Speech before the Pan-Pacific Club
by Mr. Ernest S. Colling of the
Radio Corporation of America.
3035
June 22
Speech of Mrs. Strong and Mr. Wil-
liams.
3036
June 22
Japan and Mohammedans.

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
NO.
Date
Subjeot
3037
June 21
Covernment Control of the Eleotrio
Industry.
3038
June 22
Publications for Department Library.
3039
June 22
Japan's "Southward Advanoe" Policy-
Report on Formosa.
3040
June 22
Special Japanese Taxes for Military
Expenditures in China.
3041
June 22
Japan and the Franco Government of
Spain.
3042
June 23
Interview of Mrs. Gorham.
3043
June 24
South African Chargé d'Affaires.
3044
June 23
Japanese restrictions on return of
Foreigners to Nanking.
3045
June 23
Assault on Dr. Thomson.
3046
June 23
Hankow special train for Americans.
3047
Junc 23
Stetement of Iir. Fuller re narcotics.
3048
June 23
Bond and affidavit of Mr. Crocker.
3049
June 23
Sick leave of Mr. Andrews.
3050
Junc 23
Chinese Salt Admin istration.
3051
June 23
American naval vessels on the
Yangtze.
3052
June 23
Bank of Janan publications.
3053
June 23
Japan Foreign Trade Returns.
3054
June 25
Ne rcotics Smuggling S.S. PRESIDENT
JEFFERSON.
3055
June 27
Narcotics Smuggling S.S. HEIAN
HARU.
3056
June 27
Photograph of Presidont Roosevelt.
3057
June 27
Diplomatic Visu Report.
3058
Junc 30
Applicttion of Mr. David Mch. Pyle
for appointment as a Forcign Sor-
vice Officer of Carcer.
3059
Junc 30
Contract for repairs to the Embassy
buildings.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
Telegrams sunt to the Department
during June 1938
Date
Subject
346
June 1, 1 a.m.
Bombing of Southern Prembytewten
Miseion, Sutsien and Hwaian, Kiangsu.
347
June 1, 9 a.m.
Report of airplanes between
Kagoshina and Amakuca Islands.
348
June 2, 1 p.m.
Japanese committee's visit to China
to investigate occupation of
American property.
349
June 2, 7 p.m.
Salvaging of Standard Oil vessels
near Nanking.
350
June 3, 4 p.m.
Salvaging Standard Oil vessels.
351
June 3, 6 p.m.
(Confidential. Off the record)
Salvaging of PANAY.
352
June 3. 7 p.m.
New Minister of War, General Itagaki.
353
June 4, 9 a.m.
Pouches.
354
June 4, 10 a.m.
Japanese occupation of American
property in China.
355
June 4, 11 a.m.
Attack on crews of American launches.
356
June 4, noon
Bombing of Canton.
357
June 6, 4 p.m.
Bombing of Canton.
358
June 6, 5 p.m.
Special Japanese taxes for
military expenditure.
359
June 6, 6 p.m.
Bombing of Canton .
360
June 7, 11 a.m.
Bombing of Canton.
361
June 7, 2 p.m.
Requisitions.
362
June 7, 6 p.m.
Japanese occupation of mission
properties at Soochow and Sungkiang.
363
June 7, 7 p.m.
Attack on Doctor Scovel.
364
June 8, 11 a.m.
Bombing of French hospital at Canton.
365
June 9, 4 p.m.
Occupation of University of Shanghai.

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
·2-
No. Date
Eubject
366
June 9, 5 p.m.
ittack cn Dr. Soovel.
367
June 9, 6 p.m.
icrhi g cf Centon Britis repropent.
tions.
V368
Jun 9, 7 p.m.
Berhing of Cento..
369
June 9, 8 p.m.
Lomping of Lingnan University, Carton.
370
June 10, 11 a.m.
Clocing. or Chinece Embessy in Japan.
371
June 10, noon
Bombing of Canton.
372
June 10, 5 p.m.
Selvaging of PANAY
373
June 10
(Ambassador's personal)
374
June 10, 10 p.m.
Bombing of Canton.
375
June 11, noon
Protection of foreign interests in
Hankow.
376
June 13, 2 p.m.
Purchase of motorcycle.
377
June 13, 3 p.m.
Protection of foreign interests in
Hankow.
378
June 14, 2 p.m.
Chinese Salt Administration.
379
June 15, 11 a.m.
Protection of foreign interests in
Hankow.
380
June 15, noon
American naval vessels on the Yangtze.
381
June 15, 1 p.m.
Chinose customs.
382
June 15, 2 p.m.
From Farish. (Accounts)
383
June 15, 5 p.m.
Reports of French supply of arms
to China .
384
June 16, 11 a.m.
Captain Bemis' visit to Shanghai.
385
June 16, 6 p.m.
Return of Americans to Nanking.
386
June 17, 11 a.m.
Foochow safety zone.
387
June 17, 3 p.m.
Japanese special military taxes.
388
June 18, noon
Return of foreigners to Nanking.
389
June 18, 7 p.m.
Rumored American loan to China.

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
NO.
Date
Subject
390
June 18, 8 p.m.
Wool oil held at Nanking.
391
June 20, 4 p.m.
Wood cil of Werner G. Smith Company,
held at Nanking
392
June 20, 5 p.m.
Assauit on Dr. J. C. Thomson in
Nanxinf.
393
June 21, noon
Chinese salt administration.
394
June 21, 4 p.m.
Evacuation of foreigners from Hankow.
395
June 21, 5 p.m.
Retun of foreigners to Nanking,
British representations.
396
June 21, 6 p.m.
Marking of property and protection
of foreign nationals in China.
397
June 22, 10 a.m.
Temporary employment of Miss Glaeser.
398
June 22, 11 a.m.
Temporary employment of Miss Shelton.
399
June 22, noon
Recent Cabinet changes and protection
of American interests in China.
400
June 22, 6 p.m.
Narcotics traffic: Fuller's state-
ment at Geneva concerning Japanese
sources.
401
June 22, 9 p.m.
Report of possible declaration of
war by Japan.
402
June 22, 11 p.m.
Resurfacing Embassy buildings; bids.
403
June 23, noon
American Presbyterian Mission, Lini:
responsibility for damages.
404
June 23, 6 p.m.
Projected agreement between Italy,
Japan. and "Manchukuo".
405
June 23, 7 p.m.
Massie (slapping) case.
406
June 23, 8 p.m.
Massie case and Thomson case.
407
June 23, 9 p.m.
Return of American doctors and nurses
to stations in the Yangtze Valley.
408
June 24, 1 a.m.
Codes.
409
June 24, 2 a.m.
Codes.
410
June 24, 11 a.m.
Requesting subject of Department's
telegraphic instruction.

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
No.
Date
Subject
411
June 24, noon
Bids for Embassy repairs.
412
June 25, 1 p.m.
Porte cochère project suspended.
413
June 25, 2 pn.
Bombing Standard Oil installation
Wuchcw.
414
June 25, 4 p.m.
Embassy repairs.
415
June 25, 5 p.m.
British reply to Foreign Minister's
identtc note concerning protection
of foreign nationals and property
in China.
416
June 27, 2 p.m.
Extraterritorial status of Americans
in China.
417
June 28, 2 p.m.
Massie case.
418
June 28, 3 p.m.
Carolina Leaf Tobacco Company.
419
June 28, 4 p.m.
Visit to Japan of President Quezon.
420
June 28, 5 p.m.
Replies to Foreign Minister's identic
note concerning protection of foreign
nationals and property in China.
421
June 28, 6 p.m.
Proposed interview with Foreign
Minister regarding American interests
in China.
422
June 28, 7 p.m.
The "China Organ" and the Open Door
in North China.
423
June 28, 8 p.m.
Japanese occupation of Chinese islands.
424
June 28, 9 p.m.
Representations regarding bombing
of Canton.
425
June 29, 11 a.m.
Japanese occupation of Chinese islands.
426
June 29, 4 p.m.
Bombing of Baptist Mission, Pingtu.
427
June 29, 5 p.m.
Bombing of Lutheran Mission, Tsimo.
428
June. 29, 6 p.m.
Materials required for Ambassy repairs.
429
June 29, 7 p.m.
Parcel Post Agreement.
430
June 29, 8 p.m.
Japanese gold shipment.
431
June 30, 5 p.m.
Extraterritorial status of Americans
in China.

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 21, 1938.
MOH
The following material in Tokyo's political
report for August may be of interest:
Page 15. It was reported to the Japanese
press on August 6 that the South Manchurian
Railway will assume control of all coal mining
and coal marketing in Shantung Province.
Page 15. It was announced in the Japanese
press during the month that the East Asia Agri-
cultural and Forestry Council had adopted during
its sessions at the official residence of the
Japanese Minister for Agriculture and Forestry
an agrarian policy for Japan and the occupied
areas in China, including plans for rice, wheat,
cattle raising, forestry, and sericulture and
covering all the areas under Japanese domination
from Karafuto to Central China.
Page 23, (a). Rumors of a single-party
movement came to the fore again in August.
Page 24, (c). In the course of discussion
on the "China Organ" during the month of August,
divergences had developed between the Military
and the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and
Finance, but there were indications that every
effort would be made to come to a decision
before the fall of Hankow.
894.09月.R./129
FE:SphTer:HES

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.92)
THE POREHSN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OP AMERICA
DEPARMENTDF STATE
AR
No. 3177
Tokyo, August 10, 1932
AK
SUBJECT:
REPORT CF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE MONTH
OF JULY, 1938.
SOS
894.00 P.R./1
8 AU
OFFICE F THE NVIE
INTERNATIONAL CONUMIL
SEP111938GL
DEPARTMENT OI 
TAH LADIEAN AILAINS
The Honorable
The Secretary of tate,
2
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No.
93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit here-
with the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan
for the month of July, 1938.
4b
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
ILED
Enclosure:
1/ Roport No. 142.
Embassy Moscow
F/A
Ambassador Johnson
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Osaka
Consulate, Dairen
In quintuplicate to the Department.

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.96)
2
August 30, 1938
The following material in Tokyo's
pelisieal report for July may be of
interest:
1. With regard to Anglo-Japanese
relatiems, the Asahi representing the
elosest rerleetion or Japamese ofricial
opimiem according to the Embassy, stated
oditorially that Great Britain could not
expeet Japan to respest British inter-
ests im China so loms as Great Britain
centimued to extend aid to the Chiang
Kai-skek regime. (Page 16, last sentence).
2. In disoussing German-Japanese
relations, the Embassy takes not of a
Domei report from Berlin of July 24 to
the effeet that long-pending negotia-
tions for a three-cornered trade agree-
ment between Japan, Germany, and
"Manehukuo" had progressed to & point
where ofricials anticipated the early
comelusion of a formal agreement.
(Page 23, rirst paragraph, last sentence).
3. In the seotion devoted to Japan's
relations with Poland, the Embassy reports
a Domei despatoh from Warsaw of July 31
stating that the Polish Government might
shortly extend offioial reoognition to
"Manchukuo" and that negotiations toward
the opening of a Polish Consulate at
Marbin had been begun in Tokyol (Page 24,
paragraph n).

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
4. A Latin Ameriean Cultural
Associatiom, organized in Tokyo on
May 27 held its inaugural meeting on
July l0. According to the Japan Times
of July, the association is composed
of students of Latin American countries
and its purpose is to foster the ex-
ohange of oultural information with a
view to enhaneing friendly relations
between Japan and various Latin Amerioan
countries.(Page 26, paragraph k).
5. Premier Momee was reported to
be sponsoring a plan for reorganization
of the Cabinet under whioh several min-
isters without portfolio would be
appointed by the Premier and would form
a sort of "inner eabinet" to funotion
in a manner similar to the present five-
minister conferemce. (This subject is
treated more fully in a olipping from
the Japan Advertiser of July 25 now
oiroulating in the Division). (Page 26,
Roman numeral three, a)
FE:Sohulor:JPS

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 142.
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE
MONTH OF JULY, 1938.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.98)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) The Ambassador's Interview with the Minister
for Foreign Affairs concerning American
Desiderata in Connection with the Sino-
Japanese Hostilities....
1,2,3,
4.
(b)
Other Important Representations nade by the
American Embassy in Tokyo concerning the
Sino-Japanese Conflict.
4,5,8,
7,8,9,
10,1i.
(c) Japanese-Fhilippine Relations......
.11,12.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China
(1) Military Operations.
.13.
(2)
Aerial Activities.
.13,14.
(3) Statements by Japanese Officials.....14,15
(b) Great Britain
(1) General Relations.
.15,16,
17.
(2)
 The More Important Representations
made by the British Enbassy in Tokyo
in connection with the Sino-Jepenese
Conflict.......
.17,18,
(c) Soviet Russia.
.19,20.
(a)
Frence
20,21,
22.
(e)
.22,23.
(f)
Italy.
.23.
(ε)
Australia.
.23,
(n)
Poland.
.24,25.
(i)
Tortucal.
.25
(J)
Rumania.
.25,

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
(k) Latin America.
26.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL SITUATION.
(a)
The Cabinet..
26,27.
27.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
27
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCILL CONDITIONS
(a)
Foreign Trace Figures.....
27,28
(b)
Financial Trends.....
28.
(c)
Government Control of Finance,
Industry, and Foreien Trade...
28,29
(c)
Commercial Aviation.....
30
(e) Shipping..
30
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS
Nothing: to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS
Nothing to report.
Ix.
LABOR
Nothing to report.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS
(1)
Cancellation of the 1940 Tokyo Olynpic
Games and Other Scheduled Events..... 31
(2)
Floods in Kobe..
31
(3)
Proposed Elimination of Western Music
from Japan..
32

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
Foreign Affairs concerning American Desiderata
in Connection with the Sino-Japanese Hostilities.
In a telegram dated June 22* the Ambassador informed the
Department that he intended to have an interview with the Minister
for Foreign Affairs, recommended to the Department that he be
authorized to take up with General Ugaki in the proposed interview
certain pending questions affecting American rights and interests
in China, and requested the Department's instructions concerning
the specific issues which should be brought forth in such a dis-
cussion. The Department approved the interview proposed by the
PP1-11
Ambassador and set forth certain desiderate of the American Govern-
ment in connection with the Sino-Japanese hostilities**. According-
ly, on July 4 Mr. Grew called on General Ugaki and had a conversa-
tion with him which lasted more than two hours.
Before the Ambassador made his representations, the Minister
for Foreign Affairs brogched the following topics: the desirability
of having the American authorities in China prevent the military
utilization by the Chinese of American property; articles in
merican magazines disrespectful to the Japaneso Imperial Household;
disadvantages of the giving of official American releases to the
press concerning incidents in process of settlement; end the recent
statement by the Japanese spokesman in Shanghai concerning the
exercise by third perty nationals of extraterritorial rights***.
Following General Ugaki's observations, Mr. Grew proceeded with
his own representations under the following headings: (1). Respect
for American property rights; (2). Maintenance of the personal
rights of American citizens; (3). Maintenance of equality of
opportunity in Japanese controlled areas in China as between Japanes
and others; (4). Protection of legitimate American financial
interests
*
Embassy's telegram No. 399, June 22, 1938.
**
Department's telegram No. 212, June 25, 1938.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 3081, July 8, 1938, and Embassy's
telegram No. 448, July 7, 1938.

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
interests; (5). Avoidance of interference with American treaty
and presoriptive rights in China, including extraterritorial
rights in general and administrative rights in the International
Sottlement at Shanghai; (6). The desirability of General Ugaki's
using his influence to ensure the above-mentioned desiderata in
the interests of American-Japanese friendship; and (7). General
principles*. The last item, general principles, included certain
broad interests and concerns of the American Governnent and people
as expressed in the Secretary's public statements of July 18 and
August 23, 1937, and in his speeches at the National Press Club
in Washington on March 17, 1938, and before the annual meeting of
the Ber Association of Tennessee at Nashville on June 3, 1938.
Mr. Grew's representations pointed out that Mr. Hull's statements
and speeches indicated that the existence and circumstances of the
conflict in China were deplored by the Americen people, who had
become increasingly perturbed by the methods employed by Japan
to resolve its disputes with Chine; that during the entire conflict
the American Government had endeavored to follow a course of
strict impartiality; that no nation and no people cculd escape the
effects of a warfare anywhere; that not only on grounds of humanity
but also on grcunds of the menace to American life and property the
widespread bombing of civilian populations in China had profoundly
shocked both the American Government and the American people; and
thet the American Government was most deeply anxious that the
conflict be concluded and that peace be restored at the earliest
possible moment, with due regard for the establishment and main-
tenance of orderly procosses in the relations of nations along
lines consistent with tho provisions of existing international
commitments and consistent with principles of justice and equity
with
Embassy's despatch No. 3081, July 8, 1938.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
with regard to all concerned.
In addition, the Ambassador mentioned the following specifio
casos: the Thomson, Massie, and Scovel incidents; the occupation
by the Japanese military of the University of Shanghai; the Werner
G. Smith Company wood oil case; the anbargo upon exportation of
hides and skins in North China; the recent statement by the Japanese
spokesman in Shanghai regarding extraterritoriality; and the salvag
ing of Standard Oil Company vessels on the Yangtze River without
the prosence of the Company's representatives and contrary to the
à
assurances of the Jepanese Government*. The Ambassador left with
the Minister for Foreign Affairs a typewritten statement of every
point covered and also an itemized list of over 250 specific
incidents affecting Anerican rights as a result of activities of
the Japanese forces in China since July 1937.
After listening to Mr. Grew's representations, Generel Ugaki
said that he wished to express appreciation of the ranner of Mr.
Grew's apprcach and that he wculd tako a further opportunity to
discuss the points which had been raised. For the present General
Ugaki confined hinself to certain corments the substance of which
follows: The Japanese Governrent was making wholehearted efforts to
settle the conflict in China and to secure peace in East Asia at
the earliest possible mouent; the Japanese Government was giving
most careful thought to Japanose-American relations; the Open
Door in China would be maintained and the principle of equal oppor-
tunity there would be respected by the Japanese Government;
indiscriminate bombing was strictly prohibited by special instruc-
tions and every effert would be made to avert the kind of damage
complained of by Mr. Grew; full consideration was being given to
the return of Aerican citizens to their coods and property; and
there
* Enbassy's telegran No. 437, July 4, 1938.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
there were now poace and order in Shanghei and Nanking but while
the Japanese foroes were pushing thoir drive on Hankow those
places were actually bases of military activity.
(b) Other Inportant Represontations made by the Arerican
Embassy in Tokyo concerning the Sino-Japanose Conflict.
On July 5 the Eabassy again took up the Massie case with the
Foreign Office*. The Embassy pointod out the absurdity of the
version of the incident given to the irerican Consul in Tsingtao
the Japanese naval authorities,in helding Mrs. Massie the
Jepanese sentry had put out his hand and "touched" her but had had
no intention of slapping her**. The Massie case was finally settled
locally between the Arerican and Japanese naval authorities at
Tsingtao***.
In the course of his conversation with the Minister for
Foreign Affairs on July 4 the Aibassader protested emphatically
against the embargo inposed by the custcms authorities of the
Peiping régime on tho exportation of derestic hides and skins
and two days later the Enbassy delivered to the Foreign Office an
eide-ménoire concerning this case****. On July  the Eubassy
made further enphetic representations concernint this natter*****.
As reported telegraphically by the Embassy cn July 22 ******, the
Foreien Office furnished to the Erbassy an informal written state-
ment tc the effect that, as a result of full consideration of the
staterents of the American Governnont, the "Provisional Government"
at Peiping had issued an order that fer the tine being the export
of first class articles not suitable for rilitary use should be
allowed. The Foreign Office's statenent added that it was probable
that the enbargo would be lifted on the greater part of the articles
ccncerned.
Telegram from the Consulnte at Tsingtao June 21, 1938, and
Embassy's Monthly Report for June 1938, Pages 8 and 9.
**
Telegran fron the Consulate at Tsingtao July 3, 1938 and
Ebassy's telegram No. 44l, July 6, 1938.
***
Telegran from the Consulate at Tsingtao, July 9, 9 a.n.
****
Telegran from the Consulate at Tientsin No. 1l4, July 1,6 p.r.
Department's telegrem No. 229, July 2, Enbassy's telegram
No. 444, July 6 and Erbassy's despatch No. 3077, July 8,1938.
*****
Enbassy's telegram No. 455, July i1, 1938.
大*****
Embassy's telegrem No. 482, July 22, 1938.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
oonoerned.
Following the receipt of a telegram from the Consul General
at Shanghai dated July 6*, the Eubassy infcrmed the Foreign Office
and the Navy Ministry that the U. S. S. MONOCACY was at Kiukiang
and was expected to remain there or in the vicinity for the purpose
of affording protection to Americans in that area, of whon there
were according to consular records 10 at Kiukianε, 50 at Kuling,
and 7 at Nanchang**. On July 27 the Embassy informed the Foreign
Office of the contents of a telegran fron the Consulate at Hankow
dated July 26, namely, that thore were about 56 Americans at Kuling
who could not leave that place***.
The Ambassador received fron the Minister for Foreign Affairs
a note dated July 6 in reply to his writton representations of May
31**** concerning the return of American citizens to their property
in China from which they had been excluded by the Japanese military.
The Japanese Governrent's reply stated in essence that the Japanese
forces had remeined in occupation of the University of Shanghai
through rilitary necessity; that, however, the Japanese forces
would withdraw from the University of Shanghai by July 5; that the
University could not be allowed to be opened until such time as
there would be no hinderance to nilitary operations; that favorable
consideration would be iven, to the extent that it would not
obstruct military activities, to the residence of watchmen in the
University and tc the repair of the University buildings; that the
Japanese Governnent was continuing military operations "under the
necessity of self-defense" in the vicinity of various places in the
lower Yangtze Valley, including Shenghai and Nanking; that, contrary
to the view of the American Governnent, such places in the lower
Yangtze
Telegram from the Consul General at Shanghai July 6, 10 p.im.
quoting telegran from the Consulate at Hankow dated July 6,
3 p.m.
Embassy's telegran No. 450, July 8, 1938.
<**
Telegram from the Consulate Gencral at Shanghai July 27, 8 a.n.
quoting telegram frcr: the Consulate at Hankow July 26, 3 p.m.,
and Embassy's telegram No. 495, July 27, 1938.
Embassy's tolegran No. 358, May 31, 1938.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Yangtze Valley were in fact dangerous areas; that under such
oiroumstances of public order it wus extremely difficult to
allow nationals of third countries to go to those rlaces; that,
novertheless, favofable ccnsideraticn was being given to methods
of fulfilling the expectations of merican citizens, there having
been during May and June many instances in which the return of
American citizens to their property in this area had been allowed;
and that in future, depending upon the actual conditions prevail-
ing in any given place, the Japanese policy would be gradually
to permit the return of Aerican nationals*. In accordance with
the Ambassador's recommendations of July 26 and the Department's
telegraphic approval thereof of July 28, the Imbassador made
further representations to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on
July 30 ccncerning the University of Shanghai, leaving with
General Ugaki a signed note the gist of which was that the continu-
ed failure cf the Japanese authorities to return the property
to the complete control of the Missicn representatives was obvious-
ly inconcsistent with repeated assurances of the Japanese Govern-
ment to the effect that Aerican rights and interests would be
respected. Mr. Grew's note requosted that appropriate steps be
taken without further delay for the prompt return cf the University
of Shanghai to the full cuntrol of its owners**. General Ugaki's
reply to Mr. Grew was in substance that this was not a question of
arbitrary interference but si:ply a matter of military secrecy;
that it was inperative for the Japanese rilitary authorities to
restrict the occupation of the University by civilians because it
was adjacent to an airnlane base and to an anmunition warehouse;
that the military authorities were justified in declining to allow
many civilians to roturn to the University or to open it at this
time; and that legal ownership had been returned to the Mission
Embassy's teleeram Nc. 453, July 8, 1938.
**
Department's telograns No. 255, July 24, and No. 260, July 28
and Enbassy's telegrams Nc. 489, July 26 and No. 501, July 30.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
7-
by the evacuation of the Japanose troops. Following General
Ugaki's remarks the Ambassador asserted that the owners of the
University of Shanghai could not recognizo that there had been
a return of the property under present conditions; that the Americar.
Government felt that the evacuation would not in any way lessen
the responsibility of the Japanese Government for danages to the
property and for losses sufferod by the Mission arising out of
Japanese occupation and ccntrol; and that frol what General Ugaki
had said it night appear that the restrictions against the
reoccupation and opening of the University would be of a permanent
nature. To this the Minister for Foreign Affairs replied that
the restrictions against the reoccupation and cpenin of the Uni-
versity were not of a perrianent nature and that all would depend on
the cutcome of the present nilitary drive toward Hankow.
Pursuant to the Department's instructions, the Erbassy left
with the Fereign Office on June ll an aide-memoire requesting the
release by the Japanese naval authorities in Shanghei of wood oil
belonging to the Werner G. Srith Cumpany*. The Enbassy's aide-
mémoire stated that the American Government felt that it had been
extremely patient in regard tc this matter over a lcng pericd of
time during which the rcrican property under reference had been
lield by the Japanese forces on the Yangtze River; that the American
Governrient found no warrant for any suspicion or contention that
there was any proprietary interest cther than American in the wood
oil uncer reference; that since its shipment fron Hankow in October
1937 the wood oil had dwindled from 280 tons to about 123 tons;
and that the American Government was unable to reconcile the con-
tinued retention of this American proporty with the assurances
given to Mr. Grew by General Ugaki and by his predecessor, Mr.
Hirota
 Telegram from the Consulate General at Shanghai No. 8ll, June 10,
l938, and subsequent telegrans from that office, Dupartment's
telegram No. 236, July 9, and Ebassy's telegram No. 454, July 11,
1938.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
Hirota, that respect would be shown for the rights and property
of Arerican nationals. In accordance with a telegran from the
Consulate Caneral at Shanghai, on July 23 the Embassy made
further representations to the Foreign Office on July 23 concern-
ing thts question*.
After negotiations between the Enbassy and tho Foreign
Office which lasted for several days, on July 16 the Foreign
Office agreed to the publication by the American Government of
the forner's note of July 6, 1938, concerning the return of
American citizens to their property in China, proviced that a
memcrandum along the following lines be published simultaneously
in the United States with the text of the note: The Japanese
nilitary forces withdrew fron the University of Shanghai on
July 5; at the end of June consent was given to the issuance of
permits for one employeo each of the Standard Oil and Texas
Conpanies to proceed to Nanking; the Japanese authorities in
China had issued 35 perrits enebling missionaries, physicians,and
others of Alerican nationality to return to Nanking during the
ronths of May and June, although the record of the American
Consulnte Generel in Shenghai showed that cnly 20 permits had been
issued thrcugh that office(the discrepancy apparently having been
duo to the fact that scmo of these Aerican citizens might have
applied cirectly to the Jepanese authorities for perrits); and
that, with reference to the applications of 14 Arerican mission-
aries to return to Suchow, a report received from thc Japanese
authorities on the spot stated that as of the end cf June peraits
were shortly to have been issued for the return of all 14
nissionaries, pernits having already been issued to 6 of them**.
In
*
Telegran to the Enbassy from the Cunsulate General at Shanghai
dated July 21, 7 p.m. and Ebassy's telegrer to the Consulate
General at Shanghai dated July 23, 3 p.r., 1938.
**
Embassy's telegrams No. 459, July 12, 464, July 15, and 470,
July 16, and Department's telegrams No. 237, July 11, and No.
246, Ju1y 16, 1938.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
9-
In accordance with the Department's instructions, the
Ambessador made emphatic oral reprosentations to the Minister for
Foreign Affairs on July 2l concerning the report that uncer the
suggestion or the "Provisional Government" at "Peiping the Manchuria
Oil Ccmpany would organize an oil marketing company of a monopolis-
tic nature at Kalgan for the sale of oil products in the area
adjacent to the Peipine-Suiyuan Railway*. Mr. Grow made clear
to General Ugaki the grave concern with which the American Govern-
ment viewed the report in question and he also entered an enphatic
protest on behalf of the American Governnent against the organiza -
tion of such monopolistic companies, which the American Government
regarded as nullifying repeated Japanese assurances concerning the
maintenance of the Open Door and equality of opportunity in China.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that he would investigate
the facts presented by the Abassador and in the neantime he
reiterated his previous assurances that the Open Door in China
would be maintained and that the Japanese Government would fully
respect the principle of equal opportunity.
Acting under the Department's instructicns, on July 2l the
Ambassador orally informed the Minister for Foreien Affairs that
the Arierican Guvernrent had taken note of the statement contained
in the Japanese Governrient's note of June 4 to the offect that the
Japanese Government naintained its contentions in regard to the pay-
ment by A.erican nationals of special Japanese taxes for military
expenditures in China; that, nevertheless, the American Government
reaffirred its position that the oxaction of such taxes weuld be
contrary to the oxpress exemption accorded reciprocally to Japanese
and American nationals by Paragraph 4, rticle 1, of the American-
Japanese Treaty of Cormerce and Navigation of 19ll; and that the
erican
Telecrar. from the Consulate nt Hankow No. 329, July 2, 1938 and
Enbassy's telegrams No. 476, July 20 and 478, July 21, and Depart-
ment's telegran No. 251, Juiy 20, 1938.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.97)
-10-
Amerioan Government would expect to inform Amerioan nationals of
this position in the event of inauiry by them as to the validity
of any demand or attompt to ccllect such taxes*.
Pursuent to the Department's instructions, the Ambessador
made emphatic oral representaticns, supported by an aide-ménoire,
to the Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning the slapping at
Nanking by a Japanese sentry on June 15 last of Dr. J. C. Thomson,
an American citizen**. It will be recalled that the Embassy had
already made representations on this matter on June 23***. Mr.
Grew said that the American Government entertained no doubts what-
soever that the incident had occurred precisely as stated by
Dr. Thomson. In response to General Ugaki's renark that such
incidents must be ascribed to the abnormal psychology of Japanese
soldiers who were away fron. home in sonetimes very difficult
circumstances, the iribassadcr stated thnt such a strain could not
excuse such assaults on Anerican citizens and that he felt it to
be of the utmost importance thnt word should be passed all the way
down the line from the highest Japanese officers to the lowest
scldiers that such incidents must not take place****. The Enbassy's
aide-memoire reviewed the case and observed thnt the American
Government had requasted that the guilty soldier be punished, that
an expression of regret be tendered, and that neasures be taken
to prevent the recurrence of such unfortunate and uncalled for
incidents. In addition, the aide-mémcire stated that the American
Government found unacceptable the evidence on tho basis of which
the Jepanese authorities had rejected Dr. Thonson's version of the
incident and that as a result of the consideration of the Thonson
incident and other incidents of a similar character the American
Governnent
Department's telegra: Nc. 252, July 20, and Eubassy's tele ranm,
Nc. 367, June 17, and No. 480, July 21, 1938.
*.k
Embassy's Menthly Report for June 1938, Pa es 6 and 7.
Department's telecram No. 204, June 22, and Embassy's telegran
No. 406, June 23, 1938.
****
Department's telofram No. 249, July 18,and Embassy's telogram
No. 481, July 21, 1938.

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.96)
-11-
Sovernment hadBluotantly formed the opinren that these inoidents
sould not be regarded as unrelated phenomena but appeared to
represont an attituce of mind and a state of feeling which could
not be but a cause of grave concern.
Toward the close of the month discussion took place between
the Enbassy and the Foreign Orfice concerning the possible release
by the Department to the press of the Embassy's aide-mémoire of
July 21 concerning the Thomson case. An alternative was suggested
by the Foreign Office, nanely, that the Japanese and American Govern-
ments issue certain simultaneous statements concernine the case*.
No decision was reached on the matter before the close of the month.
Mr. Yoshizawa of the Foreign Office remarked to Mr. McGurk, First
Secretary of the Eibassy, on July 29 that while there might have
been some original apprehension that the Japanese sentry had laid
hands on Dr. Thomson, the Japanose military were now genuinely con-
vinced that not only did the sentry not slap Dr. Thomson but that
he did not even lay hands on him.
The Embassy made representations concernin the bombing by
Japanese airplanes of the following Arerican properties in China:
on July 6, concerning the bombing on June 18 of the Christian
Herald Industrial Mission at Focchow**; on July 6, concerning the
bombing on July 1 of the Mary Knoll Mission at Swatow***; on July 6,
concerning the bombing on July 2 of the residence at Mamoi of Dr.
Gillette, an American citizen****; anc on July 8, concernine the
bombing on July 1 and 2 near the premises of the Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company at Swatow*****.
(c) Japanese-Philippine Relations.
Having arrived at Kobe cn June 29, Mir. Manuel Quezon, President
of
PP
Department's telegram No. 259, July 28 and Enhassy's telegram
No. 500. July 29, 1938.
Telegram from the Consulate at Foochow June 23, 11 p.m. and
Enbassy's telecran No. 455, July 6, 1938.
Departnent's telegran Nc. 228, July 2, 1938, and Embassy's
telegrar. No. 446, July 6, 1938.
. 44.*
Telegram from tho Consulato General at Shanghai July 3. 10 e..
repeating telegran from the Consulate at Foochow July 2,9 a.m.
and Eribassy's telegram number 447, July 6, 1938.
小**
Telegram frou the Consulate General at Shanghai July 7, 11 a.n.
quoting telegrar from the Consulate at Swatow July 5, Noon,
and Embassy's telegran No. 452, July 8, 1938.

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.97)
-12-
of the Philippine Conmonwealth visited Kyoto, Hakone, and Tokyo.
He renained in Tokyo only three days, sailing for Manila on July 9.
President Quezon called on the Ambassador immediately after his
arrival in Tokyo and in the course of their conversation he stated
that he had come to Japan purely for a brief vacation inasnuch as
he needed rest. He emphatically denied a report published in the
NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE which implied that he was in Japan on a
political mission and he declared that he had not held and would
not hold any conversations of a political nature*. On the evening
of July 7 the Minister for Foreign Affairs save a dinner at his
officiel residence in honor of President Quezon at which the Premier
and the bassador were present. The dinner was small and informal
and no speeches were made on this occasion. Tho Japanese Government
apparently discouraged publicity concerning President Quezon's
visit to this country.
The Japanose delegation to the Second Philippine Japanese
Students Conference to be helc in Manila fron August 10 to 13 sailed
from Japan on July 30 under the chairmanship of Mr. Kazuyuki Suzuki
of the Tokyo University of Comerce. It will be recalled that the
NICHI NICHI of July 4 reported that one of the aias of the Japanese
delegation would be to encourage Philippine independence**. However,
the chairman of the celecation is reported to have tcld a representa-
tive of the JiPAN ADVERTISER on July 29 that the purpose of the
student conference would be to discover ways in which Japan and the
Philippines could cooperate in the econoric and cultural fields;
that the conference had no political significance; and that the
report which had appeared in the NICHI NICHI of July 4 was a fabri-
cation.
II.
★
Embassy's tolegran No. 45l, July 8, and Embassy's despatch No.
3107, Ju1y 9, 1938.
x
Fmbassy's despatch No. 3107, July 9, 1938.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China.
(1)
Military Operations.
Continuing their drive in the fangtze area toward Hankow,
the Chinese capital, the Japanese forces occupied Hukow, about
30
miles below Kiukiang, on July 5 and three weeks later succeeded
in taking possession of Kiukiang. A communiqué issued by the
793.94
press section of the Japanese fleet in China on July 26 stated
that Kiukiang, the principel town of strategic inportance for the
defense of Hankow, had been taken as a result of joint operations
of the Army and Navy. According to an announcement made on July
28 by the headquarters of the Japanese Army in Shanghai, follow-
ing their capture of Kiukiang Japanese military and naval forces
resuned their offensive in the Yangtze Valley, occupying Taihu
in scuthwestern Anhwei Province west of Anking on July 27, and
Eaining victories cver Chinese troops nidway between Kiukiang and
Nanchang.
Meanwhile, Japanese forces roportodly started an offensive
on July 5 against the Chinese trcops,estimated at 300,000, entrench-
ed in Southern Shansi Province. According to Japanese news reports,
Japanese troops were successful in rescuing Japanese units that
had been besieged in Southern Shansi for two months and in routing
the bulk of the Chinese forces remaining in that district. It was
also reported that Japanese forces had cornenced "nopping up"
operations against enemy forces romaining in Hopei, Shantung, and
Honan Provinces.
(2)
Aorial Activities.
The naval section of the Imperial Goneral Hendquarters
announcec

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
announoed on July 2 that nore th:r !.coo Chinese war planes had
been oither shot down or ostroyed n the ground by Japanese naval
aviators sinse the outbroeak of he hostilities in Cnina.
Donei reported on July 12 hai cn that day, &fter a lull
of four weeks, Japanese air forces hd rosumed their tombing attacks
on the city of Canton. According to the Japanese version, Japanese
air forces conducted successful bombing raids against Fuchow,
Nanchang, Changsha, and Hankow. A renarkable feat was reported by
Domei to have occurred on July 18, when, according to an announcement
issued by the Japanese Navy at Shanghai, Japanese naval planes shot
down 8 Chinese planes in aerial combnt over Nanchang, imnediately
thereafter landed at the Chinese Nanchang air base, and with torches
set fire to l2 Chinese planes on the ground while the Chinese avia-
tors merely watched the proceedings. All the Japanese planes par-
ticipating in this action reportedly returned safely to their base.
(3)
Staterents by Japanese Officials.
On July 1 General Itagaki, the War Minister, and Mr. Ikeda,
Linister for Finance, Cormerce and Industry, both asserted that there
could be no peace botween Japan and Chine so long as the Chiang
Kai-shek régime renained in existence. In an interview with news-
paper correspondents on July 6 Prenier Konoe reiterated his oft-
repcated statenent that there was no possiblity whatsoever of peace
negotiations with Genernl Chiang Kai-shek through the Lediation of
third Powers. A week later the Prenier nade a sinilar statenent
when he characterized as entirely unfounded the rumor that the
Japanese Government might resuredealings with the Kuonintang régine
provided the latter discontinued its anti-Japanese and "pro-Conmunist"
clicies.
In connonoration of the first enmiversary of the "China
Energency

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
Imergenoy", the War Minister declared before a mass neeting in
Tokyo on July 7 that there had newer been in world history such
glorious victories as those just achieved by the Japanese Army;
that Japan had not been fighting the Chinese people but against
the Communists and the anti-Japanese policy of the Chiang Kai-shek
régime; that although the Japanese called it an "incident", it was
in fact a greater war than the Sino-Japanese War of 1894-5 or the
Russo-Japanese War and that the successful conclusion of the warfare
needed the cooperation of the entire Japanese natiom in fulfilment
of the purposes of the Nationel Spiritual Mobilization Campaign.
On the same occasion the Navy Minister reenphasized the need of
cooperation between the nilitary and the people at large and added
that the nation must be prepared to face many difficulties in the
future and to carry on the "prolonged chastising hostilities".
A spokesman of the Imperial Headquarters announced on July 6
that during the first year of the fighting in China the Japanese
Army had lost 36,629 men and the Navy "more than" 1,100 men, while
China was estimated to have lost 1,300,000 men, of whom 510,009
dead had been counted on battlefields.
Mr. Akira Kazam?, Chief Secretary of the Cabinet, on July 18
denied e rumor that Japan would establish in China an administrative
agency comparable to a Governnent-General or a Residency-General.
(b)
Great Britain.
(1)
General Relations.
The recently increased tension in Anglo-Japanese relations was
reflected in debates in the British Parliament on July 26 and 27 in
which representatives of the British Government, responding to
Pp
solicitations that it take stronger action against Japan for the
protection

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
proteotion of British interests in China, intimated that Great
Britain micht abrogate the Anglo-Japanese Comneroial Treaty of
19ll*. The situation was aggravated in Japan when it was reported
by the press that the British Arbassador had begun talks with
the Minister for Foreign Affairs with a view to assuring the pro-
tection of British interests in China**.
Earlier in the month the Japanese press was calm in its
editorial conments on British policy vis-à-vis China and Japan.
A favorable impression was created here by a report that the
British Governnent had refused to grant a loan of £ 20,000,000
to China. The vernacular newspapers expressed the opinion that
there had been a change of attitude by Great Britain on the side
of prudence in its dealines with Japan and China. However, this
favorable impression was altered upon the publication of reports
that Great Britain might extend non-military credits to China.
The above-mentioned debates in the British Parliament,
coupled with the talks reported by the press between Sir Robert
Craicie and General Ugaki concerning the protection of British
interests in China, were strongly dencunced in this country.
Although the Foreign Office stated that the anti-British views set
forth in the press did not in any way reflect the views of the
Foreign Office, the Foreign Office spokesnan stated at a press
conference on July 29 that the debates in the British Parliament
might be interpreted by the Japenese people as beins: in the nature
of a threat to Japan. According to the JAPAN TIMES of July 30,
the Minister for Foreign Affairs said at a five-Minister conference
on July 29 that sone of the recent interpellations in the British
Parliament might heve been made with the desire to bring pressure
on the British-Japanese negotiations in Tokyo which comnenced on
July 26. Brhaps the closest reflection of Japanese official
pinion was that contained in an
editorial
Embassy's telegram No. 499, July 29, 1938.
**
Erbassy's telegran No. 494, July 27, 1938.

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
-17-
editorial in the ASAHI, whioh asserted that Great Britain could not
expect Japan to respect British interosts in China so long as
Great Britain continued to oxtend aid to the Chiang Kai-shek régime.
(2) The More Important Representations nade by the
British Embassy in Tukyo in connection with the
Sino-Japanese Conflict.
Sir Robert Craigie addressed a form 1 nota to General Ugaki
on July 16, referring to the British note of June 27 with regard
to the protection of British interests in Hankow and requesting
assurances that the Japanese would neither cause nor countenance
suspension of the Chen -0'Malley Agreement* of February 19, 1927.
The British Anbassador's Lote stated that pending the receipt of
a reply to the note of June 27 a British force of 100 men was
being dispatched fron Hongkong to Hankow by the British naval
euthorities to act as a naval landing party in case of need to
assist the police in maintaining order and protecting British
property in Speciel Administrativo District Nc. 3.**. Toward the
closo of the month the British Ambassador received a reply to his
nete of June 27. The substance of the Jepanese reply wns that
although the Japaneso Government was prepared to respect and
preserve the rights and interests of British subjects in Special
Adninistrative District No. 3 of Hankow, the Japanese Governnent
was uneble to admit the exercise of authority by the Chieng Kai-shek
administration in Hankow after the occupation of thut city by the
Japanese ferces and might, if occasion should arise, atend action
taken on grounds of military necessity to an area which might
include
*
The Chen -O'Malley Agreement proviced for the dissolution of
the British Concession at Hankow, the handin over to a now
Chinese municipality of the ndrinistration of the Concession,
the creation cf Special Adinistrative District No. 3 to cover
the territorial limits of tho former Cuncession, and the guaran-
ty of certain rights to British residents of the newly created
area.
Embassy's telegran No. 475, July 20, 1936.

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
include Special Administrative District No. 3*.
The British Embassy presented a note to the Foreign Office on
July 22 referring to the reported ostablishment of an oil marketing
company of a monopolistic character in the area adjacent to the
Peiping-Suiyuan Railway and reiterated the view of the British
Government that the fornation of such a company would constitute
interference with the treaty rights of British companies and an
infringenent of the principles of the Open Door and equality of
opportunity in China**.
On July 26 the British Abassador presented to the Minister
for Fcreign Affairs a list of the British Government's desiderata
in connection with British rights and interests in China, including
the following: modification of the pass systen in the Northern
cistrict of Shanghai for onployces of British firms and for removal
of British owned gocds so that application shall be made in such
cases by the British Consulate General to the Japanese Consulate
Generel without necessity of reference to any other Japanese
authorities; resumption of ncrmal nunicipal activities by the Shang-
hai Municipal Council in return for which the Council will be
prepared to take stops along agreed lines toward a rcconstitution
of the Japanese branch of the police force; permission for two
British vessels per week to navigate the Yangtze River as far
up as Wuhu; romoval of restrictions on certain British owned or
British controlled mills in Shanghai; grant of inspection facilities
for ncninees of tho British-Chinese Corporation on those reilways
not ncw the scene of major military operations; and removal of ell
restrictions on conservancy work in the Whangpcc River under the
authcrity of the International Consultative Board***.
(c)
Enbassy's telegram No. 493, July 27, 1938.
**
Enbassy's telegram No. 465, July 24, 1938.
***
Embassy's telegram No. 494, July 27, 1938.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
(c) Soviet Russia.
Soviet-Japanese relations wero more tense during the month
than they had been for over a yoar, i.a., since the Amur gunboat
incident of June l937. This situstion resulted fron friction betweer
the two countries over the occupation on July 12 and subsequent
fortification by Soviet soldiers of a hill at Changkufeng on the
Soviet-"Manchukuo" bcrder near Korea*. The Russians clained that
this hill was in Soviet territory. while the "Manchukuoans" and
Japanese claimed that it was in "Manchukuo" territory. Protests
against this action were filed with the Soviet Conmissariat and
these protests were rejected by the Soviet Governnent. On the
afternocn of July 30 a serious clash occurred at Changkufeng botween
Soviet troops and Japanese-"Manchukuo" troops which reportedly
lasted for nearly 12 hours. A cormuniqué of the Kwantung Army
Hendquarters at Hsinking was released by Domei on July 31 reporting
that the Japaneso-"Manchukuo" troops had taken the Soviet positions
on the hill at Changkufeng end had driven the Soviet troops off to
the oastward; that there had been abcut 2oo Russian casualties, of
whom 30 had been found dead on the field; and that there had been
a number of Japanese casualties**.
In addition, a nuber of minor incicents were reported to have
occurred during tho month. At a press cunference on July 27 Mr.
Kawai, the Foreign Office spokesman, stated that a 5-hour armed
ongagenent had occurred on July 22 between 10 "anchukuo" soldiers
and 60 Scviet soldiers on the banks of the Ussuri River, 120 kilo-
reters south of Habarovsk. Two Japanese gendarnes were said to have
cen shct by Sovict guards. one at Changkufeng on July 15 and the
other near Hulin on the Ussuri River on July 18. Mr. Kawaii issued
a
Telegram fron the Enbassy at Peiping No. 447, July 16, quoting
from the Consulate General at Muiden No. 49, July 15, 1938.
*
Ebassy's telegram No. 506, July 31, 1938.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
-20-
a stetement on July 26 to the effect that about 150 Japanese
subjeots were imprisoned or otherwise held and that 9 Japanese
shipping vessels were being detained in Soviet waters. On the
same day Japanese Foreign Office authorities issued a statement
to the press charging that Soviet officials had again been oppress-
ing the Japanese engaged in looking after Japanese treaty interests
in the northern half of Karafuto Island.
A great deal of publicity was given by the Japanese press
to the statements made in Tokyo by General Genrich Samoirovitch
Luchekov, who fled fron Soviet Russia and crossed into "Manchukuo"
territory on June 13, was detained by the "Manchukuo" authorities,
and was subsequontly brought to Tokyo by the Kwantung Army
authorities. It was said that General Luchekov had held the pcsition
of Far Eastern Chief of the G.P.U. Bureau of the Cormissariat for
Hone Affairs of the U.S.S.R. In the statements of General Luchekov
nade public in Japan he declared that he had fled Soviet Russia
through fear of the Stalin "reign of terror". The Soviet Russian
was also said to have stated that the Soviet Union was extending
aic to China only for the purpose of prolonging the Sino-Japanese
hostilities until Japen became too exhausted to defend itself
against a planned attack by the Far Eastern Red Army and the Soviet
Pacific Fleet.
(a) France.
In contrast tc the mcnth of June, during which the Japanese
pross assailed France for its reported anti-Japanese attitude
vis-à-vis the Sino-Japanese ccnflict, there was little corment
2
12
concerning France in the vernacular newspapers of July.
On

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
81-
On July 4 the French Ambassador orally notified the Minister
for Foreign Affairs that the Frenoh Government had completely and
definitely occupied the Paracel Islands, a soattered group of
islets and reefs approximately l20 niles to tho southeast of Hainan
Island*. Three days later the Foreign Office addressed an aide-
momoire to the French Enbassy, referring to the French Ambassador's
notification concerning the occupation of the Paracel Islands and
also to the aide-mémoire of the French Aibassador dated September
18, 1937, in which the Japanese Government was notified that
although France claimed sovereignty over the Paracel Islands, since
it was litigating the subject with China, France would not make
effective occupation of the islands before the settlement of the
dispute. The Japanese aide-ménoire stated that the Japanese
Government could not understand what was the true intention of the
French Government when it addressed to the Japanese Government the
prosent nctification, which was in contradiction with the aide-
mámoire of September 18, and when the French Government brusquely
and even in the middle of the Sino-Japanese incident took such a
contradictory measure as the coriplete and definitive occupation of
the islands. The Foreign Office's aide-mémoire stated in conclusion
that in view of the enforcement by the Japanese authorities since
ugust 1937 of the interruption of communications with the coast
of South China, it was possible that the Japanese authorities in
thc future might take measures considered necessary for the enforce-
mont of this interruption of communications and also measures
considered necessary for the protection of the rights pertaining to
enterprises in which Japanese subjects are engaged in the Paracel
Isiands. In reply to this communication the French Ambassador
ndressed a third person note to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
dated
* Embassy's despetch No. 3102, July 11, 1938.

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.98)
-22-
deted July 12 in which it was stated that the Frenoh Government
peroeived no contradiction botween the tonor of its aide-mémoire
of September 18 and the French Amjassador's dánarcho of July 4;
that the aide-mémoire of Septenbor 18 did not in any way constitute
an undertakin by France vis-a vi: Japan; that in occupying the
Paracel Islands the French Government had no other purpose than to
fulfill its duty of assuring the prctection of international
navication within the area betwcen those islands and the islands
off the coast of French-Indo China; that the French Government
had voluntarily given its notification of July 4 to tho Japanese
Governnent for the scle purpose of Ireventing any local incident
which might hav@ arisen out of an orroneous interpretaticn of the
French occupation by the captains of Jnpanese vessels which
frequently crossec within the linits of the islands; that the Govern-
ment of Indo-China would take note of the special conditions on the
Paracol Islands and had no intention of limiting tho free pursuit
of tho activities of Japenose nntionals who dcvoted thenselves
poacofully to various pursuits in the islands; and that the French
Gevernrent wes cenfident thet the Japaneso Geverrrient, "inspired
by the sane spirit of confidence and respect for acquired rights",
would take all the necessary noesures to prevent the occurronce
on the islands of any incident of a nature which would react
unploesantly upon the traditional relations of friendship existing
retwecn Japan and France*.
(o) Gerriany.
Two developments tending tc prcnote friendly relations between
Japan and Germany wore reported curing the nonth. First, a Donei
repurt frcr Shanghai cated July 15 stated that General von
Falkenhausen
Erbassy's despatch No. 3124, July 22, 1938.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.97)
-23-
Falkenhausen and the other German military advisers to the Chinese
Governnent, having been recalled hy the German Government, had
loft Hankow on July 5 for Hongkong en route to Germany. However,
a Domei despatch fron Hongkong dated Tuly 9 reported that General
von Falkenhausen had told "foreign quarters" in Hongkong that there
remainod 6 German military advisers (understood to be "non-Aryans")
in Hankow who seened to have mado up their inds to continue to
assist the Chinese Government. Second, a Domei report fron Berlin
dated July 24 stated that negotiations which had been under way
since the early part of the year for a three-cornered trade agree-
ment among Japan, Germany, and "Menchukuo" had progressed to a point
where officials anticipated the early conclusion of a formal agree-
ment.
(f) Italy.
After the return of the Italian Econoric Mission to Japan on
June 25 followins its inspection tour of "Manchukuo", Korea, and
Ncrth China, further cunversation among members of the Mission and
representatives of Japan and "Manchukuo" took place in Tokyc and
there were signed on July 5 an Italian-"Lanchukuo" Treaty of Aulity,
Cormerce, and Navigation and a tripartite ccmmercial agreerment
involving Italy, Japan, and "Manchukuo"*. The Italian Econonic
Mission sailed from Japan on July 1l.
(g) Australia.
In Australian-Japanese trade agreement was sined at Canberra
on July 2 and on the same day a shippins agreenent was signed in
by
Kcbe/reprosontatives of Japanese and Australian shipping interests**.
Tha trade apreement, retreactively in effect as of July 1, 1938.
ronleces the tenporary egreement which expired on June 30 last and
will be in force for one year. According to the Japancse press,
jt
Erbassy's telegrar: No. 404, Juno 23, 1936 and Embassy's despatch
No. 3072, July 11, 1938.
小*
E.bassy's despatch No. 3108, July 11, 1938.

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
it provides that Japan shall buy during the period July 1, 1938,
to June 30, 1939, Austrelian wool in the anount of two-thirds of
Japan's total wool inports luring thet perioc: anl that curing the
same period Australia shell permi' the importetion cf 51,250,000
square yards each of Japanese cotien textiles, rayon textiles, and
staple fibre textiles.
The shipping agreement was reached as a result of negotiations
between representetives of the Eastern and Australian Steamship
Company (Australian owned) and of the Osaka Chosen Kaisha, the
Nippon Yusen Kaisha, and the Japan-Austrelia Line. It is to be
in force two years and provides thet the Eastern and Australian
Steanship Conpany shall be allowed a pool quota of 22.5% both on
cargoes of raw wool fron Australia to Japan andon cargoes of sundry
goods from Japan to Australia, and that the three Japanese shipping
companies shall be siven a pool qucta on both classes of cargo of
the renaining 77.5%.
(h) Polanc.
A Domei despatch from Warsew cated July 31 stated that the
Polish Government might shortly extend official recognition to
"Manchukuo" and that negotiations had been inaugurated in Tokyo
among the Polish Abassader, the Japanese Minister for Foreign
Affairs, and the "Manchukuo" Anbassador for the opening of a Polish
Consulate at Harbin.
Mr. Thaddée de Romer, the Polish Ambassador, contributed an
article to the ASiHI during the nonth setting forth Poland's
international position, particularly with reference to Germany and
Soviet Russia. According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER, the Polish
irbassador's article contained the following statenentswith regard
to

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
to Poland's attitude toward the Far East:
"In the Far East, Poland, unliko the other European
Powers, hes no past influencing in any way her relations
with Japan or China. Her nttitude toward then is therofore
materially disinterested. Without any written pact, the
very sincere friendship for Japan which is felt by the
Polish people has been in a sense bequeathed to them by
the late Larshal Pilsudski who, since his sojourn in
Tokyo in 1905, never ceased tc regard the Russo-Japanese
War as one stage in the Polish struggles for independence.
"This judgment wes not of an exclusively sentimental
nature. Since that remcte date he saw clearly the identity
of certain ossential interests which were bound to
approxinate the two ccuntries. The march of events has
not failed to show that he was right.
"In cur cays this phenomenon remains more manifest
than ever, since no conflicting interest divides Poland
and Japan. Their mutual policy shows it and the elevation
on October 1, l937, of their respective Legations to the
rank of Eibassies is a fresh proof of the inportance which
they attach to their ciplomatic collabcration.
"Renaining a member of the League of Nations, Poland
has boen able on more than cne occasion to render a
service to her absent Japanose friends. Quite recently,
at the time of the discussion on the recognition of the
Italian conquest of Abyssinia, the Polish celeeate at the
council table called the attention of his colleagues to
the case of Manchukuo which itself dencnstrates the serious
inconveniences of the rigid and academic forrulae of the
League of Nations which are the origin and reason of
chronic international tensions."
(i) Portugel.
Mr. Joaquim Fedroso, the new Portuguese Minister to Japan,
arrived in this ccuntry on July 28. He was quoted by the JAFAN
ADVERTISER to have said inmediately after his arrival that he had
deep sympathy with Jepan in its fig ht acainst communisn.
(j) Rumania.
In celebration of the signine of an agreement between Runania
end Japan designed to promote intcrest in tourist trevel between
the two countries and also in conmemoretion of the 9th anniversary
of his arrival in Jepan, Mr. Geurges Stoicesco, the Rumanian
Linister, cave a luncheon on July 12 in honor of officials cf the
Foreign

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
-26-
Foreign Offioe and the Railway Ministry.
(k) Latin Anerica.
The Latin Arerican Cultural Association, organized on May
27, 1938, held its innuguration ceremony on July 9 at which
addrosses were made by the Brazilian Arbassador, the Argentine
Minister, anc the Chief of the Cultural Department of the Foreign
Office. According to the JAPAN TIMES of July 1O, the association
is corposed f studonts f Latin Ar erican c: untries and its
purrose is to foster the exchange of cultural information with
a viow to enhancing friendly relations between Japan and various
Latin A.erican countries.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL SITUATION
(a) The Cabinet.
Premier Konoo was reported to be sp nsoring a plan for
reorganization of the Cabinet under which several cinisters with-
out portfclio woulc be arpointed by the Premier and would form
a scrt of "inner Cabinet" tc functicn in a manner siilar to the
present Five-Minister cunferences.
In a conference crganized by the Ministry of Education and
designed to clarify and unify the views of the nation's history
toachers, on July 2 General Araki, the Education Minister,
dolivered an address in which he rade the follcwing statenents:
that tho greatest probler of the worlc today was how to emerge
fror. the chaos resulting fror "the deviation to individualisn";
that even though Jaran owed its presperity to Western culture
enc science, there w re some Western idcas which were ininical
to Japan; that when he spoke of the reforn of Western ideas he
reant their refininc and not their rojection; and that the China
incicent showed that the old view of world history which "has the
Occident

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
-27-
Occident as its center" rust be revised.
(b) The Army.
On July 15 the War Ministry announced the rmy's semi-annual
list of pronotions and transfers, which included the creation of
18 Lieutonant-Generals and of l26 Major-Generals. Among the nore
important trensfers were the following: General Kotaro Nakamura,
member of the Supreme War Council, was appointed Corrander of
the Korean Garrison, succeeding General Kuniaki Koiso, who was
assigned to the General Staff Office; Lieutenant-General Makoto
Matsui (not to be ccnfused with Goneral Iwane Matsui, formerly
in command along the Yangtze), who hed been serving in China, was
appointed Comnander of the Western Defense Headquarters; and
Lieutenant-Goneral Masataka Yamawaki, Director of the Equipment
Bureau of the War Ministry, was named Assistant Inspector-General
of Military Education.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Ncthing to report.
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Additional nnticnal bonds for the financing of the hostilities
in China amounting to Yen 300,000,000 were issued cn July 12.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Fereign Trade Figurcs.
According to the preliminary figures nade public by the Finance
Linistry, Japenese experts for July amounted to ¥ 21l,234,000, while
imports were ¥ 209,108,000, as compared with June exports of
 201,599,000 and June inports of ¥ 251,930,000. Thus, there was
a

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
-28-
a favorable trade balance of ? a,l26,000 as compared with an
unfavorable trade balance for June of : 50,331,000. July was
the first nonth during the present calendar year in which there
was a favorable balance of trade*.
(b) Financial Trends.
The money market was tight, the stock market was dull, and
the issue of national bonds to meet expenditures in connection
with the military operations in China continued. The average
yen rate for the nonth of July was $0.287403, as compared with
0.2890625 for June**.
(c) Governnent Control of Finance, Industry, and Foreign
Trade.
The Governrent announced on July 9 that it had approved the
releeso of ¥ 300,000,000 of the specie reserves held by the Bank
of Japan for shipnent abroad for the purpose of establishing a
rovolving fcreign exchange crcdit***. It was stated in the
Governent's announcerent that this fund of ¥ 300,000,000 was to
be used for the purchase of raw materials for the manufacture of
export articles.
A Regulation Governine Control of Distribution of Cotton
Lanufactures for Export went intc effect on July 1, providing
that the Japan Spinners Association shall have a nonopoly of the
production cf cotton yarns and tcxtiles; that the weavers belonging
to the Jaran Union of Cotton Textile Manufacturers Associations
shall be allowed only to weave cotton textiles for account of the
Japan Spinners Asscciation on a jobbine basis; and thet the Japan
Spinners Association shall sell all the textiles to exporters
affiliated with the Foreien Trade Federation, which shall be obliged
tc export all that they have purchased fron the Japan Spinners
Association
*
Daa furnished by the Cormercial Attachó
*
Information furnished by the Conmercial Attaché
***
Dupartment's telegram Nc. 474, July 19 anc No. 477, July 20,1938.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.98)
29-
Assooiation. There also went into effect on July 1 regulations
providing that greatly increased quantities of cotton cay be
imported; that such additional cotton inmported must be used for
the manufacture of expcrt articles; and that cotton cloth for
domestic use must be mixed with a large percentage of staple fiber.
Thus, a direct "link" systen of inports and exports was esteblished
for cotton. A direct link system for imports and exports of wocl
also became effective durine the month. In addition, a so-called
composite link system for imports and expcrts coverning various
other conmodities was established providing that persons who have
exported a certain anount of one ccmmodity shall be permitted to
import a certain amcunt of another commodity, tho ratic to be
fixed according tc the individual conmodities ccncerned. The pur-
pose of this corposite link systen is to expand expcrts of
miscellanecus cormodities.
In view cf tho military importance of hides and leather,
which are largely imported from abroad, the Governnent issued two
decrees which became effective on July 1, one restricting the
use of hides and leather and the other provicing for the control
of their distribution. On July 9 the Government promulgated six
ordinances "tc ensure the werking of national eccnony in relation
to the Chinn incident", in acccrdence with the provisions of the
Law Concernine Energency Dispositions Relative to Inperts and
Exports (promulcated in Septerber 1937). These orginances previde
for the followine: cintrel of the sale prices of conmodities
in crder to keep commodity prices at a nininum; state management
of the surply of rubber anc restriction of the use cf rubber;
control of the sale of rubber bcots; control of the distribution
of

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
-30-
of rubber; control of the cistribution and sale of Oregon pine;
and ccntrol of the use of iead, zinc, tin, antinony, and nickel.
(a) Ccmmeroial Aviation.
Regular air mail service (3 times a week) botween Fukuoka
and Shenghai was openad by the Japan Air Transport Company on
July 1.
The MIYAkO renorted that travel by air between Tokyo and
San Francisco in 2-1/2 days wculd become possiblo when the Japan
..ir Transport Conpany cpened next surmer its air route tetween
Tckyo end Guam, where connection wculd be made with the Pan-
American Airways service.
Accorcing to the ASAHI of July 24, the Japan Air Transport
Ccmpany will in the near future put in operation a number of
passenger planes of the most recent American type in order to
accormcdate the increased travel on the Ccmpany's air lines.
(e) Shipping.
The JAFIN TIMES of July 27 reported that the Nippon Yusen
Kaisha, the Osaka Shc sen Keisha and the Mitsui, Kokusai Kisen,
Kawasaki, Yanashita, and Daido steamship lines had acreed to
withdraw about 200,000tons of shipping fror: their regular cver-
seas service and te place the ships withdrawn frcm overseas
service on ccastal routes.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS
Nothine to report.
IX.
LABOR
Ncthing to report.
x.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
(1) Cancellation of the 1940 Tokyo Olympic Games
and Other Scheduled Events.
At a meeting held on July 15 the Cabinet decided to cancel
the Olympic Games scheduled to have been held in Tokyo in 1940.
Marquis Kido, the Welfare Minister, issued a statement on the sane
day to the effect that the Government had been forced to relinquish
the 1940 Olympic Games because of the "China Emergency", the
successful conclusion of which required the solid and united front
of the nation and the mobilizetion of all available man-power and
material assets. Durine the month it was also decided to cancel
the following scheduled events: the l940 International Exposition
in commemoration of the 2,600th anniversary of the founding of
the Empire; the World Recreation Conference to have been helc in
Osaka in 1940; the projected Italo-German-Japanese Amity Athletic
Meet scheduled for the Auturn of 1938; and six domestic expositions
that were to have been helc in 1938.
(2) Floods in Kobe.
fter the heavy floods thet cuased loss of life ane property
damage in the Tokyo cistrict et the end of June and during the
first few days of July, a more serious flood cccurred in Kobe, where
between 150 and 200 persons were estirated to have been killed and
over 2,ooo houses were saic to have been destroyed. According to
an announcement made by the Home Ministry on July 6, as a result
of the floods throughout Japan B60 persons wero killed, hurt, or
missing, and a total of nearly 400,000 houses were lost, wrecked,
or flooded.
(3)

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
(3) Proposed Elimination of Western Music from Japan.
Mr. Nagayo Motoori, a Directcr of the Dai Nippon Composers'
Association, was stated by the CHUGAI of July 25 to have proposed
a measure for adoption by the Government which would amost
completely eliminate Western music fron Japan. According to this
plan, Japan would seek to evolve a genuine music of its own; all
foreign compositions (whether classical or jazz) woulc be kept out
of the country; and all public concerts, operas, radio programs,
and phonograph records on Western lines would be banned. It is
said that Mr. Motoori's object is tc "heighten the Japanese spirit
through music".

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatohes sent to the Department
during July 1938.
No.
Date
Subject
3060
July 2
Mitsubishi Monthly Circular.
3061
July 6
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3062
July 6
Losses of American Property Due to
the present Sino-Japanese Conflict.
Seventh Day Adventists Mission:
Kalgan, Chahar.
3063
July 6
Losses of American Property due to
the present Sino-Japanese Conflict.
Frazer Federal Inc., U.S.A.,Paotingfu.
Hopei, China.
3064
July 6
Losses of American Property due to
the present Sino-Japanese Conflict.
Associated Importers, Tientsin,
Hopei, China.
3065
July 6
Losses of American Property due to
the present Sino-Japanese Conflict,
American Board Mission, Tenchow:
Shantung, China.
3066
July 6
Losses of American Property due to
the present Sino-Japanese Conflict.
Church of the Nazarene Mission, Chac
Cheng, Shantung, China.
3067
July 6
Attack by Japanese Airplanes upon
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company Tanks at
Wuchow, Kiangsi, China.
3008
July 11
Foreign Office Spokesman's Statement
concerning compensation for losses
suffered by nationals of third power:
in China.
3069
July 6
Damage to Property of American South-
ern Baptist Mission, Pingtu, Shantung.
China.
3070
July 6
Damnge to Property of American Luth-
eran Mission at Tsino, Shantung, Ch'n
3071
July 6
Damage to Property of Doctor Gillett
at Mamoi, Foochow, as result of
bombing by Japanese planes.
~072
July 11
The Italian Economic Mission and the
signing of an Italian-"Manchukuo"
Treaty of Friendship, Commerce, and
Navigation and an Italian-Japancsc.
"Manchukuo" Trade Agreement.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Date
Subject
3073
July 8
Protection of Foreign Property
in China and Reservation or Rights.
3074
July 8
Protection of Foreign Nationals
evacuating from Hankow.
3075
July 8
Japanese Restrictions on access to
Foreign Property in Shanghai.
3076
July 8
Japanese restrictions on British
shipping on the Yangtze River.
3077
July 8
Embargo on exportation from North
China of Hides and Skins.
3078
July 8
Protection of Foreign Interests in
Hankow area.
3079
July 8
Chinese Selt Administration.
3080
July 8
Chinose Customs Administration
3081
July 8
American Property and Interests
in China; imbassador Grew's inter-
view with the Minister for Foreign
Affairs.
3082
July 8
Motor Bus Lines in Operation in
Japan as of April 1, 1936.
3083
July 8
Bombing of American Presbyterian
Mission, Lini (Ichowfu).
3084
July 8
Japanese Bombing of Canton.
3085
July 9
Bombing of Maryknoll Mission,
Swatow.
3086
July 9
Bombing of Properties of the
Southern Presbyterian Mission
at Sutsien and Hwaian, Kiangsu,
China.
3087
July 9
Bombing by Japanese Planes of
Property of Christian Herald
Industrial Mission, Foochow.
3088
July 9
Japanese authorities informed of
whereabouts of U.S.S. MONOCACY.
3089
July 9
Bombing of Standard Vacuum O41
Company Property, Swatow.
3090
July 9
Loss of Property of Caroline Leaf
Tobacco Company at Shanghai.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
Date
Subject
3091
July 9
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3092
July 11
Rumored Japanosc Oscupation of
Certain Chinese Islands.
3093
July 11
Japanese restrictions on roturn
of foreigners to Nanking.
3094
July 7
Political Report for June, 1938.
3095
July 11
Complaint of Japanese Ministry of
Foreign Affairs regarding activities
of American officials.
3096
July 11
Plans for the execution of Japan's
economic policy in China.
3097
July 11
Protection of lives and property of
American nationals.
3098
July 11
Articles in American magazines dis-
respectful to Japan.
3099
July 11
Extraterritoriality--statement of
Japanese spokesman in Shanghai.
3100
July 11
Japanese prospects after one year's
fighting in China.
3101
July 11
Visa fee charged by the Japanese
Consulate General at Calcutta for
the visa of passports of American
missionaries visiting Japan.
3102
July 11
Japanese-French relations.
3103
July 11
Return of American citizens to
their property in China and injury
by Japanese forces to American
interests in China.
3104
July 11
Attack on Mrs. T. H. Massie by
a Japanese sentry at Tsingtao.
3105
July 11
Assualt on Dr. J. C. Thomson by
Japanese sentry at Nanking.
3106
July 11
The China Organ and the Open Door
principle in North China.
3107
July 9
Visit to Japan of President Quezon
of the Philippine Commonwealth.
3108
July 11
Japanese-Australian relations.
5109
July 12
The Oriental Consolidated Mining
Company of Chosen.

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
No.
Date
Subject
3110
July 14
iretection oi Forcign Nationals
Departing from Hankow.
3111
July 18
Damage to  op or y of Americen
Buard Mission, Fenchow.
3112
July 18
Tapanese Aorial Bombardment of
merican Property at Nanling.
Anhwei. Christian and Missionary
Alliance.
3113
July 18
Damage to Property of C. Yetes
McDaniel, Nanking.
3114
July 18
Dmmage to Property of American
Church Mission, Wuchang.
3115
July 18
Damage to Property of American
Christien and Missionary Alliance.
Wuchang.
3116
July 19
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-
1938. merican Losses Resulting
From, Doyle, James Madison, claim
of.
3117
July 19
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-
1938. American Losses resulting
from, Harris, Richard Norman,
and Briggs, Clive Harris. Ciaims
of.
3118
July 19
TSUY.. RU and LISBON MARU
Case.
3119
July 19
Diplomatic visa report.
3120
July 20
Sino-Japanese Hostilit ies, 1937-
1938. American Losses Rasulting
From, Fitch, Goorgo Ashmoro,
Claim of.
3121
July 20
Sino-Japenesc Hostilities, 1937-
1938. American Losses Resulting
From, Shevchenko, William. Claim
of.
3122
July 22
ORIENTAL ECONOMIST, January 1938.
31.23
July 22
Article on Japanese Fishing in
Russian Waters.
3124
July 22
Japanese-French Relations.
3125
July 22
Japaneso Polico Restrictions In
Rolation to Diplomatic Immunitios.

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
NO.
Date
Subject
3126
July 22
Facilities for Remittance Abroad
of Official and Personal Funds
by Members of Foreign Missions in
Tokyo.
3127
July 23
Transmitting changos in the Wireless
Tulogram Regulations.
3128
July 23
Transmitting translation of a law
revising the Civil Procedure Code.
3129
July 23
Transmitting translation of a law
rovising the Civil Code.
3130
July 23
Transmitting translation of revision
of Customs Tariff Lew.
3131
July 23
Sino-Jepanese Hostilities, 1937-193E.
American Losses resulting from, Hale,
William Arthur, Claim of.
3132
July 23
Japanese Restrictions on Access to
Foreign Property in Shanghai.
3133
July 23
Protection of Foreign Interests in
Hankow Area.
3134
July 25
Transmitting translation of Tempor-
ary Currency Law.
3135
July 25
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3136
July 25
Trensmitting translation of revision
of the Law for the Prevention of
Unfair Competition.
3137
July 25
Transmitting translation of revision
of the Trade Mark Law.
3138
July 25
Transmitting translntion of revision
of the Patent Law.
3739
July 25
Societies of Architects.
3140
July 25
Specinl Japanese Taxes for Military
Expenditures in China.
3141
July 25
Assault on Dr. J. C. Thomson by
Japenose Sontry at Nanking.
142
July 25
Ninth Congross of the International
Sced Testing Association.
143
July 26
Feature Article in the ASAHI SHIMBUN:
American Far Eestcrn Policy.
44
July 26
Fifth America-Japen Studont Confer-
ence July 16 to July 23, inclusive.
:15
July 14
Addresses in Copyright Protuction
Case.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
No.
Date
Subject
3146
July 26
Embargo on Exportation from North
China of Hides and Skins.
3147
July 26
Tomporary Employment of Erma C.
Faust.
3148
July 26
THE ORIENTAL ECONOMIST.
3149
July 26
Japanese Participation in Whaling
Agreoment.
3150
July 26
Publication of Japanese Note
Regarding return of Americen citizens
to their property in China.
3151
July 27
Sino-Japanese hostilities, 1937-1938
American Losses Resulting From,
Mr. Arno F. Kerske, Claim of.
3152
July 27
Sino-Japanese hostilities,1937-1938
imerican Losses Resulting From,
Kofa, American Drug Company, Federal
Inc. U.S.A. Claim of.
3153
July 27
Damage to Property of Central China
(Loone) College of the American
Church Mission at Wuchang.
3154
July 27
Damage to property of the Sisters
of Notre Dame, at Wuchang.
3155
July 27
Japan Advertiser Annual Review 1937-
1938
3156
July 27
Iranian Protest Against Alleged
Japanesc Interference with Mail.
3157
July 27
Safety Zone at Icheng, Hupeh.
3158
July 28
Protcction of Amorican citizens
at Kuling.
3159
July 28
Report on Codes.
3160
July 28
Protuction of Foreign Interests in
Hankow area.
3161
July 28
Organiznticn of Oil Companies in
North China.
3162
July 30
Diplomatic Visa Report.

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING JULY 1938
NO.
Date
Sub ject
432
July 1, 10 a.m.
The Ambassador's interview with
the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
433
July 1, 1l a.m.
Postponement of the Ambassador's
interview with the Minister for
Foreign Affairs.
434
July 2, noon
Expression of sympathy in Tokyo flood
435
July 4, 5 p.m.
Carolina Leaf Tobacco Company.
436
July 4, 6 pom.
Foreign erchange in Dairen.
437
July 4, 7 p.m.
Representations regarding American
property in China.
438
Judy 5, 2 p.m.
Rumored appointment of new Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs.
439
July 5, 5 p.m.
Requisitions.
440
July 5, 6 p.m.
Gold shipments.
441
July 6, 4 p.m.
Massie (Slapping) Case.
442
July 6, 5 p.m.
"Manchukuo" Good will and Trade Missio
443
July 6, 6 p.m.
Wood Oil shipments.
444
July 6, 7 p.m.
Export embargo on Hides and Skins.
445
July 6, 8 p.m.
Christian Herald Industrial Mission.
446
July 6, 9 p.m.
Mary Knoll Missi on.
447
July 6, 10 p.m.
Bombing of residence of Doctor Gillette
448
July 7, noon
Publicity concerning local settlement
of incidents relating to Ameriean
interests in China.
449
July 8, 11 a.m.
For Farish. Accounts.
450
July 8, noon
Whereabouts of U.S.S. MONOCACY.
451
July 8, 1 p.m.
Visit of President Quezon to Japan.
452
July 8, 4 p.m.
Japanese bombing near premises of
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, Swatow.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
2-
No.
Date
Sub ject
453
July 8, 5 p.m.
Return of Ame rican citizens to
their property in China.
454
July 11, 5 p.m.
Wood oil shipments.
455
July 11, 6 p.m.
Hide and Skin Embargo.
456
July 11, 7 p.m.
Arganization of North China oil
companies.
457
July 12, 3 p.m.
Forwarding of pouches.
458
July 12, 4 p.m.
Departure of Consul Jarvis by train
July 14 from Hankow.
459
July 12, 11 p.m.
Publicity concerning Japanese note
regarding return of Americans to
places in China.
460
July 13, noon
Embargo on Hides and Skins.
461
July 14, 3 p.m.
Return of Americen property in Chin
462
July 14, 4 p.m.
Wood oil-Werner G. Smith Company.
463
July 14, 5 p.m.
Return of Americon citizens in Chins
464
July 15, 11 a.m.
Release of Japaneso note regnrding
return of Ameri cons to places in
Chinn.
465
July 15, 5 p.m.
Gold shipments.
466
July 15, 6 p.m.
Wood oil - Worner G. Smith Company.
467
July 16, 2 p.m.
Confidential documents for offices
in Japan.
468
July 16, 3 p.m.
Embargo on Hides and Skins.
469
July 16, 4 p.m.
Paint for repcir work on Embassy
buildings.
470
July 16, 7 p.m.
Rclecse of Japencse note regerding
return of Americans to plcccs in
China.

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
No.
Date
Subject
471
July 17, 1l a.m. Release of Japanese note to press.
472
July 18, 10 a.m. Building repairs.
473
Tuly 18, 1 p.m.
Protection of U.S.S. MONOCACY.
474
July 19, 11 a.m. Japaneze shipment of gold reserves.
475
July 20, 11 a.m. British representations regarding
protection of interests in Hankow.
Unnum-
bered
July 20, noon
Mr. Neville's sick leave.
476
July 20, 1 p.m.
Organization of oil companies in
North China.
477
July 20, 4 p.m.
Use of Japanese gold reserves.
478
July 21, 6 p.m.
Organization of oil companies
in North China.
479
July 21, 7 p.m.
North China embargo on hides
and skins.
480
July 21, 8 p.m.
Special Japanese taxes for mili-
tary expenditures in China.
481
July 21, 9 p.m.
Thomson incident.
482
July 22, 11 a.m . North China embargo on hides
and skins.
483
July 23, 2 p.m.
Oil companies' extension of
credit to Japanose.
484
July 23, 3 p.m.
Werner G. Smith wood oil case.
485
July 24, 11 a.m.
Organization of North China
oil companies.
486
July 25, noon
For Hornbeck, regarding Ambassador's
July 4 interview with the Foreign
Minister.
487
July 25, 5 p.m.
Soviet-Manchurian border incident
at Changkufeng.
488
July 26, 1 p.m.
Changkufeng incident.
489
July 26, 3 p.m.
Return of University of Shanghai
property by Japanese.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
NO.
Date
Subject
490
July 26, 4 p.m.
Ichang zafety zone.
491
July 26, 5 p.m.
Japenese gold reserves.
492
July 27, 1 p.m.
Mail pouches.
493
July 27, 2 p.m.
Repiy to Eritish note corcerning
protection of special interests
in Fankow.
494
July 27, 3 pm.
Conversation with British Ambassador.
495
July 27, 7 p.m.
Safety of mericans at Kuling.
496
July 28, 10 a.m.
"Manchukuo" good will mission, visas.
497
July 29, 9 a.m.
Assault incidents at Chefoo.
498
July 29, 10 a.m.
Japanese gold shipments.
499
July 29, 4 p.m.
Japanese press reports of British
statements concerning Anglo-Japanese
relations.
500
July 29, 11 p.m.
Publicity in Thomson case.
501
July 30, 11 a.m.
Japanese return of property of
University of Shanghai.
502
July 20, 1 p.m.
"Menchukuo" goodwill mission.
503
July 30, 5 p.m.
Japanese aid in search for lost
Clipper plane.
504
July 309 6 p.m.
Embassy building repairs.
505
July 31, 11 a.m.
Embassy building repairs.
506
July 31, 5 p.m.
Clash between Seviet troops and
Japancso-Manchukuo troops at
Changkufeng.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.95)
MSION OF
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
OCT 2 8 1938
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
 OT 10 55
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, September 80, l9p8.
DIVISION OF
KEBAL ADVISE
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
1o. 3265.
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
(UBJECT:
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE MONTH
OF AUGUST, 1938.
.1.D.
DT
894.0019
OFFICE OF THE AOVISER ON
WNTERNAHIONA FCONAM FARS
OCT 2 8 1938 G
DEPARTMENT OF SITE
β
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
TheHpnorable
ARTMENT OF ST
OCT271938
The Secretary of State,
894.00
OF STATE
Washington.
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
J
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith the
x
Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for the
month of August, 1938.
2
6
FILED
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclbsure:
1/Report No. 143.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Embassy, Moscow
Ambassador Johnson
Consulate General, Shanghai
Consulate General,Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Osaka
Consulate, Dairen
Consulate General, Seoul
In quintuplicate to the Department.
800
MSIC

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 143
REPORT OF CONDITICNS IN JAPAN DURING THE
MONTH OF AUGUST, 1938.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.97)
INDEXAND
SUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED ST.TES.
(a) China National Aviation Corporation
Plone.
.1,2,3,4
(b) U.S.S. MONOC..CY.
.4,5
(c) Mediation..
.6
(d) More Importent Representaticns Made by
the Embassy During the Month of ugust.....6,7,8,9,10,11
(e) Haweiian Clipper..
.12
II. RELATIONS WITI OTHER CCUNTRIES.
(e) China
1. Militory Operations..
..12,13,14
2. Air Activitius..
..15
3. Relations with the Occupied rea......15
(b) Great Brit in..
.15
Importent Reprosentations Made by
the British Emb ssy During the Month
of ugust....
.16,17,18
2. Chinese Custems dministration.......
..18,19
(c) Soviet Union..
.20,21
(a) France......
.21,22
(e) Italy.
.22
(f) Germany.
.22
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL SITU.TICN.
(a) Politicul Porties..
.23
(b) Central Orsan for Chinn Affeirs.......
.23,24
(c) Mobilization....
.24
IV. COURSE OF LEGISL.T CK.
Nothing to report.
V.

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE..
.24,25
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC ND FININCI.I CONDITIONS.
(a) Foreign Trade Figures.....
25,26
(b) Financial Trends......
..27
VII. ACTIVITIES CF AERIC.N COMMERCI.L INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII.ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR.
Nothing tc ruport.
X.
MISCELLNEOUS.
Nothing tc report.

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.98)
RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) China National Aviation Corporation Plane.
711.44
On August 25, 1938 Rear Admiral Kiyosini Noda, spokesman
for the Navy Department, announced at his press conference ir
the morning with foreign correspondents that the attack by
Japanese naval planes on a "strange big plane" about thirty
miles from Hong Kong had been entirely justified. The plane,
he said, bore no distinguishable markings and acted in a "very
suspicious manner." On the approach of the Japanese, the
plane turned and hid in soe clouds apparently attempting to
escape. The Japanese, believing it to belong to the enemy,
pursued and justifiably attacked the plane wlich made a forced
Janding in a creck. It was only after this that e Chinese
character meaning "mail" was observed.
The spokesman further
ceclared thet Japanese naval planes are strictly observing
rternational regulations governing aerial attack and it is
urthinkable" that they should deliberately cttack passenger
ships, but thst if passenger planes should fly across & zone
of hostilities, the fighting parties cnnot  held responsible
for uttecks on such planes. Thus the attituce nd position of
ire Jupanese was announced almost immudiately iter the incident.
Cenformebly with the Dep-rtment's teleeraph instructions*
he Ambasscuor made formal reprenentations on August 26 at the
inistry for Forcign Affnirs concerning this incident.
The
 basscdor immediately efter receiving the Department's in-
truetions requested an ppointment with the Minister for Foreign
Aftuirs who was unable to ruceive him that day. Accordingly,
ropresentatiors
1
nopartment's telegram No. 298, August 25, 1938, 5 p.m.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
representations were m de to the Vice Minister,* and at the
same time the Ambassador raed cnd left with the Vice Ministar
a signed noto addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
The pertinent facts of the incident as reported tele-
graphicnlly to the Embessy by Hong Kong** were conveyed to the
Vice Minister. The Ambessndor also mentioned orelly the fact
that a high officiel in the American Foreien Service had planned
to take pussege from IHong Kong to Hnnkow on the same plane on
August 26.
The Vice Minister who hrd taken full written notes of the
fects presented by the Ambassador then read the provisional
report reccived from the nav:l nuthorities. This report stated
that the Jopanese pir forces have been and are operating gen-
er-lly in accord with the draft coavention submitted to the
inturnational conference at The Hague in 1923. This convention,
the report further st tcd, oxplicitly provides that commercial
plones entering a zone of hostilities ure li: ble to attack.
The neval cuthorities hold the Chinose plene responsible because
of its "suspicious behaviour" and asserted th:t no distinguishing
marks were visible. It was implied th't ths pl ne was not forced
down and that the Japanuse pursuit plenes "left without firing."
The Ambassedor pointed out the surious discrepancies between
the report of the American Pilot Woods cnd th t of the Jap nese
n v:l uthoritics. These were dmitted by the Vice Minister
who srid further investig tion would be m de and a reply for-
varded as soon as possible. The Ambessador replied that he did
not doubt but that concrete evidence would disprove the report
f the novel authorities. Severel times during the interview
the
Embassy's despatch No. 3222, Au ust 29, 1938.
Hong Kong's telegrams August 25, 10 .m., and August 25,
2 p.m.

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.96)
3-
he Ambassador emphasized the pad effect of tho incident on
Americen public opinion and urged -prcmpt reply.
Mr. Horinouchi declined to provido the Ambassador with
a copy of tho naval report.
In his noto to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, tho Am-
bassador stated that ho had been instructed to protest tho un-
warranted atteck which had resulted in total dustruction of 
commercicl plane, loss of the lives of a number of non-combetant
passengers, and the jeopardizing of the life of the American
pilot; that the attack had uroused public feoling in the United
States; thet loss w s occasioned to Amorican property inturests;
that the plane had bien forced down by machine gun fire which
had continued after the plane landed; tht the pilot had been
machine-gunned while swimming away from the plane; and that
finally the American Government expressed its emphotic objection
to such jeopardizing of Americ n nd non-combetant lives while
occuponts of civilion plrnes unarmed and flying cleerly recog-
nized end ost blished servicus on : rugularly scheduled eir
rcut.
On August 31 the Embassy reccived  ruply* to the Ambusse-
dor's note of August 2e. The ruply which w's accemp nied by an
offici 1 tr nsl tion by tho Forign Orfice t ted thet further
investigrtion by the J"penese  uthorities substantially con-
rirmed the report as given by Vice Minister Horinouchi to the
nbassedor. It wes also steted
"It is their (the J punese Govermment's)
opinion th t the comp ny to which the irerift in
question belonged, buing  Chin se juriciccl person,
the incident is not one whieh involves Jepan dir ctly
with any third Powor".
二t
Tabussy's telur m No. 568, Au: ust 1, 196, 9 p.m.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.97)
It was regretted that the ife of an American was endangsr.
d but reiterated the justifiahilicy of the Japerese action.
This seemed to represent, in the eyis of vhe Japonecs a olcsing
of the incident.
(b) U.S.S. MONCCACY
Fut
Conformably with th: Derartrent's inctructicns* the
911.30
Embassy approached the Toreign Office concorring the refusal
of the Japanese naval authorities to allcw the proposed passage
of the U.S.S. MONOCACY down the Yangtze River to Shanghai. The
Navy Department wes also aproached vy the Naval Attaché who
received an entirely unsatisfactory answer. In the Embassy's
approach to the Foreign effice it was emphasized that the Americar
Government has besn enceavoring to pursue a course taking full
ccgninance that hostilities cre in progress and completely in
accordance with the principles of reason, arc that in pursuence
of this course the Anerican Government has whenever possibie
informed the Japanese and Chinese authorities of the movements
of its vessels. In view of this course it is feit that Japan-
ese authorities should in reciprocation meet the fmerican Gov-
ernment's wishes in this instance which are based on suostantial
reasons. The Navy Department nad, in telking with Captain Bemis.
Naval Attaché, raised the question of the right of the Japanese
to close the Yangtze to third party navigation. Mr. Dooman in
ris conversation with Mr. Yoshizawa of the Foreign Office
stated that he had honed for a settlement vithout discussions
of the rights and principlos invoived but hat, as the question
ned now been raised, he had been diructed by the Amoassador
:o cormunicate to tna Foreign Office the views of the American
Goverrment.
* Department's telegram No. 288, August 15, 1938.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
overnment. Mr. Dooman also pointed out that the question was
one of greatest delicacy and requirod the utmost careful handling;
by the Japanese Government, and finally that if an adverse reply
were made it would be necossary for the Ambassador to take up the
cese officially with the Minister for Foreign Arfairs. Later
conversations with the Foreign Office indicnted the improbability
that anything would be done in Tokyo to interfere with the de-
cision made by the Japonese authoritius in Chin:. Accordingly,
the Ambassador on August 18 called on the Foreign Minister and
made strong orel represontations basing his approcch on practical
considerations as well as legitimcte rights. The Ambassador
also emphasized the various points set forth by the Department
and by the American Commander-in-Chief. The Foreign Minister
replicd that he could not subscribe to the argument that the
section of the Yangtze River under discussion is et present a
public weterway. The Foreign Minister further replied that
after initial representations had been made, the Japanese Gov-
ernment had immediately consulted Admiral Oikawa and had re-
ceived a reply from him which reiter:ted his refusel to allow
the passage of the U.S.S. MONOCAcY but offered Japanese vessels
or, if necessary, planes for the supply or tronsportation of
provisions or fuel cnd for the trinsportation of mail or per-
sonnel for the U.S.3. MONOCACY.
It vas evident that the
Jap nese authorities in Tokyo would not or could not do any-
thing to inturfere with the decision made by the Japanese
ruthorities in Chin. With this more or less categorical
refusal further efforts by the Embassy would have been of no
 vil.
The matter was fin"lly settled by an exchenge of
telegrams between Admirol Oiknws nd the Americen Commander-
n-Chief. The soiling of the U.S.S. MONCCACY has been deluyed
il later dete.
(c)

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.97)
Mediation.
The suggestion was made abrond th t now might be an oppor-
tune time to present an offer of good offices to the Japenese.
This offer it was suggosted should be made by two or moro of
the neutral Pol.ers. The mojority of the Emb ssies in Tokyo
believed that it would not bo timely and that an offer of good
offices would probably be abortive. Accordingly, there were no
furthor developments concerning medintion in the present con-
flict between Japan and Chinn.
(a) More Important Ruprosent tions Made by the Eubassy
During the Month of August.
1. Emb rgo on Hidus and Skins.
The embargo on the export tion of hides and skins from
North Chinn continued to bo a subjoct of negoti~tions with the
Forcign Office.* Before presenting en nide-mémoire, which had
been dr: fted in rccordance with the Dep.rtment's instructions**,
the Embossy received a note dated August 1*** from the Foreign
Office stating thet the embirgo had been lifted on itoms repre-
senting pproximately 85 per cent in value of the export of
hides and skins. The Embassy's aide-mémoire was ccordingly
withheld pending Tientsin's comment on the Forcign Office note.
The Embassy was informed by the Consulate General at Tientsin
by telegraph**** thot the emb rgo on lamb skins and lamb plates
with huir not oxcesding 25 milometers in length h'd beon removed.
The situation being larguly liquid ted no further action hos
joun token by the Embassy.
2.
*
Embassy's Monthly Report for July, 1938, p gc 4.
**
Deportmont's telegram No. 265, Ju1y 30, 1938, 2 p.m.
***
Embrssy's despatch No. 3221, August 29, 1938.
***
Telegrm from Ticntsin No. 154, August 10, 1938, 3 p.m.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.95)
-7-
2. Embrrgo on Wireluss Equipment.
In view of tho embargo plced on the importation of wiroless
equipmont into North Chin, the Emb ssy was instructed by the
Departmont* on August 24 to appronch the Foreign Office along
the some linus rdopted in the hides and skins cr so and to pro-
test intorferonce with nnd unwerronted rostriction of Americen
trado interosts. Accordingly on August 26** oral representations
supported by an aidy-mémoire were made at the Foreign Office. The
reply to these represontations indicnted that the rustrictions
hrd been imposed at the inst:nco of the Japenese militory euth-
orities who were convinced that short wave redio sets ere being
used by the Chinese guerrillns and by other active anti-Japanese
oloments to receive informtion from the Netionel Govemment and
from other guerrilla bends. This is said to be very detrimental
to Jop nese military operetions. The Foreign Office indicnted
its disinclination to interfero with the decision of the military
:uthoritius, but did st te th t the m tter would be takon up and
f. rurly mode in due course. At the close of the period covered
by this report no ruply h d buen reccived from the Foreign
office and no further action h d been taken by the Embassy.
3.
Thomson case.
The question of th public tion of the st ind taken by the
Americ'n Government in the c se of the slopping of Dr. Thomson
t Nrnking wes the subject of negotintions with the Fcreign Office
last month.***
Tho J panose proposed to publish a statement to
th effect thet the Japanese Government meint ins its position
and conviction s to the fs cts of the case, but thot the Jopaneso
military
Department's tolegram No. 295, August 23, 1938, 6 p.m.
十
Embassy's desp tch No. 3219, August 29, 1938.
Embassy's Monthly Roport for July 19s8, p gus 10 and 11.

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
militcry will nevertheless impress upon its soldiery the import-
ence end propriety of maintsining at all times an ettitude of
civility towerd American netionals. The Foreign office also
proposed that the United States should publish at the same time
a statement to the effect that while it cannot abendon its po-
sition end conviction in this case, in view of Japan's intention
to ccution its own soldiery, the United States will take appro-
priate occesion to caution its nationals as to the importance
of paying due consider tion to the duties of Jap&nese sentries
in the occupied areas.*
This suggestion, which was unaccepteble,
was, during rather prolonged negotintions with the Foreign Of-
fice, altered to & c rtnin extont but it was impossible to ob-
tain from the Foreign Office agreement to a statement accept-
able to the American Government.** In conformence with the
Department's instructicns*** the Embassy informed the Forcign
Office that the Depirtment did not fuel thnt it could properly
consert to the modific tion to the proposed statement suggested
by the Japanose to be releesed to the press in settlement of
the case; and th't vhile the Department is not irclined to take
ction with rogard to further publicity at the present time,
it still regards the case s an unsettled one.
4. University ot Srouphai.
In conformanee with the Dop rtment's instructions**** the
Tabassy inquired at the Foreign Office on August 1l whether
my progruss had beon ade in foraul: ting  reply to the repre-
bentetions made by the Aabassador on July 30.*****
The Foreign
"Ifice replied th t Mr. Deikichiro Trgawa had only orrived in
Sherghoi
Fabassy's telucrcn c. J0, Ju1y 29. 1938, 11 p.m.
Labessy's teleer m No. bsy, ugtst 11, 1958, 5 p.m.
Dupr1tment's tulugram No. 287, August 13, 1938, 2 p.m.
Donartment's telegram No. 277, August 9, 1938, 4 p..
止***
Enbassy's telegram No. 529, August 11, 1938, 10 p.m.

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.97)
-9-
nanghai and had not had time to conduct many conferences. The
Foreign Office professed to be hopeful of a satisfactory settle-
ment and stated that it is momentarily expecting to receive a
favorable report from Shanghai. The Foreign Office however had
made no reply to the Embassy up to the end of August. The question
of the unrestricted return of the University of Shanghai still
remains an unsettled issue.
5. Wuhu General Hospital.*
On the basis of information received from the American
Embassy at Nanking** Mr. Dooman on August 8 took up with the
Foreign Office the question of interference with the activities
of the Generel Hospital at Wuhu and molestation of its employees
on the part of the Japanese military authorities.***
Mr. Dooman
in his conversation with Mr. Yoshizawa reitereted that the
American Government would not acquiesce in any attempt by the
Japanese authorities tc assort jurisdiction over American na-
tionals in China and requested that urgent instructions be sent
to the Japanese authorities in China to cease interfering with
the activities of the General Hosnitel ond the molusting of its
employees. Mr. Yoshizewe requestad that the facts of the case
be conveyed to him in writing in order th't he might use them in
drafting his instructions which he shid would at cnce be sent to
Nanking. Accordingly an aide-mámoire setting forth the facts of
the cnse was drufted and forwerded to lir. Yoshizewa on the same
uny.
Bombing by Japaneso Planes of American
Mission Pronurty t Nuchang.
In viow of the diseretion ry powors contsined in the list
poragraph
E.br ssy's despatch Nc. 31e5, August 12, 1938.
Tolegram from Nanking Nc. 142, July 29, 1938, 6 p.m.
1. 4
Embassy's telegrem No. 22, ugust 8, 1958, 5 p.m.

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.96)
-10-
paragraph of the Department's standing instructions* and on the
basis of information contained in a telegram from the Department
to Shanghai**, the Ambassador adaressed a first person note on
August 16 to the Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning the
repeated bombing by Japenese plnnos of imerican mission property
in Wuchang. In the emphatic represuntations in the Ambassador's
note it wes pointed out thet notwithstanding the fact that the
properties had been merked on maps delivered by the American
Consulate General at Shanghai to the Japanese authorities the
mission properties under refironce have been bombed no less than
seven times since July 6. It was roquested thnt immediate and
effective steps be taken to prevent a recurrence of such de-
plorable attacks.***
To date no reply has been received from
the Foreign Minister.
7. Organization of Oil Monopoly for North China.
In complionce with the Departmert's instructions**** the
Enbassy inquired of the Foreign Office on August 6, when e reply
could be oxpected to its representations of July 21 concerning
the restrictions on shipments of oil to certain parts of Inner
Mongolia. The Foreisn Office stated that it proposed to with-
hold its reply until a representative of the Asiatic Petroleum
Compony could proceed to North Chine and invostigate the situa-
tion, since it had been ere ted by irresponsible personz and
without the approval of the Japanese authorities.*****
On August 27 the Embassy was instructed by the Lepartment,
:I view of the fact that the visit of the oil company's repre-
sentative
*
Department's telugrem No. 64, Fubru ry 18, 1938, 6 p.m.
Depertment's telegrum No. 482, August 13, 1938, 2 p..
Enbassy's desratch No. 5o1. unt 23, 1938.
1÷
0. portment e tlrom i.. =70. ugust 5, 198, 4 p.m.
～
Eatassy's teluarm No. be, mugust 11, 1938.

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.97)
-11-
tativo to North China had been ineffectual and in view of
reports that stops nre being tnkon to institute an exclusive
monopoly control of oil markoting in the Mengchiang aren, to
moke Turther ropresentations to the Japenese Government. The
Department further instructed thet the mbasscdor consult with
his British and Dutch collengues in order to doviso an approach
along parallel lines. Up to the close of the puriod under review
no further action had been taken with the Foroign Office pending
the outcome of consultations with the British and Dutch represen-
tatives.
Conformably with the Department's standing instructions,
the Embassy mado ropresentations during the month of ugust
oncerning the following incidents:
Bombing of merican Ruform Mission, Yochow, Hunan,
on Ju1y 27, 193e.
Bombilg of Centrel Chinn (Bcone) Collcgo of the
American Church Mission in wuchang, on August 11,
1938.
Bombing of Saint Hilca's School for Girls, property
of the merican Church Mission, at Nuchang,
on λugust 11, 1938.
Bombi & of Convent of Seint Anne, property of the
American Church Mission, t Wuchane, August 12,
1938.
Boubing of imerican Seventh Dry dventist Mission
clinic at vuchrng, .ugust 12, 1938.
Bombing of Cumberlond Presbyturian Mission, Conton,
May 28, 1938.
Bombing of Franciscon Cutholic Mission, Yrnghsin,
Hupch, .ugust 13, 1938.
Bombing of Evangelic-l Luther n Mission at Ichang,
Hupeh, Auguat 24, 1938.
8.

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.97)
-12-
8. Hawaiian Clipper.
On ugust 7 the Embcssy having been informed by the Depart-
ment thnt the Haweiicn Clipper might be found in the vicinity
of Douglas Reef (200 25' north and 136° 5' east) requested the
Foreign Office to use its good offices in having a search of
thot erea mede by Japenese vassels. The Foreign Office replied
that a vessel had been sent out but that search operations would
be impeded by a typhoon. The following day the Embassy was in-
formed by the Foreign Office that the Canberra Maru was in the
vicinity of Douglas Reef and was conducting & soarch for the
missing plnne. On August 10 the Embessy received from the
Foreign Office a message from the Canberrn Maru stating t hat the
search was being abandoned owing to the worsening of weather
conditions and the growing scarcity of w.ter and feed for the
sheep carried on &he deck. Suitable expressions of appreciation
for the efforts of the Japanese Government in general and the
CABERRA MiRU in particular were mado by the Embassy in t he name
of the Americen Government.*
There was en erroneous re ort thet originated frem abroad
to the effect that the Japanese vessel had loceted the Clipper
on August 7. is the result of this report the American Consul
in Manila asked the Embassy for verification of tho report on
Sundey, August 7.
TI. RELATIONS WITH CTHER CCUNTRIES.
(a) China.
1. Military Operations.
793
Milit ry operetions during the menth under review
were
nssy's telegram No. 512, August 3; Department's telegrams
Nc. 259, august 4, and No. 274, August 6; Embassy's telegrams
No. 518, 519, ugust 7, No. 521, ugust ε, No. 525, August 10,
No. 541, August 17, end No. 565, ..ugust 30, 1938.

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.96)
-13-
1
re largely devoted to two main arens: the first and most im-
portant wns that involved in the drive toward Hankow, the second
was that covered by the Japenese fcrces pushing toward the Yellow
River in southwest Shensi. In addition there were the activities
of the air force in bombing operotions in Scuth China, and the
continued efforts to "mop up" the guerrillas active in all parts
of China behind the front lines.
Operations along the south bank of the Yangtze River were
for the most port devoted to consolidation and preparation for
the attack which began about August 23. Intense heat added to
the difficulties and the "died of disoase" notices in the
cesualty lists published in Japan seemed to be increasing. The
Chirese cffered stubborn resistance to the Japanese drive which
turned scuthward tcward Teian. This movement was prcbably design-
ca to prevent a later attack, after the Japanese have moved on
Honkow, b the Chinese from that direction.
On the north bank of the Yangtze River the Japanese forces
continued a frcntal attack, pushing up the valley toward Hankow.
Land operations followed closely the Navy's cperaticns in clear-
ing the river. There was close cocperation between the two serv-
ices. An interusting development was the ccncentration of Japan-
ese fcrces ct Luchcw indicating, as reported in the press on
August 23, a probable advance over the mounteins toward Honkow.
This wculd indicnte a possibility cf four lines aiming towards
 nkow, the first from the suth bank cf the Yangtze which would
receed after taking adequate precautiuns to prevent a flank
 tnck by the Chinese frum the south.
Secord, a direct push up
I north benk of the Y ngtze, the third, an attnck either direct-
 across the mountains between Luchew and Hankow or skirting
1 mountains to the north ad r ceeding down the rsiiwey to
r towerd the s tth p ui ve the ferces proceeding
along

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.96)
14
ong the ncrth bank of the Yangtze. The last probable line of
attaok would come from the forces in scuthwest Shansi crcssing
the Yellow Rivor and proceeding southwerd &long the railway
toward Hankow.
In Shnsi Prevince the Jeparese forces cstride the Tatung-
Puchow raiiway ccntinued pushing hinese fcrces in Scuthwest
Shansi slowing back to the Yellow River. While the Japanese
troops had reached the Yellow River they did nct offect a crcss-
ing but were a definite thrent te the Lunghri Railway on the
opposite bank and tc the Chineso c nnection with Seviet supplics
by means cf this railway.
Guerrilla activities bucame mcre effective and called for
incrensing thousunds f co..bat trccps tc maintain the ccmmuni-
cation and supply netwerk behind the advancing lines. In Chahar
Prevince sericus defeats inflicted on the Chinese fcrces were re-
erted in the press en august 4 and August 17.
During the first seventeen duys of August sume seventy en-
ceunters with Chinese irregulers attenpting to interrupt the
Pinghan and Tsinpu ruilway lines were reperted in Hopei Province.
The 1ocal press en August 12 reported a bcld atteck on Tsinan
itself. This enccunter was said te have required mere than a
dey of fighting befere the irregulars were driven eff. In Kiangsu
Prevince in many instences the guerrillas were the aggressers
nd "bandits" wore even rep rted very near Wuhu and Narking.
Ir: were also outbreaks at Hangchow, Tengch w, and Jukac. The
roacest prcblom remains guerrilla w rfore. In spite ef cen-
inund "mopping up" cempaigns, it is ustimsted that there are
por ximately 300,c00 stiil te be "liquidated" in Hopei, Shansi,
hanttre alone.*
2.
to for thi sect u  uy tteché.

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.97)
-15-
2. ir ictivities.
The Irmy planes, except for a raid on Hankow on August 21,
seemod to be dovoting their efforts tc suppcrt cf the ground
troops in thoir Yangtze Valley cdvance. The Navy's planes wero
unusuelly nctive in bumbing arteriel ruilwcys in South Chine nnd
the defenses of Hankow ana Canten.
3. Relatins with the Occupiud rens.
It was reported t the press un August 6 that the South
Manchurian Reilwey Cempany will take cver centrcl cf ccal mining
and marketing in Shantung Frevince. It was alsc stated that it
has not yet been decided whether the entire industry will be
cperated by a single comptny or by separate concerns, but that
in the meantimo cll Japanese and Chinese ccal mining interests
in the prevince will be pleced under this cumpany.
. news desp-tch frem Tientsin dated August 5 stated that a
genere1 "link system" fer uxports frem North China hes been
decided upen in crder to premecte fereign trade fur that regicn
with ccuntries ther than Japan.
During the middle part if the menth of August the East
Asin Agricultural and Furestry Council held  three day sessien
at the fficiel rosidence of the igriculture and Ferestry
Minister; and n August 18 there was annuunced in the lec1 press
an agrarinn pelicy fer Japen cnd cccupied reas in Chine adcpted
by this Ceuncil. This pelicy included plens fer rice, whent,
enttle raising, f rastry and sericulture and cevered all of the
rees under Japanese d minatien frem Kerafute to Central China.
(b) Gront Britain.
ngli-Japanese rel ti ns during the wenth f August wore
tively unchonged oxcept fir a further stiffuning (f the
 attitude. During July the vurreculor press had cun-
tinued

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.94)
-16-
nued its attack on the British positicn and the reaction to
statements in the British Parliament have been perticularly
unfeverable.* On August 17 the British Ambassadcr in his inter-
view with the Minister for Foreien Affairs requested a reply to
the five points which he had presentcd on July 26 as the prin-
cipal desiderate cf tho British Government relating to British
interests in China. He was immediately inf rmed by General
Ugaki that Japanese public opini~n, grently irritated by the
recent statements in Parliament cf Mr. Chamberlain, Lcrd Halifax,
and Mr. Butler, would net tclerate ccncessiens to Great Britain
at this time. In respense to the British Ambasseacr's inquiry
whether this answer was final, the Minister counseled patience
and sked the Ambassader tc come to see him agrin at the end
of Aueust. In viow f the abertive results from the ccnciliatory
cfierts by the British Enbassy, references in the House cf Comnns
by ropresontatives of the Govornment to the pussibility of British
br gatin of the commercial treaty with Japan were recalled.**
The Jepanese pusition is based lergely upen the belief that
Grr at Eritain has exceeded the bounds ef roason in its efferts
t befriend Chine end to cress Japan; and until the British G v-
pn: unt and the British public take a ore renlistic view of the
resect situetion in the Far Eest end of the dcterminatien of
n  dominate thet situctin, tre Jupenese feel they cannot
fursher in ceuperatien with Great Britein.***
1.
Important representati ns made by the British
Enbansy during the menth of xugust.
a Augunt 5 the British mbassad r addressed a furmal nete
h lni pter f r Fereign Affairs c neerning the return of
British
s t2 pend
 4,108.
wsy's despatc 1. 207. ucust , 1938.

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.98)
-17-
Itish subjects to Kiukiang. In his note the Ambassador stated
that British nationals who had been evacuated from Kiukiang during
the fighting at that point were refused permission by the Japan-
ese military authorities to return to their properties on the
grounds that the situation was not calm and that cholera was
epidemic; that the Japanese authorities also refused to allow a
British officer to be sent into the city to establish contacts
with missionaries; that the naval authorities would not permit
moving the concentration point of British shipping to the Asiatic
Petroleum Company's installation three miles below Kiukiang; that
he had been urgently instructed by his Government to request the
Foreign Minister to cause the local Japanese authorities to allow
the return of British subjects in question and to give the other
facilities desired.
The Foreign Minister's reply dated August 6
stated in substance that a report from the Japanese authorities
at Kiukiang indicated that they had received a similar request
from the local British authorities and that the request had been
denied owing to military considerations.
The Foreign Minister
gave no indication of any intention to interfere with the local
Japunese authorities and requested that the matter be handled
locally.
On August 15 the British Ambassador again addressed a
noto to the Minister for Foreign Affairs stating that the Japan-
se sut orities had not yet shcwn any intention of allowing
British subjects to return to their properties and, after
em-
phasizing the seriousness of the situation in the eyes of the
Sritish Government, asked that the Minister give serious con-
deration to the
ruquests made in the British Ambassador's
ouo ef August 5 and that instructions be issued to the Jap-
l.e navel and military uthorities to place no further ob-
s in
the
wey of return of British subjects to their
on
Mabassy's despatch No. 3224 of August 29, 1938.

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.95)
-19-
On August 15 the British Amhassador addressed a formal
note to the Minister for Forsign Arfairs protesting the seizure
on May 17, 1938 of a sompan in Tritish territorial waters at
Hong Kong by a Japanese armed motor trawler.* The British Am-
bassador reserved the right to clain compensation and enclosed
a memorandum giving the details of the seizure nnd the murder of
two British-born persons who were forcibly removed from the
boat.
On August 29 the British Embassy was authorized by its
Government to inquire into a statement reported to have been
made by the Japanese official spokusman in Shanghai to the
effect that non-combatants aircraft which fly over the area
of hostilities do so et their own risk and that the J&panese
vil. not accept responsibility for any damage thet might arise
i1. such cases; that any machine flying over China which attempted
to scape would be trerted ts hostile end render itself liable
to to shot down; that this applied to the Imperirl Airways
Iiaes. Air France, or Pon American machines and that the Jap-
ne would decline to accept ny responsibility if nything
 prened to them.**
2.
Chinese Custons Administration.***
On August 10 the British Counselor of Emb ssy, Mr. Dodds,
Idressed a note to Mr. Horinouchi, Vice-Minister for Foreign
Ffirs, concerning the interference with Chinese Customs'
l.. unches at Tsingtao and Chefoo on the p:rt of the Japnnese
norol authorities. The Counsclor referred to previous corres-
r dence between the British Aibossaaer and the Minister for
roein Af: irs. e Minister had anserted tnat the launches
 t cuetol y rm  rt ere not cap ble of dealing with
  rnly Jepanese
guards
mbassy's despatcn o. , uct , 1938.
Fmbassy's desp tch lo. 32, Aeust 3), 1938.
Eabascy's dospatches No. 31 i, august 17, 1938, and No. 3217
Lugust 29, 1938.

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.97)
-19-
guards were taken on board when the vessels put out to sen.
British note stated that the vessels in question with their
normal armament could handle and had been handling for a year
armed junks; that British commanders of the vessels were ousted
by force and the Chinese crews compelled to remain; that the
vessels were occasionally used as Japanese naval auxiliaries;
that the Japanese naval ensign was flown.
A reply dated August 18 1938 from the Vice Minister for
Foreign Affairs to Mr. Dodds stated the original contention of
the Japanese that the measures taken were necessary to prevent
the supplying of arms to bandits by the armed junks, and indi-
cated that the situation was entirely in the hands of the local
naval authorities. It was stated, however, that the practice
of flying the naval ensign had been discontinued.
On August 13, 1938, tho British Ambassador sent to the
Minister for Foreign Affnirs a note enclosing a memorondum re-
viewing a number of incidents in which the Jap nese authorities
in China have interfered with the administration of the Chinese
Customs. This note drew particular ettention to the unsetisfrctory
reply from the Japanese on July 18, 1938, and urged a restoration
of normel conditions.
The momorandum pointed out the unworranted
interference on the port cf the Janenese outhorities with the
Inspector-General's office in the mottor of porsonnol of the
Chinese Customs, the rrests of Chirese omployees in the Shanghai
Customs Houso in May, 193e, inturference by the Japanese Naval
ond Military eutherities with the Herbor Mester's office at
Shengh: i, insistence on the appointment of dditional Japanese
employees, the bove-mentioned i.terf rence with the preventitive
fleet rt Tsineteo and Chufoo, end finally the demands made for
tho appointment of Japanese to be in ch rge of the offices at
∴.oy.

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.96)
-20-
(c) Soviet Union
At the beginning of the month of August the relations betwoen
Japan and Russin were very tenso with severe fighting on a rela-
tively laree scale being carried on at the border near Changkufeng.*
The Russian forces were ruported to have used heavy bombing planes
in conjunction with their troop oper tions. Both sides made ex-
tensive use of rtillery and some use of tanks. The fighting
continued until the Japanese Aubassudor to Moscow was successful
in arranging with the Sovict Minister for Foreign Affairs a truce
to become effective on August 1l. The Japunese have been mcst
diligent in their efforts to prevent aggravation of the border
incident and to bring about a peccuful settlemont. The main
points in the truce as arr nged were reported to be an agree-
ment that hostilities would cense at noon on August ll, Soviet
Meritime Province Time; agreoment that troops on both sides
should maintain their positions held at midnight on .ugust 10,
and finally thrt the method of carrying out the terms of the
cgrecment was to bo rugoti ted by representatives of the two
forces along the border. It wes lso reported thot the truce
agreement included provision for the esttblishment of a border
conmission composed cf two Russian mciabers and two members from
Jupan and "Manchukuo", giving the Russians equal representation
on the Commission.
This was a definite diplomatic victory for
Russin, since the Japanese i ve huretefore inristed thet Japan,
"Hanchukuo" nd Russin stculd te censidered serorate countries
nc cach have equl represent t lon c ny border commission es-
cblished. Vhile it was obvioue thr t Jep'n was deturmined whatever
the consequence to toler te ne viol tion (f the fronti r, the
incid nt was nct sensaticneily pl yed up in th. pruss but was
other hondled with rustr int:
the popul:c shewed no desire
ror war cecinst the Soviet Union urd pre red te remain calm.*
There
* Embassy's tlogrm N. lo, ueust 4, 196.

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.98)
-21-
There were, however, displayed at various important corners
throughout the city of Tokyo large posters announcing mass
meetings cgainst the Sovict anc urging the people to prepare
for inevitable clash with Red Army forces. These posters were
not, however, particularly connected with this border incident
but were in evidence before and aftor the clash ct Changkufeng.
(a)
France.
It was reported in the pross of August 23 that France had
751.9
recently signed a secret pact with Chiang Kai-shek whereby the
latter ceded to France the Menhco region in the southernost part
of Yunnan Province adjoining Fronch Indo Chinc. This was
roportedly in return for France's allowing Chiang Kai-shck
authority to utilize Haiphong in French Indo Chine as a getoway
for tho entrance of crms end munitions into Southwest China. It
was stated thet Frence hoped to make Haiphong Harbor a rival to
Hong Kong as a port of trado with South China.
Thc French Anbassader, Nr. Arsone-Honry, eddressed a
formal note to the Minister for Foreign ffairs on August 26
strongly protesting the illcgal arrest and detention of two
French soldiers within the boundaries of the diplomatic quarter
of Peiping. The Ambassador emphesized the facts that the French
Occupation Corps in China onjeys the rights of extraterritoriality
and that only the diplonatic corps may exercise police power
in the diplomatic quartor. It wes recuested that the Minister
bring these basic principlus to the attention of the local
Japanese cuthorities in pracr thet sinilar regrettable incidents
may be aveided.
NO

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.97)
-22-
No reply to the French Ambassador's note hcs come to the
attention of this Embassy.
(e) Italy.
It was announced on August 25 that thc deposit protocol
in accordance with the provisions of the commercial agreoment
signed in Tokyo on July 5 regulating trade between Italy and
Japen-"Manchukuo" was completed at the Foreign Office by the
Foreign Minister, General Ugeki, and the "Manchukuo"
Ambassador to Tokyo, Yuan Chen-tuo and the Italian Ambassador,
Mr. Auriti. The agrcenent is to become effective on September
lst, and to continue for one year. The agrcement provides for
perfectly balanced cxports and imports between Italy and
Japen-"Menchukuo" in value on the basis of the pound sterling.
(f)
Germany.
All the Japanese pepers cerried enthusiastic reports
of the welcone given to the Hitler Jugend on August 18.
The 30 delegates represontin ycuth organizations in Germeny
arrived on a cood will mission to Japan in roturn for a
similar mission which wont se months e frr Japen to
Germeny. Eiaberate preneraticns had been made for the reception
anc entertainment (f the ofrici-l mission while in Japan.
The Japenese pepers seemed particularly impressed with the
good health ef the young Gornens and the fact that none of
the delegates were wearine lasses.
III.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.98)
-23~
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL SITUATION.
(a) Political Parties.
During the month of August there were further reports in
the press concerning movements for & single political party
in Japan. On August 23, it was stated in the JAPAN TIMES,
giving its source as tho MIYAko ncwspaper, that Fusanosuke
Kuhara, formerly believod to have been implicated in the Febru-
ary 26, 1936, Incident, is determined to instigate a one-party
movement. He is supposedly supported by the Justice Minister
and the Minister for Education in the Goverument. It was also
rumored that the Minseito and the Seiyukai parties werc negotiat-
ing with the possible intent for emalgamation and that they were
hoping to form a new party under the leadership of General Ugaki,
the Forcign Minister. While these and other reports can only be
considered as rumors, they do indicate what is believed to be
a definite trend in Japanese politics away from multi-party
organization and toward c single netional party.
It was rumored in the press on August 26 that somc of the
political parties were advocating an extraordinary session of
the Diet to debate measures for handline the situation after the
fall of Hankow. While thcre mey be some discontent in party
circles it is not believed necessary to give serious consideration
to such rumors as this for an extraordinary Diet sessbn.
The general trend in Japanesc political affairs seems to be,
as it is in cconomic affairs, one of coordination and consolidation.
(b)
Central Organ for China Affairs.
There were many indications during the month under review
that the project for the formation of a politicnl organ to control
military, foreien, financial and industrial affairs in the occupied
creas

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
areas in China continued to bo the subjcct of serious negotiations
within the verious groups comprising the Government under Prime
Minister Konsyc. It has not as yet been possible to conciliate
the divergent opinions of the two lccding groups composod of the
Army and Navy on the one hand and the Foreign and Financicl
Ministries on the other. There were indications thet every effort
would be made to come to a decision on the "Chinn organ" by or
before the fall of Hankow.
(c) Mobilization
The Government continued its gradual process of mobilization
of the nation, and on August 25 promulgated an Imperial Ordinance
concerning the registration of physicians, dentists, pharmacists,
and nurses. It is cxpected that this registration of technical
capabilities of the population will be extended to all branches of
technical knowledge. While not thc first stop, it is onc of the
most important yet taken by the Government on the basis of the
powers granted by the National General Mobilization Law passed the
last session of the Dict. Prcctically all other mecsures taken
by the Governmont for the mobilization and control of materil
resources have been on thc basis of temporary lcgislation passed
at the last session of the Dict as an emereency measure and not
as e permanent feature such as is the National Mobilization Law.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
In an interview with the pruss on August 13 the Finance
Minister, Mr. Seihin Ikcda, predicted that the coming budget
would

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
would amount to a "fairly large figure" and that the guiding
principle will be the accomplishment of the objectives of the
campaign in China. Cn the question of tax reform the Finance
Ministor stated that ho had not yet formulated any definite
opinions but that he did believe some roform was necessary
in the collection of taxes and that it was necessary that there
be a "fair burden of tcxation". Serious chanees in taxation
are not foreseen at this time. In fect, it was reported in the
YOMIURI SHIMBUN towards the cnd of the month that high officials
in the Finance Ministry, with the cssent of the Minister for
Finance had declded that there would be no further increase
in taxes but that increcsed expenditures would bo met by issuance
of national bonds. It was predicted on August 3o that the
coming budgets for the Army and Novy would be considerably
uxpanded over the figure for last year.
On August 17 the Financc Ministry announccd that it would
issue 400 million yen of China Incidont bonds, threc million
yen of which were to have a face value of ton yen and to be sold
to the general public.
VT.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINAICIAL CONDITIONS.
(e) Foreign Trade Figures.
Preliminary forsien trade rigures for the month of August
revealed en excess of exports over imports, with imports declining
some 32 per cent from the figuro for the stme month last yeor,
nd exports inercesin about 3-3/4 pur cent over last year. The
decline in imports was brought  bout by the present stringent
rustrictions. The increase in ir is is largely to be attributed
to huavy shipments to yen-bloc countrics.
Gereral

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.98)
-26-
General economic and financial conditions in Japan during
the month of August continuod to be in a somewhet indefinite
and uneasy condition. Tho nation's entire cconomic and financial
organizction is bcing subject to a process vaguely described as
national mobilization. This necessarily hinders long range
planning or commitment. The situction was, however, somewhat
cased by the official policy of oncoureging cxports and of giving
some definite aid to smell menufacturers and industrialists.
There were in addition other cids to the general situation such
as the improved economic conditions in the United States, the
trade agreement betwecn Japun-"Manchukuo" and Italy and the truce
agreement with the U.S.S.R.
Progress continued to be madc on plans for the cconomic
development of China with the cstablishment of a North China.
Telegraph and Telephone Company, Central China Elcctric Telegraph
Company, North China Cement Company and the Shanghai Inland
Navigation Company.
Considerable prominence was given in the prcss to the
spontaneous subscription by the public to tho shcres of the
North China Development Company and the Central Chinn Promotion
Company offered on August 12 as indicating the popularity of
Japan's ecenomic prorem for Chine.
These sheres were heavily
oversubscribed on the first day.
Further control mcasures of comioditics and reguletions
furthering natienal mobilization were instituted. Thcse restric-
tions on commodities are constaitly bein changed or added to and
represent a considerable decree of trial and crror in the establish-
ing of a nationl mobiliz tion of thc cconomic structurc.
(b)

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.96)
-27-
(b) Financicl Trends.
The stock market while somewhet improved over lcst month
continued to be dull, the money mcrket was casy with little or
no chnnge. Foreign oxchange was venk with a roduction in
the yen-dollar quoteticns owin to the trend of the dollar-
sterling quotetions. Postel savings continued to increcse with
approximctely 71 million doposited for the month of August.
Japan is still exporioncing exchango difficultios and some 80
million yen in gold were shipped to tho United States in the
month of August bringing the cmount of gold shipped this year
to ¥467,000,000. Industricl statistics werc largcly unavailable
being considered military secrets. The grectest cctivity was
of course in the heavy munitions industrius.
Severe storms during the month crused consierable
agricultural dancge. Estinates were not veilable for loss to
the rico crop but were steted in the press to be severe. Summer
and autumn cocoen production reportodly damaged from 15 to
20 per cont, whect opproxinctoiy 11 pur cont, barley 5 per cent
and rye 14.7 per cont. Dencges to tlie railway since April 1st
of this year were stated to h ve been ¥8, ooo, 0oo.*
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN CONMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to ron rt.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to roport.
IX.
LABOR
Nothine to repert.
K. MISCELLANEOUS
Nothing te roport.
k
Date for this scction obtained Irom the Conmercial Attaché.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatches selit to the Department
during August 1938
No.
Date
Subject
3163
August 2
Nitsubishi Monthly Circular
3164
August 4
Renewal of Subscription
3165
August 4
Bureau of Animal Industry Order 366-Order
to prevent the introduction into the United
States of rinderpest and foot-and-mouth
disease.
3166
August 5
Quarterly report of personnel residing in
Government-owned buiidings.
3167
August 8
Diplomatic visa report.
3168
August 8
Letters rogatory in the case of John Powell
and Company, Incorporated, vs. Steamship
"SOYO MARU", Her Engines, etc., Toyo Kisen
Kabushiki Kaisha, and Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha.
3169
August 9
Exchange of publications, Social Security
Board.
3170
August 9
Japanese Goodwill Mission to the Philippine
Islands.
3171
August 9
Annual Convention of the Association of
Military Surgeors of the United States.
3172
August 10
Report of Cholera Asiatica Cases in Japan.
3173
August 10
Visit of U.S.S. MlRBLEHEAD to Yokohama.
3174
August 10
Permits Granted for Return of American Citizens
to the Interior of China.
3175
Aueust 10
Japanese police restrictions in relation to
Diploratic Immunities.
3176
August 10
British Re resentations Regarding Japanese
Violation of British Rights in China.
3177
Auust 10
Political Report :or July, 1938.
178
August 11
Report of Cholera As atica Cases in Japan.
3179
August 11
Compensation Paid Ini ormant for Information
Furnished Regarding Smuegling of Smoking
Opium ex S.. AS. MRU.
180
August 11
Japanese interierence with shipment of wood
cil of Werner G. Snith Company on the Yangtze
River.
]ε1
∴ugust 11
Reported St tements of Mr. Stuart J. Fuller
at Inter:tional Ooium Committee.

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
o.
Date
Subject
3182
August 11
Damage to Property of merican Reform Mission
et Yochow, Hunan, China, as Result of Bomb-
ing by Japanese Plane.
3183
August 12
Protection of Foreign Interests in Hankow Area.
3184
August 11
Chinese Salt Administration.
3185
August 12
Wuhu General Hospital.
3186
August 12
Organization of Oil Companies in North China.
3187
August 12
Japanese Occupation of Property of University
of Shanghai.
3188
August 12
Departure of Mr. Penigno Ramos from Japan
for the Philippine Islends.
3189
August 5
W. Jefferson Davis Copyright.
3190
August 13
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3191
August 17
Chinese Customs.
3192
August 17
Tobaccc Monopoly in Shensi.
3193
August 17
Congress of Militory Medicine and Pharmacy.
3194
August 18
Thomson Case.
3195
∴ugust 20
Sick leave of Mr. andrews.
5196
Allg ust 20
Diplomatic Visa Report.
197
August 25
Central China (Boone) College, Wuchang; Bombing
198
August 23
St. Hildu's Schocl for Girls-Nuchang; Bombing.
5199
Aueust 23
Convent or St. ine, Wuchong; Bombing.
3200
August 23
Sov  th y Advurtist Mission-Wuchang; Bombing.
3201
August 23
Americon Mission Properties in Wuchang.
3202
August 23
Moreotics Smugeling SS FRssIDENT JEFFERSON.
5:03
August 23
Letcer for Count Uchida.
3204
August 23
Personnol of Concili tion Treaty Commissions.
3805
Aut ust 23
Cumburlend Presbyterian Mission, Conton; Bombin
1206
August 24
Jepanese Electrical Industries.
07
August 22
inglo-Jon nese Relations.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
Date
Subjoct
3208
August 24
British Rights in China.
3209
August 25
Books ror the Dupertment Library.
3210
August 26
Sino-Japanos Conflict; Good Offices.
3211
August 26
Home Let ve for I. J. L: ing.
3212
August 26
Loneucge Examin.tion of Mr. Bruner.
3213
August 27
Frinciscan Catholic Mission, Yanghsin; Bombing.
3214
August 27
American Lutheren Mission, Ichong; Bombing.
3215
August 29
Publicntion for the Deprrtment.
3216
August 29
Fr-nch Soldier Incident nt Peiping.
3217
August 29
Chinese Customs.
3218
August 29
Chinese Slt Administration.
3219
Aucust 29
Wireless Equipment Emborgo.
5220
August 29
Jap: nese Budget, 1938-1939.
3221
August 29
hiica end Skins Enborgo.
8222
August 29
Ja nese Attack on CNAC plane.
3223
August 29
For ign Shipring on the Y.ngtze; MoNoc.CY Case
6224
Lu ust 29
Ruturn ol British Subjects to Kiukiang.
225
August 29
Japnese Attack on Jmpan in British Terri-
torial Noters.
3226
August 30
Foreign viation in China.
:227
August 30.
Diplomatic Vis. Ronert.

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING AUGUST 1938
No.
Date
Subject
507
August 2, 5 p.m.
North China embargo on hides
and skins.
508
August 2, 6 p.m.
Soviet-Japanese clash at
Changkufeng.
509
August 2, 9 p.m.
Hankow safety zone.
510
August 2, 10 p.m.
Sino-Japanese conflict:
good offices.
511
August 3, 2 p.m.
Visit of U.S.S. MARBLEHEAD.
512
August 3, 4 p.m.
Search for HAWAIIAN CLIPPER.
513
August 3, 5 p.m.
Occurrence of cholera in Japan.
514
August 4, 2 p.m.
Requisitions.
515
August 4, 5 p.m.
Cholera in Japan.
516
August 4, 6 p.m.
Soviet border clash.
517
August 5, 6 p.m.
Thomson case.
518
August 7, 10 a.m.
Search for HAWAIIAN CLIPPER.
519
August 7, 1 p.m.
Search for HAWAIIAN CLIPPER.
520
August 8, 3 p.m.
North China embargo on hides
and skins.
521
August 8, 4 p.m.
Search for HAWAIIAN CLIPPER.
522
August 8, 5 n.m.
Wuhu General Hospital Clinic.
523
August 10, 9 a.m.
Embassy repairs.
524
August 10, 11 a.m.
Japanese gold shipments.
525
August 10, noon
Search for HAWAIIAN CLIPPER.
526
August 11, 1 p.m.
Soviet border incident.
527
August
11, 5 p.m.
Thomson case.
528
August 11, 9 p.m.
North China restrictions on
oil shipments.
529
August 11, 10 p.m.
University of Shanghai - occupa-
tion by Japanese forces.

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
-2.
No.
Date
Subject
530
August 11, 11 p.m.
Werner G. Smith wood oil case.
531
August 12, noon
Thomson case.
532
August 12, 4 p.m.
For Salmon from Vice Consul Brown.
533
August 14, 11 a.m.
Codes.
534
August 15, 9 p.m.
Sino-Japanese conflict - mediation
good offices.
535
August 16, noon
Hides and skins embargo.
536
August 16, 2 p.m.
Thomson case.
537
August 16, 6 p.m.
Bombing of mission properties
at Wuchang.
538
August 16, 7 p.m.
Proposed passage of U.S.S.
MONOCACY from Kiukiang to Shanghai.
539
August 16, 8 p.m.
Good offices in Sino-Japanese
conflict.
540
August 16, midnight
Wuchang bombing.
541
August 17, 1 a.m.
Search for HAWAIIAN CLIPPER.
542
August 18, 1 p.m.
Good offices in Sino-Japanese
conflict.
543
August 18, 2 p.m.
Probection of British interests
in China.
544
August 18, 7 p.m.
Codes.
845
August 18, 8 p.m.
Passage of MONCCACY to Shanghai.
546
August 18, 9 p.m.
Codes.
547
August 19, 9 a.m.
Telegrams forwarded to
Anbassador Johnson.
548
August
19, 2 p.m.
Weather reports from mandated
islands.
549
August
19, 4 p.m.
Visits of U.S.S. GOLD STAR.
550
August 22, 11 a.m.
Embassy repairs.
551
August 22, 5 p.m.
Paper wood pulp import control.
552
August 23, 1 p.m.
Japanese gold shipments.

=== Page 312 === (confidence 1.00)
Date
Subject
553
August 24, 5 p.m.
Japanege press comment on the
Oscretary's and the President's
speeches.
554
August 25, 6 p.m.
Bombing of plane of China
National Aviation Corporation.
555
August 25, 9 p.m.
China National Aviation Corporation.
556
August 25, 10 p.m.
China National Aviation Corporation.
557
August 26, noon
Whangpoo Conservancy.
558
August 26, 4 p.m.
Restriction on wireless equipment
at Tientsin.
559
August 26, 7 p.m.
Bombing of C N A C plane.
560
August 26, 8 p.m.
Bombing of Southern Baptist
Mission at Pingtu.
561
August 27, 11 a.m.
Bombing of C N A C plane.
562
August 29, noon
Arrest in Japan of fugitive
from justice.
563
August 29, 6 p.m.
Japanese spokesman's statement
concerning foreign aviation in
China.
564
August 30, 10 ε.m.
Embassy repairs.
565
August 30, noon
Search for HAWAIIAN CLIPPER.
566
August 30, 1 p.m.
Whangpoo conservancy.
567
August 31, 2 p.m.
Leaves of absence, Andrews,' Lyon,
and Allison.
568
August 31, 9 p.m.
China National Aviation Corporation.

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.95)
CIVISION OF
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
DEPARTMENTATE
198 OCT 21 PM 12 02
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, October 6, 1938.
No. 3308.
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
ERE ADVBER
SUBJECT:
SEPTEMBER, 1938.
DEC/17 1938
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
4208
894.00/
oni-miD
Cvision of
FAR EASIGAN AFFAIRS
0241938
COPIES SENT TO
Depariment of State
O.N.I. AND V..D.
OFFICE OF THE ADAER IN
INTERNAIA  A
GLNOV 1 0 1938
The Honorable
00
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
ASISTANT SECRE
St
OF STATE
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
30
July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith
thg Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for
thoumonth of September, 1938.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure
1/ Report No. 144
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Embassy, Moscow
Ambassador Johnson
Consulate Goneral, Shanghai
F/FG
Consulate General, Mukden
Consulate General, Harbin
Consulate, Kobe
Consulate, Osaka
Consulate Dairen
Consulate General, Seoul
In quintuplicate to the Department
800
MWS:0 Ons ufy utand fo ou
79

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 144
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE
MONTH OF SEPTEMBER, 1938.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEX
AND
SUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a! Airplane Flights in China: China National
Aviation Corporation Plane and Pan merican
.1,2,7
Airways..
(b) Menchiang Oil Monopoly..
.3,4
(c) Navigation on the Yangtze.....
.4,5
(d) More. Important Representations Made by the
American Embassy During the Month of September.5,6,7,8,
II. RELATIONS WITH CTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) The Crisis in Europe: The President's
.10,11,12
Message.
(b) Great Britain......
.13
(c) China
1. Military Operations......
.13,14,15
2. General Relations.
.15,16
(d) France.....
.16,17
(e) Relations with the League of Nations......
.17
(f) Poland.........
.17
(g) Peru
.18,19
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL SITUATION.
.19,20
(a) The Cabinet..
(b) Statements by Government Officials........
.21
(c) Changes in the Diplomatic Service.......
.21
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
.22
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITICNS...........22,23,24.
(a) Foreign Trade......
.22,23
(b, eneral Conditiors.....
23,24
(c) Financial Trenis......
.24
(a) Shipping......
24,25
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to Report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR
Nothing to report.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS..
.26

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.97)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Airplane Flights in China:
China National Aviation Corporation Plane and
Pan American Airways.
11
It will be recalled that on August 26 the Ambassador made
representations to the Minister for Foreign ffairs against the
attack by Japanese naval planes upon the commercial airplane
belonging to the China National Aviation Corporation* and that
General Ugaki replied on August 3l by making a general disclaimer
of responsibility. In accordance with the Department's t elegraph-
ic instruction of September l4** Mr. Grew addressed a further note
to General Ugaki. The Ambassador's note pointed out that the at-
tacked plane was flying over a route which was wellknown and well
established; that the service was in accordance with a regularly
advertised schedule out of Hong Kong; that the plane carried
identification marks (Chinese characters) 5 x 4-1/2 feet in size
with the separate lines over five inches wide; that this informa-
tion could have been easily evailable to the Japanese authorities;
that it is the opinion of the Americen Government that the ex-
ercise of reasonable care might havo averted the incident in
question.
The Japanese Government, in its note of August 31, stated
that it held the view that the incident docs not involve the in-
terests of third Powers. In refutntion of this point the Ambassa-
dor's note reiterated that the life of merican nationals was
directly imperilled and that loss was suffored by Americen interests
vested in the China National Aviation Corporation. The note further
asserted that, obviously the incident was and is the material con-
cern of the American Government and people, and also that the Am-
erican
★
Embassy's Monthly Roport for August, peges 1,2,3,4.
*x
Department's telerrim No. 316, September 14, 1938, and
Embassy's despatcn No. 3265, September 22, 1938.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
erican Government maintains the right to call to the ettention or
the Japanese Govornment any and all instancos of the imperilling
of American lives and rights in China by Japanese military forces.
It urgently requested that the Japaneso Government take steps form-
ally to implement its repeated assurances with regard to the rights
and interests of American nationals and more especially with regard
to the operation of Japanese military planes so as to remove the
possibility of attacks on the lives or proporty of non-combatant
civilians in such a way as to jeopardize the lives and interests
of American nationals.
The Ambassador's note was delivered by Mr. Dooman to Mr. Yoshizaw:
Director of the American Bureau of the Foreign Office, on September l
At the same time Mr. Dooman took occnsion to read to Mr. Yoshizawa
as under instruction from the Anerican Government part of the Depart
ment's telegram* stating in essence that the American Government
cannot but regard this attack as constituting one more of the mount-
ing total of instances of the failure of Japanese military forces
to exorcise ordinary c:re in identifying the objects of their attacks
or to manifust ordinary restraint end consideration for human lives
and suffering and that this is a mattor which calls for prompt and
offective romediel action on the part of the Japanese Government.
In conncction with this incident various stotements by officials
of the Japanese Government, particularly the reported statement of
the Japanese spokusman t Shonghai, in attempting to justify the
attack, brought up the question of t h: right of nerial navigation
in China by plancs bulonging to third parties.
On September 1, the Embassy inquired at the Foroign Office con-
cerning this statement; and on September 3 received from the Foreign
officc
Dupartment's te1egrom No, 317. Septomber 14, 1938.

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.90)
4-
a formal note was sent by the Ambassador to the Minister for Fo.ci
Affairs concerning the oil monopcly in Mengchiang. Similar reprc-
sentations vere made by the British and T.trh missions in Tokyo
On September 29 the Foreisn Office inf ormce tle Embassy that of ici
notification that the projected cil monopoly for Inner Mongolia hed
been cancelled would be sent to the Erubassy.* It is believed that t
decisive policy of non-participation by foreign oil companies in any
plan for monopolization played a large part in bringing about the
elimination of the proposed monopoly. On September 30, the Embassy
received from the Foreign Office a note which stated that the Inner
Mongolia Federated Committee had already, on September 24, 1938,
abolished the ordinance which had been promulgated for the control
of the distribution of oil products in the Inn r Mengolia area.
The Foreign Minister also said thet he had toen informed that
this action on the part of Inner Monegelis was txen solely from
the broad viewpoint of consideration for the int rests of the
foruign oil compcnius and of  dusire to obtain their cooperation
in the distribution of oil.**
(c) Navigaticn on the Yonu.s.
On Suptember 23 tie Embassy ne in apprerchud the Foreign Offic.
in nccordance with the eutherization conteince in a tolesrem re-
ceived fron th Tepartmont** coneurnire th riy it uf foreien v ssel
to navigate the Yanatso Riy r. Furthor appropriate nd omphatic
represent tions re m   tas bosis eof information received fron
Nenking in the rly  pt mber.****
lr
Embassy s te1 m . 4. Sertembor 29, 1938.
**
Embassy'e teeme te, ortot r s, 1obd.
***
Devartment
,Co terter 11, 1938.
***<

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
Up to the close of the period under review no definite or
roroien
conclusive reply had been r eceived from the Japanese/office. This
and similar issues may have to await the fall of Hankow for a
relaxation of the attitude of Japanese forces in China.
(d) More Important Representations Made by the American
Embassy during the Month of September.
On the basis of information contained in a telegram from Chefoo
and conformably with the Lepartment's instructions* the Embassy
delivered to the Foreign Office on September 23 an informel note
fully describing the behaviour of the Commender of the Japanese
naval landing force at Chefoo and stating that the action of the
Japanese naval officer in threatening to evict the American Con-
sulate from the premisos which it is occupying under leaso is
believed to represent an irresponsible statement by e subordinate
officer; and that the act of affixing a Japanese naval sign to
the gate of the Consulate nd proposing to replace thet sign by
n stone inside the consular premises was objuctionablc and entire-
ly lacking in comity. It was urgently ruqucsted that instructions
be issued to cruse Japanesc ropresontativ-s at Chefoo to refrain
from interference with or thre'ts to the Americ'n Consulate.
A telceram deted Suptomber 22 from Chefoo steted that the
Japanese navel commonder had colled t th. Consulate th t morning
and hed removed the sign soying that neither the sign nor stone
was necessary. It would apper thet the Jep nese naval forces
at Chefoo had realized the bsurdity of thoir nction and, of their
own accord, docidud to pursue a more retional approach.
On
* Department's telegram No. 327, Suptemb r 19, nd Embassy's
tologrrm No. e17, September 23, 1938.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.96)
-6-
On September 5, the Embassy received from the Forei gn Offico
a note verbal: dated September 3rd setting forth the conditions
under which the Japanese forces will not attack the area set asids
as the Hankow safety zone.* It wns stated that the maneuvering of
the Japanese forces outside the area must not be hindered from
within the area; that absolutely no military advantage of the
area be taken by the Chinese Army and that no Chinese forces be
present within the area. In reply to this note verbale and in
conformance with the Department's instructions** on September 12
the Embassy in reply addressed a note verbale to the Foreign Of-
fice. It was stated that the views of the American Government
in regard to the military ope. ations in and against a definite-
ly arranged and specified area at Hankow must be well known to
both the Japanese and Chinese Governments, and that the American
authorities cannot assume any responsibility to ither sicc for
the actions or undertakings of the other side.
The note furtnor pointed out that the Amuricen authoritius
have from time to time supplica the Japanese uthoritics with
maps showing the location of American propertics in China, in-
cludi s propertius at Hankow and uchang.
This has been done
sololy for the purpose of facilitating the rotection of American
1 fe and property ond without prujudic: to the gunural rights in-
volved.
It wes mphasizud tht the specificd ru in Hankow con-
sists to a grert oxt nt cf for ign-owned proporty end thet a con-
ciderable number of Anericen citizcns are cmengst the foreign com-
munity concontreted in that ren. Fin lly, the Embassy's noto
verb-lu statod th t wh:t ver the outcomo of the efforts to es-
t-blish s sofety zone in H nkow nd to sugr e t that zone from
11 milit ry  ctiviti s, the Am ican Gov rnment fully expects that
the
y:
Embessy's telecrom No. 577, Suptomber 5, 1935.
Dupartinent's t leerrm No. 309, Soptumber 9 nd Embnssy's
telegrm Nc. 594, Suptcmbur 12, 1938.

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
the Japenose forces will so conduct thoir activities as to avos
injury to American lives and proporty and a full reservation of
rights was made in the evunt of the failure of the Japenese forces
to so conduct their opertions.
The question of romoval of the rustrictions on the importation
of wireless equipment in North China was again t aken up with the
Foreign Office on September 6 when a note was presented to the
Foreign Office. It referred to the Embassy's aide mémcire of
August 26 and pointed out that, althoueh there has been some mod-
ification of the embargo, the remaining restrictions and the
wavelength specifications (which in effect bar long wave sets of
American manufacture while admitting those of Japanese manufac-
ture) amount to the continued complete embargo on allmAmerican radic
equipment. Such concessions of practical benefit to American in-
terests as have thus far been given amount to nothing more than the
issuance to two of the eight American importers concerned of import
permits covering radio equipment ordered prior to the imposition
of the embargo. It was aeain requested that restrictions be re-
moved and that measures be taken for the prompt alleviation of Ameri.
can importers in North China in respect to the equipment ordered
before the embareo was imposed. On September 9, the Embassy re-
ceived a memorandum dated Sunt mber 5 from the Foreign Office in
which it was stated that even before the establishment of the
provisional government at Peiping, it had beon necessary to obtain
rermits to import wir luss equipment; that although an ombargo
had been placed on only "all weve" sets the umbargo is applied with-
out discrimination to the products of all countries alik, includin
Japen; thet the embargo is necussary for the maintenance of pence
and order; that it is considered to be an unaviidable emergency
nction; that, finally, "long wave" receivers may is formorly be
imported.

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
imported. It was also statei in the Foraign Office note that the
Provisionol Government in Peiping at that time was ongaged in
studying the problem of llowing the importation of apparctus
ordered prior to the nforcoment of the embargo.
The question still remrined an unsettled issue at the end of
September.
Conform-bly with the Dopartment's instructions* and on the
basis of telegraphic informetion obtained from the American
Consulate at Canton**, the Embassy made a formal protest to the
Foreign Office on September 19 concerning the bombing of the
Baptist Memorial Hos ital at Nuchow.***
The Ambassador's note
to the Foreign Office referred to "this unwarranted attack which
directly imperilled American life and destroyed American property
used for humanitarian purposes". The issuance o1 instructions to
prevent the recurrence of similar acts was urgently requested.
On September 24 the Embassy received a note dated September
23 in reply to its note of August 29 concerning the Mangpoo
Conservancy. The Foreign Minister in his note to the Ambassador
pointed out that this case was the subject of negotietions between
the Conservancy Board and the Japenese Consul General in Shanghai
end stated that in his opinion continued negotiations at Shanghei
was the most suitable procedure nd that he hed instructed the
Jepanese Consul General in Shanghoi to undeavor to ruech a solution.
The Ambassador, cfter consultation with his British collcegue,
recommended to the Deportment that the Japonese proposel for
local negotintions at Shanghei concorning this question should
be token up in view of the ftct that an exchango of notes in
Tokyo
*
Depertment's tolugrem No. 329, September 20, 1938.
**
Canton's telgrcm or Soptumbur 1E, 193e.
***
Embassy's tc1gram No. 61t, 3.ptumbur 22, 1938.
****
Embassy's telugrrm No. o19, Suptumber 24, 193e.

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.97)
-9-
okyo would in all probability have little effect in reaching a
settlement and also because of the apparently advanced stage of
negotiations in Shanghai.* In view of the discretion allowed the
Ambassador in the Department's telegraphic instructions concern-
ing this question, further representations were not made to the
Foreign Office.**
During the month of September the Embassy,in conformity with
the Department's standing instructions addressed notes to the
Foreign Office concerning losses occasioned by the Japanese
forces to American property in China in the following cases:
Standard Vacuun Oil Company, Tientsin district.
A Viola Smith, Shanghai.
Texas Company (China) Ltd. In transit in Tungan area.
M. S. Bates, Nanking.
Dr. R. F. Brady, Nanking.
2
Charles H. Riggs, Nanking.
Poplar Grove Farms, Fed. Inc., U.S.A., Shanghai.
Richard Ottley Jackson, Shanghai.
Prebyterian Mission, Hoihow, Hainan Island.
Stout Memorial Hospital, South China Baptist Mission, Wuchow
Standard Vacuun Oil Company, Canton.
South China Cumberland Presbyterian Mission, Canton.
Central China Mission of the Christian and Missionary
Alliance, Tatung and Tsingyanghsien, Anhwei.
Johnson Memorial Library of Methodist Episcopal Mission,
Nanchang, Kiangsi.
Baptist China Direct Mission, Ta Wen K'ou, Shantung.
Hillerd Rudolph Roberts, Canton.
Methodist Episcopal Mission, Tanyangchen, Anhwei.
Embassy's telegram No. 622, pter ber 27, 1938.
*4.
Department's telegram No. 32e, S pt mber 18, 1938.

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
1.
RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a)
The Crisis in Europe: The President's Message.
The troulie in Europe which at one point was even successful
in driving the hostilities in China from the f ront page of the
Japanese press, was, of course, closely and carefully followed by
the Japanese Government and the more intelligent people. It pro-
vided some stimulus to the rabid nationalists who pressed for an
official declaration of sympathy for, and support of Germany. On
the whole the press was generally appreciative of the strenuous ef-
forts of Britain and France for a pacific solution, although it made
it perfectly clear that its sympathies lay entirely with Germany
and with German aspirations in Czechoslovakia. The appeal of the
President of the United States was prominently displayed, and for
the most part, sympathetically interpreted. The Ambassador's trans-
mission of the request of the Americen Government to Japan to assist
in t he urging of a continuence of negotiations on Germany was also wide
ly published. Although the general reaction in Japan seemed to be
sympathy with Germany in its aspirations, at the same time relief at
the avoidance of war wns expressed. The Foreign Office on September 14
issued a statement* to the effect that Japan "is prepared as ever to
join forces with Germany and Itely for fighting against Red opera-
tions in eccordance with the spirit of the enti-Comintern Agreement."
8
In conformance with the Department's telegraphic instructions
received in a circular telegrem on September 28 the Ambassador im-
medictely requested an appointment with the Minister for Foreign
Affairs in order to deliver the message of the Americen Government,
proposing that Japan take ection similar to that of tho President in
irging a continuance on Germany and Czechoslov: kia of efforts for a
pacific
*
Embassy's telegram No. 609, Suptember 20, 1938.

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
-1
pocific solution. Prior to the Ambassador's interview a copy of
this message was delivered to the Foreign Office in order t hat tino
might be had for studying the message (the original copy was later
handed by the Ambassador to the Foreign Minister). In his inter-
view with the Foreign Minister, the Ambassador stated that he had
called pursuant to urgent instructions from the American Government,
which, in view of the utmost gravity of the situation in Europe and
the threat of war with its disastrous consequences for civilization,
was of the opinion that no possible step looking toward the main-
tenance of peace should be overlooked or omitted. The Ambassador
referred to the appeal by the President of the United States to the
Chaneellor of the German Reich, the President of Czechoslovakia, and
the Prime Ministers of reat Britain and France that they should
keep the present negotiations alive and attempt to reach a just
settlement through pacific means.
The Ambassador presented the opinion of the American Government
that if the Chief of State or the Government of Japan were to send a
comparable appeal to Germany and Czechoslovekia the cumulative effect.
of such an expression of oninion might even at this late dete con-
tribute to a pacific solution. The Ambassador emphasized that this
suggestion by the Government of the United States does not at all
imply any opinion os to the merits of either side of the dispute.
In reply, Foreign Minister Ugaki stated that while the Japanese
Government fully agreed with the action taken by tho President of
the United States, Japan could take no action until after careful
consideration from the point of viow of its own position. Tho
Foreign Minister also stuted that Japan, although unfortunately
engaged

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
engaged at the present time in hostilities in Chinn, seeks to es-
tablish there conditions of peace and is at the sene tine hopeful
of a peaceful settlement between Germeny end Czechoslovakia. He
further stated that there is a question of the pcssible efficasy
of Japan taking action similar to that of the President.*
In view of Japan's somewhet compromising situation at the pres-
ent time the statement by the Foreign Minister could be expected
to be almost the only action which Japan would take in urging a
pacific solution.
According to the official Domei news gency, the Foreign
Office issued the following statement concerning the Ambassador's
interview with the Foreign Minister:
"At 2.50 o'clock this afternoon, the
American Ambassador, Mr. Joseph C. Grew, called
on Foreign Minister Kazushige Ugaki and, in accord-
ance with instructions from his Goveriment, proposed
that the Japanese Government take measures to make a
proposal to Germany nd Czechoslovakin to ceek a peace-
ful settlement of their issue in eccordance with the
nature of the advice tendered by the American President
to them.
"In reply, Ceneral Ugt ki seid that Jepen is desirous
of a peaceful settlement of the issue between Germany and
Czechoslov kin end expressed respuct for and approval of
the carnest wishes on the part of the American President.
He further said that Japan will eive the American pro-
posal serious consideretion from its own standpoint and
take appropri: te mensures in connection with it."
(b)
* Embassy's telegrom No. 628, Septumber 28, 1938; Department's
circular teleeram reccived September 28, 1936.

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
(b) Great Britain.
During the month of September, relations with Great Britain
remained in a practical impasse. As the British Ambassador was
unable to obtain from the Foreign Minister in his conversations
with the latter any satisfaction concerning the five principal
British desiderata, and as the Japanese attitude which had stiffen-
ed during August remaired coldly formal, little or no progress was
made.
During the course of the month under review, the British Em-
bassy made formal representations et the Foreign Office concerning
the following matters: Whangpoo Conservancy Board; Mengchiang oil
monopoly*; Chinese Customs Administration**; Chinese salt adminis-
tration; the right of navigation of the Yangtze by third party
nationnls; the safety zone at Hankow; return of British nationals
to their property in Nanking***; occupation of British property
by Japanese forces in China****; British cleims for indemnity in
the Yangtze River incidents of December 5, 11 and 12, 1937*****.
(c) China.
(1) Military Operations.******
793.9
Military operaticns in China during the month of September
occupied practically the same theatres as that described in the
Embassy's report for last month.*******
In southwest Shansi the
Japanese forces continued fighting close to the Yellow River but
did not effect a crossing. At Yuanku Chinese forces pushed across
the Yellow River and took refuge in the mountains to the north.
This
* Embassy's despatch No. 3237, September 14, 1938.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 3257, September 22, 1938.
*** Embassy's despatch No. 3268, September 22, 1938.
****Embassy's despatches No. 3254 and No. 3267 of September 22,19
*****Embassy's despatch No. 3248, September 21, 1938.
******prepared with the cooperation of the Military Attaché's
Office.
*******Embassy's Monthly Report for August, pages 12, 13 and 14.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
s resulted in a diversion of Japanese forces from their main
drive toward the railway south of the Yellow River to a "mopping
up" campaign against these Chinese. Little or no progress was
made by the Japanese in this area.
In a similar manner the push from Luchow seemed to have "bogged
down" and made very little progress during September. The mountains
in front of Hankow, the objective, are for the time being proving to
be an effective barrier. This particular movement has been divided
into two groups, one, going westward at right angles to the direct
line to Hankow, succeeded on September 16 in taking Kwangchow. The
second group, which is following a more direct line towards Hankow,
turned into the mountains to the southwest, making Maching its ob-
jective.
The Japenese forces on the north bank of the Yangtze were
able by September 29 to capture the river fort at Tienkiachen,
a point roughly 70 miles by air line from Hankow. They met with
stiff resistence on the part of the Chinese forces. The Japanese
moving up the river on the south bank were successful in occupying
positions epproximately corresponding to those on the north bank.
The Japanese forces south of the Yangtze River, which had
turned southward toward Teien also were experiencing vigorous re-
sistance and wore making only slight progress at the expense of a
considerable number of casualties. The appearance of a group of
Japanese forces to the west of Teian indicated a movement looking
to the surrounding und cutting off of Teian. While this flanking
movement to the south has little direct importance in the actual
capture of Hankow, it is effective in maintaining large numbers
of Chinese forces in that area and preventing their aiding in a
direct defense of Hankow and at the sume time serves as an effective
screen

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
een to protect the main advence following the river.
Guerrilla activities throughcus all the areas under occupa.
tion continued to be a definite prcnlem to the Jupanese. it is
to be noted, lowever, that the nunber of engagements with guerrillas
reported in the Japenese press was cencideiably cualier tuan thet
reported for last month.
. Most of tho incidents of clashes with ir-
regular Chinese forces which wore noted in the Jepanese press cen-
terod around Hangchow and in Shantung Province. Considerable pub-
licity was given to the sending of a very large contingent of Japan-
ese forces which landed at Tangku in September for the express pur-
pose of wiping out the guurrillc activities in North China in gen-
eral. The actual destination of these forces is, of course, a
military secret. Undoubtedly the publicity given at the time of
their arrival in China has considerable political significance.
Aerial operations followed the general pattern since the be-
ginning of hostilities in that Army planes continued to cooperate
with front line troop operations whereas the Navy devoted most of
its aerial activities to long range bombing as well as assisting
in the levelling of Chinese forces obstructing the advance of gun-
boats up the river. It was reported in the Japanese press that
Canton was raided some 38 times during the month of September.
2.
General Relations.
In line with various reports reaching the Embassy, as well
es stories contained in the Japanese press to the effect that there
would soon emerge in China strong governments with which Japan
could carry on relations in a friendly manner, there was inaugurated
in Peiping on September 26 a Federated Committee composed of repre-
entatives of the two provisional government s. of Peiping and Nanking.
Vhile it seemed obvious that there would not be an amalgamation of
she two governments this development did indicate further coopera-
tion

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
-i6~
on between these two provisional régimes under the auspices of t..
Japanese military authorities in control in those areas.
Plans continued to be maue for the prosecution of Japan's
economic development of the occupied areas in China. On September 
it was announced in the JAPAN ADVRTISER that the Cabinet Planning
Board had decided on liquidation of the Kochu Koshi which will be
absorbed by the North China Levelopment Company. A Lomei report of
September 28 stated that two former officials of the South Manchuria
Railway Company, Mr. Tsunetaka Komuchi and Mr. Tsuneo Yamanishi,
have been selected as Vice Presidents of the North China Development
Company and that their names have been submitted to the Cabinet.
A Domei despatch from Tientsin on eptember 27 stated that
hereafter all inhabitants and travellers in North China would be
forced to use federal bank currency only. This is one of the
measures designed to prevent the flow of yen currency to Shanghai
and to increase the circulation of Federal Reserve Bank currency.
It was further stated that the cooperation of the Japanese Army
authorities would be sought to prevent the flow of yen currency into
Shanghai from North China.
(a) France.
Two incidents illustrative of the general tension between French
and Japanese authorities in China occurred during the month. A
decision of the Japanese authorities in Tientsin to require evacua-
tion of all Japanese from the British and French Concessions in
that city was announced in the press on September l to be forth-
coming. This report was followed by negotiations between the
authorities concerned which resulted in a postponement of the carry-
ing out of the evacuation order.
On September 22 the Japanese press carried stories of an
incident occurring in the French Concession in Tientsin in which
forty

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
forty policemen of the French Municipal Council assaulted a Jap-
anese military officer, non-commissioned officer, and chauffeur.
The negotiations for the settlemen of this incident are reportea
to be in the hands of the headquarteis of the Japaneye Amy in Norch
China.
In Tokyo, the French Embassy made representations similar to
those made by the American and British Embassies in cases in which
French interests were involved.
(e) Relations with the League of Nations.
It was reported on September 18 that Dr. V. K. Wellington
Koo, chief delegate of China to the League of Nations, requested
the Assembly to take definite steps for the application of sanctions
against Japan.
It was announced on September 20 that the Council of the
League of Nations in a secret session on September 19 unanimous-
ly agreed to accept the Chinese Government's appeal and to apply
Article 17 to the Sino-Japanese conilict. The general reaction
in Japan was calm and the press prophesied immediate rejection of
the League's invitation. The invitation was later officially re-
jected by the Foreign Office. It was suggested in Japan that the
various countries of the Leegue would take little or no action lead-
ing towards sanctions gainst Japan.
(r) Poland.
During the month of September a trade agreement between Poland
and Japan was signca. In essenco, the new trade pact provides for
reciprocally equal purchases and sales between Japan and Poland.
(f)

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
(g) Peru.
On September 14 there arrived in Japen from Peru a group des-
cribed as thc "Peruvian Economic ana Cultural Mission to Japan.*
It is only natural that the visit at this time of such prominent
and substantial Peruvians as compose this mission has given rise
to considerable speculation as to the real or potential purpose of
the Mission. The economic connections betweenthe two countries both
in trade and in vested interests do not represent an item warranting
the expenditure of the time and money necessary for such a venture
either on the part of the Japanese or the Peruvians. The explanation
has been advanced that Japan is attempting to draw Peru within the
orbit of the anti-Comintern group. It is no doubt true that Japan
seeks to obtain as many international friends as possible. However,
the local press has emphasized the cultural and economic aspects of
the Mission and it has been authoritatively denied that there is any
political objective connected with the visit of the Peruvians. The
Embassy was informed that the initiative for the sending of t he
Peruvian Mission to Japan came from quasi-official organizations,
the Society for International Cultural Relations, the Japan Chamber
of Commerce, and the Association of Exporters to Central and South
America. The Embassy has also learned that the Japanese Government
hes no connection with the Mission other than heving extended the
invitation to the Peruvian Government on behalf of these Japanese
organizations. If, however, the visit should pave the way toward
official negotiations for a new treaty of commerce with Peru it
willhave achieved  very desirable result from the standpoint of
ne Japanese.
In
Embassy's despatch No. 3242, September 20, 1938.

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
In line with Japan's obvious desire to extend emigration to
South Africa it may be that such an unofficial visit as this one
would be helpful in creating n atmosphere in South America, and
particularly in Peru, more sympathetic to the Japanese and eventually
open a way to some alleviation of the stringent restrictions on
immigration from Japan.
The Embassy understands that among other propositions being
discussed by various quasi-official Japanese organizations with the
Peruvian Mission are (a) granting to Japanese of fishing concessions
along the coast of Peru, and (b) joirt Japanese-Peruvian development
of Peruvian mineral resources, including petroleum deposits.*
In addition to the various discussions and meetings which have
been held during the month of September, arrangements have been
made for extensive travels in Japan and for a visit to "Manchukuo".
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL SITU.TICN.
(a) The Cabinet.
294
The debate on the formulation of plans for the establishment
of a political institution or central organ for the development,
control, and execution of all affairs involving Japan and C hina has
been the most upsetting influence in the Cabinet since its forma-
tion under Premier Konoe. To the difference of opinions over this
major question has been attributed the resignation of former Foreign
Minister Koki Hirota and the reorganization cf the Cabinet in the
spring of this year. At least a dozen different times during the
month of September there were headlines in the press concerning
compromises, revisions, and deadlocks in the controversy. This
was climaxed suddenly and cntirely unexpectedly by the resignation
of Foreign Minister Ugaki on the t wenty-ninth of Septcmber.
The
* Embassy's telegram No. 611, September 20, 1938.

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.98)
20
The original plen, according to the ASAHI, was for a boarā to
take over the control of the administration of China affairs gen-
erally, economic, financial, cultural, diplomatic, etc., and tue
supervision f the North China Devalopment Compary and the Cortral
China Promotion Company in eddition to handling all matters relating
to Japan's policy towards China.
Although completely authoritative information is unavailable
it is believed that the Foreign Minister's objections, in addition
to being based on legal or constitutional grounds, was that a board
or political institute of such scope was unnecessary at the present
time end particularly was unnecessary es a permanent addition to
Jepan's political structurc. It is obvious also that such an in-
stitution would preempt many of the prerogatives of the Foreign
Office in the conduct of relntions between Japan and Chinn and
between Japen and third Powers with interests in China. Immediate-
ly prior to the Foreign Minister's resignation, however, it was
stated in the press that subordinates of the various Ministries
had been successful in reaching a compromise which was to be ap-
proved the following day.
The vernacular press was practically unanimous in its expres-
sion of regret nnd disappointment for General Ugaki's resignation and
there was considerable censure of his action taken at e time when
unity in political affnirs is most urgently desired. The TokYo
NICHI NICHI went so far as to point to the inspiring example of the
statemanship and spirit cf conciliation and cooperation evidenced
by the European Powers in their recent crisis, as an example, em-
phasizing the contrast showing a lack of conciliation and coopera-
tion in the Konoe Cabinet as evidenced by the resignation of Foreign
Minister Kazushige Ugaki.
(b)

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
(b) Statements by Government Officials.
In a talk bbefore Members of the House of Peers, on September ?
Mr. Seihin Tkeda, Finance and Commerce-Industry Minister, stated
that the nation must be fully prepared to meet the continuance
of economic control measures even long after the fall of Hankow.
This is in complete accord with his statement to the press on Septem-
ber 17 at his villa in Oiso. At that time Mr. Ikeda stated that
the long-term reconstruction of China would require continuance
over a long period of the economic measures taken in Japan to meet
the present emergency.
(c) Changes in the Diplomatic Service.*
In the early part of September the ASAHI predicteā that Mr.
Yoshida, Ambassador to Great Britain, would retire to be succeeded
by Mr. Shigemitsu, Ambassador to Russia; Mr. Togo, Ambassador to
Germany, to go to Moscow, and Lieutenant-General Oshima, to become
Ambassador to Germany. On September 8 it was announced that these
changes have been definitely decided upon, and in addition that
Mr. Toshiro Shiratori, former Minister to Stockholm, was desig-
nated Ambassador to Rome. At the same time there were some rumors
to the effect that Ambassador Saito would return from the United
States and be replaced by the present Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs, Mr. Horinouchi.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V.
Embassy's telegram No. 589, September 8 and Embassy's despatch
No. 3231, September 8, 1938.

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
14.51
Government bonds were issued from time to time during the month
in large blocs. On September 8 the Ministry of Finance issued
Yen 400,000,000 of national bonds. The entire amcunt was acceptea
by the Bank of Japan. The official Government saving program con-
tinued to evidence considerable successes during the month of
September and there was reported an "all time" high record with a
total of Yen 4,226,102,485 at the end of September. This represented
an increase of Yon 71,409,043 over the month of August or an increase
in the number of depositors of 2,034,125.
On September 28 the demands of various Government offices for
appropriations under the budget for 1939-40 fiscal year were an-
nounced. It was stated that the total demands would exceed
¥4,500,000,000 and that the ordinary buaget would total over
¥2,700,000,000.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITICNS.*
(a) Foreign Trade.
Preliminary foreign trade figures for the month of September
indicated that exports hed been approximately Yen 241,958,000 and
imports Yen 205,114,000. The total for the first nine months of
this yeer would therefore total approximately Yen 1,894,571,000
with imports totalling Yen 2,Q01,606,000. This represents a decline
of some 17 per cent in exports and 22 per cent in imports as com-
pared with last year. These figures are not to be taken at their
face value for the reason that in such a brief report as this it
is
*
This section prepered with the assistance of the Commercial
Attaché's Office.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
impossible to teke into consideration various factors, such as
lower commodity prices compared with those of last year. In edditicr
the foreign trade with countries which could supply Japan with
foreign exchange has witnessed a much greater decrease than is shown
by the above percentages. The fact that exports to "yen bloc". 
(Manchukuo" nd other occupied parts of China) areas have been very
heavy has tended to prevent the percentage decline of the total for-
eign trade of Jepan from being as great as it would have been other-
wise. It has been estimated that exports to foreign exchange coun-
tries has declined over 40 per c ent. This means that a further
burden is thrown upon Japan's foreign exchange and the netion's
ability to purchase and sell in foreign exchange (dollar or sterling)
markets).
(b) Generel conditions.
The unsettled conditions ir. Europe were a definite factor tend-
ing to ircrease the already existing lethargy in business activity,
excepting, of course, war industries.
Business and financial circles
in Japan fully realized the economic losses which would accrue to
Japan in the event of a widesprend conflict in Europe. There were,
of course, other depressing factors: the official announcoment
that rigid control of Japan's economy will continue long efter the
fall of Hankow, the certainty of an oven larger nationel budget for
1939-40 which is almost certain to bring higher taxes, the continued
depressed condition of exports and, finally, extensive and heavy
losses resulting from natural disasters such as typhoons and floods.
Somewhat offsetting these depressing tendencies were the facts
nat the volume of exports continued to exceed that of imports,
he German-"Manchukuo" and the Japan-"Manchukuo"- Italy trade pacts
re inaugurated, and the news of the consolidation of the provisional
governments

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
vernments in the occupied areas in China which would tend to in-
dicate a more stable political situation in those areas.
Further economic control measures were instituted during the
month of Sep- wber such as regulations for the control of distribu-
tion of coal, price regulations of copper, import limitations for
potassium sulphate, standardized prices for woollen yarn, foreign
style paper, ice, rubber goods, enamelled ware, scrap iron, etc.
(c) Financial Trends.
The stock market dur ing the month of September was in a de-
pressed and confused condition owing to an overabundance of un-
attractive new share issues coupled with the tense European situation:
resulting in a large scale flight of gold from Europe to the United
States and higher London gold bar prices. In view of this general
situation operators in the market were generally reluctant to make
any future commitments. The money market has recently experienced
unusually low rates. Yen-dollar rates declined considerably owing
entirely to the unusual decline in the New York-London cross rate.
Yen-sterling rates have been maintained at the established rate of
1 shilling 2d.
(d) Shipping.
79475
It was announced in the press on September 10 that the Com-
munications Office had decided to include in its budget for the
next fiscal year an appropriation to subsidize the construction
of small and medium sized merchant vessels. The total amount of
the subsidy was stated to be Yen 6,0oo,0oo to be granted at the rate
of Yen 30 per ton for ships of tess than 4,300 tons.
Reflecting

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
Reflecting a strong demand for shipping between Japan and
China, the N.Y.K. line announced its decision to place two new
liners on the Kobe-Shanghai route beginning next month. The TAIYo
MARU is to be taken from the Pecif.c service and the BOKU YO MaRU
to be removed from the South American service and both vossels are
to be assigned to the Shanghai run.
Mr. Shozo Murata, President of the Osaka Shosen Kaisha,on his
return from China on September 2, announced that the Nisshin Steam-
ship Company would soon resume full activity in shipping on the
Yangtze. He stated, acccrding to the NICHI NICHI, that "at present,
however, the company is engaged in cargo transportation on the
Yangtze, chartering.three:ships from the O.S.K. and one from the
N.Y.K." He also said that the Japanese company was perfecting
definite plans for effective competition with British shipping on
the Yangtze when it is reopened to foreign boats.
It was reported on September 30 that final decision had been
reached in the organization of a company to consolidate shipping
interests between Japan, North Korea, and "Manchukuo".
The company
is to be capitalized at Yen 40,000,J00.
VII. ACTIVITIES CF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
∵III.
ACTIVITIES CF FOREIGN COMI ERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
-26-
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
994.48
On September 1st a record typhoon struck the Kwanto area
causing extensive damage. Incomplete reports were to the offect
that at least 50 persons had been killed and thousands of homes
flooded or destroyed. Considerable damage was done to shipping in
Yokohama and other harbors. Communicetion facilities were severe-
ly disrupted. On September 5 a strong gale struck the island of
Shi :oku causing considerable damage. These and other storms and
disasters have marked this year as bing particularly notoworthy for
the total emount of damage resulting from natural disnsters.
On Septomber 9, the report of the typhoon losses was formally
presented to the Emperor. In summary, it stated that more than
1,Ooo,0oo acres of tilled land were affected, including approximately
330,000 acres of paddy fields and about 10,000 acres of fruit orchards.
There was no mention in the newspaper item of the pucuniary damage
which resulted.
September 12 to Septomber 16 was devoted to the "most extonsive
onti-air raid moneuvels yet held in the Kwanto cren".

=== Page 342 === (confidence 1.00)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING SEPTEMBER 1938
No.
Subject
3228
September 6
Blakiston's Sons & Co. exchange difficultis
etc.
3229
September 6
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3230
September 7
Mr. Fujimoto, Embassy Translator.
3231
September 8
Changes in Japanese Diplomatic Service.
3232
September 9
Mitsubishi Monthly Circular.
3233
September 10
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3234
September 13
Losses of Stardard Vacuum Oil Company.
3235
September 13
Whangpoo Conservancy.
3236
September 13
Chinese Customs Administration.
3237
September 14
North China Oil Company.
3238
September 14
Shansi Tobacco Monopoly.
3239
September 14
Return of British Subjccts to Kiukiang.
3240
September 14
Count Kabayama's Interview with Mr. Hull.
3241
September 14
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3242
September 20
Peruvian Economic Mission to Japan.
3243
September 19
Book for the Department Library.
3244
September 14
Foreign Service Examination of Mr. Pyle.
3245
September 20
Monthly Report for August.
3246
September 21
Mexican Oil - Activities of N. R. avis.
3247
September 21
Lansing Papers - Foreign Relations of U..
3248
September 21
-ritish Claim for Yangtze River Incidents.
3249
September 21
Hankow Safety Zone.
3250
September 21
Chinese Salt Administration.
251
September 21
Bombing of Civilian Populations.
52
September 22
British and French Concessions, Tientsin.
253
September 22
British Newspapers in North China.
24
September 22
British Property and Rights in China.

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.97)
Date
Subject
3255
September 22
Foreign Aviation in China.
3256
Septomber 22
Retention of British Cruisers.
3257
September 22
Chinese Customs Administration: Crewlsy Case
3258
September 22
Photoeraphs of Embassy uildings Rupeirs.
3259
September 22
Foreign Shipping in China; Jerdine, Mathosc..
and Company.
3260
September 22
Wireluss Equipmont Emburgo in North Chine.
3261
September 22
British Intorests in China and Anglo-Jupone.
Rulations.
3262
September 22
Shanghai Municipal Police.
3263
September 22
Hankow Sefuty Zono.
3264
September 22
Foreign Shipping on th: Yangtze.
3265
September 22
Foreign Aviation in China.
3266
Suptomber 22
Flichts cf P niA ric n Airw y Pl n.s Over C
3267
September 22
British rights and Int rests in China.
268
September 22
Roturn of British Subjucte to Nonking.
5269
September 22
Sino-Japanese Hostiliti s, 1957-1938,
Acric n Losses R suloirg Fro,
Smith, A. Vicle.
3270
Seprember 22
Cllim of the Texas Com ny (China) Itd.
Fer 103 Tins of Keros  Cil.
3271
Septomber 22
Sino-Jcpancse Hostilities, 1957-1938.
Americen Losses Rosultine From, M. S.
Bates, Cl.im of
3372
Sentember 22
Sino-Jepanose Hostilitius, 1937-1938.
Americon Losses Rosuitina From,
Lr. R. F. Brdy, Cl.m. of
2973
Suptember 22
Sino-Jap ncse Hostilities, 1937-1938.
American Losses Resultine From
Charles H. Riggs, Cla in. of
74
September 22
Sino-Jepanese Hostilities, 1937-1938.
American Losses Resulting From
Poplar Grove Farms, Fed. Inc., U.s.a. Claim c
75
September 22
Sino-Jopanese Hostilities, 1937-1938,
Amoric n Losses Resulting From,
Jeckson, Richard Ottley, Clain of

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.98)
Date
Subject
3276
September 22
American Property Losses Resulting from 
Sino-Japcnese Conflict, 1937-1938.
Presbyterian Mission, Hoihow, Heinan Islund
3277
Soptember 22
Amorican Trepes ty Lesses Resulting from Le
Sino-Japonose Conflict, 1957-19b8.
Stanaera Ve cuum Cil Compary, Canton
3278
September 22
Damege to Froperty of the Cunberland
Presbyterian Mission, Canton, by Japanese
Bombing on August 8, 1938.
3279
September 26
Diplomatic Visa Report
3280
September 27
Treaty between Japan and l Salvador.
3281
September 28
Japaneso Bombing of Christian and Missionary
Alliance Property at Tatung and Tsingyanghsie.
Anhwei.
3282
September 28
American Property Losses Resulting from
Sino-Japarese Conflict, 1937-1938.
Johnson Memorial Library of Methodist
Episcopal Missicn at Nanchang, Kiangsi.
3283
September 28
Japanese Discrimination Against American
Interests in China: Univorsal Leaf Tobaccc C.
3284
September 28
Japanese Controlled Jighter Association at
Chefoo.
3285
Beptember 28
Foreign Shipping in Chi. cle of Four
Chinese Ships to a Su sidiary of Jardine.
Matheson & Co. Ltd.
3286
September 28
Claim of Baptist Chin: Diroct I ission,
Ta Wen K'ou, Shantung, for Lannges Caused
by Japanese Bombing and Cccupation.
3287
September 28
Losses of American Property ue to the Presen
Sino-Japanese Conflict.
Associated Importers
Tientsin, Hopei, China.
2989
September 28
Anerican Property Losses as Result of Sino-
Japanese Conflict, 1937-1938. Hillard Rudolp:
Roberts.
290
Sertember 28
American Proporty Losse resulting from Sino-
Japanese Conflict, 1937-1938. Methodist Epis
Mission, Tanyangchen, Anhwei.
September 28. Japan Press Handling of CNAC Plane Incident.

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO-THE DEPARTMENT
DURING SEPTEMBER 1938
No.
Date
Subject
569
September 1, 11 a.m.
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED
STATES - LANSING PAPERS.
570
September 1, noon
Typhoon damage to Emb assy garden.
571
September 1, 3 p.m.
Chinese salt administration.
572
September 2, noon
Anglo-Japanese relations.
573
September 2, 4 p.m.
Japanese gold shipments.
574
September 3, 3 p.m.
Mengchiang oil monopoly.
575
September 3, 3 p.m.
Foreign aviation in China.
576
September 5, 11 a.m.
Evacuation by Japanese of British
and French concessions at Tientsin.
577
September 5, 3 p.m.
Hankow safety zone.
578
September 5, 6 p.m.
Requisitions.
579
September 6, 10 a.m.
Foreign aviation in China.
580
September 6, 11 a.m.
Foreign aviation in China.
581
September 6, 2 p.m.
Radio embargo in North China.
582
September 6, 4 p.m.
European situation.
583
September 7, 11 a.m.
Embassy repairs.
584
September 7, noon
Foreign aviation in China.
585
September 7, 2 p.m.
British claims arising out of
Yangtze River incidents in
December 1937.
586
September 7, 6 p.m.
Anglo-Japanese relations and
protection of third party interests
in China.
587
September B, 7 p.m.
Japanese seizure of four ships
purchased by Jardine, Matheson & Co.
588
September 8, 2 p.m.
FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED
STATES - LANSING PAPERS.
589
September 8, 3 p.m.
Changes in Japanese Foreign
Service appointments,

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.99)
No.
Date
Subject
590
September 8, 11 p.m.
Anglo-Japanese relations.
591
September 9, 11 a.m.
Japanese relations with Great
3ritain and the United States.
592
September 9, 2 p.m.
Psstrictions on radio equipment
as Tientsin.
593
September 9, 5 p.m.
Proposals for the avoidance of
bombing civilian populations.
594
September 12, noon
Hankow safety zone.
595
September 13, noon
Japanese gold shipments.
596
September 13, 1 p.m.
Japanese policy in China.
597
September 13, 4 p.m.
Japanese policy in China.
598
September 14, 11 a.m.
Narcotics - Shapiro case.
599
September 14, noon
North China oil monopoly.
600
September 14, 4 p.m.
Arrival of Mr. Blake.
601
September 14, 5 p.m.
Temporary employment of Miss Shelto.
602
September 14, 7 p.m.
Embassy repairs.
603
September 16, 11 a.m.
Embassy repairs.
604
September:16, 4 p.m.
China National Aviation Corporation
605
September 16, 5 p.m.
Pan American Airways.
606
September 16, 6 p.m.
Embassy repairs.
607
September 17, 11 a.m.
Search for HAWAIIAN CLIPPER.
608
September 19, 4 p.m.
Anglo-Japanese relations.
609
September 20, 6 p.m.
Anglo-Japanese relations.
610
September 20, 10 p.m.
League of Nations action regarding
Sino-Japanese conflict.
611
September 20, 11 p.m.
Japanese-Peruvian relations.
612
September 21, 1l a.m. Meng-chiang oil monopoly.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.99)
-3..
NO.
Date
Subject
613
September 21, 2 p.m.
Foreign aviation in China.
614
September 22, 11 p.m.
Embassy repairs.
615
September 22, 3 p.m.
Damage to property of Baptist
Memorial Hospital.
616
September 23, noon
Embassy repairs, appropriations.
617
September 23, 5 p.m.
Japanese notice posted on American
consular premises at Chefoo.
618
September 23, 6 p.m.
Navigation rights on the Yangtze.
619
September 24, noon
Whangpoo Conservancy Board.
620
September 26, 6 p.m.
Universal Leaf Tobacco Company-
Discrimination against.
621
September 26, 7 p.m.
Arrival of Mr. Edwards.
622
September 27, 11 a.m.
Whangpoo Conservancy.
623
September 27, noon
Hankow safety zone.
624
September 27, 4 p.m.
Embassy repairs.
625
September 27, 8 p.m.
For the Treasury - Japanese exchange
626
September 27, 9 p.m.
Japan's attitude in present
European crisis.
627
September 28, noon
Position of Japanese Government
and of American citizens in
legal suits.
628
September 28, 3 p.m.
Japan's attitude in European crisis.
629
September 28, 4 p.m.
Japan's attitude in European crisis.
630
September 28, 6 p.m.
Publicity regarding Ambassador's
call on Foreign Minister, regarding
European crisis.
631
September 28, 9 p.m.
Anglo-Japanese relations and
European crisis.
532
September 28, 11 p.m.
Movements of German and British
ships in Japanese waters.

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.96)
Subject
633
September 28,midnight
Control of Northern Settlement
area in Shanghai.
634
September 29, 7 p.m.
Meng-chiang oil monopoly.
635
September 29, 8 p.m.
Resignation of Foreign Minister
Ugaki.
636
September 30, noon
General Ugaki's resignation;
China Organ.
0
0
C

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CHARGE SLIP
CLERK'S
FILE NUMBER
DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT
CHARGE TO-
DATE OF CHARGE
INITIALS
FE
CFH
4.00PR/131
Amrene

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 12, 1939.
H：
PA/B
Mr Horabeck.
Tokyo's Monthly Report for November,
1938.
The first eight pages deal with Japan's
reply of November 19 to the American note of
October 6 and with Mr. Dooman's conversa-
tion and Mr. Grew's conversation with the
Foreign Minister in the latter part of
November, all of which have been dealt with
by the Embassy in telegrams and despatches
previously received.
Pages 9 to 12 review Mr. Grew's
conversations in regard to navigation on
the Yangtze, already reported.
The Japanese Foreign Minister notified
Mr. Grew in a note on November 7 of the
dangers to American interests in western
areas of China after the fall of Canton and
Hankow. This was similar to previous
warnings after the fall of other important
centers in China and Mr. Grew made no reply
as the views of the American Government in
this regard had been repeatedly made clear
already. Evidently the Embassy did not
report the above-mentioned note in a
separate despatch. (Page 13).
The

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The American Embassy's representations
with regard to the Customs at Canton are
reported on page l2, with regard to embargo
on sheep and slink wool and hemp in north
China on page 14, with regard to Americans
at Kuling on page 15, with regard to various
violations of American rights and interests
on page 16.
Pages 17 to 28 deal with Japan's
relations with countries other than the
United States. All material contained
therein has already been received in other
forms with the possible exception of a
statement of Baron Mitsui on page 28, who,
in reference to the possibility of Japan
and Hungary concluding a cultural pact,
stated that Japan should have countries in
Central Europe surrounding Soviet Russia
understand the true cultural aspect of Japan
and of the Japanese spirit.
General business conditions showed
little, if any, improvement during November
(page 34). The depressed condition was
contributed to by the Finance Minister's
statement that economic control is to be
continued indefinitely, by the decision of
the Government to invoke Article 1l of the
National General Mobilization Law, and by
the somewhat disturbed and difficult
condition of Japan's relations with third
countries.
Fresh

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
3 -
Fresh control measures promulgated or
put into effeot in November are given on
page 34, as marked.
An interview between Ambassador Tani
and a Mitsubishi associate and a representa-
tive of an American oil company, showing
Japanese intention to participate in the oil
business in China in a major way, is given
on page 36. Such a development would be
either (1) through Japanese interests making
way for themselves by enoroaching upon the
trade of established companies with resulting
uneconomic consequenoes or (2) through the
creation of harmonious and close relations
between the two interested groups. The
suggestion was put forward of a joint
enterprise, embracing Japanese, American,
British, and Chinese capital.
FE:SaAury:REK

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.94)
HE FOREIGN SERVICE
LOF THE
STATES OF AMERICA
B59 JAN 9 PM 2 43
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, Dacember 20, 1088.
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
No. 3521.
AND RECURDS
LEGAL ADVISER
MHAN
1939
SUBJECT:
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE
MONTH OF NOVEMBER, 1938.
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
FE
DT
12A
on1
MID
KASR AFIAIRS
OFFCE OF THE AD
The Honorable
ef State
G JAN 1 J 1939
The Secretary of St
DEPANTMENT OF STATE
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
-/ of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herowith the
Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for the month
bpr 1938.
ASSISIANT SECRETARY
DEPARTME
Respectfully yours,
OF STATE
Joseph C. Grew.
MTS: C
FILED
Enclosu
1/ Ropthes No. 146.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
"Babassy, Mosoow
Gonsulate General, Shanghai
Mukden
Harbin
Seoul
Comgulete, Kobe

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.97)
No. 146.
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF NOVE:BER 1938.

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.98)
INDEX ANLSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE NITED THS:
1. Japanese Reply to she srsseder's ote
of Octobe o, s, ( rvning American
rights and intorests L Cina.
.1,2,3,4,5,
6,7,8
2.
Freodom or Navigation on he Yengtzo
River.
.9,10,11,12
3.
Seizure by the Jepanese of the Chinese
Meritime Customs at Canton..
.12,13
4. Notification by Jepanese of the Expen-
sion of the Area of Hostilities..
.13,14
5. More Important Representations made by
the Americen Embassy during the month
of November......
..14,15,16,17
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(1) China
(n) Military operations..
.17.18
(b) General..
.18,19
(2) Grent Britoin
1?,20,21,
22:23
(a) More Important Representations made
by the British Embassy during the
month of November...
.21,22,23
(3) France.....
.23,24,25
(4) Germany and Italy.
.25,26
(5) Peru..
.26,27
(6) Sweden.
.27,28
(7) Hungary....
.28
(8) League of Nations....
.28,29
III.

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a) Statements by Governmenl Officials......29,30,31,32
(b) Political Parties....
..32,33
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE..
.33,34
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONLITIONS....34,35,36
VII.ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS..36,37
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FCREIGN COMI.ERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
1.
Japanese Reply to the Ambassador:s Note of
October 6, i938, concerning American Kights
and Interests in China.
On November 16 the Ambassador was told infornally by the
Minister for Foreign Affairs that the Japanese reply to our
ncte of October 6 concerning American interests in China would
probably be delivered to the Embassy on November 19. On the
same day Foreign Minister Arita told the Counselor, Mr. Dooman:
that he would like to talk with him on Saturday, November 19,
9
at two o'clock, not on a basis of official formality but es
"between two old friends". The Ambassador approved, as it was
expected that Mr. Dooman's interview would result in interest-
ing disclosures concerning future Japanese policy and would be
a very helpful prelude to the Ambassador's conversation with
the Foreign Minister scheduled for the following Monday.*
On the evening of November 18** the Foreign Office handed
to the Embassy the note of the Japanese Government replying to
the Ambassador's note of Cctober 6. The English translation
furnished by the Foreign Office was immediately telegraphed to
the Department. While the major part of the Japanese note was
devoted to an explanation of certain particular Japanese inspirea
activities in China, the most outstanding fact presented was
that the Japanese Government takes the stand that there exists
in the Fer Enst today conditions to which former concepts and
prirciples are no longer applicable and that it is the firm
conviction of the Jepanuse Government that any attempt to apply
to
* mbassy': telegrom Nc. 732, November 16, 1938.
**Embnssy's telegram No. 7:3. November 18, 1058.

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
to these present or to future conditions such concepts and
principles will not in the least contribute to the solution
of the immediate problems or promote the firm establishment
of enduring peace in Enst Asia.
The Japanese Government reiterated its determination to
givo full respect to American rights and interests in China
and declared that it is its intentinn to restore normal condi-
tions as soon as circumstances permit. As rogards future
American participation in the economic activities in China,
it is stated thet the Japanese Government has no intention
of objecting to the participation of Americans or of nationals
of other third countries in all fields of trade and industry
providing, however, that such participation is undertaken
with the complete understanding of the meaning of the Japanese
Governm-nt's pronouncement on policy.
The specific instances of discrimination which were set
forth in the Ambassador's note of October 6 re not d ealt with
in the Japanese reply.
The question of the promotion companies
which have been organized recently by the Japanese Government
is dealt with by the statement that it is only through these
companies that Japan can provide China with the urgently
necessary assistance for its rehabilitation and development.
Surprise was expressed in the Japaneso reply at the
allegation of disparity between the treatment accorded Japen-
ose in Americn and the treatment nccorded Americans in Japan
and it was asserted that economic restrictions to which
Anericans may: be subject at the present time are imposed not
upon Americans alone but equally upon all forigners as
ren Japanese. The Japanese Government reserved for another
time the presentation of Japan's views on the treatment of
pnnese subjects in American territory.
Generally

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.98)
-3..
Generally speaking the reply cannot be considerec 
satisfactory response to the Anerican desiderata presentel
in the Ambassador's originel note to the Japanese Government.
However, Foreign Minister Arita undertook in his interview
with Mr. Dooman to set forth in more detail the Japanese
position*. In answering Mr. Arita's question concerning
the Ambassador's reaction to the Japanese note whicn was
handed to Mr. Dooman on the evening before, the Counsclor
replied that although the Ambassador had exemined the note
with the best of good will he could not find in it any state-
ment substantially responsive to the desires of the American
Government. Mr. Arita then proceeded to set forth the positicn
of the Japanese Government. He stated that Japan, being then 
weak country, had no alternative but to support the United
States in its efforts to implement the application of the prin-
ciple of the Open Door to Chine toward the end of the last
century. Mr. Arita umphasized, however, thet the principle of
the Open Door was at first applied to matters of relatively
small importance, but that after t he Nashington Treaty was
concluded the motive
of most of the Powers in support-
ing that principle was to enable them to exploit China largely
as they had been exploiting ifrice. The position of Japan, the
Foreign Minister pointed out, wes entirely difforent from that
of the United States and the British Empire which are, he said,
large territoricl, political, ond economic entities. Jopan,
he stated, was extremely vulnerable to a program of economic
sanctiors.
* Embassy's despatch No. 3455, November 25, 1938.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
sanctions. Mr. irita emphasized that while the term "bloc"
had been applied to Japan's economic program for the Japan-
"Manchukuo"-China areas, this term was very apt to give rise
to considerable misunderstanding nnd that it was not Japan's
intention to create an economic bloc at all analogous to
that of the British Empire. Japan, he said, has no intention
whatever of assimilating politically any part of Chinn or of
"Manchukuo". The proposed arrangement would not necessarily
be exclusive of American and other foreign enterprise and capital.
it is merely to provide Japan with a market and a source for
raw materials offering to other countries at the same time an
opportunity for trade and investment.
Mr. Arita further stated that in spite of the prevalence
of the widespreid feeling that Japan has now adopted a new
policy - one of closing the Open Door in China - there has in
fact been no change in policy. He referred to the assurances
given on several occasions by his several predecessors, to the
American, British and other representatives in Tokyo, tlat Japan
would respect the principle of the Open Door and added that as
a matter of fact those assuronces were not intended to be un-
conditionnl since Japan could no longer give an unqualified
undertaking to respect the Open Door. He asserted that the
assurances of his predecessors had been given in good faith in
that they were attompting to reconcile the principle of the
Open Door with Japan's actual needs and objectives, but that
this could not be done. He added that, as he had previously
explained, those objectives ere to provide Japan with a secure
market and a safe source of necessary raw materials against
any possible threat of economic senctions and that within
those

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
those limits Japan was prepared to guarantee equality of
opportunity in China. Full consideration, he added, would
be given to foreign enterprises other than Jepanese which in
no way conflicted with or obstructed the accomplishment of
these primary objectives. It is no longer possible for Jupan
to guarantee undertakings which overlap or conflict with
Japan's plans for cconomic defense. The Foreign Minister
significantly added that he hed not repeated these assurences
V
in the note which was sent the day before because he had de-
cided upon taking up his office that it would be useless to
attempt to reconcile the principle of the Open Door, as under-
stood in the United States and elsewhore abroad, with the new
situation which Japan was endeavoring to bring about. He had
therefore deliberately avoided the opening up of e dispute
over principles, since the only position which he could have
taken in the light of the present state of public opinion in
Japan would have been opposed to the principles of the Open
Door and equality of opportunity s presented in the American
note of October 6. Ho, therefore, looked forward to an oppor-
tunity to communicato privately to the mbassador certcin views
which would enable the American Government to understand Japen's
position. Mr. rita stated that it was his sincere belief that
with his coming conversation with Mr. Grew, which he hoped would
be followed by many others, it would be possible for the two
Governments to acquaint each with the probloms of the other
and to establish some practical basis for a solution by arriving
at a new definition or interpretation of the Open Door which
would be mutually acceptable.
At

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
At the conclusion of Mr. Arita's remarks which were made
in Japanese without interruption over a period of about an
hour, Mr. Dooman stated that there was little that he could
say either officially or unofficially but that he would point
out the extraordinary restraint shown by the American Govern-
ment which was clearly evidenced by the fact that the American
Government had waited some 15 months to bring the question
of the principle of the Open Door to a head. During this
time the instances of wilful and sinister attempts to injure
American interests were innumerable. Mr. Dooman added that
he felt the majority of the cases might well have been avoided
if Japanese military commanders and their civilian advisers
had even an elementary sense of respect of the rights of others.
After some further discussion along these lines Mr. Arita stated
that he was looking forward with keen anticipation to his con-
versation with Mr. Grew on Monday and requested the Counselor
to report to Mr. Grew all that had been said in this interview.
Mr. Dooman, after expressing his appreciation to Mr. Arita,
stated that he would at once report to Mr. Grew the terms of
the conversation.*
On Monday, November 21, the Ambassador held a long con-
versation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs.**
The Am-
bassador stated that he was fully familiar with the remarks
which Mr. Arita had made to Mr. Dooman and that the present
conversation could start from that premise. While making it
clear that he was not attempting to answer the Japanese note
of November 18 on which he expected to receive his Government's
comments after due time for careful study of the Japanese note,
the
*
Embassy's despatch No. 3455, November 25, 1938, Enclosure #3.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 3455, November 25, 1938, Enclosure #4.

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
the Ambassador said that he would like to bring out various
elements of the American point of view. Mr. Grew then pro-
ceeded to set forth uninterruptcdly for the better part of
an hour the principles, policy und broad objectives of the
United States in the Far East.*
Tho historical record, the
Ambassador said, clearly indicates that the United States has
never attempted to acquire any sphere of influence in China
to "exploit that country" but rather on the contrary, the
Americnn desire lways has been and is today to avoid spheres
of influence and exploitation. Turning to matters of frct,
Mr. Grew pointed out that the American Government must listen
to public opinion in the United States and that the patience
of the American people is not inexhaustible and that he there-
fore felt it to be of the utmost importance that the Japanese
Government should forthwith teke some of the more obvious
steps to indicate to the American people thnt there is no
truth in the repeated allegations that all foreign interests
are to be gradually turned out of Chine. The immediate cessa-
tion of the bombings ofand other interference with American
missions and other American property in areas far removed from
the military or naval operations was, Mr. Grew said, par-
ticularly important.
The Anbassador in his conversation made an oral rejoinder
to the Japanese note of November 14 regarding navigation on
the Yangtze.**
Following this Mr. Grew asked for an interpretation of
Premier Konoe's statement on November 3 that Japan will cooper-
te with foreign nations as long as they underst nd the true
intentions of Japan and adopt policies suitable for the new
conditions.
* Department's telegrams No. 389, November 17, and No. 393,
November 20, 1938.
**
Embassy's telegrams No. 742, November 19 and No. 730,
November 15, 1938.

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.99)
-8.
conditions. Mr. Grew asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs
if he viewed such "cooperation" in the light of recent state-
ments made to Americans by Japanese nationals in China that
American tiade with China will be tolurated only if American
interests denl through Japnnese middlemen. At the close of
the Ambassador's oral presentation, the Minister expressed
appreciation of the frankness shown and agreed that complete
fronkness was most desirable. He authorized the Ambessedor to
convey to the Secretary a categoriccl denial of the allegation
that Americans would be expocted to doal only with Japanese
middlemen. He stated that, for the reesons he had given Mr.
Dooman, Japan desired and intonded to nssure for herself
certain rew materinls but thct there would be a very large
and probably incrensing field for American trade and other
enterprise which Japn would welcome.
In support of this assertion the Minister for Foreign
Affairs translated from a document indicating in round figures
that exports from Manchuria to the United States had increased
from Yen 9,000,000 in 1931 to Yen 16,000,000 in the first
nine months of 1937 and that exports from the United States
to Manchuria had risen from Yen 9,000,000 in 1931 to Yen 42,000,000
in the first nine months of 1937. Terminating the formal part
of his conversation with the Minister, the Ambassador once
again appealed for immediate measures to meet the American
desiderata and emphasized their great importance in meeting
American public opinion.
There were no further developments
in this connection during the month under review.
(2)

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
(2) Freedom of Navigation on the Yangtze River.
Conformably with the Department's telegraphic instruc-
tions*, the Ambassador took advantage of the opportunity
afforded by his initial interview by the Minister for Foreign
Affairs on November 7 to emphatically protest the continued
refusal of the Japanese to permit freedom of navigation on
the Yangtze River below Hankow. This interview was of an
unsatisfactory character owing to the negative attitude of
893.811
the Minister. In the first part of the interview the Minister
stated, in reply to the Ambassador's request for & renewal of
0
the assurances previously given him by Mr. Arita's predecessors,
that in estimating public opinion in Japan he must proceed
slowly and "with great prudence."
Mr. Arita did not renew
the assurances but rather referred to the public address of
the Prime Minister on November 3 as an indication of Japanese
policy. In view of the somewhat indecisive attitude assumed
by the Minister, Mr. Grew stated that these matters are urgent
and are so regarded by the American Government. The Minister
replied by counseling patience.
The Ambassador concluded the interview by presenting his
representations on the question of free navigation of the Yangtze
River and stating to the Minister that the American Government
would not be satisfied with an indefinite ruply. Mr. Grew
urged that a favorable answer including the naming of an early
date for the withdrawal of restrictions on freedom of navigation
on the Yangtze be made. At the same time the Ambassador handed
the Minister tho Embassy's note No. 11ll of November 7 , 1938.**
In
Department's telegrams No. 373, November 2, 2 p.m., and
No. 388, November 14, 8 p.m.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 3439, November 16, 1938.

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.98)
-20~
In the Embassy's note, reference was made to the prior
note of October 6, 1938, in which mention was made cmong other
points of the exclusion from the lower reaches of the Yangtze
River of ricen and other nor-Jananese shipping while at the
same time Japanese merchant vessels ere carrying Japansso
merchandize betweun Shanghai and Nanking. It was also stated
that in the aforemontioned note request was made thet the
Japanese Government implement its assurances already givon
with regard to non-inturferonce with American rights by taking
prompt measures to cause the discontinunnce of restrictions
placed upon Americen trade and shipping. The Ambassador in his
note further stated that under instructions from his Government
he wished to point out to the Minister the armed forcos of Japan
have advanced up th. Yangtze River as far as Hankow and there
are no longer major hostilitius along the River below Hankow.
Mr. Grow also snid that the Americen Governmont considers it
only reasonable that the Japanese Government should no longor
place obstacles in the wey of the exercise of this Amoricen
right in view of the fact th.t the Jap nese cuthorities have
had ample time in which to systematizo the movomont of Japanese
vessels on the River. It was stated that the Yangtze River
as the main artery of transportation in Central China is a high-
ly important chennel for tho movoment of vessels, persons, and
merchndize and the width of the River is nmply sufficient to
take care of the necds of all concerned.
In conclusion the
Ambassador stated that in view of these circumstances and on
behalf of his Governmont he once rgain requested the Japenese
Government forthwith to implement its repeated assurances by
promptly
* Embassy's despatch No. 3439, November 16, 1938.

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.97)
-1.~
promptly discontinuing restrieriors on American trade and shipping
between Shanghai and Hankow. The British and French  bassies
made similor representations.
Under date of November l1 the Mipister for Foreien Affairs
replied to the American represonlaticns concerning nrvigation
on the Yangtze. It was asserted in this reply that all apan-
ese ships which are at present allcwed to navigate tho Yangtze
River are engaged in the transportation of military supplies
and cre vessels in the Government service and that th navigation
of Japanese vessels engaged solely in the transportation of pas-
sengers and cargo is prohibited. It wns stated, howover, that
because of the necessity of maintaining a definite scludule by
vessels used for military purposos and the impracticability of
completing on each voyege a full cargo of military suppli s, the
practice is followed of utilizing available spac in the holds
of such ships for the transportatinn of goods which re not
military surplius. Such instances, it was seid, cre of on ex-
coptional character. The Japanese note stated that the Imperiel
Government holds the view that there is a warrantable basis
for the restricting of the free use of the Yengtze River. The
barrier at Kiang-yin is open only to the extont necessary for
military purposes end the continued activities on the upper
reaches of the River nbove Honkow make the necessity for the
utilization of the Yangtze River by the Janenese forces greater
then ever. In such a situation navigation on this important
line of communicntions by forcign vessels which are not subject
to the direction of the appropriate authoritics of the Japanese
forces would, it wus snid, be a severe obstacle to militery
movements. Mention was also made of guerrilla activitics along
the

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
the banks of the Yangtze River as well as of the dangers arisin;
from fixed and floating mines. In summary, the note states
that in view of these conditions, the Imperial Japanese Gov-
ernment does not consider that the time has yet been reached
at which recognition of freedom of navigation on the Yangtze
River can be given. The statement was made, however, thet
the Jepanese Government is making particular efforts to bring
about at the earliest possible moment ☐ return of normal con-
ditions.
As has been noted elsewhere in this report the Abassa-
dor in his interview with Mr. Arita on November 2l made an oral
rejoinder to the Japanese reply. There were no further develop-
ments in this regard during the month of November.
(3) Seizure by the Japanese of the Chinese Maritime
Customs nt Canton.
In compliance with the Department's telegraphic instruc-
tion*, the Ambassador sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs
a formal note** protesting Jepanese interference with the
Chinese. Customs at Canton. In his note the Ambassador made
full reference to previous communications and conversations
which he had had with the Foreign Office on the general sub-
ject of the Americen Government's interest in the preservation
of the integrity of the Chinese Maritime Customs. The Ambassa-
dor's note further stated that the Government of the United
States was informed that the Chinese Maritime Customs at
Cantonwru taken over by the Japanese consular and military
authorities on November 9, 1938. This action was formally
protested and the American Government's very real interest in
the preservation and integrity of the Chinese Customs and in
the
*
Dopartment's telcgram No. 392, November 18, 1938.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 749, November 25, 1938.

=== Page 369 === (confidence 1.00)
13-
the safeguarding of the customs revenues was reiterated and
emphasized. The note also stated that the American Govern-
ment is of the opinion that this reported action constitutes
an infringement of the international status of the Chinese
Maritime Customs.*
(4) Notification by Japanese of the Expansion of the
Area of Hostilities.
Under date of November 7 the Minister for Foreign Affairs
formally notified the Ambassador that following the fall of
Canton and.Hankow the area of hostilities would henceforth
gradually expand toward the west, that Shensi Province, Hupeh
Province, and Hunan Province were in the near future to be-
come areas of hostilities, and that even west of these areas
up to a line connecting Suchow, Batang, and Tali, military ob-
jectives within Chinese territory were to become objects of
attack by Japanese military airplanes. In this connection
the Minister for Foreign Affairs presented his Government's
urgent request that the flight over these areas of aircraft
having any connection with the United States be prohibited,
travel in the above-mentioned areas be undertaken at the risk
of the travelers, wherever possible American citizens with-
drawing to safe areas, notification to the Japanese authorities
concerning American property interests be expedited and such
property be clearly marked. The Foreign Minister's note stated
that it was impossible fully to protect interests which are
not so marked, that property transferred from Chinese to
American ownership in order to avoid confiscation by the Jap-
anese
* Embassy's despatch No. 3459, November 29, 1938.

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
14-
anese was not to be rocognized a: Anerican property by the
Japanese and that the Jayanese rilitary fcrces could not as-
sume responsibility for the protection cf property uiilized
by or in close proximity to the Chinese forces.
Since the views of the American Government with regard to
the responsibility of the Japanese for the protection of
American property rights and interests in China have beer
fully and repeatedly made clear, the Embassy did not ruply to
the Foreign Minister's note under reference.
(5) More Important Representations made by tre
American Embassy during the month of November.
Conformably with the Department's instructions* Mr.
Dooman called on Mr. Yoshizewa at the Foreign Office and made
representations concerning the sheep and slink wool nu hemp
embargo in North China. After expressing apprecietion for
the cooperation of the Foreign Office with regard to o!her
restrictions placed on foreign trade in North China Mr. Dooman
read an aide mémoire to Mr. Yoshizawa concerning the prohibition
on the exportation of sheep and slink wool and hemn from North
China. The aide mémoire stated that the Americon Government
expresses surprise that the Japnnese Government should allow
the imposition in North China of on embargo of an important
Chinese export to the United States while at the same time the
Japanese Government is believed to be giving consideraticn
to the extensive and general representations made in the
Ambassador's note of October 6, 1938. It was also pointed out
that sheop wool for many years prior to the outbreak of hostili-
ties in China has been one of the most important exports from
that area to the United States. It was aiso stated that this
embargo will not only cause financinl loss and embarrassment
to
Department's telegram No. 269, Gctober 28, 1938.

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
to American dealers and consumers directly concerned there-
with but will also tand to restrict the market in North China
for American exports nd is consequently detrimental to the
intorests of the United States. It was therefore requested
that the Japanese Government take prompt and effective measures
to remove the embargo on wool end hemp. Mr. Dooman went on
to explain to Mr. Yoshizawa that in addition to this ombergo
the Japanese militnry authorities have prohibited non-Japanese
buyers from purchesing wool in Kalgan and other primary markets
and have denied transportation facilities from those points to
Tientsin for wool cargoes belonging to non-Japanese individuals.
Mr. Dooman stated that it was apparent that Japanese military
authorities are endeavoring to acquire stocks of wool at their
own price by the simple oxpediont of eliminating competition.
Mr. Yoshizawa stated that he would go into the matter carefully
but that he had not yet had time to study it.
The Japanese Government in its reply to the American note
of October 6, which is covered in the first part of this re-
port, stated that "as regards the wool trade, while the con-
trol of purchesing agencies was onforced in the Mongolian
region it now has been discontinued."
On November 5 the Embassy took up with the Foreign Office
the siturtion in which some 30 Americnns were marooned on
Kuling. The good offices of the Foreign Office in obtcining
cooperation of the Japanese military authorities with the
American and British naval commanders at Kiukiang in order
that the foreigners on Kuling might be evacuated was requested.
The Foreign Office undertook to take up the matter at once with
the War Department.* On Novembor 10 the Embassy was informed
by
Department's telegram No. 38l, November 4; Hankow's telegram
November 3, 5 p.m.; Embassy's t elegram No. 706, November 5,
1938.

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.98)
by the Foreign Office that the Japanose military authcrities vore
negotiating with American and British navai authoritjes on the sret
for the evacuation of American erd British nstiorajs on Kuling.
Under date of November 1l the Vice Minister for Toreign Af-
fairs, Mr. Penzo Sawada, replied to the Amtassudor's letter of
October 27 with regard to the urgent request of the Japanese auth-
orities that vessels of third countries withdraw fron the immediat
vicinity of Hankow. The Vice Minister stated that this urgont re-
quest, just as prior requests and announcements of the Imperial
Government, was also based upon the sincere wish for the preserveti
of the rights and interests of third countries, therefore the Jap-
anese Government must endorse the action of the Imperial military
authorities. The Vice Minister significantly added that no unfore-
seen incidents involving American vessels occurred.
In accordance with the Department's standing instructions, the
Embessy made representations*to the Foreign Office in the following
instances of the violation of Americon property rights and interests
in China.
Mrs. Grace Boggs Service, Shanghai.
(Curio Collection in Shanghci University).
Covenant Missionary Society, Kingmen, Hupeh. (Bombing).
Mr. Jay Frank Nooaworth, Shanghai. (Houseboat damoged).
Southern Prusbytcrian Mission, Sutsien, Kiangsu.(Bombing).
Mrs. Victoria Mary Griffith, Shanghai. (Looting).
Mr. Samuel Honsen, Shanghai. (Looting and occupation).
Mrs. Frank L. Hough. (Houseboat damaged).
Americon Muthodist Episcopal Mission, Nanchang, Kiangsi.
(Bombing).
* The Embassy's representations were forwarded to the Department
with the following despatches which are listed in the ordur to
correspond with the ebove representetions respectively: Embassy's
despatches No.1117, November 9; 1119, Nov. 14; 1123, Nov. 18;
1124, Nov. 21; 1125, Nov. 21; 1127, Nov. 25; 1128, Nov. 26;
1134, Nov. 30, 1938.

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
The following claims were presented during the month of
November:*
Claims of American firms against the Peiping-Suiyuan
Railway:
American Locomotive Sales Corporation.
Chinese Engineering and Development Company.
Robert W. Hunt Company, Engineers.
Claim of the Reverend James H. McCallum, Nanking.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(1) China.
(a) Military Operations.
With the accomplishment of the two immediate major ob-
jectives, the capture of Hankow and Canton, during the month
of October, Japanese military operations in China for the month
of November were largely confined to what are considered to be
preparatory operations, presumably for a further advance. At-
19
tempts were made to consolidate recently occupied areas and
strenuous efforts were exerted to "mop up" the guerrilla rem-
nants within the occupied areas. The entire month represented
a distinct lull in active military operations.
After the capture of Hankow, certain units of Japanese
forces turned southward on the Hankow-Canton Railway and suc-
ceeded in occupying Yochow on the llth. The further objective
was reported to be Nanchang. South of Teian, Japanese and
Chinese forces continued to face one another along the Hsiushui
River but hostilities were not particularly active. North of
Hankow the Japanese forces carried out operations along the
slope of the Tapieh Mountains and west of the railway in order
to dispose of remnants of the Chinese forces which had been
surprised
The Embassy's representations were forwarded to the Department
with the following despatches which are listed in order to
correspond with the above representations respectively:
Embassy's despatches No. 1ll2, Nov. 7; 1113, Nov. 7; 1114,
Nov. 7; November 28, No. 1132.

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
surprised and caught by the rapid Japanese movement up the
Yangtze River.
In South China military operations were largely devoted
to the ccasolidation of the hastily occupied areas around
Canton and the "cleaning up" of remaining forces in the deltc
areas south of Canton.
In spite of many reports which indicate that a determined
Japanese offensive was to be undertaken in Shensi the fighting
in that area was of a desultory nature. During the month of
November a considerable number of canpaigns against guerrillas
operating in the occupied arces was reported.
On Novembor ll General Moto-o Furusho, reportedly in ill
health, was relieved as Supreme Commander of the South China
forces by Lieutenant General Rikichi Ando.
(b) General.
With the possitle exception of the military operations
there were, of course, no relations between Japan nd the
recognized Government of Chine. However, Japan continued to
announce plans for and to undertake various activities looking
to the ccnsolidation and development of Japan's new position
in the occupied aroas. It was announced in the latter part of
October that the formal innuguration of the official companies
for China was to take place on November 7.*
The inaugural meet-
ing was held as scheduled and activitics for the effecting of
Japan's plans with regard to economic reconstruction and ex-
ploitation of China were officially begun.**
The activities
of these companies will undoubtedly, in the first instance, be
directed toward harbor, communication, transportation and public
utility facilities. At the sane time whcrever possible, prepara.
ticn will be made for the exploitation of natural resources.
As has already been reported, several subsidiary companies,
such
Embassy's despatch No. 34l4, November 4, 1938.
**Embassy's despatch No. 3504, December 3, 1938.
893.5034338

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.99)
-1.9-
such as the North China Telephone and Telegraph Company, the
Central China Telecommunications Compeny, and the Kachuo
Electric Industry Company, heve been formed and are function-
ing in Cn ne at the present time.
There was considerable teik concerning the forntion of
the projected "economic bloc" comprising Japan, "Manchukuo"
and China. An economic conference was held in Tokyo concern-
ing this subject. Leading officials and businessmen in finan-
cial, trade, and transportation circles took part. The Tokyo
Conference ended on November 22. Other similar conferences werc
scheduled to be held shortly thereafter in Osaka end Moji.
It was reported on November 20 that Mr. Yosuke Matsuoka,
President of the South Manchuria Railway Company, is soon to
resign that position end to become the highest adviser to a new
Central Government which is to be established in China. Nego-
tiations undoubtedly under Japanese tutelage were held during
the month of November betwen the Nanking and Peiping temporery
Governments but no successful conclusions were forthcoming.
Various articles and newspaper stories appearing from time
to time seem to indicate that Japan has not yet been able to
formulete detailed and concrete plans for the exploitation of
China and the formation of the new "economic bloc".
It appears
that even the Japanese themselves are not yet aware of the
extent to which they can establish a new economic system in
East Asia nd that the details of their plans have not yet been
settled.
(2) Great Britain.
Prior to the opening of the Parliament in London it was
to be expucted that the British Government through its Embassy
in Tokyo would continue to press the Japanese Government for
definite

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
definite evidences of an implementation of the assurances
which had been given for the protection of British rights
in China.* In view of previous assurances given the British
Embassy that the situation es rogards navigation on the Yangtze
would probably be eased by the fall of Hankow, it was also to
be expected that the British Embassy would emphasize and request
some satisfectory treatment of this issue. On November 16,
the Minister for Foreign Affairs received the British Ambassa-
dor and at that time explained unofficially to him the new
"Japanese policy as regards China end the interests of third
Powers in that country". In this interview Mr. Arite: present-
ed views almost identical to those given to Mr. Dooman in his
interview which has been covered in a prior section of this repor
Mr. Arita's presentation of the Japanese views at least indi-
cated a desire on the part of the Japanese Government to reach
some practical solution of the difficulties with the Powers.**
The frank declaration of Japanese policy towards China
brought Anglo-Japaneso relations to a point where Great Britain
was faced with the necessity of either pursuing a course which
would result in some practical working arrangement which would
harmonize present British endeavors in China with the announced
and determined policy of Japan to dominate and to exploit China
for strategic reasons or of giving assistance to China in ade-
quate measure to enable the resistance of Chieng Kai-shek to be
successful, or finally of following a policy in which protests
are made for each violation of rights and interests and deter-
mination not to recognize Japanese-made changes is maintained.
While Mr. Arita told the British Ambassador, as he also told
Mr. Dooman, that the previous assurances given by his prede-
cessors
*
Embassy's telegram No. 70l, November 2, 1938.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 735, November 16, 1938.

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
cessors were no longer, without some modification or inter-
pretation, applicable to the present situation, he did state
categorically that foreign trade end enterprise were not to
be driven out of China but rather within the strategic con-
siderations of the Japanese were to be fostered and encouraged.
There still circulated in Tokyo rumors to the effect that
there was favor in British officinl circles for cooperation
with Japan and for the working out of e practical besis for
stabilization of Anglo-Japanese relations. The CHUGAI news-
paper on November 19 published such a rumor and on November 3
the ASAHI newspaper carried a Domei despatch stating that the
basis for the future trend of British policy would be sum-
marized in five points which indicated that the Domei writer
believed that Great Britain has realized the collapse of the
Chinng Kai-shek Government, has given up its own political
ambitions in China, and is willing to cooperate with Japan
providing that country devotes itself to the maintenance of
peace and ordor in China.* The British Embassy, however,
categoricnlly denied that there was any truth in such state-
ments.**
(a) More Important Representations made by the
British Embassy during the month of November.
On November 14 the British Ambassador addressed a further
note to the Vice Minister concerning the attack by Japanese
airplanes on H.M.S. SANDPIPER on the Yangtze River on October 24.
In his note the British Ambassador pointed out that it had been
two weeks since he had first formally addressed the Japanese
Government
Embassy's despatch No. 3498, December 2, 1938.
**
Embassy's t elegram No. 752, November 26, 3 p.m.
***Embassy's Monthly Report for October, page 13.

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
Government and urgently requested an early reply. On Novem-
ber 18, the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs replied stating
that discussions of some forn vere proceeding at Shanghai and
in connection with the case ani that the Japanese Government
accordingly proposed to await the conclusion of these dis-
cussions and then to make their reply.
On November 24, Sir Robert Craigie addressed a formal
note to the Minister for Foreign Affairs protesting the Jap-
anese interference with the Chinese Maritime Customs at Canton
and expressing the hope that the necessary instructions will
be sent to insure that the Customs Administration in Canton
is restored promptly to the authority and control of the proper
officials.
During the moith of November the British Embassy made
representations to the Foreign Office in the following instances*
Japanese interference vwith British interests
and occupation of British property in Shanghai.
British representations regarding Japanese Violation
of British rights in China.
Japanese interference with British newspapers published
in North Cnina.
Attack by Japanese airplanes on H.M.S. SANDFIPER
on the Yangtze River on October ?4.
Japanese interferenc: with British ships H.H.S. CICALA
and H.M.S. ROBIN at Canton.
Japanese interference with British shipping at Tsingtao.
Freedom of navigation en the Yangtze River.
Japanese restricticns on return of foreigners to Nanking.
Protection of foreign ri, hts and interests in Hankow.
Japanese interference vith British interests and occupe-
tion of British property in Shanghai.
Japanese
*Thes: representations were covered by the follcwing despatches
which are listed in tre seme order as the above British represen-
tations: Nos. 3406, November 3; 3409, November 3; 3413, Novem-
ber 3; 3419, November 4, 3476, Norember 30; 3420, November 4,
3443, Novemter 16; 3460, November 29; 3427, November 16; 3439,
November 16, 3446, November 16; 3447, November 16, 1938.

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
British Representations*(Cont)
Jupanese interference with Chinese Customs at Cunton.
Japanese violation of British interests in Chinese
railways.
Proposed safety zone at Foochow.
Japanese controlled lightor association at Cuefoo.
Unauthorized use by Japanese Army transports of
Butterfield and Swire property at Hankow.
Reply to Japanese requests intended to obviate danger
to foreign lives and property.
(3) France.
There appeared further newspaper stories concerning the
continued transportation of arms to Chiang Kai-shek through
French Indo-China and it was evident that the Japanese were
not satisfied with the French explanation. It was reported
in a Domei dospatch from Hanoi that the stream of wer materials
being supplied to the Chinese Nationol Government through French
Indo-China continued without diminution. This despatch stated
that Kwangchow Bay in the French Lecsed Territory had become
an important point for the unloading of wor materials. The
newspaper story concluded with the fact that a spokusmnn for
the Chinese Government hed stted that the supply of arms
through French Indo-Chinn is nothing but ? friondly gesture
toward the Nationel Government on the part of the Freneh.**
On November 28 the Foreign Office spokesmon at his press
interview stated thet the Japanese Government has received a
reply from Paris to its note of protcst in connection with
arms shipments through Indo-China. The ruply, he strted,
wns
* These representations were covered by the following despatches
which are listed in the some order as the above British repre-
sentations: Nos. 3448, November 16, 3459, Novomber 29; 3463,
Novomber 29; 3464, Novomber 29; 3465, November 29; 3466, Novem-
ber 30; 3467, November 30, 1938.
** Embassy's Monthly Report for October, page 17.

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
was not the final roply and conversations between the Japanese
Ambassador in Paris and the French Foreign Office are being con-
tinued.
Acco ding to press despatches published in Japan, the re-
action in France to the st:tements of policy given by various
Government leaders in Japan was unfavorable and the French con-
sidered Premier Konoe's speech to be "fascist talk". A rather
interesting feature article appeared in the ASAlII on November 7
presumably written by the ASAHI's European correspondent. This
article stotes thnt France has now, following Prince Konoe's
and other officinl statements, awakened to the vast import
of Japan's operations in China nd that the French statesmen
will devote themselves to the micable settlement of economic
and political differences among European Powers. The first
step was said to be consolidation of Anglo-French plans to
be followed by parleys among France, Great Britein, Germany,
and Itoly. The article also stated that France is buginning
to place some credence in the former Cerman Kaiser's theory of
the "Yellow Peril", and, being fully nware that it could nover
defend French Indo-China by itself, France hopes for a joint
defense of Asiatic interests by the combined forces of the
"white" nations.
The French Embassy in Tokyo, ncting in questions rising
in China in which France was directly concerned, made parallel
representations with the American and British Embassy. Copies
of the French ruprosentations in the following instances have
been forwarded to the Department, as follows:
Freedom

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
Freedom of Navigation on the Yangtze River.*
Japanese Interference with Chinese Custons at Canton.**
Reply to Japanese Requests Intended to Obviate Danger
to Foreign Lives ni Property. ***
(4) Germary and 1t2 y.
During the month of November, there was a marked renewel
of activities along the lines of the Berlin-Rome-Tokyc axis,
evidencing the strengthening of the relations among Japan
and Germany and Italy. Advantage was taken of the fact that
this month brought the anniversaries of the Anti-Comintern
Pacts with Germany and Italy. Cn November 25 a cultural
convention between Japan and Germany was signed in Tokyo.
762.65
This pact consists of a preamble expressing the intention
of the contracting Powers to strengthen "bonds of friendship
and mutual confidence" by "deepening their manifold cultural
relations", and of four articles providing for the promotion
of relations in the fields of "science and fine erts, music and
While it is
literature, youth movements, sports, etc.****
not believed that there are any secret clauses, this convention
is none the less a clear indication of closer political asso-
ciations between Jpan and Germany.
Considorablc prominence was given in the Japanese press
to the fact that Cornany and Italy agreed with the policy an-
nouncements of the Japres Covernment ccncerning new conditions
in the Oriert and the officiul stutencnt that obsolete treaties
or principles were no longer applicable to present conditions.
Undoubtedly Italy and Germany, having only minor interests in
China and hoping to obtein from Japan significant trade oppor-
tunities
Embassy's despatch No. 3439, November 135 1938.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 3459, November 29. 1938.
***
Embassy's reply No. 3467. November 30, 1038.
****
Embassy's despatch No. 3502, Lecenber 2, and Embassy's
telegram No. 751, November 26, 1938.

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
tunities with the new China, find it to their advantage morally
to support the Japanese. The fact that Japan in China and
Germany and Italy in Europe are faced end opposed by the same
countries tends to give vigor to what might seem to be an ar-
tificiel alliance and to make the former anti-Comintern axis an
anti-democratic association.
It was stated that Japan and Italy would also in the near
future conclude a cultural pact.
(5) Peru.
The Peruvian Economic and Cultural Mission which came
to Japan in September departed on November 2, 1938, after a
visit of about seven weeks' duration. The mission, visiting
the principel industrial and tourist centers in Japan, Korea,
and Manchuria, was lavishly entertained in the usual Japanese
68
42723
manner.*
The Mission apparently was not empowered to make any
binding commitments, but it did hold discussions with Japanese
financial and industrial leaders. While the Jepanese on their
part brought forward a proposal that there be a more liberal
policy towerd Japanese immigration into Peru, discussion of
the subject was successfully avoided and the matter was dropped.
The Embassy was informed thot the Peruvian Mission made the
principal theme of discussion a request for larger cotton im-
ports into Japan from Peru. The Japanese Government, on its
part, was principally concerned with the desirability of open-
ing negotiations for the conclusion of a new treaty of commerce
and navigation. The results of the mission's discussions with
Japanese interests were drewn up in a set of resolutions agreed
to in a conference on October 5. These resolutions will be sub-
mitted
* Embassy's despatch No. 3422, November 15, 1938.

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
mitted to t he Peruvian Government on tho mission's return to Lima.
The Mission a grees to inform the Feruvian Government of the desire
of the Japanese Government for a commercial treaty, to recommend
grecter co ration botween Peruvinn and Japanese Chambers of
Commerce, banking institutions, shipping and communication facili-
ties, to recommend the cooperaticn of Peruvian and Japanese tech-
nicinns and capitalists in the exploitation of minerals and in
the development of the fishing industry in Feru, and to urge
the increased purchase of Japaneso cotton goods by Peru.
On Novomber 29 Dr. José de la Riva Aguero, former
Peruvian Prime Minister, arrived in Japan as a "cultural envoy
to Japan" to take part in the formation of a Japan-Poruvian
Culturel Society. It is suggested that a Jepan-Peruvian cultural
pact will be concluded in the near future. No dato has as yet
been set for the inauguration of the Society but it is said that
it will take place during the stay of Dr. Aguero who is to be
here little more then a month and is to give n series of lectures.
(6) Sweden.
The Embassy was informed in November thet the Swedish
Consul in Tokyo had succeoded in concluding a favorable arrange-
ment with the Japaneso Government providing for a minimum quota
for the importation of Swedish boll-bearings for a two-yoar
period beginning Janurry 1, 1939; the quota is to be 30 per
cent higher than the emounts imported during the calendar year
of 1938, and 55 per cunt higher than the amount imported during
1937. Tho arrangement provided for a fixed rate of exchange
during the two-year period for the remission abroad of 100
per cent of the profits -- permits have already been issued for
these

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.99)
-28-
these payments and the necessary exohange to pay for the imports
hes already been ear-marked.*
(7) ungary.
On November 28 it was reported in the press that a
Jepan-Hungarian cultural pact was to be concludod within a
short time and that the Japan-Hungarian Cultural Society in
Japan, under tho Chairmanship of Baron Takaharu Mitsui, had an-
nounced that it will institute the Japan-Cultural Prize in
commemoration of the ovent. This award is to be given annuelly,
beginning next year, and is to take the form of medels and
monetary rewards to Hungarians "who render service in the study
and introduction of Japan to Hungary". This article further
stated that Baron Mitsui was carrying out a five-year program,
894.42764
which is to end next year, in which he has been donating
Yen 30,000 cnch year for the purpose of promoting Japanese-
Hungarian relations. Baron Mitsui was reported to have said
"the pro-Japanese sentiment prevailing among Hungarians is
almost enthusiastic. I think we should have countries in Central
Europe surrounding Soviet Russia understand the true cultural
aspect of Japan and of the Japanese spirit........"
(8) League of Netions.
On Novenber 2 the Foreign Office spokesman issued a state-
ment to the effect that Japan will not participate in interna-
tional enterprises sponsored by the League, but that this does
not necessarily mean that Japan will no longer cooperate with the
rest
* Embassy's despatch No. 3390, November 2, 1938.

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.98)
-20-
rest of the world in peaceful aotivities. In this statement
Japan claims that the League of Nations has given its moral
support to China and has encouraged assistance to China on the
part of its wembers; that these recent activities of the League
which have departed markedly fron the original ideas can only
be interpreted as ill-will toward the Japanese Empire.
The
Embassy was privately informed that there are no present plans
for altering the operations of the Tokyo branch of the Interna-
tional Labor Office, and this fact leads one to believe that
the intention of the Japanese Government may be to make the act
of withdrawal more a nominal one rather than a real severance
of working arrangements.*
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) Statements by Government Officials.
On November 2 the press section of the Foreign Office
made available to the press and to fcreign correspondents a
document entitled "Statement of the Japanese Government,
November 3, 1938".** On November 3 Premier Konoe read this
statement in a radio broadcast and made further explanations of
the Government's attitude. The outstanding points of this
officiel statement*** are that Japan is striving for the es-
tablishment of a new order in East Asia to assure permanent
stability and peace in that aren. This new order is to be
founded upon the tri-partite cooperation and coordination of
Japan, "Manchukuo" and Chine in economic, political, culturel
and
* Embessy's despatch No. 3417, November 4,1938.
**Department's telegram No. 375, November 3, 5 p.m., and Embassy's
telegram No. 703, November 4, 10 a.m.
**Embassy's despatch No. 3416, November 4, 1938.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.98)
-30-
and other fields. Japan is desirous of having China take an
active part in the creation of this new order and will not
reject participation even by the Kucmintang Government if it
repudirtes some of its present personnel. If: however, the
Kuomintang Government, which, the statoment says, has become
a mere local régime, persists in its communistic and anti-
Japanese policy, Jepan will never relent in its effort to
crush that régime. The Premier in his speech stated that
Japan seeks the cooperation of awakened Chinese in the es-
tablishment of China as an independent state and that Japan,
"Manchukuo" and Chine, each having its own individuality, ere
naturally and historioally bound together in a common mission
having as its purpose the peace and order of the Far East.
Premier Konoe bernted the National Government of China for
its betrayal of Chinese tradition and culture and for having
foiled tc aivance its common mission with Jaran. He reiterated
that Japan will not reject participation by the National Govern-
ment in this mission if that Government renovates and revises its
policies and personnel.
Regarding relations with third countries, the Premier's
radio address said that peace and independonce in China have
often been menaced by the imperialistic struggles of Occidental
Fowers and added that Japan is determined to establish true
international justice in all phases of human activity, including
commerce, immigration, resources end cul ture, and that Japan
will neither exclude cooperation of otiers providing such
cooperation is based upon an understanding of the new situa-
tion in East Asia, nor damage the legitimate rights of third
Powers in China.
This

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.97)
!.
This statement would indicate that the Japanese Govern-
ment having availed itself of the opportunity presented by the
enthusiasm followirg the occupation of Hankow and Canton pre-
sented tc te naticn aud to he world at igo a declaration
of policy which, while in itself cc ched in vague and broad
terms, indicates that Japan is determined that any cooperation
with China or with third countries must be based upon a realiza-
tion of the fact thet Japan is determined to dominate and
control East Asin. In the eyes of the Japanese a future for
such policies and concepts as the Open Door and equal oppor-
tunity does not e xist and these concepts are considered to be
no longer applicable to East Asia.
Simultaneously with the publication of the above statement
by the Government Mr. Ikeda, the Financo Minister, issued a
statement on his ftture financial and ecenomic policy. He
stated thet while the recent military victo cs marked a sig-
nificant step forard in ths direction of a'ainment by Japan
of her or jective in China, it was entirely to eorly to con-
clude that shere would be any signiricunt coaige in the finan-
pinl and cecromic policies hitherto pursuei. Ls emphasized
that, s a matter of fuct, even greet  offore would hereafter
be necess.ry.
He stated that in order to corry out long term
constructien and expansion or productive power concurrently
with milit ry operations yet to be conducted, large quantities
of materials and funds will be necessary, and as a result
eccnomic control must be maintainec for a considerable time.
He sought the "deup understnnding and loyal cooperation" of all
in regard to the execution of future mersures of economic control.
with

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.99)
-02-
With regard to the budget, the Minister of Finence stated
that although ordinary expenditures would be limited to as
great an extent as possibie in view of the situation at home
and abroad, the totnl expenditures would probably reach an
enormous iigure and that the nrtion can not expect any
lightening of its financial burion. In conclusion, Mr. Ikeda
asserted that these various eccnomic inconveniences and priva-
tions are not to be permenent, but that after the difficulties
attending long-term construction have been overcome, the
future for Japan will be very bright. Both of the statements
by Mr. Ikeda and Premier Konoye emphasized the projected program
for the cooperation and coordination of Japan, "Manchukuo" and
China.
(b) Political Parties.*
On November 15 the national movement sponsored by the
Minseito and Seiyukai, the major political parties, to assist
in the "spiritual mobilization" of the nation and to facilitate
cooperation with the Government's policies got under way at a mass
meeting held at the Hibiya Public Hall in Tokyo. This first
meeting was highly successful. On November 17, it was announced
that Premier Konoye was to discuss with political leaders of
the parties his plan for the "reorganization of the nation".
At the scme time the ASAHI reporteu thnt Premier Konoye con-
sidered that this new movement must be of a broader scope than
merely that of a national party. Count Arima, Minister for
Agriculture and Forestry, and Mr. Akira Kazami, Chief Secretary
of the Cabinet, were reportedly requested by the Premier to
prepare a draft plan of organization.** Subsequent develop-
ments
*
Peges 19 and 20 of Enbassy's Monthly Report for October,1938.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 3504, December 3, 1938.

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.98)
ments along this line followed the usual pattern of negotia-
tions within the Cabinet and up to the end of November it was
not clee ;ist whnt plan would eventuelly be evolved. On
November 24 the KOkUMIN reportcd that the movement was showing
no progress because of "n uncertainty corcerning the reaction
in financinl circles and in inaaequate appreciation of the
movement within the Cabinet." Premier Konoye was said to be
determined to launch the program but apporently he would not cct
until a concrete plan was ready. From this it would seem that
the Prime Minister favors, in principle, the establishment of
a national party but that he is not yet certnin of the reaction
within the country.*
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
During the month of November, Mr. Ikeda, the Minister of
Finence, approved the draft budget for 1939-40 end began pre-
paration for its submission to the Cabinot. It was ennounced
in the press on November 26 in confiruation of previous pre-
dictions that this budget nay call for the total expenditure
of from & to 9 billion yen, while the total astimated revenue
will be some 2.7 billion yen. This will obviously require the
Government to issue bonds in in amount ranging from between
5 to 6 billion yen to cover the deficit. At the some time
there
* Embassy's despatch No. 3585, December 3, 1938.

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
there was considerable talk of increasing taxes, it being es-
timated that the increased burden of tnxation would be fixed at
approximatoly Yen 300,000,000.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC ANT FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.*
While it might have been expected that the fall of Canton
and Hankow and the strengthening of the Cebinet by the appoint-
ment of two new Ministers one for Foreign Affairs ard one for
Overseas Affairs wculd have contributed to improve business
sentiment, general business conditions during the month of
November showed little, if any, improvement. No doubt the
Finance Minister's statenent that economic control is to be
continued indefinitely contributed to this somewhnt depressed
condition. During the month of November, the decision of the
Government authorities to invoke Article ll of the National
General Mobilization Law along with tho other brond measures
provided in that law, contributed to widespread apprehonsion in
business and financial circles and precipitated one of the most
serious stock market brenks which hes occurred since the
hostilities in China bugen. The somewh't disturbed and diffi-
cult condition of Japan's relations with third countries also
ndded to the uneasy situation in economic circles.
There were several additional important control measures
promulgated or put into effect during the month of November.
On November 1st a ministerial order modifying regulations govern-
ing the sale of North American softwoods become effective.
These regulations are aimed at control of the consumption or
such lumber and are not expected to affect significantly imports
of
* Prepared with the assistance of the Commercial Attaché's Office.

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.99)
imports of American lumber. It was announced that beginning
January 1 the Government will institute a quota system for the
distribution of fertilizers, a highly important factor in
Jepanese gricultural economy. During November the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry announced its decision to establish
a Scrap Iron Distribution Control Council made up of Govern-
ment officinls and representative of private interests. The
purpose of this Council is similar to the purpose of other
councils which have previously been formed for other commodities,
that is, to control prices, supply and distribution of the
material in question. On November 25 the Department of Commerce
issued revised retulations concerning the control of the sale
of gasoline and heevy oils. Under this revision refiners and
sellers of these products are rastricted -- they had hitherto
not been affected by the control measures in force. There
were also issued further regulations and revisions of regulations
concerning hides and leather, rayon textiles and yarn, etc.
Money rutes during the month of November were on the whole
easy and the absorption of Government bonds was reportedly
satisfactory. Owing to the downward tendency of the London-
New York cross rate the yon exchange rates for currencies
outside the sterling aren have declines somewhat and on Nov-
ember 26 the yen-dollar quota ronched n low of $27.00 flat
per ￥ 100.
Foreign trade during the month of November showed a
further increase, provisional figures fcr the month being:
exports ¥ 285,656,000 and imports ¥ 230,169,000. Complete
foreign trade figures for the month of November are not yet
available but it is believed that there may have been a slight
increase in exports to Oceania. However, exports to all other
countries

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
countries with the excertion of "yen bloc areas" either de-
olined or did not incroase.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMERCIAL INTERESTS.
During the menth of November the representative of & large
American oil company in Japan had an interview with Mr. Tani,
the Japanese "Ambassador-at-largo" to China and a Mr. Nomura
who has been associnted with the Mitsubishi interests in
importing oil into Japan. The significent fact brought out
in this interview was that it was the opinion of these two
Japanese that Japan intended to perticipate in the oil business
in China in a major way. The suggestion was mado that there
were two ways in which the cil business could operate under
the new conditions: "(1) Through Japanese interests making
way for themselves by encrcaching upon the trade of establish-
ed companies with resulting uneconcmic consequences, or (2)
thrcugh the creation f harmcnious and close relations between
the two intcrestcd groups." This suggestion was elaborated
upon and extended by the further suggestion that the present
fcreign companies having interests in the cil business in Chine
participate in a jcint enturprise plan embracing Japanese,
American, British, and Chincse capital. This new company
wculd then take cver plant and ther cepital investments of the
established companies in China and wculd rect refineries and
expand distributicn facilities along with the progress of the
anticipated development of Chine. In reply to the somewhat urgent
suggestions by Mr. Nonura the American company's representative
esserted that the China business of his company is under separate
jurisdiction

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
jurisdiction and that his view on the subject would be of no
value, but that the scheme suggested by the Japanese is so
contrary to the practices of th= c ompeny that it obviously
would require very careful cxana ion before any worthwhile
comment coula be made.*
VIII. ACTIVITIES CF FOREIGN COMIERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.
- - 0 - -
* Embassy's despatch No. 3471, November 30, 1938.

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.98)
DESPATCHES SENT TO 1HE DEPARTMENT
NO.
Date
Subject
3379
November 1
Japenese :cnerPerenca with foreign shipping
on tho Yurgtke
3380
November 1
NatloneJ Jot.l lzction
3381
November 1
Chinese C toms Administracion. Japanese
Seizure of Custcms Launches.
3382
November 1
Japanese request for movement of foreign
vessels anchored near Hankow.
3383
November 1
Reported tobacco monopoly in Shansi Province.
3384
November 1
Japanese controlled lighter association at
Chefoo
3385
November 1
British representations regarding Japanese
violation of British interests in Chinese
Government railways.
3386
November 1
Japanese dissolution of Chefoo Harbor Im-
provement Commission.
3387
November 1
Japanese charge of incompetence gpinst
Shanghai Municipal Police.
3388
November 1
Protection of foreign property in Chine
and xuservation of rights: Eritish ind
French representations.
3389
November 2
Japanese censorship or Anerican mail.
3390
November 2
Agreement between S.K.F. (Swedisn Balj-
bearing Company) and the Japenese Govern-
ment.
3391
November 2
Assistance to and salvage of vessels in
distress.
3392
November 1
Appointment of Mr. Hachiro Arita as Minister
for Foreign Affairs.
3393
November 2
Additional gardeners replaced.
3394
November 2
Mitsubishi MONTHLY CIRCULAR.
3395
November 2
American Property losses rosulting from
Sino-Japanese hostilities, 1937-1938.
Jas. I. Miller Tobacco Company, Inc.,
Shanghai.
3396
Novomber 2
American Property losses resulting from
Sino-Japanese hostilitics, 1937-1938.
William Baxter Waddill, Shanghai.

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
No.
Dato
Subject
3397
November 2
American property losses resulting from Sino-
Japarase rostilities, 1937-l938. Ruby Cella
Whitcome, Nanking.
3398
November 2
Japanese restrictions on importation of wire-
less equipmont into Norch China.
3399
November 2
Chinese Customs Administration.
3400
November 2
Reaction to American note of October 6, 1938.
3401
November 2
Japanese refusal to permit Asiatic Petroleum
Company's vessel HAIKWANG to land stocks at
Tsingtao.
3402
November 2
Japenese demand for evacuation of Union
Hospital premises in Hankow.
3403
November 2
Protection of foreign rights and interests
in Hankow - proposed safuty zone.
3404
November 2
Japanese violation of American rights and
intorests in China.
3405
November 3
Embargo on exportation of sheup and slink
wool nd hemp from North China.
3406
November 3
Japanese interference with British interests
and occupetion of British property in Shanghai
3407
November 3
Universal Lear Tobacco Coupany.
3408
November 3
Anglo-Japanese relations.
3409
November 3
British representations regardinz Japanese
violntion or British rights in China.
3410
November 3
Bombing by Jopanese planes on October 24, 1938
of Lutheron Brethron Mission, Tungpeh, Honen,
rosulting in death of Phocbe Nyhus and
wounding of her mother and sister.
3411
Novembor 3
Japaneso interference with shipmont of bullion
on SS PRESIDENT COOLIDGE at Shanghai.
3412
November 3
Attack by Japanesu airplanes on Standard
Vacuum Oil Company's vessel "MEISIN" on
October 19.
3413
Novomber 3
Japanese inturforence with British newspapers
published in North China.
3414
November 4
North China Development Company, and the
Cuntral China Promotion Company.

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.99)
-ー
NO.
Date
Subjeot
3415
November 4
Rumored British loan to Japan.
3416
November 4
Japanese Covernment statement of November 3,
1938.
3417
November 4
Japanese withurawal from League Bodies.
3418
November 4
Retaliaticn, British property in China.
3419
November 4
Attack by Japanese airplanes on H.M.S.
SANDPIPER on the Yangtze River on October 24.
1938.
3420
November 4
Japanese interference with British ships -
H.M.S. CICALA and H.M.S. ROBIN - at Canton.
3421
November 5
Address of Mr. Kensuke Horinouchi, Ambassa-
dor designate to the United States at Pan-
Pacific Club luncheon.
3422
November 15
Peruvian Economic and Cultural Mission.
3423
November 15
Photographs of Embassy buildings.
3424
November 16
Monthly Political Report for October, 1938.
3425
November 12
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3426
November 16
Unauthorized use by Japanese Army transports
of Butterfield and Swire Property at Hankow.
3427
November 16
Japanese interference with British shipping
at Tsingtao.
3428
November 16
American property losses resulting from the
Sino-Japanese conflict, 1937-1938.
Mrs.
Grace Boggs Service, Shanghai.
3429
November 16
Japanese bombing of property of Covenant
Missionary Society, Kingmen, Hupeh, China.
3430
November 16
Universal Leaf Tobacco Company.
3431
November 16
First issue of JAPAN NEWS WEEK.
3432
November 16
Claim of the American Locomotive Sales
Corporation against the Peiping-Suiyuan Rail-
way Company.
3433
November 16
Claim of the Chinese Engineering & Develop-
ment Company, Inc., against the Peiping
Suiyuan Railway Company.
3434
November 16
Claim of the Robert V. Hung Company, Engineer
against the Peiping-Suiyuan Railway Company.
3435
November 16
Consent egreement amending bond.

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.98)
No. Date
Subject
3436
November 16
Employment of Yuk1 Watanabe Uyeminami, in-
terprater.
3437
November 16
The Crjontai Consolidated Mining Company of
ok ben.
3438
No. mber 16
Jap rocu re lur st for movement of foreign
v stsis trcleres near Hinkow.
3439
November 16
Feecdon of ruvigation on the Vaugtzu River:
Anerican, briuish, and French epr sentation
3440
November 16
Japenese restrictions on the return of
British subjects to Kiukiang.
3441
November 16
Embargo on exportation of sheep and slink
wool and hemp from North China.
3442
November 16
Japrnese controlled Lighter Association at
Chefoo.
3443
November 16
Japenese interference with British ships -
H.M.S. ROBIN and H.M.S. CICALA - at Canton.
3444
November 16
Formation of Japanese controlled silk mono-
poly in Central China.
3445
November 16
Attack by Japanese nirplanes on H.H.S.
SAIDFIPER on the Yangtze River on Ootober 2
1938.
3446
November 16
Jenanese restrictions on return cr "oreign-
ers to Ninking: British representaticns.
3447
November 16
Protcction of foreign rights  ivresos
in H.nkow: British representations
3448
November 16
Jananese interforence with British in-
ter sts nd occupation of Britisr piopurty
in Shanghai.
3449
November 16
Protection of foreign property in China
and reservetion of rights.
3450
November 17
Material for Political Handbook.
3451
November 15
Speculations on Jap n's reply to the Octo-
ber 6 note.
3452
November 17
Article published by the SHlUNSO: America..
and the Nine-Power Treaty.
3453
November 17
Formal inauguration of the North China
Developmont Company - Centrel China Promo-
tion Company.
3454
November 21
Diplomatic Visa Report.

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
NO.
Date
Subject
 3455
November 25
Japanese reply to the American note of
Octcher 6, 1958.
3456
Noe ber 28
Legislaticn requiring the registration of
agerts of foreign principals.
3457
November 28
Photographs of Embassy buildings.
3458
November 28
Request for publications.
3459
November 29
Chinese Customs, Japanese interference with
at Canton.
3460
November 29
Japanese interference with British ships
H.M.S. RCBIN and H.M.S. CICALA - at Canton.
3461
November 29
Address made by the Ambassador.
3462
November 29
Private Secretary to mbassador Grew.
3463
November 29
British representations regarding Japanese
violation of British interests in Chinese
railways.
3464
November 29
British representations concerning proposed
safety zone at Foochow, China.
3465
November 29
Japanese controlled Lighter Assocjation at
Chefoo.
3466
November 30
Unauthorized use by Japanese Army Transports
of Butterfield and Swire property at Hankow:
British representations.
3467
November 30
Protection of foreign property in China and
reservation of rights.
3468
November 30
Regulations governing the importation of
CANNABIS SATIVA into Japan.
3469
November 30
Radio interference by Japanese stations.
3470
November 30
Mexican Cil.
3471
November 30
Transmitting memorandum of conversation be-
tween representatives of American and British
oil companies and two prominent Jepanese.
3472
November 30
Japanese-Peruvian Cultural Activities.
3473
November 30
Article by Mr. rita, Minister for Foreign
Affairs, on new national policy.
3474
November 30
Seventh World's Poultry Congress and Exposi-
tion.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.98)
No. Date
Subject
3475
November 30
American property losses resulting from the
Sino Japanese hostilities, 1937-1938:
Jay Frank Woodworth, Shanghai.
3476
Nober 30
Attack by Jepanese eirplanes on H.M.S.
SArDFIPER on the Yangtze River on October 24.
1938.

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.99)
Telegrams sent to the Department
during November 1938
No.
Date
Subject
699
November 2, 5 p.m.
Wool embargo
700
November 2, 6 p.m.
British-Japanese relations.
701
November 2, 8 p.m.
British-Japanese relations.
702
November 2, 9 p.m.
Japanese protest concerning
shipment of arms through
French Indo-China.
703 November 4, 10 a.m.
Statement of the Japanese Govt.
704, November 4, 2 p.m.
Prime Minister's speech con-
cerning Japanese policy toward
China.
705 November 4, 4 p.m.
Requisitions.
706 November 5, 2 p.m.
Evacuation of American citizens
at Kuling.
707 November 5, 3 p.m.
Request for clerical assistance.
708 November 5, 6 p.m.
Navigation on the Yangtze River.
709 November 6, 6 p.m.
Navigation on the Yangtze.
November 6, 11 a.m.
Americans at Kuling.
710 November 7, 5 p.m.
Conversation with Minister
for Foreign Affairs.
711 November 7, 8 p.m.
Statement of Japanese official
to be published in NEW YORK
HERALD TRIBUNE.
712 November 8, 11 a.m.
Departure of Ambassador Horinouchi
713 November 8, 2 p.m.
Note from Foreign Office con-
cerning protection of foreign
property in China.
714 November 8, 6 p.m.
Japanese press comment on
American attitude toward
Japanese Government's state-
ment of November 3.
715 November 9, 11 a.m.
American press reaction to
our note of October 6.
716 November 9, 4 p.m.
Japanese press forecasts of
contents of Japanese reply to
our note of October 6.

=== Page 401 === (confidence 1.00)
-2
No.
Date
Sub ject
717
November 10, noor.
Japanese gold shipments.
718
Nevember 10, 7 p.m.
Evacuation of Americans
at Kuling.
719
November 10, 9 p.m.
Ciphers.
720
November 10, 10 p.m.
Ciphers.
721
November 10, 11 p.m.
Ciphers.
722
November 12, 10 a.m.
Narcotics.
723
November 12, 2 p.m.
Japanese press comment: America
and the Nine Power Treaty.
724
 November 13, 5 p.m.
Navigation on the Yangtze.
725
November 14, 7 p.m.
Navigation on the Yangtze.
726
November 14, 10 p.m.
Navigation on the Yangtze.
727
November 15, 10 a.m.
Alaska salmon fisheries.
728
November 15, 3 p.m.
Japanese Government's state-
ment: British interpretation.
729
November 15, 7 p.m.
Navigation on the Yangtze.
730
November 15, 8 p.m.
Navigation on the Yangtze.
731
November 15, 9 p.m.
Foreign vessels at Hankow.
732
November 16, 3 p.m.
Japanese reply to our note
of Cctober 6.
733
November 16, 6 p.m.
Visit to Washington of
Mr. Hall-Patch.
734
November 16, 10 p.m.
Chinese-British relations.
735
November 16, 11 p.m.
British-Japanese relations:
Craigie-Arita conversation.
736
November 18, 3 p.m.
Radio interference.
737
November 18, 6 p.m.
Personal for the Secretary:
re British and Canadian trade
agreements.
738 November 18, 7 p.m.
Japanese reply to our note
of October 6. (Open door in.
China).

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.99)
-ー
NO.
Date
Subject
739 November 18, 10 p.m.
Canton oustoms.
740 November 18, midnight
Japanese reply to our note
of October 6.
741 November 19, noon
British policy in Sino-
Japanese hostilities.
742 November 19, 1 p.m.
Freedom of navigation on
the Yangtze.
743 November 19, 6 p.m.
Japanese press comments on
Japanese reply to our note
of October 6.
744 November 18, 8 p.m.
Dooman-Arita conversation.
745 November 21, 3 p.m.
Equality of commercial
opportunity in China.
746 November 21, 8 p.m.
Conversation with the Minister
for Foreign Affairs.
747 November 23, 11 a.m.
Japanese gold shipments.
748 November 24, 8 p.m.
Personal for the Ambassador.
749
November 25, 11 a.m.
Canton customs.
750 November 26, 11 a.m.
Navigation on the Yangtze.
751
November 26, noon
German-Japanese cultural
r
convention.
752 November 26, 3 p.m.
Anglo-Japanese relations.
753
3 November 29, 11 a.m.
Embassy repairs.
754 November 29, 1 p.m.
Commission for Consul Warner.
755 November 29, 5 p.m.
Statement by Japanese Cabinet
on fundamental policy.
756 November 30, noon
Conference in presence of the
Emperor concerning fundamental
policy.
757 November 30, 3 p.m.
Conference in presence of Emperor.
758 November 30, 5 p.m.
Rumor of Japanese and Russian
troop movements near Changkufeng.

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION OF
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
EUROPEAN AFFAIND
OF THE
EB151939
1099 FEB  PM 2 34
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
JIVISION OF
COMMUNCIONS
Tokyo, January 17, 100
294.00PR
AND ALCURDS
NO. 3613
SUBJECT: REPORT CF CCNDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
DLEGAL ADVISER
MONTH OF DECEMBER, 1938.
1932
OFFICE OF THE AF
INTERNATIONA
DEPARTMENT OF STATT
FED151939
DEPARTMENT
The Honerable
NI1T
894.00
The Secretery of State,
N
Washington:
Sir:
With reference to the Depertment's instruction
P
1/
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in
Japan for the month of December 1938.
3
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew.
800
J0B:0m
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Enlosurg
FEB1329
OF STATE
to Embassy, Peiping
mbassy, Moscow
Embassy, Changking
Consulete Goneral, Shanghai
FILED
Mukden
Harbin
Seoul
Goneglcto, gobe
 of the U Leictic Fleet
ate to the Depastasnt.
1

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 147.
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF DECEMBER 1938.

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.97)
INDEX ANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES
(a)
Ambassador's Interview with
the Forcign Minister..
1,2,3,4
(b)
The Anericen Noto of
Docember 30.
4
(c)
General Relations.....
4,5,6,7,8
(a)
Represontations made by the
Amcricen Embassy..
8
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES
(c)
China
(1)
Militery Operations.....
8,9,10
(2)
Gencral Relctions.....
10,11,12
(b)
Great Britain.
12,13,14,15
(c)
Soviet Russia.
18,16
(ā)
Pcru.
16
(0)
Germany.
17
(f)
International.
17
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS
(2)
Importent Statements by
Goverrment offici-ls.....
18
(:)
The Crbinet..
19,20
(c)
The Diet.
20
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION
Nothing to ren rt.
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
N. thing t rep rt.
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC ND FIN.NCIAL CONDITIONS
(2)
Foreicm Trede.
21
(b)
Genersl Econonic C nditions....
22,23
VII.

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AIRICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREICN COMMTRCIAL INTERESTS
Nothine to report.
IX.
LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothinc t ronrt.

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.98)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a)
Ambassador's Interviews with the Foreign Minister.
At the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs,
Mr. Grew called on him on Decemter 8*. The Minister, believing
that it would be helpful to have freguent informal conversations
with the Ambassador, stated that he had requested this interview
in order to reply to some of the representations which the
Ambassador had made to him in the course of their conversation
on November 2l**. The Minister also said that in view of the
somewhat complicated nature of the subject under reference he
had written down his oral comments which he would read to the
Ambassador. After reading this statement to the Ambassador,
the Foreign Minister stated that he was to see the British
Ambassador that afternoon and thereupon read to Mr. Grew the
statement which he intended to make to Sir Robert Craigie. In
this interview the Ambasuador found a stiffer attitude in
phraseology on the pert of the Minister than in their last
conversation, The Minister suggested that little improvement
could be expected until Chiang Kai-sek had entirely been
eliminated. He also spoke with greet bitterness of the alleged
support by Greet Britain of the Generalissimo and intimated that
official publicity in England had. b: angering the military
people here. rendered the British situation in East Asia much
more difficult.
In Mr. Arit   rut statement he reiterated the position
taken by the Japanese evernment that while existing treaties
may have been calculatea to prevent international friction in
the
*
Embassy's telegram No. 773, December 8, 1938, Embassy's
despatch No. 3566, Decemocr 20.
**
Monthly Report for Novenver, pages 6, 7 and 8.

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the days when they were made, it is hardly to be expected that
their literal application to the altered conditions of today
would make for peace and general prosperity. Reference was made
to the existence in the world toduy of "such vast economic units
as Great Britain, Soviet Russia and the United States of America".
as opposed to such a small economic unit as the Japanese Empire.
The statement adds that the information which the Ambassador
had received to the effect that "American trade with China will
be tolcrated only if American interests deal through Japanese
middlemen" is entirely groundless. The purpose of closer economic
relations between Japan, "Manchukuo", and China is, it was stated,
to assure supply of neccssary products and thc availability of
a market essential to the oxistence of Japan. In order to achieve
this, certain industrics are to bo granted monopolistic privileges.
The entire statement was filled with ambiguous and indefinite
qualifying phrases.
Again at the requcst of the Ministor for Foreign Affairs,
Mr. Grow called on the Minister on December 26*. In the early
part of the conversation the Minister oxpressed regret that the
American press had failed to undorstand the assurance that Japan
has no intention of closing the door of foreign trede in Cnine.
In reply, the Ambassador stated thet he believed that he could
accuratcly explain why the Amcrican Government, press, and public
and the Arbassador himself, found it very difficult to appraise
the assurances of which the Minister spoke. This was because of
the fuct that every official utterance of the Japanese Government
since the Prime Minister's statement of November 3 had been
circumscribed by qualifying phrases to such an cxtent as to leave
the real intentions of tho Japanese Government ontirely nebulous.
In
Embassy's telegram No. 805, Deccmber 27, 1938 and despatch No.
3579, December 30, 1938.

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.99)
3
In illustration of this fact, the Ambassador referred to the
last two paragraphs of the oral statement which the Minister for
Foreign Affairs had given him on December 8 in which there
occurred such qualifying words or phrases as "undue discrimination
"any special discrimination," "as a rule", "within the scope of
established plans," "certain industries," etc. The Minister
apperently realizing the absurdity of such a situation, copied
down the phrases pointed out by Mr. Grcw.
The Ambassador observed that it was very difficult for his
Government aad the American public and press to understand the
sudden withdrawal of the assurances previously given by Mr.
Arita's predecessors including the Frime Minister when he was
acting as Foreign Minister. The Minister again stated, as he had
done to Mr. Dooman on November 19, thet such assurances had not
been given in bed faith but that his predecessors had simply tried
without success to rcconcilc principlo with actualities. Mr. Arita
added that he had deliberetely dccided to avoid such a procedure
but that nevertheless Japan had no intention whatever of closing
the Open Door. The Minister also told the Ambassador that he
believed that the new "Chinc Board" was now considering many of
the matters about which the Amorican Govcrnment had protested,
that he believed that the Board would overcome the difficulties
which had existed because of the considerable number of different
authoritics involved, and that favorable results would soon
transpire. The question of the recent Amcrican credit to the
Nationel Government of China was not directly mentioned by the
Minister and no statement was mcde to which the Ambassador could
take exception. Mr. Grew observed that the atmosphere and tone of
this conversation were more conciliatory and resilient than had
prevailed

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.97)
-4…
prevailed in his forme talks with Mr, Arita.
(b) The American Note of December 30.
On December 31 the Ambassador delivered to the Vice Minister
for Foreign Affairs the American ncte dated December 30 setting
forth the position of the Americon Government with regard to the
general situation in East Asia. This note wes a comprehensive
reply to the position taken by the Japanese Government in ite
note of November 18. This note was roported to be the finel
exposition of the American position and has becn given full
publicity in the press. It is, therefore, bclieved unnecessary
to comment on its brond fontures which have been from time to
time clecrly set forth in various representations by the Ambass.
dor.
Since the Foreign Office holidays began on December 28 end
the Minister for Foreign Affeirs had already left town. the
Ambassador roquested Mr. Sawada to regard the note as having
beon delivered personally to the Minister. Mr. Sawada made no
comment but stated thnt it would be delivered at the curliost
possible moment.
(c)
General Relations.
On December 26, nt the conclusion of their interviow, the
Minister for Foreign Affairs handed to Mr. Grow a confidential
noto replyine to the note concorning the Nyhus cese which hud
been presented on October 3l. The Minister for Foreign Affairs
stated that Tungpeh being outside of the torritory occupied by
the Japanese forccs, it is impossible to carry out e complute
invostigation, but that it hed been esteblished that on October
24 bombing operations had been carried out by the Japenese foreus
and it was accordingly surmised that the incident might have
bccn

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
been "an accidontal unfortunate occurrence resulting from these
bombing operations." It was further stated that the Japanese
Consul General and the appropriete military authorities at
Shenghai had expressed regret to the American authorities and
had stated that suitablc measures would be taken when the
circumstances became cleer. The Minister concluded with an
expression of regret on the part of the Jepanese Government
and added that a local settlement was expected in the near
future.
Conformably with the Department's instructions* the
Ambassador on December 26 left with the Minister for Foreign
Affairs a note regarding instances of loss of American life
and of damage to American property in China.** The Minister
implied in his conversation with the Ambassador that he
believed thcre wcre only 10 or 12 cases of the bombing of
American property in China. In view of this the Ambassador
s tated that if he were not mistaken the number of such cases
actually totalled between 200 and 300. On December 28, the
Ambassador took occasion to write to the Minister for Foreign
Affairs and to state that so fer as the Embassy is now advised,
the ceses of injury to American propurty in China at the hands
of the Japanese forces, including bombing, looting, assault, etc.,
totalled 296.
On Decomber 31 the Embassy received a long note from the
Foreign Office which rcferred collcctively to the Embassy's
verious notes requesting that investigations be made of cases
involving bombing of American property by Japanese airplanes.
With
*
Department's telegram No. 420, December 16, 1938.
**
Embassy's tclegram No. 809, Deccmbur 27, and despatch No.3568,
December 29, 1938.

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.97)
-6-
With the Japenese note thre was transmitted a report in
summary form of the result? of investigations which had been
received up to that time. The note strongly requested the
American Government to coopercte in the attempt to settle these
incidents locally. It also refurred to the impracticebility
of conducting investigations in arees not under Jepanese
occupation, and repeated the cssurances that all precautions
are being teken to avoid attack on American property. The
addendum which was transmitted with the note stated in practically
every cnse that the Japeneso forces hed exercised all precautions,
hed not been cble to recognize any markings identifying Americen
property, and that the damagc, if any, had resulted from the
close proximity of American propcrty to military facilities of
the Chinese forces. In no instonce did the Japanese assume eny
responsibility.
There wes also reccived at the same time a further note
on the Nyhus case which stated that as hed clready been made
known to the American authoritics at Shanghai "the Japanese
Governmont is propared to devise some method of providing a
solatium."*
Under date of December 16 the Minister for Foreign Affairs
addressed a note to the Ambassador in reply to the Embassy's
note of November 24 concerning seizure of thc Canton Maritime
Customs. The Minister's noto steted that "since the Canton
c rea is at present occupied by the Impericl Army it is proper
that the Canton Maritimo Customs be pleced under the cuthority
of the Jepenese Army of occupation end, eccordingly, the Imperial
Government connot accept Your Excellency's pretest....."**
Up
Eabassy's tolcgram No. 819, December 31, 1938.
**
Embassy's despatch Ne. 3526, Doccmber 21, and Embassy's telegr.
No. 788, Dccember 17, 1938.

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.98)
7
Up to the close of the period under review the Embassy mado
no further representations to thc Toreign Offico concerning this
matter.
While no official statement was made to the Enoussy with
regard to the American loen to Chinc the goncral tonc of the
press reporting this loen end of cditorials commenting thereon
was very firm.* The consensus of opinion in Japen seemed to be
that the United States and Great Britein had for some time been
considering economic meesures agcinst Japan or in support of the
Chiang Kai-shek Government. While the Unitcd States was denounced.
in the press for making what was termed a futile political loan
to a Government doomed to fall, the onus for embarking upon such
e "mistakon policy" was definitcly placed upon Great Britain, many
papers stating that apart from the Soviet Union the prime mover
in international aid to China is Grent Britain. In evaluating the
ceuses which brought about this "change of American policy in
relction to the China Incident", it was stated that, whilo the
popular reaction in the United Statos to the roply of the Jepenese
Covornment to the American desiderata had teon strongly unfavorable,
emphasis was to bo pleced upon the fact that the United States,
apprehensive of the growing strength of the "anti-Comintern Front"
had taken this step to domonstrato its intention of alignment
with other democrntic powers. In an interview with the foreign
press correspondents on December 19, the Minister for Foreign
Affairs, in reply to questions, is reported to have scid that
this loan, though of a commercinl nature, will prolong the
hostilities and that it is an inopportune and regretable act on
the pert of the United States; and thst if, as was suggested in
some
Embassy's telegram No. 790, Docember 18, 1938.

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
some American newspapers, the loen hes c political significance
nothing would be more dangerous. The Foreign Minister added
that he is not inclined to regard the lonn as a political move
dircctcd eginst the activitics of Japan.*
(a) Represontations made by tho American Embessy.
During the month of December tho Embassy made representations
to the Foreign Office concerning American property losses in
China in the following instances:**
Mr. Lemuel Kennerly Taylor, Shanghci
(Oil factory destroyed: fire, looting).
Americen Far Eastcrn Match Compeny, Federal Incorp. U.S.A.,
Shanghai.
(Shcllfire, fire, occupation, looting.)
Foreign Young Mon's Christin Association, Shanghai
(Occupation of Sea Scout Camp, Point Islend).
Mr. Gerherd A. Jacobson, Shanghai
(Ford automobile stolen)
Bartlett Yung & Co., Shanghci
(Stocks of brass & steel sheets, ctc. taken
by Japaneso soldicrs)
Christion and Missionery Alliancc, Nenling
(socend bombing)
Americen Advent Mission, Chco Hsien, Anhwei and Nanking
(Bombing and looting)
Americen Covenant Missionary Socicty, Ichong
(Bcmbing)
II. RELITIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China.
1. Military Operetions.
793.94
Military operotions during the month of December were
generally devoted to cuiet consclidation of thc territory occupied
by the Japeneso forces and ttompts to pacify guerrilla bands.
In
*
Embassy's despatch No. 3536, December 22, 1938.
+ *
These representations were reported by the followine despatches
which are listed in the seme order as the above imerican
roprosentations: Nos. 1135, December 6; 1136, December 8;
1140, Deccmber 10; 1151, Decembur 10, 1142, Deccmber 10; 1145,
December 12; 1149, December 20; 1152, Deceiber 29, 1938.

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.97)
-
In the regions of South Shansi end North Honan, various
encounters were reported with the Chinese forccs and some
fighting in the mountains in those rogions was indicnted. In
general, however, tho military situation in Shansi cnd Honan
seemed to be as unscttled cs over.
In the Wuhan aren there were no ongngements cr troop move-
monts of eny importance. Some operations were carried out on
the north brnk of the Yangtze in the foothills of the Tapich
Mountains around Mecheng in an attempt to climinete the remnents
of the Chinese forces in that cren. It was gencrelly quiet in
the vicinity of Yochow and the Japanese gavo no indication of
cny intontion to ctteck.
In South Chine after thc finish of the campaign on the
Kowloon Peninsul& in November, the Japenese directed their
attention to the delta of tho West River south of Canton.
The
renewed roports from Chungking concerning thc opening of a
campaign to rctako Canton were not followcd by any active
undertakings on the pert of the Chinose. The military situation
around Canten during the month of December was only slightly, if
ct all, chonged.
There were soio indications that the Chinese
were foerful of an ettcck on the Indo-Chinn supply route from
lendings near Pakhoi or in Kwangchow Bey. There were also some
indicctions that the Jopanesc in the event of a renewal of the
poe tive campaign in South China might take Hainan Islrnd.
Along
with the gcner l lull in nejor operations there occurred a
redoubling of the Japenese offorts agoinst the guerrilles in
the occupicd rec.
These operations were only denlt with in a
fragmentary nature in thc Japanese press and it is therefore
difficult to accuretely evalurte the extont of guerrille opera-
ticns.
The

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.96)
-10-
The air force of the Army in North China devoted its
activities principally to operations against the communist
troops cressing the Yellow. Rivor in North Shensi near Hoku and
Paoteh. Some raids were also mede agcinst the guerrilla forces
near Tientsin and at Tshiu in scuthern Shantung.
In Central Chinn bombing operations in support of ground
forces were carried out against Chinese forces to the south and
west of Lake Tungting. Operations in South China were actively
carricd out in support of the "mopping up" operations in the delta
west of the river and near the mouth of the East River. The
Centon-Hankow Railway was nlso raided at several points in
Kwengtung.
In general the opcrations during the month of December
indicated thnt the Tepenese are now settling down into winter
quartcrs with no further plans for an early extension of their
holdinrs n militery operations.*
(2)
Seacenl Relations.
On Dec mber 27 he CHUGAI SHOGYO newspaper published a
rather lons cditori l on the departure of Mr. Wang Ching-wei
from Chungking end his arrival at Hanoi. The editorial stated
that while n thing definite was known at the time ebcut the
reasons fer his desertion of thc Chinese capital, it was obvious
that he had br ken with the present Chiang Kai-shek régime
and was not ontircly in sympathy with the policies being followed
by thet régime. Tle clitorial scemed to express belief that
Wang's denarture indicoted a further strengthoning of the
Communist position within the Mation list Covernment and omphasized
that the consequences of ir. Wang's departure were to be watched
with considcrablc interest.
Goneral
* This section prepared with the ssistence of thc Military!
Attaché's office.

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.96)
-11
Generel speculation wcs trcus ù whon, on December 29, Mr.
Wang's stetement advoocting peace with Japan based upon tho
principles set forth in Trincc Yonoye's statement of Decomber
22 was published. In vicw of th p stporement of tho Promier's
statement, it is quitc possibic t the timing of these two
s tetements may have been carefully planned. However, up to the
end of the period under reviow there hed been no concrete develop-
ments resulting from this displey of dosire for peace on the part
of a former prominent monber of tho Kuomintang party.
Rolations with the cccupicd nrens cf Chinn continued to be
dominated by military activities and littlc or no progress wcs made
towards the osteblishment or strengthening of new rógimes in these
a reas. Lato in Novomber the Cabinet announced that it had decided
upon a fundamental policy for regulating Sino-Japanose relations
in conncction with construction of a new order in East Asia.* This
was followed by a secret conference in the presence of the Emperor
at which tino the Cabinct's policics woro reportedly approved.
Public announcement of these basic policies vns to hovo been medo
by the Premier in a specch at Oscka on Deccter 11
Owing to
"ill health". the fremier was unable to eo t Ja k and it was
announced thnt the declaration was indefinitcly p stponed. On
December 22 Prince Koncc issued an inprtent stetement embodying
the conditions which Japen csserts thet she demands of Chine.
(This statement is covered in nother sectien of this report).
Information reccived by the Embassy would indicate that the
conference in the prcsence of the Fnperer hed to do at least
pertinlly with efforts to esteblish a new régime in China.**
It is believed thet this regine was to have been headed by
Wa Pei-fu. His refusal, however, blockcd such plans as may have
existed
Embassy's to1cgrer Ne, 755, November 29. 1938.
×*
Embassy's tclegram No. 763, Docember 14, 1938.

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
existed and the present plan seems to be for a loosely federated
form of Government in China, and the setting up of a single
Government is not imminently expected.*
The China Promotion Board was organized and began its
actiities on December 16.** This Boerd is to have the directi on
of all activities in China with the obvious exception of those
of a military nature. On December 22 Mr. Otani, President of
the North China Development Company stated on his return to
Japan that the affairs of his Company in North China were pro-
gressing satisfactorily and that he hoped in thc fairly near
future to establish the North Chine Communications Company, which
is to be one of the most important subsidiary companics. It
was announced on December 2oth that the Cabinet Planning Board
had completed the preperation of a comprehensive five-year
industrial plen for Japen, "Manchukuo" end China. This was
later ennounced as a three-year plan requiring a fund of some
13 billion yen.
(b)
Great Britain.
The British Imbassador had interviews with the Minister
741194
for Foreign Affairs on December 8 and Deccmber 26. In the
first interview the Minister for Foreign Affairs devoted his
attention largely to a discussion of the economic relations within
the British Empire replying to an unofficicl memorandum on the
same subject which Sir Robert had given to the Minister some time
before. The Minister's concluding remarks at the interview
concerning the purpose of closer economic reletions of Japan,
"Manchukuo" and China followed closely the general outline of
the romarks made to Mr. Grcw on the same date. Mr. Arita stated
that
14586
Embassy's despatch 3533, December 23, 1938.
Embassy's despetch 3549, December 23, 1938.
874.00836

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
that, although, in view of the nccossity to assure a supply of
necessary products essentia to the nationel existence of Japan,
it might beccme necessary to grant mononolistio privileges to
certain industries, foreigncrs wouid not be allowed to establish
competitive businesses but would be allowed to participate in
these enterprises by supplying capital, technique, and materials.
The British Ambassador mede certain remarks refuting the Japanese
contention that the British Empire constituted an economic bloc
similar in its purposes to thet which Japan wes attempting to
promote in East Asia, ana ho elso stated that the remarks made
in the Minister's oral statement were entirely too vaguc to be
capable of ready and complcte interprotation. The Minister
referred to reports of shipments of erms to the Chinese forces
through Burma and stated that this was another factor leading to
the deterioration in Anlo-Japenese relations. On the whole, the
interview secmed to be puroly exploratory and unproductive of any
definite results.*
In his intervicw with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on
December 26 Sir Robert Craigic, in conformity with instructions
from his Government,** loft with the Minister for Foreign Affairs
an informal memorandun.
The Minister stated that the British
Government's declared intention to view sympathetically China's
request for financial assistance and the British desire for an
acceptable settlement of the Sino-Japanese conflict were mutunlly
contradictory. Mr. Arita further stated that the unstable position
of the Chiang Kai-shek Governncnt and its inability to provide
security for a loan gave a political significance to any financinl
assistance offered that Government.
The discussions with regard to the Japanese statenents of
policy
* Embassy's despatch No. 3565, December 29; Eabassy's telegram 773,
December 8, 1938.
**Embassy's telegram No. 795, Deccniber 20, 1938.

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.99)
-1
policy involving the princinle of equality of opportunity in
China were substantially similar vo those between Mr. Grew and
Mr. Arita.
The british Anbassedor is apperently convinced that the
principle aim of the Japanese is tc secure a source of raw
materials in China and that rade advantages are not necessarily
a primary objective of the Japanese. He accordingly suggested
that it should surely be possible to evolve some meens by which
Japan could assure for herself the development of China's
resources without violation of the trcding rights of other nations.
In reply, Mr. Arita expressed the hope that Sir Robert would
make any suggestion which he might heve as to how Japan could
a ttain her legitimate needs without eny departure from the
"principle of equality of opportunity". In view of what is known
of Japan's projected progrem of econonic development of the
"yen bloc" areas, it is hardly to be believed thet Japan will
neglect or place secondary cnphasis on trade relations with
China.
,British relations with Japan during the month under review,
while not deteriorating to any appreciable extent, cortcinly
did not improve, and the negotiations botween the British Enbassy
and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were still largoly of an
exploratory nature.
During the menth of December the British Enbassy nade
representations in the following instances:
Japanese Intorference with ritish Newspapers
Published in North China.*
Japanese Seizure of Chinese Customs Launches.
Japanese Interference with Chinese Customs at Canton.
Freedom of Navigation on the Yangtze River.
Reported
* These representaticns were reported by the following despetchec
which are listed in the sane order as the above ritish represen-
tations: Nos. 3542, Decenber 21; 3525, December 21; 3526,
December 21; 3528, December 21; 3544, December 22; 3545, December
22; 3556, December 23, 3570, December 29; 3571, December 29;
3575, December 29, 1938.

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
Reported Order to Japanese Nationals to Evacuate
British and French Concessirns at Tientsin.
Attack on British Menbers o! Snanghai Municipal
Police by Japanese Torces.
Japanese Interierene? vith ritish Interests at Shanghai.
Japanese Disorimination egains: British Interests at
Tsingtao and Chcfoo,
Embargo on Emportation of Sheep and Slink Wool nd
Hemp from Nortn Clina.
(c) Soviet Russia.
The fall of each year since the negotiating of the new
741.94
Fisheries Agreement between Soviet Russia and Janan in 1936
has brought efforts on the part of the Japanese to induce the
Soviets to sign this or a similar agreement. Each time the
Soviets have delayed until the last moment and have only signed
provisional agreements extending the existing situation for one
year.
On September 2lst tho Japanese Ambassador in Moscew was
instructed to open the negotintions. The Russians delcyed and
alleged that cortain conditions, such as Japanese viclations of
the Portsmouth Treaty, stationing of troops in Manchur a, the
closing of the Suya Straits, end also the non-paynent by
"Manchukuo" of th: final instalment in settlenent of tI transfer
of the North Manchiria Railway, needed to bo adjusted before
a new fisheries agrcemont would be signed. Nothing was accomplish-
ed on either side and Anbassador Togo replaced Shigemitsu,
bringing with him instructions to press the Russians on the
settlement of the Fisherics question. Considerable prominence
was given in the press in Japan to the "truculent ettitude" of
the Russians, and a delogation of Japanese interested in these
fisheries

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
fisheries came to Tokyo to press the Government for decisive
action. Mr. Litvinov, however, up to the end of December,
the date on which the present agreement expired, maintained
his stanc and refused to meet the demands of the Japanese until
they in turn were to give satisfaction to the Russian desiderata.
It was quite definitely stated in Tokyo that the Japanese
intended to fish in Russian waters whether or not Russia entered
into a new agreenent covering thesc enterprises. The Japanese,
however, added that they were ready at any tine to resume
negotiations on this difficult question.
Fishing in Siberian weters usually begins in the early
part of April and while there apparently remains considerable
time for negotiations prior to the fishing season, the fact
that Russia has allowed the Treaty to expire indicates that
Russo-Japanese relations are in a morc involved state than they
have been since 1936. This, coupled with thc strong stand taken
by the Japanese, represents a situation which may at any time
become extremely scrious and in spite of the fact that these
difficulties in Sovict-Japenese relations cre perrennial in
their appearance, a situation exists which merits close obeerva-
tion.
(d) Peru。
On December 20 there was inaugurated the Jepen-Peru.
Society which hes as its principel objectives "a mutual intro-
duction of industrial, educational phases and exchange of
scholers, artists end students, and the promotion of friendly
reletions through other chennels". The Peruvian Minister to
Japan was made the Honorary President and Baron Kishichiro
Okura was mede President. It was stated thet the Society had
an enrolled membership of about 200 Japanese.

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.98)
-17-
(e)
Germeny
Japanese relations v.ith Germany were marked by no note-
worthy developments during the nonth of December. The arrivel
in Tokyo on December i of che Giert Condor" plane was widely
acclaimed in the Japanese press tnd on December 6 it was
announced that the Dai Nippon Transport Company was to purchese
three planes of the same model for its regular air lines. The
planes were reported to cost v8oo,ooo each, said to be the
highest price ever peid by a Japenese firm for a foreign plane.
The NICHI NICHI reported that payment was to be made under the
recently completed Gorman-"Manchukuo" Trade hgreement on a
barter basis with Manchurian soyabeans. On December 24 it was
announced that a Japanese-Gorman medicel pact would probably
be entered into in the near future in particl implementation
of the Japanese-German Cultural pact concluded last nmonth.
(f)
International.
The 8th International American Conference held at Limc
during the month of December was widely renorted in the press
and considerable comment was given in various newspp rs.
editorials, and magazine articles.
In these articl s considerabl
emphasis was placed upon the alleged efforts of the United
States to bring about a united front of the countries of the
western henisphere directed against the activitics of the
"totalitarian states" Germany, Italy and Jopan.
The view was
taken that it was the desire of the United States to establish
a "closed door" policy for the western hemisphere while insist-
ing on an open door policy in the Far East. The pross seemed
to take particular pleasure in reporting the opposition said
to have been led by the Argentine delegate which this program
as well as other mc.sures presented by the United States mot
at the conference. DoMEI despatches from Lime at
the close of
the Conference stated that it had been a failure for the United
States and at the same time despatches of a similar tenor
were received from Berlin,
III.

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.98)
-ー
III: INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) Important Statements by Government Officials.
On December 19 the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his
interview with the foreign press representatives issued a
prepared statement. This statoment sets forth largely the
same position as that expressed by the Minister to Mr, Dooman
in their interview on November 19th.* On December 22 Premier
Konoye issued a statement of basic importance. This set forth
the "moderate and magnanimous" as they were termed by the
Japanese press - Japanese terms for peace with China. These
terms may be summarized as follows:
(1) China's recognition of "Manchukuo";
(2) conclusion of a Sino-Japanese agreement to combat
Communism, this agreement to grant Japan the right to station
troops in specified areas in China and to designate Inner
Mongolia as a "specificd anti-Communist Area";
(3) Economic cooperation between Japan and China, includ-
ing the "freedom of residence and trade on the part of Japanese
subjects to the interior of China" and "China to extend to Japan
facilities" for the development of natural resources, particu-
larly in North China and Inner Mongolia.
This statement was phrased, as have been all recent
official statements, in very general terms and was filled with
qualifying clauses. This was probably done with the deliberate
intent to permit Japen all possible latitude to pursue whatever
course circunstances may warrent. The peace terms in thenselves
are not new. However, the gurantees which Chine may be required
to give in order to assure that country's observance of the
terms will undoubtedly be far more important.
It is quite probable thet this statement in view of the
moderate languagc used and the tone of the press comment was
intended to invite the Unitcd States and Eneland to consider
the ultimate Japanese intentions in China**
(b)
*
Embassy's monthly roport for November, pages 3, 4, 5, 6.
**
Embassy's telecram No. 802, December 23, 1938, and Enbassy's
despatch No. 3535, Deconber 23, 1938.

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.95)
-13-
(b) The Cabinet.
Accooding To a nowspapor report published in the KokUMIN
on December 19 the Government's pions for a "reorganizetion of
the Nation" were being pusics tov complesion and it was
expected that the first vcetine o the prcjected organizction
894.002
would be held before the Gabinet cervenes again on Janusry 2o
of next year. In view of subsequent developments, it is signifi-
cant to note that the same article stated thnt the Home Minister
was exercising extrcne caution in his selection of directors
for the movement because "other government officials are disin-
clined to leave the matter entirely in his hends."
On November 27 tho JAPAN ADVERTISER published an article,
largely taken fron the originel uppearing in the NICHI NICHI
a day or so before, to the eifcet that the plan to reorgenize
the nation was mecting cusiderabic opposition on cll sices and
that the Cabinet itself was divided on the issue. The rlen was
opposed by the Aty pecause it was believed to be entirely
inadequate. The Mirseito and Sciyukai as well as m st o: the
minor politiccl parties opposcd the plen for the re sn taat they
foresaw eventual liquidation of ooliticel parties in n n if
this plan were cuccessfully carried out. It was also stated thas
the Home Minister Nobunese Suetsugu who had been eni ruted with
the drafting of th finel details had lost his oreinl nthusiasm
and that even Prenier Konoye was not ontirely satisiied with the
plan. on the 27th Decomber the Cabinet at its reguler meeting
decided to postponc tho plan until next year.
The end of December wer rarked by considerable activity
in high political circles in Jap'n and it wos stated that Prince
Konoye was studying moans for the "strengthening of his Cabinet.""
V~rious
*Eabassy's telegr a o). s16. Deccmber 29, 1938,

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
Various rumors were current in Tokyo at the time to the effect
that Prince Konoye was to be replaced by General Minami or
Baron Hiraruma or Murguis Kido, Baron Hiranuma played an
important part in the meny pol:tical conferences which were held
in the lnst few days of December.
A long political editorial appearing in the NICHI NICHI
on December 29 indicated thet this political crisis was brought
on principally by two factors: (1) the unusual situation in
which co-incident with the hostilities in China efforts are
being made for the reconstruction and development of that country
which necessitates a long period of "spiritual tension and
patience on the part of the people" of Japan, and (2) the failure
of the "one party for one netion" and national reconstruction
movements. It was obvious thet some political developments of
great importance would probably appear early in January.
(c)
The Diet.
On December 26 the 74th Diet was officially convened and
the Emperor read tho Imperial rescript opening the session.
This year-end session of the Diet is only a matter of formality
and the Diet recessed as usuel for the holidays and will
re-convene about January 20. The press reported that the
Government had drafted about 62 bills which are to be presented
to the coming Diet. Eight of these are said to be important
mecsures.
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Nothing to report.
VI.

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.99)
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
(a)
Foreign Trade.
The foreign trade of the Japanese Empire during 1938
was considerebly lower in volume and in value than that of the
previous year. The Finence Ministry reported that there was
an excess of exports amounting to Y69,498,000. This favorable
trade balance, however, represented trade with all countries
including the "yen bloc" areas. It was stated that trade with
third countries resulted in an excess of imports amounting to
m,ooo,ooo. No figures are available to indicate how far this
unfavorable balance is offset by Japan's invisible exports during
the year. As a considerable pert of Japanese merchant shipping
is being used for military purposes, it is obvious, that returns
in 1938 from Japan's shipping activities were much less than
during the previous year.
Manufactured goods, as has been
customary, accounted for the greater part of the total exports
but also represented the largest percentage decline from the
figure for l937. Owing largely to a substantial restriction of
the importation of raw meterials, such as raw cotton and wool,
the combined export value of textiles and knitted goods for
1938 greatly decreased from the figure for 1937.
Exporta of
foodstuffs, particularly wheat flour and canned goods, greatly
increased during 1938. The bulk of these shipments was
sent to
"yen bloc" areas.
. The value of the combined exports of
cotton
textiles and raw silk renresented almost 25 per cent
the
total exports for the year.
Total exports for 1938 were said to be Y2,896,707,000
and imports Y2,836,209,000.
This was said to represent a decline
in exports of 12.7 per cent and in imports of 28.3 per cent
compared with 1937.
(b)

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.98)
-22-
(b)
General Economic Conditions.
Toward the latter pert of Decenber it was announced that
the Centrel Price Control Commission had adopted a resolution
emphasizing the importance of eipunding the scope of the present
price control system. With the continuance and further expansion
of economic control measures, it is to be expected that furtlher
efforts will be made to control commodity prices. However, no
immediete steps were taken following the passage of this resolu-
tion.
The "link system" has continued to be a problem involving
controversies between the Governnent and those engaged in foreign
trade. On December 19 it was announced that this system was to
be revised and thnt the period during which cotton goods could be
exported was to bo extended.
Hitherto all persons who handled
cotton goods prior to their export were responsible for the ship-
ment of those goods out of the country. The person responsible
for the export of cotton goods was to be the person who actually
had possession of the goods. Thure was a later announcement of a
special "link system" to be onforccd after January 10, 1939 for
some 24 commodities. Details of this special system are not avail.
able. It is expected, however, that the general proccdure toward
obtaining permits will be simplified and that the maximum time
linits for compulsory export will be extended and various periods
established for different conmodities. The special link system is
being adopted in an attempt to handle those commodities which
because of the complicated relations between raw materials and
manufactured goods are not casily subjected to the industrial link
system now in effect.
The

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.97)
-23-
The general economic situation in Japan during the month
of December was not marked by any important changes. There was
further talk of the invocation of additional measures of the
national mobilization lcw but tliere was no noticeable reaction
in business circles epart from that reported for last month.
The usual year-in settlements were carried out without any
apperent stringency and business sentiment seemed to be generally
passive.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN CO:MERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
Ix.
LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.99)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
No.
Date
Subjeot
3477
December 1
Books for Department Library.
3478
ecember 1
The Golden Gate I..ternational Expositio
3479
December 1
The Golden Gate International Exposition
3480
December 1
Gift Crom the Governor of Aomori
Prefecture to Ambassador Grew.
3481
December 1
London Nevel Treaty of 1930: Retention
of certain British cruisers in
accordance with Article 21.
3482
December 1
Japanese cerial atteck on Southern
Presbyterian Mission Hcspital at Sutsien
Kiangsu.
3483
December 1
A erican property losses resulting from
the Sino-Japanese hostilities, 1937-1938
Mrs. Victoria Mary Griffith,Shanghai.
3484
December 1
American property losses resulting from
the Sino-Japanese hostilities, 1937-
1938: James Gordon Sanhorn, Shanghai.
3485
Docember 1
Amcrican property losses resulting from
the Sino-Jananese hostilities, 1937-
1938: Samuel Hansen, Shenghai.
3486
December 1
American property losses resulting
from the Siao-Jaoenese hostilities, 1937
1938: Mrs. Frank L. Hough, Shanchai.
3487
December 1
American property losses resulting fron
Sino-Ja:nese hostilities, 1937-1938:
Claim of the Reverend James I. McCallum,
Nanking.
3488
December 1
Reported ordor to Jenenese nationals to
ev.cuate British and French concessions
at Tientsin.
3489
December 1
Sino-Jan: nese hostilities: stetement of
"r. Tsurumi, member of the Diet, concern
ing United States views.
3490
December 1
Proposcd Safety zone at Shesi, Hupeh,
Chine.
3491
December 1
THE ORIENTAL ECCNOMIST, NoVCmber, 1938.
3492
December 2
Article publishcd by the "SHIUNSo".
3493
December 2
Sino-Japenese situntion - Mediction.

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
No.
Date
Subject
3494
December 2
Freedom of navigation on the Yangtze
River: British representations.
3495
December 2
British representations concerning
proposed refugee camps at HongKong.
3496
Decomber 2
Statenents by Anbassador Horinouchi
concernint Japanese-American rolations,
and Japcn's "new national policy".
3497
Decenber 2
Disposal of scrap materinl.
3498.
December 2
Newspaper reports of projected policy
of Grent Britain to coopercte with
Japan in China.
3499
December 2
Diplomatic Visc Report
3500
December 2
American-Jcponcsc relations.
3501
December 2
British refutation of tho Foreign
Minister's implication that the British
Empire may bo rogarded as an "Economic
Bloc".
3502
Decomber 2
Borlin-Rone-Tokyo xis.
3503
Docomber 3
Views of member of the Japanese Dict
on ericen attitudo toward Japonese
policy in Chin.
3504
Decenber 3
Jenrn's plens for the Econenic recon-
struction and exploitation of China.
3505
Decomber 3
Governnent ottennt at national spirituel
nobilizetion.
3506
December 5
Report on comprossion tosts of stucco
made at Wased University.
3507
December 3
Mitsubishi monthly circular.
3508
December 3
First ye-r exemination, Languege Officer
Glonn . runer.
3509
December 6
Mons requcsted.
3510
December 7
Travel Regulations.
3511
Docenber 10
Diplomotic Vis: Report.
3512
December 10
Americon copyrights in Jepon.
3513
December 13
Letter to Dr. Tsunejiro Miyeoka regerd-
ing membership of international cormis-
sion provided for by Treaty for the -
vanccient of Pe ce bctween the United
Statos nd Urugucy.

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
NO.
Dcte
Sub ject
3514
Decenber 13
Assistance to and salvago of vessels
in distress.
3515
December 13
Repcirs to roof of pool house.
3516
December 13
Photogranhs of Enbassy buildings.
3517
Decenber 15
Book for Department Library
3518
December 16
Fucl Oil contract.
3519
Decenber 12
First quarter examinction of Mr.
Relph J. Blake
3520
December 19
Statement brondecst by Ambassador
Grow.
3521
December 20
Monthly political report, November,
1938.
3522
December 20
Illicit traffic in narcotics in China.
3523
December 21
Press conment on 8th International
Conference of Americen Stctes at
Lima December 1938.
3524
Decenber 21
Japanesc interference with British
newspopors published in North Chine.
3525
December 21
Chinese Customs Adrinistrction:
Jupanese seizure of Custons launches.
3526
Decenber 21
Japenese intorference with Chinese
Customs ct Canton
3527
Decenber 21
Visit to HongKong of Major Matsutani.
3528
Decenber 21
Freedon of nevigation on the Yangtze
River: British representations.
3529
Decumber 21
Bombing of American Methodist Episco-
pcl Hission, Nancheng, Kiengsi.
3530
Decerber 21
erican property losses resulting
from Sino-Japenese hostilities, 1937-
1938: Lenuel Kennerly Taylor,Shanghai.
3531
December 22
Return of unused tickets.
3532
December 23
Embassy repeirs.
3533
December 23
November 30 Conference in the Emperor's
presence and plens for
establishing of a government ror the
occupied areas.

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
NO.
Date
Subject
3534
December 22
Cni ese Ecstorn Railway pensions.
3535
Cecerber 23
Japenose statements of China policy
3536
Decerber 22
Jananese rcaction to American loan.
3537
Decenber 22
American property losses rosultine imn
Sino-Jcpnneso hostilities, 1937--1938.
Americon Fer Eastern Match Compeny,
Fedoral Incorp. U.S.A.
3538
December 22
Losses of American property rosulting
from the Sino-Japanose conflict,1937-
1938. Foreign Young Men's Christicn
Association, Shanghai.
3539
December 22
American property losses resulting from
Sino-Jananese hostilitics, 1937-1938.
Gerhard . Jacobson, Shnghai.
3540
December 22
American property losses resulting
fron Sino-Japanese hostilities, 1937-
1938. Bartlett Yung & Co., Shinghci.
3541
Decerber 22
Japanese neriel bombardnent of property
of Christian and Missioncry Allience
ct Nanlint, Anhwei, on Novenber 14, 1938
3542
Decerber 22
Spocch of Brigrdier-Generel Cherles
Burnett t America-Janan Society,
Deccrber 12, 1938.
3543
Decenber 22
Lettor fron the Secretary of State to
Boron Shicch re, with rospect to
Intorn tional conission previded for by
Trecty of Coneiliction between the
United States nd Gormany.
3544
Decenber 22
Reported order to Jonanese nstionals to
ev.cuate
3ritish nd Fre.ch concessions
at Tientsin.
3545
Decenber 22
Att: ck on British nenbers of Shanghai
Municipal Police by Japonese forces.
3546
December 22
British representetions concerning
proposed refugee cemps at Honckong.
3547
December 22
British representations concerning
preposed safety zone et Foochow.
3548
Docember 22
Protection of foreien rights and in-
terosts in Hankow: British representa-
tions.

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
No.
Date
Subject
3549
December 23
The Asin Pronotion Board (Koc-in).
3550
Decenber 23
Protection of foreign property in China
and reservation of rights.
3551
Decenber 23
Now Japonese policy in reletion to China:
Imperil Conference.
3552
December 23
Proposed safety zone at Changsha.
3553
North China Exchange (to be sent in
pouch December 31)
3554
Decenber 23
Reconstruction Finence Corporation
Loan to finance Americen trade in Chine.
3555
December 23
Japan-Soviet relations.
3556
December 23
Japanese interference with British
interosts at Shanghei.
3557
December 23
Statement of Japanese Governnent con-
cerning Japan's new policy in China.
3558
December 23
Sympathy upon deahh of forner Anbessa-
dor Woods.
3559
December 27
Tenth Internetional Concress of Mili-
tary Medicine and Phornacy.
3560
Decenber 27
Funds blocked in Japan of the Inter-
nationel Telonhone and Telegraph Corp-
oration.
3561
December 29
Repcirs on Eibassy Buildings.
3562
Decenber 29
Damage to merican property by Jepenese
forces: American dvent Mission at
Chao Hsien, Anhwei Province, Chine, nd
at Nanking.
3563
December 29
Grey Code.
3564
December 29
THE ORIENTAL ECONOMIST, December, 1938.
3565
December 29
Anglo-Japcnese Relations: Craigie-Arita
conversation December , 1938.
3566
December 29
Japanese-Americon Relctions: Protection
of American rights and interests in
China: conversation with the Minister
for Foreign Affairs, December 8, 1938.

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
NO
Date
Subject
3567
December 29
Permits granted for return of
Amoricen citizens to the interior of
Chine.
3568
Decenber 29
Aanericen property losses resulting
from Sino-Japcnese hostilities,
1957-1938.
3569
Decomber 29
Bonbing by Japanese planes on October
24, 1938, of Lutheren Brethren
Mission, Tungpeh, Honen, resulting
in death of Phoebe Nyhus and wounding
of her mother and sister.
3570
December 29
Jepanese interfcrence with British
intcrests at Shenghei.
3571
December 29
Japaneso discrimination cgainst
British intcrests at Tsinctco and
Chefoo.
3572
Deceiber 29
Attrck by Jepanese cirplones on H.
M.S. SANDPIPER on the Yangtze River
on 0ctobcr 24, 1938.
3573
Decenber 29
British representctions regarding
Jepcnese violction of British interos:
in Chinese Governrent Reilways.
3574
December 29
Dritish representetions regarding
Jopenesc violction of British intcrest
in Chinese reilways.
3575
Deconber 29
E  crge en uxport tion of sheep and
slink wool and henp fron north China;
British represent tions.
3576
December 29
Statenont of British Prime Minister
roctrding protection of British
intcrests in C i.
3577
Decerber 30
Buck for Dopartnent Librery. ANNUAL
RETURN OF THE FOREIGN TR:DE OF JAPAN,
1936, Prt II.
3578
December 30
Transmission of lutter to Motion
Picture Producers & Distributors of
America, Inc.
5579
December 30
Japenesc-Anerican Relntions: Grew-
Arita c nversation Decerber 26, 1938.
3580
December 30
Diplone tic Visa Report.

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
NO.
Dato
Subject
3581
Decomber 30
Freedom of navigation on the
Yangtze River: British representa-
tions.
3582
December 31
Japenese interferencc with
forcign interests in Tientsin:
British representations.
3583
December 30
Language examinction of Mr.
Richerdson.
3584
December 30
Anglo-Japenese relations: Craigie-
Arita Conversation, December 26,
1938.
3585
December 31
Mitsubishi Monthly Circular
3586
December 31
Convent Missionary Society,Icheng
3587
Decerber 31
Protcction of American Rights and
Intorests in China: Japenese reply
to Note of October 6, 1938.
3588
December 31
British & French Concessions,
Tiontsin.
3589
Decerber 31
Japenese viplation of British
rights in China.
3590
Decenber 31
Japenesc statements of China Policy
Croigic-Arita Cenversation, Decenbc
26, 1938.

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.99)
Telegrame sant to the Department
during December 1938.
NO.
Date
Subject
759
Dec. 1, 3 p.m.
Anglo-Japanese economic relations.
Craigie-Arita conversation,Nov.24.
760) Dec. 1, 8 p.m.
Crew-Craigie conversations re
761)
Americen and British attitude
762)
tcwar Japan's new policy.
763
Dec. 2, 4 p.m.
Erhassy repairs.
764
Dec. 2, 7 p.m.
Navigation on the Yangtze:
British representations.
765
Dec. 2, 8 p.m.
Canton customs: British
representations.
766
Deca.5, 10 a.m.
Requisitions.
767
Dec. 5, 11 a.m.
Bombing of American Mission, Nanchang
768
Dec. 5, noon
Japanese interference with
Christian Endeavor in Korea.
769
Dec. 5, 5 p.m.
Request for clerical assistance.
770
Dec. 5, 6 p.m.
Language officers' examinations.
771
Dec. 5, 9 p.m.
Forthcoming interview with
Foreign Minister.
772
Dec, 8, 9 a.m.
Coaes.
773
Dec. 8, 7 p.m.
Foreign Minister's conversations
with American and British
Ambassadors.
774
Dec. 9, li a.m.
Personnel
775
Dec. 9, noon
Japanese gold shipments.
776
Dec. 9, 9 p.m.
Condolences to family of late
Ambassador Woods
777
Dec. 10, noon
jpanese gold shipments.
778
Dec. 10, 1 F.m.
Enbassy alterations.
779
Dec, 12, nocn
Assurances against bombing of
American missions Tangho, etc.
780
Dec. 12, 2 p.m.
apanese participation in
New York World's Fair,
781
Dec. 14, 10 a,m.
Narcotics - Turevic case.

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
No.
Date
Subdect
801
Dec. 23, 11 a.m.
Narcctics: Turevic case.
802
Dec. 23, 2 p.m.
Press reaction to Prime Minister's
statement concerning peace terms
in Sino-Japanese conflict.
803 Dec. 25,.8 p.r.
British Ambassador's forthcoming
incerview with Foreign Minister.
804
Dec. 26, 8 p.m.
Grew-Arita conversation.
805
Dec. 27, 9 a.m.
Grew-Arita conversation, Ded. 26.
806
Dec. 27, 11 a.m.
Japanese New Year holidays.
807
Dec. 27, 3 p.m.
Japanese gold shipments.
808
Dec. 27, 4 p.m.
Codes
809
Dec. 27, 5 p.m.
Representations concerning damage
to American property in China.
810
Dec. 27, 6 p.m.
Lutheran Brethren Mission, Tungpeh
(Nyhus case): Japanese reply.
811
Dec. 28, noon
Craigie-Arita conversation, Dec. 26.
812
Dec. 29, 1 f.m.
Foreign Minister's New Year's Day
message concerning Japan's policy
in China.
813
Dec. 29, 7 p.m.
Rumors of Cabinet changes.
814
Dec. 30, 3 p.m.
Recuisitions.
815
Dec. 31, 17. a.in.
Japenese gold shipments.
816
Dec. 31, noon
Protection of American rights
and interests in China.
817
Dec. 31, i r.m.
Publicity concerning note regarding
protecticn of American rights and
interests in China.
818
Dec. 31, 6 r.m.
Regulations of the China Board.
819
Dec. 31, 7 p.m.
J&panese reply to notes regarding
pombing cf American property, and
Nyhus case.
