894.20232 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Brazil Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., January (File 1681)
ID: 894.20232-1681   Pages: 410   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20232-military-affairs-army-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
EDGAR HOOVER
Bederal Bursau of Inusstiguty
Mashington, D.C.
32
IN REPLY, PLEASE REPER TO
FILE NUMBER 98-34344-1
RECEIVED
JAN 1211
Jamuary1945 JAN4 1945
Date:
AN
Tos
Chief
COT1OLNILAALYUSACAFFAI
Division of Foreign
Department of State
Btreau of Investigati
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Pedera
Subject: Hisashi Tamura - Brasil
As of possible interest to you, I am attaching a memerandum dated
December 13, 1944, received from a confidential source believed reliable
regarding the activities of subject Tamura. It is noted that m the night
Confidential
of October 10, 1944, five Japanese-owned barns containing silk worm cocooms
located in the State of Sao Paulo were simaltaneously destroyed by fire.
Tamura, upon arrest and interrogation, admitted setting the fires.
This information is available to the American Embassy in Rio de
Janeiro, Brasil.
Navy Department, Washington, D.C. War Department, Washington, D.
Attention: Brigadier General Carter-W.
2
1945
Enclosure
D

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
December 13, 1944
Re: HISASHI TAMURA
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
At SÃO PAULO, Braz1l
Source "A", a reliable police contact, advised that
on the night of October 10, 1944, in Colonia (Colony) Iguatemi,
unicipality of Andradina, near the town of Guaraçal, state of
São Faulo, five barns containing silk-worm cocoons were simul-
taneously destroyed by fi re. He added that the barns were the
property of Japanese farmers and stated that after intenive
Investigation HISASHI TAURA had been arrested and, upon inter-
rogation, had made & full confession, in which he implicated an
itinerant Japanese tirker, known only as MORIYAL.
The following is 8 translated version of the state-
ment made to the police by subject TAMUR:
"I was born in azasky, Japan, but have resided in
Brazil approximately 17 years, during which time I have worked
on various farms in the interior of the State of Sao Paulo,
For the past seven years I have resided in Colonia Iguatemi. on or
about September 20, 1944, there appeared at my house a Japanem
tinker whom I know only as ORIyAL, who desired to mend dommstic
utensils. It was raining and for that reason MoRIyAL remmined
overnight. On the following day he convinced me that the culti-
vation of mulberry trees, the product of which would eventually
reach the United States, was harmful to Japan. He pointed out
that several cocoon deposits in the interior had been destroyed
by good patriotic Japanese and made it clear that the barns
located near my residence should be destroyed.
"On the Following day MORIYAL lert Colonia Iguatemi,
stating that he was goin to Colonia Formosa. I then began to
make plans to destroy the cocoon barns located near my residence.
For this I made the following incendiary device: taking a piece
of wire about 25 centimeters long, at the top end I attached
a cotton wick soaked in kerosene. Under the wick I attached
3 or 4 matches with the heads turned down, and at the lower
and of the wire I placed a string made of cotton threads. It
was my idea to hang the wire in the thatched roor of a barn and
set fire to the end of the string above described. The flaming
string would eventually ignite the matches, which in turn would
quickly 1gmite the kerosene-soaked tinder, setting fire to the
thatched roor immediately.
1

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
"In order to be able to set fire to more tham e
barn at a time, I had only to shorten the string on eack mas-
ceeding device, in order that the first would take longer to
burn than the second and so on. I burned a piece of string
made from cotton threads and determined that it required ten
minutes for a piece of such string seven centimmters long to
for travel between brns, 1 could measure them exactly.
"Thus becoming more enthusiastic with the idea or
doing something useful for Japan, I saw woRIYAL a few days
later and told him of my plans. The tinker approved the idea
and asked me to make some of the incendiary hocks for him.
I mde approximately fifteen and he took them away, we having
agreed upon the approximate day to set fire to the barns and he
having stated that he would use the same method to set fire to
barns on the Fazenda Segunda Aliança.
"Then on the evenings of the 8th and 9th I ade ten
incendiary hooks, with which to set fire to the barns near 
residence. These hooks were made in accordance with the neoes
sary measurements; that is, the distance from one barn to
another was calculated and the strings cut to uch lengths as
to allow me to set fire to all ten barns at the same time.
"on the evening of October 10, 1944, uppl1ed with
the incendiary me terial, I went on norseback a distance of
two kilometers to the barn of the Japanese called SAto, there
hung the first hook and ignited it. I then went to the barn
of MAs KI HIrliT O, arriving at 1: 45 a.m., and hung the socond
hook, this with a fuse shorter than the first, and so on until
all ten hooks had been used. I finished my work at 4 a.m. and
calculated that all of the barns aust burn simultaneously.
I arrived at my home at about 5 a.m. and iimediately set out to
do my farw work. ty parents, who were old and had retired early,
were still sleeping and never knew of my absence from the house.
My wife was away fron home, having gone to Guaraçai to see a
doctor. Thus no one except the tinker oRIYAL knew of y plans
and no one saw me setting fire to the barns. However, when
my wife returned, I told her what I had done and she becam
seriously alarmed.
"Two or three days after the setting of the fires
I learned that only five of the barns had been destroyed. I
do not know what happened in the cases of the other rive, but
believe that the wind must have extinguished the burning strings.
2

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
At the time of the setting of the fires I knew the names of the
proprietors of only two of the barns; that 1s, SATo and MASAKY
HIRAMATSO. Upon the arrival of the police authorit1es they,
in my presence, took several photographs of the bams. Tese
photographs have been shown to me and I now recognize them as
being of the barns burned by me, except that the photograph
No. 1 represents one of the barns to which I set fire, but whcn
because or unknown cir cunstances did not burn. Further I mave
learned that the nuses of the other proprietors are KUNosuE
OMODFRA, TA.AZI L.OSHI LA anD SANDO T KAHASHI."
/S/ HISASHI TAMURA
/S/ KULATARO SUEYOSHI, inTerpreter
Source "A" furnished the following description of
HISASHI TAMURA:
Age
25 yrs.
Nationality
Japanese
Flace of irth
Miazasky, Japan
Height
5 rt. 6 in.
hair
black
weight
14 1bs.
Color
Yellow
Occupation
armer
elatives
JUTANO TAMURA, father
34. TWURA, mother
fforts to positively identify and locate the tinker,
IY, have to date been unsuccessful.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.89)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISIONXOFXTHEZASENCANKRERUELICS
Divislon of Brazilian Affairs
January 25, 1945.
A-r.3:
9332/1-945
894.20232/1
c: Jpanese in Brar1
(H1o Des, 1tch No. 19497,
1945
Under over of the above des aten the Eml ussy
trinsnits a report on the Japarese sitation ir. Brazil
I ared y tie ofrice of the Leeal Attache. The re-
rort is very well prepared and corerr in detail the
entire unrrese robjen in brazil us it exists today.
Trere u approx1  tely z0c, O0e Japenese l1vine
in F poroutrated y  te stute of são
2
, morthe ranf,  l te  son  ley
5
(, ).eve are very few panese ir the other
4
stetes ef u2ll. Prior to J93e vre. the Fruzilian
jovern e t took ratner drastic measures against the
Juperese und Jerran colonies in Prazil there were 480
Japanece scno ! in raci!, 2 of w Ach were loceted
In são  lo, w:t a total of 26, 000 etudenta.
inety-three ror cent of the Janerese in Erazil
are engeged in agriculture, two per cent in industry
Tnd tne remainin five per cent in commer ial enter-
prises.
ost of tle Japanese cettlement in Brazil nas been
at least in part, by the apanese Government. There
B
FILED
have also heen reports of stcrct Janarese sabotuge soc-
i''es in xistence, and it is known that at least two 
do operate in the tate of Sãc Paulo. The Japenese
1945
sebotage activities have tsken the form of destruction
of crops throu h neglest or rofusel to work if It were
894.202
felt that s ch creps wouid be of value to the Allied
Xetions.
There have been indicetions thet certain Japanese
Lndividuals in Brazi! have attempted to carpy on
3
2
espionege
2
ran. 23, 1974 F51 2
545
822

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.83)
-2-
ecplonege activitles but tue major part of these acti-
vi ties nave anparently loel. carried out through the
v:ts a cse c ereial enterprisee and agricultural
oo t ves, prot ly rler the idance of the diplo
 Pertyeeverelmege farrrs have
sers  trese miii-
te coreos. rror da activtltes amor t e Japenese
 n  lerly a uni the Japanece them
relves ai at ta t eir lyulty to Japan rather than
enl propa l  to orea Jepanese culture
or ereate sympothy tor   I ae the Eraztlians.
few cl lest lits n the Japanese language
lave bee  scevereu I t  ureut'y treir circatlatlon
veryite.o ui pperations of strategte
uterls tese ave beun eoered snee the
treeL ot pelt trone hetwee razil ead ron. It is
talicv at  e Litlor of anese rirms by the
rezillan ovee l  ude te elandest' treffic
i tte ietae ver r , f not iaposeble
for te ese Lr 1ul.
Le  reaki of relatiou between brazil and
u ur l tertlian dovernment has under
tave to contrel tte activitles or  dapa.ase in Prazil
otfllowasres
l. oval of ! loanese eltizens from the
coastal ures 1r t tte of ão lo (July l13).
. dans ese e'tzens cu vhet travel wi thout a "safe
concuct" issued  tue locs! police uutrorities.
3. sptakin tue Japanece langta e lu public and
publication of uny p wepaper L. tuet Tanguage are pro-
hibite.
.all lese pe ocls ar churches have been
closd.
.any Japanese rirns have been placed in liclid-
tieu l torale. tover rert.
C. Phe affnirs or the Japenecc celonies are boing
manuged by federul Interventors.
7. Police nave been investicuting the activities
of ll susnected Jupanese.
8. Some

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.85)
-3-
. Some S oanese c rclue diplomats and
ati als vere re atriated on uhe tripsholm on July 2,
lother  vere renatriated on tre Cripsholm
11
eteftlonset forth
ase rreset a problem but not
necessarily a seri ous trreat to the security of Erezil
a soc pcop!. would'ct re it. le protlem seems to
te oue prlmarily Por t e police, end judgine from some
of t e control  ces res waich tle razilian lovernment
as ali eac soetes vs set forth arove the po'ice in
ruzil nave tuke the neces ary meas res to coutrol the
r le e police in  e :ti te uf São Pe lo are very
offective aid thre 's no reason, : t least for the pres-
et, to cuestior t e efrect!veness or their campaign
Io eotplliu tie Jao ese n t at state.
X~
SA: TGen:MR

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.92)
ps
DGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
Urrict UI
Bederal Bureau of nuestigattoRCaN HLPUBLIC AFFAIKS
Mashington, D..
PERSONAL AND
BY SPECIAL MISSENGER
AL
Date:
Febiruary 5, 1946
1946
To:
1r. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Depart...ent of State
From:
John Ecgar Hoover - Director, Feceral Sureau of Investigation
Subject:
18. K0; 4ast1 poT
LORO URAMA
Brazil
894.20232/2-546
As of possiule interest to yu tnere is being transmitted
herevith a co!y or : report concerrin the activities of the above
ca tior.ec Japunese whc were arrested by srezi lian police and convicted
for distriuution of clancestine propganda among Japanese colonists,
said propaganda cont ining crticles criticising brazili:n national
policy.
This infor: tion las been ade : v: ilable to the American
Ebassy at Rio de Janeiro, prezil.
enc losure
MAR11948
cc:
Chief of Naval Intelli ence
Navy Departinent, Hashington, D. C.
Assistant Chief of Staf1, G-2
War Depart.ent, Hashington, D. C.
Attention:
Reading Panel
Kilitary Intelligence Service
89428232
C
FORYICTORY
S
BmB
BUY
DECLASSIFIED
C
ONDS
NND 280049
By 760 /Cy NARS, Date  24 28
D

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
January 3, 1946
RO: ISAMU KANO; MASSUNI IWATA;
MAMORO MURANAGA
Rio de Janeiro. Brazil
Investigation in this case was instituted on the
basis of an artiole appearing in the July 13, 1945, issme of
the Rio de Janeiro newspaper, "Diario da Noite", to the
ffoot that ISALU KANO, MASSÚLI IWATA, and MAMORO MURANAGA had
been arrested in November, l944, by the police of Marilia,
State of Jão Paulo, in the aot of holding one of a series of
olandestine meetings at which were disoussed subjeets express-
ly prohibited by Brazilian laws. The artiole further stated
that the polioe found in the possession of the Subjeets
numerous bulletins written in Japanese and had plased the
affair before the Tribunal of National Security.
The following_background information on the Sabjeets
was obtained from the Jão Paulo, Brazil, Police Department:
Name
ISAMU KANO
Born
Tokyo, Japan
Age
43
Marital status
Widower
Profession
Business man
Parents
GOICHIRO CANO and KATU KANO
Residenoe
Coronel Gardinho 35, Marilia,
state of São Paulo, Brasil
Name
MASSUNI IWATA
Born
Gilfu-Keun, Japan
Age
38
Marital status
Married
Occupation
Laborer
Parents
KITIJIRO IWATA and KIMU IWATA
Residence
Getulina, State of São Pamlo,
Brazil
Name
LAMORO MURANAGA
Born
Miiazaki-Kem, Japan
Age
22
Marital status
Married
-1-

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
Ocoupation
Broker
Parents
JHIKARA MURANAGA AnD KKI MURANAGA
Residenoe
Rua São Carlos 604, Marilia,
State of Jão Paulo, Brazil
A confidential souroe in the jecret Berviee Seetion,
Delegacy of Politioal Order, State of São Paulo, revealed that
these three Subjects were detained in September, 1943, in Marilia,
a town approximately 300 kilometers northwest of the Cisy of são
Faulo, and were investigated for anti-national activities. This
source also revealed that the material seized was dedioated to
the olandestine propagande of war news together with oritieism
of Brazilian national polioy; in addition to this these three
individuals are stated to have disseminated bulletins among
Nippmese colonists, especially in the town of Marilia. The
charge was sent tc the Tribunal or National Security in Mareh.
1945. No speoific mention of Brazil figuring as an oceupied
country was made in the material furnished by this souree.
Under date of November 11, 1945, the three Subjeets
of this case were each sentenued by the Tribunal of National
security to six months imprisonment.
- 2 -

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.93)
3
3E
HIMENT OF STATE
Dederal Bureau of nuestigat
UFFiCt Or
AMEHICAN REHOBLI AFFAIRS
De/R
Anited States Bepartment of Jus
B151946
Mashington,D.C.
PERSONAL AND COMP
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Date:
February 3, 1946
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
R
Chief, Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
Yu
From: John Edgar loover - Director, Federal Hureau of Investigation
SubJoct: SO ITY OF VE TERALS OF JAPANESE F. PIRE RYSIDING IN RAZIL
As of possible interest to you, it has een learned that during
the last three nights of January the Sao Paulo Police conducted raids which
894.20232/2-546
resulted in the uiscovery of a Japanese society with branches throughout the
State of Sao Paulo established for the purpose of "maintaining order among
Japanese until ofricial ord arrives from Japan concerning correct outcome
of war." It is stated that until this word arrives the society assumes that
the war is continuing.
Another stated objective of the organization is the education,
guidance, and discipline of Japanese youth in Brazil to follow the future
orders of the lmperial J panese coverrment. The society was founded in
September of 1945.
The raids resulted in the arrest of twenty leading Japanese,
includin. the Secretary of the society, Keijiro Oaki. In addition, con-
siderable printing and mimeographed propaganda was seized. In this material
was included a list of the thirty-seven  irectors of the society.
cc - Chief of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
co - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel
894.20232
Military Intelligence Service
CS/VJ
FORDEFENSE
B
AR1:1946
BUY
17
UNITED
STATES
FM.S
SAVINGS
BONDS
IFIED
NND 280049
-546
By π/C
s, Date .24.2

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
federal Bureau of Inurstigation
United States Bepartment of Justire
PERSONAL AND CONPIDINTLAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Date:
march 13, 1946
DC/R
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Depart.uent of State
From:
John rdgar Hoover, Director - rederal Bureau of Investigation
894.20232/2-546
Subject:
SOCTETY OF VTEHANS OF T JAPANESE EPIRE
S.D.N IN BhAZIL (Zaihaku Dai Nipon Teikoku
Zaigo Gunjin Kai)
Ploase refer to my letter dated lebruary 5, 1946, with reference
894.20232/3-1346
to the above captioned society in which you were advised that' this society
had been organized subsequent to the ena of the war by a group in Sao Paulo,
Brazil, for the purpose of "naintaining order among Japanese until official
order arrives from Japan concerning the correct outcome of the war."
As you were advised, the Police in Sao Paulo conducted several
raids on the neadquarters of the roup and during which 35 of the 37 directors
of the group were arrested. The memorandum attached hereto contains the names
of these officials.
This inrormation is available to the American Enbassy and the
Lilitary and Naval Attacnes in Rio de Janeiro, brazil.
Enclosure
MAR 2
Chief of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
194
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
21118
War Departament
Washington, D. C.
MAR1
Attention: Reading Panel
CS/VJ
Military Intelligence Service
LC
m1
DECLASSIFIED
AND 280049
B.R.T.
By TG/C. NARS, Dato 8.2 Y.21

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.92)
Pobreary 20, 1966
Ro: SOCIETY OF VETERANS OF THE JAPANRSE EMPIRE RESIBINS
IN BRaZIL (Zaihaku Dai Wipon Teikeku Zaige Qumjim
ka1),
Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.
Initial information regarding the above seiety wee peevided 
and that amether eenter of the Scoiety existed in the Bee Gestee Alvee .
The mame of the Society's President was given as ome YAmamounI, d ate
at the firat address given above. Lecording to informatiem previded 
a Japanese lamyer in São Paulo. The name of this lawyer wes met peevidsk.
The souree further advised that the Sogiety had at that tme me
ex-soldiers of Japan, it was stated by the sowree that it was mot abeelubely
necessary for all members to be ex-soldiers, but that eay pereem eugperting
the ideals and objestives of the Society could be registered as e mmber.
In connection with the objecti ves of the Society, Seuree a previded
a cemplete statement of these objeotives thish are set out as fellems in
translation:
1.) The prevention of criminal action end of the distartemee
of publie sentiment through the spreading of rumere d
unfounded nows:
2.) To behave rigorously in order to bring to an end the
astien of their compatriots who are asting blimdly and
forgetting their duties by spreading rumere and wafeumded
news, thws disturbing the others and at the same time
giving work to Brasilian authorities;
3.) To advise our eompatriots to maintain their digaity ad
complete their duties obeying the lame of this eematry
(Brasil) and te smait thus the day in whiek there shall
arrive from our owm land nowe of the final reeult of the
World War, whieh war watil that day they should eensider
centinuing as befere;
4.) to ergamise am effestive ergam to adueate, guide and
discipline our yeutafel cempatriete residing in Breail in
order that they may better fulfill the futere orders of
the Imperial Govermmsnt of Japen;
-2-

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.90)
regime of the now state of the Imperdal Goveeement
of Japan and modisying the politionl paidense adopted
up to the presemt within the Japasese eeleny.
The abeve statement of the objeetives of the Seeiety of Veterems
war. The objeotive of the group, then, is to poiat out toe ite menheve
that simee no effleial mewe has been received from Japen eemeesming suck
surrender, sueh surreader must be deemed not to have takem plase.
In this connestios, the souree peints out that meng the dapese
in the state of sae Paulo s inee the war there have arisem a mumber of
Seciety, and illegal, and othere which have been duly registered wath the
State autherities. Of the most important secieties, the souree liste the
fellewing, in additien to the Subjeet Soeiety:
SHINDO REMEI (League of Loyal Foreign Born Japemese)
Located Ta the Baa Paracatu 8, São Paulo. The Preeident
is given as one JIMGI KIKKAWA.
SKIKNA FUJINKAI (Womens Society)
Tomtral Tecatlon not yot mowm.
SBIKNA DOSHI KAI (Mens Sooiety)
Wth eemter In Baurú, State of São Paulo.
Of these additional societies, the SHINDO REmamI is stated by the
souree to be much the mest important. Among the resently arisem Japemsse
secieties there are two distinet tendencies. ae sroup is ealled the
"firm group", and the other the "defeatist group". The Babjeet Seetety
bel engs to the "firm group" and is andeavoring to coumterest the eotivitées
of the "defeatist group" whieh is publishing the faet of the wmeemditlemal
surrender of Japes. Those of the "defeatist group" have peblished varieus
bullotins whieh have cireulated meng the Japanese eeleny, suppesedly with
the permissim of the Sae Paule Poliee. Some time age, aoserding to the
souree theee same dofeatist groupe tried to reeall the bul letime which they
had publiaked, saying that a mistake had been made in coaneetlem with
1ng a11 of the bul1otins they paid Cr. 200.00 (uss10.00) for each me. 
cause of the reeall of these balletime is believed by the souree te have beem
due to aotien taken by mambere of the "fire greup". Membere of the latter
proup have ciroulated in Japemese sottlemsmte celloeting depesite fer the

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.87)
premised poverme rahipe, magistresies, and ether efrietal pesitéeme ia
lands conquered frem the Nerth Amerieane in the Paeifie.
According to the souree likerise, the Subjeet Seeiety wes
considered to be the most dangerowe beeause of the fast that it mas
eempesed prineipally of ex-seldtere of Japen whe migt be expeeted to
work with erganisation and more purpese than a leesely spoverned cestety.
Oa the aight of January 28 the Politieal Peltee of Séo Pasle
pondue ted searebes and arreste at the tre addresses of the loadety aven
above. At that time propaganda was seised aansiating of te handred od
presses. Also seised was a fremed list of thirty-sovem leadere of subgeet
Organisation.
At the same time approximately tweaty arreste were made, bet of
these arreete onl y six were of membere of the greup of leedere shem in
the fremed list. Lecording to an Laterviow subeequemtly eondugted by the
Peliee, the erganisation apparently existe in three eeatere, Ba Paale
and Mogi das Cruses in the State of Bão Paule, mnd alse in Lemdrime, State
of Parems. Aoeording to these intervieme, the Sesiety wes femed in
Soptember of 1945. On the ni ght of Jammary 30, 19146 mother raid wm
mede by the Sãe Paulo Police, and on this ceeasiem mere leaflets, eome
identieal with those found on the previows raid, and amether mimsegraph
mmshine more mdern in type and of Japanese make was diseevered. àa
Jauary 30, by tel ephone, the arrest of membere of the Sesiety in Mogi
das Cruses was ordered, and it was stated by the Poliee em Pebreasy 2
that of the group of leaders contained in the abeve-memtlemed list
thirty-five had already been arrested. Thore was obtained frem the Polsee
a complote list of these leaders whiah is set forth herewith together with
the addresses of these individuals mherever proeurable:
KIYO YAMAUCHI - Presidemt, Rua Bertioga 20, Sãe Paale
XEIJIRO AOKI - Secretary -Treasurer, Rua Carelimm Augmsta 20,
são Paulo
TITOMO NISHIKANA - Seeretary of Diplemeey. Ra Cemde de Sarsedes lhe.
são Paulo
SNINICHIRO YAKUSHIJIN - Direeter Gemeral, Pe, State of Sãe Paale.
SKIHACKI KIMURA - Raa Cende de Sarsed 255, Sãe Paale
KITOSNI KAWANO - Eatrada São Ceetame., Sãg Paule
KUMATA NAKANURA - Jabequara (Cabaret), So Paule
-3

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.87)
Koa moma - Rm Bertdegn, Sg Panle
NISE SITO - Ra Jerge Tibiriga 175. S Paule
FORIZAKA YAmLOKA
THTSUYA KIKUCHI, Rua dos Ingleses 187, Sãe Paule
SONOSUKE IWAYA
SHYUZO IZUKA
YOSNIMARU SUGIYAMA - Rum Conde de Sarsedas 139. São Paule
INAO TADAMARA
LASOKICHI MATSUMOTo - Rua Consolagão 730, Sãe Paule
PAKEO KAWANAMI
TONEI OKUDA - Semto Amaro, São Paule
FOMKKICHI MURAKAMI - Pregesia do O, Sãe Paale
ICHISAKU NAKAMURA - Santama, São Paulo
PUJIO XIKUCHI - mea 11 do Julhe 973, São Paule
YOSHITARO MURAKAMI - Estrada de Sao MigWel, Sã Pamle
TOKUJIRO TAMURA - Rua Simimbú 252, São Pamle
KEIJIRO OTSUBO - Eetrada de São Rogue, São Paule
SRIJI KANAUCHI - Rua 13 de Maio, São Paulo
TADAMI CHIBA - Raa Mameel Dutra 222, São Paule
KOICHIRO KAKUDA - Mogl das CruSes, State of São Paule
SNOTARO NAKAKE - Itaquere, State of São Pamle
SEITARO MIZOBATA - SusamO, State of Bão Paule
IWAO HAGASHIMA - Itaquera, State of São Paulo
MVTSUO SAñAI - Mogi das Cruses, State of São Paule
YOSHIO OGISO SAKAI - Lendrimm, State of、 Paraná
ARAKANA FUJIMATSU - Lemdrima, State of Paraná
RYOJI UNE - Juquiá, State of São Paulo
KAMBSAKU YAMASHIRO - Juquiá, State of São Paulo
There were ebtaimed from the Poliee copies of two of the mere mmerews
prepagande publieations taken during their seareh. These were termed ever
to Souree C for translation and comment. The first item is a beeklet
appreximately six by eight inobes in dimensiem whieh purperte to be a
mesthly bullotin of the Society of Veterans and aseerding to Seuree C
is filled with poetry, steries, philosephieal adviee and other eomparatévely
harmless literature. There is the resommendatiom in the balletin that
Japamese compatriete in this delieate moment should mot dieemse bes should
aveid aay i1l considered attempts to cause amy disturbemse, should maiataim
sil emee and dedieate themsel vee to their wenk, thae being weetky of their
bullotin is etherwise eemplotely harmless, accerding to this seures.
The seeend item is a mimeegraphed leaflet of mermal legal sise
paper written ia daponese and pasperting to be the atatetee of the Soedoty.
Lecerding to Souree C, the statatee are not se mush the eenstetattam of 
Iendere of Subjeet Soeiety. The ebjeet of the Seciety as atated tm these
4

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.84)
etestee lo eeeredden to the wi1 es the aperer, a reváas as the
President, KIYO YAMaumI, has made several tripe in the Japamese celemy
daráng whiek he has loetared and resei ved eapense maney to the tame of
some theousande of Grusei res. It Ls the opiaien of this couree that the
of the Subjeet Seciety, Souree 0 poiate out that TIronso nzanrxana, thn
1t wil1 be moted le aharged with the diplomatie ceotdon of the Seadoty, was
anee a ahauffour la sae Paule, and at one atage of the mar aireslated in
the dapanose eelanay, selling photographe whiah parperbed to be pletares of dap
ose treepe disembarking La Califoraia but whioh were aetmally preven later to
be old photegraphe of the Chine-dapanese War. Aeeording to the wo wree, these
photegraphs at the time were sold for Cr.85.00 (uss.25) each.
The Peliee of são Paule are still occeupied with their imveetigatlam
and beeause of the fast that the Society is a seeret one and met registered
with the proper state authorities.
-5-

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
Brazil,Takes Stern
By Rebert K. Shellaby
Staß Writer on Latin-American Agaire for The Christian Selenee Monitor
Brazil, which never  declared | spoken and'where Nipponese cus-
war on Japan, has just won a
toms rigidly prevail.
postwar "war" against internal
Brazilian police, who noted an
terrorists of Japanese extraction
intensiication of repression after
who had refused to admit the Al-
the Japanese surrender, disclosed
lies won.
that the society aimed not only to
Leaders of the. "Shindo Rem-
uphold the imperial fiction but
mei," aligned with the notorious
also to take over São Paulo State.
Black Dragon Society's gangster
Shindo, according to Kayo
Sikato. Japanese aid in the Swed-
objectives, have signed a declara-
tion admitting the defeat of Japan.
ish Tegation in Rio de Janeiro,
was connected with the Black
They promised to instruct other
Dragonists and other groups out-
Japanese colonists in the proper
caption for'the photograph of the
lawed by Gen. Douglas MacAr-
surrender ceremony aboard the
thur in the homeland.
Missouri in Tokyo Bay.
Kishimoto, the leader, came to
The terrorist group, which had
Brazil in 1920, returned to Japan
in 1934, and stayed four years.
killed several persons and badg-
Back in Brazil once more, he or-
ered the rest of a colony perhaps
larger than those of Japanese
ganized imperial support.
Brazil imprisoned him when it
stock under the United States flag,
declared war on Germany and
had circulated photographs of the
Italy and broke relations with
Missouri ceremony saying the Al-
lies were bowing to Emperor
Japan. He was released and then
d
imprisoned again after the wave
Hirohito.
of assassinations.
Industrious Workers
Either the proimperial propa-
I
Most of Brazil's Japanese col-
ganda didn't "take" among all the
ony live in São Paulo. A tribute
settlers or the risks were regarded
to their share of industry and
as too great. In any event, many
foresight was contained in this
settlers, whom the Brazilians re-
week's report that this State ranks
garded as at least well-meaning,
first in Brazilian industry. It has
sought help to become law-abid-
one fourth of the nation's 44,084
ing, to have a supervised news-
industries, with more than one
paper in Japanese to tell the truth
third of the nation's 944,318 in-
to the colonists, and to help fam-
dustrial employees, producing
ilies of the terrorists' victims.
nearly half the nation's $1,125,-
Unfavorable Attitude
627,600 output estimated for this
However, this attitude on the
year.
Most of the terrorization, how-
part of some settlers, together
with their impressive agricultural
ever, was carried out among
and commercial record, has not
farms in hinterlands of little com-
been enough to win general ap-
munication.
proval of Brazilians.
At least five political assassina-
To the contrary, anticolonist
tions were recorded in the Shindo
feeling runs higher than the gen-
drive against anyone thinking the
eral tone of California in regard
"dangerous thought" that Japan
to its Japanese settlers, who equal
was beaten. Terrorism reached a
about half the Brazilian number.
high pitch just before the April
A Manha, a Brazilian Govern-
29 birthday of Hirohito. This date
ment paper, declared:
.was selected for a climactic,
"Conscientiously refraining from
patriotic demonstration. Many
assimilation, the mass of Jap-
Japanese sought protection of
anese residents is a tremendous
police. More than 800 arrests were
and constant threat to the nation.
made.
Bringing them to Brazil was an
Fates less than that of being
error for which posterity will jus-
on the gangsters' black list for
tifably blame our generation."
having recognized the surrender
That the terrorism has preju-
included bilking. Tsuguio Kishi-
diced more immigration to Brazil
moto, described by the police as
is indicated by a statement of
the chief terrorist, tried to im-
Joao Neves da Fontoura, For-
press the settlers with Japan's
eign Minister. He opposed future
"victory," and then sell passages
immigration on . grounds they
back to Japan and real estate in
had proved "unassimilable." He
"conquered Asia." Many farm
made his statement while his
workers told police they thus had
Government was leading the
been victimized.
hemisphere in efforts to attract
Terrorism ran highest in vil-
war-ravaged immigrants from
lages where only Japanese is
Europe,

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Japanese in Brazil
FormallyAdmit
Nipponese Defeat
Rio de Janeiro, Sept. 11 ü..—
Japanese secret societies in Brazil,
"bowing to reality," today formally
admitted Nippon's defeat in a
signed manifesto given to the po-
lice for distribution among the
large Japanese communities.
Written in Japanese, the mani-
esto said: "We, the undersigned,
on awakening from the illusory
dream that has lasted one year,
formally declare that we recognize
and accept as true "Japan's defeat
and pledge ourselves to stimulate
the task of enlighting those who
still maintain any illusion."
Some of the Japanese communi-
tles in isolated farming areas still
are unaware of Japan's surrender.
Police said the initiative for the
manifesto had come spontaneously
from the Japaneseosa

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
3886
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brazil, March 21, 1946.
SUBJECT:
Activities of Japanese ecret Societies in
Sao raulo.
STRPCTLY CENFI DENTTAL
THEEHONORA
THE
CRETARY OF STATE
PECOR
PTME
WASHINGTON.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SIR:
DIVISION OF FORE
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a secret letter
APR 2-1940
of March 14, 1946, directed to the mbassy at Rio de Ja-
neiro giving a preliminary report upon the serious situa-
tion in connection with secret Japanese societies which has
developed in the tate of são Paulo, principally in the in
terior where large Japanese colonies are located.
Since the preparation of this report our office has
been visited by Kiyosni Yamamoto and Shigetshuma Furuya
who were referred to in my wirgram a-175 of October 29,
1945, which requested a supply of Japanese newspapers
in order that some effort might be made to convince the
colony that Japan has been defeated. The newspapers in
question have just been received at this office under
cover of restricted instruction of January 17, 1946
(File 894.91l/12-1545), and they have already been de-
livered to the anplicants who have arranged for their
distribution in consultation with the Swedish Consul of
this city who is charged with Japanese interests. Arrang
ment has been nade that a few copies will be sent to each
town in the interior where there is a considerable number
of Japanese residents. The papers have been gratefully
received but their value has already been largely pre-
JUN1946
judiced by advance propaganda made by the Secret Societie
who claim that all such publications and announcements in
newspapers and radios controlled by the Allies are false.
It is at least of some interest that among the eight
persons resident in the city of são Paulo who have been
marked for assassination by the Shindo Remmei are both
of the two men above mentioned. The full list of those
in the city of São Paulo whom the terrorist organization
have widely announced are to be killed are the following
with an indieation identifying each;
DOR NF Unit
1.Sr.tc. Miyakoshi
na
Re
1.PR 21 1947
Oat
APR 161946
Dist

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
1. Sr. C. Miyakoshi
Kaigai Kogyo K. Kaisha
2. Sr. K. Shimomoto
Cooperativa de Cotia
3. Sr. . Hachiya
Hachiya & Cia. (PL)
4. Sr. S. Furuya
netired
5. Sr. K. Yamamoto
Casa Tozan
6. Sr. S. Fujihira
roducer of Rami (a fiber)
7. r. . inoshita
Lawyer
8. r. C. Nomura
Duck breeder.
The number one mared man hibata iyakoshi, and also
Kiyoshi Yana.noto were mentione in DespatchNo. 4169
of February , 194o, from th: Embassy at Rio de Ja-
neiro, as possible candidates for repatriation. These
ei ht men are victims of the terrorists because they
were considered leaders responsible for the divul-
ation of an announce lent that Japan had been defeated
in the war, and for the publicetion of a transcript
of the mperor's mes e to his people. It is widely
reported that lo0 youns men have been selected by the
Shindo Reicei, as  "suicide Squadron", and that each
has been assigned or nen for assessination, the vic-
tims havin been chosen as those who have most courageous-
ly announced the defeat of their Fatherland. Especially,
have their ho ues been painted with Japanese symbols,
announcin th:t they are "traitors to their country".
Ya mamote nu uruya visited this office to make
certain le:s t t our wovernment be requested to take
i mmediate ection  uia in suppressin this rerime of
terror un: te surport their leaders who have been en-
deavorin, to make Inoim the truth about Japan. They
state (1) that the only really effective measure would
be if arrangements might be made with the Occupation
authorities to allow at least some Japanese residents
of São Paulo to receive letters from their relatives
in Japan. Only if such letters come cen the terrorists
be confronted with any evidence which is not "propaganda
from the ene nies of Japan". They do not ask for free
exchange of correspondence, but only that a certain
number of letters, fully censored, be allowed to come
throuch Tron Japan from relatives of agricultural workers
in São Paulo.
(2) Secondly they request that they be permitted to
place at least l0 subscriptions to newspapers published
in Japan and that these may be sent to the Consulate
General for delivery to them. They advise that they
will be happy to defray the cost of these subscriptions
at once. Two subscriptions were placed by this office
on their behalf to the Colorado Times, a newspaper
published largely in Japanese, and these have already
proved of great usefulness. It was impossible for them
to subscribe directly, since they could not obtain
a draft from the bank, and furthermore, the publishers
have declined to send papers out of the United States
to Japanese

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
to Japanese of Brazilian birth who were able to
remit. A reply is desired from the Department
as to whether this office may place such subs-
criptions to newspapers in Japan.
The intelligent leaders of the local colony
are preparing a petition to be presented to this
office, and this will be forwarded, when received,
but it has been felt expedient, to send immediate
notirication to the Department of this grave
situation, and proposals for its amelioration.
Sr. masão Kinoshita, a youn lawyer, Natura-
lized brezilian, who is no. 7 of those marked to
die in the city of São Paulo, visited this office
yesterday, and he is a real zealot in his eager-
ness to work ageinst the campaign of the terrorists.
He has inquired as to the possibility of his secu-
ring permission to co to the United States in the
hope that he can proceed from there to Japan. He
asserts with reli ious fervor that the only possi-
bility of relievin the present terrorism is if he
can secure permission from the Occupation authorities
for letters to co ne out from Japan, and he feels
that can be accomplished promptly only if he goes
as a special emissary. He is ready to sell his
proverty and proceed at his own expense. Kinoshita
came to Brazil at the age of twelve years, took a
commercial course in the Y..C.n., studied in a
Christian evan elical hih school, and took 4 years
of aavanced work ut ackenzie Coliege the long es-
tablished Presbyterian school in this city. He
later studied law and received a degree from the
University of São Paulo. As far as his own charac-
ter and sincerity is concerned, this office knows
nothing against him, but it is not known whether
any such proposal could be entertained at this
time b the American overnment. The young
lawyer has presented a memorial whichproposes
to leave behind to his neople, in case he were
able to proceed on his mission. This document
is quite informative as to the present situation
and is forwarded herewith in translation.
The situation is being studied by the local
police, but it is believed that any assistance
that can be afforded in relieving the present
situation will be welcomed.
Further report will be made as soon as
Dr. Francisco

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
Dr. Francisco Antonio de Toledo riza has received
additional inforiation concerning the attacks
which ure being mede up n his nationalized coopera-
tives, and news is received as to the success of
the terrorist ! ns to interfere with the harvest-
ing of crops.
It is suggested that in connection witn the
Repetriation Program, concerning whioh this office
has reported to tne Embassy, the enelosed list of
officers of the secret society Sh ndo Remmei may
well be given consideration.
Respectfully yours,
Ravanalbelch
Rolland Welch
American Consul
Enclosures:
1. Copy of letter to Embassy dated
7R
March 14, 1946, with its two enclosures:
Report from Cooperativa Agricola de Bastos
to Dr. Piza, dated January 1946. (in
Ruk.
Portuguese and in translation).
List of officers and representatives
of Shindo-Remmei
2.
Memorial prepared by Massão Kinoshita
to issue to the Japanese colony in
case he is able to proceed as an
emissary to the united States and Japan.
800
G.T.Colman/sl
Hectograph and original to the Department.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.94)
722.3
GT6:mps
General
São Paulo, Braz1l, Maroh 14, 1946.
SECRET
Paul C. Dagiels, Esquire
Charge d'Arfaires ad interim
American Embessy
Rio de Janeiro.
Sir:
Informtion has been received at this offise
that one Ikuta Misobe, a Japanese who was premiment
in the nationalised Cooperativa Agricola de Bastes,
was murdered last week and that it had beem pu-
blioly anmounoed in that region that he had beem
marked for elimination by a seeret sosiety whish
is assuming alarming power in the iaterier of the
State of São Paulo. À report upen this sesiety
has already been made by the Special Section of
this offiee and forwarded to the Embassy and it
is understood that they are preparing a further
statement concerning the recent murder.
Inasmueh as this subjeet is undeubtedly ef
great eurrent interest on account of the repatria-
tion program, commanieation was made with Dr. Fram-
oiseo Aatonio de Toledo Pise, whe is well kmewm te
the Embassy in conneetion wi th reperts made con-
cerning the natiomalisation of the Japanese eeepere-
tives. He has immediately visited this efriee teday
and has submitted aurepert, imeluding a list ef the
leaders of this seeret seciety both In sãe Paule
and in the interior of the state, as per eopy attasked.
He states that he has been aware ef the existenee ef
this sesiety for some menths and that he was mmck
conceraed since it was evident their pregram ir-
eludes heavy sabetage ef preduetien. It seems
that the leaders have beem persisting in reperts
that all rumers ef Japan's defeet are false and
they have been eztertlng money fren the well-te-
de Japasese, preteading to sehl real estate ia
Singapere, the Philippine Islaads, ete. and they have
Aeeem

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.92)
0
been espeeially ereanistng a croup es dapanese youth to
succced the suieide squedrens of the was.
Sar. Pise reports that 1n December 194s, be held
a meeting of the  apanese whieh have been work lng dl-
reetly for him in control of the matiemal eeeperatives.
As that time he distributed copies of Em Guarda im erder
that they might endeavor to confirm to the Japanese of
the interior the truth of the defeat of Japes. Me was
very severe with his represeatatives, demanding thet they
make counter propeganda in order to sappress this rising
secret society and prevent its domimatien la she eeaters
the seeret meeiety, whieh is ealled Shindé Remmel (Asse-
eiapão Divima) has had two mmia ebjeetives: (1) to elimin-
ate the old chiefs and leaders of the Japamese eelomy, whe
domination of the Japanese and so put lnte effeet a wide-
spreed program of sabotage espeeiaily of agrieultural pe-
dustion.
Perhaps the man of greatest conridenee in Pise's werk
has been Ikuta Misobe, who has been his ehief Japanese
representative in handling the Cooperetive Agrieela de.
Bestos. Pisa has ealled him repreatedly to São Paule fer
conferenees and partieularly he had asked him se sesare la-
formation concerning the plans of the seeret ssciety to
and May. Misobe prepared to come to São Paulo te mmke hís
report and it is stated that he was marked to be killed
at the station at Tupen, when he lert en thas missiem;
however, there was dirrieulty in obtaiving tramspertaties
and he returned to his home. He was then shet in his owm
beek-yard by a man who comeealed himself behind the eus-
house.
Pise had been aware that the seeiety has marked
all of his comfidemtial men for killing and that Mimote
was No. I om the list te die im Bastos. Ne states that
he had reperted this to the loeal poliee, bet that me pee-
teetien had been afforded to the marked mem, Others whem
the seeiety have listed for death In Bastos are:
Ssenjiro Katanake
Takanebu Matsumote
The Eabassy will recall that the twe are mentiesed in
Mmy repatriation repert ef November 5, 1945. Lecally 18
has been aanouneed that the seclety has marked for death:

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.91)
7
Klyeshi Yammmote
8. Puraya
whe were memtiened 1n ay airgren of Oeteber 29, 1965 as the
men who visited this offiee éeeking eeeperetiem in the se-
euring of Japenese mewspepers in erder thet their peeple
might be oconvineed of the truth.
In the fase ef these faets, 1t would appear thet these
censidered by this effiee. Is would appear that shese mow
servative leaders ef the colony would be mmiseble smbjeess
for imsediate and emergetie astion toward repatriatien. As
as hes been done upon oceasioas in the pest, means thas shey
report that they have been released through she saterveasßen
of the Geverament in Japen and they ceme out as hesees to
their people, with greatly reinforeed power and prestige.
Sar. Pisa's present plan is to proceed to Rle de Jassire
on Menday, Mareh lsth in order that he may eeafer with the
Minister or Justiee. He expeets to eall as she Eabasay fer
conferenee with regard to these mtters. This prel imimesy
repert has, therefore, been prepared hastily la the hepe
that it will reeeh the hands of the Proeleimed List seetiem
befere his arrivel.
Respeetfully yours,
Relland Weleh
Amerieen Gensul
Enelosure
Report from Coeperative Agrieela de Bastes
to Sar. Pise, lmeluding a list ef the leaé-
ers of the seeret sesiety.
Copp to:
British Goasulate Gemeral.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.77)
Rastes, Temeire do 2046.
4
D1me. Sar.
De. Preneisee Aatenio do Tolode Pise,
Prestdeate da Geoperetive Lerieola Génsral do Bão Peale,
Atencioses Saudagões
cades éía en die da mossa Cooperativa Agrieola de mstés,
pesse me presideneia da Ceoperetive Cemtral.
Pormalamos a prosente a fira de pedia a V.s. e
něo for rediealmente resolvido agore.
O easo  mosivado do altime eesateeimeste da
situagão de beligeraneia easre o Japão e eliadess ezissian
estes pretestos esterquias esses labrederes, atiadiaéé esses
Tamben, em Bastos, ten seoateeido es eases sem-
elhantes, imeendiando os ranehos de serieulsare cheies ée sous
predatos. I ainde, ultimmmente, aprecendo eutres famatiees
"Shindo Ketumel Dan) que agen pare aeredisarem mo false pee-
suas, secgßes en mais de 60 sonas come en Bastes, que pos sun
sous s10s  30,000.
Neste Bastes, sãe os segalates es meshres peis-
elpals da referide nociedade: Tide, Kate, Eonda, Nida, Sems-
jime e Kemebata.
tes para faser Édeta de que ales aão tão pustabedares pare ee
henestes agrieulteres e habitastes de Béstes, dlo es so-
18ag6o

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.88)
9
gões, pois mãe dão mais tenpo para à colheisa; s) distpábes
objetivo deles en Bastos o, per meio desta soeiedade, desse-
bar a Cooperativa e paya isso, obrigando o Snr. Mimebe a sma
demissão ou pelo contrario, ameagam elimina-lo.
De fato, são diversas yeses pelas eartas iatimi-
davam o Snr. Mizobe para a sua demissão; ameagando ate La sua
monte, - deixando-o sem o socego.
Desta maneira, atualmente em Bastos, está muma
verdadeira situagão sem o policiamento, pois, eles mesme mome-
ó cabo da polioia prendia o tal de Misumo que, cem eutres 4
elementos éstave lendo o plano seerete para pertubarem es
lavradores, porem, foi preso e solto logo apes o referide
documento seereto fôra devolvido a ume pesséa, - pele dele-
gado suplente, devido aos entendimentos por ventara havide
entre eles.
Se de fato, conforme os rumores, • Sar. Mizebe
se demitisse do atual cargo da Cooperativa, a sua bamearreta
seria questão de dentro de uma segana, o que é do cenhesí-
pento de todos os coeperadores. 1 per isse mesme, que ele,
à pedido de todos, e mereé do auxilie de V.S., supertava
 seu cargo durante a situagão difieil da administragãe me
tempo da guerra, e as ameapas daqueles, mesme cerrende •
risoo da vida.
Aumentando, ultimamente, essas ameagas yele
plane dagueles maus elementos, prece que e Sar. Mmebe tem
do pessoas da familia que heuve, ultimameate, a iafelieidade
perdendo o seu paí e mais dois de sous filhes.
O desgavolvimento e o progresso da Ceoperetive
Agricola de Eastes, é principalmeate devido ao sen imeansavel
esferge e sacriricie-durante ha mais de la anes da sa gestéo
o que I do recenkecimento de tedes es eseperades.
Existen, peréa, es elemestes, meabres daquele
seclaisy tais come e Kezema Nenda que planeje atívamezte a
/asssslugo

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.91)
P
-3-
disselupãe dosta Cooperativa, aginde no moio dos soua 
bres com o intuito de reorganizar uma mova Ceeperatívas es-
rativista - prejudicial a Cooperativa, eriande - mgus beates
orime de assassinio.
A Cooperativa, com es seus l4 anes de existemeía des-
de a sua fundapãe tem cons eguide a sua firme pesígio ecsnemien
 social, porem, se ela quebrasse agora, pela demíssße de Sar.
Mizobe, desapereceria tudo o que tem conseguide durante esse
periodo e seria a questão de morte de todes produteres de
Bastos, pois é elaro, como é do conhesimente de V.S., Ge haver
da Cooperativa o erodito de Cr$.7.500,00 em relapãe m es
seus sooios.
E, será, tambem absolutamente impossivel a questãe da
reorganisapão da nova cooperativa, ∞nforme aqueles plamejam.
Pelos motivos expostos acima, vimos, por meie desta,
solieitar de V.S., apesar dos seus muitos afaseres e pre-
oeuparßes a especial finesa de provideneiar, sem a pessivel
urgeneia, mo sentido de convidar o Sar. Mizebe a vir a Mãe Paale,
 indagando a sua verdadeira intenpãe de demissãe, sagexiz
para que continue no seu atual eargo, e, ao mesme tempo,
por meio da policia de São Paulo, mandar fisealisar severa-
mente os maus elementos para que não corra mais e perige
em tormo dele • poder trabalhar soeegadamente a bem da
Cooperativa.
Aproveitando esta ocasião, pedimos previdensiar pare
que expulse do Bastos, para sempre, eerea de 1o elemeztes'
de membro da referida "Shindo Ketumei Dan", espeeialmente,
s dois maiores pertubadores da Cooperativa, qye sãe:,
para e bem da Ceoperatíva, mas tambem para que todes es
lavradores de Bastos possam dediear-se aos seus trabalhos
sem as ineomodapses.
Outressin, informamos a V.S. que dizen haver pesseas
para servirem de testemankas, iafermande as verdadeiras
situaçães m que esté e Bastes - com equeles elemeztes
de seù érupe, peis, eles aeham q aãe adiantarid falar
com a polieia loeal.
Sende e que

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.94)
Sendo so o que nos apresenta no momeate, esperamès ser
atendidos prontamente. Outrossim, sendo esta tratar de'
suma importancia para o futuro da Cooperativa de Bastes,
pedimos onservar em sigilo o motivo da presente.
Som ma1s,
A comisszo dos interessados da
COOPERATIVA AGRICOLA  BASTOS

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.95)
W
TRANSLATION
Bastos, Janmary, 1946.
Dr. Francisco Antonio de Toledo Pise,
President of the Cooperativa Agricola Central de Sãe Paule
Praga Joño Mendes, 154 - 3ª andar.
São Paulo
Cordial greetings.
In the first place we desire to preseat our
sincere gratitude for the progress whieh has beem achieved
day by day by our Cooperativa Agrioola de Bastos, thanks
to the great attention whieh you have given it sinee ta-
king the presidency of the Cooperativa Agrieela Central.
We are writing in order to ask your eaergetie
action in viow of the shameful situation now prevailing
among the Japanese, much to our deep regret; It will meam
the destruetion of our Cooperativa de Bastos, if this pre-
blem does not receive serious attention.
The situation has resulted from the belligeremey
between Japan and the Allies; there have been a mamber of
our fanatie fellow citisens who, upon the pretext that the
produotion of mint and of silk might be prejudieial te Japea,
have made threats against the farmers, as for example Kagawe
who has been arrested by the police in Marilia. Me is
charged with having extorted from these farmers sums amoums-
1ng to more than Cr.$ 80.000,00.
Also in Bastos there have been similar eases,
setting fire to the silk culture establishmemts, full of
merehandise and recently there have appeared ether famaties
who have formed a seoret society (ealled "Shimdo Ketumel
Dam") whieh is acting upon the false pretext of believing
in the vietory of Japan in the war. It is reperted that
"Shindo Ketumel Dan" has its headquarters in the eity ef
São Paule and has branches in more than 60 areas imslu-
ding Bastos. These branehes in turn are divided ia sub-
seetiens. Members are charged an entrance fee and meataly
dues of Cr.$ 7,00. It is caleulated that there are more
than 30,000 members covering the statcs or São Paule and
Parana.
In Bastos the follewing are the prineipal members er
society: Tida, Kato, Honda, Hida, Semejima and Kawabata.
Trtossi

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
2
The following emaples of the aets, prassieed
in Bastos will give an idea of the greet disturbasse being.
caused to the honest agrioultural workers and inhabitamtst
a) Threats are made to burm the silk eulture
establishments which are at present the prineipal production
of this area;
b) all those who do not aeeept the vietery e
Japan are ealled traitors to their country and placards ase
placed on private houses and on the streets;
o) burial crosses have been ereeted fer the
following five individuals; Senjiro Hatamake, Yeshimaseu
Kusahara, Hirosh1 Yamanaka and Morio Oda who aekmewledged
the reality or the defeat and these are kept at the heuse
of Tadashigue Kata, seeretary of the seciety. Barial
wreaths in their names were carried to the cemetery en the
Day of the Dead.
d) threats of death have been mde against
the five men named:
•) eards have been sent bearing the desigm
of a skull to those acknowledging the defeat of Japam;
f) Rumors are spread that all Japamese will
soon return to the Fatherland and they state that there mest
be no more planting and that there is no time for the harvest:
g) they distri bute bulletins to disturb the
farmers;
h) their principal objeetive in Bastos is
through the activity of their society to destroy the Geepere-
tive and force Snr. Misobe to resign, or in the eontrary
they threaten his death.
In fact, at varioxs times letters have beem
sent to Mr. Misobe to this effeet.
As a result, in this way, Bastos is mow in a
very serious situation witheut proper police supervisien, for
these men have mo respeet for the Bastes poliee stating that
in emy ease they ean arrange everything by bribery. Pour
months ago a peliee sergeant arrested e eertain Misume whe with
four ethers was eaptured reading a seeret ple te disturb the
farmers. Ne was arrested, but soen rhe ased, and the seeret
decument was returned by the assistant effieer, threugh seme
understanding that they arranged.
If indeed accerding to the rumers Mr. Misebe
resigns his pesitien in the Geeperasive, its bankruptey will

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.95)
心
- 3 -
be a questien of a very ahort time as all the mmbees
hes endured his pesition daring dirrieult sime of the
war and has rised his life in the face of threats.
Since reéently these threats have inereased
through the astivities of these bad men, it appears that
Mr. Mizobe will present his resignation,  in part dme
to the insistenee of his family who reeently have had the
misfortune to lose the father and two childrem.
The development and progress of the Gee-
perativa Agricola de Bastos has been primeipally dee se
his constant efforts and seerifises during mere them sem
years of activity, as is recognised by all of the mm-
bers.
There exist among the members ef this
Society "Shindo Ketumei Dan" such men as "Konemy Memda",
who are actively seeking the dissolution of this Ceepera-
tive, seeking to organise a competitive Cooperative; this
Konomu Monda, for the past ten years has always beem a
prejudicial element, spreading false ramors and emdee-
voring to interfere with the purposes of the Ceeperative.
He is a person who twenty years ago committed an ast
of assassination.
The Cooperative during its fourteem years
existence has achieved a firm economical and sosial pe-
sition. However, should it break now through the resis-
nation or Mr. Mizobe, there would disappear all thes has
been achieved during this period and it would be fatal
for all the producers of Bastos, as you well kmew the
Cooperative has a credit of Or.$ 7.500,00 standing to
the benefit of its members.
The question of reorganising a new Ceepere-
tive is absolutely impossible in ascordanee with their
plans.
In view of the above exposition, we beg you
in spite of your many duties and comeeras to arrenge with
all urgemey to iavite Sar. Misbbe to eeme to sãe Paule
and in view of his intended resignatien, te suggest shat
he contiaue at his pest. At the same time, we beg that
you arrange through the peliee of Sãe Paule to eomtrel

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
danger and may work peacefully for the good of the Coopere-
tivo.
We beg also that steps be taken to the
effeet that the ten elements mentioned above as-members
the two greatest enemies of the Cooperative mamely "he
Honda and Rintarg Tatibana. This will be for the seed
not only of the Cooperative but also of all the farmers
of Bastos in order that they may carry on this predmetiem
without difrioulties.
We would advise also that there are persems
such as "Iwataro Matubara" and Yoshimatsu Kusahara" whe are
ready to go to São Paulo at the call of the peliee in erder
to serve as witnesses, testifying as to the true siteasiom
in Bastos. They feel there is no purpose in diseussing the
matter with the local police.
Assuring you that we believe that this masser
may be of the highest importance to the future of the Geopere-
tive, we request you to preserve this communieation in
striotest confidence.
THE COMMITTEE OF THOSE INTERESTED IN
THE COOPERATIVA AGRICOLA DE BASTOS

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.92)
16
H Pl
Juaj1 Kikkewa
Presidems
Ryetare Negere
Teij1 Kimare
Zeasaku Ogawa
Kanji Waki
Direeter
Sakuso Kawashima
Directer
Saijire Tanita
Directer
Kanj1 Aok1
Direster
Masso Sato
Direster
BRANCHES
DUER OI
LOCAL REPHESENTATIVES
LUCÊLIA
5.500
Takai • Vemoto
Tehuji Yokoyame, Sakuse Kewashime
CALIFORNIA
850
Saniti Chimen, Yujiro Asanl
BASTOS
3.500
Iohisabaro Chida - ahier
TUPX
8.200
Shinso Nakamine, Kiti Sekame, Isamm
Matsumoto - Takaki - ehief er propa-
ganda
POMPÉIA
10.000
Sub-chier - Matsushiro Kuaii, Magami,
Tsuji, Mansaku Pusada - Shigaee Nem-
ada - Seiji Karoki • Kajuiki Lokei and
Rioso Tsuguiame
MARILIA
12.000
Chier - Sanae Ito, Gempo Tammshire,
Zensaku Ogawa - sub-ehief
VERA CRUZ
1.100
Juniti Yasaka
GILIA
1.800
Eiti Siosaki
GARÇA
1.500
Kokiti Sawada, Yonejiro Kokubo (er
Okube)
BAURU
500
Matsutane Miyasato - Kenji Makamara
- Propaganda
PIRAJUI
500
Mitsue Trui, Kuniyoshi Maeda, Seshi-
tiro Noda
GUARANTA
500
Shigeto Murakami
CAFELANDIA
3.500
Magosabaro Osaki, Yeahie Wikawe, Smi-
chiro Omo
LINS
3.500
Kisebaro Yeshil, Shesuke Tamake
GuAragaÍ
800
Bisi Kimare, A. Nashimete
PROUISGSO
3.500
2.500
4.500
Kese Zate
3.000
Mnicns Ito
2.900

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.95)
17
- 2-
BRAECHES
-HBER OF
LOCAL EEPHLSKHTATIVER
VALPARAIZO
5.000
Shejiro Imai, Daisabume Sas
tsu Yamamura, Shigeru Kabe
LAVINIA
1.500
Shinichiro Iwahara
MIRANDOPOLIS
5.700
Seikichi Sonohata, Mankit1 Asuma,
Mitsuru Miike, Majime Ota
GUAIÇARA
1.000
Motiyasu Seto
ANDRADINA
500
Chusaburo Abe
ALFREDO CASTILHO
500
Shigueo Fukuoka, Shase Nakay
rose, Tasokiti Ikuso (?)
JACAREZINHO
250
Tatsuo Eackdsa
BANDEIRANTE
2,750
Yukiti Matida
TRÊS BARRAS
5.500
Toshio Mori, Saijiro Tanita
URAÍ
1.500
Shok1ohi Shibukawa
S. CRUZ DO RIO PARDO
2.500
Chuemon Shoji, Shinso Matida,
Hiroshi Sato
OURINHOS
1.500
Shosuke Uematsu
ASSIS
800
Minosuke Yokota
PARAGUASSÚ
2.000
Morihisa Sakihara
RANCHARIA
1.200
Shoioh1 Kodama
PRESIDENTE PRUL
2.000
Kaneo Mighiura - Kenjiro Mishi-
DENTE
Kioshi Inoue
MARTINÓPOLIS
1.500
Tadashi Hiroshima, Masae Makame,
Jiichi Yamaguti
ARARAGUARA
1.000
Masamitsu Hokuso
MOTUCA
300
Soiti Yamada, Shinso Shimisu, Ma-
sato Morita
MATÃO
100
Chajiro Okasawa
TAQUARITINGA
1.000
Asaj1 Omori
JABOTICABAL
1.000
Takeso Takada
MONTE ALTO
1.500
Sanso Hammda
NOVA GRANADA
500
Kanji Matsue, Fakusada Mireta
IGARAPAVA
500
Temiso Wage
GAXINGUI
s0
Ghejire Mitasmine
Iteue essuisi

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.93)
-3-
RAKSELS
LOGAL EBPRESEITATIVE
GAMPOS DO
600
Masaji Kimara, Yoshishigue Ne-
22
JORDÃO
kauch1
BELO HORIZONTE
200
Torazo Nonaka, Maso Baba
CAMPO GRANDE
2.500
Seitoku Ishikawa
DIVERSOS
80
• Eiti Sakane
1136430
Tanaka (Dealer of dry coods)
QUINTANA
OSWALDO CRUZ
Fujivara (real estate agent)
Chimen
Assahi (Merchant - eupbeards.)

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
11
Japanese Citizens of Brazil!
four Allied powers, a suffering so deep that it is tremsfes-
ming rapidly into a combat of ideas and finally inte bleedsked
among your own brothers.
When we organised the meetings and endeavered to cemmmseate
to you the official note from the Japanese Geverament, trams-
mitting the Imperial Reseript and the message from the Mimister
of Foreign Affairs of the Japanese Goverament, reseived threugh
the International Red Cross, we had no other purpese them te
lessen your suffering, save you from a deep confusien which
envolved you, make you see the truth and eneourage you te een-
front it.
In this gigantie effort we have spared no effort. We have
done everything however, in vain, beeause the explerers ef the
situation intentionally, in bad faith have misimterpreted ell
our acts ineuleating in the minds of the ingemmous hatred agaimst
us, qualifying us as infamous traitors of Japan.
It may be added that the police authorities, the Delega-
cia da Ordem Politica e Sociaà of the state of São Paale have
mysteriously seized the copies of the offieial mote of the
Govermment or Japan, above referred to, whese distribatien
in the Japanese colony was authorised by Itamarati in aceerd
dance with the letter frem the Intermational Red Gress and
whose translation into Japanese (beeause the origimal was
written in English) and urgent distri bution had boem re-
commeaded by this very police authority. Seme person with
bad intentions may have insimmated that the effieial mete
was false; the same authority deelared to us that the mese
referred to may have been altereted and that there mast be
another true ene in the hands ef Itamarati! The agitaters
didnot lese time in spreading the ramer tEat the Imperial
Reseript was false, imasmèeh as copies were seised by the
peliee autherities making you believe that the reperts
were coafirmed by this peliee astion and that finally high
offieials of the peliee were eegnisant that Japen had mn
the war.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.94)
9
- 2 -
that the peliee reeogaised she vietery ef Japan and ee
and to preach the vietory of Japan!
Workers in the fields, residents in the Anterier, in
the majority of eases in the far distant sertle where um-
founded rumors glortying the vietory of Japan reappear
by surprise, being thrown against your ewn brothers whe
ackmewledge the Imperial Resoript or August 15.
How many henest and good men have suffered the dis-
agreeable and revolting experienee of sesing their heuses
painted in Japanese eharaeters, denouncing them as "Im-
famous traitors of the Fatherland" only beeause they
ascepted the Imperial Reseript!
The supposed vietory or Japan has beem eelebrated,
the Japanese flag hoisted, causing disturbanees mppressed
by the peliee, among which the mest serious was that in
Tupan, where a Brazilian army regiment is statiomed.
Eatred and deep distress between brothers fill the
Japanese celony. Frantie diseussiens and threats ef death
are daily repeated throughout the colomy, culmimating
recently in the treacherous assassination of the shlef
of the Ceoperativa de Bastos, a very peaceful and hemest
mam whose only blame was that he gave publieity, in view
of the duties of his pesition to the Imperial Reseript
of August 15!
The poliee are searohing for the auther of the erime.
This happeming is one of the spaptons of the sravity of the
evil whleh affliets the Japanese eeleny.
If we do mot find a quiak remdy for this evil, bleedy
seenes will be refpeated, transforming soon the whele celeny
into an infernal massaere.
Duriag eur tireless struggle ef the last siz mesths to
relieve the situation we have come to the eenelusien thet
appeal ean mot be mde to reasen. Reasen iaß good fer the
head but the eolomy surfers in its beart.
The evident and incentestible preefs ef treth de net
convinee. The famatieal convietien that Japan mever could
lese the war earries the celeny blindly to the precipiee.
I eaanet mere endure this seene, which suffecates m
With an almest superhuman effert at the mmset, I have

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.93)
sire to aet in their own selfish interests, could desire
lifo of y ahild.
I should erplain that I have taken this reselutiem em-
olusively on my ewn initiative, independent ef my ether
adviee. Therefore, if my undertaking is mubjest to just
critieism as being wameesessary or foolish, I am the emly
one responsible and no ene else sheuld bear any repreack.
It is my duty to confess that I have been an active
in order to convimee you of the true situaties as a leader
of those who have reeognised the defeat of Japes. I have
encouraged them in the desperate straggle to ezplain to
you the truth and to indieate to you what is the ealy he-
norable attitude of a son of Japan.
Punishment, therefore, should fall only upen me ia the
case the asts praetieed by us should be sensidered eximes
of high treason, as the fanatieal assert. In this ease,
I will ghadly deliver myself to the Geverament ef Japan
who will render justiee in the ease.
The struggle among us Japanese should, therefere, be
suspended at this mement and an araistiee dekkared. le
crime origimating due to this confusion in the mimds ef
the Japanese deloay in Brasil should be repeated, No
imprudent aet whieh might give rise to pollee tntervention
should be preetieed by any of you. Be obed'ent te the
"Endure the insuppertable, Guard yourselves with the
greatest riger against any emotienal explesien whick
san give rise te wnnecessary cenplisatiens and eaase
and causing you to lese the confidence ef the worle".
As for the erimes whieh have been cemmitted, we should

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.84)
33
leave them to the judgment ef the competent uthemdes
Ezereise the maximum eautien aainst these whe weke
explere the situation and who may desire to contimme te
magmanimity of heart have previded fer yeur sarres
cenfliet, in which Brasil fought en the side eppesed to Japan.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
CENTRAL SERVICES
ELEGRAPH SECTION
BA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACTION:ARA
INCOMING TELEGRAM
INPO:
s
RAA-P-X
647
U
Paraphrase before com-
A-BR
A-BR/3
A-B
AMCHICANUCAFFAIRS
Dated April 2, 1946
DET
SA/M
FE
RESTRICTED
ESP
SPD
PC
OIC
SECSTATE
DC/R
90, Apr11 2, 3 p.m.
894.20232/4-246
Referring to my de"patch number 3886 of March 21.
1946 yesterday attacks vere made here on lives of 2 men
listed Furuya and muri and latter was killed. Confirming
requests reported my despatch Japanese leaders have sub-
mitted petition asking (1) that some correspondence properly
censored be aiioved to come from relatives in Japan to
Japanese 1n Sao Paulo (?) that subscriptions be placed for
Japanese nevspapers to come to this office (3) that official
advice regarding Japan's jefeat. be sent from Japan through
the Svedisn Legation for distribution to local Japanese
as recently done in Ir ila (4) that the Swedish Logation in 11
Rio de Janeiro be enc uraged to send an emissary on a trip
through the Japanese colonies in Sao Paulo to publicize the
truth.
This ofrice further recommends that our Goverr ment
intervene with the Brazllian Government to faciliate the
repatriation of the leaders.of th Shindo Rgmme1 secret
society listed in my despatch. Cur Embassy reports it
considers the expellinp of objectionable Japanese the only
practical solution to this problem created by disruptive
Japanese elements.
In addit1on 1t is urged that Begg collect and forvard
with ail speed 16 mm films showing American troops in
actual ocoupation of apan especially armed troops for
Japanese have distorted scenes of surrender of ssouI
1nto a surrender of the American fleet and other scenes into
surrender of American troops.
1946
FILED
CROSS
DO
RESTRICTED
PERMANENT RECORD COPY: THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R WITH NOTATION OF ACTION. TAKEN

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
TO : JX - GA
DATE:
May 10, 1906
FROM : BA - Mr. Moin
SUBJECT:
Despatch number 3907
Attached is the original of São Paulo despatch
number 3907 of April 2, 1946 enolosing for transmission
.894.20232/4-246
to addressees in Japan and Germany two letters from
Francisoan Fathers in São Paulo. Recently the
Consulate General also tiansmitted under a separate
despatch five letters to addressees in Japan, and
these were returned to the Consulate General'since
the Department did not feel that under present
polioy it would be justified in making an exception
in that case. I assume that you will want to aot in
conneotion with these two letters also.
Attachment
Despatch number 3907
CS/A
0C21
LConfidential File
OIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KON
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 1 4 1946
BA:JGMain:1rd
(D.st

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.96)
To : BA - Mr. Mein
OFFICE OF
FRom : JK - George Shapkan
AMEHICAN REPUBLIC AFFAIRS
Japan. MAY 2 9 1946
suject: Letters requested to be transmitted
With reference to the attached letters which the
Consulate General in São Paulo requested tho Depart-
.894.20232/4-246
ment to transmit to Japan, the question of opening
mails to Japan for personal messages is currently under
consideration and will probably be approved in the not
too distant future.
In view of this, I thought that you might want to
so inform the Consul General and hold the letters pend-
ing action in this matter rather than returning them
to him.
CSXA
OC 211946
Onfidential File
8
 nal.
wth
Rev.
Cat.
D. 1.
JK:GShaskan:emh

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.93)
OCT161946
SGONPARENTIAL
794.20
the
American Censular Officer in Charge,
Sao Paulo, Brazil.
894.20232/4-246
The Asting Beoretary or State refers te the
Consulate General's despatch ne. J907 ef April 2, 19
"Activities of Japanese Becret Secieties in Sae Paule
and encleses for return to the writers the fellewing
letters:
1. From the Franeisean Fathers ef Sas
Paulo to the Host Reverend Father Superier
P. Gerhard Huber, Sapporo (Hokkaido), Kita
11 jo, higashi 2 chome, Shindoin;
2. From the Franoiscan Fathers of Sao
Paulo to the Reverend Father Deleg. Prev.
Willigis Hess, O. F. M., Fulda, Frauemberg,
Germany.
These letters were held in the Department pending
a decision on the question of opening the mails to
Japen and Germany for personal messages. A restricted
CS/A
mail service between Japan and the rest of the world,
ekoept Germany, was established on September 10, l948.
The serviee extends only to the islands of Honshu,
Kyushu, Shikoku and Hokkaido and communioations are
restrioted to postcards containing messages of a
persemal or family nature written in English, Chinese
Japanese, French, Korean, Russian or Spanish. The mmils
to Germany were open for personal messages on April 1.
1946. The Consulate General, therefore, may wish to
suggest to the Franeisean Fathers that they eemmunioate
direetly with the addressees in Japan and Germany, Weing
894,202
pesteards in the case of the fermer. These cemmuni-
eations should be transmitted through the regular wail
channels.
Enslosures:
1. Letter to Nost Reverend
Father Superier Huber
A p capy of
15 1946
2. Letter to Reverend Mesa
kito agnd origi-
864.20233
CPk
HT
W/Jx
OE
10/4/46

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.94)
OFFICE OF
No. 3907
lave
REPUBLIC AF
01946
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENE
São Paulo, Brazil, April 2, 1946
SUBJECT:
Activities of Javane se Secret SoeieI CAL PROJECIS
Sao Paulo.
mu main-@A
DEPARTMENT OF MATE
say allight for
THE HONORABLE
FRRAJHOCD
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
X9822.43
I have the honor to refer to my despatch No. 3886
of March 21, 194o, uvon the same subject as above men-
tioned. as stated in the previous despatch, there has
894.20232/4-246
novw been receive ccpy of a formal petition from the
leaders of the Japanese colony in São Paulo dated March
18, 194o, and copies are enclosed in translation. To-
day there nas vee sent o Jepartment telegram No.
90 or april a, - 3 r.. su marizin the rec uests in
this pecition.
Since the receint or sais vetibion, detinite threats
upon the lites or svo or he si me s have been made, name-
ly shigetsune Juruya sn iosni amamoto. These are the
same two men wo were referred to in my airgran A-175 of
October 29, 1945, nicu re uested the supply of Japanese
newspapers which have since been forwarded by the De-
part nent to this office. uruya was attacked in his
home yesterday mor: ine i only very narrowly escaped
vith his life as the assassins poured twelve bullets
into his bedroo. the two attackers were arrested and
they confessed to the police thet Tamamoto was chosen
as one of three oner yicti us for i lediate execution.
Yesterday, also, Tchuzabro Nonura Was attacked in his
home and wes killed outri ht by five Japanese who fired
three bullets into hin in hisy bed, dragged the body into
the livin room and there poured in three more shots.
Nomura was No. 8 in the list marked for death by the
terrorist organization Shindo-Renmei as submitted with
my despatch No. 3886.
There is enclosea a copy of the front page from
the "Tolha da Noite" of April 1st., 1946, which re-
ports these crimes. The clippin is entitled "Japanese
3
ECNO
Confiden
3
EED
946 AR  P
gestapo
DC/R
001171946
wir2

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
gestapo organized in São Paulo. Fanatios of a Secret
Japanese orcanization attempted to assassinate in this
capital the former Japanese Anbassador to Argentina.
Four Japanese who admitted the defeat of their Father-
land have been condemned to death by the terrible or-
ganization of fanatics. The execution of the sinister
plan was be un this mornin", one of the Condemned
havin been killed, the others escaping miraculously".
There are also enclosed copies of clippings from
the Estado de São Paulo for march 26 and March 31,
1946. Both of these articles are particularly sig-
nificant because they shov pictures of the surrender
of the Japanese plenipotentiaries to the Americans,
but altered by the falatics in the interior so that
they show the "Unconditional Surrenaer" of the United
tates to Japan. The article of march 26, reports
the murder oi Ikuta izobe wio was the superintendent
of the nationalized Cooperative of astos and who
had been known as one or those who acknowledged the
defeat of Japan . Who Was onposing the efforts of
the terrorists to ipede a ricultural production.
The article is entitled as follows: "A Cowardly
Crime In The City of Bastos. How there has been
createa a nev Japanese "Oyst" in the upper region
of the Pauliste silroad - pre reas er riches.
advice iven b rl: con ress an a inst the
Pormtion or the J me colonies - a stupid re-
port vhic. nus bee. mainin ide circulation: "Japan
did not lose the war, it was the merican army which
surrendered ueconuitionally" - rhoto raphic proofs
to this effect. Secret Japanese Society in action.
The former police Delegade of Jastos and his ener-
getic.action against Japanese arrogance in that re-
ion - Cowerdly essassination by treachery of the
superintendent of the J:panese Cooperative, who did
not believe in the "Victory" of Japan - The criminal
was able to flee with strange facility."
The article Prom the Estudo de São Paulo of
arch 31, 1946, is entitled; "In Tupan the situation
is not better than in Bastos - a city of great com-
nercial importance where policin is necessary. The
presence of a company of the Third Batallion of the
army and its participation in the most serious cases
- Japanese flag hoisted at a festival - Attempted
assault upon the Delegacia da Policia. The presence
of a group of machine guns has been sought in order
to caln the spirits of the Japanese - Japanese school
closed... Japanese commemorations."
In my telegram of today's date the request is
repoated

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
repeated that regular subscriptions of newspapers from
Japan be forwarded to this Consulate General as men-
tioned in my despatch No. 3886. It was fortunate to
confront the present crisis that some Japanese news-
papers were receiv d from the Depart ment under cover
of the instruction of January 17, 1946. Snr. Furuya
reports that he iscovere: in the newspapers which
were receivea two erticles, one written by his son
and another by is son-in-law. He was, of course,
greatly pleased to now thet his close relatives are
still alive, but he was also satisfied to learn that
they are evidently looted upon with favor, and that
their articles are bein" permitted publication, with
the approval of the military authorities in Japan. It
is renorted, nowever, that this very fact, having be-
come known, has vrejudiced his nosition with the
fanatics and it ay nave had some relation in hastening
the attempt unon his life yesterday.
attention is iruwn to the desirability of steps
bein taken toward the repatriation of the Japanese
leaders of the Shinuo-Remaei as listed in despatch
No. 3886. In this connection the Labassy has written
in its letter of March 25, 194o, to this office as
follows:
"The plan of revatriation or expelling objection-
able Japanese is, of course, favorably regarded
and is believed to be the best, if not the only
uractical solution to th. problem vhich is
creeted by the isruptive Japaneselements."
There are enclosed the followine letters which
it is requested be forwarded to the addressees, if
such adtion is approved by the Department. 1 - A
letter from the Franciscan Fathers of São Paulo to;
Japan (Japão) - Most Rev. Father Superior - P. Ger-
hard Huber - Sapporo (Hokkaido) - Kita 1l jo - Hi-
gashi 2 chome - Shindoin. 2 - Letter from the Fran-
ciscan Fathers of S. Paulo to; Rev. Fath. Deleg.
Prov. - Willigis Hess, O.F.M. - Fulda - Frauenberg
- Germany.
These Franciscan fathers have assisted in the
distribution in Bastos of the Japanese newspapers
which were received from the Department, and they
have requested that, if possible, these personal
letters be transmitted to clergy in Japan and in
Germany.
Respectfully yours,
Cecil M. P. Cross
American Consul General
Enclosures:
FROP
1. Copy of formal petition dated March 1&, 1946
2. Copy of the "Folha da Noite dated April 1, 1946
and March 31, 1946.
4. Personal letters transmitted to clergy in Japan
and in Germany.
800
G.T.Colman/sl
Hootoraph and original to the Department

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.94)
o Paulo, Mareh , 1946
The American Consul Ganeral,
são Paulo.
Respeetrul greetings:
The underuigned, Jupanese "griculturists and morehante
resi emt in the stato of são Paule for mny yeare desire
very speetfully to report un to ake the following
solicitation:
1) - The  rest me ority of the Japenese domioiled in
this state ars farmers mouttered in  ictant parts where
in general notices concerning th. world situatiom penetrmte
only with dirrioulty and derioleney.
2) - The agrioultural worker, in the far laterier
in the couree or the last world war have nohleved the
highest degre or efricienoy in produetion, thamkm to
the protective ane wise orientaticn of the Mrasillan
authorities.
3) - It has happuned, howevor, thnt, after the
ees:ation of hostilities, last :uguct, there have arisem
within the Japamese eormaunity itcolr cortain wmserupaloms
elements, trus "risnermen in dirty wntern". Beme ef them
are desirous of gaining popularity; others are eager for
position nnd moclal distinct ion and thore have appeared
those who with the objuct or ililoit gain have givem the
selves to the most condemnabla ani ignominious astivities
In seeking to ex lore tho lgnorance of their om eomatry
mem through the diffusion of falss notiees comeerning
"The Vistory of Japan", notices which heve givem rise to
rumours, each more deceptive and absurd.
4) - These netivities have had the most lamomtable
and destruetive effeets, causing hatreds and resentments
betweem those who believe in suah rumours and these whe de
not. There has resulted a serious aksmensiom smd comfusion
of feelings and ideas in the henrt of the Japamese eolemy
throughout the Interior of the state of são Paule.
5) - This stats of thingn hes brought as a comeqmemee
in some plaees a kint of panic, great moral depressiem and
confusiom of ideas in the midst or the Japamese agrieultural
werkers, the majerity of whom are ueeble te keew the real
truth of the precent realities in the world, sinee they
do mot have the means of pecuring informmtiom as, for
example, tarough newspapers printed in Japanese.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.88)
- 2 -
6) - The oontinuation or such a state of things
will bring without doubt spiritual confusiom as well
as cruel doubts coneerning the future, contributins
In this way to the diminution or eessatiom of dally
agrieultural produetivity, whioh now more tham ever
is of great importanee and indisputeble necessity
In these dirrioult post-war times. This situatiom
has caused ooneern among all those who seek for the
welfare, progress and happiness of mankind.
7) - One of the most afrioient and surest mothods
of combatting with soourity this abnormal situation
would be the reestablishment of the means of correspend-
eaee between these people and their friends and rele-
tives in Japan, through lotters, printed matter and
especially mewspapers and magazinos in Japanese. Thess
might be forwarded by their relatives and friends
deseribing the true situation in Japan and would serve
to convinee thos who mintnin themselves intramsigent.
8) - Buah buing the onve, the undersigned beg to
apply to the Chriatlan feolin and cooperative spirit
of your Exeelleney, moliciting thet you taks steps
towards the reestablishment as soon as possible of
correspondenee between Brnzil and Japan, subjeet mat-
wrally to nmy meeaures or cont rol and risealizntion
upon the part of the competent authorities.
Confident that the undersigmera will be givem
consideratiom in this petitiom on one side on acsoumt
of the highly humanitarian signirieanee and, em the
other, bbeause of the great economie-scsial importames,
seeking to inerease the produstive efrieieney ef the
agrieultural class, whiek she post-wer world e great-
1y meeds, we sign with the highest esteem,
(mise)
Bhigetsuna Taraya
Saiea)
Benlaal Haenlya
SoeaL
thlbata Hyabosh
Solea2
Kualtoyasak
(asea)
yoaTYaw

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
Fanaticos de uma organizaçe
assassinar nesta capital o ex-em
GESTAPO
ORGANIZADA
Quatro niponicos que se conformaram com a derrola de sua pafria for
terrivel organização de fanaticos -- A execução do sinistro plano foi
morto um dos condenados, escapando os outros milagrosamente —
A "gestapo" japonesa em São Paulo
tragicamente, varado por 6 tiros, en-
manifestou-se novamente na manhá
quanto outro escapou da mesma sor-
de hoje, pondo em grande atividade
Nesta ultima tentativa, a ação
as autoridades policiais do plantão da
louvavel de um guarda-noturno, que
Central, Segurança Pessonl e Departa-
consegulu prender dols cos encarie-
mento de Ordem Politica e Social. Há
gados do críme, levou a polleia a co-
pouco tempo, em Bastos, "hinterland"
phecer os nomes de quatro japoneses
de São Paulo, elemento Japones co-
condenados à morte. Um é o que não
nhecido nes meios agricolas, fol mis-
tol atingido, outro mora nesta Capi-
teriosamente assassinado. Hoje, em
tal e dois outros no interior.
plena Capital, outro elemento impor-
foi assassinado não constava da ltsts
tante da colonia niponica foi fuziia-
dos dols japoneses presos ,acreditando-
do em sua propria residencia, ao mes-
se, assim, que outro grupo pertencente
mo tempo que um terceiro japones.
à "gestapo" estaria encarregado de sua
em bairro diferente, escapava milagro-
morte.
samente de morrer da mesma forma,
FUILARIA NA RUAS BRA'S CUBAS
Seriam 6 horas, quando terrivel fu-
zilaria foi ouvida na rua Brás Cubas
pondo em polvorosa os moradores da
vizinhança.
Numerosos disparos fo-
ram feitos.
Um guarda-noturno de
serviço nas proximiaades correu em
direção to local dos tiros. apurando
que tudo ocorria no predio numero
258 daquela rua O guarda em ques-
tåo, agindo de maneira rapida e se-
gura conseguiu prender dols Japcneses
autores dos tiros, em poáer dos quals
foram apreendidos dols revolveres.
Cientificada do fato, a autoridade
que se achava de plantão na Policia
Central rumou para a rua Braz Cubas,
apurando, então, que o niponico Shi-
getsumura Furuya. all residente com
a familia, havia sido visado pelos dois
patricios presos.
Removidos para o plantão, consta-
tou-se que os niponicos detidos eram
Tatsuro Watansh e Matsuo Ikedo,
ram esclarecidas, pois, persistindo no
mutismo carateristico qessa raç&, na-
damais lhes foi possivel arrancar.
Sentado à esquerda, o principal criminoso Tate
VISADO PELOS CR
Tchuzabro Nomura, a vitima
pols des tiros foram disparados em
seu domiciltd. Como se ve, dos gol-
pes de hoje um falhou.
POLITICA E LAVOURA
o ex-embaixador japonés
Segundo as informações colhidas
pela nossa reportagem, entrevistando
as familias dos japoneses visados hoje
pela "gestaño" niponica,
trata-se de
uma organização de
fanaticos, que
ainda não acreditaram na derrota do
O atentado contra a sua vida verificou-se em sua resi
Japão, incumbida do exterminio dos
elementos conformados, lato é, dos na-
Aclimação — Quase foi morto porque tem ter
turais daquele país que já se confor-
zmaram com a situação da terra natal.
Por outro lado, existe
uma versão
São fechados os Japoneses que o
No locai, istc , & rua Braz Cubas,
Não esconde, non
que talves tenha sido posta em evi-
guarda-noturno prendeu na rua Topa-
258 residencia de Shigetsumura Puruya
ciaa democraticas,
dencia, pelos japoneses aqul reaiden-
sio, As inforinações que conseguimos
a reportagem da "Folha da Noite"
não fas parte do con
éea para acobertar a circunstancia
nos chegam através de frases qus eles
colheu interessantse informaçßes. que
patricios, que não ac
primeira, da existencia da "gestapo"
balbucian com
dgiculdade.Estão
confirmam de modo irrefutavel que
rota. irremedlavel
Esta versão prende-se a questão de
lavoure, teferente à seria luta que es-
t sendo travada entre cooperativas
Japonesas
multo nervosos e enguanto um deles
se inocenta, dizendo que fol convi-
dado pelo companheiro para a sinistra
de crimes contra suditosniponicos,
intciada recentemente em Bastos.
motivos politicos provocam essa serie
Shigetsumura Furuya é um velho di-
guerra contra os Es
minutos que passou.
raívada de balsa
Ele nos contou ta

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
morlo um dos condenados, escapando os oulros milagrosameme
tragicamente, varado por 6 tiros, en-
stapo" jsponéss em São Paulo
quanto outro escapou da mesma sor-
novamente na manhã
te. Nesta ultima tentativa, a agão
louvavel de um guarda-noturno, que
consegulu prender doís dos encarie-
ntral, Segurança Pessoal e Departa-
gados do crime, levou a policia a co-
nhecer os nomes de quatro japonenes
condenados à morte. Um é o que não
fol atingido, outro mora nesta Capi-
tal e dols outros no interior. O que
aasassinado, Hoje, em
foi assassinado não constava da llsta
dos dois japoneses presos ,acreditando-
se, assim, que outro grupo pertencente
dh am aus propria residencia, ao mes-
à "gestapo" estaria encarregado de sua
tampo que um terceiro japones.
morte.
FUILARIA NA RUAS BRA'S CUBAS
Seriam 6 horas, quando terrivel fu-
zilaria fol ouvida na rua Brás Cubas
pondo em polvorosa os moradores da
vizinhança. Numerosos disparos fo-
ram feltos. Um guarda-noturno de
serviço nas proximiuades correu em
direção ao local dos tiros, apurando
que tudo ocorria no predio numero
258 daquela rua. O guarda em ques-
tão, agindo de maneira rapida e se-
gura conseguiu prender dols japoneses
autores dos tiros, em poder dos quats
foram apreendidoa dois revolveres.
Clentificada do fato, a autoridade
que se achava de plantão na Policia
Central rumou para a rua Braz Cubas,
apurando, então, que o niponico Shi-
getsumura Furuya. all residente com
a familia, havia sido visado pelos dols
patricios presos.
Removidos para o plantão, cansta-
tou-se que os niponicos detidos eram
Matsuo Ikedo,
aula residencia s-ettetdada não fica-
ram esclarecidasy poia, perslatindo no
mutismo carateristico cessa raça, na-
Sentado à esquerda, o principal eriminoso. T
damais lhes foi possivel arrancar.
VISADO PELOS CR
Tchuzabro Nomura, a vitima
pols des tiros foram
disparados em
seu domicilio. Como se ve, dos gol-
pes de noje um falhou.
POLITICA E LAVOURA
o ex-embaixador japonês
colhidas
Segundo as informações
pela nossa reportagem, entrevistando
as familias dos japoneses visados hoje
pela "gestapo" niponica.
uma organização de
fanaticos, que
trata-se de
O atentado contra a sua vida verificou-se em sua res
inda não acreditaram na derrota do
Japão, incumbida do exterminio dos
Aclimação — Quase foi morto porque tem te
elementos conformados, isto é, dos na-
turais daquele pais que já se confor-
maram com a situação da terra natal.
Por outro lado, existe
que talvez tenha sido posta em evi-
dencia, pelos japoneses aqui residen-
tes, para
primetra, da existencla da "gestapo".
Esta versão prende-se a questão de
acobertar a circuns: anela
uma versão
guarda-noturno prendeu na rua Topa-
zio. As informações que consegulmos
nos cliegam através de frases que eles
balbucian com dificuldade
mutto nervosos e enquanto um deles
se inocenta, dizendo que fol convi-
São fechados os japoneses que o
Estão
258 residencia de Shigetsumura Furuya
a reportagem da "Folha da Nolte"
colheu interessantse informações, que
confirmam de modo irrefutavel que
motivos politicos provocam essa serie
de crimes contra suditos niponicos,
iniciada 1ecentemente em Bastos.
No local. isto é, a rua Braz Cubas,
ciaa democraticas,d
não faz parte do con
patricios. que não ac
rota irremediavel
guerra contra os Est
minutos que passou.
Não esconde, pore
Ele nos contou ta
lavoura, reterente à seria luta que es-
t sendo travada entre cooperativas
dado pelo companheiro para a sinistra
empreitada. o outro chama a si a res-
plomata que durante muitos anos fo1
Shigetsumura Furuya é um velho di-
raivada de balas
atingi-lo. Correu
Japonesas.
ponsalilidade de tudo o que houve.
embaixador de seu pais na Argenti-
ra o quarto de seu
QUATRO JAPONESES CONDENADOS
A MORTE
turno, pois se quizesse poderia mata-
"Eu me entreguel ao guarda-no-
na. Arastou-se da carreira ha cerca
de 20 anos, mas, ao que purece, pelas
doente e por varias
estrondo de espelho
De uma maneira ou de cutra, o cer-
lo. O mesmo aconteceu com meu a-
migo.
suas tendencias democraticas que ma-
nifesta ao reporter, fol alvo de japo-
bèntado por ui tird
de outras balas que
o é que um elemento perdeu a vida
neses fanaticos que não acreditam
a parede, teve a
ainda na derrota do imeprio do Bol
fora atingido.
Nascente.
Essa impressão de
FUGINDO AO BOMBARDEIO
embalxador japonés
No local, a reportagem da "Folha
guardará
eternamen
da Noite" Já encontra a policia tra-
ras depols da ocorre
balhanuo. Um escrivão mal educado.
avistamos, tenha nos
Adalberto Azevedo, que, mais tarde no
riso
edificio da Policia Central tenta em-
Sua esposa está cal
baraçar a reportagem, destratando-a e
Ihou dos minutos de
desrespeltando portarias da 1.a Dele-
gacia Auxiliar que garante absoluta
liberdade à imprensa na policia.
Voinoif é © perito da Policia Tec-
Ela
rece querer
espagó, qua
r, mas o
nica, que examina vestigios de balas
na casa, colnendo impressoes. A uma
Jarones.
pergunta do reporter sobre quantos
Adalperto
Azevede
tiros foram desfechados, o perito Vol-
noff, que facilitou nossa tarefa, nos
disse que ainda não tinha concluldo o
Segurança Pessoal 
vé nada, não pergunt
Julga-se diante de un
seu trabalho.
ro, quando
as ciro
Furuya, o ex-diplomata niponico,
Indicando
queab
atende gentilmente o reporter.
tem raizes
ro e, inicialmente,
Escapara de uma saraivada de ti-
tenta fugir ao
politicas
que devem ser esmlu
realmente
bombardeio de perguras que ihe t-
As tantas, quando
zem Os dois reporteres da "Folha da
Iniciado a serie de
Noite".
crivão tenta embarag
Parece-nos, atravez da conversa que
lh). pedindo-nos que
c. ele mantivemos, que ele tenta
casa do ex-diplomat
esconder motivos politicos que moti-
sistimos e ficamos.
varam o atentado contra sua vida.
nas personagens, pois
e desenroia em nossa
Deixou de cantar
passou a fazê-lo et
nos desde logo a nossa
E' nossa opinia
ela atitude do produtor
da boa vizinhanç
Se todos os seus cole-
ma um veiculop
dia se meteram a fazer
Enveredem
Os
im enredo no Brasil ti-
Hollywood pelo ca
ado iguais cautelas, não
d noticia o forn
lamentar, como frequen-
zmentamos,
"incoeren-
muito lucrarão co
de cordialidade
por que ndo dizé-lo?—
à patria de Frank
disparates. O "brasi-
sevelt. Dentro da
uparece em regra na
lutu ss tradigões,
peloe tecnicos de Holly-
mes, à congepção
a fol braslleire nem na
TORAL
japones Shigetsuns Furnya, falando ao reporter

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.86)
p secreta japonesa tentaram
baixador japonês na Argentina
JAPONESA
M SÃO PAULO
m condenados à morte pela
FOLHADMNOITE
lada esta manhā, tendo sido
Fuzilaria na rua Brás Cubas
Diretor-presidante
ALCIDES RIBERO MEIRELLES
Diretor-superintnderte
JOSE NABANTINO RAMOS
Direuor-teannre-ro
CLOVIS M DE QUEIROGA
7.736
SÃO
PAULO
Segunda-feira 1.o de Abril de 1946
IIST\ DOS QU ATRo CONDI \DOS  ao predio 12 :à se encontrava Branão
A MORTF
lsa de curl-on. Atraveasanda-e um
hab! idade 1
apld. it..er-
jardim. alcança-se o mlpendre e. em
SA.
a sala-de-entar da famítia
Nes'a sala Jada Tahumsbr
Nom:a de 48 únos. chefe da familia
S no encuntrava-se em decudtso
dia em meio a grande pora de man-
SlO
Shigetu-
si lgo ao p:meiro exame. peror-
blan-e varlas perfurações. urns si-
mura
Furnva.
lada、 no pscoço e outras no pet.
258
rcapou
miagrosa-
O corpo restia comente calea de pijé-
:esidente n
Poirpe
ina estxndo n da cintura para cr.
FERIDA A MULHER DA VITIMA
Entrando em contacto com as cu-
runstancias do fato. a au:oridade poll-
tan t gad na po o empo do  te-
cia: que para là rumou determiiño
pieilmnimarmeute. a remoção pat
FNCARRFGADO DAS EXECUCOLS
posto medico da Assistencia. de Sumie
Nomura. eapoa do homem fustlado.
Ainda en conaequer.cia dos inte
pois cla uchavn-me ferida no pe-
ratorios no piantão da Central  ja
coço. aprmentando escoriagões produ-
ponen Tatauro Watanab prorurou lno-.
zidaa por ulihas.
certar o con pannoiro. chanaudo vie
Snmie que tem  ño, deu an
a cuipn d'mendo-be chet do tn
encarrogado de executar o quairo pa-
triciom aclma mencionedoe.
ridade, que procedia a investigagden
FUZILADO EM SUA PROFRIA
RESIDENCIA
no l008:
A BEGURANÇA BEGAL BM AÇAO
Enquanto os trabaihos mstavam l.es-
O ar. Noque sraobio. altoridade
atanab ao lado do neu cumplice Matavo Ikedo
MINOSOS
na Argentina
encia, à rua Brás Cubas, na
dencias democraticas
sua cenden
QUERO MORRER NO BRASIL POR
ndo-nos
que
QUE AMO ESTE PAÍS
A parguntas reapondidan
tan a er-
ae rapidamante  outrm de orin
seu pais ne
lenta. ezigindo que o ar onigeioue
Uniqum.
medite. antes de satisfaser noa curio-
sidade.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.95)
secreta japonesa tentaram
baixador japonês na Argentina
APONESA
M SÃO PAULO
im condenados à morte pela
FOLHARMNOITE
jada esta manhã, tendo sido
Fuzilaria na rua Brás Cubas
Diretor-presidente
Diretor-superintendente
JOSÉ NABANTINO RAMOS
ALCIDES RIBEIRO MEIRELLES
Diretor-tesonresro
CLOVIS M. DE QUEIROGA
ANO XX V
N.7.736
SÃO PAULO
Segunda-feira. 1.o de Abril de 1946
ALISTA DOS QUATRO CONDENADOS
À MORTE
ao predio 12 lá se encontrava grande
mnsa de curicsos. Atravessanda-se uin
jardim, alcança-se o alpendre e, en
Graças à habilidade do rapido inter-
seguida,
a sala-de-estar da. familia
rogatorio a que Tatsuro Watanab e
Nomura. Nesta sala Jazia Tshuzabro
Matsuro Ikedo foram submetidos no
Nomura, de 48 anos, chefe da familia.
plantão da Policia Central. fol possi-
Seu corpo encontrava-se em decubito
vel o conhecimento
dos nomes dos
dorsal, em reio a grande poça de san-
quatro niponicos "condenados à mor-
gue. Logo ao primeiro exame. perce-
te" pelos detidbs. São eles: Shigetsu-
blam-se varias perfurações, umas si-
mura Furuya,
morador à rua Braz
tuadas no pescoço e outras no pete.
Cubas, 258. que escapou milagrosa-
O corpo vestia somente calça de/pija-
mente do fim que lhe estava reserva-
ma, estando nu da cintura para címa.
do. Nakagawa. residente em Pompcin.
FERIDA A MULHER DA VITIMA
Imamoto em Hereulania e Tamamoto,
rem chegado há pouco tempo do inte-
domiciliado nesta Capital.
rior,
Os dois niponicos presos parcce te-
ENCARREGADO DAS EXECUCOES
cunstancias do fato, a autoridade poll-
cial que para lá rumou determino,
preliminarmente, a remoção para o
posto medico da Assistencia. de Sumie
Nomura, esposa do homem fuzilado.
Entrando em contacto com as cir-
Ainda em conaequencia dos interrr-
pois ela achava-se
ferida no pes-
gatorios no plantão da Central, o ja-
coço. apresentando escoriações produ-
pones Tatsuro Watanab procurcu ino-
zidas pór unhas.
centar o companheiro. chamando para
Sumie, que tem 42 anos, deu entra-
:i a culpa, dizendo-se chefe do zrupo
da naquele posto  no piantão da
encarregado de executar os quatro pa-
Central aguardou o
no da auto-
tricios acima mencionedos.
ridade.. que procedia  investigaçdes
FUZILADO EM SUA PROPRIA
RESIDENCIA
A SEGURANÇA PESOAL EM AÇÃO
no local
Enquanto os trabsihos estavam Les-
O sr. Noque Arnobio, autoridade
Fatanab ao lado do seu cumplice Matsuo Ikedo
MINOSOS
na Argentina
encia, à rua Brás Cubas, na
dencias democraticas
suaS tenden- QUERO MORRER NO BRASIL POR-
ando-nos que
QUE AMO ESTE PAÍS
agente de seus
As perguntas são respondidas às ve-
aítam na dor
ses rapidamente e outras de forma
seu país na
lenta, esigindo que o ar. Shigetsuna
os Unidos.
medite, antes de satisfazer nossa curio-
bem os maus
Tugindo à sa-
sidade.
Quantos anos o senhor permane-
procuravam
ceu na Argentina como embalxador?

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
atanab ao lado do nou cumplice Matauo Ikedo
MINOSOS
na Argentina
encia, à rua Brás Cubas, na
lencias democraticas
suas tenden-
QUERO MORRER NO BRASIL POR-
ndo-nos
que
QUE AMO ESTE PAÍS
gente de seus
As perguntas såo respondidas às ve-
itam na der-
zes rapidamente e outras de forma
seu pais na
lenta. exigindo que o sr. Shigetsuna
Unidos.
medite, antes de satisfazer nossa curio-
em os maus
sidade.
fugindo à sa-
Quantos anos o senhor permane-
procuravam
ceu na Argentina como embaixador?
Makomoto Nomura, filho da vitima, mostra ao reporter por onde
sperado pa-
tho, que eatá
mata.
"Quatro — responde-nos o diplo-
entraram os assassinos
es, ouvindo o
 fora arre-
ju pelo ruido
teram contra
essão de que
sespero o ex-
na Argentina
embora, ho-
la. quando o
bios um sor-
felta pelo Brasil e gostel de seu pais.
Quis aqui instalar-me com minha fa-
milia. Amo este país e aqui quero
passar os ultimos dias de minha vida.
neses que poderiam resultar no aten-
diplomacia?
tado contra a sua vida?
— O senhor tem negoclos com japo-
Há cerca de 20 anos. Passel certa
Há quanto tempo abandonou
(Conclul na pág. 4)
é. para a rua Zacarias Grey. detronte
sos estavam sendo encaminhados parn
o Departamento de Ordem Poiitica e
Social, o plantão na Policia Central
misterioso ocorrido no alto do Jaha-
quara. O informante alegava çúe um
sua propria residencia. por um grupo
de patricios.
tomava
japonés havia
Ruruando para o local indicado. isto
conhecimento de um crinie
sido assassinado em
trabalnos de pesquisas. para desven-
dar o crime e identificar seus auto-
homicidio, pois os criminosos eram
desconhecidos. solicitou o concurso da
Delegacia de Segurança Pesenal. A
Alfredo de Assia alcançeva o locd.
dando inicio, sem porda de tempo, aos
ic daa circunstanclas misteriosas do
sím. decorridos alguns minutos, o .
res.
(Conclui na påg
e comparti-
gustia de seu
r muita colsa
diplomata, de
 nossas per-
adverte-a en
D escrivao da
diatante. Nao
çolsa Rlgun
grime rotinel-
stancias estão
al ocorrencia
tem ligações
teressantes
das.
 haviamos
guntas, o es-
nosso traba-
andonemcs a
niponico. In-
A casa onde residia a vitima. O cliché fixa um flagrante do momento em cue o corDa da Noma
ra e.a removido para'o carro da Policia

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.93)
A casa onde residia a vitima. O cliché fixa um flagrante do momento em qua o cotva de Ne
ra e.a removido par a o carro da Poltcis
2
Visado pelos crin
(Conclusé da la pes
e apenas cuido da exportação. não ha-
vendo desinteligencias com outras
pessoas. Não acredito que tenha ini-
migos por questões de negocios.
- E entre elementos ca colonia, por
motivos politicos, de vez que suas ten-
Um sapato e uma das capas abandonados pelos criminosos
dencias rão democraticas e o senhor.
como já nos disse, condenou acérba-
(Conclusão da 1 a pag.)
póde vê-los em fuga. percebend. que
ménte à politica imperialista de seu
COMO OCORREU O CRIME
dois corriam por uma direção
outros trés salam por outra rua.
pais?
O ex-diplomata japonés pensa antes
dos quais o mals velho é Makoto No-
riura. de 18 anos. Interrogado pelo
do e contravam-se seus cinco fllhos.
Na residencia do homem assassina-
efelto no local. as autoridades policials
lograram encontrar um calçado recen.
Em resu tado das buscas levadas
DUAS CAPAS E UM SAPATO
de responder e, afinal de contas. não
atisfaz de maneira categorica à nossa
curiosidade:
- Como vou saber e tenho intmi-
posso reporter, Makoto contou como
temente usado, que se arhava preso à
gos politicos? Devo ter.
 decenrolaram os fatos. Revelou que
cerca do arame por onde. na fuga,
E prossegue:
estava recolhido o leito, quando às
passaram os criminosos.
O referido
— Não constitui segredo para mim
 horas. mals ou menos. ouviu que
calçado è de côr preta e de tamanho
que ha milhares de suditos niponicos
batiam na porta da cosinha, que dá
pequeno. Sobre u'a mesa existente ao
que não acreditam na derrota de meu
para o quintal da casa. Sua prógent-
lado da porta que dá aceso à cozinha,
país Dele, eu estou convencido. Naə
.tora. Bumie, levantou-se e abriu a
foi encontrada uma capa, especle de
tenho duvida alguma. Mas. acontece
raferida porta. Al percebeu que eram
guarda-pó. de cor caqui. a dentro de
que muitos patricios meus não acre-
sinco patrialda  quís empunhavam
um tanque, situado nas proximidedes.
ditam na rendição incondicienal do
armas. Sumie tentou fechar nova-
outra capa igual foi encontrada Am-
Japão e tam havido, nestes ultimos
znente a porta, mas foi impossibilita-
has as peqas não apresentavam vesti-
tempos, a influencia de elementos
da de faaé-lo poia os intruscs a sm-
gios de usò e são perteltamente iguals
inescrupulosos que se aproveitam da
purraran e. enquanto dois deles a
Aqueles objetos não foram reconheci-
Ignorancia de japonesea para incutir
égarravam pelo peseoço, quase sufo-
dos peia famllta do hoinem morto e.
hes e fortalecer-lhes no espirito cama
cando-a os demais invadiam a casa
nessas coáicões. acredita-se due per-
crença erronea.
Estes tres dirigiram-se para o quarto
tenciam aos assasinos
Acrescentou o ex-diplomata japonés
ende Tahuzabre dormia e all deram-
A ATIVIDADE DA VITIMA
que enses elementos vls'umibraram è
Ine trés tiros à queina-roupa
Tchusabro Nomura. o homem assas-

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.95)
Visado pelos criminosos
(Oonclusé da l.a pas.
- Abéalutamente. Sou propriete
de uma fasenda de bananas em Jug
e apenas cuido da exportação. não
vendo desinteligencias com
pessoas. Não acredito que tenha
migos por questéee de negocioe
- E entre elementos da colé
otivós politicos, de ves que su
Um sapato e uma das capas abandonados pelos criminosos
como já noa disse, condenou
do e:contravam-se seus cinco filhos.
r'osso roporter, Makoto contou comio
dos quals o mais velho é Makoto No-
rura. de 18 anos. Interrogado pelo
Na residencia do homem assassina-
COMO OCORREU O CRIME
(Conclusão da 1 a pag.)
pôde vê-los em fuga. percebend. que
efeito no local. as autoridades policiais
dots corriam por uma direção
outros trés salam por outra rua.
lograram encontrar um calçado recen-
temente usado, que se srhava preso à
Em resu'tado das buscas levadas
DUAS CAPAS E UM SAPATO
ménte à politica imperialiata de
de responder e, afinal de contas 
atisfas de maneira categorics à nos
país?
curiosidade:
gos politicos? Devo ter.
O ex-diplomata japonés pensa ant
- Como vou ssher s tenho intmi
 decenrolaram os fatos. Revelou que
cerca de arame por onde, na fuga,
E prossegue:
(ava recolhido ao leito, quando às
passaram os criminosos.  O referido
— Não constitui segredo para mia
 horas. mais ou menos, ouviu que
calçado é de côr preta e de tamanho
que ha milhares de suditos niponicos
batiam na porta da cozinha, que dá
pequeno. Sobre u'a mesa existente ao
que não acreditam nà derrota de mau
pu.ra o quintal da casa. Sua prógent-
lado da porta que dá aceso à cozinha.
tora. Sumle, levantou-se e abriu a
fol encontrada uma capa, especie de
ra'erida porta. Al percebeu que eram
guarda-pó. de cor caqui. e dentro de
que muitos patricios meus não aere-
cinco patricios. cs quais empunhavam
um tanque, situado nas proximidades.
ditam na rendicão incondicional do
armas. Sumie tentou fechar nova-
znente a porta, mas fol impossibilita-
outra capa igua! foi encontrada Am-
has as peças não apresentavam vesti-
tempos, a influencia
Japão e tem
havido, nestes ultimos
de, elementos
da de fazê-lo pois os intrusos a em-
vlos de uso e são perfeitamente iguais
inescrupulosos qus se aproveitam da
purraram e. enquanto dois deles a
Aqueles objetos não foram reconheci-
ignorancia de japoneses para incutir-
a garravam pelo pescoço. quase sufo-
-os pela familia do homem morto e.
'hes e fortalecer-lhes no espirito essa
cando-a os demals invadiam a casu
nessas condicões, acredita-se que per-
crença ertonea.
Estes três dirigiram-se para o quarto
tenciam aos aseasrinos
Acrescentou o ex-diplomata japonés
onde Tshuzabro dormia e ali deram-
A ATIVIDADE DA VITIMA
le trés tiros à quelma-roupa
Tchuzabro Nomura. o homem assas-
oportunidade de fazer fortunas facels
Em segu!da. os mesmos três arras-
sinado, conhecido nos meios coopera-
à custa dessa crença de que o Japão
taram o corpo da vítima para a sala
e estar e. nesse local dirigiram lhe
da "Ccoparativa Ram!". cujo escrtto-
Ivistas. era agora
diretor presidente
não fol derrotado. Ha interesses eco-
nomicos em jogo, muitos suditos de
imaís trés tiros. para estarem certos
rio unclona à un Barão de Parana
Hiroito têm terras e demals proprie-
ue que o laponés estava morto
placaba 25 3o andar. sala 7. coopera-
dades no Japão e da llurão de que seu
FNCURRALADO NO QUARTO
Ava aquela atoda em ortanização
naís não fol esmagado pelo poderio mi-
Enquanto isto ocorrl. o fove Ma-
FANATISMO
Utar americano surgem vantagens para
koto fo! encurralado no quarto de dor-
Interrogando os membro ta nu
r que fanstivam eus patricios
parado, tendo o projetil se alojado na
parede. Nesse mesmo quarto dormía
mir e um tiro em sua direção foi dis-
unan'mes em afirmar que outro moti-
vo não existia a não ser a questão de
visada pelos
assassinos todos foram
tado contra o ex-diplomata japonês.
Ele costuma - segundo nos disse
Hà detalhes sensacionais do aten-
outra moça, filha de Nomura. que
fanatismo Adiantaram que Tchuzabr
tmbem escapou de ser alcançada pe-
lá se conformara com a sorte da sua
para a janela de seu quarto, que dá
los criminosos graças à ação posta em
patria e por isso estava condenado
para o "hall", onde observa um ter"
temente a porta para que o quarto
pratica pelo irmão. que segurou for-
¿quele fim por uma organizacão de
fanaticos que rão acreditam sinda na
mometro, para, sabèr a temperatura.
Na madrugada de hoje. seguíu seu
mão rosse invadido.
derrota do Japão.
velho hábito, Aoordou e quando abriu
Praticado o crime, os cinco elemen-
FUGA DOS CRIMINOSOS
Departamento de Invecttoarñms com
Asuturidades policials. tanto d
TRABALHA A POLICIA
à referida janela. oyviu o primciro
nutra janela qué dá para um corredor
tro quo fora desfechado atrazáa de
tos encarregados do exterminio de
do Departamento dé Ordem Politica
que conduz aos fundos do predio.
Tchuzabro retiraram-se pelo mesmo
luzar por onde entraram, isto é. pela!
ports da cosinha. desaparecendo nos
fundos do quintal. O rapas ainds
a organisação e prender seus elemen-
vendar a situação. 'sto é. desmasct ra'
trabalham incereantomente nara des-
fechasse a janela. Foi o que fes. pa-
ra começar a viver em seguida minu-
tos' de um terror que ele não sabe
Sun esposa gritou, pedindo-lhe que
descrever.
Os criminosos atiraram encostando os
revoiveres na venesiane, observando
se nestas dols orificios. Em meguida,
dirigiram para à porta da coginha.
que estava fechada e que elas não
puderam arrombar.
Durou cerca de meia hora a sarai-
sade de balss que procuravam, atín-
gr o ex-dipiomata niponico.e
talyes em todos Os recantos do

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.94)
EM TUPÃ A SITUAÇÃO NÃO É MELHOR QUE A
DE BASTOS
Uma cidade de-grande movimento, onde ha necessidade de policia — A presençs
de. uma Companhia do 3.º batalhão do 5.º R. L e sua atuação nos casos mais
graves — Bandeira japonesa haste ada numa festa de bairro — Tentativa de
assalto á séde da Delegacia de Policia — Requisitada a presença de um pelo-
tão de metralhadoras, para acalmar os animos niponicos — Escola japoness
fechada - O quartel da guarnição do Exercito exige a atenção das autorida-
des competentes — Comemorações japonesas
Antigos barrações de uma fabrica, onde
companbia do 8.o batalhão do
5.0 R. I. — e 4
Tups é um nunicipio de cerea de
Ora  fato està à inuicas
que
higienice
maudavcl. em am
.000 habitantes. ponto termínal da
grau de atrevimento chegou à pe-
biente que o estimule e eleve.
inha Paulista no ramal que tem o
tulancia desses nipões. Para
um
Para o fato, que fol verifleado pe-
seu nome. Eslá erigida em
caso, desses. que poderla fazer a
la nossa reportagem, chamamos a
marca desde 1945. A cidade. con-
polleia local - com três soldados
atenção do sr general comandante
quanto muito nova & um centro
um cabo? Els por que dissemos que
da Segunda Região. que por mui-
comercial e industrial de exiraor-
a segurança das familias, em Tupa.
tas maneiras tam demonstrado
dinario movimento, onde se secebe
repousa na prescnça de uma Com.
seu mor à tropa
bepeficia é produção agricola da
panhía do Erercito e a energia de
elreunscrição, em tonelazem eleva-
sou comandante.
COMEMORAOOES JÁPONESAS
dissima. Indice expressivo de sua
portancia é o numero de hancos
Tupá — embora cidade muito mais
Como em Bastos, tambem
Os Japoneses, onde quer que se
all operam: Banco do Brasil.
adiantada - corre a lenda, entre
encontrem, não deixam passar sem
de São Paulo,
Jap-neses, de que "o Japão
não
comemoração as suas datas nacio-
t do Comercio  Industria.
perdeu a guerra; quem a perdeu
nais. C mo não podem fase-lo os-
Banco Noroeste, Banco Bandelran.
foram os Estados Unidos"
Os
tensivamente, lançam mão doe
tes do Comercio, alem de agenclas
que afirmam o contrario dlaso são
ma:s variados truques: um Casa-
bannariau.
considerados traldores e amraça-
mento, um aniversario, m budas
alts Paulista o elemento niponico.
 não predomina Inteiramente.
corresponde a uma altissima por.
Camo em outros municipios
dos pelas organizações terroristas
n.ponicas que obedecem ao man-
misteriosas.
do de entidades desconhecidas
da mais natural que festejar un
cssamento. Mas o sentido oculto
de um amigo. Aparentemente, na-
da feste é homenagear a data que
cenlagem da popuiação. - com us
eus habitos tão destoantes da ci-
lisação brasilelra a seus costu-
e Como am tod parte. são
rémentes inassimllavela, de vida
eparada", - com os braços aqul
o pensamento no Japão e na di-
indade do seu imperador.
4' forge de serem tolerados bene.
olamenie. entretanto. os niponi-
quando, atitudes dessforadas, obri-
ando a auloridades
mérgia. A policia local não tem
mudestissimo desiacamento de trés
ariedade de sua cadela,
cujas
instalagdes berram contra os no
sos foros de civilização maisou
mencs adiantada. A cadela de Tupá
um escarneo! E ajunte-se é isso e
fato de não haver, à testa dos aer-
viqos policiaís, um delezado de per-
anencia assegurada. pois os que
recem, ao que se diz na cl-
dente p localdad, o dele
estave de crías, o subdelga
"Um dos plenipotenciarios militares do Japão, no mumento
eslava de vlañem, • quem res-
em que "exigia" de Mac Arthur a "rendição incondiclonal
pondia pelo expedienie era o escri-
váo, ar. Jose Lemes Pilho, removi-
dos Estados Unidos" — segunde a lenda que corre entre
japoneses do Tup
que o governo deveria melhorar a

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.92)
sraú de atrevimento ohegon à pe-
biente qué
um cabo? Eis por que disssmos que
a segurança des tamulias. em Tupă.
rie mevimenio, onde ae éconbe
rapousa na presença de uma Com-
sen smpt. à trope
peficia a produção asrioola da
pannia do xercito e a energia de
all operam: Banto do Brasil.
inscrição, em tonelagem elava-
rlancia é o numoro de hancos
aa. Indice expressivo de sua
do Estado
do Comercio  Industria.
de Bão Paulo,
eu comandante.
Tupé — embora eldade multo mais
adiantada - porre à lenda, entre
Jap neses, de que "o Japão
perdeu é guerra; quem à perdeu
Come em Bastos, tambem
não
am
Os
encontrem, no deizam passer sem
comemoração ss suas datas nacio-
tenaivamente, langam mão
nals. Como não podem fase-lo ps-
Os japoneées, ondé quer que se
que afirmam e contrario diaso são
ma:s variados truques: um casa
considerados traidores
e ameaça-
mento, um aniversario, as bodae
camo em eutros municipios
dos pelas organizações terroristas
n.ponicas que obedecem eo man-
de um amiso. Aparentemente, n
da mais natural que festejar uín
ponde a uma altlasims por.
inteiramente.
do de entidudes desconhecidas
misteriosas.
cssamento. Mas o sentido onulto
da feste é homenagear a data que
semenrs inassimllaveta, de
meks Como nm toda parte.
vīda
são
findade do seu imperador.
A forga de serem tolerados bone.
volamenie, entretanto, os niponi-
bos de Tup
tomam. de vez em
nuando, atitudes desaforadas, obri-
ando as auloridades a agir com
mergia. A policia local não tem
élementos para se impor, com o seu
modestissimo destacamento de trés
suldados e um cabo. a incrivel pre-
cariedade de sua cadela,
cujas
instalagßes berram contra os no
sos foros de civilização mais
ou
menos adiantada. A cadela de Tupã
é um escarneo! E ajunte-se a isso 
fato de não haver. à testa dos ser-
vigos policiaís. um delezado de per-
manencia assegurada. pols os que
recem, mo que sé diz na ci-
ém uma unica preocupação:
hente na localidade, o dele.
 eslava de ferlas, o subdelga
"Um dos plenipotenciarios militares do Japão, no snomenta
pondia pelo expediente era o escri-
eslava de viazem, e quem res-
em que "exigia" de Mac Arthur a "rendição incondicional
vão, ar. José Lemes Filho. removi-
dos Estados Unidos" — segundo a lenda que corre entre
do para ali avia poucos dias.
Japoneses de Tupã
Bobre essa anomall. ouvimos va
rlas pessoas. A opinião keral é do
que o governo deveria melhorar a
que o cargo se tornaria mals "con-
vidativo". como porque se melho-
raria. correspondentemente, o des-
"classe" da delegacia. não só por-
caso com que taes elementos pre-
 policis que. em certo bairro,
tendem passar por cima de nossas
leis. Há pouco tempo, descobriu
Ocorte, tambem, assinalar o des-
lembra qualquer feito giorieso 
ve uma comemoração estranhs que
Jap.  anivéreario do Imper
dor, etc.
Em Marilia, pelo carnaval, hou-
5.
dem e tranqut'idade dos lares,
confiança do publico repousa
So Datalho do 5.o R I. A Conpa-
mentos. è sa comanateo ca
um oficial energie, ue todos res.
tacamenio, sumentando-lbe enu-
mero de soldados.
permanencia de uma Companhia da
thía conta cerca de duzentos ele-
respeltar.
pitão Gil Moss :Imóes dos
Deltem
Em materia de garantla da or.
Um caso entre muitos, am que
poq e 
Reis
na
çõcs das autoridades. La comparc-
processado. A importancia do caso
funcionava uma escola japonesa,
está em que a protbição vem de
com livros jsponeses e orientaçéo
japonesa, infring:ndo determins
longa data e é de tod a sabida.
Mas o tal professor centendeu de
de de vigilancia pollcial.
cendo, apreendeu os livrs e pren-
deu o professor, que está
tobrepor-se à lel, menosprezando
determinações superiores.
Contra tudo isso ha necessida
sendo
assim fcl narrada pelo "Diario Pau
lista", daquela localidade:
de Marilia", que uma estranha ar
fol erguida no Bairro do Pombo.
nestes ultimos dias, constando que
que a inscrições em japonês, s
gundo a tradução de um "nisel".
se tratava de uma homellagenm
funehre no general Yamashita, re
centemente enforcado pelos ame-
ricanos. proximo a Manilha. Lego
depois, o mesmo jornal esclareceu
mação. com
"Noticiou o nosso colega "Correle
dizeres em japonés,
e fez valer a auluriaade do refc-
rido oficial da 2.a Região Militar:
quem conversamos, a estada
Begundo pessoas do lugar, vom
de
que acreditam na derrota do Ja-
continham 50 nomes
japonesee
- em 5 de Janeiro. chegou ao co-
uma Companhia do Exercito em
páo, sendo por lsso apontados 
nhecimento
do capitão que nu
Tupå impõe reapeito mos elemen-
execração dos demais.
bairro "Santa Helena" estava sendo
tos ag!tadores. Entretanto, ssgun-
A estranha armação coatinha
realizada
uma festa escolar
de
do essas pessons, o que all devia
ainda tocos de vela e uma tigell
tmado all à
Japoneses e
bandeira do Japão. O
que estes haviam has.
truindo-se para iscs um quartel,
estar era o proprio batalhão, cons-
nha de arroz, mas fol atacada 
destruida a pontapés por um japo-
chezados. os policials verificaram
o cabo
ao local tirar a limpo o caso. Lá
capitão Gil providenciou para que
acompanhado de um soldado fosse
do destacamento
local.
no. já se levantaram as plantas.
etc. Porque aquilo a que agora
dão o nome de "quartel", e onde
está acantonada a Companhla, com
para o que já fol escolhido terre-
nês, que, segundo consta, figurae
va entre os denunciados na ins
crição.
Nossa reportagem pôde constatar
só prenderam olto dos cabeças da
de não ter noção alguma de suas
mo apreenderam à bandeira. Mas.
imprudentemente. e dando provas
nomenagem à patria longinqua, co-
veracidade da denuncia. E, não
passa de um barracão em pessimos
mente aproveitado para o funcio-
o maler desconforto
absoluta insegurança e sem as me-
condições de conservação. antiga-
nores condições de higiene, não
imaginavel,
que, no alto do Bairro do Pombo,
alem do Hospital Espirita, drsen
do elementos niponioos de toda
volveram-se grandes reuniões es
portivas e outras slenidades due
rante o carnaval, delas participane
responsabilidades, o cato (Edmun-
namento de uma fabrica... Os sol-
região. Houve mesmo cobrança de
do de tal, vulgo "Piaui") cometeu
dad a acham-se pessimemente alo-
ingressos e distribuições de convi-
gesto absolutamentt reprova.el de
jados, e o salão de refeltorio" não
tes especlais, estes com uma fita
Umpar & perneira com O pano
rlamula, - o que, chegando
Jonneßimento dos japoneses.
pm-
da
40
nús se de gos soldados o luxo de
passava de um misero'rancho de
sapé, desabrigado dos lados. Que
verde-amarela no canto, e ume f-
tinha vermelha. Não conseguimos
apurar aa razdes desses festejoe
deles s dirizirem à autoridade.
vacou-edighação. Em vez, porém.
habitação granfina, mas ao menos
niponicos durante o carnaval"
fazendo a sua reciamação  pedindo
punição do cabo,
— resoiveram
masaltar a Delezacia para matar o
policielee, seim duvida, dar liber-
dade aos presos. Imediatamente
foram chamados o suplente
do
delegado, o escrivão da policia,
eapitão Gll teve de ser acordado
no holel onde reside para intervir
com a sua putoridade. Bsndo grave
o acontecimento, s. sl. mandou re-
torçara
guarnição da delegacia
por um contingente de sua com.
meram-se entre os assaltantes, va-
rias prisões. Serenados os animos.
fol providenciado a recolhimeato do
cabo Edmundo ao seu batalhão la
Força Policial aquartelado em Bau-
ru, Mas acontece que, logo a s»
sulr. a cldade se encheu de boatos
terroristas. Dizia-se que a mases
japonesa de Tupă. ligada a ele-
mentos de Bastos, resolvera,
em
o
capitño Gll. por meio de redio, re-
quísiton de Lina a imediata pre-
sença de 'um pelotão de metralha
doras, que comparecsu em
sspecial. Distribuidos pela cidade,
dem- integral
convinoente-
mente...

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.93)
UMCRIME COVARDE NA CIDADEDEBASTOS
lenda estupida que corre mundo: — "o Japão não perdeu a guerra; quem se renden incondicionalmente fol.. a
Bastos, até bem pouco tempo sim-
ples distrito de pas, fol elevado a
municipio em fins de 1944. Em 1.0
de janeiro de 1945, instalou.se a
Prefeitura. E', pois. um dos mais
movos municipios do Estado. e esta
situado em região servida pela Es-
trada de Perro Paul sta, ( que faz
ponto final em Tupa. De Tupå a
Bastos medela a distancia de 35
quilometros, com passagem obriga-
toria pelo distrito de S. Luis de
Žacri. Estradas de rodagem esbura-
osdas, mal conservadas e. em cer-
tos trechos, até perigosas.
A cidste tomou o nome de "Bas-
tos" em homenagem ao sr. Cicero
Bastos, vendedor das terras onde a
local'dade se assenta - terras es.
eas tiradas de sua grande fazenda,
 destinadas a serem colonizadas.
Fai compradora a "Sociedade Colo-
mei" em açãol
Conhecendo o fanatismo dos
nizadora Brasileira SA. que. em
1928, adquiriu uma gieba de doze
mil alqueires. Como se sabe. a So-
sledade Colonizadora Bras leira S|A
é uma pod.resa organização japo-
ameaças. Tratou do precavere
contra elas, obtendo que, à falta
que se compõe irrisor amente de
de soldados no destacamento local,
nesa, e suas atividades se estendem
um anapeçada e de uma praça, fos-
a varios r:unicipios de nosso Es-
se a sua residencia vigiada, á noí-
tado. De porção coniprada em 19.8.
te. por um guarda noturno, da pe-
cparou-se uma parte para a fun.
quena corporação que presta servi-
bem delineado de arruamentos, co-
dação da cdade. cem um plano
一将中边川表代国帝
cos á localidade.
meçando disde lego a venda de lo-
Estavam as coisas nesse pé, quan
tes para construcoes. O restante fol
do um outro acontecimento velo
retalhado em pequenas gicbas de
上）面場，迎出
agravar a situação do sr. dizoba
des alqueires, pars serem povoadas
a part r de fevereiro deste anoté
por japoneses. Fruto de boa pro-
paganda. a fertil dade das terras de
nica de Bastos, formando u
Bastos entrou a gozar de grande
de 16 mocos, e alegando os prejal
Lama. Para elas foram atraidos, em
Uma das fotografias apreendidas pela policia, sobre a "rendição incondielonal dos Estados
sos que dols funcionaios sup
escala sempre crescente, milhares
 pequenos agricultores. povoandc-
ee rapidamente a zona rural do an.
tigo distrito. Ao mesmə tampo, sur-
gla a zona urband. e de tal forma
gou mesmo a completar a burla.
ções fotograficas da "rendição des
vendendo
Unidos"... segundo a lenda que corre de boca em boca em Tup  Bastos
aOs patricios reprodu-
te a ação ainena, complascente
seguinte expressivo comunicado:
"Aos Japoneses. — Náo obstan.
pratica dos
pracitadas paibições:
belecimentor que permitirem
tos constantes de su-
á organização. entenderam g
car a sus destituigão. Não
átendidos, promoveram umá
 em consequencía désta
progrediu, que, em menos de vin-
Estados Unidos". Para isso, aplicou
mesmo, desta Delegacia, para com
d) O boako será energicamente
te anos, se tornou cidade e sede de
municip o. Como logo se compre-
ende, para all accrreu à elemento
da rendição do Japão. trocando ca
letreiros jnponeses em fotografias
papel; das per onagens que nelas
a caminho da derrota, hoje lu-
os suditos de uma nação — ontem
milhante e fregorosamente venci-
reprimido.
- O delegado de Policia, Luis
Bastos, żal de setembro de 1945
(ou impôr) d damiasño dos ald
dos fun monarics. O ar. Dkuta
Japonés em esmagadora despropor-
gão com o elemento nacional. As-
sim, Bastos, tanto na sona urbana
eumo na mona rural. é um forte
mucleo de niponicos, ou, melhor di.
mendo, um perfeito "quisto" encra-
sinatura da rendição japonesa,
figuram. Acsim, na foto onde se vé
tados Unidos para o local da as-
o general Kawabe "acompanhando"
alta patente do Exercito dos Es-
clencia, da superior condescen.
da, '— não tendes sabido com-
preender nosso benevolo. nosso
humano proceder para convosco.
Vindes abusando da nossa pa-
neses enqulsados em Eastos, con-
Bernardo de Godol e Vasconcelos".
Vé-se, detacima transcrito, que
us servigos da Cooperativa
suf cientemente controlados
vam perfeitamente em ordam,
vado naquela rica região do Esta-
fotografo fazia pasar o aconteci-
dencia das autoridades que gover-
tra os quala Policía teve de agir
do, oqmo mucede em Marllla, Pom-
mento como sendo um flagrant
nam um povo superior. que não
com energia se quis manter sa-
péa, Garça, Tupå e outros muni-
do momento em que, "preso", 
vos vem tratando como inimigos.
grado o pracipio da autoridade.
zo trabalho. sob pena de tur
eépiés da alta Paulista, e tambem
oficial americano era "conduzido"
como derrotados inimigos. Nós vos
ém eertas regiões da alta Soroca-
para assinar a rendição de Leus
vimos tratando como da especle
O C
DE BASTCS
bana, na Noroeste etc.
exercito... E, para que o grosset-
humana, — porem tem sido inu-
Um criny barbaro e covardo se
ro truque foese completo. o "ar-
til nossa superioridade condescen-
registrou n
de doar à area necessaria à funda.
tista" pintou, ao lado esquerdo de
cente.
ta, quase
do sertlo, na noite
de 7 d)
nte,por volta das
23 horas,
rime que tesa sustade
ao atua! ds
são da p. lleia, dr. Can-
tilio Garci
ereira, mesmo com o
auxilio de
stores sagázes e es-
pecializados
Gabínete de Inves
tigações, d
noites de incansar
vel e inin
para esclar
devidamente, co
mo para a
glaão da criminoso.
Os habit
profundamente disere-
tos dos jan
ges, seu mutíamo im-
penetrayel
presalias t
mei Dan"
e. mais do
diaze-los
sampreender o quese
lhes diz ou
ordinaria
tudo conoc
emo
te politica  eujo objetivo, embo-
ra apa. nt mente lgoda a uma
questão deñordem economica, fol,
nño padeca duda, el minar o ho
mtm que aão nertdliava no idia-
A vitima, sr. Ikuta Mizobe,
que era o saperintendente dé
Cooperativa de astos e 
acreditava na "vitoria" do
Japão
colher pela páalha ína

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.93)
proclama, não se sabe
som qus Intuitos
utb de Sericicaltura e Departamento de Sementagem, da Cooperativa do
Bastos, do que era superintendente Ikuta Mizobe
nizaçõcs palossais que
dcmandam
cldade sinda  briadou com
Kawabe, a ponta da bainha de uma
espada - quando todos sabem qur
trada má fé, da vossa veleidade
Em face, pois, da vosse demons-
peito de sstar é
delegados militares japoneses coul-
pareceram dosarmado....
de resistir, da vossa insana teimo.
sía, eta Delegacia, sob pena de
cntento da funçoce que lhe sta-
vam cometus.
Mas o Łotografo foi surpreendido
severa punição, vos informa o se-
Vencida agucrra das nações aila-
proprics negocios ligados oe
por ual cabo do de tacamento de
guinte:
dns cona  on tedo 
valer
Tup Vendose enrodilhado a
malhas da policia, ofereceu
m
a) Deveis-vos expressar em idio-
bram que o imperador Hirohito di-
rigiu uma proclamação ao mundo,
população
cruzeiros ao militar para que não
ma português, em lugares publi-
justificando a derrota de scus exer.
vido o fire, né
se entregam os japoneses é a ds
seda. Mala de sels mil alqueires es-
dão empregados nesse lucrativa a.
amoreira, para criação do bicho q
voura, onde a criação do bicho da
esda re fás em larga escala. Tarn-
os. com axtraordinarla produção,
bem se cultivam, alem do algoda.
tambem em escala elevada, o 
outros cereais - para cujo benc-
iclo foram. instaladas diversas mu-
quinas.
Uma das malores culturas à que
Como sempre acontece nos agto-
almas na cidade é cerca
è denunciasse. O cabo aceltou. Ru-
cabeu o dinhelro e...
ao delegado. A autoridade no so
prendeu o "artista", como aprcen-
deu as fotograflas e instau:ou pro-
riol Entra imedlatamente para
amarelos fanaticos é que "o Japão
no perdeu a guer que o
americanos asinaram a Eua rendi-
"lista negra" dos inimigos e tral.
dores do Japão;
cesso.
amcaçadoras, ou tem o desprazer
de cncontrar, pela manhá, as pa-
De £orte que o que aabem p
E all de quem afirmar o contra-
recebe cartas
entregou-
a
cos ou de zcesso ao publico (vias
publicas, casas comerciais, escrito.
munantemente proibido:
r:os etc.);
reunirdes sem liença da autori-
dade, em casas particulares, em
clubes, escolas. sob qualquer pre-
texto: praticardes os esportes atle-
ticos: ouvirdes irradiações estran.
geiras;
proprictarios de casas comercials.
 diretores
b) Até segunda ordem, fica ter-
Serão responsabilizados
ou gerentes de esta-
oa
que aceitassem o fato consumado
é se dedicamem pacificamente aos
citos e apelándo para seus sud'tos
de todas as partes do globo para
neus trabalhos, póis, de seu lado.
o Japão tuão empreenderia para
voltar redimido no celo das naçós
de que virera afastado, depoía de
ourar as feridas da gue:ra etc.
r'a de grande alcance renuir os me-
Ihores clemeatos da colonia e para
eles tradusir os termos da procla-
mação de firohito, ja que a pu-
blicação felta em portugues nos
jornals (e edes pouco lidos na re-
O sr. Ikuta Mizobe achou que ne-
criminoso. Bus
corter strásd
acudiram. alvorogadós
socorro! Enquanto inss
parar o seu r
v.uva sra. Koto Mimobe,
no. que se premunira com um
lancinantes. foram es va
para a lados do caímo denera
ticular. tem tambea o sou qué
x ma noticia, quando tálatama
do Esperanga. O fato. sta
misterioso. come
remos todos os pormenores de
merados de japonescs — uma gran.
me covarde que prostrou sem
de Cooperativa de produção e con-
"o homem que não aoreditava
umo fol logo organicada, tanto
"vitoria" do Japão"
para fornecimento de generos e uti
idades aos japoneses, como pasa
recebiimento e colocação da produ-
gão agricola. E tais proporções ns
sumirum o plantio de amore ras 
criação do bicho da scda, que ne
mpôs a montasem de um institu-
to de sericlcultura, com seu depar
amento do "sementagem", ocupan-
do grande nume:o de operarios
Montaram-se, tambem, trés fiaçõcs
e seda — "Bralac". "Fiação Cru
heiro do Sul" e "Fiação Ueda". as
qua.s ocupam cerca de 400 opera-
slos.
Nada haveria a dizer sobre o tra-
alho dos povoadores niponicos e
suss muitiformes atividides
85
les não fossem, como são, clemen.
tos inassimilaveis, tornando nitida-
mente japonès o amb ente Onde s
onquistam, com repudio completo,
Índisfarçavel. aos nacionais, alm
das ideologías exolica: por que vi-
vem embevecidos e fanatados.
ADVERTENCIAS E CONCEITOS DE
PARLAMENTARES BRASILEIROS
B:m
lembranio-nos
pre oportunes:
".Ora. como o trabalhador ja-
redes de sua casa cobertas de ins-
ponés não é o trabalhador da ter-
cricões em
cara. teres japoneses.
ra que vem para o Brasil aumel-
como estas:
"Traidor!" "Morte a
tar com o seu braço a nosa rique.
tralção!" —
como aconteccu
pa-
, mas um coraçlo japonés, um
ra a firma Tichuchida & Cla., es-
lemento da alma jap ne . um re-
tabelecida com a "Casa Universal"
presen snte da sua cutlura moral
de Tupå, e como aconteccu para
- tudo indica que levemos o no
um cunhado do sr. Nakal. resi-
o exame até al. E. então. não sa
trata de examina-lo apenas
seus caracteristicos
fisicos, mas nos ¿eus caracierl ti-
 politicos e psicologicos.
que está a chave do problema
siderações no mesmo fentido:
B depols de outras longs
"..Porque, inal, o homem nào
conomiccs
A1
con-
nON
cente em Pompéin. que. timbem
ameaçado de morte, teve de fugir
para São Paulo.
apenas Os clementos da co'onia.
que, parece, ha o ulta convenien.
cia em trazer
lenda perfeltamente idlota. De
Persegulções dessn ordem visam
emarrados áquela
apenís zer material, ser vivo. zer
sa modalidade de fanatismo não
animal: - é tambem ser espiritual.
participam alguns raros japoneses
er intelectual, ser moral. ser co
de certa clarividencla e de bom
clal. Ora. o japenes. tipo etnico.
senso. para ca quals o Japão per-
japones-capacidade-de-trabalho,
deu à guerra, rendendo-se incon.
Japonês espirito-de-organização
dicionalmente ás forças aliacos.
que tão pacifica. O que se dis-
cute eomo Improprio para o pil
ORGANIZAÇÕES TERRORISTAS
 a "colonia" Japonesa e a açãn
EM AÇÃO?
politico-cocial dela -obre nós".
A' frente das tropelias andam
não o "colono" japonês. o indivi
ramificações que aqul existem das
organizações Japonesas
"Shindo
 teme para o Brasil é o sistema
que esse
orientação extra-brasilciia de se
sua atividade".
trabalho  finalidade niponica de
homem
representa. 
Ketumel Dan" ("Dragão Negto").
de que fazem parte individuos cn.
pazes de toda a ação que tenha
por fim anular os inimigos
Japao.
inclusive assassinatos, e
do
tratou do mesmo a sunto. chaman.
do para ele a atenção das auto-
ridades. e fez ver os inconvenien-
elementos do "Shindo Remel", or-
ganização
que
tem por escopo principal
secreta
de patriotss
tes, senão o perigo de uma colo.
manter viva no coração dos nipo-
nivagão de todo inassimilavel  já
nicos a chama do amor da ratria
recusada por outros palses. coni
 da "divindade" do imperador. —
japonesa. Os fatos têm vintio
provar que tinhamo razo. co-
organizações de origem e fins ni-
tidamente politios
em patria
mo a tinham. tambem. os parla-
mentares
combateram
flagelo que então
obstinadamente.
alhela! Alem do mais,
zacões temidas
agindo naa trevas e á soapa. com
respeitadas.
nós ameaçava.
flagrante desrespeito A soberania
TER ENCONTROU NOS LUGARES
A MENTALIDADE QUE O REPOR-
e ás leis de nosso pais.
Os japoneses de "Bastos".
se-
VISITADOS
gupdo parece. já supunham que
eneontrar em Tupå e em Bastos
agravada agora com esta burla in-
quatiftevel e groteca. que
de cca cn boca naa cumadus -
Masa mentalidade - nés a fomos
anda
istó nqul fomse "terra conqulsta-
da". Constituindo um nucleo dos
mais fortes com malorla na po-
pulação do municipio. na lavoura.
no cumercio. na industria. - per-
poncsas de cultura inferior. alni-
mitiam-se o luxo de atitudes er.
mada nor certos orientadores em
rozantes. quase desafindores.
qném a policia as esquegeu de doi-
Não esteve pelos autos o então
tar as mãus:  "O Japão não pe.
celegado de polieta tocal dr. Luis
den a (uerra: quem perden a guer-
Bernardo de Codol e Vasconce-
ra, foram os Estados Unidos. que
los, que. em 26 de setembro do
se renderam incondicionalmente a0a
ano pagsado. fez afixar na dele-
axegeltos de Hiroito"
mashigue Onishl. japonés
Um fotograla de Tupá
Maa-
che.
gacia e e palhar por todos os re-
cantos da cidade e redondezas

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
TO BE TRANSMITTED
AIRGRAM SENT
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
X RESTRICTED
Department of State
3346
NO.A-90
Washington,
3346
TIME
AMERICAN CONSUL
April 30, 1946
SAO PAULO (BRAZIL)
932.43
lat.Am.
March 21 and Telegrams Numbers 90, Apr11 2 and 110,
April 11, concerning activities of the Japanese secret
societies in São Paulo.
894.20232
14-114608
War Department that some correspondence be allowed to
proceea from relatives in Japan to Japanese in São Paulo.
Before doing so, however, it is necessary that the Con-
sulate General furnish the Department with the names of
persons in Japan, preferably in Tokio or other large
cities, from whom correspondence is desired.
2. The Department has requested the occupation
ug
authorities in Japan to place two subscriptions to each
of the five leadine hewspapers published in Tokio, to be
transmitted directly to the Consulate General in São Paulo,
the cost to be defrayed by the Japanese leaders in São
Paulo (Despatch Number Saal). The Consulate General may
also wish to consider the desirability of placing sub-
seriptions for Japanese papers published in the United
States. The following veeklies, which are considered
better For the Consulate General's purpose than the
Colorado Times (Despatch Number 33ai) can undoubtedly be
C
obtained without too much difficulty: Chicago Shimpo,
S
1325 East 47th Street, Chicago, 15, I1linois (Price $4.50
per year); Hokubei Shimpo, 11 West 13th Street, New York 11,
b
New York (Price $5.00 per year).
h
1.2023
DCR
3. It does not appear advisable at this time to have
a special official messsge sent from Japan to the Japanese
in Brazil advising them of the surrender. The surrender
document as published in Brazil, together with any dis-
tribution made of the rescript of the Emperor denying his
Anel
divinity, which was transmitted to the Consulate General
a
R
C
in English in Airgram Number A-76 of April 9, 1946 and 1s
h

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.92)
APR 231006
UNRESTRICTED
To the
American Consular Orricer in Charge,
São Paulo, Brazil.
The Secretary of State refers to the Consulate
General's telegram no. 102 of April 5 and Depart-
ment's airgram A-76 of Apr1l 9 and enoloses photo-
graph copies of the Imperial resoript of January 1,
1946, in wh1ch the Emperor of Japan denies his di-
894.20232/4-546
vinity, and of the front page of the January 1, 1946
edition of the Tokyo newspaper Asah1 which also
contains the resoript.
CS/VJ
Enolosures:
1.12
Imperial resoript
Tokio newspaper
22 1946
no pill
0
BA:JGMAn:1rd
April 

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
TO BE TRANSMITTED
SECRET
AIRGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED
Department of State
PLAIN
NO A- 76
Washington,
1775
TIME
1075
April 9, 1946
 C
4
1.
SAO PAULO(DAIL
894.20232/4-546
Following 1s the text of the Imperial kescript of
January l, 1946, in which the Emperor of Japan denied his
divinity (your telegram l02, April 5). Japanese text of
the reseriit is being forwarded to the Consulate General
under cover of air meil instruction.
"In greeting the New Year, We recall to mind that
Emperor Melji proclaimed, as the basis of our national
policy, the Five Cleuses of the Cherter-Oath at the begin-
ning of the Meij1 Era. The Charter-Oeth signified:
"l. Delibe:" tive assemblies shall be established and
all measures of government decided in accordance with
public optrion.
2. All classes, high and low, shall unite in vigor-
cusly carrying on the affairs of State.
3. All common people, no less than the civil and
CS/VJ
Y A f 11.
military officials, shall be allowed to fulfil their just
desires, so that. there may not be any discontent among them.
4. All the absurd usages of old shall be broken
through, and equity and justice to be found in the workings
of nature shall serve as the basis of action.
5. Wisdom and knowledge shall be sought throughout
894.20232
the world for the purpose of promoting the welfare of the
Empire.
"The proclamation is evident in significance and high
in its ideals. We wish to make this oath anew and restore
the country to stand on 1ts own feet again. We have to re-
affirm the principles embodied in the Cnarter, and proceed
unflinchingly towards elimination of misguided practices of
the past, and keeping in close touch with the desires of
546

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
TO BE TRANSNITTED
AIRGRAM SENT
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED
Department of State
PLAIN
NO
Washington.
TIME
Sao Paulo
A 76
ーこー
the people, we will construct a new Japan through thor-
oughly being pacific, the officicls and the people alike,
atttining rich culture, and advancing the standard of liv-
ing of the people.
"The devastation of war inflicted upon our cities,
the miseries of the destitute, the stagnation of trade,
snortage of food, and the great and growing number of the
unemployed are indeed heart-rending. But if the nation 1s
firmly united in its resolve to face the present ordeal
and to seek civilization consistently in peace, a bright
future will undoubtedly ve ours, not only for our country,
but for the whole humanity.
"Love of the family and love of the country are es-
pecially strong in this ccuntry. With more of this devo-
tion should we now work towards love of mankind.
"We feel deeply concerned to note that consequent
upon the protracted war ending in our defeat, our people
are liable to grow restless and to fall into the Slough of
Despond. Radicel tendencies in excess are gradually
spreading and the sense of morality tends to lose its hold
on the poople, with the result that there are signs of
confusion of thoughts.
"We stand by the people and we wish always to share
with them in their moments of joys and sorrows. The ties
between Ue and Our people have always stood upon mutual
trust and affection. They do not depend upon mere legends
and myths. They are not predicated on the false concep-
tion that the Emperor is divine, and that the Japanese
people are superior to other races and fated to rule the
world.
"Our Government should make every effort to alleviate
their trials and tribulations. At the same time, we trust

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
TO BE TRANOMITTES
AIRGRAM SENT
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED
Department of State
PLAIN
NO
Washington.
TIME
Sao Paulo
A 76
-3-
that the people will rise to the occasion, and will strive
courageously for the solution of their outstanding diffi-
culties, and for the development of industry and culture.
Acting upon a consciousness of solidarity and of mutual
aid and broad tolerance in their civic life, they will
prove themselves worthy of their best tradition. By
their supreme endeavours in that direction, they will be
able to render their substantial contribution to the
welfare and advancement of mankind.
"The resolution for the year should be made at the
beginning of the year. We expect our people to join us
in all exertions looking to accomplishment of this great
undertaking with an indomitable spirit."
Byrnes
Bysnes
(N3)
5
BA:JGMein:mb
4/9/46

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
CETRAL SERVICE
TELEGRAPH SECION
DEPAETMENT OF STNTE
ACTION-ARA
INFO:
INCOMING TELEGRAM
fr
A-Br
DCG-C-D
1945
A-Br/
A-B
SA/M
PLAIN
FE
Sao Paulo
FC
OTC
DC/R
Dated Apr1l 5, 1946
Rec'd 20:05 p.m., 5th
SECSTATE
102, Fifth
Authorities request telegraph me proclamation
894.20232/4-546
rolit denying divijity and any others demonstrating
Japugese uefoat and forvard air courler Japanese terts
that cen be reproduced photographically for distribution.
(R nmy 90, Apr11 2).
CROSS
ST
PLAIN
Confidential Fil
PERMANENT RFCORD COPY: THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R WITH NOTATION OF ACTIO TAKEN

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.88)
ACTION COPY
CEVA
TLLLPAP
DEI\RI VENT OF ST\TE
INCOMING TELEGRAM
A11
A-b
atingopt to
o Pt 10
A - N
ve rament Agr! Les.
A- br
Dated Apr11 6, 1946
A-BY
P7
PTPL TED
Re d l:32 p.m.
PC
OIC
894.2023
SA/
SESTATE
103. Apr11 6, i p.n.
FOR BENTOR
A section or the .. nose cclony which nurbers 250, 000
32/4
ines not yet holieve in the American victory and headed
ty vhnt is believed to te an off-shoot of the Black Dragon
lr' is essassinatlng those who bel ieve in and accept
 Jaranese defeat.
3
46
Sr. my telegrams 90, 1pr11 2 and 102, April 5. Repressive
measus are being talren which may or may not be successful.
Tiils situation shoula be met hv sppropriate information
but our information organizatien has re en allowed to dis-
(nt-grate and we have absolutely no one to use aven the
material we have. This ltuation has been before the Dept
for nonths and sone personnel recomnendations date back
over & months. I pergonuaiy spent most of March in
Washing trying to get urgent appointments through but
vithout success.
Only your personal attontion and effort can cut through
the talking and paper shuffling which has already contribute
to two murders. I appeal to you.
Confidential File
The Japanese explosion is oniy one of several volcanoes
on which we are sitting 1n Sao Paulo.
CROSS
FILED
WTD
RES TRICTED
PERMANENT FCORD COPY: THIS COPY MU'ST BE RET RNED TO DC/R WITH NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.91)
BIACTOR
DC/R
Federal Bureau of knuestigation
BUY
United States Department of Justice
Washington, D. C.
A
PESOHAL AND CONF IDENTIAL
—BA
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
BY SPEC LAL NESSEN ER
FILE NUMBER
RL
A11
.0:
.rederick . L, ief
ivi on of :or n Ativity orrelation
De: artment of State
ror:
John d ar oover - birector, rederal Hureau of Investigation
Sutject: Secret Japanese Societies in brazil
Flease rerer to my : rovious correspondence with reference to
the ahove-captioned natter in wn:ch the iniormation vas furnished to the
effe t tat nu.erous rauical Japanese societies have banded to ether in
994.20232/4-746
Brazil. These proups apparently are all represented on a central society
knorn as the "S into enmei."
Rece fanatical Japanese who, according to publicity, have named
sone of 1. cir leaders to be killed because they have taken as true the fact
that t. e ar las ended nave been lamed for the murder of two Japanese and
ti.e attack on another, S. Furuya, former Minister of the Japanese Legation
in Ar entina.
It has now been l arned that following the latest murder on
April 4, severe repressive measures were taken by Brazilian Police which
resulted in the ar est of sone one hundred and forty individuals at the
headquarters of the "Shinto enmei" society and at other places.
The murders have not yet been proved to be connected with this
society although other Japanese purportedly on the "elimination" list are
FILED
being guarded by the police.
Although it is publicized that the fanatical nationalism 
Japanese in Erazil is responsible for these murders, it is reliably
reported that considerable politics in Japanese circles is also invoIved.
cc
Chief of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Hashington, D. C.
cC
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Fanel
Military Intelligence Service
CSIA
2022/1-716
H
N^2 220084
Ey.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
1..C
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
File Designation
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
Date
From
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
Paiv.
Authority
Date
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GSA FORM 7117 (2.72)
GPO : 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.95)
MAY 8194h
LE STRICTED
To the
American Consular Ofricer in Charge,
3ão Paulo, Brazil.
In reference to the Consul General's despatch
no. 3933 of Apr11 10, 1946, subject "Roquest that
letters be forwarded to Japan", the Department advises
that at the present time there are no facilities for
the forwarding of lottera to individual Japanese in
Japan. hevision of the current policy is now under
894.20232/4-1046
consideration, and since it may be expected that the
mails will soon be open to such correspondence, the
Department considers it preferable to await the policy
determination (of whioh the Consulate will be in-
formed) rather than make an exception In this case.
The six letters enclosed with the Consulate's despatch
are aocordingly being returned. Notification of the
present situation should be made to any interested
individuals.
It is felt also that the efforts now being made,
throuh ar Department channels, directed tomards the
dissemination of reliable information from Japan
among the Japanese residents of Brasil, may in part
accomplish the results which Mr. Furuya seeks. It is
not dosirable at present to duplicate the work now
being done.
C
Enclosure:
Six letters.
CS/A
CR.
MAY 7 946 P.M.
894.80232/4-1046
JK:JRadponald:mh 5-6-46
gir

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.93)
No. 3933.
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
ão .aulo, brazil, April 10, 1946.
SUBJECT
he ue tr letter e rorwarded to Japan.
File
5-10-46
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
SIR.
of April 2, lhf, vntitled "Activities of Japanese ecret
Speieties in ão mulo."
Yention is nade in that despatch of Shigetsuna
Furuya and of the fact that he found articles by his son
894.20232/4-1046
and son-in-law in the Japanese newsle pers which were for-
warded to this of. ice by the bepartment. It will be re-
ca led that Furuya is one of those who requested last
October tiet the newspe pers be secured in order to con-
vince, if pos ible, the local Jepanese community or the
reality o: the defeat of Japan. He has been helpr
recently in the distrivution of the  apers and in at- )
14i.
temptin to op ose the terrori st acti vities of the secret
societies, which nave includeu an attempt by five armed
Japanese to assassinate lhim in his home. Furuya is a
wraduate of the University of ichigan and has been
generally known for his denocratic ideals.
Mr. Furuya ana nis a sistant Yasusiro Okinega have
asked that the enclosed letters be forwarded to the De-
partment with the recuest thet they be sent to Tapen to
the following addressees:
Mr. Tsunatake Furuya
FILED
DIYIC
c/o The ditor of the Tokyo Shimbun
10 ichôme Uchisaiwaicho
Drafted reply
Kojinachiku, Tokyo, Jepan
dk-5/6/×6
ir. Yoritsuna Furuya
Atage-machi, Uwajima-shi, Shime-ken, Japan
Jmac
or
Akamma, Shimeuwa-mura, Higashiuwa-gun
Shime-ken, Japen
CP F Tnit
/Mr. Tsunamasa Furuya
n:
91s.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.87)
-2-
Ir. Tsunanasa uruya
c/ The ditor of the ainichi Shimbun
11, Itchôme Yûrakucho, Sjinachiku
moky), Jupan
akizan
Ar, mer  thekygekiuan", who
was reported to heve cul lea or the Anerican
Army Head upters in okyo in the latter
art of tre ast yeur. he is anyway one of
h   
To ci re or  rle Army Headuarters,
To yo.
iss Yuxi Poxunaca
c/o Holkuen
. 4, 
Yovsuya-ku
Tokyo, 
Tr. wmataro kinao
larahama Ha : i Kitaran
Whimeken, Ja ão
Ir it is possible and epe lient  or the Depertment to for-
ward these letters at this time, it will be greatly appre-
ciated by Mr. Furuya.
Respectfully yours,
Jecil M. P. Cross
American Consul General
Enclosures: 
Six letters, as listed above.
800.
C.T.Colman/mpg
Original and hectograph to the Department.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.87)
DIVISION O.
ACTION COPY
CENTRALFR
TELFORAPCO
INCOMING TELEGRAM
P
4232
raphreae be re on
Sac Paulo
nme Ageucy
Dated Apr1l 11, 1946
RSTRICTED
1
Rec'd 5.43 p. m.
AR
STATE
894.20232/4-1146
110.A11pm
3
invest igati  Japanese secret societies
下
 r  103 A 6, 102 Ap11 5. 90 Ap11 2
E3:
 out auinx and rcral hundred bave been arrested.
t atlons here beor liscovered that in part the
rusal te tellere a fat of Japan has beon fostered
 ose interested , fraudulent selling of land in
10
'ava and e sewhero i East and reserving steamer pass-
 und supplyinp y n to the daluded buyers. situation
  ill threatening A lerk in employ of Swedish Con-
lut. the prote: i g power. i now nuber 4 on liat of
 go te be murdered Swedaa are circularizing Japanese
iut we otill have ne her filos nor press officer and
a halpleas
CROSS
K.F
FESTRICTED
Confidential File
D
PERMANENT IFCORD COPY: THIS COPY MUST BE RET RNED TO DC/R WITH NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.92)
aDO
3300
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OFT
Department of State
OCUERAS DII
UNCLASSIFIED
Washington
946
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
Department of Stata
Tokyo
f.6 DER
For Actin5 Folitical Adviser
Recent assassinations and disturbanoes in
894.20232/4-1146
Brazil make it imperative tnat authentic information
regarding Japan's defeat reach Japanese residents
tcre. Consuiate General Sao Paulo aprreciates
material sent previcusly and requests urgently
ten copies of Japanese newspapers for regular
distribution in Colony. DEPT requeste you pro-
cure two copies each of five leading Tokyo dailies
and send regularly by pouch in envelopes addressed
Consulate General Sao Falo which will reimburse
38×1
any expenses involved.
( grea
11
Cleard by
Ual
JA:JEmnerson/pm
BA
FEUP
telephare
wilh hu. Shuler
Dis1
OIC
5
D
som

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.83)
TO BE TRANSMITTED
AIRGRAM SENT
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
X RESTRICTED
Department of State
3346
90
Washington,
3346
TIME
April 30, 1946
211150
am
,iland 1t0,
pise/scret
894.20232
toth
loeto
  i São Faulo.
t. ipims to ea
4
iS Palo,
   S
46
.  Csl G1 
il s plcine sub
ipurpost tn the
C
 c S.1
S
八
1 S,
1
)  ,   st. See, New Yori 1l,
二
Nw   . .
. It dots ot ippear sivisable at this time to have
4
a specia  iI    a he Japance
tn Braril advisit them or the surrender. The surrender
2
docudent as publlshcd in Brazil, together with any cis-
10
ti ltutlon mate of the reseript of the Eperor denying his
divinit, wten was tranm ita to the Coneul te oncrai
L. Ene llen L Airoram Hus A-73 oi Auril 9, 194e end 1s
b

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
TO BE TRANSMITTED
SECRET
AIRGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED
Department of State
NO.
Washington,
-2-
A-90 to Sao Paule
TIME
being transmitted in Japanese under cover of an airmail
instruction, should serve the purpose. The Department
will be lao to obtain any other publications or state-
ments whlch the Consulate General may wish for distri-
bution among the Japanese.
4. The sending of a Swedish Legation emissary on a
trip uhrough the Japanese colonies in São Paulo to pub-
licize the facus concerning the surrender and occupation
of Japan cannot be authorized at this time.
Department's Circular instruction of September 25,
1945 requested that appropriate steps be taken for the
compilation of a list of obnoxiousJapanese nationals who
might be repatriated. The Department is anxious to ob-
tai. the repatriation of all Japanese who may be con-
sidered dangerous to the security of the United States
and of the Western Hemisphere. The principal difficulty
in effectine the repatriation of these persons is the
shortage of ships, but this Government is prepared to as-
sist the Brazilian Government in taking the necessary
steps to carry out any repeti lation program which may ap-
pear desirable. The Consulate General should discuss
vith the Embassy in Rio the possibility of including the
leaders of the Japanese secret societies in any group of
Japanese which may be repatriated.
No complete reels of filme dealing specifically with
Japanese as requested by the Consulate General are avail-
able. Newsreel material of Japanese surrender and occu-
pation, which could be lifted and assembled, should be
available in the Consulate General's and Embassy's film
libraries. The few Japanese ocoupation still photographs
available are being expedited to you. The Embassy has
entire collection of surrender stills which may be re-
quested from Egan.
P
Copy sent to Embassy at Rio.
Pr Celiexaw
aituy
(分)
acting
4110
FHL
EK
BA: JGMein: ifd
ARA
TD
ADO
4/15/46
915

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.93)
Candy
Jsderal Bursan si 
United States Depurtment of Sustics
Mashingtan,D.C.
PERSCNAL
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NUMBER
Date:
April 17, 1946
APR 181946
OFFICE
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
MAY 3 1946
Chief
Division of Foreign Aotivity Corrélation
Department of State
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigatia
Subject:
Secret Japanese Societies; Society of Veterans of
the Japanese Empire Residing In Brazil, (Zaihaja
Dai Nipon Teikoku Zaigo Qunjin Kai); Socioty of the
Imperial Divine Road and/or League of Layal Brazilian
894.20232/4-1746
Born Japanese, (Shindo Renmei)
Brazil
Please refer to my previous commmications regarding secret
Japanese societies in Brazil wherein it is reflected that a group of terrorists
is playing upon the sentiments of ignorant Japanese in that country.
There is transmitted herewith a report received from reliable
sources setting out further activities of the members of these societies in
Brazil.
This information is available to the American Embassy in Rio de
Janeiro Brafl, and the American Consulate in Sao Paulo, Brazil.
C：
Enclosure
L31:
cc - Chief of Naval Intelligence
LLic
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
1946
cc - sgistant Chief of Staff, -2
Vapr Department, Washington, D. C.
Atáentior: Reading Panel
Military Intelligence Service
Cont
894.
DCB
ASA Unit
peal.
.20232
h. 2
VICTORY
BUY
DECLASSIFIED
htal File
Unl.
NavD 780069
By ZG/(( NARS, Date 8:21/-28 (1)10t.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.92)
Marah 30.2916
RO: SECRET JAPANESE BOCIETIES:
SOCIETY OF VETERANS OF THE JAPANKSE KMPIRE
RESIDING IN BRAZIL, (Zaihaku Da1 Nipem Toikeku
Zaigo Gumjin Ka1); SOCIETY OF THE IMPERIAL
DIVINE ROAD and/OP LEAGUE OF LOYAL BRAZILIAN BORN
JAPANKSE, (Shinde Remme1).
Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.
The iavestigation of the SOCIETY OF VETERANS OF T JAPANBSE
RMPIRE RESIDING IN BRAZIL (Zaihaku Dai Nipon Teikeku Zaig Gmjim
Kai) by the são Paulo, Brasil, Police and others has eetablsebed a
cemneetion between that Society and another kmome as the smmpo
ReI, (Society of the Imperial Divine Road and/or League of Lepal
Brasilian Born Japamese), whioh has been ahomm te be mere wide spreed
tham the first Society and to inelude same of its members. The
premimenee of this Society has inoreased greatly in the past miath,
due to publioity given its aotion, because of the Poliee Laveetigatéem
in whieh the Socioty is mccused of being ultra-natiomalistie in eharester
and to have threetemed these who have refused to believe is the hapethesis
that Japan actually won the war.
The general fear of the Brasilian authorities with regard te the
Seeret Japanese Soeisties is to the effeet that wide spreed Japamese
natiomalism is eonvineing Japanese agricultural workers that there is
no further meed to work for their living, and that in a short time they
will all be settling either at home in Japan or in ecsupied territeries.
This, it is expeeted, may cause a serious deoline in the agrieulturel
preduetion of Brasil simee the peroentage of Japanese workers im
agrieultural ocoupations is extremely high.
SHINDO RENMEI
The meme of this Society has been variowsly translated ae the
Seciety of the Lmperial Divine foed and as the Leage of Layal Brasiliam
Born Japanese.
Lnformatien on thie Society was first reseived threugh Souree C
in Fobruary of 1946 at which time it was moted that the site of the
Jociety in dão Panle was Rue Parasatú 8, and that ite President was me
JumGI KIkana. his individual was stated to be an ex-celemel of the
Japanese arny, and is was atated at that time that he was waing his
preetige with the Japenese eoleny and the dociety of whieh he wae the
leader ia crder to entract mmney frei local Japenese residents.
-1-

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.94)
In sybetantiatien of the clain, it was stated that krrana,
throu, à eme Vasso saro, a former Prefesser of the Japaneee langunge,
and om, NEGomo, had been enlisting people inte the snINDo m
seeiet and had been selling lands in Borneo, the Philippinee and
Singapore, stating that these areas had been captured by the Japanese
and that there would be opportunities for Japanesewho contribute
liberally to be nemed as offioials of these territories or at the very
least to acquire rieh land in the conquered areas.
Along with the solling of "conquered terri tories" weat the sale
of Yen whioh was stimulated by the oonelusion that sinee Japem had wem
the war Brasilian and other Allied momeys would readily depresiate.
On Mareh 8, information was received from Souree D to the effeet
that a Japanese in Bastos, State of São Paule, had beem assassimmted
as be was about to board the train for the capital eity, d that the
assassimation bad been performed by the SHINDO RENMEI. It wes further
stated by this souroe that the group accomplishing the murder had beem
a small part of the SHINDO REndEI and was oompesed of youth who had
accepted the "kemikase" tradition and had taken it upon themeelves
to kill and otherwise terrorise those who persisted in the belief that
Japan had been defeated.
On Maroh 10, Sources C and E began an investigatiom at
Bastos, a eity approximately three hundred miles in the interier of the
State of São Paulo. It was disoovered that the murdered mm, IKuīA MIsom,
a Direetor of the COOPERATIVA AGRICOLA DE BASTOS (The Bastes Agrieultaral
Ceoperative) had been murdered in the back yard of his heme at about
half-past eleven on the night of Maroh 7, 1946. Al1 efforte were made
to elarify the situation und aseertain who had been the guilty party.
To date the guilty one has not been discovered. However, during the
iwestigation there were interviewed the following peeple, all asseeiated
with the Cooperativa in Bastos:
KINSHI MINO
GENITI KOKUNAI
TSUNENOBU CHILAZAWA
These individuals stated that the ShiIliDO ReNMEI existed in Bastge nd
that the eontingent of that town was headed by AZUMA SANEJIMA, MIDEKI
YOSHIDA,AKAKMON KANABATA, TAUASHIGE SATO, nD KSEMATSU KAJITA.
During the iaterviows, it was learned that these effieials were
leadere of the MINDO RkmkI whe had been detaimed by the Peliee at
Bastes duriag the month of Fobreary and prior to being freed had had their
heads and eyebrowe shaved and had been obl1ged to pay Cr. 850. 00 (uste.50)
eack befere being set at liberty. Those interviemed stated that the
2

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.93)
prleenere advieed then that these noty an the part of the poltee had
beem eommitted at the roquest of eme aNJIno maTANaKa nd IEUt
MIzOBB, beth of whem were Direetors of the Ceeperative.
Aooording to information obtainable at Bastos, the above
mentioned prisoners later came to the oity of são Paulo to eensult
a lawyer named BERäakDC MORAIS who was well known for handling Japanese
affairs and who claims to be e close friend of Presidemt Duta. Their
purpose was to discover who had denouneed them to the peliee at Bamtee.
sinee the SHINDC RKNNEI society was supposed to be è seeret e. 
appears that they were advised at this time that the individuals eemeins
the imprisonment were the above mentiomed SENJIRC HATANAKA and IEUTA
I20BE.
From the inoident mentioned above, it would appear that swopledem
would fall om these former prisoners of the Bastes peliee the are
apparently publioly known in Bastos as members of the säINDo RmnmI.
Another inoident at vastos was a strike among the workere of the
agrioultural Cooperativa whioh was aimed at a reform of the Direeterate
of the organisation, this roform to bring about the extraetion frem the
Direotorate of the wurdered man. (me of the promoters of the strike,
named-UCBuYoslli SlliaTA, is known to have partioipated in a heated
disoussion at LTiCBE's house on the night of the murder. Be is mo
also to have advised at luast one worker friend of his not to appear
for work on the following dat, Laroh 8, because "an important evemt
was about to happen". Suspicion, therefore, lies in his direetiom alse.
Those same sources, while at Bastos, discovered the existemee of
a local society know as the SA St.) HiNEI (Society of Industrial Youth)
which may or may not be the portion of the SHINDO REMEI previomly
referrod to as a suicide group. of the local members, the mame of
NOBUYOSHI SIBATA is considered the leader. Other individuals kmom 
be members of this pociety are TEIKICHI TAKEDA, SHIGEMATSU MORI,
BITATSU ANUKI nD MISAC YOSHLLOTO.
Knowledge of the existenee of this looal society mnd of the
diffioulties between SHIBATA and the murdered man are believed te lend
strength to the report of the suioide youth group affiliated with the
AMINDO RENMEI. The onneotion, however, has mot been substantiated by
anything conerete. In opposition to the theory that the SHINDO RWMEI
was responsible for the death of IZoßk, the repert developed at Bestes
by the same souroes shows that one KUlIYIKI, who operated an eil ef mint
business in Bestes, had been in diffioulties with the Cooperative ever
a dishonest business transaction. It is thought that the mardered mm.
KIzomz, being a member of the Cooperativa, had been coming to aão Paule
to expose KUnIYIxI. The poliee at Bastos have reportedly given this
angle cansiderable consideration.
-30

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.94)
The ineident of the marder of MIZoBE at Bestes hee resedved
killing was aoeempllahed, piotures of the temm of Beates, mnd atebem
by the Police Delegado of the area have been featured by at lenst twe
papers within the lust week. In each oase it has been stated that
the murder was due to operatives of the SilINDO REmksI, whieh is påetured
as a nebulous organisation covering the entire State of são Paule and
inoluding some fifty thousand of the Japanese populatiem.
Source F advised that there appeared at the Amerlemm Cemeulate
1n São Paulo Dr. FRANCISCO ANTONIO DE TOLEDO PIZA, who ia h Bal
povermor of the Japanese cooperatives for the State of Sãe Paule. 
advised that there existed in the interior of the State of sãe Pamle
a Japanese secret society called SHIND RENVEI whose main objeetves
were (1) to elimimate the mmin chiofs and leadere of the Japamese
soleay whe have admitted the defeat of Japan, and (2) to gain the
complete domination of the Japanese and to affeot a wideepreed sabotage
of agrioul tural produotion in the State of São Paulo. Aeserding te kim
this Soeiety have spread reports that all rumors of Japan's defest are
completely erroneous and have been extorting money from the Japamese.
pretending to sell roal estate in conquered territories. He reported
that in December of 1945 he held a neeting of the Japanese whe have
that they should mae counter-propagande in order to suppress the seeret
society and prevent its domination in the rural areas. Sinee one ef his
olosest cooporators was the murdered man, IKUTA MIZOBE, PIZA wes
partioularly impressed by the fact that MIzoßß had been publiely threatened
by posters displayed in Bastos. According to the souree, othere marked
for kill1ng woreVSENJIRC HATANAKA and TAKANOBU AtUMOTo. Al ed
for killing, mooording to posters in Bastos were kIoshI YAmamoTo d
S. PURUYA. Dr. PILA presented for inspection a letter reeeived by him
in January of 1946 from a Comittee of the agrioultural Ceeperativa at.
Bastos which pointed out that there were some Japamese famatles in that
tewn who had threatened the laborers and who had exterted more them
Cr.880,000.00 (84,000.00) from the workers of the aree. 0ording to
this letter, this sooiety, in addition to threatening with death
MIZOSE, HaTANAka and three other mambers of the Direetorate of the
Cooperativa, had spread the rumors that all the Japamese im a shert
time wuld return to their country, and that for that reesem there was
no further necessity for plaming crops. The seeiety's primeipal objeetive
in Bastes, mocording to this Cemmittee, was to disrapt the Coeperative
and thus eblige Mizoss to resige or to frightem him inte resigaing.
This lemmittee empressed itself as of the opinien that in the event
MIZOBE should resigm, the bamkruptey of the Cooperativa would be a matter
of no more than a week. Aooording to this lotter frem the members of
4

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.94)
the dapenese seeioty earrying out the abeve aotivitlee Ls smtumo
KarumI na (translatten unkmomm). No meatiem is mede in tde letter
ef thO SHINDO RENMKI.
Om Mareh 20, Dr. PIZA and one MANUEL CARLOS FERROZ DE ALIMIBA,
a São Paulo lawyer conneeted with the Central Cooperative in s Paule
appeared at the American Embassy in Rio de Janeiro and asked fer
assistanee in the ease of the Cooperative at Bastos.
They stated as their opinien that all of the Japameee in their
aree were domimted by some two or three thousand men whe had erganised
a amber of seeret sosieties and were seeking to eradieate all of the
treetwerthy Japanese leaders who had been cooperative with the Brasiliem
govermment and who had been working with the Central Ceeperative is
Sã Paulo, sinee its nationalisation due to the war. They advised that
several of their trusted Japanese employees had been marked for assassime-
tiem by leaders of the sesret societies affiliated with shINDo RI
and pointed out that the first person on the list,y IKUtA MIsoms, had
already beem murdered. Locording to them, the attitude of the Japemese
arrested by the police and later released was dwe to the faet that the
Japanese Imperial Government had given MacArthur ordere to regeset the
Brasilian govermment that they be released. Aecording to Dr. PIXA end
Dr. ALkkIDA, this served only to enhance the prestige of these imprisemed
by the police.
Dr. PIzA brought with him to the Kmbassy the origimal list
of SHINDO RENEI leeders and associates which hed been previewsly presemted
to the Consulate General in São Paulo by him. This list had beem sapplied
Dr. PIzA by the Committee of the Cooperativa at Bastos, Brasil. It is
moted that the name of the President and Direotor-General as shemm by
Dr. PIZA's list eoincides exaetly with the names mentiomed abeve as
supplied by Souree C. The entire list follows:
"SHINDO-REMNEI
São Paulo
JUNJI KIKKAWA
President
RYOTARO NEGORO
Direeter-Gemeral
TBIJI KIMURA
Superixtendent
ZENSAKU OGANA
Direeter
KANJI WAKI
Direeter
SAKUZO KANASHIMA
Direeter
SAIJIRO TANITA
Direeter
KANJI AOKI
Direeter
MASAO BATO
Direeter
-5

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.93)
nO. oF
BRANCHES
MEIBERS
LUCELIA
5.500
Takai • Vemeto
Tohuji Yokoyama, Sakuse Kasashima
CALIFORNIA
850
Saniti Chimen, Yujire Aeaki
BASTOS
3.500
Ichisaburo Chida - Chief
TUPI
8,200
SHINSO MAKANINE, Bi t1 Sakame,
Isamu Matsumete - Takaki - Propegm
POMPÉIA
10,000
Sub-Chief - Matswshire Emii.
Masami, Tauji, Maasake Pasade -
Shigueo Hanada - Seiji Mareki 
Kajuiko Iokoi • Riese Tamgdama
MARILIA
12,000
Chief - Sanae Ito, Gempe Temeshire,
Zensaku Ogawa - Sub-Ghdef
VERA CRUZ
1,100
Juniti Yasaka
GÁLLA
1,700
Eiti Siosaki
GARÇA
1,500
(rube)
BAURO
500
Matsutane Wiyasato - Kenji Makamere-
Propaganda
PIRAJUI
500
Mitsuo Tokui, Kumiyeski Maoda,
Goshitiro Noda
GUARANTI
500
SHIGETO MURAKAMI
CAPELANDIA
3,500
Magesaburo Osaki, Yeskio Oikema,
Shiehiro Ome
LINS
3,500
Kisaburo Yoshii, Shesuke Tamaka
GUARAÇAI
800
Eiti Kimara, A. Eashimete
PROMISSÃO
3,500
Junji Shimisu Magesabare Craji (er
Dasto)
-6-

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.91)
nO. 
PENÁPOLIS
2,500
Kiase Idemóri, Lase Eaçita,
Marui, Otekiti Marui, Takeleha
BIRIGUI
4.500
Koso Kato
ARAÇATIBA
3,000
Makiahi Ite
GUARARAPES
2,500
Tokuji Shigomateu
VALPARAIZO
5.000
Shojiro Imai, Daisabure Sesaga
LAVINLA
1,500
Shiniehiro Imabara
MIRANDOPOLIS
5.700
Seikichi Senehata, Mankiti Aswma,
Mitauru Miike, Majime Ote
GUAIÇARA
1,000
Mtiyasu Sete
ANDRADINA
500
Chusaburo Abe
ALPREDO CASTILHO
500
Shi gueo Fucueka, Sease Hekagyem
Takesaburo Kobayashi, Kiyeskd Mrose,
Yasokiti Ikuso
JACAREZ INHO
250
Tatsuo Inomata
BANDEIRANTE
2,750
Yukiti Matida
TRÊs BARRAS
5.500
Toshio Mori, Saijire Tamita
DRAf
1,500
Shokiehi Shibukawa
8. CRUZ DO RIO PARDO
2,500
Chuemom Sheji, Shinso Matida,
Hiroshi Sate
OURINEOS
1,500
Shesuke Demateu
ASSIS
800
Minosuke Yeketa
PARAGUASSÔ
2,000
Mgrihisa Sakibara
RANGHARIA
1,200
Shoichi Kouema
PRESIDENTE PRUDENTE
2.000
Kanee Miekiura - Lemjire Miski,
Kieshi Imoue
-7-

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.94)
NO. oF
BRANGHBS
MARTINGPOLIS
1,500
Tadashi Mrechimm, Masee Baame,
Jiieki Yamaguti
ARARAQUARA
1,000
Masami tau Hokuso
MOTUCA
300
Solti Yamada, Shinso Shimisu,
Masato Morita
MATÃO
100
Chujiro Okasame
TAQUARITINGA
1,000
Asaji Omori
JABOTICABAL
1,000
Takeso Takada
MONTE ALTO
1,500
Sanso Hamada
NO A GRANADA
500
Kanji Matsuo, Pukusada Mirata
IGARAPAVA
500
Tomiso Waga
CAXINGUI
50
Chojiro Kitashiro, Segere Ojura,
Kondo Tsami, Kondo iukiti
MAUS
200
Itsue Otauki
PINDAMONHANGABA
500
Keisaburo Neguchi, Masee Terada
CANPOS DO JORDÃO
600
Masaji Kimmre, Yoshiskigue Nakanehi
BELO HORIZONTE
250
Toraso Nonska, Maso Baba
CAMPO GRANDE
2,500
Seitoki Ishikawa
DIVERSOS
80
Biti Sakane
115.430
QUINTANA
Tanaka.Merehant)
OSWALDO CRUZ
Fujivara (Real Eatate Agemt)
Chimen (Sem Mi11)
Assaki (Merehent)"
Coneerning the offieere of the SHINDo RkarI as they eppeer
 the abeve list, eemplete information has mot yet beem reeeived; hewever,
1t is kemm that JUNJI KIKKAkA, shomm as President, is am ex-Celemel of
the Japasese aray, and at the preeent time is in peer health. Aecording
-8-

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.94)
to Souree C, he mas chosen beeause of hie rank, to lend preetige to
the orgmisation.
It is presently doubtful, hewever, that he has mmy real
control of same, due to his physieal condition.
RYOTARO NEGORO, shewn as Namaging-Direeter, is the individual
meatéemed as engaging in frandulent selling of cenquered lande em
page 2 of this memerandum.
KANJI AOKI, a Directer, is alse a member of the DAreeterate
of the GunJIN KAI, the investigatiom of which sosiety diselesed the
exietenee of SHINDO RKNLEI.
MASAO SATO, also a Direetor of the SHINDO RNBI, has
previously been referred to on page 2 as a former professer of the
Japanese language.
According to Souree D, the society of SHINDO RMMI is being
govermed dwring the illness of its President by ene WACKIRO WIYASAI
whose offiee address is Bertho Conde, Praga Mendes 34, Sãe Pamle. This
information has not been confirmed by other souroes.
Souree F has advised that a number of his contaste meng
them (some of the men on the following list) have submitted te him a
list of those marked by the SHINDO RENMEI for exeeution. These memes
are in additiom to those mentioned previously on page 4s
CHIBATA MIYAKOSHI - This individual was formorly Pirst
Seeretary of the Japamese Embassy in Buenos Aires, Argentima. Be alse
bore the title of Consul-General. He has been in the State of sãe Paule
for about ten years and during that time was Direetor of the KAIeaI
KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA, a Japanese colonisation company festering the
immigratiom of Japamese farmers to Brasil. H is a Japanese of seme
preetige dwe to his former conneotions, and was one of the leadere up
to the time of the present war. At the present time he residee at kua
Pamplena 512.
Aecording to Souroe G, MIYAKOsHI, imediately wpen the elese
of the war, was selling yen based on the theory that Japem had wem the
war, and that Allied money would beceme worthless. At appreximately
the turm of the year, however, he and a group lead by him, apparemtly
well-eetablished Japanese, made an about fase and teld the Japamese
eelomists that Japan had lost the war. Aeserding to the same souree,
this was due to the faot that MIYakosHI, having dumped all yem evailable
to him inte the hands of eredulems Japanese, was mew allying himself
9

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.90)
with the goverament La erder to matataia Me entrel of he 
practiees are aqueesing momey out of the innecent people whe belseve
that Japan wen the war.
Souroe C affirme that the Japanese Consul in sãe Paule me
man ia the Black Dragon Soeiety, and MIYakoshI is believed by tse somsee
to be a member of that Soeioty.
of the Agrioul tural Cooperative in the tomn of Cotia. Por the mememt
mothing is kmowm of his past.
SEN-ICHI HACHIYA - ACHIYA is the founder of the house of
Eachiya e Irmäos. He has been in Brasil sinee the Firet World War and
has mede a fortume here sinee that time in the imperting besimess.
At the present time his firm in são Paule is in liquidatiam hy the
Brasilian geverment. He formerly finaneed the Japenese mewepeper
busimess, enjoyed considerable prominenee among Japenese celemiste
whe dosired to import goode from their mative land up to the time of the
war. He is known te be a friend of MIYAkOsHI, mentiomed abeve.
KIYOSHI YAMAMOTO - YAMAMOTO 1s a oul tured Japamese of goed
presents whe prior to the war was Managing-Direeter of the Casa roza
and has beem mentiesed in earlier reports as an intimate friend of the
Japamese eepienage agent SAK WIURA. He also was Direeter of the
bemking house of ToZAN, which was a branch of the MItsusIsnI empany.
Informatiom has been reeeived that the Casa rozal in September of 191
reseived a eemsiderable quantity of money transferred from MITsusIsmI
and Company in Now York.
3. PURUYA - This man was Minister of the Japanese Legatien
Ln Argemtina frem which pesition he was diamdssed by the Japessse
goverament, meeerding to Souroe C, for iumeral actiems umbeesming to
a representative of the goverament. Subsequently FuRuYA is reported to
have settled eu the eeast of the State of Sae Paule, semowhere between
Santes and Jequiá mhere he possesses wide banane plantatians. Thés
souree likewise says that he is an intimate friend of mixakosnl. Lecerd-
Lng to Souree F, MIYAKOsHI is a well edueated Japemese whe reseived
censiderable traiaing at the University of Miekdgan and speeks Baglish
fnuemtly.
Lecording to this souree, he now has nopheme la dapem ampleged
by nome serviese in that couwntry and whese artieles he hes seen sinse the
elese of the war.
-10

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.91)
BRIGUI PUJINARa - Loserding to Souree 0. te Laávldmal
states that he le the pea of a semater La dapan. No Lo preoenkly
CHIBATA MIYAKOSHI ia morthora Param. PUJIHARA is allSed by marráago
to MzYakoshI. He la alse atated to have had a sperting atere am the
Large do Ouvidor in São Paulo whieh was olosed upon his arrest at the
beginning of the war. During the war he was knowm to have had dealings
in menthel with the Integralist MIGUEL REALE. Hewever, it is stated by
Souree C that due to urging by AsSIS CHA TRA UBRIAND of the momepapeve
DIARIOS ASSOCIADOS, FUJIHARA contributed two airplanee to the Brasilimm
Asr Poree.
MassAO KINOSHITA - Thie man is roported by Souree 7 as a
Japeaese lewryer. Souree C, however, states that his law degree was
purakased from the University of Miteroi in Rio de Jameire and edvisss
that he was formerly a painter of furniture for the Case Mieade which
me lenger exists. Me was subeequently placed under eentreet by the Gase
Bratac, amother colemising company, as a professor of the Japamese language
Ln Bastos. After serving in this capacity, he returmed to See Paule
with his papers as a lamyer and at the present time is angaged is
prectieing law here in São Paulo, mostly for Japanese. Aeserding to
Souree C, many Japamese have complained that KINOSHITA sharged them
exerbitant priees for their papers whioh they had to have dwring the war.
His mame has only recently been added to the advocates list in Se Paale.
KINOSHITA was the viotim of an unfortumate oceurremee at the
elose of the war. At that time he issued several thousand leaflets
stating that he was allowed on the authority of the poliee te state that
the war was over and that Japan had lost. These learlets were released
in the interior of the State of São Paulo. Unfortmately. hewever, he
had mot takem the preeaution to get efficial approval of this and was
obliged by the poliee to get the bulletins back. In erder that he might
be sure of the retura of all of the bulletime, KINoshITA wes obliged
to pay se much for the return of each one. The effeet of this wpem the
Japanese population was to convince them more firmly than ever that
annoumeements of Japan's defeat were erroneeus.
CHUZABURO MOMURA - This individual is presently a duek farmer
in the State of são Paule but previously was editer-in-ehief of the
newspaper "WIPPAK-SHIMBUN" mentiened aboVe as fimaneed by SES-ICHI MAGHIYA.
It is stated by Souree C that only a few years before the war he left
the newspaper, beeause he had been mamed by the Japanese Ministry of
Edueation for the pesition of Direetor of the Departmemt of Instrustiem
in Japanese in Brasil.
According to Souroe F, the same conteet whiek previded the
above list stated that there was in the interier of the state of säo Paule
and lecated mear Bastes a group of youths number eme handred and sixty
the had owern to kill ome eaeh of those coneeding the defeat of dapesn
in the Late war. Leeerding te this seuree them, eme handred and siaty
deathe in all eould be apeeted. There was me commeotien shome by thés
souree betreem the sDo nmI and the abeve-mtlemed ermdsatien of
youths.  Ewever, it is moted that
-11

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.90)
a cortaia parallel axiote betreen tase Latormtle d that provtonty
mantlemed (page 2) as provided by Souree D.
Oa the 16 os Mareh, an luvestd gatien mas began at Baotee
by agents of Souree I with the objest of diseeverins, if pessible, tho
murderer of KUTA MI2OnE and any pessible coaneetiem exieting betmeem
this marder and the seeret soeiety of SHINDO REnkI. Although imveetlge-
alse te diseever any ennection between the marderer and the mnee ,
farther informatien was developed coneeraing the previously mentéemed
strike in the Cooperative at Bastos. Loserding to thia Lnfermatien the
strike was promoted by a group of sizteen young mem (it will be moted
that Souree 7 stated that there were one hundred and sizty young mem)
in an orgamisatiem at Bastos. The souree provided a pieture of the siztesm
men along with their mames, whioh are as follows:
SHIGURMATSU MORI
BITATSU ONUKI
TBIKITI TAKRDA
MOBUYOSHI SHIBATA
MISSAO YOSHIMOTO
MISSAO TUI
SHIGUEO SHIBATA
GORO BAGA
TOSHISABURO NISHIHARA
TSUTOMU UTSUNOMIYA
NOBURU SATO
MASAYOSHI HIRAFUJI
HIDETOSHI MIYAGUI
TATSUO XIDB
SAN HAYASHIDA
SHIGUBO TAMATO
At the bottem of the photograph are sharaoters in Japanese indieeting
that the photograph was taken to celebrate the strike at the Bastes
Cooperativa. It is moted that thie same pisture was subeegueatly
published by the newspaper "ESTADO DE SÃO PaULO" in its aeeeumt of the
sheeting. This informatiom as well is in lime with that previewsly
provided coneeraing a small youth group dedieated to the terrerisation
and pessibly mmrder of "defeatist" Japemese.
Aecording to this souree, the Direeterate of the Geoperative
at Bastes imelwded one SENJIkO HazAkakA, whe is presently taking the
plase of the mardered man. It was alse learned that the mardered 
mas an en-employee of the Japanese firm Brazac, and that he wae very
friemdly with cHIBata MIYakosnI. Leeerding to this investigatiom in
Beates, alee, the atrike abeve referred to was a affers to eanse the
"Ippá-smn" whe was neseed of imerelity wens the workere of the
Goeperative. The mardered man, Nizone, whe wae Direeter of the
Gooperative, repatedly had mot siven amouch attentéen to the eemplainte
-15

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.94)
Mzoss was leaving fer Bao Paule on March 7 la erder to avedd ang
notien en the complaíate presented to hin. Ia thie cnsseetton, alee
suapisien of Mizosm's marderer polate to the sisteem youthe abeve
mentioned. However, mothing definite has been prevem as yut.
According to this inveetigation, threatening pesters were
seen in Bastos contaiming the names of SENJIRO HATAMAKA, the presemt
Direetor; YOsHIMaTSU KUSSAHARA (founder of the colony at Bastea)
HIROCHI YAMANAKA (a former Direetor of the banking house of Bmatas):
IKUTA MIZOBE, and MORIO ODA, former emplOYee of the CASA BRATAC.
Souree A made the statement that there was censiderable
feeling in Bestos regarding the conneotion between the old Japasese
leadere of the CHIBATA WIYAKOSHI group and the lendere of the
Cooperativa. Many of the Japanese oolonists in the aree also seem to
feel that the Cooperative leaders held undue influenee over the
police of that area, possibly based on finaneial support.
They complained that when they turned produee in at the
Cooperative, the produee was sold by the Cooperative at double the
priee paid to the workers, thus raising the cost of living to the
ultimate eonsumer. The csmplaist was also raised by the werkere
that the Direotors obliged the Japanese workers to sigm drafts is
blank for the money that they were to receive for the preduee turmed
over. It was suspeeted by many that mall amounts were filled in
on these papers at a later date, when the Direetes had takem all they
confortably could of the money. The investigation did not substamtiate
these fasts, but simply registered the complaints.
Aocording to latest reports from this souree, the SHINDO
RENMEI, because of adverse publieity given it by the above happemings,
is preparing to dissolve. No subetantiation has been made ef this
repert, and further investigation is under way to establish its
verao1ty.
Attention is called to the fast that on Marek 26, metiees
appeared in Brasilian papers under a Tokio date line stating that
a large number of Japamese in India had tried to eseape frem a prisem
camp at New Delhi, obliging guards to use their arme. This attempt
was made under the misapprehension that the war was met yet ever, and
that Japan could mot have lest. The dispatek went am to say that
General MeeaRTHUR had requested the interventiem of the Japamese
government in sending an effieial annewmeement to these people that
the hostilities had ceased. Attemtiem is ealled to the abeve mowepeper
notiess to bring ixte relief the faet that the disturbemese in India
and the apparent state of mind of the Japamese there is very similar
to that preseatly eurreat in the state of São Paule, Brasil.
-13-

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.94)
of e mall youth organisatien as a part of the shinDo mnI, 
organisation which is composed of terroriste, has omly beem subetastiated
by implieation. No conorete faets have been diseevered to shew that
thisis truo.
The suggestion has been raised by both Sourees C and D thet
for assistance to elimimte disorganisation.
The purpose of these aotions, it is suggested, is that the
former leaders of the Japanese colony may retain their positiem of
eontrel over the Japanese. A counter suggestiem was alse made by
Seuree C and D that the Japanese colenists resent the mammer in which
they have been exploited by their former leaders and are rebelling.
On Mareh 27, 1946 information was reeeived frem Souree €
that agemts of the Delegaey of Personal Seeurity semt to Bastes to
iavesti ate the murder had returned to São Paulo with mime dapamese
prisoners whe had been installed at Chaere Fleres meer the eity of
São Paule. No information could be obtained as to their memes, but
it is kmown that Chaore Flores is the prison farm of the Sabimote
de Investigações (Investigations Bureau) of the São Paule Peliee
Departmemt.
山

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.89)
4/24 '24 - Wedneadey
Mr. Notson Riley
ADA
OIC
William T. Stone
Can you get a reply for
Benton's signature right away.
Mm. Riley left fon Buerers Ain
4/23/46. Sine Tme. Schung is hot in
thims af tersnome, there is no siquing
8 fian de ADA.
TGAlue

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
DEJ
TELEGRAPH SECTION
INCC
dea 24 9 
OFFICE OF
8169
PEN -G-D
ASSISTANT SECRETAR
Paraphrase before com-
STATE DEPARTMENT
Sao Paulo
A-8
munloating exoept to
Government Agenoies.
Dated Apr11 23, 1946
ACTIO:A-B
Roc'd 3:17 p.m.
UNFO: RESTRICTED
ARA
894.20232/4-2346
FE
DC/R
SECSTATE
122, Apr11 23, 2 p.m.
POR BENTON
Japanese situation still tense but becoming over-
shadowed by Communist attaoks holding United States
responsiblo for lack of wheat from Argentina. Charges
are based on falsehoods but we are unable to do anything
to combat them. Small riots have already ocourred.
What has become of Paul van Orden Shaw appoint-
ment?
CROSS
DM
OIC AMERAN REPHBLIC
RESTRICTED
DIVISION
t. dad a124/46
APR 241946
Tile
TGA
Department of State
J131946
FILED
LRC
PERMANENT RECORD COPY: THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R WITH NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.95)
Dh
No. 3950
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
SuBJECT Transmitting copies of Political Report submitted
to the American Embassy, Rio de Janeiro.
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
E
WASHINGTON.
14
SIR:
I have the honor to transmit copies of letters sub-
mitted to the Embassy at Rio de Janeiro concerning the
Japanese situation in São Paulo.
894.20232/4-2446
Respectfully yours,
.'Cross
American Consul General
Enclosures:
Copies of letter submitted to
the Embassy, Rio de Janeiro
File No. 800
CMPCross:vzp
Original and ozalid copy to the Department.
Copy to the Embassy at Rio de Janeiro.
CS/
DCR ARA U
KM 
Anal.
JUN 2 1 1946
FILED

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.94)
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Bão Paulo, Brasil, Ap1l 4. 10s
Paul C. Daniels. Escuire
Chargd d'Affairs ad interin
Ameriean Embassy
Rio de Janeire
SUBJECT: Japanese situation in ñe Paule.
8ir:
The Japanese situation in São Paulo centimues to
be disturbing. There have been ne reeent murders but
the police are finding it impossible to eontimme to
find space for the hundreds of Japanese that they have
arrested and are on the point of placing them at lib-
erty again.
The Swedes have issued cireulars and the Cemsulate
General has arranged thrcugh the Agencia Naeiemal to
supply papers thrcughout the interier with a Pertaguese
translation of the Japanese Emperor's reserips admlt-
ting defeat and denying that he is a deity.
It is wfartunate that no motion picture material
showing especially the occupation of Japan by armed
Ameriean troups has not as yet been reseived.
Very truly yours,
Ceell . P. Cress
Ameriean Consul General

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.96)
FOR JAPAN
BA
PC/R
Tokyo. April 26, 1946
No. 394
7le
946
65-46
SUBJECT:
Newspapers for Javanese Residents of Brazil
JA
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to refer
to the Department's telegram No. 250, April 11. 1946, and to
20232/4-2646
forward under separate cover addressed to the American Consulate
General at Sao Paolo, Brazil, three copies each of five rocent
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
editions of Tokyo vernacular newspapers. The Japanese Government
REPORTING S
DIVISION OF FOR.
is being requested to furnish this Office regularly two copies
VAY 6-1946
each of the following Tokyo daily newspapers! Yomiuri-Hochi,
Tokyo Shimbun, Meinichi Shimbun, Nippon Keizai Shimbun and Jiji
Shimpo. These copies will be forwarded as received to the
American Consulate Generel at Sao Paolo, without covering des
patch.
Ira. cmited to Field (Fo m LS-4)
Ortginal and hectograph to
10: SaaParl
Department
Bragal
891
JWBurnett:ms
Div: BA
By: JGM Date: 5-/4-/6
894.20232
Contidential File
FILED
OCR NE Unit
na
CS
R.
JUn - 5 1946
Cat
/A
Dist

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.94)
DOHOT DETAON FROI HITE:DO
RECORD
COPY
THE ATTACHED HITE COPY OF A TELEGRAM
FILE
OR AIRGRAM HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY
TO REPLACE THE YELLO ACTION CCPY  HICH WAS NOT
RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY THE ACTION
NO.
OFFICE.
THE COPY MUST BE RETURNED TC DC/R FOR
894.20232/5-646
FILING.
mlontial Fle

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.94)
INFORMATION
DIVISION OF
COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
AOTION: ARA
INFO:
1946 MAY 7 PM 2 19
A-B
JDP -W
2084
SA/M
Paraphrase before cor-
FE
minicating except to
Sao Paulo
OIC
Govornment AgencleRECORDS BFANCH
RP
Dated May 6, 1946
DC/R/
RUSTRICTED
Rec'd 5:13 p.m.
SECETATE
744, May 6, 3 p.m.
hen may I expect Japancse text Emperors
I rocl matlon sub ject Dopertment's A-76 Apr1l 9 and
Vol yo newspapers.
Stuation still very tense and
dierirting.
CROSS.
J.MS
RESTRTCTED
894.20232
B M Buyan
1.1
e
9
x

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.96)
No. 3977
FAIN
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brazil, May 10, 1946
SuBJEcT: Communication with Japan.
46
HONU
MAY231946
9
Rtelo
THEHONORABLE
2 THESCRETARY OF STATE.
C
L1
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have tne nonor to refer to the various telegrams
and other reports concerning the acute Japanese situa-
tion in the State of São Paulo and particularly to tele-
gram number 152 of May 10, 1946.
In tnis connection 1 am enclosing herewith a copy of
a communication received from the Franciscan Fathers in
894.20232/5-1046
Bastos and the letter which they enclosed therewith to-
gether with its English translation.
I am enclosing a copy of the memorial prepared by
the leaders of the Japanese colony admitting the defeat
of Japan and a letter which was enclosed. This memorial
was the subject of the telegram under reference. It is
believed that if possible the establishing of communica-
tion between individuals in Japan and in São Paulo, sub-
ject of course, to normal censorship, would be one of
the most effective methods that could be employed to wear
down the conviction existing that Japan triumphed in the
war.
There is every indication that disturbances, at least
terrorism, will continue for some length of time and it
is urgent that every means possible be employed to wear
down entrenched beliefs in the Japanese victory.
Respectfully yours,
Cecil M. P. Cross
American Consul General
S
Enclosures:
Letter from Franciscan Fathers dated April 15,
1946; letter enclosed with that of Franciscan
Fathers and English translation; Japanese mem-
orial.
File No. 800
ARE UE
CMPCross;vzp
BMG
Original and ozalid copy to the Departmentg?
Copy to the Embassy at Rio de Janeiro

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.90)
To the
American Consular Officer in Charge,
São Paulo, Brazil.
The Acting Secretary of State refers to the Consular Gcrieer
newspapers and other materials concerning Japam's surremder.
There are attached herewith the following Japanese vermmsuler
papers:
XR
Asahi Shimbun
Apr11 30, 1946
Yomiuri - Hochi
Apr1l 30, 1946
Mainiohi Shimbun
April 30, 1946
May 1, 1946
Yomiuri Shimbun
Asahi Shimbun
May 1, 1966
May 1, 19146
Mainiohi Shimbun
May 2, 1946
Asahi Shimbun
Mainichi Shimbun
May 2, 19h6
Yeniuri Shimbum
May 2, 19ha6
surrender, will be sené to the Cemsalar Offieer in the meer fate
B Zax
Ch 3P
Srbayom
MA 21 15P.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
ACTION:ARA
INCOMING TELEGRAM
INFO:
AB
SA/M
AL -F)
4000
FE
Paraphrase before com-
FC
municating except to
Sao Paulo
OIC
Government Agencies.
RP
Dated May 10, 1946
DC/R
RESTRICTED
Amich
SECSTATE
152, May 10, 2 p.m
Jananese situation rogtrrr causing grave concern.
89
Brazillan authorities admit inability to cope with it and
because of lack of prison accommodations and gravity of
94.20232/5-1046
Communist crisis have been obliged to release all but about 200.
This 1s being attributed to pressure by the presiding Japanese
Governuent. A group of Japanese Leaders convinced of reality
of defeat and alarmed at local situation bave presented a
memorial suggesting that:
"One. It is most desirable that the Japanese Government
send preferably a person who served as an Ambassador to Brazil
or a Consul General in Sao Paulo or even a Consul in Santes
and announce to the Japanese residents here personally and
officially the true situation of Japan.
Two. To send to Japan a mission consisting of two
representatives of the Japanese fanatics to be chosen by the
Brasilian authorities and one representative of the nonfanatics.
The mission is to be headed, 1f possible, by a Brasilian
military officer who will be responsible for the return of
the mission to Bras1l to report to the Japanese people here of
the true situation of Japan. The expense will be borne by the
contribution of the Japanese residents in Brazil".
They also repeat suggestion that exohange of letters vith
individuals in Japan be permitted. In this they are independ-
ently supported by Franciacan Mission. Their communications
being forwarded with despatch No. 3977, May 10.
EL
Again urge
RESTRICTED
LRC
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
-2-, #152, May 10, 2 p.m., from Sao Paulo.
Again urge effort to supply motion pictures and
pictures of armed Amerioan troops in Japan and as many as
possible of current Japanese nevspapers.
Repeated to Embassy.
CROSS
WFS
RESTRICTED

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.94)
OFFICERS
B M. D. N
GENERAL
RY BOARD
BYBOW S. LAMSON
General Secretary
Frank L. Baken
Field Secretary
J. M. DANA
Tressurer
8
H
BYron S. Lamson, General Secretary
MIsS MABEL W. COOK M
DEPARTMEN
Ofice Sectetary
Winona Lake, Indiana
Miss Lois N. CAmPBELL
M/L. BArtoN
Bookkeeper
Mrs. OLIVE L. TEAL
81910
CAD. D=CAN
Secretary
May 13, 1946
J. ARR
4
ar-.C
IAILLLILE:L
DEPARTHENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
010
SecrataryJames F. Byrnes
一
DIVISION - (ABA)
Departmentof State
JUN 2 6 1946
Nashington, D. C.
JUN 201016
OFFICE OF INTELLIGENCE
Honored Sir:
COLLESTION AND DISSEMINATION
There is a matter of grave concern needing immediate attention, which you
should know about. I refer to the condition of the Japanese people in Brazil.
894.20232/5-1346
I have recently returned from an executive visit in South America, most of my
time being spent in Brazil, and largely among Japanese people. These people
are members of our church, in many cases converts of missionaries in Japan.
Some have become citizens of Brazil. I found great affection among these
people, both for our country and for the Christian Church.
The fact is, however, that many Japanese in Brazil read neither Portuguese
nor English. They refuse to believe that the war is over. I was told that
some are taking advantage of this situation. Many Japanese have been selling
their possessions and purchasing fake steamship tickets, in the hope of
occupying South Pacific Islands, or settling in conquered California. They
refuse to believe that Japan has lost the war.
Several enlightened Japanese think that some authoritative statement should
be released by the Japanese government, officially, in Brazil. No statement
from the Japanese government has been made in Brazil; and until such a state-
ment is made, this situation will not be improved.
FILED
I am enclosing certain documents from Dr. Massao Kinoshita, Japanese attorney
2
in Sao Paulo, Brazil. I met Dr. Kinoshita when I was in Sao Paulo. He i an
1947
intimate friend of our most trusted Japanese pastor, Rev. Daniel Nishizumi.
Rev. Nishižumi has been in Brazil since 1928. He was born in Japan, but is
now a citizen of Brazil. We think very highly of him; and he vouches for
Dr. Kinoshita's integrity. Both of these men, I understand, were on the list
in possession of the Terrorist Gang which has recently been exposed in Brazil.
I believe that there is real danger in Brazil unless the picture changes.
S
It seems to me that some positive action is needed. Whether or not Dr. Kino-
shita's idea is the best, you must decide. However, I can assure you that he
is intelligent, cooperative and dependable. He feels that some one should go
to Japan and be commissioned by the Japanese government to return to Brasil,
and officially advise the Japanese people regarding the true state of affairs.
He is willing, and offers himself for this service. However, he has no way,
umless the State Department intervenes, to proceed in thes
JUN101946

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
Seoretary Jamos F. Byrmes
Page 2
May 10. 1946
Department of State
My only purpose in writing this letter is to be helpful in the realisatiom of a
world community which is sympathetic and understanding. This is the task of
our missionaries in Japan, China, India, Africa and Latin America.
I have discussed these matters rather fully with Dr. Luman J. Shafer, Chairman
of the Japan Committee of our Foreigh Missions Conference. It was his suggestiom
that I write direotly to you conoerning this matter. If I can be of further
service, please command me.
Very sincerely,
Byron S. Lamson
General Missionary Secretary
BSL:olt
eno - documents from Dr. M. Kinoshita

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.89)
SBAO KINOSHITA
ADVDSADO
Pr.J. Mandes, 154-.
C. Peetel, 1ame-Tolefone 2.0007
BÃO PAULO
Envio esta aos istados Unidos, onde o snr. By
S. Lamson, D. General issionary Secretary, em winona 
que se oferecer eor boa vontade os prestimos para meinora
situagão da colonia ja onesa no srasil, com a esperanga 
que csta hgue aos dirirentes do Janão, afim de tomarem a
providencias o so tido de convencer os japonêses no Brasin
da verdadeira situa ão,ex assim poderem voltar a seus traba
lhos. lara isso junto céria de oficio e o memorial apresen
tados as auto riñañer competentes por nós. 0 único remedio
rara a solujão seria faser candarer cartas. E' o que espera-
ros que seja reito quanto antes.
Phinolite
Marser

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.95)
HITA
AXMO. SIB. INTERVENTOR PEIERAL NO RSTADO DE
0 desejo de encontrar o reméaio pronto o l
da colônia Japonêsa, trazendo á v. Lixcia. e ao Govero inda
trabalho para a manutenção da crden, be como o desejo de 
zer com que a mesma colônia possa tornar-se elemento útil ao
patrimônio nacional, cooperando assim á produção intensa de
moro alimentícios para a reconstru,ão da paz, trazem-nos
presença ce V. ixcia. para pedir a permissão de apresentar-Iho
onmemorial inoluso, e que procuramos expôr a posição daguels
colónia dentro do patrimônio nacional, a origem da divergata
de opiniões das duas correntes, em luta fraternal, bem como
as medidas aconseluaveis para a solução do caso.
Não temos dúvida de que as medidas agui lembrades,
postas er prática, darão término ao terrorismo, om que se me-
gulha a oolônia, fazendo-a voltar para o seu trabalho, oom 
saberá corresponder á hospitalidede sem par deste randioso e
vo bresileiro.
Sentir-nos-emos imensamente honrado, si o momorial
ror algo útil nara a solução do momentoso aso da colânia ja
ponose.  pedimos a lioença ce V.Exoia. para subsorever-nes
Atenoiosamente.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.94)
MASSAO-KINOSHITA
ADVOGADO
Pr. J. Mendes, 154-0 And. S.04-85
C. Postal, 1886-Telefone 2.6307
SÃO PAULO
HEEORIAL
Em face de luta travada entre irmaos e da cnfusãe
vel, em que se mergulhou a colônia japonasa no Brasil, a nessa
ocupação era de que esta, a colonia viesse a ser "cancer" do patri
nacional.
Durante os anos de conflito mundial, encontrou a colania
biente e paz e de felicidade, apezar do campo oposto ao de Japãe
que o Braail lutou. for sua vez, a c∞lonia japanesa soube eorre
ao nosso ver, á mgnanimidade do corayão e hospitalidade sem par de po
vo brasileiro, tenão meemo cooperado, de certa mmaneira, ao esforgo de
guerre, com a produção intensa da lavoura, muito emvora tenha havide al
guns icidentes, verificados na su Laioria entre proprios irmmos. mãe
podemos deixar de lamentar, portanto,  verdadeire terroriemo,  que 
envolveu a ∞lonia japonesa, uando a paz voltou ao mundo, perdende mu
a rignte do rasil. sem divide, fi
colónia, no setor agrfeola. or sii preci sa de seus uragou, e pode con
tar com el es. Mas, deante a cêna, que assistimos, a sua colaboragão ao
progresso económico e fin nceiro do raíz perde por completo, o seu
E' muito natural que um bom brasileiro comece a pensar a conveniéncia
ou no da colonia japonesa.
 falta de aasimilagão, alegada té hoje para combater a imi-
ragão japonésa, nã encontrava o seu fundamento lógico. A diferenga
radical do idi oma e uo costume, seris único motivo para essimilagão len
ta do imigrante japonasa. ucresce que este vem em fandlia já constisul
da, è entre diretamente m lavoure para entregar-se ao trabalho agrfee-
la, que não lhe oferece o ambi ente para a aprendizagem do idioma nagie
nal. Os filhos crescidos neste lar japones, onde não se fala o portu-
gues nem ha convivencia com brasiladros, não estaria ainde comple
te ambientado com a sociedade brasileira. Eles tam, porém, a opertad
dade de aprender o portuguds, e receber a instrução nas sseolas
do Paíz. Os filhos destes, ou seja a terceira geração, crescidos
ambiente manos jepones, com o ostume e pensamento mais brasileira.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.95)
terie grmnde facilidade para a desejada assimilagãe. Mosta
descendentes dos japoneses, ainda que não demonstrem grande 
cruzamento, já teriam o pensamento perfeitamente brasileire.
queriamos que o progresso desta colonia signifieasse progres
so e felicidade do Brasil. Mas,9 acontecimento inédito no m
ce significar o contrário, e isto por culpa de algumas desenas de jag
neses de ideias absurdas. Não os acusaremos, porém, como pessuideres
ideologi as fascistas, uilitari stas ou imperialistas, incompativeis
denocracia, que ampolga o mundo após-guerra. Mas, possuideres de ide
erradas e ondenaveis oles o são. Noantanto, queremos erer, e esforge
mo-nos para tanto, que eles não estão agdndo com dolo, elememto subjesi
do crime comum, exceto alguns aproveitadores da situagão, chantagistas
falsiricadores de noticias da vitória do Japão. Para nbs, eles são he
mens de pensamento simaples, alguns deles apesar de sua idade considera-
eemoientemente no erro
re o bem do rasii e o Japão !
rura o ben co Brasil, porque em acredi
tando na derrota do Japão, os japoneses ficariam tão desanimados, que
perderiam até força para o trabalno, influindo assim grandemente na pre-
dugto. Para o bem do Japão, poriue crer ne derrota do Japão importaria
na negayão da razão da existencia do mesmo, o vue significaria traigão.
aproveitaram-se assim das notícias falsas, divulgadas, sinão por eles,
por chantagi stas e aproveitadores da situagão, e convenceram a maioria
da colonia japonêsa de que o Japão seria invicto, como o prova a histó-
ria, e teria por isso vancido a guerra. Esquecem-se eles de que a "vi-
tória" japonêsa deu diversos casos policiais, com o festejo da vitória?>
hasteando a bandeira do Japão. Uma noticia intencionalmente divulgada,
sobre a chegada de uma frota da marinha japonesa, fez com que toda a eg
lonia abandonasse os seus afazeres para receber festivamente os "vitor
osos marujos" do Japão, no mez de setembro do ano passado, justamente
plena época de plantio da lavoura ? Um grupo de elementos da colonia
jeponésa em São Paulo, sem poder estar mais alheio ao que vinha mueode
de, procurou esclerecer a verdadeire situagão, por que o Japão estari

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.92)
● 3 .
passande. Pare fortalecer a ∞rrente dos otimistas (es g
vitória do Japãe), alegaram então que aquele grupe de pe
vendido aes capitalistas judaicos, atribuiram à denanèia dessas ms
tidas prisbes verificadas, e semeara.. Sdio contra todes  pessimi
(os que não acreditam na vitória do Ja ão), chegando mo a f
terrorismo contra estas ! Pare aqueles, estes ultimos eeriam
mentos da sociedade; a sua eliminagão beneficiaria o Brasil,
Japão   para justificar os atos dos terroristas, alegm que r
responsaveis dos crimes as proprias vitimas ! Vejam è que greu de
ro se ∞nduziram ! dmitido que fo se por hipôtese, a vitéria de 
 a traigão dos que não acreditam na me ama, o governo do Japãe, 
quer u do mundo, não aprovaria que se fizesse justiça pela me doep
ticulares. Em nenhuma parte do mundo seria permitide isse. Pare
les, ingenuos que são, nao estariam fazendo ml para os brasileiros,
que estão matando os próprios japoneses !  ingenuidade deles ahe
ser monstruosiuade ! ào saban que o simples fato de organizer eei
dades secretas, como org nizaran, motiva a expulsão do território br
leiro, por ser ato indesejavel. ¿ual ! Nada acontecerd conesse, d
zem eles.  pensams- . é porque o japão ganhou a guerra !  l
tavel que estes homens não procuram raciocinar com calmm. Deixam-ee
flamar pelo sentimento e paixão.
E' oportuno analizar o pensamento dos pregaderes da vitéria
Juponésa. Estes têm a onvicção do que o Japão é invenedvel. Daí a
conclusño:- o Japão jamais perderád a guerre; si é fato que terminen
guerra, esta foi venoida pelo Japão, com a derrota dos Aliades. O 
meiro pensamento é subjetivo, é convicgão, é crença. O segunde é, pe
rém, objetivo. Este não nasce do pensamento subjetivo. Pare ehegar

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.92)
sem se besear na noticia oficial do próprio goverme de e
do sádite japenés manter ascesa a arenge de vitérie Jape
to tenha chegado, no mez de outubro de l9s, a eaperade mea
governo de Tokyo, por intermédio da Cruz Vermelha Internaeiemal,
transmitia aos suditos japonèses, residentes fora do territorio
pão, a Rescrite Imperial e a mensagem do Ministro Estrengeáre 
segunda década de agosto de 1945.  ara os otimistas, esta mote €
por ser meame da que fora publicada anteriormente pela imprense
que estaria controlada por juueus ! Dois fatos lamentevede eomr
involuntariamente para dar aparente lógica á esta versão des otimis
1º) -a nota do governo de Tokyo, cuja divalgagão na celem
japonese fora autorizada pelo Itamaratí, depoi de traduside  
Japonesa (porque a original estava en ingles) e impressa para è 
bui ão, foi apreendida, praticamente, pela Delegacia de oréem Polft
 Social, que havia aconselhado a distribuigão urgente da neta. Dí
que foi apreendida praticanente, por ue, sendo entregues áquela Dela
cia os imprassos para a di striuuiyão aconselhada, ele suspendeu-a,
do-os  seu poder. Ignora-se ual foi o motivo daquele ato. Mas,
gundo os otimistas, teria sido apreendida a meama nota, porque a
sa. Da fato, a utoridade Policial, disse-nos, com a nossa murprese,
quando fomos reclamar a aistribuigão, que a nota teria sido estada
alterade, devendo haver no Itamarati uma outre verdadeire ...
2º) -Um dos orgãos pauli stas, "0 Dia", publiee  17 de
P.p. ume fotografia do "Novo Gabinete" de Tokyo, ande tras, etre 
sas personagens incluidas na lista dos criminosos de guerra, è de 
alpe Konoye, que havia suicidado, segundo as notícias já éivealgeden
desembro do ano pessado. Si é verdade o que fei publieade 
Die" tenhe deamentide a história de "eve Gabinete", pr

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.89)
● 5 •
emente es terroristas, que já tendo perpet
Eastos, organizaram-se =m diversos bandos para eliminer a
nas de pesso s, nesta Capital, conseguindo assassinar o 
ra, fracassando en outros tentativas, o die lº de corrnte.
 terrori sno a colonia jponesa no Brasil constitue caso
vissimo, ue repercussão internacional. ão nos predpitemes, p
acusar os res onsavei s. Não tenhamos pressa para acusa-los, perq
guem fugirá à s u respolnsabilidade.  nossa maior preoaupagão
so devan sar di spens ios, mo omento, para a so lugão do terreriame,
ue esta continuará, co.. orme se pod. deduzir das declaragbes doe
sos elementos ceti vo, intarvis auos pela i prensa paulist.  dea
o novo c aso ae marilia, ocor ido no di a 17 do corrente, ande hauve
tres vitimas, o pro ósito firme uos terroristus é manifesto. E  im
minavel ter ori suo e  u ece ária repres ão, dei xarão a colonia
permalentes pánic  ue aososcgo, não a permitindo cooperar na obe 
reconstruyo ue z. .e fomua, e somos, c opinibao qu, 
aria para a manutey  d urdem, nenum medida repressiva seria efie
ente, io contraproduc, rue o co sudr,  tmp, a f
ão política e upaixell da, lev ruo certos el mentos ao verdaddro fan
tismo. couo medd das aconselh veis, uesejanos Lembrar  eguintes
1•) Declar yão oficial e conjunta o Governo Brasileiro, da 
baixada da Ju'cia, e da Cruz Vermeli: Internaci onal, sobre a referida
nota ofi ial, vi nua por nturmedio desta ulti me organizagão internacie
na1.
2º) -Proviaencia par, vinda de cartas dos parentes no Japão, com
maior urgència;
3•)suspensão do ande mento de processos e soltura dos detides, com
cegãe dos prineipais culpados, e juizo da auteridade competeates
4) -Cenecagão de todos  dirigentes dociedede r
clusive os detidos, pere que eles prestem mpreméese sel
des a) -p term ao terroríme, so b pene de reape

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.92)
produgão,no setor em que estiver cada um;
5º) -Toda colonia Japonesa, inclusive os pessimistes
da para assumir compromisso so lene de não fugir à
por acaso apurada, apresentando-se cada um para a merecida punigo
se roquer;
6•) -Nomaliz da a si tua. o alimentar do mundo,
dos os otimistas,da situayão verdadeira do Japão, será reexemine
so, si necessário, para a apuragão da responsabilidade de
plicado.
 pri med ra me id é útil, vuanto neceesária, para esel
é cclonia japo èsa, e a nota oriciul, praticamente apreendide pele
legacia da crue rolitica e -ocial, no era false, • que de fate
vindo do overno de lok,o. , div-rgencia de opinibes, doe q
e dos ue não acredi tan na vitória japonesa, ten o seu vétee just
te na nota oficial do overno o Jap to, como já vimes. Pare  t
tas, esta nota' é f lsa. Os vue naua creditam na vitória 
referida ota ofici al. s primeiros querem continuar oom a sua er
oti ista até nota oficial de Tokyo.  as já temos a nta eaperade
naverá duas n tas ofici ais sobre o mesmo assunto. E' valiosa pon
esta declaragto ca unta, e sclareca do ofi ci almente á ∞lonie jape
ue a uis cutida nota era realmente do governo de Tokyo.
 segunda medi da é benéfi ca, e talvez única, no momento,
convencer a maioria da colònia. Fan ti zaios que estão, perderam
zão e racionínio. : carta manuscrita dos parentes, seus pais,
filhos no Japão, fa lará ao coragão de cada um. Si fosse p
da de ua pessõa ao Japão, e esta expuzesse na imprensa de Tekyo
de colánia japonasa no Brasi., pedi sse a seus parentes ne Jepão
tas, expendo a s ituação do país, e as trauxeese consige, de veas
seria remédéo pronto m easo. Si a ida ao Japão fa i

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.86)
- 7 。
As autras medi das são as de reconcilieção. Cem s
reconci liatbrias conseguiremos ucalmar todaa colonia,
otimistas aci tarem a proposta, e os pessimistas concordarem m 
into a ducl aa. o o ci a o ure nota oficial de Tokyo, j  nos
podar, veha demonstar o  gaio, não o erro, dos otimista,  pe
mistas abs r-se-o de itir unpuer opinião aceroa de t 
, té u a t. o este completamente cal. Tod podã,
si..., vo itar uos veus Lazeres, contri buindo eri cientemente d produgeo
ecor.smica, e à reconstru àc de paz.
as das pri eirus medldas deves ser execut as imediatamente
e inuapandentemente uas uiti.s, de recom que erão talves 
jeto ue estudo mai deoro.
 mal que coivulciona o munuo atual tem a sue origem ne cora
gão do omem, que s= tornou ári do e estáml. ste esqueceee de 
tiva-lo. ns Letras e ciencias, è esmo liçbes ae ética  de moral, 
nistradas nas escolas, tiveran por ocjetod cultivar tão somente o cére-
bro co omem. s Suas ralzes, que vian aprofundar-e e extender-
no cora. to, tiraxio ali a seiv:, arim de rormr o fruto, que alimntarl
a huuanidade, não conseguira faze-lo por encontrar o terreno aride 
Landonado. C meluor furti lizante u coragão, a religião, não lhe foi
aplicado. Dir-se-ia que a filta de religião é a causa do ml, que a
ge o mundo nodierno. Neisiune costituyão, por mais perfeite que ej
nenhuma sistema políti co ou social, moderno e avançado, conseguiria
1. orar a  ituayão  mundo, san culti var promeiro o coragãe do bemem.
Mas, no momento de fome muncdial, que atravessanos, urge reeelver e pre
tleme do estomgo antes do proulema do coragão. E' paternal  celest
o apelo de . Janti dade, o Papa, am pról da produgho intenea de gm
alimmtfed os, para mitigar a fome do mundo. O apele fei dériéo
se  labemer pare minerar a fome da Murepe e de Ase.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.95)
-8-
da humanidade, em obediencia ao apelo da S. Santidade. Esta 
seria possivel, quando a colônia se li bertar do terorismo, em
volve. a li bertagão do terrori smo seria conseguida com a co
mútua do Governo Brasileiro, dos elementos otimistas e pessimistas da
lonia japonêsa: aquele tomando providências no sentido de executar as
duas primiras medidas, acima Laabradas, e propondo medidas de reconei
gão, e estes concordando de uôa vontade com estas ultimas ultimas medid
.medida repressiva, contra todos os suspeitos, continuará a ser aplio
da, só si os otimistas não aceitarem a proposta. Em quelquer
Em qualquer caso, e principalmente quando não se tomarem esta
medidas co ciliatórias, & de imprescindivel que se faga sentir claramen
te, no momento da soltura do s detidos, o erro gravissimo de organizar
sociedaues secretas, ou fazer parte destas, qualquer que s eja o seu ob-
jetivo, e especialmente a responsabilidade dos que fazem apologia do ter
rori smo, independentemente de qualquer motivo, ou mesmo dos. que se mos-
tmarem simpati zantes ao terrori smo, por que eles formam o ambiente, doade
nascem os terrori stas, e serão punidos a qualquer prego.
. assimi lbgão lenta da colônia japonesa não formaria, por si
só, o discutido quisto racial, sem o cimento de ideologia imperialista.
Si ha l ementos possuicos uesta édeologia, estes sim, deveriam ser exclu
dos da co le tivi dade pra o bn de to dos. Eliminados estes, toda a cole
nia restante pode tornar-se parte integrante do patrimonio mcional, coo
perando com o povo brasileirokpura a ordem, progresso e a grandeza do Br
sil. . colônia japonêsa não vem a ser "cancer". Eliminada, em tempo,
possivel raiz do "cancer", a colônia ainda será el emento útil ao patrime
nio ra ci onal.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.93)
JUN -31946
Ny dear tr. Lansen:
Thank you for your letter of Yay 13, 1945 in
regard to the astivities ef the Japanese' in me Paale.
The lafermation centained  your letter ls eom-
firmed by reperts frem the United States Gemsulate
Generel ia Sae Panle. The astivities ef a Grewe ef
Japaßese terrerists have ereated a seriens siteatien
894.20232/5-1346
and everything is being dene te meet it. Yon will a
presiate the fast, hevever, that the questiem is eme
fer the Brazilian Gevernment and that it has te be
theless, the Bepartment is deing everything pessible
to be of assistanee te the Brasilian Gsverament and
to thsse Japanese in Bae Paule whe are trying te eem-
bat the terrerist activities of some of their fellew
countrymen.
I appresiate your writing te us in sweh detail
and I will be glad te call upon you if it is found
that you or your organization can be of any assistamee.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of Statt
as
CS/HS
Daniel M. Braddook,
Leting Chier
Division of Brazilian Affairs
S
Confidential
Byron S. Lamson, Esquire,
General Miasionary Seeretary,
JUN
General Misslonary Board,
Free Methodist Church
3
of Nerth America,
6
Winona Lake, Indiama.
BA:JGNoin:ifd
JA
May 31, 1946
File
5-1346
3

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.93)
8357
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OPFICE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
Department of State
Charge Department:
Washington
Charge to Appropriation mumber 1961096
894.
Japan be lifted and assembled from films Embassy's library, specif-
ically Aeronoticias, volumes 16, numbers 49 and 51, and 17, numbers
1, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 23. Explanation in Japanese could be prepared and
spoken on hand microphone.
Further material will be sent as soon as available.
BYRNES
(NLS)
0
孔
COx
MAY 28.1946PM
MAY 29 194€FM
5/27/46
ADAzR.d'Egasoro

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.94)
IMB
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
ETATES OF AMERICA
pem
1946211106
N2 5040
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Rio de Janeiro - Braz1l
May 14, 1946
RESTRICTED
Cross reflect accurately the reguests or a numper of
other Consulates on the desirability of receiving l6mm
films showing the occupation of Japan by Amerioan forces.
It is highly important that some new l6mm films are
forwarded to imploment the motion picture program. In
the last six months, exoluding newsreels, this Embassy
received just one new subject "Musio in Industry",
received February 28.
The Light & Power Co. with close to 6,000 employee
80
has been a regular patron of the l6mm film exhibitions
6
sponsored by this Embassy from the time of the ineeption
of the program, more than four years ago. At that time a
great number of their employees were pro-Fascists and
2
many more were members of the Green Shirts, a local orga-
20232
mization whioh was later outlawed by Presidenoial deeree.
The direotors of the Light & Power heartly endersed the
16m film exhibitions and give much of the oredit for the
32/5
change of opinion to this program. It is felt that in
peace as in war, the American point of view mhould be
constantly kept before the public but unless there is a
constant flow of new films, the work of building up this
good may be jeopardized. À similar sitwation is in pro-
spect with the exhibitions regularly scheduled at military
bases, sehools, cultural institutiona and professional
organizations.
It is felt that in addition to the usual edueatiomal
nd doeumemtary films forwarded from Washington, a film
on the ovewall funetions of United Natioms Orgamisatien
ould be a useful subjeet for the OIc pregram. A film
bout the U.N.R.R.A. would
o the library.
JUL3 1946
or letter
B MB.
:0A1
UICE
Bei
run

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
ENCLOSURE TO
DESPATCH N 5O1O, DATED MAY 14. 1946
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brazil, April 24, 1946
Paul C. Daniels, Esquire
Chargé d'Affaires ad Interim
American Embassy
Rio de Janeiro
SUBJECT: Japanese situation in São Paulo.
Sir:
The Japanese situation in São Paulo continues to
be disturbing. There have been no recent murders but
the police are finding it impossible to continue to
find space for the hundreds of Japanese that they have
arrested and are on the point of placing them at lib-
erty.again.
The Swedes have issued circulars and the Consulate
General has arranged through the Agencia Nacional to
supply papers throughout the interior with a Portuguese
translation of the Japanese Emperor's resoript admit-
ting defeat and denying that he is a deity.
It is unfortunate that no motion picture material
showing especially the occupation of Japan by armed
American troups has not as yet been received.
Very truly yours,
Cecil M. P. Cross
Americ an Consul General

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
No.3984
AMERICAN CONSULATE GE
São Paulo, Brazilí May 15, 194
SiyJEct: Transmission of copies of Japanese
propaganda postcards.
1946
THE HONORABLE
1946
3
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
SIR:
I have the honor to transmit copies of some of the
postcards being used by the Japanese in promoting the
belief that Japan won the war.
Numbers 1 and 2 are apparently reproductions of
cards published several years ago and have been adapted
to represent a present triumph of Japan. Number 3 de-
rives its value from a somewhat ambiguous Protuguese
subscription which describes the scene as the Ameriean
Fleet anchored in the bay on the occasion of the act of
surrender which is interpreted by the Japanese as the
surrender of the Fleet.
The situation is still tense and there have been at
least three shootings in the interior during the last fo
days. At least two of the victims are on the point of
death but may recover.
It is again urged that some special effort be made
to supply this Consulate General with Japanese newspepers
particularly pictures showing our American armed troops
in Japan and above all some current motion pictures of
the same scenes on 16 milimeter sizes which can be sent
into the interior for display. The only material as yet
received has been some photographs which are being en-
larged and arranged for window displays. This material,
however, is not entirely satisfactory as only one or two
pictures show American armed troops.
JUN2
Respectfully yours,
OCF NE Jnit
Cecil M. P. Cress
joat el
Ameriqarosoram
OIVISION- ()
80Dist.
OCT17

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE Of
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
No. 3998
AMERICAN REPUBLIC ASFAN
OF THE
194
UNITED STATES OF AMEDICA
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brazil, May 21, 1946
SUBJECT:
Correspondence desired from Japan for delivery
to relatives in São Paulo.
SPECIAL PROJECTS
DIVISION
THE HONORABLE
N1946
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
8
S
I have the honor to refer to Department Airgram
4.2023
A-90 of Apri1 30, 1946 which advised that the Department
is preparing to recommend to the War Department that
some corresponaence be allowed to proceed from rele tives
in Japan to Japanese in São Faulo.
232
The report of this pos sibility has been conveyed
to persons of confidence in the Japanese co lony of São
Paulo and a list of 52 addresses in Japan has been oom-
5
piled and is attached. In connection with each name,
1
there is also given the name of the person in São Paulo
2
who would like to hear from the resident in Japan. In
compiling this list, whioh has been prepared in some
4
haste in view of the urgency of the present situation,
9
effort was made to secure half of the names from persons
who may be classed as conservative and half from those
who belong to the radical or terrorist group. It will
be noted that the last eight names and addresses were
supplied by persons who are now under arrest by the
police.
It is considered highly desirable that letters
from such persons as those named should be seoured at
the earliest possible moment in order to relieve the
present situation of unrest and of terrorism among the
societies are doing everything possible to spread mali-
cious and unfounded reports and to assert that any
Japanese is worthy of death who places credence in the
defeat of Japan. The Japanese committee have prepared
the following statement in submitting this report:
/"It is necessary...
1.22

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
"It is neoessary that the letters should be
written by the relatives in Japan by their
own hand-writing in the Japanese language
and that they should mention not only the
family affairs but al so the situat ion of
Japan, making it clear that Japan lost the
war considering that the prinoipal purpose
of allowing specially this corraspondence
is to convince the jepanese residents here
of the present real si tuation of Japan.
"It is desired that the replies be sent
collectively to the American Consu late-
General in São Paulo, if possi ble, by
diplomatic mail bag, and not separately
to each addressee, so that they may be
utilized as much as possible for the pur-
pose above specified."
The Japanese comnittee have already secured per-
mission from the addressees in São Paulo that publicity
may be given to the contents of letters whioh are re-
ceived and, therefore, they have requested that the let-
ters should be forwarded in care of this Consulate General,
through diplomatic channels.
The committee have requested thet great emphasis
should be placed upon the importance of requesting that
this matter should be handled with the utmost expeditious-
ness. The value of these communications will be measured
in considerable degree by the promptness with which they
can be received in order to alleviate the local situat ion.
Respectfully yours,
Cecil M. P. Cross
American Consul General
Enclosure:
as mentioned above.
800.
GTColman/mpg
To the Department in Original and Heotograph.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Dospatoh
No. 3998, entitled "Corres-
pondenoe desired from Japan
for delivery to relatives
in São Paulo" dated May 21,
1946, São Paulo, Brazil.
(1)
ADDRESSERS
ADDRESSEES
1. Shin Kimitsuka
Kiyoshi Yamamoto
c/o Tozan Noji Kabushiki
Rua São Vicente de Paulo 416
Kaisha
São Paulo
Tukio
2. Tadao Kuwabara
Kiyoshi Yamamoto
c/o Mainichi Shimbun Sha
Rua São Vicente de Paulo 416
Tokio
São Paulo
3. Naoji Yoshida
Shozaburo Yamaguchi
c/o Mitsubishi Bank
Rua Jupiter 154
Marunouchi - Tokio
São Paulo
4. Ikutaro Aoyagui
Takeo Goto
c/o Dept. of Foreign Affairs Rua São Vicente de Paulo 416
Tokio
São Paulo
5. Kanichi Takeda
Kunito Miyasaka
111, 2 Chôme, Kitazawa-chô
Rua Bafa 408
Setagaya-ku - Tokio
São Paulo
6. Miss Fumiko Miyasaka
Kunito Miyasaka
35 Hommura-cho, Azabu-ku
Rua Biái 408
Tokio
São Paulo
7. Mrs. Hideko Kikuohi
Takumi Murakami
494 Koyama-machi, Ebara-ku
a/c S. Furuya
Tokio
Rua Braz Cubas 258, Aolimação
São Paulo
8. Tsunatake Furuya
Shiguetsuna Furuya
288 Narimune Asagaya
Rua Braz Cubas 258, Aolimação
Suguinami-ku - Tokio
São Paulo
9. Kingo Aizawa
Sei Takaoka
533 1 chôme Machiya
Rua França Pinto 512
Aakawa-ku - Tokio
São Paulo
10. Gentaro Watano
Sei Takaoka
94 Mukôyama-chô
Rua França Pinto 512
Tokio
São Paulo
/1l. Hatsutaro Iizuka

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
(2)
ll. Hatsutaro Iizuka
Yuta Kobayashi
13, 3 ohôme Okachi-machi
Rua França Pinto 512
Shitaya-ku - Tokio
São Paulo
12. Teryji Kobayashi
Yuta Kobayashi
1638 Ikebukuro Toshima-ku
Rua França Pinto 512
Tokio
São Paulo
13. Takaharu Miyagi
Kenkiti Shimomoto
c/o Sangyo Kumiai Chūokai
a/c Cooperativa Agrioola de
Tokio
Cotia
Rua Cardeal Arooverde 2539
São Paulo
14. Takahiro Midorikawa
José Yamashiro
c/o Central Broadoasting
Rua Galvão Bueno 362
Tokio
Office
São Paulo
15. Susumu Hireta
Shinto Aoki
c/o Ministry of Foreign Af-
Rua Galvão Bmno 289
fairs
São Paulo
Tokio
or
Aza-Ima, Taohiarai-mura,
Mitsui-gun, Fukuoka-ken
16. Kensuke Baba
Sunao Baba
c/o Ministry of Foreign Af-
a/c Salim Simão
Tokio
fairs
C.P. 20 Piraoioaba
L. Paulista Estado de São Paulo
17. Iwao Nakano
Chibata Miyakoshi
o/o Kaigai Kogyo K. K.
Rua Pamplona 512
6, 3 chome, Marunouchi - Tokio
São Paulo
18. Soshiro Hirano
Minoru Hirano
539 Hatsudai, Yoyogui
a/o Y. Sakamoto
Shibuya-ku - Tokio
Rua Major Sertorio 691
São Paulo
19. Toshio Sakamoto
Yasushi Sakamoto
397, 8 chôme Kami-Meguro
Rua Major Sertorio 691
Mejiro-ku - Tokio
São Paulo
20. Seiji Tanizaki
Ise Hayashi
o/o Waseda University
Caixa Postal 52-B
Tokio
São Paulo
21. Miss Tomi Takahashi
Massuzo Takahashi
Miss Toyo Takahashi
Caixa Postal 73 A
o/o Kaigai Kyôiku Kyôkai
Noboto Inada (Adawara Kyükô)
Tokio
/22. Shigeji Sakane

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
(3)
22. Shigeji Sakane
Shigeru Sakane
Ikenohata Shitiken-maohi 8
Caixa Postal 1024
Shitaya-ku - Tokio
São Paulo
23. Chûhei Nambu or Guiyo Saito Seigui Fujihira
c/o Osaka Mainichi Shimbun Sha
Rua Guimarães Passos 433
Osaka
São Paulo
24. Ryoj1 Kanno
Tomoyo Mabuoi
c/o Osaka Shôsen Kaisha
Rua Christovão Gonçalves 74
Osaka
Pinheiros, São Paulo
25. Aiko Takeda
Sennojo Kitagaki
Taishô-dôri 1 chôme
Rua Barão Duprat 195
Sumiyoshi-ku Osaka
São Paulo
26. Sueharu Iwata
Tomizo Takeda
11 Kajiya-machi Minami-ku
Rua Conselheiro Furtado 70
Osaka
São Paulo
27. Hidesada Okada
Masashi Yamaguchi
110 Iwaya, Nada-ku
Praça da Sé 399, s/206
Kobe
São Paulo
28. Shokiohi Nishitani
Kazuo Nishitani
c/o Daishin Trading Co.
Rua do Carmo 400
64 Naniwa-machi
Kobe
São Paulo
29. Moiohi Takeuchi
Hideichi Takeuchi
35, 1 chôme Tobimatsu-chô
Rua Dr. Diogo de Faria 798
Suma-ku Kobe
São Paulo
30. Noboru Amano
Kenji Amano
57 Mitsuzawa, Naka-machi
Rua Castro Alves 823
Kanagawa-ku
Yokohama
São Paulo
31. Masu Morishita
Takashi Morishita
22 Teramae-maohi, Shishigatani
Rua Pelotas 764
Sakyô-ku Kyoto
São Paulo
32. Otomatsu Yasuda
Titose Taniguti
Karahashi 38 Biwa-machi
Itaquera
Shimokyô-ku
Kyoto
E. F. C. B. São Paulo
33. Kazuo Haohiya
Senichi Hachiya
Shirakabe-chô 2 chôme
Rua Guadelupe 698
Higashi-ku Nagoya
São Pau lo
34. Nippon Tôki Kabushiki Kaisha Haokiya Industria Comorcial Ltda.
Noritake-chô Nishi-ku
Rua Theophilo Ottoni 85
Nagoya
Rio de Janeiro
35. Toyoshisa Yazaki
Setsuo Yazaki
248 Nitta-machi
Rua Pamplona 969 Capa 8
Chiba-shi
São Paulo
/36. Morise Kumagai

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
(4)
36. Morise Kumagai
Sakuro Hase
Kamegawa-ku
(C. P. 52-B)
Beppu-shi Oita-ken
Rua Conselheiro Furtado 80
São Paulo
37. Nobuji Kaku
Shinichi Kaku
38 Kaizuka
Rua Arco Verde 1371
Kawasaki-shi Kanagawa-ken
São Paulo
38.
Matahachi Yamaguchi
Tomojiro Yassuda
Komati-shi
Rua Itapura de Miranda 58
Ishikawa-ken
São Paulo
39. Keijiro Terada
Ken Terada
5 chôme 856 Nishishin-mach1
Rua Irmã Simplioiana 35
Fukuoka
São Paulo
40. Sumie Shintomi
Naokichi Shintomi
Fujiyama-ku
Caixa Postal 1024
Ube-shi Yamaguchi-ken
São Pau lo
41. Kotaro Banto
Tadao Sasaoka
Asahigawa-shi
Caixa Postal 1133
Hokkaido
São Peulo
42. Seijiro Takahashi
Toshio Ueno
Nishi 8 Chôme 14 Minami-Ichijô
Rua Paulo Orozinbo 198
Sapporo
São Paulo
43. Katsuro Yagi
Shizuo Hosoe
254 Tsurumi-machi, Taurumi-ku
Rua Oscar Freire 1439
Yokoyama
São Paulo
44. Kenichi Oda
Massaj1 Suzuki
Itaya-machi
Rua Castro Alves 1050
Hamamatsu-shi
São Paulo
45. Tsûwô Nakahara
Shigueto Gôhara
Araki-shukusha Omori-ku
a/o Departmento de Ordem Politica
Tokio
e Social de São Paulo
Largo General Osorio
São Paulo
46. Shizuko Kimura
Teiji Kimura
o/o Kikuji Fujita
a/c Departamento de Ordem Polítio
Ta-machi, Honjo-machi, Yuri-gum-Social de São Paulo
Akita-ken
(address as above)(45)
47. Yoichi Shiotsu
Kanekiohi Shiotsu
11, 4 ohôme Anryû-chô
a/c Departamento de Ordem Politi
Sumiyoshi-ku Osaka
e Social de São Paulo
48. Inokichi Kage
Kiichiro Yoshii
27 Shimo-Hamaguohi-chô, Hakata
a/o Departamento de Ordem
Fukuoka-shi
Politica e Social de São Pau
/49. Kinpei Matsuoka

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
(5)
49. Kinpei Matsuoka
Ryotaro Negoro
24 Zaimoku-chô, Azabu-ku
a/o Departamento de Ordem
Tokio
Politica e Social de São Paulo
50. Eifu Moriya
Shôji Matsumura
74 Takinogawa-machi
a/o Departemento de Ordem
Tokio
Politica e Social de São Paulo
51. Jirokicni Suzuki
Kanji Aoki
Higashi-Takajo-machi
a/o Departamento de Ordem
Shizuoka-shi
Politica e Social de São Paulo
52. Iohiro Fukushima
Daizaburo Sasatani
Ote Suma-ku
a/c Departamento de Ordem
Kobe
Politica e Social de São Paulo

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 3998, entitled "Corresp
desired from Japan for delivery to relatives in SSo Paulo
May 21, 1946, São Paulo, Braz1l.
LIS T
ADDRESSErS
ADDRESSERS
Kiyoshi Yamamoto
1.
Shin Kimitsuka
Rua São Vicente de Paulo 416
c/o Tozan Noj1 Kabushiki
Tok1o
Ka 1sha
São Paulo
Kiyosl.1 Yamamoto
2.
Tadao Kuwabara
Rua São Vicente de Paulo 416
c/o Mainich1 Shimbun Sra
São Fau lo
Tokio
Shozaburo Yamaguch1
3.
Naoj1 Yoshida
Rua Jup1ter 154
c/o Miteubish1 Bank
São Paulo
Marunouchi - Tokio
4.
Ikutaro Aoyagu1
Takeo Goto
Rua São Vicente de Paulo 416
c/o Dept. of Foreien Affairs
São Faulo
Tokio
Kunito Miyasaka
5.
Kanichi Takeda
Rua Ba fa 408
111, 2 Chôme, Kitazawa-ch6
são Paulo
Setagaya-ku'- Tokio
Kunito Miya eaka
∈.
Hiss Fumiko Miyasaka
Rua B1á1 408
35 Homaura-chδ, Azabu-ku
São Paulo
Tok1o
Takumi Murakam1
7.
Mrs. Hifeko Kikuch1
494 Koyama-mach1, Ebara-ku
a/c S. Furuya
Rua Braz Cube a 258, Acl1mação
Tokio
São Paulo
8.
Tsunatake Furuya
Shiguetsuna Furuya
Rua Braz Cubas 258, Acl1mação
288 Narimune Asegaya
São Paulo
Buguinan1-ku - Tokio
9. Kingo Aizawa
Se1 Takaoka
533, 1 ch8me Machiya
Rua França Pinto 512
São Paulo
Arakawa-ku - Tokio
10. Gentaro Watano
Se1 Takaoka
94 Muk8yama-ch6
Rua França Pinto 512
Tokio
São Paulo
11. Hatsutaro Iizuka
Yuta Koba yashi
13, 3 chδme Okachi-ch1
Rua França Pinto 512
Shitaya-ku - Tokio
São Paulo
12. Teruj1 Kibayashi
Yuta Kobayashi
1638 Ikebukuro Toshima-ku
Rua França Pinto 512
Tokio
São Paulo
13. Takaharu Miyag1
Kenkiti Shimomoto
a/c Cooperativa Agrícola de Cotia
c/o Sangyô Kumia1 Chuōka1
Tokio
Rua Cardeal Arcoverde 2539
São Paulo
Josě Yamashiro
14. Takahiro Midorikawa
c/o Central Broadcasting
Rua Galvão Bueno 362
Tokio
office
São Paulo
15. Susumu Hirata
Shinto Aoki
c/o Ministry of Foreign Af-
Rua Galvão Bueno 289
Tokio
faire
São Paulo
or
Aza-Ima, Tachiarai-mura,
Mitsui-gun, Fuku@ka-ken
16. Kensuke

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
ADDRESSERS
-2-
ADDRESSEES
16. Kensuke Baba
Sunao Baba
c/o Ministry of Foreign Af-
a/c Salim Simão
Tokio
fairs
C.P. 20 Piracicaba
L. Faulista Estado de São Paulo
17. Iwao Nakano
Chibata Miyakosh1
c/o Kaigai Kogyo K. K.
Rua Pamplona 512
6, 3 chδ.ue, Marunouchi -Tokio
São Paulo
18. Soshiro hirano
Minoru Hiruno
539 Hateuda1, Yoyo
a/c Y. Sakamoto
Shibuya-ku  Tokio
Rua Major 3ertorio 691
são Paulo
19. Toshio Sakamoto
Yasush1 Sakamoto
397, 8 ch8e Kami-Mteuro
Rua Mo jor Sertorio 691
Mejiro-ku - Tokio
3ã0 Paulo
20. Seiji Panizaki
Ist yashi
c/o Wastda Univeraity
Jaixa Posta1 52-B
Tokio
SãO 1cul0
21. Miss Toml Takahashi
asuzolakahashi
Aise Toyo Takanashi
Ca ixa Fostal 73 A
c/o kalgai kjδiku kyδkai
Noboto Inada (Auavara kyakô)
Tokio
22. Buigej1 Sakane
Shigeru Sakane
Ikenahata Shitiken-e chi
Ca 1xa Posta1 1024
Shitaya-ku - Tokio
São Faulo
25. Chahe1 Namtu or Guljo Saito
Seigui Fujihira
c/o Oseka Inlchi Shimoun
Rua Gu1mar&ee Passos 433
Osaka
Sha
São Paulo
24. Ryoj1 Kanno
Tomoyo buch1
c/o Osaka Shôsen kaisha
Rua Christovão Goncalves 74
Oseka
Pinheiros, Sto Faulo
25. Alko lakeda
Sennojo Kitagak1
Taish8-dör1 1 chôme
Rua Barão Duprat 195
Sumiyoshi-ku Osake
São Paulo
26. Sueharu Iwata
Tomiza Takeda
11 Kajiya-machi Minami-ku
Rua Conselheiro Furtado 70
Osaka
Bão Paulo
27. Hidesada Ckada
Masash1 Yamaguch1
110 Iwaya, Nada-ku
Praça da Sé 399, s/206
Kobe
São Paulo
28. Shokich1 Nishitani
Kazuo Nishitani
c/o Daishin Trading Co.
Rua do Carmo 400
64 Naniwa-machi
Kobe
São Paulo
29. Moich1 Takeuchi
Hideichi Takeuchi
35, 1 ch8me Tobimatsu-chô
Rua Dr. Diogo de Faria 798
Suma-ku Kobe
Sã0 Paulo
30. Noboru Amano
Kenji Amano
57 Mitsuzawa, Naka-mach1
Rua Castro Alves 823
Kanagawa-ku
Yokohama
São Paulo
31. Masu Morishita
Takash1 Morishita
22 Teramae-mach1, Shishigatan1 Rua Pelotas 764
Baky6-kuKyoto
São Paulo
32. Otomatsu Yasuda
Titose Taniguti
Karahash1 38 Biwa-machi
Itaquera
Shimoky8-ku Kyoto
E.F.C.B.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
ADDRESSERS
-3-
ADDRESSEES
33. Kazuo Hachiya
Senichi Hachiya
Shirakabe-cho 2 chome
Rua Guadelupe 698
Higashi-ku Nagoya
São Paulo
34. Nippon Toki Kabushiki Kalsha
Hachiya Industria Comeroial Ltda.
Noritake-cho Nishi-ku
Rua Theophilo Otton1 85
Nagoya
Rio de Juneiro
35. Toyosh1sa Yazaki
Setsuo Yazaki
Sas Nitta-machh1
Rua Fplona 969 Casa 8
Chiba-sn1
São Paulo
36. orise kumeal
Sakuro hase
Kanetawe-ku
(3. F. 52-B)
Beppu-sni Oita-ken
hua Conselheiro Furtado 80
São Paulo
37. Nobuj1 kaku
Shinich1 Kaku
33 Kaizuka
nua Arco Verde 1371
Kawasaki-shi Kanaeawa-ken
São Paulo
38. Ma tahachi Yamaguchi
Tomojiro Yassuda
Komati-sni
Hua Itapura de Miranda 58
Ishikawa-ken
São Paulo
39. Ke ijiro Teraca
Ken Terade
5 chδme 856 Nishishin-mach1
Rua Irma Simpliciana 35
Fukuoka
São Paulo
40. Sumie Shintom1
Naokichi Shintomi
Fujiyama-ku
Ca ixa Postal 1024
Ube-shi Yamaguchi-ken
São Paulo
41. Kotaro Banto
Ta dao Sasaoka
Asahigawa-shi
Caixa Postal 1133
Hokkaido
são Paulo
42. Seijiro Takahash1
Toshio Ueno
Nish1 6 Chôme 14 Minami-Ichij8 Rua Paulo Orozimbo 198
Sapporo
São Paulo
43. Katauro Yar1
Shizuo Hosoe
254 Tsurumi-machi, Tsurumi-ku Rua Oscar Freire 1439
Yokoyama
São Paulo
44. Kenichi Oda
Massaji Suzuki
Itaya-mach1
Rua Castro Alves 1050
Hamamatsu-sni
São Paulo
45. Taūw0 Nakahara
Shigueto Gohara
Arak1-shukusha Omor1-ku
a/c Departmento de Ordem Politica
Tok1o
e Soc lal de São Paulo
Largo General Osorio
SãO Paulo
46. Shizuko Kamura
Teiji Kimura
c/o Kikuji Fujita
a/c Departamento de Ordem Politioa
Ta-machi, Honjo-mach1, Yuri-
gun-Social de São Paulo
Akita-ken
(address as above) (45)
47. Yoichi Shiotsu
Kanekioh1 Shiotou
11, 4 chôme Anrya-chō
a/o Departamento de Ordem Politio
Sumiyoshi-ku Osaka
e Social de São Paulo
48. Inokichi Kage
Kilchiro Yoshi1
27 Shimo-Hamaguohi-chô, Hakata a/c Departamento de Ordem
Fakuoka-shi
Politica e Social de Ko Paule
49. Kinpei Mateueka

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.94)
ADBREGIERS
ADDREDGEER
49. Kinpei Matsuoka
Ryotaro Negoro
24 Zaimoku-ch8, Azabu-ku
a/c Departamento de Ordem
Tokio
Politica e Social de São Paulo
50. Eifu Moriya
snajo Matsumura
74 Takinogawa-mach1
a/c Departamento de Ordem
Tokio
Politica e Social de Bão Paulo
51. Jirokichi Suzuk1
Kanj1 Aok1
Higashi-Taka jo-ac.:
a/c Departamento de Ordem
Shizuoka-sh1
Politica e Soc 1e1 de São Paulo
52. Ichiro Fukushina
Dizaburo Sasatan1
Ote Suma-ku
a/c Departamento de Ordem
Kobe
Folitlca e Social de São Paulo

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.94)
Eaclesure Mo. 1 to Deapateh No. 3998, entitled "Garres
desired frpm Japan for delivery te relatives in Me Paule
May 21, 1946, ão Paule, Bras11.
LIST
ANMRESSERE
ADPRESSKES
1.
Shin Kimitsuka
Kiyosh1 Yamameto
6/o Tosan Noj1 Kabushik1
Rua ão Vicente de Paule 416.
Tokio
Ka 1sha
São Paulo
2.
Tadao Kuwabara
Kiyosh1 Yamamoto
c/o Main1ch1 Shimbun Sha
Rua São Vicente de Paulo 416
Tokio
São Paulo
3. Naoj1 Yoshida
Shozaburo Yamaguoh1
0/o Witsubish1 Bank
Rua Jup1ter 154
Marunouch1 - Tokio
São Paulo
Ikutaro Aoyagui
Takeo Goto
o/o Dept.of Foreign Affairs
Rua São Vicente de Paulo 416
Tokio
São Paulo
5. Kanichi Takeda
Kunito Hiyasaka
111, 2 Chôme, Kitazawa-chô
Rua Baía 408
Setagaya-ku - Tokio
São Paulo
6. Miss Fumiko Miyasaka
Kunito Miyasaka
35 Hommura-ohd, Azabu-ku
Rua B1á1 408
Tokio
São Paulo
7. Krs. Hideko Kikuch1
Takumi Murakami
494 Koyama-maoh1, Ebara-ku
a/o 8. Furuya
Tokio
Rua Bras Cuba: 258, Aolimagife
sdo Paulo
8.
Teunatake Furuya
Shiguetsuna Furuya
288 Narimune Asagaya
Rua Braz Cubas 258, Aclimagãe
Suguinami-ku.- Tokio
São Paulo
9. Kingo Aizawa
Se1 Takaoka
533, 1 ah8me Machiya
Rua França Pinto 512
Arakawa-ku - Tokio
São Paulo
10. Gentaro tano
Se1 Takaoka
94 Muk8yama-ch8
Rua França Pinto 512
Tokio
São Paulo
11. Hatsutaro Iizuka
Yuta Kobayash1
13, 3 chöme Okachi-mach1
Rua Franga Pinto 512
Shitaya-ku - Tokio
São Paulo
12. Teruj1 Kibayash1
Yuta Kobayashi
1638 Ikebukuro Toshima-ku
Rua Franga Pinto 512
Tokio
São Paulo
13. Takaharu Miyag1
Kenkiti Shimomoto
a/o Sangy8 Kumia1 Chi8ka1
a/c Coeperativa Agríeela de Gotia
Tokie
Rua Cardeal Arooverde 2sse
Mo Paulo
14. akahire Midorikawa
Josš Yamshire
e/e Gentral Breadeasting
Rua Galvile Buene 362
Tokio
ofrice
ãe Paulo
15. Sugume Nirata
Shiate Acki
Rua Galvie Duene 289
faire
são Paule

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
16. Kensuke Baba
Sunao Baba
e/o Ministry of Foreigm Ar-
a/e Balla Sime
Tokie
fairs
0.P. 20 Piracieaba
L. Paulista Estado de Me Paule
17. Iwao Nakano
Chibata Miyakosh1
c/o Kaiga1 Kogyo K. K.
Rua Pamplona 512
6, 3 chome, Marunouch1 -Tokio
São Paulo
18. Soshiro Hirano
Minoru Hirano
539 Hateuda1, Yoyogu1
a/o Y. Sakamoto
Sh1buya-ku - Tok1o
Rua Major Sertorio 691
São Paulo
19. Toshio Sakamoto
Yasush1 Sakamoto
397, 8 ch8me Kam1-Meguro
Rua Major Sertorio 691
Mejiro-ku - Tokio
São Paulo
20. Be1j1 Tanizak1
Ise Hayash1
o/o Waseda University
Ca iza Postal 52-B
Tok1o
3ão Iaulo
21. Misa Tomi Takahash1
Massuzo Takahash1
Miss Toyo Takahash1
Ca 1xa Postal 73 A
0/o Ka1ga1 Ky81ku Ky8ka1
Noboto Inada (Adawara Kyūkô)
Tok1o
22. Shigoj1 Sakane
Shigeru Sakane
Ikenbhata Shitiken-mach1 8
Cn 1xa Postal 1024
Shitaya-ku - Tokio
SãO Paulo
23. Chuhe1 Nambu or Gu1yo Saito
Seigui Fujihira
o/o Osaka Mainioh1 Shimbun
Rua Guimarães Passos 433
Osaka
Sha
Bão Paulo
24. Ryoj1 Kanno
Tomoyo Mabuch1
o/o Osaka Shönen Kainha
Rua Christovão Gonoalves 74
Osaka
Pinheiros, So Paulo
25. Aiko Takeda
Sennojo Kitagak1
Taish8-d8r1 1 chôme
Rua Barão Duprat 195
Sumiyoshi-ku Omaka
São Paulo
26. Sueharu Iwata
Tom1zo Takeda
11 Kajiya-maoh1 Minam1-ku
Rua Conselheiro Furtado 70
Osaka
Bão Paulo
27. Hidesada Okada
Nasash1 Yamaguoh1
110 Iwaya, Nada-ku
Praga da 88 399, 8/206
Kobe
são Paulo
28. Shokioh1 Nishitan1
Kazuo Nishitan1
e/o Daiahin Trading Co.
Rua do Carmo 400
64 Naniwa-mmoh1
Kobe
São Paulo
29. Meich1 Takeuch1
Hideloh1 Takeuchi
35, 1 chôme Tobimatsu-chô
Rua Dr. Diogo de Faria 798
Suma-ky Kobe
são Paulo
30. Noberu Amano.
Kenj1 Amane
5? Mitsusawa, Naka-mehi
Rua Castro Alves 823
Kamagawa-ku
Yokehama
ãe Paulo
31. Masu Nerishita
Takashi Nerishita
 Terame-mmshi, Shishigatani Ram Peletas 764
Kyoté
Ko Paule
Titese Taniguti

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.94)
-3
33.. Kasue Rachiya
Senich1 Hachiya
Shirakabe-ché 2 ablae
Rua Guadelupe 698
Kigashi-ku Nagoya
Ke Paule
34. Nippen Tök1 Kabushik1 Ka1sha
mehiya Industria Cemereial Leéa.
Neritake-ehô Nishi-ku
Mua Theephilo Otten1 
Nagoya
Rio de Janeiro
35. Toyoshisa Yasak1
Setsuo Yazak1
248 N1tta-maoh1
Rua Pamplona 969 Casa 8
Ch1ba-sh1
São Paulo
36. Norise Kumaga1
Sakuro Hase
Kamegawa-ku
(0. P. 52-B)
Beppu-sh1 O1ta-ken
Rua Conselheiro Furtade 80
São Paulo
37. Nobuj1 Kaku
Shinich1 Kaku
38 Kaizuka
Rua Aroo Verde 1371
Kawasak1-sh1 Kanagawa-ken
São Paulo
38. Matahach1 Yamaguchi
Tomojiro Yassuda
Komati-shi
Rua Itapura de Miranda 58
Ishikawa-ken
São Paulo
39. Ke1jiro Terada
Ken Terada
5 oh8me 856 N1ah1shin-mach1
Rua Irmit Simpliciana 36
Fukuoka
3ã0 Paulo
40. Sumle Shintom1
Naok1ch1 Shintom1
bujiyama-ku
Ca 1xa Postal 1024
Ube-sh1 Yamaguoh1-ken
São Paulo
41. Kotaro Banto
Tadao Ba smoka
Asahigawa-sh1
Caixa Postal 1133
Hokka ido
São Paulo
42. Se1jiro Takahash1
Tonhio Ueno
N1sh1 8 Ch8me 14 Minami-Ich1j8 Rua Paulo Crozimbo 198
Sapporo
São Paulo
43. Katsuro Yag1
Shizuo Hosoe
254 Tsurumi-mach1, Tsurum1-ku
Rua Oscar Freire 1439
Yokoyama
São Paulo
44. Kenioh1 Oda
Maseaji Suzuk1
Itaya-maohi
Rua Castro Alves 1050
Hamamatsu-sh1
São Paulo
45. Tsüw6 Nakahara
Shigueto Göhara
Araki-shukusha Omori-ku
a/c Departmento de Ordem Pelitiee
Tok1o
e Soolal de Bão Paulo
Largo General Osorio
São Paulo
46. Shisuko Kamura
Te1j1 Kimura
o/e Kikuj1 Fujita
a/o Departamento de Ordem Pelities
Ta-machi, Honjo-mohi, Yuri-
gun-Sooial de são Paule
Akita-ken
(address as above)(45)
47. Yeieh1 Shietsu
Kanekichi Shietsu
11, 4 eb&me Anryü-chs
a/e Departamento de Crdem Pelitiee
Sumiyeshi-ku Osaka
• Secial de Me Paule
48. Inekiehi Kage
Kiiehiro Yeshil
27 Mmime-amaguehi-chs, Nakata a/e Departamonto de Ond
Fainekn-shi
Politien e Secial de 
49. Kipe1 mtmea

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.95)
49. Ximpe1 Matsueka
Ryotaro Negore
24 Za1moku-chô, Azabu-ku
a/e Departamente de Ordem
Tokio
Politica e Social de Me Paale
so. Eifu Moriya
8h8jo Mataumura
74 Takinogawa-mach1
a/o Departamento de Ordem
Tokio
Politica e Social de Mo Paule
B1. Jirokich1 Suzuk1
Kanj1 Aok1
Higash1-Taka Jo-mach1
a/o Departamento de Ordem
3hizuoka-shi
Politioa e Soclal de São Paulo
52. Ichiro Fukushima
Dalzaburo Sasatan1
Ote Suma-ku
a/o Departamento de Ordem
Kobe
Polition  Social de são Paulo

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.95)
JUN 251945
.186
CONFIDENTIAL
To the
United States Pelitisal Adviser to the
Supreme Cemmander fer the Allied Pewere.
Tokye.
894.20232/5-2146
present Japanese preblem in Brasil and a eepy ef a despet
from the Consulate General at Sãe Paule emelesing limte
of the names and addresses of 52 Japanese in Japam m
52 Japanese in Sãe Paule. The Gonsulate Smeral request
that correspondence be permitted between the Japanese
named in the enelosed lists.
The Department is aware that am early resumption
of limited mall cervice between Japan and other semtries
is anticipated and that therefore no extraerdinary arrange-
ments in the present instance may be necesmary. Hovever,
in view of the situatien in Brazil as described by the
CS/V
Consulate General, it would be appreciated if these names
might be transmitted to SGAP with the suggestion that, if
Feasible, the Japanese listed as resident in Japan be
notified of the desire of their friends and relatives in
Brazil to receive word from them and that the transmission
of such communications be facilitated.
Enclosures:
Kemorandua, June 14, 1946.
ana m
May 21, 1946.
gIQ
6-20-46
Dist.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
JAPANESE IN BRAZIL
There are approx1mately 300,000 Ja mnese in Brazil,
250,000 of wh1ch arm located in the state of Sao Paulo.
Most of these Japanese are engaged in farming, although
a few have found their way into industry. Before the
war the Japanese Government maintained several large
companies in Brazil specially for the purpose of colon1-
zation.
Recently a group of Japanese in Sao Paulo organized
themselves into secret societies, and have been con-
ducting terrorist activities in the state or Sao Paulo.
The leaders in these socleties are preaching that Japan
has won the war, and have been taking advantage of the
ignorance of the small Japanese farmers in the interior.
They have been buying land from these small farmere on
4.20232/5-2146
the pretense that the Japanese Government will shortly
send for these people to take them back to Japan to
settle in the islands which have been conquered from
the Allies and in California, which is now, according to
these leaders, occupied by the Japanese. In furtherance
of their campaign they have asassinated several of the
Japanese leaders who were willing to admit the defeat of
Japan and have compiled a list of others who are to be
asassinated in due course.
In their campaign they have used all types of propa-
ganda, have not hesitated to alter any pictures or any
press releases. It has been rather difficult to overoome
the influence of this propaganda. To counter-balance
this some Japanese leaders in Sao Paulo requested that
the Consulate General obtain permission for persons in
Japan to correspond with relatives in Sao Paulo informing
them of the true conditions in Japan. The Department
requested that the Consulate General in Sao Paulo submit
the names of persons in Japan from whom correspondence
CS
was desired.
V
Acting on this suggestion from the Department, the
Consulate General has forwarded a list of Japanese in
Japan and addressees in Sao Paulo under cover of despatch
no. 3998 of May 21. It would be very helpful 1f permis-
sion could be obtained for correspondence between the
persons listed in the enolosures to the cited despatch,
to begin as soon as possible rather than wait until open
correspondence through the regular mails is again permitte
DCR NE Unit
BA:JGA1n:ird
na
1-1946
June 1
1946
Oat
Dist.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COM
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
ACTION-ARA
DFO:
UPARTENT 
FE
MES -C
UFACHO
7706
FC
AMEURAR
OCD
PLAIN
SPD
AY
VD
Sao Paulo
TRC
:1
OIC
Dated May 21, 1946
DC/R
Rec'd. 5:23 p.m.
SECSTATE
164, Tuenty-first
Japsnese situation not improved. Assaults and
shootings continue. Authorities are instituting
894.20232/5-2146
deportation proceedings. Numbers involved are
probebly less then one hundred. Pre iminary considera-
tion should be given to transportation problems.
Suggest consideration military plans. Again urge
pictures and films showing armed American troops in
Japen newspapers not yet received.
CROSS
CAD
PLAIN
LRC
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.95)
MemOranduM · UNITED STATES GOVERNAENT
DATE: 6/28/46
(ADA) Mr. F.Granger
FROM :
SUBJECT :
Photos purporting to show surrender of
US forces to Japanese
I have secured a few extra copies of these photos.
I wonaer if Mr. Bentonwoula like to have one set
por his own information and possibly to have an
article written on the matter.
Another set nas been sent to Mr. N.Macy.
Should you like to nave one set for your own file,
I still have enough to furnish it.
One set is being sent to General MacArthur in Tokyo
through ADO. We hope he will send us more material
for the Japanese in Brazil.
Write Cras in S.P. bllimy
what me did + thank fr
valuable uformation
Nught also deaft shot
G

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.90)
艦上遙かに日本軍艦

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.78)
米ツルマン大統領及一提督が
ミソリー北米歸還/節調印式現状
視察状景（コノ態度ハ物見儿
度力十七)

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.93)
No. 
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brazihay
No.4002
Jur.rt
 A
SuBJECT: Transmission of photographs indicating the
surrender of tne United States Forces.
DEARTEE  
AMERICAN REPUBLIO AFFAIBS
THE HONORABLE
111946
D'VISION OF AMERIGAN
THE SECRETARY OF/STATE.
 A
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I nave the honor to refer to previous airgrams and
despatcnes concerning the extremely serious situation
existing in São Taulo as a result of continued efforts
894.20232/5-2346
by certain Japanese groups to convince the rest of the
colony thut Japan won the war and that the United States
was defeated.
I en enclosing nerewith three examples of the pro-
paganda material used.
The first picture is purporting to show the bat-
tieship Missouri with the Japanese flag at the masthead.
This is indicated by the arrow in the extreme upper cen-
ter. The second picture shows President Truman and an
American Naval Officer inspecting the plaque on the deck
of the Missouri where the surrender was signed. Their
position, however, is described by the Japanese as rev-
erence to the Japanese receiving the surrender. The
third picture is merely snowing Armed Japanese and thd
non-armed American soldier.
CORRELAD
Respectfully yours,
CS/S
LMuN
11946.
Cecil M. P. Cross
UEP
American Consul General
S
STATE
DEC 2-1946
File No. 704
CMPCr osS: vZP
FILED
Enclosures: Three pictures as stated above.
REF
Original and ozalid copy to the Department
894.20232
10/31/46
Copy to tne Embassy at Rio de Janeiro.
iMB
NT OF STATE
KNhe an
OCT 3 0 1946
OFFICE OF NITELLISENCE
-2346
OLLECTION ANO DISSEMINTION

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.94)
UL1119
UNRESTRICTED
No.
To the
American Consular Officer in Chargs,
são Paulo, Brasil.
The Acting Secretary of State refers to the Consuler Offieer's
despatch No. 402, dated May 23, 1946, attaching three photos m-
plifying Japanese propaganda on the purported surrender of the
United States forces to Japan.
Copies of these photos are being sent to SCAP, in Tokyo, in
the hope that they will help to speed up the forwarding of materials
to be distributed among the Japanese colony of Braail, and the taking
of other measures commensurate with the gravity of the situatiem.
The Conaular Officer's attention to this matter and the inferme-
tion and materials sent to the Department concarning the same heve
been duly noted with apprecietion.
894.20232/5-2346
BMBigan
D:-1
6/28/46
DA d/Eça rs
eax
JUL 8 1946
JOL 10
.J46P.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.95)
598
PREPARING OFFICE
-TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY
Collect
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
MESSAGEI
Charge Department:
UNRESTRICTED
Washington
Cherge to
Appropriation number 1961096
JUN 4 1946
AMERICAN CONSUL
SÃO PAULO (ERAZIL)
Urtel 175 May 27. SCAP informs from Tokyo it is sending ten
reels Japanese newsreels and ten radio transcriptions and some
894.20232/5
newspapers. Shortwave radio broadcasts to Brazil from Japan under
consideration although general ban on Japanese overseas broadcasts
(W65)
present dificulties.
(1V65)
CEN
DIVISION CF
-2746
211
1E
CS/RH894.20232
CODE
ROOM
Please repeat to American Embassy at Rio de Janeiro
ca
4 1546PM
NB
2746
JA
ADA:Rd!Ega:crc
2/29/46
BA

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.95)
No. 
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brazth
No.4002
J.
V.27-46
SuBJECT: Transmission of photogr phs indicating the
surrender of the Inited States Forces.
AMERICAN REPUBLIO AFPA
THE HONORABLE
J111946
THE SECRETARY OF/STATE.
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I nave the honor to refer to previous airgrams and
despatcnes concerning the extremely serious situation
existing in são Taulo as a resuit of continued efforts
894.20232/5-2346
by certain Japanese groups to convince the rest of the
colony thut Jepan won the war and that the United States
was defeated.
I en enclosing terewitn three examples of the pro-
raganda material used.
The first picture is purporting to show the bat-
tie ship issouri with the apanese flag at the masthead.
This is indicated by the arrow in the extreme upper cen-
ter. The second picture shows President Truman and an
American Naval Officer inspecting the plaque on the deck
of the Missouri where the surrender was signed. Their
position, however, is described by the Japanese as rev-
erence to the Japanese receiving the surrender. The
third picture is merely snowing Armed Japanese and thdl
non-armed American soldier.
CORRELAD
Respectfully yours,
CS/SMS
LMun
11946
Cecil M. P. Cross
STATE
American Consul General
File No. 704
DEC 2-1946
CMPCross: vzp
FILED
Enclosures: Three pictures as stated above.
REF
Original and ozalid copy to the Department
10/31/46
Copy to the Embassy at Rio de Janeiro.
iMB
BMBujan
OCT 3 0 1946

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.82)
no.
To the
Amerieen Comsaler Gefieer in Charge,
Se Peale, Brasil.
The Asting Seeretary of State refure to the Boms
deapatch No. hoe, dated ty 23, 1shd, attaotdng
United States forees to Japan.
been duly neted with appresiatiem.
894.20232/5-2346
DOR
ARA U:
BMBryan
Anal
Rev
Cut
Dist
KS
DA :RdyEça rs
_6/28/46
894.2
JUL 8 1946

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.92)
598
PREPARING OFFICE
-TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
UNRESTRICTED
Washington
Cherge to
Appropriation number 1961096
JUN 4
1946
AMERICAN CONSUL
SÃO PAULO (ERAZIL)
92
Urtel 175 May 27. SCAP informs from Tokyo it is sending ten
reels Japanese newsreels and ten radio transcriptions and some
894.20232/5-2746
newspapers. Shortwave radio broadcasts to Brazil from Japan under
consideration although general ben on Japanese overseas broadcasts
3
(WLS)
present dificulties.
P4G JUN 4  4
(215)
CENTRAL SERVICES
DIVISION OF
RECEIVED
5
FNE
CS/RH894.20232
s
745
CODE ROOM
Please repeat to American Embassy at Rio de Janeiro
358
Teud.
5.2746
1946PM
TTN
NeB
JA
2/29/46
BA
AnA:Rd'Ega:crc

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.91)
DIVISION OF
ACTION
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TLESPON JARACH
INFO:
INCOMING TELEGRAM
FE
CWD -C-D
9751
BA
FC
Paraphrase before com-
OCD
mnicuting oxcept ta
Sao Paulo
TRC
Govornment Behc1OPAKDMNT OF 3TA1F
OIC
OFFICE 0I
Dated Ney 27, 16
BC/R
AKERICSH REPUBAC AFFAIRS
RESTRICTED
Rec'd 4.08 .0.
MAY 2 146
0
2011
SECSTATE
14.20232
CV6
175.5 27,5.
Japcre io it tiin unimproved; Brazilian authorities to
894.20232/5-2746
atteching a o est faportance to correspondence from Japan
Urge spec1a. ttor lon y despatch 3977 datod May 9, 1946
and its accompenyig list.
Japene y sugg st also short wave radio but wust be from
Tokyo with cur an: vave length announced. They also
reitorats d virabi. ity or a commission with a momber or im-
porial famiy.
CROSS
17D
RESTRICTED
JUL
FILEL
31:946
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
4AY28
UNRES TRIC TED
No.
To the
American Consular Officer in Charge,
São Paulo, Brasil.
The Secretary of State refers to the Consular Officerts
request, contained in severa? comaunications to the Department,
Japan's surrender.
There are enclosed the following Japansse vernacular paperss
May 10, 1946
The Yomiuri Shimbun
May 10, 1946
Asahi Shimbun
May 10, 1946
Mainichi Shimbun
May 11, 1946
Mainichi Shimbun
May 11, 1946
Asahi Shimbun
May 11, 1946
The Yomiuri Shimbun
May 12, 1946
Asahi Shimbun
The Yomiuri Shimbun
May 12, 1946
Mmy 12, 1946
Mainichi Shimbun
Mainichi Shimbun
May 13, 1946
May 13, 1946
CS/HS
The Yomiuri Shimbun
May 13, 1946
Asahi Shimbun
The Yomiuri Shimbun
May 14, 1946
Asahi Shimbun
May 1h, 1946
May 14, 1946
Mainichi Shimbun
May 15, 19h6
The Yomiuri Shimbun
May 15, 1946
BMBuyan
Asahi Shimbun
May 15, 1946
May 16, 1946
The Yomiuri Shimbun
41
May 16, 1946
Asahi Shimbun
mginiohi Shimbun
May 16, 1946
894.20232/5.2 84
Co
27 946
Enslosures:
2l eopies of Japanese
neaspapere.
W65
5/22/46
BA
ADA:Rd Ega:crc

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPHBRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
7 ;
Jile
8-2646
ROB-L-X
10609
ACTION: OIC
001-()
PLAIN
INFO:
ARA
MAY 3 1 1946
Sac Paulo
894.20232/5-2946
CY
DC/R
Dated May 29, 1946
Det of Sule
Roo'd 5:10 p.m.
SECSTATE
179, Tuenty-ninth.
Japanese newspepers transmitted instruction May 22
and May 23 received vill be greatest ass1stance. Urge
contimuation of supply.
CROSS
BHL
PLAIN
Confidential File
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.95)
No. 401
ATA
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
File
São Paulo, Brazil, May 31, 1946
6-28-46
DC/R
SUBJECT Di fficutty In securin panese papers from
te Inited states.
DIC AMÉRICAN HÉPURLICS AREA
DIVISION - (ADA)
12/46
A04.Mm.
JUN111946
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
894.20232/5-3146
Department of State
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I nave the nonor to refer again to the difficult
situation existin in the Je panese colony in São aulo
because of the wide-spread velief in the Japanese vic-
tory.
It is believed taat the supplying of Japanese lan-
guage newspapers, pr-ferably fron Japan but also from
the Inited states, would be of great value in combating
tiis propaganda. It nes been brougnt to the attention
of tuis Consulate Gener'l that the sending of these
papers from the United states to Brazil is still for-
bidden.
A coy c! te comaunication from The Rocky Shimpo
addressed to a would-be subscriber in são Paulo is en-
closed.
CS/RH
It is hoped tnat it will be possible to do something
to remove this prohibition with as little delay as pos-
sible.
Respectfully yours,
Cecil M. P. Cross
American Consul General
File No. 800
CMPCross:vzP
JUN 281946
Enclosure: As stated.
FILED
894.20232
Original and ozalid to Department.
Copy to Embassy in Rio de Janeiro.
BMBun

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.97)
The Rocky Shimpo
1941 Lanmer Street
P. O. BOX 720
Denver 1. Colorado
Daily
Phone Keystone o8ss
Published Tuapssrng
pril 23, 1946
Dr. Csamu Ikubo
Caixa Postal, 275
Sac Faulo, Dr sil
Dear I.r. Ikubo:
We are in receipt of your letter of April &, and
the contents duly noted.
however, we are sorry to say that still we are not
able to mail our Rocky Shimpo to your country. thouch
we are anticipatint an early authorization as we are ap-
plyint for same.
lr regards to the remittance of yours, we bave re-
turned the bank draft to the Chase National Bank of Now
York asking thon to return same to the remitter and
therefore, you may find why they are holdine same so
lone a period by ycur writing to your oritinal bank
there.
He thank cu for your favor, and we assure that
we will advise icu as socn as wt may beccme able to
ser.d our hocky Shimpo th.ere.
Sincerely ycurs,
THE ROCKY SIMPO
YY:hT

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.92)
JUNGA
UNRESTRICTED
No.
894.20232/5-3146
To the
American Consular Officer in Charge,
São Paulo, Brasil.
The Acting Secretary of State refers to the despateh mo. holé,
dated May 31, 1946, of the Officar in Charge concerting the diffi-
culty in securing Japanese nswspapers from the United States.
The Department was informed by the Office of the Alien Preperky
Colorado, to take subscriptiona from the other American Repablies had
been terminated at midnight June 17, 1946.
It is hoped that Japanese citisens living in Brasil who desire
to take subscriptions of The Rocky Shiapo or any other Japanese pape
published in the United States may do so from now on withent diffi-
culty.
cs/v
Anal.B. MRay
DOR - ARA Unit
Rev.
dat
894.20282
JUN 10 |946P.M.
YNLS
ADA:RA1Egasero
6/17/46

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COP
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DCG -W-X
578
Paraphrase before com-
municating except to
Sao Paulo
Governmant Agancies
RSIC
DIPARTMENT OF ITATF Dted June 3, 1946
OFFICE
RESTRICTED
AMERICRLPUBLICAFFAIR RC'd Il:l1 a.m., 3rd
ACTION:ARA
JUN 3 1946
INFO:
SECSTATE
S
U
A-B
184, June 3, 10 a.
SA/M
FE
Four Japanese shot and killed an ex-Colonel Wakeyama
FC
last night in Sao Paulo and surrendered to Brazilian
894.20232/6-346
OCD
authorities. Motives Colonel's efforts to convince country-
OIC
men of Japanese defeat urgently need more Japanese newspapers
DC/R
and photographs of armed American troops in Japan. Windov
display of photographs have: been despatcsed into interior
and motion pictures have been pieced together for exhibits
but more are needed. Repeated to Embassy.
CROSS
BB
RESTRICTED
JUN 6 1946
FILED
LRC
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.76)
UNRESTRICTED
NO.
Larieme Gmmsier ectieer a Gge
,.

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.95)
Asahi Shimbun
The Yemiari Shimbun
The Mainichi
Asahi Shimbun
The Mminichi
The Yomiuri Shimbun
Asahi Shimbun
Asahi Shimbun
The Yomiuri Shimbun
The Mainichi
Enclosures:
40 Japanese papers.
eah
501≈7.1948
Nhs
5/31/46
BA
AnA:Rd'Egazcro

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.92)
JUNZUN
894.20232/6-2046
UNRESTRICTED
No.
To the
Ammrican Consular Officer in Charge,
São Paulo, Brazil.
The Acting Secretary of State refers to the Consular Ofriserts
文
current Japanese newspapers and other saterials concerning the
American occupation of Japan.
There gre attached the following copies of Japanese vernseula
papers published, for the most part, in the smaller towns of Japes
Asahi
February 1, 1946
8
2,
2山
15
(2 copies)
16
(4
copies)
路
18
19,
20,
The
Mainichi
2
排
(2 copies)
(2 copies)
Bippon Sangyo
Tokdo Shimbun
Yomiuri Hoohi
18
894.20232
(2 copies)
16
DOR
18

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.91)
2
Yomiuri Hoohi
The Fiji Shimpo
Enclosure:
35 copies of Japansse
newspapers.
20946
wLS
NLS
6/19/46
ADA:Rd'Ega:cro

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
File Designation
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
Date
From
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
Authority
Date
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GSA FORM 7117 (2.72)
GPO : 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
File Designation
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
Date
From
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
Authority
Date
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GSA FORM 7117 (2.72)
GPO: 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.93)
No. 4081
OPPANTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
AMERICAN CONUUEERA
JUL161946
São Paulo, Bra 11, July 1, 1946
AD
SuBjEct Transmission of translatan of letter dated
June 13, 1948 and article dated June 16, 1946.
THE HONORABLE
DEPARTMENT
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
894.20232/7-146
SIR:
I have the honor to enclose herewith the transla-
tion of a letter dated June 13, 1946 from José Seno1
and also an article published on June 16, 1946 in the
newspaper called A Cidade de Guararapes of São Paulo
with regard to the Japanese situation in São Paulo.
Respectfully yours,
Cecil.
Cross
American Consul General
Enclosures: As stated.
n011
File No. 800
CM PCr os s: vz p
Original and ozalid to Department.
191946
Copy to the"Embassy in Rio de Janeiro.
Decrir of State
H
IT OF SIARE
894.20232
REGENED
re
Confidential File
OCT 18 1946
SEF 2 0 '346
FILEL
OFFIGE OF INELLGENGE
GOLLECTION AND DISSERNN4 TION

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
TRANSLATION OF LETTER DATED JUNE 13. 1946
GUARARAPES, 13 de June de 1946
Mr. T. A. Scott
American Consuate
são Paulo
Dear Sir:
Thank you very much for the useful photographs you
sent us.
On this date, a conference was held attended by the
local authorities, representatives of this locality,
and neighboring cities and about 400 people of the Jap-
anese colony.
Various Japanese and Brazilian speakers delivered
messages on the current Japanese situation and the re-
sults were very satisfactory.
On adjourning the meeting, all present swore their
support for the harmony and prosperity of Brazil.
In compliance with our promise, we are attaching
herewith a list of names of people in the Sorocabana
and Alta Paulista zones and should any point need clari-
fying you can also contact Mr. Senjiro Hatanaka of Bas-
tos.
Thank you very much.
(signed)
JOSE SENOI
(signed)
JOACUIN YOSHIO KAMAKURA
Enclosure: 2 copies of the local newspaper.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.97)
A CIDADE DE GUA
Diretor PrOprietário : PROF. HONORIO DE OLIVEIRA CAMARGO
ANO2
Redação e Oficinas: Praça N. S. da Con-
Guararapes, 16 de Junho de 1946
ceição, 251 — Cx. Postal, 116 — Pone, 22
Grande reunião promovida por elemementos da
de Guararapes, a-fim-de esclarecer os seus con
SHINDO REMM
Quinta feira ultima reali-
sou-se no Cine Paratodos
uma reunião em que toma-
ram parte não somente ele-
mentos da colonia japonesa
José Sénoi, fazendeiro; Mi- o único intuíto de receber da colonia, e n
local como tambem pessoas
yake Juite, fazendeiro; Fu- de cada japonés um esti- dores comoverd
gradas de nosso munici-
kugi, Sasnomia; Mitsuyoshi pendio, por lhe trazer essa te são, eles p
pio, dentre as quais anota-
Kiokwa, comerciantes; Mi- noticia que ão é verda- contar tudo pu
mos as seguintes: João Ar-
noru Otsuca. comerciante; deira. Esses elementos que e não secretame
ruda Brasil Prefeito Muui-
Massuo Nakagami, comer- geralmente andam fugidos o fazem. Assim
cipal; Dr. Elias Alves Cor-
ciante Kioshi Kimura, co- da policia, nunca dizem is- japones vier inla
rea Jnrior, Delegado de
merciante; alem de uns qua- so em público, mas sim es- lonia de fatos
Policia; Lourenço de Souza,
trocentos elementos da co- condidas, para melhor en do Japão, os japo
Agente do Correio; Sebas-
lónia japonesa residentes ganar seus patricios com Guararapes deven
tião Serpa Junior, escrivão
em nosso Municipio. Uma noticias falsas, pois a colo- a presença das au
da Coletor.a Federol; Dr.
caravana de elementos de nia, composta em sua maio- para que ele all
Elias Miguel, medico; Dr.
fora estava presente a reu- ria de homens que traba- mentira, que é a
Estanislau Fadigas de Sou-
nião da qual faziam parte;
lham na lavoura, não tem tória do Japão, n
za, medico; Fausto Neif,
de onde receber informa- mundial ha pouco
Dr. Motomo Konda, medico
Presidente da Associação
residente em Lins, proprie-
ções e por isso é ludibria- do.
Comercial, Índustriale Agri-
tario da Casa de Saude
da por espertalhões que
Em seguida falo
cola de Guararapes; João
"Osvaldo Cruz"; Sassaite
ultimamente fazem disto
Honorio de Olive
Erasmo Moreira, medíco;
Luiz Capovila. Escrivão de
Policia; Luiz Maffei Rosa,
comerciante; Pacifico No-
Azzi, gerente do Banco Na-
cional da Pródução, Dr.
Promissão; Noda Guenko,
Massaki, comerciante em
fazendeiro em Getulina;
em Araçatuba; Shigezo Ka-
Uye Maçaro, farmaceutico
to, comerciante em Valpa-
sando disse S. S. que cada
tar essa mentira. Finali-
vez mais ha de peiorar a
seu meio de vida, receben-
do de pobres trabalhado-
res, dinheiro para lhes con-
go Junior, diret
jornal que disse
gio que a colonía
perde dia a dia
povo e as autorid
vido á ação nefas
tura Municipal; Geraldo
gueira, contador da Prefei-
Rezende, Proressor; Clineu
raiso; NanoriKuroba, com-
prador de Algodão em Vel-
situação dos japoneses, si
ees päo prorarem saber
da verdade, embora seja
Remmei para con
respeitosa
da
Peres Marhes, Seoretario
Almeida, Tabellão; João B.
amerciante em Lins; To-
paraiso; Russoi Yoshigiro,
por todos já afirmado que
brasiletra. Si a u
leiro no Japão cu
da Prefeitura Municipal;
raite Yotoshi, comerciante
o Japão de fato não saiu
peitar as leis do
Jorge Merigo, comerciante;
em Araçatuba; Morishida
vencedor.
japonés no Bra
Shimatae, comerciante em
Waldemar Queiroz, Profes-
A seguir faou o sr. Cli- Identica respons
sor; Manuel Messias de Sou-
Valparaiso;
neu Almeida, dizendo da Si a Shindo Remn
za, Diretor da Escola co-
Sukeu Aoki, comerciante
importância do trabalhador sociedade Seorel
mercial de Guararapes;
em Lins, Kamei, fotogrąfo
japonês em nossa lavoura ciosa aos inter
João Candido, Fiscal Rural;
em Promissão; Issamo Ko-
é a harmonia que sempre Brasil é necessar
go Junio, Diretor de hosso escaparam as anotações de cada por aqueles que cons para que ela não
Jornal; Roque Demassi, Con- nossa reportagem.
tituem essa séciedade se- tre, para que
tador da Associação Comer- Abrindo a sessão usou creta que é a Shindo Rem- manche o bom no
cial, Iudustrial é Agricola da palavra o Dr. Elias Al- mei. A harmonia da pacifi- frutado até agora
de Guararapes; Gabriel For- ves Correia Junior que fo- ca colonia japonesa está poneses, comoho
tes, da firma Fortes sobri- calisou a exploração que perturbada por pessôas que balhadores e cur
pho e Cie. e outras pes- soirem os japoneses por procuram mal informar os de seús deveres.
soas qué escaparam às nos- parte de certos elementos japoneses com mentiras es- japoneses cumpre
sas anotações.
mal intencionados, iludindo palhadas sedretamente e ver.— denuuciar
Dentre os elementos da a boa fé de patriotas japo- depois receber de cada próprios patriclos
colonia japonesa anotamos- neses, em informar-lhes um, uma contribuição em toridades brasilei
J. Y. Kamakura, proprieta- que o Japão ganhou a guer- dinheiro. Si de fato ésses les que fingindo
rie da Farmacia Frutal; ra das Nações Unidas, com japoneses fossem amigos doneses patriotas

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.94)
A CIDADE DE
GUA
Diretor Proprietário: PROF. HONORJO DB OLIVEIRA CAM
ANO2
Reção e Oñcipns. Praça N. 8. da Con-
Guararapes, 16 de Junho de 1946
ceição, 251 - Cx. Postal, 116 - Pone, 22
Grande reunião promovida por elemementos
de Guararapes, a-fim-de esclarecer os seus
SHINDO REMN
Quinta feira ultima reali-
sou-se to Cine laratodos
uma reuã, cn que toma-
ram parte não somente elt-
mente、 ds colonia japonesa
José Sénoi. fazendeiro; Mi- o único intuíto de receber da colonia,
local cotmo tambem pessoas
yake Juite, fazendeiro; Fu- de cada japons um esti- dores como
gradas kl. nosso munici-
kugi, Sarnomia; Mitsuyoshi pendio, por lhe trazer essa te são, ele
pio, dentre us quais anota-
Kiokwa, comerciantes; Mi- noticia que não é verda- contar tudo
mos as segaintes: Jeão ir
noru Otsuca. comerciante; deira. Esses elementos que e não secr
ruda Brasil Prefeíto Muui
Massuo Nakagami. comer- geralmente andam fugidos o fazem. A
cipal: Dr Elits Alves Cor-
ciante Kioshi Kimura, co- da policia, nnca dizem is- japones vier
rea Jirior, Delegado de
merciante; alemde uns qua- so am público, mas sim es- lonia de fa
Policia; Lourenço de Souza,
trocentos elementos da co- condidas, para melhor en do Japão, o
Agente do Correio; Sebas-
lonia japonesa residentes ganar seus patricios com Guararapes d
tião Serpa Junior, escrivão
cm nosso Municipio. Uma noticias falsas, pois a colo- a presençadod
da Coletor.a Federel; Dr.
caravana de elementos de nia, composta em sua maio- para que ele
Elias Miguel, medico; Dr.
fora estava presente a reu- ria de homens que traba- mentira, que 
Estanislau Fadigas de Sot-
za, medico; Fausto N.if,
Presidente 'da Asso iação
nião da qual faziam parte;
Dr. Motomo Konda, medico
lham na lavoura, não tem tória do Japão
de onde receber informa- mundial ha por
residente em Lins, proprie-
ções e por laso é ludibria- do.
Comercial, IndustrialeAgri-
Azzi, gerente do Banco Na-
cola de Guararapes; João
tario da Casa de Saude
"Osvaldo Cruz"; Sassaite
ultiniamente fazem dísto
da por espertalhões que
Honorio de Olfval
Em seguida tal
cional da Pródução, Dr.
Massaki, comerciante em
seu melo de ida, receben-
go Junior, dhr
Erasmo Moreira, nedico;
Promissão; Noda Guenko,
do de pobres trabalhado-
jornal que disse
fazendeiro em Getulina;
res, dinheiro para lhes con-
Luiz Capovila, Escrivão de
gio que a colonle
Policia; Luiz Maffei Rosa.
Uye Maçaro. farmaceutico
tar essa mentira. Finali-
perde dia ad
comerciante; Pacifico No-
em Araçatuba; Shigezo Ka-
sando disse 8. S. que cada
povo e as sug
tura Municipal, Geraldo
gueira, contedor da Prfel
to, comerciante em Valpa-
raiso; Nanori Kuroba, com-
situação dos japoneses, si
vez mais ha de peiorar a
vido á açãone
respeitoss
Rezende. Profess (e
prador de Algudão em Vel-
da verdade, eabora weja
e!os pão prorarem saber
Remmel pare
Peres Marties, Hcorctartc
Atoelda, Tabeliao: Jno B.
riane em Lins; To-
paraiso; Russol Yoshigiro,
por todos já afirmado que
leiro no Jap
brasiletra. S
da Prefeitura Muricipa!;
raite Yotoshi, comerciante
o Japão de fato não saiu
peltar as leís do
Jorge Merigo, comereiante:
Waldemar Queiroz, Profes.
ein Araçatuba: Morishida
Shimatae, comerciante em
vencedor.
A seguir faku o r (li- identica reap
japonés no
sor; Manuel Mesulas de Sou-
Valparaiso;
neu Almeida, dizendo da Si a Shíndo Re
za, Diretor da Escola co-
morolal de Guararapes;
Joßo Candido. Fiscal Rural; em Promissão; Issamo Ko-
é a harmonia que sempre Brasil é neco
Jornal; Roque Dumassi, Con- nossa reportagem.
tituem essa sciedad se- tre, para que
tador da Associação Comer- Abrindo a sessão usou creta que é a Shindo Rem- manche  bor
cial, Iadustríal e Agricola da palavra o Dr. Elias Al- mei. A harmohia da pacifi- frutado mé 
de Guararapee; Gabriel For. ves Correia Junior que fo- ca colonia japonesa está poneses, como
tes, da firma Fortes sobri- calisou a exploração que perturbada pot pessôas que halhadores 
pho e Cla. e outras pes- soirem os japoneses por procuram pal informar ca de seús devery
soas qué escaparam às nos- parte de certos elementos japoneses com mentiras e- japoneses 
s oç.
mal intencionados, iludindo palhadas se retamente e ver — donue
Dentre os elementos da a boa lè de patriutas jepo- depois receter de oada próprios pe
colonla japomese anotamos- neses, em informar lhes um, uma compribuição em toridades
J. Y. Kamakues, proprieta- que o Japão ganhou a guer- diuheiro. Si dp Lato ésses les que n
cacte Frutal; ra das Nacões Uuidas, com japonenes fosem amigos doneses

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
gaml, comer- geralmente andam fugidos o fazem. Assim quando nm
Kioshi Kímura, co- da policia, núnca dizem is- japones vier infermar&co-ma
álemde ans qua- so ém púbiicp, mas sim es- lonia de fatos a
respeito
japonesa residentes ganar seus patricios com Guararapes devem leva-lo
so Municipio. Uma noticias falsas, pois a colo- a presença das autoridades
stava presente a reu- ria de homehs que traba- mentira, que é a falsa vi-
atomo Konda, medico de onde receber informa- mundial ha pouco tarmina-
nte em Lins, proprie- çoes e por imso é judiuria- uu.
da Casa de Saude da por espertalhões que
ldo Cruz"; Sassaite
ultimamente fazem disto
Em seguida falou o prőf. japoneses, b p
ki, comerciante em
seu meio de vida, receben-
Honorio de Oliveira Camar- causa a Shinde
ssão; Noda Guenko,
do de pobres trabalhado-
go Junior, diretor deste não só á culeni
deiro em Getulina;
res, dinheiro para lhes con-
jornal que disse do presti- como tambem 
Maçaro, farmaceutico
tar essa mentira. Finali-
gio que a colonia japonesa sileíra. Em parttdular
raçatuba; Shigezo Ka-
sando disse S. S. que cada
perde dia a dia entre o decen as autoridaden
merciante em Valpa-
vez mais ha de peiorar a
povo e as autoridades, de- ali compareceram be
Nanori Kuroba, com.
situação dos japoneses, si
vido á ação nefasta e des- mo o seu auxilio om
de Algodão em Vel-
eles não prodrarem saber
o; Russoi Yoshigiro,
da verdade, embora seja
Remmei para com a patria japánesa. Jasé,
jane-em Lins; To-
por todos já afirmado que
brasiletra. Si a um brasi- pressou-se depols em
rotoshi, comerciante
o Japāo de fato não saiu
leiro no Japão cumpre res- nês à assistênol
Araçatuba; Morishida
vencedor.
peitar as leis do país, ao como o sr. Noda Guenko,
tae, comerciante em
japonés no Brasil cabe proprietário da Fazenna
A seguir falou o r. Cli- identica responsabilidade. Öuro, em Getulina.
raiso;
neu Almeida, dizendo da Si a Shindo Remmei é uma guir falou novamente o Dr.
Aoki, comerciante
reportagem.
tituem essa sociedad se- tre, para que não mais mento para que o movi.
Indo a sessão usou creta que é a Shindo Rem- manche o bom nome des- mento da Shindo Remmel
lavra o Dr. Elias Al- mei. A harmonia da pacifi- frutado até agora pelos ja- fosse acabado. Esse com,
orreia Junior que fo- ca colonia japonesa está poneses, como homens tra- promisso foi prestado por
u a exploração que perturbada pcr pessôas que balhadores e cumpridores todos os japoneses presen-
n os japoneses por procuram mal informar os de seus deveres. Aos bons tes á seseão, que se puze-
de certos elementos japoneses com mentiras es- japoneses cumpre ésse de- ram de pé, como sinal de
tencionados, iludindo palhadas secretamente e ver.— denunciar aos seus apôio a idela de todos trs-
fé de patriotas japo- depois receber de cada próprios patricios e ás au- balharem para grandesa e
em informar-lhes um, uma contribuição em toridades brasileiras aque- felicidade não só de nosas
Japão ganhou a guer- diulieiro. Si de fato esses les que fingindo-se de ja- patria como tambem da co
Nações Unidas, com japoueses fossem amigos doneses patriotas, mentem, Îonia japonesa.
ens Gerais da Alta Noroeste S. A.
UARARAPES e filiais em VALPARAISO e GUARAÇAÍ, têm o grato prazer de comuni-
s, á lavoura e ao comércio de toda a zona noroeste, a abertura de seus armazens nas
onde acham-se devidamente aparelhados para servi-los da melhor forma possivel.
Pela preferência que merecem, antecipam seus agradecimentos.
1946.
do pelo Dr. Motomo Konda na sessão realisada quinta-
feira última no Cine Paratodos
rem nos seus esforços e
não cumprirem com todos
relatorio divulgado son, snr. Dean Achéson ejesforço constante,com no-
os seus compremissos em
r Herbert Hoover,
snr. Clinton Anderson re- vas e rigorosas econamias,
materia de exportação de
ente do Conselho de
velava que se prevê um nos países fornecedores
cereais, esse fato signifi-
ção da Fome., apre-
em Washington no
"deficit" de 3.600,000 tone-
ladas de trigo entre 1.o de
gorduras. A cooperação
principalmente de trigo e
cará a morte, em grande
escala, na Europa e na
Asia.
se achavam pre-
maio, por ocasião
na Casa Branca,
população inteira, é abso-
maio e 30 de Setembro.
Para evitar a fome da
um grande auxilio. Si os selho de Prevenção da Fo-
canos é esperada como
dos países Latino-Améri-
iniciativ tamada pelo Con-
Em cooperação com a
snr. Herbert Morri- Iutamente necessario um
Estados Unidos malogra-
Cont. na 4.a pág.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.93)
bosso munici-
kugi, Saonemia; Misuyoshi pendio, por otrata
d, dentre as qusis anota-
ds ásgaintes: Joño Ar
noru Otsuca. comerciante; deira. Esses eleuuta
Brashl Prefeito Muui-
Massuo Nakagami, comer- geralmente mndah fagia
d; Dr. Etlas Alves Cor-
ciante Kloshi Kimura, co- da policia, napoa disemt
Jnrior, Delegado de
merciante; alem de ans qua- so em públie, mas s
Hola; Lourenço de Souza,
gente do Correio; Sebas-
lónia japonesa residentes ganar seus
Gño Sorpa Junior, escrivão
em nosso Municipio. Uma noticias faleme, poisa colo-
 Coletor.a Federol; Dr.
caravana de elementos de nia, composta em tus majo
Eias Miguel, medico; Dr.
Estanislau Fadigas de Sou-
Iham na lavoura, não tem
nião da qual faziam parte;
, medico; Fausto Neif,
Dr. Motomo Konda, medico
Presidente da Associação
ções e por laso é Iudibria-
residente em Lins, proprie-
Comercial, Índustriale Agri-
da por espertmlbóes que
tario da Casa de Saude
cola de Guararapes; Joãe
ultimamente' 'fasem disto
"Osvaldo Cruz"; Sasaite
Azzi, gerente do Banco Na-
Massaki, comerciante em
seu meio de vida, receben-
clonal da Pródução, Dr.
do de pobres trabalhado-
Promissão; Noda Guenko,
Brasmo Moreira, medíco;
res, dinheiro para lhes con-
Luíz Capovila. Esorivão de
fazendeiro em Getulina;
Uye Maçaro, farmaceutico
tar essa meatra. Finall-
gio que a
Policia; Luiz Maffei Rosa,
sando disse . B. que cada
comerciante; Pacifico No-
em Araçatuba: Shigezo Ka-
to, comérciante em Valpa-
vez mais ha de palorar a
povoe
vido á apão
gueira, contador da P'refel-
situação dos aponeses, si
raiso; Nanori Kuroba, com-
tura Municipal; Geraldo
prador de Algodão em Val-
eles nãa pro
Reseude. Proiessor; Clineu
Aaida. Tabelião; Jcfo B.
paraiso; Russoi Yoshigiro,
Peres daeee, u
i emLins: To-
raitě Yotoshi, comerciante
o Japão de lao uão zíu
da Prefeitura ,Muricipal;
Jorge Merigo, comerciante;
ein Araçatuba; Morishida
vencedor.
japonés mo
Waldemar Queiroz. Profes
Shimatae, comerciante em
A seguir iajou o r (li- identios reup
Valparaiso;
or; Manuel Messias de Sou-
neu Alnmeida, dizendo da Si a ShíndoRem
Sukcu Aoki, comerciante
ze, Diretor da Escola co-
merolal de Guararapes;
em Lins, Kamei, fotografo
japonés eu ms lavuura cjos ss
João Candido, Fiscal Rural;
em Promissão; Issamo Ko- e a harmonia que sempre Brasil é necoee
Arliado Artioli, professor:
yama, lavrador em Lins: reina entre es elemenios própria colcaía
Honorio de Oliveila Camar-
alem de muitos outros que da colonía, agora prejudi- aqui radteada
Jornal; Roque Demassi, Con- nossa reportagem.
tituem essu sociedad se- tre, para que
tador da Associação Comer-
Abrindo a sessão usou creta que é a Shindo Rem- manche o bom d
ctal, Iudustrial è Agricola da palavra o Dr. Elias Al- mei. A harmonia da pacffi- frutado até ago
de Guararapes; (Gabriel For. ves Correia Junior que fo- ca colonia japonesa eotá poneses, como he
tes, da firma Fortes sobri- calisou a exploração que perturbada por pessoas que baihadores  o
nho e Cia. e outrns pes- soírem os japoneses por procuram mal informar os de seus devere.
soas qué escaparam às nos- parte de certos elementos japoneses com mentiras e japoneses cumpe:
sas anotações.
mal intencionado-, iludindo paihadas seoretamente e ver — denunciar
Dentre os elementos da a boa fé de patriotas japo- depois receber de cada próprios patricios
colonia japonesa anotamos- neses, em informar lhes um, uma contribuição em toridades brasileir
J. Y. Kumakura, propricta- que o Japão ganhou a guer- diuheiro. Si de fato esses les que flugiéde
rio da Farmacia Frutal; ra das Nações Unidas. com japoneses fosscm amigos doneses patriot
Os Armazens Gerais da Alta Nord
com séde nesta cidade de GUARARAPES e filiais em VALPARAlSO e GUARAÇAI,
car aos seus amigos, clientes, a lavoura e ao comércio de toda a zona noroeste, a 
cidades acima mencionadas, onde acham se devidamente aparelhados para servi-lo
Pela preferência que merecem, ant
Guararapes, 10 de Junho de 1946.
Discurso pronunciado pelo Dr. Motomb Konda na sessão
Dignissimo Prefeito Mu-
feira última no Cine Paratodos
niélpal, e Dr. Delegado de
Policia, Prof. Honorio de
Olivelra Camargo Junior,
O relatorio divulgado son: snr. Dean Achéson e|estergo conatanto,ed
Spr. Clineu Almeida de-
pelo snr- Herbert Hoover. snr. Clinton Anderson re- vas e rigorosas con
mais autoridades presen-
Presidente do Conselho de
velava que se peeve um nos paises lormeoí
teq e mous senhores.
Prevenção da Fome., apre-
"deficit" de 3600,000 tone- principalmemt de
Pormitam-me manifestar
sentado em Washington no
ladas de trige entre 1.o de gordasas. A coop
um ponte de vista ide ele-
mês de maio, per ocasilo
mentos eselarecidos para
reunlão na Cas& Branca,
em que se achavam pre-
sentes anr. Herbert Morri- lutamente meessario u Estados Unidom

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.96)
ADE DE GUARARAPES
iretor Proprietário : PROF. HONORIO DE OLIVEIRA CAMARGO JUNIOR
N, S. da Con-
Guararapes, 16 de Junho de 1946
ESTADO DE SÃO PAULO
N.O101
116 - Fone, 22
BRASIL
promovida por elemementos da Colonia Japonesa
a-fim-de esclarecer os seus conterrâneos sobre a
SHINDO REMMEI
difamam, perseguem e ar-
ruinam o bom nome da co-
lonia japonesa, nome, esse
conquistado a custa de mul-
Sénoi, fazendeiro; Mi- o único intuito de receber da colonia, e não explora
tos anos de trabalho pro-
dutivo.
 Juite, fazendeiro; Fu- de cada japonés um esti- dores como verdadeiramen-
, Sannomia; Mitsuyoshi pendio, por lhe trazer essa te são, eles procurariam Falau a seguir o Dr. Mo-
kwa, comerciantes; Mi- noticia que uão é verda- contar tudo publicamente tomo Konda, cujo discurso,
 Otsuca. comerciante; deira. Esses elementos que e não secretamente comopublicamos a parte. 
suo Nakagami, comer- geralmente andam fugidos o fazem. Assim quando nm
Serviu de intérprete nos-
te Kioshi Kimura, co- da policia, nunca dizem is- japones vier informar a co-
sa sessão o sr. José Senoi
ciante; alemde uns qua- so em público, mas sim es- lonia de fatos a respeito
que vertia para a lingua
entos elementos da co- condidas, para melhor en do Japão, os japoneses de
japonesa as palavras ditas
a japonesa residentes ganar seus patricios com Guararapes devem leva-lo
em português. Aproveltan-
nosso Municipio. Uma noticias falsas, pois a colo- a presença das autoridades
do o ensejo que se Ihe a-
vana de elementos de aia, composta em sua maio- para que ele afirme essa
presentava, o sr. José Se-
estava presente a reu- ria de homens que traba- mentira, que é a falsa vi-
noi agradeceu a todas as
da qual faziam parte;
Jham na lavoura, não tem tória do Japão, no conflito
pessõas presentes a cola-
Motomo Konda, medico
de onde receber informa- mundial ha pouco termina-
boração prestada no senti-
lente em Lins, proprie-
ções e por isso é ludibria- do.
do de esclarecer aos bons
da Casa de Saude
da por espertalhões que
Em seguida falou o prõf. japoneses, o prejuiso que
raldo Cruz"; Sassaite
ultimamente fazem dísto
Honorio de Oliveira Camar-
causa a Shindo Remmei
saki, comerciante em
seu meio de vida, receben-
go Junior, diretor deste
não só á colonia japonesa
issão; Noda Guenko,
do de pobres trabalhado-
jornal que disse do presti-
como tambem á patria bra-
deiro em Getulina;
res, dinheiropara lhes con-
gio que a colonia japonesa
sileira. Em particular agre-
Maçaro, farmeceutico
tar essa mentira. Finali-
perde dia a dia entre o
deceu as autoridades que
raçatuba; Shigezo Ka-
sando disse S. S. que cada
povo e as autoridades, de-
ali compareceram, bem co-
merciante em Valpa-
vez mais ha de pelorar a
vido á ação nefasta e des-
mo o seu auxilio emí pról
Nanori Kuroba, com-
situação dos japoneses, si
respeitosa
Shindo
da pacificação da familia
de Algodão em Vel
eles não proggárem saber
Remmei para com a patria
japanesa. José Senoi ex-
o; Russol Yoshigiro,
da verdade,émbora seja
brasiletra. Si a um brasí-
pressou-se depois em jspo-
ante-em Lins; To-
por todos já afirmado que
leiro no Japão cumpre res-
nês à assistência, assim
otoshi, comerciante
o Japão de tato não saiu
peitar as leis do país, ao como o sr. Noda Guenko,
raçatuba; Morishida
vencedor.
japonês no Brasil cabe proprietário da Fazenda
tae, comerciante em
A seguir falou o r. Cli- identica responsabilidade. Ouro, em Getulina. A se-
raiso;
neu Almeida, dizendo da Si a Shindo Remmei é uma guir falou novamente o Dr.
Aoki, comerciante
importância do trabaihador sociedade Secreta perni- Motomo Konda, vertendo
Ins, Kamei, fotografo
japonês em mossa lavoura ciosa aos interéases do para o japonês o seu dis-
omissão; lssamo Ko-
é a harmonia que sempre Brasil é necessário que a curso publicado a parte.
lavrador em Lins:
 reina entre os elementos própria colouia japonesa Ao terminar a sessão o
de muitos outros que da colonia, agora prejudi- aqui radicada repudie-a sr. Noda Guenko pediu que
reportagem.
tituem essa sociedado se- tre, para que não mais mento para que o movi-
ndo a sessão usou creta que é a Shindo Rem- manche o bom nome des- mento da Shindo Remmel
lavra o Dr. Elias Al- mei. A harmoaia da pacifi- frutado até agora pelos ja- fosse acabado. Esse com-
correla Junior que fo- ca colonia japonesa está poneses, como homens tra- promisso foi prestado por
su a exploração que perturbada por pessôas que balhadores e cumpridores todos os japoneses presen-
a oe japoneses por procuram mel informar os de seus deveres. Aos bons tes à sesaño, que se puze-
de certos elementos japoneses com mentiras es- japoneses cumpre êsse de- ram de pé, como sinal de
teneionados, iludindo palhadas segretamente e ver  denunciar aos seus apôio a idela de todós tra-
lè de patriotas japo- depois receber de cada próprios patricios e ás au- balharem para grandesa e
em informar-lhes um, uma comtribuição em toridades brasileiras aque- felicidade não só de nossa
Japão ganhon a guer- diúheiro. Si de fato êsses les que fingindo-se de ja- patria como tambem da co-
Nações Unidas, com japoneses fossem amigos doneses patriotas,mentem, lonia japonesa.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.95)
wa. comorciantes; Mi- notleia quo dao é yerda- contar tudo publicamente tomo Konda cujeakeen
Otsuon, comerelante; deira. Esses elementos que e não secretamente como publicamos a pa
uo Nakagaml, comer- geralmente andam fugidos o fazem. Assim quando nm
Servia de int
 Kioshi Kimura, co- da policia, nanca dizem is- japones vier informara co-
sa sessño o ar.
lante; alemde ans qua- so em públicp, mas sim es- lonia de fatos a reepeito
que vertia 
mios elementos da co- condidas, para melhor en do Japão, os japoneses de
japenesa residentes ganar seus patricios com Guararapes devem lova-lo
em portugués
paso Munleipio. Uma noticias falsas, pois a colo- a presença das autoridades
ana de elementos de nia, composta em sua maio- para que ele afirme essa
estava presente a reu- ria de homeks que traba- mentira, que é a falsa vi-
Motomo Konda, medico
de onde receber informa mundial ha pouco termina-
boração presu
ente em Lins, proprie-
ções e por laso é ludibria- do.
da Casa de Saude
da por espertalhões que
Em seguida falou o prőt. japoneses, o proful
ldo Cruz"; Sassaite
ultiniamente fazem dísto
Honorio de Oliveira Camar- causa a Shindo
ki, comerciante em
seu melo de vida, receben-
goJunior, diretor deste não só á colonia jap
Issão; Noda Guenko,
do de pobres trabalhado-
jornal que disse do presti- como tambem a pétría br
deiro em Getulina;
res, dinheiro para lhes con-
gio que a colonía japonesa sileira. Em partloular 
Maçaro, farmaceutico
tar essa mentira. Finali-
raçatuba; Shigezo Ka-
sando disse S. S. que cada
merciante em Valpa-
vez mais ha de peiorar a
Nanori Kuroba, com-
situação dos japoneses, si
respeitosa
da
Shindo da pacificação da famia
de Algodão em Vel
elos não prograrem saber
Remmei para com a patria japanesa. Josó Senel x
no; Russol Yoshigiro,
da vercade, embora weja
brasiletra. Si a um brasi- pressou-se depols em japo-
siante-em Lins; To-
por todos já afirmado que
leiro no Japão cumpre res- nês à assistenoia  assim
Yotoshi, comerciante
o Japão de fato não saiu
peitar as leis do país, ao como o sr. Noda Guenko,
Araçatuba; Morishida
vencedor.
japonês no Brasil cabe proprietário da  Fazenda
tae, comerciante em
A seguir falou 0 r. Cli-identicaresponsabilidade. Ouro, em Getulina. A se-
raiso;
neu Almeida, dizendo da Si a Shindo Remmei é uma guir falounovamente o Dr.
Aoki, comerciante
importância do trabalhador sociedade Secreta perni- Motomo Konda, vertendo
ins, Kamei, fotogrąfo
japonês em nusa lavoura ciosa aos interêsses do para o japonês o sen dis-
romissão; Íssamo Ko-
é a harmonia que sempre Brasil é necessário que a curso publicado a parte.
lavrador em Lins: reina entre os elementos própria colonia japonesa Ao terminar  sessão o
de muitos outros que da colonia, agora prejudi- aqui radicada repudie-a sr. Noda Guenko pediu que
aram as anotações de cada por aqueles que cons para que ela não se alas- cada um fizesse um jura-
reportagem.
tituem essa sociedado se- tre, para que não mais mento para que o movi-
Indo a sessão usou creta que é a Shindo Rem- manche o bom nome des- mento da Shindo Remmei
lavra o Dr. Elias Al- mei. A harmonia da pacifi- frutado até agora pelos ja- fosse acabado. Esse com-
orreia Junior que fo- ca colonia japonesa está poneses, como homens tra-promisso foi prestádo por
u a exploração que purturbada por pessôas que balhadores e cumpridores todos os japoneses presen-
n os japoneses por procuram mal informar os de seus deveres. Áos bons tes á sesaão, que se puze-
de certos elementos japoneses com mentiras es- japoneses cumpre ésse de- ram de pé, como sinal de
tencionados, iludindo palhadas secretamente e ver— denunciar aos seus apôio a idela de todos tra-
fé de patriotas japo- depois receber de cada próprios patricios e ás au- balharem para grandesa e
em informar-lhes um, uma contribuição em toridades brasileiras aque- felicidade não só de nossa
Japão ganhou a guer- diuieiro. Si de fato êsses les que fingindo-se de ja- patría como tambem da co-
Nações Unidas, com japoueses fossem amigos doneses patriotas, mentem, lonia japonesa.
ens Gerais da Alta Noroeste S. A.
UARARAPES e filiais em VALPARAISO e GUARAÇAÍ, têm o grato prazer de comuni-
s, á lavoura e ao comércio de toda a zona noroeste, a abertura de seus armazens nas
onde acham-se devidamente aparelhados paraservi-los da melhor forma possivel.
Pela preferência que merecem, antecipam seus agradecimentos.
1946.
do pelo Dr. Motomo Konda na sessão realisada quinta-
feira última no Cine Paratodos
rem nos seus esforços e
não cumprirem com todos
os seus compromiesos em
relatorio divulgado son, snr. Dean Achéson e esforço constante,"com no-
materia de exportação de
rHerbert Hoover,
snr. Clinton [Anderson re- vas è rigorosas econamias, cereais, esse fato signifi-
ente do Conselho de
velava que se fprevê um nos países fornecedores cará a morte, em grande
ção da Fome., apre-
"deficit" de 3600,000 tone- principalmente de trigo e escala, na Europa e na
em Washington no
ladas de trigo entre 1.o de gorduras. A cooperação Asia.
maio, por ocasião
maio e 30 de Setembro. dos países Latino-Ameri- Em cooperação com a
na Csa Branca,
Para evitar a fome da canos é esperada como iniciativ tamada pelo Con-
se achavam pre- população inteira, é abso- um grande auxilio. Si os selho de Prevenção de Fo-
snr. Herbert Morri- lutamente neeessario um Estados Unidos mslogra-
Cont. na .a pág.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.95)
wa, comerciantes, Mi- noticia que não é yerda- contar tudo publicamente tomo Konoa, cujoasoure
Otsuca. comerelante; deira. Esses elementos que e não secretamente como publicamos a p
uo Nakagaml, coner- geralmente andam fugidos o fazem. Assim quando nm
Servin de fnt
 Kioshi Kimura, co- da policia, nnnca dizem is- japones vier informara co-
sa sesslo. o er
lante; alemde uns qua- so ém públicp, mas sim es- lonia de fatos a respeito
que vertia
stos elementos da co- condidas, para melhor en do Japão, os japoneses de
japonosa ss
japonesa residentes ganar seus patricios com Guararapes devem leva-lo
osso Municipio. Uma noticias falsas, pois a colo- a presença das autoridades
ana de elementos de nia, composta em sua maio- para que ele afirme essa
estava presente a reu- ria de homehs que traba- mentira, que é a falsa vi-
da qual fażiam parte;
; lham na Iavoura, não tem tória do Japão, no conflito
Motomo Konda, medico
de onde receber informa- mundial ha pouco termina-
boração prost
onte em Lins, proprie-
çoes e por iaso é judiuria- uo.
do
da Casa de Saude
da por espertalhões que
Em seguida falou o prőf. japoneses, o proful
ldo Cruz"; Sassaite
ultimamente fazem dísto
Honorio de Oliveira Camar- causa a Shindo R
aki, comerciante em
seu melo de vida, receben-
go Junior, diretor deste não só á colonta jap
esão; Noda Guenko,
do de pobres trabalhado-
deiro em Getulina;
res, dinheiropara lhes con-
gio que a colonia japonesa sileira. Em parioular
Maçaro, farmaceutico
tar essa mentira. Finali-
perde dia a dia entre o decen as autoridadea
sando disse S. S. que cada
raçatuba; Shigezo Ka-
povo e as autoridades, de-
merciante em Valpa-
vez mais ha de peiorar a
vido á ação nefasta e des- mo o seu auxllio em pron
Nanori Kuroba, com.
situação dos japoneses, si
eles não progtearem saber
respeitosa
Shindo da pacificação da famfia
de Algudão em Vel
Remmei para com a patria japanesa. Josó Senal x
to; Russol Yoshigiro,
da vercade, embora seja
brasiletra. Si a um brasi- pressou-se depols em japo-
sianke em Lins; To-
por todos já afirmado que
leiro no Japão cumpre res- nês à assistênola,assim
Yotoshi, comerciante
o Japão de fato não saiu
peitar as leis do país, ao como o sr. Noda Guenko,
raçatuba; Morishida
vencedor.
japonés no Brasil cabe proprietário da Fazenda
tae, comerciante em
A seguir falou 0 r. Cli- identica responsabilidade. Ouro, em Getulina. A so
raiso;
neu Almeida, dizendo da Si a Shindo Remmei é uma
guir falou novamente o Dr.
Aoki, comerciante
Ins, Kamei, fotogrąfo
japonês em nossá lavoura ciosa aos interênses do para o japonês o sen di-
omissão; lssamo Ko-
è a harmonia que sempre Brasil é necessário que a curso publicado a parte.
lavrador em Lins:
reina entre os elementos própria colonia japonesa Ao terminar sessão o
de muitos outros que da colonia, agora prejudi- aqui radicada repudie-a sr. Noda Guenko pediu que
aram as anotações de cada por aqueles que cons para que ela não se alas- cada um fizesse um jura
reportagem.
tituem essa sociedad se- tre, para que não mais mento para que o movi-
indo a sessão usou creta que é a Shindo Rem- manche o bom nome des- mento da Shindo Remmel
lavra o Dr. Elias Al- mei. A harmonia da pacifi- frutado até agora pelos ja- fosse acabado, Esse com-
orreia Junior que fo- ca colonia japonesa está poneses, como homens tra- promisso foi prestádo por
u a exploração que purturbada por pessôas que balhadores e cumpridores todos os japoneses presen-
n os japoneses por procuram mal informar os de seus deveres. Áos bons tes á seseão, que se puze-
de certos elementos japoneses com mentiras es- japoneses cumpre ésse de- ram de pé, como sinal de
tencionados, iludindo palhadas secretamente e ver — denunciar aos seus apôio a ideia de todos tra-
fé de patriotas japo- depois receber de cada próprios patricios e ás au- balharem para grandesa e
em informar-lhes umi, uma contribuição em toridades brasileiras aque- felicidade não só de nossa
Japão ganhou a guer- diuneiro. Si de fato esses les que fingindo-se de ja- patría como tambem da co-
Nações Unidas, com jap reses fossem amigos doneses patriotas, mentem, lonia japonesa.
ens Gerais da Alta Noroeste S. A.
UARARAPES e filiais em VALPARAISO e GUARAÇAÍ, têm o grato prazer de comuni-
s, á lavoura e ao comércio de toda a zona noroeste, a abertura deseus armazens nas
onde acham se devidamente aparelhados para servi-los da melhor forma possiyel.
Pela preferência que merecem, antecipam seus agradecimentos.
1946.
do pelo Dr. Motomo Konda na sessão realisada quinta-
feira última no Cine Paratodos
rem nos seus esforços e
não cumprirem com todos
os seus compromissos em
relatorio divulgado son, snr. Dean Acheson e esforço constante, com no-
materia de exportação de
ar- Herbert Hoover,
snr. Clinton [Anderson re-
vas è rigorosas econamias,
cereais, esse fato signifi-
nte do Conselho de
velava que se fprevê um
nos países fornecedores
cará a morte, em grande
ção da Fome., apre-
"deficit" de 3600,000tone-
principalmente de trigo e
escala, na Europa e na
em Washington no
ladas de trigo entre 1.o de
gorduras. A cooperação
Asia.
maio, por ocasião
maio e 30 de Setembro.
dos países Latino-Amèri-
Ém cooperação coma
na Casa Branca,
Para evitar a fome da
canos é esperada como
iniciativ tamada pelo Con-
se achavam pre-
população inteira, é abso-
um grande auxilio. Si os selho de Prevenção da Fo-
snr. Herbert Morri- Iutamente neeassario um
Estados Unidos malogra-
Cont. na .a pág.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
9
Sao Paulo
Action-ARA
Dated July 19, 1946
Info:
S
RESTRICTED
Rec'd 4:35 p.m., 19th
U
EOR
Control 6148
FE
ESP
Parephrase before comunicatinggexghknroprangenpies.
A-B
A-C
OFFICE O
八-H
DECSTATE
AMERICAN REPUBIC AFFAINS
OCD
201946
FC
OIC
229, July 19, 3 p.m.
DS/R
Presh outbreaks by Jepanest
at least two more murders, have caused Sao Paulo Govt
894.20232/7-1946
t. ummon e group of about one hundred to Sao Paulo to-
day to hear Swedish Minister and see films and other
ma arial from this office. Newspapers from Japan are
teing recelyed and are having good effect. Continuation
oo hipments of these most important.
Admiral Halsey is reported as saying navy has films
of occupation Japan which would be of greatest interest.
yw s und truck almost ready to leave for Japanese centers.
Urge immediate forwarding fijms if poss1ble i6 mm but 35
cun be used.
Project deportation worst elements almost ready for
sitmission to American Govt.
Repeated to Embassy.
CROSS
DES: NCB
RESTRICTED
JUL 24 1946
FILED
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
BA
INCOMING TELEGRAM
1-N
Sao Paulo
Aot1on: ARA
Dated July 22, 1946
Inso
S
RESTRICTED
Rec'd 5:35 p.m., 22nd
U
FE
Control 6891
DC/L
A-B
Paraphrase before communicating
A-H
BA/M
AMERICAN REPUBLICAR
OCD
SECSTATE
FC
031946
OIC
894.20232/7-2246
DC/R
231, July 22, 2 p.m.
Meoting of Japanese at Inter
July 19 resulted in open defiance of the state govern-
ment by the Japanese present mumbering nearly 200. They
demanded cessation of press reports of the operations
of their societies and of reports that Japan had been
defoated because offensive to their sensibilities.
The Interventor promised to do all in his power to comply
vith these demands. Japanese also refused to sign a
document attesting their presence until 1t had been re-
edited to omit any reference to the defeat of Japan
which was done at the police headquarters after the
meeting. Four Japanose were arrested but the police
anticipate serious consequences as soon as the facts
of the meeting are generally known.
These developments render the general position even
more serious. It may be that the effect will be to
convince all the Japanese that Japan actually won the
var vith very serious consequences. Japanese state that
only visit of prominent Japanese such as former Ambessador
or arrival of personal mail from Japan will be conelusive.
Continuation of newspapers and pictures will undoubtedly
help.
Confidential File
AUG 1 v 1946
AUG 2 1946
CROSS
FILED
CAD:JSP
L.L
zue
RESTRICTED
D
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FIRES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.88)
JUL22188
VIRESTRIOTHO
no.
To the
894.20232/7-2246
89420232
Ameriean Cemsalar Offieer in Cherge,
ãe Paule, Brasil.
The Learetary of State refere to the Cenealer Geclosei
reguest, contained in sereral eoleatioms to the
fer eurrent dapanese momepapers and ether mterials
the Amsriean eesupatien of Japan.
7 coples ef AT .....
7 pes of MANENI
7 oples of m YomI-samm. . Jaly a te July 1e, 1
1 copy of MIPPON UN ........Jl.
22 coples
CS/JEC
DOR - AnA Unit
Anaim
Rv
Enclesure:
Cat.
1 package containing:
Dist
22 copies Japanese papers
894.20232/7-
Confidential
ADA : Rd Eça srs
7/16/46
h
JU 18 946F.M.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.87)
JUL 24 1940
894.20232/7-2446
Sire:
Refergaee is made to a telephes
14
Xxe
motion pisture entitled
colony im the Brasilian state of See Pemle as a esm
tion to the efforts of the Brasilian Government to
counteraet propaganda there which olaims a Japamese
military victory in World War II.
It will be appreciated 1f = 16mm print of this film
together with a copy of the soript can be forwarded on
an extended loan to this Diviaion, Room 320, 1778
Pennsylyania Avenue, Washington 25, D. C., attention of
894.2023.
Mr.B. J. Dulaski.
DCR - ARA Unit
Sincerely yours,
onf
mon
1.1
1Dist.
2
Herbert T. Edwards
Acting Chier
2
International Motion Pictures Division.
mew
TEO
Clearsd with
JUL 24 346
IMP:KEAdamson:cd
7/23/46
ADA: MI. D'Ega
hh
E
Dytzlephonz

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.92)
UND
CTED
NO. 4133
Airmail
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Der
São Paulo, 3razil, July 25th, 1946.
SUBJEct UIC (Il) - ckno./le gin repeipt of Japapese
hewspa pers
1!
tan
THE HONORABLE
1
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
SIR
I neve the nonor to c no led e receipt of the
De part. ont's instruction of Juiy 8, 1946, enclosing
7 copies of the Japanese nowspaper ASAhI, 7 copies of
TE II I and 7 or I  YC IURI-SI II BUN, for transmit-
tal to in  iviuu ls inte ested in proving to Japanese
residente in the stute I sto luulo that tiey have
894.20232/7-2546
been aefeated.
Te above mentionea l copies lave been sent to
Dr. Eagurd Putista Pere ira, n official of the São Pau-
lo covernent, for this pur ose.
Ain the Departlent' ind attention to the
matter una its promptness in con lying with this
Consulate General's re,uest were very much appreciated.
Respectfully yours,
Cecil I. P.
Cross
American Consul General
AUG 22 1946
FILED
842
994.20232
CIPCROSS/mb
3
Confidential File
KU

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.92)
JUL26
São Paule, Brasil.
4/7-2646
The Searetery of State refere to the Gomsslar ctfleer's
tien af that coumtry.
Thare are ateaoked tre
H
CS/A
BrByau

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.87)
891
PIMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
GICaN REPUBLIC APP
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
io de Janeiro, July
j:
1-oicarea
heu oo to trunsmit, as of
o sioe itorost to ue se rt ct, clippins of edi-
r   , in euerul criticizing são
v ne cue res Tor nis leniency in
rotie pnese colonists,
veen c. rr, on terrorist ctivities within
eves incredulous
Lost coe luer tt tne tamission of
nese i ts v  mistane in the first place,
tnd ctll rer hrmtalcte  ures: rirst, to rorpid any
Purter ii ton or s 'c unuesirables",
,ecn, to submit  in the.country
to tritl ahu expulsion.
..ielénd/ur
629/
tnd 4 copies.
11
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NEPONTING SENVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
SEP 11 1946
Fi1e 891/820.02
IC A ABA
DIVISION - (ADA)
403
946
8EP 20 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Department of State
OCT 1 8 1946
2
邦
19/5 A6
DCR
INTELLIGENCE
UNRESTRICTED

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.89)
OS TRAIDORES DE PEARE 
Pue muito que mos oona-
preender a política concília.
de que nise mas doveesan s-
tranja coníesax-lo, . verda-
de d interventor Mac
de c que à udiclcia dos
be modidas gue dagal per
Camipos Eltsiou am terroris-
de cleição nào 
dste se flserem sesir m-
tas japoneses nio foi de
tra esses elementas mévem-
inolde que nos tavorecesst
ticiod que dissemimam é ter.
una idela nitida da firmeza
ror eñe lamton campee da
du Governo  de ludas an
sen»ibilidades inseparaveis
As ezigencias feslas poles
da imagem inesma de nos-
japuneses, dentr messe
tanaticos da sivene bilidade
 suberania à atlludr des
js  
das fumçées majeslaticas ee
poder públicu. e nuns hera
do uesmoronado mperio d
à que emprestava um refte
Hirohito rocou frrquente-
ze de assistemria estrangel-
merte pelo desprtstigio 
ra a preseuça de mimisira
auna traao uasra.
tin Ádo derrotada
da Suecia, máo podom
oferecendo tuJo una tris
cunceber fussem lüe singu.
sima ideia da autoridades
larmente eneaminhadas
in umbidas de leval o or-
Ma ava no
Não pretendemoa cum sto
do a bom termo
estranheza ante a cautela
formular maiores crítieas a
cany que a Policia revista-
Governe de São Paule, que
do os fanaticos  thes to-
leria agido sem dávida de
As complacencia da pro
mando as rmas brancas. a
aoordo com  Itamarati.
pria Policia paulista, t.
todas colecionou con os res-
Mas. nem mesmu sende as-
energica na manutençao o
pectivos nomes de seus do
sim, nos sentimos com e di
ordem naterid e na reptes.
nos, para que nao houvesse
reito. perante a opinião pú-
sau a quaisquer eacesaus
extravio ou erro de devolu-
blica de calas à noems es-
dos trabalhadores brasilei-
cao precaução esti que ja.
tranhesa, de que participa
ros, atingiu uma epressao
mais foi tida con: qualquer
sem dúvida náo so é Brasil.
de tibieza alarmante em fa-
brasileiro ante o porte de
senáu ainda tnda u commu-
ce dos súditu, de uma si-
arma proibidas! S( muito
nhao pan-americana. tede•
tuaçzo decaida alervorados
não nos enganamos, ressal.
sentimento eni suma da po-
na proclamacao dos destinos
vados embora os intuitor
litic a da Bea Vizinhança. quc
triunfals e imperialistas dos
dos Campos Elisios. o regis-
sinda estremece à lembran-
traidores de Pearl Harbor.
to do que se passou consti-
ca da traiçzo hedionda de
Ainda que prosurando com
tue sem duvida una página
Pearl Harbor.
poasososssss.n
guete. Qugndo mão 6 pesaivel
abater e ta' eu qual "senteade-
do", os matadores secrificam es
seus filhos pequeninos e inocen-
tes! Uma incrivel chacina, coatra
a quai tám sido inúteis as medi-
das repressivas da autoridade, as
O FANATISMO AMARELO
prisões. os processos e tudo mais.
Os bárbaros coniessam com a
maior tranquilidade as suas fa-
çanhas • se deciarem catisieitos.
Quando o Japão aderiu à pol.tica do nazi-Jascismo,
convencidos de que mão comete-
nem toda a gente ficou sabendo que as correntes ditatorias
ram nenhum crimemas apenas o
de direita, entdo vivendo num niúndo, os seus tempos me-
castigo inspirade pelo poder di-
roicos, estavam recebendo a contribuição do mais desvatrado
vino do seu Micado. em desegra-
fanatismo politico que a história humana fá conneceu.
vo da Terra do Nascente. ia-
E' preciso notar, que os nazistas e os fascistas se ms-
*
vencivel seà copge os trai-
piravam em misticas temporais, como a aça, a força.
dore. Come aidore l 
Nação, exarcebadas ao parorismo, é veplade. Mas faltava-
FANATICOS INDESEJAVEIS
o qué nãa se cppenctam de
thes aquela loucura sobrenatural, a degtinação imponderavel
Quando não bastassem tantos
que o lp goaor guta.
da morte, que constitut a liberiaçagr dos amarelos pare o
outros fctos tčo meridianamente
nirvana abooluto. Esse desvairado másticismo politico-rego-
expressivos, os tue vôm ecorren-
veur me crãnde rdunião para a
so foi que transformou a guerra góntra o Japão mume d
do em São Paulo. provecadés
qual tordy caavacados cerca de
rissima réfrega entre as Nagões nidas e estes amareloe -
pala sanguinária Shindo-Rem-
seiscenmos Janonesor estando
sanos e desatinados.
mei. mostram ue Miguel Couto.
presptirs  tinictpó da Suácia.
O mundo inteiro assistiu aossàm do fanatismo a-
Artur Neiva. Xavier de Oliveira
qu tepresen'a os lnteresscs do
bólico dos nipônicos movidos por um obscuranttame estu-
outros ilustres brasileiros. notà-
sed pais ro Biasil o arcebispo 
pido e selvagem. A sua esponagemsera dmais érrive.
vois pela cultura  pela expe
várias outas mutoridados lederais
fustamente porque. na paz como tàa gue, jámáis teme-
riéncia, estavam com a rasãe
* estairair Dianta da numerosa
ram a morte.
quande na Constituinte de 1934
assetbláje. procurou persuadir por
O que está acuntecendo agora  são Faulo atesta,
combateram a imigração Japone-
méios a o lanáticos de
de um modo impresplonante, a qua graú de ductnada atro-
sa. Ninguem nega a eficiência
duedeviam parar com o hedion-
cidade val o fanatimmo politico-remgioro destés anões do Sol
do trabalhador nipônice. mas
drmorticinio o acoltar o lato no-
Nascente. Não acfeditam ne derrota do Indépio, e, até hoje,
também á não há quem ignore
fório de que o lapão perdera re-
o supõe invencipel. Acham que as suas has são a dadiva
que do ponto de vista social a
almente a querta. Pois bem: os
do seu Deus á raça privilegiada para  domínio da Asia 
sua nocividade tome absoluta-
mente indesejáveis as vantagens
nipônicos recusaram o testemu-
nho das qutoridades presentes.
do mundo.
Inutil tem sido, até agora, a' repressão policial aos
de ordem econômica que oferece.
rovelando o mais solene decpre-
atos de terror da Shindo Rommet e da Zataco Zaigo Cut-
ros moldom do famoso Dragão
poderosa organização terrorista
Nego.  com finalidades que cs
seus prfprios componentes con-
sideram do mais alto • puro pa-
ca naquele Estado o assassinio
trietismo. desde há meses prati-
A Shindo-Remmei. grande
ponesa.
Que se há de fazcr com essa
mais na "menlira" da derrota ja-
nossa ttensa para não falar
zo pela nação que os acolhera.
impuseram insolentement- con-
assassinos detidos e a censura à
dições. inclusive a libordade dos
se dobram nem se convencem. E' clcro que, por isso mes-
seus tenebrosos atentados contra os patricics já conforma-
tentado inutilmente convencé-los da realidade, Mas eies mao
mo, devem ser considerados perigosos à soderanta nactonal
guine. Continuam matando e destruindo, levando a cabo os
dos.
O governo Macedo Saares, o ciero, as autoridades têm
Se assim procedem é porque constituem verdadetros
jriamente premoditado e ergami- gente? Devamos permitir tamanho
sado. desencadcando verdadeira desrospeito? Devemos consentir
quistos nacionalistus do Japão dentro do territórto orasuc
devaatacão na colônia da qual se que nos bumilhe com a sua sel-
to. O governo está de olhos voltados para eles e, mão tar-
dis legitima representanie Con- vageria? s masme um recureer
dará muito, que providências mais enérgicas sejam tomadas
dena à morte e mata da verdade. amonioé-la em camres da csn-
contra essa loucura amarela esse deliria de povs grassg
pelo brago dos chamados "jovons cestração • recambiá la paxa a
rez. agora felixmente derrotadus pelas forças dé arís
saícidas". tode e qualquer japo. sua terta a fim de que vorifique
democráticas.
né que manilesio a crenga do com cs ssis prépsies elhes se ele
Boger sdo  Japão darrotado na perdeu es ganheu a querra.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.84)
UM PERIGO AUTENTICO
moses de São Pasde recusande-so à admdtir a derrela do 2ou
pais na goata dellegrade poles traideres do Poart Haror
come se estessem a pare dollberer come
lavra lhes merace te: a d o
misses ao "dine poder' do Micode: a Sa aonisibidade
Frate do um voke orre coede aper da
impermeavel às condiçees do ecidonto Um delabe imper.
lande não pode ser esquecide na apreclação desse tate vir.
gom ga nessa histéria: os amereles comperoceram à roualãe
mes Campos Etsees, armades de lacas è punhais;  dada à
A haseléncia
GUISTS 
Japontsa
O Interventer Macedo Soares
que reuniy ne palácio dos Cam-
serem cdesar as lvidider
poristas qme sous pitrícios
jém
Bãe Paplo, Outra dño podera ser
em
arraston
Segarança.
conhecer
"bendd.
veira mäbetre Sobrinho natural.
mente há de ser chamado a dar
edes".
300
. Macede Boares mandar apu-
ade
par, agera. emals os motivos das
centradiçées existentes entre os
tomltados mue obtere a cimoa.
terrortetas ninônicos
concla-ées-que söbre 
mesmo
da 2a Regißo Militer. conforme
gnsacional remer'r rm. basea.
ds em elmentes fornecidos no
Ésse Servięe, há tempos publie.
da pelos nesses colegas da "Fo.
Pha Carloca".
dos Cammps Etisios rão fol ape-
O que m mssou na reuntão
troa do ex Império de Sel Nasces
Le, trazaportados pera e nesso ter-
nas mme arave fntdria à mais
alta antordide de São Pinlo.
que vale ieer mo govérno fed.
deate à imotalagñe de rcolse e
ral. nue ela remresenta. Foi um
aliraje à digmitade nacional.
um ofense fmnerdodvel à hon.
nossa bandeks e à meméri, dos
"pracishas" merios em drfasa
dos princípios de Liberd de.
desmoralixar a nossa pátria n
contra a barharie nipo.nazi-fas-
cista. Merece. per isso. um re.
govèrno de que é delegido ern S
ua pessca è na antoridide d
vide eremilar um castigo sive.
Paulo. O sr. Oliveira Rileiro So.
ro. uma punieão imedi ts e ri-
brinho não pode contiruar na
gorosa O sr. Macedo Soares. que
Secretaris da Segurança. Deve.
ful minlatro das Relacées Ex.
rà. sim, reaponder a laquérito. a
teríores, deve saber qmanto Asse
fi. de averiguar-se as razóes
deplerável acont-cimento afeta
é. que se firmon para cometer
è prestígie de nome do nosvo
a leviandad, que cemeteu. E' um
pais nə estrangeiro. Não the
case gravíssime, no qual as
dáam. nortanto. es mos na re.
nasso ver. nãe poderto deixar
primenda à Inso'éncia com que
de interferir as altas autorida-
finálMoes laponeses, de certo
des de nossks. Firazs Axmadas.
por ss sentirem com as costas
sentinelas vigilantes de sobera.
quentes, tentaram enxovalhar s
nía nacional.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.81)
"SHNDO REMEI"
OO NEVE  AN
Por mais praves e emguteine-
Per etto
ori do
les eue ocjom. a alvidades da
 AUDACIA DOB JANG
Chencaler
repgean
"Shindo Remelf da um bom at
nol. Bosas hoone so maagam
NEBES DE B. PAGO
partide pare goaterencle d
à acreditar  ia ddo. 
Não quereado ad
P tot-te
perguatado por um
scxs crimem mmor prove de
suo o impériakemomones10
derrotado, máo epona- mas ned
Biponiees.
do autro lado do mundo so
montae ntecimat d
das, entregam- a tede é
o
nes. eled mastram ave coonia.
perdidafa uhsade d sonfrofe po-
itico amomicp  moula.
i
dos, o bancos  empreas de
energia.-
imigraoso, cal ao damprogando de
mantrasidae datnatca. Eles
pende-a opia plar posal.
usah orror - potaud ndo dis.
vel. ou ro à
pon a dos procesos real.
oles para no Paia. 
manty ticientes de créver a o-
Lamed m  i
und tapones e/nipo-brasi-
modos . indesdjsrele acspedes".
irCorgantada. coe obedien
 crédito. ducado
Ainda bem que o stual orien-
proprranda pareatiam a depen-
mador de oss politice exterior
dencia srnimental/e eoonômica
ae adot. de modo algum. à to
da grande colontd. O jeponés
la de Talleyrand. para quem 
yue ousava contrarlar os dese
pipal funçho de palavra  n
jos de Tokio em sua vida púbil-
tapaneeed
eobrir  pensamento!
ca. comerolal ou mesmo parti
Interpelado sobre o problema
cular ere eliminado quase asto-
 iigraçto japone precia
maticamente do comunidede. Via-
mente quando acaba de e pa
se desamparudo econômice  so-
entear a inoomveniencia da mas-
cialmente, renegado. Em multos
 avd
casos. quando inoomodava de-
que foram um agavo doalé
maís. ele era "convidado"  fa.
meroltante aos prios do so
zer uma visita so Japdo - de
imodiata daquelee que s
pove à propria dignidade du
onde ndo voltava munca. Rstivee-
conssderadc cipad, 
Brasll, o senhor Joso Nevas, na.
se onde estivesse, o feponés sentle
tes acontecimentos.
sempre sôbre sl. presente é forte,
quel pouc.   pr
À valha-nos, agora. a triate es
a mdo do imperodor Proteção e
vae frases. aferecou logo à na-
periencia. E' pare desater qué
amcaça - fsso dependia de sue
elonalidade um alemento do mals
racôlna. Mas a protrçdo ra va-
tomemos precaagless maia
alto sontido pars a desafronta
liosa e a ameaça temivel.
esergices contre eses slepentes
que ela tà recendo dom o.
O interventor Macedo Soares.
estrangeiros, que estasde me
gaos qualificadas da opinião 
possirelmente com muito boas in-
ainde, num pontano referen-
tenções, fes um flasoo lamentável
um, da vom direta vibrante
com a cena dos Campos Ellécos.
d toda  clas.
Em sru intimo. os homens da
to e trastorsmam 
Rafletindo-e bem. deplora
"Shindo Remei" sairam dall mais
ploree iniimigos.
vel fato à que nos referimos, velo
fortalecidos em sua crença e tal-
em hors exoelante, pols ficaré -
vez mais prestigiados diante da
à peio mencs,  que ae espera
colônia. Pois o próprio interven-
tor, e o embatxador da Buécia. o
- na memoria  quantos nác
Arceblapo. e o Chefe de Policia
de influir nos rumos da nova
não trataiam com eles como de
politica imigtatoria dste Pae.
potencia a polência - e não se
Impomsivel advertancia mae
mostraram iracos diunté de suns
ortun.
axigências? Tudo o que se pode
Os Japone deseobriram-
esperar désse entranho episódio à
per inteiro.
um crescimento da arropancia e
Faite que procsdamas de for.
da ounadia dos terroristas.
.
Frnulaar para o Japdo todos os
membros provados da sociedade
parece medida de prudencia pri-
ndria. A presença dessee fandti-
cos não nos .ntereasa. Excetuan-
do os criminosos, a eerem punidos
segundo as leis do pais, ésses pa-
triotas cegos devem ser manda-
doa em pas para o Japão, onde
gorardo ae delicias da vitária
que propalam - é se entendam
ld com o peneral Macarthur.
Quanto cos outroa. só noa res
ta uma atítude de vigiláncia e.
quando possirel. de compreemsdo.
Cessada a corrente imigratório.
gue tdo cério não deve ser perml-
tida. a colônia contimuard. inert
tavelmente. éase proceese de de-
sagrrgação que os próprios cri
mas de noje torram patente.
RUBeM RRaGa

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.85)
26
894.20232/7-2646
No.
To the
Amsriean Cemsular Gffieer in Chaerge,
sãe Peule, Brasil.
The Searetary of State refere to the Gemsalar effleerts
request, centained in several commnieations to the Departont,
for current dapanese newspapers and other materials cemeermine
the Ameriean eesupatien of Jayan.
There are attached six pasiages of Japanese versacalar pepere
publiahed, for the mest part, in the smaller towms of Japam.
CS/A
Attachments :
6 paskages of Japanese papers.
DCR dRe Unit
BMBuya
(6
mr
my
-78
BA
ADA :RdEça :rs
7/24/46
Atan Room
pacnse
newrs.
eah
JUL 26 1946

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.89)
JUL3119
WIRENVTR XTED
.
Te the
Ameriean Consular Offieer in Charge,
ãe Mule, Brasil.
894.20232/7-3146
try.
ing the Japanese famastics' propegande in Sãe Paule.
hepe that they will serve the same purpeve.
Censulate as seen as possible.
CS/A
BMByan
Confide
89420232
412
FC
ADA :Rd Eça :rs
7/26/46
BA
IMP
Cleared
by'shone
EOR
wiath me mein
JOL 30 1346
3
144

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Fice
BHYARTMENT OF BTATE
8-2246
AMERICANEPURTIC AFETRS
9-5
Sno Paulo
19
AOLLOD-APA
Dated July 31,1946
Info
FF
RESTRICED
Rec'd 5:55 p.m., 31st
0.8
OBF
Control 9991
A B
A. H
eraphrase before communicating excent to Govt Agencies.
SA/M
JCD
FC
SECSTATE
894.20232/7-3146
OIC
DC/R
243, July 31, 4 n.m.
As anticipated murders by Japanese sre continuing
and instances of assault by Japanese on i "azilian
officials are occurring.
Secretary of Public Security 1s inquiring anxiously
as to when personal mail from Japan can be expected.
ee my 231 July 20, 3 p.m. and nrevious. Again urge
expediting films, napers and authorization chauffeur
sound truck.
CROSS
MP: JB
RESTRICTED
Confidential File
AUG 20 1946
FLLD
LRC
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
de's
COMMUNICATIONSRECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
O MERIOAN EPUBLICS AREA
OIVLON, (ADA)
3
Action: OIC
Dated July
Info
FUR
RESTRICTED
Roc'd 9:22
ARA
Deparimant ni State
FE
Control 10070
ESP
A-Br/A
Paraphrese before communicating exce t to Govt Agenoies.
A-H
OCD
SPD
SECSTATE
FC
DC/R
1377, July 31, 7 n.m.
894.20232/7-3146
Swedish Miniater this morning sought our assistance
in cptaining moving pictures and newsreels taken in
apan and Philin ines in Japanese language showing
definite defeat of japan and pictures if possible of
Emperor and other 1mportant well known Japanese
ersonalities in which their conversation would be
convincing to Japanese population Sao Paulo estimated
at 25), 00) that Japan har been occupied by United
tates forces and that present Japanese Government 1s
cooperating in effcps o reorient Japan tovard
democracy.
113
Recent outbreaks in Sao Pa lo 1ncluding number of
murders are very disturbing to Brazilian Government.
Jt 1s estimated that between 150 and 200 dangerous
Japanese agitators should be repatriated (Sao Paulo
despatch 3886, March 21, 1946 and Sao Paulo telegram
90, April 2, 3 p.m.). This information obtained
from Swedish Minister.
Acting Foreign Minister Gracie has inquired if
United States would offer assistance in repatriation
undesirable Japanese nationals (Department's airgram
"314, July 23).
It would be most useful if United States Goven-
ment could be effective in obtaining quickly movin
FILED
pictures and
1946
RESTRICTED
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.88)
A.
RESTR:CTED
-2-, 1377, y 3, 7 .m., from Rio de Janeiro.
paganda newsreels and
radio trer cr: t Dera ment'a telegram 754, June 4)
that woilc b he n i convineing large Japanese
ponu tion in Sao aule of Japan's defeat.
wed: n Mir1a er : conversation with large group
danar f rr w pk rs o Paulo Friday said that some
of tl a w: r  in ir eyes implored him to
contraolct ri hat they hear that Japan has beon
defenued anc o oc: oied by United States forces
wnie they y J osc rely imoossible.
PAWLEY
EEC.FE
RESTRTED

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.82)
AUG -2196
o.
To the
Amsriean Consuler Offieer in Charge,
Se Pale, Brasil.
894.20232/8-246
iean eseupation of Japan.
Japan:
ASAHI SHIMBUN (CSAKA)
SHERANO SADIUN (NAGANO )
MIBNI NIPN SIBUN (FBOKA).....MA
TOYAMA BHDMBUN (TAKOOKA)
OIYA GGDO SNIIBUN (OITA)
SHMA SNDMBUN (CEGU).....
AKIÇA SAKDGAK (SHBUN)
CS/JEC
OSAKA MMIMII SMN (OKA)...MA 196
CHICHIBU MIPPO SKMBUN
 196
ŽAMAGAA SU (XANAGAZA)....... .MA 196
nc rn
-78
to Room
Enelesure:
8
17 packages of
Confidential
14.802
Japanese papers
G
ADA RdEçe rs
7/31/46
DOR
ANA Unit
3
EOT
wri
Anal. C
45 P.M.
Rev.
2
Cat.
0
Dist.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
B
DEYARTMENT OF &TATE
OFFICEOF
5
ANERICAN REPUBLIC AFFAIBS
Suo Paulo
Action-ARA
AUG
1846.
Deted August 5, 1946
Tnfo
OFS
RESTRICTED
Rec'd 2:25 p.m.,5th
UBF
OCD
Control 1331
FC
OIC
Paraphrase before communicating except to Govt Agencies.
1C/R
SECSTATE
253, August 5, 1 p.m.
894.20232/8-546
Anti-Japanese riots occurred in Osvaldo Cruz, a small
town beyond rail head on Paulista railway.
Riots started by first killing of a Brazil'un by
a Japanese and were intensified by boasts of Shindoremme1
members, numerous wounded. Army has occupied the town
which is reported quiet.
Sound truck has finally left for Japanese regions
using Vasconcellos, Chief Motion Pictures, as chauffeur
with special temporary permit. Urgently need more
occupation films and chauffeur requested in MYTEL Nr.
237 July 24.
CROSS
MP:JB
RESTRICTED
Confidential File
AUG  1946
FILED
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.81)
DC/F ROUTING SLIP
FROM Reo de Janeirs
NO 100. 1  432
S96.20232/5.7-46
AUTION:_ARA
COPIES TO
0IC
F/R
20c11

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
891
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
1.46 AUG 12 A% 93
UNRESTRICTED
No. 432
Subject: The Japanese 1 Sao Pau1
41946
colonists in São Paulo State, the venement wave of ori-
ticism or tne action taken by Interventor Macedo Soares,
OET 2-1946
NEPORTING SENVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
especially in view of current reports of Japanese de-
fiance during a meeting held in the government palace,
and subsequent denials that such reports were true.
894.20232/8-746
OF STATE
Various newspapers used the opportunity to oritieize
the lack of any "orientation for the localization and
absorption or (immigrants)" in general, and the unoon-
trolled admission of Japanese in partioular, in the face
of repeated warnings by eminent Brazilians, and of
commitments assumed at the Buenos Aires Conference.
CORREIO BA MANHA, which published a series of six or
more editorials on different aspects of the problem,
said, "We all know that Mr. Salgado Filho, Minister of
Getulio Vargas' dictatorship, went to Japan to receive
homage from the Mikado". CORREIO grew so alarmed over
Japanese oolonization in Brazil, which it considers
"not only a lost case; it is an inourable evil", that
it adwooated, apparently seriously, "sending back to
the Mikado this human mass of over two hundred thousand
people who undermine order and disrespect the laws of
the country"
O RADICAL spoke of the "tremendous faux-pas of In-
terventor Macedo Soares"... "the uncontrollable feeling
of humiliation that embittered the national seul upon
CS/A
hearing...of the disgraceful yellow meeting permitted
by the executive of the greatest Brazilian state in the
official palace itself..." TRIBUNA POPULAR: "Public and
solemn capitulation of the Interventor of the standing
lines' before the exigencies of the terrorists of the
Shindo Remmei". O GLOBO: "the lamentable episode of the
...capitulation before the impositions of Japanese terror-
ists"
JORNAL DO COMERCIO publishes an interview with the
Minister of Sweden, who was present at the meeting
representative of Japanese interests. Mr. Ragner Kuglim
demied the eurrent version of overt Japanese disres
for the Brasilian autherities, saying, "Daring the
meeting the Japanese subjeets there present

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.97)
No. 432, of August 7, 1946, Rio de Janeiro.
The reporter adds, "The Minister of Sweden...1s
frankly optimistio, and applauds, without reservations...
the orientation or the Interventor of São Paulo..."
CORREIO DA MANHA transcribed from the DIARIO DE SãO
PAULo an article condemning as "irresponsible" those who
"presipitously and superficially judged the aots of publio
authorities", and guaranteeing that "The criminals will
be inexorably expelled, but those who wish to work peaoe-
ably solemnly made a rormal commitment...(and) now have
the right to seourity and guarantee from our authorities..."
JORNAL DO COMERCIO oriticized the uncontrolled 1nflux
of Japanese with lack of any definite polioy on immigre-
tion, and said, "Iapanese immigration presented itself with
all the charaoteristics of a directed infiltration with
preconceived political aims...This lesson should lead to
a direction of tne immigration policy of the country...
doing away with the improvisations by means of whioh we
solve so many of our basic problems".
CORREIO DA MANHA: "...It would seem that ev (1n
São Paulo) outstrip the powers of police authorities,...
to fall within the province of the Federal Government...
Police officers...grant permission to carry arms to all
(the Japanese) who present tnemselves alleging threats
from (the terrorist organization) whioh numbers thousands.
With the ounning peculiar to the race, the Japs may be
concealing the real reason of the armament race... mass
carrying or arms... Halr of these people, armed, would
make trouble for a good-sized army... If the São Paulo
Police is impotent...it might be opportune for the Fode-
ral Government to take over a campaign of repression a-
gainst a movement that might cease to be a settling of
accounts among fanatio colonists and become a grave case
of public danger."
CORREIO protests against the reported "organzation
of guerrillas to help the police authorities to hunt down
the terrorist Japanese bands that infest the interior of
the State".
CORREIo says that papers taken from the Japanese
proved their plans for the "eventual conquest of Brazil..
The Shindo Remmei is Japanese military espionage service,
with authority over about 300.000 subjeots or the Mikado."
CORREIo repels the idea of mere deportation of the
oriminals, "first, because it is unheard of that ordina-
ry bandits should without punishment leave a country where
they had practiced horrible orimes. Second, because ar-
riving in Japan they will disembark as martyrs... They
may even receive jobs and decorations... The place for
these assassins is in jail."
WAWieland/mr √
3
R.K
bul
F110 891/820.02
UNRESTRICTED

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.96)
EM SÃO, PAUL
Como transcorreu a reunião convocady
no Palácio dos
FALA A RESPEITO
Regressando de São Paulo o Sr Rag
os.iseld autoridades paulistas.B
nar Kumlim, Ministro da Suécia que tomoy
poupio, dejo Alizer-lhe, na eficléncia da
parte na reuntão a que foram calvocados
compantode convencimento.
pelo Interventor José Carlos de Macedo
Soares vários elementos da colópio apo
RINCIPAL OBJETIVO
nesa, a S. Ex falou a imprensa lend
pois de pequena pausa, continuon
oportunidade de fazer as declaraçoes de
foram divulgadas nos seguintes termos:
o Mintstro da Suécia, Sr. Ragnar Kumin
— 0 que quer, em primeiro lugar, o
Na Constituinte, vem-se debatendo, he
ennnente Interventou paulista, Sr. José
dois dias, o caso dos japonsses de São
Gurlos de Macedo Soarcs, é pór lermo ao
Paulo, e crilicando, ora com louvores, ora
terror es'abelecido pelos "Tokokal" da
com censura, a reunião dos Campos Eli-
"Shindo-Remmei", fanálicos dellrantes.
seos, promovida pelo Interventor José Car-
Esse lerror causa perturbações de toda
los de Macedo Soares. O chefe do governo
sorle, inclusive no plano económico, pela
de São Paulo, colocou-se num ponto de vis-
diminuição do trabalho. O policiamento
ta, que desagrada a certas exaltaçocs, mas
ou a confinação de tão impresstonante
não pode negar-se nem prudéncia nem tato
massa humana seria problema de solução
politico à sua alitude.
dilicilima. Penso que os assassinios ter
E muito dificil arrancar, com medi-
minarão.
das policiais e perseguições violen!as
E se continuarem?
Este é um caso a respelto do qual
idéias fixadas em cérebros de fanáti-
cos. Não se tra'a de uns centos de homens
vão devo ovinar Cabe tão somente às au-
de possivel fiscalização, mns de 250
tori'les brasilciras deliberar sobre as
mil trabalhadores rurais, mais da quar-
medidas a tomar a respelto.
ta parte, por excraplo, da população do Es-
NÃO HOUVE PROTESTOS
tado do Espirito Santo, vivendo distantes
dos grandes centros urbanos. Só um cora-
Os jornais tém aludido a pro'estos dos
bate inteligente, travado no plano psico-
nipõcs reunidos nos Campos Eliseos,
lógico, poderia dar resnl'ados. Foi o aue
essa nolicia leve éco no Parlamento.
entendcu e iniciou o Interventor de São
Falamos do assunto ao Ministro Rag-
Paulo.
nar Kumlin, que nos respondeu com viva-
E teriam lavido, realmente, os tu-
cidade:
mullos que se anunciaram e os protestos
Duran!e loda a reunião os súditos
de que se deu no!icia, na reuniño do Pa-
japonescs, ali convocados, mantiveram-se
Iácio do Governo? Negou-os, cm discurso
respeilosamente, com a sua cortezia tradi-
veemente o deputado "Ataliba Nogueira c
cional. Li as proclamações imperial e do
afirmaram-no, em apartes calorosos, vários
"premier". que foram ouvidas em silêncto.
constituintes. A bancada oposicionista de
O discurso do Interventor Macedo Soares
São Paulo manteve-se silenciosa, o que tal-
fot esculado com interesse e não desperton
vez deva considerar-se apoio às medidas
qualquer prolesto ou movimento de repro
do interventor bandeirante.
vação: Da obscrvação dessa atitude é que
Seria curioso ouvir sobre o assunto
resulta, precisamente, a minha convicção
uma opinião insuspeita e nenhuma se
de que a inicialiva do governo paullsta
mostrará mais autorizada e respeilavel e
dara os resullados previstos. Repilo-the:
a do Ministro da Suécia, Sr. Ragnar Kum-
estive presente a ludo, e não ouvl o me
lin.
nos, um murmúrio que pudesse fradu-
Desde que declaramos guerra ao Ja-
zir-se como desaprovação.
pão. a defesa dos interesses dos súdilos do
O Sr. Ragnar Kumlin, que é um di-
Micado foram entregues à missão diplomá-
plomata sulil e conhecedor profundo da
tica do pais escandinavo. Essa situação
história, fala-nos, ainda, da psicologia ni-
determinou que o ilustre diplomata csti-
pónica, da alma impenetravel dos homens
vesse prescnle à reunião. Não hesilou em
do Japão, das suas misticas, de uma sérle
dar-nos as impressões que the soliciláva-
de complexos, que podem gerar herols on
mos Falou, com franqueza e com absoluta
bandidos, e quc é dificil reduzir sem con-
confiança va mudança do panorama dra-
vencer.
mático.
O Ministro da Suécia, Sr. Rognar
Kumlin, é /rancamente otimista  aplan-
JULGAMENTOS APRESSADOS
de, sem reservas, embora com a discreção
— E' prematuro — começa dizer.do-
que as suas funções the impõem, a orlen-
nos — a crílica aos resuliados da convoca-
mador José Carlos de Macedo Soarea.
ção dos súditos japoneses. Porque se trata
Já despedindo-ae, alnda nos diz:
de uma guerra psicológica, e não de uma
É' preciso não esquecer que a chef
"blit-lrlen", tém de ser demorados os efel-
do governo paulista, anles de ser
tos. Não serla possivel. no españo de cinco
lilico, já cra um habll e de
dias, levar ao conhecimento de duzentos
e cinquenta, mil japoneses as resoluçocs 
cial a força e onde vale

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.96)
ERA
UTA
O câncer da
Estado terá de cumpris
a lei determina, para os 
colonização
Brasil. Problema novo e ri.
Seriam inúteis, para tramsfor-
mar o espírito dessas criaturas
os mais aconselháveis proces
de reeducação. Como se vé,
() espetáculo vergonhoso de
colonização japonesa pãoa
uni terrorismo japonês em pleno
nas um caso perdido: é um mal
território brasileiro não se daria
incuravel.
se tivéssemos atendido ao apêlo
O que mporta aplicar são
Ecos e comentarios
dos que, em tempo, mostraram
apenas remédios para acautélar
os perigos da imigração amare-
a defesá nagional. É preciso ia-
la e propuseram medidas represt
sistir-se na afirmação de que não
sivas contra ela Ao set elabo
 trata apenss de um caso po
TERRORISMO NIPONICO
rada a Constitnição de 1o34 um
licipl code a ser tésolvido
Como fora de prever, o lamentável epísodio dus Campos
grande vuto du ciência, que 
Belo gsyermo regional. Toca ao
Elisios, de capitulação às imposições dos terroristas nipónicos.
sua elaboraão desteara 
em meda contribufu para reselver a situaçáe de alarma criada
mandato de seds concidadãos
ne seie da colonia japonesa em São Paulo. Os atentados su-
enfrentou decisivamente o pro-
sob todos os aspectos e l
redem-se e as autoridades véem-se na imperiosa contingencia de
usar processos energicos para pór um paradeiro à situação. Não
blema. Fé-lo de forma exausie
medidas excapcionais. Se foi
duvidamos um só instante em que a atuação oficial, rigorosa
va; e sendo qerem era - Miguel
embora equilibrada. acabará por reslabejecer a noimalidade,
Couto — homem sereno por
armas a nipónicos que se déá
devolvendo ao grande Estade pandeiante a tranquilidade
temperamento e pela profissão
zem vítimas de seus petricios
ameaçada pela ação deleteria de um grupoSãs fanaticos. De
que tanto enalteceu, incapaz de
terroristas, não é menos infells
leira se poucas centenas de terroristas d
messem de força
ceder a paixões, julgou seu de-
a iniciativa de éstabelécer gre
ver propór providências em fa-
pos de gwerrinheiros — come-
de nipónicos?
vor de seu país, contra o peri-
me consta de novas hforilac
nem toda a colonia nipónica participa dessa farsa da inven-
O que nán se deve perder de vista nésta questão é que
go nipônico. Tais providências
— para dar caça aos jepome
eibilidade do Japéo Ao contrario. à madida que os dias pas-
constam do texto desse estatuto
sam, a dependencia em que a mesma se Sencontrava em relaçãe
básico. Mas sua aplicação foi
ciso, como providéncia preli.
aos dirigentes de Toquio enfraquece visivelmente. Sem con-
deformada na prática, e, a des-
nar, é extinguir a Shindo 
sulados, sem embaixada, sem agenciae oficiala de imigração,
sem todos os demais laços que outrora preservavam a submis-
sãe à política de Tequio, os japoneses no Brasil começam a
trada de japoneses, êstes não ti-
peito dos limites traçados à en-
mei, que age ostensivan
ainda consoante as mais receh
 integrar melhor  comunidade braleira.
veram dificuldade em transpôr
tes informações.
Ainda que lento e imperceptivel de começo, se proceé
as fronteiras do Brasil, instalan-
Mas a prática dessa provién-
de libersçãe da sinistra camarilha nipónica é um fato. O que
o terroristas, agentes diretos dessa maquina de sujeição, pre-
do-se aquí como entenderam.
cia não compete a gropoe ar-
tendem é, precisamente, preservar a organização em perigo. Que-
Houve, porém, coisa mais
brados ou desmoralizados os velhos vínculos de dependemcia,
significativa. Há anos, reali-
mo em regra acontece em sia
tentam substituí-los por outros nascidos do medo e do terror.
zou-se em Buenos Aires ma
ções identicas, difichkmente e
Tomar, peis, a colanis como um só bloco é um erre. Tran-
conferência à qual comparece
contèm nos limites que a lai
sigir com os responsaveis pelo terrorismo, erro ainda maior
é de consequencias deploraveis. O qua se impóe é diatinguir
o Brasil. Nossos representantes
estatui, ainda que se trate de
sustentaram que as quotas de
grandes criminosos. Nem o pró-
fanáticos que senham preservar os sinistros métodós nasi-fas-
entrada de imigrantes só deve-
prio Lampeão foi caçado por
riam ser aplicadas aos que espon-
grupos armados pela polícia
taneamente procurassem nosso
nordestina. Com a polícia re-
solo; migrações realizadas por
gular é que tinha de se haver
solicitação ou intervenção dos
o bandido e foi combatendo com
paises de procedência dos emi-
grados, não teriam limitação.
perdew a vida, com betros cona-
Era uma medida que só pode-
ria acarretar resultados desvan-
desmontar a máquina secreta e
tajosos, pois as transferências
assassina; resolyam-se depois as
em massa são geralmente feitas
questões de ordem econômica e
por intervenção dos governos;
referentes à segurança e à tran-
e desde que estivessem isentas
quilidade nacional.
de limitação, o Brasil ficava à
E se da calma apreciação dos
mercê de uma invasão amare-
factos resultar, como melhor om
la pior do que a que se pro-
única solução, a expuisão em
curava exatamente evitar, pois
massa de trabalhadores que não
tal invasão "dirigida" Incluiria
só perturbam o fancionamento
logo elementos escolhidos para
do organismo éconômico em
fins de desagregação ou mesmo
grande extensão do território
de conquista.
nacional, como ameaçam a or-
Entretanto, os interesses da
dem e a segurança do país, não
América falaram mais alto. Os
wemos que haja por onde hesi-
representantes dos Estados Uni-
tar. Restitua-se ao Mikado essa
dos na comissão daquele con-
considerável massa humana de
mais de duzentas mil pessoas
gresso compreenderam a ques-
tão. Os Estados Unidos não
que subvertem a ordem e des-
acompanhariam tal decisão; seus
conhecem as leis do país que os
delegados não votariam tal me-
recebeu de braços abertos. E
dida, não favoreceriam a entra-
ninguém dirá que foi o Brasil
da de japoneses. Chegou-se a
que procuron tão extrema so-
lução.
um acórdo que consta, sob a
forma de conclusão, do texto da
Conferência, segundo éle, tal
exceção seria somente aplicada
a imigrantes europess. Ó Bra-

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.97)
por intervenção dos governos;
referentee
e desde que estivessem isentas
quitidade naciomal.
de limitação, o Brasil ficava à
mercê de wma invasão amare-
la pior do que a que se pro-
única solução,
emrava exatamente evitar, pois
tal invasão "dirigida" incluiria
logo elementos escolhidos para
do organismo econômico em
fins de desagregação ou mesmo
grande extensão do territórie
de conquista.
nacional, como ameaçam a or-
Entretanto, os interesses da
América falaram mais alto. Os
representantesdos Estados Uni-
ar. Restitua-se ao Mikade
dos na comissão daquele con-
considerável massa humana de
gresso compreenderam a ques-
mais de duzentas mil pessoas
tão. Os Estados Unidos não
que subvertem a ordem e des-
acompanhariam tal decisão; seus
conhecem as leis do país que os
delegados não votariam tal me-
recebeu de braços abertos. 
dida, não favoreceriam a entra-
ningném dirá que foi o Brasl
da de japoneses. Chegou-se a
que procurou tão extrema so-
um acórdo que consta, sob a
lução.
forma de conclusão, do texto da
Conferência, sgundo ele, tal
exceção seria somente aplicada
a imigrantes europeus. O Bra-
sil assinou o compromisso,
ninguém contesta que ele tinha
por objetivo restringir, em todo
o Continente, a perigosa imi-
gração nipônica.
Como seria lógico, projetada
no Brasil wma lei de imigração,
obedeceu à concluisão da Confe-
Fêcia de Buenos Aires. O com-
Smisso do Brasil foi assim ra-
cado em texto legal. Mas
e o projeto e a conclusão
coisas medaram.. O dispo-
vo desapareceu, om grande
decepção de quantos acompanha-
vam a marcha do processo e
defendiam os interesses do Bra-
sil, que em tão memorável pré-
lio tivera advogados com a en-
vergadura de Miguel Couto. E
o que se viu no Brasil foi a en-
trada caudalosa de imigrantes
japoneses. Foi como se a nada
nos tivéssemos comprometido em
Buenos Aires. Foi como se es-
tivéssemos não só estranhos à
imimência do perigo japonês,
mas até enamorados desse pe-
rigo.
Movida certamente, se lhe
procurarem as raizes profundas,
pelas camadas eixistas e por tô-
das as camadas instintivamente
adversas à brasilidade do Bra-
sil, assim vemos que sempre
houve uma forte corrente em
favor dos nipônicos. Ela con-
segui expurgar do projeto de
lei a limitação referida. Todos
sabemos que o sr. Salgado Fi-
tho, ministro da ditadura do
sr. Getúlio Vargas, foi ao Ja-
pão receber homenagens do
Mikado, ao mesmo tempo que
na América se tratava de obstar
à entrada do nipônico, e no Bra-
sil era o problema submetido a
exame da representação po-
pular...
Estamos agora vendo em tóda
a sua amplitude o perigo da
imigração japonesa. Fanáticos,
terroristas, instrementos de wma
pofítica imperialista, obedientes
ao Mikado, sews devotos para
além do que éie ordena (decer-
to porque o consideram coacto)
aqui se sentem numa espécie de
Japão mais livres que o próprio
Japão, e semeiam todos os eri-
mes e maleficios de suas paixões
guerreiras. Ante essa triste res-
lidade, se andiam quaisquer qua-
lidades acaso apreciaveis dos
nipônicos, como trabalhadores.
Façamos pois o Brasil regres-
sar à corrente dos paises que,

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.94)
misso do Brasil foi assim ra-
eado em texto tegal. Mas
e o projeto e a conclusão
cosas medaram. O dispo-
o desaperecen, pom grande
ecepção de quantos scompanha-
vam a mardha do processo e
défendiam os intsrebses do Bra-
sil, que em tão memorável pré-
lio tivera advogados com a en-
vergadura de Mignel Couto. E
o que se viu no Brasil foi a en-
trada caudalosa de imigrantes
japoneses. Foi como se a nada
nos tivéssemos comprometido em
Buenos Aires. Foi como se es-
tivéssemos são só estranhos à
imméncia do perigo japonés,
mas até enamorados desse pe-
rigo.
Movida certamente, se lhe
procurarem as raizes profundas,
pelas camadas eixistas e por tô-
das as camadas instintivamente
adversas à brasitidáde do Bra-
sil, assim vemos que sempre
houve uma forte corrente em
favor dos nipônicos. Ela con-
seguia expurgar do projeto de
lei a limitação referida. Todos
sabemos que o sr. Salgado Fi-
Iho, ministro da ditadura do
sr. Getúlio Vargas, foi so Ja-
pão receber homenagens do
Mikado, ao mesmo tempo que
na América se tratava de obstar
à entrada do nipônico, e no Bra-
sil era o problema submetido a
exame da representação po-
pular...
Estamos agora vendo em tóda
a swa amplitisde o perigo da
além do que le
to 'porque  coe
aqui be
Japão, e
sar à corrente doe
com fusta razão,
entrada de nipômicos ma Améri-
ca. Dela se afastou, e estamos
que  sé hoje

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.95)
EPUrano-Atatiba Nogusira é um eldadão destemaroso.
Testemunhos da ve
 repasto, investin, na pedçãe caructeristica da
gles, somlre o monsiro de ese que se uproximava...
deputodo paulisla não soube medir o sentimenlo de indigna.
sôbre os japoneses
gue s formou na alma macional, dia du "galfe" tsgmenda
e des Campos Eliscos. E leve coragem incanaciente de
Só os levianos, como notou judicios
de Medeiros, em sua magnifica entreviste
sóbre os japoneses, é que julgam, preci
os atos das autoridades publicas. E
de São Paulo, como já afirmamos. giu amo Jlevia,
colonia japonesa radicada em densés pualeos no Interio
tado. E a reunião do Palacio dos pos 
atertdade brasiletra, um acncae à ossyanidnde é à nossa
o ensaio, em plano acima das provideneras m
horenia.
vas de ordem policial. que todasyjá foram-ex
talidade japonesa de indole primith ecde  complexo p
muito tempo. o próio
logico tão emaranhado e tão isteate dk racl rinio ucidental que
Llbunn. jualificara a dilude do aleror paulista, no recusar
os proprios norte-americanos, na ooupaão do Japão, reclamam
entendimenins com operdrios bregtleiro n greve. afirmando, de
dedo em riste, que ochete do tecutivo dn seu Estudo não pudia
dimtmuir a auloridace d rgo, ouvindo homens fora da ler.
baixador Macedo Soares, por outro Tado, não permítiu. confor-
Entretante, não viy deslastné, para q sua autoridade ao convidar.
me comprovam irretorquivelmente os termos da ata assinade
por iniciativa intefamente sua, o hefes de uma organiio ter.
divulgada, que se intentasse a distorção dor fatos historicos,
sta estrangcira. reanonsáveis por de:enas de assassinios, des.
cando, bem claro, que efetivamente o Japão fóra derrotado.
papeitadores das nossas Leis e da nossa honitalidade, para uma
trados pon um longo treinamento, que só revela a negligênela
de governos passados, saiu, da reunião dos Campos Eliseos, sem
a menor ranhura. E a melhor prova disto é que o Cardeal Dom
segeiu, com a fraqueza de sua argumentaçño, em tórno de uma
Carlos Vasconcelos da Mota, e o general Milton de Freitas Al-
meida. bravo comandante da 2 • Região Militar e o brigadeiro
Armando Ararigboia. comandante da 4.• Zona Aerea, soldados
A repsrcuasão désse epiaódio na imprensa, na Assombleia Cons-
dos mais ciosos, não hesitaram em apôr as suas nobres assina-
turas no documento que testemunhou a reunião. Está claro que
Sr Atalba Nognetra, de uma exploração politica contra o "em-
se a autoridade publica tivesse, como pretendem os que pensam
haixador-Galfeur". mas de imappilavel sentimento de humilhação.
menos no perigo japonês do que na suspirada vacancia dos
que amargurou a alma nacional, ao conhecer a história, só nossivel
Campos Eliseos. para a satisfação de suas ambições, sido desau-
m um "gouérnu.Macedo Soares", do deprimente coricio amarelo,
torada, com grave prejuizo moral para o mosso Governo e para
mpamilido, pelo chele do ezeculivo do maior Estado braelleira, mo
o nosso pais. não só o proprio embaixador Macedo Soares, teria,
 própria palácie alictal a na presença do general comandante
de imediato. e a sua fé de oficio mostra que jamais recuou ante
daRegtão Militar, de cardeal arcebispo de São Paulo e do ministro
quaisquer desalios. providenciado a punição dos que desrespel-
dp-@nécla.
tassem a sua utoridade. como tambem o Cardeal Motta com a
responsabilidade de sua investidura cardinalicia, com o seus
sentimentos de brasileiro, e o general Milton de Freitas Almel-
da, e o brigadeiro Ararigboia não teriam testemunhado, com os
seus nomes, as suas presenças en ata formalizada. Que melhor
testemunho da correção e do zelo do embaixador Macedo Soa-
res, em manter intangivel o prestigio de sua autoridade e do
nome do pais do que as assinaturas de táo' ilustres, tão impolu-
tos e tão ardorosos brasileiros? Por outro lado, o embaixador
Macedo Soares foi de absoluta lealdade á opinião publica, nada
escondendo, nada ocultando, preferindo. com as janelas escan-
caradas do Salão Vermelho do Palacio dos Campos Eliseos, uma
entrevista com lideres responsaveis da colonia japonesa, com a
presença do ministro da Suecia, que representa os interesses do
Japão, para dissuadi-los. com a palavra do diplomata que o pro-
prio Hiroito escolheu pata representá-lo em nosso pais. Que
diabo queriam? Que o interventor federal promovesse a reunião
na rua Conde de Sarzedas, por ventura? Onde deveria falar, em
nome do governo jap nés, o ministro plenipotenciario da Sue-
cia? Ou na ilha Anchieta, onde, de zuarte e picareta em punho,
aguardam a ordem de expulsão os fanaticos da "Shindô-Remei"
processados pela policia paulista? Os criminosos serão expulsos
inexoralvelmente. mas aqueles que desejam o trabalho pacifico
e assumiram esse compromisso formalissimo, em ata que é do
conhecimento de todo o pais, esses tem agora o aireito de segu-
rança e garantia por parte das nossas autoridades. O embaixa-
dor Macedo Soares. conhecedor dos meandros da tortuosa alma
japonesa, não agiu de forma diferente de como agem os norte-
americanos na ocupação do Japão: inexoraveis para os crimi-
nosos. mas com prudencia - cautela para impedir os "pogroons"
na colonia que viriam sem a sua intervenção. De resto, que os
resultados erão benéficos o noticiario dos jornais já está de-
monstrando. A "Shindó" sabe. agora, que a colonia tem um com-
promisso e não poderá contar com a sua simpatia parcial, mas
sim con a punição implacavel do Governo. Os assassinos da
"Shindo". na ilha Anchieta, esperam um "Marú" qualquer que
os leve para o Japão e lá, então. verão a realidade. Que outros
se candidatem a este singular turismo, só de ida, que o Governo
Nhes dará o salvo-conduto para o Oriente
Transcrito do "Diário de São Paulo" de 30-7-46. (43772)

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.95)
t
Menodoas
o
NOV ANOS
VAAS
ds
oe
stedba Kegdetra, de mma exploração polltica contra o "em-
u
o
I6
dd
fr
m
d 
104_00-
ladalis de &r. Alallbe Nogueira permitia que se con
VÁRIAS NOTÍCIAS
Os "fanáticos japonéses"
No drama dos "fanáticos japont-
ses", que infestam São Paulo, 
Os acontecimentos provocados neste momento om quee
muita chantage. E é o que é pre
pelos japoneses em S. Paulo vão ao
diante da- realidade e buscam
so que se apure, para que a puni
menos srevindo para comprovar
terpor manter  disciplina de sen
ra possivel. Com semelhante gent
não há meias medidas. É trata-la
como ela o merece, to é com ab
ção dos criminosos seja à mais du
igual, senão pior que à de Lampeã
acerto dos que sempre consideraram
mos dcs mais decididos adversários
um perigo a entrada daqueles imi-
grantes no torritório nacional. Fo
prentd que sempre os couservou in-
vulnadrvelCasorluências do a
pate brasileiro?
over de . Paulo, diante da
lntà frieza e mais rigorosa jus
do recebimento de correntes japone
sérenio levando em conta o que
gravida dos fatos, tem agido com
tiça.
Os "fanátitos também extorqucin
sas no Brasil, porque nos alármava o
sentido político dessa imigração e sa-
alí ocorre entre os japoneses como
Jinheiro. E dem de o ser, quan-
biamos que, na ausência de uma ori-
um fenomeno que deve ser encarado
do as vitmas tho dío. Em ca
entação brasileira para localização e
pelo sentido característico que oe
ontrário, ingam-se, invocando a d.
absorção do elemento estrangeiro, o
plica, embora não o justifique. O In
vindade do imperadur. Para algun
Mikado teria aquí as mãos livres na
terventor Federal, Sr. J. C. de Ma-
coisa, a ridicula divindade do mals
execução do plano imperialista com
cedo Soares, agindo com senso obje-
estúpide dos monareo que fo
que sonhava. E assim foi. Por mais
tivo, procurou preservar o prestigio
vencide e & hoje pobre diat
enérgicas que se manifestassem as
da autoridade, mas ao mesmo tempo
tutelado do general cAríhur. havia
vozes dos brasileiros esclarecidos ein
deu à ação do governo uma orienta
da de atenpantes. São Paulo te
migidips cometido como tal prec
sam ser encaradar e julgados. Na
uma ótima peniteneiária. É par
onde devem ser mandados os "fan
de servir.
ticos" chantagistas. Trinta anos d
ocupações sérias e Monestas no vas
O/caso é puramente penal. Os ho
face do grande perigo armado contra
o Brasil, foram inuteis os protestos e
apelos em defesa dos interesses nacio-
nais e em poucos anos, de um índice
até então insignificante ascêndia a
mais de duas centenas de milhares a
população japonesa do Brasil, com a
circunstância inconcebivel de haver
ção capaz de impedir, de pronto,
nos núcleos de população japonesa,
com sérios reflexos na vida ecónômica
e na ordem pública do Estado. As
continuação dos atentados terroristas
que criavam uma situação ds pânico
providências tomadas contra os el-
mentos filiados às associações secre
to presidio poderão curá-los e re
sido quase toda ela dirigida para uma
tas que agem nos meios nipônicos não
generá-los. No mfnimo será tempo
região única, enquistada em certa
teem esmorecido e a ação repressiva
suficiente para fazê-los mudar de
zona de S. Paulo, onde se instalou e
e punitiva das autoridades contimu
vida. E se náo mudarem, despa-
proliferou, radicando-se na multipli-
a fazer-se sentir contra os responss-
chem-nos para o alto Purús, onde
cação de pequenas propriedades em
veis pelos crimes verificados è pela
há muitos seringais reclamando tra-
n ú c l e o s demográficos fechados a
organização do terror implantado em
balhadores rurais.
quaisquer elementos capazes de al-
S. Paulo.
O que é contraproducente é devol-
Cessada, como é de esperar,
vê-los agora ao Micado. Primeiro.
porque não se compreende que ban-
resos. Depois, porque em chegand
didos vulgares sáiam impunes d
país onde praticaram delitos horro
e dos fatos, não faltaram no Brasil,
para tristeza nossa, entusiastas da
imigração japonesa, embora ela se
terar o seu aspecto étnico.
Contra a evidência dos números
continuação dos atentados dos japo-
neses contra seus próprios patricfos,
nem por isso deverá o problema ser
dado como resolvido, porque subsis
tirá a necessidade de pôr-se termo à
mártires, aureolados de lendas e en-
ao Japão, éles desembarcarão com
grandecidos pela falsa suposição de
apresentasse con todcs os caracterís-
propósitos políticos preconcebidos, fa-
ticos de uma infiltração dirigida com
ameaça que representam para o Bra-
sil os quistos nipônicos ora existentes
que Le sacrificaram em holocausto
ceis de serem desvendados. Os pa-
em S. Paulo. A ausência de uma
ao soberano. Ganhariam, talvez em
triotas ficaram em minoria, embora
obra de colonização nacional perdura
pregos e condecorações.
prestigiados pelo alto valor dos no-
até hoje, com o abandono do homem
ves assgasinos é na cadeía.
Devemos evitar isso. O lagar ds
mes que tomaram atitude decisiva na
memoravel campanha feita para que
tria como um pária social, desampa-
brasileiro, desprezado dentro da pé-
se proibisse a entrada dos nipônicos
rado e negado na mais triste das de
no Brasil. O mais que obtiveram os
monstrações da nossa incapacidade
denodados defensores dos interesses
para a obra que nos competia realizar
nacionais nessa questão. leaderados
em defesa da nossa formação racial.
Agitou-se, na discussão prévia
pela grande figura de Miguel Couto,
foi a solução restritiva incluida na
dos assuntos a regular na futura
Constituição de 1934, com a adoção
Constituição, o problema da imigra-
do sistema de quotas, o que não lo-
ção e não sabemos qual a idéia que
grou impedir a entrada de japoneses.
afinal predominará nessa questão de
mas trouxe como resultado contra-
tanta magnitude. Seria lamentavel
producente a dificuldade no recebi-
que perdurasse, nesse assunto, a falta
mento dos imigrantes europeus que
de orientação para uma politica' re-
nos convinham.
lativa à imigração e à colonização dos
A Constituição de 10 de Novem-
elementos que satisfaçam às exigên-
bro, golpe de força contra a indepen-
cias do aumento demográfico do país.
dência do povo brasileiro, nem ao me-
Essa orientação não poderá vaci-
nos aí serviu ao interesses nacionais,
lar diante dos fatores existentes e das
experiências que já temos comprova-
porque manteve o princípio institui-
do pela Carta de 1934 e deixou que
das. Entre elas figura, com o escân-
dalo dos seus resultados, o erro da
perdurassem os malefícios de uma si-
tuação cujas consequências não era
imigração japonesa, que não pode
perdurar com a possibilidade de agra-
dificil prever.
A guerra, suspendendo a entrada
var-se na transigéncia que venha a

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.98)
perque em chegando
imigração japonesa, embora ela se
dado como resolvido, porque
e Japão, Élae desemberearño como
apresentasse com todcs os caracterís-
tirá a necessidade de pór-se termo
ameaça que representam pere
mártires, sureelados de lendas e en-
ticos de uma infltração dirigida com
grandecides pele falsa suposição de
propósitos politicos preconcebidos, fa-
sil os quistos nipônicos ora exi
que Ée smerificeram em holocaustu
ceis de serem desvendados. Os pa-
em S. Paulo, A ausáncia
ao soberase. Gamhariam, talvez em
triotas ficaram em minoria, embora
obra de colonização nacional
pregos e condecerações.
prestigiados pelo alto valor dos no-
até hoje, com o abandono do
Devemos evitar isso. O lagar dts
mes que tomaram atitude decisiva na
brasileiro, desprezado dentro da
ges asegosinos é na cadeía.
memoravel campanha feita para que
tria como um pária social, desampe
rado e negado na mais triste das de
se proibisse a entrada dos nipônicos
monstrações da nossa incapacidade
no Brasil. O mais que obtiveram os
denodados defensores dos interesses
para a obra que nos competia realisar
nacionais nessa questão, leaderados
em defesa da nossa formação racial.
pela grande figura de Miguel Couto,
Agitou-se, na discussão prévia
foi a solução restritiva incluida na
dos assuntos a regular na futura
Constituição de 1934, com a adoção
Constituição, o problema da imigra-
do sistema de quotas, o que não lo-
ção e não sabemos qual a idéia que
grou impedir a entrada de japoneses,
afinal predominará nessa questão de
mas trouxe como resultado contra-
tanta magnitude. Seria lamentavel
producente a dificuldade no recebi-
que perdurasse, nesse assunto, a falta
mento dos imigrantes europeus que
de orientação para uma politica re-
lativa à imigração e à colonização dos
nos convinham.
A Constituição de 10 de Novem-
elementos que satisfaçam às exigên-
bro, golpe de força contra a indepen-
cias do aumento demográfico do país.
dência do povo brasileiro, nem ao me-
Essa orientação não poderá vaci-
nos aí serviu aos interesses nacionais,
lar diante dos fatores existentes e das
experiências que já temos comprova-
porque manteve o princípio institui-
do pela Carta de 1934 e deixou que
das. Entre elas figura, com o escân-
perdurassem os malefícios de uma si-
dalo dos seus resultados, o erro da
tuação cujas consequências não cra
imigração japonesa, que não pode
dificil prever.
perdurar com a possibilidade de agra-
A guerra, suspendendo a entrada
var-se na transigência que venha a
dos imigrantes japoneses, não favo-
permitir o recebimento de mais imi-
receu aos dirigentes brasileiros uma
grantes daquela raça inassimilavel,
orientação patriótica, que facilitasse
de há muito repelidos por todos cs
a dissolução dos ameaçadores quistos
paises da América, exceto o Brasil.
raciais existentes em S. Paulo e as
A proibição absoluta dessa imigração
consequências dessa criminesa im-
é um imperativo a que nāo podem
previdência surgem agora com os gra-
fugir os representantes do povo bra-
ves acontecimentes que teem por ce-
sileiro ao aprovar o estatuto básico
nário o interior do grande Estado,
em elaboracão na Assembléia Nacio-
trazendo o desassessego às populações
nal. A verificação dos risccs previstos
locais e pondo em cheque a autori-
pelos que patrioticamente combate-
dade pública, com a audácia dos ter-
ram o erro da entrada em massa no
roristas japoneses, que manteem a
nosso país de uma raça prejudicial à
ferro e fogo entre os seus patrícios o
nossa formação étnica e perigosa à
principio de subimissão ao Mikado,
segurança nacional aí está patente
com a propaganda da idéia falsa de
na cloquência dos acontecimentos ve-
que o Japão não foi derrotado e con-
rificados cm S. Paulo.
tinua a ser uma nação poderosa e in-
Essa lição deve servir à direção
vencivel.
de uma política imigratória para o
Das sangrentas ocurrências ve-
país, que urge ser feita num sentido
rificadas em S. Paulo, nas quais se
contínuo, positivo e uniforme, fora
revela o espírito de bárbaro misticis-
das improvisações com que infeliz-
mo que caracteriza um povo influen-
mente orientamos tantos dos nossos
ciado pelo progresso material do oci-
problemas hásicos. O crescimento d
dente, mas escravo ainda de um fa-
mográfico do Brasil, para construção
natismo que não o liberta de costu-
da grandeza rátria, não pode ser ape-
mes e principios antagônicos à nossa
nas quantitativo. A garantia de aper-
formação moral, da sequência de gri-
feiçoamento do homem brasileiro é
mes praticados pelos japoneses por
condição precípua à obra de unidade
motivos estranhos ao meio em que
nacional, que nes compete preservar
vivem, evidencia-se de modo positivo
e defender. para a marcha segura dos
a impossibilidade da assimilação des-
nessos destines.
ses elementos, incapazes de libertar-
se de um fetichismo que cs torna, pela
submissão ancestral ao seu Impera-
dor, inimigos da pátria que es acolheu
e fatores de desassossego e ameaca

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.88)
CASO DOS JAPONESES
coments a reunião des
São Paulo sšo para cavsar apooem
sões. E a coaclusão preliminar jue
tificada pelas desagradáveis notícias
é simplesmente esta: parece que os
factos que so desdobram naqucle Es-
Lee de Macode Zoa: drcla a 
tade sémogam à éocaper de algude
 Bagmar Kumlin Qualquer
das astoridades policiçis, qenga da
eutra atude por parde das au
própria admiaistragio regional, para
taridadeà talvoz lo mbtra de
sair, sem mal demora as jasiadi-
m desoanhecimen:dbscluto de
ção do govirno sadarat. Nlo e
reatidce que nãoedeve ol-
compreende, por exemplo, a largue
tar Não haveria  d co
finer ou reduzirola ic.cu.
sa com que os delegados incumbi-
mais o c  fanécos. espa
dos de reprimir os atentados, pren-
Ihance toer nudagrande
dende o culpados, visíveis ou pre
sumiveis, e instautando contra éles
os respectivos processos. concedem
messe de duséate  cdéquenta
licenças para porte de atmas à to-
mil admas. sé rme guerta pai-
dos os amareles que se apresentam,
celégics, cuidadosamente condu-
alegando estarem ameaçados de mor
sida. traria a tranquilidad, que
te pela associação secreta bomicida
urge. sté porque a impõem gra-
dos patrícios, que somam milhares.
viesimas condições econômicas A
Com à astácia particular da raça,
sabolagem,  steatados as
ameaças da "Shindo Re m ei"
nípônices podemdissimular
estão pravocando sensivel de-
rerdadeiro móvel da serrida  ma
créscimo da cestas produções
nentista.
agricolas. Se o fenômeno não so
E milhares délestacilment
nota muma estatistica geral é ia-
armam à custa e cam a cumplcida
cil de percebê-le nas cilras que
de indireta das antoridndes jdo pais.
registram as exportações de uns
O porte de armas é uma conte
tantos municipios.
esperialissima, só admissivel  om
Politice hábil e experimentado
pu outro individuo que prdvejamea-
Macedo Soares tomou e caminho
diplomata  Sr. Jesé Carlos do
ça iminente contra sus vida e sua
propriadade, ante à aba impos
mais scguro - o que poderia re-
solver. por modos pacíficos. uma
ibilidade de sor roco ela po
situação delicada  o que em
cia local. Nãopauliata.
último caso, o diante de um fra-
A perem verdadeiras arfomações,
casso evidente. ambientaria as
 söbre isso paece da háver dú-
medicas que se venham a im-
vida, porqu o adtoridades
pôr e os criticos sistomáticos po-
incumbidae das diligas que 
deriam classificar de violências
dispensávcis.
sfirmamqscorendo
O quo poróm se observa, nesto
grande zons em que prepondera 
momento, é que são fundalas as
loerameate japont, a licer
previsões do ministro da Suécia.
O intervontor bandeirante jamais
s parà úm portede  armas 
penson cue anlaria com a sua
m -s cn m de du
palavra, o sos consclho e a sua
ntos mi us nipônirts lo alizados
rosolugão o anatismo de toãos os
 interior paelista. Metade dess
japonoses. Algumas contonas fi-
gonte armada, quando menos, varía
cariam irredutivela mas para
nu to o que faser. à um sofrivel
combater o pequeno grupo que
exército regular.
sa mantivessa foza da lei sobra-
Levem ser procurado outros c
vam recursos policiais. E a oSsor-
vação do panorama indica-nos
mmhos. mais compativeis com à se
que está com a razão o chafo do
guratça e à defesa nacional. E e
govêmo paulista. A rounião dos
a poli ia paulista é impotente :ara
Campos Eliscos suceeram-se al-
minar uma situaço que tende à
guns atentaños. mas de caráter
a piorar. talvez seja oportuno o go
exsenciaimente alarmista - in-
vírno tederal avocar à campanha da
côndios em casobres e explosões
repressão contra um movimento que
de bombas de nenhuma capaci-
prude deixar de ser ums liguidação
costra os trak
dade destruidora. O banio pe-
de cuntas entre colonos fanáticos
queno de fanáticos inconvenien-
tes viu que daria resultados a
pata se transformar num caso grave
campanha dirigida pele interven-
de perigo público. Não há preve
tor Macodo Soares • tenta, num
dentes. no Brasil. de  conceder.
último esiorço. amedrontar a
por atacado, li ença para porté de
massa a colonos que adquiriu a
ármas a colonos que se dizem amca-
compreensão do fonômeno histó-
cac pelas quadr thas homicidas dos
rico. Os atentados recentos des
patricins, a pretexto de fiarem os
"Toko-Rai". quaso o'o-
niesmon om suas vidas gáranti
prosos. em diligências que duram
das
Por que não admitir a manobra
tração de que as medicaa o go-
vêrno de São Paulo não foram
itdilosa da raça. nesse afluxo in-
apenas as mcis acertadas. mas
terminável às delegacias policiais.
as únicas eficientes que até agó-
impetrundo con essão para o por
yo se tomaram.
e armas. à qual é amtotizada
pela simples declaração dos delega-
dos? O contrário é que se deveria
fazer Proibir o comércio de srmas
no interiof em qué se enguérrés
lonização japonesa e desarmmt, in
determinadamente. os nipônieos ar
mados, com cu sem. licençe dé qual-
quer antoridade inexpetiente.
Fondere e govêrno federal ai
thaçéo. iniludivel em suas peropecti-
vas. O que saif desss providência,
sté que venham outras mais enérgly
as e mais, definitivas, é contrap
dusenté

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.94)
A AO ARIA
rovelam-s, agora. m toda
sus plemitude de estupides e fo-
rocidade. Mão admitindo a der-
rota - derrota arrazadora. frize-
mos, do aeu pala natal, ent
SHINDO REMMEI
pea lodé copecie do ven
daliamo. Matam individuos ne
éificos. ocupedos apenas em tra-
balhar. depredam queimam
à um plane sintstro de desordem
propriedades. obedecendo assim
GUERRILHEIROS
Que é la Shindo Remmei?
É a máquing dissolveste,ggue
 destruição.
Os brusicos. que dur
a um tempo gesarticula le aub-
suerra. o p beaké  ingenui
Contirqua- a noticia da or-
verte a prdemm-do raballio agrí-
dade. ou ada por partidar
ganizacão de guerrilheiros em
cola, numa exten zona de país,
mo. não acredisavang-nas atro
São Patão. para ajudareni a
e por outro lado articua  mo-
cidade dos nipdencoátra  sal
autoridades policiais na caça
vimenta em primpneses alivida-
dados norte-americanos. atribu-
aos bandos. nipónicos teñrofistas
indo aos zagaros da-propaganda
que infestam o interior do Es.
geira contra a
vasleiras.
horoe
tado. manobrando  planosinis-
Impõe-se uma recanitalação do-
correspondentee deL guaraa. de-
tro de execuções márias de
cumeptária codatã ao in-
vem. agora. reger de quan-
patricios nconforn com a
cremente que assumlu a clan-
to à capés  ivegerteapone
derrota do Japão Que são
destina hostilidad sipónica no
. Ná que  . con
guerrillieiros. em lingnagem
sul do Brasil. Esh nda sub-
flantmigos. dande ihe
marcial? São oatriotas de
terránea. que, agora irrompeu
mel
ameaçante e feroz →não im-
tamo pagandomucaro
nosa boa-é. E  ele tivessem
qualquer pais em gerra. orga
nizados, armadus eRconhecidos
porta que seja um produto da
mais baixa mentalidade que ain,
ganhoruerrmagin
pelos governos legas, empenha-
dà yiu  aprovéitou o en-
que tériamo d sofrér..
guerra européia. essas organiza-
dos numa luta externa Na
séjo que lhe oferęceraan os des-
Felipmente, o Thterventor Fede-
cridistas da ditádura para levar
cões prestaram serviços tele-
ral  são Paulo tà opon-
vantes Cdelas dependen. em
ao extremo  audácia de seus
do ao fanatiamo japonéa a rea-
muito cso à derrota de mais
objetivos condenáveis. Enquan-
ção necessaria. Bereno, mas ener-
to se prestava alguma atenção
de unt exercito numeroso e ben
gico. adota  medidas eeveras
eouipado. Não  porém o caso
ao perigo alemão há muito con-
que  acontecimentos vão exi-
solidado em dois Estados meri-
gindo da autoridade. Deve-se
brasileiro. lá não estamos em
dionais, deixava-se que as rapoy
reconhecer que a ação nefasta
guerra com penhuma nação.O
sas do Mikado esboçassem 
do chef do movimento não al-
cançou exitos nem se estendeu
que há em São Paulo são ter-
roristas que devem ser postos
punemente seus inconfessáveis
propósitos no Estado também
a outros centros de colonização
fora da lei, admita-se, mas que
sulista, que é a chave mestra da
niponica no Estado de São Pau-
devem ser perseguidos e presos
nossa economia rural.
lo. graças à eficiencia de repres-
por förças regulares, dirigidas
Formaram-se, revéis ao mais
são dirigida pelo proprio Inter-
exclusivamente pelas autorida-
rudimentar policiamento, os con-
ventor.
Agora, cumpre que o noso sen-
dos criminosos.
des responsáveis pela captura
glomerados humanos de uma só
timentalismo não nos deixe per-
doar criminos atentadode 8
Paulo. B' preciso que oponha-
contimgentes policiais necessà-
r os pata vareíar a zona en
Se não dispãe São Paulo de
nação, conhecida por seus avan-
çados ideais imperialistas, domi-
nando uma extensa área de qui-
moà ferccidade do nipéa
que se ocultam os nipónicos
lômetros quadrados nos mais
eondenação mala energica • defi-
assassinos, predendo-os, proces-
preciosos rincões do pais. Não
nitiva.
sando-os, e entregando-os aos
foi por falta de ser essa colo-
juizes ou tribunais que os terão
nização anormal e perigosa cla-
de julgar, há o recurso de um
morosamente denunciada por
apêlo ao govérno federal, solici-
vozes patrióticas que os uipóni-
tando-lhe reforços que integrem
cos transplantaram para terras
os que legalmente se acham in-
paulistas uma perfeita imagem
vestidos de autoridade para
de seu Japão expansionista.
agir. Não se trata de um casus
Mas quando se falava nas
belli, que cessou con a detrota
sombrias perspectivas do perigo
do Japão e que nem ac menos
amarelo, sorriam incrédulos ou
se refletiu de modo concreto no
alheios ao cumprimento de seus
Brasil, pois durante a guerra
deveres os descuidistas do go-
a grande colónia nipônica. infe-
verno. Era no tempo em que
liznente domiciliada em nosso
êsse govêrno discricionário se
pais, foi cuidadosamente policia
inclinava mais pela causa da
da e contida. Não se justifica.
Alemanha e seus próximos fu-
portanto, a organização de guer.
turos aliados do que pelas de-
rilhas e a formação de guerri.
mocracias que amparavam e de-
lheiros, para prender, processar.
fendiam a liberdade e o direito
condenar ou deportar uma qua-
de todos os povos civilizados.
drilha assassina que zomba da
Já por aquêle tempo ficára co-
generosa hospitalidade do pais
nhecida a documentação resul-
que acolheu scus componentes.
tante dos mapas, manipulados
Os próprios japoneses se van-
por oficiais do exército nipôni-
gloriarão da necessidade de for-
co. os quais por vários anos
mar guerrilhas para os capturar
agiam sem receio, disfarçados
e com a apoucada mentalidade
em colonos.
que os caracteriza, atribu rão o
Os mapas apreendidos não
facto à insuficiência de fórças
ofereciam dúvidas söbre as in-
regulares para os dominar Já
tenções do então governo do
adverimos que nunca se cogi-
Mikado: todo o Estado de São
tou de armar guerrilheiros para
Parlo. parte do próprio Distri-
caçar mais de uma formação de
to Federal, do Rio de Janeiro,
bandoleiros no pais e esses ban-
Paraná, Santa Catarina, Mato
dos tinham a vantagem de co-
Grosso e Goiás, para não esca-
nhecer palmo a palmo as zonas
par da réde estratégica o cen-
em que se locomoviam, devas-
tro do Brasil, zonas do Mara-
tando-as e assassinando muitos
nhão, do Pará e do Amaronas,
ais estava ali ha-

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
se refletiu de modo concreto no
Brasil, pois durante a guerra
deveres os descuidistes do 
a grande colônia nipônica.infe-
verno. Era no tempo em que
liznente domiciliada em nosso
esse govérno discricionário
pais, foi cuidadosamente policia-
inclinava mais pela causa da
da e contida. Não se justifica.
Alemanha e seus próximos fu
portanto, a organização de guer-
turos aliados do que pelas de-
rilhas e a formação de guerri
mocracias que amparavam e de-
lheiros, para prender, processar
fendiam a liberdade e o direito
condenar ou deportar uma qua-
de todos os povos civilizados.
drilha assassina que zomba da
Já por aqucle tempo ficára co-
generosa hospitalidade do pais
nhecida a documentação resul-
que acolheu seus componentes.
tante dos mapas, manipuladoe
Os próprios japoneses se van-
por oficiais do exército nipóni-
gloriarão da necessidade de for-
co, os quais por vários anoe
mar guerrilhas para os capturar
agiam sem receio, disfarçados
e com a apoucada mentalidade
em colonos.
que os caracteriza, atribu rão o
Os mapas apreendidos não
facto à insuficiência de fórças
ofereciam dúvidas mdbre ain-
regulares para os dominar Já
tenções do então governo do
advertimos que nunca se cogi-
Mikado: todo o Estado de São
tou de armar guerritheiros para
Paulo, parte do próprio Distri-
caçar mais de ama formação de
to Federal, do Rio de Janeiro,
bandoleiros no pais e êsses ban-
Paraná, Santa Catarina, Mato
dos tinham a vamtagem de co-
Grosso e Golas, para não esca-
nhecer palmo a palmo a- zonas
par da rede estratégica o cen-
em que se locomoviam. devas-
to do Brasil, zonas do Mara-
tando-as  assassinando mnito
não, do Pará e do Amazonas,
de seus habitantes
quase todo o país estava ali ha-
bilmente desenhado, estudado e
***
medido pela pericia de oficiais
Deu-se aos japoneses a con-
do estado maior do exército
fança de convocá-los para uma
amarelo, pobremente enroupados
reunião de paz no palácio dos
de trabalhadores agricolas.
Campos Eliseos, de onde deve-
Demonstravam ainda os do-
riam ser imediatamente expulsos
cunentos que vinte mil proprie-
quando explodiram em afirma-
dades rurais, estrategicamente
ções patrióticas de nsulto ao
escalonadas, nos principais ei-
pais em que se instalaram como
xos militares de terras brasilei-
em casa própria Da-se-llies
ras. abrangiam um perímetro de
agora a confiança mais conde-
120.000 quilômetros quadrados,
nável de os convencer de que
com uma população adventicia
st poderão ser capturados por
de 300.ooo fanáticos, encarrega-
meio de 'guerrilhas E 'não tar-
dos de um paciente e cuidadoso
dará que tambéim éles as orga-
trabalho de sapa, visando a con-
nizem pra caçar os brasileiros
quista oportuna do Brasil. Era
que os procuram. como auxilia-
essa a colonização japonesa, não
res de autoridades que deviam
é outra coisa essa sinistra asso-
dispor. dos elementos neces-
ciação secreta conhecida pelo
ários
qualificativo de Shindo Rem-
mei. Deixaram-na nascer, cres-
cer e frutificar; toleram-na ain-
di agindo como soberana, com
as suas brigadas de choque, com
os seus tribunais que exercem
impunemente o direito de matar
e exterminar quem quer que se
oponha a seu programa visce-
ralmente politico. Shindo Rem-
mei é o expoente máximo dessa
teimosia em querer mandar no
país alheio, desorganizando-the
o trabalho.
E aquêles que sorriam, quan-
do se aludia ao perigo amarelo
que, se não ameaçava & segu-
rança e a soberania de nosso
país, tendia a desarticular, quan-
do menos, o curso normal de
nossas atividades rurais, como
está acontecendo, devem estar
agora convencidos do verdadei-
ro papel que representa a co-
lonização japonesa no Brasil,
orientada e controlada pela as-
sociação secreta que encobre
seu despeito com a pretensa
confiança na invulnerabilidade
militar do Japão. È preciso não
mantermos ilusões: Shindo Rem-
mei é a espionagem militar ni-
pónica, com poderes sóbre a
vontade de cêrca de 3oo.o0o
súditos do Mikado. Não basta-
rá extirpá-la, nem será provi-
dência satisfatória fechar as
fronteiras, consentindo na per-
manência dos muitos milhares
de amarelos que aquí se dogí-
ciliaram sob falsas aparênciase
oriminosos propósitos.

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.87)
AUG9
UNRESTRICTE
se.
To the
Ameriean Censular ocfieer in Charge,
Me Paule, Rrasil.
The Asting Searetary of State refere to the Cemsalar offieur's
request, containad in several cemmunieations to the Department, fer
894.20232/8
eurrent Japasese newspapers and ather materials cesserxing the mes-
iean ecsupation of Japan.
There are attached the fellowing Japanese veraseular pepers
published, for the most part, in the mmaller towms of Japan:
12 cope  T-s........ J  to Jy ,
 .
.July to Juyn,
-946
 ps 
Tocopios
14
BMRyan
Enclosure:
c  n
1 packags containing:
to Room 84.
40 copiss Japaneso papare
89420282
FG
2011
ADA D Eças
8/7/46
/8-946
AUG

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
VISION OF
ASTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
8-X
Sao Paulo
Act:on: ARA
Dated August 12, 1946
Inio:
3
RESTRIOTED
Rec'd 6:33 p.m., 12th.
U
FE
Control 3684
ESP
OCD
Peraphrase before communicating except to Govt Agencies.
SPD
FC
894.20232/8-1246
OIC
SECSTATE
DC/R
256, A gust 12, 6 p.m.
ircatiy appreciate Department's 142, August 8.
Japanose language film would be most useful. Present
situation is resllt reluctance of Brazilian authorities
to act ceveral months ago dic to officials being merely
interim and not sure of themsoives and federal authorities
being unfamiliar with interior. Additional factors were
incredulity as to reported fact. and probably defective
information services in case of certain police officials.
Bad judgment on part of interventor in calling meeting
of Japanese and feiling to maintain his authority has
as anticipated played into hana: of terrorists. Police
are numerically incapable of any real control and number
f Japanese involved make generel arrests imprectical.
Impasse confronting authorities will be difficult
of solution but ultimate reccurse will be the Army as
r Osualdo Cruz.
In meantime mob reaction by Brazilian population
rey be sufficient to confine murders to Japanese them-
selves.
Japanese themselves are doubtful as to effectiveness
of deportation holding that it will be represented as
an honorable summons by Emperor to reward for high
services rendered. Authorities are hoping to live down
interventors' blunder in time using newspapers, pewsreels
and especially actual correspondence from relaties
Japan.
2
2
LRC
Murders
Are
RESTRICTED
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
-2- "256, August 12, 6 p.m., from Sao Paulo
Murders are continuing on increazing scale but
mob reaction is also spreading end unfortunately breed-
jng a new spirit in masses. At least five small riots
involviig plundering stores in protest at profiteering
nave occurred during last veek not directly involved
in Japanese question but a number in Japanese areas
indicating a groving disposition to no longer depend on
authoritles but take law in own hands. Communiats are
using possibilities of this development raising outcry
againa: both Japanese and profitecrs.
CROSS
CAD-CID
RESTRICTED

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
4
Action: ARA
N
Sao Paulo
Info :
Dated August 16, 1946
S
U
RESTRICTED
Rec'd 10:15 n.m., 16th.
FE
100
DC/L
Control 500
A-B
3A/M
OCD
Paraphra'se
ting except to Govt Agencle.
894.20232/8-1646
TC
DC/R
SECSTATE
260, August 16, 10 a m.
Japenese outbreaks predicted for fifteenth 1n
ceneral did not terialize, notable exception at
Brauna, e small town, in Aracatuba district where
actual fighting occurred resulting according to
p'eliminary report in several killed and many wounded.
CROSS
SVE3
RESTRICTED
AUG 00 1345
FILED
LRC
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
File Designation
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
Date
From
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
Authority
Date
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GSA FORM 7117 (2-72)
GPO : 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.95)
RHENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
United States Department
AMERICAN REPUBLIC APF
Mashington, D.C.
AUG 28 1946
August 19, 1946
PERSONAL AND
To:
Mr. Jack Neal
Chief, Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
1946
DER
Department of State
gett
From:
SubJeCt: JAPANESE UNREST - BRAZIL
894.20232/8
As you know the Japanese in Brazil do not fully believe that Japan
has been defeated, therefore, they refuse to acknowledge the consequence of
such a defeat in their colonies and have been creating disturbanoes.
As of possible interest to you, there is attached hereto a momo-
randum received from a confidential reliable source which sets forth some
details relative to the Japanese disturbances in Brazil. You will observe
that it has been reported that at least twenty-three attempted assassinations
have taken place to date. In order to cope with the situation, the Foderal
Interventor for Sao Paulo, Doctor Jose Carlos de Macedo Soares, determined
to organize a ceremony which should be at once friendly in character and yet
with enough dignity and impressiveness to drive home to the Japanese the true
condition of their defeated country. The Japanese, however, remained unimpress
by the collection of dignitaries and the meeting closed with the Japanese being
vigorously outspoken and voicing demands that the words "unconditional surrender
of Japan" not be used and that the press be muzzled with respect to the sur-
render of Japan. At the same meeting the strong threat was hurled at the
Interventor that the assassinations would continue.
Local observers believe that to date the Brazilian police have
been unable to effectively cope with this situation.
CS/A
This information has been made available to the American Embassy
in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Enclosure
cc Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
cc Chief of Naval Intelligence
War Department
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C.
0CT
46   9
C NC
Two
tention: Reading Panel
Military Intelligence
AUG 20 1946
0//R
DEPARTWENT OF STATE
ARA Unit
La
mr2y
DECLASSIFIED
savo 280069

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
July 26, 1946
SLATY OF CUTIENT JAPANESE SITUAPION IN
SAO PAULD, BRAZIL
Efforts by the police of Sao Paulo to close this
lengthy investigation, during which more than 400 Jananese residents
of the State of Sao Paulo passed throuph the otate Capital and
were nersonally identified by the olice, culminated in the
recormenda'ion of the  olice official in charge during the latter
art of Jure, 1946, that 0 members of various Jananese secret
societies be ex elíed from the country and returned to Japan as
undesirable.
Some of these individuals lived in straitened circumstances;
others en joyed influence in the Jananese colony by virtue of a previous
rilitary cr naval career in Janan. All were proven by the police in
Sao Paulo to have been pruidinf sririts in the rash of at least fifteen
secret societies which arose the latter part of 1945 and the first
part of 1946.
he above recommendation was taken to the Minister of
Justice in tio de Janeiro anr roximately July 1 and on July 12 the
Secretary of Public Security in Sao Paulo, Dr. Pedro Antonio de
Oliveira ibeiro Sobrinho, with the anproval of the Minister of
Justice, ordered the gO ringleaders interned in the Capital City
Correctional Institute, Tlha Anchieta, E.S.P., pending decision
of their expulsion. A reliable nolice source has piven as his
oninion that the internment of those whom it was proposed to re-
patriate offended the Jananese colony who demonstrated their
willinpness to accent control by the police and also to show the
vigor of their natriotism began another series of attacks on
those of their countrymen who were disnosed to accent the
surrender of Japan.
To date at least 23 attempted assassinations have taken
place, although only one attempt, as far as is known, was successful.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
To cope with the situation the Federal Interventor for
Sao Paulo, Dr. Jose Carlos de Macedo Soares, determined to organize
a ceremony which should be at once friendly in character and yet
with enough dignity and impressiveness to drive home to the Japanese
the true condition of their country. By order of the Secretary of
Public Security individual members of Japanese secret societies
resident at Sao Paulo (about 400 in number) were convened in the
Governor's Palace in Sao Paulo on July 19. The details of this
gathering have been amply renorted in the newspapers. In brief,
the Jananese were unimpressed by the collection of dignitaries
there present and the meeting closed with the Japanese being
vigorously outsnoken and voicing demands that the words "unconditional
surrender of Janan" not be used and that the press be muzzled with
respect to the surrenier of Japan. At the same meeting the bald
threat was hurled at the interventor that the assassinations would
continue. An effort was made to have the Japanese present sign
an accentance of the surrender of Japan but this attempt only
resulted in the demand that the words "unconditional srrender"
be striken, and when this demand was acceded to, the Japanese
then individually refused to sipn the act. (For this part of the
ceremony they were summoned by name.) enorts in police circles
say that the interventor agreed to advise the press to be careful
of its nhraseology vhen referrin to the outcome of the war.
In these same circles the attitude toward the meeting
is one of resentment due to the fact that the matter was considered
strictly one of police jurisdiction and it is felt that the inter
ventor committed a grave error in allowing the "defeated" Japanese
to treat with him on equal ground. Opportunity was thus provided
for these Japanese to return to their homes with more prestige
than ever before.
Conversations with citizens of Sao Paulo of various
social classes have shown that many people in the city have a
feeling of shame because of the outcome of this meeting. The
police frankly concede that the conference was an admission of
inability to cope with the situation. They feel that had the
conference taken place in the of ices of the chief of police
or the Delegacia Ordem de Politica who conducted the investiga-
tion, the sotting would have been much more proper for the type
of negotiation which was intended.
On July 25 the Secretary of Public Security went by
train to Rio de Janeiro, presumably to discuss with the Federal
-2-

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
Government the outcome of the entire affair and to settle the steps
to be followed in the future. The interventor is leaving Sao Paulo
July 26 by road to arrive in tio de Janeiro on July 27.
It is also felt by some individuals in the police of
Sao Paulo, as well as elsewhere in the city, that the United States
Government has a considerable interest in the present problem in Sao
Paulo. It is claimed that the United tates Government de facto
the Covernment of Japan and that it nov covers Japan th rough an
emissary, General MacArthur. Inasmuch as the Japanese colony are
apparently denendinf upon Tokyo, it therefore falls upon the United
States Government, which is in charge in Tokyo, to assume some
resnonsibility for their actions. 1o this attitude the objection
has been raised that publicalions received and distributed through
the United States Consulate General in Sao Paulo are considered by
these same Jananese to be highly colored propaganda, printed for the
sole benefit of the Jananese in Brazil, who are consequently distrust-
ful of anythinp circulated by United tates authorities.
Present police management of the situation is confined
to brinping to Sao Paulo iniluential Japanese of various centers
in the interior of the state, talking to them in a friendly way, and
then asking them to sign a declaration formally taken by the police.
After this, they are returned to their homes in the hope that what
they have seen in the nolice station in the way of Japanese printed
pictures and documents will have impressed them sufficiently to
make them counter-prooagandists in the interior. It is pointed out
that daily attempts at murder still continue. Certain members of
the police force are in favor of turning the murders over to the
Personal Security Section and treating them individually as murder
cases. That section of the Police Department naturally is content
to leave the matter in the hands of the Political Police.
- 3-

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.88)
AUG10m
WRESTREYED
o.
To the
Ameriean Cemsular Orrieer in Charse,
894.
Ke Pale, Brasil.
2
The Lsting Searetary of State refers to the Gemeuler offieer's
2023
request, centained in sereral cemmusleatione to the Bepartment, for
current Japanese memspapers and ether materials comseraing the Aasr-
iean eccupation of Japan.
2
There are enslesed 16 peekmgee of the fellewing Japanese verase-
8
alar papers published, for the meet part, in the amaller tome of
Japan:
19
CHIBA SHDBUN
..Febreary 1966
46
KANAGANA SHIIBUN
CHIUBANIPPO SHDGIUN
SAITANA SHDIBUN
KAGOSNINA-HIPPO
ISE-SNDBUN
SH ENOL UEE-SNDMDUN
CS/
FULUI SNDBUN
MOKAIDO-SNEDBUN (ASANIKANA)
MOKAIDO-SNDBUN (BASUPORO)
A
GOBO-SNDBUN.
KAGGBNINA-NIPPO (GALUF)
JOEBNIMA SNDBUN
March 194ó
MADNEHI SNDMBUN..
EOKEADO SHIBUN....
SHIKOKU-SHDBUN
Le
Enclesure:
894.20232
16 packages of
nc n
to Rom .
Japanese papers
18-1946
8/13/46
ADA: Rd'Eça :rs
40G 14 6F

=== Page 211 === (confidence 1.00)
DC/R ROUTING SLIP

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.89)
AUG191eit
UNRESTRICTED
no.
To the
Ameriean Censular Offieor in Charge,
e Paale, Brasil.
The Loting Searetary af State refere to the Cemsaler Geelsurts
request, contained in several eemenisatiema to the Bepartmené, fer
current Japanese newspapers and other meterials seseersáng the 
ican eosupatien of Japan.
There are attached 15 copies of the fellowing Japanese ppers
894.2032/8-1946
publishad, fer the most part, in the maller towme af Japams
5 COpies of MADNMNI ......
5  of TI=...
Enclosure:
1 package containing:
CS/HH
15 cepies Japanese papers
LC
894.20232/8-1946
mm
Confidential File
ADA :Rd 'Eca :rs
8/14/46
CG4

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.97)
No. 4185
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
são Paulo, Brazil, August 22, 1946
SuBJEcT: First visit of sound truck into interior with
Japanese films.
DIVISION OF
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY QOUSTATE
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to enclose herewith a translation
of the report submitted by Mr. Vasconcellos, Head of
the Motion Picture Section of this Consulate General
summarizing his experiences in showing, in the Japanese
areas in the State of Bão Paulo, the film which had
C.
been pieced together at this Consulate General in an ef-
94.20232/
(F)
fort to combat the persistent belief of large numbers of
the Japanese in the victory of Japan.
Particular attention is invited to the comments in-
dicating that the Japanese newspapers were on the whole
810.427
apparently of considerable greater interest and influ-
ence than was the film. It should be noted, however,
that the only films that as yet available are far from
satisfactory, dealing chiefly with the surrender on the
c-
Missouri"which is apparently open to misinterpretation
224
by Japanese who also contend that the film was purely a
concoction of Hollywood.
The Navy films so far received are essentially merely
9
better versions of commercial films which this Consulate
General had already obtained from the commercial ccmpan-
ies operating in Brasil.
The films really needed are these showing American
armed troops in Japan, especially in localities which
are sufficiently distinctive and readily recognised by
those who have seen the places.
Attention is also invited to the apparent general op-
imion that the most effective measures that as yet in
sight would be the permitting of correspondence between
Japanese in Japan and their relatives and friends in ãe
Paulo.
Contidential
Respectfully,
Le
mry
American Consul Ger
File Map, 800
melosuye: Translation as stated.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
of our film being shemm after the seheduled mevie of the
evening to an audiense of s00 peeple, 10 percent of which
were Japanese.
Upon request from the Board of Direeters of the
schools of this city, a special session of educatiomal
films was given the following day for children.
MABLLA:
Police Deputy, Dr. Paim, would not permit the shew-
ing of films in this city explaining that an uneertaim atti-
tude with regard to the Japanese situation prevailed.
It was noted throughout the entire trip that the
popular belief among Deputies is that comsspondenee between
Japanese living in Brasil and their relatives and friends
in Japan should be encouraged, besides a continuance of dis-
tribution of Japanese newspapers throughout the Japanese cel-
ony.
(signed)
Alfredo Fomm Vasconcelles
São Paulo, August 20, 1946.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.94)
VIGIT OF BOUND TRUCK WITH JAPANESE PILMS TO INTWAIOR TOUNS
GIA ZUBA ASTO LUCELIAAD MARIA
POMPELA:
Poliee Deputy, Dr. Antonio Dourade, assisted us ia
arranging a showing of our 38m film at 8:00 p.m. m August
7, 1946. S1x hundred people attended, 20 pereent of whieh
were Japanese. Japanese newspapers were distributed at the
entrance.
An openair movie was shown that evening and the at-
tendance reached 350, 10 pereent of which were Japemese.
Newspapers were distributed before the showing of that film
also.
After the regular movie of the evening, our Sam film
was shown to 800 people. The Japanese comprised about 15 per-
cent of that audience.
Much interest was shown by the Japanese in this eity
for newspapers as compared to that shown for the films.
TUPAN:
Police Deputy, Dr. Benedito de Carvalho Veras. egreed
to the showing of our films although he was meeer the impres-
sion that it might bring about strong resentment within the
Japanese colony.
An openair session was given on Saturday, Amgast 10,
1946, and was attended by 300 people. The mall attendanse
was due to a fire in that city that attracted many peeple whe
would otherwise have attended the showing.
After the regular evening movie our 35mm film was
shown to 2,000 people, of whieh almost 20 pareent were Japan-
ese. Newspaper distribution was made at the entranee.
On Sunday, August 11, 1946, another openair mevie was
offered with an attendance of about 2, 500 peeple, of whiek 35
percent were Ja panese. Al though there were many Jügüimese in
the audienee no disturbanee was noted with regard to the film.
Our 35mm film was again shown after the regular mevie
in the local movie house to an audience of 2,000 peegle which
is the cinema's eapacity.
RaSTRn:
The Police Deputy, Dr. Cantilio Garcia Pereira, wes
of the same opinion as De puty veras ef Tupan althengh he
agreed to have the leeal cineme policed for one sessiem. of
am awdsense of s00 people, 95 peroent were Japanese. Mach
interest was noted in the Japanese newspapers distributed.
Many Japanese came to the hotel in which we were
soeking Ja panese newspapers and eseh chese mosspapers
in lesalitles from which they migrated.
LUGELIA:
Pelice Deputy, Dr. Milten Lare Cempes, was in faver

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.96)
of eur fila being shem after the seheduled movie of the
were Japanese.
Upon reqwest from the Beard of Direeters of the
sehools of this city, a special session of educatiomal
films was given the following day for children.
MARILIA:
Police Deputy, Dr. Paim, would not permit the shew-
ing of films in this city explaining that an uneertaim atti-
tude with regard to the Japanese situation prevailed.
It was noted throughout the entire trip that the
popular belief among Deputies is that commspondenee between
Japanese living in Brasil and their relatives and friends
in Japan should be encouraged, besides a continuance of dis-
tribution of Japanese newspapers throughout the Japanese cel-
ony.
(signed)
Alfredo Fomm Vasconcelles
São Paulo, August s0. 1946.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTION COM
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DEVARTNENT OF STATF
OFFICE OF
Sao Paulo
AMERNCHN REPUBAC AFFAIRG
15
AUG1946
Dated August 27, 1946
Act1: : ARA
Info
Rec 'd 6: 00 p.m., 27th
S
U
Control
ESC
EUR
Paraphrese before communicating except to Govt Agencles.
FE
A-B
SA/M
SECSTATE
894.20232/8-2746
OCD
EUR/A
DC/R
280, August 27, 6 p.m.
Reporte are being roceived from Japanese sources
that leeders of the go-called fanatics, although
themselves fully aware of the reality of the defeat
of Japan, are now becoming increesingly determined
to continue the campaign in the hope that their
offorts in I razil mey contribute in some way to keeping
alive a resitance movemont. They are considerably
cco raged by recent developments and look forward to
inc reasing rictior with Russia in the expectatlon that
Japan can leke edvantage of it to improve Its position.
Storics of Communist penetration in Japanese colony
are beginning to appear in press
CRCSS
ROW: JAK
RESTRICTED
SS
FILED
cc
1946
LRC
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.88)
o.
To the
Amerissa Censular orfieer in Charge,
Me Rale, Rrasil.
Lean cosupetion of Japan.
/8-2846
 , .
120 eopies
Enclosure:
1 peckage centaining:
cs/v
120 copies dapañese papers
DOR
ARA U
BMBuyau
Aral
mm
894.20232
ADA :Rd'E:s
8/26/46
AUG 27 1946 P.M.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.83)
AUG28
VIRESTRIOTED
no.
To the
Ameriean Censular Offieer in Charge,
Me Peale, Brasil.
The Leting Sesretary of State refere to the Gemsaler ecfleer's
request, contaimed in several commmientiems to the Bepertment, fer
eurrent Japanese mowepepers and other materials eesserning the mer
894.
iean escupatiom of Japan.
There are enelesed 19 packagee of the fellosing dapenese verme-
ular papers pablished, for the mest part, in the mmaller temme of
.20232/8-2846
Japan:
"Yamammshi Miahimiabi Shimbun" (Calaf).......Fekrwary 19é
"gishi Mppe Sktabam" (Galu)
shi si" (te)
"álkita Baklgale skiaben" (Galut).
"Osaka Miekdxieki Shimm" (Caluf)
"Hakaide Shimbem Chakbedate" (Caluf).
"Hakaide Skimbam" (Eeakire)..
"Caitagede Skimbum" (Caluf).
"Beake Shimbum" (Galuf)
"Chiaieteke Skimbem" (Calaf).
"maheku Shiuppe Shimben" (Caluf).
"Himge Miekimdahi Saimban" (Caluf)
"Dbaraki Shimben" (Galuf)
"Shimane Shimbum" (Caluf)
"Riigate Mippe" (Galuf)
"Tokushima Shimbus" (Caluf)
"Ishikmma Shimbum" (Caluf)
CSN
"Kebe Skimbun" (Caluf)
"Kakakamainiahi Shimbas" (Caluf)
BMRy
Enalesure:
19 packagas of
mm
Roon
Japanese papers
ADAP Rd Egars
8/22/46
AUG 23 1946
100 26

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.85)
SEP
o.
To th
Amerieen Comealar Gcfieer in Cherge,
Se Peale, Brasil.
The Leting Searetery of State refere to the Gonedt
soan ecoupation of Jyan:
20232/9-546
1
2
1
H1111111AI
CS/
Oeake Mieki
Skin Osate
BMBuyan
1
Gsfa Times
Enclesure:
Confideatial
994.20232
16 paokagos Japanose papers
nc s ossn
eox
8E
SEF
ocm
5
746
9/3/46
ADA :d 'Eca irs

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.88)
SEP 1319
No.
To the
American Consalar Offi esr in Cherge,
Ke Paule, Brasil.
The Letiag Seeretary of State refere to the Gamssier sesr
request, centained in several mmndestions to the eertt, 
894.20232/9-134
eurrent Japanese newapapers and ether materials eoaeerming the i
1am eeeupation of Japan.
There are attached the fellowing Japanese vermmenker papere
publiaked, for the mest pert, in the mmaller temme of Japame
 op f  I .......... 20 to  , 
16 copieS of TNS YOIMI-SNDGUN .....
46
46 eepies
CS/HH
DOR. A4 
BMByn
Enclesure:
1 package containing:
46 copiss of Japanese papers
FO
ADARd Eca irs
9/5/46
BA
Confiden
10

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
File
3A
10
10-1446
Action: FE
Tokyo via War
Info
ARA
Dated September 16, 1946
DC/L
ESP
RESTRICTED
Rec'd 6 p.m., 30th.
A-C
A-H
Control 9817
OCD
FC
No paraphrase necessary
DC/R
94.20232/9
SECSTATE
8:10
407. September 16.
REDEpTEL 44o August 9, 6 p.m. regarding Japanese
terrorist acts in spite of the continued efforts of this
office and other concerned sections of General Headquarters,
because of numerous technical difficulties 1t has not
yet been possible to complote the carrying out of the
1646
suggestionscontainedin the Dept's telegram.
The addmessees given in Sao Paulo's despatch 3998
transmitted by the Dent's 1nstruction 186 were instructed
several weeks ago to prepare mossages to the persons
name in Bra il. Those messages are now being assembled
and their transmision through normal postal channels
will be facilitated. Completion of radio transoriptions
DEPAMMEN
and films produced by Japanese celayed by material
shorteges and other technical difficulties. Possibility
of direct short wave transmissions from Japan to Brazil
also being investigated.
In view of a United Press despatch of Sept 12 from
J946
Sao Paulo stating that alleged leaders of Japanese
Confidential File
terrorist organizations have now admitted defeat of
Jaran and "wish to make amends". It is desired that
efforts to carry out foregoing plans, in particularplan
FILED
NCB:EJS
1946
RESTRICTED
D
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OFACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.79)
SEP 1619
.
Amariean Cemsular Cffieer in Charge,
Mo Paale, Brasil.
4.20232/9-1646
iman coupation of capan.
There are attacsed sixtesn peeiage of the fellaine 
of Japan:
1 package Saitame Skibun
1
11111111111
Maimdaki (ieji)
Olta Gode
Oskikess Shimbem
Nagasald
Keahi Skimven
Gaaammeki Jiji
Skiboke Shtabun
Asaki Csaki
CS/A
1
Eveen Kieki Kiaki
1
Kíppen mi Shimes
Tó packages
Btheyn
Enclosure:
0R g0
"16 peckages Japanose papers
894.
X
9/9/46

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.91)
No. 4239
UNRESTRICTED
Airmail
#RP
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE BAI
REPORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
OCT 21 1946
STATE
erea
3ã0 ello, zi1, Pertphber 23, 1946
PUBLIC ALLIRS
uptbr
vinanese
SUBJECT: OTC(I.) - !
EPA
57
File
CAHICH
0
FRRAT GNAL PRESS 
PUBIC-TIONS DIVISION (INP)
THE
HONQRABLE
2
UCT 171946
THESECRETARY OF STATE.
00
WASHINGTON.
Department of State
SIR:
894.20232/9-2346
I
oor to eeknor ed e receipt of the
 artaent tretions anted June 19, June 19
Jure 1, Fune 8, .uly 3, July 3, July 3, July 17,
July 26, ugust , August 7, Au ust 7, August 9,
 28
 moer 3 n of sll Japanese
newspapers sont is ccom riment to these Instructions.
xta y eke es, received by tr cousulete ceneral
tout  vriu  r cion, ono tred the following
torial:
Jiji
179 ies
132 cories
The Mainichi
164 copies
The Yohcri h 
112 cories
The Nio r Niei
112 copies
The Ythi
This m riel  bren distributed among Jepanese
residents in te t  of São Ps lo, through the press
tien t consul te coreral,ith the cooperetion
of tho ão Paslo
rurrt, police authorities, the
CS/A
×R811.202
Consulate of Sweden (now in charge of Japanese interests)
and convinced Japanese.
REF
The results have been most satisfactory, as
asserted by testimonials received from the areas covered
10/31/46
by the distribution, and a decisive progress has
ins
been made in the enlightment of Japanese fanatics,
especially by means of small town newspaper.
These activities are favorably commented upon
by the people and the press, and have aroused considerable
interest, as illustrated by the attached clipping.
Confidential F
/The Department's
NOV 8 1946
OCT 3 0 1946
m21
FILED

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.90)
-2-
No. 4239, Septembe! 23, 1946, São Paulo, nrazil.
The Department's cooperation in this matter is
very much appreciated and in view of the excellent
results obtained so far, it is respectfully requested
to continue the transmittal of Japanese newspapers to
this Consulte Genera1.
Pootoally yours
Ame 'cn Jorsul Generel
AR
Enelorre: (vith cri irel only)
1 clipping
800
CMPCROSS/Jz

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.88)
Braz
Doie 20 9 -46
Pa- FOLHA DA NO!
11.22.
Jornais
japon
em grande quant
para os niponicos do interior
Hova remessa de dois mil exemplares foi recebida sexta-feira ultima pelo Consulado des Estad
Secretara da Segurcga Publica pera distri buição no interior do Estado — Os japoneses não g
o duviaam des grandes periodicos de Toquio - Maior numero de exemplares das ddades
graptes Intormagees prestdes à "Felta da Noite" pelo sr. Thomaz Scoll, do Serviço de Imprem
recebidos
Por essa ea-
flmes da rendição inoome
exemolares de
Japão As forças das Naçõm
E.l Ba-
assirada na Bahia de Toqule
seretar!, da Interven-
do "Missour!".
Esses jornal
Pedto
distribuidos. principalmente.
Sobrítño, sec, etario da
dades vizinhas a Marilia e ond
sdade de elementos japonese
forte
PHINILIRA REMESSA DE DOIS
UM TRAQALHO MAIS PER
MIL JORNAIS
Desejando na medida do po
dessa
tntransigencia 1os
laborar com o trabalho da au
se
tecsavam a rece er
do governo de São Paulo. o
des
Jurnats de Toq ito
do dos Estados Unidos con
contorine ainda e-
ebendo jornala do Japão e no
Thomaz
e das cidades do Interior
cno que  
pais E ainda segundo a expo
todas as clíades
Thnaz Scott à reporta
JalA
cm grande
Folha da Noite". fol organlm
Para
serem disrbrdes
servico mals perfelto ainda 
cio à entrega de Jornaia japen
niponicos radicados no Estade
por untoome
Paal.
Estado, los
Conforme dados oficials 
em prin(1.
Jornáts de
Hi.oschtma.
Fukucka.
Km
Fukuchima.
Nagasaki.
Ya
Oka!do Koshi e Okinawa send
pro-
originarios dests ultima cidad
calizaran especialmente na
da ferrovia Santos-Juqulá. Da
do Es-
o. foi providenciado que 
jornats se
fizesse pret
daquelas cidades. stravd

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.79)
Jornais Jap
em grande quant
para os niponicos do interlor
Hova remessa de dois mil exemplares fol recebida sexta-feira ultima pelo Consulade 
Secrelaria da Segurcnça Publica para distri uição no interior do Estado - Os Japemese
gradtes -Iniermagees prestades à "Foa da Noite" pelo sr. Thomaz Scoll, do Serviço de p
ts jurals recttidos
Por essa
ca-
E:AR
…tri
la, m tig xemares de
perlodi os niporlcos a ar Edgar Ba-
ta Feteira secretarto da Interven-
do "Miasourt.
 que eaviou aos ars Pedro
obri setario da
dades visinhas à sarálla é oné
an Plica
forte.
PRIMITRA REMESSA DE DOIS
UM TRAÇO MI R
MIL JORNAIS
Desejando ne medide de pes
E. . dessa
intransigencla 18
usavam a rece ber
do governo de o Paulé. o 
Kral.des
Jorials de Toquto
do dos Estados Uaides conté
trdeos
confurme ainda e-
cebendo jornaia do Japão e nod
reportarin o s Thomaz
das cidades do Interios
 lm c que
pris E ainda segundo a epod
1 rais ce Idas as cidadis
r Thomas Soutt à reperta
1
do Jao em grnde
"Folha de Nolte". tot organia
serem distribuides
serviço mala perfelto alnda oo
cma
Dessa a.aneira. após el-
cão à entrega de jornals Japon
a providricis junto ao gover
niponicos radicaés no Rstade
 Mar Arthur por interme
Paulo.
 1partanento de Estado. los
 tios cheraram em prin
jeponeses de noño matado
 de aè sto dois mil jornáis de
Riroschima,
Prikucka.
arent cldades do Jap
Fukuchima.
Nagasaki.
A   d à co a alt
isa do eliminar um pro-
orixinarios desta altima cided
a propor eno
calizaram especialmente na
o Conulado en
da Terrovia Bantos Juquià, Dia
 o Interter do Es-
0. ol providenaado que à
quar airm de datribuir aque
dos jornala e
rlacase prefe
 re exibi numarss
mente daquelas cidades, atraré
Spant
Numerosos pacotes de jornais que vão ser distribuidos aos
japoneses do Interior do Estado
l nla radicados em
nosso Fstad e
que se encontrém cavoidos a
de terrorisimo que
ubala o 1:te.
ha alguim tempo.
Es-a distrtbu
az parte rda campanha enceta p
11
las autoridades a fim de pr (er)
às mortes è tentativas de usas
entre japoneses que'tem sido bser
vadas ultimamente è dirisidaa p
integrantes da "Shindo Renme
ss.
cutras netidndes ecreas que debe
Entretan
nos relso
raram el:mtnar os
 T:
tran mo
versdenaA
G J1S .
sa distribucà dee ame
Precueando
L
klada por cerea de dois nn exiapié-
1rponesea
4ie
res. à reportagem da Folta da N
to" esteve hoje no Cte te to ta
tidos Unidos. a fm de co
dest
ANTES E DEPOIS DA GUERRA
presentacso c nsuin: e reat
celalhes do rsbatho
(os Jupone es recusaran-se
m colabrae cms
tere Asmo cm
JORNAIS DI GRANDES CIDADES
UN!.
2…CA…

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.84)
neses
報知
htidade
or do Estado
 Estados Unidos que fará sua entrega à
não gostaram do racionamento do papel
ades niponicas que nos forneceram imi-
mprensa do Consulado dos Estados Unidos
o inconcichn
心生
das Nações U
de Toquio
1.
Essesjorllals
cipalmente.
Varilia e onded
tos japunes
MAIS PERFI
NONA REMEADE DOIS MIL JOR
aida do pos
balho da auto
Paulo  C
únidos contir.a:
.
a  n 
ditinia.
do Interior
undo a expos
reporta
DALG
foi organiza
Ato ainda com rl
Pal
O "The Yomiuri Hechi" divulga algumas noticias relativa
ornaiajapon
 reportaren da Polha da Nolte
no Estado
teve oport nicade em serulda de exa
a situação presente do Japão
minar slguns ex mpiareo de tornals ni
oficials. 
Bstado pto.
20kA
Kun
aki.Y
hoawa sendo ques
te cidad alem faq elaa já cltadas  o Thomaz Beott informou alnda
atime cidade
Cobe. Osaca. Chthuoca. Iamagata he esses exomplares serão entregues
Juquía. Diar
umente na
A
Cumamrt. Chicoro Nagasarue. Clulu Secretaria da Seruranca Publl a
Chiga. cioto. Ocaldo. Canagava. lo- ara distrtbuicão nom ja ueses de in
zimesse prefe
cams e muntés cutrns. Oa jomals rtor do Estado de São Paulo. Os
ades, aire
xendes Jernats de Toquio "Mainich!
mhimbum" "Anah""Toquio Shim
Emum" a "Tomlurn Hocht" tambem 
rão levados para c Intertor

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.93)
AIRGRAM S
Department ot
TIME
Bogt 85, 2066
AMERICAN CONBUL,
BAO PAULO (BRAZIL).
894.20232/9.946
The following telegram was received from Tokg
"Redeptel 440 August 9, 6 Post Meridian regarain
Japanese terrorist acts in spite of the continued
out of the suggestions contained in the depts tet
"The addressees given in Sao Paulos despateh sess
several weeks ago to prepare messages to the persens 
in Brazil. Those messages are now being assembled and
be facilitated. Completion of radio transeriptiens and
films produced by Japanese delayed by material shertages
and other technical difriculties. Possibility of direet
short wave tranemissions from Japan to Brazil alse being
investigated.
"In view of a United Press despatoh of Sept le from
Sao Paulo stating that alleged leaders of Japanese
terrorist organizations have now admitted defeat or Japan
and 'Wish to make amends', is it desired that efforts
Confidential File
to carry out foregoing plans, in partioular plan for
direct short wave transmissions, be continued?
Le
2
dint

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.97)
AIRGRAM SINT
Department of State
NO.
Washington,
TIME
2
A-191 to tao Pealo
The press in the United States published a repert
on September 12 that Japanese secret societies in Mrasil
"bowing to reality" have formally admitted in a signed
manifesto the defeat of Japan and have pledged them-
selves "to stimulate the task of enlightening these
who still maintain any illusion". Dept would appreelate
confirmation of above and Consulate General's opinion
concerning points raised in above quoted telegram frem
Tokio. Consulate General should also indicate whether
Dept should continue to send Japanese newspapers,
rilms, etc.
Clayton
Claytom
Aoting
(λ3)
J
46
BA:JGNein:ifd
JA
gna
September 19, 1946

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.87)
PRETLSTER
Ne.
To the
Ameriean Censalar Offieer in Charge,
Sae Puale, Brasil.
The Asting Besretary of state refere to the Smsslar affiemert
aurrent éapasese sepepere ad other materiais emseris te 
894.20232/9-2346
1 ecupation of ape.
There are emslosed fisteem peckagee as depansse veraseler papene
publiahed, for the mert part, in the mmaller tomme of dapane
1
package lgta Nippo"
12
1
1
1
1
11
package
1
1
1
1
1
package "hime miabem"
1
Migata"
I package ag"
CS/A
ARA
15 packages-
Enclesure:
22e
15 packages of
074.AV27
Japenese papers
Confa
ADA:rd'Eça:rs
9/13/46

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.86)
SEP251
o.
To the
Ameriean Cengalar Offieer in Charge,
Sne Pale, Brestl.
2
20232/9-25
The Letiag Sesretary of state ref ers to the Comer esele
Lean ecompation of Japan.
20 i of  ... 
pie of  ..........
60 eopies
nelosure:
1 package consaining
CS/V
50 copies of Japanese papers
ADA:Rd Ega:rs
9/18/46
894.20232

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.88)
No.
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REPORTS
SUBJECT
THE HONGRABLE
2
THESECRETARY OF STATE
x.
19046 00
WASHINGTON
SIR
n
2
3
4
9
FLYD

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.84)
so.
20t
Imerieen Gaamler efleer in Sharge,
See Pasle, Brasil.
Lamm cosmpassen os dopan.
4.20252/9-2646
30 eopi00
X
Eesiesures
1 peekage containings
CS/HH
30 copies Japanese papers
894.2023
9/24/46
ADA:Rd'Eca:rs
Confidential File
20x
nc su to
SEP 25
ARA O
2
Rom N 4
lAnal.
2646

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.91)
SPD
UNTED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FR
FOR JAPAN
1946
ut
APO 500
Tokyo, September
22.
1946
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to refer to
the Department's air mail instruction no. 186 of June 25, 1946
(file no. 894.20232/5-2146) transm1tting a copy of despatch no. 3998
of May 21, 1946 from the American Consul General at Sao Paulo with
regard to the tranamission of correspondence from addressees in
Japan to their relatives in Sao Paulo.
ULL
8
A stated in telegram no. 407 of September 16, 1946 from thi
Mission to the Department, the addressees given in Sao Paulo's
despatch under reference were instructed to prepare messages for
transmission to the persons named.
2023/9-2746 CS/HH
AA
Although limited postal facilities to and from Japan have now
been reestablished, such mail is transported only by surface vessels.
Therefore, in order to expedite the receipt in Brasil of the desired
communications there are enclosed for transmiesion to the Consul
General at Sao Pmulo by air pouch twenty-nine postal carde which
have been received. These cards bear the proper postage, have been
cancelled by the Japanese post office and have been passed by
censorship.
Enclosure:
29 pootal oards.
2
3
9
894.2
UJOn1
RECORD
2
196 01
PTLTD
7.
1947
2

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.93)
DEC 91946
UNRESTRICTED
To the
American Consular Officer in charge,
São Paulo, Brazil.
394.20232/9-2746
The Secretary of State refers to the Department's
airgram A-l91 of September 23, 1946 in whien refarense
is made to messages being aseembled by the United
States Political Adviser for Japan for tranamission
to Japanese subjects in Brazil.
The Department has now received under cover of
the Political Adviser's despatch no. 625, September
27, copy attached, 29 postcards, which it 1s enelos-
ing for forwarding, in the discretion of the Officer
in charge, in the expectation their receipt will have
the desired salutary effect on the Japanese colony
in Brazil.
Enclosures:
1. Copy of Tokyo's despatch
No. 625.
2. 29 Postal Cards.
CS/A
w cy
sel.
DEU
894.20232/9-2746
8l
BA:MmYenolhus:fas
ke
11/22/46
FA
JA
A-H

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.97)
AIRGRAM SENT
Department of State
A-144
NO.
Washington,
TIME
2962
Oot 23, 1946
To the
2962
United States Political Adviser to the
Supreme Commender for the Allied Powers,
894.20232/9-2746
Tokyo.
Following airgram A-211, September 27, from São Paulo,
Brazil, is repeated for your information:
same/9-2346l
"The Japanese situation in the Stete or Bso Paulo
subject of Department's Airgram A-l9l/Beptember 25,
1946, has quieted since the visit of the seund truck and
the accompanying distribution of over l000 newspapers
from Japen but the trouble is by no means over. A fow
isolated groups of Japanese have come out with formal
statements recognizing the defeat of Japan. These
have been built up in the press, but for the most
part represent small groups of educated who have knowm
from the beginning the reality of the situation and have
been secretly cooperating with our efforts. They are
now venturing into the open. The faith of the masses
in the Japanese victory has been shaken but they are
far from convinced as to the defeat.
CS/
"The film just received from the Navy is excellmt.
It will be sound tracked in Japanese and sent to the
worst centers as soon as possible. More pictures of
our armed forces in Japan are needed. Newspapers have
proved the most effective instrument however and more
are needed.
"The receipt of communications direct from Japan
as indicated in the Department's Airgram will possibly
tial
add the finishing touch.
"Radio broadcasts from Japan would be useful but
should be over a period of time to overcome initial
suspicion as to their real origin. Great progress has
been made and an intensification and continuation of
the effort should get finel results in the next few months.
JA:HEarW/pm AADO
FE
2
10/16/
Jaitos

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.95)
UNRESTRICTED
To the
American Consular Officer in charge,
sEo Paulo, Brasil.
The Acting Seoretary of State refers to the
Consulate General's despatehes numbers 4084 of
July 3, 1946, 4218 of September 10, 2224 of
September 16 and 425l of September 26 transmitting
a total of 69 letters from Japanese residents of
Brazil for forwarding to persons in Japan. Referenee
is further made to the Department's Airgram A-lel,
September 23 and the Consulate General's reply ther
A-2ll September 27, concerning reported diminupien
of Japanese terrorist activities in the State of
são Paulo.
After careful consideration of the general
situation and in view of the reopening of a limited
private mail service to Japan, the Department does
not feel it would be justified in tranmitting the
above mentioned letters through diplomatic channels.
They are therefore enclosed for return to the senders
with an explanation as to why they cannot be forwardes
CS/A
DCR
B.MBuyan
Enclosures:
Letters as stated
above.
899.20232
A tr:
sai.
BA:MYenehius:fas
10/9/46
ARA
SPD
FA
B好

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.95)
INCOMÍNG AIRGRAM.
"DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRAN
UNRESTRICTED
AIRCRAM
7140
FROM
A
ACTION:ARA
São Paulo, Brazil
INFO:
DC/R
AEL
Dated September 27, 1946
A-B
1346
A-H
Ree'd Oct. 7, 7:37 a.m.
894.20232/9-2746
SA/M
FE
6.72l0y. 71016/44
OCD
Repealed
ESP
FC
Socretary of State,
B
OIC
HL
Washington
A-211, September 27, 1946
The Japanese situation in the State of São
Paulo subjeot of Departmont's Airgram A-191
September 23, 1946 has quieted since the visit
of the sound truek and the accompanying distri-
bution of over loo0 newspapers from Japan but the
trouble is by no means over. A few 1solated
groups of Japanese have come out with formal
statements recognizing the defeat of Japan. These
have been built up in the ress, but for the most
part repJesent small groups of sducated who have
known from the beginning the reality of the situa-
tion and have been secretly cooperating with ou
efforts. They are now venturing into the open.
The faith of the masses in the Japanesewictory has
been shaken but they are far from convinced as to
the defeat.
0C1
The film just received from the Navy is excel-
29 1946
lent. It will be sound tracked in Japanese and
sent to the worst centers as soon as possible.
More pictures of our armed foroes in Japan are
needed. Newspapers have proved the most effective
instrument however and ware are needed.
LRC
The recsint
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returmed to DC/R comtral Mes with netaten of astlen taken.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- A-211, September 27, 1946. São Paulo, Braz11.
The reco1pt of communications direct from Japan
as indicated in the Department's Alrgram will pos-
sibly add the finishing touch.
Radio broadcasts from Japen would be useful but
should be over a peridd of time to overcome initial
suspicion as to their real origin. Great progress
has been made and an intensification and continua-
tion of the effort should get final results in the
next few months.
CICSS
CMPC:vzp

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.84)
zo.
To the
Amerieam Csnsular Offieer in Charge,
Sae Paulo, Brasil.
Be Aeting Beeretary of state refers to the Consular Grfiesrts
requeet, eentained in several commamiestiens to the Bepartment, for
eusrees Japenese newspapers and cther materials coneeraing the mes-
issm eesupation of Japan.
894.20232/10-346
There are emelesed sixteem peckages of the following Japenese
peomeenlar pepars publiabed, for the most part, in the maller tomme
of Japans
"Chsageln Stzimbun"
"Kebe Sinkn"
"Gins Times"
"Pakxskima Kiayu hisbm"
"geagge Keisai"
"Shige hisien"
"Hakkekn Mainieai"
"Osaka Jiji Simpe"
"Kyuga Nishi Nichi"
"Gaga Mbiabun"
"Chaba Mippon"
"Yamanashi Jiji"
"Shismaka"
CS/HH
"Osaka Shimbun"
"Gitagodo himbun"
"Shinano Michi Nichi"
Confidential Fi
894.2023
Enclosure:
3.3
20d1
16 packages of
2 1946
EMS
Japanese papers
2
ADA:R.d'Ecpars
9/30/46
sre copy 
sal.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.83)
OCT
So.
otho
Imeriesm Geasaler affieer ia Garge,
Sse Paale, Rrasil.
4.20232/10-846
Lema compatéen of da.
14 i of  
14 ées of M 
42 copies
CS/HH
Enelesure:
1 package containing 42 copies Japanese papers
DCR ARA Unit
An
A
10/3/46
Confidential
ADA:Rd'Eca:rs
002
Éncent to
the
1946 P.M.
Rom o. 84

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.95)
Zederal Bursan af Inusstigation
Anited States Department of Sustire
Mashington,D.C.
October 10, 1946
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
PERSONAL AND -GONPIDSIAL
FILE NUMBER.
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
AP
STATE
Chief
OFFICE OF
Division of Foreign Activity Co
AMERICANREPUBLIC AFFAIRS
x
Department of State
FCB241947
11946
Chief of Naval Intelligenc
HKrRB
DRA
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
894.20232/10-1046
War Department
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel
MilitaryIntelligence Service
Dear Sir:
4
For your information, I am attaching hereto a communication
which may be of interest to you.
JS
File
4
11.7
Very truly yours,
CS/A
Ee. aboover
Evaluation:
Received from reliable and
John Edgar Hoover
X
confidential source
Director
From confidential source
previously found reliable
131947
FILED
Not verified by investigation
Available to Embassy in
X
country of origin
DECLASSIFIED
Attachment
ND780069
By ZZ Cy NaRS, Data 8.24.28

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.88)
angust 21, 1946
T J S CI  VRS OP TH
JABAI
ToIkoku ZoIge (Jn Kd): S CIETY OF PHE IMPERIAL
DIVIEE ROAD /OF LRAG  LOYAL BRAZILIAN-BORT
JAPA Indo Re1)
BRALiL
Synopsie:
rolice investigat on in sãu raulo uncovered sizteen Japanese
Societies allied with shindo-Kenmel. Pulice metivity is
April and early May resulted in intermment of 80 Japanese
luaders and subsequent order fur their expulsion frem
Brasil. Their names s woll as guiding primeipals of
Shindo-ienmei set out. deprisals for intermment of
loaders caused Federal Interventor to ounvoke Japamese
in Covernor's Palace in São Paulo. This apparently
umsueesssful in checking nationalist spirit of
Japanese. Newspapers from Jupan provided by Amoriean
Consulate in o uulo uxpeotod t have good efeet.
Lutails:
The wide puulicily mucorded Jupanese soaieties ls the
State of são Paulo by the prose wae the direet result
of several murders acoomplished iu speotacular feehiom.
 Mareh 7 IElfa Hl. Oß, one of a liot of throatoned Japansse and
direotor of the looal ugricultural nooperative, was murdered is the City
of Bastos, P. On April 1 clilBu HoMuls, a wealthy farmer, reidemt
of Jabaquare neur São Paulo, wus also ussmssinutod. An umsueesseful
attempt was made on the same day to oliminato 1 TZUNA PURUYA, former
Japemese diplomat. These individuals wore supporters of the thesis that
Japen lost the war and that the croater pood of Japan lay in quiotly
aocopting thia faot and returnin, so rogwlar daily ocoupatioms. 
April 11 an attempt was made to murder ons IOUI FUJIlllRa, a Japenese
industrialiet whose name was also on the "list". This attempt was
umsugeessful. (n April 17 in the town of lintane near Marilia, state
of são Paule, there woro thrve more murders. Names of these victims
have not been provided.  lut a June 2 JiAks AkYaNA, an -
colomel of the Japanese Army, living in São Paulo, was also murdered.
Lu e majoricy o! the cases murdere were aceompliahed by
individuals weariug yellow capes or carrying a Japaness flag whieh was
mmbered, the number beine the order in whieh the individual made his
oath to suppert the Japamese natiumalist spirit. In the eases of
NCkUks and Colomel RakYaka the vietim mas first asked to oommit
hara-kirl, and upem the vietim's refusal he was immediately shet.
-1-

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.87)
Considerable publioity was uooorded the poliee lavestigation.
bu: the publieity wns of a sensational oharacter and only casually pessed
on information motually given out y the polios. Acoordin, to imformation
provided by Souree c. the police investixation wmeovered the following
societies, all of which were sutordinate or conneeted in mome way with
the soeiety known as the shindo-Renei. It will be reeelled that the
poliee investi ntion diselosin the existenoe of the society LaIhaRd-
LAI NIrCh TikkU LAI GUIN KI (Society of Japaneee Voteran Residing
in rasil) was the one whiah also developed the fmot that the Shindo-
Remmei was the governin ody ? the various othere liated belo.
Xut JIssn RelmI (League for the ratriotio Observanoe of the mperor's
urders). fuis sooiuty had its conter in the tom of
resident, Prudento in the interior of São Pamle.
AI(XU NIPPOh JIN KaI (Th Patriutio Asooiution or Unitod Japemeee)
Contered in lvares Hachado and in Aragagu, aleo
in the interior.
 RAI (No translation provided) Contered in Alvares Machado.
CaukUn AIk(kt  i InI (Patriotic Asanolat on or Union of Thought) This
Sogiut, man located in astos,...
CHU C-KAI (Assooiution of the Road to tho mpuror's Happiness)
KUHUSSUI SRINEN FAl (Mationallet Group)
XIY(eI kiYOKAI (The grogation for Union and Fropres)
A:IAOKU S IKA PUJI KAI (Purifyin, Ausociation of Japanese omen in Brasil)
Iks P dl (Confodorution of rurified Plowers. This society is loeated in
-pompi,....
oriNs CinI LAI (Oroup of Co-keligiomist Youths) The prinoipal conter for
this roup is in Wo  Cruzs, .s.P.
ve) Aixckt NIppoh JIy KaI (n Society or Truly Patriotio Japanese)
Cl: ScIhi LaI (assoeiation of Japanwee Youthe who Follow the Central
irestives) This society was loaated in the Rum
Tomme de Lm Slus.
SEI-AI-XCKU-DAN (Tre Patrictism) This orgasisatiem likewise is lesated
Lm são Paule in the Rue João Theodoro 1232. It is
potrted out that this address is the residenee of
HIZAXAZU HATANABS, who is also kmown to be Presidemt
of the Sesiety of "Truly Patriotie Japanese" memsiened
aboo.
- 2 -

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.91)
KIYoTU KAI (assvciation of Friends of Collaboresien) The central sees of
mis organization was in the City of Marille, imterier of
são Paulo.
Aooordint to thn uourue, there wure wany other soeioties aleo i-
volved in the investipatior, but the importanon of these is restrieted to
local range and the societins are therofore not being mentioned.
All the above sucictios made the viotor, of Japan ia the past
wer their poiut of honor. Thoy thareforu received ready moeeptanee ameng
the Japanese colonists in Brasil. Aocording to Souroe C, the theary that
some Japanese were profiting by the loyalty of their com-patriots was
stated. The plan was to extort mones by various devices sweh w selling
land in conquered territaries, selliag passages baek to Japam for after
the war, selling official pesitions in the eenquered territories to these
whe paid best -- all these prastiess were indulged in, but the mest
dangeroue feet seemed to be that these Japanese were leaving their hemse
and thereby dierupting the ceenomy of the State of São Pamle and hemee
of Brasil, as well as creating a eomplete diserder among the Jepemese
eolemiete. Rhen roapensible nemters of the Jupanese oulomy attempted to
put a stop to these praotices and to oxplain to the people the true
state of affairs, the sosieties proceeded tu oliminate or attempt to
eliminate these former leaders.
Souree D advisod that on May 7. 1gd, there oalled at the
American Consulate in São Paulo two Japanese, KIYOSHI TAkamotO nd
ShIGsTsHma PURUYA, who advised at that time chat ropresentative
Japamese leadere, espesially in commeroe, in the City of são Paule
and from the intorior of the state of so Paulo hnd met in an effort to
devise some means of eliminating the confus:on in the Japenese eelemy
and making the truth moceptable to tho Japanase. This group comelsted
of the two named above a well as CIatà MIYaxosI of São Paule.
KENKICHI SHIMOMOTO, of SãO PulO, SIT AZAKI, GUKNKO NODA, 
three there mmed dalakaks, KaAGUCHI, and HID. (The last five
individuals montioned above are from the interior of the State of
São Paule.) These people reeommenled that a Japanese diplemat be
sent frem Japan to explain tho true state of affaire to those is
Brasil and seleeted as their first ohoice I7ako Ishll who wee the
last Japameso Ambassador to Brasil. PUnuYA, one of the visitore
to the Coneulate aud former Japanose diplemat in Argemtine, stated
that he had knomm I3hlI and that he was always demeoratie in ideas
and against militariax. Other possibilities suggested by this sroup
were SETSUZO BAdaDa, ex-ambassador to Brasil, one ICMIO, m-Cemsul
Jeneral in São Paulo, one HaRa, es-Cemsul General in São Puule, and a
man named ManJO, mm-Cemaul in Santos whose wife is Brasiliam. The
visitors to the Umited States Comsulate, mesording to this souree.
alse reeommended that carreependenee be allewed to leave Japem for
Brasil explaining the true state of affaire in Japem. It was felt
-3-

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.91)
that thse orreependemee would be mest helprul smaeh a the daeneee
could net adais that it bed been eomeored by aited statee autheritiee
and still be consiatent in their elaim of having wom the war. thds
souree gave considerable credemee to PURUYA's statement that the
terrorism then ourrent in São Paulo was due to a false patrietiam rather
than having an eeenomie basis. FURuYA statod to Souree D thet the small
agrioulturalists are pot slaves but that they do have to coll to those
whe have leesed them capital aud he pointed out that this was a comsom
praetiee among Brasilians as well as amoug Japanese.
It is noted that this FuYs io the same mn whom the Shindo-
Remmei attempted to wurder on April 1.
To roturn to the number of Jupanosu suoieties, moeording to
Souree C the polioe learned that the shindo-fenmei hed begum to resruit
fanatieal youths and had grouped them in severul subeidiary groups
in additiom to those mentioned abovo. One suah roup was the Teiehin
Suishim Tai (The Suieide Squad). Other denomimations for the seme
group are Toiahin sulahin Bu or simply Suishin Bu. Tho desipmatiem of
the troup was later ohangod to the Kushi Tai and later to Toko Tai.
All these demominetions explain some meaning like "group of exseutiem".
"suieide squed", or "group of suioide youths". It was this group who
murdered nomuka beeause he had male severul trips into the interier to
explain the aotual situation o? Japan and this name group attempted to
mrder PuktYa. In the oourse of tne wonth of April and the firet part
of the month of May, 19ub, the polive iuterviowed wore than 500
Japanese. Citios of tho interiur ware combed for snoiety members
and the figure given above is given by souroe.
From informution provided by Souroe  it was learned that the
follewing 80 Japanese leaders in the seoret sooioties were held te be
mest responsible for the motivitius of the Japanosn groupe and that a
request had been made of the Miniutry of Justice in Rio de Janeiro that
these people be ordered expelled from Brasil. The same souroe provided
information on August 10, 19uo, to the offoot that the craer of ox-
pulsion bad been signed.
JUI AIkXanA - 69. married. (wmer of a cleanin  ustablishment in São
Paulo. Bora in Niya ata, Japan. Greduate of Royal
Wilitary soademy in Tokyo und former oolonel in Japanese
Army. This man was the direotor and head of the Shindo-
21.
SklIcI POMaal - l, mmrried mnd nas Brasilian-born aons. a greens'
farmer. Born in (kinewe. He was a direetor and the
superwisor of the Shindo Renmei.
YOTARO NBORO - G4. mmrried. Engineer. Born in Tokuahima, Japan.
T Te direetor-gemoral of the Shindo-Remmel.
- 4 -

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.88)
MasaNou ato - 20, married. this individual mas a fmetiemery at the
Cemtral Beadquarters of the Shindo-Resmel, e
Parasatú 96. This mar also pessesses childrem berm
in Brasil.
IGont (i - 45, married and ha Bra1l1an-born som. Famr by trade.
Born in Hokaido, Japan. socording to Souree C, he wes
chief of a group of youths known us BokYuxa Da. This
troup is one of the amaller groupe and the neme ls trame-
lated us "aotion group of youths". It is pessibly seemtieal
with another oup known  BORYUKU SI DN.
AIuABUR, SnS.AnT1 - 41, married. Born in Xioogo. Japan. This individual
was the ohief of the ulehin in the City of Valparise.
He wan also one of tl.e direetors of Shimdo-kemoi.
He has Brasilian-born onildren.
KANuHiTi :IuY NU - 50, mnrriod. Born in Tokoshim, Japan. Thia individual
beeaus* of h s auporior eduoation wus the direetor of
the hear guarters of the shindo-lenmel.
I (J1 MIbuka - 60, marrioc. nor. in Akita, Japan. This an is - direoter
for the shindo-nanmoi of the intorior.
AI ChI Knsu - 23. single. Horn in foyam, Japan. Wember of the
sindo-lonmei 'ron tie coastai region of the state.
Y.; ITunI XonDa - 22, single. Sorn in Miyazaki, Japan. Mamser of the
shindo-Ronmei from the interior.
TSUNEYCSHY SAnADA - 28, inglo. Born in kiado. A Shlndo sember from
the City of ão Puulo.
MAS AICHU KANRkO - u6. married. Shindo mumber from Valpariso, Intarier
of São Paulo.
KICHIRO KIKKañA- 35, single. do is the son of the president, JUNJI KIKKamA.
ansa residen' of são Paulo. de is a tinker by trade.
jdciInt IN UB - 46, married. This man, è barber, was a direetor in the
City of Bastos. He has Brasilian-born children.
Aluka Sak hIma - 40, married and has Brasilianeboru ohildron. Be we
seeiety direetor in Bastos.
JONJIRC KOKUBO - 61, married. Thio n is a direotor of the soeiety i
The City of Garge.
Slczakon soI - , married. Member of the shindo in e interier of
Sao Panlo.
一2-

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.89)
ICMISABURO CHIA - 50, married. Lee-erean man by rade. Mo is a direeter
of the sosiety is Bastos.
JUNJI SHIXIZU - 35. married. Tailor by trade. He was born in Wagame Eam,
Japan, and is a mem er of the shindo from the iuterier of
the state.
Kuluo WiYallaa- Bu, singlo. This man 1s e laborer and e soeioty direster
from the tomi of Lins, in the interior.
Masall YUnokI - , widower. This man is a oommon laborer and a member
of the snoiety from the interior of the state.
aln UtA - 46, wrried.  of the dirotore of the socioty i
Téarapave, is the intorior of tho stuto. He was turm in
Oyta, Japan.
HAKASHIMA kANYOsHI - . widower. This as. is a direotor from Igarapeve.
De ws born iu liroshimm.
YOROSUKa AhUhA - 27. inglo. Born in apuro, Japan. Tht n w
direotur of lnn nociesy in valpariso, interier of
jão Paulo.
MAs ACHI KUNII - 19, singlo. Born in Yamm ata, Japan. No was a direetor
of Shindo-Renmei ir Poupoia.
M u1 - . sugl. onber  the soiuty fro Camo do Jord.
in cne intorior of tio atatu.
KoI  ZuxI - P3, single. Born in Yamagata. Yumbor of tno society in
the ton of ainnão, ão Paulo.
N RIosHI SnlAHct - 23, singio. Socioty momber from Pomissão. Thia 
fa e photographer and was proninent in the preatiom
of falzified photogra hs which shoned high-ranking
Amarloan offioers in a attitude of humility befere
tho Japanesa.  or the nost part these photographe
are deotored rers: ons of photopraphs appoaring im
such magaxines a Life'und Time. .KaMotc was borm
i. Nagasaki.
kt MIncss - 43. Roaidont in São Paulo. Bor: in Wigata-Kon. o 1
listed by the polino as being a "fanatio".
TOOYUI XA ANITA - 25, single. Thin  is another photographor 
smo Peulo whio was also instrumental in the altering
of phetographs. He is likuwise listed as a "famatie"
by the polioo.
-6-

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.89)
TAamCnI IZunI - 31, eiagle. Bern La Miiaji. No is a resideme ef Campee
do Jordae and aecording to Souree C gave the pellee
cons derable troubln because of his stubbormness during
iuterviows.
Yusaly Alrrin - 49, married. Born in lukuoka-Kon. Thia individual is 
journalist and a direetor of the Shindo-Remmei in the
City of Lins, in the intorior of Sao Paule. Thie mm was
the writer of threatening esters to various of his m
patriots marked for death by the sueisty.
KAUEMo KA ATAßA - 43. married. Born in Kogoshimm-Ken. He ia a direotor
of the Shinde frem Bastos, ..P.
ronoujino (Katà - 58, mmrried. Direetor of the socioty in the City of
Lins. E.S.P.
KENKURC YONONATA - 55. widomer. Shindo momber from Beatos, A.S.P.
YO3EI0 raMURA - 26, single. Shindo momber from Pirjuí. R.3.P.
TañAsHI Iakad. - 30, single. Lireotor o: tho  rou! for Findamonangab. Bos.P.
IsHIn IwANaaa - 2, single. Direetor of the Shinac for Talpariso, S.S.P.
n1 Hadabuo - 50, married. Born i: hgaaki. Dirootor of the
Shindo in Cafolan'ie, F. S.P.
SalovcAI YtakaI - 48. married. Borr in Kwramoto. Director of the
Shindo for Guaranta. He has Brazilian-born ehildrem.
YesMIHIta Gorc - 23. vincle. cireecor of tho Shindo from Cafelandia, E.s.P.
Zinadu Cinn - 43. married. Carpucter cy trude. de is one of the direetors
of the Contral Hoadquartora of the Shindo in São Paulo.
His residence is listed as tno City of Marilis in the
inturior.
hostYosI OakI - 38, married. fhis man 1s a "fanatio" aocording to poliee
oireles and is Direotor of uhe Zaihaku Dai Wipon Teikekm
caigu Gumjin Kai. His rusidonoe is Mugi das Cruses. Be
hes Brasilian-born ohildren.
KANJI ACKI - 3, married. Born in Shisuoka, Japan. This individual La
additiem to being a direetor of the Shindo-Repmei in Tupa, R.s.P.
is also a member of the direotorate of the Guajin Kai
mentioned abeve.
PUKUO IKKDa - 21, single. He is a photographer by professian. He was a
Shindo member frem são Paalo and aided in preparing the
propagande phetegraphs distributed to sonvinoe Japenese
of their vietory.
-7-

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.86)
PUSATOSHI YaMaUCHI - 29. married. Ho 1s a shinde member frem the G1ty
of Tupa. Me pessessee Brasiliam-boru enilérem.
TAlaO TAkaYAsU - 22, siagle. Bhinde mmber frem Tã.
KENJIRU TAkaUCHI - 50, widower. Thie man is a Shindo member from Tupa
and Pacher of FUSaTUsHI YAMAUCHI montiomed above.
SEIZUTALC MONDKN - 51. married. A shinco member from Campee do Jertãe.
He has Brasilian-born ohildren.
YCshsITsuut somala - 63. married. This man 1s Direetor of the pooioty fer
Pindasoahagabe.
fc ott - 35. marriod. Ho 1e the direotor of  moointy in Preoidemte
Prudente known as the Kodo Jissen Remmsi, a subsidiary of
Shindo Renmei.
ll l - , mrrid. ino r in li.
KUnlchlt Albe - 7. mrried. Sooioty mo ber Prom Sapou do Jordão.
XakcTe IMaTa - 29, single. Rosidont io luararapea.
Ha I2n - 23. ingle. shindo ver Pr rup.
TEice Tatnsils - 49. warried. This Individual 1 another direotor of
the aooiety knevin as Poio Jisson Kenmoi and wae labeled
by poliee as  dangerous fanatio. e has Brasili
bom: ohildro..
roYokaI Naooc - 3, marriod. This individual, resilont in são Paulo.
Is the con of  Go, ireotor-Genoral of
Shindo-homsi.
Mas t Sato - 46, married and kan onu su born in Brazil. to is one of the
dfreetoru of the socioty in the ity of Pompeia. Hs gave the
command for the assassinntion of  Iz h in the City of
Basto, B...
Sakuz, Kallaskikd - 47, married. although rea tont in Luoelia in tbe
interior of the steto. he in noverthelese ome of the
centrai direotors of the Shindo-Remmei in Jão Paule.
KáliI sakl - 39, marrled and possessus suue bora Lu Brasil. this pereom
likewise is one of the central directors of the Shinde-Remmei.
although his residanoe is listus as Wirandopolis.
aldfn0 Talil - 4, married and has ahildre: born in Brasil.  wae alse
one of the pentral direstors of the Shindo-Remmsi.
- 8 -

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.86)
TOarro rUJIMana - 2d, single. A lecal direetor for the aity ef Nove
Gramade in the interior of the State of see Pemle.
Hl uakI Iluk - 4. single. A residont of Itaquora, B.s.P. This Ladividmal
was seeretary and uocount-keeper for the Shinde-Remmsl. o
had oharge of the aacounting of the reoeipts and axpeditres.
Tulhl ruk - 3. widower. H posauss ono son born in Brasil  l
a resident and direotor of the sooiety for the City of
Maus.
Jilkai KITakuna - 26, single. This individual, a street-vendor, lo 
moncer of the Shindo-Renm: wt olief of the Toke-Tai, er
"Suicide Squad" moutioned above. He partieipated ls the
attempted urder of Puiuy, und che murder of Colemel
axyalia. Ho iu a rusident of cho City of tup.
I Tc Anhaß - 33, arric ud ha mons or in Brasil. B i alo
member of the hindo-kenme! and ohief of one braneh of
Toko-Tai. This ind:vidual was arrosted by the poliee
during his partioipation in the attempted marder of
PURUYA. no was aharged wi:n the expenaes of his
"Suioide S uad"  carriud R45,000 in expense
monoy.
kul d1  - 20, inglo. d w à mom or o the hindo-ani and
took part in the murlor of ilin and akYaxA. Ho 1s
also a mabor of the Toko-Tai.
Af Kca - S0. marrid. Roicont of São raulo. Kona i a bor
of the shindo-Re moi mnd a mumter of che Ounjin-Lai. In
addition  was e disseminator of false  ws conearning
the Japanose victory and one of the organizers of the
Poko-Tm1.
Tavlns MacDa - . mrried nnd s Brasilian-born childron. H  
of the dirwotore of the socioty in the town of Mewd.
iTsunt Ikala - 30, single. This indiv uual is a nenter of the foke-Tai and
partioipated in tno murder of iUn.
Ko cllORi TOsil  - 30. married and has Brasilian-born ohildron. Also 
member of the Toko-Tai and a partioipant in the
attempted murder of FüRtY and the marder of
WARYAMA.
mrmmkst Taxluurl - 32, single. This individual was ohief of what was
knowa as the Seoend Toke-Tai and partieipated im
the attack and murder of NOmURA.
- 9 -

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.90)
Masst Bosk - 39. married and has Brasilian-bera ehildren. He 1s like-
wise a member of the Sesond Toke-Tal and partieipated im
the marder of cMuR.
Abu Hlhaoka - 51, married and has Braz:lian-born ohildren. Thie
individual was a mumbor o? the direstorato of the
"Suloide squad" and lad as lhis obligntion the oon-
cealment of the oriminals.
HIncMI YAlasnllA - 21, single. Rosident of Tupa. This individual was 
mouber of the Toko-fai and partioipated in the
intion of NMUR d AKYAkA.
KA   OGasana. 57. arried. Ruident of soPaulo. Althoug the
proprietor of e oleaning establisiment, this indivicual
was able to mot as a direotor and finaneial beeker for
the Toko-Tai groups. He is a nember of the Shimde-
Remmei and a alose friend and colluborasur of
3IIckI ToMnRI, above on thi list.
Fum1. Ul - 34. married. Wember of the hindo-eome1 and the Toko-fai
croup partieipating in the uttonpted murder of FupuYA.
SälJInc MIkana - 4l, married. This individual oditod false nowa and
was one of the counsellors of the "uioide Groups".
IsuRutakc Usulsana, aka kkiju SAllaI - 51, married. He ia oharged with
haviny killed varicus "vuicide Squad" membere arter
their mets of murder or attompts at marder.
HaRuo atanaßh - 20, single. d was  penber of the Shindo-Ronmei d
was in eharge of providing food for tho members of the
"Suieide Groups". Resident of são Paulo.
Attention is uoe more oalled to the faot that the espulsiem
order for the Japanese soeiety members on the above list was sigmed en
August l0, 19ub. Somw diffleulty was expeoted :eoause of the faot that
many of the Japamese listed above havu onildren boru in Brasil. Aeeurding
to a deelaratiom by the Ministor of Justise, however, it was poisted
out that Deeree Law 1377 of Deoember, 1939, was sufficiontly wide in
its soope to permit expulsiom of all those on the above list.
No informatios was available as to when and by what means these
peop e would be repetrieted to Japan. However, Souroe J advised that by
dispateh dated April 30, 194s, she Department of State roquested the
U. S. Consul General in são Paule to diseuss with the Ambessy im Rie de
Janeiro the pessibility of imeludiug the leadere of the Japamsse seeret
sociesies in any greups of Japasese to be repatriated and stated that the
Government was prepared to aseist she Brasiliem Gevernment in carrying out
any repatristios pregrem whieh migh appear desirable.
-10 -

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.90)
Duriag she most intense peried of pollee and seodoty notsvity
Lu the fires part of apri1, 1gus, auapiaiem beeame very heavy tomare eme
PSUGC KINIMO7O. This individual, of Japamese birth nd a matwralleed
ra r üpeeted of bein involved interaitently wih the minde-
Renme1 organisation. It was pointed out by various sourees thas kIsmmoro
was attadh ud to the Seoond Military Region, the headquarters of which are
in são Paule. It was also alaimed that he was oonsidered "myeterioms" by
all those who knew aim and is was believed that he was a mmber of the
Japamese Black Dragon Sesiety. The police in newepaper reperte of their
progress seok eeeasien to refer frequently to KIslihoto and with the magle
werds of "Black Dragon" the newepapers were able to make eumsiderable
publieity of a searoheed variety. mony other denunelatieme of Klsaxmoro
it was learned through Souree I chat a complaint had been ledged agaimst
bim by m SXIouI pUJIMIH. This individual, it will be reeelled, wa 
the suppesed olaek liut of the sooiet: and re evidently had suffered seme
small extortion from KIsHIN(To. The faot that no more tham two weeks
after his denumeiatien an attempt was ma e on his life gave atremgth
to the opinion that KIs IMott wus involvod in the Shindo-Remei seeiety.
Consequently, asoordims to Souree , a oomplaint was lodges with the
military authorit:es of the desond Nilitary Region on behalf of the poliee,
and rIsImot0 was arrested on Apr11 10, 19, and later taken to Rie de
daneiro. At the date of this writing KIsilk to is still in prieem but
raturmed to São Paule, and the polioe have publioly annoumoed shat me
appearanee of the Bleak Dragon in Brasil has yet been diseevered. Like-
wise they have drepped their oharges againet kIslIkotù a far a his
involvement in the Shindo-Renmei is concerned. A proeess of expalsiem
is beimg presented oonoernim, KIsiIk: Tc, however, on the oharge that he
is an extortionist and an undesirable person. in a repors dated May 31,
1946, souree H reported that the Pol1tical Pol1oe of são Paule hed
deeided to leave she murder eases to the wlogacia de Seguramge Pesseal
(Homioide Squad) and that most of the Jupanese arrested in the sãe Paule
area had been released and returned to their respeetive resideness.
Souree B also reported on LIsHIuuTo's conneotion with the
Japanese soeieties and pointed out thut KIsiliMoT( had high atteehmeate
im the pereon of ADeiAR de BAiRCs, present candidate for the pesitiem
of Governor of são Paulo. The influenoe of thie individual, tegether
with that of KISHIMOTO's 1msediate employer, Major NELSCm de AQUIMO
of the Seeend Military Region, was suffiolent to spare KIsHImoro my
undue auffering. Attentien is called to the fact, however, that
KISHImOTC is still in prison and in the opinion of Souree X, whe was
consulted en this matter, is not likely to be released before the
oulmination of the empulsion proceedings now beiny completed agaimet
bim.
The meatim of the Black Dragon Society in the ease of
KIStIMuro eaused eonsiderable exeitement and interest is offisial
eireles. Inquiry accordingly was made of Seuree F who reperted that
iaveetigatieme made had diselesed shat the Black Dragen Soelety was
not kmown to exist in Brasil or emy other South Ameriean eeumtry.
It was also reperted by this souree that it was impessible te develep
-11 -

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.92)
any Laformatiem Lndieating that the Black Dragen Society of dapem mee ia
any way eommeeted with the Shinde-Hemmei or any other seeret or epes
Jepanese orgamisatione in Brasil. This souroe also caused investigatiems
to be made conoeruning the name KIsiI? with entirely wegative reoulte.
 apr11 29, 1, souroe I roported that the ão Paulo Pol1
were of the opinion that the mjor part of the Japanose composing the rank
and file or the society's memberslip were fanatioal patriots but that seme
of the leaders were nothing more than oroaks who wore taking advantage
of this patriotiem to further their own interests. This souree aleo ro-
ported that the Jhindo-Renme1 claimed some 120,000 members and eash member
paid wo cruseiros (10 conta) a month. It was also reported by this
souree that the polioe had been informed by those imprisoned that if the
pelloe were to seise one direstorate of the thindo-Renmsi, another would
appeer to take its plase because the Shindo-Renme1 Bociety was eme built
an "spiritual pooperation". The polioe, however, acoording to Seuree C
believed that by imprisoniny a major portiou of the suoiety's membere,
the society's motivit!es wero effeetively brokun und this indeed seemed
the ease for during the month of May motivity ulankened notieeably.
However, Souree , in touan with various leadilng Japanese in-
aludiny some of those threatoned by the Soc:ety, advixed that the i-
prisemed ones who returned to their homes after being interrogated by
the pelioe had mequired prestige because they reported to their neighbors
and countrymer Mhut they had been released by order of a Japenese emissary
who had called upen Government representatives in io de Janeiro and
ordered the release of all Jupanese.
Souro C provided information that SlIHi I, listed above
as the idealist and supervivor of the Shindo-hommei, had been in possession
of - puper inoorporating the plans and philosophy o? the sooioty. This
aper is m parontly the outline for a speoah to be bivan by TolakI to
membere of the souiety. nocurdin to tho dooument the four main
prinoiphes ofsthe sooiety's motivities are:
I. Indissoluble union of all ou-believers.
11. the spirit of produot vity. Oppos tion to the development
of Brasilian production, especially obstruction of production
that might be of a ature iniaieal to Japan.
1。
The body and mind, proparative eduoation for allegiance to
the boly war.
1.
Allegianee to the uphere of influenoe of East Asia after
the war and to undertakins for some time establisbed or
prodetormined.
Under eash of che four points T(fianI has made various notes,
as for example under I. A rigorous selection of ou-beliovers and coumtry-
men is to be made among those who reoogiise the present movement with what
is called "true spirit of patriotisn" and amony those who possess "courage.
-12 -

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
enthusiasm, and rectitude of conduct and who are fervently loyal subjects
and who do not allow themselvos to be carried away by material interests."
It was stated that they were to be divided into two groups -- those who
aot and those who need moral support. Also under the question of union
were recommended a careful selection of the directors of the branches
by the members and the central committee and solection and designation
of the leaders of sections and proups rathered by the directors of the
branehes. Another point mentioned was that the lirectors of a branch,
although assistinp in the rigid selection f the directors of another
branch, do not have a right to zivo orders to them. Another tie of the
orpanization with the centra! contra? wus to be the passing upon publica
tions by the centra' seat of the society.
Under II it was recommended the' productior in Brazil be
hindered by veiled or impressionable means, and it wus suggested that all
the branches of the society once established must awaken in the individual
members the notion cf cruelty. By this was implied the cold-blooded
execution of an order. whether it was to obstruct production by
eliminating the producer or by destroyirr the product.
Under IIl a spiritual and physical educut: on program was to
operate, including education in the Jupanese tongue und religion.
The principle cf complete cooperation anl the exelusion of individual
interosts also had a place in the education pro,ran. Incentives to
military skill were to be offered and physira! education alont Japanese
lines was to be used.
Under Iv it was recommended that neighborhood troups be established
and that a ru-election of tho societ, directors tuke place after the war.
A census was to be taker of those who would return to Asia to live
permanently and the orier of a person's adherence to the East Asia
sphere would bo determined by his spiritual health, his physical health,
his degree of culture, in thut order, his material resources not being
taken into consideration. A survey was to be made of damages suffered
juring the war and claims were to be made on the Brazilian Government
for these damapes through the Japanese diplomatic authorities. The
most deseriving of those serving the cause were t) le given a visit to
the mother country. The plans of the pructicul accomplishment of this
visit to the mother country by any memher of the society were that the
merits of a society member were to be based proportionately on his past
accomplishments and on permission from the seat of the society.
In the face of this document a certain contrust is to bo noted
in the opinion of Source i, who believed that the same elements who were
aiding the police and asking police assistance in eliminating, the fanatical
society members were themselves secretly responsible for the entire
situation which was creating real terror umong the entire Japanese
colony and causing all Brazilians to regard all Japanese as enemies
and with suspicion. This opinion was also reflected in information
-13 -

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.93)
reseived from Souree I whe reperted that the milstary autherities of the
country believed that us leng as the large Jepanese firms such a
Casa Mancariu Hrateo, Casu Tosan, Ltda., and Case Kaikal Leye Kalahe.
were still in liquidation, the wisuse of their funde by former bigh
offiotals woulr oontinun.
Individuals montioned i cunnuecion with the Japanese firme
wore TAlaNOBU HaTSUmT nd SENJikt HAiANAKA, formor Hig oiell of
the Case Bratao and individuals whose pamos in the momth of April figured
on one of the liste of people threatened by the shinde-Remmei.
Bouree 0 was of the opinion tat he poople arrested 
the poliee, although extrevely numerous, did not aotually represemt these
respomeible for the torrorist campaign.
Souroe J advieed that in an erfort to iustruet she mmbere of
the Japanese coleny as to the motual situation of their homeland the
State Doparteont at asnington nad requested the oooupation authorities
in Japan so place two subsoriptions to eaoh o? the five leading papere
publisbed in Takyo and thase sutsoriptions were to be transmisted direetly
to the Consulate veneral in São I'aulo. The oout of these subeeriptiems
was to be defrayed by Japanesu leaders in Bão Paulo. These leadere are
those whe had prev: ously been reperted as havink oalled at the Cemsulate
to enlist the aid of the Consulate in convinoin: the Japanese in Brasil
of the dofoat of Japan.
On August 12, 19u6, the first shipmort o? Japanese newepapers
acquired by the Consulate Deveral in São Paulo was Lolivered to the
São Paule Politieal rolice for distriuution in che Japanese solony. It
is expested that these papers will have a highly beneficial effeet on
the temper of the Japenese in São Paulo. cther efforts to convinee the
Japanese of the defoat of their homnland were made by the medish Loge-
tion in Rio de Janeiro whioh on April 18 dolivered a meesage to the
Japanese of São Paulo affirming that Jupan had been defeated and that
Legation, aharged with proteetion of Jupanese interests, was assuming
the responsibility of advising the Japanose solony of that faot.
During June, 19h6, mcoordini to Jouroe C, tho polioo planned
to olose the lengthy investigatim of the Japanese seoret socleties in
dão Paulo. Pinal reports were writton, acoording to this souree, and
letters of oommendation writtem to those who tad handled the metual
investigatien whioh had been extremely diffieult and invelved. Rewever,
ea July 12, 1946, me Sesretary of Publio Sesurity in Bão Paulo had
ordered the 80 rimgleadere, listed elsewhere in this report, to be
intermed at the Capital City Correctiomal Instisute. In the epimiem
of this souree the imtermment of shese leaders offended varieue members
of the Japamese colony and partioularly of the Shinde-Remmes whe
demsmstrated their uwwillingaese te accopt poliee ccntrel by anether
series of atteaks on those of their coumtrymen who were dispesed to
aecept the surrender of Japan. Mest of these attacks oeourred in the
interier of the state and in the main were unsussessful.
-山-

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.94)
To eepe with the s1 tuatien the Pederal Interventer fer aãe Paale,
Dr. JouÉ CamLos de NackDo susR, dotermimed so erganise è eeremeny mhic
should be at enee friendly in eharaoter and yet with enough digmity and
impres iveness to drive home to the Japanese the true cenditiem of their
oountry. By order of the Seeretary of Punlie Seeurity individual members
of Japanese seeret souieties resi :ent at dão Paule (about u00 in mmber)
were convemed in the Governor's Palace in São Paule  July 19. The
detalls or this kuthering have been amply reperted in the newspapers.
In brief, the Japanese were unimpressed by the eolleetiom of digmitaries
there present and the meeting, alosed with the Japanese being vigorously
outspekem and voloing demands tiut the words "umcanditienal surrender of
Jupan" not be used and that the pross be mussled with respeet to the
surrender of Japam. At tho same meetiny the wald threat was hurled at
che interventor thar the assassinations wculc oontinue. An effort was
made to havo the Japanese present sigu an aooeptanoe of the surrender of
Japan but this attenpt only resulted in tho dewand that the words "ue-
conditional surrender" ve deloted., and th:s demand was aoceded to.
Reports in poliee oiroles suy shat the interventor ugreed to advise the
preee to bo nareful of its phressolosy when roferring to the outoome of
the war.
In these same nirolee, moourding to Souroes C and E, the
attitude toward the weeting is one of resonmout due to the fast that the
matter was vomsidored striotly one of polioe jurisdiotion and it is felt
that the intervertor committed a grave error in allowing the "defeated"
Japanese to treat with him on equal ground. Opportumity was thas pro-
vided for these Japanese to roturn to their homes with more prestige
than over vefore.
Conversasions with eitisen.s of são rnulo or various soeial
olasses have shown thut many people in the oity have a feelins of
shase beeause of the outeome of this meeting. The polioe frankly
conoede that the conferemee was an admission or inability to cope with
the situation. They feel that had the oonference taken pleee in the
offices of the ahief of polioe or the Delegaoin Crdem de Politiou whe
conduated the inveetigation, the settin, would have been muah more
proper for the type of negotiation whioh was intended.
Present poliee management of te situation ts confined to
bringing to são Paule inrluential Japanese of various centers in the
interior of the state, talking to tham in a friendly way, and them
asking them to sign a deciaration formally taken by the police. fter
this thoy are returmed to their homee in the hope that what they have
seen in the poliee statien in the way of Japanese printed pietures and
doouments will have impressed them sufficien:ly to make them comter-
propagandists in the interier. It is peinted out tat daily attempts
at marder still osntimme. Cersain msmbers of the police foree are in
favor of turning the murders ever to the Pereonal Seeurity seetiem and
treating them individually as murder cases. That sestien of the Poliee
Department maturally is content to leave the matter in the hands of the
Politieal Polioe.
- 15 -

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.93)
Aocording to newe roports beteeen Jely 25 and appresimately
August & eensiderable interest in the Japanese situatiem waes evideneed
by members of the Constituemt Assembly in Rie de Janeire. Agitatien
was started for the expulsion of che Japanese who had beem judged guilty
of offenue against the seeurity of tho country. Amendmeate t the lew
pertainin, o Japanose immi gration were proposed. These emeate
were in faot a revocation of the law and it was suggested that dapamese
immigration e pruhivited entirely. In the Assembly it was alee eem-
sidered that besause of the high-handed reseptiom by the Japemese of
MACEDC sOnhEs' gesture or appeasement, Brasil had in a semse suffered
a certain moral defeat and the indigmation of the delegates wae areused
to censider favoratly the proposal for stopping Jupamese Smmigretiem.
As yet no word las bee reoeived that suoh a law has metwally beem
passed, but it will be recalled tha: the deoree of expulsiem agaimet
the 50 Japanese 1istod atove was signed on August 9. 1946.
In the noantise in Tupe, in the suturior of the gtate of são
Faule, and in the neighborhood of Marilia thore have been several more
killings, cruating a high dogree of warest in those localitiee. In each
ease the murdere have been committed by sulf-confessed mebere of
Toko-Tal group. Those offorts tave caused cousidarable poliee mstivity
in the interior o: cic stute without a larce  onsure of publioity boing
civen them in são Paulo, althout certain nowagapers have arried artioles.
namely the "Diario do o Pntlo" an" tl.u "Fulhu de Noite". On August 21
there appoarod in tho "is ado de ão luulo" u ooantary an the' Japanese
eituation in Drazil writton in tin fcrr of a lotcur to the editer. the
author stalos himsulf s be a Jupuneac cf aducu ion and a maturalised
Brasilian and pointo os suveral i screstin, faoto, all f mhioh have
aided to convince the Jupanrse in Brazil thut their country motually
did not lose the war. The points are as fullows:
1. When Brasil, although not at wer with Jupan, demanded safe
conduction for she travel of Japanese, the sute treatment was ascorded
to other Axis nations. When the war was over, no more controls were
demanded and the Japauese therefore conoludud chat sho war terminated
favorably ror Japan.
2. nocording to Jupanesu uvul radicion, only thu viotors
oan board a war ship by the right-hand gangplank. Piuturee of the
Ameriean Üss Missouri show Jupanuse amissaries going aboard by the
right side. To the Japanese this is canclusive proof that the Japamese
boarded the ship in the quality of viotors.
3. Also according to Japaneso tradition oonquored man mst
present themselves umarmnt to the viotors. Photographs appearing in
Amerioan and other magasiues have shomm eneral HaenkfliUR and other
offieers of his staff in shirt sleeves with no swrtial air whatscever.
The conolusion to this is obvious.
- 16 -

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.91)
LiIt  a   a ao ae t  ost
Eurepoan war there was groat élobration. The dapasese poinke out that
aotually boev
uy the Amorieans.
5. War herees ia Japan are honored in various ways. Phetegraphs
appear on eigarette peekages, and figurines are made of them. Leaflote
of the:r deeds are passed from hand to hand. Certaimly, shink the Japamese,
nad the United Matioms wan the war, they would have done the same thing.
The writer of the above urtiole points out that there is a
distinet differenee in peyehology and manner of thought between the
Japanese and the Western world. The Western world is endeavoring 
eenvimee the Jupamese of the defent by Aestern methods whieh oftem-
times serve to vomvinee she Japanese nnly of their vietory.
As to international conneetions of the Shiudo-Remmei of Brasil
with other soustries of South moriee it is noted that Uaited Press re-
ports whiah appeared on ugust 13 stated chat a Japanese named Kso As
had been seised in the vieinity of Lime, Foru, and shere cemfeseed
that he was really sest there by the Shindo-Ranmei of Brasil. This
individual, aseordiag to the same United Press reports, had deslared
that dus to pollee intervention ameng the sooret societies in Brasil
the situatiou of the sosistiee was beconing more and wore uatemmble.
The sueieties had therefore deided to loeate a similar scciety in
roru.
To date the me of rso  has not ppeared in police
reports, mocording to Bouree C, but efforte are being made to identiry
this individual and diseover whether his motivities in Brasil had
recently been closely tied to the Shimdo-Reamei.
• 17 -

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.82)
OCT10
no.
To the
894.20232/10-104
Ameriomm Coasalar Offieer in Charge,
Sno Paale, Brasil.
The Leting Sesrotary of State refers to the Cenesler effleerts
request, contained in several eommmieations to the Beperteans, Sar
eurrent Japenese newspapers and other materials eoneeraing the mes-
iean eccupatien of Japan.
There are enalosed sixteem packages of Japesese vesmesalas pepars
publiahed, for the most part, in the maller tomms of Japems
"Paionshime Skiskm"
"gish Nippen Shimben"
"Shin Imate mimbe"
"Shinemale Miya Shimim
"gakkaide Skinion"
"Zammgata Shiakn"
"giigata Hippe"
"Asaki Osaka"
"Yamanaski Nicki Nichi"
"Teloshime Shimn"
"Saikekn Shimben"
"Rocbe Shimbum"
CS/V
"Bakan Nigata"
"Phine miabum"
"Miname Nippen"
BMRuyau
nal
malosure:
FMS
16 packages of
ean
Japanese papers
894.20282
OCT
Confida
A sree copy th
1946
the gd 
nal.
éncent
Aard' Eca:rs
10/7/46
Fgj

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.93)
STATE
No.4302
Airmail
1946
UNRESTRICTED
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brazil, October 15, 1946
SupJEcT: c(INP) - Acknovledring receipt of Japanese
newspapers
0
A
∑
.3
T
1.009%
HONORABLE
9-234
C
THE
SECRETARY OF STATE.
894.20232
REPORTING SERVILI
DIVISION OF LOR
WASHINGTON.
894.20232/10-1546
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
Instructions dated August 19, 1946 and September 23,
1946, and to acknowledge receipt of 17 packages
containing Japanese newspapers for distribution in
this area.
The Department's kind attention to this matter
was very much appreciated.
Rcspectfully yours,
American onsul General
Te:
Deport 1o15
ARA
800
CMPCROSS/Jz
CS/V
3.0
MH
894.20232
Confidential File
NOV - 8 1846
FILED

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.84)
o.
To the
Ameriean Censular Orfieer ia Charge,
sKe Paale, Brasil.
The Leting Searetary of State reters to the Cemeular
894.20232/10-1846
ieam eeupatien of Japan.
There are emelesed tihe feiles Japanse er
62 eopies
Enslesure:
1 package osataining:
CS/HH
6 oples of Japamse papers
B M Buyau
EaR
mm
OCT 15 1946 P.M.
89420232
ncen
to Room o. 8
ADA: Rd Ega :rs
10/24/46
w21
110/1

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.82)
OCT2
UERBSTRICTED
.
To the
Ameriean Cemsular Offieer in Charge,
Mo Paule, Brasil.
The Secretary of state refere to the Conselar oefieerte
the Ameriean eeupatien of Jepan.
publiaed, for the meet part, in the allae tomms at dagn
12 ops of THE MANINI S
894.20232
12 OpÉes of TNE TOMIRI SNBDUN
36ooples
X
Enelesure:
cS/v
1 package centaising:
36 eopies Japañese papers
DCR ARA Unn
m
my
Énc1  ent
k2
 moo N.
ADA :Rd 'Eçats
10/21/46
cahy
OCT
23 1946

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.91)
OCT 25 1946
UNRESTRICTED
o.
894.20232/10-2546
To the
American Consalar Ofricer in Charge,
Bão Paale, Brasil.
The Secretary of State refers to the Consuler ofrieer's
for eurrent Japanese newspapers and other materials eemeerming
the American oeeupatiom of Japan.
There are enslesed fifteen paskages of Japanese vermmeular
papers publisbed, fer the meet part, in the saller toms of
Japan:
"Nagasaidi Shimbun"
"Chiba Shimbum"
"Eamagowa Shimbun"
"Fakui Shimbun"
"Mara Nichi Nishi"
"Mainichi English"
"Kmmameta Nichi Nichi"
CS/A
"Mainichi Osaka"
"Jome Shim"
"Ise Shimbun"
"Kabeku Shimbum"
"Nippen Kai Shimbun"
"Ishikewa Shimbum"
"Tukan Hiroshima"
"Kochi Shimbum"
Enclesure:/
1 package containing:
15 packages Japanese papers
7
ADA :Rd Ba
10/24/46
OPIES
to Room
Encl1o
on i

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.92)
OCT291946
UNNESTRICTED
o.
894.20232/10-2946
To the
Amerisan Consular Offieer in Cherge,
ão Paule, Brasil.
The Acting Secretary of State refers to the Comsuler orrieerts
request, contained in severel eammusiestions to the Departmemt, fer
eurrent Japanese newspapers and other materials censeraing the mes-
iear occupatien of Japan.
There are enclosed thirty copies of the felloming Japasese ver-
pacular papers publisbed, for the most part, in the maller temms ef
Japan:
10 copies of T MADmIcuI Simbum ... Osteber 11 te Cteber 15, 19.
CS/V
Enclesure!
1 paskage containing
30 copdes Japansse papers
894.20282
Confidential File
ADA:R d'Eça :rs
10/25/46,
Énc1ouent
eo Roo No. 8
002 28 1946 F.M.
3.8

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.88)
OCT 30
UNRESTRICTED
o.
To the
Ameriean Consular Offieer in Cherge,
894.20232/10-3046
Sãe Paale, Brasil.
The Lcting Searetary of State refars to the Ceucalar offieer's
request, centained in several commamisatieme to the Department, fer
current Japanese newspapers and other materials eeneeriing the Amesr
ican eccupation of Japan.
There are enclesed fifteen pesimgs of te folloming dapaasse
vernacular papers pablished, for the most pert, in the smaller tesm
of Japan:
"Koshi Shimbum"
"Rigata ippe"
"Ise Shimbum"
"iniehi Shimbem (Seibu)"
"Shisueka Shimbum"
"Takan Nireshime"
"Osaka Sangy Kei sai"
"Fukui Shimbum"
"Hippen Sai Shimben"
"Shima me Mainsichi"
"Iamagata Shimbun"
"Akita Sakigake"
"Beche Shimbun"
BMRuAm
"Kahoku Skimbun"
CS/V
"Tee Nippe"
CaE
00 28
Enclesure:
68
15 packages of
h
20
Japanese papers
nclr  nt
84
32
to m No
ADA: R.diEçars
10/28/46
C
-30
96

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.93)
No.4350
Airmail
UNRESTRICTED
20c
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, rt il, November 4, 1946
SUBJECT:OIC (INP) - Acknoled ing receipt of Japanese
newspapens
AN
BBLUC ATCIRS
1946
THE HONQRABLE
20
C
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
REIOHTING SFRICS
WASHINGTON.
96
SIR:
A
I have the nonor to refer to the Department's
Instructions dated August 28, September 5, September 16,
October 18 and October 4, 1946 and to acknowledge
receift of all newspapers transmitted as enclosures
to the ubove mentioied instructions.
894.20232
The following material was also received without
reference to a previous instruction:
74 copies
The Nihon Keizai
74 copies
The Jiji Snimpo
4 copies
Tokyo Times
76 copies
The Yomiuri-Shimbun
69 copies
Asahi
73 copies
The Mainichi
The Department's kind attention in complying
With this Consulate Jeneral's request is very much
-446
appreciated, as the distribution of material on
the surrender of Japan has proved extremely effective.
Respectfully yours,
GO
American consul general
/HH
800
CMPCROSS/jz
Confidential
BMlejan
w.rm
894.202
R.T.
DEC
FILED

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.95)
No. 4356
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Faulo, Braz Ll, November 5, 1946
SUBJECT Correspondence For Jupun.
THE HONORABLE
894.20232/11-546
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
CA
SIR:
394202
I have the nonor t. refer to the Instruction dated
Cctober 18, ly46 returning certain letters wnicn had
been submitted to the Department for transmi ssion to
Japan on tne be ief trat tne mails were now open to
general correspondence.
Unfortunately, tne mails in Brazil are not as yet
open and tue post office refuses to accept even post-
caras for transmisslon. In the meant ime the Japanese
group recognizing the defeat of Japan has been to some
trouble to calect corresonuence frn selected areas
from the tate of são Paulo for transnission to Japan
in tne hope tnat replies would be fortheoming. It
would contribute materially to ease the situatlon.
whicn althougn considered better than it was auring
A
the early part of tre year, st ill has potentialities
of recurrent trouble. These letters togetner with tne.
う
lists of tne writers and addresses are being enclosed
FA
togetner witn t.e crig nal package in the nope that the
Department wll forward tnem.
JA
BA
The Japanese calory is awaiting witn considerable
anxiety tne replies totne first few letters stated in
your A-191 of September 23, 1946 wnicn were being as-
AP111947
sembled for transmission to Sãc aulo. It would be
more helpful if inquiries could be made as to wnat has
become of tnese letters for tney could be of greatest
value could they reacn tneir destinations.
Respectfully yours,
Cecil M. P. Cross
vt
American Consul General
Enclosure: E39 letters witn sufficient postage (steamer ma1ß)
addressed to residents in Japan.
.2194770 letters with airmail postage.
File No. 800
CMPCross:vzp
B MBuan
Original and ozalid to Department.
mry
Copy to Babestyein Rio de Janeire.

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.96)
São Paulo, Brasil, November S, 19
Correspondence for Japan.
I have the honor to refer to the Instruetien dated
October 18, 1946 returning certain letters which hed
been submitted to tne Department for transmissien to
Japan on the belief that the mails were now open to
general correspondence.
Unfortunately, the mails in Brasil are net as yet
open and the post office refuses to accept evem pest-
cards for transmi ssion. In the meantime the Japemese
group recognizing the defeat of Japan has been to seme
trouble to collect correspondence from selected areas
from the State of São Paulo for transmission to Japan
in the hope tnat replies would be fortheeming. It
would contribute materially to ease the situation.
whicn although considered better than it was during
the early part of the year, still has potent ialities
of redurrent trouble. These letters together with the
lists of the writers and addresses are being enclesed
together with the original package in the hope that the
Department will forward them.
The Japanese colony is awaiting witn considerable
antlety the replies to the first few letters stated in
your A-l91 of September 23, 1946 which were being as-
sepal ed for transmission to são Paulo. It wotld be
mere helpful if inquiries could be made as to whas hes
become of these letters for they could be of treatest
valme could they reach their destinations.
Respectally yours,
Ceeil M. P. Croms
Ameriean Consul Gemesal
go lesters with suftieiemt pestaget

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
LI&T
ADDRESSEÊS
ADDRESSERS
TOKYO
Kitijuro Saito
K. Naritomi
Takeo Kamiya
Rua José Antonio Coelho 523 C/2
89, akashita-ch0,Utsuka
São Paulo
koishikawa-ku
Torao Ito
Tokiya Washizuka
C/O Mimatsu & Co. Ltd.
Rua Ambrosina de Macedo 135,V.M
10, 5 chome, Hongo,Hongo-ku.
são Paulo
3. Yasufusa Tadano
Eiji Kikuti
C/O Camara de Tokyo
Rua Estudante 255, São Paulo
Shinichi Ohara
Idem
C/O Tribunal Internacional
de Tokyo
5. Yoshiko Wiyakoshi
Hiroko Ikebe
C/O Io Nakano
Rua Pamplona 512
Kaigai hogyo Kabushiki Kaisha
São Paulo
6. Kichizc Ise
Hideo Iwasaki
12, ? chome, Kakigara-cho
Rua Miguel Carlos 77
Nihombashi-ku
São Paulo
7. K. Katakura
Fukashi Furihata
Tatami-cho, Kyobashi-ku
C.P. 3329 São Paulo
8. Akiji Kurumada
H. Tanaami
Shimo Ochiai 2-766
C.P. 3919 são Paulo
Yodobashi-ku
9. Idem
Juro Yuasa
C.P. 3919 São Paulo
10. Idem
Fumi Furihata
C.P. 3329 São Paulo
11. Sutejiro Hirono
Tooru Wamguti
Midori-cho 3-2 , Honjo-ku
Praça da Sé 313 São Paulo
12.
Tomeshi Hayashi
Satsue Handa
3 Hongo 2 chome
Rua Felipe de Oliveira 21
Hongo-ku
São Paulo
13. Hikoji Yahagui
Fujio Yahagui
Daita 2 chome 760
Rua Cardeal Arcoverde 2539
Setagaya-ku
São Paulo
14. T. Okada
Fumiko Inoue
237 1 chome Akatsutsumi-cho
a/c Deposito Alto Sorocabana
Setagaya-ku
Cooperativa Agrícola de Cotia
Presidente Brudente
15. Iwao Nakano
Manjiro Watanabe
6 3 chome Marunouti
Est. Uraf Norte do Paraná
Kojimachi-ku
16. G. Mizuno
K. Yamada
9, 4 chóme Midori-cho
Rua Souza Franco 488
Honjo-ku
Mogi das Cruzes
17. Tatsujiro Kanai
Morizo Suzuki
5, 2 chome Ogibashi
Fukagawa-ku
18. Umesaburo Hara
Takeyasu Yoshio
Minami-Shinagawa
Barão de Rio Branco 366
shinagawa-ku
Presidente Prudente

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
19. shiro Ishikawa
Kiyoshi Yamamoto
C/O Mitsubishi Pire Insurace
Rua de Fabricio Vampr6 
Marunouchi
são Paulo
20. Iwao Nakano
Chibata Miyakoshi
c/o Kaigai Kogyo Co.
Rua Pamplona 512
6, 3 chome, Marunouchi
são Paulo
AICHI+KEN
21. Kurakichi Shimomura
Mitsuo Shimomura
Moto-Honzaki-cho
C.P. 1257 São Patão
Nagoya
CHI BA-KEN
22. Toyohisa Yazak
Setsuo Yazaki
Nitta-machi 248
C.P. 3329 São Paulo
23. Ikumatsu Anai
Mitsuo Nakadaira
5224 Kaijin
Av. Santo Antonio 564
Funabashi
Marilia
24.
Gonzaburo Shimizu
Risuke Shimizu
Tachibana-mura, Katori-gun
Marilia
25.
Yukichi Yamazaki
Toshio Yamazaki
Asahi-mura, 1mba-run
Pua Cardeal Arcoverde 2539, São Paub
Shuhei Fukuhara
Fumiko Fujihira
Iwai-machi, Awa-gun
Rua Guimarães Passos 433, São Paulo
27.
Nobuko Aoki
Seigui Fujihira
Taito-mura, Chosei-gun
C.P. 3848 gão Paulo
EHIME+KEN
28. Hyoji Takayama
Ichiro Nakaya
Doida-machi
Av. Aclimação 894
Matsuyama-shi
são Paulo
29. Koyemon Taniwaki
Jumatsu Taniwaki
Misaki-mura
Est. Baruery
Nishiura-gun
L. Sorocabana
30. T0mekichi sumida
Kamekichi Hirano
Kita-Yamazaki-muma, Iyo-gun
C.P. 1817 São Paulo
31. Kenkichi Kaneko
Junsuke Kaneko
Setozaki, Ochi-gun
Rancharia
32
Hajime Murakami
Takumi Murakami
Yokohira, Futawa-mura
Est. Raposo Tavares, Santos-Juqui&.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
PUKUOKA-KEN
33. Umetaro Nishi
Kiuzo Koga
Okawa-machi, Mizuma-gun
Rua Vergueiro 2702, são Paulo
34. Shinichi Ueno
Sawata Ueno
Tanushimaru-machi
Vila Juquery
Ukiha-gun
são Paulo
35. Jinta Higuchi
Jitsuzo Higuchi
Himeji-mura, Ukiha-gun
Est. Valparaiso, . O. B.
36. Kenji Nomiyama
Yuki Yamashita
Kotai-machi, Kaho-gun
Alvares Machado, E.F.S.
37.
Takejiro unekata
Noboru Munekata
Ueki-machi, Kurata-gun
R.Conselheiro Furtado 1095 são Paulo
38. Itaro Miyamoto
Kenji Miyamoto
Oki-machi, Kokura
R. C. Arcoverde 2539 são Paulo
39.
Fujio Yuge
Fukuma Ito
16-1 Meiji-ch
R. José Bonifácio 36
Omuta-shi
Ribeirão Preto
Kazuo Fukuzawa
A. Fukuzawa
Inatsuki-mura, Kaho-gun
Mercado Municipal, Ribeirão Preto
41.
Kaichiro Noda
Kyokushi Noda
2 chome Honcho, moi-shi
c/o Alvaro Tavares
R. Ceres 295
são Paulo
FUKUSHIMA-KEN
42. Hidekatsu Imamura
Yoshikane Yamamoto
Takate-mura, Soma-gun
C.P. Arai,, Bandeirantes, P.S.C.
43.
Kihachi Honda
Tokue Honda
Iizaka-mura , Date-gun
C.P. 2995
são Paulo
44.
Kameemon Asano
Yomeno Nakaya
Harimichi-mura, Adachi-gun
R. Bagé 182
2 São Paulo
45.
Matsunosuke Ota
Riuji Outa
Ota-mura, Adachi-gun
C.r. 2995 São raulo
46.
Jujiro Sugano
Ota-mura, Adachi-gun
47.
Zenichiro Sato
Seiichi Sato
Shimizu-mura, Fukushima-shigai
R. Alvares Machado 42 S.Paulo
48.
Hisao Sato
Tomonori Sato
Miyama-mura, Tamura-gun
C.P. 3919 S.Paulo
49.
Guenkichi Abe
Masayoshi Ogasawara
Okubo-mura, Date-gun
C.P. 3919 S.Paulo
50.
Hatsukichi Matsuda
Hikozo Tanaami
Hobara-machi
C.P. 3919 S.Paulo
51.
Kamomatsu Anze
Moriji Anze
Miyama-mura, Tamura-gun
Araçatuba, N.O.B.
GUNMA-KEN
52. Kan Hirota
Ryosakh Hirota
c/o Matsu Kanoo
Av. dos Estados 3027 8. Paulo
shikishima-mura, Tone-gun

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
 53.' shinzo Egawa
S. Egawa
Nishi-machi 566
a/c Lima Canto & Cia.
Isezaki-shi
R. Barão de Duprat 109
C.P. 394? são Paulo
54. Kaneshigue Chigira
Toshiji Chigira
Numata-machi, Tone-gun
R. Barão de Duprat 109 81 Paulo
55. Saburo Yuasa
Juro Yuasa
Annaka-machi
C.p. 3919 S.Paulo
56. f. Ishiy
Massuzo Shiosaki
Akabane-mura Oura-gun
Bairdo Verde
57. Mitsuko lakeuchi
Takejiro Tanaami
4 Chome Honcho, Kiryu-shi
C.P. 73, Mogi das Cruzes
58. Kijuro Kuwabara
Jusaburo Jimbo
Obata-machi,Kitakanraku-gan
R.da Consolação 3390 S.Paulo
59. Kii Kanazawa
Idem
Tako.mura, Tano-gun
HIRUSHIMA-KEL
60. Sawaichi Yano
Toshio Sasaki
Takata-gun
C.P. 15 Bandeirantes, P.S.C.
61. Sanroku Akutagawa
Shunzo Akutagawa
Shiya-mura, Takata-gun
C.r. 15 Bamdeirantes, P.S.C.
62.
;horou Matsumoto
Iwao matsumoto
C/O hiroshima High School
R. Liberdade 400, S.Paulo
HOKKAIDO
63. Kyusaku Yasuda
Motoyoshi Yasuda
Bebetsu 60
C.P. 1 Est. Urai
Kagura-mura Kamigawa-gun
Norte do Paraná
64. Messrs. Kushifu-mura Public-Office
Gengo Senda
and school
a/c wajiro Kanegae
Tokoro-gun, Kitaminokuni
C.P. 153 Birigui N.O.B.
65. Eikichi Takahashi
Tadashi Nakata
Yunkawa, Komaba 16
R. Domingos de Morais 2324
Hakodate-shi
são Paulo
66. Tajyo Nakata
Takeo Nakata
C/O Hokkosha
R. Pamplona 512
Nokkeushi-machi, Tokoro-gun
São Paulo
Ki taminokuni
67. Minoru Onda
Zengoro Imakura
Rikubetsu-mura, Ashoro-gun
C.p. 58 Est. Caviuna Norte do Para
68. Kozo Kawano
Kiyoshi Kawano
Shibetsu-machi,Kamikawa-gan
a/c C. Yamada
Teshio-no-kuni
R. Senador Feijó 29 S.Paulo
69. Heizaburo Ohara
K. Ohara
14, Kita 4 Nishi
a/c São Luiz 913 Marilia
Naganuma-mura, Yubari-gun

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
. 70.' shinoo Ariga
Fukashi Purihata
C/O Nichiro Gyogyo Kaisha
C.P. 3329 são Paulo
Hakodase
71. Naoto Isobata
Naoyoshi Isobata
Hokudai-dori, Kushiro-shi
Parque D.Pedro 1I 46 8. Paulo
72. Kiyota Shoji
Sunau 1to
Shimo-Yubetsu-mura
Rua Taguá 202 S.Paulo
Kitami
73. Uichi Iwasa
Shizuo Iwasa
Abota-machi, Muroran-shi
C.P. 136 Rancharia
74. Makoto Tanaka
Yoshio Okumura
1 j0 Nishi 3 chome
a/o Coop. Agricola de Cotia
Asahigawa
são Paulo
HYOGO-KEN
(KOBE)
75. hanji Sasatani
Shinichi Sasatani
Itoi-mura, Yabu-Fun
C.P. 75 Bandeirantes P.S.C.
76. Seibei Kawanishi
Ryusuke Nomura
Suma-ku
Lins N.O.B.
77. Teijiro Yasuba
hidekazu Masuda
Ashigaoka, Haruo-mura, muko-gun
C.F. ? Pedregulho E.F. S.Paulo
78.
Matsuzo Shinobe
Kameo Shinobe
Toyooka-cho, Kinosaki-gun
C.P. 54 Araguaçú E.F.S.
79. lakeo Wada
Mitsue lanigaki
royooka-cho, Kinosaki-gun
R. Cardeal Arcoverde 2468 S. Paulo
80. Yukiye Matsumoto
Idem
Kozaka-mura, Izushi-gun
81. Tomoko Isurushita
1dem
Toyooka-cho, Kinosaki-gun
82.
Hansuke Matsuoka
Katsuzo Yamamoto
Akaho-machi
Rua Ceres 29 S.Paulo
IBARAKI-KEN
83. Matsusaburo Yoshida
I. Nakayama
Yuma-mura, Tabishima-gun
Ribeirão Preto
IWATE-KEN
84. Kitiemon Takahashi
Chusuke Furukawa
Miyanome-mura,Hinuki-gun
Presidente Bernardes E.F.S.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
KAGOSHIMA-KEN
85. Sen Nagayama
Suekichi Nagayama
Kami-Okawa-mura,Izumi-gun
C.P. 2995 são Faulo
86. Yaichi Naruo
Seiji Tajitsu
Kagoshima-ken
C.P. 18 Presidente Bernardes
87.
Yoshio Nomoto
Matao Nomoto
Kushikino-machi, Heki-gun
R.Cardeal Arcoverde 2539 8.Paulo
KABAWA-KEN
88. Kotoyo Inui
Sachiko Kitatani
Hon-mura, Kagawa-gun
C.. 3329 S.Paulo
KOCHI-KEN
89. Hague Soncho
Kiyomi Ohira
lakaoka-gun
R.C. Arcoverde 2539 S.Paulo
90. asahide Nose
Idem
Hague-mura, Takaoka-gun
KUMAMOTO-KEN
91. Keihachi Miike
shigueru Miike
liramaki-mura,Kikuchi-gun
C.P. 75 Bandeirantes P.S.C.
92.
Tomeji Hirata
Takeo Hirata
Yatsushiro-gun
Est. Bandeirantes P.S.C.
93.
waichi Higashi
Yohachi Higashi
Kawachi-mura, Funatsu
R. Barão de Duprat 19-lll S.Paulo
Hotaku-gun
94. Village Office
Sadahachi Yamashita
Sakasegawa-mura, Amakusa-gun
C.P. 3 Alvares Machado E.F.S.
95. Shiga Sakata
Hirochi Okuda
42 6 chome Motoyama-cho
C.P. 3919 S.Paãa
96. Torao Tanaka
Chuji Tsubouchi
c/o Kyusyu Gakuin
São Paulo
97. Kunio koba
Tsuzuki Yoshimoto
Rokugo-mura, Kamoto-gun
Est. Raposo Tavares Santos-Juqui&
KYOTO-FU
98. Yoshitaro Nomura
Shigueru Ushikusa
37, Shimo-Kawara-machi
Fazenda Nomura
Nanzenji, Sakyo-ku
Bandeirantes Norte do Parand

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
99. Massami Kambara
Chukichi Otsuki
Maizuru-machi
Marilia
100. Sawaichi Otsuki
Idem
Nishi-Hatta-mura
101. Shigueo Otsuki
Takeo Nishihara
Nishi-Hatta-mura
R. São Luiz 913 Marilia
102
Ikuko Kashimura
Ryozo Akao
Yawata-cho, Kyoto-shi
Rua Guimarães Passos 435 S.Paulo
103.
Jingo Nakanishi
Kinosuke Okamoto
Fushimi-macni
C.P. 73 Mogi das Cruzes
104. D. Ugaya
Yoshihiko Ugaya
8 Kaguraoka, Yoshida,Sakyo-ku
C.P. 26 Assaf' Norte do Paraná
105.
Hayato Yamane
Takeji Fujioka
Momoyama College
Rua Wanderley 105 São Paulo
MIYAGUI-KEN
106. Yoshijiro Sasaki
Torao Sasaki
11kamashita-ku
C.r. 3329 .Paulo
shita-mura, hita-gun
107.
Fumio sato
Eiji Kikuchi
c/o Taki-shimbum-sha
R. Estudantes 255 São Paulo
Kisennuma-machi
IYAZAKI+KEN
108. hiroshi Taniguchi
B. Ochiai
Ota-machi,miyazaki-shi
C.P. 15 Bandeirantes P.S.C.
109.
Toyo Tamaru
y. Ochiai
Morotsuka-mura,Nishi-Kine-gun
C.P. 15 Bandeirantes P.S.C.
MIYE-KEN
LLO. Masao Kawai
Takeo Kawai
Sanamura, Taki-gun
R. C. Arcoverde 2539 S.Paulo
111. S. Sakaguchi
Reiichi Sakaguchi
Shigo-mura, Watarai-gun
R. Rio Grande do Sul 207
Presidente Prudente E.F..
112. Akino Matsuo
ukichi Konishi
Minami-Muko-gun
R. General Osorio 59 Ribeirão Preto

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.97)
NAGANO-KEN
113. Hisayoshi Matsumura
Eiji Matsumura
Kita-Azumi-gun
Registro
114. Kin Kasuga
Denye Miyawaki
Nakazawa-mura,Kamiina-gun
Marilia
115. Naoto Kamijo
Kanji Kamijo
166 Komata, Sasaga-mura
ua Barão de Duprat 109-111
Higashi-Chikuma-gun
São Paulo
116. Iwao Kamiyama
Yoshiichi Kamiyama
Nagakubo-mura, Kami-Ina-gun
Est. Musacea L.S.J.
117. shoji Nakajima
Kokichi Nakajima
IIjima-mura, nami-Ina-gun
R. Domingos de Morais 2318 S.Paulo
718.
Pi taro Fukizana
I dashi Fukazawa
Yamato-mura, Azuni-gun
C.P. 3919 sã, Pao
119.
Tsunekic! i Hosoda
masayoshi Ogasawara
Shimojyo-mura, shimo-Ina-gun
C.r. 3919 São Paulo
120. Yoshiro Yano
Hidemi Isutihashi
Honcho 1 chome, Okaya-shi
C... 24 mogi das cruzes
121. Kozo lorii
Idem
Kami-Suwa, Suwa-shi
LAGASAKI-KEN
1.2. Tosaburo kajiwara
Yochiji Kajiwara
3 chome Inasa
C.1. 52 andeirantes 1..C.
123. Kensuke Baba
Sunao Baba
Minami-Kushiyama-mura
C.r. 20 Piracicata
Minami-Korai-gun
L. raulista
124. Yoshit) lanika
Fomu Irushira
Inasa-machi
Rua uc raraiso 'I São faulo
125. Toji Noguchi
Fukuma Ito
1zomo-cho 42
Nagasaki-shi
Rua José Bonifácio 36
Ribeirão Preto
NARA-KEN
126. Yoshiharu Tone
Porataro Tone
Gojo-machi,Uchi-gun
C.P. 140 Ourinhos E.F.S.
127. Shutaro Wada
Shinichiro wada
Nara-shi
C.P. 26 Mirandópolis N.ObB.
128. Nakai
M.Inoue
Horyuji-mura, Ikoma-gum
C.P. 85 Ribeirão Preto

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
NIIGATA-KEN
129. Hitoshi Hasegawa
Takeshi Hasegawa
Kamc-machi
Rua Caramurá 659 S! Paulo
130. M. Imai
K. Yamada
Kamigumi-mura,Koshi-gun
Rua Souza Franca 488
Mogi das Cruzes .
OITA-KEN
131. Bunji Abe
Tokuji Abe
Yasaka-mura, nayami-zun
C.P. 22
Mogi das Cruzes
OKAYAMA-KEN
132. Y. Nakajima
Masashi Nakajima
Inaoka, winami-mura, Kume-gun
Marilia
133.
Kametaro Komono
Yoshizo Komono
Uji-pura,Kawasaki-eun
C.P. 393 harilia
134.
Miyoji Ueki
Hajime Funo
Yuhara-mura, Maniwa-gun
Marilia
135.
Motoe Nakajima
Homeji Nakajima
Tanjoji-mura, Kume-gun
Est. Padre Nobrega L. Paulista
136.
Kozaburo Kobayashi
YoshizoKomono
Ushimado-machi
C.P. 393 Marilia
137.
Kinu, #atanabe
Yoshio Kobayashi
Ochiai-mura,Kawakami-gun
Rua Ribero Badaró 73 São Paulo
138.
Kanichi Okura
Akira Funo
Yuhara-mura, maniwa-gun
Fazenda São José Marilia
139.
Kaichi Yukibe
Ryuhei Yoshihara
Tsuda-mura, Maniwa-gun
140.
Shinichi Takewaki
Tsutomu Kato
Tomihara-mura,Maniwa-gun
Faz. São José Marilia
141
OSAKA-FU
141. T. Hori
Eiji Kikuti
Minomo
R. Estudante 255 S.Paulo
142. Seiji Iwata
Tomizo Takeda
Yata-mura,Kawachi-gun
R. Caramurú 757 S. Paulo
143. Suematsu Harada
Tomizo Harada
4 6 chome Higashi-ku
a/c Lima Canto & Cia.
R. Barão de Duprat 109 S.Paulo
144. Saigo-Murayakuba
Takeo Nishikawa
Toyono-gun
Marilia
145. 13 Bashi Police Station
Idem
Nishi-Yodogawa-ku

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.99)
146. Toshitsugu Shimada
Shunzo Shimada
Kamishi-cho, Sakai-shi
R. dos Tupinambás 82 8.Paulo
147. Kaguetoshi Naito
1dem
Sakuraoka, Toyono-gun
148. Official High School
Hiroshi Ogata
Kitabatake-cho
C.P. 109 Araguassú
SAGA-KEN
149. Zenichi matsuo
Tatsuo Murakami
Wakaki-mura, Kishima-gun
R. C. Arcoverde 2539 S.Paulo
150.
Ichiji Miyazaki
Zenzaburo Sanematsu
Hasuike-mura, Kanzaki-gun
C.P. 257 S.Paulo
SAI TAMA-KEN
151.
Mitsuko Fukani
Pukashi Furihata
Nakamaru-mura, Kita-Adachi-gun
C.P. 3329 S. Paulo
152.
Kiyoko Nakata
Saburo Abe
Miyamoto-machi
R.C.Arcoverde 2539 S.Paulo
153.
Haru Ishizu
Yochi Ishizu.
Yono-machi,Kita-Adachi-gun
Uraí P.S.C.
SHI ZUOKA-KEN
154. Masayuki Sano
Akira Sano
Ueno-mura,Fuji-gun
Rua Bagé 182 S.Paulo
155.
Hirotsuna Hashimoto
Goro Hashimoto
Ogasa-mura, Ogara-gun
Rua Tomaz de Lima 454 S.Paulo
156 Yakuji Aoki
Kazuo Yamada
Ejiri, Shimizu-shi
Rua Souza Pranca 488 S-Daulo
Mogi das Cruzes
TOKUSHIMA-KEN
157. Seizaburo Kawano
Tadashigue Kawano
Shinryo-mura,Myozai-gun
C.P. 2995 São Paulo

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
TOCHIGUI-KEN
158. Clara Tsuzaki
Hide Laffaety
c/o Rishichi Suguimoto
Rua Jupiter 271 São Paulo
Shinjutu-machi, Utsunomiya-shi
159. Rishichi Suguimoto
Yoshimosuke Suguimoto
Shinjuku-machi, Utsunomiya-shi
C.P. l005 são Paulo
160. Ushinosuke Kaneda
Takejiro Tanaami
Ashio-machi,Kamitsuga-gun
C.P. 73 Mogi das Cruzes
TOTTORIken
161. Tadao Kuramoto
Yukichi Araki
Tari-mura,hino-gun
Rua São Luiz 913 Marilia
162.
Nobuchika Kitaoka
Miyoko Kitaoka
Kurashiki-machi,Tohaku-gun
Rua Conselheiro Furtado 1088
TOYAMA-KEN
163. Tokusaburo Yamamoto
I. Yamamoto
Aihon-mura,Shimo-Niigawa-gun
Av. 11 de Junho 63 São Paul
164.
Takejiro Tera
S. Tera
Kitakanda,Nishi-Toami-gun
C.P. 2308 São Paulo
WAKAYAMA-KEN
165. Tetsutaro Togawa
Shizue Tajitsu
Shingú-shi
Presidente Bernardes E.F.S.
166. Kenichiro Nakajima
W. Nakajima
38 Kita-Deshima, Wakayama-shi
Ribeirãõ Preto
167. Jitaro Kitami
Guisuke Takenaka
Kurime-mura,Hidaka-gun
C.P. 1602 São Paulo
YAMAGUCHI-KEN
168. Shizuko Hayashi
Yae Matsumoto
Kanatana-mura,Toyamura-gun
C.P. 1024 São paulo
169. C. Higuchi
K. Fujinaga
Kogushi-cho, Toyoura-gun
C.P. 1024 São Paulo

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
170. Taietsu Kimura
Keiji Kimura
Daishian, Shimonoseki
C.P. 1024 São Paulo
171. Kaemon Matsumato
Ryusuke Matsumoto
Okaeda-mura, Toyoura-gun
C.P. 1024 São Paulo
172. Terakichi Miyamoto
Nobuo Miyamoto
Morino-mura,Oshima-gun
C.P. 1024 São Paulo
173.
Masaichi Kimoto
Kazuo Kimoto
Awano-mura, Toyoura-gun
a/c Casa Asahi C.P. 1024 S.Paulo
174
YAMAGATA-KEN
174.
Eikichi Takahashi
washizo Sugayama
winami-machi,Yonezawshi
C.r. 73-A São Paulo
175.
Mitsugui Hayashi
higueo Hayashi
Horiuchi-mura,mogmi-gun
C.P. 4430 São Paulo
176.
Yahachiro Watanabe
Manjiro Watanabe
Yonezawa-shi
Uraí P.s.C.
177.
hideichi Akikubo
Kazuo Akikubo
Yachi-machi,Nishimurayama-gun
Rua ramplona 512
YAMANASHI-KEN
178. shigueo Tsuji
Isecho Tanaka
Misato-mura,Linami-Koma-gun
Av. Jabaquara 528
S.Paulo
179. Naoichi Ishida
Yoshiyuki Ishida
Sakaigawa,Higashi-Yatsushiro-gun
Pedro de Toledo L. Santos-Juquiá
HIROSHIMA-KEN
180. Otokichi Matsumura
Toshiaki Matsumura
52 Kamihirabara-machi
a/c C. miyakoshi
Kure-shi
Rua Pamplona 512 São Paulo
SHI ZUOKA-KEN
181. Yasutaro Yamazaki
Ryosaku Yamazaki
Tawaramine 314, Shizuoka-shi
Registro L. Santos-Juquiá
KAGAWA-KEN
182. Fumiko Yamashita
Isamu Miura
Zentsúji-machi, Tadotsu-gun
C.P. 206 Marilia

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.99)
TOYAMA-KEN
183. Kei Ono
Isamu Miura
Namerakawa-machi, Nakaniikawa-gun
C.B. 206 Marilia
OKAYAMA-KEN
184. Zenzaburo saito
Yoshinobu Takeda
Mihata-mura, Kami-no-michi-kun
Alameda Franca 79 São Paulo
NAGANO-KEN
185. Jushiro Ueki
Taro Ueki
loyosu-mura, kamitakai-gun
C.P. 5 Registro
186.
hinjiro lida
Naoji Omuro
Kyowa-mura, Sarashina-gun
C.P. 19 Registro
187.
Minoru Denda
heiji Miyazawa
Gobuichi, Komaki-machi,Nagano-shi
Registro
N.
Number of Prefactures
38
Number of Letters
187

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.99)
L IS T
ADRESSES
AUMBSSERS
TOKYO
188. Usimaro Hayao
~uelaka ayao
N30, Shiroyama-cho
c/o swealsh Legation
Nakano-ku
Rio de Janeiro
189. Yutaka Shiino
Akira Ohtani
4-335 0saki
Rua Visconde Piraja 3 apart.61
Shinagawa-ku
Rio de Janeiro
190. Shuhei Fujikatsu
Koichiro Naritomi
c/o The Ministry of Foregn Affairs
C.P. 2986 Sa Paulo
191.
T. Nagata
C. Kitahara
Sakoda,Kamiitabashi
C.P.2 Faz. Aliança
Itabashi-ku
U. B.
192.
noji iyaoul
Kiyoshi Hori
c/o Kotaro Sengoku
C.P.2986 São Paulo
Yurakucho 1-9
Kojimachi-ku
193. shizuo hataoka
Roberto Takeo Ito
192-2 Nippori
C.P. lol Penápolis
Arakawa-ku
N. O. B. Brasil
194.
Mantaro Shiguematsu
Hideshiro Shiguematsu
Komatsugawa 23856
Est. Lucelia L. Paulista
Edogawa-ku
São Paulo
195.
H. Kudo
Kinu Tarama
yamacho 1060
C.P.319 Lins N. O. B.
shibuya-ku
São Paulo
196.
Hatsuko Oishi
Toyo Hatakeyama
Kami-Itabashi 5 chome 5258
C.P. 3603 Sað raulo
YAMAGUCHI-KEN
197. S. Kuchiba
Sadamu Tanabe
shinofu-mura
C.P. 5 M. das Cruzes
Abu-gun
Sað Paulo
198. Sahei Oishi
Kiyoji Inoue
Ukamura Yutama
C.P. 1024 São Paulo
Toyoura-gun
199. Shushi Kuramitsu
Massaichi Saito
Sugane-mura
Rua Santa Luzia 88
Tono-gun
São Paulo
200. Yuzo Fujinaga
Yoshio Mizobe
Hioki-mura
C.P. 3848
São Paulo
Otsu-gun
201. Junpei Nakatsui
Shiro Nakatsui
0sawa-machi
a/c Soc.Comercial Pró-Lavoura
Tokuyama-shi
C.P. 3237 São Paulo
202.
HIYOGO-KEN
202. Keizo Kobayashi
Senjiro Hatanaka
Sasayama-machi
Faz. Bastos B.F.S.
Taki-gun
São Paulo. Brasil

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.93)
203. Ri sunosuke Harada
Saburo Tsuji
Yarinosawa 1914
C.P. 3237
Buko-gun
SāoP Paulo
NAGASAKI-KEN
204 Michi Ito
Makoto Nagisa
Konotsu-macbi
Rua Visconde Piraja 282
inamikorai-gui
∴par.l. Riao de Janeiro
205 Hajime Tsuji
Saburo Tsuji
Isahaya-machi
C. P. 3237 S. Paulo
Shizjoka-ken
206 Umetaro Hatakeyama
Michio Hatakeyama
Kanoe-cno 130
6
Hamamatsu-shi
são Paulo
207 shoichi uzun1
Masaji Suzuki
しy
Rua Castro ..lves 15
al u
São Paulo
2uo Josaku Goto
Wasaku Yamamoto
otokaneoka-mura
Est. rompela
aullot
Numazu-shi
São Paulo
2 9 Goichiro I'sukamoto
Usaku Oishi
nosnlma-mae
S.. Lussanvira
Shida-gun
N.O.B. Sað Paulo Brasil
KOBL
2l0 Srokichi Nishit ni
1. C2:1-3
c/c Messrs.baisrir 1 dir, Cc.itd.
C.F.
Fic ur irc
71
1.1n
.td.
..
1(111(1'1111
Seinosuke Yamaguchi
Yoroshi Kikuchi
Yubari-machi
~anto Anastacio
Yuhari-gun
13. Co Sarroro University
Lotomu honda
Lins São Baullo
CSAKA-FU
214. Fusao Ishida
Vukiyoshi Iz
Kitabatake 2 - 4
nua Nakaya 13 são Paulo
Sumiyoshi-ku
215. Kenji Kanoo
Ka tsumi Kanoo
iyake-mura makakawachi-gun
C.P. 3237 São Paulo
216. Seijiro Shima
Ryoso Emura
c/o Toyo Menka Kaisha
Macilio Dias 254 Represa 8. A
Korai-bashi 3 cháme 1
Higashi-ku

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
NIIGATA-KEN
217. Takashi Abe
Yutaka Abe
Tategoshi-mura Iwafuma-gun
C.P. 145 Tupan L. Paulista
218. Gosaburo Osawa
Yushichi Osawa
Sekiya, Niigata-shi
C.P. 73 Birigui No 0. B.
219. Usami
Saburo Tsuji
Futaba cho 2 Chome Niigata-shi
C.P. 3237 São Paulo
IBARAKI-KEN
220. Kinichi Nakabayashi
Takie Nakabaashi
Oshinobe Minami Kanemura
C.P. 1257 São Paulo
Nishi-Ibaraki-gun
221. Kenji Yoshimitsu
Takie Nakabayashi
Ishioka-machi
C.P. 1257 São Paulo
Kyoto-fu
222. hotaro Nishimura
T. Nishimura
Ogura-mura Kuze-gun
C.P. 73 Pompeia L. Paulista
AICHI-KEN
223. Keizo Kawaguchi
Tomizo Kawaguchi
Fukue-machi Akumi-gun
Presidente Prudente E.F.S.
CHIBA-KEN
224. Gorosaemon Ogura
Shinkichi Ogura
Toyooka-mura Unagami-gun
C.P. La986 São Paulo
AKITA-KEN
225. Kameji Vamazaki
Yukiyoshi Izumida
Yokote-machi Hiraka-gun
Rua Nakaya 13 ão Faulo
TOKUSHIMA-KEN
226. Tomijiro Kimura
Iwao Kimura
Minami-Hama Muya-machi
Rua Costa Aguiar 1721 S. Paulo
MIYAGUI-KEN
227. Guenkichi Abe
Yoshiharh Abe
Minatoda-machi 33 Ishinomaki-shi
C.P. 71 Baquirivú E.F.C.B.
KANAGAWA-KEN
228. Shinnosuke Tanabe
Sadamu Tanabe
Zaimokuza Kamakura-shi
C.P. 5 Mcgi das Cruzes
WAKAYAMA-KEN
229. Itoe Takeda
Seiighi Takeda
Kirime-mura Hitaka-gun
Baurú

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
SHIMANE-KEN
230. Rikimatsu watanabe
shiguemi watanabe
Nanokaichi-mura Katari-gun
C.P. 2ll Garça São Paulo
GUNMA-KEN
231. Shinichiro Koshiba
Kenjiro Nitta
Ota-machi Nitta-sun
Rua Caetés l008 Tupan L. Paulista
SAGA-KEN
232. Kenji Nagafuchi
Kiyotaka Emi
Hyogo-mura Saga-gun
C.P. 375 São Paulo
KUMAMOTO-KEN
233. K. Nakagawa
G. nakagawa
Amitsu-mura Udo-gun
C.r. 1024 São Paulo
KAGAWA-KEN
234.
Masatoshi Abe
Yoshio Ave
Takamuro-mura Mitoyo-gun
C.r. 30 Braúnas Est. Gricério
IROSHIMA-KB
235. Chieo Fujiwara
Hisato Fujiwara
Shimo Minaga-mura Kamo-gun
Rua Loureiro da Cruz 57 S! Paul
236---MameFu-Koea-
Vilma-Dufleb
Aie-maohi-39
FUKUSHIMA-KEN
26. Masayoshi 1shikawa
Kentaro Ishikawa
Karino-mura Futaba-gun
a/c Coop. Agricola de Marily
C.P. 393 Marilia
Magasaki-ken
237.
Mamoru Koga
vilma Pufleb
Aioi-ma hi Sasebo-shi
Rua Araujo 341 São Paulo
238.
Kensuke Baba
Naoshi Baba
Minamikushiyama-mura
Est. Ouro Araraquara
Minawilagui-gun
são raulo
GATA-KEM
239. Hikoji Yahagi
Fujio Yahagi
a/c Hikoju Kuniy
a/c Coop. Agrí. de Cotia
Sagae-machi
Rua Cardeal Arcoverde' 2539
Nishimurayama-gun
São Paulo
No
Number of Prefecture.
27
53
umber of Letters.

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.90)
17
RESTRICTED
To the
American Consular Officer in Charge,
894.20232/11
Sao Paulo, Brazil.
The Secretary of State refers to the Consulate
Generel's aespatcnes nwnbers 430l of October 14.
1946 and 4356 of November 5 tranamitting a total of
 letters sodreesed to persona in Japan by Japanose
residin: in brezii.
Ae indicated in the Department's telegram
umber 211 1 November 21, 1946 an inquiry had been
一
sent to Tokyo to ascertain whether Scåp would be
prepared to examine end distribute the letters
01
referred to above. A reply lndiceting SCAp's willing-
49
ness to accept the letters has been reseived and thoy
are therefore being forwarded by pouch to Tokyo.
The United States Political Adviser at Tokyo has
indicated that messages, other then those forwarded
to Sao Paulo under cover of the Department's un-
numbered instruction of Decomber 9, 1946, are being
transmitted through normal postal channels.
CS/A
atrue m
JAN
the ete
20 194. P.M.
nurl.
nfidential
894.20252/11-546
wb
P7
 Unn
nal

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.94)
AN291947
RESTRICTED
No. 399
894.20232
To the
United States Political Adviser to the
Supreme Commander ror the Allied Powers,
Tokyo.
The Secretary of State refers to the Depart-
mont's telegram 578 of November 21, 1946 and to
the Political Adviser's teleuram no. 523 of
November 23 concerin the transmission of Letters
eddressed by Japaue se residing in Prazil to persons
In Jagan.
8
546
There are now snclosed or examination and
forwardir , in ths  retion of he officer in
Charge the 3l0 letters referred to in the above
exchange of correspondence.
Enclosures:
310 letters.
CS/A
21.
e
SP..
894.20232/11-546
wlo
14
A-H
ir Jnit
na.
Rev
Oat

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.82)
Amsriean Censular etfleer in Charge,
Se Rale, Brasil.
So Soaretery af Bete retere to the Gonester Gctleur te neg
20232/11-846
patsom of Japs.
CS/A
oira
Don
Beslesure:
3.B.
15 page of
BMBryau
Jupanese papors
k
Confidential File
894.20232
18
ADA :Rd'Eça :rs
11/4/46
ns en
 Rom No.
the
 can
NOV
1946 F.M.
11-8

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.89)
No. 4580
Airmail
UNRESTRICTED
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
REPORTING SERVICIS
DIVISION OF 
São Paulo, Brazil, November 12, 1946
DeA
SuBJECT: OIC (IP) - Acknowledging receipt of Japanese
B
 newspapers
ITE
7
H
PUBLIC AFFRS
ne
二
1946
File
RECENVE
OFPARTMENT O
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
FACILI
0
WASHINGTON.
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
Instruction dated October 29, l946 and to acknowledge
receipt of all the material listed therein.
894.20232/
Respectfully yours,
m
ConAmrhon
0 1C
S
1
Americen Consul General
11-1246
300
CMPCROSS/jz
894.20232
P
3
bP.T.
DEC · 2 1946
FILED

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.91)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
4
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Aotion: 
Info:
SECRET
ARA
6.
FR
ESP
Control 3871
OCD
CPD
Red N vember 13, 1946
OIC
5:28 p. m.
894.20232/11-
DC/R
FROI
i
0.
TO:
So otarr of s ate
STATE
NJ
1, Nber 1,5 p.m
Ans or of orelgp off co promtsud soo, REDUPTEL 911
Tor ber 8
1346
COOPER
Confidential 
NOV 18 1946
FILED
CEDRET
LRC
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.81)
no.
To 
Amerisax Comsalar offieer in Charge,
Ke Peule, Brasil.
The Searetery of State refere to the Geaesler Gslesrte
patlen af Japan.
of Japan:
22
1546
67
malesure:
1 package centaining
41127
67 sepiee Japansse papers
CS/V
V
11/5/46
ADA: Rd'Eça irs
894.202
NOV 12 1946 F.
can
Ée1osr sent
84
32

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.80)
NOV131948
WERESTRIOTED
o.
To the
Ameriean Comsalar Offieer in Charge,
894.20232/11-1346
 ale, Brasil.
The Lating Searetery of State refare to the Gonpales seclesete
iean eseupatiem of Japes.
of Japan:
"Kekaide Srtabun"
"Skimane Mmisiaki"
"ara Jokd Mioki Skdaben"
"Osakm Jiji sdsbaj"
"Takmm Migata"
"Xobe Shtaban"
"Xita Hippen Shisben"
"Shimse Maixieki Shimben"
EmBuyasn
12
Enclosre:
100
CS/V
1 package contaiming
Ik packages dapanese papers
A soée copy of
the sip 
nal.
koom ho.
FG
ADA RdEça:rs
11/8/46

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.84)
NOV131946
UNRESTRICTES
No.
To the
894.20232/11-1346
Ameriean Censular Offiser is Charge,
ão Pale, mrasil.
The Seeretary of State refers to the Cessalar orrseer's
Foquest, contaimed in several esmmenieatione to the Beparteeak, fer
surrent Japanese newspapers ame other sterials ceseersing the hmsr-
isan eceupation of Japan.
There are emelesed sixteen packages of the felleming
Japanese vermseular papers published, fer the mest part, in the
smaller towme of Japan:
"Sakigake Skimbum"
"Skimame Maiudeki Shimbum"
"Xita Mippen Simben"
"Osaka Nicki Miehi"
"Smisueks"
"Saitame Shimban"
"Gode Shimben"
"Teyema Shimbun"
"Yakam Chayama"
"Takan Miyake"
"Yamamaski Jiji"
"sibu Mainieki Shimbun"
"Ibaragi Shimbun"
"Tee Hippe"
"Yakan Mie"
"Shimane"
CS/ V
Enclosure:
1
16 pokages of Japanese
vernacular papere
89420212
true capy of
o cu snt
tbe
nal.
ADA: Rd E rs
10/22/46
Paf
11-1346

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.92)
MENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
No. 4403
UNRESTRICTED
AfrmailDEC 13 1946
AMERICAN CONSULATE GEN
aso
São Paulo, Brazihrovember 2il 1e4
SuBJECT: OIC (INP) - Acknowledging receipt of Japanese
newspapers
1(A)
THE HONORABLE
DEC 101946
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
 DEC 11 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REPONTING SENVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
WASHINGTON.
894.20132
9.2346
SIR:
ADA 8A
I have the honor to refor to the Department's
Instructions datod September 23, 1946 and November
13, 1946. und to acknowledge receipt of all Japanese
894.20232/11-2146
nespapers transmitted as enclosures to the above
instructions
314.2023211-1346
The Departnent's attention to the matter is
very much appreciated.
Respectfully yours,
0
le
Cecil M. P. Cross
Auerican Consul General
TUT
800
CMPCROSS/jz
CS/A
Confidential File
946 E M 2 1
H
894.20232
RECEIVED
3.3
00/0
DEC 3 0 1946

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.90)
USRESTRICTED
No.
To the
Ameriean Censalar Offieer in Charge,
e Paule, Brasil.
894.20232/
The Leting Searetary of State refere to the Comeuar orficers
request, centained in several somunicatioms te the Departmens, fer
eurrent Japamese newspapers cnd other materials ceaesrzing the Amer-
ican eseupation of Japan.
There is enelesed one paskage of the following Japamsss wermme-
ular papers published, for the most part, in the smaller tewms of
Japam:
16 cop1es of THE YGII-SHDm-0st.27, 26, 30, 1 and
Nov. 1, 2, 3, and h, 1366
2246
16 copies of TM MADMMNI Shimb-
16 copies ar skI saimbun .......
4 coples of To10 Tnm ........-Mv. 2 and 3, 19, and
Dutober 27, 1966.
52 eepies-
Enclosure :
S
1 package coutaining:
V
52 capies Japanase papers.
200
ALA:RdIECA:rS
11/15/46
32

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Action: ARA
Info:
A-H
ESP
RROTPTOTE
291947
OF3
DC/R
FE
Control 7416
Rec'd November 24, 1946
11:07 a.m.
894.20232
FR Tokyo viar
TO.
Secretary of Stat.
AMENE AFFAINS
1946
NO:
523. Novombor 23.
REna. 53 or 1 Novenor,7 p.m, 0 Prepard to
hanale end ligt ib e al) ofr31o Japanese letter
ment.loned paragraph messagea mentloned oop
67,
Sop br  tranomittel by r despatch 625.
/11-2346
Sen enher av. Cthor mos sages are being transmitted
th ugh normel postal chinnels.
ATCHESON
RB: S
22
TILD
RESTRICTED
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
1
RESTRICTED
Action: ARA
Tnfo:
Control 7683
PE
OOD
Rec'd November 25 1946
TRO
5: ORARNT OF ITAI
OFS
OFFICE 0
FROM: Sao Paulo
ANCAN REC AFFAI
1D/R
NV801946
TO:
Secretary of State
894.20232/11-2546
NO:
345, November 25, 3 p.m.
Diffioulty wih post office due to delay  recurpt
of instructlons and procrastinatlon in applicatlon.
It is difficult for anyone without actual experlence
to evaluate the local post offlce.
in the clty of Sao Paulo the post office has in the
lust few days begun to accept cards for Japan but the
delay In the interior will continue probably for some
time. The letters in questlon were carefully selected
to cover comprehensively the state. The number does
not seom excesslve for censorshlp, if organization
exists to handle cards from all parts as indlcated.
CROSS
FKH:CND
APR 10 1947
TILND
RESTRICTED
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.79)
NOV27
o.
to tho
Amerleen Gemsalar ocfieer ia Charge,
sGe Raale, Bresil.
The Seeretery es State refers te the Geasses ecflemrts
petien of Japen.
of Japen:
Ho1 Th (0ter 196)
catr
8
NOV 26 1946 F.N
OB
RmBuyan
mrnd
Enslesure:
16 pesiaes Japasese yapers
894.20232/
FC
nc en
to Room No8
ADA Rd Eça irs
11/25/46
A true y of
sigasd crgi-
the
sei.
11-2746

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.90)
No. 4433
Airmail
UNRESTRICTED
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brazil, December 6, 1946
DC
SUBJECT: OIC (INP) - Acknowledging ret fJ
newspaps
AMEIREPUBLIC AFFAIRS
CAN 3=1947
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
4D
411-2246
SIR:
894202
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
Instruelons dated Hovember 2, October 3, October 10,
ar
October 25 and Cctober 30, 1946 and to aoknowledge
receipt of all Japanese ne spapers transmitted as
enclosures to the boye mentioned instructions.
10-046
5
HU
Respectfully yours,
Asericen Consul General
H.H.CARTER/jz
[- (A)
DEC 26 1946
JAN 1 4 1947
M
B
lan

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.78)
DEC
D.
to t
Amerlena Comsular ofrieer in Cherge,
e Peae, Bres1l.
The Searetary af Suste resere to the Gomnelar eesiesr's ee
pation of Japen:
16 f
TWeopi0e-
Enclesure :
BA Bu
1 peekage eontaiming:
1 w127
48 cepies Japanese papers.
k
CS/V
F6
ADA :Rd Eça :rs
12/4/46
994.20202
POXT
Énes   ent
-646

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.81)
DEC11
no.
To the
Ameriean Censaler acfleer in Charge,
 ule, asl.
The Searstary of state resare to the Gomealae ectseer's
Lean upati of Ja.
Enclosure:
1 peckags eentaining:
42 cepies of Japansss papers
B MB
4r
5
V
894.20232
ADA :Rd Eça :rs
12/10/46
lour sent
-1146

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.91)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
481
AMERICAN REPURIC
194
BJD
AMERICAN CONSUTEGENERAL
 1,1946
MOT.ON PICTUS
DIVISION - (IMP)
 bruck
SUBJECT:
i.terior
tment of State
7
ulo
2
REEED
OEPAPTNENT
THE HONORABLE
de/
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
894.20232/12-3146
SIR:
tt
1 t n-3y
Ppese
in
P. Alfredo
pa Picoure
it
ald scem
a tre Pine
▲CTION
010
eeived via
COPIES
th retifying
an
£O:
DC/R
It
inder for
script
C or liution
ido Ronci society
J  .
S
MAR 12 1947
Local Brazilian municipal, police and radio
authorities gave Ir. Vasconcelios all help and
courtesy.
894.20232
Mr. Vasconcellos showed connendable judgment
in organizing proper publicity for the showings,
especially when local press and radio facilities
CONFIDENTIAL FILE
were lacking
Respectfully yours,
G0
Cennrin
AN
Cecil M. P. Cross
12-3144
American Consul General
Enclosure
1 Report
800
HHCARTER/jz

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.88)
Dia 11 - Partimos de São Paule ds 9.so heras atingiade a eldade de sese-
caba ás 11.30 hores onde parímos pare almogar. Deimms esta
c1dade ás 12.30.
Devido a uma grande ahave que apanhamos no caminho, tivemos que
regave muito. Apesar diano, atingimes a cidade de Pisajé ds 10.ãe
horas. daí pare díante as estredas já estaven mais séess e que
nos permetiu correr um pouco mais. Às 16.30 hores chegames a
Raneharia, de onde telerônamos so Delegado e ao Prefeito de Presi-
dente Prudente avizando a nesse sbegeda no dia seguinte. (aqu)
obtivemos informmções de que as estradas para diante erem
muito ruins, e resol vemos tomar um hotel, e seguir someate no
dia seguinte.)
Dia 13 - Deixamos Raneharia ás 6.30 horas e chegamos a Pres1dente Pru-
dente ás 10.30. Procuramos a Prefeitura, e falando gom o auxiliar
do prefeito combinámos o losal e hora pare a projegão, pase
a qual a prefeiture já havia mandado convites a toda a colomia
japonese.
Prosurando o delegado Regional de Policia, Dr. Serafim coleto,
este disse-m que os japoneses já estão mais calmos e que os
films poueo adiantariam, mas punha a nosse disposigão um bom
pollciamento, que de fato fo1 feito.
Procurei um japonês pare lâr o reteiro do rilm, me iasemm dê-
le, mas nânguem quis faze-lo porque achas muito arriseado e po-
derd fioar mareado pela Shindo-Remel.
Nesta cidade dirigimo-nos tambem à estagão de rádio, qe se
prontirieou a fazer uma bôa propegande pelos daue mierefones.
foi assistide por mmis ou menos Scoo pegsões pe
no da 17.
Die 14 - Dekae Presi dante Predente da Tso heas en  à Pres d
a prereiture w projegão pare • dia 16.
Chegamos á Pres idente Bermardes áa 9 horas, Palamos edm a pre-
risdeso ms.

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.89)
2.
distribuidos.
Dia 16 - Deixamos Pres1dente Bernardes ás 6 horas chegando ds 7.10 d Pre-
si dente Prudente. Dedioamos este dia a mme limpesm gerel go memé
truck, sendo: lavagem, lubrificação, verifieação de diregão, 
las a frelos.
Dia 16 - Deixamos Pres1dente Prudente ás 14 horas chegando a Alveres Mache-
do ds 14.30. As 20 hores fo1 felta a projegão no eineme leeal, por
que o tempo estava ameaçando chuva. Nesta exibigão, o film mebre
a ocupação do Japão so1 expllcado em 1diômm japomôs, por  repas
que está ameaçado pela Shindo-Remel, e cujo nome não pudemos apu-
rar, porque terminado o film ele salu depressa porque timbe medo
de ser visto pelos patricios.
Esta projegão fo1 vista por ma1s ou menos 8o0 pessões, mendo 8os
de japoneses. Depois da projegão, oferecemos jornses japegeses.
As primciras pessoas que sairan do oinema, demonstrando mão esta-
rem muito matisfeitas não quizerem aceltar jornaes, ms depois
vendo que mui tos vieram buscar, eles tambem solieitaram os jormaes.
Às 2l.30 horas deixamos Alvares Maehado com destino & Presidente
Prudente, onde estavamos hospedados no hotel.
Die 17 - As 19 horas rumamos para uma Pazende de proprledade do Corgnel
Alvino, onde já no ampo de Baseball ensontramos a armagão
de madeira para colocar a teln.
Bsta exibição fo1 ass1stida por 400 pessõas sendo l00% japeneses.
Distribuimos jornaes do Japão, não podendo-se saber qual a reagãe
que causou porque s∞ falavam em japonés. £s 2l.30 voltamos à
Presidente Prudente.
Dia 18 - SaÍmos de Presidente Prudente ás 5.30 horas com destimo a Ranabe-
rla, onde chegamos ás 8.30. Nesta cidade, a prefeiture á mavia
feito propaganda de nosse exibigão, pelos alto falamtes. 0 Delege-
do de Pollela nos forneseu policlamento, que foi bastaate efielem-
to, durante a exibigão que f1zemos ás 20 horas no Large da Matría
com ume ass1stenela de mis ou menos 2.000 pessoas mende  mais
ou menos o numero de japoneses. Apenas dois japonesss solßéitarm
jormaes do Japão.
Dia 19 - Deixamos Ransharia ds 6.55 com destino a Bastos, onde eheamos ds
7ss. Prosuramos o Prefeito que estave ausente de éidade ms -
cemtramos o seu aux1llar que nos atendan com mito aée ventade pes-
de a mossa disposigão todo o auxillo possivel por parte da prefeit
Palamos tambem com e Delegado que se prontifieou a nos dar peliete-
manto. Depois prosuramos o Dr. João Matmoto que eonjytamente com
uns amigos fizeram ume boa propaganda da nossm exibigão.
Visitames e servigo de alto falantes cujo dono atensiomememte fes
uma grande propegande pelo seu mierofone.
La so horas fol feita a exibigão ao ar livre mm large defrente o
éinene, eon uns 1.s00 eapeetadores sonde s0 Jggaeses, Pelames
con o gr. latamoto ne podia lar dasdnte a pre jogão do ráín, as on
pllengés a japenéss as nen ele e nén es anigés quiseren faseoles
Dia 90 - Deiane Bastes da Guso heses en ratéese a SaPaula. Atáagsins 20
enseiensnts.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.95)
3.
Dia 21 - Bstando pronto o enrolamento do gynamo lógo eedo, maadames
colocar no carro e saimos pare São Paulo, ás 8 hores chegam-
do ás 13.00.
Nesta vlagem percorremos de 1da e volta 1.003 a1lhas' com
um gasto de 370 8/10 de gasolina, 1 11tro de oleo para m
tor, • l0 litros de gasolina para o gerador de eletrieidade.
Alfredo_P. Vasconcellos
Secção de Cinem
2/1/47

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.94)
OFFICE OF
AMERICAN REPUBLIC AFFAIRS
ADA
JAN 2 4 1947
No. 13
UNRESTRICTED
Airmail
010
DIVISION OF FR
AMERIGAN-GONSULATE GENERAL
desrm3
São Paule, Brazil, January 3, 1947
1947 FEB 3 AM 9 22
MAISUROO: IC(INP) -Acknowledging receipt of Japanese
newspapers
DR - (AA)
OPARTMN
THE HONORABLE
JAN 20.347
21
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON.
894.20232/1-347
894.2023
SIR:
ADA
I huve the henor to refer to the Department's
Ingtructions dated November 8, December 6 and December
1l, l946 end o acknowledge receipt of al1 Japanese
newspapers transmitted us chclosures to the above
mentioned instractions.
Respectfully yours,
ACTION
015
COPIES
TO:
DC/R
Cecil M. P. cross
American Consul General
800
H.H.CARTER/jz
CS/V
3.0
mrM
NS
894.20232
Confidential File
6
FEB 1 0 1947
FILED

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.87)
Form DS-308
(7-2-46)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
7-M
Paa  EYNT  AT
moicating
OFRCES
Action: ARA
AM
Control 2012
Info
JAN 81947
S
Rec'd Januery 8, 1947
U
5:25 p m.
FE
OCD
PROM,
ors
PC
T.
Segretery of Btate
CIG
DC/R
5, lervery
53m
Jepanet rverIsts attompted murder of Paulo Morito
whe is ha ai ing Japmheae  nsujar work for the Swedish
Conaalre ald Ila cb.id but because or mistake in
identir Ltede e ameee residing in the same house.
Chiia es apad vt-n :ey tver missed rire.
894.20232/1-847
Mut rors are rom Yop
ase centar 300 miles in
The mrher
r. mombers of Tokotai
Aprities have restored
gu my o
CROSS
SMSFMC
APR 4-1947
FILD
RESTRICTED
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.95)
No. 10
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brazil, January 8, 1947
DIVISION -
JAN 3
Trunsmittal of translation of report submit-
ted by Motion Ficture sectlon Chief.
C
D/R
THE
HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
894.20232/1-847
SIR:
I have the honor to transmit herewitn a transla-
tion of a report made by the Chief of tne Motion
Picture Section of tnis Ccnsulate General covering a
trip maue into the Japanese areas on December 1l to
December 21, 1946.
The trip appears to have been well worthwnile
and the genera. impres ion in the areas is tnat al-
though the Japanese in the rural areas are far from
being convinced of tne defeat of Japan the faith of
tne majority has been shaken but tne murder in the
N
City of São Faulo on January 6, 1947 (subject my
01C
telegran No, 5 dated January 8, 1947) indicates that
Uw
trouble is far from over.
147702.5832
TO:
2232.
AKA
sent day conditions in Japan, particularly those in
0C/R
which American soldiers and officlials or otners ap-
pear and circumstances in whicn tnere is no doubt
that they are not there as prisoners of war and news-
papers from Japan.
0
ERINQUIRY SERVICE
Respectfully yours,
RECORDING UNIT
JUN 1 2 1947
Cecil . F. Cross
American Consul General
894.20232
Enclosures: Translation and newspaper article
dated January 7, 1947 taken from
the Jornal Trabalhista.
Bile No. 800
CMPCross: vzp
Original. and ozalid to Department.
Copy to Embassy in Rio de Jane tro.
8
mm
B.RT.

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.96)
ciada a açãoterista da  dRe
Assassinaram um japonês na Aclimação,
amassinatos, tanto na Capital co-
mo nosso "hinterland", onde se-
desfechando-lhe toda a carga de dois revól-
meou o pavor entre os suditos
fliedasà
do Japão.
veres — Paulo Morita era a pessòa visada
PAULO MORITA. O HOMEM
no Bramil, res-
pelos terroristas, mas em seu lugar morreu o
VISADO
s nosses leis e bra-
Paulo Morita, de origem japo-
cees para o progremo
seu cunhado — Visado também um filho da-
nesa, há muito radicado no nos-
ra, tornam a sor-
so meio, atualmente funcionario
os atentados de
quele elemento do Consulddo da Suiça em
do Consulado da Suiça, que res-
se verificou · há
São Paulo — Presos as assassinos
ponde pelos interesses do Japão
em São Paulo, é o homem que
oou-se mais um
devia morrer ontem, visado que
ho praticado por
A repetição dos atos de ban-
Mais um japonês foi assassi-
estava pelos terroristas da "To-
doos, Pela ma-
ditismo dos terroristas niponicos
nado traiçoeiramente, por dois
ko-Tai". De seus habitos esta-
 fíato se consumou,
veio desfazer a impressão que se
patricios, pertencentes à "Toko-
vam bem informados os crimi-
tinha de haver cessado definiti-
Tai", uma seção da "Shindo-
nosos, pois os mesmos sabiam
serviu de palco para o
vamente a atividade da "Shindo-
Remmei", organização terrorista
que Paulo Morita costumava sair
Remmei".
responsavel por uma serie de
(Conclui na pag. 15)
ista
Num. 81
tre de aviação
pousar no aeroporto
os viajava para São
sua familia

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.84)
to tournayto
pousar no aeroporto
s viajava para São
familia
o os dols
ndiu-os com la
s a pauladas
Lapraio Constá
da reßerida, em Cet
o eo, no cartori
Central, erplioon set
rana. Jele Vieira
85 ande, soltetre, e
Bliva, de 40 ancs,a
tes em Indianopol

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.91)
rouorayuo
pousar no aeroporto
s viajava para São
wa familia
Maseagi Saxuti, morto heje, palon terroriístaa japemesa.
o os dois amigos
ndiu-os com ladrões,
s a pauladas
Laercio Constantino, o autor
da agressão, residente na fasen-
da raferida, em Cotia, relatanão
o so, no cartorio da Poliela
Central, erplicou seu tarrivel e
gano. João Vieira Trindade,
35 anos, solteiro, e Joo Nume
Silva, de 40 anos, ambos resídem
tes em Indianopolis, as vitimes
foram huspitalizados depola 
medicadas na Assistencia.
10200
unando « tribuna, Huge Borahi
fileiras no Pertido Trabalhista
naimente, eneerrando o cemiciod
(x o elogio do futuro woverrador
, Barghi em pról dos humildes
 caparidade de realitação

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.98)
PECIAL TRIP BY SOUND TRUCK IN THE ALTA SOROCABANA ZONE TO SH
FILM ON OCCUPATION OF JAFAN BY AMERICAN TROOPS
December, 1946
December 1l - We left São Faulo at 9:30 and arrived 1n Sorocaba
at 11:30, iuncned, and left at 12:30.
Due to a very heavy rain the road was dangerously
slippery and we were forced to slacken our speed.
..e reacned Firajú at 7:3c p.m., stayed overnite and
left tne next morning at 7:30. From Firajú on, tne
conditlon of the road was much better and were able
to ake better time. At 4:30 we arrived at Ranch-
aria and telephoned the Sherrif and mayor of Pres1-
dente Frudente informing tnem of our arrival in
trat City the next day. (We were informed in Pira-
jú tnat tne ruad to Fresidente Frudente was in bad
condition so decided tc stay over nite and leave
tne next morning).
December 13 - We ieft Rancharia at 6:3c a.m. and arrived in Pre-
sidente Frudente ut 1c:3c. we contacted the mayor
und arranged for the snowing to wnicn he had al-
ready invited the entire Japanese colony.
The sherrif, Dr. Serafim Coleto, informed us tnat
the Japanese were more peaceful in tnat vicinity
and tnat the film would not be of much value but
never-the-less promised the locality would be
policed und was.
I tried to fina someone to read the film off in
Japanese but no one was interested, arguing that
it was risky and the one consenting would be list-
ed by the Shindo Renmei.
e also contacted the lo cal radio station person-
nei wno promi sed helpfui propaganda.
That evening we gave an open air snowing of tne
film at Fraça 9 de Julhc wnich was attended by
more or less 2,CcC of wnicn about 7C percent was
Japane se. About 300 of the 600 newspapers we
had witn us were distributed after the showing.
Mr. Mario Lebrão, a businessman of tnat City, ar-
ranged for a snowing of tne film at a nearby
fazenda where tne colony is entirely Japanese.
The film will be snown on December 17.
December 14 - Me left Fresidente Trudente at 7:30 a.m. for Fre-
sidente Bernardes. Cn passing turougn Al vares
Macnado we arranged with tne mayor for an open air
showing in tnat City on December 16.
Ne arrived in Presidente Bernardes at 9:00 a.m.
and spoke to the mayor who offered his help.
Since the City does not have a newspaper office,
radio station, nor loud speaker system, we mount-
ed our loud speaker on the car roof and drove
tnrough tne streets and aunounced the time and
place for the snowing of the film wnich was tne
Largo da Matriz at 8: 00 p.m.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure: Despatch No. 20.-2-
SPECIAL TRIF BY SOUND TRUCK LN IHE ALIA SOROCABANA ZONE TU SHO
FILM CN CCCUTATICN OF JAFAN BY AMERICAN TROOPS
The attendance numbered about 8oo of whicn about
2 percent was Japanese. (We surmi sed tnat the
Jajanese ttendance was small due to the fact that
they were in formed of tne subject of the film from
those tat nad iready seen it in Tresidente Pru-
dente). Very few newspapers were distributed.
December 15 - e left Fresidente 3ernardes at 6:00 a.m. and ar-
rived in Fresidente Trudente at 7:1c a.n. We
spent tne day having the sound truck washed, lu-
bricuted, etc.
Deceiber 16 - e Left Tresidente Frudente at 2: 0c p..1. and ar-
rived in Alvares macnado at 2:30 p.m. The film
was s.own in tne locai cinema due to uncertain
weather. at tnis showing the film was accompan-
ied by in explanation in Japanese by a Japanese
boy sreuking from the shelter of the projection
room. He had been threatened by the Shindo
Renmei and we coula not obtain nis name. He
left te cinema immediately after the film was
shown to avcid having other Japanese seeing him.
After the shewing the Japanese newspapers were
distributed.
..t 9:3c we left lvares lacnado for Tresidente
Frudente for an overnite stay tnere.
Dece.aber .7 - .t 7: cc f.a. we left for tne fazenda of Coronel
alvino, wnere we fcund the apraratus ready and
waiting fcr the snewing.
The slowing was in a Japanese baseball field 7
kilometers from the nearest town. The attend-
ance was 100 percent Japanese and numbered 400.
Ne distributed Japanese newspapers but could
not tell what tleir reaction was for tney spoke
only in Japanese. At 9: 30 p.n. we returned to
Presidente Frudente.
December 18 - Ne left Fresidente Frudente at 5:30 a.m. for
Rancnaria and arrived tnere at 8: 30 a.m. Our
arrival was announced beforehand and were pro-
mised by the snerrif that the showing would be
policed. The film was shown at 8:oc p.m. at
the Largo da Matriz with an attendance of more
or less 2,c00 of wnich 2 percent were Japanese.
Only two Japanese newspapers were distributed.
December 19 - We left Ranch.aria at 6:55 a.m. with Bastos as
our destination and arrived tnere at 7:55 a.m.
We spoke to the mayor's assistant who offered
any help he or his office could be to us.
We also contacted the sherrif who promised to
police the showing and Dr. João Matzmoto, aided
by friends

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
Enclosure to Despatcn No. 20
SFECIAL TRIF BY SCUND T UCK IN THE ALTA SOROCABANA ZONE TO SHOW
FILA CN OCCUTATICN CF JATAN BY AMERICAN TROOPS
by friends, efficiently announced our film showing.
The loud speaker operators also were very helpful
and announced it.
The op en air ow ine was iven at 8: 0o p.m. witn
an attendance of 1,8cc of which 99 percent was
Japanese. e usked Dr. Matznoto if dur ing the
fiim he or his friends could read the explana-
tions in Japanese but none of tnen consented
froa fear of consequences.
December 20 - e .eft Bastos at 6:3c a.. for são Faulo and
reacned Itapetininga at 6:co p.m. where we were
forced to stay du to needed repairs on the car
wnich turned out to be a snort circuit in tne
generator.
December 2l - The needed repairs wer: finisned aarly and we
ieft for São Fauo at 8: cc a.n. and arrived in
jão Faulo at 1: co p..
e drove 1,c03 miles and used 370-8/10 1itros
of gasol ine, I iitro of motor oil, and l0 litros
of gasol ine for the electric generator.

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.97)
São Paulo, Brasil, Jammary 8, 1947
Transmittal of translation of repert submit-
ted by Motion Picture Seetion Chief.
I have the honor to transmit herewith a tramsla-
tion of a report made by the Chief of the Motion
Picture Section of this Consulate General covering a
trip made into the Japanese areas on December 1l to
December 21, 1946.
The trip appears to have been well werthwhile
and the general impression in the areas is that al-
though the Japanese in the rural areas are far frem
being convinced of the defeat of Japan the faith of
the majority has been shaken but the murder in the
City of São Paulo on January 6, 1947 (subjeet my
telegram No. 5 dated January 8, 1947) indicates that
trouble is far from over.
There is still urgent need for films shewing pre-
sent day conditions in Japan, particularly these in
which American sol diers and officials or ethers ap-
pear and ciroumstances in whien there is no dowbt
that they are not there as prisoners of war and news-
papers frem Japan.
Respeetfully yours,
Ceeil M. P. Cross
American Consul General
Enclesures: Translatien and newspaper artiele
dated Jamnary 7, 1947 taken frem
the Jornal Trabalhista.
Bile No. 800
CHPCress: vs p
Originala and esalid to Department.
Gow to Eabassy in Rio d Jamire.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.63)
10020

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.57)
SR
(mAin

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.53)
aprontat.
91m09 ρ

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.81)
JAN 91947
no.
t0 the
Amerieem Cemsular orrieer in Cherge,
ãe Pale, Rasil.
The Seeretary of State refers to the Comealar ofrieer's reenest,
894.20232/1-9
centained in several mmlsatiome to the Departmet, for eerent
Japenese momepapere and other matarisls camearning the Amerionm eost-
patien of Japan.
There are enslesed fifteem peskmges of the felleuing Japansse
vernacular papers pabliaked, fer the mest part, in the smaller tomms
of Japan:
"Shin bat"
"Takan Mie"
-947
a&.
"The Oakikee Shdabun
"Charu Míppon"
"Émmamete aki Niaki"
"Yamamashi Nishi Nichi"
CS/R 894 202 32
Enclosure:
1 paskage containing
15 packages of Japanese papers
204
NOV 12 1948 F : M:
NON
ADA: RdEçars
10/31/46
15g
F伐

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.81)
L
JAN 141
o.
To the
Ameriean Cemsular Offieer in Charge,
SMe Paalo, Brasil.
The Seareury  tate refers e the deses sege
894.20232/1-1447
Lasm oeupatiem ! Japan.
of Japa
"Goaha Bahi Mahd?, Gotaber, 29
"ate ai Mlai", Caeber 1
"inao Mi", Ctaber 1shó
22
Seclesure:
CS/A
1 peakago cuntaining :
l& pirss. Japamess papera
Rotls
Confident
89420282
ADARdAEçrs
12/26/46
FC
y
CEC
2

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.91)
012
No. 83
Airmail
UNRESTRICTED
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brazil, January 29, 1947
cxonledgiuw receipt r apanese
34.20232
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
Instructions dated November 13, 1946, November 13,
1946 and November 27, l946 and to acknowledge receipt
of all Japanese newspapers transmitted as enolosures
to the above mentioned inatructions.
Respectfully yours,
2947
Ceoil M. P6 CroBs
Amerioan Consul Gonoral
800
HHCARTER/Jz
894.202
3
FEB 241947
2
Thl.
2947
genrny

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.87)
No. 98
Airmmil
UNRESTRICTD
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
o Paulo, Brazil, February 6, 1947.
2
I nave ti a nonor to roler t the soparanat's Instructione
iatea January y, January 11 ana Januury 21, 1947 and to acknowlodg
2
receipt of all Japanese newspapers transmitted as enclosures to the
C
abova mentioned instructions.
22
(11
7.
Respectfully yours,
-647
C05186
TO:
amarican Conul General
0
800
HHC/TnS/B
CS/A
m6≠314147
Tile
894.20232
MAR 7-1947
:LED
C4
z.0.
0
2.647

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAL
No.100
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Faulo, Brazil, February 7, 1947
DefM
SuBject: Japanese baseball teams in São Paulo, Braz il.
E
OFFC
THE HONORABLE
194
894.20232/2-747
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to transmit herewith a report
on the Jupanese colony and the purt played by its
baseball teans in its internal organization.
COPLES
knon to b: th: resut of careful on the spot
OrC
FE
20c0
Respectfully yours,
10e
1FC
Cross
American Consul General
XR
File No. 800
832.4063
CMFCross:vzp
Report entitled Cbservations on the
Japanese Froblem in Sao Taulo, Brazil.
CS/A
1Xan
198n3-3
DEPAR
F
S
LC
FILED
301947

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.90)
CONFIDENTIAL
No.100
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Faulo, Brazii, February 7, 1947
Defn
SUBJECT
1 t ir Jao Tuio, Braz i1.
DEPAHTMENI OH SIAIC
E
UFT
THE HONORABLE
194:
894.20232/2-747
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
SIR
1 have the honor to transmit horewith a report
on th. Jupunese colony and the purt layed by its
bysebull t=ans in its int-rnul organization.
noin t tn resut of cureful on the spot
2FE
2000
Respectfuliy yours,
10e
1F℃
Cross
American Consul General
XR
Fil= No. 800
832.403
CiTCross:vZP
Report untitled Cbservations on the
Jujunese Froblem in Sao Taulo, Braz il.
CS/A
1 Xay
198n3-3
DEPAR
S
MEN
LC
wre
301947
FILED

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 100
São Paulo. Brazil
OBSERVATIONS CN THE JAPANESE PROBLEM
IN SAC PAULO, BRAZIL
I dc not need to refer here to tne difficulties that
the Ju! nese Colony have created and still may create in
Braz il; they are well kno.n to ycu. Therefore, I will
simply refer to tn: resul ts cf ay observations and to the
steis i .av: taken te reser suc. c nclusions.
Pirst te - To arou  t Japs mhu ut into their con-
Tluence
did not frear te be very difficult.
1 hew t twe roaes woula le'd e to the right point,
tie fielus to be worded out. One tnrough their work and
nother  rou. ticr obbies. ! lid not like tne first.
P. ir ur. is x st i ricul turai nd uny activity on my
I t .i it net oe unaerstood oy cov  naent cfficials. I
chose tie s c nd und ubout ie veaber of last year I started
ir oue. co pet it ions wnici. 1 knew to e one of the ir
obbies. i iid ct t uc cut of i. The field was too
imited r invosti t lons. 'owever, y work was not in
v. in, or iitt e by  ittl, after several months, the
Jups soee ub icly the satisfactlen by the fact tnat
. erican orts ciut  never made uiy racial re-
strictious or oojected te Jip contestants. In the mean-
tLae,   ut ine in force Fart 3 of my preliminary
progru: te prepare soft and baseball teans. I had been
informju cut the Jups had been playing baseball for
wany cars r were retty we organized. I notioed
nowever, t sue. oganizat icn wus Linited to Jupanese
circs  ent irely under Jur rl s without any Braail-
iun interf rence, cfficia.  Irivate. I then approached
Capta in Fadilhu to organize tne Federation of Soft Ball.
He tola me that I would need at ieust three clubs prac-
ticing this sport to be officialLly accepted as a league.
Under these cireumstances I asked the American Graded
Schoo. and the Ginusio Conselhe tro Lafayette to organize
Sc ftbull teams. I al so askeu the scola Tecnica de Avi-
ucão but this b iny un Army department tney could not
Join me. Suddeny, 1 rece ived a visit from Mr. Nalter
de .maral molari, to inform me tnat a group of Brazilians
and Japanese ud decidea to form a basebali league and
knowing my interest in baseball and softball had appointed
me Generai Secretury of the league. I was also informed
that Captain Tadilnd was at the head of that movement and
tnat I was not expected to refuse tne appointment.
at tris moment I nad completed my first step: to ap-
proach the Japs ana get into tneir confidence.
Second Step - To find out allies in the Japanese colony:
To carry on with my progran, I would need some allies
picked out from tne Japanese group. After some contacts,
I chose a Japanese student of the São Faulo Law Scnool
(Mr. Tosnio Oda) and a manufacturer of baseball equipment
(Mr. Tomio Takeda). The first appeared to me to be a re-
volutionaire of Japanese traditions, acting more like a
Brazilian than like an oriental. The second, more hesitant,
could be very useful in view of the fact that he was the
only supplier of baseball material to Japanese clubs for
the last five years and tnerefore well acquainted with all
Japanese centers. The latter would open doors; the other,
a democratic,

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.95)
S
-2-
Enclo sure to Despatcn No. 100
Sãu Faulo, Brazil
a dewocratic, would work alone, with his ideas, to tue
poritical means I aim at.
Third step - Mhe re are the Japanese clubs located.
After cirefuli inquiries, wnien toox me more than two
n, I c stimite tat asout 8ce Japanese teans are
now pliey ing lasebali. lhes teams belon to 271 clubs
(or "groups" as they cull tnemselves) located as follows:
REGION
NA. ES CF CLUBS
NO. OF CLUBS
City of Jãc
iniv rso, Lragão, Gigantes,
Leão, Coolercctia, Diumante,
Fiexa, ing, Canuan, Lima
Canto, Picres, Santana, Fre-
uesia do 0, Hasse, is itani,
Vila one........
16
It,uera, uzuno, sunto andre,
Crube lutico ogiano, Soc.
Culturul e Agronomica de Mogi,
Jundiai, Juquery, anto maro,
Cipó, Juquaré, Cotia, Vaegem
Grande, Falhe iro, 15 de  ovem-
bro, Fou, Guarul..os, Itupecirica,
Fiedade...
18
Central do
Brasil...... C os do Jordão, Jucarei, Ca-
papeva, Taubaté, Guaratringuela,
3. osé do Cumos, Pindaonnaujaba.
7
Litoral...... Santus, Iguupe, iegistro.
3
Sorocabana... 3. oque, avaré, Cerqueiro Cezar,
S.Cruz o ic Fardo, Ourinhos,
Faimital, ssis, .raguassu, (6),
untá (4), ncnaria (3), Martinopo-
lis (5), Regente Feijo, Presidente
Frudente (1c), Treside ite Bernardes
(5), Al vares mucnado (5), Santo
Anustacio (7), Tresidente Vencedan
(2), .iquerubi.....
56
Faulista.....
Cumpinas (2), Baurú, Duartina,
Galia, Garça, Vera Cruz, Marilia
(20), Fompela (5), uintana-Trepan
(6), California-Oswaldo Cruz (4),
Bastos (2l), Ribeirão Preto-Cra-
vinhos-Monte Alto
68
oroeste......Pirajui, Quarantan, Cafelandia(6),
Lins (3i), Guaiçara (3), Promissão
(6), Birigui (5), Bilac (10), Ara-
çatuba (5), Guararapes (5), Mirand-
opolis (5), Valparaiso, Alfredo Castilho
Anaradina, Pereira Barreto (15)......96
Mojiana...... S. Joaquim da Barra, Guará, Ituver-
aba, Guafra, Batatais, Franca,Ara-
raquara...
7
TOTAL
271

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure to Despatcn No 100
Sã Pa ulo, Braz i1
-3-
As you see, trc Japanese inf uence in basebal is
well spreed over ail the state of São Paulo.
Fourtn Step - To find out the Leading roints of Japan-
ese 1nfluence
was not an usy matter. I
ava t rve mil s  iles, to cal on big and
sal towns, to visit Jal un-se hotels weere Brazilians
ure sel om ucce ted, te ittend to Jupunese meet ings
uere nc Tortues was spoxen, in a word: to integrate
myself in a cjanese if for a few days. Here is wnat
I r.sied:
all busebul eans  t cbey to a group of old
pnese lyer caled "V.t ranos". T. ese people,
uctine us "fu rers"  d theu ndquarters in some im-
ortant  lacus suci us mu iliu, Pompe ia, Lins, Presi-
dente rudente, sto  silac. t the beg inning of
tn wur, they sireu over ore to tne interior, up to
Fereir: rreto. These 'veteranos" were ruled by an-
other our, tn ' me ipls' o integrated the "são
Fuulo useba club". i is crub as hat we can call
t.. "juherr leudgurt rs" or te wnol organization.
It Joined the Federution . Juary 35, 1947.
Fiftn otep - o finu out int t. cups mud in mind when
they orgarized buseball in Brazil
was also
vortav ile inv stigating. One taing I could never un-
derstand is wny, viti. so many pl-yers and so many clubs,
basebai! as never been introduced in Brazilian sport
willieu. There might be sene reasons on the part of
t.re Japs to object tc sucn intro juct lon because my ex-
Ierience snowed me tn t ruzi iuns do l ike baseball if
properly aproached und if i a given time, I will
prove this to be right. The irst point to be studied
vas: now far goes their ind ividual sportsmanship?
any people tninx tney ae  ood sportsmen. I say de-
finitely no. To cbserve the rules, to be polite, to
accept any decisior of the umpires even if they are
wrong, to practice uninterruptedly, to play a game
without saying a word to either umpires or other play-
ers, to cry if a game is lost is not sportsmanship.
and the consiaeration of tnese characteristics snowed
me tnat young Jays were playing not by the pleasure of
having fun but under a strong inf uence created for
some future purpose. and the fact that players were
slapped in the face after the game they lost, made me
still more suspicious of their aims. All tnis infor-
mation was gotten first hand. Thore was aiso no sports-
manship in their organization. ey all depended on
or were supported by Japanese fii. witn headquarters
in Japan following instructions transmitted to tnem
through their São Faulo group. I could never notice
in their clubs the expontanedus rivalty that we have
between us in Brazilian clubs. They all acted as
parts of a machine. No proper initiative, no indivi-
dual action, no suggestlon, just follow the "veterano".
The Germans had their Hitler's youth. The fascists
their "Balillas" and the Japs had "baseball clubs".
To a Japanese

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.98)
nclosure to.Despatch No. 100
São Paulo, Brazil
-4-
To a Japanese, a baseball game did not mean sport.
It was a ceremony practically religious, the soul of
Japan. A gooa player was cunsidered a real citizen.
They did not play for tneir clubs. They played for
Japan.
Japanese Iike baseball and knowing tnis their
governnnt leaders touk advantage of this circumstance
to Juke baseball a scnool of fanaticism. This is wny
Japunese never wanted Drazilians playing baseball.
Sixth Step - To find out a weak point to attack was my
first reaction. But befor ay activity could be ini-
tiated I hua to see .ow strong was their unity. The
following is wnat I found:
The Japunese race is divided into three classes.
The "Izey"(meaning "first generation" or those born in
Jupan); the "Nizei" (second generation or tnose born
in Braz il) and "sanzei" (meaning tnird generation born
in Bruzil of "Nizei" parents). The "Izey" are always
the icaders. all activities unc initiatives in Japan-
ese centers are always subuitted to the approval of the
"⊥zey".
Tne "Nizei" stand, soclally, in a lower range. They
do not nuve the same gnts as the"Isey" and are con-
sidered degenerated citizens. This situation nas been
created purposely. In the first place, to leave tue
eadin ositlons available to enuine Japanese not
"contaminated" by occidental ideas ana on the otner
und to oblige te "nizei", who feel miserable due to
the inferiority complex deve oped, to exceed themselves
in their actions trying tc prove or snow wnat most of-
ten they do not feel, i.e. an exaggerated patriotism
for Japan.
The "Sanzei" are out of tne question. Most of tnem
are still in the first youth (Japanese imigration to
Brazil started more or less 25 years ago).
The "Izei" apreared to me too strong a party to be
attacked. The "Nizei" on tne other hand showed great
possibilities. The fact tnat tney are underestimated
by the "Izei has drawn my attention to tnis group and
I have tried to see now they react to an attempt to
separate them fron tne "Izei" and their traditions.
Here again baseball served my purpose. I pointed out
to some young "nizei" the difference existing between
an American ana a Japanese game and the fun and free
atmosphere that the Americans enjoy in their games.
Most of tuem told me that tuey felt pretty attacted
by the way that the American Group of the São Paulo
Football Club and tie team of the Clube de Esportes
Americanos acted during their games and tnat many
"nizei" were anxlous to join these clubs but did not
dare to express their such wish fearing they were
"personas non gratas" in the American clubs. They
were tired of the "silly traditions" that have always
been an object to any contact with other races and
rendered so difficult any public relations with other
people. This opinion, expressed not only in São Paulo
but also in the

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclosure tu Desuatc.. No. 100
São Paulo, Braz1l
-5-
but also in tne interior, snowed me tnat the "nizei group"
is t. weakest point of the wnole Japanese organization.
Counteruction
Field - Th rt tni t ccunteract the Japanese
movelent is to buila i "iret cluss basebail field and to
organize weekly gues wit. nizei roups. This field
snould be maintainea ulays in sucn condit lon to be con-
sidered everywnere as un example of modern merican sports
organizaticn.
Press: Great numb.rs of art'c! s . braz ilian-American
ganes shoula o : ublisi ed tugutr vith press releases on
buseball in Inited States.
Ralio - lows  s  .sportes Anericanos
thu d se broadcast also r forr ing alwuys to the names
of Bruz i lan playere belonging te our teams.
Fuplicutlons - a weekly illustrated bul letin on baseball
she uld be ublisned by our club and iistr ibuted "free"
throug. the "Saneus de jornais" und by rost directly,
under request.
Scnools - we have to induce the r i ian senools to or-
gunize tusebail teans, crfuring the. fi ld ana players to
co cn their boys. and we mave te do it cuiexly because the
Jupinese ave uise tls in ird.
Conciusion
In summing up this  ort I respectfully suggest
that the Japunese siorts croups  very carefully watched
and tneir unity destroyed. I an convinced that in their
sports system stands i1 tn ir  eiitical articulation.

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.76)
Guainaltuverava
Guara
rand
rere rat arrdto
 B
a.f Canthe
Riber-Ro
Antralna
xopol
Quariratax
B
Monte Alto
Cravinhao
Bilac
iins
Araraquara
Caelandia
isfornia
Quarantan
upan
firrm
dvorcei
quero
Anustano
12'00
Gu niona
Pompe.a
Pan.ma
Marilia
ar
A Ma
AFaik
A
Duartine
Paimital
Campinar
5.  
Dery Crour
LoOurinhos
Avare
n Roque
SAC

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.73)
imrioen Gaper ecclete
 e: e.
OS/A
1 pestange centadatags
los eagées ef Japamese pagere.
89420232
2/2/47
ARA
DCR- ep--Clt
80x

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.72)
,
Emeleeuse:
1 
mre
of se s
Confide
0282.12.1349
 Rm N. 
Énc1oessent
AD& Ed 
2/16/47.

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.82)
(1)
UHUC AFFARS
1947
NO. 240
Mr11
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENER
o Paalo, Bresil, Pobruary 27, 1067.
SUBIFL!
OIC (INP) - Aaknerlodging receipt of Japanese mewepapere
I heve the homor to refer to the Departpemt's Instrestiems
20232/2-
dated Jenmary 14, February 7 and February 19, 1947 and to mokmemlodge
resedpt of all Japanese messpepere tranemitted as emelesures to the
abeve mentioaed instruetiems.
Respestally pours,
2747
Geall M. P. Grees
1AR11947
hmerian Cneul Gomoral
800
CMPC/MC/TAS/a
AREA
P.
CS
MAR 2 1 1947
262312
 ment e 
ta
Coni lantia
AT OF STATE
ULLN

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.89)
0 383
D升
No. 180
Arma1l
UBNRESTRIOTED
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
DTO
são Paule, Brasil, March 20, 1947.
SUBJECT: OIC (INP) - Aoknowledging receipt of Japanese newepapers
0c/R
OIC AME C LUBLICS AREA
DIY SIUN - (ADA)
THE HONORABLE
1947
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
Depar ment of a'
SIR:
I have the henor to asknowledge receipt of 24 sepies each
of the follewing Japanese newspapers transmitted te this Cemsulate
General witheut a covering dispatch.
0i0
The Jiji Shimpo
10.
The Yomiuri Shimbum
an
The Nihon Keisai
The Mainichi
The Asahi
CS/A
Respectfully yours,
American Comsul Gemeral
800
C/TAS/aS
APR 8-1947
FILED
OZALID
3B
2
umy
3
-2047
44

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.94)
0 461
No.210
UFPAHTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
AMERICAN CONUANE
APR 2 2 1947
São Paulo, Brap1ly Marsh 25, 1947
DC/R
1212
DA
SUBJECT
Memorial submitted by Japandse colony in
São Paulo, Brazil.
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
1945
894.20232/3-2547
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have tae honor to report tnat a group of lead-
ers of the Japanese colony representing the part of
the colony disposed to accept as a fact the defeat
of Japan have submitted the enclosed memorial with a
request that it be submitted to the Japamese goverm-
ment tnrough tne American authorities for cunsidera-
tion.
A resumé of their report in Englisn accompanies
the memorial.
The memorial is being transmitted to the Depart-
ment for such action as may be deemed appropriate.
nc/k
Respectfully yours,
FE.
Cecil M. P. Cross
American Consul General
MIS
CS/A
π
ONI
Japanese memorial.
C19
Resumé of report in English.
DIVISION OF
MAY 21 1947
File No. 800
FILD
CMPCro ss: vz p
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
MAY 5-1947
CZALID
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
54
P  SATE
Brg Buyan
3
EED
18
8

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.97)
malosure to Despatch no. 210
Maren 85, 1967
TRALSLATION
Resumé of a report made for tne Minister of
Japanese Exterior Relations  Japanese famm-
tic terrorism due to tne outcume of tue war.
A. Correspoudeuce addressed tu Minister.
A resumé follows with regard to the famatie Japan-
ese terrorism, started in Brazil after Japan's dereat,
by Japanese still believing in the Japanese victory
and the campaign to combat it.
A message by Mr. Togo, Minister of Exterior Rela-
tions, was recelved on October 3, 1945 from the Swiss
Intermational Red Cross through their represeutative
in Brazil. The receipt of Japanese newspapers and
the re-opening of mail service to and from Japan
through the courtesy of the American Consulate Gemr-
al in São Paulo still does not convince tnem of Japam's
defeat. From March 7, 1946 to Jamuary, 1947 14 per-
sons were assassinated, 14 wounded, and 3 died and 58
were wounded as a result of disturbances in the cities
of Oswaldo Crus and Tupan in the interior of the State
of São Paulo.
As safety measures we suggest that:
(1) newspapers continue to arrive from those see-
tors in Japan where the majority of the Japan-
ese in Brazil originated proving that it is
for their benefit that the situstion be clari-
fied;
(2) in correspondence to Brazil, it should be made
clear that Japan was defeated;
(3) reliable authorities be contacted in the re-
gions of Kagoshima, Nagasaki, Fukuoka, Saga,
Kumamo to, Yamaguchi, Wakayamm, and Fukushima
as well as relatives of Japamese residing in
Brazil to send newspapers and correspondense
to the Japanese colony in Brasil to convince
them of the defeat of Japan;
(4) radio service be opened to Latin Amrica;
(5) religious organisations such as the "Seiehon-
oie? and "Butsuryuko-Nichiren" commumicate
the real situation in Japan since these two
organisations have a great number of fanaties;
(6) a mission should be sent to Brasil from Japan
to clarify the situation existing there.
B. Enclosed doeuments.
I - Report on the eampaign to clarify the sitm-
tiom.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.97)
二
Enelostre to Despatch No. 210
Maren 25, 1947
(1) Campaign 1m the Capital.
(2) Campaign in the interior of the Btate.
II - Report on activities of "Shindo-Remmei" terrorists.
(1) Murder of Mr. Mizobe;
(2) Murder of Mr. Nomura and attempted murder
of Mr. Furuya;
(8) Bxpulsion of the first group of undesirable
Japanese;
(9) Japanese Reservists Association in Bras1l
(Zaigo Gunjin Ka1);
(10) Expulsion of the second group of undesirable
Japanese;
(ll) Expulsion of the third group of undesirable
Japanese;
(12) Murder of Mr. Suzuki.
III - Report on the secret organization "Shindo-Remei".
(1) Its origin
(2) Its organization
(3) Its activities
Enclosed: List of its branches in the inter-
ior.
IV - Comments and opinions of Brasilians - author1-
ties and general public on the subject.

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.83)
DAZIL.
Reference Consulate General's
Maroh 0s, 16é?. The Memarial presem
of the Japansse Gelony fer subaisalen
not delesed with the Consulate
under reference. No aotion is being
receipt of the memorial.
Leting
(as)
BISTSIBUTIGH
(OFFEES ONLV)
3.8.
mry
:Jn k
CR CLEARANCE
RESTRICTED
4-21-4
.    

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.93)
MAY 51947
UNRESTRIOTED
486
To the
United States Political Adviser to the
894.20232/3-2547
Supreme Commander fer the Allled Persrs,
Tokyo.
The Acting Secretary of State eneleses, for
such action as the Politieal Adviser may deem appre-
priate, a copy of a despatsh received from the Censul
General in São Paulo, Brasil, and emebosures, sem-
sisting of documents in Japanese presented by a grem
of leaders of the Japanese solony in Brazil with the
request that they be transmitted to the Japanese Govern-
ment.
894.20232/3.25
CS/A
Enclosure:
Copy of despatch
(no/210, march 25,1907)
with its enelosures.
894.20232/
MAY 2
yu
BAF
FE
4-24-47
3
chat
OHI
Dist.

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.87)
DRESTRICTED
no.
To the
American Ceasuler Officer in Shergo,
Bae Paule, Brasil.
offieer's request, contained in severel ec
comeerming the Aserican cccupatien ef Japes.
TN
DCR ARA Unit
38
cs/AConlide
894.20
Enclosure:
2
15 rolls of Japansse
FG
newapapers
包
3/31/47
ADA:MLFrancisco
0
42m≥ 967

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.79)
to the
Amrionn Censsier affleer in Charge,
añe Pde, Resil.
Enelesure:
1 paciage centaining:
CSYA
42 coples of Jepanase papera
@E
ADA :Rd Eça:rs
12/16, 1946
Énc ent
to Rono. 8
(2ies)
DBC 1a 1948

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.88)
To the
Amerieam Censular Officer in Charge,
Sao Paule, Brasil.
The Lcsing Seeretary of State refers to the Comsmler
eoncerning the American occupation of Japem.
There are emclesed fifteem packages of Ja
papers publiahed, fer the most pars, in the 
nc
ARA
DOFUnn
CS/A
Rev.
Cat
Enclosure:
Dist.
15 rools of Japanese
cox
newspapers
202
4/6/47
ADA:MLFranciaco
F65

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.88)
RLSTRICTER
no.
To the
Ameriean Consular Offieer in Charge,
Sae Paulo, Brasil.
The Secretary of state refers to the Caegalar Gftteerty
request; contained is several cemmicatiome to the
fer current Japanese sswspapers and other matsrials
the American occupatien f Japan.
smaller towms of Japan!
"Mippon Keisai Shimbum"
"Yomiuri-Shimbun"
"Mainichi"
"Asahi"
SS
4.202
Enclosure:
1 package of Japanese newspapers
4-9
3/4/47
@E
ADA:Rd'Ecaimlf
4
E04
1947P..

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.81)
APR9
o.
ot
094.20232/4-947
Ansrienn Consalar ectéesr la Charge,
Ke Pule, Brasil.
Lean seoopation of Jepan.
51 espies-
CS/A
Enelesure:
À pesiage containing:
51 copico Japansse papere
NOV 25 1946 F.M.
894.20222/4-947
FG
c en
ADA :Rd Ega :s
11/20/46
m
mn

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.90)
APH9
BIEETRICEER
No.
To the
American Comsular Officer in Charge,
Sao Paule, Brasil.
The Secretary of State refers to the Censalar rfiesrts
Japasese memepapers and other materials eeeseraing the Amerieem
pation of Japan.
of Japan:
"Yukan Okayama"
-at
"Chulon Mjyrem"
"Tokai Yukmm"
"Shimano Mainichi"
"Nigata Nippo"
«Nishi Myjron"
*Mainiehi Shimbus"
"Yamagata Shinbun"
"Koiuriki Tukan"
"Osaka Jiji"
"Shinano Maincihi"
cs/v
"Kita Nippon"
"Shimo Zuke"
"Akita Sakigake"
"Kenagawe Shimbun"
81
Enclosure:
894.20202/
1 package containing:
15 packages (rolls) Japanese papers
2/28/47
ADA:Rd'Ecaimlf
m
cas
mim

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.87)
BRESTRICTER
no.
To the
Americam Coasular Officer in Charge,
Sao Paulo, Brasil
cencerming the American oscupation of Japam.
27712/5
smaller towns of Japan:
"The Nihon Keisai"
cat
"Asahi"
"The Yomiuri-Shimbum"
"The Maimichi"
84
CS/A
Enclosure:
lpackage of Japanese newspapers
894.20232
3/21/47
ADAiMLFrancisco
Dok ABe Cnit
m4
cah
um
MR35
1947

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.83)
ARD
BRESTEICTER
no.
To the
Ameriean Consular Officer in Charge,
Sao Paulo, Brasil.
8 37
The Secretary of State refers to the Ceasuler Ofrieert
pation of Japan.
of Japan.
Éoire e 
"Kanagawa Shimbun"
"Tokaskima Shimbam"
"Rekuriku Yukan"
"Kyote Shimbm"
«Fukushima Minyu"
"Yamamashi Jiji Shiabun"
"Chabu Nippon Shimbun"
«Too Nippo!
Mukan Shin Tokai
"Nigata Nippo"
"Kobe Shimbun"
CS/A
"Yukan Shin Shu"
"Fukui Shisbun"
"Yukan Hiroshima"
DCk
ARA
wy
Enclosurel
m.
1 package containing:
Ehe
Cat
15 packages (rolls) Japanese papers
Tisk
mex
 3/22/47
ADAIMLFranoisco
eakt
M2B 13 947

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.80)
Amrieen Cemaler crieer la en
e Peale, Rrail.
CS/V
ARA
DCE
1 package cantaiming:
Rev.
Gat
16 roll Japamese papers
Encr ent
to  Nno. 8
2/20/47
Ea
FEB 26  1947

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.83)
MEZRIOTED
Bo.
To the
Amerisan Censalar Officer ia Charge,
Sao Paulo, Brasil
The Loting Bearotary of State refers to the
ceeupatiom of Japan.
Encret      ong
DCR
ARA Unit
Anal m
nory
Rev.
cs/v
mds
Cat
Diet
Enolosure:
1 package containing:
15 rolis Japanese papars
194.202
162
ADAsMLFranoisco
4/26/47
G
eaX
bP5 15 947P.m

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.84)
JNICLASSLELED
Bo.
To the
Amerieem Cossular Offieer in Charge,
Sae Paule, Brasil.
The Acting Secretary of State refere te the Somseler
2/4-2547
concerning the American occupstion of Japas.
published, for the most part, ia the smaller towme of Jag
State     Mi r
Énc. 
ARAT
CS/A
DOR
w/2r
894.20932
Enclosures
1 package of Japanes newapapers.
(15 rolls)
4-2
sah
AB694
194654
G
G
ADA;MLFranoisco
4/23/47
A57

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.89)
APR
MCLASSIVIED
no.
To the
Americam Censular Officer in Charge,
Sao Paulo, Brasil.
The Seoratary of State refere to the Consuler Gffseerle
request, contaised in several cemmmicaticms te the De
fer current Japanese newspapers ad ether materials eem
the Ameriean ecoupatien of Japan.
There is enelesed one package of Japamese vermmeaíar
published, fer the most part, in the smaller tomms of Jay
Enc1
DOR - ARA Unit
CS/A
Actar
R
det
Dist.
lax
APH 50 947
894.20232
Enolosure:
1 package of Japanese newapapers
(15l1)
14-3017
4/28/47
ADAIMLFrancisco

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
73
INCOMING TELEGRAM
PLAIN
7
Control 8732
AMIMENT OF STATE
Action: ARA
OFFICE OF
Info:
Rec'd Apr11 29, 1947
AMERICAN REPUBLIC AFAIR
FR
2:24 a.m.
DC/R
 ABR 2 9 1947
45
FROM: S80
0110
To , Seoretary of State
NO : 92, Twenty-eighth
894.20252/3-2547
894.20232/4-2847
Reference Department's A-96, Apr1l 23, 1947.
Referred to memorial was attached to despatob 210
whon it left Seo Paulo.
CROSS
JMS: PPM
MAY - 1 1947
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.94)
FILE
No. 301
Airmail
UNRESTRICTED
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brasil, May 16, 1947.
DC/R
SUBJECT: OIC (INP) - Acknowledging receipt of Japanese newspaper
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
894.20232/2-1747
894.20232/5-1647
SIR:
ADA
I have the honor to/refer to the Dopartment': Instructions
dated February 17, 1947 and to acknowledge receipt of all Japanose
newspapers transmitted as enclosures to the above mentioned
AOTION
instructions.
DIC
COPIES
308
Respectfully yours,
American Consul General
-0
CS
Iw
800
HHC/TAS/a
N181947
e
PILND
OIC AMERICAN REPOBLICS AREA
BIVIGION - (ABA)
JUN1947

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.89)
MAY 19E
JERCLARSIVIER
To the
American Ceasular Offieer in Charge,
Sãe Paulo, Brasil.
The Seeretary of State refers to the Japanese memspapers
among the Japanese solonies in the state ef Sae Paule.
Reperts and comment received from the Comsulate Gemerel frem
time to time indieate that these vernmeular papere have served
the American oscupation of Japan.
In view of the considerable amount of time and expease imvolved
vised whether the Consulate General wishes to coatinne reesiving te
or whether it is believed that they have now accomplished the purpes
for which they were intended.
A large shipment of Japanese vernacular papers has just besn
dispatohed by steamer freight.
cs/v
ARA
Joh Jt
894.21232/5.194
Andl
Rev.
mm
C8t
My
MAY 15 7947
BA
5/13/47
:MLFrancisco
B
1

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.90)
CHARGE SLIP
File No.
ENCLOSURE
CHARG TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
REMARKS
d
U.S. GOVENT PRINTING OFICE 1168S

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.86)
No. 328
Airmail
UNRESTRICTD
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
HOPL
São Palu, sr zil, June 2, 1947.
SUBJECT
t of use newspapere
394.20232/6-247
SIR
instructions
de tea np ri.
abo. mentioned
nespro r ns tt
ACTION
instructions.
01C
COFIES
102
ARA
Respoctfull, ycure,
OCO
anoricen Consul Genoral
B…1
800
117
HHC/TAS/a
OLALID
JUN 2 6 1947
FH
la

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.93)
Perbry
No. 333
AMERICAN
NSULATE GENERAL
So Pe, m, June 4, 1947.
SURJECT
Continuation of shipnts  Jepanese news-
papers to São Paulo, Brazil.
894.20232/6-447
SIR
This Consulate General has the honor to refer
ALA
to the instruction of the Department dated May 19,
1947 concerning the continuation of shipments of
Japanese newspapers to São Paulo. These pepers
have proved exceedingly valuable and have probably
done as much as anything else in gradually calming
the acute terrorist situation in the interior of
the State of São Paulo. The Japanese report that
the situation, although definitely better is still
far from entirely clear and they would very greatly
AN
appreciate it if the shipments of nowspapers could
be continued at least through the end of July.
FE
Enclosed herewith is a press clipping indioating
the present status of the Shindo-Remei movement.
amt
CMPC
CS/A
File No. 800
CMPCross:vzp
Original and ozmid to Department.
Copy to Embassy in Rio de Janeiro.
Enclesure: 
CYipping from "A NOITE" of May 28, 1947,
"Nova Onde de Pavor da Terrivel Shimde-Rammei".
894.20232
RmBeia.
JUL2 1947
6+

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.94)
Brazil
085
Date
Poper A NOITE
Le8
Page
City - São Paulo
NOVA
OND
DA TERRIVEL

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.93)
PAVOR
DE
SHINDOREMMEI
"O Japão não perdeu a guerra; muito pelo contrario, e sEstades Unidos acabam de coder
nizam rapidamente — Varios japoneses ameaça dos de morte pelos seas patricios fanaticon
Sensacional "furo" do sherlock -reporter de A NOITE
Depole de uma grande pausa em, Após a derrota icial dos primel-
suas atvidades, ressurge a "Shin-
roe organizadors, os quais se en-
do Rimmel", a terrivel organização
contram na ma Anchieta e deverão
de fanaticos japoneses que não ad-
ser expulsos do Brasil, novo grupo
mitem a derrota de sou país na
se forma, ameaçador e capaz de -
guerra passada, nem consentem que
palhar a dor, o odio • multo san-
seus patricios tenham a verdadel-
gue em lares de niponicos pacatos
ra noção dos acontecimentos regis-
que habitam o nosso Estado, onde
tados na epoca em que vivemos.
é conelderavel o numero de colonos
do Imperio do ol Nascente.
ESPALHANDO O TERROR
DOCUMENTOS IMPORTANTES
E DISTINTIVOS
Vinha o "Sperlock-raporter
Soubemos que a policta apreen-
ANorte observando. hà veri
deu na residencia luxuosa  de p:o-
dia um trabalhe importante da
priedade de FÜrata. em Viia Ma-
Delegacia de Seguranca Pessoal. Jh-
riana, farto material de propagan-
poneses chegavam ao D I  com-
da da reorganização do terrivel ban-
rereavam, de portas techadas, cóm
ao de fanaticos. Entre outroe do-
 autoridade ar Alfredo de A
cumentos, há um comunicado oft
titular daqueia espializada Qo
cial nos suditos do Japão, que re-
mo era natura?  d evado de e-
sidem no Braau. documento habil-
uranca Pessoal nada forneceriaà
mente falsificado com a asinatu-
imprensa policl. em carater on-
ra de um acordo entre  Estados
c al. E lsso nós compreendemos lo-
Unidos da America do Norte e o Im-
go pol o panico seria grande en-
perio de Htrolto, segundo  qual
to o Japoñeses de ind le pacata 
o Brasll, como colonia americana.
que ratão ao par da grande reall-
era cedido ao país do Sol Nascente.
dade  queda da terra de Hirolto
em troca da interrupção das hosti-
Semeando o ter com bilhete
lidades entre aquelas duas nações.
com o "smbolo da morte". yarlos
E isso o sécretarlo da "Shindô Rim-
iees de nas niponicas com-
mef" afirmou na propria policia.
acem à policia  pedem ga-
falando em faponés e tendo como
rentia de vida, servico afeto à Se-
interprete um patricio, que o as-
guranca Pessoal. Tudostava sen-
slatia em sua declarações.
do felto em sigño, enquanto e nos-
MORRERA MUITA GENTE!
 "Sherlock-reporter" acompanha-
Pouco depois da policia deter 
va, com culdado, o prossegulmento
perigoso fanatico, era encontrado
das diligencias
em sua residencia mflhares de dis.
FRESO O SECRETARIO DA NOVA
tintivos da "Shindo Rimmel",
"SHINDO RIMMEI"
quals deviam ser distribuldos as
Ontam, porem, a policia colheu a
japoneses que estavam se organ!-
sua primeira vitora contra o "ban-
sando, & fim de melhor se identi-
do de morte". Eatavamos no D. I..
ficarem.
Soubemos que havla sido detido o
— "Morrerá muita gente que acre-
secretarie da "Shindô Rimmel".
dita na derrota do Japãol" - dis-
O "sherlock" de A NOITE entrou
em sção * conseguiu saber que o
, ainda,  fanatico.
personagem em questão era Minoru
PROVIDENCIAS ENERGICAS
Mirata, e, frustrando a propria vi-
A policia està em grande ativi-
#laneia dos policials, nos bastidores
dade. Tanto a Segurança Peséoal co-
do D.I., obteve a fotografia do
mo o Serv. Seereto da Ordem Pollt!-
mesmo (a fotografia ilustra este re-
ca e Social entraram em ação, con-
pertagem)
tinuando as diligencias para a de-
Colocado, em meguida, à disposi
tenção dos novos chefes de grupo.
eão de delegado Paulo Síveira da
Pelo que se dedus, tendo consegul-
Motta, titular da Delegacia de Or-
do ca arquivos da nova organisação.
dem Politica e Soclal seglimos 
a policia j sogue s passos dos no-
rastre dc niponioo tande sido ele

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.95)
FIL
No. 346
UNRESTRICTED
Airmail
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brazil, Jume 12, 1947
SUBIECI
OIC (INP) - Acknowledging receipt of Japanmse  /)
newspapers
2111
I have the honor to refer to five Departmental
instructions dated April 9, l947 and to acknowledge
receipt of all Japanese newspapers tranmmitted as
894.20232/6-1247
enclosures to the above mentioned instructions.
Rospectfully yours,
Ceoil M. P. cross
Amerioan Consul Gemeral
800
HHC/TAS/as
CS/JEC894.20232
11 1047

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.93)
JUL18
UNCLASBIFIED
acvisor For Japan.
Tokyo.
094.00
The Searetary ef
Instrastien No. 4k

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.93)
DFICE OF
No. 352
MCN HEPUBLIC AFFAIRS
1947
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brazil, June 16, 1947
SuBJEct: Transmission of communication from Japanese
in São Paulo, Brazil.
THE HONORABLE
THE SEQRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
894.20232/6-1647
SIR:
I have the honor to transmit herewith a memor-
andum from certain Japanese leaders to their govern-
ment relating to the São Paulo situation.
This memorial is a supplement to that forwarded
by despatoh No. 273 or April 28, 1947 which has not
been aoknowledged from Japan. It is accompanied by
a translation and a personal letter from S. Furuya
who is serving informally as head of the colony at
present.
ARA
Respectfully yours,
01℃
FC
EUR-X
Cecil M. r. Cross
American Consul General
ESP
Enclosure
D1R
1 - Translation of memorandum.
2 - Personal letter to Hitoshi Ashida.
File No. 800
CS
ho..i
CMPCrossivzp
A
C)
Original and ozalid to Department.
Copy to Embassycin Rio de Janeiro.
19
2
C1
3
BmBryan
JAN 14 1948
D1+1

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.87)
JUL181947
so.
to the
Amerieen Seasulaty Gffieer in Shargo,
894.20232/6-1
e Paxle, Brasil.
te in despatch Ne. 382 has met besm peeedved
diseretion.
8
VF Un
VVL
in
Enchesvre:
Cepy Despateh No. 1065
894.20232
and Enclosure.
1441
ony
HA: HMN1 dk1T1: 6
7-14-47
NA
6=1647
JUL

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.88)
No. 418
UNRESTRICTED
Airmail
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
ao Paulo, Brazil, August 4 1947
DTE
SUBJECT: CIC (INP) - ckno:ledging receipt of Japanese nowepapers
WASTITUTES
DIVISION
CAS
1N1R
AUG 2 91947
47 HMB
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
22
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
87
894.20
I h ve the honor to refer to three Department's Instructions
ATTE
OIE
d ted april 9, 1947, ana to Department's Instructions dated
April 16, 25 and 30, 1947 nd to acknowledge receipt of a11
15
Japanese nespapers transmitted  enclosures to the above
27
mentioned instrucions.
Respectfully yours,
47 A   1 3
ES RANCHH
EPARTFNr  ATE
EED
W/CO
3
Cecil M. P. Cross
American Consul Generel
1or dd
forrel Reontr
CSN
800
TAS/jm
OIO - ADA
AUG 27 1947
3,10
0S:2-1947
FILED
HO

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.93)
No.435
UNRESTRICTED
Airmail
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulc, Br zil, august 14, 1947
DC/R
SUBJECT: CIC (INr)  vilubility of Japanese news
hetRdi
r
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I heve the honor to rufer to previous corresfondence
referring to the distribution oi Jupanese newspapers in
São Paulo and tc submit the following request:
Hydeo Onaga,  Nippo-3r ziliun, editor of the newspaper
ACTION
"Jornal Paulista", Rua Pires de Mota, 104l, São Paulo, has
0IE
approached this Consul te Goner:1 regarding the availability
COPIBS
of news from Japanese sources for  rinting in his paper. He
508
is specially interest d in receiving copies of the Tokyo
ARA
newspapers "Assahi" and "Mainichi".
FE
OCD
The "Jornal Paulist " hs a ide circulation among the
Japanese nd has been of gret assistunoe in the enlightenment
of the colony in So Paulo.
ai.
This Consulate Gener.1 ould gre tly ap reciate all
informetion concerning material for tr nsmittal to the
"Jomal Paulist".
Respectfully yours,
CS/V
cletsehed
DEC 81947
Cecil M. P. Cross
American Consul General
800
0
TAS/Jm
DCR - ARA Unit
nal. 
he
Dist.

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.73)
WCLASNIFID
To 
,.
894.20232/8-1447
Acting
The Lesgery as nate retere to the comsdatete dege
.,h 
taie dapase nerapepere fer distrihean to the e ae
per a ls.
the one el 1leste the ple of the 
Toge pepers spesifleally refarred to in tihe sheve desgatce
arengeeate. Rosause of diffieulsies in stdptag tren dapis
1t so not pesst ble for the Bepertment to resatre mare then e
eo of essh meper in h et vertheles, in vi
 the ee the l  i 
may mish to reourve for thee paper's wee the aagle eaplee af
the  e  re r  
Le
AX
eal
8
ADa:FOram :slf
12/1/57
r.uchean

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.86)
OCT311947
DC/R
SLASLTTED
o.
To the
te Calar Oler L Cr.
894.20232/8-1447
Sre Paalo, Brasil.
The Searetary af Sate ra ars to the Genmslate' Genaal's deegatsh
sencening the msthod af imperting frem p
mall toms of the State of the Paale.
A'though the Department is in sympathy with Mr. Merami's destre
a
present, therefore, the Department perosives mo wey in wish Mr. Meremi
oan impart inte Braxil the pullieatiems in puestion.
The Officer in harge is requested in his diserstien to esmvey to
Mr. Moroni such of the foregoing information as to him my seem appre-
priate in the ciroumstances.
CS/A
3.0
Confideu
894.20232
894.20232/9-1447
Ab0
30
A-S
NA

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.93)
NO. 436
Airmail
UNRESTRIC TED
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Br zil, ugust 14, 1947
SUBJECT: CIC(INP)  Roquet for ihe purehase of publications
De1A
in Japanesa
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
LueTa
SIR:
I h ve tho honor to refer to previcus correspondene
reg rding public tions for distripution among the Nipponese
colony in são  ulo, und to sulmit herevith  request for
the purchuse of additionsl material on the subject
The sttached list of books ana m-guzines printed in
Jupanese was suggested by r. Pedro  oroni, owner of the
ACI.LUN
Sociedede Gráfic r sileir: Limitadu, Rue Tagud, 202, São
OIE
Pauln. Lre oroni, ho is well-kno n to this Consulate General,
CUPIMS
is gre tly int-r sted in importing this material directly
208
from Japan for sulo in the city of são raulo and small towns
ARA
of the stte.
his Consul te Gener 1 is of the opinicn that this material
OCD
will rove a valuable contri ution to the onlightenment of the
Japanese in the st ie of São ruulo. Inform tion and suggestions
us to the manner of ont ining it for r. croni vill be greatly
ap. reciated.
Respectfully yours,
CS/V
OIO-ADA
SEP 0-1947
Cecil . P. Cross
merican Consul General
NOV 12 1947
FILED
Enclosure:
800
TAS/
DOR  ARA Unit
Confidential Ful
Anal. 
Re
1w

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.96)
3
RECEIVED
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADYIS
FOR JAPAN
OCT 1 31947
DEPARTMENT DF
Tokyo, August 29, 1947
us
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 1255
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT:
Japanese Government Proposal to Send Special Env
to
RECEIVED
Brazil.
12A 10 4/
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
NA
Washington.
Sir:
232/8-2947
ARA:FE
I have the honor to refer to the Department's air mail instruc-
tion No, 529, July 18, 1947, with which were forwarded certain
documents addressed by Japanese residents in Brazil to the Japanese
FC
Government concerning the reluctance of a large section of the
Japanese population there to accept the fact of Japan's defeat and
OCD
requesting the visit of a Japanese notable to Brazil to counteract
train
the spread of dissension there.
JC/R
These documents have not as yet been forwarded to the Japanese
Government pending concurrence in their forwarding by concerned
ections of this Headquarters.
There has now been received in this Headquarters a communicatión
from the Japanese Government (C.L.0. No. 6425(RJ), August 15, 1947)
in which a direct request is made for the favorable consideration by
this Headquarters of a Japanese Government plan to send a special
1/
envoy to Brazil. A copy of this communication is forwarded herewith.
The Japanese proposal is under active consideration by this
Headquarters and the Department will be informed by telegram when
the consensus of interested staff Sections is knovm and Headquarters
policy in this regard formulated.
0C1:1947
Respectfully yours,
FILED
2.0.3
W. J. Sebald
Counselor of Mission
Enclosure:

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's 1255,
August 29, 1947.
-2-
Enclosure:
Copy of Japanese Government
Memorandum C.L.0. No. 6425(RJ)
August 15, 1947.
Original and oz hid to Department.
Copy to merican Consulate General, São Paulo.
701.32
J.Burnett/blc

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 1255, dated August 29, 1947 from the
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Japanese Govesm-
ment Proposal to Send Special Envoy to Brasil".
COPY
JAPANESE GOVERNLENT
Central Liaison Office
TO
: GENER.L IEAD.UARTERS OF THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE
ALLDED PO.ERS.
FRo: : Central Liaison Office, Tokyo.
SUBJECT: Dispatch of an Envoy to Drazil for Settlement of Dis-
turbances .on J-pane se Re sidents There.
C.L.C. 1.0. 6425(RJ)
15 August 1947
1. Reference:
a. Lemorandum of Jiplomatic Section, GH, SCAP, file AG 311.1
(2 June 1947)DS, subject: "Transmitting Lemorial from Japanese
Residents in Drazil."
b. Lemorandum of Jiplomatic Section, GlH, SCAP, file AG 3ll.1
(12 July 47)DS, subject: "Trans ittal of Note Verbale from
Swedish Jiplomatic ission in Japan regarding Disturbances
anong Japanese Citizens in Brazil."
c. C.L.U. emorandu. o. 2332(RJ) dated 15 May 1946, subject:
"Reuest for ras. ission of Note Verbale concerning Disturbances
among Japanese Residents in razil."
d. C.L.0. Memorandum Ho.4307(RJ) dated 28 ugust 1946, subject
as c. above.
2. In the State of San Paulo, Brazil, many of the Japanese residents
in different parts of the State, stubbornly refusing to believe Japan's
surrender, organized factions and attacked their compatriots who
believed the defeat, causing a considerable number of casualties. This
matter was brought to the knowledge of the Japanese Government by the
Swedish Diplomatic Mission representing the Japanese interests in
Brazil, through the General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers. In conformity with the advice of the Swedish authori-
ties, the Japanese Government has done its best for the correction of
the deplorable situation. In April 1946, the Japanese Government sent
a telegraphic message of the Foreign Minister to the Japanese residents
in Brazil, and also mailed to them certain materials and printed
matters including the Imperial rescript on the termination of hostili-
ties, while private circles were asked to write to Brazil for the same
purpose. 13,000 letters and postcards were sent to Brazil by the end
of July this year.
3. From the message sent by well-informed Japanese residents in
Brazil, as transmitted to the Japanese Government through courtesy of
the U.S. Consul-General in San Paulo City and the General Headquarters
under reference a. Memorandum, it appears that the disturbances were
more serious in character than had been supposed in Japan, and that
more than 60 per cent of the residents are still entertaining a famasical
belief in Japanese victory, and are treating the private communications
from Japan as mendacious propaganda. These fanatics are not only causing
troubles among the Japanese residents but also giving mischief to certain
Brasilian circles.

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to Tokyo's
No. 1255,
August 29, 1947
-2-
4. Under the circumstances, communications from well informed
Japanese nationals unanimously beseech that a man of high standing
be dispatched to Brazil from Japan so that his compatriots may learn
directly from him the real situation in Japan. Therefore the Japan-
ese Government proposes a plan to send a special envoy to Brasil, to
which favourable consideration of the General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Povers is recuested.
5. It is hardly necessary to say that the envoy is to behave himeelf
in complete accordancc vith directions of the General Headquarters and
the Brazilian Government. xpecting neither privilege nor special
treatment, he will observe any conditions if only he is given, as an
authorized individual, a sufficient opportunity to talk freely with
Japanese nationals there. As to the length of his stay in Brazil,
about one month is considered sufficient, and the trip to and from
that country will be scheduled according to the directions of the
General Headguarters. Regarding the expenses for the trip, the
Japanese Government thinks that the required amount may possibly or
preferably be contributed by the Japanese residents in Brazil. In
such case, it is requested that advance be made by the General Head-
cuarters for the expense for the outward trip.
FOR THE PRESIDENT:
/s/ K. Asakai
(K. Asakai)
Director of General Affairs,
Central Liaison Office.

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.95)
VEPARTMENI OF STATE
Oi FICE OF
MERICAN REPUBLIC AFFAIRS
NITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
OCT 2 3 1947
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, September 22, 1947.
DORSION OF
Duk
UNCLASSIFIED
NORTHLAST ASTAN AFFAIRS
No. 1294
OCT - 31947
DEPARIMENI OF STATE
19480CT 1 PM 3 39
DEBARTMENT OF STATE
20232/9-2247
SUBJECT: Decision on Japanese Government Proposal to Send
1732.94
Envoy to Brazil.
RECEIVED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
mashington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No. 1255,
FE
ARA
August 29, 1947, on the subject "Japanese Government Proposal to
Send Special Envoy to Brazil". As stated in the final paragraph of
reference despatch, the Japanese Government proposal to send a special
FC
emissary to Brazil has been under active consideration by this Head-
OCD
quarters. The concurrence of the G-2 Section of Headquarters to the
proposal was obtained on September 2. The views of the G-1 and Govern-
1
ment Sections are contained in their communications dated September 8
DCPR
and September lu respectively. Copies of pertinent portions of these
communications are enclosed herewith.
Un September 11, 1947, there was received from the Swedish Diplo-
matic Mission in Japan a Note Verbale dated September 8, 1947, addressed
to the Japanese Ministry for Foreign Affairs, in which it is stated that
according to the Brazilian authorities, there is no longer need for the
3/
dispatch of an emissary to Brazil. This Note, copy of which is forward-
ed herewith, was transmitted to the Japanese Government on September 15
by this mission, as the viplomatic Section of General Headquarters.
The Japanese tovernment was at the same time informed that no further
action in this regard is deemed necessary at the present time.
rospectfully yours,
P AE
47   2 5
RECEVED
W. Jo wobald
Counselor of Mission
7
Enclosuress

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's 1294,
September 22, 1947
-2-
1. Extract from communication
from G-1, September 8, 1947.
2.
Extract from communication
from Government Section,
September 10, 1947.
3.
Copy of Note Verbale
No. BB-244/47, September 8,
1947, from Swedish Diplomatic
Mission to Japanese Ministry
for Foreign Affairs..
L
Original and hectograph to Department.
Copy to American Consulate General, São Paulo.
701.32/704
JWBurnett/blc

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 1294, dated September 22, 1947, fre
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subjeet,
"Decision on Japanese Government Proposal to Send Special Envoy to
Brazil".
COPY
Extract from G-1 Communication of September 8, 1947
1. G-1 does not concur in the proposal to allow the Japanese
Government to send a special envoy to Brazil for the purpose of com-
batting widespread propaganda there which is causing disturbance among
the Japanese people.
2. It is believed that the following cogent reasons exist which
would make such a course of action undesirable.
a. This matter is considered to be an internal affair of the
Brazilian Government and no formal request for action has been received
from the Brazilian Government. Until such time as a request is received
from the Brazilian Government, it is not believed desirable for the U.S.
to foster what amounts to interference in Brazilian internal affairs.
b. Information concerning such disturbances indicates that
they appear to be causing no embarrassment currently to the U.S. Govern-
ment or to the Brazilian Government, being confined purely to the
Japanese minority in Brazil.
c. The communication from the Japanese Government indicates
that a copy of he Imperial rescript ordering surrender and numerous
communications sent by the Japanese have been treated as malicious
propaganda and have had no deterrent effect upon the Japanese. It is
apparent from this that the groups concerned are fanatical. If this
is their attitude it is believed that there is not a single Japanese
in public life today who could probably convince this group that Japan
had actually lost the war. It is believed this is true because the
Japanese in public life today were unknown in pre-war Japan except as
liberals. The only type of individual who might be able to convince the
Japanese that the war has actually been lost is one of the pre-war
militarists or military party. All of these individuals have been
purged and it is considered undesi able to return them to Japanes public
iife in any way.

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 1294, dated September 22, 1947, from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject,
"Decision on Japanese Government Proposal to Send Special Envoy to
Brazil".
COPY
Extract from Government Section Communication of September 10, 1947
1. Government Section does not concur in suggested visit of a
special Japanese envoy to Brazil.
2. Government Section is in full accordance with the views
expressed by G-1 in Paragraph 2 of Check Note 3, and for the follow-
ing additional reasons:
a. Any project of this nature would violate established
SCAP policy of not permitting the Japanese Government or any of its
official agents to enter into any direct negotiation or communication
with the government or agency of any foreign country.
b. The recommended visit would amount to a clear violation
of a proposed policy decision of the Far Eastern Commission dated
15 August 1947 (FEC-240/6) which limits travel of Japanese abroad at
the present time to "participation in non-governmental international
conferences and conventions" and specifically states that "no inter
change should be effected of persons who might engage in any political
or propaganda activities".
c. It is felt that the idea is also inconsistent with the
post-war position occupied by the Allies in that the culmination of
this proposal would indicate that a group of Japanese nationals in a
United Nations country can be handled only through the intervention
and assistance of the Japanese Government.
d. Such action as requested by the Japanese Government will
undoubtedly be regarded by the Government of Brazil as an unwarranted
and offensive intrusion upon its internal affairs.

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No 3 to Despatch No. 1294, dated September 22, 1947, f
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the sabjeet,
"Decision on Japanese Government Proposal to Send Special Envey to
Brazil".
COPY
SWEDISH DIPLOMATI MISSION
Ref. BB-244/47
Note Verbale
The Swedish Diplomatic Mission in Japan presents its compliments
to the Japanese Ministry for Foreign Affairs and, referring to the
latter's note verbale of 21st August, 1947, No. 56/LJ, regarding the
proposal to despatch an Emissary to the United States of Brasil, has
the honour to state as follows.
The offer of the Japanese Government to despatch a qualified
Emissary - subject to the approval of the proper Allied and Brasilian
Authorities - to the United States of Brazil with a view to asdst the
Brazilian Authorities in their endeavours to halt the unrest and mds-
understandings amongst certain elements of the Japanese people in
Brazil has been brought to the knowledge of the Brazilian Federal
Government through the intermediary of the Swedish Authorities con-
cerned.
The Royal Legation at nio de Janeiro, in charge of Japanese
interests in Brazil, indicated in August, 1947, that in reply to
this proposal the Brazilian rederal Government - after having con-
sulted the Government of the state of sao Paolo, where the main
disturbances had occurred - have stated that they are grateful for
the offer of such an missary from Japan but that, in viow of the
fact that the situation at present in the areas inhabited by Japanese
citizens is calmer than earlier, they feel that it is now possible to
handle the matter without the assistance of an Emissary.
Tokyo, 8th september, 1947
Japanese ministry for Foreign affairs,
rokyo.

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.92)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
Department of State
NO. A- 40
Washington,
April 5,1948
448
448
894.20232
t..e extent that they are no longer venturin as far ae murder to inspire
terror, they are still active and their efforts are causing doubts in the
minds of thousands of Japenese as to the reality of the American victory.
Consequently the receipt of the newspapers mentioned in despatch no. 57
1-2648
of January 26, 1948 would be of great value.
Lovett, acting
LOVETT
(5mB)
(ACTING)
CS/A
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICI ONLY)
ECRET
9m
SD
3/31/48
CM
1048

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.93)
FOR JAPAN
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
No. 57
SECRET
Altilude
Thie
wasnington, D.c.
a
E
Sir1
BmB
732.92
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's des-
patch No. 1294, September 22, 1947 and previous on the
subject of the attitude and activities of Japanese resi-
dents in Brazil. Despite the assurances contained in
the note dated September 8, 1947 addressed by the Swedish
732
Diplomatic Mission to the Japanese Foreign Office that
there is no longer a need for the dispatch of an emissary
to Brazil, subsequent information available to this Mis-
FE
sion indicates that there is still considerable umrest
among Japanese in South America. Press reports centimme
to state that many Japanese overseas still do mot believe
ARA
that Japan was defeated, and that some of them have
banded into nationalistic societies for the purpose ef
店
terrorizing other Japanese who admit their country's defeat.
In this connectien there is forwarded berewith copy
000
of an article entitled "Reaction of Japamese in the
DC/R
Americas," which was prepared by the Civil Intelligemee
Section of this Headquarters and published in its "Peri-
odical Summary," No. 24, Jammary 15, 1948.
That the Japanese Government is aware of the situ-
ation in Brasil is evident from the receipt recemtly ef
a request from the Japamese Government fer permissiem to
send by air mail l40 copies daily of taree majer Japamese
mewspapers to residents in Brasil, Mexico, Pemm and
Argeatima. This request has not yet been aeted upem by
the competent authorities of this Headquarters.
Respectfally yoars,
FLE
Leting Pelitieal Lévises
FEB3-1948
Artiele entitled
DCA
UN

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.97)
Jaelesure to Despatch No. 57 dated Jammary 26, 1948
Frem the Office of the Umited States Pelitieel Advies
at Tokye, entitled "Attitude and Activities of Japemese
Residents in Brasil."
SECRET
Source: Civil Intelligence Seetion
PERIODICAL SUMMARY, ISGO
No. 24, Jammary 15, 1948,
GHQ, FÉC.
REACTION OF JAPANESE IN THE AMERICAS
Did Japan Win the War? A Review of Comments frem
Lapanese Abread.
Brasil's Japanese Cut Off from Cemmumicatiom;
Believe Japan Victor
b. Ultra-Nationalistic League Spreads Wild Tales;
Reign of Terror
c. Opportunists Swindle Compatriots, Sell Land,
Ship Tickets, Yen
d. Ask for Letters, Photos, Delegation frem Japan
to Convince Fanatics
Victory Virus Spreads to Other Countries;
Fanatics Won't Face Facts
General: A study of postal intercepts during the past
six months reveals that thousands of Japanese living
abroad are convinced that Japan has won the war. Mere
than 80 percent of these letters come from Brasil
(whose 350,000 Japanese and Nissi are largely cencen-
trated in the State of Sao Paulo). Similar ideas, how-
ever, are expressed in correspondence from Peru, Haweii,
Mexico, Cuba, Sweden and the United 3tates: Such a
state of affairs, while not presently serious, is both
interesting as a phenomenon and significant in that it
illustrates the gullibility and fanaticism commom to
many Japanese.
Most of the Japanese farmers, living in compara-
tive isolation, cut off from Japanese commmmiea-
tion and having only a meager knowledge ef the
language of the country, were easily led by
propagandists after the war to believe their
fatherland had been victorious.
In Brasil, where propaganda activities are being direeted
by a well organised group of ultra-nationalists,
"victery believers" have been cansing considerable
trouble to Brasilian authorities as well as te their
less creduleus compatriots. The follewing paragrephs
centain a mere detailed amalysis of this amemalous
situation.
a. rsl' e Ct f  Ct
Mlier Jan ar:
As Jepanese language

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokye's
No. 57, Janmary 26, 1948.
Japanese living in Brasil. Then, as one correspond-
ent put it, "on 15 Aug 45, the Japanese overseas
broadcast came to a stop. The last thing we heard was
the Imperial Rescript, and after that the only mews
came from foreign countries. Therefore, there was me
knowing the true situation of Japan." Under these
circumstances, it was a simple matter for propagandists
to disseminate "news" of Japan's great victory, with
the result that an estimated 70-95 percent of the
Japanese colony in Brazil, thoroughly convinced that
Japan had conquered her enemies, celebrated the joyous
occasion with appropriate festivities, while some
writers mentioned plans for visiting Rio de Janeiro to
welcome the victorious Japanese fleet.
b. Ultra-Nationalistic League Spreads Wild Bamora;
Reign of Terror:
Shortly after Japan's surrender, an ultra-national-
1stic organization was formed under the leadership of
a former lieutenant colonel in the Japanese cavalry.
This group, the Japanese Nationalists' League (Shindo
Renmei) lost no time in circulating rumors to the ef-
fect that General MacArthur was a prisoner of war; that
the Japanese fleet, led by the Emperor, had sunk or
captured the entire American navy, and that Japanese
forces, having annihilated the enemy by means of a
super atomic bomb, had retaken Okinawa. So strongly has
this propaganda taken hold in the minds of the simple
people, that efforts of responsible Japanese leaders to
acquaint them with the true state of affairs have been
entirely unsuccessful. Persons who speak of Japan's
defeat, say the benighted ones, have been bribed by the
Jews; letters from relatives in Japan were actually
written, or rewritten, in the United States before they
reached Brazil; and the Imperial Rescript announcing
Japan's surrender is an American forgery.
"When you send me a letter," a Sao Paulo
Japanese instructs his friend in Japan, "please
don't write about the war. The influence of the
people who believe in Japan's defeat is so strong
at present, that they open all mail and rewrite
the contents."
Proof of this is contained in the follewing inter-
cept in which the writer, a Japanese living in krasil
said: "The handwriting on the envelepe of your letter
is similar te those of your other air mail letters, se
whieh I am retarning is apparently met years beeaase
the lotter and changed the contents. Would yom he

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
No. 57, Jammary 26, 1948.
kind enough to certify that the enclosed letter is a
forgery." The enclosed letter which was dated Sep 47
read as follows: "Hoisting the flag of unconditiomal
surrender, all the Allied Forces came inte Tokye Bay
on 9 Aug 45....We hear bad propaganda claiming that
Japan was defeated is being spread in Brasil. However,
the contrary is the truth. As Greater Bast Asia is
too vast to be dominated by only those in the home-
land, the overseas residents will be called back to
Japan in the near future to help in the great work."
"The propaganda about Japan's defeat is tre-
mendous," writes another Paulista, "but there is
virtually no evidence warranting it. Presumably
due to some trick, Japan has ceased sending radio
news since 18 Aug 45. Availing themselves of
this opportunity, Brazilian papers began propa-
gating word of the surrender of Japan, and some
imprudent Japanese believe it."
Under the aegis of the Shindo Renme1, a Special
Attack Corps (Tokko Tai) was formed to take care of
"defeatists"--anyone who admitted Japan's defeat. By
May, 47, this terrorist group had assassinated more
than 30 of the most prominent members of the Japanese
who had tried to bring the people to their senses.
Correspondents report that of the five Japanese-
language newspapers published in Brazil, only one, The
Paulista (Paurisuta Shimbun), dares to acknowledge
Japan's downfall. "It take a lot of courage to read
this paper," says one subscriber grimly, "since readers
are ipso facto, identified with the defeatist group.
Other newspapers print the news in such a manner as te
imply Japan's victory, or else they adopt an ambigueus
attitude."
c. Opportunists Swindle Compatriota. Sell Land,
Ship Tickets. Yen:
Taking advantage of the confusion, unserupulous
opportunists proceeded to buy up the property ef
Japanese eager to return to their homeland. "According
to other reports, Japanese colomists are also being
victimised by speculaters who "sell spurious ship
and Berneo, market worthless Japanese curremey." Re-
lief movements which had been started hy the summer ef
1947 are still serionsly hampered by the widesppeed fee
ing ameng Japenese residents that vieterious Japan 
me help from abreed.

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.98)
Emelesare to Tokye's
No. 57, Jamary 26, 1948.
written as late as October and November indicate that
more than half the Japanese in Brasil still refase te
consider the possibility of Japan's defeat. Respemsi-
ble Japanese, fearing for the reputation and future
status of the colony, ("These foolish people are mak-
ing us the laughing stock of the town.") are urgently
requesting letters, photographs and information frem
Japan which will help them combat the campaigm ef
fanaticism. ("Tell as many fellow countrymen as pessi-
ble to write to us about the true result of the war,
so that many lives here may be saved.") Other letters
request that a delegation of well known Japenese
(former Education Minister Tanaka Kotaro, and athlete
Nambu Chuhei) be sent to Brazil to enlighten the
poople.
Victory Virus Spreads to Other Countries;
Fanatics Won't Face Facta:
In Peru, where the Japanese population is more in-
tegrated, the situation did not arise until ome Abe
Kenzo smuggled himself into the country, from Brasil.
Unfortunately, before his arrest by Peruvian autheri-
ties, Abe succeeded in creating two hostile camps among
the Japanese in that country. In Hawaii, varieus
"victory societies" have sprung up to prey upon the
naivete of a small proportion of Japanese residemts.
At least seven such societies have been reported. Mow-
ever, a correspondent reports that "The American
Government deals very leniently with them and the
people in general look upon them with pity." Vietory
organisations have sprung up in Mexice, Caka, and
Sweden. Even in the United States, a few Japanese
have managed to retain the illusion of Japam's iavim-
cibility. From Seattle, comes the quixotic metatiem
that "Japan has nothing to be anxious about. Even the
white men in the US say that Japan has won the war...."

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
TO
: NA - Mr. Boa
DATE: Fobruary 
FROM : BA - Mr. Allan Dawson
suBject: Attitude and Activities of Japanesc Residents in Braz1l
In reply to your memorandum dated February 17, BA
offers the following comments in connection with your
inquiry:
1. While it is perfectly true that some months
ago there was reason to believe that a limited
number of Japanese resident in Brazil were not
89
convinced that Japan had lost the war, it now appears
that this situation has completely changed. There
is no current indication that the troubles previously
reported have continued. On the contrary, everything
now seems to be quite tranquil with no suggestion that
any of the so-called "nationalistic societies" are now
conspicious by their activities.
e
2. It is the opinion of BA that copies of major
Japanese newspapers might serve a very useful purpose
in Brazil although a special distribution arrangement
would undoubtedly have to be set up with the Brazilian
C
authorities. It is felt, however, that such papers
and their utilization would not justify their being
2
forwarded via airmail. They could probably serve the
same purpose by being forwarded to the distribution
agency through the regular mail or through the steamer
pouch provided the São Paulo Consulate General is to
be identified in any way with their distribution.
648
Allan Dawson
SECRET FILE
BA: DGG urk: e kn
2-19-4
SECRET

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.95)
MAR 231948
SECRET
No. 44
To the
894.20232/1-2648
Acting United States Political Adviser fer Japan,
Tokyo.
The Secretary of State refers to despateh no. 57
of January 26, 1948 in regard to the attitude and activ
ities of Japanese residents in Brasil. It is neted that
the Acting Political Adviser forwarded a copy of this
deapatch to the American Consulate General at são Paule.
The Consul General at São Paulo has now reperted
the despatch has been read with great interest and that
full corroborations can be given to the information eem
tained therein. It is alse reported that in general
the situation in São Paulo has improved materially dur-
ing recent months largely besause of the inereased
number of personal letters being received from Japan as
well as Japanese newspapers.
The Consul General believes that the request of
the Japanese Government for permission to send by air-
mail 140 copies of three major Japanese newspapers to
residents in Brazil, Mexico, Peru and Argentina should,
as far as Brasil is coneerned, be given every considera-
tion as it would afford a very powerful influenee toward
CS/A
•liminating the nationalist groups which, although fer
the present are relatively quiet, are by no means dis-
solved. The Consul General reports that the proposed
visit of a Japanese delegation to Sãe Paulo would be
effeotive but is opposed by the Brazilian authorities
who are reluetant to admit their failure to cope with
the situation.
894.2023
2.√
à true opy 
CK
CRET
21948
1
894.20232/81948
94
1-2648
FC:HHGOshO: jr
3/11/48 10
SECRET

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.94)
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São Paulo, Brazil, Febru
SuBJEcT. Attitude and Activities of Japanese Residents
in Brazil.
L18211-311/42
SIR
I have the honor to rerer to Despatoh No. 57 from
Japan, Tokyo, January 26, 1948. The despatch has been
read with great interest and full corroborations oan
be given to the information contained therein.
20232/2-1248
In general the situation in São Paulo has improved
materially during the past 6 months largely because of
the increased number of personal letters being received
from Japan and also because of the Japanese newspapers
which the Department so ably arranged for. It is be-
lieved that the request of the Japanese governmert for
ENR
permission to send by airmail l40 copies of three major
ARA
Japanese newspapers to residents in Brazil, Mexioo,
Peru, and Argentina should, as far as Brazil is concera-
2FE
ed, be given every consideration as it would afford a
very powerful influence toward eliminating the nation-
01L
alist groups which although for the time being at least
CCD
are relatively quiet are by no means disolved.
FC/R
The proposed visit of a Japanese delegation would
be very effective, but is opposed by the Brazilian
authorities who are reluotant to admit their failure
to cope with the situation.
Respectrully yours,
TBEPARTMENT OF STALF
CS/A
Cocil M. P. Cro
American Consul General
File No. 800
cMPCross:vzp
MAK 29
33
DOR . ARA Datt
Amal
as

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.91)
MCOMSUL
MO PAULO, BRAZIL
The Department is recentls
for Japan which states that the
evidence that many Japanese in
that Japan has been defeated. It 1
this evidence is based upon intares
months. It is further reported thet
permission to send by airmail copies of
Japanese newspapers to residents in Bra
The Department would be appreciativeiag
regarding the present situatier as res
in your district and whether you feel
of copies of Japanese newapapers would
ing any still remaining nationalistid
ganda that Japan has not been defeate
the number of Japanese newspapers
for distribution and it is doubtral
894.911
the complete journey. Presumably any ais
7329
newapapers would have to be made on the ba
granted by Brazilian authorities. Your ree
and comments on this aspect of the problemax
Marshee
DOR  ARA Unit
Anni
Bimayan
mr
VAL
Barnparkzekn
2-2748
NA -
Lory
Gk
CONFIDRNTIAL

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.94)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
COIN IDENTIAL
.IRGI
3410
FROL
DRHANTENT OF B7ATE
São Paulo, Brazil
AF
MAR 23 1349
Dated Meroh 8, 1948
wewe
Dated Dispatched: itroh 12,1948
Date Reccived: Mer. 22, 1948
894.20232/3-848
9:36 AM
3
FC
Secretary of State,
z
ACTION
ashington.
INFO
DC/R
C
n-43, aroh 8, 1948
PE
OCD
The Japanese situation subject of Airgram-20,
CIA
Larch 1, 1948 is still e source of concern. The ele-
FC
ments foaterin, the belief in a Japanese victory have
been curbed to the extent that they are no longer ven-
turing as far as murder to inapire terror, but they are
still active und their efforts are causing doubts in
the minde of thousands of Japanese oo to the reality
of the merican viotory. The receipt of the papers in-
dicated would be of great value.
In tnis connection see my Despatch No. 57 dated
February 17, 1948 entitled "attitude und Activities or
Japanese Residents in Brazil."
ConfidentiafH
MAR2 9 1948
-x8
CROSS
DEPARTMENT OF
APR 6 1948
Cr.PC:vzp
Filg No. 800
CUIYIUENTIAL
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must bè returmed to DC/R cemtral les with netatien of action taken.

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.97)
DATE: March 6, 1951
: NA Mail Room
mom : SY - H. H. Gosho
SUBJBCT:
The attached  documents are
believed to be a part of Na files.
They are returned herewith.

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.98)
DAT: Feb. 16, 1948.
FROM : MG MUy.
subjBcr: Attached.
Sebald forwards a copy of an article
"Reaction of Japanese in the Americas",
prepared by the Civil Intelligence Section
on the basis of postal intercepts.
Many thousands of Japanese in the
Americas -- mostly in Brazil -- are still
convinced that Japan won the war. So strong
1s the Japanese ultra-nationalist League in
Brazil, that of the 5 Japanese language
newspapers in Brazil, only one darea to
acknowledge Japan's downfall. Responsible
Japanese citizens of Brazil urgently re-
quest letters, photographs, information and
personal representation by leading Japanese
to combat the fanatics' campaign.
Sebald comments that the Japanese goverr
ment has offered to send by air mail 140
copies dally of 3 major Japanese newspapers
to residents in Brazil, Mexico, Peru and
Argentina; but that this offer has not yet
been acted upon by SCAP HQ.
(It might be advisable to refer this
despatch to ARA for comment, particularly
upon the last paragraph of the covering
despatch. If ARA is of the opinion that the
forwarding of these newspapers would mate-
rially assist in the campaign to root out
Japanese ultranationalism in Latin America,
we might forward ARA's comment to POLAD.)
NA:MG/hhc

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.95)
CONTIRRIAL
Offic• Memorandum
NORTHEAST ASTATAF
TO
MA - Mr. Bond
1968
BR - Mr. Clark
SUBJECT:
Attitude and Activities of Japanese Residents in Brasile
With further reference to your momorandum of
February 17 regarding subject topio and the inquiry
sent to Rio by R on March 1, I can now report the
Afrom Sao Paulo
e beer curteu  ti axtent that they
are no longer venturing as far as murdor to in-
spire torror, but they are still active and their
offorts are oausing doubts in the minds of theu-
sands of Japanese as to the reality of the Ameri-
can victory. The receipt of the papers indicated
would be of great value.
"In this connection see my Despateh No. 57
dated February 17, 1948 entitled 'Attitude and
Activities of Japanese Residents in Brasil."
There would seem to be no doubt that the provisien
of Japanese newspapers can serve a useful purpese in
São Paulo. I accordingly suggest that the nesessary
arrangements be made with the occupation authorities
in Japan, and as soon as the papers begin arriving
we can work out some plan for sonding them along to
São Paulo. As soon as we know that we can count upon
these newspapers coming along in a steady flow, we eam
advise São Paulo and ask the Consulate General te estab-
lish a regular distribution plan and inform us ef this
plan so that we will knew how this mtter is being
handled.
NUV 23 1951
ayne G. Clark
11.4.
BR : DGC la rk smb
CONFIPENTIAL

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.98)
Office Memorandum · UNITED STATES GOVERN
TO
Woon
DATB: July 6, 1948
FROM : NA - Mr. Green
wa
SUBJECT:
Attached.
The highlights of Civil Censorehip for June are
as follows:
1. Japanese fanaticiem in Brazil. Correspondents
estimate that at present about three-fourths of Brazils
Japanese colony, consisting of some 350,000 settlers and
Nisei concentrated mainly in the state of Sao Paulo,
94.20232/7-1548
remain steadfast in their belief that Japan was victor-
lous in the war. Various circumstances have inoreased
the 1solation of the Japanese community, rendering 1t
easy prey to the Shindo, an extremist-terrorist Japanese
clique in Brazil of extensive influence. Prior to the
war publication of Japanese language newspapers was
banned by the Brazilian Government. Most of the Japanese
were unable to read the Portuguese-language press. Cor-
respondence with Japan was broken off. Japanese short
wave broadoasts ceased.
While restrictions on Japanese language publications
were l1fted by the Brazilian Government in 1947, four of
the five local Japanese newspapers that subsequently ap-
peared have been under the control of the Shindo. The
Shindo has also fostered the belief in Japan's military
supremacy by tampering with the mails, falsifying newe
photos and billing militant movies.
An analogous situation has arisen in Peru, although
on a decidedly smaller scale. Small Japanese extremist
FW894.20232
organizations also thrive in Mexico, Hawai1, Cuba and
Canada.
Comment: You will recall that NA arranged several
months ago with BR and USPoLaD to have copies of Japanese
metropolitan newspapers sent regularly to Brazil. We have
received no word from USpoLAD whether these newspapers are
being sent. Perhaps we had better send a follow-up airgram
S
to Sebald.7
2. Public attitudes on the Japanese Governmt.
Based on an impressive number of mail intercepts, Uivy
Censorship has come to a number of significant commlu
sions about the Japanese voter. Politically naiv:
our-
rently shows no appreciation of the diffioulties &

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
confronting the Cabinet. At the same time he is exhibiting
declining interest in political polemios and is expressing
weariness over the frequent cabinet orises.
Before Cabinet's fall, Civil Censorship pointe out,
the tempo of criticism shifts from general disapproval to
a rabid denunciation of national leaders and all their
works. The Ashida Government has not yet entered upon
this latter atage of public disfavor; and on this basis
Civil Censorship predicts that Ashida's position 1s tempo-
rarily secure. Voters who originally predicted his down-
fall by late Spring are now said to be redating their
obituaries for late summer or fall.
DOR
ni
VVL
An.
Dist.
NA:MGreen:lt

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.94)
JUL151948
BEGRET
No. 112
To the
Aoting United States Politieal Adviser for Japam,
894.20232/7-1548
Tokyo.
89420222/2-1748
The Seoretary of State refers to hie Iastrustien Me. 44,
dated Maroh 23, l948, resommending that faverable eomaßdera-
tion be given by General Keadquarters to the request ef the
Jap nese Government for permission te send eoples of masar
Japanese newspapers to Japanese residents in Brasil, Mexies,
Peru and Argentina. Information on the present status of
the Japanese Government's request would be appreeiated.
In this oonnestion it is noted that eensorslip inter-
cepts from Brasil (see the June issue or the Givil Intalls-
gence Section's Perledleal Summary) indieate that a sisable
proportion of the Japanese residents in that sountry still
refuse to believe that Japan 1s defeated and that leeal
Japanese ultra-nationalistic societies continue te exereise
strong influenee.
VVL
An
JUL 15 
894.20232
SECRET
CSA
wa
FE
7/12/48
2011

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
ACTION
is assigned to
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
ele
No. 521
ACNCH
SECRET
PH
ese Publications Being Sent Abroad.
894.20232/8-1348
FEPART
894.2(2 32/7-15-48 19)
Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to the
Department's instruction No. 112 of July 15, 1948 requesting informa-
tion concerming the sending of Japanese newspapers to Japanese residents
in Brazil, Mexico, Peru, and Argentina and to enclose two tables showing
1/
the number of magazines and newspapers forwarded, one showing figures
2/
from April through July l948 and the other showing the figures after
August 1.
The Department's attention is invited to the fact that figures
TC.
for other countries are also included since they have been furnished
to this office by Mr. KOJIMA Tasaku, Chief of Overseas Japanese Section,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Kojima pointed out that the number
of publications being sent abroad hes been drastical ly reduced as of
August 1 because of the rising price of publications and the limited
funds available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This reduction
Cn
has been necessary even though the Overseas Japanese Relief Association
is now cooperating in sending the publications. Mr. Kojima stated
that efforts would be made to obtein additional funds to defray the
9/748
expenses of sending larger numbers of publications. This Mission
encouraged Mr. Kojima to exert as much effort as possible to obtain
such funds.
A list of organizations and individuals to whom the newspapers
3/
and magazines are being sent is also enclosed. Mr. Kojime reported
that some letters expressing appreciation for the papers have thus
far been received from persons in Brazil, Colombia, Cuba and the
United States.
Enclosures:
1.
List of Japanese Newspapers
being sent Abroad from April
through July, 1948.
2.
List of Japanese Newspapers
being sent Abroad from
August 1, 1948.
3.
List of Organizations and
individuals to whom News-
papers are being sent.
Original and ozalid to Department.
704
WHLawrence,Jr.:mhp
0.1-1
SECRET

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 521 dated Angust 15, 1948
the Ofrice of the Politieal
Japan, Tokyo, on the subjeet, wyey
Publications Being Sent Abroad".
SECRET
(COPY)
Forwarded Number of Newspapers and Magazines
From April through July 1948
Forwarding Address
Asahi
Mainichi
Chuo-Koron
Ka1zo
Brazil
50
50
20
Argentine
7
7
10
Paraguay
3
3
Chile
2
2
Bolivia
2
2
Peru
10
10
10
Colombia
3
3
Cuba
2
2
Mexico
6
6
10
U.S.A.
25
25
20
Hawai1
20
20
20
Canada
10
10
10
China
10
10
Total
150
150
50
50
SECRET

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.99)
Emelosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 521
August 13, 1948.
SECRET
-2-
Forwarding Address
Sekai-no-Ugoki
Sunday Mainichi
King
Brazil
10
15
25
Argentine
5
5
Paraguay
5
Chile
5
Boliv1a
5
Peru
10
5
Colombia
5
Cuba
5
Mexico
5
5
U.S.A.
25
25
Hawaii
20
20
Canada
5
10
China
5
25
5
Total
50
100
100
SECRET

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.99)
of the Political Adviser fer
on the subject, "Japanese Publieesim
Being Sent Abroad".
(COPY)
SECRET
Forwerded Numter of Newspapers and Magazines
After August 1, 1948
Forwarding Address
Asah1
Mainichi
Chuokoron
Sekai no Ugoki
Brazil
20
20
15
15
Argentine
5
5
3
3
Paraguay
2
2
2
2
Chile
2
2
2
2
Bolivia
2
2
2
2
Peru
5
5
3
3
Colombia
2
2
2
2
Cuba
2
2
2
2
Mexico
5
5
3
3
U.S.A.
1.5
15
10
10
Hawaii
10
10
10
10
Canada
5
5
3
3
China
5
5
3
3
Total
80
80
60
60
SECRET

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.98)
of the Political Adviser fer Joge
Tokyo, on t he subject, "Japemese
Publications Being Sent Abroed".
SECRET
(C)PY)
Destination of Newspapers and Magazines
Encarregado dos Intereses Japoneses, Consulado da Suecia,
Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Associacion Japonesa en Buenos Aires, Argentine.
Colonia Japonesa, Colmena, Paraguay.
Takayasu Hombo, Santiago, Chile.
Gozo Suematsu, La Paz, Bolivia.
Encargado de Intereses Japoneses, Consulado de suecia, Lima, Peru.
Koichi Tamura, Cali, Colombia.
Kiichi Iwama, Havana, Cuba.
Comite Japones de Ayuda Mutua, Mexico, Mexico.
The Nichi Bei Times in San Francisco and other 4 places, U.S.A.
The Hawaii Times, Honolulu, Hawaii.
New Canadian, Toronto, Canada.
The Japanese Association, Shanghai, China.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.92)
AMERICAN CONSULATE
São Pallo, razil, Octover 14, 1948
SuBJEcT: OI (L.P) - rans...itting Copies of Book o
Depurtment and General McArthur
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the heno. to sra. s it herewi th two copies of
a book e.tittleu "S i do Remmei — Terrorismo e Extorsão",
dea ing wi th Japanese terrcrist activities in Brazil,
y Dr. Murio Botelio as  irenda. One of these the
author has sub itted as or possible interest to the
Department, and the other, an autographed copy, he has
r uested be forwarded to General Douglas Mcarthur.
Dr. Lari Botelho de iranda was sent to Japan
Pos-Oc/
in 1940 by the Brazilian Governnent on a cultural
COnTE
mission am left that country in 1942 on the exchange
ship, Gripsholm. an ex ert on Japanese affairs, his
ARA
sorvices are understood to be utilized by the local
police authorities in usaling with the assassinations
EUR
and other disturbances which frequently occur in the
sy
Japanese colony.
una
It is respectfully re ue ted that, if there is
FA
no objection, the epartuent forward the autographed
copy to General carthur.
Respectfully yours,
N
oncs Branch
25 TC0 e
PUI AFFAIRS OVESEAS PRORA STAFF
DEHARIWENI
LCIRITIER
Cecil . P. Cross
Consul General
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
0
TTATS
8420
foPer
ST/AIg
1 Copy for the Enbassy: Rio de Janei
End.att
Enclosure:
as stated above
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM
FILE NO.
RECORD COPY
894.20232/10-144
THE ATTACHED COPY OF ADESPATCH TELEGRAM AIRGRAM
SAO PAULO
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
18
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
DESP. 344
JUL 2 1 1949
FLaD
M-184
11-9-48

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.85)
OCT 2 5 1948
CONTR
POS-O
0 Ye10, , 00e 24, 2000
894.202
requee ted be formerded to Gesesel Dongias Meértkume
32
and other dieturbemmmmieh fregusntly ceeur la the
Japanese eolomy.
It la respeetrully requested thet, 1f these 1s
cepy to Gommsal Mearthur.
mapeetrully yours.

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.89)
NOV181048
184
United States
Acting Political Advieor for Japan,
Genartl MacArthur.
Under Separate Cover:
Book onbitled SHINDO REMEI
DOR NE U
894.20232/10-1448
es.
0207.379
EoR
NOV 15
P:P03/J:DCBuchanen/rx
11/5/48
POS POS/A

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.96)
POS - Mr. Cody
mom : POS - Mr. Schuler
susjmct: Transmission of book entitled Shindo Remmei.
You will note from Tokyo's despatch No. 779
dated December 13, 1948 attached that the auto-
graphed copy of the book "Shindo Remmei" was
delivered to General MacArthur who expressed his
appreciation of the author's thoughtfulness and
generosity.
You may wish to draft an instruction to Rio
embodying the above information and requesting
ye
the cultural officer to transmit to Dr. Miranda
the appreciation, cordial regards, and good
wishes of General macArthur.
12/29/48
P:POS:DCBuchanan/dfe

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Politieal
for Japan
Tokyo, Deoember 13,
No. 779
UNCLASSIFIED
99.÷02
DEC22
Subject: Transmission of book entitled Shindo Rommei.
The Aoting rolitical Adviser has the honor to
refer to the Department's instruction No. 184 of
November 18, 1948 concerning a book by Dr. Mario Botelho
20232/1
de Miranda entitled Shindo Remmei and the desire of the
author that an autographed copy sent to this Mission
under separate cover be delivered to General MacArthur.
ACTION
POS
The volume was delivered to General MaoArthur who
18
has expressed his appreciation of Dr. Miranda's thought-
TU:
fulness and generosity and has asked this Mission to
FE
transmit his cordial regards and good wishes to the
author. The Department's assistance in this regard
woud be ppreoiated.
8
DCR
98 2 
948 DEC 21 AM 9 11
S31S
RECEIVED
8
to:
American Consulate General,
Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Original and ozalid to Department.
0.20
DOT
Jen. Undt
omspinks:mhp
Anal
Rev.
Ost.

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.93)
NCLASSPED
No.
To the
American Consular Officer in Charge,
Bão Paulo, Brasil.
The hettme Secretary of State refers to Casp
Adviser in Tokyo, Japam, copy of whieh was semt 
Ameriean Consulate General in São Paalo. This &
by the author, was delivered to General keekr
The Ofricer in Cherge, at his diseretien, is 
quested to convey Jeneral Macarthur's appreciatiom of
Dr. uiranda's thoughtfulness and generosity as well as
his cordial regards and good wishes to the auther.
JAN 12 1949 P.M
Copy tos American Embassy, Rio de Janeiro.
1/7/49
POS万
POS/A:MCody:mp
