894.61321 Agriculture., Field Crops. Seeds., Fibers., Japan, Cotton., February 7, 1946 - November 8, 1949 (File 1778)
ID: 894.61321-1778   Pages: 135   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.61321-agriculture-field-crops-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
2060
THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
ARTMENT OF STATE
Pebruary 7, 1946
 4 11
The Secretary of State
343 FEB 7
The Secretary of War
The Chairman of the Board of
Offinoof
Directors, U.S. Com ercial Company
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:
t of State
A number of conversations have been held between
representatives of the Department of State, the War Department,
U.S. Commercial Company (hereinafter referred to as UScC), and
Commodity Credit Corporation (hereinafter referred to as CCC)
894.61321/2-746
XR
for the purpose of formulating a program under which raw cotton
owned by CCC would be shipped to Japan and manufactured into
cotton textiles, and payment for such cotton and all other costs
894.24
in connection with the program would be made from the proceeds
of the sale of such textiles.
We now understand that the following terms are
satisfactory to all of the agencies concerned:
1. As used herein, the word "Cotton" shall mean raw
cotton and the word "Textiles" shall mean cotton textiles and
cotton yarn.
2. The Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers in Japan
(hereinafter referred to as SCAP) will cause the Japanese government
to nominate a Japanese government agency to take any and all steps
that may be necessary or convenient to facilitate the program as
hereinafter set forth. The Japanese agency will at all times
during the term of this agreement act under the direct supervision
and control of SCAP.
98
894.61321/2-746
3. CCC shall dispose of hereunder for export to Japan
such number of bales of cotton in accordance with such schedules
of shipment as shall be mutually agreed upon by the War Department
and CCC.
4. CCC shall determine the quality, grade and staple length
of the cotton to be disposed of hereunder. Before making such
determination, CCC shall consult with USCC. CCC shall obtain the
concurrence of the War Department (and through the War Department,
SCAP) in such determination.
MAR-41946
FILED
5. CCC shall receive as the price for cotton disposed of
hereunder the domestic market price for cotton which shall be the

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
average price per pound of Middling 15/16-inch white cotton on the
10 designated spot markets, as quoted by the United States Depart
ment of Agriculture, on the date the cotton is delivered f.a.s.
vessel, plus 120 points (1.2 cents per pound), and plus or minus,
if the cotton is of a quality other than Middling 15/16-inch white
cotton, the average premium or discount for such quality of cotton
on the 10 designated spot markets, as quoted by the United States
Department of Agriculture on such date, plus one-half percent of
such price. The price specified in this paragraph is for cotton
in high-density compressed bales and includes all charges against
the cotton before it is ready to be loaded aboard vessel for 30
days after the date the cotton is delivered at U.S. port f.a.s.
vessel. If the cotton is not placed aboard vessel during 30 days
after the cotton is so delivered at a United States port, the
foregoing price shall be increased by an amount equal to all charges
paid by CCC which accrue against said cotton subsequent to'said
30-day period until it is loaded aboard vessel. In computing the
price of cotton the weight shall be the gross weight as shown on
the warehouse records where stored and the class shall be the
official classification as shown in CCC's Sales Catalogue.
6. CCC shall establish an account receivable for the total
price of all cotton delivered f.a.s. vessel hereunder. Interest
shall accrue on such account receivable at the rate of 3 percent
per annum on the amount of the account outstanding at the end of
each calendar month. Said account receivable, with interest as
provided above shall be the amount due and payable to CCC hereunder.
CCC shall advise USCC and the War Department of the amount out-
standing in this account and the interest due thereon at the end
of each month.
7. CCC shall deliver the cotton f.a.s. vessel, United
States ports designated by it after consultation with USCC. Each
bale of cotton delivered by CCC shall be marked to indicate the
grade and staple length of the cotton. USCC will act on behalf
of CCC in receiving the cotton f.a.s. vessel at such United States
ports and effecting its transportation to Japan. USCC shall pay
all costs in connection with loading the cotton aboard vessels,
ocean transportation and unloading vessels in Japan.
8. Each shipment of cotton will be consigned to order of
CCC. Upon arrival of each shipment in Japan, USCC, on behalf of
CCC, will endorse the bill of lading to the Japanese agency and the
cotton shall be delivered to the Japanese agency ex-vessel Japanese
port and the Japanese agency shall deliver to USCC through SCAP
a receipt in duplicate therefor. SCAP will endorse upon each such
receipt the fact that the cotton therein described was delivered
by USCC to the Japanese agency pursuant to agreement between CCC,
USCC and the War Department. Title to the cotton shall pass to
the Japanese agency upon the delivery of such cotton to the
Japanese agency.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
9. The Japanese agency, subject to the direct supervision
and control of ScAP, shall retain title to the c∞tton and all
textiles made therefrom until the disposition of the textiles as
hereinafter set forth; provided, however, that until such disposition
SCAP will take such steps as are necessary to assure CCC a paramount
security claim upon all of the cotton and the textiles:
a. SCAP will be responsible for the cotton in
Japan, for its unloading from vessels, for its manufacture
into textiles and for the delivery of textiles to USCC
hereunder. SCAP will take such steps as are necessary
fully to protect the interests of CCC from the time of
the arrival of cotton in Japan until textiles are
delivered to USCC as provided herein.
b. Until such time as USCC and CCC shall have
been paid in full for all amounts due them hereunder,
SCAP will cause the Japanese agency to deliver to USCC
for sale such quantities of textiles conforming to such
specifications and instructions as are prescribed by USCC
and SCAP with the approval of CCC. The textiles so
required to be delivered to USCC will be not less than 60
percent of all the textiles manufactured during each 3-months'
period. It being a primary consideration of the parties
hereto that CCC and USCC shall be paid in full for all amounts
due them hereunder, the War Department, (and through the War
Department, SCAP) CCC, and USCC shall consult with each
other from time to time for the purpose of adjusting the
quantity of textiles to be delivered hereunder in order
to insure that CCC and USCC will be fully paid.
c. The balance of the textiles shall be
disposed of for such purposes as the War Department and
SCAP shall deem appropriate.
d. Prior to delivery of textiles to USCC,
SCAP will advise USCC directly or through the War Depart-
ment all pertinent details relative to any textiles
available and approved for delivery and upon approval by
SCAP such textiles shall be placed aboard a ship destined
for such port as may be specified by USCC unless USCC
shall request prior delivery. SCAP will take all reasonable
steps to assure that requests of USCC regarding packing,
routing and other normal details of shipping are carried
out.
e. SCAP will cause to be established and maintained
accounting and inventory controls for all of the cotton
delivered to Japan hereunder and all textiles made therefrom.
Such records and accounts shall be available to any of the
parties hereto for examination and quarterly reports shall
be furnished to the parties hereto.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
10. At the time of delivery of textiles to UScc, sCAP
will cause the Japanese agency to transfer title to such textiles,
free and clear of all claims and interests, to USCC. The indicia
of such transfer of title will be a bill of sale or similar document
in form satisfactory to USCC. Such document will in the first
place be delivered by the Japanese agency to SCAP who will
endorse thereon the fact that the property therein described is
delivered to UScC for disposition pursuant to this agreement.
After such endorsement SCAP will deliver the document to USCC.
1l. Unless delivery of the textiles shall be requested
by USCC at an earlier time, delivery of the textiles to USCC
will take place upon issuance of on-board ocean bill of lading at
port of embarkation. Title shall pass to USCC upon delivery. At
the time of delivery, SCAP will furmish USCC with such other
commercial documents as may be required.
12. USCC will sell such textiles in such manner as it
deems to be to the best interest of all concerned in such countries
and at such price levels as it shall determine with the approval
of the other parties hereto. Sales shall not be made on credit
without the approval of CCC and the War Department.
13. USCC will obtain and pay for marine and war-risk
insurance coverage on the cotton and textiles. All insurance policies
shall be subject to the approval of CCC. If any insured loss occurs,
USCC will as agent of CCC or as title holder or otherwise make
claim for the insurance proceeds. For the purpose of this agreement,
the proceeds of any such insurance policies shall be deemed to be
proceeds from the sale of textiles received by USCC hereunder.
14. USCC will maintain a separate account which will
reflect the receipts and disposition of all proceeds from the sale
of textiles hereunder. The proceeds, on hand at the end of each
calendar month, shall be disposed of as follows:
a. USCC will first credit itself for all
out-of-pocket expenses incurred and a 3 percent charge
on the gross proceeds to cover administrative expenses.
Out-of-pocket expenses shall include all direct expenses,
such as freight, insurance, storage, in and out handling
charges, loading and unloading charges, and other
similar charges but shall not include salaries of employees,
employees travel expenses and subsistence, office ront,
interest, or other similar charges.
b. USCC will then pay CCC in United States
dollars all amounts due CCC hereunder.
c. The balance shall be paid by USCC to the
War Department or to its designee.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-5 -
Until such time as USCC and CCC shall have been paid in full for
all amounts due them hereunder, USCC shall set aside in a special
fund one-half of the net proceeds derived from the sale by Uscc
of all exports from Japan, other than textiles, sold by USCC
pursuant to an agreement contained in letter dated January 15,
1946 from the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Reconstruction
Finance Corporation to the Secretary of War. Net proceeds under
said agreement means gross proceeds of all sales by USCC there-
under less all of USCC's out-of-pocket expenses and less USCC's
administrative charge of 3 percent of the gross receipts from
all sales thereunder. Such special fund shall be established
in the name of CCC and shall not be used for any purpose other
than to pay to USCC and CCC the amounts due them hereunder. Such
special fund need at no time exceed the amount then due USCC and
CCC hereunder plus the total price, as estimated by CCC, of cotton
scheduled by the War Department and CCC for shipment to Japan but
not received by USCC f.a.s. vessel. Upon demand by CCC, USCC
shall pay CCC from the special fund the amount due CCC hereunder.
No change in the above mentioned agreement between USCC and the
War Department, shall operate to affect the maintenance of the
same or a similar fund. Upon the conclusion of the cotton program
provided for herein or the termination of this agreement and after
USCC and CCC have received all amounts due them hereunder, any
balance remaining in such special fund shall be paid by USCC to the
War Department or its designee.
15. In no event shall USCC be responsible for any losses
incurred either to the cotton or to the textiles, nor shall it
have any other financial obligations, except as provided herein,
save to account to CCC and the War Department for the gross
proceeds received by USCC in connection with the cotton and the
textiles as hereinabove set forth.
16. The War Department will take all steps within its
authority to hold USCC and CCC harmless from all loss, cost,
damage or expense incurred by USCC and CCC arising directly or
indirectly under this agreement or under any contract or arrange-
ment entered into with third persons pursuant to this agreement.
17. All documents to be delivered to USCC hereunder
shall be delivered to USCC in Washington, D. C. or to such other
office of USCC as USCC may from time to time direct. All payments
to be made to CCC hereunder shall be made to CCC in New Orleans,
La., or to such other office of CCC as CCC may from time to time
direct.
18. USCC shall make quarterly reports to the other
parties hereto as to its operations hereunder.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
19. This agreement shall be subject to re-examination
at any time and may be amended as changed circumstances may require.
20. CCC, USCC and the War Department shall each have
the right to terminate this agreement at any time on sixty days
written notice to the other parties hereto; provided, however,
that no such termination shall be deemed to affect any cotton
received by USCC from CCC prior to the expiration of such notice
period, nor shall it be deemed to affect any textiles thereafter
delivered to USCC hereunder. In the event of such termination,
all costs incurred by CCC incident to the preparation of cotton
for scheduled shipments, which cannot be made because of such
termination, shall be an additional amount due CCC hereunder.
21. This agreement is limited to the export of cotton
from the United States to Japan and to textiles to be made
therefrom in Japan.
If the foregoing is acceptable to you, will you please
so signify on the original and three of the enclosed duplicate
copies of this letter. Will you then please return one of the
signed copies to us and forward a signed copy to each of the
other two parties.
Sincerely yours,
Secretary
ACGEPTED:

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.81)
FEB 2519
894.61321/2-746
Searetery of
Sincessly yours,
James F. Byrnes
NOB
21
.M.
JXIXEVA tn
no:mmmi1tonig-s/20/46

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.90)
DATE
CR
SUBJECT:
OVE
ANSWENED
REMARKS
AC-Ch
NO RECORD
CHARGED TO
PERMANENT FILE COPY

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.91)
RQ FORm NO. 64
OFICE
THE SECRETO
TO: The Secretary
DEMET
19461227
suject: Arrangements for Shipment of Cotton from United States to Japan
3007
The Department of State has been participating actively with the
Departments of Agriculture and War, and the U. S. Commercial Company in
order to get surplus United States cotton sent to Japan for the purpose of
helping to meet the world-wide textile shortage as well as to aid the
revival of Japanese peaceful industry.
894.61321/2-1246
The attached document from the Secretary of Agriculture embodies the
agreements reached by the various parties as to financing and other
responsibilities of the program. It is recommended that the proposal of
the Secretary of Agriculture be accepted.
The arrangements made do not preclude sharing the Japanese raw cotton
market with other suppliers, if it is so desired.
Linenay to ASe
for tommmic Afleise
F318196
DEPRRTWENT OFSOANE
12
J703
1946
I approve.
whic 217/46.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRITARY
February 21, 1946
Mrs. Halla
You will note that the Secretary has
already indicated his approval of the agree-
ment covered in the attached letters, subject
to Mr. Clayton's approval. Mr. Clayton has
signature is now required at the end of each
of the copies of Secretary Anderson's incoming
letter under the heading marked "ACCEPTED".
This of course is in addition to his signature
on the letters transmitting copies of the
agreement to the other interested agencies.
A-C:KWHamilton:gm

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.95)
LIVISON
MILL EASTEHN
IRECTOR
DEPARIMENT OF
TO
DATE: February 15, 194
FEB 15 1946
FROM
MR. HENDERSUN
sUBJECT: Raw Cotton Suppliee For 
I am informed that on Tuesday next (February 19) there will
be a meeting of the Secretary's staff committee of which you are
a member. At this meeting there will be discussed the question
of raw cotton supplies for Japan. The Japanese market for
raw cotton was one which was shared equally between the United States
and India before the war.
It is my understanding that there will be put before the
staff committee two alternatives with regard to this cotton
problem:
6
(1) that beginning immediately arrangements will be made
for equal quantities of Indian and American cotton to
be imported into Japan in line with the prewar trade
9
position there;
(2) that for the time being the United States be the
2
only supplier of raw cotton to Japan, possibly for a
89+1
period of several months, pending a study by the Far
2
Eastern Commission of the proper kind of allocation
for Japanese cotton imports on a more permanent basis.
-1546
The Government of India through the Agency General here
has taken a strong stand on India's right to share equally with
the United States immediately in the Japanese market for cotton.
On the other hand, United States cotton interests and their
spokesman in Congress feel that the United States should be the
only supplier of cotton to Japan for the time being.
8
b
It is my opinion that to keep Indian cotton out of the
Japanese market will place American cotton interests in an unjus-
tifiably preferential position in Japan and will be detrimental
not only to our relations with India but to the position of the
United Stetes as a trade nation. We are now taking the lead in
2
calling a conference of the important trade nations of the world,
one of them being India, and we are trying to get these nations
to subscribe to a whole set of lofty trade principles, among
9
them the principle of an equitable sharing of the worid's markets
-1546
without artificial restrictions. How much success our-proposals
m
3
2
LD A
281946

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
will achieve if we try to exclude India from a market which she
had developed in the world in fair competition with us I do not
know.
It might also be kept in mind that while Indian contribution
to the defeat of Japan was by no means as great as that of the
United States, nevertheless, India's supplies and men were an
important factor in the war against Japan.
I hope that you will find it possible to take a strong position
with regard to this matter at the staff meeting next Tuesday.
Harold B. Minor
0
ME: RLThurston:ac

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.95)
3
HECEIVED
DEPARTMENTOF STAT
WASHINGTON, D. C.
FEB 2 8 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1946 MAR 1 AM 1129
TO
The Honorable
MAR 4 -1946
FAR
FF STAT
The Secretary of State
DIVISIUN UT FUREIGN
Paply drated by R.H. ih
ORDS BRANCH
REPORTING SERVICES
MAR 29 1946 4/3/
Dear Mr. Secretary:
894.61321/2-2846
There is attached herewith a signed c∞py of a letter agree-
ment from the Secretary of Agriculture dated February 7, 1946,
under which raw cotton will be shipped to Japan.
The terms of the agreement contained in the letter from the
Secretary of Agriculture are acceptable to the War Department.
The War Department does not construe this February 7, 1946 letter
XR
agreement to make available to USCC or CCC any War Department
appropriated funds to bear possible loss, cost, damage or expense
incurred by USCC or CCC as a result of this agreement.
894.655
There is also attached a copy of a form of receipt and endorse-
ment on which raw cotton is to be delivered to an agency of the
Imperial Japanese Government, ex-vessel Japanese port, and a form
of transfer of title and endorsement on which the cotton textiles
are to be delivered to USCC for export. It is understood that
these forms are acceptable to CCC and USCC within the meaning of
paragraphs 8 and 10 of the attached letter agreement, dated
February 7, 1946.
It is my understanding that the State Department approves
CS/LF
the reactivation of the present operable textile capacity in Japan,
to the extent that it can be utilized to alleviate the present
world critical shortage of cotton textiles and to enable Japan to
more nearly satisfy essential internal civilian requirements,and
that the enclosed agreement is consistent with present governmental
policy.
RLPPt
Sincerely yours,
894.
6
ge
Secretary of War
61321
APR1 61946
gK
FILED
DSION OF CCY
Dist
FOPYICTORY
12-2846
BUY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
U'NITED
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.84)
February 7, 1946
The Sesretesy of State
23
Tee Seseretery of was
The Chaisene of the Beard of Direetere,
(2/7/6)
U. S. Ccmavedal Compny
Wachingtem, D. C.
Geatlemens
À nember of ceuvereatiene have been held bebween repressntstévee ef
the preseede of the eale of such tastiles.
The aow underotend thas the folloring terme are sntiafastery to all of
the agensies csneerneds
that may be mesessary or courveniams to faadlstate the pre
and comtrel of SCAP.
CCC.
4. cCc ahall deteraime the quality, grade and staple langth of
the cottem to be diapesed of hereusder. Befere making smsk dabes-
SCAP) in sush determimation.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.85)
im 0oc's Sales Catalegwe.
6. ccc shall establiah an aessunt ressivable fer the tetal prise
vided abeve ahall be the amount due and payable te Gcc heeennder.
standing in this aesoust and the interest dhe thereem at the and
of eash th.
7. CCC shall deliver the cottem fa.s. veasel, Umited states
perts designated by it arter eomsultatiem with Uacc. Bach bale
eests in cosnestion with leading the eet tan abeard veesels, eseem
transpertatien and umleading vessels in Japan.
6. Rach ahipmeut as essten will be eenaigned to order af c0s.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.86)
scap will be respenatble fer the cettam in Jagen, for
to uscc as provided hereis.
Datil sueh time as Uscc and CCc ahall have beem padd
ease the Japaneee ageney to delver to Uacc for nle
required to be delivered te Uscc will be met lese then
mast, (and through the War Departmask, acap) eos. end
aad Uscc mill be fally mmid.
The balanee of the testiles shall be dispesed ef fer
appropriate.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.89)
ping are earried ess.
scAP will eause to be establisbed and madntatned
seseunting and iaventery eantrols for all ef the
made tharefren. Sush reserds and aecsuate ahall be
bereto.
20. at the time of dellvery of taxtilee to vacc, seap wall e
am the fast that the preperty therein deseribed is delivesed to
dorsemsnt sCAP will deliver the decument to UscC.
11. Ualess delivery of the textiles shall be requested by uses
plase upon issuanee of en-beard esean bill of lading at pert of
ambariation. Title shal1 pase to Uscc upen delivery. At the
slal deouments as may be required.
12. uacc will sell sush tertiles in sush manmer as it desms to
be to the best interest of all eeneermed in sesh eeuntrlee and
the other parties hereto. Sales shall not be made am credit with.
out the approwal of CCC and the War Departmemt.
1s. Uscc will obtain and pay for marime and warrink ineuremse
be subjest to the approval of CCc. If any insured less eseusrs.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.84)
ressipte and diopesdtian as al preseode trem the aale of to
mouth, shall be dispesed of as fellowss
a. scc will firet credit iteelf for all outeef-peebet
apenese Laeurred and a 3 pereent aharge ae the prese
peoket epenses ahall iselude all diruet epemsss,
plagees, empleyees travel expensss and subatatense,
effise rest, isterest, or other similar eherges.
b. Uacc will them pey CCc in United States dellars all
amsumrts due ccc hereumder.
Go The balamee shall be paid by UsCC to the Nar Departmams
er to its desigaoe.
Until suek time as Uscc and cCc shall have beem pald in fall fer
fund ane-half of the not preeseds derived frem the sale by usss
ae at ccc and ahall not be used for any purpese abber tham to
by uacc f.a.s. vessel. Upen demand by ccc. Uscc shall pey ccc frem
the apesial fund the amounnt due CCC heroundee. Ho abange in the

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.87)
n       d 
L5. nn ne ovent ahal1 vacc be reepamalble fer ny Leesee to
oarred asi ther to the aosten or to the teatsles, mer ahall 30
have any other rénanoial ablsgatians, amoopt as provided harodn.
save to aoeeunt to CCc and the Tar Deparbmenst for the preee pre
eoede resesved by Uacc in cenneetien with the oostem and the
tertiles as hereimabeve sot ferth.
16. The Nar Departmant will take a11 stepe wdeain ite antherity
te hold uacc and ccc harmlees frem all lese, cest, damage e 
ponse laourred by Uscc and Ccc ariaing direetly er ladireekly
under this agreement er under any een trest er arrengemest entered
late with third persens pureuant to this agreement.
17. All deoumente to be delivered to U8CC herounder shall be
delivered to Uacc in reahingtem, L. C. or to muah other arfise
à uscc as usct may frem time to time direet. All pepmarte to
be made to CCC hereusder ahall be made to CCC in Now Orleems.
Les. er to eueh other effiee of CCc as CCc mmy frem time to time
aroot.
18. Uacc ahall make quarterly reports to the other parties herete
as to ite eperatiems herounder.
19. This agreement shall be subject to re-examinatiem at ey
time and may be amsnded as ahanged ciroumstanees may regadre.
20. ccc. Uacc and the var Departmant shall eaeh have the righs
to termimate this agreemant at any time an sixty days writtem
netiee to the other parties heretos provided, however, that mo
sueh terminatien shall be deened to affeot any eettem reesived
ner shall it be deemed to affest any textiles thereafter delit
ored to scc herounder. In the evest of sueh termimatiem, all
eests inourred by CCc ineident to the preparatien of eettem fer
seheduled shipments, whion cannot be made beeause of week ternd-
natien, shall be an additional amount due CCc berownder.
21. This agreement is limited to the expert of eottem frem the
United Statee to Japan and to taxtiles to be made therefrom im
Japan.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.83)
simagraly youre.
Seeretary
AOCEPTED.
RLOPP
secretar 1 ar

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
TRANSIER OF TITLE TO JAPANESE NO
between U.S. Commercial Company and the War Department of the Uaited
therein to U.S. Commercial Company, free and clear of all claims and im-
terests:
Qnaatitz
Herchandise
Description & Harkings
The undersigned warrants that it has sole and exclusive title and
ownership to the merchandise above described and that there are no out-
standing claims against or interests in said merchandise or any part
thereof.
It is understood that U.S. Commercial Company will dispose of the
above described merchandise and will account for the proceeds thereof
in accordance with the direction of the War Department of the United
States of America pursuant to the aforesaid agreement.
The undersigned agrees that it shall in no event make any claim or
demand whatsoever against U.S. Commercial Company or any subsequent re-
cipient of said merchandise in connection with said merchandise or any
of the proceeds thereof.
An Agency of The Imperial Japanese Government
Dated:
By:
Title
ENDORSEMENT
The merchandise described in the above Transfer of Title is delivered
to US Commercial Company for disposition pursuant to agreement heretofore
entered into between U.S. Commercial Company and the War Department of the
United States of America.
Dated:
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
By:
Title

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Ressipt for Cotten
Received of U.S. Commercial Company acting on behalf of Comme
Corporation the following ocotton:
Bales
Mark
Bales
Mark
Bales
Total Bales
Grand Total Bales_
Received from Steamship
Total Bill of
Lading Weight
Dated
An Agency of The Imperial Japanese Govermment
By
Title
Endorsement
The cotton described in the above receipt was delivered by U. S. Commercial
Company acting on behalf of Commodity Credit Corporation for disposition pur:
suant to agreement heretofore entered into between U. S. Commercial Company.
Commodity Credit Corporation and the War Department of the United States of
America.
Dated
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
By
Title

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.93)
APR10194F
In reply refer to
JK 094.61321/2-2846
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
This is in reference to your letter of Febreary 26, 1946, 
the subjest of arrangements for providing United States setten
for use in the Japanese textile industry.
894.61321/2-2846
The Department of State sees no objection to the forms to be
used in delivering the cotton to an ageney of the Japamese Gevermment,
and delivering cotton to the United States Commersial Compasy fer
expert which were attached to your letter.
The poliey of the Department of State with regard to the re-
astivation of the present operable textile capasity in Jepam is mere
fully stated in my letter to you of Mareh 1, 194b, and the agreement
concurred in by the Departments of State, War, and Agriealture, and
the Reconstruction Finanee Corporatien is consistemt with presemt
govermmental poliey.
Sincerely yours,
James F. Byruse
The Honorable
CS/A
Robert P. Patterson,
Seeretary of War.
894.61321
APR
05
346
PN
吃e
A-C
JA
JK:RHWhitman:aw
4/3/46
2T
HB
2
2846

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.93)
MASS, CHARMAN
CHARLES W. TEBEY, N. N.
C. WAYLAND BRGGKS, ILL.
PETER G. GERRY, R. 1.
OWEN BREWSTER, ME.
CHARLES ©. ANDREWS, PLA.
ALLEN J. ELLENDER, LA.
EDWARD V. ROBERTSON, WYO.
Mnited Blates Benate
JHN L. MC CLELLAN, ARK.
JAMES . EASTLAND, MISS.
COMMITTEE ON NAVAL AFFAIRS
March 5, 1946
CLERK
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.61321/3-546
The Honorable James F. Byrnes
Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
I enclose herewith a copy of a telegram, which is self-
eplanato. y views are in accord with the writer's
ECED
DFoRTT OE
 I resnctfully request that you give them careful
consideratPon.
S
With kindest personal regards, I an
Sincerely yours,
7n/S//ε
John L. McClellan
awm
JLM:rb
894.61321
DIVISION  COMMERCIAL POLIGY
万
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
A
3-546
MAR 271946

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.94)
COPY
Charge to thie account of
WESTERN
CLASDE SERVICE DISIRED
1206
DOMESTIC
CABLE
IELEGRAM
ORDINARY
DAY
UPSENT
LEITER
RATE
UNION
SERIAL
DEFLREFL
NIGH1
NIGHT
LETTER
LETTER
TIME PILED
Patrone ahould chark rlame
trasonitted as a lalegram or
Send the following lelegram, subject lo the terms on back hereof, which are hereby agreed to
FOR VICTORY
1946 MAR 4
BUY
SENATOR JOHN L MCCLELLAN
WAR BON
SENATE OFFICE BLDO.
TODAY
DEPARTMENT OF AGRI CULTURE AND ARMY HAVE WORKED OUT PROORAM TO SUPPLI JAPAN WITH APT
MATELY MILLION AND HALF BALES OF OUR LOW GRADE SHORT STAPLE COTTON NOW OWNED BY COG
WHICH WE BALLY NEED TO GET RID OF. JAPAN WILL PAY POR COTTON WITH TEXTILES. UH
COME FROM INDIA. NTTED STATES CARRIED VATN LOAD OF JAPANESE WAR AND STILL CARIII
OF RRESTABLISIT  JAPANESE ENOMY ON PEACFFU. BASIS. INIIA DID NOTHINO IN THE WAR
MAYE TROUBLE. EVERYTHIN CONST DERED, BELT EVE E SHOULD TNSIST JAPANESE PROORAN 
OUT JUST AS PLAED W TH UNTTED STATES OTTON. WOULD AP PRECIATE YOUR IIREDIATL 
TACTING SECRETARIES BYRNES AND ANDERSON ON THTS. RRIARDS.
SIDNEY
EST, CHATHEL'AN, MITTEE ON FOREIN TRADE
VATTONAL COTTON COUNCIL

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.91)
MAR 201946
Ia reply refer to
 096.61322/3-546
My dear Semater MoClallan:
I refer to your letter of Warsn 5, 1946, emelesing a eew of a
894.61321/3-
talegram from ür. S.Y. Nest, of the mtiomal Cetton Coumell, moneerm-
ing sources of Japanese rew cotton imports.
The lovernsent of India has requested that the Japemsse raw
cotton market be shared in the same proportions as Ln pre-wer yeare.
Euring that peried Japaaese importe from Imdia and from the Üaited
ef a million and, in addition, a million and a half persoms died ia
the famime in Bengal Prerince in 1943 which resulted, in part, frem
the war.
3-546
Tor monthe e be des rmined by the Par Hastarm Cosmiesien,
formed at the Mesoos Conferense with power to determime peliey far
sharing of the Japanese import markes. This Coverament has an chaige-
CS/LF
tion not to use ite pesition as the prinsipal cecaggins pewer to iapere
the commersial interests of coustries allied with us in the war ageimss
Japaa.
F
To expedite the sontribution of Japasese industry to the easrrems
werld shartage of textiles, ras cotton urgently required for the inisial
3 months of mill eperation will be shipped from the Uaited States is
She near futare. The source of the balance of the requirements will
be desided upon after action by the Far Kastern Cemmissios.
with best wisbes, I am
Sincerely yours,
3-546
James F. yrnes
MAR3.194
The Honerakle:
MAR 20 1946
John Le Moclellan,
cid
United States Semate.
Secretary
:Wrow:ne 3/11/46
an.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.93)
JAMES . RRAY, MONT., CHAR
VID I. WACSH, MADS.
ROBERT M. LA POLLETTE, JR., WIS.
ROBERT A. TAPT, GHIO
PEPPER, FLA.
GEORGE D. ANKEN, VT.
ALLEN J. ELLENDER, LA.
JOGEPH H. BALL, MINN.
DEDNINIS CHAVEZ, N. MEX.
LISTER HILL, ALA.
WAYNE L, MORSE, ORES.
H. ALEXANDER SMITH, N.J.
nited States Senate
JAMES M. TUNELL, DEL.
PORREST C. DONNELL, MO.
JOGEPH F. GUFFEY, PA.
OLIN D. JOHNSTON, . C.
J. W. PULBRIGHT, ARK.
COMMITTEE ON
INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
EDUCATION AND LABOR
CHARLES A. MURRAY, CLERK
PAUL BAMPLE, ASST. CLERK
MAROGO DCR
March 6th, 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIYCN OF TETE AND YOREN
894.61321/3-646
ECONOMIG AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Hon. James F. Byrnes,
MAR 2 2 1946
Secretary of State,
State Department,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
I enclose a copy of a telegram which I
have received from Sid Y. West, Chairman, Committee
on Foreign Trade, National Cotton Council, Memphis.
Tennessee.
10
I You will note that Mr. West has stated
the pábition of the National Cotton Council with
regard to the negotiations for the sale of surplus
low grade short staple cotton to the Japanese. He
particularly feels that the British should not be
8
permitted to supply the proposed 40% of the cotton
19756 1
involved.
With kind regards, I am
Sincerely yours,
J. W. Fulbright
K.315)46
894.61321
JWF: pn
wMB.
Encl. (1)
Repe
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
OFPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARIMEN
271946
MAR 1 2'946
3
-676

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
WESTERN
1230
QA59
RXQMGA527 179/178 7 EXTFA 1/157/156=MEMPHIS TENN 43T8P
SENATOR J WILLIAM FULBRIGHT=
:SENATE OFFICE BLDG WASHDC=
ONCE AGA IN I WANT TO IMPOSE ON YOU AND ASK YOUR ASSISTANCE IN A
MATTER THAT IS VITAL TO OUR NATION. THERE HAS BEEN A PLAN
WORKED OUT THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND ARMY TO SUPPLY
JAPAN WITH ABOUT MILLION AND HALF BALES OF OUR LOW GRADE SHORT
STAPLE COTTON TO BE MADE UP INTO GOODS UNDER GENERAL
MICARTHUR'S SUPERVISION, UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT RECEIVING
PAYMENT FOR THE COTTON WHICH THEY NOW OWN. BRITISH UP TO NO
HAVE BLOCKED ALL OUR EFFORTS TO SELL COTTON TO ITALY ON!
EXPORT-IMPORT BANK TERMS AND ARE NOW INSISTING THEY BE ALLOWED
TO SUPPLY 4O PERCENT OF INDIAN COTTON ON THIS ANAPNESE DEAL.
INDIA DID NOTHING BUT MAKE TRUUBLE DURING THE WAR. BRITISH
INSOFAR AS COTTON IS CONCERNED ARE IN SAME BOAT. SOMETHING IS
GOING TC BE DECIDED ON THIS MATTER IN NEXT 24 HOURS. PLEASE
CONTACT SECRETARIES ANDERSON AND BYRNES IMMEDIATELY TODAYAND
DO EVERYTHING YOU CAN TO GET THEM=
END SHEET 1.
ADD CO PTY ANS REQ DLR AU T20P YX
9
To
No.
To Be

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
WESTERN
UNION
413).
A. N. WILLIAMS
BIDENT
The aling time showa ia the date lime on talegrame and day letters is STAN DARD TI ME at point of origia.
2/22=.
Q.MGA527
*TO TELL THE BRITISH WE ARE GOING TO DO THIS OUR WAY THIS
TIME REGARDS=
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN TRADE
SID Y WEST CHAIRMAN
NATIONAL COTTON COUNCIL.
40 24.
THE COMPANY WILL APPRECIATE SUGGESTIONS FROM ITS PATRONS CONCBRNING ITS RVE

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
MAR 201945
In reply refer to
JK 894.51321/3-646
Ny dear Sonator Fulbright:
I have reference to your letter of March 6, l946, enclo
a copy of a tolegram fom hr. S. Y. West of the National Cottor
Council, concernirg s urces of Japanese raw cotton imports.
The Government of Indla has requested that the Japanese
raw cotton market he shared in the same proportions as in the
pre-war years. During that period Japanese imports from India
from the United States were roughly equal but the United States
nort!on was declining. India's casualties in the war against
Jenan were over three quarters of a millicn, and, in addition,
a million and a half perscns died in the famine in Bengal
C
Province in 1343 which resulted, in part, from the war.
S
The question of how the Japanese cotton market should be
shared during the next few months will be determined by the
Far Eastern Commission, formed at the Moscow Conference with
pover to determine policy for the occupation of Japan, as 
nart of the -eneral nroblem of equitable sharing of the Japanese
import market. This Government has an obligation not to use its
position as the principal occupying power to injure the commeroial
intorests of ccntries al ied with us in the war against Japan.
To exneite the contribution of Japanese industry to the
current world shortege of textiles, raw cotton urgently required
for the initial 3 months of mill operations will be shipped
frcm the United States in the near future. The source of the
balance of the requirements will be decided upon after action by
the Fer Eastern Commission.
Nith. best wishes, I am
Sincerely yours,
The Honcrable
J.. Fulbright,
United States Senate.
JK: 3rown:me 3/15/46
IR CP NE BC JA A-C
MAR 20
1.1

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.96)
WAR-DEPARTMENT
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF
WASHINGTON, D. C.
1946 MAR 26 PM 3
MAR 2 1 1946
RECORDS BRANCH
DCR
The Honorable
746
The Secretary of State
14.61321/
Dear Mr. Secretary:
This is in reply to your letter of 25. February 1946, to
me concerning an agreement to be entered into by the Depart-
ment of State, the War Department, the Commodity Credit
Corporation, and the U. S. Commercial Company under which
raw cotton will be shipped to Japan for manufacture into cotton
textiles.
894.61321/3-2146
The letter contract is satisfactory to the War Department.
Signed copies of the agreement were dispatched to the Depart-
ment of State, the Department of Agriculture, and the President
of the U. S. Commercial Company on 28 February 1946.
Sincerely yours,
DIVISION
ResP.Ptt
DEPARTMENI JF A1E
Secretary of War
MAR 2 7 346
APR1-1946
894.61321/3-2146
CS/VJ
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
W. L. CLAYTON
LDId
LAR 2 9 1946
FORVICTORY
BUY
1V1A-C
WAR
BONDS
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
STAMPS
AND

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF MIDULE
EASTERN AND INDIAN AFFAIRS
JAN 3 1 1947
DEPARTMENT ODEMANENLTURATE
WASHINGTONA!!
4 - Stop 209
UE - Mr. Clayton1946 MAY
9 AH 11 04
Under Secretary for Economic Affairs
+R
FEB 3 1947
May 8, 1946
OF J
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
EGONO
a
3502
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Dear Mr. Secretary
me
This is in reply to your letter of April 8 with reference to ship-
ment of cotton to Japan. This Department as you know, initiated
vigorous action to promote the shipment of cotton to Japan, and we
appreciate the cooperation given us by the State Department. The
first cotton moved in April and additional shipments will continue
to move each month.
You mention a cable which we sent to Colonel R. L. Harrison in
Tokio with reference to prospective shipments of the 890,000 bales
of United States cotton in this calendar year. The information
received through the Army by teletype gave a number of figures
894.61321/5-846
which indicated that this Department would be expected to furnish
a total of 890,000 bales this year. Colonel Harrison was repre-
senting us on other matters in Japan, and we wanted to be sure
whether or not this was the exact amount of cotton which we would
be expected to supply this year. The reply from Japan indicates
this may be the case. I am sure that you are aware of the fact that
India recently prohibited exports of cotton from that country of
a staple length of 13/16 inch and longer. We think this fact
together with the present cotton situation in India with reference
to consumption as well as exports together with its huge require-
ments for food should be given consideration before any commitments
are made with reference to moving Indian cotton to Japan.
This Department will be glad to work with the State Department in-
trying to arrive at a satisfactory solution of this problem.
BE
FILED
Sincerely yours,
41947
N.E. Dodd
894.61321
Acting Secretary
CS/A
1/5=8
74

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.93)
WAR DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON, D. C.
1R
CR
18 MAY 1946
3522 10
ANH
CIVISION
DCK
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
894.61321/5-1846
Dear Mr. Secretary:
This is in reply to the Secretary of Agriculture's
letter dated 8 May 1946, relative to appointment of
representatives by Department of State, War Department,
and U. S. Commercial Company to act in matters relating
to the inter-agency cotton contract for Japan.
The proposal advanced by the Secretary of Agriculture
is acceptable to the War Department. In accordance with
the Secretary's suggestion a copy of his letter with the
names of War Department's representatives added is forwarded
for your reference.
Sincerely yours,
Res P.Path
Incl:
Secretery of War
Ltr dtd 8 May 46
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
W. L. CLAYTON
SS
To Der 9098gag
19 1346
8
A-C
1996
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
61321/5-1846
FILED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PAESE AND KOREAN
8 1946
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
13
FORVICTORY
AY 2 4 1946
BUY
UNITED
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.92)
May 8, 1946
The Seeretary of State
The Seeretary of War
The Chairman of the Beard of Direeters,
U. S. Cemmereial Compary
Yashingten, D. C.
Gentlemen:
Recently the Department of State, the War Department,
U. S. Cemmereial Company (bereinarter referred te as uscc).
and Commedity Credit Cerperatien (hereimafter referred to
by occ would be ahipped to Japen and mamafastered sate
eottem teartiles, and pagmont for such cotten and all other
preeeeds of the sale of sush textiles.
An agreement embedying the terme of the pregram wae eateeed
Lnte by your neeeptanee of my letter dated Pobruary 7, 1sde.
In erder to facilitate the earrying out of the agreement it
is believed desirable that U. S. Cemmereial Cempany, the Wer
Department, the State Department, and the Department of
Agrieulture, respeetively, desigmate a represeatative auther-
ised te ast fer it in mattere relating to the eperatiem of
the agreement and thet suoh represemtatives be censtituted
as an inter-ageney eemmittee for the purpese ef faeilitating
the handling of matters in coameetien with the eperatiem of
the agreement which require censideratiem, determimatien,
er astien by twe er mere of the ageseies invelved. The
cemmittee er its mombers would net be autherised to ehange
the terme of the agreement. It is suggested that each agemey
desigmate ene representative and eme altermate.
.1K

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.82)
Uo So Gommsvelal Gampeng
and altermate will be X. D. white and C. C. amith, respeetávelye
sineerely yeurs,
3.E.Noaa
Acting Seeretary
Enclssures.
(hepresen tati ve)
(AI Gor ma 60)
CHADMLAN OF THE BOARD -USCC(CaTo)
Colonel J. a. Gilchrist
Lt. Col. R. F. Hartman
(Representative)
(Al terma to)
SEORETARY OF WAR
Taato)
(Representative)
(A1termate)
SECRETARY OF STATE
Tt)

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.94)
JUN 101946
Ia reply refer to
JI
My dear Hr. White:
894.61
During a recent meeting in sy effice en the subjest of the semress
and quantities of cotton to be imported into Japam, yeu espressed a
desire to obtain an authoritative statement concerning the ability of
the Government of Indis to supply cotton to meet ourrent Japanese
requirements. In consequence, I submitted the atteched set of qeestsems
321/6-1046
to the office of the Agent General fer India.
I have now received an official reply to these qeestioms is a
letter dated Jane 1, 1946, the relevant portiens of whish are espied
below:
"As regards the first question in your paper, it is
explained that the recent ban on experts of rew eettem wme
imposed owing to the desire of the Government of India to
do everything possible to keep down prices of eleth. ais
does not, however, in any way alter the interest, willingeses,
or ability of the Govermment of Indis to previde sestem to
Japas. This reply is mufficlently eategerieal to set all
dombt at rest en this pednt.
CS/RH
"As regards your second questioa, it has net been
pqssible within the short time at their dispesal, to prepare
à statement showing stooks of raw eetten breken inte stegle
Loagthe whick may be available fer ampert to Japas. Thie
infermatien is being collested and will be furaisbed to you
in due course. I am, however, in a pesitiem te state that
after allosing for mermel domsstie consumption and experte
to countries, mot including Japan, we skall still have enm
894.
Lngast
R. D. mite,
Assistast to the Administrater,
3
Prodastien and Marketing Administration,
2
Department of Agriealture,
6
Washingten, D. C.
01

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.84)
Shis regiy ta goted for your tatersstten taa
Sinssrely youre,
Reswell
Divisien 
Inslesure:
Gapy datgd may 24, 1946
P1m
ωmB
IR
JK:WMBrown:bch
6/5/46
JON 10 1946

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
WELLIAM C. PLANZ
TEXTILE EXPORT ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED STATES
320 BROADWAY, NEW YORK 7, N. Y.
WORTH 2-0270
June 11, 1946.
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
W. L. CLAYTON
Mr.Will L. Clayton
ask. a/13fait
Undersecretary of State,
JUN 12 1946
Department of State,
KWHgo
Washington, D. C.
A-C
Dear Mr. Clayton:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
As you no doubt know, the Department of Agrioulture
is shipping substantial quantities of cotton to Japan. In payment
for these shipments, Japanese mills are turning over to the United
States government a certain percentage of their production of woven
XR
cotton goods. The members of this Association are thoroughly cog-
nizant of the necessity for this arrangement, but feel that the
handling of these goods by the United States Commercial Co. should
be regulated so that it does not hinder the export distribution of
textiles by the United States and other friendly nations. As you
know, any shrinkage in sales of American textiles in foreign markets
is wiftly reflected in adverse developments in domestic textile
markets.
In our opinion, every effort should be made to dis-
pose of these Japanese-made textiles in the following areas in the
order of preference:
1. Manchuria
2. North China
FILED
Reply 6-27-46
S DIVISION
3. Korea
4. Formosa
171046
IR-JCE:ree
5. China Proper
6. Siam
7. French Indo-China
8. Burma and Malaya
S
9. Netherlands East Indies
We feel that insofar as is possible they should not find their way
into the Philippines, India, Ceylon, any portion of Africa, any of
the South Pacific Islands, or Latin America. The me rkets we have
enumerated were served and well served by the United States and
friendly nations before Japan began to use cotton goods to obtain
the wherewithal to finance its imperialistic ambitions and there is
no sound reasnn why oldtime trade relations between thsse markets
and the United States should be disrupted again.
Since American textile prices are today the lowest
in the world, we feel that the minimum price at which these goods
should be sold is American jobbers' price for export as all areas
enumerated can afford to pay these prices.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Once the approximate quantities have been asoertained
which will be available for export from Japan to the areas enum-
erated, we suggest that the respective governments in each area
be given the opportunity to indicate the yardage that they are
interested in and that they should then be permitted to go to
Japan, see the fabrics that are being produced on the spot and
make their final determination there with the appropriate Amerioan
authorities for quantity; all these negotiations, of course, to be
on a tentative basis and subject to final approval of the deal in
Washington, and the arranging of price and terms of payment.
While we have enumerated above the order in whioh we
feel themarkets should be given an opportunity to buy the goods,
from information you have on hand it may be deemed advisable to
give some other more needy areas an opportunity to purchase some
of them and we hope that you will find it within your scope to
consult with us should any of the goods have to go outside of the
areas mentioned.
Needless to say, we offer the services of our Association,
as well as the more qualified members thereof, in any way that will
help solve any problems which may arise in the handling of these
negotiations and ask that you feel free to call on us.
Very truly yours,
JoknMurray
John W. Murray,
Secretary-Treasurer.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.78)
OFFICE CF
INTERNATIONAL TRICE POLICY
JUN 14 1946
DERENT OF STATE
UN 1/1946
894.61321/6-11
Dear Nr. Yarrag!
mertete before the ver.
tnis atter vill sessive eretd essctdse
46
Aneesely yourss
fe
W. L. Ctem
S
Aesistant Secretary
894.61321
No. Joha Y. Mer.
Seeretarg-Tresdurer.
Tectlo apert Lasssladien of the thaitet states,
Yow Yos'k 7, Now Yosk.
▲ true copy at
6=1146
the signed erig-
al9m
10:11tent6/23/46
vHSy- ITP-tr. WLLOM

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.80)
JUL 2 194F
in regty rese o
N dear Kr. Yarreg!
Referenee ls agaia mode to your lester to mo of
894.613
Jume 11, 104s and to a sintlar letter addressed to
whiah hao boon roforrod to the Depertoont of State Ser
roply, regardiag the viove es the Testile Eapert Aeeee-
Latlon as to the dsstribesien of testiles mamsfastared la
32
Japan frem cotten supplled ty the Uaited States.
Le you koew, a pertien of the textllee prodmsed frem
Amarlean cotten ouppilod to Japen vill be seld by the U.s.
er their deslgeated repressatatives. The salee peliey of
the Compasy wmder eiettas siremstasess mmet meessserily
96
be iaf1 weaeed by resemmeadatioas of the Combiaed Tortlle
Gomnittee which are besed pen the relative needs of the
variese Par Zastera areee, by the deesalone of the Tae
ceveremeats represeated in ebtelaing smpplies es depesese
textlles and by the aesessity fer making ceatrasts which
previde setisfestery fiuaneial arrangemeate.
SO
I an slad to have the seggestiome af youe assesiatien
La thie matter and ahall bring them to the atseatien ef
this goverameats' representatives ea the Combined Tertile
V
Committee and tae Far Fastera Cemmissien.
Sineerely yours.
Villiam L. Clayten
Asststeas Soerotary
Nr. Joka v. Naraw.
Seeretary-Treesarer.
Textile Tapert Lesesiaties of the Daited Statee.
820 Breadveg.
Sow Yerk . Bow York.
InISO
IT
B
Clearel thy thonewirh
P..
dor. Eaatorl-A-H

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.97)
Office Memorandum·UNE
DATE
To : A-C - Mr. Thorp
FRoM : JK - Mr. Whitman
susjmcr: Attached letter.
Although we still adhere to our original positi
that the US should not attempt to supply the whole of
even the 1946 cotton requirements for Japan to the
exclusion of other sources, it now appears best to
CCC to hold  quantity of cotton beyond the original
650,000 bales presently committed for shipment to Japan
This change comes about after considering the fact that
cotton for export will not become available to CCC for
a long time in the future unless we act now. Since the
US will certainly be entitled to a substantial share of
the Japanese market in 1947 no matter what arrangements
may be concluded with the Indian Government, it seems
prudent to ask CCC to set aside cotton now, which can
either be counted against 1947 requirements, or, in the
event that difficulties are encountered in accomplishing
the expected Indian supply operation,can be used to
complete SCAP'S 1946 program.
In our letter to Mr. White we have taken pains to
avoid reference to a specific time period to which the
quantity may be related.
ωmB
ABSISTANT SECRETARY
UR
TF Om
JK:WMBrown:bcb
W. L. CLAYTON?
6/14/46
S
JUN 17 1346
12.1
A-C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JUL 2 5 1946
FILED

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.87)
JUN20194F
Dh reply refer to
 dear Mr. White:
This letter is in cenfirmatien of an agreamest reseked in à
the U.S. Commereial Company and the War Department comearning the
supplying of raw eetten to Japan.
It mas brought out in disesssion that the Cemmedity Gredit
en seme asceptable aredit terss.
setten to Japan. M. MaDermott deelared, moreevee, that ecc s
S
N
uxinterrupted.
In viow of all the ciroumstanees, it was agreed thet the cos should
abipsata
. EI. D. mhite,
Assistant to the Admisistrater,
Predustien and Marksting Adainistration,
Department of Agrioulture,
Washington, D. C.
2
2046

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.82)
skipoaste shonld contarm ne closely an
eured frem ether srees.
Sineerely yours,
Reswell L. mt
Loting hief
JCR 1TP On)
#+14/c
PNn
U以T
JK:mBrown:bob
6/24/46
IR
A-C
A-H
ωmB
JUN 1 946

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
RECONSTRUCTION FINANCE CORPORATION
Whitma
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
June 22, 1946
Mr. Weir M. Brown
U. S. Department of State
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C.
894.61321/6-2246
Dear Mr. Brown:
In compliance with your request I am forwarding to you herwith
cony of the U. S. Department of Agriculture Bulletin showing
spot cotton quotations on ter designated spot markets on June
19, 1946. The U. S. Department of Agriculture quotations are
to be used in calculating the price of cotton being shipped to
Japan in accordance with Section 5 of the Inter-Agency Agree-
ment. The Agreement provides, in part, as follows:
"CCC shall receive as the price for cotton disposed
XR
of hereunder the domestic market price for cotton
which shall be the average price per pound of Middling
15/16-inch white cotton on the 10 designeted spot
markets, as quoted by the United States Department
811.5017
of Agriculture, on the date the cotton is delivered
f.a.s. vessel, plus 120 points, (1.2 cents per pound)
and plus or minus, if the cottor is of a quality
other than Middlin: 16/16-inch white cotton, the
average premium or discount for such quality of cotton
on the 10 desigrated spot markets, as quoted by the
United Stetes Department of Agriculture on such date,
plus one-half percert of such price......"
As an example of the price of Middling 15/16-inch cotton f.a.s.
U. S. port and C.I.F. Kobe, Japan on June 19, 1946, the dete of
the enclosed bulletin, price calaulations are shown below.
894.61321
FILED
Avg. Price Mid. 15/16" on 10 designated
spot merkets June 19, 1946
29.27¢
plus freight and other charges to port
1.20¢
6
30.47¢
5
Plus 1/2 percent per Sec. #5 of Agreement
.15¢
Price FAS U. S. port
30.62¢
Freight U. S. Gulf Port to Kobe
1.69
Est. Cost Marine Insurance
.080
.14
Cost CIF Kobe, Japan Mid. 15/16"
32.45

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.93)
Mr. Weir M. Brown
- 2-
6/22/46
As examples of prices of other qualities I am listing below the
average quality differentials of the 10 designated spot markets
on June 19, 1946, as per enclosed bulletin, and prices CIr.
Japan on that date.
18.96+
Good Ordinary (G.0.) 13/16" 1349 off
10.85
Strict Good Ordinary (S.G.0.) 13/1s" 1170 off  
20.754
Good Ordinary (G.0.) 7/8" 1177 off
205524
20.689
Strict Good Ordinary (S.G.0.) 7/8" 1017 off
2224
20.28
If you desire further information please let me hear from you.
Yours very truly,
William M. Hynds

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.87)
JUL-110
Ihn reply reter to
894.
-2246
Avg. Priee Md. 15/16* en 10
Plue 1/2 pereent per 00c Agr
894.
Prise Fás U.S. port
613
r.LL.
TP Unit
B

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.78)
h e tt  h 
Sinserely yours,
Re  ht
Davissen af g
Enslesure:
Getten Quetatioms Sheet
R7/m
WMDB
JK:WBrowasbcb
6/28/46
1 1946

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.85)
1948
In reply refer to
911
Mr. D. J. NeeKensie,
5021
Ghairman, Japen Toe Gommittee,
Tee Assesiation of the .S..
91 Wall Street.
894.61332/7-3
Now Yerk, Now Yerk.
sir:
I refer to yeur letter of Jaly 3, 1946 addreesed in duplieate
to the Seeretary of State, the Seeretary of Agriealtare, the
U. S. Sommersial Gompany, and the erfice of Priée Aémisistration
Genseming the sppeiatmont by the Toe Aasssdation of the U.S.A.
ef a speeial sab-conmittee, reforrod to as the dapen Toe Gommittee.
fer the parpese of eeeperating with effieers of this Sevezment
in haadling the Japamese tee to be Saperted tate this ceantry
3
a resslstien passed bf the Beard of Biresters ef the Tee Assseiatien
46
en June 27, 194s, diresting that the sub-esmnis tee reesmmend to
the apprepriate antherities of this severament that a qualiried
Imerienn with fall knswledge of Japam tee and of the Amerienn
market be appeiated te deal vith all phases of the impertatton and
distributien of this tea.
This Bepartuent has an astive interest in the Japanese tes
pregram and appresiates year keeping it infermed csnceraing the
astion of the Tee Assssiatiom.
It is wndersteed that the Department of Agriealtare, whisk is
primarily respeasible fer the distribatien of Japenese tee in the
Maited States, has assured the Asseciaties of its villingeess to
mees vith the spesial smb-semnittee to diseuss dotails of inpertation
in aeserdasss with the reseluties passed by the Beard of Mresters
 Jane 27, 1946.
offieers
-346

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.88)
arficers of thts Gevermens coneesmed wth tee sreetly
Vosy traly yours,
Fer the Sesretary of State:
DK
Bomldm.ty
International Rosearess Mvislen
7-19-46
元
gag
JK
CP
Ck
JUL 23 46
MAM
IR:JKHavemeyer/MAMoffat:bp
7/17/46

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
N.-S. W: VANDERHOEF
WILLIAM C. PLANZ
TEXTILE EXPORT ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED STATES
320 BROADWAY, NEW YORK 7, N. Y.
WORTH 2-0270
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
July 12, 1946.
INTERE POLICY
894.61321/7-1246
Mr. William L. Clayton,
JUL 16 1946
Assistant Secretary,
Department of State,
 OF STATE
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Clayton:
We want you to know that we are grateful
to you for the interest you have shown in textile export-
ing problems in the Far East.
In your last letter to us of July and,
A-H
Company under existing ciroumstances must mecessarily be
A.C
influenced by recommendations of the Combimed Textile
Committee, which are based upon the relative needs of the
various Far Eastern areas, by the decisions of the Far
Eastern Commission,....."' All that we ask is that before
decisions are reached, some effort be made to ascertain
the views of the Amerioan textile export trade. As you knew,
S
we stand ready at all times to help the Commission and feel
N
that we can render valuable service by partioipating in dis-
cussions leading up to final decisions since many of our
members have had long experience in the distributiom of
textiles in the Far East.
Again we wish to thank you for your interest
in this matter and for bringing our views to the attention of
the Combined Textile Committee and the Far Fastern Commission.
FULED
Sincerely yours,
W. L. CLAYTON
John Hymurray
79581546
A-C
John W. Marray,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Secretary-Treasurer.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
U. S. COMMERCIAL COMPANY
melr
811 VERMONT AVENUE NW.
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
Prige
October 1, 1946
CABLE ADDRESS
"USCOMCO"
Mr. Roswell H. Whitman
Department of State
Division of Japanese and Korean
894.61321/10-146
Economic Affairs
1818 H Street
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Whitman:
We are enclosing the original and three copies covering
pricing Japanese cotton under agreement and which was agreed
upon at a meeting held in the offices of the Department of
Agriculture September 24. This agreement clarifies the
construction of the pricing provisions of the agreement under
which cotton is being shipped to Japan and brings it in line
with the agreement covering the same provisions of the agree-
ment under which cotton is being shinped to Germany.
This supplementary agreement has been signed by Mr. White
on behalf of Commodity Credit Corporation, Lt. Colonel Hartman
on behalf of the War Department and Mr. DeWitt C. Schieck
on behalf of U. S. Commercial Company.
Will you please keep the original for your records and if
it meets with your approval, return copies to Mr. White,
Lt. Colonel Hartman and Mr. Schieck, respectively.
CS/V
Very truly yours
Hubilo alumlin.
Herbert Walmsley
Marketing Division
Enclosures
ISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
1046
LED
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OCT -31946

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
PRICING JAPANESE COTTON UNDER AGREEMENT
This is to request agreement of the Committee on the construction of the
pricing provisions of the Agreement under which cotton is being shipped
to Japan.
Commodity Credit Corporation has consistently invoiced cotton to Lend-
Lease, UNRRA, the Army, and other Government agencies upon the basis of the
market price prevailing on the date shipping instructions are issued to
move the cotton to a specified boat. It was the intention of Commodity
Credit Corporation that the cotton shipped under the Japanese Agreement be
fixed in the same manner. In fact, Commodity Credit Corporation, being
under the impression that the agreement so provided, has already invoioed
620,000 bales of cotton under the Japandse Agreement on that basis. UscC.
however, has raised the question whether, under the language of the
Japanese Agreement, the date the cotton is delivered f.a.s. vessel should
not be used as the date for pricing the cotton.
To adopt the construction that the cotton is to be priced as of the date
it is delivered f.a.s. vessel would result in Commodity Credit Corporation
having to determine the date each bale (by grade and staple) arrived f.a.s.
vessel and the market price prevailing for such grade and staple on each
such date. It would also result in several different prices for the same
grade and staple of cotton loaded on one vessel. It would greatly
simplify Commodity Credit Corporation's work in invoicing the cotton if
we base the price on the date shipping instructions are issued to move
the cotton to the boat. In view of the rising market on cotton, that
method of pricing the cotton would not be to the disadvantage of scap!
In drawing the German Agreement for cotton, the method of pricing the cotton
was clarified to provide for pricing the cotton on the basis of the price
in effect on the date shipping instructions are issued, so that the
adoption of this method in the Japanese Agreement would make the methods
used under the two agreements consistent.
Commodity Credit Corporation recommends, therefore, that the pricing pro-
visions of the Japanese Agreement be construed as providing for pricing
the cotton on the basis of the market price prevailing on the date shipping
instructions are issued by USCC to move the cotton to a specified boat.
If this construction is agreeable to the Committee, will you please sign
w894.61321
in the designated space below.
Commodity Credit Corporation
By abunt
cas
War Department
By Roland 7. Hartmay. H lo, G.S
10-146
U.S.
Dtricx hhicl
By

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.90)
Da reply refer to
DCT11
JX
894.61321/10-146
My dear Mr. Walmaley:
The agreement regarding the prieing of sotten shipped to Japen,
enclesed with your letter of Oetober 1, 1946, mests with eur ppeeval.
As you suggested we are retaining the signed original, returaing
one of the signed copies to yau, and sending the other signed sepise
to Lt. Colonel Martman and Mr. White.
Sinserely yours,
cnel.
S
capy I ageemeat
Roswall N. Whitmen
V
Assosiate Gkief
Division of Japanese and Kerean
Becmemie Affaire
894.61321/n-146
Herbert Walmaley,
Marketing Division,
OCT
U. S. Commereial Company,
A trus popy of
the algage orie
1940
all Vorment Avemme, N.W.,
Washington 25, D.C.
1.R
JKtRiPaige:bcb
g
10/7/46

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.94)
NOV
In reply refer to
JK
894.61321
My dear Mr. Badger:
I enclose a memorandum which sumarizes the Japanese raw cotton
import programs for the years 1946 and 1947. I suggost that you
circulate copies to members of the Inter-Allied Trade Board for Japan.
1/11-2646
Sincerely yours,
Roswell H. Whitman
Associate Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Eeonomie Affairs
Enclosure:
Memorandum.
894.61321
Mr. Donald Badger,
org
Far Eastern Commission,
CS
2516 Massachusetts Ave.,
V
Washington 25, D.C.
P?1a
JKtRPaige:bcb
11/25/46

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.94)
CN
WILLIAM MOORE HYNDS
kumekbu*hhbtwkk≠
Washington, D.C.
January 3, 1947
In reply, address your
communications to:
P. 0. Box 468
Benjamin Franklin Sta.
Washington 4, D. C.
89
Mr. C. W. Nichols
ILRNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
Department of State
Room 809 A. 1818 H St., N.W.
JAN 61946
61
Washington 25, D. C.
sile
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
N
Dear Mr. Nichols:
2
On September 23. 1946 I sent to you a Proposed
Follow-Up Program for Supplying Cotton to Japan. Since that
date it has been determined that the consumption of American
347
cotton in Japan during the year 1947 will not be as much as
anticipated. Therefore, supplement No. 1 to the proposed
"fellow-up" program has beer. prepared by me in which proposed
arrivals of cotton in Japan and proposed amount of dollare
needed in revolving fund to purchase such cotton has been ad-
justed to the revised requirements.
Three copies of this supplement are being en-
closed. Please pass one copy each to Mr. Evans and Mr. Mont-
gomery.
Yours very truly,
William M. Hynds
C
.61321
0
Encls.
uss
1
WMHynds:pm
71

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.86)
JAN21
treayreder to
My dear Mr. Hyads:
894.61321/1-347
I wish to thenk you for your letter of January 3. 19k7 to
Mr: C. w. Nichols with which yon enslesed copies ef Saggkememt
2
No. 1 to the Preposed Follew-Up Pregrem for Sepplyisg Cetten
to Japsa.
Sincsrely years.
DK
Demald D. Kemsmody
Caief. Enteramtional
DCR
Init
Researeos Mvision
.a.
2920
Rev
an
Cat.
Oist.
Mr. William M. Ryads,
Pest Offics Box 466.
Beajamin Framklin Statien.
Washingtem 4. D. 6.
1/21/47

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.90)
RESTRICTED
MAR 24
In reply refer to
JK
894.61321/3
ly dear r. Robertson:
In your lotter of karah 10 1947, addresmed to ir. Bommn, you
cotton yars of the type wxiorstond to be availahle for export frma
Japan and ask for our cosments on the question of muuplying Japamese
×2
yarn to this ares.
In the paper : 004/6, distributed rabruary 14, 1947 to members
1047
690.
of the Inten-Allied Trade Board for Japan, U.S. Gevermmeet paliedes
mete that Far Fastern countries were thareby pes emmotise that after
Harch 1, 1947, the U500 would consider iteelr free to affer Japemese
yarn Yor male to any country.
Yo balieve there is an adequate supply to meet the aiddle Nast
requirements to whiah you refer bus suggest that purohase megetiatiems
be opened proaptly with uSCC.
Sinoerely yours,
m
894.61321
CS/
Kmin  Mertin
Rnologurs:
Chief
R
21004/6
i. T. . Robertson,
Corssarcial Department,
A  
3-104
MAR
Hritiah Nabassy,
MAR
Washingten B, Doit
ESP
RESTRICTEDV
3/12/47
Dept Commerce, Roberts

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.92)
STARDARD FORM NO.4
DATE: 3/20/47
TO
: JK - Mr. Paige
FROM : CR - H. L. Daniel
SUJCT :
Security Classification
If the enclosure has been down
graded ploase indicate that and the au-
thority for down grading. If it is
still restricted please read VII D 3
of the Security Regulations especially
paragraph 4.
Mins Janid:
No wud to doon grack the
euclosone, as He British,
alaup mith 10 01tr
ERNIN
DEPARTIHENS OF STATE
MAR 2 1 1947
all mumbirs resulars
Board, ans
receur the papers put out by it.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.96)
BRITISH EMBASSY
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
MAR251947
10th March, 1947.
OF
E.VIDION OF
Dear Mr. Bowman,
Japanese Cotton Yarn for Middle East Territories
8
6
The British member of IATB and myself
4
have on various occasiona alluded to the yarn needs
of Middle East territories. Almost all of them
were recipients of Japanese yarn before the war and
N
during the war through the combined planning machin-
2
ery they received some supply from India.Unfortun-
ately for them, in 1946 India suspended the export
of cotton yarn in order to supply internal needs
IN
more adequa tely. At the same time there was little
success in obtaining yarn in the form required from
1047
U.S.A. The U.K. export availability is not suffici-
ent to provide any of this need.
As far as British responsibilities are
concerned, requirements are under investigation for
Aden, Eritrea and Tripolitania. The total quantity
may not exceed 2 million lb. and may indeed be sub-
stantially smaller in view of limited type avail-
ability. However, it is known that these terri-
tories require yarn for hand loom weaving and that
20's singles is among their requirements
I will be communicating further on the
894.61321
exact quantities required but in the meantime I
should be grateful for your comments on the question
C
of opening up yarn supply to this area .
VISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
こ心
ECONOMIQ AFFAIRS
Yours sincerely,
4r
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
.S. Ronlion.
MAR 12 1947
T. S. Robertson.
w
D. Bowman, Esq.,
19 State Department Building,
C
Washington, D.C.
cc's: Mr. A.Z. Gardiner
Mr. A.J. Davis

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.88)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE SECRETARY
Vill you please have appropriate reply
prepared for Mr. Acheson'ε signature.
Cince . Gearhart streeses the urgency
of this to him, will you please have the
reply in this office by Thursday, nril 24
Se
C?

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.95)
BERTRAND W. GEARHART
STH DISTRICT CALIFERNNA
KERN MGLAUGHLIN
Congress of the Hnited Mrsleg
SECRETARY
THE SECRETARY
Douse of RepresenfatmesT OF STATE
Washington, D. C.
1947 APR 21 AH 3 19
April 18, 1947.
ITCANATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
68
Honorable George C.marshall,
DEPARTMENI OF STATE
Secretary of State,
Nashington, D. C.
321/4-1847
AA A
My dear Mr. Secretary:
It has been called to the attention of the people of
the San Joaquin Valley of California, a section of our country
in which great quantities of cotton is raised, that the govern-
ment of the United States, acting through one or another of its
agencies, is planning to finance, or in some way to facilitate,
the acquisition of foreign grown cotton in order to supply the
Japanese and German markets.
862.61321
lu
This information, merely rumored or real, has created
what might be described as consternation among those who down
through the years have eked out their livelihood from growing,
handling or manufacturing cotton into useable form. If any plans
have been consummated or any are under consideration by any govern-
ment agency, the people are entitled to know all about it. The
question is a broad one, shall the american people be taxed, the
cotton people along with the rest, to raise revenues which are to
CS/A
be used to their economic detriment.
Because of the great importance of the general subject
which I am herein calling to your attention, I would be very grate-
ful to you indeed, as will those in whose behalf I am now addressing
you, if you will let me know whether or not your department or agency
plans tc participate in the pursuit of any objective such as the one
I described herein. And when 1 speak of plans, I mean indirect as
well as direct participation in their formulation.
As this whole subject is now at white heat in central
894.61321/4-1847
California, and the people who are concerned are anxiously
is
以
An

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.90)
awaiting your reply to this ccmmunication, I would appreciate
it very, very much indeed if you would let me hear from you at
your earliest possible convenience. So great is our anxiety
that I am sending this letter to you by Special Delivery.
Trusting I am not imposing in asking this very great
consideration, and with kindest personal regards and every good
wish for your continued success, I beg to remain, my dear Mr.
Secretary,
Faithfully yours,
BERTRAND N. GEARHART
Member of Congress
the uply
il. cly
122121meng
cctut 2022.66
(JR.)

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
TO
Goneral Hilldring
DATB:
May 28, 1947
JHH
FROM
Mr.Moreland
SUBJECT:
Meeting in Senator Eastland's Office this date on Cotton.
Mr. Wood and myself from the State Department, General Noce and Mr. McDermott
from the Tar Department and Mr. Gardiner of the USCC, today met with Senator
Eastland and his Committee of Five to discuss the cotton procurement program
for Germany and Japan.
The discussion did not proceed much further than a consideration of the
program submitted by the War Department for Japan. The program for Germany
was hardly considered.
The War Department proposed a procurement program for the remainder of this
year for Japan as follows: 300,000 bales of U.S. cotton (500# each), 140,000
bales Indian cotton (1.e. 170,000 bales at 400# each), 7,500 bales Egyptian
cotton (1.e. 5,000 bales at 750# each) and 50,000 beles of U.S. spinnable waste
cotton.
The Senetors were dissatisfied with this program on two grounds. The
first being that the program only covered procurement through the end of this
calendar year and secondly because the War Department did not agree that if
the Indians were unaple to supply the 140,000 bales allocated to India. that
U.S. cotton would be used in place of it, or at least, that no Brasilian cotton
would be used.
In regard to the first objection,it was my recollection that at the pre-
vious meeting with the Cotton Senators, the War Department promised to submit
its procurement program only for the remainder of this calendar year. The
8
Senators evidently now feel that they made a mistake by not insisting that
the program cover the full year period.
In regard to the second objection, the War Department representatives
would not commit themselves on this point. They stated in affect that the
9
State Department would force them to buy other cotton than U.S, if the Indian
cotton were not available in order to maintain the position that the U,S. would
3
not be pre-empting the whole of the Japanese market. To this Mr. Wood stated
that it would not be the position of the State Department to try to force the
2
War Department to buy Brasilian cotton, nor would it be the State Department
poaition to try to force the War Department not to buy Brazilian cotton if
the War Department felt that it was necessary to do so.
5
This discussion was to a large extent academic as it is felt by the State
Department representatives working on the cotton problem that the Indian cotton
已
could be procured without serious difficulty.
8
The net result of the meeting was that the Senators themselves are mriting
a procurement program which they will submit to the Wer, State and Agriculture
7
Departmenta for discussion within the next few days.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
JHH
DATB: Apr11 25, 1947
TO
General Hilldring
FROM
Mr. Moreland 
SUBJECT:
Cotton
I have just returned from a meeting in Senator Eastland's office
on the subject of cotton. The War Department was represented by
Mr. Petersen, General Noce and Mr. McDermott. Mr. Wood and Mr. Evans (IRO)
were also there from the State Department and Mr. Gardiner from USCC.
Senator Eastland, representing the Cotton Bloc, stated that in order
to prevent remedial legislation, it would be necessary that the U.S. enjoy
79% of the raw cotton market in the U.S. Zone of Germany and a "fair share"
in the British Zone. This percentage is based on the ten year period prior
to the advent of Hitler.
In regard to Japan it was stated that the United States should have
43% of the market and India 45%, provided that the U.S. supplied any de-
ficiencies left by the failure of India to fulfill its historical purchase
share. This percentage is based on the same period of time.
The War Department did not commit itself to this demand but promised
that within three weeks it would return to the committee represented by
Senator Eastland and lay the entire cotton procurement program through the
end of 1947 before them.
The subject of the 65,000 bales per month ceiling on Japan consumption
was commented upon. Inasmuch as the War Department assured the Senators
that the lack of coal ard other necessary supplies in Japan would not per-
mit the creation of a substitute fabric for cotton textile, the Senatorial
Committee did not interpose serious objections to such a limitation. The
question as to whether the 65,000 bale limitation applied to all cotton or
whether merely to U.S. cotton was not finally resolved.
This is for your information.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
TO
: General Hilldring
DATE: April 11, 1947
FROM: Mr. Moreland
SUBJECT: Cotton.
Mr. Thorp and Mr. Petersen have recently been under considerable pressure
from certain sections of Congress to give assurances that U. S. Military Govern-
ments will refrain from going outside the United States to secure cotton for the
textile programs under way in Japan and Germany.
The facts back of this pressure from the Hill are as follows:
SCAP estimates he will need 250,000 bales and OMGUS estimates he will need
about 125,000 bales to be procured between now and the August domestic harvest
in time for September deliveries. On the supply side of the market, the United
States had a smaller carry-over this year than has been experienced in seven-
teen years. The carry-over was only 3,000,000 bales as compared with 7,500,000
bales last year and 11,000,000 bales the year before that. State and War cotton
people feel that to dip into the domestic market for 375,000 bales at this time
would bring about fifty cent cotton, which is precisely what some of our
congressmen want.
State and War have authorized SCAP to enter into negotiations with India
for delivery of 394,000 bales of Indian cotton. This position is consistent
with State's policy on international trade, our obligation to F.E.C., our de-
sire to get lowest priced cotton for Japan and to prevent a distorted market
condition. At the same time the War Department has been investigating possi-
bilities of supplies from Brazil and Egypt. Brazil has offered OMGUS 120,000
bales, and probably will offer SCAP another 200,000 bales. Egypt complains
that she supplied Japan with 140,000 bales of cotton a year before the war and
now has about 500,000 bales she would like to export.
It seems that domestic producers are particula rly concerned over procure-
ment of Brazilian cotton, as it is considered to be more directly competitive
to U. S. cotton than Indian or Egyptian cotton.
While the United States has to date supplied all the cotton to these areas
for these programs, it is considered that such a procedure is neither politi-
cally nor economically desirable in the long run for the reasons mentioned above,
especially now that these other producing areas have indicated that they would
be interested in assisting in financing such imports to Japan.
Since Senators and Congressmen have already protested to State, War, Commerce.
and Agriculture, it is important that governmental policy be clearly established.
Mr. Thorp is at present having prepared a detailed report on this subject. I will
get you a copy for review as soon as it is available.
I believe that the OAC may be a desirable channel to obtain governmental sup-
port for State's position. Is it your desire to have this subject placed on the
OAC agenda?
ann 1079

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
TO
A-I - Mr. Moreland
DATE: March 28, 1947
FROM
IR - Mr. Phillips
SUBJECT:
Foreign Cotton Availability
Brazilian cotton exports for the months March through July 1947.
inclusive, will probably be approximately 381,000 bales of staple
lengths 13/16 to 15/16 inches. Brazil has offered OMGUS 120,000
bales and SCAP will probably be interested in 200,000 bal es.
Egyptian cotton exports, January through July 1947 are expested
to be about 535,000 bales. Egypt is anxious to export cotton and has
requested an opportunity to ship sizable quantities to Japan.
▲ SCAP allocation for the procurement of 1500 bales of Eyptiam
cotton is considered by Egypt to be altogether too small. Prowar
annual Egyptian exports to Japan amounted to 140,000 bales.
Indian cotton exports January through July 1947 are expected
to be approximately 651,000 bales. A program for SCAP procurement
of 394,000 bales of Indian cotton is being considered. Shipments
would begin May 15, 1947 and would be made in five equal monthly lots.
Grades involved are 148,500 bales of Central Province fine, 8,000 bales
of Bengal fine, 142,500 bales of Khandeish fine, 45,000 bales of
Berar fine, and 50,000 bales of Jarila fine.
Peruvian cotton exports March through July 1947 are estimated
to be 129,000 bales. Before the war, Peru shipped a good deal of
its cotton to Japan.
Attachments:
Lo.0.
1. Table on availability of cotton.
2. Table on cotton prices.
SF
IR:JGEvans:emt

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.70)
STANDARD FORM NO.
DATE: 8/82/
: - . 
. Ga. t
to
FRUM : Nr. Nesalemd
SUBJECT: Perelem Gestem AvellabMlsty.
s your regt, I m ansleleg heedth tour
emplee as a prabie of avetlability os costen la
a, e La  P   
ble en priese of costee La these mtries.
Iaslllen obtee amperte for th methe at
201. 000 ba100 as atap10 1omgthe. 13/16 t0 28/26 
ches. Brasll hee effored Qous 120, 000 balee nl
has iadleated 16 aan probably make 200, 000 hales
available for sasP.
Loptian costtee perte, Ja. - Jaly. 1o0n 
ampeoted to bo about ass,000 balos. Rarpe Lo aml
1 to p be tes to dap. à 
allesatton for the preemremees os 1800 balee of
Raplsan mosten was oeddered twy pt to to alte
to dapen mmed to abeee 140, 00 halos.
Last  prts. d. - y. 1967 
expested to bo appreximataly es1, 000 bales.
Perarian eottee eaperts, Hareh thrench Jaiy.
1947 ase es61ed to bo 120,000 hal0s. Date00 the
was, Pare hipped a ood eai es e tten to o
pea.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
TO
: H - General Rinain
DATE: Ja. 27, 1947
FROM : LH - Mr. ClaxtonZ
SUBJECT: Proposed Export-Import Bank Loan to US/UK Joint Export-Import Agesey.
I have just learned from Mr. August Maffry, of the Exim Bank, who has
been guiding the proposed Exim Bank loan to the Us/Uk Joint Exim Agemey. that
there is little likelihood that the matter can be brought to a head ezcept by
further action on the part of yourself and Mr. Petersen. He suggests a ap-
pearance by the two of you before the full Exim Bank Board and that you or
Mr. Petersen contact Mr. Martin, Chairman of the Board, directly, in order to
arrange such an appearance.
For your information, development of this matter has been as follows:
▲ meeting was held Thursday, December 26, in Mr. Petersen's office, with
Mr. Shephard Morgan and Mr. Barth of the Chase National Bank; Mr. Ward of the
National City Bank; Mr. McCloy, Couneel of the Chase Bank; representatives of
the National Shawmut Bank and the First National Bank of Boston; Gemeral Noce
and General Draper. (This was the meeting to which you sent me). The discus-
sion was on general financing. The bankers had three main concerns: The abil-
ity of private U.S. buyers to arrange with German manufacturers for the speci-
fications, etc. for goods to be produced in Germany; security for any leams
they might advance; and whom they could sue to enforce this security. They
presented a complicated plan to handle all these points. They were told:
U.S. businessmen can now arrange technical details with German producers
either personally or by mail; it may be possible for the Bizonal Ageney to
pledge a limited amount of money as collateral against a line of credit frem
the banks; it may be possible to agree on arbitration as a method of settling
disputes and thus make unnecessary the establishment of an entity which might
be sued. They appeared to feel that progress had been made at the meeting.
On Decemoer 30, Mr. Aldrich of the Chase Bank held a luncheon attended
by the President and other officers of that bank; Mr. Martin of the Exim Banks
Mr. Carr, representing the cotton exporters; General Draper and myself. Mr.
Aldrich expressed the desire that the banks participate in financing the pro-
posed cotton bank but wished that they be secured by guarantee from the Bxim
Bank. Mr. Martin took no position but apparently did not intend to give such
a guarantee. There was considerable discussion of the general financing scheme
during which the bankers urged that the Bizonal Agency make a pledge of some
funds against which credit could be issued. The bankers spoke in terms of an
initial one-to-one credit extension to be raised after a satisfactory showing.
General Draper did not comment,himself, on such a pledge, but made it clear that
in no case would a one-to-one arrangement be satisfactory.
On December 31, General Draper and I met with Mr. Morgan, Mr. Barth. and
Mr. Black of the Chase Bank, and Mr. Martin. General Draper proposed for con-
sideration a pledge of 25 million dollars by the Bizonal gency to act as
security

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
security against a line of credit. The bankers indicated some flexibility
in their former insistence on an initial one-to-one arrangement, but made no
firm expression.
Later, on December 3l, General Draper, Mr. Martin and I met with repre-
sentatives of the National City Bank. They reacted favorably to General Dra-
per's proposal to pledge a fund of perhaps 25 million dollars. It'was con-
cluded that representatives of the two banks, with Mr. McCloy, would draft the
outline of an arrangement by which the banks would advance credits to the Bi-
zonal Agency against a promise to pay out of the proceeds of goods manufao-
tured from raw materials imported in specific programs , with any deficit to
be made up from a pledged fund. Disputes were to be settled by arbitration.
They agreed to bring this outline to a meeting with Mr. Petersen on Eriday,
January 3, 1947.
All of the above was reported to representatives of Treasury and Com-
merce, as well as discussed within the State Department, and reported to OAC.
The representatives of the New York banks, together with representatives
of the Boston banks, met with Mr. Petersen, General Noce, and General Draper,
January 3, and presented a memorandum intended to form the basis for further
discussion. After certain modifications, it was approved as a working draft.
A copy is attached. It provides in essence for the establishment of a pleds-
ed fund by the Bizonal Agency against which the banks will advance a line of
credit of an unstated amount. Although the banks kept referring to the need
for a limited credit until the Bizonal Agency has shown that it will work, they
denied that they would insist on one-to-one. The draft plan includes close
control by the Bizonal Agency over the raw materials imported under the pro-
gram. The plan provides for settlement of disputes by a method of arbitra-
tion to be agreed on. It was clearly understood that the discussions were ten-
tative. It was agreed that arrangements tould be made sometime in the next
month or two for representatives of the banks to go to Germany.
Nothing further was said about private bank participation in the proposed
cotton bank, and it seems apparent that they will be unwilling to participate
without a guarantee by the Exim Bank, which it does not appear prepared to make.
Mr. August Maffry, of the Exim Bank, was present at the Jan. 3 meeting
with the bankers. He concluded that there was little likelihood of obtaining
a satisfactory agreement with the banks in the near future. He therefore sug-
gested that it may be possible for the initial financing to be through the ex-
tension of a line of credit by the Exim Bank against a fund pledged by the Bi-
zonal Agency. He spoke in terms of perhaps a 20 million dollar line of credit
against a 5 million dollar pledge. It was my view that such a plan would be
ideal, since it would provide an immediate line of capital which would make
it unnecessary to have a separately-established cotton bank, It would allow
the private banks to come in as rapidly as they wish: It would provide a mana-
ger for the consortium,a problem which night be embarrassing to the Government
if only private banks were involved; It would initiate a line of credit reas-
onably in excess of the pledged collateral, and it would no doubt initiate a
reasonable interest rate. Mr. Maffry of Exim Bank discussed this proposal
with Mr. Goodloe of RFC.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
A meeting was held on January 6 with Mr. Clayton and Mr. Peterses.
General Draper, General Noce, Mr. Maffry, which Mr. Hilliard and I atteml-
ed. The meeting was to obtain Mr. Clayton's views as a member of the Mim
Bank Board on the cotton bank proposal, and a suggestion for general expert-
import financing. He approved going ahead on either basis or both if meces-
sary. He also approved the line of approach to take with private banks.
General Draper appeared before an informal meeting of the Exim Bank Board,
January 9, to discuss the economic situation in Germany as it would affeet the
credit of the Bizonal Agency and to answer questions raised by the Board. In
reply to a question by a Board member as to why the Exim Bank should be brought
into the matter in view of the existing arrangements with Rrc, I stated that it
was the desire of the State Department to place financing in normal channels
and that the Exim Bank arrangement would provide a direct bridge to such nor-
mal financing, while the RFC arrangement, though in many ways quite satisfao-
tory, would not provide the basis for such a change-over. General Draper
stated that if the bank cared to go into this matter further, he believed it
desirable for representatives of the Bank and the State Department to come to
Berlin in the near future.
It was my understanding after this meeting that the Exim Bank Board would
discuss this matter at a formal meeting to determine whether it wished to pre-
ceed further. I now understand from Mr. Maffry, as stated in the first para-
graph, that further action will, no doubt, require initiation by Mr. Petersen
or yourself.
All of the above has been communicated from time to time to the OAC, and
their advice and suggestions solicited.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
To : General Hilldring
DATB: 1/20/47
FROM : Mr. ClaxVon
SUBJECt: Meeting with Mr. Martin of Export-Import Bank Regarding Financing
for Germany.
You will recall that I have told you orally that the latest de-
velopment regarding financing for Germany is a proposal made by Mr.
Maffry of Export-Import Bank, with the approval of Mr. Martin, that
the Export-Import Bank consider extending a line of credit of perhaps
20 million dollars to the joint Export-Import agency against a sum of
perhaps 5 million dollars, to be pledged by the joint Export-Import
agency and against a promise of the joint Export-Import agency to pay
advances made by the Export-Import Bank for commodity imports out of
whatever part of the materials manufactured from such imported commo-
dities would be necessary to meet the cost of the commodities for which
the Export-Import Bank advanced credit. As I told you, I attended an
informal meeting of the Export-Import Bank Board at which Genoral Dra-
per was present and at which he answered questions raised by the mem-
bers of the Board regarding the situation in Germany and the feasibil-
ity of this loan from a financial point of view. Mr. Maffry attended
a meeting in Mr. Clayton's office at which the various current propo-
sals for financing German trade revival were stated and at which Mr.
Clayton gave general approval to the suggestion of Export-Import Bank
finance. Aside from this, there has been no formal or informal ex-
pression of interest by the State Department at a high level. To the
best of my knowledge, Mr. Petersen has not talked directly to Mr. Mar-
tin about this matter.
I strongly recommend that you and Mr. Petersen pay a visit to Mr.
Martin, or invite him to lunch, in order to show your interest in this
matter and to discuss if further with him.
I will give you a further memo of the developments on this matter
during your brief vacation as soon as I can.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
DATE: December 3, 1946
TO
: A-H - Mr. Claxton
FROM : JK - Mr. Paige 
suject: The proposed plan for exporting cotton to Occupied Areas presented to General
Hilldring by Lamar Flemming, Jr., representing the Cotton Advisory Committee.
We have reviewed Mr. Flemming's suggested plan for furnishing cotton for
manufacture by German mills to see whether the plan offers a solution to the nearly
identical problem of furnishing cotton to Japan after present stocks of CCC cotton
have been consumed. It is our opinion that the plan in its present form does not
offer a solution to our problem.
A basic provision of Mr. Flemming's plan is that the proposed financing
corporation or textile bank would extend credit to individual textile mills in the
occupied area "after satisfying itself as to the reasonableness of each cotton mill
requirements and its arrangements for export sale of cotton goods in dolh rs or
currency convertible thereto." We believe it would be total ly out of the question
to pe rmit a private American corporation or bank to determine the credit risk
offered by individual Japanese mills. We feel that no bank would or should be
prepared to make these determinations without a staff of inspectors in Japan. Such
inspectors would necessarily duplicate the work of the Textile Division of SCAP, and
would probably be in frequent conflict not only with this section but with other
SCAP sections dealing with sectors of the Japanese economy closely related to the
textile industry. During the present period of industrial reconstruction and
will depend to a considerable extent upon factors quite foreign to ordinary business
situations, and we doubt if a private American bank would find it feasible to
extend credit to individual Japanese companies during this period.
Mr. Flemming perhaps had something of this kind in mind when he suggested
that the proposed textile bank would require the financial assistance of the
Export-Import Bank. lle does not indicate, however, whether cotton exporters will
be prepared to put up 5 per cent or 50 per cent of the funds required or whether
losses and profits would be shared by the cotton exporters and the Export-Import
Bank in proportion to the amount of capital subscribed or on some other basis.
Mr. Flemming's plan would permit Japanese cotton mills,having obtained credit
from the proposed textile bank,to purchase cotton frcm importers of their own
choosing. This type of business relationship between Japanese and American firms
could not be permitted at the present time or for the coming year because of
security considerations (e.g. it would open the door to flight of capital from Japan
to places of safehaven) and because centralized or bulk procurement of raw cotton
through SCAP and the Japanese Government almost certainly wuuld be more economical.
Mr. Flemming's plan makes no contribution to the solution of the problem of
how to convert textiles into dollars to pay for raw cotton, except as it provides
for the bank refusing credit to particular mills which it believes cannot make a
product
Plil
toe ( tos bosidi or al as allifest gear. 

=== Page 74 === (confidence 1.00)
-2
product readily salable for dollars. This is only a negative solution. It is
probable that cotton exporters as a group are not in a position to sell German-
manufactured or Japanese-manufactured cotton textiles throughout the world.
However, some previous thinking in connection with this problem had indicated that
the cotton exporters might be prepared to carry some of the risk involved in the
process of endeavoring to convert raw cotton into dollars. Presumably, if cotton
exporters assumed the risk and therefore stood to profit from prompt conversion
of finished textiles into dollars they would find some effective way to assist in
the marketing operation.
Mr. Flemming points out that one of the merits of his plan is that under it
cotton could be obtained for Germany with the benefit of the export subsidy of
4 cents a pound. However, any plan which would involve procurement of American
cotton for cash would give the German or Japanese economies the benefit of the
4-cent-a-pound export differential.
To summarize, Mr. Flemming's plan proposes that private enterprise in the
U. S. participate in furnishing raw cotton to Occupied Areas by taking over the
function of deciding which mills are good credit risks and to what extent the
credit should be extenaed to particular mills. The present conditions in Japan
make it inadvisable to turn over these responsibilities, which now are vested in
the first instance in U.S. Occupation Authorities, and in the second instance in
the Japanese Government, to private enterprise in the U.S.
JK:RMPaige:bcb
12/3/46

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.96)
TO
DATE: August 1, 1947
FROM : Mr. Whitman
Associate Chief - JK
sUBJECT: Additional Copies of Agreement for Purchase of U.S.
Cotton for Japan.
Reference is made to a memorandum of July 9, 1947 to the
Secretary through S/S from General Hilldring (Tab A), with an
attached letter from the Secretary of Agriculture to the Secretary
of State dated July 1, 1947, containing amendments to the agreement
under which the Commodity Credit Corporation is proeuring raw
cotton for Japan. The letter from the Secretary of Agrioulture
requested that, if the amendments were approved, the signature of
the Secretary of State be affixed to the Secretary of Agriculture's
letter and the document be returned. The Secretary's signature
was affixed and the document returned to the Secretary of Agrioul-
ture on July 17, 1947.
The Department of State has now been requested to send to the
United States Commercial Company a copy of the Secretary of Agricul-
ture's letter of July 1, 1947, with the Secretary of State's signa-
ture affixed thereto.
It is recommended that the signature of the Secretary'of State
be affixed to the two copies (Tab B), and that one copy be then
transmitted to the United States Commercial Company, and one copy be
retained in the Secretary's office for further request for this
document.
PWNhrthuer
CS/ A
Enclosures:
Memorandum to The Secretary of State from General Hilldring
FW 894.61321/7-947
dated July 9, 1947.
Duplicate copies of letter from the Secretary of Agriculture
to the Seoretary of State dated July 1, 1947.
01m
JK:OJMcDiarmid:mw
y2
.st.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
: The Secretary
DATE: July 9, 1947
TO
THROUGH : S/S
vorDra
9C/R
suject: Revised Agreement for Purchase of U.S. Catton for Japan.
Discussion:
The Secretary of Agriculture has transmitted to the
Secretary of State by letter of July 1, 1947 (Tab B),
certain proposed revisions of an agreement in respect
to supply by the Commodity Credit Corporation of raw
cotton to Japan for the production of cotton textiles,
a portion of which are to be exported from Japan and
sold to repay the Commodity Credit Corporation for
the raw cotton involved. The Secretary is requested
to accept this agreement on behalf of the Department
894.61321/7-947
of State. The Department of State agreed to the
former arrangement which had been reoeived from the
Department of Agriculture on February 7, 1946 (Tab C).
594.6132172-74
B. Acceptance of the Secretary of Agriculture's pro-
posal is recommended, subject to the understandings
set forth in the proposed letter to the Searetary of
Agriculture which is attached hereto (Tab A).
Directly relating to the proposed cotton agreement,
and specifically to the procedure under the agree-
ment by which all cotton textile exports from Japan
have been sold for dollars, is a proposal of the
United Kingdom that trade between Japan and the
Sterling Area be conducted on a sterling basis. The
substance of this proposal, together with the Depart-
ment's recommendations thereon, was transmitted to
the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of
War in a letter of Jume 20, 1947 from the Seoretary
of State (Tab D). The Department has recently
received a further communication from the United
Kingdom Treasury Delegation in Washington on this
SEP1
subject. It is considered that a copy of this com-
FILED
A VL
munication be sent to the Secretary of Agriculture
for his information, together with the Secretary's
comments on the revised cotton agreement.
Recommondation:
It is recommended that the Secretary accept the revised agreement by
affixing his signature thereto, and sign the attached letter to the
Secretary

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2-
Secretary of Agriculture, enclosing a copy of the commmication from
the United Kingdom Treasury Delegation. It is further recommended
that copies of the Secretary's letter to the Secretary of Agriculture,
together with attachment, be sent to the Secretary of War and the
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the United States Commereial
Company, for their information.
Concurrences:
Concurrences have been obtained from ESP, IR, CP, NA and FN.
Attachmenta:
Tab A: Proposed letter to the Secretary of Agriculture.
Tab B: Letter from the Secretary of Agriculture to the Secretary
of State, dated July 1, 1947.
Tab C: Letter from the Department of Agriculture, dated February 7, 1946.
Tab D: Letter to Secretary Anderson dated June 20, 1947 from the
Secretary.
Tab E: Letter from the United Kingdom Treasury Delegation to Mr. Martin
of the Department, dated June 30, 1947.
0nm
JK:OJMcDfarmid:mw
ESP
(R (Cleared Evans) CP (Cleared Bane)
NA (Cleared Fearey)
FN (Cleared Strong) A-H
FEgKP
A-T
crw

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE SECRETARY
11 July 1947
The Under Secretary (For concurrence)
The Secretary
(For signature)
Subject: Revised Agreement for Purchase of U. S.
Cotton for Japan.
Discussion:
A.
The Secretary of Agriculture has transmitted to the Secretary
894.61321/7-1147
of State by letter of July 1, 1947 (Tab B), certain proposed
revisions of an agreement in respect to supply by the Commodity
Credit Corporation of raw cotton to Japan for the production
of cotton textiles, a portion of which are to be exported from
Japan and sold to repay the Commodity Credit Corporation for
the raw cotton involved. The Secretary is requested to accept
this agreement on behalf of the Department of State. The
Department of State agreed to the former arrangement which
had been received from the Department of Agriculture on Feb-
ruary 7, 1946 (Tab C).
B.
Directly relating to the proposed cotton agreement, and
specifically to the procedure under the agreement by which all
cotton textile exports from Japan have been sold for dollare,
is a proposal of the United Kingdom that trade between Japan
and the Sterling Area be conducted on a sterling basis. The
substance of this proposal, together with the Department's
recommendations thereon, was transmitted to the Secretary of
Agriculture and the Secretary of War in a letter of June 20,
1947 from the Secretary of State (Tab D). The Department has
recently received a further communication from the United
Kingdom Treasury Delegation in Washington on this subject.
It is considered that a copy of this communication be sent
to the Secretary of Agriculture for his information, together
with the Secretary's comments on the revised cotton agrpement.
FILED
Recommendation:
心
0
1.
That Secretary sign agreement.
2
2.
That Secretary sign letter to Secretary of Agriculture setting
forth the Department's understandings that the terms of the
agreement do not preclude early acceptance of the U.K. proposal

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
that Japanese trade with Sterling Area be conducted on
sterling basis, requesting that consultation be bad to
any purchase by CCC of raw cotton for Japan in exmess of
150,000 bales, and that the Department understands that
the agreement does not preclude sale of textiles for non-
dollar currencies if such currencies are subject to oon-
vertibility arrangement such as that proposed by UK.
3.
That copy of the letter to Secretary of Agriculture and
the communication from the U.K. Treasury Delegation be
sent to the Secretary of War and the Chairman of the Board
of Directors of the U. S. Commercial Company.
Drafted by JK; cleared by A-H, Hilldring, ESP, IR, CP, FN, NA,FE, A-T
Attachments:
As given.
S/S:FKirlin:vee

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.90)
I nete that sestiem 3 of the revi
-1447
The Hensrable
A/VL
Clintem Anders
以
FI On
Agriealture.
以

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.85)
Faithrally yours,
G. C. MARSHAL
à tree copp af
the sigaed arlit
tnal
Enelesure:
Letter Frem the Eaited Kingtam Treasmy Delegatian
dated 3m 30, 1947.
FE gAP
0jm
AT
JK:OJMoDiarmid:w
IR (CLEARED EVANS CP (CLEARED BANES
7/9/47
NK (CLEARED
7/9)
763
cow
Fearey 7/9) F (CLRARD Strong
3
g/8
3705
141947

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.89)
JUL161947
Ia repky reter to
88
y dear Mr. Petersen:
61321/7-1647
Tris statemest was tramemdtted tireughest the world as a
xn
811.61321
9431
611.
a India has expressed eenesrn ever the news.
J
It weald be mest halpfal in dealing with the ingairies
ment's pesitien on this master.
Simeerely yours,
CS/A
ap
G. Tyler Woed
Deputy to the Lesistent Seeretary
for Esememie Affaire
894.
P.M.
The Honorable
 Moard G. Potaren,
Lesistant Seeretary e ,
JUL 15
Waskingten, D. C.
1R
Alt
/20ams
Cleaed by telephone irith- Moreland
IR:JGEvans:emt
7/14/47
rewrrtten CTWood:khm
2
7/15/47

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.82)
Hy dear Kr. Petersen:
Lo you kaou, a stasonent sigaod by Sensters Iastland, Naghonk,
Japan in the future weuld be Lmeriesn cettes.
This statemsnt vas tranamitted threugheut the werld as a
meve iten. A Reaters stery to Gaire, datalised Wachiagten, Jame
28, wagsested that "Lueriosn eosten crowers today appesred to
have won through pelitieal pressure a preferential pesitien fee
press rel ease desying skarges af a pesferential pesitien for
Ameriean cetton in Japan.
The Severament ef India hed expressed coneera ever ness
steries indieating that Amsrieas setten vesld be siven preferense
over Indiaa eotten in the Japanege mariket daring the peried of
esompation.
The Departaent of State mast ader these eiroumetanees
of Ameriean cotton for Japen to the goveramente of Egrpt and
Indsa. Towe eemmente as to the asen aey af the Sematers' under
standing ef Seeretary Patterses's pebitien en this matter would
therefere be appresiated.
Sincerely yours,
0. sh Yood
Depaty to the Aessstent Searotery
for Besmende Affairs
9E
Mr. Nevard C. Petersen,
Assistant Seeretary of Ver.
IR:JG
somt 7-14-47
Washingten 25, D. 6.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.91)
DUL171
894.61321
Dear Er. Searetary:
I wish to a
CS/A
I hope
894.61321
Clinten Ande
DCR
WBS

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.83)
sinesvely yours,
willard L. Therp
Lesistest Searotery
CR
eax
17 1347PM
: armid:
R: JoEvans: nw
7/17/47
EBP
NA
4-T
unI

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.96)
VASN OP COMMERCIAL FOLIGY
CR. ARMOUR
AUG 1 1 194
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
DEO
DIVIS:ON
TMENT WAILHINGTON
DEPARTN
July 18, 1947.
AUGL-1947
A
The Honorable
ASSISTANT
A-H
The Secretary of State
AUG  1947
Dear Mr. Secretary:
GENERAL HILDRING
Reference is made to your letter of June 20, 1947, in
posed that Commodity Credit Corporation agree to a modificatlon of the
existing agreement for the delivery of raw cotton to Japan which would
permit the sale of the textiles manufactured therefrom for sterling,
and would provide for payments to the Corporation from the dollar pro-
xR
ceeds of the conversion of sterling or other foreign currencies avail-
able to the Supreme Commander. The proposal assumes that it would be
possible for the Supreme Allied Comnander to so manage Japanese foreign
894.61321/7-1847
trade and the foreign currencies received in payment for textiles as to
obtain sufficient dollars to pay Commodity Credit Corporation. To say
the least, the proposal would result in delayed payment to Commodity
Credit Corporation for the cotton furnished.
We have considered the proposal carefully, and we recognize that the
103.7151
suggested modification would be of some assistance to countries in the
sterling area. Nevertheless, we believe that we must continue the
agreement under its present terms.
At the time proposals for the original agreement were being discussed
and the greement was being drafted, thorough consideration was given
to the question of payment, and it was decided that Commodity Credit
assuranc that payment would be in dollars.
5
 you ow, it is mandatory that Commodity Credit Corporation carry
mut price support operations at prescribed levels with respect to more
than 20agricultural commodities, and it is, therefore, necessary that
the Comporation's financial resources always be adequate to meet this
AUG
FILED
mondate of Congress. Consequently, the Corporation would not feel
justified to enter into an arrangement whereby a substantial amount of
its funds would be tied up unduly.
Accordingly, we are unable to agree to the proposed modifications of,
TERNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
A/VL
the existing agreement.
Sincerely yours,
OIVISION OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
.E. Jodd
EPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG 4 1947
Acting Secretary
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2S25

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.95)
Idemtieal Letter Sent to:
Dear Secretary Patterson:
JUB 20, 1947

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.76)
Fatturally yore,
G.O.M
J: D:
RSP
F1
6/22/67

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.95)
"UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Washington 25, D. C.
February 7, 1946
594.61321/2.746
XRE94.24
The Secretary of State
FE JK
The Secretary of War
The Chairman of the Board of Directors,
U. S. Commercial Company
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemon:
A mumber of conversations have been held between representatives of
the Department of State, the War Department, U. S. Commereial Company
(hereinafter referred to as USCC), and Commodity Credit Corporation
(hereinafter referred to as CCc), for the purpose of formmlating a
program under which raw cotton owned by CCC would be shipped to Japan
and manufactured into cotton textiles, and payment for such cotton
and all other costs in connection with the program would be made from
the prooeeds of the sale of such textiles.
9.a.
b. Until such time as USCC and CCC shall have been paid in full
for all amounts due them herounder, SCAP will cause the
Japanese agency to deliver to uScc for sale such quantities
of textiles conforming to such specifications and instruo-
tions as are prescribed by USCC and SCAP with the approval
of CCC. The textiles so required to be delivered to uscc
will be not less than 60 peroent of all the textiles manu-
factured during each 3-months' period. It being a primary
consideration of the parties hereto that CCC and USCC shall
be paid in full for all amounts due them bereunder, the War
Department, (and through the War Department, SCAP) CCC, and
USCC shall consult with each other from time to time for
the purpose of adjusting the quantity of textiles to be
delivered hereunder in crder to insure that CCC and USCC
will be fully paid.
12. USCC
OCF
)FL Un
D I 
R
5.5

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
12. USCC will sell such textiles in suoh manner as it deems to
be to the best interest of all conoerned in such countries and
at such price levels as it shall determine with the approval of
the other parties hereto. Sales shall not be made on credit with-
out the approval of CCC and the War Department.
14. USCc will maintain a separate account which will reflect the
receipts and disposition of all proceeds from the sale of textiles
here under. The proceeds, on hand at the end of each calendar
month, shall be disposed of as follows:
b. USCC will then pay CCC in United Statew dollars all
amounts due CCC herounder.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ Clinton P. Anderson
Secretary
Accepted:
2-13-46
Charles B. Henderson
Chairman of the Board -- USCC
Robert P. Patterson
2-28-46
Secretary of War
2-25-46
James F. Byrnes
Secretary of State

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.69)
300h Jame, 2047
Am
Mr. B Mmrtin,

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.64)
Leure sinssvely,
//  tte

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.82)
It Ls recem
ain his
Secretery

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.63)
urressse here bean ebtaiand free mp, , eP,  and 8.
as 0ato, dated Jaiy 1, 2049.
JX:0M01r4.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.95)
Blauche fog n?
COTTON EXCHANGE BUILDING
60 BEAVER STREET
NEW YORK 4, N.Y.
IVPANESE 
CABLE ADDRESS REINCOT
ECONOMIC AFFAN
TELEPHONE BOWLING GREEN 9-6TSO
BUENTING'S CODE
Jry2=-947+17/30
69
U.S. Department of/State,
ec
1321/7-2447
Division of Japanese Economic Affairs,
Washington D.C.
Gentlemen,
It has heen reported that our government
has allotted a quantity of 6.000 tons (18.000 bales) of
Egyntian cotton to be imnorted into Japan during this
season.
In con junction with our friends, Reinhart & Co.,
Alexandria, Egypt, we are very much interested to participate
in this husfness and for this reason would appreciate your
giving us if possihle the following information:
1.) Whet ouantities and qualities of Egyptien cotton are
683.9431
intended to he bought by Japan;
2.) What party will act as buyer in Japan and whether we
883,01321
can make offers to them through our Japan Agents,
The Nissho Co., Ltd., Osaka, or will the deal be made
CS/A
through a Washington agency;
3.) On what terms and conditions, padticularly regarding
payment, will the intended exnorts be transacted.
Any information on this subject will be
greatly anpreciated and thenking you for an early renly,
we are,
894.613217
Yours very truly,
RETNHART COTTON CO., INC
Hans Winkler, President.
in
HW:hs
17-2447
cc to Alexandria.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.92)
Dn reply refer to
8c
My dear Mr. Winklers
We have your letter of July 24 regarding the preeusement of Eayptlan
cotton for Japan. The answers to your specifie qusstiene are as
follows:
can best be obtained direetly from these autherities. They sheuld be
approached through the Supreme Commander for the Allied Pewers is Setge.
I might add that information available bere sugeeste that these peekessd
will probably not be as large as 6,000 tons (18,000 bales).
2. The buyer in Japan will be the Japanese Goveemment, sakjeet to
with the particular agencies or individuals whe wmald be iavelved in
the negotiation of a sales eontract.
CS/A
3. As to terms and conditions of sale I ean add nothing e thds
subject to the informstion presented in my letter to you of Jume 5, 1947.
Sinee that date the Egyptian gevermment has sent an official missien to
Japan and cotton precurement negotiations between this missiom and saar
are underway.
Sincerely yours,
as
RAN.
Roswell H. Wnitman
Associate Chief
Division of Japenese and Koreg
Beenemie Affairs
Mr. Hans Winkler, President,
Reinhart Cotten Co., Ins.,
2477
Cotton Rcshange Building,
60 Beaver Street,
JK:mPaige:bcb 7/30/47

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
CR
COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION
WASHINGTON, D. C.
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
JUI $ 1 1941
Hon. Willard L. Thorp
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Assistant Secretary of State
894.61321/9-1447
Dear Mr. Thorp:
Reference is made to Secretary Marshall's letter of July 14, 1947,
and your letter of July 17, 1947, with respect to the letter of the
Secretary of Agriculture dated July 1, 1947, addressed to the
894.61321/7-3147
Secretary of State, the Secretary of War, and the Chairman of the
Board of the U. S. Commercial Company. The Secretary of Agriculture's
letter of July 1, 1947, contained the terms and conditions of an
amendment to the letter of February 7, 1946, under which the raw cotton
owmed by the Commodity Credit Corporation is shipped to Japan and
manufactured into cotton textiles. In your letter of July 17, 1947,
you stated as follows: "While neither the existing nor the amended
agreement specifically forbids the U. S. Commercial Company to sell
cotton textiles for sterling or other foreign currencies, such sales
cannot be made without the approval of the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion, if conversion into dollars of currencies thus acquired is only
possible at a future date. The intention of the last sentence of
the Secretary of State's letter July 14, 19477 was to indicate the
Department's understanding that further consideration by the Commodity
Credit Corporation, and other interested agencies, of the proposal of
the British Government is not precluded."
On the basis of your construction of the meaning of the Secretary of
State's letter of July 14, 1947, the Commodity Credit Corporation is
now proceeding to purchase cotton for shipment to Japan under the terms
and conditions of the letter agreement of February 7, 1946, as amended
by the letter of the Secretary of Agriculture dated July 1, 1947.
There are enclosed copies of the letter of July 1, 1947 signed by the
War Department and the U. S. Commercial Company. Since the Secretary
FILED
of State did not enclose additional copies of the letter of July 1,
copier
1947, for submission to the War Department and the U. S. Commercial
udee.
Company, we assume that your Department has already forwarded copies
signed by the Secretary of State to them.
894.
Sincerely yours,
CcFarington
14527
1947
a8
Aoting.
President
U.. . Qryton
Undes Spewrery for sounomic
Enclosures
hp
AUG 5 1947
DEPARTMENT OF BTAT!

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.91)
SEO. H. MSFADDEN & BRO.
APINS, TENN.
Cabl Addrass
August 4th, 1947
State Department
Washington, D.C.
ne
Doar Sirs:
1
We are informed by the Firm of
Yulbright, Crooker, Freeman and White, of
Washington, D.C., that our letter to you of
R
July 24th has not been received.
2ice
yr
Please find enclosed copy of
this letter.
611.9431
894.6132
Very truly yours,
894.111
n
JHMCF:HAO
1/8-447
encl. 1.
AIRMAIL
ARO
SEP1
FILED
DEPAROF STATE
S
AUG 1947ev
/8-447
nist.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
July 24th, 1947
State Department
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sirs:
For a number of years prior to the war
we had our own office in Osaka, Japan, for the purpose
of selling cotton to that country.
As you probably know, a Commission
is now in Japan working out plans with the American
Military Authorities for supplying cotton to the
Japanese mills. A member of the Commission is from
our Firm and we are in receipt of a cable from him
today, advising us to apply to the State Depurtmont for
permission to send our representative out there as
soon as possihle to re-engage whatever former Japanese
employees are still available and to reopen our office
in Japan.
We believe that the years of exper-
inece that we have had with the Japanese market should
facilitate whatever system is decided upon to supply
the Japanese mills and we request you to take under
consideration granting to us authority to re-establish
our office in Japan.
The present plan, as far as we kmow,
is to start shipping cotton to Japan immediately as the
mills are running short of raw material and therefore
we believe that this matter is of some urgency.
Trusting for a favorable reply, we are
Very truly yours,
JHMCF:HAO
AIRMAIL

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: fugUst 18, 1947
SUBJECT:
Egyptian Cotton for Japan
ay filed
Mr. John Montgomery, IR
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. John F. Shaw, CP
4or
894.61321/8-1847
COPIES TO:
F. Boardman, CP
Mr. Montgomery assured me that there was presently
clearing in the Department a telegram to Cairo advising
the Commercial Attach6 that whereas the United States is
presently supplying 70% of the cotton required by Japan
and will do so up until October 3lst that after this
date the United States Government is not committed to
supply any fixed quantity. This is based upon the denial
CS/G
of a commitment understood to be entered into by the
Secretary of War and certain congressmen representing
cotton producing states. The denial came from Assistant (?)
Secretary of War, Mr. Patterson.
S
Iil imertial Pohiy
Dinisain
CP:JFShaw:dmr
8/18/47

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.93)
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
h
Department of State
Charge Department: X
RESTRICTED
Charge to
AUG 21 1947
6Pm.
AMEMBASSY,
NEW DELHI.
530
For your information and for transmittal to GOI if you think
advisable.
894.61321/8-2147
State and War Depts. have agreed that procurement raw cotton for
Japan to date of Oct. 31, 1947 should be: 350,000 bales US grown;
140,000 bales (equivalent US bales) Indian; and 7,500 bales (equivalent
US bales) Egyptian. This agreement permissive since no directive sent
SCAP that procurement had to be divided these lines. No commitment was
made regarding procurement after Oct. 31. As soon as policy established
for procurement after that date will advise you.
houtt
actirij
1-
()
(eun.)
DISTRIBUTION
WH
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
CSAA
894:61321
Code Room:
Please repeat to Biplomatic
Section, Tokyo. — 337
To be cleared by:
40you
JK
Mr! Paige
Stneno
x√
CR CLEARANCE
War (by phone)
OR
Mr. Adair
Col. Hartman
47
275

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.83)
20
SEP
Aa maly refer to
894.61321/9-
25
I understand that the Rer Dapartment is astcing the Gammndaty
Gredit Cosperatien to purohese for expert to Jagem 100,s00 hales
-247
of kmeriemn cotten in addition to the 150,s00 beles thdsh the ose
was asked to perekase during Jady and Aagast of tade year. Seeretery
Maraa11 1a kds letter to you of Jaly 14, 1947 ast thst the
Degartaans of state be eomsul ted befare the c00 agreed to aaie mash
additienel perehases. Repressntatives of thds Bapertmees heve dis
eussed this matter with the Ter Department effisiale ceneeraed and
CS/JEC
the prepesal thet 000 purekese an additienal 100,000 balee during
Saptenber and Gsteber fer immediate stdymet to dJapen hae the age
proval of the Departmsst of state.
Simserely yours,
fer tne Acting Secretary or St
De
9
3
2
3
jes beb
8/29/47

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.86)
157
SEP251947
In reply reter to
894.61321/9-2547
dear . Seeretarys
491321 247
I refer to the Departmant's lettere of Jaly 14, 1947, and Septaner
1947, on the subjeet of presurement of rew cetten and oottem wmste fer
Japan by the Cemmedity Credit Gerperatisn.
I am new advised that there has been an weestleipated deley is
sompleting the arraingomente wnder wideh private shippers weuld he pee-
of state believes it nesessary to enlarge the preeurement preerem
woald appreve the purehase by Comnedity Credit Corperatdem daring the
Commedity Credit Corperation the quantities of each type and grade of
Allied Pewere.
Sineerely yours,
S
For the Seeretary of States
N
K.
C. Iylev leaad
heypuly to the sstotent sesrotary
fae Economio Offoics
894.61321/9.
The Sessrable
Clinten Anderson,
Sesretary of Agrieulture.
4-E
CE:RMPaige: bcb
9/28/47
RN
-2547
A true copy of
100
2911
23 947
8EP

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.92)
DoR
DEC221947
LEMDBAN DUN FOR AR. STERLMAN
Subje et: Japanese Cotten Contrast.
2
facturers.
ee
194.655
3
6551
CS/Å
8
pestions you my have regarding this matter.
Assistant Secretery
OErmige:bcb
IR
CP
AS
DEC
12/22/47
(Cleared in draft
(Cleared in
by Evan)
22
947P.M.
CC: Lt. Col Hartman, Army
u-1
E. D. Mhite, Agril.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.96)
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT
DEC 2 6 1947
Dear Mr. Thorp:
This is in reference to your memorandum of December 22, 1947, regarding
the revision of the contract or letter of agreement setting forth the terms
under which the Department of the Army on behalf of the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers agrees to accept and to insure that full payment is made to
894.61321/12-2647
CCC for raw cotton shipped to Japan, and particularly regarding the inclusion
in such agreement of a provision which would prevent the Japanese from mixing
cotton in which the CCC has a paramount security claim with synthetic fibers.
I understand that SCAP does not plan, during the period in which this
agreement is in effect, to blend cotton on which the CCc has a paramount
security claim with synthetic fibers. The issue which you raise, therefore,
evidentally will not arise in actual practice.
Nevertheless I agree with you that this contract is not the appropriate
place to make a substantive determination on an issue affecting the long-
range plans for the reactivation of Japanese industry. Responsibility for
the formulation of Japanese occupation policy lies with the Far Eastern Com-
mission, and the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, and if the issue of
the degree of reactivation of the Japanese synthetic fiber industry is to be
raised, it should be raised specifically and directly with the Department of
State for consideration by the Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers and the
Far Eastern Comaission, in accordance with established procedures.
子
I am sending a copy of this letter to the Secretary of Agriculture.
Joh R. Strehnt
Sincerely,
CS/A
JOHN R. STEELMAN
Mr. Willard L. Thorp
0177
894.61321
Assistant Secretary for Economic Affairs
Department of State
Washington.25, D. C.
af  cd in DE 12/29
Dc/m jile.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
ORPARTMEN OF STATE
1948 JANJuay ,01948
894.61321/1-648
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
There is transmitted herewith for your signature revised
Japanese Cotton Contract which removes U. S. Commercial
Company as a party to the agreement and provides for the
continuation of the program.
2
In order to expedite the signing of this agreement an
original and three copies have been delivered to each
party concerned as provided in the agreement of February 7,
1946. Accordingly, one signed copy should be returned to
us and one copy forwarded to each of the other two parties.
Sincerely yours,
E. D. White
Assistant to the Secretary
CS/V
894.61321
7K
Anal.
cpr
Cat.
11-648

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
S - Mr. Secretary
Subject: Contract between the Secretary of the Army and the
Commodity Credit Corporation for the Supply of Raw
Cotton for Japan.
An agreement was entered into on February 7, 1946 between the Secre-
tary of War, the U.S. Commercial Corporation, and the Secretary of Agrioul-
ture for the Commodity Credit Corporation, which provides for a program under
894.61321/1-648
which raw cotton owmed by the CCC was shipped to Japan for mamufacture into
cotton textiles, and payment for such cotton and other costs in conneotion
with the program was to be made from the proceeds of the sale of such textiles.
The Department of State concurred in the original contract and in an amend-
ment thereto dated July 1, 1947.
The USCC is now in the process of liquidation and wishes to be relieved
of its responsibilities in this contract. The attached letter represents a
further modification of the basic contract referred to above so that the re-
sponsibilities heretofore held by USCC will now be apportioned between SCAP
and the CCC. There are no other basic modifications to the original contract.
It is considered that the life of this contract will extend only until such
time as the present indebtedness to the CCC is liquidated. The contract does
not anticipate that further purchases of raw cotton will be financed by the
CCC.
In order to expedite the signing of this contract by all parties, the
Secretary of Agriculture has sent an original letter to each of the parties
of the contract with a request that each party sign three copies so that
copies signed by each party to the contract will be available. The contract
is being signed by the Chairman of the Board of the USCc and by the Secretary
of the Army, acting for SC&P.
This contract has been concurred in by OE, FE, CP, IR and A-T. I re-
commend your concurrence and your signature on three copies as indicated.
FW 894.613
By agreement with the Army and USCC, the signature is dated January 6.
ces.
7K
CS/V
Charles E. Saltzman
ubh
2
Enclosures:
1. From Department of Agriculture
dated Jamuary 6, 1948.
2. Original and 3 copies of letter
referred to above.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.89)
Jam 11, 1948
T. TM. White, CAs, Mr. obensaw, USCC
.L
Bnolesed ts a copy of the cot tom
contreet for Jap am, which has been signed
by Seeretary Karshall.
9
Attactment:
Ao above
6
f
44232
A
ep

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.97)
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
January 6, 1948
The Secretary of State
The Secretary of the Army
Chairman of the Board of Directors,
U. S. Commercial Company
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:
An agreement was entered into by and between the Secretary of State.
894.61321/1-648
Secretary of War, Chairman of the Board of Directors. U. S. Commercial
Company (hereinafter referred to as UScc), and the Secretary of Agri-
culture, on February 7. 1946, and amended July 1. 1947, which provided
for a program under which raw cotton supplied by Commodity Credit
Corporation (hereinafter referred to as Ccc) was to be shipped to
Japan for manufacture into cotton textiles, and payment for such
cotton and all other costs in connection with the program was to be
made from the proceeds of the sale of such textiles. USCC no longer
811
wishes to be a party to the agreement. In order to remove USCc as
a party and to provide for the continuation of the program, the
511
following provisions upon acceptance shall constitute an agreement.
which from the effective date thereof shall stand in place of the
agreement of February 7, 1946, as amended.
I. Responsibility of SCAP
1. As used herein, the word "cotton" shall mean raw cotton and
raw cotton waste, and the word "textiles" shall mean cotton yarn and
products made therefrom.
2. This agreement is limited to cotton which prior to the
effective date of this agreement has been purchased by CCC for
export under the agreement of February 7, 1946, as amended, and
to textiles made from such cotton in Japan.
3. The Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers in Japan
(hereinafter referred to as SCaP) shall cause the Japanese
Government to nominate a Japanese Government agency to take any
168
and all steps that may be necessary or convenient to facilitate
CS/V
the program as hereinafter set forth. The Japanese agency shall
4.61
at all times during the terms of the agreement aet under the
direct supervision and control of SCAP.
3
7
Anal.
efn
uh
6
f

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
2.
4. CCC shall establish an "Account Receivable" for the umpala
balance of the total price of all cotton delivered to United States
ports for export to Japan under the agreement of February 7, 1946, as
amended. Interest shall accrue on such "Account Receivable" at the
rate of 3% per annum on the amount of principal of such "Account
Receivable" outstanding at the end of each calendar month as deter-
mined by CCC. Such "Account Receivable" together with unpaid
interest, as provided above, shall be the amount due and payable
to CCC hereunder. Within 30 days after the last day of each calen-
dar month, CCC shall advise SCAP, through the Department of the
Army, on the principal amount outstanding in the "Account Receiv-
able" and the interest due thereon at the end of each month.
Payments to CCC after the effective date of this agreement shall
be applied to interest and principal balance of the "Account
Receivable."
5. Title to the cotton shall pass to the Japaneseagency
unpon the actual delivery of such cotton to the Japanese agency at
Japanese port. The Japanese agency, subject to the direct super-
vision and control of ScAP, shall retain title to the cotton and
textiles made therefrom until the disposition of the textiles as
set forth herein: Provided, however. that until such dispositic1
SCAP shall take such steps as are necessary to assure CCC a
paramount security claim upon (1) sixty percent (60%) of the
textiles made from CCC cotton in process of manufacture into
textiles on the date of the execution of the amendment of July 1.
1947, (2) sixty percent (60%) of the CCC cotton in Japan on the
date of the execution of the amendment of July 1. 1947, (3) sixty
percent (60%) of the cotton delivered under the amendment of July
1. 1947, and (4) sixty percent (60%) of the textiles manufactured
from such cotton:
a.
SCAP shall be responsible for the cotton in Japan and
for its manufacture into textiles and for the delivery
of textiles hereunder. SCAP shall take such steps as
are necessary fully to protect the interests of CCC
from the time f the arrival of the cotton in Japan
until textiles are delivered to the buyer.
b. Until such time as USCC and CCC shall have been paid
in full for all amounts due them hereunder, SCAp shall
cause the Japanese agency to deliver for sale hereunder
such quantities of textiles conforming to such specifi-
cations and instructions as are prescribed by SCÃP;
provided, however, that SCap shall cause to be discon-
tinued the production of any specification when so
notified by CCC. Such textiles shall equal or exceed
the average quality of the textiles produced in Japan
from CCC cotton, and shall be in quantities not less
than the percentages upon which Ccc has a paramount
security claim under this section. If it should later
be determined that the above-mentioned percentages of

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
3.
textiles will mot fully repay coc fer the amount out-
standing in its account recsivable established umier
paragraph 4, these peroentages of the total textiles
manmfactured from coc cotton shall be inereased by
mutual agreement to peroentages sufficient fally to
liquidate such account recsivable. It being & primary
consideration of the parties hereto that USCC and 000
shall be paid in full fer all amounts due them here-
under, the Department of the Army and SCAP, through
the Department of the Army, and CCC shall consalt with
each other from time to time for the purpose of adjasting
the quantity of textiles to be delivered hereander in
order to insure that USCC and CCC shall be fully paid.
Any cotton delivered hereunder and on which CCC has a
paramount security claim may be blended with cotten met
delivered hereunder, provided that SCaP shall cause all
textiles produced from such blending operations to be
made available for export sale under the terms of this
agreement, and that the entire dollar proceeds derived
from the export sales of such blended textiles shall
be deposited in the special trust fund described in
paragraph 9 of this agreement. The provisions of this
paragraph 5=c shall not be construed to restrict the
weaving or knitting of cotton yarn on which coc has a
paramount security claim with yarn made of other fibers,
blended or otherwise, provided that all textiles pro-
duced therefrom shall be made available for export
sale under the terms hereof.
d. The balance of the textiles shall be disposed of for such
purposes as SCAP shall deem appropriate.
SCAP shall cause to be established and maintained account-
ing and inventory controls for all of the CCC cotton
delivered under the agreement of February 7, 1946, as
amended, for all textiles made therefrom and for dis-
positions of such textiles. Such records and accounts
shall be available to any of the parties hereto for
examination. SCAP shall make monthly reports to CCC
in a form mutually agreed to between them on all
operations under the agreement, including, but not
limited to, the following: (1) the quantity of CCC
raw cotton on hand in Japan, (2) the quantity of CCC
cotton in process by stages of mammfacture, (3) the
quantities of textiles produced from CCC cotton (in-
cluding that involved in blending operations), and (4)
the quantities of textiles produced from CCC cotton
available for sale.
f. For the purposes of accounting for the proceeds of the
sale of textiles under paragraph 9, SCAP shall not be

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.98)
4.
required to distinguish between the proseeds of the
textiles mmnufactured from the cotton delivered by CCC
after the execution of this agreement and the proceeds
of textiles mnufactured from cotton delivered by CCC
prior to the execution of this agreement.
In order to safeguard CCC's paramount security claims,
go
separate sales programs involving any cotton not covered
by such security claims shall not be undertaken until
CCC and SCAP agree on the procedures for accounting.
handling inventories, warehouse and shipping documents,
identification of cotton and textile goods and related
matters, unless such separate sales programs involve
cotton textiles, the raw cotton procurement for and
the manufacture and sale of which has been kept physi-
cally sepmated in Japan.
6. SCap shall cause such textiles to be sold in any country in
such manner as SCap deems best to carry out the terms and purposes of
this agreement. The parties hereto recognize that one of the basic
purposes of the agreement of February 7, 1946, as amended, was to mmke
textiles available to countries in which textiles were in ertremely
short supply. In order to achieve this purpose, SCap shall continue to
pursue the sales program inaugurated under USCC operations of maximising
and emphasizing the sale of cotton textiles hereunder in countries other
than the continental United States and its territories. In mmking sales
of textiles hereunder in the continental United States and its territories,
CCC,and SCap acting through the Department of the Army, will cooperate to
the end that such sales will be conducted in a manner designed to avoid
undue damage to other cotton programs of the Department of Agriculture.
ScAP shall cause such textiles to be sold at such price levels,
subject to the qualification above, as may be deemed by SCap to be con-
sistent with prevailing world markets. Without prior approval of CCC.
ScAP shall not approve any sales of textiles hereunder at prices less
than 90% of the quoted USCc prices prevailing on the effective date of
this agreement, or less than 90% of the prices in any approved revised
price schedule authorized hereunder. ScÀp at any time may submit a
revised price schedule to CCC and such schedules after approval by CCC
shall constitute an approved revised price schedule and supersede all
previous price schedules. Scap shall establish prices for new con-
structions, patterns, finishes, or other differences in textiles
required to be made available for sale under this agreement on an
in-line basis with the prices of other textiles for which an established
price exists at the time such in-line prices are calculated. Due allow-
ance shall be made for all significant differences in textiles for which
an in-line price is established by SCAP. SCAP shall inform CCC promptly
of any price adjustments made pursuant to this paragraph.
Sales shall not be made on credit or for other than United States
dollars without prior approval of CCC; provided, however. that without

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
5.
such prior approval Scap my approve sales for credit, or for other
than United States dollars, subject to all the following conditiems:
a. Scap shall not approve any such sales unless satisfied
that SCAP will be able to obtain United States dollars
from the buyer or that SCAP will have United States
dollars available from other sources.
b. SCAp, before the delivery of any textiles, shall deposit
in the special trust account, under the provisions of
paragraph 9, United States dollars in an amount equal
to the sales value of the textiles to be delivered as
based upon the conversion rate used by SCap in deter-
mining the sales price.
ScAp shall cause to be attached to the file copy of each
sales contract a statement that the sales contract is
being financed under this provision and shall notify CCC.
On all sales other than those made under the provisions above
whereby SCap agrees to make United States dollars available, the buyer
shall be required at appropriate dates in advance of delivery of textiles
under sales contracts to establish an irrevocable letter of credit payable
in United States dollars or to deposit United States dollars in any United
States bank or its foreign branch, in amounts at least equal to the sales
value of the tertiles to be delivered.
It is agreed that if the buyer for any reason refuses to take
delivery of textiles sold under this agreement after such textiles have
been produced, SCAp shall arrange to negotiate the resale of such tertiles
at approved prices, and any portion of such textiles not sold within 120
days after the contract delivery date shall be considered by SCap as
part of the quantity authorized by paragraph 5 of this agreement for
domestic use.
7. At the time of delivery of any textiles to the buyer, SCAP
shall cause the appropriate Japanese agency totransfer title to such
textiles to the buyer free and clear of all claims and interests.
8. Any insurance policies effected by SCaP on cotton after arrival
in Japan, or tertiles produced therefrom before delivery to buyer. shall
be subject to the approval of CCC. If any insured loss occurs, SCAP
shall cause the Japanese agency as agent of CCC or as title holder or
otherwise to make claim for the insurance proceeds. For the purpose of
this agreement, the proceeds derived under such policies shall be disposed
of in the same manner as proceeds from the sale of textiles received by
SCAP hereunder.
9. On or before delivery of any tertiles required to be made avail-
able for export sale under this agreement, SCAp shall cause the proceeds
of such export sale to be deposited in United States dollars in a
separate trust account in any United States bank or its foreign branch
designated as "ScaP Cotton Taxtile Account--In Trust for CCc." the trust

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
6.
account shall reflect receipts and disposition of all proceeds of textile
sales hereunder at the direction of Scip, beginning with the effective
date of the agreement, and also of all proceeds and their disposition
on textile sales contracts transferred by Usoc to the Japanese agency
under paragraph 13 hereof. Not less frequently than once each month,
SCAP shall inform CCC of the banks in which such trust accounts are
established, the sales proceeds on deposit in such banks, and shall
dispose of such sales proceeds as follows:
a. SCAP shall pay CCC in United States dollars all amounts
due USCC or CCC. All payments shall be made payable to
the Treasurer of the United States and transmitted to
the Treasurer, Commodity Credit Corporation, Washington,
D. C., or to such other office as CCC may from time to
time direct.
b. CCC shall first remit to USCC any amount due it under
paragraph 15. The remainder of the payment shall be
allocated by the CCC between the principal balance of
accounts receivable and the balance of accrued interest
receivable, as determined by the CCC, on a pro rata basis.
in the proportion that the total amount of principal and
interest receivable as of the latest month-end prior to
receipt of the payment rore to the balance of the prin-
cipal amount of accounts receivable and the balance of
accrued interest receivable; respectively, as of the same
month-end date. (For example, if the principal balance
of accounts receivable as of June 30 were $95,000.000, the
balance of accrued interest receivable were $5,000.000,
and a payment of $20,000,000 were received on July 15.
than 95% of the $20,000.000 would be applied to reduce.
the principal balance and 5% would be applied to reduce
the balance of accrued interest receivable.) The amount
computed under this formula as being applicable to prin-
cipal shall be credited during the month in which payment
is received by CCC, provided that payment is received by
CCC on or before the 25th day of the month in which receipt
occurs. Any payment received by CCC on or after the 26th
day of such month shall be credited in the next succeeding
month. CCC shall advise SCAP, through the Department of
the Army, of its determination of the allocation percentage
for the ensuing month in connection with the reporting of
month-end balances to SCAP.
After USCC and CCC have been paid in full, any balance shall
be retained by SCAP, and this agreement shall automatically
terminate and the parties hereto shall no longer be bound by
the terms and conditions hereof.
10. SCAP, through the Department of the Army, may make paymonts in
addition to those provided for in paragraph 9 hereof, on the amounts due

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
7.
occ and Uscc, from any funds derived from the sale of exports from Jegem
as scap elects, with the understanding that upon notifioatiom by the
Department of the Army that the equivalent amount of funds or axy part
thereof is needed to finance the Japanese program, CCc shall iaform
the agency that is handling the sale of Japanese cotton products that
proceeds in the amount of the Department of the Army's notificatiom
are released from hypothecation and CCC shall direct that these funds
be mmde available to SCap through the Department of the Army. It is
further agreed that the first funds available for payment to CCC shall
be released to SCAp through the Department of the Army.
1l. SCAP shall take all steps within its authority to hold USCC
and CCC harmless from all loss, cost, dammge or expense incurred by
USCC and CCC arising directly or indirectly under this agreement or
under any contract or arrangement entered into with third persons
pursuant to this agreement.
12. This agreement shall be subject to re-examination at any time
and may be amended as changed circumstances may require.
II. Liquidation of USCC Interests
13. In proper time and form satisfactory to SCAP, USCC shall
deliver assignments to the Japanese agency designated by SCAP of all
of its rights and obligations as seller under any contracts of sale
on Jap anese cotton tertiles which have not been completely performed
by Uscc on the effective date of this agreement. As to any such un-
completed contracts on which the buyer named therein does not agree to
assignment of the seller's obligations to such Japanese agency, UscC
shall complete the seller's performance of the contract.
14. The operations of USCC under the agreement of February 7, 1946,
as amended, shall be carried on by USCC as heretofore until the transfer
of functions in accordance herewith.
15. As of the effective date of this agreement, USCc shall determine
the amounts due it under paragraph 14 of the agreement of February 7; 1946.
as amended, and shall notify SCap and CCC of this amount. In computing
any amount due it, USCC shall charge 2% for administrative expenses only
on the sales proceeds of deliveries of textiles made by it through such
date and on the sales proceeds of contracts on which it must thereafter
complete performance. Subsequent to the effective date of this agreement.
USCC shall notify SCAP and CCC of any adjustments in the amount computed
as due it as of the effective date of this agreement, and of any amounts
due it for charges after that date which are allowable, under the agreesent
of February 7, 1946, as amended, and either shall remit any overpayment
to CCC or be paid additional amounts due it by CCC as provided under
paragraph 9.
16. As of the effective date of this agreement, after deduction of
allowable charges, USCC will transfer to SCap for disposition under para-

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
any fands on completed contracts, or on contracts where UScc mmst complete the
performance, which are in excess of amounts due it fer charges allewable under
the agreement of February 7, 1946, as amended.
17. Usoc shall retain the records and files covering its operations under
the agreement of February 7, 1946, as amended, and shall make such dispesitiem
of them as is mmtually agreed upon by USCC, CCC, SCAP and the Department of the
Army. Promptly after the effective date of the agreement, Usco shall render a
report to CCC in a form matually agreed to by USCC and CCC covering operatiems
under all sales contracts consummated by Uscc. A copy of such report shall be
furnished directly to SCaP, and after review thereof, SCaP shall be requested
to concur in those phases of the report covering contracts assigned in whele or
part to the Japanese agency designated by SCAP under the terms and provisiens
of this agreement.
III. Effective Date of Areement
18. This agreement shall be effective on December 31, 1947. If the fere-
going is acceptable to you, will you please so signify on the original and four
of the enclosed duplicate sopies of this letter and forward all copies to the
next person named above. A copy signed by sll parties will be returned to you
after all signatures have been obtained.
Sincerely yours,
Dmenw
Secretary of Agriculture and
Chairman of Board, Commodity Credit Corporation
Accepted:
Date
Chairman of the Board, USCC
Date
Secretary of the Army
Concurred:
Date
Secretary of State

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
Memorandum of Understanding on Handling of Cotton Unshipped from United
States as of December 22, 1947, Under Agreement of February 7, 1946,
as Amended, Between War Department, USCC, State Department, and USDA
When UScc transfers its functi ons under the agreement of February 7, 1946, as
amended, to SCAP on December 22, 1947, there may remain to be shipped from the
United States to Japan some of the cotton purchased by CCC under said agreement.
Accordingly, it is hereby agreed that the disposition of any such unshipped cot-
ton will be handled as follows:
a. All such cotton shall be shipped from the United States to Japan prior
to midnight January 15, 1948, or such later date as may be agreed upon by the
parties hereto. All such cotton not so shipped by that time shall be disposed of
by sale by CCC and CCC shall charge as an additional amount due it as an Aocount
Recei vable under the agreement effective December 22, 1947, all costs incurred
by CCc incident to the purchase and preparation of the particular cotton for ship-
ment which cannot be recovered from said sale.
b. USCC shall act as agent for SCAP in performing such of the functions of
SCAP in shipping and insuring the shipment of such cotton, referred to in para-
graph c, below as must be perfomed in the United States. SCAP shall perfom all
of such functions required to be performed outside the United States. For its
services as agent of SCAP, USCC shall be reimbursed for the out-of-pocket ex-
penses plus % for administrative expenses, which UScC incurs in performing such
functi ons, such reimbursement to be in accordance with the definition of "out-of-
pocket expenses" as contained in paragraph 14 of the agreement of February 7, 1946,
as amended. USCc shall withhold from the funds to be transferred by it under para-
graph 16 of the agreement which becomes effective on December 22, 1947, such funds
as UScC estimates it will require to perform the residual shipping and insurance
functi ons required as agent for SCAP under this paragraph. Promptly after comple-
tion of such shipment, USCC vi ll remit to CCC any excess of funds withheld or re-
quest payment from CCc for any deficit under paragraph 15 of the agreement effec-
tive December 22, 1947.
c. SCAP shall perfom the functions assined to USCC under sections 7, 8,
and 13 of the agreement of February 7, 1946, as amended, in the movement of such
cotton to Japan. SCAP shall receive compensation for perfoming these functions
only as provided in paragraph b hereof.
d. Cotton shipped in accordance with this memorandum shall, for the purposes
livered under the amendment of July 1, 1947, to the agmemant of February 7, 1946.
Chairman of Board of Directors, CCC
and
Secretary of Agriculture
U. S. Commercial Company
Department of the Army

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.89)
& - Mr. Seeretary
Sabjest: Contract between the Seoretary of the Aray and the
Commodity Credit Corperation for the Sapply of Raw
Cotton for Japen.
An agreement mas en tered inte on Pebruary 7, 1946 between the Seeve-
tary of War, the U.S. Commercial Corporatien, and the Seeretary of Agrieal-
which raw cot ten omned by the CCCc was shipped to Japen for meafaotare fate
with the program was to be made from the proeseds of the sale of sesh temkiles.
mont thereto dated July 1, 1947.
The Uscc is now in the process of liquidatiom and wishes te be relieved
M
further modification of the basic contract referred to sheve se thas the se-
168
It is considered that the life of this coatract will exteed only ustil smch
力
time as the present indebtedness to the CCC is liegsidated. The eemkrmet dees
not anticipate that further purchases of raw cotton will be finamesd by the
CCC.
6
In order to expedite the signing of this contract by all partiss, the
13
Secretary of àgrioaltare bas sent an original letter te eack of the perties
2
1s being sigred by the Chairman of the Beard of the uscc and by the Seevetary
of the Army, ssting for scap.
This contrect bas been concurred in by GB, FE, CP, IR and A-T. I re-
commend your concurrence and your signatare on three sopies as indisated.
By agreement with the Army and Uscc, the signature is dated Janeary 6.
6
水
epn
Charles B. Saltamen
Enclesures:
1. Frem Department of xgrtodlture
dated Jamary 6, 1948.
2. Original and 3 copies of letter
C
AS:GiLewis:dmd 1/7/48
AS 4232

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
To: Mr. Leevis
For necessary action.
Dee next nate.
Conger
Jau. 7
SUSPENSE:
4232

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.90)
Mr. Saltzman
Mr. Visner
Mr. Claxton
Mr. Hulick
Mr. Conger
For afpr. action
fref gamemo
For file
For
Neca
theses
FROM:
DATE
65am.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.96)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATIO
Department of State
RESTRICTED
Washington,
NO.
2465
March 25, 1948
8:10 a.m.
894.61321/3-2548
CIRCULAR
SUBJECT:
ASSIGNMENT OF DR. IDE P. TROTTER BY THE
U. S. DEPARTNEIIT OF AGRICULTURE
0
TO:
CERTAIN AERICAN DIPLOMATIC OFFICERS
Dr. Ide P. Tretter, Agricultural Economist
(Cotton Specialist), Office of Foreign Agricultural
R
Relations, U. S. Department of Agriculture, will
proceed to Japan, China, India, and Pakistan to
make a survey in connection with an over-all cotton-
marketing project under the Research and Marketing
Program of the Department of Agriculture. He will
contact the American Embassy or Consulate immediately
45.61321
upon arrival in eacn country and be guided by dip-
lomatic representatives of tnis Government in all
official cantacts. Dr. Trotter will leave Washington
on or about March 22, 1948, and return about July 31,
1948.
Marshell
Ama
MARSHALL
PLEASE SEND CIRCULAR AIRGRAM TO THE FOLLOWING AMERICAN
DIPLOMATIC OFFICERS:
DISTRIBUTION
Nanking
894.61341
DESIRED
Tokyo
(OFFICES ONLY)
D
1r ouft
New Delhi
git
Karachi
CSN
813
E.7.7.
m
CR CLEARANCE
FA:THClaffey:mrc
3-19-48
SOA (Mr. Fox)
VCR-C
1245
9

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.95)
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect
UNCLABBIFD
Charge Depertment Agric. Department of State
1282253
Washington
Charge to
PTAIN
Control 4305
May 20, 1948
AMCONSUL
SHANGHAI
943 twentieth
FOR TROTTER, C/O O.L. DAWSON, FROM BECKER, AGRICULTURE
894.61321/5-2048
Essential we receive report cotton situation Japan for
meetings Industry Committees. Unless report in mail, airgram
more important facts and conclusions to arrive Washington by.
June 3. Also caile brief summary.
MARSHALL
1S
P3 MAY 20 AM 9 47
IK
LIAISON
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
DC/L
RECEIVED
894.61321
(OFFICESONLY)
no
FRED J. ROSSITER
PLAIN
PAI SA
DC/L: PSC: ME
MAY 20 1948
CR CLEARANCE

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.95)
Form DS-303
(7-2-46)
DIVISION OF
ACTION CO
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
5
IRCORNGTELEGRAM
Act1on: DCL
Info:
Control 7754
0
FE
Rec'd May 24, 1948
ITP
4:47 a.m.
OFD
DCR
FROM:
Shanghai
TO:
Secretary of State
NO:
1148, May 24, 2 p.m.
FOR BECICER AGRICULTURE FRON TROTTER.
REDEPTEL 943, twentieth.
894.61321/5-2448
Reasonable recovery Japanese economy requires full
operatlon of the approximately three mi llon cotton
spindles now installed. Recomaend full cooperation
and support every cound and reasonable plan assuring
steady supply raw cotton suitable for waking low and
medium count cloth to that limit. Speed essential as
supplles in Japan adeguate for less than two months.
Proposais further cxpansion spindles and policies for
Long future must be considered after careful consideration
whole Far Eastern problem and probable world cotton situ-
ation
After completing my studies in China and India
recommendations can be made on total problem as I see it.
Further deveils by airgram
Sent Department 1148, repeated Nanking 911.
SIAIE
CABOT
JMS: JR
DEPN
2
MAY 25
RESTRICTED
C
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
H
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.96)
Forn DS-302
(7-2-46)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPHBRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
9
PLAIN
Action: DCL
Control 2569
Info:
NEA
Rec'd July 8, 1948
ITP
12:29 p.m.
DCR
TAISON OFFICE
PROM : Karachi
DC/L
TO
: Secretary of State
NO
: 368, July 8.
FOR BECKER AGRICULTURE.
894.61321/7-848
×1
If Trotter is to study cotton in Greece, wire travel
authorizetion.
268.61321
LEWIS
LMS:KC
FILED
11
1.2
PLAIN
H
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.94)
FRC
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
DC/R
OUTGOING CLASSIFILD MESSAGE
41149
CONFIDENTIAL
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
PRIORITY
Civil Affairs Division
Maj Belinky 6596
Tolcyo
TO: SCAP
Nr: WAR 85109
4 Mar 49
From CSCAD c1te BMP. Reurads Nov C 65601, Dec C 66612.
Jan C 67351, Feb C 67728, reourad WARX Oct 91744 and
Dec WARx 81631. Cotton procurement under second half
89
fiscal year 49 allccation for economic rehabilitation
is subj.
Proc action initiated by DA for American raw cotton in
quantitles and acearding to specifications stated in urad
15 May 49. Wil1 keep you advised as to purchs and shipping
2
sids as soon as known.
3-449
28w
NOTE:
C 65601 1s CM IN 4223 (22 NoV 48)
C 66612 1s CM 1N 12090 (27 Dec 48)
C 67351 1s CM IN 18710 (26 Jan 49)
C 67728 13 CM IN 2426 (10 Feb 49)
CS/A
ORIGINATOR: CAD
h
DISTRIBUTION: CAD (STATE), LOGD, OUS, QMC, CSA, BUD, ARMY COMPT
HS DUOCUNT COTALNS INFORNATIOD
OF THE
CM OUT 85109
(Mar 4
DTQ:O50022Z
dwm
AND 32.1
lo
CONFIDENTIAL
TON OF ITS(
2
PRANSMSS
CENTS IN ANY  1O AN UNAUTHORI
PERSON IS PROHIBITED EY LAW.
19
COPY NO.
!
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN
10-53730-1

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.95)
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect
Department MfAstate
Charge Department
Washington
Charge to
SUPREME COMMANDER POR THE ALLIED POWERS TOKYO
223
INPO: ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF
MAY 24:194S
FOR: ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER
SCAP TEXTILE DIVISION
FROM ECA FOR M
Negotiable documents covering ECA cotton diverted Japan being miled by
SCAP ESS Textile Division attention Naka and Jane.
National City Bank to olp
893.
These
Buth
doouments cover 300 bales cotton shipped Volkhart
Lykes, and 122 bales
making appropriate disposition
these documents to secure release cotton for Kobe storage.
894.61321/5-2449
webb
(FF)
ACCEPTANCE DESK
CC/T
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
165
Clearances
es
Johason(State)
G22-3176-
FE:CA:REJohnson
PLAIN
ECA:FTurner:alm
CR CLEARANCE
5/20/49
H
21<
MAY 24 1949 P M.
PLAIN

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.93)
OUTGOING TELEGRAI
Department of State
Cherge Department
Charge to
PLAIN
CLASSIFICATION
JUN 25 1949
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
FOR DC/T USE ONLY
INrO: Army Chief of Staff
FoR: Acting Political Adviser
FRON: ECA, For SCAP Textile Division.
291
894.61321/6-2549
raw cotton
Arrangements completed disposition all ECA/stocks Japan except 3900 bales
xs
Middling 7/8. If interested cable best offer immediately otherwise will
place elsewhere.
Recovery
(wm)
B.
Johun
S
1949 JUN 25 PM 4 03
ACCEPTANCE DESK
ab
DC/T
at
Clearek with
894.61321
Mlr. WManfull (UFAA)
CS/H
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
daus.
Cwo-M
Food & Agri. Div.
ARA
GeoBCOATE:mid
6/24/49
25ys
PLAIN
TO BE CLEARED BY
CLASSIFICATION
Corrections made on this original MUST be made on all
copies before delivery to Telegraph Branch.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTION COM
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
19
PLAIN
Action: DCL
Inf?
Control 10966
FE
Rec'd October 28, 1949
ITP
DCR
4:07 a.m.
FROM:
Manila
TO:
Secretary of State
894.61321/10-2849
NO:
2488, October 28
XR
FOR COMMERCE
611.946
MANILA CHRONICLE October 28 pubI1shes AP story
XR
October 27 to effect American exporters found it
expedtent to buy Japanese cotton goods and trans-
696.119
ship to Philippines. Please give Embassy any
896.61321
unclassified information available.
HESTER
SED:MEW
EPEN
OCT 3 19
FILED
PLAIN
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
OFFICE

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.93)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
Department of State
UNCLASSIFIED
CLASSIFICATION
437
AIRGRAM
AMEMBASSY
1-2849
MANILA
A-504, November 4, 1949
FROM COMMERCE:
REURTEL 2488. APPRECIABLE AMOUNTS OF JAPANESE COTTON GRAY
X15
GOODS ARE IMPORTED INTO THE U.S. WHEN PROCESSED AND THEN
EXPORTED, OUR STATISTICS O WOULD REPORT SUCH GOODS AS
894.61321/10-2849
611.74
DOMESTIC MANUFACTURE AND THEY WOULD LOSE THEIR IDENTITY.
WE UNDERSTAND SOME SUCH MERCHANDISE HAS BEEN EXPORTED TO
AFRICA. IN TRANSIT SHIPMENTS FROM JAPAN TO OTHER COUNTRIES
THROUGH THE U.S. HAVE BEEN KNOWN TO OCCUR BUT ARE NOT OF
MUCH IMPORTANCE AND SHIPMENTS RETAIN ORIGINAL JAPANESE
MARKINGS. WHILE IT IS CONCEIVABLE THAT EXPORTS TO THE
PHILIPPINES OF JAPANESE TEXTILES FROM THE U.S. ARE POSSIBLE
WE DO NOT BELIEVE QUANTITIES SIGNIFICANT IN VIEW OF TIME
AND EXPENSE INVOLVED.
Ccheaom
ACHESON
5
R. LUTZ, ACTING CHIEF
HEBISHOP:FA
NOVEMBER 3,1949
169
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CLEARED WITH CENSUS BUREAU BY TELEPHONE: MR. GEORGE
MR. VILLAZ
894.61321/10-2849
LIAISON
0
RECEIVED
3
PM 4 35
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
Qw
(OFFICES ONLY)
D/K-40
PSC: ME
S
100
UNCLASSIFIED
H
CLASSIFICATION
Corrections made on this original MUST be made on all
copies before delivery to Airgram Section, Telegraph Branch.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
INCONING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
CONFILENTIAL
OCT 28 1949RAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
PRIORITY
FrOm: SCAP TODERARTMENT OF STATE
To : Dept of Army For SAOUS OUSPE Wash DC
Nr : C 53266
27 0ct 49
Mit1 raw cotton procurement 1s subj.
1. Reurmsg WAR 9568? (0ct) and ourmsg 2ZX 26173
plan 1s to procure with OJEIRF under option B 60 day notes
with resale to purchase and contract officer for GAtIo
funds to be made avail per urmsg.
2. prefer less cumbersome method than Public Law
820 for short term financing pending GARI0A coordination.
3. Commercial banks have agreed to reduce rates
to 1/8 for opening and 1/4 down across board in intereat
rates.
4. Relative costs are as follows:
A. OJEIRF-1/8 or .125 per 100 for opening Jetter
of credit and carry to Japan; 6o day note financing in
Japan during period required for weighing, processing ad-
justments and obtaining GARIos coordination from purchase
and contract officer. 60 days interest will total approx-
1mately .46 and total cost .585 per 100.
B. Public Law 820 financing would cost I/12 for
opening; interest at 1 and 7/8 percent plus DA adminiatra-
tive expense. Due to difriculties of split opsretion
approximately four months financing in Japan would be re-
quired before finalization of GARIOA coordinstion and re-
payment of treasury notes. Thu, total cost would approx-
1m te .085 plus .666 or .75 per $100.
5. No commercial bank has offered lower rate than
1/8 for opening and two percent usance for carry to Japan
with-no carry in Japan which 1s obtained under OJEIRF.
.L NO.
CM IN 13485
179 OCT2749-
36
CONFIDENTIAL
DA SCO FORM
22-3
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
GLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
INCONING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF. THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 53266
6. If intended method found expensive and GARI0A
coordination procedures become certain, it may become ad-
visable to use SCAp commercial account sight financing or
sight draft financing under option A which has same rate
of 1/8 percent for carry to Japan and are cheapest methods.
Cannot completely commit to this cash purchase method until
certain of practical GARIOA reimbursement which is depen-
dent on Fiscal Year 50 budget adjustments.
Note : 2X 26173 1s CM IN 65415 (15 Oct 49) OUSFE
ACTION: OUSFE
INFO : FAOA, ID, LOGD, OUS
CM IN 13485
(27 0ot 49)
DTG: 270947Z
odr/c
CONFIDENTIAL
DA SCO FORM
22-3
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.93)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
NA file ly
TO
DATE: November 8,
ntral
FROM :
NA - Mr. HemmendingerUt
appreed lay SMA
Document Must
est
SUBJECT:
SCAP Financing of Cotton Purchases.
The attached draft cable to SCAP prepared in the Department of the Army sets
forth an argument for the use of Public Law 82o to finance cotton purchases in liou
of OJEIRF, as had been proposed by SCAP. It also suggests that newagreements for
the use of OJEIRF should be negotiated with the banks in order to obtain better
terms than were available when the first agreements were made.
After discussion with Mr. McDiarmid, I have raised two points on this matter
with the Department of the Army: whether Congress did not desire that borrowing
under PL 82o be used as a method of financing in priority to the use of GARIoA
the Congress, and that no change in that part of the OJEIRF agreements which afroots
our obligations under the FEC decision are contemplated.
9
The cable is not being dispatched in this form but has been abbreviated by
Mr. West and a letter is following setting forth the more detailed consideratior
I think that this question of financing is primarily the responsibility of the
Department of the Army, and have expressed views on that part of it which appearea
to affect our responsibilities. If you concur, I will indicate to the Department
of the Army that we have no objection to a message along these lines.
-849
Told Oclson, Gimn, no olyitin ly
CS/CVE
Not
H
FEB21956
894.61321/11-849
DC/R
Ans74
CONFIDENTIAL
ROv
e
U

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.86)
CONFIDENTIAL
BRAT GABEE 2O (A)
OGRENG TO BOBGS,CO
(B) BBAP, COPY TO BODEB
COMFIDENTIAL ROUTINE
PRON SAOUS. Roummeg Gt C 5a6. MITI Ram Cotten Preeuremsm Ls 
DISTRIBUTIONI FAOA, ID, LOGD, OUB, STATE & TRKASURY, OUSPE
1. In view of apperent eoneny of fieansing threugh ther hammels 
recensider plan to prosure cettom through JEIRF wader Optiem B 60 dey motee s
resale to purehase and contract effiser for GARIOA.
2. After eareful review Publie Law 820 prosedures, view here is thes 
finamsing is simple, effisient, and expeditieus and mot mere emmbereeme them
previeus methede eapleyed. This is borne st by  fast that Pahlle Law m
invelvee merely (a) epening eredit in faver of seller mbjest to Weskingtemts
approval) (b) reisbareement to bank by cheek dram direstly ea searekesy  
attentiem is invited to Para 10, Statas Repert on Perelge Eskange Pante
Adainistered by SCAP, prepared by R93 Cemtreller 30 kagust 1949, mhtch shates-
and adadaistration of the Natural Pibere Revelving Pand which hae epeseted
administered from the peint of view of the Departmsst of the Army Päsenk
Comtrel Offieer."
Therefere diffieult for DA understand mesessity fer 4 msthe fiasmsing mter
Law s20 as eempared to OJEIRr finaseing of 60 daye in the evens eltber plan wave
to reseive GARIOA suppert.
3. Assuming GARI0A suppert is obtained, meeeesitating emly shert somm
financing of about 60 daye, we estimste apprecimately $22,419.80 eam be ev
in finassing threugh Pablie Law aao rether tham gimr, eur ealeulekseme beteg
CONMDENTAL

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.88)
CONFIDENTIAL
besed  purehasse of 90,0 bele coting pestaly ,,0
Opeming Credis 1/8 pereent er
.1.25
eme year) e 3-1/4 pereamt p.s.
Total Peroemtage Cost
.66775
.66775 of $8,250,000 equals
$95,009
PUBLIC LAW 820
Opeming Credit 1/12 pereent
.00s
Finansing 60 daya (16.7 persent of
one year) e 1-7/8 pereent p.a.
.396
Tetal Pereentage Gest
.396 of $8,250,000 equals
$32,670
In addition, indebtedness incurred under Publie Law ss0 eam be redaeed at any
time, permitting a further savings in interest aharges ealenlated by the B. 8.
Treasury on besis of daily balasses outstanding.
4. In the isterest of esenesy and in anticipekien of pessible amdt of
commereial funds, insluding exanimmtion of sourees and metheds of fimmmsing
Japanese foreign trade, we believe that sebjest and future esttem parehesse
should be finassed in the fellowing erder of prierity:
. Papahases in Fashingten direstly with Ganion tande midah wald
aliminste need for berrowing and interest sharges.
rits banica sonditin,
a. Use of SCAP Commerelal funde mhieh weald alse be free of inberees
charges. 
6.g. Use of Publie Lam aso funds at Lower rate ef interest, Langer
maturity, and grester berrewing eapssity tham OJERP.
 . Initiatisn of shert term berremings frem edther ceestal er inland
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.86)
CONFIDENTIAC
prime commeredal U. 5. benke whe we waderetand ml11 flaemse an besle a 0
peresne for epeing eredit and 2 pereens seenee.
5. Comsiderable stedy has been siven to preblems of fiaeneing Japenese
iaperte by Latereeted :ashington agensies and /A. It is the meemsme thee
while pest fimaneimg threugh J':It:7 Agreememt has besm mest helptel, preemms
and fetare credit neede can be more faverably abtaimed by PL. ase fer esstem
proeuremems and by borrowiags from mamereus beaks 1a U. 5. that are prepased
to dlscnss epeeifie credit requirememts to any extest Cat my desire se
emetitiee other then ootten. e have diseussed tais matter antemivaly m
Mr. Dedge, and we helieve that  IRr Agreement should be pemmisted te apare
31 December 1949, as provided, in viow of more faverable retes end tesme msm
available.
6. To facilitate finansing of gemeral imperte in fetere, we smagee
that mow arrangemes be formlated with Larger partisipatiem of lemting U. 8.
banks, Laclnding all benks resently visited by yeur representativee in Augmst,
and with Japasese gald serving as gemeral callateral base but free es restrle
tlems mow attaching to O kIRF Agreemeet. aggost that fremewerk of nom aewemge
ment be eapedited under direstion of it. Dodge, and in arder te assls la
developmest, we shall bo glad to megotiate in your behalf with basce bere mmbgees
to your adviee.
7. heuest your meats.
C 53266 10 C IN 13483 (27 Cet 49)
