894.017 Government. Mandates, Recognition., Japan, Civil Service., July 24, 1948 - September 23, 1949 (File 1765)
ID: 894.017-1765   Pages: 174   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.017-government-mandates-recognition-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.88)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
is assigned to
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISE
FOR JARAN
ASFFARS
No. 465
Tokyo, Jaly , 1948.
11948
UNCLASSIPTED
Sabjest: Letter from Geserel Mmearther to Prime Minister Regarding
FE
Matiosal Pablie Serviee Law.
TO.
0
DE
The Leting Politieal Adviser hes the hemer te forward herewith
ITF
five copies of a letter from Gemerel MaeArther te the Prime Maister
dated July 22, 194s conseraing the Natiesal Pablie Serviee Law. This
L
letter was released by the Pablie Iaformetion Offiee, Gemeral Eeed-
quarters, Far Bast Cemasd en July 2s, 194s en the request of the
DC/R
Prime Minister.
The letter was written to elegify Gemeral MeeArther's vieme
regarding eertal a espeets of the Metioaal Pablie Serviee Law par-
tieularly with respect to empleyess in publie serviee emeegins in
Labor disputes. The letter speeifieally states that "me persem held-
ing a pesition by appeiatment er empleyment in the peblie sesvice ef
Japen or in emy iastrumentality thereof should resert to strike or
eagage in delaying or other dispete tacties mhieh tend to impeir
the offieiemey of govermmsatal epereticas."
Geseral Mackrthar states thet he feels the Netiemel Pablie Serviee
Lew sheuld be cemprebemsively revised immedietely in crder to bring
it mithin the framework of the eemeept outlined in this letter. The
Matienal Pablie Bervice Law was net eascted et the last sessien of
the Diet.
An extreerdinary session ef the Diet will be ealled to dismss
measares for revisien ef the Natiosal Public Service Lew in accerdemee
with Gemerel MmeArthur's letter.
Japasese resction te the preposed revision of the Matiomel Publie
Serviee Law will be analysed in e sabsequent despeteh.
13
aavuc
Lester frem Gemerel mekrther
to Prime maister dated July 22,
u2000 gs1ve copieg).
l and salto pepertest.
AIRA
F
O0P
VVL
FILD

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEAD QUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
Public Information Office
Immediate Release:
23 July 1948
The Prime Minister having requested authority to release
to the Japanese Press a letter from the Supreme Commander da-
ted July 22, the same -is quoted hereunder for the convenience
of the cntire Fress Corps:
"To'yo, Japan.
July 22, 1948
"Dear Mr. Prime Iinister:
"I have reviewed the conclusions drawn from the joint
studies conducted between representatives of your government
and this hea quarters into the adequacy of the National Pub-
lic Service Law as a solution to the problems now existing with
respect to the Fublic Service of Japan. I am in general ac-
cord with these conclusions as to existing inadequacies which
must be corrected.
"It was the purpose of the National Public Service Law
to provide for the installation of a democratic and efficient
rublic service in the government of Japan. The plan envi-
sioned a modern type personnel system which recruits public
employees fror the entire public by competitive test and pro-
motes them on the hasis of merit, providing scientific super-
vision over their clas ification, corpensation, training, eval-
uation, health, safety, welfare, recreation and retirement.
The system provides a grievance procedure for employees and
assures them fair and equitable tr atment in administration.
Enforced by a quasi-judicial administretive authority and.
supplemented by emergency provisions aimed at immediate re-
form where urgency demands it, it constitutes a constructive
program for dealing with the hazards which old bureaucratic
practices present to the success of democracy in Japan.
"The pattern of rersonnel administration es here inaugur-
ated views the entire people as exercising sovereignty and con-
trol over the empl yees of government through the National
Tiet which, functioning through a National. Public Service
Authority, applies principles of scientific personnel manage-
ment and standardizes the public service, its recruitmenty
compensation, discipline, benefits and other factors incident
to emnloyment. Such a system in accordance with derocratic
concepts, is designed to regard the faithful administration
of the law and the efficient conduct of the government's busi-
ness as a prime duty without yielding to the pressure of
politics or privilege.
"The studies, now completed, of various laws relating
to this subject matter, reveal omissions to deal adequately
with the situation. They fail to afford positive safeguards
against minority pressure upon the authority and integrity of
government and they fail to apply the law to many classifica-
tions of governmental employees who clearly are entitled to
(more)
(over)

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
civil service benefits and protection and subject to its re
strictions. Throughout there is a noticeable failure to dis-
tinguish between employee relaticnships in government and
labor relations in privete enterprise.
"The rapid and unprecedented gains labor has made in Ja-
pan during the Occupation attest my own awareness of the vi-
tal importance of trade unionism in rodern life and of the his-
torical significance of. the trade unicn movement throughout the
world in correcting many of the abuses associated with modern
industrial economy. In government, however, this movement has
but limited application and cannot substitute for or challenge
duly cnstituted executive, judicial and legislative agencies
exercising the sovereign power.
"At the start of the industrial era, the tendency exis-
ted to treat labor as a commodity, without voice in the price
to be paid or the conditions of its employment. As the tech-
nology of mass production developed, however, workers had a
better cpportunity to crganize for their mutual benefit and
through long and arduous struggle secured the economic power
of br: ining collectively through representatives of their own.
choic: or an improved standard of life, a betterment in work-
ing ccncitions and some degree of social security. This right
of assciation with its inherent power of compulsion has pro-
gressi ly developed in the trade union movement an economic
pover ich has brcughc to bear an increasingly potent influ-
ence upon industrial econom, Such influence in derocratie.
socicty has in turn been tr nslated into political power through
the cuprort it has given to pclitical rarties, but it would be
violative of the democratic concept for the trade union move-
ment t surp the function of the duly elected representatives
of the reople as a "ho? by superimposing union. judgement upon
legislation and acministration.
"It is true that in all industrialized countries speci-
fie rressure proups exist, representing not only the. interests
of lab  hut also those of tusiness, finance, agriculture, and
the prof ssions. Although such prèssure groups contend for
power and influence in a democracy, they are transcended by
the fundamental concept of national unity. The "public" is
not ecnsidered merely the residual members of the community who
do not beiong to such specific pressure.groups, but consists
of all the pcople  id the "public interest" is synonymous with
the generalifar
"The significance of this concept is as well understood
in Japar. s in any western democracy. The Constitution of
Japan i' el recopnizes the "unity of the people" and the "will
of the reople with whom risides sovereign power"; the Con-
stituti itseli affirms the rinciple that "the freedoms and
rigins uarantaed to the pcople by this Constitution shall be
maintained by the constant endeavor of the "people" who, "shall
always be responsible for utilizing them for the public wel-
fare"; and the Ccnstitution itself envisages a National Diet
as "the highest organ of state power" which.shall be "rep-
resentative of all the reople".
(more)
-2-

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
the unity of the people and the supremacy of the publle in
is to be preserved inviolate, no part of the power of severm
can be delegated to or usurped by any private group whatsoever
Were the contrary true the "responsible government" for Japan
contemplated by the Potsdam Declaration and created by the
Constitution, could not existi For it is axiomatic that a
government which abdicatea 1ts sovereign power is no longer
responsible.
"By its very nature, as a private entity the labor union
does not possess the attributes of government. Wherever it has
flourished, the strength of free trade unionism has always sprung
from its independence of government and its freedom from domina-
tion by overnment in the pursuit of its lawful and legitimate
objectiv:s.
"Having experienced the sup ression which was an attribute
of totalitarian Japan, Japanese labor since the Occupation has
in general understood this principle and chosen the path of free
trade unionism, escheving those reckless policies the inevitable
effect of which wou be to provoke severe repressive measures
in sufegvard of the neral welfare. It has recognized that free
workers in free private enterprise cannot exercise sovereign
power except in their capacity as free men at free elections.
Indeed: because it upholds the dignity of the individual and af
his lulor, free trude unionism in the pursuit of labor's
legiti objectives constitutes one of the strongest bulwarks
of dcir. .. ..
! is, hovever, a sharp.distinction between those who
have cc  vncir energies to the public service and those
engaged in privase enterprise. The. former cre the very instru-
ment
'is eroise y covernment of the people's sover-
eign pwe(, and as such owe unconditionai allegiance to tho
public tst :mpcsed by virtue of their employment. For upon
them res's  the words of the late President of the United
States, Franrlin D. Roosevelt, a foremost exponent of the rights
of labor, "the obligation to serve the whole people, whose inter-
ests and wclfare require orderliness and continuity in the
conduct of Government activities. This obligation is paramount.
Since their own services have to do with the functioning of the
government, a strike of public employees manifests nothing less
than an intent on their part to prevent or obstruct the operations
of government until their demands are satisfied. Such action,
looking toward the paralysis of government by those who have
sworn to support it, is unthinkable and intolerable."
"I am in full accord vith this view. No person holding a
position by appointent or employment in the public service of
Japan or in any instrumentality thereof should resort to'strike
or engage in delaying or other dispute tactics which tend to
impair the efficiency of governmental opciations. I feel that
any person, holding such a position, who resorts to such action
against the public of Japan thereby betrays the public trust
reposed in him and forfeits all rights and privileges accruing
to him by virtue of his employment. For as President Roosevelt
further stated, "all government employees should realize that
the process of collective bargaining, as usually understood,
cannot be transplanted intothe public service. It has its
distinct and insurmountable Iimitations when applied to public
personnel management. The  very nature and purposes of govcrnment
make it impossible for administrative officials torepresent
fully or to bind the employer in mutual discussions with govern-
ment employee organizations. The employer is the whole people,
who speak by means of laws enacted by their representatives of
Congress. Accordingly, administrative officials and employees
alike are governed and guided, and in many instances restricted,
by laws which establish policies, procedures, or rules in
personnel matters."
(more)
(over)
-2-

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
"It must be clearly understood, however, that this conoep
right individually or collectively, personally or by chosen repre
sentatives, freely to express their views, opinions or grieveneom
for tht purpose of seeking a betterment of their conditions of
publie employment. Such fights are inherent in a democratiq
society and inaliehable and I believe are adequately provided for
in the proposed revision of existing law, Moreover, the spedisl
restrictions which protection of the national interest impose upon
the employees of government make it at all times inoumbent upon
government to provide adequate safeguards to the welfare and in-
terests of such employees. Indeed, so completely is this concept
understoo: and followed in democratic society that the opportunity
for public service with the added dignity, prestige and permanence
of such & status, is universally regarded and sought as a desirable
privilege.
"So far as the railways, salt, camphor, and tobbaco activities
presently under government ownership are concerned, I believe that
employees thereof might well be excepted from the regular civil
service. In this event, however, public corporations should be
established by appropriate action to manage and operate these ac-
tivities. Proper provision should be made for standards, policies
and procedures of employment and while substituting mediation and
arbitration measures for the protection accorded others under the
civil service, safeguards should be provided to the public interest
against any interruption of operations resulting from failure of
employees faithfully to discharge their responsibilities of em-
ploymont. Moreover, in the interest of efficiency, I believe that
a complete reorganization of the Ministry of Communications is de-
sirable, with the separation of the postal services of the govern-
ment from the other functions of that Ministry and the establish-
ment of two Cabinet agencies in lieu thereof.
"The National Public Service Law was initially conceived in
recognition of the fact that a complete reform of the Japanese
bureaucracy is essential to the success of democratic institutions
in Japan, as such institutions, whether political, economic or
social, will inevitably find strength or weakness in direct propor-
tion to the efficiency of the governmental services and the vigor-
ous leadership which government, as organized to safeguard the
public interest and advance the general welfare, is capable of ex-
tending to the sovereign people from whom its powers are derived.
The success of this reform is accordinly no less a primary objec-
tive of the Occupation than it is a prerequisite to the future well-
being of the people of Japan.
"In the solution of this problem the paramountoy of the publio
interest is therefore of foremost consideration and corollary
thereto is the need that safeguards be orected to insure that the
lawful authority of the government as the political instrument to
enforce the people's will as expressed in the body of public law
be only challengeable at the polls as provided under well estab-
lished democratic practice. To hold otherwise would be to subvert
the public interest by rendering government subservient to a primacy
of the special privilege of minority groups, a condition which
inevitably leads to anarchy, insurrection and destruction. This
is a rule fundamental to the very existence of a democratie society,
and yet its enforcement in the great westerndemocracies has only
recently necessitated the full application of the police power of
the State involving the employment of the armed forces as well as
the civil police. In Japan, where the maintenance of armed forces
is renounced by constitutional mandate, such application of police
power can, however, only be supported by the civil police. This
renders it all the more necessary here than elsewhere that the law
carefully define and make unmistakably clear the authority of
government and provision for the firm preservation of its mtegrity
and dignity.
(mor)

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
"It is to this end that I feel that a comprehensive revision
of the National Public Service Law to bring the same within the
framework of the concepts herein discussed should be undertaken
immediately. To assist you in this matter this headquarters will
continue to be available for advice and consultation.
Sincerely yours,
(Signed) Touglas MacArthur
DOUGLAS MacARTHUR
The Prime inister of Japan,
Tokyo, Jan."

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
DETC
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF
ACTION
is assigned to
UNITED STATES POLITICAL
FOR JAPAN
DEPARTSMENT OF STATE
No. 491
Tokyo, August 3, 1948.
DA
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject:
Japanese Reaction to Supreme Commander's Letter Concerning
Revision of Publi? Service Law.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No. 465
or July 24, 1948 concerning the letter from General of the Army
Douglas MacARTHUR to Prime Minister ASHIDA Hitoshi recomending
revision of the National Public Service Law ana to enclose copies
894.017/8-348
of translations of a group of editorials of leading dailies appear-
ing in the Japanese press. In the case of editoriels in the Nippon
Times July 24, 1948, the Yomiuri, July 28, 1948 and the English odition
of the Mainichi, July 25, 1948, rive clippings of each are enclosed.
As indicative of the interest aroused by the Supreme Commander's
letter, the volume or editorial comment was greater on the first day
of the letter's publication than is usual with major news events.
1/
In general, except for the communist Akahata, the editorials uniformly
endorsed the Supreme Commander's statement that government workers
should not strike or engage in tactics which impair the efficiency
of government operations. Akahata attempted to show that governmen:
support of the National Public Service Law and of the revisions
proposed by the Supreme Commender runs counter to the opinion of labor
unions and other democratic organizations.
The editorial in the Nippon Times, July 24, 1948 1s typ:cal of
the general reaction, and is the most penetrating analysis of the
letter. The Nippon Times pointed out that the letter will meet with
the enthusiastic support of the vast majority of the Japanese people for
it strikes at the fundamentel 1ssue of government in Japan, namely.
the relationship between the bureaucracy and the people. It went on
to say that the Supreme Commander's letter is chiefly concorned with
the basio question of the nature of the sovereign attributes of the
CSA
government and the relationship of a portion of the people to this
sovereign authority. Nippon Times is of the opinion thet when this
question is settled, the solution of the various problems of current
concorn will be relatively easy.
894.017
Nippon
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.94)
Tolyo'e No. 491
3,1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
Nippon Times further stated that the Japamese Comstitutien
explicitly provides that sovereige power in e demeoretic mation
resides in the people and is exereised through the Netiomel Diet.
Once understood, it should be realised, the paper observed, that a
private body, s uoh as a labor union, cannot wurp the smthority of
the sovereign state by striking or otherwise obstreeting the work
of the government. The peper stressed that there is a clear-eut dis-
tinction between private employment end public service so that relatiems
between the Government and its workers eammot be the sabjest of
ordinary methods of collective bargaiming. snd that these werkers are
employed by the whole people who determine the conditiom of mpleyment
for govermment workers by means of law enacted by the people's repre-
sentatives in the Diet. The editorial ends by stating that the legieal
way to guard against the dangers of office holdere who consider their
position a personal privilege instead of e publie trust, and of mimority
roups which seek to impose conditions favoring one elass of workers
above the general public, is to make adequately clear in the Matiomal
Public Service Law the uniqueness of public service.
3/
Asahi on July 24, 1948 disclosed that, in the colleetive bargaim-
ing between the govermment workers' unions and the Goverament, the
unions are including both political and economic demands which
reveal that the unions are not aware of the proper relations which
should exist under the law between the unions, the people, the Natiomal
Diet, and the Government. Asahi indicated an awareness of the sreater
hardehip caused goverament workers by the current infletion as cem-
trasted with workers in private industry and stressed the need for the
Govermment to sive constant consideration to the matter of better
treatment for government employees. According to the Asaki, emendments
to the present law must make clear the distinction between the mature
of private and public employment and must prevent unions from making
demands or employing tactics which the government cannot tolerate.
41
Mainichi on July 24, 1948 upbraided the National Diet, the Govermment
and the umions for making it necessary for the Supreme Commander to
issue a letter and critieised them for their lack of competemee and
seal in settling the problem of government workers which is ome of the
principal eauses of thepresent political unrest. The English edition
5/
of the Mainichi, July 85, 1948, pointed out in addition that the
Supreme Commander's concept of a difference between publie and private
employment does not mean that public employees are deprived of the
right to seek a betterment of tms eemditions of their employment.
6/
Yomiuri Shimbua on July 24, 1948 stated that the Supreme Commander's
letter hes defimed the vague relatioaship existing between Goverament
workers end werhers in privete industry end pointed out thet severament
workers have watems te pretect their interests, although with eertain
restrietiems. It comeluded by urging that the labor movement be
develeped with the publie interest in mind. This paper, on July s,
194s, imdiested that some uniems have isterpreted the preposed
amendmeats to the Metiomal Pablie Seesice Law as a vielation of the
71
Consti tution. Temiur conteme a et cnly does the Seprome Commender's
a1eer1y
AD

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 401
UNCLASSIFIED
-3
clearly stipulates that the people are the employer of govermmemt workers
and as such the latter are excluded from the provisions of Artiele s
which gives workere the right to organize and to bargain collestively.
8/
Yomiuri emphasized that any council set up to protect the welfare of
government workers should contein representatives of the people, as well
as of the Diet and Government, as the people are the mployers of govern-
ment workers.
9/
Jiji Shimpo on July 24, 1948 reminded the people that the
Occupation authorities have had to act seterel times to.prevent large-
scale strikes of government workers and expressed regret that the
Japanese people do not settle such disputes among themselves. It decried
10/
the lack of public opinion to put a stop to such exeesses. The Wikee
Keizai Shimbun, on July 24, l948 claimed that the labor offensive has
been rumored to be a conspiracy to develop a major politicel struggle,
with the government workers' unions and the Nationel Congress of
Industrial Organization joining forces, and pointed out that if the
government workers had not resorted to dispute tacties the amendmemts
would have been umnecessary. This newspaper warned private labor umioms
to consider this point.
11/
Tokyo Shimbun, on July 24, 1948 stressed the need to correst
excesses in the labor movement in order to receive foreign capital.
This newspaper further stated that union leaders have directed umiem
activities along radical and destructive lines and that as a result
the Tokyo Shimbun has repeatedly exhorted the goveramemt to revise
labor legislation, but that both the Katayama and Ashide Cabimets
have been too afraid of the unions to undertake such revisions. Tokve
Shimbua urged that the Diet should first settle this importamt mmtter
before discussing the general election, and that total revisiom of
labor legislation should be considered if deemed essentiel for securing
industrial peace.
The editorials analyzed above may be sumrized as follows:
Summary. The Supreme Commander's recommendation will meet
with the enthasiastic support of the vast mmjority of the
Japanese people. The letter clarifies the relationship betweem
the people and government employees, and the distinotiom betwees
public and private mployment. The letter emphasises that
the sovereign power in a democretic matiom resides in the peeple
and, hence, no private body, such as a labor umiom, should
usurp such power by striking or otherwise ebetructing the work of
the government.
The danger from minority groups, such as the commasists,
who seek to impese conditioms whick favor ose class of workers
above the gemerel public, should be lessemed by revision ef
the Matiomal Publie Service Law. While revisiom of the lew
should met deprive sovermment employees of the right to seek
a betternemt of comditions of employmemt, the Goverament itself
must find ways to improve their welfare.
It 10
UDLASEDEER

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
Toyo's No. 491
Angust 5, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
It is to be regretted that the Natiomal Diet, the Goveramest,
and the labor unions could not have settled the probleme of
government workers without action by the Occupetion ausherities.
Emactment of the recommendations of the Supreme Commander would
not violate the Constitution as claimed by some labor leaders.
End of Summary.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1. Editorial from Akabata,
July 85, 1948.
July 24, 1948 (five copies).
3.
Editorial from Asabi Shimbun,
July 24, 1948.
4.
Editorial from Mainichi Shimbum
July 24, 1948.
1 with orig
5. Editorial from Mainichi Shimbun,
July 25, 1948 (five copies).
6. Editorial from Yomiuri Shimbun,
July 24, 1948.
7.
Editcrial from Yomiuri Shimbun,
1 with oing
July 29, 1948 (Nippon Times
translation, five copies).
8. Editorial from Yomiuri Shimbun,
July 28, 1948.
9. ditoriel from Jiji Shimpo,
July 24, 1948.
10. Eaitorial frem Nihon Kaisai Shimbun,
July 24, 1948.
11. Bditorial from Tokvo Shimbun,
July 24, 1948.
Gepy to: American Babassy, Mescow.
Original and osalid to Department.
806.4
wanrenee, Jr. cmbp
006

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
dated Aest 3, 1940 m e
Tokyo, on the subjeet, "Jegesese
Reaetiem to Sayreme Cemmasder's
Letter Cemceraing Revisien ef Peblie
Service Law".
(COPY)
Translation from Akahate, July 25, 1948.
Protect Human Rights.
The Government, at its 23 July cabinet meeting, decided to
present the revision of the National Public Service Law to the
special Diet session. This ection was prompted by General
MacARTHUR's letter to Premier AsHIDA relative to the nation's
civil service, which the Government claims coincides with its
own intentions.
The decision is being wetohed with interest beceuse,
together with the Government and Public Office Workers' disputes
(now under Central Labor Committee mediatiom) it will presemt a
new phase in JAPAN's present and future politics.
1. Two opposite opinions concerning the Nationel Public
Service Law have been current since the original bill was made
into lew at the first Diet session, under the Katayamm regime.
The majority of the Diet, including the Socialists, the Democrets,
and the Liberels (with the exception of the Communists), were in
favor of the law. However, most of the democratic organisations
and Labor unions which had rallied around the Matiomel Labor
Daion Liaison Council took a firm stand against the Law. The
Government and Public Office Workers Unions, in partioular, spear-
headed the opposition movement and carried out mess meetings and
demonstrations. The Govermment's opinion concerning the revisiom
of the NPs Law has been running counter to that of labor umioms and
other democratic organizations.
2. While it was generally believed that the current GPoWU
disputes would, soomer or leter, develop into a cabinet crisis,
Premier AshIDA, while on a local tour, openly expressed optimim,
deelaring thet the Govermment will resort to drestic measures if
the umions exseed their enthority in presenting ecomomie demands
and taking action of a politieal nature. Taking adventage of this
issue te eventually strengthen the Goverament, as well as the center
party drive, the Premier inteads to realise the projested revisicm
of the laber laws and the establishment of a maximm wage system, in
an attempt to fulfill his mission of rekabilitating the mtion's
ccomemy throagh the imdustion of foreign capital.
3. The Demeeretic Liberels imediately called as executive
mesting in erder to elarify their inteation of emphesising laber
prebleme in the future. Eewever, they epparestly believe thes
their

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
Emelesure No. 1 to
Takyo's No. 491
mpust 3, 1948.
-8-
their own poliey and foresight have been endorsed, end that the
obvious differences between the policies of the Demoeratie Liberel-
sponsored conservative merger and the Demoorat-headed center party
have thus been practieally settled.
4. Although it 1s apparently impossible for the Sosialist
left wingers to stey in the Cabinet, in view of their former vestal
promises, they are expected to moourege the right wingers in their
efforts to mmintain the coalition setup. This will imereasingly
widen the gap between the Socielist Party and the masses.
It is obeerved that the foregoing situatiom will serve to
intensify the feud between the conservatives and the demoeretie
influences.
NCIU Chairman Claims MPS Law
Oppresses Labor's Right to Strike
Crisieising the Government attitude regarding the Matiomel
Public Serviee Law, Chairman Kan of the Netiomel Coumsil of Indastrial
Unions stated that the Government is taking advastage of the Lew
to oppress the workers' right to strike. He said:
"I am of the opinion that the National Publie Service
Lew provides for order and efficiency in the civil service.
However the Government definitely took advemtage of this Lew
to eliminate labor disputes. It is exactly what we have bees
fighting against. It will oppress not only civil service
workers but, also, all workers right to strike. In full
cogmisance of this fact, the working people will launeh an
opposition struggle."

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
Euclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 491
dated August 3, 1948 from the 0ffice
of the Politieal Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Japanese
Reaction to Supreme Commander's
Letter Concerning Revision of Publie
Service Law".
NI1:CN TI:L: July 24, 1948
WHL
The Nature of Public
acter of state power in a de-
Once this fundamental char-
sonal privilege instead of a
Service
mocratic nation is under-
public trust, an attitude all
too common among old-time
stood, it should be easily real-
General MacArthur's letter
ized that no part of the power
bureaucrats. On the other
hand, there may be organiz-
to Prime Minister Ashida
of government can be dele-
ed minority groups which
anent the National Public Ser-
gated to or usurped by any
may through political pressure
enthusiastic support and wel-
come appreciation of the vast
vice Law will meet with the
private group whatever.
vate body, is therefore not
A labor union, being a pri-
government employ which
seek to impose conditions for
favor one class of workers
people, for it strikes directly
majority of the Japanese
Labor cannot strike against
justified in flouting the au-
thority of the sovereign state.
above the general public.
Both are unjustifiable.
at the heart of the problem
fundamental issue in the
the bearing which this letter
may have upon such matters
of current concern as the fre
quently threatened strikes of
governnt employees, the
the Government, and the
of the relationship between
the bureaucracy and the peo-
ple which has long been a
government of this country.
public may be attracted to
relation of labor unions to
The first attention of the
for such action would be
the Government or engage in
delaying tactics which ob.
struct the work of government,
nothing other than a usurpa-
tion of the authority of the
sovereign state by a private
the labor unions have no
and even to strike against
mean that government em-
their employers. It does not
body.
right to voice their grievances
This does not mean that
to make adequately clear in
Law the distinctive and uni-
service. This is what General
against both these dangers is
the National Public Service
que character of government
MacArthur recommends, and
ported by the Japanese people
tion to the problem which has
this recommendation is one
which will be heartily sup-
who see in it the logical solu-
long plagued them.
The logical way to guard
ployees have no redress
position of certain Cabinet
Ministers with respect to the
against mistreatment. But it
shortly expected change in
does mean that there is a clear-
Government. Important as
cut distinction between the
these matters are, however,
nature of private em-ploy-
they are incidental.
ment and the nature of
General MacArthur's letter
public service, for those in
is chiefly concerned with the
public service are "the very
more fundamental question of
instruments used for the ex-
the nature of the sovereign
ercise by government of the
attributes of the Government
people's sovereign power, and
and the relationship of any
as such owe unconditional
portion of the people to this
allegiance to the public trust
sovereign authority. Once
imposed by virtue of their un-
this fundamental question is
employment."
rightly understood, the solu-
Relations between the Gov-
tion to the various problems
crnment and its workers.
of current concern will fall
therefore, cannot be subject
automatically into place.
to the ordinary methods of
The fundamental principle
collective bargaining as be-
to which General MacArthur
tween ordinary employers and
calls attention, and which is
employees, The employer in
explicitly stated in the Japa-
h's eese is the whele porTe
nese Constitution, is that
who act by means of law en-
sovereign power resides in
acted bytheir representatives
the will of the people. This
in the Diet, and the condi-
sovereign power, vested in the
tions of employment for gov.
people, is exercised through
ernment workers must thus be
the National Diet as "the high-
determined by law.
est drgan of state power".
Unless this fundamental
This National Diet is "repre-
nature of public service 13
sentative of all the people",
properly understood, there
a condition which is premised
will be a constant threat to
on the "unity of the people".
the maintenance of democra-
It naturally follows that pub-
tic government. On the one
lic interest, which is the in-
hand, there may be profes-
terest of the whole body of
sional office-holders who may
the people as represented in
regard their position as a per-
the Diet, must be kept in-
violate and enjoys supremacy
over the interests of any one
section of the people.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
Resctios to Supreme Cemmaméer's
Letter Coseerning Revisien of Pablie
Serviee Lew".
(COPY)
Translation from Asahi Shimbun, July 24, 1948.
Amendments to National Public Service Act.
The National Public Service Law that was promulgated in Oetober
last year placed on a definite basis the relationshp between offieials
and the people in accordance with the fundamental spirit of the mew
Constitution. It made clear thet officials ere not offieials of the
Emperor but public servants of the people and set forth the rules thet
officials as such should observe once they are selected by demoeretie
methods. In other words, the arrangement that the people should
exercise sovereign rights over Government employees through the Diet,
while the Diet should undertake personnel administration through the
Personnel Committee under the jurisdiction of the Prime Mimister, was
definitely established.
There should be not a point left in doubt in the relatioms
among the people, Diet, Government and officials and that will make
officials really publio servants.
In the collective bargaining between Government workers' waiems
and the Govermment now going oa, however, the umioas are demending
not caly a higher wage level but also six so-called absolute conditioms,
including such political demmnds as that the official prices should
not be changed, the income tax on the working massee abolished, labor
dispute settlement agenoies should not be established, no maximm
wage system instituted and the like. We hare already pointed out the
illegitimmey of such demands. Such demands on the part of the Gevers-
ment workers' waions have revealed thet they are not sware of the proper
relatioms that should exist uader the law between them amd the people,
Diet and the Govermment.
In spite of the fact that officials who are not field workers
are forbidden under Article 38 of the Labor Arbitration Act to eneage
in strikes, they resorted to slow-dows strikes, sit-dowm strikes asd
the like besween last year and this. This also indicated their lack
of edequate appreciatiom of the relatioaship that should prevail
betweee publie servants and the people.
We are met leeth to recogaise the feet that usder the curremt
inflaties the sherp rise in prices are too quiek for salary adjustments
to be made espesially in Govermment offiess whieh require bedgetery
ahanges and this cntails greater saerifiees on offieials thes 
empleyees of privete companies where such adjustmestes are mmeh easier
to make. Cemeegeently, beth the Geveramest and Diet weuld do well to
give cemstess ceasideretiem te the preblem of better treetmest for
Geveramest empleyees. The people, too, sinee they are publie servents,

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
melosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 491
August 3, 1948.
-2-
should devote the maximum care for their well-being. Publie servants,
on their part must never forget that the people are their masters.
General MacArthur's letter to Prime Minister Ashide sives suppert
to the conelusions reached by the Government in regard to amesdmesss to
the Natioaal Public Service Law. Press accouats of the proposed
amendments indicate that the min aime are to probibit strikes, slewing
down or any form of labor dispute on the part of officials who are
not field workers, that is, workers in post offices, railroed stetioms
and on treins, telephone or telegreph operators and the like. This
is to eliminate the evils of sabotage and other forms of strikes
resorted to by officials. What are the conditions thet bave mesessi-
tated the mendments? SCAp's letter says: "The studies, mew eempleted,
of various laws relating to this subject, reveal omissioms to deal
adequately with the situation".
The amendments, indeed, have been necessitated by the "sitwatiem".
The union demands include terms that the Government eanmot accept. Also
in regard to the wage level demand, which is purely eeomomic in mature,
there is wide discrepancy between the Govermment and umiom views.
Various dispute tactics have been employed in the past. At this rate,
there is every fear that a wave of strikes and other dispatee might
develop as part of the generel labor offemsive. This origimmtes in
an erroneous psyohology on the part of publie servests that disregards
their partieular position in relations to the people asd applies the
seme relations as existing between employees of private firms and
the masagement to their own ease.
Once officials should abemdom their official duties, goveramemtal
fumctions would cease. Eren if it takes the forms of a slom-domm
strike, state mchinery gets clogged. From the point of view of the
people as a whole, the ill-advised actions of a few officials direstly
affeet state affairs md the nature of the strike or other diepate
tasties om their part would differ markedly from that im private
enterprises. The Matiomal Public Service Law has not takem suek e point
imto comsideration. That such a mismetiom has had to be taken iate
comsideration is a poimt on whioh both officials and the people
should refleet more than superficially.
orficials are part of the people and as such ean send the
represemtatives they trust to the Matiomal Diet. They ean ehoose
the parties they would like to support. They have their rules end
diseiplise to mmintain but there is mothing to ber them from express-
ing their pelitieal will as part of the people. This is a point
officials would do well to take to heart.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.96)
of the Polisieal Adviser for Jog.
Reaction to Supreme Cemmemder's
Letter Coneerning Revisien of Peblle
Service Law".
(COPY)
Translation from Mainichi Shimbun, July 24, 1948.
Reflections Apropos of SCAP Letter.
SCAP's letter relating to amendmemts to the Matiomal Publie
Service Law was announced through the Cabinet. That sueh e letter
has had to be issued shoms that the Govermment, Diet, waioms have all
been lacking in the capacity and seal necessary to settle the Govers-
ment workers' disputes which is eonstituting one of the powerfal
causes of the political uarest.
It is seen that the Government and its employees with mearly
three years of experience with the labor umion movement have not
yet awakened to their omm positions in this movement. "Throughout
there is a noticeable failure to distinguish betweem empleyee
relationships in goverament and labor relations in privete emterprise."
Again, employees of the Government and other pablie orgame tme umeomdi-
tiomal allegiance to the publio trust imposed by virtue of their
mployment". This is rooted in the fact that they are "the very
imstruments used for the exereise by government of the people's
sovereign power".
Disputes, however, do mot arise from one side alone. We
recognise the fest that the salaries and wages of Govermment werkers
are extremely low. To plece them in socially disedvamtegeoms pesitioms
and to prohibit them from remedying them is to foree something imtoler-
able upom them. It is to this that the scAp letter refers whem it
says: "The spesial restrictions whieh protection of the matiemel
interest impose upon the mployees of govermment mke it all the
more incumbent upon government to provide adequete sefeguards to the
welfare emd ixterests of such employees".
At the seme time, it is hoped that the Diet, too, will earmestly
comsider the welfare and interests of public servants. It must not
merely attaek the buresucracy and ignore the opinion of the latter
whieh, after all, is part of publie opimiom. Low social pesition in
spite ef fermal prestige and rights for Geverameat empleyees is semething
liable to preve detrimemtal to goveramental fumctions. The Diet has
so far feiled to shom any earnestmess in regard to this matter. No
settlemsst ess be expected if irrespeasible talks about dissolutiem aleme
are te be beard. It would do well to digest the scap lester wish all
impliestiens.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.94)
Ene losure No. 5 to Bespeteh No. d
dated Angest 5, 19ss frem the errise
the Politieal Méviser fer Jages,
Tekyo, on the subjeet, "Tapenese
Reaction to Sapreme Commander's
Letter Coneeraing Revision of
Public Serviee Law".
THE MAINICHI: July 25, 1948
WHL
But what has actually beem the
EDITORIAL
vituation with reopect to the Gov.
erament and Public Offices Worbers'
Need For Self-Introspection
Unien? Leaving aside for the me
meat the question of the imceer
The letter of the Supreme Com-
petency and lack of policy shown
mander for the Allied Powers to
by the Goverasbent in handling this
the Prime Minister in regard to a
revision of the National Public
Service Law has been disclosed.
tondescy on the part of the uaion to
This fact attests to a paucity of
atempt to resort to a strike om the.
ability and zeal hitherto on the
deavors for peaceful conciliation?
part of the Government. National
Controversies, however, never
Diet and the union in handling the
arise ome-sidedly. The presest low
problem of the Government and
treatment acceeded Gevernisent
Public Ofsices Workers' Union.
employess is a fact recogmised by
The Supreme Commander's
letter has clearly pointed out that
The Supreme Commander's
in the existing law "there is a
lotter has further pointed out that
moticeable failure to distinguish be-
the special restrictiene which p
swreen employes relationshipe in Gov-
tection of the mational intenest i
erament and labor relations in pri-
pose upon the employess of Govern-
mate enterprise."
It further stated that "no person
quate safeguards to the walfare and
of Jepan er in any instrumentality
Government and National Diet must
amgage in delaying or other dispute
devete incressing attention in the

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 6 to Despateh Mo. a
dated August 3, 194s frem the arfise
of the Political Adviser fer Jegea,
Tokyo, e the subjest, "Japenese
Resetiom to Supreme Commamder's
Letter Comcerning Revision of
Public Service Lew".
(COPY)
Translation from Yomiuri Shimbun, July 24, 1948.
We Expect Normalization of Labor Movement.
General MacArthur's letter to Prime Minister Ashida on
amendments to the National Public Service Law may be seid to
have defined the hitherto vague relationship existing between
Government workers and workers in private enterprise.
Government workers must secure the means of living by work
just as workers in general. But the people have the sovereign right
to select or dismiss public officials under Artiele 15 of the
Constitution. Officials are public servants of the natiom and not
those of any partioular part of it. This distinguishes Govermment
workers from private employees.
Government workers have their unions to protect their imterests,
although with certain restrictions. These unions should funetiom
out of the free will of all the members md mast not turn robots
of a particular political party or special interests.
There can be no development of the labor movement epart from
national interests and general common sense. The demoeratisation
of unions, elevation of educational activities within unioms end
promotion of union status through constant consideration of the
general social and nationel interests are the direction in which
the labor movement should proceed. We take this opportamity to
hope that the labor movement will be normelised and developed along
healthy lines.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 7 to Despatch No. 491
dated August 3, 1948 from the Orfice
of the Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Japanese
Reaction to Supreme Commander's
Letter Concerning Revision of
Public Service Law".
NIPPON TIMES:
July 29, 1948
WHL
Treatment for civil service
PRESS COMMENTS
workers and their working
conditions are not a matter
Wednesday, July 28
to be decided unilateralfy by
PUBLIC SERVANT'S TREAT-
the Government alone for it
MENT & PUBLIC OPINION
is not, the Government but the
YOMIURI—With the propos-
public who pays the public
ed revision of the National
servants. The Diet, which is
Public Service Law. white-
the representative organ of the
collar Government and public
public, should, therefore, have
officials will be deprived of
a voice in determining Gov-
the right to collective bargain-
ernment and public payrolls.
ing and the right to strike.
Civil service payrolls should
Government and public off-
be fixed in a manner satisfac-
cials will then have no author-
tory to the public, in the light
of the present state of public
ized labor unions in the accept-
finances, the prevailing stan-
ed , sense of the term for a
trade union without the right
dards of living of the general
to strike and collective bar-
public treatment and condi-
tions of work for common
gaining right is nonsensical.
workers and the nature and
It is quite as it should be in
volume of work assigned to
the light of the spirit of demo-
public servants.
cracy but this does not alter
Special allocation of com-
the fact that Government and
modities, for example, is like-
public officials are maintaining
ly to invite antipathy from the
their livelihood by means of
public because this practice is
the wages they earn.
liable to breed a sense of spe-
It behooves the Government
cial privilege among the reci.
and Diet, therefore, to pay
pients of such favors. A bet-
special consideration to the liv-
ter alternative is to increase
ing conditions of public ser-
the wages, and if commodities
vants. Suspension of the civil
are to be allocated. in order to
servants' right as workers
boost "real earnings," then the
should be predigated on the
practice should be applied to
fulfilment of this 'obligation by
all workers in general.
the authorities concerned.
In short, the veto on the
The Government is reported
right to strike and collective
to be planning to establish a
bargaining right for civil ser-
council for promoting the wel-
vants would impose upon the
fare of Government employes.
Administration, Diet and ulti-
This is quite as it should be
matley on the public the
but what is important in this
obligation to ensure adequate
connection is to have the Diet
treatment for Government and
represented in this council. It
public employes. How, when
is reported that the council
and to what extent the treat.
will be headed by the Chief
ment should be improved mus!
Cabinet Secretary and its
be determined in accordance
membershipcomposed of
with the will of the public. A
Vice-Ministers of the respec-
unilateral decision by the Go-
tive Ministries. If this report
ernment alone would be un-
is true, then the idea should
democratic.
1
be rejected for its undemo-
cratic nature.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclesure No. 8 to Despeteh Ne. do
dated August 3, 194s from the esssee
of t he Politieel Maviser fer Japem,
Tokyo, on the subjeet, "Japamese
Reaction to Supreme Cemmander's
Letter Concerning Revision of Publie
Service Law".
(COPY)
Translation from Yomiuri Shimbun, July 28.
Treatment of Officials and Opinion of People.
By amendments to the National Public Service Law, Govermment
officials will lose their collective bargaining rights and, comsequently,
their right to strike will automatically vanish. Artiele 28 of the
Constitution says that the right of workers to organise and their
right to negotiate collectively or to take other lines of collective
action are guaranteed to Japanese nationals.
Some unions, accordingly, have interpreted the emendments as
violation of the Constitution because of the above article but in
these times when General MacArthur's will supersedes the Constitution
or any laws of the land such objections will not hold water.
Moreover, the SCap letter apart, the forfeiture of the rights of
Government officials to bargain collectively or to strike is not neces-
sarily unconstitutional. For Article XV of the Constitution clearly
stipulates that the mployer of state and publie officials is the
people. By that article officials are essentially of e different
type of workers from what is generally understood to be workers.
From this point of view, officials may be regarded as exeluded from
the provisions of Article 28.
At any rate, officials hereafter will no longer enjoy labor
union rights in the regular sense of the term. For labor unions
without the right to bargain ollectively or to strike are e nonsense.
In the spirit of demooracy such a status for officials is the right
one. But whatever may be right or wrong and whatever may be the law,
the stark fact that ofricials' living is maintained by their salaries
cannot be altered. Since officials, who are substantially workers,
are to be deprived of their collective bargaining and striking rights,
the Government and Diet assuredly have the obligation to give special
consideration to the living ∞nditions of officials. It is by discharg-
ing such obligations that the authorities will be justified in taking
away the rights of officials es workers.
It is reported that the Government is to set up a Government
Personnel Welfare Improvement Coumcil. This is only what should be
done under the circumstances. What is of vital importance in this
comnection is that the Coumcil should have representatives of the
people among its members. It is seid that the Coumeil is to be
headed by the Chief Secretary of the Cabinet and compesed of Viee-
Mimisters but if this informatiom is true we must express our opposi-
tiom to mmoh am uademeeratie eomeeption of the Coumsil. The Natiomal
Pablie Service Law has been revised precisely in eceordenee with the
dostrime thet the empleyer of effieiels is the people. Cemsequemtly,
the will of the people mmast be reflested without fail in any decisiem
regarding the treatment of officials. Measures to improve the welfare

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
melesure No. 8 to
Tokyo's No. 491
August 3, 1948.
-2-
of railroad and communications ofricials and employees have hitherto
been undertaken arbitrarily by the Government authorities. Such a
method of procedure would result in improving the lot of omly part of
the netional public service. This is not only unfair but is liable
to breed the consciousness of special privileges. Simce the law is
to be mmended from the standpoint of clarifying the prineiple that
officials are mployees of the people, it is only naturel thet the
will of the people should be reflected in their treatment or working
conditions. The Diet should go out of its way to diseharge its
obligations in this respect.
To what extent the treatment of officials should be improved
and what working ∞nditions should be provided are something that the
Government should not decide unilaterally. For the money involved
will not be paid by the Government but by the people. Thas the
matter should not be decided without consulting the Diet which is the
direct representative of the people. It should be decided in sueh a
way as to convince the people of the justness of the measures takem with
due consideration to the public finances, the living level of the people
at large, treatment and working conditions of workers in gemeral and
nature and volume of work of officials. The means by which improve-
ments are to be made must also be such as to prove aeceptable to
the people. A measure such as distributing special rations to
officials alone would engender the same sense of privilege thet the
military encouraged in the old days and probably would omly imeur the
antagonism of the people. A better procedure would be to inerease
their salaries or wages. If special rations are to be allowed by
way of increasing their substantial incomes, then similar rations
should be provided for workers in general.
In a word the repudiation of collective bargaining and striking
rights of officials entails the obligation on the part of the Diet
and, ultimately, the people to give just treatment to officials.
To what extent and how this is to be done must be decided according
to the optimim of the people and it would be undemocratic of the
Government to decide on the matter dogmatically.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
Emolosure No. 9 to Despateh Ne. 401
dated Angust 3, 194s from the orfice
of the Political Adviser for Japan.
Tokyo, on the subject, "Japamese
Reaction to Sapreme Cemmander's
Letter Concerning Revision of Publie
Service Law".
(COPY)
Translation from Jij1 Shimpo, July 24, 1948.
Reflections Regarding Civil Servants' Strikes.
Already the people have had erperience of large-soale plans to
strike on the part of Government workers. Each time a scap crder
has averted disaster. This means that on such occasioms neither
the Government nor unions could avert of themselves whet the Occupatiom
authorities judged obstruction to the occupation poliey. This is
intolereble in a country which must quickly put her house in order
under the protection of the Allied Powers.
On the two previous occasions, however, the demands were at
least eeomomic, belonging to the field of employment terms. Bet
the strike planned this time clearly involved politioal demamds.
There is even propagande rife that the Ashide Cabinet must be over
thrown as a "traitor Cabinet", just as in the February 1 strike plan
the Yoshida Cabinet was attacked as a "reactionary Cabinet".
All these things were quite patent. Why could not the Japanese
people settle these disputes mong thenselves without troubling the
Occupation authorities?
It all boils down to the fact that the people are markedly lacking
in initiative to act in accordance with their own comvictions. They
let the currents of the times take them where they go. If a war,
let it be war. If a strike, let it be a strike. Thus there has beem
no public opimion to put a stop to excesses. Is this not the point
that we must reflect most deeply, on this SCAp decision?

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.95)
dated August 3, 194s frem the 0r2
of the Politieel Mviser fer Jagan,
Tokyo, on the subjest, "Jepasese
Reaction to Supreme Commander's
Letter Concerning Revisiom of Publie
Service Law".
(COPY)
Tranalation from Nihon Keizai Shimbun, July 24, 1948.
Obligations of Public Officials.
The labor offensive bas been rumored to be a conspireey to
develop a major politicel struggle with Government workers' wmieme
and CIo joining forces. Even if it had been confined to Govermmemt
workers its effects on the nation would have beem immeesurable.
If Government workers had refrained from resorting to varioms
dispute tactics, including wildcat strikes, the present menements
would not heve been necessary. We hope that private laber unioms
will consider this point too.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclesure No. 11 to Despetch Mo.
491 dated Angust 3, 194s from the
Office of the Polisicel Adviser fer
Japen, Tokyo, on the subjeet, "Japemem
Reactiom to Supreme Commaméer's
Letter Concerning Revésion of Pablie
(COPT)
Service Law".
Translation from Tokyo Shimbun, July 84, 1948.
Study SCAP's Letter Well
That many excesses have been noted in our labor movemeats,
especielly those carried on by the All Govermment and Pablie Werkers'
Umion, has been pointed out constantly through the colmmms of this
paper. Indeed, we have emphasised that the basic peliey of the ereatiem
of e setup to receive foreign capital hed been desigmed to correet
such excesses. We have even called the attention of the Uaiom and
the people at large to the fact that the conoeption of rights as
demanded by the Union would not be in conformity with the spirit of the
new Constitution.
Executive officers of the Union should know these impertant
facts without our telling them. Yet, in spite of that, they have
deliberately ignored them and have gone aheed in directing the Umiem's
activities along radical and destructive lines. We beve, aeserdiagly,
proposed repeatedly to the Government to revise the existing laber
legislation and the law governing the public officials for the parpese
of correcting these excesses. Both the Katayame and the Ashide
Cabinets have simply been dregged along by the Uaiom, although at
heart they might have hoped to revise these laws--the Soeialists
because it dislikes to lose the favors of the umions, and the Democrats
because they dislike giving up political power.
But there is no use now to speak of the past. The time has
come for the executives of the Union to read and pomder well the
contents of SCAP's note. The Government should stop making speeehes
and giving excuses, and do everything in its power to free the laber
union movements by men end women under its direct jurisdietional
control) from being mede tools of the extreme leftist politieel plets.
The Diet, too, hould first of all settle this importast matter before
discussing the generel election. Members of the natiomel legislature sheuld
not only take up the question of reviming the law relating to pablie
officials but also that of a totel revision of the labor legieleties,
if it is deemed essential for securing industrial peace, an urgent
task fasing this mation today.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.86)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DIVISION OF
NOR:HEAST
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTSENT DE STING
2632
Jmayja
leate
IR
Osrico o the unitod taces
191
clitical
Luviser for Ju.
SEA
Pokyo.
194
t 7, L
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Aug. 17, 1948 3:48 pm
3
DW
nto
AC PION FE
INFO
-105
154
DC/R
L
o to tis tio  tenou lo 4t5 or July
O
ol ouot ce i tupro coders
DC/L
toctor to l J nese ri  ior re r in reviuion of the
ITP
tional uIle rvice Iv. Phe ollov inroration hes been
OFD
rece von fre: ti ilitory Intelli once ection of tiis Hendquarters
17/8-448
CLA
indicatin th t the  aticnal 1 i ison council of covorn ont and ublic
CIA
Ortice orhers' unions (.f sll.o) plisls bo ruqusst tho Allied council
to tako ction.
"on " July loa cCo onitorud : telephone cull rron
the   Tefecture council of tho ll-co. unications
loma
ori ere tnton (rI) to the lokyo h duuurters or the
laion, in dich the speuker from lokyo traiw itted tho
No dit
content or i or tion suli tin o.  fssued by the
: ttional ioison council of (ovcrid.unt und public ofrico
orcrs' undons (.o). hio bullutin included the
follevin i nificunt inforaution concornin,: decisions
SECRET FI
do by 1.0 on 26 and 27 July 194:
2
(i) Tho union (or overm ont orkers) will ro uout
G
tho . llied council to ture uparopriate steps
'to deal vith thu current situution.'
2
3
(2) on zy July luk, Lhe contril truxle consitte
DECLASSIFIED
£0. 11652. Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
of unc Union will noli a closua-door susuion
discust lene and tctice for the 'curront
.€03 NARS. Date APR 1.4 1976
strule."
it iu concuivuulu thut the cosunist , u vcrs or the unions y
DMR
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be retarned to DC/R contral Mles with notatlen of actien taken.
attw.pt

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.87)
Tolyo'a A-163,
ugust 4, 1948.
~ 2-
y attopt to huvo tho oviut nober of the llid counoil place
ihe sub joct of rovision of the Nutionul ublio service Law on the
goudu of the council, or thhe soviet manber may do uo or nis owm
accore. Thure uve, nowovor, boen no devaloplents in this regurd.
Gopy to ..uricn .basy, .oscow
50.4
Mlawronce,Jr.:en
SROPOET

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
NORTHEAST LAFFAURS
ACTION
is assigned to
UNITED STATES POLITICALADV
DEPARTNENT OF STATE
No. 503
Tokyo, August 10, 1948.
D
K
UNCLASS IF IED
Subject: Cabinet Order Issued as Result of Supreme Commander's Letsor
Concerning Revision of National Public Service Law.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sar:
In reference to this Mission's despatch No. 465 of July 24, 1948
enclosing copies of a letter from Generel of the Army Douglas MacArtHUR
CAD
to the Prime Minister, Dr. ASHIDA Hitoshi, which recommended revision
894.017/8-1048
of the National Public Service Law, and despatch No. 49l of August 3,
1+0
1948 concerning Japanese reaction to the letter, I have the honor to
enclose a copy of the official English translation, together with
one copy of the Japanese text, of the Cabinet Order issued as a result
of the letter, and also to enclose the Government's statement of
LHBR
8-3218
The Cabinet Order is a temporary measure to be enforded pending
revision of the Natioual Public Service Law by the National Diet and
m
makes clear that employees of the National Government or local publie
entities shall not have the right of "collective bargaining as usually
understood with its coercive character supported by the strike threat".
The ordinance, however, indicates that government employees mmy negotiate
with the government for a betterment of their conditions of employment.
The Cabinet Order suspends all mediation proceedings now in progress in
whioh the Government is a party and makes the National Personnel Authority
the agency charged with protection of the interests of government employees.
2
The Department's attention is invited to the fact that the Government
statement refers to the Supreme Commander's letter as ordering the Japanese
Government to outlaw strikes and other tactics of government employees
which interfere with the work of the Government and stresses that the
Cabiost Order does not relate to employees of private enterprise.
Respectfully yours,
FEB 24 1949
FILED
W. J. Sebald
Emclesires:
Kued

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 503
August 10, 1948.
-2-
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosures:
1. Official English Trenslation
of Cabinet Order.
2.
Japanese text of Cabinet
Order.
3.
Government Statement accompany-
ing Cabinet Order.
Original and hectograph to Department.
804.4
WHLawrence, Jr.:mhp
MASSHIR

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Deepetek No. sos
dated Angust 10, 194s frem the orfiee
of the Politioel Advi ser for Japes, Tekye
on the subject, "Cabimet Order Ismed as
Result of Supreme Commander's Letter
Concerning Revision of National Publie
Service Law".
(COPY)
Cabinet Order concerning the temporary measures
to be taken in consequence of the letter of the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to the
Prime Minister dated July 22, 1948
The Cabinet hereby establishes the Cabinet Order concerning the
temporary measures to be taken in consequence of the letter of the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to the Prime Minister dated
July 22, 1948 under the Imperial Ordinance No. 542 of 1945 coneerning
the Orders to be issued in pursuance of the acceptance of the Potsdem
Declaration.
Article l. Those persons who hold positions as mployees of the
national government or local public entities, regardless of whether
they are appointed or employed (hereinafter referred to as public
employees and the Temporary National Personnel Commission has the
authority to determine whether certain positions are in public service
or not when there is doubt) shall not have the right, to be exercised
against the national government or local public entitites, of collective
bargaining as usually understood with its coercive character supported
by the strike threat. Public employees or their organizations, however,
may not be denied the freedom, within the restriction of the present
Cabinet Order, to negotiate with the appropriate agency of the national
government or local public entity in the sense of being able freely
to present individually or collectively, through their representatives,
their complaints, opinions, desires and grievances and to support the
same by adequate opportunity for discussion and the submission of
evidence.
2. All acts heretofore taken by the government in personnel
matters affecting public servants will be valid so long as they do
not violate the spirit of the limitations imposed by the present Cabinet
Order or were not taken in contrevention of such limitations.
3. All mediation proceedings now pending in which the national
government or local public entities are parties will be suspended. The
National Personnel Authority will hereafter be the agency charged with
the protection of the interests of public servants.
Article 2. No public mployees may resort to strike or engage
in delaying or other dispute tactics which tend to impair the efficiency
of operetion of national government or local public entities.
2. Those who act in violation of the provisions of the preceding
paragraph, regardless of their status of being public esmployees, may
not assert their rights derived from such appointment or employment
against the national government or local public entities.
Artiele 3.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's No. 503
August 10, 1948.
-2-
Article 3. Those who act in violation of paragraph 1 of
Article 2 siall be liat le to penu? servitude not exceeding one year
or a fine not exceec in 5, 0o0 yn.
Supplementary Provisions:
l. The present Cabinet Order shall come into force as from the
day of its promulgation.
2. The present Cabinet Order shall be effective until the
legislation by the Diet concerning the amendment of the National Public
Service Law mentioned in the letter of the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers to the Prime Minister dated July 22, 1948 and other
measures which may be deemed necessary are undertaken and come into
force.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.78)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despateh No. 505 dated August 10, 19e8
from the office of the Political Advimer for Japam, Takye.
Comander's Letter Concerning Revisiion of Natiomal
Sorvice Law".
を
附
vC
乐
共
F門1
年縣合
内
は
ku
そ
子
4
1は
田最高司令官書簡
昭
心
1：
2
1:
和二十三年七
ie
i
1.
1
2
i
1
7N
て
1.1
出
14
六
大
?
1
i
心
1
2
2.
门
月二十二
!
i;
にく臨時指道にする政令
i:
1
合
F
0
公
1
1
E
ざ
1
件
附內閣總理大臣宛連合
見
的
力
こ
决
片
こ
発
お
定
に
VC
政形
DX
石
和二十三年七月三
C
1
く
國又は地方公共團体
1
L
fiau
二
1ió
1
十
1：
V
を
は
指
三
的
信
K
位
付
に
七
1
明
X
1.
け
X
H
件
--
11
1
は
さ
は
必
二
公
地
否
十
H
力
力办
政
2
的
托
公
の
F
一

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.88)
2
第
4
そ
二
会
族
定
方
公
2
0
は
力！
2
公
給
他
VC
5
共
与
国
公
公
停
n
服務峰公務員
で
又
方
大
あ
5
は
は
中
石
C
り
地
は
0
仲
限
工
な
5
方
利
裁
四
0
が
公
盆
に
5
共
人
を
は
2
保
il
5
体
S
方
れ
0
え
手
公
規
藻
ど
共体
L
C
定
務
は
任
十
C
0
違
運
同
を
中
0
反
営
盟
有
止
関
能
能
さ
係
项
率
業
石
れ
当
C
IC
行篇
又
楼
24
公
つ
者
阻
は
S
を
2
爾後
限
T
L
な
り
は
た者
る
的
陈
る
從前一
爭
行
引1
こ
は
手
を
C
国
段
な
又

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.82)
0.
C
9
0
土
日
3
q
2
21
2
71
2
q
x
日
q
7
4
二
1
2
有子
3
0
21
9
2
4
三
21
B
十
7
二
5
0
2
11
21
4
0
21
8
土
2.
2
何
F1
11
q
H
月
2
士
74
4
E
(0
(0
1
2
2
71
2
三
X
活
r
8

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
Emclosure No. 3 to Bespateh No. sos
dated August 10, 194e frem the errise
of the Politieel Mdviser for Jepem.
Tokyo, on the subjeet, "Cabimet Gréer
Issued as Result of Supreme Commeméer's
Letter Concerming Revision of Matiemal
Public Service Lew".
(COPY)
(Translation)
GOVERNMENT STATEMENT
July 31, 1948
We have promulgated this day "The Government Ordinance regarding
a temporary measure based on the letter from the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers to the Prime Minister dated the twenty-second of July"
and made clear the order of actions with regard to the collective bargaining
and labor disputes of public employees.
The letter orders us to take necessary steps immediately in order
to clarify that those who are engaged in public service of state or of
local entities, without distinction of ordinary mployees or operatives,
different from those who are engaged in private enterprises, have not the
so-called right of collective bargaining and may not strike or engage
in delaying or other dispute tactics which tend to impair the efficiency
of operation of administration, in view of the fact that they are under
an obligation to show their sincerity to the public trusteeship under
which they have been put on the ground that they are appointed or employed
by the Government, which rests on the people's sovereignity, or by public
entities. The Government, therefore, hastens preparations as early as
possible and at the same time loses no time to enact this ordinance as
a temporary measure, with the object of taking necessary legislative steps
such as the revision of the Public Service Law and the like.
As it has been mde clear by the ordinance, public employees have no
such collective bargaining right as the one the employees of private enter-
prises have, but they shall not be prevented from expressing their opinions,
desires, or complaints seeking for the improvement of working conditions
through their representatives and procedures which are peaceful and
democratic. Moreover, though the past labor agreements become void, the
interests granted through labor agreements which were concluded on the
basis of the Labor Standard Law or other laws, provided that they are
outside of the restrictions prescribed by the ordinance, shall be respeeted
hereafter as well. Furthermore, the problem of public employees which
is now under consideration of the Labor Committee shall naturally be
suspended by this ordinance. The Govermment, however, of its own imitietive,
now tends to establish necessary organimation in a temporary committee
for persemnel affairs in crder to improve the treatment of publie empleyees
and expects to take appropriate measures for wages and welfare matters
according to cireumstances.
This goverament ordimemce is a special measure taken toward publie
employees as smeh, so it goes without saying that this has mothing to
do with privete enterprises in geseral.
It is our earmest expecteticn that publie empleyees will be disereet
in deed, epply themselves elesely to their duties, and ensver to publle
trusteschip, in the ligkt of the iapert of the lotter frem the Sogrene
Commander for the Allied Pewere aad of this erdinasee besed e the lobeer.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OW
AN AFFNIRS
NORTHEAST
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FUR JADEP - 2 1945
10. 514
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
COHFIDETIAL
Tokyo, August 13, 1948.
(For Department use only,
ject:
Reaction of Japanese Leaders to National
 C
Fublic service Law.
OF
En
DC/H
EN
CE
dtpl
R
nonoable
The secretary of state,
wasnington.
sir:
1 have the onor to refer to this Asion's
despatches .o. 465 of July 24, 1948, No. 491 of
Aurust 3, 1948 and No. 503 of August 10, 1948, con-
cerning revision of tne ational Public Service Law
proposea by General of the Army Douglas acaRThuR to
8-1348
Frime minister AsnIDa Hitoshi and to report a number
of pertinent comments made by leading Japanese to an
officer of tnis ission.
Letter from General MacArthur
Considered an Order
When the Supreme Commander's letter of July 22,
1948 was received there was considerable debate among
Japanese officials whether the letter should be
A/MJS
publicly labeled a directive. r. FUKUSHIMA Shintaro,
Deputy Chief cabinet Secretary, who has been present
at meetings on this subject with members of this Head-
quarters, including Mr. Blaine HOOVER, Chief of the
Civil Service Division of the Government Section,
stated that members of headquarters had made it clear
that the recommendations in the letter should be
enforced immediately. As a result a Cabinet order
was issued together with a Government statement, the
latter referring to the letter as ordering the
Japanese Government to forbid strikes and collective
bargaining by government employees (this Mission's
despatch No. 503).
Dr. TSURU Shigeto, former Economic Stabilization
Board ofricial, said that he believes the letter
should not have been considered as an order of the
idential
Supreme Commander. He stated that, in his opinion.
had General Macarthur intended the letter as an order
he would have sent a more formal document whioh would
D Rnot have been open to so many varied interpretations.
CON IDENTIAL
Dr. Tsurn

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDANTIAL
Dr. Tsuru intimated that he suspeots that
r. Hoover was blufring when he told Japanese Govern-
ment officials that the letter should be considered
as a airective.
Dr. Isuru feels that the letter should have boen
considered as a recommendation subject to disoussion
between officials of the Japanese Government and this
Headquarters, and in the National Diet. It is his
opinion that the letter should have been interpreted
in the liht of experience, in the United States
particularly, with respect to strikes and collective
bargaining of government workers. He claimed that in
the last twenty years there have been over one
thousand strikes in the United'states among such
workers ana tlat workers in a public corporation such
as the Tennessee Valley authority are permitted to
strike.
Coumunications nterprises not to Become
Public Corporation
r. Fukushima seid that .r. C. L. KADES, Deputy
Chief of tne government section, told him the letter
did not propose that communications workers are to be
excepted from the regular civil service and publio
corporations established to manage and operate
communications activities, as in the case of railways,
salt, camphor, and tobacco activities. He further
stated that r. ades indicated he had suggested to
General macarthur that the communications workers
shoula be treated in the same manner as railway
emplcyees, but that the General had decided otherwise.
The reason for the decision, according to Mr. Fukushima,
was the fact that there are no private communications
companies, as in the case of the railways. Mr.
Fukushima intimated that the Japanese Government feels
that, from a theoretical point of view, logic is on
the side of placing communications workers in the same
category as railway workers, but that the Government
would naturally accept the recommendation of General
MacArthur.
Diplomats and Consuls to be Exempted from
National Public Service Law
Another point of interest was Mr. Fukushima's
opinion that ambassadors, ministers, and consuls are
included among the special group of government
employees, along with the Prime Minister and Cabinet
ministers, to whom the revisions of the Publio Service
Law are not to apply. Mr. Fukushima plans to disouss
this matter further with Mr. Hoover, after obtaining
the views of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because
he believes that consuls should be required to pass
the civil service examinations.
Unfevorable Reaction of Government Workers
In contrast to the generally favorable reestis
the part of the Japanese press and people to the
CONEDENTIAL

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
recommendations in the Supreme Commander's letter,
Mr. KONDO Shinichi, Chief of Second Section (American
Affairs), Research Bureau, Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, declared that government workers are
depressed by the letter's recommendations concerning
coilective bargaining. He stated that these workers
feel that they were encouraged to organize unions by
General heaaquarters and in consequence of labor laws
passed by the National Diet.
Government workers, r. hondo claimed, are aware
that tne Cabinet Crder promulgated as a result of
the letter mentions that they are to be allowed to
negotiate. he saia, however, that the workers
interpret negotiations to mean that government workers
ure laced at a great disadvantage because they
believe tne cabinet trder 1.revents them from making
de nancs on equal terms with the Government, and that
governnent workers ao not have confidence in the
Nationul Fersonnel authority. Dr. Isuru is of the
sume opinion, sayin: that the various ministries are
not enthusiastic about cooperating with this authority,
because it has no character of its own and is
completely a rurpet of the Civil Service Division of
the rovernment Scction of this leadquarters.
Lillen Resignation
For several days after r. J. 3. KIllcN, Chief
of the Labor vivision of the sconomic and Scientific
Section, and r. Paul STA:CHFIELD, Deputy Chief,
announced their intention to resign, no Japanese
publication carried the news. Dr. KhdAI Kazuo, Chief
Editor of the Nippon Times said that it was because
the news agencles made the mistake of going to the
Chief of the Press and Publication Branch of the Civil
Information and ducation Section of this Headquarters
to ask his advice whether the news might be published;
they received an answer to the effect that he had
nothing to say officially but that his personal
opinion was that, under the Occupation, publication
would be prohibited until an official release had been
made. As a result, nothing was published until the
news came from the United 3tates in a press despatch.
This lack of publication led to various rumors among
the Japanese people, according to Dr. Kawai, since
they had learned of the resignations from an article
appearing in the Stars and Stripes on July 29, 1948.
Mr. HIRazaWA Kazus... ge, former Japanese Foreign
Service Ofricer and now managing Directc' of Service
Center, Tokyo, stated that newspapermen felt there
was more behind the resignations than the mere
recommendations in the letter from General MacArthur.
Newsmen have conoluded, he said, that ths Headquarters
will follow up the letter with recommendations that
there will be drastio changes in existing labor
legislation.
CONVIDENTIAL
4s the

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
As the Department is aware, Mr. Killen issued a
statement to the press on August 2, 1948, a copy of
1
which is enclosed, that his resignation was not in
protest aainst an anti-strike ban, but against the
denial of all collective bargaining rights for
,500,000 Jalanese government workers. He also charged
that for cigut months the Labor Division had tried
unsuccessfully to develop legislation in collaboration
with other responsible neadquarters officials with a
view toward preparinp an efficient Japanese Civil
service ysten.
In a conversation with the Acting Political
Adviser, mr. hillen confirmed his reason for resigning.
.I. iillen steted that he had strongly, but unsuccess-
fuily, recommended the establishment of a board which
woula te empowered to artitrate in a compulsory fashion
between government unions and tne Government. He deolared
that tne labor policies advocated by Mr. Hoover are ill-
auvised and will retarå a healthy labor movement in
Japan. ie prophesied that if present plans are pursued,
a super-bureaucracy will be foisted upon the Japanese by
undesirable legislation which it is proposed to have
forced through the Liet. (Copy of a memorandum of con-
2
versation dated august 9, 1948, 1s enclosed).
Inere nas been no ofricial press release from this
headquarters concerning Mr. killen's reasons for
resigning, although announcement has been made that Mr.
Chester . Hepler, Chief of the Manpower Branch of the
Labor Division, has succeeded Mr. Killen. However, on
August 3, 1948, a press release was issued by this Head-
3
quarters, copy enclosed, giving the comments of Mr.
Hoover on Mr. Killen's public statement. Mr. Hoover
stated that Mr. Killen's position "is pure nonsense";
that General MacArthur had to step into a rapidly
deteriorating situation to prevent a paralyzing strike
of government workers; and that Mr. Killen had been
given the fullest opportunity to explain his viewpoints
in advocacy of the right of public employees to
"collective bargaining as it is commonly understood
with its coercive character supported by the strike
threat."
Communist Reaction to Proposed Revision
of the National Fublic Service Law
Mr. Fukushima believes that the objections raised
by labor unions (many of which are Communist dominated)
to the recommendations in the letter, are efforts to cause
as muoh confusion as possible. In this connection
artioles in the Japanese press have pointed out that
labor union leaders have disagreed with the Government's
interpretation that the Supreme Commander's letter is an
order whioh should be enforced immediately. They have
also objected to the suspension of the ourrent mediation
by the Central Labor Relations Board of the Government
workers' wage dispute. Furthermore, a statement issued
by the Japan Teachers' Union on July 27, 1948, oriticized
CONFIDENTIAL
the government

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
the government for neglecting the constitution and for
violatine the existing labor laws. The National Congross
of Industrial Unions (NCIU) in its statement of July 88,
1948, charged the Government with destroying demooratio
principles. The All-Japan Communication Workers' Union
is saia to be considering a suit against the Prime
 inister and his cabinet in the Supreme Court on the
charge of violating the provisions of the Constitution.
mr. rukushima is of the opinion that, as a result
of tne ban on strikes and collective bargaining by
covernment workers, the communists in the future will
resort to more airect methods of sabotage in their
efforts to impede rehabilitation. fhis opinion is shared
bymany Jepanese, leaders.
On u ust 6 r. DobalI Kazuyoshi, Chairman of the
All-Jupan Communications workers' Union, a ccompanied
by r. K Makoto, head of the NCIU and Mr. KIKUNAMI
hatsumi, prominent communist and former head of the NCIU,
gave an interview to foreign newspapermen at the Tokyo
Corresponaents Club. Besides referring to his contem-
plated suit in the Supreme Court contesting the validity
of tne ordinance prohibiting strikes by government
employees, r. Dobashi reportedly stated that in his
belief the workers will strike whether General MacArthur
puts out a direct order or not. Both Mr. Dobashi and
Vr. Kan questioned Generel MacArthur's authority for
his letter to Premier Ashida since the present situation
could not be called an "emergency." Mr. Kan was reported
to have further stated that the workers must stand up
and struggle against "this road to fascism."
How far these NCIU leaders are prepared to go in
fighting revision of the National Public Service Law is
not clear. The presence at the interview of Mr.
Kikunami, who is no longer an official in the NCIU, is
clear evidence of Communist encouragement of labor
leaders in opposing present Occupation policies.
When General MacArthur banned the general strike
scheduled for February 1, 1947, NCIU leaders attempted
to carry the case to sympathetic elements among foreign
correspondents in Tokyo, hoping thereby to secure
favorable publicity for their efforts. It has been
learned from one of the foreign correspondents who
attended the meeting on August 6 that Mr. Dobashi took
the initiative in arranging this interview.
Letter Gives Ashida Cabinet New Lease on Life
Mr. Fukushima stated a view shared by many leading
Japanese that the Ashida Cabinet had been given a new
lease on life by the letter, and that in his opinion
the Cabinet would remain in power at least until the
end of the year. He pointed out that if an extraordimary
session or the National Diet convenes during the midale
of September, about a month would be required to consider
the proposed revisions of the National Publie Servise
Law recommended in General MacArthur's letter. He
continued that if the Diet should then be dissolved, as
CONTTDENTTAL

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.92)
-  -
aieurs to L  consensus amony Jupanese leaders,
fort  ust elase cfore an election. He concluded
  mtt tat e e biet i ht be able to meet
Ittt experience
1
nrira to coplete
te
r iv that General
ie rtirezawa also
 r  te rortitoe   to rormidable
honave recently
rvepuree airective,
tror i ruture of the
mocratie  rtir lieves thet these
tvo n ui u t r. ida. he regards
Dr. i as ilctul, clu,  unapproachable.
essr.rtni  mukai  onsiders friendly,
.roaclu le,  liticall tute. An editorial in
the vipon rimee  culy 3l, loe, five conies of which
are uneloaed, i in rreeent with the views of Messrs.
Junusin  ir zaw tht the Democratic Tarty,
despite tie :recnt row ebb of its fortunes, is by no
means at tie unu or its rope.
UI.I...RY
Jeneral ac.rthur's letter recommending
revision or the naticnal rublic service Law
hus been interpreted by tne Jupanese Govern-
ment as an orcer und a Cabinet order issued.
In forthcomine revisions of the law, communica-
tions workers art not to be excerted from the
regular civil scrvice as are railway workers,
because tnere are no privately owned communica-
tions facilities. It is planned to exempt
diplomats ana consuls from the provisions of
the National Fublic Service Law.
In contrast to the generally favorable
reaction on the part of the Japanese public,
government workers feel that this Head-
quarters has betrayed their interests and
that under the revisions of the law they will
not be able to negotiate on equal teims with
the Government. The government workers have
no confidence in the National Personnel
Authority.
Lack of an official release concerning
Mr. Killen's resignation led to speculation
that drastic changes are to be made in all
labor legislation. Mr. Killen in a personal
statement to the press and in a private
conversation with the Acting Political Adviser
stated that his resignation was not in protest
against an anti-strike ban, but against the
denial of all collective bargaining rights for
CONFIDENTIAL
government

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 7 -
government employees. He declared that the
lator policies advocated by the Government
section or tnis neadquarters are ill-
aavised anu will retard a healthy labor move-
ment in Jupan. Phe government section called
mr. illen' position "pure nonsense" and
imu tnat enerul acarthur had to act in
oruer to prevent a paralyzing strike of
overnment workers. Phe Government Section
furtier contended that . r. killen had been
civen the fullest opportunity to explain his
viewpoints.
Lator urions, many of wlich are
communist dominated, oipose the Government's
action in issuing a Cabinet urder as
unconstitutional and undemocratic. Informed
sources believe that the com:unists will
resort to more direct metnods of sabotage to
impede rehabilitation.
On nis own initiative, the Chairman of
the All-Japan communications Horkers' Union,
accompanied by a prominent communist, arranged
an interview with foreign press correspondents
at wrich he stated that,in his belief, the
workers will strike despite General MacArthur's
order. e also questioned General MacArthur's
authority for his letter to the Prime Minister.
General Macarthur's letter has given
the ashida Cabinet a new lease on life and will
also allow time for leaders of the Democratic
Farty to strengthen their party. End of summary.
This Lission's Comment
This wission believes that the Supreme Commander's
letter is timely and will restore some sanity to the
labor movement. It is to be regretted, however, as has
been emphasized in editorials in the Japanese press
(this Mission's despatch No. 491 of August 3), that the
Japanese Government could not have set its own house in
order without intervention by the Occupation authorities.
While the labor movement has made great strides since
the beginning of the Occupation, its leaders, many of
whom are communists, have goaded the unions into
committing excesses which are interfering with the
rehabilitation of Japan and orderly progress in the labor
movement. While it is true that the Japanese Government
has been considering taking steps to curb these excesses,
and would probably on its own initiative have eventually
revised the National Public Service Law, the "labor
offensive" scheduled to begin in August was to a consider-
able degree predicated on the anticipated activities of
government workers' unions.
A large soale labor offensive, involving government
workers, would have resulted in serious disruption of the
CONFIDENTIAL
Japanese

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTLAL
- 8-
Japanese economy ana would have played directly into
the hands of the communists. It is believed, there-
fore, that by banning rurther strike activity on the
part of 'overnment workers, the supreme Commander's
letter xreatly reduces the possible effectiveness of
any labor offensive which mioht be undertaken. An
additional effect is that the letter undoubtedly will
tenu to strengthen uhe rather precarious position of
the asnida cabinet.
Ne regard the letter from the supreme commander
as a aocument of primary importance which will have
far-reaching effects upon the political, social, and
economic affoirs of Japan.
Respectfully yours,
. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1. Copy of J. . killen's
statement to the press
dated aurust 2, 1948.
2.
Copy of memoranaum of
Conversation between
J. . killen and n. J.
sebald of August 9, 1948.
3.
Copy of press release
issued on august 3, 1948,
by General Headquarters,
Far sastern Command.
4.
Five copies of editorial
in Nippon Times of
July 31, 1948.
Original and hectograph to Department.
Copy to:
American Embassy, Mosoow.
850.4
WHLawrenceJr/eg
CONFIDENTIAL
G.B.B.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatoh No.
514 dated August 13, l948 from
the Office of the Folitical
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject, "Reaotion of
Japanese Leaders to National
Fublic Service Law."
CFY
Fersonal state..ent made by
L.r. James . illen to the American Iress
2 August 1948
major General . r. marquat, Chief, Economic and
scientific stction, auvised me saturday afternoon that
my resination, submitted to him on 29 July, had been
accepted, effective 3l July. I expect to leave for the
states at the earliest :ossible opportunity.
Lay I repeat that action against strikes in the
covernment service is not the issue on which my
resirnation is based. kather it is the denial to the
vast majority of government workers of the rights of
collective negotiation, mediation and arbitration that
has brou, ht about my return to the United states.
The initial policy of the Cccupation clearly
recognized tne role of a free trade union movement in
the development of free institutions and democratic
processes in post-war Jajan. Phis has been especially
true in the wide fiela of government service and enter-
prises wnose workers constitute a larger share of the
nation's labor movement than is customary in most
western countries.
Legislation in the early days of the occupation
prohitited "acts of dispute" on the part of government
employees engaged in administrative and juridical
functions, tut specifically excluded those engaged in
governmental enterprises such as railways, communica-
tions, the revenue monopolies, teachers, etc. This
legislation was approved by the supreme comnander for
tne allied rowers lone berore my arrival in Japan.
Lowever, it readily became apparent that, if government
functions and services were to be carried on efficiently
and without interruption while at the same time protec-
ting the rights of the workers to organization and
collective negotiation, definite legal proceaures were
required which would facilitate an oraerly and proper
relationship between the government and its employees.
The undesirability of acts of dispute in government
service has been recognized at all times by the Labor
Division. We undertook to develop legislation designed
to provide the use of collective negotiations and
utilizing compulsory arbitration of unresolved issues.
In the preparation of this program, we learned much from
the experience of the british and others in dealing with
similar problems.
CONFIDENTIAL
Although

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTLAL
- 2 -
Enolosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 514,
August 13, 1948.
Although the Labor Division has sought for the
jast eight months to aiscuss these proposals with those
in u rus onsi le for tnt preparation of an efficient
civil service ystem, we have been denied this
1.ortunity.
Since tne uccupation began, the Japanese Government
nas recoynized the rignt of government workers to
organizc into unions anu bargain collectively. The right
of collective negotiations has now been denied the vast
majerity or :overnment workers, thereby taking away from
tcm une one effective instrument in attaining sorely
nceueu economic betterment. fne denial of such basic
rignts nas seluom proven to be a step forward in the
development or human wortn and dignity. Nor will this
denial strengtuen the belier in democratic processes of
2.o million government employees.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's No. 514,
August 13, 1948.
ie feels tnat the communist farty will, as a result,
man reut advances in its infiltration of labor unions,
. thet : ill ta the entire uuthority, power, and
rei r te cccuution to handle the labor unrest
w.icn, in ni opinion, ill arise.
r. illen also stated that ne greatly regretted
various im licutions und insinuations which have been
:ace a ainst hin. personally. ne said that it is his
intention to kee this ispute on an impersonal basis,
unc to insist that lhis resignation was caused by an
onest uiiference of policy opinicn rather than because
of any clash of personalities.
Durin ti.e course of his conversation r. killen
nevertneless confessed that ne wes biased in his views
regarding tn:ral hitney and .r. noover -- the former
he ciaracterized as meddling in a labor netter without
suffici nt knoledce and experience; the latter, he
stateu, is totally incompetent to handle a situation of
this ind. ue propnesied that if present plans are
fully carried out, a super-bureaucracy will be foisted
upon the Japanese by reason of highly undesirable
lteislation which it is proposed to force through the
Diet in the shape of amendments to the National Public
service Law.
Mr. Killen intends to return to Washington, D. C.
to resume his former post with the L.
N. J. Sebald.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.91)
C.1
nclosure No. 2 to Despatch No.
314 deted august 13, 1948 from
the Cffice of the Folitical
 viser for J=pan, lokyo, on
t: subject, "Reection of
nese Leaders to National
 rvice Law."
.
au ust 9, 1948.
. le, former
ivision, .
.la.
r c f saying good
n ust 12.
rl heve ny
liiit t issue was upon
iifr rr  ten r uarters
ant inI, ti in i rsi nation. ne saic that
te i, I, i t nebulous but that
in so far a he is coneeree the reason for his
resi nation   asic iff rence of opinion as to
policy.
Ir. ill in  lieves, nd he stated that he has so
committed nirself my tis s in vritiny, that govern-
nent employees ul rat  llowed to strike; on the
other hand he socs fcel that -- ne this ie the issue --
covernment employees whe are ceabers of a union should
have th. rint of collective bargaining in order that
their funuamental ri hts can be protected. He stated
that he naa strongly recomienced the establishment of
a board of some kind wnich woula be empowered to
arbitrate in compulsory fashion between government
unions on the one hand and the government on the other.
.r. killen felt that the present labor policy
vis-a-vis government unions, as advocated by wr. Hoover
of the Government section of GhQ, is ill-advised, badly
thought out, and in the final analysis will be the
source of considerable trouble for the Japanese Govern-
ment. It will also set back considerably a healthy
labor movement in Japan. He felt that a system similar
to the whitley system in England should be adopted in
Japan as the conditions are somewhat alike.
Mr. Killen further stated that in his opinion the
Communist Party is making tremendous capital out of
the Japanese Government's order forbidding employees to
strike and denying their right to collective bargaining.
CONFIDENTIAL
He feels

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch
No. 14 aated August 13, 1948,
from the Office of the
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on tne subject, "Re-
action of Japanese Leaders to
ational rublic Service Law."
Y
JELLLRL HEADGUARTERS
Fak AST COI AND
ublic information Office
immtuiate nclease:
August 1948
co ntin. on r. .illen's ;ublic statement of
vuly znd, r. blaine noover, Chief, Civil Service
Livision, government section, today observed:
"The position mr. .illen takes is complete
nonsense. generai macartnur was forced to step in to
restore some semblance of order in a rapidly
deterioratin situation detween the Japanese Govern-
ment and its employees witi. a paralyzing strike of
government workers announced for aw ust 7th which in
Japan's impoverisned conaition woulu nave resulted in
starvation and aisaster to large sections of the
Japantse peolle. sefore coin: so he gave .r. killen,
in tne course of a seven nour conference in his
ofrice, attenaed by representatives of the interested
stafr sections, tue rullest opportunity to explain in
meticulous detail nis viewpoints in advocacy of the
right by public employees to "collective bargaining
as it is commonly unaerstood with its coercive
character supportea by the strike threat." The
General's uecision as reflected in his subsequent
letter of July 2znd to the rrime .inister and the
Cabinet crdinance proaulgated pursuant thereto are
designed to bring the relationsnip of government and
public servants in complete consonance with American
policy and practice. They both support the concept of
collective negotiation without, however, a coercive
character or strike threat, thereby maintaining
inviolate the authority and integrity of the govern-
ment and laying due emphasis upon the responsibility
inherent in  ublic service. Only in tnis way can order
and efficiency in the governmental services be restored
and maintained. In their absence, continued American
subsidization of Japan's economic deficiencies could
not possibly be sought or expected.
"The basic purpose of the action taken in this case
is the establishment of an effective civil service with
the elimination of the paralyzing feudal bureaucratio
influences and the parasitic infiltration of communistic
influences under the pretence of labor advancement. The
action taken has no direct connection with the labor
movement in private enterprise."
-0-
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENAL
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch
No. 514 dated August 13, 1948,
from the Office of the
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subjeot, "Re-
action of Japanese Leaders
to Public Service Law."
31
THE NIPPON TDES:
July/1948
WHL
. Quite to the contrary, the Thus, in various ways the
The Democrats' New
lact that revision of the Na- postponement of the election
tional Public Service Law will be favorable to the Demo-
Lease on Life
will have to be taken up by crats. In fact, some Dempo-
the coming cxtraordinary crats are even hopeful that
Despite the low ebb in popu session of the Diet means that their popularity will rise to
larity to which the Democraticthe present Cabinet—and such an extent within the next
Party has recently fallen, ithence the dominance of the two or three months that 
joys a good chance of re-Democratic Party—cannot be Diet dissolution and election
. ving its fortunes soon. In seriously challenged until this may be avoided altogether, al-
though that seems too far-
1)'s respect it stands in quite work is finished. It will take
a different position from thebout a month to prepare the
fetched a hope.
;cialist Party which. whilenecessary revisions in legisla-
On the other hand, if things
baring in the same loss oftion, which medns that the
do not turn out so well for the
popularity through being 'as-Diet will not be convened
Democrats, there will still re-
sociated in the same Adminis-until September. It will take
main the possibility of coming
tration. has little prospect ofabóut another month for the
to terms with the Democratic-
 speedy recovery.
Diet to discuss and enact this
Liberals to form a conserva-
legislation. Until then, there
tive coalition. The fact that
Even the apparent difference
ran be no dissolution of the
the Democratic-Liberals and
between Prime Minister Ashi-
Diet, which means that a gen-
the Democrats see eye-to-eye
da, who favors maneuvering
eral election will hardly be
on the National Public Bervice
oward the formation of a
possible until November in-
Law revision issue may open
"centrist" league. and Chief
stead of September or early
the way to further collabora
Cabinet Secretary Tomabechi.
October as would otherwise
tion between these two riva
who inclines toward the even-
have been the case.
parties. In this event the
tual formation of a more con-
Now, if a general election
Democrats would simply shift
servative coalition with the
were to be held in September
from the "Ashida line" to the
Democratic-Liberals, may not
or early October, the prospects
"Tomabechi line". It has even
be altogether a disadvantage
for the Democrats would not
been suggested that the Demo-
to. the Democratic Party. In-
be so good for they would
crats are purposely keeping
stead of being an evidence of
have littie time to work to
alive both these seemingly
party disunity, it may provide
erase their present unpopu-
contradictory "lines"a
the party with a double-barrel
larity. But the longer the
hedge against the failure of
opportunity for staging
election ta,postponed, the more
one or the other.
come-back.
time will the Democrats have
In any case, despite the pres-
In the first place, despite the
to use their organizing geniuses
ent low ebb in the fortunes of
present low ebb in the popu-
Narahashi and Inukai to men
the Democratic Party, its life
Jarity of the Democratic Party.
their political fences, and the
is not yet over by any means.
the recent return of Wataru
mpre.time will they have to
Narahashi and Ken Inukai to
consolidate their future posi-
the party fold will add to the
tion by carrying forward the
party-the services of these
misation of a "centrist"
formidable political figures of
proyen ability. In any elec-
tion er political reshuffing.
the weight of the influence
the Administration
these men can exercise will be
the Gevernment. The gre-
dually increcsing industrial
reduction, which hep bech in
cvidence in the t sic industris:
'bee about April, will have
created by about Novəmber

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
ACTION
is assigned to
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 527
o0fAugust 17, 1948.
NORTHERST SON AFFAIRS
UNCLASSIFID
SEP
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ubject: soviet tat ement Concernin: Revision of ational Public
Jervice Law.
In reference to this Mission's despatches no. 491, August 3,
1948, and no. 503, August 10, 1948, transmitting the toxts of 
letter dated July 2, 1948 by General MacARTHUR to Prime Minister
AsiiIbA and of a Jabinet Order issued July 31, 1948 by the Japanese
Government in regard to revision of the National Public Service Law,
the Acting rolitical Adviser has the honor to enclose a copy of a
letter (in nglish translation) dated August 11, 1948 from the Act-
rC.
in Joviet Member, Allied Council for Japan, to the Supreme Com
mander for the Allied :owers requesting that the "directions" in
OFD
his letter of July 22 and the actions of the Japanese Government in
17万
consequence be "cancelled" as contradicting the Potsdam Declaration
Pos
and policy decisions of the lar Lastern Commission.
い人A
The Acting Soviet Member did not request that the subject of
revision of the National Public Service Law be placed on the agenda
of the Allied Council for Japan for its sixty-sixth meeting to be
held on August 18, 1948. Copies of the Lnglish translation of his
letter were widely distributed by the Acting Soviet Member to repre-
sentatives of the press shortly after delivery of the original to
Shis Headquarters.
Enclosuk
CSN
Coof letter (nglish trans-
lation) dated August 1l, 1948
from the Acting Soviet Member,
Allied Council for Japan, to
the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers.
850.4
RBFinn:cgf
sun
Original and ozalid to the Department.
UNCLASSIFIED
5
B.B

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 527 dated
August 17, 1948 from the Office of the
United States Political Adviser at
Tokyo, on the subject of: "Soviet State-
ment Concerning Revision of National
Public Service Law."
  F J 
Tr.YO
TH
FOR
TH UIONVIT SOCIALIST PUBLICS
(Translated from Russian)
To: U:  A FO. TH ALL1ED PONERS
Dear General:
The rot sdam Jeclaration of July 26, 1945 and Policy Decision
of the rar astern Commission on "Fundamental Policy Toward Japan
After Surrender" provide that in Ja an all obstacles in the way of
the revival and strengthenin of denocratic tendencies among the
Japanese people should be eliminated; freedom of assemblies, associ-
ations as well as freedom of the press and speech should be guar-
anteed and the Japanese people should be encouraged to form demo-
cractic organizations and labor unions.
The Policy Decision of the FEC on "Principles of Organization
of Japanese Labor Unions" points out specifically the right of the
Japanese labor unions to participate in political activities, in
the democratization of the country as well as in activities aimed
at insuring and inprovin the conditions of life and labor of the
Japanese workers.
This decision also points out the right of the Japanese workers
to strike and bans the use of police or other government bodies for
spying upon workers, breaking strikes or suppressing legal labor
union activities.
In spite of all this, neasures which are being taken by the
American Occupation authorities and the Japanese Government are
creating obstacles impeding the revival and strengthening of demo-
cratic tendencies among the Japanese people and, in some cases, these
measures are aiming at suppressing the activities of democratic
organizations in general and the activities of labor unions in par-
ticular. In the utilization of their legitimate rights, labor unions
and other democratic organizations in Japan are encountering all
kinds of obstructions and restrictions.
It has become a common occurrence in Japan to violate the
freedom of labor union activities, to resort on a large scale to re-
yK
prisals against labor union members and their leaders for partici-
894.5043
pation in labor union activities and carry these reprisals so far
as wholesale discharges, arrests and hard labor sentences.
Prime Minister Ashida in his statement of July 10, 1948 bluntly
threatened to jail all strikers.
Stope

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
nclosure to Tokyo's No. 527,
August 17, 1948.
-2-
step: have been taken of late to legalize the established
practice! su ressin the activities of labor unions and other
nenocratic organizations by respective legislations, ordinances
and instructions.
On July 22, 1948, you sent rrime Ainister Ashida a letter diroet-
ing him to undertake imnediately an amendment of the National Public
Jervice Law and prohibit Governnent workers to take part in strikes
and bargain collectively with the Government. In this connection,
the Japanese Jovernment has already issued a special ordinance banning
strikes and collective bargaining by Government and public service
anployees.
Local occupation authorities are acting in the same way. Thus,
for example, in compliance with the directive received from the
rrovost marshal of 25th Infantry Division, the Police Department in
Usaka issued on July 1?, 1948 a set of regulations concerning a new
procedure for meetings and demonstrations which, in its essence,
grants the police the right to prohibit any meeting or demonstration
and arrest any participants in these activities and their leaders.
In view of the fact that these measures taken by the American
occupation authorities and the Japanese Government run counter to
the above mentioned policy decisions of the Far Lastern Commission,
I insist that your directions of July 22, 1948 concerning the amend-
ment of the National Public ervice Law, the actions of the Japanese
Government in pursuance of these directions as well as the above
mentioned regulations issued by Osaka folice Department be cancelled
as contradicting the Pot sdan Declaration and the Policy Decision of
the Far Eastern Commission on "Fundamental Policy Towards Japan
After Surrender" and on "I'rinciples of Urganization of Japanese
Labor Unions."
Respectfully yours,
A.P. kISLaNKO
Major-General, Acting Soviet Member,
Allied Council for Japan
August 11, 1948
Tokyo.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATIs OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 531
CONPIDENTIAL
SEP - 2 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STAVE
州
Subjeot:
Opinions of Japanese Leaders Cemeerming
5
Publie Service Law.
PH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
E
The Honorable
SEP 2 8 1948
Washington.
81r
I have the honor to refer to this Missien's
despateh No. 514 er August 13, 194s, ceneerming revisien
1
of the Matienal Public Service Law and to enelese a eepy
Roo'd
of a memerandum ef coaversation between three Jepanese
XXXX
laber umien efficials and an offieer of this Missiem en
Sopt 1
this subject and en communist aotivities in gemeral.
A/MJS
ACTION
While admitting that the excesses of laber waiems
ITP
provoked interventien by the Oceupatien, the three laber
(ILH)
leaders iaterviewed feel that the less of the right to
celleetive bargaining by gevermment empleyees is a
INFO
serious set-back to the laber mevement and has eaused
DCR
the rank and file of laber umiem members to beceme very
pessimistie about the future ef the laber mevement. The
laber leaders confirmed informatien regarding eemmuaist
MAY 171949
activities whieh has come to our attemtien frem meny
seurees, imeluding cemmunists' domination of the laber
movement, their subservience to Moscow, their centention
shat Japan is on the eve of a revolutien, and their
efferts to make capital of General MacARtMUR's letter by
*laming the inoompetence of the Japanese Gevernment for
eausing the intervention by the Ocoupation.
It is believed significant that these leaders are
of the epimien that the Japan Communist Party has been
lesing members in industry but gaining them among students,
repatriates, and farmers, and that, altheugh the Cemmumist
Party may pell mere vetes in the next general eleetien
thes in the last ene, the aumber of seats eeeupsed ia the
Jel049
VISION
PHIC
INFORMATIO

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 531
August 18, 1948
CORPIDENTIAL
The Department's attention 1s invited to the fact
that the activities ef the labor leadere latervieved are
indicative of the existence of demoeratie elements in a
movement in whioh the communiste have been extremely
active. We think it enoouraging that labor leaders such
as they have confidenee that they can in time keep their
house in order without external intervention, and that
they are working aggressively for demooratisation of the
labor movement.
In contrast to the views of these labor leaders, Mr.
ICHIMADA Hisato, Governor of the Bank of Japan, and Mr.
NAMBARA shigeru, President of Tokyo University, expressed
the opinion on separate oocasions to an officer of this
Mission that the letter of General MaoArthur was an
exoellent and well-timed move. They both stated that the
Japanese Government has been too weak in its attitude
toward labor. They interpreted the letter as a reflection
of the stiffening resistance of United States foreign
polioy toward the Soviet Union and contrasted the
recommendations in the letter with the encouragement given
earlier in the Ocoupation to labor policies which they
desoribed as far to the left of anything permitted in the
United States.
Mr. Ichimada expressed a hope, whioh we share, that
the pendulum will not swing too far in the opposite
direction as a result of the letter. He volunteered the
information that the communists are claiming that the
letter of General MacArthur was sent to the Japamese
Government solely in the interest of attracting foreign
capital into Japan to further imperialistic aims of the
United States detrimental to Japan's national ideatity.
Like the labor leaders whose comments have already been
reviewed, Mr. Iohimada compared this communist appeal to
nationaliam as similar to the appeal formerly used by
the militarists.
Mr. Nambara intimated that the resignation of Nr. J. 8.
KILLEN as Chief of the Labor Divisiom of the Economie and
Scientifie Seotion of this Headquarters, news of which
reached the Japanese imdirectly, and the subsequeat observa-
tioms of Mr. Blaime HOOVER, Chier of the Civil Serviee Divi-
sien of the Government Section of this Headquarters, eem-
cerming the resigmation, which were released to the Japanese
press (this Missiom's despatoh No. 5l4) was a revelatien te
the Japanese people in general of the faot that the Oseupe-
tiom is the real government of Japan. He indieated that
Japamese Govermment officials have not wanted the publie to
know that the Government is teo weak to have an independent
charaster of its own and that it is only a puppet whese
strings are mamipulated by the Oceupatien autherities. In
our epinien, the manner ia whieh Mr. Killea's resigmatien
was hasdled beth by himself and by ether Oseupatien effieials
was uafertunate and has not added to the prestige ef the
Paar gauy hp

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's No. 531
August 18, 1948
CORFIDENTIAL
- 3 -
conversation with Mr. Nambara). He felt that this imerease
in interest comes partly because students appear to believe
that the communist doctrine supplies all the answers to
the ills of post-war Japan, and partly because the
communist appeal to the nationalistio instinots of the
students has found unusually fertile ground.
Respeetfully yours,
borsecace
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
1. Memorandum of Conversation
dated August 11, 1948.
Copy to:
American Embassy, Mosoow.
850.4/800
WHLawrenceJr/eg
Origimal and(heotograph to Department
CONPIDENTIAL
B.B.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
CONVIDENTIAL
Enclosure to Bespateh Ne. s81
dated Aug. 18, 194s, frem the
Office of the Pelitical Adviser
fer Japan, Tekye, en the sub-
Ject, "Opiaiens of Japamese
Leaders Concerning Communist
Activities and Revision of
National Publio Service Law."
COPY
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIBER
FOR JAPAN
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERBATION
August 11, 1948.
Subjeot:
Opinions of Japanese Leaders Conceraing
Communist Aetivities and Revision of
National Publio Serviee Law.
Participants:
Mr. OCHIAI Eaichi, Member of the Exeeutive
Committee of the National Eleetrie Werkers
Union and former member of Executive
Committee of Mational Congress of
Industrial Unions (NCIU).
Mr. KITA Yasuji, member of Exeoutive
Committee of Mational Printing Workers
Union, and former Seoretary of NCIU.
Mr. KANAYAMA Bin, member of Executive
Committee or National Life Imsurance
Workers Union and member of Exeeutive
Committee of NCIU.
Mr. KAMII Yoshio, State Department
employee as interpreter.
Mr. W. Henry LAWRENCE, Jr. of this Mission.
Plaoe:
Imperial Hotel, lunaheon, August 6, 1948.
Ganeral Measrthur Latter Blex to Laber
Meverent
The three union leaders listed above stated that
unien leaders or both the Government and private imdastry
feel that the July 22 letter from General MaeAnthum cem-
cerming revisien of the Matiomal Publio Serviee Lew will
have far-reaching effeete upen the labor movemeat. They
agreed snat the publie in general has reaeted faverably
to the letter because of publie diegust with strikes and
other ebatruetive taeties of geverament werkers. Mr. Klrà
deelared, hewever, that the rank and file of waien mombers
are ceavineed that the laber movement has been dealt a
erippling blow by the Cabimet erder eutlawing strikes and
selleetive bergaining by geverameat werkers and are very
pessimistie about the future of the laber mevement in Japan.
CONTAPRAELAL
All three

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 531
August 18, 1948
CONPIDENTIAL
All three men are members of the informal Minshu-ka
Dome1 (Demooratio League), a body of demoeratieally-
inolined individuals within the unions whioh make up the
membership or the Japanese National Congress of Imdustrial
Unions. Among a total NCIU membership said to be in
excess of a million individuals the League elaims the
interest of some 300,000 persons whose organisatiem this
fall may take more derinite form. Mr. OdhIAI stated that
the leaders of the Demooratig League of NCIu agree with the
Labor Division of the Economio and Soientirie Seetion of
this Headquarters who resigned as a result of disagreement
over the consequences of General MacArthur's letter, that
ocolleetive bargaining of government workers should be
permitted. Mr. Oohiai pointed out that British workers
not only are permitted colleotive bargaining but alse to
strike. He deolared that the excesses of the Japanese
government workers unions caused the Occupation to inter-
vene but felt that the removal of colleotive bargaining
rignts was too drastio a measure.
As a result of General Macarthur's letter, Mr. Oohiai
said that the Democratio League issued a statement
emphasising three points:
1. Regret that the Demooratio League
possessed insuffieient power to control the
tacties of extremists.
2. Conviction that the Communists were
to blame for making Occupation intervention
inevitable.
3. Meed for demooratizing the labor
movement.
The three labor leaders expressed the view that the
whole labor movement is in danger. They pointed out that
the labor mevement is still young in its present ferm,
having been largely nurtured since tne surrender, and went
en to add that, sinoe the masses have not progressed to a
peiat where they are eapable of independeat thought, the
unien movement is demimated by a small greup of leaders,
mest of whem are commanists who are using the uniens for
pelitieal purpeses. Mr. Kita maiatained that the eemmumiess
met ealy centrel the McIU but exert a powerful inflwenee in
all uaiems. No elaimed that the commumists themselves are
teole of the Seviet Uaiem fer implemeatatien er pelieies
dietated frem Neseew. Mr. Cehial stressed that time is
mederete elomeats within laber wmiene and empresced ccafi-
denee that laber waiens could in tisb keep their houses in
erder without external interventies.
CONEINENTIAL
Besie Communiet

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.93)
meesure to
Tokye's No. 531
- 3 -
Raaia Commlat Paller  Garerasent Blnd
far Paaupatien Lntarrention
Mr. Kita stated that the communists are comeentrating
their attention on sabotaging the Ocoupation and are
appealing to the nationalistio seatiment of the peeple.
He likened the role of the commuaists to that of the fermer
militarists in arousing the latter imstinet.  stated
that the communists argue that capitalism in Japas is on
the verge of total collapse and that Japam is on the eve
of revolution. He also emphasised that the esomomie
situation favors communist activities. While he admitted
that the food situation is definitely better than at may
time since the food demonstration staged 1n May 194s, he
said that prices are rising faster than wages and hence
the difficulties of living are acute. Mr. Kita emphasized
that the communists are making capital of Gemeral
MacArthur's letter by attacking the government fer its
interpretation of the letter as an order and by plaeing
the blame for intervention by the Occupation authorities
on the inoompetenoe of the government.
Shift in Character of Communist
Hemberahin
These three men agreed that many communiets are
publioly leaving the Communist Party, oiting the simultameeus
withdrawal of thirty communists in the Shimasu Werks in
Kyoto and of a group frem the Oki Works in Temieka City
(Gumma Prefecture). They also claimed that many imdustrial
workers have left the NCIU because they could me lenger
accept the direetions 1ssued fros NCiU Headquartere.
Copaaniata Expaated to Pall Mare Yeten
but not to Inarease eate in Diat
Despite withdrawals of industrial workers frem the
Commumist Party, these men felt that in a general eleetion
the eemmumists might get more votes than at the last
olestion béeause of the spread of communism among students,
repatriates, eity dwellers, and farmers. Hevever, Mr. Kita
thought the mumber of seats cceupled by communists in the
Natienal Diet would remaim about the same, and alse
Gemeral ef the Cemmunist Party, might be defeated in his
ceastitueney (Setagaya, Tekyo).
 rt i
Mr. Cehiei cemmeated that when he and ether leaders
started the Beneeratie League la Febeuary 194s, they
mere effeetively wesk in the latereete of ergenised laber
seccded frem neru and noutral uniene waieh might be

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 531
August 18, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
interested. Mr. Ochial maintained that in his opinion
suoh a step was necessary in order that these unions
progress in the right direction. He emphasized, however,
that suoh organizations as the National Communioations
Workers Union and tne Electricity Generating and
Distributing Workers Union should remain within the NCIU,
but inat tne wnole organizatlon should be democratized.
W. Henry Lawrenoe, Jr.
7
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.88)
Tekye's No. 531
Auguss 18, 1948
CORVIRENTIAL
-2-
The Department's astensiom ie invitee to Zhe dess
as shey have cenridense that thay san in time heop shoár
house in order without extarnal laterwentien, and shms
they are working aggressively for dsmeeratisasiem ef the
laber movement.
In contrast to the views of theme laber loaders, Mr.
I ChlnaDA Hisato, Gevernor of the Bank af Japan, ama Mr.
Nakbana Shigeru, President of Tekye Baiveraity, empressed
the opinien on separate oosagions so an offieer of thás
Mission that the letter of General MaeArshur was an
excellent and well-timed move. They besh ssated tams the
toward laber. They intarpreted the letter as a refleetion
of the stirfaning resistanee ef United Statns forolgm
poliey toward the Soviet Daiom and cantrassed the
recommendatiems in the letter with the emseuragament given
earlier in the Ossupatien to laber palisies whiah skey
deaaribed as far te the left of anything permitted im the
United 8tates.
Hr. Ichimade expressed a hops, which we share, that
the pondulum will not swing teo fer in the appeaite
directiem es a rosult of the letter. He welunteered she
infermation that ths communists are alaimins thnt she
letter of Gonoral Mass thur was sent to she Japenase
Govermment selely in the interest of astraoting feveign
capital iato Japen to further ampariallstle aime of the
United Stases detrimental to Japan's Ratiemal &dantisy.
Like the labor leaders whose comments have already been
reviewed, Xr, Iohimada cempared this cemmaaiss epmeal to
natiomalimm as similar to the appeel formerly uasd by
she militariate.
Mr. Nambare intimated that the resignatien or Mr. J. A.
All as Chief of the Labor Divisien of the Eeonomio and
bolentifio Seotion of this Headquartare, mewe of which
reaahed the Japaness sndirectly, and the subeequent ebeerva-
tioms of Mr. Blaine SOOVER, Chief of the Civil Sepviee Divi-
sion of the Government Seetion of this Headquarters, son-
verning the resignation, whioh were released to the Japansse
pross (this Misl on's despatoh No. Sls) was a revelation to
the Japanese people in general of the fact that the Oooupa-
Lon is the real goverpment of Japao. Re indloated thet
Jnpanece Grvwrnment ofrielale have not wanted the publiu to
know thet the Govarnment is too weak so mave mn aadopemeant
cherester ot ito own and that is ls only a puppet mmowe
atrings are manipulated by the Gocupatlen authorities. In
our opimion, the manner in which Mr. Rillsn'e rasigmation
was hendled both by hamaslr and by other Occupatimm esriciale
wes watapgunese and hos not added to the prestige of the
Oockpation.
ar. Namber wonirmed the grouth ef comuim mon
mmmte x compered wisn n year mgo (this dism an'a
pmepesah o. les cr Deoember to, let. cuwmerizang 
CORYOEUULR

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.85)
Tokio No. 6
laber movement.
In contrass to the viewe of these laber loadase, Mr.
United states.
the militarists.
Mr. Mambara intimated thas the resigmatian of Mr. J. S.
KIllß as Chief of the Labor Divisien os the Eesnemie and
Scientirie Session of this Meadquarsers, mess of whish
reashed the Japaness sadirestly, and the snbeequsms sbssrya-
tiems of Mr. Blaine HoGveR, Chier of the Gival Sarwiee Divi-
press (this Mission's daspason Ne. Sl4) was a revelatáon to
the Japansse peeple in general of the fact that the Qeeupe-
our opimlon, the manaer in whieh Mr. Killen's resigmation
was kemdled both by himaslr and by other Ocoupation osriciels
was antorgunete and has not added to the preetige of the
ccatlea.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.88)
OUNKTDNNTIAL
Ter Jay, Teo,  the 
jeet, "Opátm es mpe
Katienal Pablie Sevviso Law.
COPY
UNITED STATAS POLITICAL ADVIBEH
POR JAPAN
MMOHANDU UF CONVERSATION
August 11, 1948.
subjeot:
Opinions of Japanese Leaders Conserming
Communist Aetivities and Revisien ef
National Public Servise Law.
Participanta:
Ar. CCHlAI K@ismi, Member of She Ehesasive
Cammittee of the Matienal Hleutrie Warkers
Union and former member of Exeoutive
Committee of Natlonal Congress of
Industrial Unions (MCIU).
Ar. KITA Yxsuji, member oI Exeoutive
Committee of Mational Printing Workers
Uniom, and former Seeretary of NCIU.
Mr. KaNaYama Bin, member of Ezeeutive
Committee or National Life Insuranos
Workers Union and member of Executive
Committeo of MOIU.
Mu. Lumll Yoshio. Stete Department
empleyee as interpreter.
Mr. . Henry LawhaNC, Jr. of this Miagion.
lace:
Imperial Hotel, luncheon, August 6, 1948.
Ganaral Macarthur Latter Hlax to Labor
Mevamenl
The sarea unlon lsadere liated above atated thnt
uni-n laadere of Doth the Government and privase industy
feol that the July 22 letter from Goneral MaaanThUR con-
cerning revimlen of the National Puolio Servlco Lew will
have far-rsaohing offecte upon the laber movement. They
agresd that the public in gamerml has roaoted fuvarubly
to the letter beoause of publle disguet with strikes and
other ebetruotive tactles of govarnment workers. Hr. Llin
deelarod, hewever, thnt the ramn and file of waiem wombere
are oomvinced that the labor movement hae been demlt a
crippling mlow by the Cabinet arder outlawing eurimes and
calleetive bergeining by wovernment workers and are vory
peoeimiatio ebout no fusure or the lsbor movement a Japas.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.90)
Enclosure to
Tokye's No. 531
Augnst 18, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-思 一
All three mon are mymbers er the imfermel Mémam-ke
inclined individuale within the wniems whiah make te the
memberahip er the Japanese Matiemal Gongrese of Imdnatrkal
Unione. Among a sotal MoIU membarship seid ts ko in
excees of a millien individuals tke League clasms she
interest of some 300, 000 persoms whose rganisatlem tlis
fall may take more dafimite form. Mr. Odmlal ssated Shas
the leaders of the Demoerasie Leegue of Nery agrss wish the
Labor Divisien of she Keonemio and Seiensifie Sessies of
this Headquarters whe resigned as a results of sisagreament
over the consequenees of General Macarthur's letter, weat
colleotive bargaining ef gevernment werkers ahemld be
permitted. Mr. Oohiai polnted out shat Brisisk werkers
not only are permitted cellestive bargaining but alse te
strike. He deelared that the exsesses of the Japanese
government werkere uaions caused the Ocsupatien te imter-
vene but felt that the removal of solleetive bargainimg
rignte was too drastio a measure.
As , result of Gemeral Maaarthur's letter, Mr. Oohial
said that the Demecratio Losgue iseued e statement
emphasizing three points:
2. Regret thas the Demeoratio League
possessed insufflolent power to control the
tactios of extremists.
2. Conviotlon that the Communists were
1o olems for making Occupation intervention
lnevitabls.
3. Neod ror democratizing the labor
covement.
Ie three labor le dere expreseed the viow thet the
lLole labor movenent is in danger. They pointed out that
the labor movemelns la still youmg in its prement form,
havins been largely nurtured since the surrender, and went
on to adn that, since the massee have not progressed to &
point where they are smpable ef independent thought, the
uunlon movement sa dominated by e small greup of leeders,
wost of whom are communists who are using the uaione for
pulitival purpoeas. Mr. Iita muintained thet the communixt
not only contrel uhe Nclu vut ezert & poworful influsnee in
all uniome. He olaimed that the communists themselves are
sools ar the sovlo% Union ror implomemsation er pollcies
dictased from Mosoow. Mr. Jonlai stressed thet time la
required to reaud an equilibrius between aml and
nodxrrto elkmamss withim labor mioms and empreosed cunfi-
danoe that labor waioms sould in time keep their honses in
order without sstornal iatervension.
Naeio Comnuniat

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.89)
Enslosure to
Tokye's No. 0s1
August 18. 1060
CORELDEETIAL
interested. Mr. Oahiai mainsained that in his opinion
auch a step was neesseary in order thas thems unloms
progress in the right directaen. He emphasised, however,
that suoh erganizationn as the National Cemmumleations
Workers Union and the Electricity Gonerating and
Distributing Workers Union should remain withis the MCIU,
but tnat the whole organization should be demeeratised.
". Henry Lawrenee, Jr.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.86)
Emolesure te
Tekye's Ne. 5l
August 18. 1948
CORZIDNNTIAL
- 3 -
Rasta Comaunlas Rallax a Faxamesant Blased
Hr. Kita stated that the commumists are semeentrating
their atsention on sabotaging the Ocempatiem and are
appealing te the natiomalistie semtimemt of the peeple.
He likemee the rele of the sammmmiute so shat ef the former
milltarisse in arousing the laster inmsimes. Ne msmtes
that the communiets argue that aapitalsm in Japan &s om
the verge of total cellapee and that Japap se sn the ove
of revolution. He also emphssised thas the ceunomle
situatien favors commanist aetivities. While ma mantteed
that ths rood zituntion is hefimitely metser shen as why
time sizee the food demomstraslen stagsd in May s, he
said that priees are rleing faster tham wages mme momee
the difrioulties of living are memse. Mr. Kete pmpimsized
that the commnnists are making eapital of Gamoral
MaeArthur's lstter by atsmeking the severament far iss
intorpretation of the letter as an erder and by plaekng
the blame for interventiem by the Ocgupatiom autherities
on the incompetence er the gevernment.
shift in Charagter os Communlst
Kamberahin
These three men agreed that many cemmuniste are
puolicly leaving the Communlat Party, oitimg the simultaneous
witharawal of thirty communists in the Mhimasn Works in
Kyoto and of a group from the Oki Worke im Tomieka City
(Oumma Prefeoture). They aleo claimed that many industrial
workers have left the NcIU because they sould me longer
eccept the cireotions issuea from NCiU Readquarters.
Communiate Expacred ta Poll Mora Yatan
but uot to lucrease Saata in Diat
Deapito witlusunale os industrial workere from the
vowwwnict Party, trose men felt that in a general sleetion
tis comnunists mignt got sore votos than at the last
elootion wecause of the sprend of oommunism ameng atudomts,
repatrimtes, city dwellers, and Sarmers. Howewer, Mr. Kita
thcught the umper of soate osoupled by commumasts in the
Nationei Dlet woula romain about the seme, and also
expreesed Lhe Ds let that Mr. TOkUDA Kyuioni. Seoretary
enere! r tte Coawuniet Party. might be dofeated in his
tiy ( tg, Toko).
M: Cchlai comnanted ths: when he end other leador
starued the Democratio League in Fekruery loes, they
deeided to remain ln the dolu mommmme thay folt they could
more ofreutively work in the aaterusts of wreanased laber
trow within the NCiu. These leaders are cemsidoring the
Formetion of a rederalion, uader some mvoh mame as Oomoi
ur Domoratio miun, to mprace thee ualone whion have
aeoeded trom Nciu x uutra unione vhish mghe to

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.95)
FORM DE-CR
7-18-44
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect.
9
Chas Deparmem-Department of tate
CONTREL
RESTRICTED
Charge to
4642
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
894.017/8
AUG 20 1948
TOKYO
INFO ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER
308
There is given below for your info and distribution to
3-2048
appropriate officials of Headquarters comments of ux cov?
on Japanese Govt Ordinance of July 31 rogarding Rignts of
Puolic Employees. BRIT EMB representative who lert this
etatement was informed that visws of his govt mxkixh
th-
tmanghkxxaangkdaxeixaxa would be passed to SCAP for his
info.
QUOTE The Japanese soVT issued this ordinance after.
Mr. Ashida received General MacArtnur's letter of 22nd July,
C
S
which we do not believe he intended to be a directlve. We
A
are concerned that the ordinance puts industrial workers
x八
on tne railways and in the salt, camphor and tobaoco monopolies
on the same footing as civil servants in the Govt as regards
the right to strike and bargain collectively. We consider
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
that in this respect the Japanese @ovtts ordinance goes too
6
far, and in fact we netice that General MacArtnur's suggestion
X
that
0
RESTRIOTED
1
204
CR CLEARANCE

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
FORM DS-S22
7-18-46
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
INDICATE
Collect
Department of State
Charge Dapartment
Washington
Char in to
-2-
that employees in these categories might well be exoopted
from the regular civil service, with whioh suggestion we
emphatically agree, appears to have been ignored by the
Japanese GovT. In the view of His Majesty'& sovT it would
be wrong that industrial workers in these categories should
ve deprived of the right to strike and bargain collootivoly
which is normelly enjoyed by industrial workers in general.
This couid be remedied if General Macarthur would insist
upon compliance by the Japanese govT with that part of his
letter which deale with this aspeot of the situation. Unless
this 1s done soon the criticlsm ie bound to be made that the
action of the Japanese @ovt confliots with the spirit of
Fr0-045/5 and should not have been allowed.
QUOTE 2.
As regards civil servants in the more striot
definition of the term, His Majesty's GovT consider that 1t
1s unfortunate tnat they should now be placed in a position
markedly inferior to that which they enjoy in many other
DISTRIBUTION
democratic countries. We should not wish to object to their
DEVIRED
(OFFICES ONLY
being deprived of the right to strike; tut the right of the
civil servant to organise and bargain on a footing of equality
coupled with the right of appeul to some form of arbitration
tribunal
RESTRIOTED
CRLLEARANCE

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.90)
FORM DS-382
7-18-46
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRIOTED
Collect
VERPATIN TRET
Department of State
Charge Depaitment
Washington
Chargo to
-3-
tribunal has existed for many years in the United Kingdom
and the system funotione smoothly. There is no INMEROOTE
ccercive character END INNERQWOTE in such a system, nor is
there any suggestion of a INNERQuoTE strike threat ND INmm-
QuoTE. The mere right of petition to an organ of the Japanese
GovT, which 1e all that 1s at present lert open to the Japanese
civil servant, 1s clearly a poor substitute. ooT.
Wanhall
(. 2)
MARSHALL
DISTRIBUTION
DES!RED
(OFFICEBONLY
FE
RESTRIOTED
j0900.
ILH
FC for
FE:NA:JMAllison/pm
1E
Army,CAI
8/19/48
Clsg phe
LRRXOUSA
L bor Dent.
 .
CR CLEARANCE
OR
AUL 20 1948

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.81)
INCOMÍNG AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPT BRANCN
NA
JIUN OF
TIAST ASN AFAIRS
1948
1632
PARSTATE
cept. 10, 9:01 a.m.
TN
/R
7
11.
t, in its
OF0
XR
ccepted
PRO
/9-448
t
C.A.
894.002
t
C1A
 to
FC
ityis.
JUL 19 1950
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R contral Mies with netatlen of actien taken.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.94)
a
AIRGRAM
2220
FROM:
USPOLAD. Tokyo.
Date:
September 7, 1948.
Date of Mailing:
September 8, 1948.
SECRET
194 3:40p.m.
SSAGE CENTER
SEP 14 PM
ERNATIONAL TRAGE
Secretary of State,
APTON T
INTRRNATIONAL LADOR, SODIAL
DIVISION OF
ANd HEalTH AFFAIRS -ILH
POLICY
Washington.
A-185, September 7, 198.
1N
Reference Department ' A-114 of August 17, 1948 ncernin
revision of the National Pub Te Service Law. The Department's
894.017/9-748
PASATE
AIIC
ettention is invited to thie Mission's despatches No. 503 of August
10, 1948 forwarding the tex of the Cabinet's Ordinance (including
SEP 1948
stasement issued with ordinance), No. 491 of August 3, 1948 con-
DCA
cerning Japanese editoriel  eaction, Nos. 514 o August 13. 1948 and
531 of August 18, 1948 concerning reaction of Japanese leaders, No.
527 of August 17, 1948 enclcsing a copy of a letter to General
MackRTHUR from the Acting Seviet Member of the Allied Couneil
opposing revision, No. 569 of August 31, 194 concerning the special
meeting of the Allied Council on August 28, 1948, No. 581 of
Sep ember 4, 1948 forwardine results of a labor union survey, and
this Mission's A-169, August 13, 1948 and A-182 of September 4, 1948
concerning the reaction of Labor Minister KAto Kanju.
The Mission has now recoived information rom a reliable source
MATION
that the bill to be intr 'uced at the as yet unncheduled extra-
ordinary session of the National Diet vae presented to the Japanese
Government by the Government Section of this Headquarters on July
28, 1948 in both English and Japanese versions; the ordinance issued
CLH
on July 31, 1948 was written by the Japanese Government and approved
by the Government Seetion before being promulgated; and the Cabinet
PED
appointed a committee of five Cabinet Ministers to work out the
details of the bill which is to be presented to the Diet. This
committee comprises Mr. TOMABECHI Gizo, Chief Cabinet Secretary, Mr.
SUZUKI Yoshio, Attorney General, Mr. FUNADA Kyoji, State Minister,
SECRET FILE
Mr. HITOTSUMATSU Sadayoshi, Minister of Construction and Mr. KATO
Kanju, Labor Minister. The committee has completed its study and the
Cabinet decision it is expected that the bill ill be sent to the
E
Temporary National Personnel Commission whose Chairman will then
EP 21 1948
confer with Government Section before taking further action.
SECRET
It is of
H

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's A-185,
Beptember 7, 1948.
SECRET
-2-
It is of interest that the Government Section has assumed
complete jurisdiction over policy matters relating to govermment
workers, includin? those in government enterprises and Kodan,
and has made its position clear to the Labor Division of the Economic
and Scientific Section. ir reply to an informal request for copies
of the proposed amendnents to the National Public Service Law, the
Chief of the Governfent Section stated that he did not believe that
the Supreme Commander would desiro that copies of the proposed bill
be sont to ashington while the matter is still in a discussional
stage. He intimated, however, that the final draft proposal will be
made available when it is ready for submission to the Diet.
The Government orders and statements iasued since the Cabinet
Ordinance of July 31, 1948 will be forwarded as they are assembled,
together with other pertinent data.
SEBALD
804.4
liHLawrencoJr:eg
SECRET

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.90)
BEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF CONNNUNNCATIONS AND REU
3
S
USPD, kyo.
Seambor,19
temb11,
al
0
DEPARTRWENT OF STATE
se21 1948
deptc ber 7. 1948 concerning
ubli vice  On: ptember 1 and 2,
reser:s to me as hairn and United
d or , including one from represent
rker  jono und one from representatives
crkes rionuring gust, seven
1IP/L
 proa nt: i, incl li one fron ue upan Teachers
iona
gisss o: niust rial Unions. All
/NACTION
rt: Tihe as en ciated by the
INFORMATION
iombeae Counei in nis etter to General
ITP
(1ss.c 8 des. No 5.7  .t 17, 1948) nd
CP
  scae eat maehe see  men.  th llied Counoil
ILH
ugst 8, 948(s 11o1 dspatch  569 of gust 31, 1948).
IR
t is ur opinion tat tr ose peti ions ar  p rt of a campaign
tg oductd by he Jan Somauist Iarty o make the Occupation
PED
ponsorship ci revi ic, c the National . ut ic Service Law appear
pppressive of the rights of labor.
I lugust 31. S/a ropresentatives fram the 11 Japan
omunication "orkere' Union called at this offic: for the purpose
f octaining confir ation of  recent stateent in the llied
Counci.. referring to Ceneral MacArthur's July 22 lotter as a
suggoetion ather thar à lirective.
SEP 241
SEBA:D
804.4

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, 3eptember 13, 1948.
PERSONAL AND SECRET
Dear John:
I appreciate the infomation contained in your letter of August 20
regarding the United Kingdom Government's views on the Japanese
Ordinance regarding rights of public employees, as well as the related
information contained therein. I have not yet had an opportunity to
discuss this matter with General MacArthur but the next time I see him,
which should be within a few days, I will pass along the information as
I know that he is personally interested in the background of Patrick
Shaw's attitude towards this problem. In this connection, Patrick Shaw
had a long interview with the General on Sept ember 9, during the course
of which Shaw (according to what he told me) clarified his position with
the General. Shaw said that General MacArthur was extremely reasonable
in his reactions and promised that General Headquarters would carefully
consider any points put forward by the Australians.
894.017
In connection with the whole problem of the amendments to the
National Public Service Law, I had a long "briefing" from Mr. Hoover who,
as you know, heads the Civil Service Division of the Government Soction.
This briefing took place Saturday afternoon (September 1l) when every-
thing was quiet and it was possible to give our undivided attention to
the problems under discussion. According to Hoover, the primary mission
of his Division is to establish a responsible, carefully selected and
reasonably well-paid Civil Service in Japan. In addition, he hopes to
sift out the feudalistic remains of the Japanese bureaucracy, particularly
at the top two levels. The matter of appropriate pay schedules for all
-13
levels is being given serious consideration and, all in all, I would say
that the aims and objectives of the Civil Service Division appear, at
least on the surface, to be reasonably correct and necessary.
On the other hand, Hoover was somewhat vaguo when questioned regard-
ing the effect of the recent Cabinet ordinance on Japanese labor as a
whole. I raised the question regarding the advisability of arresting em-
ployees of, say, the railways, for "deserting" their jobs, presumably on
strike. Hoover said that this was not within his province and that the
Cabinet ordinance is ir. Kades' affair (Government Section). Neverthe-
less, he doubted that ordinary individuals who leave their jobs with the
Government railways, etc., are being arrested---the ordinance being
directed only at those who instigate a strike of Govemment workers. He
promised
PILFD
John M. Allison, Esquire, 
Chief, Office of Northeast Asian Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington 25, D. C.
②
453742

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
心.一
PERSONAL AND SECRET
John M. Allison, Esquire.
-2-
9/13/48
promised, however, to look into the matter. I told him that we obviously
could not justify placing laborers under arrest for going on strike as
individuals, although it might be reasonable to discharge them for
striking or other actions contrary to the ordinance.
I am also advised by the Legislation and Justice Division (formerly
of the Govemment Section) of the Legal Section, that that Division has
been instructed to draft legislation, etc., for forming government-owned
corporations for the railways, telegraphs and telephones, and the several
Monopoly Bureaus. Apparently the Division is somewhat hard-put about this
matter, although no doubt they wiil eventually come up with an answer.
Presumably, therefore, the portion of General MacArthur's letter referring
to separate corporations is being implemented, although it is my feeling
that an irrevocable position has been taken regarding the right of employees
of such separate corporations to engage in collective bargaining or to en-
gage in strikes.
Based upon several conversations which I have recently had with General
MacArthur, as well as with Mr. Hoover, I am convinced, in my own mind, that
the ult imate aim of SCAP is to establish in Japan a Civil Service largoly
based upon American precedent and practice. Hoover insists that he is work-
ing very closely with lir. E. G. Wilson, Labor Adviser to the UKLM, and that
he has had several long conversations and interviews on this subject with
Mr. Pink (Counsellor, UKIM) and with Patrick Shaw, who have left with him
considerable documentation conceming British and Australian practices in
connection with Govemment civil servants. All in all, I am assured that
British and Australian labor practices are at least being considered, al-
t! ough whether these principles and practices will be adopted in whole or
in part is, in my opinion, somewhat doubtful.
In the above connection, both Mr. Shaw and Mr. Pink have told me that
they realize that their respective approaches to the Public Service problem
is not necessarily the only approach that can be made: what they do hope for,
however, is that General Headquarters will at least listen to them and give
their arguments serious and earnest consideration. I believe that this is
being done.
Hoover argues strenuously in favor of the establishment of a National
Personnel Authority on the American pattern which, he states, will have all
the advantages of the British and Australian systems, notwithstanding that
it will be a governmental institution subject in the final analysis to the
Diet. He insists that the NPA is a workable institution and that it will
be a tremendous advance over anything the Japanese have had in the control
and management of their public servents in the past.
Much of the

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
PERSONAL AND SECRET
John M. Allison, Esquire.
-3-
9/13/48
Much of the above will in due course be sent to you by despatch or
airgram, but I am writing to you informally in order that you may know
that we all are iving serious attention to this most important subject.
It may interest you that General MacArthur himself decided on hold-
ing the special meeting of the Allied Council on Saturday afternoon,
August 28. This gave me only about six hours in which to prepare y
subject; much of my statement was taken bodily from the General's telegram
to Mr. Draper. The General's idea was to catch the Soviet Member off-
balance, although I argued that we might be the ones to be caught short!
With best regards,
Sincerely yours,
Bir.
W. J.seBald

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.89)
5
ACT
2111
41
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
2
WASHINGTON
LEGAL ADVISER
nated CES.
DR
OV 171948
7l
PARTMENT OF STATE
CAS
The Seoretary of State
Noa-tui
U. S. Department of State
Washington 26, D. C.
Atwen
894.017/9-164
18.211
Dear Mr. Secretary:
11/16/4
I am sending you herewith a copy of a letter to
the Seoretary of National Defense relating to recommenda-
tions made by the Department of Labor's Trade Union
Advisory Committee on the labor relations of Japanese
Government employees.
Yours very truly,
ion
Actingsporetary of Labor
rnolosure
1948 OCT 4 PM 4 33
OFFICE CF
RR SAE POLIGY
NOv 19 1948
UF STATE
FILED
SEP 20 1948
S
NT OF STATE
894.
NEPM
LCR- CLALM3 T
A.
Rov.
Co.
3312

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.87)
SEP 16 100
The Seeretery of National Defense
Washingtom 26, D. C.
Dear Mr. Seeretery:
The Laber Department's Trade tmien Advi sery Commdtbee ee Iatere
matiomel Affeire at its mooting of "optember 9, 10ss, dsecmeesd the
Govermment e the laber relatiene of coveramset emplegeee end the
erdimenee relessed thereefter by the Jepasese Govermmest.
The Trde Unien Advisory Committee recemmended thet the Seeretery
of laber take the fellewing eetiom:
1. Advise the Seoretery of Matiemel Dofeese of tte eppeesedem
rights of Jepenese overamont workere, end call wpen the Seoretary of
nefense and the Reeretery of state to perait end cmeewrege the m
emereise by suet Japenese Goveramest wortere of their trede waies
prorepatives, consistent wit their reepemsibilstiee es govermmeme
empleyees.
2. Advise the seoretary of matiemel Defenee that these coutreete
which were mogetiated ia aecordanee with ezioting legistatsem end mndeh
were pree ipitouely abregated by the Jepenese Geverment oreisemse, chould
be reinstated.
3. Urge the seeretery of the Mati emal Defense to refer prepesed
loglelatien dealing with laber relatieme ia the Jepemese Goveemmene
sorvlee to the Seoretery of Laber la sashingten for eammoss ad adviee
prier to epprovel by scap.
àn eddities, laterest wes eapressed La seadisg e trede uaien
miosien to Japea to otudy the neede and preblome or the Jeganese toade
wmiems. I hepe it may be peseible to secure the mesessery elesremses
fer swoh a miesies.
I an hereuith treaeaitting the above reeemmesdetsene with ay e
doreemomt for your eppreprlate sotien. & copy of this letter so boing
seat to the Seeretary of itate.
Toure very truly,
SI@ZED: JOHN W. GIGEN
Rötlng seeretery of Laber

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
ACTION
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
is assigned to
UNITED STATES POLITICAL DVISER
FOR JAPAN ONION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFINIRS
No. 616
Tdkyo,i sd846mber 17, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENI UF SIATE
Subject: Official Stetements Concerning Revision of
National Fublic Service Law.
A
于
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
2
Jeshington.
Sir
I have the honor to refer to this Lission's despatch
No. 503 of Auust 10, 1948 forwarding the text of Cabinet
Ordinence No. 20l, which was promulgated as a result of
1748
General of the Army Douglas lecARTHUR's letter of July 22
recommending revision of the Netional Public Service Law,
and to enclose copies of translations of the following
official documents issued since that time by the Japanese
Government (together with one copy of the Japanese text of
each):
1/
1. Stεtement by Mr. ASAI Kiyoshi, Chair-
man, Temporary Personnel Commission, in which it
is pointed out that the Commission will prepare
a bill concerning the seleries end ellowances of
government employees for submission to the
National Diet. According to Mr. Asai, the bill
will be based on a thorough study of all avail-
able data. At the same time, Mr. Asai stated, a
section (KOSEI KA) within the Commission will be
established to which government employees may
present facts or opinions concerning their
employment.
CS/V
2/
2. Statement by the Chief Cabinet Secretary,
August 6, 1948, which maintains that Cabinet
Ordinance No. 20l was promulgated by order of
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers and
is constitutional. The statement contains a
warning that anyone who violates the ordinance
will be severely punished.
3/
3. Statement by the Attorney General,
August 6, 1948, which stresses the need for full
observance of the ordinance regardless of whether
government employees are engaged in outdoor or
indoor services.
4. Government decision concerning inter-
pretation of Cabinet Ordinance No. 20l together
with

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 616,
September 17, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
- 2 -
with eccompenying notice which was issued to
civil service employees, August 1l, 1948.
The notice emphasized four points:
(e) The government does not
recornize the right of workers to
conduct collective bargeining on en
ecual basis, but civil service
employees vill be allowed to present
their grievances, opinions or sugges-
tions, end negotiations vill be con-
ducted within thet fremework.
(b) The existin: labor contrects
ere considered null nd void; the
Lrbor-Government consultative council
will be dissolved. All provisions not
violetin the scope of the government
ordinence will remein valid.
(c) al: ries will not be peid to
overnment employees working solely for
the unions. Such union officials must
return to their government posts
immedistely.
(d) Strikes, acts of sabotege or
other actions detrimentel to administra-
tive efficiency will not be permitted.
5
5. Statement by Attorney Generel, approved
by the Cebinet September 3, l948, together with
statement based on the Cebinet decision released
to the press September 3, 1948. Copies of the
officiel statement were communicated to ell
government workers' unions in en effort to
clarify the views of the government. It is
believed that the government felt itself
constrained to take such a step in view of many
questions raised by the Central Labor Relations
Board end labor unions concerning the constitu-
tionality of Cabinet Ordinance No. 20l. Labor
unions particularly seized upon the statement
made by the Chairman of the llied Council for
Jepan at the special meeting on August 28, 1948
that General MacArthur's July 22 letter had been
phrased as a suggestion rather than e directive
to the Japenese Government (this Mission's
despatch No. 569 of August 31, 1948).
As the Department is aware, the authority for issuance
of Cabinet Ordinance No. 2ol by the Japenese Government was
Imperial Ordinance No. 542, which governs ordinances issued
in consequence of Japen's acceptance of the Potsdam Declara-
tion. The attack upon the constitutionality of the
ordinance has been based in part upon the premise that Law
No. 72, which appears to invalidate (as of December 31,
1947) ordinances in force at the time of the coming into
effect of the new constitution, should apply to Imperial
Ordinance No. 542 and thereby invalidate 1t.
UNCLASSIFIED
In his

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 616,
September 17, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
- 3 -
In his stetement of September 3, the Attorney General
met this atteck by meintaining that Law No. 72 does not
epply to Imperial Ordinence No. 542 since this ordinence
c ulred the force of law under the former constitution,
hoving been promulgated with the due consent of the Diet:
end by clsimine: thet since the former constitution was not
reperled but merely smended by the new constitution, all
laws passed under the old constitution end not inconsistent
wit. the new one remain in effect, including Imperial
Crainance No. 542.
In nis statement, the nttorney General commented upon
the contention of some critics that Imperial Ordinance No.
542 is void as an unconstitutional act under Article 98 of
the constitution which provides that the constitution is
the supreme law of the land. However, the Attorney General
contendec that Imperial Ordinance No. 542 is limited to
use only when specified matters heve to be executed at the
demand of tne Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in
consequence of Jepen's ecceptance of the Potsdam Declara-
tion. The Attorney General stated that under the
surrender document of September 2, 1945, the Jepanese
Government is required to execute promptly eny demand of
the Supreme Comnender. Inasmuch as Ordinance No. 20l is
intended to cerry out tnis netional obligetion, the
Attorney Generel declsred thet tnis ordinence does not
constitute an infringement by the executive on the powers
of the legislative brench of the government and is there-
fore valid under the new constitution.
In answer to critics who cleim that even if Imperial
Ordinence No. 542 is not unconstitutional the letter of
General MecArthur is not a "demand" such es described in
this ordinance, the Attorney Generel replied by emphasizing
that there is no fixed form with respect to the demends of
the Supreme Commender. He declared that the legality of
Ordinence No. 20l is unquestioneble since it was issued
only after study by the Japenese Government and full
consultation with General Headquerters, Supreme Commender
for the Allied Powers. He asserted that the purport of
the statement of the Chairman of the llied Council was
that the besic principles for revision of the National
Public Service Law are a demand by the Supreme Commander
and concluded by saying that taking every point into con-
sideration there is not the slightest doubt concerning the
validity of Ordinance No. 20l.
Yours respectfully,
W. J. Sebald
(Enclosures listed on following page)
Original and hectograph to Department
804.4
WHLawrenceJr/eg
UNCLASSIFIED
0R

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 616,
September 17, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
orng Jag-encs
ad.
Enclosures:
1. Copy of Statement by ASAI Kiyoshi.
2. Copy of Stetement by Chief Cebinet
Secretery, August 6, 1948.
3.
Copy of Statement by Attorney
General, August 6, 1948.
4.
Copy of Government Decision con-
cerning interpretation of Cabinet
Ordinance No. 201.
5.
Copy of Statement by Attorney
General, September 3, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch
No. 616 dated September 17,
1948 from the Office of the
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokvo, on the subject, "Official
Statemer.ts Concerning Revision
of Hntionel Pr lic Service Law".
( COPY )
(Translation)
STATEMENT BY MR. ASAI. CHAIRMAN. TEMPORARY PERSONNEL COMMISSION
July 31, 1948
The question of splary level of the Government emplovees
is e moat imnortant oro lem now fecing the existing Government,
and reouires urrent settlement.
The First thing the Temporery Person el Commission hes to
do with all its mi ht is to st rt complete and practical study
of salaries and llowances to all the emvoloyees of the Government.
tekins i to ful? considerctio. t eir living costs and maintenance
of efficiency. Verious povernmental orrenizations charged with
research end study of the uestion of ssl ries and allowances
ere directed immesintely to trensfer their cate to this Council.
Taking into considention the results of reseerch and study under-
taken hy this Council, a ill on : e selaries and allowances of
the Government emplovees is expecte to be submitted to the Diet.
In stadying the cuestion of the salaries and allowances it is
e metter of course t' at welfare of Government emoloyees and the
existing conditions of the netionel economy must be taken into
consideretion. Pending completion of resenrch and study under
te en by this Council those in offices and positions of the Govern-
ment are requested to refrair from publishing their opinions on
meesures for improvement of saleries and allovances.
At the seme time it has been decided to establish a Fair
Deal Section (KOSEI KA) within this Council as a medium for ex-
pression of f cts and opinions concerning conditions and terms
of employment of Government employeee individually or collectively,
and for apneal by those who have received disadvantageous treat
ment. This Council will deliberate on opinions submitted through
this chennel for such action as is considered appropriate.
In view of serious effect of the existin: strained situation
upon the livelihood of all Government employees regerdless of
their positions, this Council is prepared to do its best for solu-
tion of this question mutually fair to the Government and its em-
ployees.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.73)
こヒとなったっこの種意見の申出に対しては当な員会において審談の上過当り指運を上る
寅及公意見の申本さち又は不利益な処分主受けた者に対しては訴願をなし得る道を開く
右と同時に当委寅会内に公正課之設道し政行職員が個人的又寸田体的に雇用條件にっいて事
あるものけさの改善方策にっいて意見を登表することを差控えられたい
ならちいことは勿論である当乗員会り行うこの調查研究が光了するまでの間は政府の職に
給子問題の研究に当ては政府雅員の福利と国民經清の現狀が夫に考慮に入らけルば
会に提成さいる予定である。
るよう指木さ当委員会の調查結果さむ勘衆して早急に政府職貞の給子に肉する法衆が国
給上貨金問題の調食研究に当くい３政府請機肉寸之の調查資料を直ちに当丞員会人移嘗す
慮に入て全政府職員に対する給上ハ完全目っ実際人郎した研究を肉始することである
臨時人事委貞全之して全力左拳げて寧一人着手方べき二上は生計費及公能率の保時を充分考
あ3
政府職員の給上水準は現在政府の当面している最ち重要な向題であって既時解決の必要が
人事委員長談
昭和二十三年七日三十一日

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.91)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 2 to Despetch
No. 616 dated September 17,
1948 from the office of the
Politicel Adviser for Japan.
Tokyo, on the subject,
"Official Statements Concern-
ing Revision of National
Punlic Service Lew".
( JUPY )
(Trion)
TA ELE  E HIEF CAILEP SECR PARY
( 0,1948,70 n.m.)
Or Jul, 1 4s mverur  reia ce rovernins discipline
f moveme t of lic  ce mor ers f the national and local
overnmentel ar iretions w ormlr ted. Etther willfully or
through misunderst   e ae cone w n charre this es a sinst
the Co sti tior. i  ina ce toreer prorulcted on the
rasis of the SCAp's deme d, a r io o ouht in the least as
to its le 1 velicity. A ot a ptri'es, seroteres or i ter-
feres with iness ooer tions i viol tion of this or inance will
be strictly dealt -ith. It in therefore desired t vt public
office wor-ers be rudent en void takin erroneous action or
movement.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.79)
會
會
50
4
4
7
20
2
6
2
*
2
20
6
6
9
9
18
u
.7
山
端
6
11
*
9
4
4
20
6
79
4
1
7
89
C
81
7
7
2
6
2
4
停
4
2
2
6
4
會
2
2
田
6
20
20
4
會
6
2
4
1
會
u
4
4
81
9
上
4
+
4
C
1
會
至
4
2
7
7
4
會
4
6
7
咖
9
日

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.96)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch
No. 616 dated September 17.
1?48 from the Office of the
Political Adviser for Japan,
o'yo, on the subject,
"official St: temerts Concern-
in Revision of National
P. blic Service Law".
( OPY )
(Tre slet on)
STA EL ENT BY ATTOR EY GE. ERAL
Aurrust 6, 1948
On the besis of General MecArthur's let er of July 22.
1948 to the Prime Mirister, Government Ordinance No. 201
as nro ul- ted on July 31, 1 48. effective the same day.
Accor ing to tris Government Ordinance aisnutes or similar
ction of public office workers are forbidden.
Foithful observence of thir orcinence is essential in
view of the exirting sitution of our country. Moreover,
as e n'tion under tre occum: tion leant violetion of this
ordinance is not nermissible. accor ingly. public servants
resorting to disputes or similer actions in violetion of
this or inence srell be prosecuted in e drastic manner
regerdless o' whet er they are on outdoor or in indoor ser-
vices.
All the people, especially public office workers, are
requested to thoroughly understand the sbove, and to avoid
committing lerst mistakes.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.79)
7
~
行
2
2
鄧
2
n
9
4
n
3
大
C
は
0
K
七
許
月
施
8
n
で
+
秀
K
十
あっ
占
內
+
で
此
2
行
は
2
盧又は七
大
K
2
2
8
て
n
れ
行
K
2
大
又
之

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
U.CLASSIFIED
Enclosur- No. 4 to Despatch
No. 616 deted September 17.
1948 from the Office of the
Political Adviser for Japan.
Tokyo, on the subject,
"Official Stetements Concern-
ing Revision of National
Public Service Law".
( CUPY )
(Pre sletion)
Au rt 11, 1948
T Goveranet s aue uecion concernin interpre
ttio of or inance 2ol. and encli of lebor contrt cts of
verious Mivistrics, vrticularly var  ing of contr cts which
s ouls be r soccte  ot cofict!g with the spirit of the
ordinence. This decision has toda een tronamitted in writing.
as ner enclosure, from the chiefs oi ministries and boards to
their respective unions for necessary action.
How to handle Item 2, article 1, of Government
Ordinence No. 201 concernins labor contr cts of each
Ministry or Board
1. No ui crimintion should be ma.e between union members
and non-menhers. Trey should be equally resnected.
2.
Saleries and wages, and retirement ellowance. These
are under the Person el Courcil, and unions should not
be consulted. However, opinions of unions may be
sought in "ccordance with procedures prescribed by the
Person'el Council.
3. Working hour3, holidays an: leave of absence. These
may be continued as at present.
4. Overtime pey. This may he continued (in accorcance with
pay regulations).
5. Personnel effairs.
(1) Consultation concernig standards - not recognized.
(2)
Notice - not recognized. For practical purposes
notices may be served nersonnel concerned, but
such notices are not obligatory.
(7)
Restriction of discharge.
The Government will not be bound by agreements
perhaps meaning agreements thus fer entered
inta/, but such items as, for example, mentioned
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 12 of labor
agreements of All Teachers Association (ZN KYO
KYO) (no discharge during recuperation before
and after childbirth, and during 90 days efter
childbirth
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.94)
Encl. No. 4 to
To'yo's lNo. 616
Sent. 17, 1948
U CLASSIFIED
- 2 -
ilirth) y e remected in the case of
Joner. Fenchers io ( IYYC KINIAI).
6. Activi ies of unions.
(1) Menbers exclusively ensrged in union movements.
Thes wil! no' re recognized. Those enrrged in
urion movenerts exclusively thus fer naturally
lose the  round for their existence. They and
their urion ! oul e  ctified to tris effect
by e ch miirtry nd bor rd, end they should be
i  l rtrmeu to their post of duty.
The chief of ch ministry end noard is
utnorize? to norve, undur stipulation of a
ertain  vio of ime nd conditions, their
enrement in the siness of the unions (up
to t e o of Auust in the coce of steffs on
i oor acv ce and un to t' e en of Sentember
in the cese of those on out ioor service).
(0) Union vovements during voring rours. Not recognized
sn princinle. When, however, enrroved by chiefs
of of ices evine jurisdiction, such nerotiations
 mentioned in the oroviso under paregraph 1 of
article I of the Governient Ordinance 20l are per-
nitter even durir working hours.
7. Mana rement conference. This is considered to have disappeared.
8. Welfare fncilities. Opinions my be sought concerning mana-
gement of such f: cilities.
9. Political activities. These will be governed by the provisions
of Article 102 of the Public Service Law.
10. Assumption of public office. This will be governed by the pro-
vicions of Articles 101 and 102 of the Public Service Law.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.88)
五
一
O
針
勞
人
超
勤
こ
組
各
如
瞰
過
務
れ
金
S
合
省
決
協
府
C
勤
は
員
書
定
約
は
務
間
差
が
退
算
た
面
L
中
4
手
支
聯
重
石
至
た
B
当
休
元
人
金
L
こ
以
の
政
事
1
日
な
な
約
て
で
の
合
項
存
S
委
人
け
rC
通
本
趣
休
員
事
重
遂
日
旨
二
さ
5
ば
た
L
各
C
C
せ
の
な
非
石
所
省
抵
存
定
今
ら
組
政r
触
号
上
め
S
如
0
の
L
U
2
さ
る
所
員
手
長
な
肯
せ
手
管
た
二
官
V
积
i
C
を
上
も
亚
5
上
C
あ
こ
り
の
汇
支
S
L
り
7.
る
夫
各
彩
た
を
こ
人
L
省
昭
が
組
王
所
二
則
つ
合
由
雞
劣
三
C
L
組
重
上
組
t6
L
た
合
す
场
八
る
合
酸
C
項
C
石
約
の
す
取
対
4
別
扱
L
の
0
こ
待
方
之
の
取
を
2
遇
針
取
扱
は
别
扱
特
<
許
L
紙
方
C

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.87)
大
(2)
組
(0)
(2)
C
T
通
そ
合
重
L
5
が
の
從
活
L
n
前
出
定
措
者
動
T
は
制
石
通
來
伽
差
腰
知
石
び
期
支
產
1
0
L
元
後
で
認
件
C
公
5
0
約
は
め
非
は
S
S
休
劣
C
な
2
な
定
坎
各
養
S
S
S
め
C
省
中
協
2
T
復
來
3
約
新
の
上
書
C
合
世
か
如
び
第
拘
2
は
L
5
十
東
八
め
專
後
務
月
合
九
條
受
C
C
末
こ
者
+
第
け
通
徒
ま
上
は
日
2
知
串
で
び
当
間
号
S
す
す
L
專
然
は
が
石
石
存
能
第
0
こ
廳
各
者
在
免
三
例
は
職
省
C
の
L
号
元
上
を
員
対
根
記
ば
S
承
は
の
L
S
载
日
が
認
九
長
2
等
義
す
月
C
の
失
組
務
末
お
旨
は
項
C
付
2
玄
S
が
算
け

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.74)
一Q公職就任一公務員法第一○
九政治活動一公務員法第一○二條に上り取振
八厚生廟利施散ー運営について意見をきくここは差支えない
やと協会ー消減したものとする
A
同動務時間中の組會活動ー原則こして認めないたし所管聴の
第
○承認をえたこは勤務時間中こいえども政令二○一母第一條
一項但書の交あの如きは差変えない
一餘第一○一
二餘に上り取扱っ
0.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.96)
Encl. No. 4 to
Tokyo's Mo. €16
Sept. 17, 1948
UCLASSIFIED
- 3 -
(Tran.lstion)
UTICE
(tele se A ust 11, 1948, 4800 P.M.)
as : ou : re : are the "Government Ordinance conceming Extra-
ordinary e sures on the Basis of a Letter deted July 22, 1948
fro- t e Sunrome Comnnnder for the Allied Powers to the Prime
V'inister" was rrol tec an enforced by the Government Ordinance
No. 201 of Ju1., 71, 1.48.
Purcuant to tre e f roemert of the above ordinance your
union is requeste to oronntly take necessery stens upon under
standin of the fo owinr par praphs:
1. e ri t of collective ber sinine. on the so
called ecusl footins, of : inding nature backed
b, tirat s ch ss strirer, sahoteges, etc., is
not recogized. owever, puhlic office workers or
their orre izations  ve f reedom of nepotiations in
the sense that along the line of tnis ordinance they
nay express rieve ces, opi ions, desires or dis-
satisf ctior for be tterment of term: and conditions
of work, end t st t ey me fullv telk and submit
facts co cernin them. Therefore, hereafter you
are requastec to take un suc nentietions within
the ahove framework with superiors or competent
Futhorities.
Labor contracts, agreements, or arrangements thus
far entered into hove hecome null and void.
Accorcingly. you are requested to understand trat
the management conference has naturally disappeared.
However, as lon: as not conflicting with or violat-
ing the spirit of this or inance stens will be taken
to ensure cortinued validity of measures adopted in
the past concerning personuel items such as saleries
and allowances, duties, etc., of public office
workers. Moreover, the Government wishes to add
thet it will volunteer at this opnortunity to pro-
vide anpronriate welfere fcilities.
Those who are en ged exclusively in business of
unions on the besis of lebor agreements in the past
will not be recogrized, and payment of their salaries
is not permitted. Trerefore, vour union is requested
to take such apnronriate action as is necessery to
have
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.95)
Encl. No. 4 to
Tokyo's Yo. 616
Sent. 17, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
- 4 -
ve then im recig ely return to their post of
duty. Re vreing t eir return to their work
the puthorities are pr rarec to accord them
ll possihle conveniences.
4.
Si ce tht rirt of disputes ras been denied the
ou lic of ice worers, strikes, sabot: res, or
 actior conc-dizin remlar oneration and
efficiency of business are not ermitted.
an orer r sortin to suct actions will be
trictly cenlt with by this or inence. There
fore, your unior is requested to ner full con-
ciderstio to t is noint.
UICLASSIFIED

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.86)
一
右
日
K
味
C
L
大
世
政
附
去
つ
乍
S
同
5
が
内
の
S
お
Sて
東
5
わ
れ
の
公
七
S
め
靠
た
於
布
月
二
傳協約協定
て交涉
十
石
公
石
身
S
行
理
三
通
所
分
大
務
刘
C
大
十
2
め
民
件
世
臣
当
C
又
2
業
5
宛
日
達
局
石
合
黃
は
立
的
數
れ
政
の
自
情
そ
千，
た
合
申
上
由
2
合
こ
舞
書
合
司
は
L
お
公
は
世
存
見
体
S
の
左
は
高：
百
年
対
在
証
は
T
乱
司
は
十
希
こ
の
風
事
号
無
石
を提
象
0
を
知
官
又は不滿
効
申
0
政
体
を
の
以
出
で
出
合
交
付
了
2
で
の
涉
ri
知
C
二
つ
5
石
線
格
の
C
昭
三
n
か
こ
C
は
方
上
あ
和
八
た
5
表
沿
能
石
る
從
S
が
明
5
至
時
十
て勤務
C
で
L
5
東
急
指
三
T
後
れ
的
所
年
时
能
右
石
且
な
性
要
七
0
つ
件
5
質
月
範
S
措
二
2
0
L
帶
十
会
内
意
れ
改
か
び
二

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.81)
2
24
7
真
具
2
21
C
5
9
7
4
山
4
へ
9
酒
2
20
3
(D
S
1
2
q
q
へ
书
7
9
让
q
7
2
16
0
2
2.
+
u
1
9
草
C
2
9
48
2
2
9
亚
7
2.
2
2.
C
0
2
S
四
0
Y
71
2
4
7
7
马
子
6
0
20
2
2
30
へ
7
9
車
(D
9
2
>
2
7
C
2
u
へ
7
H
q
7
1
界
2.
n
3
u
4
2
q
2.
S
u
へ
9
2
7
飞
9
7
C
9
7
4
4
7
2
u
o
7
2
4
咖
2
q
山
8
q
2
2
q
0
S
F1
2
4
2
田
0
o
9
2
港
C
4
2
q
4
(D
第
4
2
卷
4
20
2
6
4
2
へ
20
q
9
6
0
u
2
4
2
8
2
4
道
0
0
2
u
へ
0
0
4
4
20
4
2
9
4

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.94)
Encl. No. 4 to
To'yo's No. 616
Sent. 17, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
- 5 -
( Trenclation )
STATELENT BY CHIEF CA ILET SECRETARY TOLMABECHI
(A1m15t 13, 1948, 1800 P.M.)
Corcerrin protectio: f welfare of national public office
workere. the Government nes esoeciel concern as mentioned in
the previous stotement. Accordingly, the following notices
have been sent to ench Kinistry an, rd:
Excentivr caces  -re soecificoll rovided in rdinance
o. 201, it is a tter of co irse t:t, nen in necessery enact
ment in the rcvised National Pu lic Service Low, enefits
legelly ronted to the vublic office workers in the pest concern-
ing their heelth, srfety, welfere, rest end retirement will have
continued legel lidity.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.82)
体
9
歐
依
効
公
に
力
銷
て
公
心
些
に
配
9
9
有
9
食
5
改
L
臨
她
n
正
に
て
利
に
從
記
念
9
こ
段
9
慢
2
9
9
た
2
て
C
所
曲
省
C
T
9
a
て
C
2
設
C
n
大
八
n
L
C
n
て
店

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.96)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclos ure No. 5 to Despatch
No. 616 dated September 17,
194 from the Office of the
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject,
"Official St tements Concern-
in Revision of National
Punlic Service Law".
(COPY)
(Tronslation)
SA  Y T ATTORNEY GEERAL - SEPTEMBER 3. 1948
(Pr 1in 1 of Set.4,1948)
Dote  ve vecentl peer cyorussed in certain ouarters
es to t e co stit ations lity of vhe "Cnbinet Orcinence concern-
In temporary pe mure  sed uoon ti.e Suap letter cated July
22, 1948 dcressed o the Prime Mi ister". (Uehiret Ordinance
o. P01. 1948). I. oroer to  rif cuc a misunderstanding.
it mes decided t the Cnhi et meeti hel tcday to communicate
the povernment view co: cer i the saic Oruinance to internal
orverizations of  rious Minis tries. Below is iven the gist of
the rovernment view.
Question: The oresent Oruinsnce is ased unon "Orders (or
Ordinances -  tre rlstor) to be iss ed co seouent upon the
rccentence of the Potscem Decler tion" (I. merial Ordinance No.
542, 1945). T.is Imperial Srdinance lost velidity by virture
of the "lew concerning the clidity, etc., of the provisions of
Orders (o dinances) in force at the time of coming into effect
of the Jananese Constitution" (Act No. 72, 1947). (See Appendix -
by translator). Has not the caid Imperial Ordinance, therefore,
been neturally invalid -ince December 31, 1947?
Reply: Tre effect of Imperial Ordinence No. 542 hes nothing to do
with Act No. 72. The said Law No. 72 provides velidity of pro-
visiors of ordinances issued wit out taking into account the will
of the Diet on matters which require legiclation under the new
Constitution. Imperial Ordinence No. 542 is the "Imperial
Ordinance to teke the place of law" in conformity with Article 8
of the old Constitution, end was anproved by the Diet. It is
cleer, therefore, that the said Imperial Ordinance has validity
as lew, and is not to be considered as an ordinance mentioned in
Act No. 72.
Question: As Imperial Ordinance No. 542 delegates to ordinances
almost without limitetion what should be provided by law under
the Constitution. Therefore, is not this Imperiel Ordinance
uncorstitutional, and consequently invalid?
Reply
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.96)
Encl. No. 5 to
Tokyo s No. 615
Sent. 17, 1948
U CLASSIFIED
Reply: Ju in from the spirit of indenendence of three powers
orovided in the Corst tution, it is interoreted tret legislative
nower should not he cel, ;ted ur.co ditionally to administretive
orn. Imporiel rdi ce o. 542, however. delegetes to
Orcinn ces onl w encess' to execute matters demanded by
ScAP: it is not, t erefore, a blanket delegation. It is necessary
in t is conrectior to co sider the special position in which Jepan
is placed. Accor ip o the Surrender Documerts dated September 2,
194f, "t e soverei wower of the Emperor en? the Japanese Govern-
me t is pleced under livit tio of ScAp vo tekes apnronriato
stens to erecite nat ers provide? ! ereia". It is also clearly
provide: tt  e Emperor d Jananese Jovernment or ite successor
shoul icrue l? lecrssur oriers und take necessery measures to be
demended by ScAP or  t e secified renrese tatives of the Allied
Powers. Trus t e is tiorl onliation to execute matters
demanded  SCaP roantl an  ithfully. In this case, if a demand
requires le ntio, it is ormer for the povernmert to take pro-
cedur for enacti Isw. Suct  step. however, cennot cometimes
be taker on occount of t e lack of time or other reasons, depending
upon the  ature of a 'enand. I. such e cese, the act of delegation
is taken i t fo of  is Imperial Ordinance approved by the
Diet. aturell orders ere issued  mears of this delegation for
the purpose of executing natio al cuty to enforce specified matters
based unon & concr te demnad of SCAP. T is does not constituto
infri-pement unon lerisl: tive power by the arbitrary will of admini-
tretive orrars. Phas thir Or inance is su stentially effective
under the rew Const:tutio.
Question: As the letter of SCAP addressed to the Prime Minister
July 22, 194? cannot be intomroted as a demand provided in Imperial
Ordinance No. 542, is not the present Cabinet Ordinance unlawful?
Replyi There is no set form in the so-called requests from ScAP.
A reouest is determined  irterpreting the will expressed by SCAP.
and not by the form of a letter or ot erwise. The present Cabinet
Ordinance was issued by the government after e careful examination
of the letter, and after ascertaining the intention of GHQ. Needless
to sey, it is a lawful meesure based upon Imperial Ordinance No. 542.
It may be added here that Chairman Sebald stated et the Allied
Council for Japan held Au ust 28:
"The SUPREME COMMANDER confined himself to a broad
statement of the basic principles involved end in-
tentionally phrased the letter as a suggestion
rather than a directive, in order to encourage the
Japanese Government to exercise its own initiative
and thought in developing and implementing details,
and leave it entirely free to question provisions deemed
maccepta le to it. The Ja anese ordinance is an
interim measure designed to maintain the status quo
until the Diet meets next month to consider and act
upon implementing legislation, subject of course to
scrutiny to insure against the distortion of any of
the principles enunciated in the letter".
Some
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.95)
Encl. No. 5 to
Tokyo's No. 616
Sept. 17, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
Some nner to sey tis and t t, tekine one or two term
inel rier used i. the nhove ct temert. Acareful examination of
the cont xt os  wt le reveels ut he purnort of the statement
mude o Oirn Sebele i ite: t te fmdamental principles
t' emselves ore a  emar  of SoAP towcr the Jana.ese Government.
Appendix
Excerpt of lur concerniny volidity, etc., of pro-
vicione of Orders in force ot the time of coming
i to effect of tre Joon: es. Co stitutio (Act No.
72.1947)
Article l. Provisions of oruina.ces i: fo ce ot the time of
conin- intc efiect of ti e Janenese Constitution.
delin mith metters to e provided by law. shall
Leve tre sure eflect as law until December 31,
1947.
Article 1 (p). The orovisions of the prece ing article shall
not exercise any influence unon the effect of
Ordiner cos pronulgeted in accordance with
Imperiel Oroinance No. 542, 1945.
Orders to be issued suosequent upon
te acceptance of the Pot sdam De-
clarstion (Immeriel Ordinance No.
542, 1945)
Subsenuent unon the accentaice o the Potsdam Decleretion.
the government mey issue orders or provide necess ry punishment,
when considered snecially l.ecesrry in executing matters at the
demerd of SCAP.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.82)
間
六
六
三
E2
02
0
件
2
2
12
年
宛
勅
今
て
政
続
心
命
间
と
本
5
合
法
は
の
H
國
科
政
L
C)
i心
公
情
合
C
阁
が
百
高
布
日
以
0
議
司
施
5
そ
で
明
号
今
行
27
て
和
年
01
à
官
さ
本
汇
れ
V
X
法
5
点
以
て
A：
た
b
は
合
5
L
に
1
談
年
五
山
左
に
3
昭
C.
E
13.
v
t
0
和
律
FP
V
近
で
近
以
C)
1
时
十
七
政
部
指
111
号
あ
4
V
年
12
(0)
お
4C
七
火
件
C
い
[]
九
S
発
2
小
3
r
谷
政
H
省
誤
法
日
て
4
で
命
解
と
附
三
+
2
部
を
の
内
子
2
に
内
昭
日
の
力
に
掃
保
和
然
限
妙
十
x
り
力
に
と
に
十
大

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.84)
を
法
0
行
同
で
で
得
第
で
法
た
八
效
は
合
间
3
條
力
新
11
第
に
0
を
滋
五
.C
烧
定
法
法
百
5
あ
定
に
F
四
う
上
十
?
命
今
办
4
n
お
た
5
2
0の
は
5
号
の
C
で
法律
て
C
な
法
效
は
S
高
を
力
左
こ
に
に
以
2
は
S
と
代
L
C
の
办
定
法
べ
3
色
に
2
勅
七
八
1.
1
t一
第
不
で
五
7
3
あ
百
と
あ
而
效
つ
D四
を
全
a
7
て
+
C
定
發
生
号
L
L
今
は
で
が
S
力
承
旧
火
S
S

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.86)
官
に
文
の
で
は
6
心
又
地
は
が
C
齋
は
か
十
に
位
合
と
法
1.
そ
n
6
上
8
國
は
の
月.
の
仁
n
粉
场
最
許
限
他
X
は
元
而
合
高
に
特
天
乙
に
司
n
分
命
定
导
必
て
限
な
立
合
十
C
と
天
こ
官
0
に
日
皇
て
9
号
有
本
め
及
あ
な
神
は
國
网
ö
合
十
と
か
代
B
の
に
要
解
5
表
府
求
考
法
及
2
あ
は
LE
に
5
元
上
六
政
江
で
加
法
2
石
府
て
わ
C
为
T
立
5
律
0
の
が
法
を
七
國
昭
巧
3
意
以
和
ふ
聖
法
現
0
行
51
と
治
十
在
施
政
定
司
の
年
價
令
反
3
4
権
九
が
單
8
第
合
官
限
月
れ
純
た
五
に
定
の
ば
な
百
白
本
B
に
四
T
7.
十
は
な
伏

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.82)
合
的
)
で
容
國
的
合國最高司令官の要求は
昭
6
で
に
會
義務か存
は違法で
は
和
從
の)
要
あ
國
よ
に
つ
石
會
つ
0
C
三年
こ
行
係
承諾
は
C
it
0)
特定
法律制定
3
十月
C
を
時
いい
5
得
間
こ
0
0
の
1
的
の場合要求
十
こ
0
57
(0)
山
1
そ
附
1
よ
に
た
の
いい
下
3
に
よ
と
の
主
5
立
ぐ
お
り
迅速且曰誠に冠行十心
2
い、
è
と
i.
T
5
を
運合國最高司令官
可能
方
至履行
な場合
る.
6
上
な
加
項で
5
に
动
は
江
6
心
な
0
あ
あ
è
回
國家
あ
ら
た
具体
の
n
0)
の
3
2
る
の
内
は
0

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.84)
容
あ
n
思
を
的
左
で
た
る
3
石
人
わ
そ
に
長
四
L
は
意
連
わ
レ
れ
記
は
十
な
恩
け
合
國
会
ク
る
務
去
且
い
の
C
会
が
寸
石
つ
解
は
最
:
は
と
令
八
司
状
な
高
立
酸
と
に
見
に
部
月
茶
令
间
で
司
制
6
つ
解
止
殆
部
S
5
定
2
表
十
0
政
重
そ
官
3
X
上
て
蒸
0
八
法
令
n
0
3
b
自
10
日
原
日
な
向
は
要
示
2
は
由
て
本
文
そ
書
求
D
b
で
示
に
逃
政
対
確
政
18
の
府
上
日
で
府
C
あ
3
狀
と
問
世
之
れ
理
あ
た
に
あ
婴
石
簡
態
名
元
励
ば
事
3
お
石
办
求
C
づ
許
23
重
会
と
S
否
は
記
維
け
十
L
9
と
発
て
否
办
持
た
た
月
て
席
は
世
办
は
別
さ
十
20
つ
2
司
上
S
ら
右
に
汇
れ
日
に
日
合
に
7
れ
上
に
た
た
本
百
官
お
亨
簡
つ
0
原
め
乙
政
は
S
T
2
て.
气
形
則
政
と
具
基
2
F：
决
今
式
中
が
本
2
7
也
官
125
重
間
は
5
2
原
之
62
(八
的
米
及
則
1
勅
定
月
を
分
介
示
L
2
證
簡
難
寒
第
C
さ
て
之
で
办
と
括
F
五
檢
n
S

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.78)
を示して
燕本原則そ
あ
右発言の片首無句をとんえてと
とを許されないことは
3
が右発言休を仔細に檢討すれ
S
の
4
0
9
と云う
か司令官の
勿論で
べきであ
西
办
る」とべた
日
C
本政府に対十る娶求でると
は
水
卜
上
7
と
は
T

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.90)
C
4
ツ
條
効
日
文
ス
政
の
月
9
安
府
五
人
世
三
以
日
に
以
求
4
宜
5
X
て
本
的
7
二
首
前
規
國
十
所
係
2
号
た
H
定
意
石
安
iル
ツ
受
命
x
法
法
行
合
規
-C
律
の
定
H
二
0
定
法
行
際
7
伴
効
は
律
の
劫
現
為
実
宣
e
力
と
項
際
三
施
言
に
昭
同
を
現
効
及
ス
只
影
和
規
に
力
和
必
ル
受
n
の
定
効
要
為
諾
命
を
効
十
力
有
ナ
特
二
及
年
力
3
十
n
二
伴
二
勅
6
有
必
e
関
十
有
の
十
命
則
要
ス
6
第
十
は
分
9
7
合
ル
五
3
命
設
n
國
件
で
百
照
規
最
は
p四
9
和
の
定
n
合
昭
と
規
の
X
コ
二
司
和
5
x
定
卜
4
号
で
e
年
年
法
X
命
意
二
律

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl. No. 5 to
Tokyo's No. 616
Sept. 17, 1948
U.CLASSIFIED
EL CIDATICH BY ATPCREY GENERAL
(anorove  abinet decision Sentember 3. 1948)
I
The velicit" of Csnimet Ordinance No. 20l is cuestioned in
certai querters or tf conte tio that Imperial Orainance No.
:40, 1 45, uno v ich the said Cabivet Ordirance is based, 1s
i: alid in itself. Act No. 72, 1947, provides thet "Provisions
of ordinances, effective t the time of coming into operation of
the Janenese Constit tion, and which ere to be provided by law,
hove the seme effect as 1w unt11 December 31, 1947" (Art. 1).
The same Act furtrer provides that "Ordinances issued in con-
formity with the provisions of Imperinl Or inence No. 542, end
effective t the time of coming irto oneration of the Constitu
tion, continue to be effec ive". (Art. 1 (2)). It is claimed
thet neither of thes rovisions touch the oue tion of validit
of Imne: ial ordinance No. : 42 itself, and that no legal stens
r've been taken up to t is time to mske the Imperial Ordinance
in uestion legally efective.
First of all, it is a very error to try to judge the validity
of Imneriel rdinance No. 542 in the 11 rt of Act 72. The new
Co stitution does not mean the abrogetio: of the old Constitution.
The forner is the emendment of the latter. As no change is
involved in the neture of the State before and after the revision
of the Constitution, the law: end re ul tio:s promulgated under
the old Corstittion are inherited by the new Co stit:tion, and
remain effective under the new Co stitution. No doubt exists on
this point, esnecially in the light of the provisio s of Art. 98
of the Constitution. mot is the purport of Act No. 72 then?
It lies in the fact thet orders, issued without taking the will
of the Diet under the old Corstitution (these orders were hereto-
fore called independent orders), and regulting matters to be
provided by law, should be changed into laws by legislative means.
Consequently Act No. 7? does not t eke up laws enacted under the
old Constitution. This is the reason why the House of Representa-
tives Election Law, the Labor Union Law and other innumerable laws
enected under the old Constitution remain in force until now.
Though the Ordinance issued co: sequent upon the acceptance
of the Potsdam Declaretion beers & seriel number of Imperial
Ordinance, it is the "Imperisl Ordinance to take the place of
law". issued in co: formity with Art. 8 of the old Constitution,
as everyone knows. As this Ordinance as presented to the 89th
Session of the Diet and duly peesed thereby, it had complete
validity as law under the old Constitution. This is evident
from the fact thet emergency imperial ordinences were revised or
abrogated by law in the past. It is clear that Imperial Ordinance
No. 542 which had validity as law under the old Constitution
remains effective as lew under the new Constitution, without
taking special legislative procedure, as in the case of many
other laws. Act No. 72 did not specify this Emergency Imperial
Ordinance, because the case was too natural.
II. Some
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.96)
Er cl. No. 5 to
Tolyo's o. 616
Sept. 17, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
II
Sone 1 rt, eve. 11 i rie1 r1. ce ho. 542. upon
w ic sent  1 t r i rce is se, is identical with
law. t i: r in ce cel te to orders elmost wit out limit
wat are to e r vice y law fron the Co  i utional point of
view. T is Ioeriel rcine ce, t er for, they claim, i fringes
uoon the Co: st t ion, ene tinds void  s an u co stitutional
law u der Art. 98 oi the Co stit  tion. he present Cebinet
rdira ce nsec imo t is Imo rinl or inance is also void, they
cclude.
I is irie  i deve dente of thre powerr is or vided
in the So sti tion iteelf.  t t lenket delerrtion of
le icl: tive porer to e ninistretive or rs is unconstitutional
Imperial rcine ce o. 42, however, does not give si ple and
lanket cle tion, s it is 'imited only to times which it is
co sicered s ecielly necessrr to execute specified matters at
the denn of SoAP conserue:t oon the eccentance of the Potsdam
Declartio. It has the epnearance of a blacket delegation in
thot t ese specified matters essume co:crete forms in future.
For this, the in ernetio al si: ution i: wnich Japan finds itself
et prece t s ould be co sidered. The surrender documents signed
Senterher 2, lu4t, provides tiet "the Emperor, The Japanese
Govcrnment nd t eir successors (to) carry out the provisions
of the Potsdam Declar tio: i: good faith, and (to) issue whatever
orders anc take w etever ection may be recuired by the Supreme
Commender for the Allied Powers or by eny otrer desirnated re-
presentative of the Allied Powers for the purpose of giving
effect to t at Declarstio:" and that "The euthority of the
Emperor end the Japanese Government to rule the state shall be
subject to the Sumreme Commer der for the Allied Powers who will
take such steps as he deems proper to effectuate these terms of
surrender. It was also clarified in the initiel occumation
policy of the U. S. efter surre der thst "SCAP exercises his
power through various organs of the Japanese Government including
the Emmeror, as long s the America: objectives are satisfactorily
expedited." I: other words, when SCAP demands certair measures
be taken to execute terms of surrender, there is no ontion for
us to chose. Only national obligetion exists to execute such
demands promntly and faithfully. In this case, though legislative
procedure is to be taken if a concrete demand requires legislation.
emergency steps are required, depending upon the nature of a demand.
Or in certain cases, legislative procedure cannot be taken for some
reasons. To meet such cases, & way is onen to issue orders by
means of delegation. Such an order is issued only when considered
necessery to execute specified matters at e demand of SCAP. Herein
lies the special character of delegatio , end a reason that legislative
power and independence of three powers are not violated. Thus Imperial
Ordinance No. 542 continues in substance to remain effective under
the now Constitution. There is not the slightest doubt as to the
validity of the present Cabinet Ordinance No. 20l issued on the basis
of this Imperial Ordinance.
III
Another argument exists. Even if Imperial Ordinance No. 542 1s
valid under the new Constitution in form and substance, the present
Cabinet
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.94)
Encl. No. 5 to
Tokyo's No. 616
Sent. 17, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
- 6 -
labi et Ordi: ance is ased unon the letter from ScAP eddressed
to the Prime i ist or . de the a te of July 22. 1948. This
letter cao   sidre te solled "demand" of SCAP
reseribed i:  e  io Imperi:l orainance. Therefore this
Orcinar ce i: co lormit ith t e said Irperial Ordinance is un-
co stitutio.nl.
Geerelly svencin,  i no set form in the so-called
"cemonc" of S0AP. W et ur it is  "denan" or not depends upon
i ternr ttio of t e will exor-ssec by SCAP, and not unon
w et er it is & lettr  not. e pre ent Cabinet Ordinance
is iss:e ofter  c f.l ei tion of the seid letter. and
af'er scertainine the ir  tior of GHQ. het this Cabinet
Orcinauce is  se voon Imm riel Orcinance o. b42 erd lavful
is e/ond uestion.
It mey be added here that C irmar Sebeld stated et the
Allied Council for Jrnan held au ct 28:
"The SUPRME Jols D confined imself to a
broad s tatement of tre osic nri ciples involved and
intertionelly phrr sed the letter as a suggestion rather
ther e directive, in order to e'courere the Japanese
Government to exercise i's own iritietive and thought
in develoning and inplementin uetcils, and leave it
entirely free to question orovisions deemed unacceptable
to it. The Jepanese or ina:ce is an i terim meesure
designed to mein'ein the str tus quo  til the Diet meets
next month to corsider ane ect upon implementing
legislation, subject of courso to scrutiny to insure
egainst the distortion of eny of the principles enunciated
in the letter".
Some enpeer to se i an that, takin one or two terminologies
used ir the ebove str tement. A careful exemin'tion of the text as
a whole reveals tiat the purnort of t e stateme:t made by Chairman
Sebeld indicates tn't the fu dame tel principles themselves are a
demand of SCAP towerd the Jenenese Government.
I. every point deccribed above there is not e slightest doubt
as o the velidity of the Cabinet Ordinance in question.
UNCLASSIFLED

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.87)
臣
N
百

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.84)
士
よっ
を存続するこ
に効力を有する命分の
S
と
て
6
は和二
とか定められてい
石
は

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.89)
な
法
れ
云
L
て
家
止
L
に
た
て
新
で
上
て
と
時
上
命
と
同
は
制
と
期
れ
明
わ
法
な
と
そ
重
は
5
な
下
性
定
で
法
從
遼
办
S
に
そ
3
n
め
C
律
來
法
お
は
の
た
独
下
あ
5
愛
改
が
と
國
名
立
汇
る
3
て
正
と
つ
命
お
で
が
で
北
C
0
分
然
左
2
在
定
て
h
0?
5
b
そ
S
决
と
法
乙
0
rC
5
と
0)
引1
で
S
誤
從
上
の
乙
あ
b
は
七
人
つ
つ
て
て
れ
恩
十
は
が
办
や
法
法
て
が
れ
5
律
律
項
S
加
号
意
旧
法
あ
そ
た
わ
法
有
改
七
改
規
上
3
主
第
法
正
め
定
乙
眼
九
下
5
L
な
と
点
+
存
n
て
は
八
法
法
号
左
2
iS
3
何
十
C
は
H
L
石
が
た
7
て
宇
と
法
は
と
と
L
即

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.85)
有
6
從
C
と
十
S
を
明
來
完
八
有
て
5
全
号
と
3
に
乙
十
办
に
の
が
K
触
と
特
3
で
磁
提
規
附
れ
は
别
勅
あ
定
出
定
也
て
0
3
の
さ
5
5
明
立
第
改
法
れ
基
扎
4
て
S
5
法
五
從
正
律
C
て
S
S
心
措
百
及
と
そ
は
3
0
で
四
て
び
L
の
の
お
2
酷
C
承
受
講
It
止
の
諾
汇
が
路
ず
号
が
効
代
K
合
が
法
が
法
法
力
得
法
あ
律
重
他
下
律
を
た
九
第
で
C
K
生
言
は
0
七
上
9
勅
C
2
S
尤
で
分
石
の
で
て
あ
入
法
法
の
3
法
既
さ
办
あ
知
K
と
K
n
あ
5
つ
K
と
法
办
と
と
好
5
と
と
と
K
と
法
上
と
は

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.89)
が
n
6
6
规
み
項
た
包
実
に
T
な
亦
に
と
來
括
施
伴
と
立
石
反
L
に
委
寸
す
法
無
5
殆
T
任
3
速
o
3
梅
効
法
ん
℃
た
合
然
こ
聖
で
法
に
て
は
國
と
廣
律
無
こ
7
特
な
は
と
反
制
体
に
が
行
に
と
限
勅
性
所
必
司
5
政
十
て
に
以
行
法
機
格
6
從
充
官
勅
に
関
0
そ
つ
令
足
办
U)
分
に
分
心
0)
て
に
3
る
第
触
白
立
あ
効
意
C)
十
紙
は
3
力
法
つ
6
C
合
婴
百
心
て
点
に
求
四
委
意
有
九
法
に
限
に
十
0
任
法
世
十
8
上
5
C
定
係
と
自
八
6
法
さ
る
号
5
條
の
律
て
た
n
事
は
國
が
こ
の
で
包
て
項
許
定
規
あ
括
と
3
の
め
に
定
8
つ
委
そ
3
n
護
8
基
に
か
任
の
と
7
4
な
決
と
よ
的
特
こ
特
么
こ
4
り
外
定
定
意
の
に
の
の
L
で
の
法
体
と
あ
政
的
合

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.91)
る
十
と
司
か
と
15
图
た
の
余
3
が
含
定
認
日
み
地
明
む
官
め
め
本
切
高
の
伏
で
l.t
め
か
H
は
3
國
の
司
條
文
あ
な
適
に
本
あ
措
政
命
命
項
当
政
米
り
府
官
と
と
n
府
國
の
2
又
は
こ
た
認
機
の
降
と
國
発
は
関
目
伏
3
家
l
そ
に
天
場
迅
3
及
的
後
連
統
且
の
履
合
速
楷
1以
達
に
合
治
他
行
A.
郎
成
お
國
の
か
特
B
具
聖
ら
な
け
最
櫃
定
6
本
体
誠
要
高
限
の
こ
國
的
実
求
連
足
米
司
は
と
政
な
に
合
通
に
國
令
切
合
府
要
履
C
國
C
促
の)
官
本
の
及
求
行
き
T
進
初
の
降
措
代
に
i江
の
高
そ
十
期
制
伏
表
右
そ
内
場
司
の
乙
の
限
條
者
宣
の
容
è
合
令
権
限
對
の
項
執
が
わ
が
國
に
官
力
り
日
下
3
要
と
法
家
は
が
に
方
に
実
こ
求
律
的
降
行
お
針
施
と
が
2
こ
伏
使
で
か
十
要
務
n
條
て
は
n
6
こ
が
項
は
た
と
た
8
存
取
め
天
あ
名
在
拾
実
2
天
最
こ
項
T
こ
高
と
巻
及
合

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.86)
三
内
に
法
t
主
係
こ
力
物
百
あ
柔
3
(7)
求
あ
裕
有
合
F
T:
特
件
の
n
第
に
の
立
に
性
は
大
C
肖
心
の
に
5
上
質
國
F
百
71
よ
つ
に
宛
171
11
3
2
3
て
上
に
速
1
に
0
を
命
め
つ
动
合
委
法
て
つ
心
施
は
任
律
は
で
T
に
制
法
五
2
常
よ
定
緊
律
2
iT
た
に
の
急
制
も
0
2)
命
手
定
(6)
1
分
合
要
の
()
C
立
合
制
十
手
号
0)
升
图
定
踏
鏡
23
り
み
故
発
最
の
む
6
が
に
和
た
に
世
高
途
3
の
と
て
こ
斯
こ
5
司
が
と
5
十
わ
n
C
こ
そ
n
命
設
あ
8
6
三
形
け
に
と
行
8
官
H
ix
の
年
式
で
燕
に
政
こ
の
ら
可
で
七
的
あ
<
は
機
と
n
能
で
月
に
石
4
体
な
体
た
女
的
5
が
な
的
の
十
2
8
な
で
政
便
と
要
B
令
理
こ
求
つ
办
的
第
由
3
に
て
8

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.85)
雞
施
卜
百
數
北
心
と
括
議
な
四
合
れ
思
そ
的
長
十
は
同
の
に
は
を
司
n.
記
去
号
確
政
合
3
合
意
述
司
る
に
か
府
官
條
と
令
八
茶
め
に
あ
項
見
3
部
月
た
お
石
表
と
に
解
上
か
示
限
司
4二
止
我
X
沃
T
否
さ
5
と
15
25
小)
な
右
n
n
官
7
综
2
6
0)
仁
C
3
44
91.
よ
意
流
C
た
简
恩
6
で
2
()
0)
C
02
心
あ
は
心
内
洪
の
ö
6
2
は
こ
容
釈
心
要
と
此
と
つ
定
5
は
求
許
θ
は
て
充
江
上
な
は
且
L
総
席
云
分
8
た
て
司
上
こ
檢
6
別
が
め
細
合
に
の
时
定
に
に
日
目
官
お
で
政
本
は
合
は
8
定
こ
政
具
T
2
が
且
L
と
府
体化
基
で
で
仁
が
本
三
3
5
司
及
5
に
蹄
水
第
合
回
が
五
部
否

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.78)
細に檢對十
と
で
で
司
あ
あ
令官
6
は
と
な
B
办
本政府
は
2
制定の狀
立法するにり書簡に記戦きれた
上
に
お
なして
T
7
水
今同の改合の効力について何
要求である
n
8
23
上
8

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DC
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
ACTION
UNITED STATES POLITICAL
ADW1SER
FOR JAPAN
is assigned to
220
48.
cuo
O. 623
ran
U.CLASSIF IED
Tokyo, September 21, 1948.
Subject: General acarthur's reply to charges by
Ambassador Fanyushkin on the Rights of
Government Workers.
894.017/9-2148
The Honorable
The Secretery of State,
Washington.
Sir:
In order that the Department's records may be
complete regarding recent SCAP announcements on the
subject of the rights of government workers, I have the
FE-J
honor to forward herewith five copies of a special
release made on September 17, 1948 in which General
Lacarthur replies to the charges of Ambassedor
C
Panyushkin as published in Washington on September 16,
CD.1
1948.
2
0L1
Respectfully yours,
D'R
STATE
C
9948  E 9G
ir semee
W. J. Sebald
1943 SEP 30 AM 8 38
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CS/V
RECEIVED
, writh oing
Enclosures:7.
1948 release by Gen.MaoArthur
FEB 24 1949
Original and hectograph to Department
804.4
AHaden:gm
m
B.B

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure to Despateh ao. ess dat
September 21, 1948 from Usr0LAD, Toky
on the subjeot, "General MaeArthur's
Reply to Charges by Ambassador Panyashkis
on the kights of Goverament Workers".
GENEIAL HEAI QUAI.TEIS
FLF EAST COLL.AND
Fublic Information Office
Irrecjate helease:
17 September 1948
General MacArthur tocay rushed off as haseless charges
rade yester ay by the Soviet Imbassador in Wrshington that
his policics with resrect to the responsirility of public
servants "ere in virlaticn of controlling Allied rolicy includ-
ing the ictscam Teclar tion lut tock occasion to comment as
follows u n cert in s ects (f the situation in Japan:
"No se ra nt of Jantnese society has been afforded
more liberal mins since the surrender than has Japa
nesc lelor. 1t enjoys r pter privileges anc protec-
ticn here than in rany derocratic countries. Its main
potentirl Canger lies in its a'sorrtion and ultimate
Cestruction by corrunists who seek to exploit it to
spread cisorcer, anarchy and revolution. Ineed were
the ccncept of corrunisi to prev:il here, Japanese lahor
woul c first to feel its corrletely totalitarian
suprression an' c ntrol, and the trade union movement
woul rerish te  rrlaced by the cligrchic control
of  hondful f self-aprointec masters. The liberty
of the wcrker would isarpear and labor would recome
merely a cormo ity. It vas nct the purpose of the
Totscan terrs nor vill the Supreme Comman'er permit
such crnditions to 'evelcp in occupied Japan.
"Terhars thc rost unsuccessful effort made any-
where by 'orld vice proraganda to instil communistic
rrinciples hns been in Jaran. Here concepts leading to
disorcer, iscontent anc ultinate chaos hove made little
headway.' Tespite fr ntic corrunistic efforts to achieve
the contrary, Japan crntinues calm, stable end well or-
derer. The Communists ne those whc adhere to their
cause thus hove a rcving sense cf frustration at their
failure in Jar n. If they had their. way they would
repeat here the eplorr!le stote cf affeirs which they
have hrcught about in certain unhappy European centers.
"There is a leep ant natural resentment throughout
Japen at what is penerally regarded by all Japanese as a
bnsic cisreg:rc of hunan end moral values in the reten-
tion in Fussia after rore than three years followins sur-
render of half a million Japanese prisoners employed un-
der shocking ccnditions of forced servitude in works de-
sined to increase the Scviet war potential. This, despite
the solemn undertakin? enterec into by the Allied Fowers
in Clause 9 of the Fotscam Declaration offered as a con-
dition to the Japanese surrender, which reads as follows:
'The Jaranese rilitary fcrces, after being ccmpletely
disarned, shall te pernitted to return to their homes with
the orrortunity to leac peaceful and productive lives.'
"There is an clc oriental proverb, equally understood
hy the West as by the East, which says there cen be no
greater hypocrisy than to fail to practice what you preach."
-0-

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.91)
sc/R
CONFIDENTIAL
September 23, 1948
. 
ub oct: : oiicy on Jepanase overnment rkere (F-318)
894.017/9-2348
The nited tates overnment considers the policy deaision propesed
by the oviet apresentative on the above mubjeot at the meeting of the
Commissior on  eptember 16, 1948 to be based on a totally erronesms imber-
pretation of the facts with which it purports to deml, and theresere flnds
it wholly wamceeplatlo. I urthermore, at a timo when legialation is baing
drafted for submission to the Diet and review by SCAP, your Government re
gards extended consi :eration by the comaission of policy with respect to
41
the ri hts und duties of Japenese overnment workers to be inappropriate
and undesirable.
it is therefore the view of your lovernment that disoussden of thie
subject by the Coamission should be limited as mah as is fesainle, and
that the polioy decision proposed by the soviet tepresentative sheuld be
brought to as early a vote as is compatible with your conourremt dutdes
as Chairman.
To this end, there is attached harewith a statament of the posdtion
of your Government for use in your capacity as United States Member. The
specific comment in this statement is directed only to certain remarke
made by the Soviet epresentative ut the last mesting of the Cammlssion,
and does not deal with other views which have been or may be wxpressed by
interested Governmente in consideration of this subject.
CS/A
in the light of the foregoing axplanation of the purpose and
limited scope of the attached statoment, it is requested that its sub-
stance be presented to the Commission on an opportune ocoasion at an arly
stage of the discussion of this subject.
of
Charlesaltman
Assietant ecretary
21
aglen orig.
ttechmant
tatent
O:1: Claxton:odFRay:br
N
100/J
9/22/48 
Allison now birnett chuler laxton
CONFIDENTIAL
5
5

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.91)
CONFIDENTIAL
Statenent of United States Fositiem em Felley
Lesialon treped  the avi maim
I do not wish to take up the time of this Comdlamien wh 
and the minutes of the Allied Commeil meeting on Augest 2s, at wés 
viens of varions interested countries were expressed.
In the opinion of y Jovernment, the tamperary charecter of e
by SCAi. make it unprofitable for the Comdssdon to mmee at thée tme
Lirpalled to comment on certe in statements made by the Soviet Ambmommtse at
the meeting.
You will recall that earetary oyall cencluded his press relemse we
the following statement:
"The Department es the Aray and ether iat erested Geverrment apemeles
much lagislation as may be adopted by the Japanese vlet dese met lspeir
the basic objectives of vcoupation palicy fer the omergenee of a esermste
staile and peace-loving Japanese natian and the develepmsst and operetdem of
demoeratio trade unions."
The oviet Ambassador has expreased the view that tàere is an imsemaistmay
between this statevent and r. toyall's preeeding statoment that, "The
recomendations made in eneral eaarthur's lat er, as we underetand Lam,
do mot in any way trevorse or conflict wdith any Fat laber peliedes." I
fail to see any inoonsistoney in these two statemente. The language af
General Sachrthur's letter was uppropriataly soneral rather than speeifis,
in order that there might be wide Latitude in the oomnideration by the
Japanese Governmant of the prepeeed revision of the National Publie Sorvise
legislation. In the course of muan oonaideration, it is antirely possible
that the Japanese Governmant may introduce coapraheneive Legislation con-
taining some provisions at variance with the broad prineiples set forth
in the Jneral's Letter It is the narmel duty of the uproes Goemander
to
CONFIDENTIAL
3107

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.91)
CONFIDENTIAL
to review all legialation adoptod by the apenese Dist to enere s
does net iapair in any respect the basie objestives ef sempassem p
Law, eneral Macrthur has a respensibility to msare ts te pem 
order of the cceupied aree under his cemmand are net destreyed. The
Commander may have asted mctralegally, and alleged thas "as a restls af
General actrthur's letter diserders oceurred in Japas". My Gevesmmms
cannot accept aither of the Ambasssder's coatentions. My remarks em thes
of the upreme Commander to prevent a disastrous strike whish wwald imperal
Japan's economic struoture.
It will be rocalled that twice in the last 18 moaths SGAr has bem
obliped to prevant the ossurrence of strikes led by the Gevermeess teemepes-
ay Covernment considers entirely appropriate the Supreme Cemmemder' sesens
and tiwely aotion recommending that the Japanese Gevermmest effees 
definitive and lasting clarification of the rights of Gevermmem warmers.
Until such clarirication is made and ambodied in law, the resurremee af
labor dieputes involving lovernment workers is likely to contime to
jouperdise the security and objsctives of the ocsupstion.
The Japanese Governaant is now engaged in s eeking & seluties te thie
problem. The solution whieh it proposes will be subjeet to review ky
decision proposed by the oviet sprementative.
CONFIDENTIAL
31r

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
MEORANDUM TO THE UNITED STATES LBER, FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
Tle ln te, States Cuvernment consicers the policy decision proposed
by tie Coviet de resentetive : t)e above subject at the meeting of the
Commission un e, tember 16, 1948 to be based cn a totally erroneous
inter retation of the facts vit: vrich it pur:ports to real, and there-
fore finus it holly unacce table. :urthermore, at a time when legis-
lation is be:ng raftec for subnission to the Liet and review by SCAf,
your Government regarts extenced consiceration by the Commission of
n policy v ti res cct to the rights and cuties of Japenese
Governirent vorkers to be ineppropriate ano und-sirable.
It is therefore tie view of your Government thet discussion of
this subject t the Comris ion shoule be limited as much as is feasible,
and that the flicy ecision roposed by the Soviet Representative should
be brought to as early a vote as is conpatible with your concurrent
cuties es Chsiron.
C) this enu, t: ere is attacheo herewith a statement of the position
of your Government for use in rour ce acity as United States Member.
Thc s ecific corment in tl.is statement is irected only to certain re-
marks made by the Soviet Representutiye at the last meeting of the
Commission, and does not ceal with other views expressed by interdsted
Governments in consideration of this subject. tat
In the light of the foregoing explanetion of the purpose and
limited scope of the attached statement, it is requested that its
substance be presented to the Commission on an opportune occasion at
an early stage of the discussion of this subject.
C. E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
FE:NA
0:JFRay,Jr:mac 9/22/48
EF
FOSXJ
0
Plaxton
alllson) (Snow) (Barnett) (Schuler)
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.95)
DRAFT
Statement of United States Position on Folicy
Lecision iroposed by the Soviet Representative
Inoti to te u the t of thie Commission with restete-
ren f tiepo it ion of  sovern ment on the cuestion of the rights and
Suties f Japanese Governrent werkers. y Government's considered posi-
tion is as set forth in the statement by Secretary of the Army Royall,
vtict wes released to the  ress on September 2. The text of thie state-
ment Lus betn cirou'aten to amler of tie Commission, as have other
ert ment oome   is sul ject, luol int seneral lacArthur's
letter to . rime  inister Ash tt, the iateri or inance issued by the
Japenese Covernrent, md the minutes f the allied Council meeting
on August 2f, st which the visws of various irterested countries were
expressec.
In the opini of y vern ent, the temporery character of the
in'erir ordinance of the Jupanese Government ane the fact that permanent
legislation is non in preparation for submission to the Diet and review
by SCAi, make it unprofitable for the Commission to engage et this time
in an extended consideration of this complex subject. There is, however,
a pelicy decision before the Commission which was proposed by the Soviet
Member at the last meetine of the Comnissio. y Government regards this
proposal as based on & totally erroneous interpretation of the facts with
Iam,howvrr,
which it purports to leal, and finds it wholly unacceptable. fhorofere,
impelled to
on
made
my further comment will be direeted te certein statements by the Soviet
Ambassador at that meeting.
You will recall that Secretary Royall concluded his press release
with the following statement:
"The Department of the Army and other interested Government agencies
are currently reviewing the Interim Ordinance from the point of view of
Allied policy; and along with General MacArthur, the Supreme Commander,
will closely scrutinize the proposed Japanese legislation to ensure
that such legislation as may be adopted by the Japanese Diet does not
impair the basic objectives of Occupation policy for the emergence of a
democratie,estable and peace-loving Japanese nation and the development

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.96)
7
and operation of democratic trade unions."
Ihe Soviet Anbassador has expressed the view thet there is an in-
consistency between iis statement nu ir. Royall's prececing statement
that, "The recom eneat ions pace in cenerel lacarthur's letter, as we
uncerstend trem, co not in any way traverse or conflict with any FEC
labor policies." I fail to see any ioconsistency in these two statements.
ire l n uage of senerel lachrttur's letter vas appropriately generel
rather then spec:fic, in or er t'at tiere might te wide latitude in
+re consi eration  the Japanese Government of the proposed revision
of the ational .uhlic Srvice legislat cn. In the course of such con-
siceretion, t is entirely possille thet the Japenese Government may
introduce con re! encive legislation containing some provisions at
veriance with the brond principles set forth in the General's letter.
It is the normal uty  the Supreme Commancer to review all legislation
adopted hy the Japerese Diet to tnsure thet it uoes not impair in any
respect the basic objectives of occupation policy.
The Soviet Ambassacor elso commented on my remark at the last
meeting that besides the legal problems involved in the National Public
Service Law, General MacArthur has a responsitility to ensure that the
peace and order of the occupied area under his command are not destroyed.
The Ambassador interpreted this remark to mean that in my opinion the
Supreme Commander may have acted extralegally, and alleged that "as a
result of General MacArthur's letter disorders cccurred in Japan".
My Government cannot accept either of the Ambassador's contentions.
My remarks on that occasion merely underlined the overall and indis-
putably legal responsibility of the Supreme Commander to prevent a
disastrous strike which would imperil Japan's economic structure.
It will be

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.95)
It will be recalled that twice in the last 1? months SCAP has
been obliged to pre vent the occurronce of strikes led by the Government
transportation uno communication: workers. In the light of this past
eyperience, Government consiuers entirely appropriate  the
Supreme Comman er recent took timely action  recommend that the
n
Jrpaner- Covernment effect a cefinitive and lastin clarification of
the ri hts of Government workers. Until such clarification is made
nu embo ied in lav, tt recurrence of labor cisputes involving Govern-
ment vorkers is likely to continue to jeoparlize the security and
objectives o the occupation.
The Japanese Government is non engaged in seeking a solution to
this problem. The solution which is propose will be subject to review
by SCi. I have no further observations to meke at this time and am
prepared, as the United States Representative, for an immediate vote
on the policy decision proposed by the Soviet Representative.
A
FE :NA :MGreen :mp
O:JFRay,Ur:mwc

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
October 4
Mr. Butterworth:
Mr. Lovett would ap-
preclate it if you would
draft an acknowledgment to
this letter for him.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES CIVIL SERVIGE COMMIO
WASHINGTON 2S, D. C.
2
1948
49
Honorable Robert A. Lovett
Undersocretary of State
Reply seut
Department cf State
Washington 25, D. C.
1948
10/6/48
Dear Lir. Lovett:
The draft of cablegram to General MacArthur (prepared in the
Department of the Army) concerning the proposed National Public Serv-
ice Law, together with contemplated National Railway Corporation Law
and National Negotiations Law for Puilic Corporations in Japan, has
come to my attention. I believe that the civil service policy ex-
pressed in the proposed legislation, and the suggestions made in the
cablegram, concerning collective bargaining for government employees,
is entirely out of line with the policy of the United States Govern-
ment in its own country, and I raise the question whether we should
approve anything that is contrary to our own policy.
The relationship to his employer of a person working for the gov-
ernment is entirely different from that of a person working for a
private employer who makes a profit on hie wages. In the government
service there is no question of profit or competition between -
ployers, and for that reason there is no temptation to reduce wages
and lower working conditions to the point of exploitation. In this
respect a public employee is in a protected position. As a matter of
CS/V
fact, the proposed National Public Service Law would protect employees
against disadvantageous administrative action to a much reater extent
than is granted to government employees of the United States.
In view of the foregoing I question the appropriateness as a civil
service matter of granting the right of collective bargaining to any
employees of the regular civil service as well as to employees of gov-
ernment corporations.
Sincerely yours.
auces
OCT 14p
Frances Perkins
Commissioner

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.90)
SARZIEERIAL
Geteber 6, 1968
U.- Nr. Lovett
THROUGH:
8/s
FE - Nr. Butterverth
Japanese Covernment Workers' Rights
Reference 1s made to Niss Franeee Perkims' Letter
to you of Oetober 4, 194s (Tab A), 1n whieh she toek
marked exeeption to the Civil Serviee peliey expressed
in she proposed Japanese natienal public serviee legie-
lation, approved by General Naearthur, and in the drart
sable on this same subjeet to General MaeArthar prepered
in the Department of the Army. In meserdanee with your
nekmewledgment (Tab B) to Wise Perkine' letter. This
draft letter has beem approved by Nr. Saltsmem.
In supplementing what I mentiened to yeu Menday en
the pheme, I am taking this oecaslen to review very
goverament workers' rights and to enelese a araft eable
to Gemeral Nacarthur (Tab C), prepared by the interested
offiees of this Department, which sets forth the pesl-
tion which it 1s recommended that the U.S. Sovermmemt
should forthwith take on this questlon.
In July, 194s, an imminent nation-wide strike by
Japanese goverament workers prempted soap to write a
letter to Prime Mimister Ashide resemmending that the
Japamese Coverament sivekd completely revise ite Publle
Serviee Law. sCap reeemmended to Prime Nimister Ashida
that all. Japanese geverament workers be denied the righs
te strike and the right of eelleetive bargaiaing, wish
the exeeptiem that eelleetive bargaining rights of e mes-
ceerelve mature should be retained by goverament rallway
workers and the empleyees of the goverament's salt, eam-
pher and tebaseo momopelies, provided these geveramest
oaterprises were fermed iate publie cerperatiens. The
Japanese Cabimet ferthwith premulgated an interim erdl-
masce giving immediate effeet to Goneral Naearthur's roees-
mendatiens. This ordinanee ls te remaim in foree until
suek time as the revised Natienel Publie Sorviee Lew,
Negesiatiens Law fer Publie Gesporations in dapan are
adopted by the Japanese Dlet, presumably semetime this
ser f1ee

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.94)
CONPIUSERIAL
-2
serviee logislatien, and saap has forvarded the tezt of
thie draft legislation by eable to the U.S. Geverament
for its commental.
The interested ofriees of the State Department (0, L,
E. Pos and FE) have carefully examimed she drafs legis-
latlon, and, after consulting she Department of the Army
and the Department of Labor, prepose that the abeve-
mentioned cable (Tab C) be immediately sens te Gemeral
should be emphasized that the position takem by the state
Department in this sable does met, in my opimien, cemrliet
with the provisions made in General NaeArthur's letter to
Prime Minieter Ashida and does not bring imte dispute any
public statement whieh General NaeArthur has pereenally
made. Furthermore, the position proposed by the State
Department sete a middle course between the viewe of us
organized labor and the Labor Department on the eme hand,
and the Civil Serviee Commission and, to a lesser extemt
the Army Department on the other. Your approval of this
cable is requested.
It should be pointed out that neither the state De-
partment nor its representative in Japan, Nr. Sebald,
(Acting Pelitieal Adviser to General MasArthur), were een-
sulted by sCap or by nis Headquarters in the develepment
of the sdap pesition leading up to the sending of Gemeral
Macarthur's letter to Prime Minister Ashida. Mereever, the
State Department was net comsulted prior to the speeial
meeting of the Allled Counell on August 2s whieh was een-
vened by General Maearthur to discuse the questien of
Japanese government workers' rights, despite the faet that
Nr. Sebald represents the Us on the Allied Coumell. Mr.
sebald has subeequently iaformed me that he was siven emly
six heurs by General MaeArthur to prepare his pesitiem fer
the Allled
I It is lateresting to note that the origimater and
drafter of most of the Publie Serviee Law In Japan has
been SOap's adviser, Nr. Blaine Heover, President of she
Civil Serviee Assembly fer the U.S. and Gamada and fermer
offieial of the Civil Serviee Cemmissien. Mr. Neever has
leng taken the preeise view on the seepe and mature of
the sivil serviee in Japan whieh is expressed in Miss
Perkias' letter. Nr. Neover le reperted to have left
Tokye by air fer Washingten om er abeut September 29.
CONPINENTIAL

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.77)
OOIPLBITIAL
-&
the Allied Counell meeting and was aecerdingly compelled
to adopt verbatim the peliey line already drawn up by
soAp Headquarters.
COLLIDEHTIAL
PEINA:MGrOOnI1t

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
CONPIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DRAFT
SCAP
TOKYOJAPAN
1. Reurad Z-2432l, Cabinet's amendments to the National Publio Serviee Law,
togother with contemplated National Railway Corporation Law, Publio Corporation
Law for Tobacco and other Monopolies, and National Negotiation Law for Publie
Corporations, have been carefully examined here by Departments of Army, State,
and Labor. These measures should strengthen the foundations of a demeoratie
and efficient public service which will miypk uphold the integrity and dignity
of the new Japanese Government without reinstating the ovils of the old
bureaucratic system. Your action to prevent strikes by government workers
regarded as timely for reasons you have cited. While all agree with general
purpose proposed legislation, are cognizant of the delicate situation adsting
as described urad C-63093 and in concluding paragraph Z-24321, and desire to
assist and support you in reaching a practical settlement of this diffioult
problem in a manner appropriate to conditions in Japan and to the satisfactery
conduct of our foreign relations in general, we desire you consider follewing
comments and conclusions as expression of U.S. policy interest in this preblem.
2. As you know, virtually all friendly FEC nations, while willing to
acquiesce in the interpretation that the FEC policy decision O45/5, "Prineiples
for Japanese Trade Unions", tranamitted as JCS directive, Serial 63, deee net
fully apply to all government employees, have stated through diplomatie ehamnels
and otherwise the view that it should apply at least to industrial workers in
government employment. This view is also held by important American laber
leaders who serve in an advisory relationship to the Department ef Laber. Fer

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
your strictly confidential information, the contrary view that JCs Serial 63
has no bearing on government amployees is not repeat not regarded by the
Department of State as capable of successful defense against mounting attacks
by friendly countries in the FEC, axcept through unilateral use of the de
fensive veto by the U.s. member. e are sure you will concur in our earnest
desire to avoid such a development. e believe that broad general suppert
for te legislation would probably be forthcoming from these dovernments if the
legislation does not conflict with an interprotation which we can
ticitly accept, that the terms of JCS 63 should apply to industrial workers
amployed by the government. This tacitly accepted interpretation would be
consonant with pertinent occupation usage prior to the issuance of the
Cabinet Ordinance of July 3l, does not in our opinion conflict with the
terms of your letter to fremier Ashida, nor so far as we can determine,
bring into dispute any statement which you have personally made public.
3. The right to strike is denied to all government employees in the
laws contemplated for enactment with your approval under the present regime
of control. Under any interpretation of  JCS 63, such enactment would be
consistent with FEC policy if you made a finding as Supreme Commander that you
consider that strikes and other work stoppages on the part of any and all
classes of government employees would "directly prejudice the objectives and
needs of the occupation". If you made such a finding, it should obviate the

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
claim that JCs 63 (para 5) does apply, without changing the results you are
seeking. Such a finding could be included in any statement you might make
prior to the enactment of the legislation or at the time of its approvel by
you.
4. The right of collective bargaining, in the sense of ineluding the
coercive power of the strike threat, is likewise denied to all government
employees in contemplated legislation. This denial is felt to be necessary
to meet conditions in Japan, to be desirable as a matter of policy, and to be
fully defensible by this Government with the support of friendly countries,
against any contrary views. For the same reasons and with only moderately
diminished generality of anticipated support. we concur in the view that
collective bargaining in the second and distinct sense of not repeat not
includin; the coercive power of the strike threat, has application only to
limited categories of government employees. The central issue in the contro-
versy which we are concerned to avoid is over the scope of application of the
right of collective bargaining in the second sense to various categories of
government employees.
5. It appears that Railway and Government monopoly workers will be
adequately provided for under the contemplated legislation, although the
National Publio Service Law does not by its terms clearly state whether er
to what axtent they are exeluded from its provisions. We feel that the pre-
posed National Fublic Service Law should clarify this.
6. It is believed, however, on basis U.S. contacts with representatives
friendly governments, that they will argue that the proposed legialatien is
deficient regarding its provisiens for industrial mployees whe are in the
government service but outside the seepe of the propesed Railway and Goverrment

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.98)
-4
Monopoly Corporation Laws. Suah employees would include these
in maintenance, construction, custodial service, government plants and
communications workers other than postal. In accordance with their contentiom
that JCs 63 applies to such amployees, they would claim that the amployees
should have not only the right to organize and join employee asseciations but
also (under Section 4 of JCS 63) to negotiate through such associat ons
regarding terms and conditions of employment and have recourse to mediatiem
and arbitration machinery when industrial disputes cannot be settled by
negotiation. Proposed Japanese legislation evidently does not give such
employees full rights of collective bargaining in the second sense deseribed
in para 4 above (right of negotiation in proposed Japanese law is "selely
in the sense of presenting grievances and making and discussing recomendations")
nor does it provide mediation and arbitration machinery, both of which are
provided for in the case of similar workers in the public corporations.
Concession of these rights to industrial employees of the Government, whe have
enjoyed them until recently should, in our opinion, broaden the basis of
Japanese political support for the proposed legislation; conversely, permanent
withdrawal of these rights would give the Communists grounds for effestive
propaganda in Japan and elsewhere in the world, and would weaken the influence
of anti-Communist labor leaders in Japan (Section 2, para 1, your 2-24286 of
Sopt 27).
7. We consider the provisions of the proposed National Public Service
legislation, which permit employees the right to form or join empleyee
organisations and to present grievances and negotiate through representatives
with the proper authorities, to be desirable as a matter of policy. Cemsern

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
has been expressed over those sections of Articles 96 and l0l which
limit employee representatives to persons in the service who can perform
such activities solely "on an occasional or intermittent basis requiring
only a minor portion of an amployee's time", as being too limiting and not
providing adequate opportunity for resppnsible conduct of the affairs of
these organizations. ie understand fully the abuses which have occurred
in this connection and your reasons for this provision. It is felt, however,
that the quoted passage should be deleted and adequate rules preseribed which
would include appropriate safeguards of the inherent rights of employees.
8. Because of the peculiar nature of their functions as guardians of the
publid safety and order, which is recognized in general practice elsewhere,
we fully concur in and expect no objection to the exclusion from the previsiems
of JCS 63 of the police, fire, coast guard, penal institutions, ete. serviees.
No exceptkon has been taken to such exclusions as provided in previous
Japanese logislation.
9. The proposed National Public Service Law does not and, in our opinien,
should make clear whether and to what extent it will be applicable to prefectural
or local government employees, such as teachers.
10. Last sub-para of Article 1 of National Fublic Service Law implies
that National Personnel Authority can take action by rules which would seem
to nullify provisions of the law itself. This may be due to a mis-translation.
Clarification of the rule-making powers of the Authority appears essential to
insure appropriate control of the Authority by the Cabinet and/er the Diet.

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.98)
6
11. In connection with the terms of the proposed "National Negotiation
Law for Fublic Corporations", which we believe are excellent, coneern has been
felt here regarding "possible penal punishment" for employees resorting to
"acts of dispute". Urad C-63093 cites U.S. logislation which prescribes
extreme punishment as "forßeiture of Civil Service Status", etc.
12. le assume that the additional legislation with respect to public
corporations will be enacted substantially simultaneously with the National
Public Service Law and that your approval of National Public Service Law would
be contingent upon the passage of the other laws. flease advise if otherwise.
13. e would appreciate information at your convenience as to the signifi-
cance of the l951 dates which appear in various places throughout the proposed
legislation.
14. In considering the above comments, your attention is called to the
fact that the U.S. Delegation to the U.N. Assembly has just requested full
background information covering all issues and positions taken by the various
FEC countries on the controversy in question. If, as is probable, the Soviets
make a propaganda issue of this question in the Assembly, it is of particular
importance to the U.S. Delegation that it have the m support of as many
countries as possible. With this in mind, it is most expedient that the views
and interests of friendly FEC countries on this problem continue to receive
our close consideration.
15. Finally, we wish to repeat that all interested agencies of this Governmerit
believe you are achieving gratifying progress toward providing a lasting solutien.
to a problem which has inereasingly menaced political and economie stability in
Japan.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.96)
Form-DS-10
Department of
10/8/8
Datd
6-1-45
State
REFERENCE SLIP
To:
M Clavton
Advise
Note & Return
Approve & Return
Note & File
As You Requested
Per Te lephone Talk
Attention
Previous Correspon.
Attach File
Priority Action
Comment & Return
Reconsider
Consider
Recommend Act i on
Copying
Record
Correct
Reply
File
Return to Sender
Follow-up
Rewrite
Hold
Signature Required
Initials Needed
See Me
Investigate & Report
Take Action
Instruct
Transfer
Justify
Type
Keep Me Advised
Verify
Legal Matter
Reply for Signature of
Memo Required
Not Interested
Note & Destroy
Note & Forward
REMARKS:
be siche of tuns, bat
4 neess bofine
The Arny vrnsion
gets des dibetin
From
lan -0-4219
This Form Printed on Salvaged Stock
25-78359-500

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.96)
PR
CONPIDENTIAL
FINAL APPROVED DRAST
Ootober 8, 1948
SCAP
TOKYO
JAPAN
1. Reurad Z-24321, Cabinet's amendments to the Mational Public Service
Law, together with contemplated National Railway Corporation Law, Public
Corporation Law for Tobacco and other Monopolies, and Mational Megotiation
Law for Public Corporations, have been carefully examined here by Depart-
ments of Army. State, and Labor. These measures should strengthen the
foundations of'a democratic and efficient public service which will uphold
the integrity and dignity of the new Japanese Government without reinstating
the evils of the old bureaucratic system. Your action to prevent strikes by
government workers regarded as timely for reasons you have cited. While all
agree with general purpose proposed legislation, are cognisant of the delicate
situation existing as described urad C 63093 and incconcluding paragraph
Z-24321, and desire to assist and support you in reaching a practical settle
mont of this difficult problem in a manner appropriate to conditions in
Japan and to the satisfactory conduct of our foreign relations in general,
we desire you consider following comments (except where asoribed to mo
intereste in
countries or to others) as expression of U.S. policy/ this problem.
2. As you know, virtually all friendly IEc nations, while willing to
acquiesce in the interpretation that the FE0 policy decision 045/5, "Principles
for Japanese Trade Unions", transmitted as JCs directive, Serial 63, does
not fully apply to all government employees, have stated through diplematic
channels and othervise the view that it should apply at least to industytal
workers in government employment. Jor your strictly confidential infermatien.
COLFIDEETIAL

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.96)
COPRAL
-a
the contrary view that JCs Serial 63 has no bearing on govermment empleyees
is opposed by so many EC countries that it is not repeat not regarded y the
Department of State as capable of successful defense except through unilateral
use of the defensive veto by the U.S. member. We are sure you wilk comour in
our earnest desire to avoid such a development. We believe that breed gemesal
support for the legislation would probably be forthcoming from these geverm-
ments if the legislation does not conflict with the interpretation that the
terms of JCS 63 should apply at least to industrial workers employed by the
government. This interpretation would be consonant with pertinent occupatien
usage prior to the issuance of the Cabinet Ordinance of July 3l, does not in
our opinion conflict with the terms of your letter to Premier Ashida, nor so
far as we can determine, bring into dispute any statement which you have
personally made public. Solution along these lines would, we believe, meet
the objections of such nations and at the same time avoid the necessity for
our acquiescence in their interpretation of JCs 63.
3. The right to strike is denied to all government employees in the
laws contemplated for enactment. Under any interpretation of JCs 63, such
enactment would be consistent with FEC policy if you made a finding as Supreme
Commander that you consider that strikes and other work stoppages on the part
of any and all classes of government employees would "directly prejudice the
objectives and needs or the ocoupation". If you made such a finding, it
should obviate the claim that JCs 63 (pare 5) has been violated by the no-strike
provision, without changing the results you are seeking. Such a finding could
be included in any statement you might make prior to the enactment of the
legislation or at the time of its approval by you (without, of oourse, it
being necessary for you to mention JCs 63).
COMPLDRTAL

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.91)
COIPIDRIAL
-aa)
(Addition to paracraph 3 by Searetary Rovall)
It would be implicit in such a finding that your approval of absolute
denial of the right to strike under proposed legislation is based on
present occupation conditions and does not necessarily prejudge this
question for the future.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
CONPLDDPTTAL
3
4. The right or collective bargaining, in the sense of ineluding the
coercive power of the strike threat, is likewise denied to all government
employees in contemplated legislation. This denial is felt to be neceseary
to meet conditions in Japan, to be desirable as a matter of polioy, and to be
fully defensible by this Government with the support of friendly countries.
against any contrary views. For the same reasons and with only moderately
diminished generality of anticipated support, we feel that collective barain-
ing, in a second and distinct sense of not repeat not including the coercive
power of the strike threat, has application only to certain categories of
government employees. The central issue in the controveray which we are con-
cerned to avoid is over the scope of application of the right or collective
bargaining in the second sense to various categories of government employees,
which is discussed below.
5. It appears that Railway and Government monopoly workers will be ade-
quately provided for under the contemplated legislation, although the National
Public Service Law does not by its terms clearly state whether or to what
extent they are excluded from its provisions. We feel that the proposed
-National Public Service Law should clarify this.
6. It is believed, however, on basis U.S. contacts with representatives
friendly governments, that they will argue that the proposed legislation is
deficient regarding its provisions for industrial employees who are in the
government service but outside the scope of the proposed Railway and Government
Monopoly Corporation Daws. Such employees would include those in maintenance,
construction, custodial services, government plants and communications workers
other than postal. In acoordance with their contention that J0s 63 applies to
CONTIDIITIAL

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.97)
CONDPIDDTIAL
such employees, they would claim that such employees should have not only
the right to organize and join employee associations but also (under Section 4
of JCS 63) to negotiate through such associations regarding terms and condi-
tions of employment and have recourse to mediation and arbitration machinery
when industrial disputes cannot be settled by negotiation. Proposed Japanese
legislation evidently does not give such employees full rights of collective
bargaining in the second sense described in para 4 above (right of negotiation
in proposed Japanese law is "solely in the sense of presenting grievances
and making and discussing recommendations") nor does it provide mediation
and arbitration machinery, both of which are to be provided for in the case
of similar workera in the public corporations. Although we are fully aware
of the practical difficulties inherent in giving such rights to these
employees under present conditions in Japan, concession of these rishts to
industrial employees of the Government, who have enjoyed them until recently.
should, in our opinion, broaden the basis of Japanese political support for
the proposed legislation; conversely, permanent withdrawal of these rights
would enable the Communists to propagandize this effectively in Japan and
elsewhere in the world, and might weaken the influence of anti-Communist
labor leaders in Japan (Section 2, para 1, your Z-24286 of Sept 27).
7. We understand that the provisions of the proposed Mational Public
Service legislation recognize the rights of employees to form or join lawful
employee organisations of their own choosing and to present grievances and
negotiate through representatives (see para 8 below) with the proper authorities.
We consider such provisions desirable as a matter of policy. In this conmection,
we believe we can successfully defend the limitation of rights for ordinary
CODPIDDTIAL

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
COOPTDTTAL
-5
civil service employees to those stated in the first sentence of this paragraph.
However, for your information, in light of the views erpressed by some friendly
FEC countries and by U.S. labor, you night want to consider further extension .
of collective bargaining rights and mediation and arbitration machinery pro-
visions for ordinary civil service employees. In view of the fact that this
extension goes beyond U.S. practice, it is recommended only if you decide that
it would be advantageous, when conditions in Japan are considered.
8. Concern has been expressed over those sections of Articles 98 and 101
which limit employee representatives to those "from among persons in the service".
who can perform such activities solely "on an occasional or intermittent basis
requiring only a minor portion of an employee's time", as being too limiting
and not providing adequate opportunity for responsible conduct of the affaire
of these organizations. We understand fully the abuses which have occurred in
this connection and your reasons for these provisions. It is felt, however,
that the quoted passages should be deleted and provision made in the law for
adequate representation either by employees or by others of their choosing; at
the same time conferring upon the rule-making authority the power by regulations
to prevent abusew of these rights.
9. Because of the peculiar nature of their functions as guardians of
the public safety and order, which is recognized in general practice elsewhere.
we fully concur in and expect no objection from other nations regarding pro-
visions of proposed law relating to the police, fire, coast guard, penal
institutions, etc. services. No exception has been taken to such provisions
in previous Japanese legislation. We understand these provisions would not
prevent suah employees from joining mutual aid and similar benevolent societies.
COMFIDEITIAL

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
COIPIDPPTTAL
-6
10. The pro osed National Public Service Law does not, but in our
opinion should, make clear whether and to what ertent it will be applicable
to prefectural or local government employees, such as teachers.
1l. Last sub-para of Article 1 of National Publio Service Law implies
that National Personnel Authority can take action by rules which would seem
to nullify provisions of the law itself. This may be due to a mis-tranalation.
Clarification of this sub-paragraph appears essential to insure appropriate
control of the Authority by the Cabinet and/or the Diet.
12. The terms of the proposed "National Negotiation Law for Publio
Corporations" apyear to us to be excellent. However, question has been raised
regarding "possible penal punishment" for employees resorting to "acts of
dispute". U.S. legislation cited in urad C 63093 provides "forfeiture of
Civil Service Status", etc. as maximum penalty for such acts.
13. We assume that the additional legislation with respect to public
corporations will be enacted substantially simultaneously with the Nati onal
Public Service Law and that your approval of National Public Service Law would
be contingent upon the passage of the other laws. Please advise if otherwise.
14. We would appreciate information at your convenience as to the
significance of the l95l dates which appear in various places throughout the
proposed legislation.
15. For your information in considering the above, the U.S. Delegation
to the U.. Assembly, in anticipation of possible presentation of this subject
to Committee No. 2 of the U.N. General Assembly by another country, has just
requested full background information covering all issues and positions taken
COIFIDITIAL

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.98)
CONPIPDTIAL
-7
by the various EC countries on the controversy in question. If, as is
probable, the Soviets make a propaganda issue of this question in the
Assembly, it is of articular importance to the U.S. Delegation that it
have the support of as many countries as possible. With this in mind, it
is most expedient that the views and interests of friendly TrC countries
on this problem continue to receive our close consideration.
16. This matter is receiving continuing close attention here. Your
prompt reply to our last cable is greatly appreciated. Request you keep
us informed of developments, including any material changes in this law
and drafts of related proposed legislation when available.
17. Finaily, we wish to repeat that all interested agencies of this
Government believe you are achieving gratifying progress toward providing
a lasting solution to a problem which has increasingly menaced political
and economic stability in Japan.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.95)
F6
1001R
CONFFA
OCT 6 1948
89
In reply refer to
A
94.017/10-448
My dear Miss Perkins:
I have read with laterest your letter of Oeteber 4
1n which you take exception to the eivil serviee peliey
expressed in the proposed Japanese Mational Publie Bervice
Law, the National Railway Corporation Law, the Mational
Negotiations Law for Publio Corporations in Japam, as weml
as in the draft eable to General MacArthur prepared im the
Department f the Army. Coples of your letter have been
ciroulated  the offisers of the Department working em
this probles, who have taken into sonsideration your views
on this pr xlem as expressed in your letter and by your
representa ive in recent eonsultations among the interested
agenoies of the Government.
The Stats Department must, of sourse, determine its
position on the rignts of Japanese govemment workere not
only on the basis of civil service practiees 1n sthis
Gountry but on thne basis of @evelopments in Japam and on
the basis of our internationel relations, partioularly with
the other demooratic sountrles asscslated with the Unlted
States in the Allied oecupation of Japan.
I am enelosing for your information a dreft eable to
SCaP on this problem whioh this Department is tranamitting
C
S
to the Department of the Army with the request that it be
sent to SCap today through Army channels. While this eable
1
does not follow your suggestion for the withhelding of
colleotive bargaining righte from all government workers,
I trust you will a presiate from a reading of the cable
the ressons
894.017
The Honore! le
 Franeee Perkine,
Commissioner,
United States Civil Service Commission,

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.86)
-2-
the reasons why this Department favors the retention of
colleotive bargaining rights of a non-soereive mature
by industrial workers employed by the Japaaese Government.
Sincerely yours,
g
C
Acting Seeretary
Enclosure:
Draft cable to SOAP.
FR:NA:EOF
6/4/4
8
1.11

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
U - Mra Lovett
DATE: Ootober 6, 1948
THROUGH:
s/s
WWB
FROM
FE - Mr. Buttorworth
78.7.a.
SUBJECT:
Japanese Government Workers' Rights
Reference 1s made to Miss Frances Perkins' letter
to you of October 4, 1948 (Tab A), in which she took
marked exception to the Civil Service policy expressed
in the proposed Japanese national public service legis-
lation, approved by General MacArthur, and in the draft
cable on this same subject to General MacArthur prepared
in the Department of the Army. In accordance with your
request I have drafted for your signature the attached
acknowledgment (Tab B) to Miss Perkins' letter. This
draft letter has been approved by Mr. Saltzman.
In supplementing what I mentioned to you Monday on
the phone, I am taking this occasion to review very
briefly the background of the controversy over Japanese
/10-448
government workers' rights and to enclose a draft cable
to General MacArthur (Tab C), prepared by the interested
offices of this Department, whioh sets forth the posi-
tion which it is recommended that the U.S. Government
should forthwith take on this question.
In July, 1948, an imminent nation-wide strike by
Japanese government workers prompted SCAP to write a
letter to Prime Minister Ashida recommending that the
Japanese Government should completely revise its Publio
Service Law. SCAP recommended to Prime Minister Ashida
that all Japanese government workers be denied the right
to strike and the right of collective bargaining, with
the exoeption that collective bargaining rights of a non-
coercive nature should be retained by government railway
CS/A
workers and the employees of the government's salt, cam-
phor and tobacco monopolies, provided these government
enterprises were formed into public corporations. The
Japanese Cabinet forthwith promulgated an interim ordi-
nance giving immediate effect to General MacArthur's recom-
mendations. This ordinance is to remain in force until
such time as the revised National Publio Service Law,
the National Railway Corporation Law and the National
Negotiations Law for Publio Corporations in Japan are
adopted by the Japanese Diet, presumably sometime this
autumn. Meanwhile, the Japanese Government, in olose
03T 28
FILE
collaboration with SCAP, has drafted revised publio
8
service
R.
CONFIDENTIAL
Cat.
mc
Dist.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
service legislation, and soap has forwarded the text of
this draft legislation by cable to the U.S. Government
for its commentsl/.
The interested ofrices of the State Department (0, L,
E, POS and FE) have carefully examined the draft legis-
lation, and, after consulting the Department of the Army
and the Department of Labor, propose that the above-
mentioned cable (Tab C) be immediately sent to General
MacArthur as an expression of this Government's views. It
should be emphasized that the position taken by the State
Department in this cable does not, in my opinion, confliot
with the provisions made in General MacArthur's letter to
Prime Minister Ashida and does not bring into dispute any
public statement which General MacArthur has personally
made. Furthermore, the position proposed by the State
Department sets a middle course between the views of Us
organized labor and the Labor Department on the one hand,
and the Civil Service Commission and, to a lesser extent,
the Army Department on the other. Your approval of this
cable is requested.
It should be pointed out that neither the State De-
partment nor its representative in Japan, Mr. Sebald,
(Acting Political Adviser to General MacÁrthur), were con-
sulted by SCAP or by his Headquarters in the development
of the SCAP position leading up to the sending of General
MacArthur's letter to Prime Minister Ashida. Moreover, the
State Department was not consulted prior to the special
meeting of the Allied Council on August 28 which was con-
vened by General MacArthur to discuss the question of
Japanese government workers' rights, despite the fact that
Mr. Sebald represents the Us on the Allied Council. Mr.
Sebald has subsequently informed me that he was given only
six hours by General MacArthur to prepare his position for
the Allied
1 It is interesting to note that the originator and
drafter of most of the Public Service Law in Japan has
been SCAp's adviser, Mr. Blaine Hoover, President of the
Civil Service Assembly for the U.S. and Canada and former
official of the Civil Service Commission. Mr. Hoover has
long taken the precise view on the soope and nature of
the civil service in Japan which is expressed in Miss
Perkins' letter. Mr. Hoover is reported to have left
Tokyo by air for Washington on or about September 29.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.90)
D.C
CONFIDENTIAL
-3
the Allled Council meeting and was accordingly compelled
to adopt verbatim the policy line already drawn up by
SCAP Headquarters.
CONFIDENTIAL
FE: NA: MGroen: 1t

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.93)
Aoting
5105
ACTION
TED NATIONS
is assigned to
no action
FE
DEC 9  55
DEC 3 - 1948
MESSA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NORTHEAST ASAN AFFAIRS
The (onorable
UCT 2.148
The Sooretary of the Army
DEPARIMENI Uf SIATE
ar . searetary:
"ith reference to the proposed National Publie
Service logislation in Japan, w feel that in at least
twe items it is necessary to give precise instruetioms
to General Meaarthur as a ratter of United Statee peliey.
The right of overnment amployees to join lawful and men-
2280
subversive organisations of their owm cheosing and to be
represented by persons of their own ohoosing should be
894.017/10-2548
clearly recognised in the law.
In the oase of the cormunication workers, we be-
lieve that to the extent possible they should be given
the sane rights of colleotive bargaining extended to
railway workers. In view of the fact, however, that the
strueture of the communications industry in Japan is
different from our own where postal employees are part
of the Federal service and the communications industry
is privately omed, we appreciate that Scap will have to
have considerable leeway in inplementing this poliey.
DEC 22 1948
We want to make it olear, however, that we do net expeet
FILED
these workers in Japan to have any rights which go beyend
the righte of equivalent workers in this oountry.
I should like to point out that the workere of
the Bonneville Power Administration enjey full rights of
colleetive bargaining even though the Administratien is
an integrel part of the Departmont of the Interior.
Yours very truly,
NEDI JOHN
Seoretary of Laber
Loting
94E   43
FAC
01
yon
Class. Sheet Made
4418

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.92)
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
CLABBIPICA
INDICATE
Callect
Charge Department X.
Department of State
RESIRICTED
Charge to
6734
SCAP
OCT 29 194E
377
TOKYO.
Acting
ForPolitical Adviser
894.017/10-2948
Request you airmail urgently two copies official English
text latest draft revision National Public Service Law as
published by Japanese Government, together with notation its
exact status as Ashida Cabinet draft or otherwise.
ttponxocecehptotrbsod bboiseocepcodocetoprmdxcibstroLtratmdomac
Xtoxo rE C C tenkee r r Cn Dthoot ore X Erencexoto  SC bPoombtbodDot t3  P oSoppt Endoer
e
L
CS/B
Acting
(COH)
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
DOD NE 
(OFFICESONLY)
JFRay,Jr:mwc
eE
10/29/48
R:
894.
RESTRICTE
2054
10-2948
CR CLEARANCE
CR
OCT 29/1948P.M.
738

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT D
DETACH THIS FORM
894.
TE
RECORD COPY
NO
48
DESP.702
THE ATTACHED COPY OF ADESPATCH  TELEGRAM  AIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
FROM TOKYO
Cenfidential
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
FilFAP
AUG101949
FILED
M-184
11-9-48

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.79)
DAEANER
For Department use only.
Tokyo, Mevamber 1.19.
Subjort: Devalepmerts in Germestion with the Sational Publde Savodee
The Honsvable
The Sesretary of Stase,
Waskingion.
Sirs
dapasose Hatianal Publie Servise Lew, and to vapuart roment doveege
in thie m
aost. Thie stipaakion raher surprisingiy, wes insorsed mè tke mequest
of fommer Laber Mimksker Karo Kamju. It is believed that ths mew Pas
Minister may wiah to revise this pertion of the draft bill with e view to
eliminehing the authorisstion to negotiate. The Govorneent Sestien of
this Headquarters, hewever, is not fevorably inaliasd teward a Marther
narrowind es the pemmlasive features of the draft and deasres to prewest
the hapeseratds eleeents of the Government frem bringing sbous say furekey
alsevetdons to the mployees' disedvantage.
The cole ergen for aoeoedating complaints of werkere of whatever
casogmey im the Ret ional Governmeut is now the Tenperery Retienal Paremmnel
mmé as dompmeinte on the pert of thoir ce warieore.
The so

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.91)
Tolge'
Zovaser 1, 1948
RESTRIOT
The wave of jeb desertiens whdan bogen in August and wdsh
Headquartere on Sept mber 10. The statement of the depuky whief of h
prosecution was dirested at the deaision of the Castral Commistee of the
National Communications Workers' Union in early Sept ember to adopt &
"struggle polioy" to be carried out through desertin of jobs mnd ether
means availahle to casmunieations workers. Nereever, en Septsmher & the
Governmsnt Railway Horkers' Union Headquarters had isoued a direstive to
all loeals te prevent their mambers frem deserting their plases of werk
in defiance of the National Publio Servioe Ordinanee.
Although, following shese events, the number of job desersions
diminished considerably, the police aut horities had already arrested ast
contimued to arrest govermmemt maployees seserting their plases of work.
By October 18 a total of 1, 776 warrants of arrest had beem isseed thpemgh
meabere of the Government Railway Workers' Unien. A table shetdngy as of
Oetober 18, 1948, the number of desertions, warrants ismued, arresks made,
warrants outetanding, releases from arrest and persons who had returned to
their posts by Coteber 18, ascording to union mmmbership, is melosed.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sobald
Enclosure:
Copy of Rsport regarding number
of workere who loft posts in
violation of Cabinet Ordinance
Rolating to Public Servico Law,
as of 0atober 18, 1948.
Original and heatograph to Departmont
BO
JDEdwards:os
RESTRICTRO

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.85)
Enslomare to Detpatch o.  da
RESTRICTED
Sovemiber 1, 19 frem the orrise  the
Umited States Political Adviser, Zapa
Takyo, entitled "Dsvelopmante in Genmsetácn
wità the Matiomal Public Service Lam.
(00P1)
RBPORT
: Bmber of Tuose  Lar Post in Vialati of
Cabinet Ordinamce Ralating to Publie Service Law
( of Octobar 18. 198)
Gsteber 22.1
1
20
3.
5.
CLASSIPICATIN
THOSE HHO
THOSE POR WHOE
THOSK 
THOSE 
THOSE MEO THOSE WD
LENT
WARRANT S oF
WERE
WERE NOT
RETUBED
POSTS
ARKEST IBBUED
AREESTED
YET ARRISTED RELKASED TO POSINS
G() 1,787
1,381
723
538
1
442
SCWD(ZESTEI)
427
383
217
173
6
Total
2,24
1,764
940
711
150
43
ora
12
12
9
3
Grand Total
2,226
1.776
9A9
726
150
40
*GRsbGoveosnt Ratleny Worters Isdes; Hws Det leoel Cemmisatiens Martore Jaion.
Seress: Katrepolitam Pelise Beard.
Report Bade by XX.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: November 24, 1948
SUBJECT:
UK Position on National Public Service Law Before Japanese Diet.
PARTICIPANTS: Mr. H. A. Graves, British Embassy
0 - r. Claxton
NA- Mr. Green
POS-Mr. Schuler
O - Ár. Saltzman
COPIES TO:
NA - Mr. Bishop
FE - Mr. Allison
E - kir. Barnett
ILH- Mr. Sullivan
0 - Mr. Hay
x4
At the meeting of the Far Eastern Commission on Wednesday, November 24,
Mr. Graves read the attached statement, noting that Article 98 of the National Public
Service Law does not provide a means whereby Japanese civil servants who might have
grievances regarding their conditions of employment would have access to independent
arbitration machinery, and stating that His Majesty's Government would regret the
enactment of any permanent legislation which failed to provide for independent
arbitration machinery.
Following the meeting I mentioned to him that we had understood from Mr. Ford
that the UK did not plan to make any statement on the labor legialation. He said
that was correct because his Government was relying on the representations which
had been made directly to the State Department and on the statement made by
Mr. Bevin to Secretary Marshall to persuade the United States to takeBctien deemed
desirable by the UK. He said it appeared evident that the U. S. had not taken such
action and that his Government felt it necessary to take a position imthe commission.
I stated that I was not clear from the statement made by Mr. Bevinor by
Mr. Graves whether the UK view that independent arbitration was essential presupposed
the right of government employees to enter into a collective bargaining agresment
with the government. He did not answer this question categorically but indicated
his understanding that the main interest of the UK was that the ordinary government
workers had the right of collective presentation of views and grievances and that
if an accommodation could not be reached with the government-employer, then there
sheald be arbitration machinery independent of the Government to hear the views or
grievenmes andito render decision which sould be binding on the Government, subject
to peliminary review. He stated that the anrangemtnt by which the National
Publie
es
13286
CONFIDENTIAI
4194

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
necessary.
He said he had also been instructed to make certain comments regarding the
proposed legislation dealing with workers in government enterprises but thet he
had not done so since the legislation had just been received by the Fmc Seere-
tariat and was not yet circulated to the Commission.
Mr. Green inquired of Mr. Graves what action he thought his Government would
wish to take should the Japanese Diet adopt the pending legislation umchanged.
He indicated that his Government would probably accept this conalusion with some
axpression of regret.
Mr. Graves stated that he had already seen the revision to Paragraph 98
(which has just yesterday been received by the State Department) and that it is
even less satisfactory than the former Paragraph 98 which was ciroulated to the
Commission.
He said that in addition to the statement before the FEC his Government had
asked him to make another representation to the State Department and that he
planned to do so on Friday or Monday. Feeling that the matter might become one
of considerable importance I suggested that he come to see Mr. Butterworth or
Mr. Saltzman.
Attachment
opy statement re Para 98
O:PPClaxton:br
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
I should like to make a short comment on Pmc 267/1 and 2, thet
the paper dealing with the proposed revision of the National Publie
Service Law.
My Governmmnt have examined the revised draft and have paid
particular attention to Article 98. On the information available it
does not appear to us that there is any provision in the draft whereby
Japanese civil servants, who might have grievances regarding conditions
of their employment, would have access, in the last resort, to independ-
ent arbitration machinery.
Our understanding of the regulations governin the submission of
grievances is that the National Personnel Authority would itself determine
questions of compensation and other matters affecting civil servants,
and that appeals would be decided by that Authority instead of by an
independent body.
His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom would regret the
enactment of any permanent legislation which failed to provide for
independent arbitration machinery.
I do not propose, Mr. Chairman, to comment on the proposed legisla-
tion relative to other workers in government enterprises but my
Government will no doubt instruct me to make observations when there is
a little more information available as to the underlying intentions of
the relevant legislation.
CONEINFNTIAL

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.93)
13-46DEPART
DIV IS ION CF COMMUN ICATIONE AND REOORDS
TQ
The enolosures purportedly acconpanying
this despatcil vore not roceived with the
despatch. The cnclosures, when received,
will bo routed to you.
Hillue
Facilities Pranch DO

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States rolitioal Adviser
for Japan
1TP
Tokyo, Degomber 9, 1948
lili
+61
No. 774
WUT
CONFIDENTIAL
DC/A
(For Department Use Cnly)
894.044
Subjeot: Political Repercussion of Revision of National
YR
rublic Service Law.
8945
F5
The Honorable
22
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
C
030
894.017/12
Sir:
74.1110-204
0/0
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's
despatoh No. 465 of July 24, 1948, concerning the
Supreme Commander's letter of July 22 to former
Premier ASHIDA Hitoshi directing revision of the
Mational Publie Service Law primarily for the purpose
of prohibiting strikes among government workers, and
to a number of subsequent despatches on this subject.
Un November 30, 1948 the National Diet passed
the government's biil.revising the Publio Service Law.
Conourrent with passage of the bill, the Supreme Com-
mander issued a publie statement on December 1 relative
1/
to the legislation, five copies of which are enolosed.
According to this statement, the Japanese public service
has been elevated to a new dignity and has beem assured
against the invasion of licentious minority pressures.
The Supreme Commander's statement, affirming that the
new legislation has no bearing on the rights of labor
engaged in private enterprises, denied that it is a
negation of fundamental workers' rights in the trade
union movement. As in his letter of July 22 to the rrime
Minister, the Supreme Commander again noted that the
principles involved in this legislation ere in conformity
with the views of President Roosevelt with the significant
exception that the new Public Service Law embodies the
prinoiples of elleotive bargaining for the mgleyees
of publie corperatioas. Striking at determined ommunist
deelared:
It is
22
ITIAL
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 774,
Deoember 9, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
It is a strange politioal and social
phenomenon that many of those very employees
for whom this wise and advanced legislation
is designed to relieve and proteot romain
under the spell of a thoroughly disorodited
leadership whose ultimate goal is retrogression
rather than progress, disoord and confusion
rather than harmony and stability.
The new legislation, in the Supreme Commander's view,
is therefore "a victory for those who seek the integrity
of representative govern ent over those who would loave
government easy prey to minority subjugation".
Five copies of the text in Japanese and English
translation of the bill for amending the National rublio
21
Service Law are enclosed with this despatoh. The printed
(Japanese) and mimeographed (English) texts are the
form in which the bill was introduced in the Diet on
November ll. Revisions in the text made in the course
of the Diet's deliberations on the bill are indicated
in ink in the Japanese text and in the English translation.
The revision of the Public Service Law as initiated
by the Supreme Commander's letter of July 22 has been
the ocoasion of heated controversy in Japanese politioal
and labor circles. On receipt of the Supreme Commander's
letter, the Japanese Government (then headed by Dr. Ashida)
issued a Cabinet Ordinance on July 30 whioh prohibited
further strikes and labor agitation by government workers
pending formal revision of the Public Service Law by
the National Diet. The use of a Cabinet Ordinance to
implement the Supreme Commander's letter as a temporary
measure having the force of law until legislation
could be passed provoked strong opposition from communists
and labor leaders who contested the constitutionality of
suoh a procedure. The Japan Communist Party spearheaded
this opposition through party agitators among leftist
labor unions and through the organization of a front
group oalled the Demooracy Proteotion League (Minshu-shugi
Yogo Remmei). During August and September efrorts were
made to foment nation-wide strikes and walkouts among
government workers, with speoial attention direoted at
the government railway workers. In an effort to oiroum-
vent the Cabinet Ordinance, "job desertion" taotios
keynoted this la bor agitation. Government railway workers,
partioularly in Hokkaido, deserted their posts in such
large numbers that it appeared for a time that railway
trafrio would be seriously ourtailed.
The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's. Despatoh No. 774,
December 9, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
The Japanese Government, however, realized that
it enjoyed SCAP support in enforoing the Cabinet Ordinanoe,
and began large-scale arrests of job deserters and
communist agitators among railway workers. These large-
scale arrests, including several prominent communist
party members, soon broke the back of the job desertion
movement, but such tactics only intensifiod communist
opposition to revision of the rublic Service Law.
On October 6 the Ashida Cabinet resigned because
of implication of Cabinet members in the Showa Denko
scandal. Mr. YOSHIDA Shigeru, head of the Demooratio
Liberal Party and former Prime Minister, was elooted
by the Diet to form a new government on Ootober 14.
The new Yoshida Cabinet found revision of the Publio
Service Law a priority order of business. Although
Prime Minister Yoshida and his conservative party were
in full accord with the purpose of revising the Public
Service Law, the manner in which the Prime Minister
was confronted with this problem has unquestionably
proved costly from the political standpoint.
Mr. Yoshida was elected to the premiership after
a triangular conflict in the Diet among the three major
parties, none of which enjoys a majority in the Lower
House. Although he has the advantage of heading a
single party cabinet in contrast to the previous coalition
governments, his position on the basis of his eleotion by
the Diet is a tenuous one. Mr. Yoshida and his party
advisers are convinced that a new general eleotion will
assure the Demooratic Liberal Party a far stronger position
in the Lower House if not a clear-cut majority. They
have been convinced, however, that the election must
be held as soon as possible before Mr. Yoshida suffers
any decline in prestige. It was therefore important,
from the Democratio Liberal Party's s tandpoint, that
the Yoshida Cabinet effect an early dissolution of the
Diet and have a general eleotion as soon as possible.
In addition to the constitutional question whioh
rose over the Cabinet's right to effect dissolution
under Artiole 7 of the Constitution, the Yoshida Government
was saddled with the task of meeting the Supreme Commander's
desire for early revision of the National Publio Servioe
Law. It was therefore necessary to abandon plans to
dissolve the Diet and to prooeed with revision of the
law. This disadvantageous and somewhat embarrassing
situation has been exploited by the opposition parties,
and the delay inourred in seouring passage of the amend-
ments to the Publio Service Law may prove politically
costly to the Yoshida Cabinet when a general eleotion
is finally held.
The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 774,
December 9, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
The bill for amending the Public Service Law was
introduced in the Diet on November ll. The most signifi-
oant political development in the course of deliberations
on the amendments was the Sooial Demooratic Party'
final decision to withdraw its support of the bill. When
the Ashida Cabinet first began drafting a bill, the
Social Democratic Party pledged its support, although
at a later date considerable opposition developed within
the party as to the manner in which the bill treated the mat-
ter of collective bargaining by government workers. Finally,
however, the party under Mr. KATAYAlA Tetsu's leadership
decided to oppose the bill on the eve of the vote.
The passage of the bill amending the National Publio
Service Law on November 30 has been received with mixed
feelings by the Japanese public. It has been difrioult
for many Japanese to consider the bill independently of
the political bickering which characterized the Diet
session at which it was passed. For example, the
influential Tokyo Asahi in its issue of December 2
referred to the "disgusting" session of the Diet which
could do nothing without "the advice and aid of General
Headquarters". Although the session of the Diet oould
be viewed as a success in that the amendments to the
Public Service Law were finally passed, Hoohi Shimbun
referred most ∞ ntemptuously to the political Jockeying
between the government and the opposition parties, all
of whom appeared to have ignored completely the purpose
for which the session was called. Particularly undesirable
in the view of this paper was the controversy over the
matter of dissolution, an issue which was only sottled
through the "good offices" of General Headquarters. This
paper blamed the government for unnecessarily irritating
the opposition by Mr. Yoshida's refusal to give an
administrative speech and his "inconsistent" attitude
toward submitting a budget at the session. According to
Mainichi Shimbun, in an editorial on December 2, the
session was "marked throughout by moves of the various
parties aiming solely at their own interests and strategy
and showing no sign of prudent deliberation on important
bills. This paper also took the Socialists to task for
violating their pledge to support revision of the National
Public Service Law.
Throughout newspaper comment on the subjeot, the
significanoe of the bill is somewhat lost in general
disoussion of the charaoter of the Diet session and the
tactios of the government and opposition parties.
Most conservative sentiment, however, is strongly
in favor of the revised legislation as a device to ourb
radioal labor exeesses and assure the stability of the
public service. In this sense, the Supreme Commander's
statement
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatok ..: 774,
December 9, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
statement of December l received as much if not more
praise than the bill itself. Mainiohi in its issue
of December 2 regarded the Supreme Commander's statement
as "most opportune" in view of the misunderstanding and
false impressions which have arisen in conneotion with
revision of the rublic Service Law. The paper subtly
intimated that the Supreme Commander's statement was
of more importance than the revised legislation.
While most sentiment appears favorable toward the
amended Public Service Law, the Japan Communist Party
has launched a vigorous campaign for the repeal of its
recent revision. The December 2 issue of Akahata oon-
demned the revised law as a measure sponsored by "monopoly
capital" which runs ∞ unter to the "demooratization of
this country". The communist daily charged that the
revision violates the spirit of the Potsdam Deolaration
and tramples under foot the sixteen principles relating
to labor unions advocated by the Far Eastern Commission.
The workers of Japan, therefore, should "join hands to
counterattack the offensive of their enemies" who have
attempted to disarm them by this legislation so that
"foreign capital may be introduced and greedy exploita-
tion by monopoly capital exercised".
At the same time, Akahata did not negleot the
significance of the Soclal Democratic Party's eleventh
hour defection, which is described as "most sneaky"
and obviously motivated by "fear of the wrath of labor".
The failure of the Social Demooratic Party to support
the bill has apparently embarrassed the communists who
unquestionably hope to take over leadership of all
opposition to the revision movement. As early as August,
through the organization of the Demooracy rroteotion
League, the communists had already moved to assume this
leadership. Now, however, the Japan Communist Party
finds itself faced with a powerful rival.
The Socialists' position as opponents of the bill
is, however, an awkward one. Although Mr. Katayama
had originally pledged his party to support revision of
the law, opposition, partioularly within the left wing,
gradualiy increased as party leaders began to realize
the extent to which labor is opposed to the revision.
With the communists the only political party categorically
opposed to the bill, the Social Democratio Party found
itself in the position of possibly alienating much of
its labor support. It is very likely, therefore, that
the Japan Communist Party's determined and vigorous
opposition to the revision of the law foroed the hand
of the Social Demooratio Party. It is doubtful, however,
if the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 774,
Decomber 9, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-6-
if the communists originally intended to have such
a reaotion take place, While the communists may olaim
credit for forcing the Socialists to oppose the bill,
they must also reckon with a Sooial Demooratio effort
to capitalize on its opposition in future appoals for
labor support.
With one major party on record as opposed to the
revision of the National Public Servioe Law, this
question wd ll undoubtedly become an important issue
in the coming general election. At the same time, the
position taken by the Social Democratic Party tends to
bring its left-wing members much closer to the communist
party, notwithstanding the uncomplimentary manner in
whioh the communists have criticized the action of the
Social Democratio Party as a whole. Already roports
indicate that in some of the local districts, particularly
in Aomori Prefecture, communist and socialist loaders
are beginning to work together for the coming elootion
campaigns.
For the immediate future it appears that controversy
over revision of the rublic Service Law will bring about
considerable realignment in the political field. Leftist
political leaders fully realize the extent to whioh
organized labor, partioularly the powerful National Congross
of Industrial Unions, opposed revision of the Publio
Service Law. The "labor vote" has become a recognized
political potential in postwar Japan, whioh the leftist
parties cannot afford to ignore.  The Social Demooratio
Party, composed of heterogeneous elements ranging from
liberal to radical, has never been a cohesive, well-knit
politioal body. It has suffered serious internal dissension
among its complex elements and recent bolting of maloontent
groups has threatened to break up the party. The inoon-
sistent action concerning revision of the Publio Service
Law has further intensified the internal pressure which
threatens to disrupt the party. In order to bid suo-
cessfully for labor support, it now appears that the
Social Democratio Party will either be radically reorganized
or be disbanded and rebuilt as an entirely new party around
its more leftist leadership.
The Japan Communist Party, on the other hand, enjoys
a consistent, olear-out record with respeot to its opposi-
tion to revision of the Publio Service Law. How vigorously
the communist party intends to make the law's revision
a political issue in the coming election can be seen
by Mr. DOBASHI Kazuyoshi's formal joining of the party
on Deeember 6 in order to run for the Diet as a communist
candidate. (This Mission's A-242 of December 7, 1948
inc∞rreotly reported Mr. Dobashi as head of the Natiomal
Congress of Industrial Unions. Mr. KAN Makoto is ohairman
of the Central Executive Committee of the NCIU). As head
of the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Dospatoh No. 774,
Dooember 9, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-7-
of the All-Japan Communication Workers Union, Mr. Dobashi
has already waged a determined campaign against revision
of the rublic Service Law in the name of organized Labor.
He has become more identified with this opposition than
any other public figure.
Communist leadership in the fight against revision,
now strengthened by Mr. Dobashi's entry into the elootion
contest as the most powerful labor leader in Japan, will
unquestionably force the Social Demooratio Party to
attempt more positive action. But if this party is unable
to reconcile its internal conflicts, it may very likely
disintegrate completely. In view of this possibility,
the appearance of the new Labor-Farmer rarty (Rodosha
Nomin To), organized by Mr. KURODA Hisao and other
Ieft-wingers who deserted the Social Demooratic rarty,
is of significance, for there is inoreasing recognition
of the need for a real labor party.
The controversy over the National rublic Sorvice
Law has strengthened the position of the conservatives.
The Democratic Party regards Mr. Katayama's withdrawal
of support for revision of the Publio Service Law as
unwarranted betrayal of a pledge. The basis of the
coalition between the Social Demooratic and Demooratic
parties, which made possible the Katayama and Ashida
cabinets, has probably been undermined beyond repair.
How far this will stimulate cooperation between the
Demooratic Party and Prime Minister Yoshida's Demooratic
Liberal Party, or assist the movement for the creation
of a new conservative party remains conjectural, but
such a coalition or merger is being seriously considered.
The conservative foroes have also seoured, through
the revision of the National Publio Service Law, a
powerful weapon to combat the communists. By proteoting
the publio service from strikes and other forms of labor
agitation, the ability of the communists to attack
conservative cabinets by labor strife in the government
service has been nullified. While the communists will
unquestionably develop other taotics to utilize govern-
ment service personnel, they have lost what has hereto-
fore been their most powerful device for bringing direct
pressure on the government - a general strike of govern-
ment workers.
Respeotfully yours,
W. J. Sebald

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo's Deapatch No. 774,
Deoember 9, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-8-
rnl
Enclosures:
1. Press Release
December 1, 1948.
2. Japanese text and English
translation of bill for
amending National Public
Service Law.
entrim
Filer
ceetachyr
Original
heetekraph to Department.
804.4
CNSpinks:mhp

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.93)
Caaven
Ma
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DIVISION OF
ORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
5185
AIRGRAM
I PARTMENT OF STATE
Action Asrigned to NA.
FROm:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
oo achu Date of
mailing: Sept ember 24, 1949.
RESTRICT)
--Recd : Sept. 30, 1949; 10:48
1
Oc1l, 49.
M
Jecretary o tate,
ACTION:
NA.
1..
FE
vashinjtop.
u feen
INFO
DCR
L
O.LI
On Sept euber 17, 1949, the Nat ional Personnel Authority amounoed
CIA
a ruling (Rule l4-7) larifying th, scope of political activity from
which civil servants re banned by rticle l02 of the National Publie
Service Lsw. his a icle provides that public officials cannot
y8
solicit or reccive uhscriptions or tenefits for any political party
or for any political p rpcse, or rigage in any political activities
other than exercising the franchise. Article 102 also provides that
/9-2349
governnent officials cannot run for public office or be officers or
advisers t, any political party.
The new ruling by the National Personnel Authority, effective
from Septeuber 19, ccvers all civil servants except part-time m-
ployees such as advisers, consultants, or committee men, and applies
to any political activity in "ncn-work hours". Political activity
is specifically listed under seventeen categories. The rulirg pro-
hibits public servants from participating in the formation of political
parties or organizations. While a government official may become a
member of a political party, he cannot participate in any political
membership drive. Officials are also prohibited from publishing,
editing, or distributing political party publications; they are also
barned from supporting or opposing candidates for public office or
fron participating in campaigns to collect signatures for the recall
of a public official or the dissolution of local assemblies.
RUSTRICTED
HHFILED
OCT 7 1949
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—Thle eopy wuet bo returned to DC/R eontral es

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's A-215, Sept ember 23, 1949.
-2
Other activities prohibited by the new ruling inolude
politicul demonst rations, makcing political speeches, dioplayang
political posters, presenting dramas with political implicatiorr
distributing or malting political badges or flags or wearing ch
insignin during vorking hours.
Person convicted of violating these regulations are liahloto
imprisorment up to three years and fines up to Yen 100,000.
President Abnl Kiyoshi, President of the National Porsonmal
Authority, in a st tanent to the press poirted out that the Constita
tion provides that all puulic officials are servants of the whole
community  nd not c any group thereof (Article 15). Any political
activity on behalf of a particular politicel group or party pleces
public sery nts in a position "inconsistent with their own standing
as servants of the whole community". Accordingly, the scope of
Article 102 of the Mutional rublic Service Law has been clarified
"with a viey to enhancing the confidence of the people in govarmment
employees b clarifying their impartial position as publio servant
of the whole co wunity".
SEBALD
350
CNSpinks:hh
RESTRICTED
