894.01B Government. Mandates, Recognition., Japan, Agents., September 17, 1934 - May 10, 1939 (File 1099)
ID: 894.01B-1099   Pages: 513   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.01b-government-mandates-recognition
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
Division
FAR EASTERN AFFA
SEP 18.1934
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
90
EASTERN AFFAIRS
LEGAL ADVISER
Soptember 17, 1934.
DEPAR MENT OL STATT
DIVISION OF
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AND R CORDS
Mr! Tauchiya of the Japapese Embassy. Mr. Tsuchiya added
NOV 30 1934
orally that the Japanese official concerned plans to loave
meat of Seste
Now York for England tomorrow, and that the Japanese Embassy
894.01B
would be grateful if the Treasury Department "could extend
to Mr. Yamamoto the same courtesies that were accorded to
his predecessor in the matter of the income tax".
I ascertained from Mr. Swaze of the Treasury Department
that the Treasury Department had issued about a month ago
26
a ruling that foreign officials without a diplomatic or
consular status are subject to the income tax. Mr. Swaze
referred me to a Mr. Sunderland of the Bureau of Internal
Revenue.
I explained the matter to Mr. Sunderland and asked
whether it would be possible by some administrative measure
to deal with the practical problem involved -- that of
permitting Mr. Yamamoto to leave New York tomorrow.
Mr. Sunderland suggested that Mr. Yamamoto call on the
*revenue agent in charge in New York, who would undoubtedly
be in position to suggest some method by which Mr. Yamamoto
could obtain the necessary permission to leave the United.
C
FEED
i 
States.
0
1934
 Yis Battery Place, Mewbrkals.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
I telephoned the information back to Mr. Tsuchiya,
who said that he would call Mr. Yamamoto on the long
distance telephone and transmit the suggestion made by
Mr. Sunderland.
FEYI
DLY

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Yorio Yamamoto, an official of the
Imperial Japanese Railway Department, who has
been staying in New York for three years as a
representative of the said Department, is re-
quested by the authorities of the Treasury De-
partment to pay his income tax during his stay
in New York on applying for a sailing permit for
England.
Accord ing to the usual courtesies ex-
tended by the United States Government to such
officers as Mr. Yamamoto, he wishes to be treated
like his predecessors.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.89)
ARTMERT OF STATE
DIVISIGN OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Sefh 27.1934.
Le.
M. Vallanee
Would you prefer
to drath a refly?
Dorwas
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAHRS
0CJ1-1934

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
Division
FAR EASTERN A
3
SEP.27.1934
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1934 SEP 26 AM 94/82.
JEIVED
SEP 25 1934
LIVISION OF
October 8 1934,
COMMUNICITIONS
LESAL ADVISER
AND RLDS
Sir:
iAn
I have the honor to inform you that Mr.
Yorio Yamamoto, Secretary of the Department of
894.01B11
Railways of the Japanese Government, who has been
894.01B
stationed in New York for the purpose of studying
railway conditions of the United States since
January, 1932, was requested to pay an income tax
27
since the above mentioned date upon his application
for a sailing permit for Europe.
Mr. Yamamoto complained to the Revenue
Officers in New York, on the ground that, according
to the usage of the Internal Revenue Office of New
OCT 4 -1934
FILED
York, Japanese Government officials stationed in
this country having such a status as that of Mr.
Tamamoto have been exempted from income taxation.
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Seeretary of State,
Washingten.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
Owing to the courtesy of the Income Tax
Officers in New York, Mr. Yamamoto sailed for
Europe on the deposit of bond on September the
18th.
In bringing this matter to your attention
I should be groatly obliged if you would be good
enough to use your good offices in adjusting it.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of
my highest consideration.
Meinsanke Sji
Chargé d'Arfaires ad interim

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.92)
October 8 1934.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I tranemit herewith a oopy of a note dated Septem-
ber 25, 1934, received from the Japanese Chargé d'Affaires
ad interim in this capital concerning the action of the
894.01
inoome tax offieers in New York in requiring Mr. Yorio
Yammmoto, Seoretary of the Department of Railways of the
Japanese Government to deposit a bond for the payment of
inoome tax prior to his departure for Europe on Septem-
B
ber 18, 1934.
I shall be grateful if you will give this matter
2
oonsideration and arrange to have the bond given by
Mr. Yamamoto released if he can be exempted from income
tax in accordance with the practice of your Department
in similar cases.
Bincerely yours,
Art rhillip
Enolosure:
Under e retary.
Frem Japanese Embassy,
September 25, 1934.
The Nemerable
copy of
84PM
Henry Morgeathau, Jr.,
the
origh
a0
seeretary of the
W
in. 20. A.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.90)
Oetober 8 1984.
sir:
894.01
I have received your note No. las dated Septem-
ber 35, 1934, concerning the requirement ef the imeeme
tax officers in New York that Wr. Yorio Yammmote,
B
Beeretary of the Department of Railways of the Japanese
Government deposit a bond for the payment of inoome
taxes prior to his departure for Europe on September 18,
1934.
I have brought this matter to the attentiom of the
appropriate authority of this Govermment and et a later
date I shall ocommunionte with you again comeerming it.
Acoept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high
consideration.
For the Seeretary of state:
William Phillips
à
copy of
nigi
mscnesuse Puiss,
1u/m
E

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.95)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
4
DEPARTMENT O: STATE
WASHINGTON
1934 OCT 29 AM 9 11
C1.1
GALADVISER
COMMUINS
The Honorable,
AND REONDS
note
The Secretary of State.
au
DEARENTOFSTATE
Sir:
894.01B
I have the letter of Under Secretary Phillips dated October 3,
1934, (Le 894.01B 11/27) with its enclosure, a copy of a note from
the Japanese Charge d' Affaires ad interim in this city, dated
September 25, l934, conc  ing the action of the income tax officers
in New York in requirin . Yorio Yamamoto, Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Railways of the Japanese Government, who has been stationed
in New York for the purpose of studying railway conditions of the
United States since January 1932, to deposit a bond for the payment
of income tax prior to his departure for Europe on September 18, 1934.
/28
Mr. Phillips requests that consideration be given to this matter and
arrangements be made to release the bond given by Mr. Yamamoto, if he
can be exempted from income tax in acoordance with the practice of
the Treasury Department in similar cases.
The question as to the tarability of the compensation received
for services rendered within the United States by a nondiplomatic
representative of a foreign country stationed in the United States
is receiving the careful consideration of this Department. When a
conclusion is reached you will be advised as to the exemption or
income tax liability of Mr. Yamamoto and the consequent release of
the bond given by him.
Im the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:E:RR-MIM.
NOV 9 - 1934
FILED
Respectfully,
thahen13, kithons
Acti Secretary.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
Nmber 9 184.
Exeellemey:
Referring to the mbesay's note No. l8s, dated
894.01
September m5, 1934, and the Department's reply of
Oetober 3, 1934, coneerning the requirement of the
8
1meome tax officers in New York that Mr. Yorio
Yamamoto, Jeoretary of the Denartment of Hoilvays
2
8
of the Japanese Governasit, deposit a bond for the
payment of income taxes prior to his departure for
Kurope on eptember 18, 1934, 1 have the honor to
adviee you that the appropriate authority of this
Government has stated that the question as to the
texability of the eompemsation reselved fer services
readered within the United States by a men-diplematie
represemtative of e fereign ecuntry statiomed in the
Uaited states is reseivins eareful eemsideretiem,

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.87)
and as seem as e comelusiem is reeshed wità regeré
to the mstter a ecmunisetios will be farwarded to
this Depertment comeerning the exemptiom er imeeme
tax l1ability of Mr. Yamamoto.
I shall communioate with you again concerning
this matter as soom as : am advised of the decision
reached with regard to this oase.
Accept, kxoellenoy, the renowed assuranoes or
my highost oonsideration.
1.09
NOV 3 1984
POB
896.018 11/28
FE
97
m.m.H
WRN
B：V:1W0:88
11/0
Hhu
2.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
Novomber 9 1954.
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
894.01
I have reeeived a letter dated Osteber 26, 1934,
from the Asting Seeretary of the Treasury eomserming
the exemptien of Mr. Yorio Yamamote, Seoretary of
the Department of Railways of the Japanese Govermment,
8
from 1neome tax liability (your file IT:E:RR-MIM).
11/28
It is moted that consideration 1s being given by
offieers of your Depsrtment to the taxability of
the compensation reeeived for services rendered
within the United States by a non-diplomatie repre-
sentative of a fereim sountry stationed here, and
that this Department will be advised as to the
exemption or income tax liability of Mr. Yamamoto
when a conclusion is reached with regard to this
question.
On
The Henerable
Beary Mergenthau, Jr.,
Seeretary of the Treasary.
X

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.94)
 eeteber so, 10ss, Nr. maikasm Ite, Secend
Seevetary of the Japemese mubessy, called at the
Depertment with regure to this matter and stated
that the mmbassy was intereeted in taking up with
this Department the questien of megetistions which
might leed to a resiprosal agresment betweem Japen
and the United States to erempt officlals without
a diplematic or sonsular status from imoems taxes.
Mr. Ito referred specifieally to the diffioulties
resently experienced by certain Japanese Government
offieials in leoving the United States owing to
inoome tax elaims against them. It is understood
that your Department has exempted officers of the
Japanese Government from the payment of inoome taxes
on offiolal incomes reoeived while they have been
statiened in the United States, and that the Japanese
Government has exempted offio1als of the United States
under similar ciroumstances from the payment of
ineome taxes.
I shall be grateful if you will advise me whether
arrangements will be made to contimue the exemption
of Japanese offioials under the oireumstanees above
set ferth pending a desision of the question whether
tke eompensation reesived by Japamese men-diplemetie
offieials

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.86)
efféeiala trem etrietal sevees smsse statéemed in the
Sattel states is ampt frem the paymest of taemme tes
I shell appresiate it if you vill alse adviss me
whether yeu belleve that a reeipresal arrengemeat with
regard te this subjeet should be conelwded with the
Japanese Gorermment in case exemptien eannot be granted
under present statutory provisions.
Simeerely yours,
Philna
Acting Seeretary
NOV 0 1934
CB
118
Le:WRV:HWC:SS
FE
11/7
y.m,H.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
七E
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
m.m.H
DIVISION OF FARYEASTERN AFFAIRS P
CARTMENT OF STATE
CONVERSATION:
193: 03T 3 PM 1 15
LEGOA
Mr. Ito, Second Secretary,
Japanese Embassy.
IONS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ReciprocaLL
Subject: Statement regarding Desire of Japan to
001 30 1934
Exempt Foreign Officials without Diplomatic
or Consular Status from Income Taxation.
Mr. Ito stated that the Embassy was interested in taking
894.0
up with this Department the question of negotiations which
might lead to a reciprocal agreement between Japan and the
United States to exempt officials without a diplomatic or
consular status from income taxation. lie referred specifi-
cally to difficulties recently experienced by certain
2
Japanese Government officials in leaving this country
6
owing to income tax claims against them. It appears that
the Treasury Departments of Japan and the United States
have until the last few years exempted the nationals of
both countries from the payment of income tax, but have now
by means of retroactive decisions begun levying such taes
In the case of the Japanese officials, it was pointed out
CC
that in one or two instances it has been necessary to arrange
bond in lieu of payment of taxeclaimed before departure could
be effected.
Mr. Ito inquired regarding the number of officers of
this Government residing in Japan but not enjoying
diplomatic or consular status, and also the number of
American

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
American officials which might be doing special work in
Japan but whose official posts were in the United States.
I told Mr. Ito that this Government had very few officers
of either classification in Japan, but promised to make
efforts to obtain for him the information desired.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Telephone inquiries to
principal Government departments
revealed only two Treasury
employees whose status appears
to be identioal, or nearly so,
to the Japanese in question here
in the United States.
Mr. Sturgeon expected a note
from the Japanese Embassy, but
none has come. Mr. Ito was given
the information he requested by
telophone.
m. m.1.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.85)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
E
I undisland lhat
tlins shemld have
f Meceesar
sheuld tr kead
to -laek to
yn
almt it
LDS

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.83)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
Pc.
10726
M. Scanton
Can yon give mea hit
of fersons holding pperise
Japan but
passpo to to go to
Statire? Sen Jast
Co
paro grogh if man. orf
F.E
okv

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PASSPORT DIVISION
DEPARTMEN
TATE
lil
CM
obtober 29, 1934.
FAR EASTERAIRS
Q01 30 1934
Desartment of State
It would not be possible to obtain from the
files of PD an accurate list of the persons now in
Japan holding special passports who do not enjoy a
diplomatio or consular status. Many persons who hold
special passports fail to turn them in when their
official status is terminated. We try to control
this as much as possible but it is not always prao-
ticable to do so effectively.
Persons of the status in which you are. in-
terested would probably include United States naval
officers and marine officers who are not naval attaohés,
trade commissioners or clerks in the embassy and con-
sulate at Tokyo and in other Japanese cities.
It is believed that FE could obtain a more
accurate list of such persons by making inquiries as
to the offioers and clerks assigned in Japan at the
present time of the Navy Department, the Department of
Commerce and of FA.
FLED
1934
PD:RAB: SMJ
JeTS

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.96)
PM RECD
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
NOV 126 1934
LEGAL ADVISER
NOV 2 8 34
21934
Division of
The Honorable,
TATF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Secretarxof §tp1934
Sir:
Department of State
I have Acting Secretary Phillips' letter of November 9. 1934
(Le 894.01B 11/28) referring to departmental letter dated October
26, 1934 concerning the exemption of Mr. Yorio Yamamoto from
income tax. You were advised in such departmental letter that the
question as to the taxability of the compensation received for ser-
B
vices rendered within the United States by a nondiplomatic repre-
sentative of a foreign country stationed in this country was receiv-
ing consideration and that you would be further advised as to the
exemption or income tax liability of Mr. Yamamoto.
It appears that Mr. Takaharu Ito, Second Secretary of the
Japanese Embassy, has informed you that the Embassy was interested
in taking up with your Department the question of negotiations
which might lead to a reciprocal agreement between Japan and the
United States to exempt from income taxes officials without a
diplomatic or consular status. He refers specifically to the
difficulties experienced recently by certain officials of the
FE
Japanese Government in leaving the United States owing to income
tax claims against them.
8
FILED
1
4
Mr. Phillips understands that thi: Department has exempted
1935
officers of the Japanese Government from the payment of income
taxes on official incomes received while they have been stationed
in the United States and that the Japanese Government has exempted
officials of the United States under similar circumstances from
the payment of income taxes. Mr. Phillips requests to be advised
whether arrangements will be made to continue the exemption of
Japanese officials under the circumstances related pending a decision
of the question whether the compensation received by Japanese non-
diplomatic officials from official sources while stationed in the
United States is exempt from the payment of income tax and whether
a reciprocal arrangement with regard to this subject should be con-
cluded with the Japanese Government in case exemption cannot be
granted under present statutory provisions.
X

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
The records of the Treasury Department indicate that Mr. Yamamoto
was employed as a representative and manager of the office of the
Japanese Government Railways Company, located at 55l Fifth Avenue,
New York, New York. The main object of the Japanese Government Rail-
ways Company is to study and investigate railway conditions in the
United States, to purchase materials for the Japanese Government
Railways Company, and to give information to tourists, etc. It is
a purely commercial enterprise owned and operated by the Japanese
Government.
I. T. 2018 (C. B. III-1, page 209) provides:
"A foreign railroad which is operated as a commercial
enterprise by a foreign government maintains an office in
the United States as a station to which individuals are
dispatched temporarily for the purposes of investigation
and study of railway conditions. It is held that such
individuals are nonresident aliens and that their com-
pensation received from the railroad on account of ser-
vices rendered to it in the United States, either by
investigation and study of railway conditions or other-
wise, is subject to Federal income tax."
It would appear, therefore, that Mr. Yamamoto is liable to
Federal income tax upon the compensation received for services
rendered within the United States.
Referring to the continuance of the exemption from income tax
of Japanese officials without a diplomatic or consular status,
stationed in the United States, and the feasibility of concluding
reciprocal arrangements with the Japanese Government, it is deemed
inadvisable to make a definite reply pending the outcome of the
conference held by your representatives, Messrs. Vallance, Baldwin
and Keating, with representatives of this Department on October 30,
1934.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this matter
is necessary, please refer to IT:E:RR-MLM.
Respectfully,
Morin
ActingSecretary.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.94)
Divisicn of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
4
DEC 5- 1934
RECEVED
Department of State
DE 4 1934
Littn to rend
WASHINGTON
The Japanese Ambassador pents his compliments to
AND RLCORDS
894.01311
the lionorable the secretary of State and has the honor to
reyuest, with referunce to the income taxability of Mr. K.
894.01
Dan, Mr. 3. Nagata, Mr. H. Nishioka, and Mr. S. Fujii,
Japanese officials of the Department of Railways of the
Japanese Government stati oned in New York City, that, in-
asmuch as these entlemen have the same official status as
officials of other departments of the Japanese Government
stationed in this country, the appropriate authorities of
the United States Government allow these gentlemen to put up
bond in lieu of the actual payment of taxes, until the ques-
tion as to the taxability of the compensation received for
services rendered within the United States by a non-diplomatic
representative of a foreign country stationed in the United
States is settled.
The Ambassador would be greatly obliged if the
Secretary of State would be good en ough to use his good
DEC141934
offices in this matter.
December 3, 1934.
7
J0

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
Diplomatio Serial Mo. seef
108.08 amat1on/88
In Vasfance
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
November 15, 1934
URGENT
STATUTES, DECREES AND REGULATIONS RESPECTING
THE TAXATION OF OFFICIAL COMPENSATION RECEIVED
BY AMERICAN CCNSULAR OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
AND OTHER NON-DIPLOMATIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES,
AND NUMBER AND SALARY PAID SIMILAR OFFICERS AND
EMPLOYEES OF CERTAIN GOVERNLENTS STATIONED IN
THE UNITED STATES
To
American Diplomatic Officers.
Sirs:
Article 64l of Incone Tax Regulations 77, issued by
the Bureau of Internal Revenue, Treasury Department, under
the Revenue Act of l932, provides in part as follows:
"All foreign consular officers and employees
in foreign consulates in the United States who are
nationals of the States appointing them are exempt
from Federal income tax with respect to wages, fees,
and salaries received by them in compensation for
their consular services, provided the appointing
State grants a similar exemption to citizens of the
United States who are American consular officers or
employees of the Amarican consulates in such State.
The income recoived by foreign consular officers and
employees of foreign consulates from investments in
the United States in bonds and stocks and from in-
terest on bank balances as well as income from any
business carried on by them in the United States is
subjeot to Federal income tax.
"The componaation of citizons of the United
States who are offioers or employees of a foroign
government is not exempt from incomo tax. (But
scc section 116 (a).)"
In a lettor dated August 7, 1934, from the Secretary
of the Treasury, the following statoments are made:
"As the basis for the ruling in the letter of
May 10, 1934, it was stated that for Federal income
tax purposes official representatives of foreign
governments in the United seates may be olassified
as diplomatic and nondiplemetio, that the former are
entitled to esemption under sapermatsonal law and
that the latter are not so entatled and are sabjest
to the tax, irrespective of the chareoter of the

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
services they perform, in the absence of statutory
or treaty provisions granting exemption therefrom.
"** It vas further pointed out that it had
previously been the policy of this Department to
exempt from Federal income tax the compensation
received for serviccs rendered witnin the United
States by such representatives engaged in carrying
on legitimate governmental activities undertaken
by the Government they represent and that under
such policy it had been held that the officers of
the ** Department of Immigration in the United
States were not subject to the tax but that in the
absence of statutory or treaty provisions authorizing
such exemption there appeared to be no legal basis
for such policy. You refer in this connection to
the provision in article 641, Regulations 77, quoted
in the letter of March 20, 1934, exempting consular
officers and employees on tne basis of reciprocity.
"** In the letter of this Department of
April 26, 1933, ** it was stated that 'it has been
the policy of this Department to exempt from taxa-
tion the salaries of the agents of the instrumental-
ities of foreign overnments for services rendered
in the United States in connection with legitimate
overnmental activities undertaken by such govern-
ments.' *** With respect to such policy it seems
unnecessary to do more than point to the letter of
this Department of March 5, 1934, ** concerning the
right of exemption of the ** Government Agency in
Now York, where, in denying the right of exemption,
the policy referred to was definitoly repudiated
and abandoned on the ground, there fully discussed,
that this Department is without constitutional
authority to formulate governmental policies with
respect to exemptions of representatives of foreign
governments from taxation not authorized by inter-
national law, by Congress, or by treaty. As was
there stated, mattcrs of foreign political policy
are peculiarly the function of Congress and the
treaty-making branch of the Government to consider
and determine; the function of the oxecutive de-
partment is to administer the law as it finds it,
that is, as cnacted by Congress or as formulated by
treaty, without regard to matters of policy or ex-
pediency. The same principle was applied in the
letter of this Department of March 20, 1934, to
which you refer, in so far as official representa-
tives of foreign governments not in a diplomatic
or consular character were involved.
"With respect to the exemption of foreign con-
sular officers and cmployees in foreign consulates
reference was, however, made in the letter of March 20,
1934, to the provision in article 64l, Regulations 77,
exempting such officers and employees on the basis
of reciprocity, which provision was quoted therein
as reflecting the law then in force in the United
States. As a matter of fact, this provision of the
regulations

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
regulations has for some time been under considera-
tion in this Department with a view to its abandon-
ment as an erroneous interpretation of the law.
Referring to letters of this Department during the
period from 1923 to 192s, dealing with this matter,
you state on page 7 of your letter that 'in accordance
with this Department's request, the Treasury Depart-
ment adopted a policy of exemption on a basis of
reciprocity in orde" to ive incentive to foreign
governments frcely to exempt our employees and of-
ficers.' After considerable correspondence between
the two Departments the policy referred to was
adopted by this Department in lettor to your Depart-
ment of July 1?, 1924.**
"In conformity with the understanding reached,
there was incorporated in article 86, Regulations 65,
promulgated under the Revenue Act of 1924, a provi-
sion placing the exenption on the basis of reciprocity
and this provision was incorporated in corresponding
articles of regulations promulgated under the later
Revenue Acts of 1926, 1928 and 1932. Under the prac-
tice thus estaolished the exemption in question has
been granted not as a matter of right under any recog-
nized principle of international law, Act of Congress,
or treaty provision, but sololy as a matter of admin-
istrative policy, and, for the reasons already stated,
the practice is one whic, however meritorious from
the standpoint of ad.inistrative policy or expediency,
is now regarded by this Department as indefensible
from the stanapoint of the law. Apparently no con-
sideration was iven this phase of the question at
the time of the adoption of the practice.
"Unless Congross or the treaty-making authorities
declare such policy, it cannot be assumed to be the
policy of the United States to grant exemptions from
taxation on the basis of reciprocity. Congress, for
example, has in effect in at least two instances de-
clared it to be the policy of the United States to
grant exemption from Federal income tax on the basis
of reciprocity in respcct of certain itcms of income
as evidenced (1) by the similar credit provision of
section 131 of the Revenue Act of 1934, under which
an alien resident of the United States is allowed a
credit in the amount of taxes paid to a foreign
country if the forcign country of which such alien
resident is a citizen or subject allows a similar
credit to citizens of the United States residing in
such foreign country, and (2) by the equivalent
exemption provisions of sections 21l and 231, which
exempt from Federal income tax the income, respectively,
of a nonresident alien individual and of a foreign
corporation which consists exclusively of earnings
derived from the operation of ships documents under
the laws of a foreign country which grants an equiva-
lent exemption to citizens of the United States and
to corporatione organized in the United States. The
very fact that Congress has declared suoh polioy in
certain specified casos points to the conclusion
that it was intended to have no application to cases
not so specified.
"The

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
"The formulation of such policies is not with-
in the province of the executive department of the
government. **"
In connection with further discussion of this subject
and possible legislation to be proposed at the forthcoming
session of Con resu, you are requested to ostain and for-
ward to she Department promptly copies of the provisions
contained in the statutes, decrees or regulations of the
country to which you are accrcdited respecting the taxa-
tion of the official compensation received by American
consular officers and employees and other non-diplomatic
officers and employees. Information is also desired re-
garding the number of officers and employees having a
non-diplomatic status who are stationed by the government
to vhich you are accredited in the United States and the
amount of compensation received by them hich would be
subject to taxation if the ruling of the Treasury Depart-
ment above set forth is made effective. You are requested
to endeavor to obtain copies of any documents containing
this information or copics of the laws, decrees or regu-
lations fixing the salaries of such officers and employees.
Lists of applicable treaty provisions are enclosed.
As this matter is ur ent, it is desired that you
snall give it your prompt attention. If you are delayed
in obtaining some of the material, you should forward
such data as you have and transmit the romainder of it
in a supplementary despatch.
Very truly yours,
For tne Sucretary of State:
WILEUR J. CARR
Enclosures:
List of the treaty provisions relating
to the exemption of consular officers
from taxation, in force betveen the United
States of America and foreign countries.
List of most-favored-nation clauses con-
cerning the status of consular officors
in treaties and conventions between the
United States and other countries.
Index under:
Taxation of official compensation;
Instructed to report with respect to,
and to forward copies of provisions
contained in statutes, decrees or
regulations.
Treaty provisions relating to exemp-
tion of consular officers from taxation;
Enclosing list of, in foroe between United
States and foreign countries.
Most-

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
Most-favored-nation clauses;
Enclosing list of, concerning status
of consular officers in treaties and
conventions between tho United States
and other countries.
Embassy er Legation Filo No. 70l
Cross Reference File Nos. 702 and 851.2

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.90)
December 13 1954.
T
My eear Er. sweretary:
I have reccived a letter dated levember 26, l934,
894.
frem the Aeting Seeretary of the Treasury, eomeerning
the exemptiem of Mr. Yorio Yamamoto from imcome tax
0
(your file IT:E: mn-MLM) and note that it would appear
that Mr. Yorio Yamemote is liable to Federal imeome
B
tax upem the compemsation received by him for services
rendered within the United Etates. A definite decision
3
with regard to the contimuamce of cxemption from income
tax of Japamese offioialswithout a diplomatio or com-
sular status, statiemed in the Umited states, is post-
pened pending the outeeme of the conferenee betweem of-
fiesre of your spartment and of this Departmemt em
Octeber 30, 1?34.
I tramsmit berewith a opy of a mote dated Desem-
bes 3, 1934, reestved from the Japamese mbassador at
thie
The Hemerable
Beery Mergeatmes, Jr.,
Boesetery of the Treasury.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.94)
tts anpital, ta whish be eake thet Er. I. Ben, tr. 8.
mssts, Iir. I. Mishioka, and Er. S. Sati, Japenese
efftstals of the Bepartment of milwaye ef the Japenese
Gavemmmens statiened in New York Gity, be seccrded the
wef filtng a bond im lieu ef the actuel payment
of taxes umtil the questiom as to the taxability of the
compezsation recsived for serviees rendered by sush of-
fioers within the United states is settled.
be
I shall be grateful 1f you will/so good as to advise
me whether te above mamed Japanese officials will be
permitted to file a bond in lieu of the actual payment of
income taxes, pending the fimal decisiom of this question.
Sincerely yours,
Acting Secretary.
Eaclosure:
From Japamese Eabassy
No. 22s, Deesmber 3, 1934.
DEC 12 1984
FE
m.m.H

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.90)
The Sseretary of state presents his complimests
to Mss Ezeelleney the Japasess Ambassader and has the
894.01
hoaer to asknewledge the reseipt of the mbassador's
mete No. 28s, dated December 3, 1934, requesting that
eertain Japamose offioials of the Department of Rail-
8
ways of the Japanese Governmemt stationed in New York
Gity be permitted to file a bond in liou of the motual
payment of insome taxes until the question as te the
taxability of the cempemsation of such offieers is
aottlod.
The se eretary of state bas brought this matter to
the atteatien of the appropriate astherity of this
cevesmmsat and upen reseipt ef a seply a further com-
medestlen will be addressed to the Ambasseder with
Js

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.91)
DEC 1 3 1934
m.651
The Homorable
Joseph 0. Grew,
894.0
Amerioan Ambessador,
Tokyo.
81r
B
The Department refers to diplomatio serial No. 2497,
dated November 15, 1934, entitled, "STATUTES, DEOREL8
AND REGULATIONS RESPEOTING THE TAXATION OF OFFICIAL COM
3
PENBATIO REOEIVED BY ANERICAN CONSULAR FFIOERS AND
EMPLOYEES AND OTHER NON-DIPLOMATIO OFFIOERS AND EMPLOYEES,
AND WUMBER AND SALARY PAID SIMILAR OFFIOERS AND EMPLOYEES
OF CERTAIN GOVERNMENTS STATIONED IN THE UNITED STATES".
Copies of ∞rrespondence exchanged with the Japanese
Embassy at this capital are transmitted herewith as of
possime interest to you. A ∞py of a letter dated Wovem-
ber 9, 1934, addressed by the Department to the Seeretary
of the Treasury and a copy of the reply of the Asting
teeretary of the Treasury, dated November 6, 1934, are
alse enelesed. A further instruetion will be forwarded
to you in case it is found adviemblm to conelude a
pectpreeal arraagement with the Japamese Geverament en
..
Tery touky yours,
or the .c. ry
じt
5
hn8
William Phillips
FE
Loting Seeretary of state

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
PM RECD
FE
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
5
JAN B
1936
1AN-835
LEGAL ADVISER
The Honorable,
JAN 8 025
ASTAS
The Secretary of Btate
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
January 12 1986
Sir:
I have Acting Secretary Phillips' letter of December 13, 1934,
(Le 894.01 B 11/31) acknowledging receipt of Departmental 1. tter
dated November 26, 1934, relative to the liability to Federal income
894.01
tax of Mr. Yorio Yamamoto upon the compensation received by him for
services rendered within the United States and the postponement of a
definite decision with regard to the continuance of exemption from
income tax of Japanese officials without diplomatic or consular status,
stationed in the United States, pending the outcome of the conference
between officials of the State and Treasury Departments on October 30,
B
1934.
Mr. Phillips nclosed a copy of a note dated December 3, 1934,
from the Japanese Aavassador in this city, in which he asked that
Messrs. K. Dan, S. Nagata, H. Hishioka and S. Fujii, Japanese officials
3
of the Department of Railways of the Japanese Government stationed in
2
New York, New York, be accorded the privilege of filing a bond in lieu
of the actual payment of taxes until the question as to the taxability
of the compensation received for services rendered by such officials
within the United States be settled. Mr. Phillips inquired whether
the abovementioned Japanese officials will be permitted to file a
bond in lieu of the actual payment of income taxes, pending the final
decision of this question.
F/G
The records of the Treasury Department show that the collector
of internal revenue, Customhouse, New York, New York, has accepted a
surety bond dated October 5, l934, from a surety company for each of
the Japanese individuals mentioned, as a guarantee for the payment of
any tax which may be due.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this matter
is necessary please refer to IT:E:RR-MLM.
AN1935
Respectfully,
Actingecretary.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.89)
The Seeretary of State presente his compliments
te Hie Emeslleney the Ambassador of Japan and refere te
the Ambassader's note, dated December 3, 1934, cemserm-
894.01
ing the liability to the payment of inceme tax of Mesers.
K. Dan, 3. Nagata, H. Mishioka and 8. Puji1, Japamese
offioials of the Department of Railways of the Japanese
B
Govermment stationed in New York Oity.
5
The Seeretary ef State is advised by the apprepriate
2
authority of this Govermment that the Collsetor of Imtermal
Rovemme, Oustous Nouse, New York, New Yerk, has aeeepted
a surety bond dated Ootober 5, 1934, frem a surety eompemy
for each of the Japanese offieials abeve mentiened, as a
guesentee fer the pagment of nny tan vaiek mer be dne
fasm then, penting the finel deesasen of the
the copeptson ecivee y th se oes
Jan

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
3
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERAFFAIRS
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
January 17, 1935.
1935 JAN 18 AM 10 38
CONVERSATION:
TAFFAIRS
Mr. Takaharu ItbJoN OF
JAN 23 1935
Second Secretary,Japanese Embassy.
Dankrimeut of State
Mr. Dooman.
Subject:
Exemption from Taxation of Unaccredited
Japanese Officials in the United States.
Mr. Ito stated that the Embassy had recently received
894.01311
894.01B
an instruction from the Foreign Office at Tokyo to the
7
following effect: in accordance with the recommendation
of the Japanese Embassy at Washington, the Foreign Office
811.512394
had proposed to the Department of Finance the exemption
from taxation of unacoredited American officials residing
in Japan. The Finance authorities replied that the
3
3
Japanese income tax law made mandatory the levying of
taxes on such officials, and that no exemption could be
made without suitable modification of the law; but, after
further study, the Finance authorities decided that
exemption could be granted upon the basis of an exohange
of notes between the American and Japanese Governments
F/F
reciprocally granting exemption to unacoredited officials.
I said to Mr. Ito that I had been away for three month
G
matter, but that it was my impression that our Treasury
authorities

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
authorities were of the opinion exemption could not be
granted to unaccredited Japanese officials until the
revenue act had been appropriately amended. I added,
however, that I would be glad to send forward the
proposal which he had made to the appropriate authorities.
Mr. Ito, before taking his departure, said that he
would send me informally a copy of the draft note which
the Japanese Fmbassy would be prepared to send to us,
and he stated at the same time that the Japanese Govern-
ment hoped that its proposal, that the two Governments
should undertake reciprocally to exempt taxation, be
kept confidential.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
KE
DVISER
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
JAN 24 1935
January 231035.
Le:
Mr. Vallance.
There is attached a memorandum of a
conversation which I had on January 17
with a secretary of the Japanese Embassy,
who stated that his Government is prepared
to effect an arrangement by exchange of
notes for the reciprocal waiver of income
tax on salaries received by unaccredited
officials. An informal letter from the
secretary, forwarding a copy of the draft
note which the Embassy is prepared to send
the Department, is also attached.
It is my understanding that the
Treasury Department is of the opinion that
this Government would be unable to enter
into an agreement of the character proposed
until the Revenue Act has been appropriately
amended.
It would seem to me that the only reply
that can be made in the present circum-
stances to the Japanese Embassy is to state
that the matter is being given consideration.
If and when a bill is presented to Congress,
we might make available to the Embassy a
copy of the bill.
Do you concur in the above-outlined
purse?
m. m./0

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
NE(m)Vllauce)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DCR
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 24, 1935.
I asked Mr. Ito to call on me this
morning, and I conveyed to him the reply
that the Department appreciated the
suggestion of the Japanese Embassy that
there be an exchange of notes substantially
along the lines of the draft note which
he had sent me; that the Treasury has taken
the position that the Revenue Act does not
permit this Government to grant exemption
to Japanese officials residing in this
country; but that the Department is giving
consideration to ways and means to bring
about a satisfactory arrangement. I added
that in this connection we are giving
thought to the possibility of the Revenue
Act being modified.
Mr. Ito thanked me and said he hoped
we would give the Embassy further infor-
mation as soon as we are in position to
do so.
EHRXDLY
B11

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.84)
TMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
oo. Honma
Hos Wr, Carr signed
about thé arnien riment
of the Revenve Law
edent inerne ofnon-
diplomatie oft sen of
to inls
foreign
fromd.
holdu

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.88)
Le
PARTMENT OR STATE
126
LE
Ae
OF FR.
FEB 4 1935
2114.
Devartisont of Stata
MR. CARR
Mm Valcaice
Your note
dated /2c has pist reachond
Thes office Letn A me Richibey
mas signed 113. Rtdeh.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.92)
火e
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB 16 1935
FEP 18193
MEMORANDUM
Department of State
February 16, 1935.
Mr. Dooman:
Please note memorandum of Miss deLashmutt stating
that the Department's letter to Mr. Richberg, Executive
Assistant, asking his approval of the draft of a bill
amending the revenue law to exempt the income of non-
diplomatic officers of foreign governments in the
United States from income tax was signed by Mr. Carr
on February 13, 1935.
Do you think that Mr. Ito's letter of January 19,
1935, and related memoranda can be fi led now pending
the introduction of a bill in Congress?
whe
I henk wth e at re wersme e
feled. Hell e tloase h me dun 5 ihensh
894.01B 11/33
7
8113
ch.16. 35
518195
TILED
Le:WRV:BFB:8S

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
January 19, 1935.
.r. Eugene i. Doonan,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Depart.t of tate,
washington, D.c.
my lear Ir. Dooman,
Referring to our conversation of yester-
day concerning en under:tanding on mutual exemp-
tion of tax on t!e income of Jananese and United
894.0
States officials, I an sending you herewith a
of State, which will be oresented formally.
As I steted yesterday, the Japanese
Government, in order to avoid the formality
of anything like a treaty or an international
greement which may complicate the situation,
desires to have such an understanding effected
ω
by means of each country merely notifying the
other of its step internally taken for the tax
exemption, which step, on the part of the
Japanose evernment. will be taken through
the invocation of its executive power. Thus
3
the de ired result will be obtained through
4
establishing a practice of tax exenption in
both countries. Besides, the Japanese Gov-
ernment regards it as undesiraple to make
such understanding publicly known in either
country.
Along these lines, I hope you will
be good enough to negotiate with the appro-
priate authorities of the Treasury in order
that a satisfactory conclusion may be reached.
Sincerely yours,
haharum Tho
(Enclosure)
Takaharu Ito,
Q
Second Secretary.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.95)
Eraft
No.
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
complients to the Honorable the 3eoretary of
State and has the honor to state that the De-
partment of Finance of the Japanese Govermment
is ready to exempt United States Officials
staying in Japan from the payment of taxes on
income received for their services to their
Govermment, provided reciprocal treatment be
given by the United States Government to
offiaials of Japan staying in the United States.
No exemption, however, will be made respecting
income derived from profitable business pur-
swnd by United States ofrioials in Japan.
Jamuary 19, 1935.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.95)
KE
DEPARTMENT Q
DIVISION OF FAR EASTORN
ALADVISER
TREATY DIVISIUN
11
CRU
CONVERSATION:
JUL 1 S 1935
Mr. Shun-ichiro Kawahara,
Jule
Third Secretary, Japansse Embassy.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Mr. Dooman.
544
Subjeot:
Reciprocal Arrangement for Exemption from
Indome Tax of Non-diplomatic Officers.
894.01
Mr. Kawahara handed me the attached copies of corre-
102.02
spondence exchanged in 1918 between the Japanese Embassy
and the Bureau of Internal Revenue, Treasury Department.
Mr. Kawahara pointed out that the Treasury Department had
B
taken the position that Japanese naval and military
officers, and other Japanese Government officers assigned
33
for duty to the United States "will not be subjeot to the
5
income tax law", and he inquired whether there would be
any objection if the Japanese Embassy informally brought
to the attention of the Treasury Department, which is now
APR  29 193
holding such Japanese officers liable to payment of the
FILED
thefact
Federal income tax, that at one time it had taken a
different position.
I told Mr. Kawahara that legislation was about to be
introduced into Congress which, when passed, would make
it possible for the American Government to exempt on a basis
of reciprocity Japanese officers in the United States from
F
payment

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
payment of the income tax. I explained that the Treasury
Department had informed the State Department that the
Revenue Aot did not authorize exemption of Japanese officers
in the United States from payment of the income tax; that
it would be necessary to obtain authorization to do so
from Congress; and that any suggestion that there be
effected an executive agreement in regard to exemptions
would create unnecessarily a great deal of trouble.
Mr. Kawahara said that he would await with interest
the presentation to Congress of the bill to which I referred.
一.m.v

=== Page 46 === (confidence 1.00)
March 25, 1918.
Dear Sir:
I beg to make inquiry informally whether Japanese
Naval and .ilitary officers and the Japanese Government
officials sent officially by the Imperial Government and
residing in this country should be exempted from the income
tax in view of the fact that their incomes are derived
from Imperial Government sources.
Thanking you in anticipation
I am
Yours very truly,
(Signed) Minoru Fujii,
Secretary.
Mr. Daniel C. Roper,
Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
Treasury Department,
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
Washington
March 26, 118.
Hon. Minora Fujii,
Second Secretary, Japanese Embassy,
Washington, D.C.
My dear Sir:
Referring to your letter of the 25th instant and to
your personal visit today, I beg leave to inform you that
Japanese Naval and Military officers and other Japanese
Government officials who are performing within the United
States special official missions for the Jananese Imperial
Government will not be subject to the income tax law. This
ruling relates to the officers with respect to whom you
stated orally that they are in the United States by order
of the Japanese Imperial Government, are not permanently
situated here, and are subject to return to Japan as soon as
they shall have completed the mission on account of which
they are now in the United States. It is furthermore under-
stood that these officers are not permitted to receive any
income whatever from scurces within the United States.
Yours very truly,
(Signed) Daniel C. Roper,
Commissioner.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
Maron 27, 1918.
Mr. Daniel C. Roper,
Commiss.oner, Internal Revenue,
Treasury Department,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note
of yesterday's date in answer to mine of the 25th instant and
with reference to my personal visit yesterday, informing me
that the Japanese Naval and Military Officers and other Japa-
nese government officials who are performing within the United
States special official missions for the Japanese Government,
will not be subject to the income tax law.
I beg to express the Embassy's gratitude for your kind
courtesy shown in this matter.
Yours very truly,
(Signed) Minoru Fujii,
Secretary.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.82)
ARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
6′26
FE
r. Dooman
What do you
thinh of this?
I Ok peawnretin
se  Oon usentan
whe tthens it is o k
worth m trahwoth
uev

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
H. R. 7998
74TH CONGRESS
1sT SESSION
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
MAY 10, 1935
Mr. Douguton introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means and ordered to be printed
A BILL
To exempt from income taxation, on the basis of reciprocity.
compensation of employees of foreign governments.
1
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
2 tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
3 That section 116 of the Revenue Act of 1934 relating to
4 exclusions from gross income is amended by adding at the
5 end thereof a new subsection reading as follows:
6
“(h) COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES OF FOREIGN
7 GovERNMENTS.—Wages, fees, or salary of an employee of
8 a foreign government (including a consular or other offi-
9 cer, or a nondiplomatic representative) received as com-
10 pensation for official services to such government—

=== Page 51 === (confidence 1.00)
2
1
"(1) If such employce is not a citizen of the
2
United States; and
3
"(2) If the services are of a character similar to
4
those performed by employees of the Government of
5
the United States in foreign countries; and
6
“(3) If the foreign government whose employee
7
is elaiming exemption grants an equivalent exemption
8
to employees of the Government of the United States
9
performing similar services in such foreign country.
10 " The Secretary of State shall certify to the Secretary
11 of the Treasury the names of the foreign countries which
12
grant an equivalent exemption to the employees of the
13
Government of the United States performing services in
14 such foreign countries, and the character of the services
15 performed by employees of the Government of the United
16
States in foreign countries."
17
SEC. 2. The provisions of section 1 shall be retro-
18
actively applied in computing income under the provisions
19
of thc Revenue Act of 1932 and prior revenue Acts, or
20
any of such Acts as amended, subject to the statutory period
21
of limitations properly applicable to such Acts.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
H. R. 7998
74TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
A BILL
To exempt from income taxation, on the basis
of reciprocity, compensation of employees
of foreign governments.
By Mr. DOUGToN
MAY 10, 1935
Referred to the Committee on Ways and Means and
ordered to be printed

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.94)
ER
201
21935
4
公
RECEIVED
Lette to Rep songhter
WASHINGTON
anad 6/26
1935 JUN 20 PM 1 00
TREATY BIVISION
Division cf
DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
per
JUL·16 1935
COMMUNICATIONS
JUN 20 1935
AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Japanese Ambassador presents his com-
pliments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and
y 51930
has the honor to ask if the Secretary would be good
enough to cause him to be furnished with information
894.01
concerning a portion of the bill introduced in Con-
gress May 10, 1935, known as H.R. 7998.
a
The bill provides in Section I (2) that
compensation of employees of foreign governments
shall be exempted from the income tax if the ser-
vices are of a character similar to those performed
by employees of the Government of the United States
in foreign countries, and provides further that the
JUL 5 - 1935
FILED
Secretary of State shall certify to the secretary
of the Treasury the character of the services per-
formed by employees of the Government of the United
States in foreign countries. The Ambassador would be
greatly obliged if the Secretary of State would inform
him whether or not the compensation of Japanese of-
ficiale

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
202
ficials of the Department of Railways, whose
function is to study railway systems and cond1-
tions relating to communication and transporta-
tion (except that of a technical expert attached
to the office of the Japanese Government Railways
in New York City. which is to inspect €oods pur-
chased by the Japanese Government) would be in-
cluded in this category. It would seem that
these services, including that of the technical
expert, would come under the terms of the bill.
despite the fact that there is no department of
railways in the United States Govermment.
June 19, 1935.
十

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.92)
1
203
July 17 1935
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFALG
T/
AUG 7- 1935
Dmeartement of Westo
My eear Mr. Doughten:
Referemee is made to the bill you introduoed in
Gengress on May 10, 1935, H. R. 7998, emtitled "A B111
Te exempt from insome tasation, oa the basis ef
894.
resiprocity, compensation of empleyees of fereigm gor-
ermments." I have reseived a despatoh dated June 21,
0
1935, from the Amerioan Xinister at Vienma stating that
B
while this legislation has been pending another oase has
arisen involving threatened taxation of the Treasury
representative in oharge of the office maintained by the
3
9
Treasury Departmont im Vienna.
In Mr. Hull's letter of April 25, 1935, addressed to the
Homerable Sam D. WeReynolds, Chairman of the Tereign
Affaiss Cemmittee of the Honse of Representatayes, ea-
closing a draft of the bill whieh you introdweed in
medifned
The Hemerable
Robert L. Boughten,
Ghaimman, Cemmittee on Ways and Means,
Hense of Representatives.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.90)
204
sotfsed fosm as I.k. ross, he made the tutlestng state
00:
no I bessered the dentotan of the Sesvotery
ef a proposed ansndmens ef artiele 641 of the
Income Tax Regulatione 77 by striking out the
ezemption ef fereign sonsalar officers and employees
in fozeigs consulates, pendins the sakmissiem of
the matter to the Gongress for iss detersimation
whether the ezemptions whieh have beem greated on
to the official compensation of such offieers and
ampleyees, should be centimmed by express emaotmems
of the Congress.
"I have obtained complete information from
American missions abroad regarding the present
practiee of foreign governments respecting the
exemption of such offieial compemsation from tar-
ation, and I shall be glad to submit it to you for
the use of your oommittee if you desire it. The
reports ressived imdicate that exemptiems are sranted
gemerally epom a resiprecal basie and consequently
if the mew ruling of the Treasany Departmont is put
into effect American consular efficers, mondiplematic
representatives, and suployees in many fereign
countzies will be obliged to pay ineome taxes there
on their offioial compemsation. You dechtless keew
that the rates ef tazation in fereigm countries are
usuelly higher than those impesed in the Umited
States, the emamptiome from taxasion are less, and
the tax is tmposed upom maller ineesee thee is the
ease ia the United States. I kave mo doukt that
and euployees abresd will suffer a sabstantial
redustiom in the amount of their imsome available
for mst:ag their mermel expemses."
Binse it appeare from the repert of the Ameziemm
mssteter

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.89)
205
Eanlster at Vienne thst there is uagest nood foe the
prempt aneeteens of n.n. 790s, I shall be sratetul 18
you will be se goed as to advise me whether yous Genr
mittee will censiéer the bill at an early date.
Permit me te eall attention again to the fast that
the bill merely invalves a contimuamce of the exemptions
whieh have been granted on a reciprecal basis for mere
tham tem years by the Treasury Department and involves
oaly a technical legislative approval of a practice
that is generally adopted by other governments through-
out the world.
Sincerely yours,
Acting Seoretary of State.
Nu
Kes
M
T
AC
w
THAS
Le:WRV:RH:SS
7/11
7115135
amw

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.91)
506
CLTA
July 5 1935
My éear Mr. Boaghtem:
I refer te the bill you introdased in Gengress
am May 10, 1938, H. R. 790s, and enclese fee your eon-
sideration, a copy of a note dated Jume 19, 193s, re-
ceived fxem the Japemese Ambassader at this capital in-
8
6
miring mhather the eompensation of Japanese efficials
4
of the Department of Railways, whose function is to study
railway systems and conditions relating to cemmumication
B
and transpertation, with certain exceptions, would be
exempted from ineome tax under the provisions of the bill.
I believe it weuld be desirable te exempt the of-
3
9
fieial imeemes of such employees of the Japamese Ges-
ermment, and as consular officers of the United States
perfom semehat "similar serviees" in Japan and other
osuatries, altheugh their studies and reperts are per-
haps met as cemplete and soientific, I would be dimpesed
to give the bill a liberal laterpretation and te eertify
te the Seeretary of the Treasury that Japam srasts
eSemereble
Robert L. Boughten,
Soume of Represemtstaves.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.92)
207
as equivalent exempties te espleyees of the Daited stetes,
if the Bill H. R. Tose were emeeted by Geagress.
I shall appreciate it if you will sive the matter
eemsiderasiem and if you are of the epinion that the
bill as drafted dees not authorize the granting of
exemptiom to sueh ofricers I shall be srateful if you
will take this situation into meoount in connection with
the pending Bill, since I feel that the small amount of
revenue that would result from an ineome tax en salaries
of offioials or this eharaoter would be greatly outweighed
by the unfavorable impression the collestion of suoh a tax
would undoubtedly oreate.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hu
Enclosure:
From Japanese Embassy,
-AN
No. 108, June 19, 1935.
8.1935PM
tu
L12S
Le:WRV:MA:NEA: FH:SS
FE
6/85 6/297/2
WRN
m.m.H

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.92)
08
The Seoretary of State presents his coxplimemts to
Hie Excellency the Japanese Ambascador aud hs the honer
to acknowledge the receipt of his note No. l08 dated
Jume 19, 1935, ooncerning the desire of the Ambassader
894.01
to receive information conoernin: a portion of the bill,
H. h. 798, 1ntroduced 1n the Conress on ay 10, 1935,
providink that the compensati on of ownloyeee of foreign
governments shall be exempted from inoome tax if the
3
9
se vices are of a character similar to those performed
by employees of the Government of the United States 1n
foreign oountries.
In respeot to the inquiry of the Ambassador whether
the sompemsation of Japanese offieials of the Departmeat
ef Rallmeys, whose fumetion 1o to stady rsilmay systems
ane eane téeme relatsng to comaisation and traneperte-
, t  er the t ef e , the

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.82)
209
-2
and will cemmunieate with the Aabassader at a later date
conserming it.
JUL 8, 1935PM
Department of State,
mmshisgten,
July 5 105-
NP
804.01 B 11/86
LeIRV:XA:HRA:80
6/86 6/20
FE
WRW
m.m.H

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
PM RECO
123
COMMITTE ON WAYS AND MDRIMOFSTAT
1 HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
WASHINGTON. D.C.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 11, 1935
111. 13 1935
Deeartmest on State
July 18 1935
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
In reply to your letter of July 5, 1935, Le 894.01
894.0
B 1l/36, I would state that in my opinion the bill H. R.
7998, to which you refer, is sufficient in its present form
to exempt from income tax the salaries of Japanese officials
of the Department of Railways provided that you feel you can
certify that our consullar offices in Japan perform similar
services to those performed by these Japanese officials.
B
I have had a report made on the matter by Mr. Parker,
of our technical staff, and a copy of his letter is enclosed.
If you so desire, I will have Mr. Parker get in touch
the Treasury Department and ascertain their position on the
matter raised by you. However, if you prefer, possibly you
could take the question up with them directly.
Very respectfully yours,
R. L. DOUGHTON
JL 24 1935
FILED
enclose
F/FG.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.95)
July 11, 1935.
Honerable Robert L. Doughten, Chairman,
Joint Cemmittee om Intermal Revenue Taxation,
1315 House Ofrice Building,
Washington, D. C.
My dear Chairman:
Referense is made to the letter addressed to you by
the Homorable Cerdell Hull, Seeretary of State, dated July 5,
1936, in regard to H. R. r99s, a bill introdmsed by you to
exempt frem imeome taxatiom on the besis of resiprosity the
compemsatiom of empleyees of foreign governments.
The Seeretary desires to exempt from imeeme tax the
compensatiom of eertain Japamese ofricials of the Depertment of
Railways, wbotudying railway systems and similar matters in
this comtry. when H. R. vese was in preparatiom, I ms in eon-
feremee with the Treasury Department on the bill and that
Departmost was very fearful of mking provisions of the bill se
bread that the imeomes of certein representatives of foreign
coumtries, whe were really engaged in busimess pursuits, would
be exempt. As an example, it was stated that Russia had eertain
representatives in this coumtry whe were performing services in
this eemtry eatirely dissimilar from axy serviees performed by
representatives of the United States in aay foreign country.
The Treasury representatives mde it very elear that they did not
faver exemptiens to swsh represeatatives. It is my personal
view that if the Seeretary of state will certify to the Treasury
Depertmeat that eur eeasullar effiees in Japes perform similar
serviees te these performed by the Japamese officials of the
Department ef ailways, me questiom will arise as to the taxation
of swsh individmals, evem thowgh the services performed by them
may be somemhat more cemplete and scientifie than is the ease
with our represemtatives.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.89)
● 8-
I m afraid of trying to redreft the bill so as to
surely imelude within its previsioms these Japamese officials
without alse imeluding certain other effisial representatives
whem the Treasury Depertmemt desires to tax.
Very respeetfully,
LPD
Chief of staff.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.87)
July 18 1936
My dear Mr. Bonghten:
In respease to your letter dated July 11, l9s5,
eeneerning the interpretatiem te be plascd upem the
894.
bill I. R. ress insefar as the emsmptiem of salaries
of Japanese effieials of the Department of Railways
0
frem ineeme tax are eemoerned, you are advised that
8
I have addressed a eommumieatiom to the Seeretary of
the Treasury with a view to ascertaining his positien
with regard to this matter. Upon receipt of a reply
57
frem the Treasury Department I shall commumieate with
you again  this subjeet.
sincerely yeurs,
Niliam rnili.p
Actin7 Se
The Hemerable
Rebert L. Doughtom,
JUL 18 195PM
Bouse ef Reyresentatives.
JU18,1935
FE
WRN.
MB
Le : WRV : LOM: 8S
mm.ld
7/18
117/3
amw

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.92)
Jaly 18 1935
T
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
I refer te your letter dated December 19, 1934, and
894.
subeequent eerrespendemce, ceneerning the exemptien ef
effieers ef fereign goveraments in a nondiplematie status
0
frem Federal ineeme tax with respeet to wages, fees, and
salaries reeeived by them in compensation fer their ser-
viees in the Umited States (your file IR:00:I:J08). You
requested me to keep you advised of the progress of my
3
7
efforts te seeure an amendment of the law on this subjeet.
Aecerdingly, I tramsmit herewith copies of the following
commmieatiens:
Note dated Jume 19, 1035, recs1ved frem the
Japaaese Ambessador, requesting infermation
Mouse ef Representatives en May 10, 1935.
Letter dased July 5, loss, whdeh I addressed te
Er. Bonghten, Chairann of the Ways and Moens
Gommittee, mouse of Representatives.
Letter
The Memerable
Hanry Mergeathes, Jumiew,
Seesetary of the treesmmy.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.87)
Letter dated July 11, 19ss, with smelesure, resstved
frem Mr. Beughten.
I shall appreeiate it 1f yeu will advise me whether
you cmour in . Doughten's view that the bill . n.
ress is suffieient in its precent ferm te exempt frem
iaceme tax the salaries of Japenese effieials of the
Bepartmeat ef Railways, previded I certify that our
eemsular officers in Japan perform serviees similar to
these perfermed by these Japanese offieials.
Sincerely yours,
a 
aSocr
melesures:
Frem Japanese Embassy,
Jume 19, 1935.
To Hom. Robert L. Doughton,
July 5, 1935.
From Hom. Robert L. Doughton,
July 11, 1935.
Ati
UL18,1935
arn"
Le :WRV: LOM :88
7/18 7/13
W.RV.
m.m.H
9ms

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.92)
Division of
FAO LASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 2 1935
FE
26
STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
宏
DEr
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July ?, 1935.
A 111 (3 3762) to exempt from
taxation, unt cer  in cond iti ons, on
the besi s of rociprocity, of i cial
com ensa ion of  cons..1 r of i cer, non-
894.01
diplon lic cepr semt: : ve, or employee of
a fore n coun, w a sed over by the
Jenat. on June 34, 1971.
This hill is
now on the Jenate culendar, and may come
up for consideration at ny tine.
à similar bill (lHouse Bill 7998)
B
is now pe nui n be: ore the House Ways and
Heans Conmittee. This bill hs the
added feature of providin for retro-
active exemption from taxation, and in
he o inion or Mr. Vallence of LE is
33
preferable to the Jenate bill. Horeover,
8
Ii. vi ew of the possi bi lity th at the
House may regurd this bili as one
affectin; revenue und therefore one which
properly should originate in the House,
it seens preferable from the Department(s
viepoint that the House bill be passed.
WTT
TT
[IB11
JL 29 1935
FILED
994.
F/FG.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.95)
894.01811
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.01
SEE ...811.512394 Sh1pp1ng/49
FOR ...Memorandun
FROM ...Undaraaaratary
(Ph1llipa..) DATED ...July.1,1935.
TO
NAME
1-1137
B
Reciprocal relief from income tax; Japanese officials living
REGARDING:
in the United States and American officials living in Japan:
Japanese Ambassador, in conversation with the Undersecretary,
3
Mr. Phillips, mentioned his Government's interest in the bill
6
now pending in Congress for the-, He hoped that something
could be done to assure the passage of this legislation.
FRG.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.91)
.811
To the Ameriean Charg6 d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo.
With refemenee to the Department's ciroular imstrue-
tion of November 15, 1934, Diplomatic Serial No. 8497,
there is herewith transmitted for the information of the
Chargé d'Affaires an exoerpt from a memorandum of oon-
89
versation dated July 1, 1935, between the Under Searatary
4
of State and the Japanese Ambassador in regard to a bill
O
now pending in Congress to exempt from taxation, under
3
certain conditions, on the basis of reciproeity, official
compeneation of a eoneular officer, non-diplomatic repre-
sentative, or employee of a foreign country residing in
3
6
the United States.
For the further information of the Charg& d'affaires
it may be stated that due to the pressure of legislatiom
in Cemgress the prospeot for passage of this bill during
the present session of Congress is uncertain.
meleeure!
As stated.
27935
804.08 B 11
A tro oppy of
W1T
W.R.N.
nnN.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTHENT OF STATE
THE UNDERSBORETARY
July 1, 1986.
PB8
The (Japanese) Ambassador then mentioned his Govern-
ment's interest in the bill now ponding in Congress for
the reciprocal relief from taxation of Japanese offieials
living in the United States and Amerioan offioials living
in Japan. He referred to the Japanese Treasury experts,
the Japanese ruilway employees, eto., eto. He hoped that
somathing could be done to aasure the passage of this
legislation. ...
William Phillips.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.93)
KE
FE
151
SPART
WASHINGTON
1S35 AUG 6 AM 10 36
wen
:36
Division of
THEUNNP
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1935
A
1 01111
as.d
37
Receipt is acknowlodged of your letter of recent date relative
to H. R. 7998 concerning the exemption of officers of foreign govern-
894.01
ments in nondiplomatio status fron Federal income tax with respeot to
wages, fees and salariec received by them as compeusation for their
services in the United States. Receipt is also acknowledged of the
enclosures noted in your letter. You request that this Departmeut
advise you whether it conours in the view of Honorable Robert L.
Doughton, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Comnittee, that H. R.
7998 is sufficient in its present form to exempt from income tax the
salaries of Japanese officials of the Department of Railways, provided
that you certify that United States consular officers in Japan perform
11/40
pervices similar to those performed by these Japanese officials. This
question is under active consideration by this Department, and you
will be promptly apprized of the opinion and position of the Department
as soon as a conclusion theroon is reached.
In the event that further correspondenoe is necessary, please
refor to IR:GC:A-237748.
Respoctfully,
7loolid,
AUG 9- 1935
Secretary.
FILED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
F/FG

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.91)
KE
1-
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
wRN F A
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENTOF STATE
40
Si7
51038
ile
DIVISIUN UP FUHEION
Divis on of
The Hey:ral.
SFP 11 1935
The Secretary of State.
19 1935
se!
Sir:
Further reference is made t your letter of July 18, 1935
(Le 894.01 B 11/37). concerning the exemption of officers and employees
894.01
of foreign governments in a non-uiplomatic status fron Federal income
tax with respect to Waces, fees, and salaries received by them as
compensation for their services in the United States. With your letter
you sent a copy of a note dated June 19, 1935, received from the
Japanese Embassy. requesting information concerning the provisions
of H. R. 7998 (74th Con.. 1st Sess.), a copy of a letter dated July 5,
1935, which you addressed to the Chairmen of the House Ways and Means
B
Committee in connection with the same subject, and also a copy of a
letter dated July 11. 1335. received from Honorable Robert L. Doughton,
Crainran of tne House Conmittee on Ways and M ans, relative to H.R. 7998.
You ruquest trat tris Department advise you whether this Depart-
ment concur: in Mr. Douhton's view that H. R. 7998 is sufficient in its
present form to exemut from income tax te salaries of Japanese officials
of the Department of Railways, provided that you certify that consular
officers fron this country in Japan perform services similar to those
performed by these Japanese ofricials.
Shortly after the receipt of ycur request and before any conclusion
had been reached thereon. H. R. 7998 was favorably reported by the House
Committee on Ways and Means. It Was felt that this would preclude any
contemplated changes in tre language of the bill and inasmuch as it
SS
passed the House in the form in which it was reported, it was decided
P
FILED
to withhold expression of opinion as to the proper interpretation of ito
language pending the final action on the measure.
9
19
The bill has been enacted into law, having been signed by the
35
President August 27, 1935. It provides, among other things, that wages,
rees, or salaries of an employee of a foreign government (including a
consular or other officer, or a non-diplomatic representative). received
as compensation for ofricial services to such government shall be exempt
F/FG
from Federal income tax (1) if such employee is not a citizen of the
United States; (2) if the services are of a character similar to those
performed by employees of the United States in foreign countries; and
、1

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
In re: Foreign Governments - Non-diplomatic
Officere and moloyees.
(3) if the foreign government whose employee claims exemption grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the United Stetes performing
similar services in such foreign country. The bill also provides
that you shall certify to this Department the names of the foreign
countries which grant an equivelent exemption to the employees of the
United States performing services in such foreign countries, and the
character of the services performed by employees of this country in
foreign countries.
Mr. Doughton, the Chairman of the House Committee on Ways and
Means, in his letter to you under date of July 1l, 1935, states that
in his opinion "H.5. 7998 *** is sufficient in its present form to
exempt from income tax the salaries of Japanese officials of the
Department of Railways provided that you feel you can certify that
our consular officers in Jepan perform similar services to those
performed by these Japanese officials." This Department is of the
opinion that tnat interpretation of H. R. 7998 is correct, assuming,
of course, that the other requirements relating to citizenship and
the granting of equivalent exemption are satisfied.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, pleese refer to IR: GC: A-287748.
Respectfully,
72 Cooih
 Secretery.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
KE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REVED
wen
LEFARTAENT OF STATTHE
374.31B11
1935S
20 AM 9 59
FAR EASTERA 
September 11, 1935.
FE
OCT
erin of rtate
TIONS
In reepanse to your memorandum of September 5, 1935,
there is transmitted herewith a draft of a note which I
believe the Department might send to the Japanese Ambassador
in response to the provisional draft note attaohed to your
memorandum. The proposed notes to be exchanged follow the
language used in the Act approved on August 27, 1935, which
894.01
reads in part as follows:
"(h) COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES OF FOREIGN
GOVERNMENTS.-Wages, fees, or salary of an employee
of a foreign government (including a consular or
other officer, or a nondiplomatic representative)
B
received as compensation for official services to
such government--
1/42
"(1) If such employee is not a citizen of the
United States; and
"(2) If the services are of a oharaoter similar
to those performed by employees of the Government
of the United States in foreign countries; and
"(3) If the foreign government whose employee
is olaiming exemption grants an equivalent exemption
to employees of the Government of the United States
performing similar services in such foreign country.
FILED
In this connection you will doubtless be interested im
the attached letter from the Secretary of the Treasury
dated September 5, l935, concerning the exemption of salaries
of Japanese officials of the Department of Railways from
F/FG.
income

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
2
income tax and stating that if the Secretary of state
certifies that "our consular officers in Japan perform a
similar service to those performed by these Japanese
officials" the Treasury Department will exempt the salaries
of these Japanese officials provided "the other requirements
relating to citizenship and granting of equivalont exemptions
are satisfied." (894.01 B 11/41)
It might be advisable to get the approval of the
Treasury Department on the proposed exchange of notes before
this draft is sent to the Japanese Imbassy since the
Treasury Department will have the practical administering of
the Aot and may wish to inoorporate some additional provisions
providing that the Japanese Embassy will furnish the names,
official positions and character of work performed by Japanese
officials when they arrive in the United States if it is
intended to claim exemptions for them under this Act.
W.RN.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.80)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
Mr. Hacheoth
Doth
7

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.97)
DRAT
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
his Excellency the Japanese Ambassador and has the honor to
acknowledge the receipt of the Ambassador's note dated
September
r, 1935, stating that the Department of Finance
of the Japanese Government is ready to exempt employees of
the United States Government (including consular and other
officers or nondiplomatio representatives) in Japan from
the payment of taxes on wages, fees or salary received as
compensation for official services to their Government,
(1) if suoh employees are not nationals of Japan, (3) if
the services are of a character similar to thove performed
by employees of the Japanese Government in foreign countries,
and (3) if the United States Government grants an equivalent
exemption to employees of the Japanese Government performing
similar services in the United States.
In view of the assurances contained in the Ambassador's
note the Seoretary of State is pleased to state that in
accordance with the provisions of the Aot of Congress
approved August 87, 1935, he has certified to the Seoretary
of the Treasury that Japan grants an equivalent exemptiom
Mto

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
to employees of the Government of the United States per-
forming services in Japan and has set forth therein the
character of the services performed by employees of the
United States in Japan so that employees of the Japanese
Government (including consular and other offices, or non-
diplomatio representatives, in the United States) may be
exempted from the payment of taxes on wages, fees or sal-
ary received as compensation for offioial services to
their government, (1) if such employees are not nationals
of the United States, (2) if the servioes are of a ohar-
acter similar to those performed by employees of the
Government of the United States 1n Japan, and (3) if the
Government of Japan grants an equivalent exemption to
employees of the Government of the United States perform-
ing similar services in Japan.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.87)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LHATF
Altached is a dra
fa woli which the fapanese Embasby
proposes to send, if approned hy their
Foreign Office It Department.
The embassy ashks us ls shor?
them a provisional draft of the
reply which the Deparlment woould
mate to the gapanese nole if sint.
LND

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
No.
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of
State and has the honor to state that the De-
partment of Finance of the Japanese Government
is ready to exempt employees of the United
States Government (including consular or other
officers, or non-diplomatic representatives) in
Japan from the payment of taxes on wages, fees,
or salary received as compensation for official
services to their Government, (l) if such employees
are not nationals of Japan, (2) if the services
are of a character similar to those performed by
employees of the Japanese Government in foreign
countries, and (3) if the United States Govern-
ment grants an equivalent exemption to employees
of the Japanese Government performing similar ser-
vices in the United States.
September. 1935.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.91)
Dear Mr. Coolidge:
I refer to the Department's letter of July la, le8s,
and to the Treasury Department's letter of September 5,
894.01
105s [referense: IR:00:A-287748], in regard to the ezemp-
tiem of officers and empleyees of foreign gevermmemts in
a men-diplematie status from Federal income tax en wages,
fees, and salaries reseived by them as compensatiom for
8
serviees rendered in the United States. The Japenese
11/42
mmbassy has furnished the Department with a copy of a
provisiomal draft note which the Embassy proposes to send
to the Department, in which the Japenese Government would
undertake to gramt, subjest to certain conditions, exemp-
tiem to empleyees in Japan of the Umited states frem pay-
mont of tamss en wages, fees, er salaries reseived as
compemsation for offisial serviess rendered to the Amesteum
Gevermmems. A copy of the draft previsional mote is
amelesed.
m
The Beebãe
T. J. G.
Lsttne Semretery of the Fremsry.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.88)
一
tmbesay stated that it would be glad to reseive the take
of sash reply as the Depertment might make to the Japamese
Rhasay's nete, if sent. There is emelosed a eopy of &
draft reply which, in the opinion of the Department,
might appropriately be made.
It would be appreciated if you would be so good as to
cause both draft doeuments to be exemined by officere of
yeur Depertment and furnish this Department any comments
or suggestiens the Treasury Department might be disposed
to maise thereon.
Sineerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
William Phillips
elssures:
Under Secretary
Toe draft dooments,
as described.
FE
Le
iyer
918-35
m.m.60
ann
SEP 18 1935PM
A true copy
OR
the tege origi
507

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.91)
F
LEGALAD
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
WASHINGTON
wRW
DARM
2916
SE1936
ion of
ERN AFFAIR
A
:13
tele
Sir:
I have your letter of September 19, 1935 (FE 894.01 B 11 41)
signed by Under Secretary William Phillips, with reference to
exemption of officers and employees of foreign governments in a
non-diplomatio status from Federal income tax on wages, fees
and salaries received by them as compensation for the services
rendered in the United States, to which there was attached a
draft of a proposed note from the Japanese Embassy and a draft
894.01
of a proposed reply theroto.
This matter is being given consideration and this Department
will be pleased to furnish to the State Depurtment its comments
and suggestions with reference thereto within a few days.
Respectfully,
B
Noolid
11/43
Acting Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable
Cordell Hull,
0C1 16 1935
Secretary of State.
FILED
F/FG.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE_LEGAL ADVISER
894.01811
1DIVED
OCT 161935
Ootober 3, 1935
DIVIEION O
Dear Mr. Haokworth:
Pursuant to our oonversation this morning I went
to the Treasury Department and disoussed the proposed
exohange of notes with the Japanese Embassy respeoting
income tax with Mr. Swayze and Mr. MoKirdy, of the
894.
Legislation and Regulations Division of the General
Counsel's Office. Mr. Swayze handed me the attached
O
revision of our draft prepared by Mr. Mokirdy. It has
been under disoussion and with resulting disagreement
as to the meaning of the Aot of August 37, 1935. You
will note that the material to be omitted from the
44
State Department's draft is placed in brackets and the
new phraseology is undersoored.
With respect to the proposed omission from the
CCT·1
FILED
Japanese Embassy's draft of the words "Department of
Finance of the", Mr. Mokirdy stated that these words
1935
were not necessary and that they might be misleading
as indioating that the agreement was with the Department
of Finance of the Japanese Government and not with all
F
departments of the Japanese Government as a whole. I
Fe
told him I thought the change was unimportant and that
I

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
-a
I had no objeotion to it.
With regard to the omission in the fourth line from
the end of the words "foreign countries" and the substi-
tution therefor of the words "the United States",
Mr. Mokirdy and Mr. Swayse agreed that 1t would be
desirable to retain the words "foreign oountries" since
these words used in the Act are entitled to a broad
interpretation and should not be limited to services
performed by Japanese Government employees in the United
states.
With respeot to the proposed omission of the words
"and (3) if" and the substitution therefor of the words
"suoh exemption to continue as long as", you are advised
that I inquired whether this meant that the exemption
would continue with respect to American employees in
Japan only so long as there were employees of the Japanese
Government in the Uni ted States performing similar ser-
vices and that if the Japanese Government, for reasons of
economy or, perhaps, war, decided to ourtail the number
of its employees here and we contimued to have similar
employees in Japan, they would become subjeot to taxation
as soon as the Japanese employees left the United States.
Mr. MoKirdy stated that no such intention was in his mind
and that he felt that a temporary withdrawal of such
employees would not terminte the grant of the exemption.
Ho

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
3-
He stated that he would oonstrue the Aot to mean that
as long as the exemption was available for our employees
if they were sent to Japan it ould be said that the
Japanese Government granted a reciprocal exemption. He
said that the last clause should be interpreted as though
the words "if" or "when" were inserted before the word
"performing" so that it would not be necessary to have
employees of the United States actually in Japan receiving
an exemption in order to grant it to their employees here.
It was agreed that the purpose of the Aot was to
grant a broad exemption from income tax to representatives
of foreign governments engaged upon a normal governmental
funotion and that the test of that set forth in mumber two
was whether the United States had an officer performing
similar official duties in any foreign country.
The difficulties of administration were onsidered
if the employees of foreign governments here were to be
atalogued and olassified with a detailed statement of the
duties they perform and before they would be granted
exemption a cheok should be made by the Department of
State against the lists of Amerioan employees in foreign
countries with a detailed statement of their duties to
ascertain whether any one of the American list was per-
forming duties similar to those performed by the employee
of the foreign country whose inoome was up for taxation.
Unless

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
-4
Unless the perforance of corresponding duties was found
to exist the foreign government's employee would be
subjeot to tax. Suoh a detailed examination would be
very oumbersome and on account of our ohanging personnel
abroad it would be almost impossible to administer it and
the tax finally obtained would be muoh less than the oost
involved. Mr. Swayze and Mr. McKirdy therefore oonoluded
that if a general certificate were made by the Department
of State that exemption was granted to Amerioan officers
abroad, the Treasury Department would give it a broad
interpretation and would send out a mimeographed list of
coun tries whose employees were to be granted exemption
and it was quite possible that no oase would arise
involving a detailed interpretation of the Aot.
Mr. Swayze stated that it would be necessary to amend
Section 64l of Regulations 77 of the Treasury Department
so as to add to the exemption provided for consular officers
on a reciprooal basis a provision for the exemption of other
representatives of foreign governments whose names appeared
on the list that would be oiroulated as a result of the
letter from the Department. This list of countries would
be oiroulated to the ∞llectors of oustoms throughout the
United States and would be printed in the Cumulative
Bulletin of the Treasury Department for the informtion
of taxpayers and tax attorneys.
It

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.94)
-5-
It was understood that I would submit the proposed
exohange of notes to you and after further consideration
Mr. Swayse would be advised of the State Department's
views informally respecting the suggested ohanges so that
agreement can be reached before the letter of the Treasury
Department 1s prepared and thereby avoid further delay.
wen
Le:WRV:DW:8S

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.81)
The sesretary ef state presente his enmplimmate to hie Emeellensy
Lhe Japanese hnbesesder and hae the hemer to anknenladge the reseips of
the tmbesester's mote dated sagtember. Loss, stattag thas the Lhapart-
ment of rasmee as ug Japenese Gevermment to resty to exempt mplagese of
the Usited States Geverament (ineludtag esnsular and etner effteere er
mentiplematie represemtasives) in Japee frem the payuest ef tases en sages.
fees er ealary reseived m cempemsastem for efficial servtess te their
everament. (1) 11 suon emplageee are not natiemale of Japen. (2) 11 the
serviees are of a aharester s inllar to those performed by emplegees of the
Jap Grt  [si i   L (3) 187
m   ie  l the aie State Gevertrants
 equivalent exemptien te emplageee ai the Japmese Ceverameat performias
inilar services in the Omited States.
In vie of the mesurances centained in the mbessndor's mote the
Secretary of state is pleased to state tuat in aocordance with the previ-
slome of the 4ot of Coagreee appreved must 27, 1936, e has certified
t he Scey f e y  L e
 equivalent exempt lem te emplegees of the Governmemt of the Uaited states
performlag services la Japem and has set forth thereia the aharacter as the
services perforaed by emplegeee of the United States in Japem e that e
plageee os the Japamese Levermment (laalud ing eensalar mnd ether effloes.
ar mendiplemat ic repreesatatives, in the Uaited States) mey be exempted
from the pagment of tazes en sages, fees er salary reeeived as compeasatien
fer efficial mervioss to tueir soveramemt, (1) 11 much mplegeee are met
mationals of the United states, (2) 11 the services are of a cherecter siai-
Lar to these perforeed by amplegees of the Gevermmens as the Uaited states
the Geverases os Japen cramte m epadvalens ammmptien to emplegeee es the
Gereramsnt of the Casted Statee perferaies sladler serviees La Japen.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.80)
sasgeoted moderafe
o.
The Japesese hmbessader presente his eomplimente to the Hemerable
the tearetary of State and has the hemer to state thas the Lhapartment
of Tiasmce os thg dapamese Gevermmmt is reaty te exempt emplagese of the
Uaited Statee Gevermmemt (lacluding comeular or ether effisers, er
me-diplemat ic represem tat ivee) ia Japam free the peymeat of tamse em
sages, fees, er salary received as compemsetiem ser efficial services
to tasir Geveramemt, (1) 1f sucn emplegees are mot matienals of Japem.
(2) is the serviese are of a aharacter similar to tuose performed by
plee   Jse vt  Loe tri
L (3)  U S 
ment rants an equivalent emptien to empleyees of the Jepemese verament
perloraing similar morvices in tme United States.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.96)
cer 15 1935
894.01B11
My dear Mr. Seayse:
Referring to our oonversatiom on October 3, l9ss,
coneerming the proposed erchange of motes with the
Japanese Embassy respeeting imooms tax exemptions, I
894.
tramsmit herewith revised drafts which have the
approval of this Department.
0
It is believed that the words "foreign countries"
B
should be retained in the exchange of notes since they
11/44
are used 1n the Aot of August 27, 1935, and give a
broader sigaificance to the exemption.
It is obeerved that you suggest that the words
"and (s) if" contaimed in this Department's draft should
be eheagsd to "such exemption to contime as long as".
This shange is aceepted with the understamding, homever,
that the exemption shall contimue although represemtatives
of
Kx. J. C. Swayse,
Attermey, Gemeral Coumsel's Offiee,
Dureen of Isternal Revemme.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.89)
of a Geveramest may be temporarily vitherasa er en leave
of abeenee.
Simserely yours,
Willian R. Vallance
Enclosuree:
Revised Drafts as
stated.
Auit
CCT 1B. 35PM
un
FE
Le:RWV:IL:88
10/15

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.93)
CR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REVEVED
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
#EMORAIDUM
5 NOV 4
Ootober 29, 1935.
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
2 1935
AND RECuRDs
Le:
Mr. Hackworth:
A
FE
Mr. Dooman:
894.01
The attached letter to the Treasury Department has
been drafted as a result of the discussion this morning
with Mr. Swayze, Mr. McKirdie and Mr. MoGinnis of the
Treasury Department. You will recall that it was agreed
B
that it would be inadvisable to have an exchange of notes
1/45
with the Japanese Government unless similar notes were to
be exchanged with Great Britain and other countries hav-
ing a number of Government employees stationed in the
United States.
N 11 1935
The attached letter to the Treasury Department with-
FETLA
drawing the drafts has accordingly been prepared.
LO.RN.
894.01 B 11/42
F
Le: WRV: VLW: 8S

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.91)
November 2 1938
T
My dear Mr. Sesretary:
Reference is made to this Department's letter
894.01
dated September 19, 1935, and to the reply of the Asting
Seoretary of the Treasury concerning the drafts of a
propesed exohange of notes with the Japanese Embassy at
this capital comeerming the exemption of offieere and
8
employees of foreign governments in a non-diplematie
status from Federal ineome tax on wages, fees and
salaries received by them as compensation for their serv-
iees remdered in the United States.
As a result of diseussion of this subjeot with of-
fieere of your Depertment I desire to withdraw the pre-
pesed drafts fer further consideration by this Department.
Sinoerely yours,
Willlmm Phillip:
Acting Secretary.
NOV 319
The Nemerable
Beary Mergenthan, junier,
80
Sesretary ef the Treasary.
A to
F.E.
W.R.N.
nad.
mm A

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.93)
KE
8
THESECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
FECE
TSAHINOTON
1935 NOV 25 AM 9 21
J'ile
coe
SICF
The Honorable
Division of
IMMUNICATION
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AND RECORDS
The Seoretary of Stat
NOV 2 6 1935
Sir:
Department of State
I have your letter of November 2, 1935 (Le 894.01 B 11/42),
with reference to the drafts of a proposed exohange of notes with
the Japanese Embassy submitted for consideration with your letter
of September 19, 1935, concerning the exemption of officers and
employees of foreign governments in a non-diplomatic status from
Federal income tax with respeot to wages, fees and salaries re-
ceived by them as compensation for their services rendered in the
894.01
United States.
Pursuant to your request, based on the understanding
reaohed at a conference held October 29, 1935, between repre-
sentatives of your Department and of this Department, your
request in the letter of September 19, 1935, for consideration
of the drafts submitted will be treated as having been withdrawn
B
pending the further action of your Department in the matter.
11/46
In the event that further correspondence relative to
this matter is necessary please refer to IR:GC:I: JCS.
Respeotfully,
hoid
N0v 29 1935
Secretary.
F/FG
C.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.95)
21.0
LEGAL ADVISER
本E
FEB 28 193
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
7
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ARTMENSTAT
81
山
CONVERSATION
February 25, 1936.
Second Secretary Japanese Embassy.
Diyisoon of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Mr. Turner.
FB201936
Subject:
Exemption of Japanese Officials without
Diplomatic Status from Income Taxation.
894.0
Mr. Kawahara called to inquire concerning developments
in regard to the proposed exemption from Federal income tax
of Japanese railway officials and other non-diplomatic
officers stationed in the United States.
B
I read to Mr. Kawahara an extract from the Treasury
11/47
Department's letter of September 5, 1935, which follows:
"The bill (H.R. 7998) has been enacted into
law, having been signed by the President August 27,
1935. It provides, among other things, that wages,
fees, or salaries of an employee of a foreign
government .... received as compensation for
official services to such government shall be
exempt from Federal income tax (1) if such employee
is not a citizen of the United States; (2) if the
services are of a character similar to those per-
formed by employees of the United States in foreign
MAR 2.3 1936
countries; and (3) if the foreign government whose
FILED
employee claims exemption grants an equivalent
exemption to employees of the United States perform-
ing similar services in such foreign country."
I informed Mr. Kawahara that our Legal Adviser
(Mr. Vallance) had suggested that the Japanese Embassy address
a note to the Department giving the names of those railway
20h0
officials you desire to claim exemption under this law
together with a statement of the amounts assessed against
them.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.97)
211
- 2 -
them. I suggested that this note include a statement
concerning the nature of the duties of these officials
and that it contain a request for cancellation of the
assessments made against them. I said that this note
would be referred by us to the Treasury Department, and
that we hoped thereby to come to an early and final settle-
ment of this matter. Mr. Kawahara agreed to do so.
Mr. Kawahara asked if he might inform his Government
that the railway officials were exempt from taxation. I
referred him again to the Treasury Department's letter
wherein the Treasury Department accepts the interpretation
that salaries of Japanese railway officials are exempt from
income tax "provided that you (the Department) feel you can
certify that our consular officers in Japan perform similar
services to those performed by these Japanese officials".
I said that he could report that the railway officials were
exempt from taxation provided that the requirements of the
law in regard to reciprocal treatment, nationality, and
performance by American officials abroad of similar functions
were satisfied.
T
WTT/DLY

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENTOFSTATE
LEGAL ADVISER
212
MAR 16 938
SP 28 1936
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
DIVISION OFVOREION
JAPANESE EMBASSY
DEOARTHER
SERVIOEAUMINISTRATION
WASHINGTON
o.50
1936 MAR 16 AM 10 08
317 juler
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of
Division of
State and has the honor to send, attached here-
F/R EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR 1 8 1936
to, a list of the officials of the Japanese
Department of State
Government staying in this country at present,
who wish to be granted exemption from taxation
of their salaries which they receive from their
894.01
Government as compensation for official ser-
vices.
B
The Ambassador has further the honor
to state that all of the officials mentioned there-
in are of Japanese nationality and are not American
citizens.
AH
FILD
It is understood that such eremption
will be granted the Japanese officials, ineluding
those of the Railway Department, of Japenese natiom-
ality. residing in the Umited States on the basis of
reciprecity.
March 14, 1956.
K.O.
11

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
213
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
LIST OF OFFICIALS OF THE IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
STAYING AT PRESENT IN NEW YORK.
Naval officers (attached to the naval inspector's office
of the Navy Department in New York)
Hiromitsu Yanagiwara
Engineer Captain
Etsuso Kurihara
Commander
Zensuke Kanome
Commander
Sadao Nakano
Engineer Commander
(Their duty is to inspect ordnance and materials
purohased by the Government.)
Officials of the Railway Department (attached to the
offiee of the Railway Department in New York)
Minoru Otsuki
Secretary of the Railway Department
Kuman Uchiyama
Technical expert of the Railway
Department
Makitaro Abe
Secretary of the Rai lway Department
130
Masaaki Yoshiwara
Technical expert of the Railway
Department
Kanichi Yamaguchi
do
do
Shuji Komori
do
do
Katsuji Miyako
do
do
Kyuzo Iwai
do
do
Motojiro Magase
do
do
Jujiro Kojima
do
do
Seikiohu Shimisu
do
do
Shigeru Takaori
Physioian attached to the Railway
Department
Shotaro Shimada
Clerk of the Railway Department
(Their duty is to study railway systems and conditions
relative to communication and transportation and in
addition to that some technical experts inspect goods
purohased by the Government.)
Officials of the Finance Department (attached to the of-
fice of the Tobacco Monopoly Bureau of the Finanee
Department in New York)
Yoshikasu Uda
Secretary of the Tobaceo Monopoly
Bureau of the Finance Department
Kanj1 Kawakami
Technical expert of the same Bureau
(Their duty is to inspect tobacce purohased by the
Govermment.)
officials
→

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.97)
214
Offieials of the Office of the Financial Commissd oner
of the Imperial Japanese Govemment im New York.
Harukage Ukawa
Senior Secretary
Keijiro Shoji
Financial Attaché
Kiyoshi Shimomara
Financial Attaché
(They are in charge of financial transactions of the
Japanese Government in this country)
Army officers (attached to the Military Inspector's
Office of the War Department in New York)
Kaseshi Bito
Major General
Kosaku Iida
Major
4 aranyoff
Minoru Kanda
Major
Hiroshi Matsuda
Assistant Engineer
(Their duty is to inspect ordnances and materials
purohased by the Japanese Government)
+
-2-
4.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.85)
Marob 20 1030
Gear . Secretary:
Referenee is made to the ast of Congress appseved
Anguse 27, 192s, Pabl1o No. 374, emtitled "àn Ast to
exempt from tamation official compemsstien of certain
Seseign repressntatives *: (sesston Leme 103s - 908).
I enskose a copy of a mote dated Mareh 14, 1sss, 
aséved frem the Japamese Ambasssdor at this Sapital,
11/48
téanematting a list of offietals of the Japanese Qot-
esmment staying in the United states at the presemt time.
tho mtsh te be granted exemption from tamsion of theis
salaries whieh they receive frem the Japanese Gevermmens
as cempensesion fer theiz effletal serviese.
In his lettez dated Septembez 5, 20ss, the Lettng
sy e the Ty s for the oue t you
Sepertmese cosentng the appllaticn of this legt
 to le of the Jepeee iler e

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.85)
216
Is aessrdense stse the poevissene of the Ast of
angass 27, 2oss, I eertity that Japen grante aa eqtse
Valoms emsmption to empleyees of the Gevesmment ef the
mited ssates pesfersing serviees in Japes, and thes
the charaster of the seevtess performsd by mployees
of the Soverament ef the United States in foreign
coumtries is similar to the servicss of Japanese offi-
sials in the Umited States deseribed in the enslosed
copy of the note of the Japanese Ambassador. I there-
fore hope that these Japanese offieials will be granted
exemption from incom taxation on the offieial compem-
sation they recsive from the Japanese Govermment, and
that you will notify the interested offioers of your
Department accordingly.
Sinoerely yours,
TA
E
Enelesure:
Frem Japamese Embassy, No. 50,
80
March 14, 1936, m1th enclosure.
WST
ZiA
2E
LO:NV:EE:0S
ycs
3-19
ANN

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.93)
217
The seeretary of State presents his complimemts to
His Exeellemoy the Ambassador of Japan, and has the
honor to aokmowledge the reoeipt of the Ambessador's
note No. 50 dated Maroh 14, 1936, transmitting a list
of offioials of the Japanese Government stationed in the
894.01
United States, who wiah to be granted exemption from tax-
ation of their salaries, which they receive from the
Japanese Government as compensation for their offioial
8
serviees.
1/48
The Seoretary of state has brought this matter to
the attemtion of the appropriate authority of this Gor-
ermment with a view to favorable action, upon the reqmest
of the Ambassador for the ezemption of the offioial sal-
aries of these persons from taation. Upon reesipt of a
meply, & further eemmunieation vill be addreseed te the
MAR 20
 seate
Maroh 20 1936
Hen
7E

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.87)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
3/25
teo notes t disl
Do

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.82)
ARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
3/21
FF
Pleace note this
adoation Jest.
Lto son Thin t we
a

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.94)
5
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
D3681
LEGAL ADVISER
no.54
21
197
894.01B11
DEPAUTMI NT OFSTATE
4
Apr1l
MAR·25 1936
DIVIDION OF FOREION
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
State and has the honor to request that the
894.01
enclosed additional list of Japanese officials
staying in this ∞untry be attached to his note
14
a
No. 50 dated March 14, 1956.
The Ambassador begs further to request
649
that, as it is not knowm from what port of the
United States these officials will depart when
they leave this country, the names of all offi-
cials entitled to exemption from taxation be
APR 29 1936
communicated to the Colleetors of Internal Reyenue
FILED
at New Tork, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle,
so that they may receive sailing permits at these
ports without trouble.
yare? 19, 1986.
K.O.
(Emelosure)

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.96)
-(A) LIST OF OFFICIALS OF THE IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERIMENT
STAYING IN NEW YORK
Navel Officers (attached to the naval inspector's office
of the Navy Department in New York)
Masahira Hirai
Commander
Yohachiro Oshima
n
Kyue Takahara
Lieutenant Commander
Takehiko Iwasaki
Hiroshi Otomo
Yumio Kosai
n
Mitsumasa Akimoto
Masayuki Okamoto
Goro Tsuchiya
Civil Engineer of the Navy
Department
Tomojiro Imai
Clerk of the Navy Department
Yoshio Iwasaki
17
Kazuzi Sawada
n
n
n
e
Zenichi Tasaka
Civil Engineer of the Navy
Department
Soichi Yamazaki
do
do
N
Jiro Adachi
do,
do
Nobutada Wakuda
do
do
Moniohiro Shimozato
do
do
(Their duty is to inspect ordnance and materials
purchased by the Government)
Officials of the Agrioulture and Forestry Department
(attached to the Japanese Government Raw Silk Intel-
ligetee Bureau of New York)
Takeshige Ishiguro Secretary of the Agrioulture
3
and Forestry Department
Hiroshi Shiga
Technical Expert of the Agri-
oulture and Forestry Department
Kenjiro Nishimura
Clerk of the Agrioulture and
Forestry Department
(Their duty is to investigate raw silk markets in
this country)
Official of the Formosa Government-Commissiener
(attached to the New York office of the Fermosa
Govermment-Commissioner)
Shichiro Shimisu
Seoretary of the Government-
Commissioner
(His duty is to inform the Government-Commissiomer
of the market sondition of goods imported from Fermose)

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.95)
(B) LIST OF OFFICIALS OF THE DMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
STAYING IN OTHER PLACES THAN NEW YORK
Nemes of Naval
Title
Places where they
Officers:
are staying
Yoshiyuki Kishi
Lieutenant Commander
Washington, D.C.
Haruo Mayuzumi
n
n
San Francisco
Tsuneo Shiki
n
n
Virginia
Shigeru Fujii
n
n
New York
Toshikazu Omae
n
n
Philadelphia
Taro Isobe
n
n
Philadelphia
Jukiohi Ozawa
n
n
Oklahoma
Yukio Otsuki
First Lieutenant
Boston
(All are so-called Language Officers)
Names of Army
Title
Places where they
Officers
are staying
Yoshiakira Nishi
Major
Urbana, Illionis
Masao Konishi
Detroit, Michigan
5arim
Numemich1 Tonami
n
Boston
Koyu Moriya
n
Fort Ethan Allen,
Vermont
Otoshi Nishimura
n
Boston
(All are so-called Language Officers)

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.91)
Apr11 7 1950
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
Referenee is made to the ast of Congress appreved
August 27, 1985, Publ1o No. 374, emt1tled "An Aet to
exempt from taxation offioial compensation of certaim
894.01
foreigm representatives * * ** (Session Laws 1955 - 908).
Reference 1s also made to this Department's letter of
Maroh 20, 1936, enolosing a copy of a note dated Maroh 14
8
from the Japanese Ambassedor at this capital, transmitting
a list of offiolals of the Japanese Jovernment residing in
1/49
the United states at the present time who wish to be
ranted exemption from taxation of their salaries received
from the Japanese Government as compensation for their
official services.
There is enolosed a copy of another note from the
Ambessador, transmitting an additional list of Japanese
liséd
offioials residing in the United States.
ree
Referenoe
20m1
The Benorable
Neary Mereemthau, junier,
 :
sesretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.96)
Referense is alse made to the letter of the Bepart-
momt of state dated September 18, l9ss, in whish, in ro-
Latiem to the Treasury Department's letter of Oetober 9,
1954, (Treasury f11e IR: 0C:I: J08), and to subsequent
sorrespondence in regard to the exemption of officers of
foreign governments in the United Stetes, in a non-
diplomatio status, from Federal inoome tax w1th respect
to wages, fees and salaries received by them in compense-
tion for their servioes in the United States, there was
enclosed a list of those countries, including Japan, in
whioh Amerloan consular offioere and employees and other
non-diplomatic ofricers and employees are exempt from the
payment of income tax on their offioial compensation.
In uooordanoe with the provisions of the Aot of
August 27, l935,I oert1fy that Japan grants an equivalent
exemption to employees of the Government of the United
States performing servioes in Japan, and that the oharac-
ter of the services performed by officers of the. Government
of the United States in foreign countries is similar to the
services of Japanese officials in the United States de-
soribed in the enelosed copy of the note of the Japanese
Ambassador. I therefore hope that these Japanese offioials
will be granted exemption from ineome taxation on the offi-
elal compensatien they receive from the Japanese Gevernmemt,
ad

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.84)
7e will
 asserdingly.
simeerely yours,
Cordell Ha
Emelesare:
Prem Japemese Axbassador,
No. 84, Mareh 19, 1936,
with enelosure.
A true 
the
ow
S
7 1936.
gioullno
wn In
7lave
FE

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.93)
The Seeretary of state presests his compliments to
Eis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassador and has the hener
to mekmewledge the reseipt of his note No. S4 of Mareh 19,
10ss, emelesing, with referenee to his note No. s0 dated
Mareh 14, am additiemal l1st of Japanese offieials re-
894.01
siding in she Uaited States.
The Seeretary of State has brought the matter te the
8
attemtiem of the appropriate authority ef the Federal
11/49
Geverament with a view to favorable aetien upen the re-
quest of the smbessader for the exemption frem tamatien
en the offieial salaries of the Japasese effieials mamed
1n the list emelessd with his mete. Upen the reseipt of
a reply a further eemmmleatiem will be asdressed te the
Apr11 7 1936

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.93)
L0
Zile
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RDOEIVAD
Division of
THE LEGAL ADVISER
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR.20 1930
MEMORANDUM
MAR 18 1936
Department of State
Maroh 17, 1936
Mr. Haokworth:
Mr. Turner of Far Eastern Division brought Mr. Ka-
wahara of the Japanese Embassy to see me on Maroh 13.
He had a draft of a note concerning exemption of Japanese
894.0
offioials, in the United States similar to the Embassy's
50
note No. 15 of March 14, 1936. The list of Japanese
officers did not include a statement of their offioial
B
title or information regarding the nature of their official
duties.
Mr. Kawahara referred specifically to the exemption
5
0
of the Japanese Railway officials, and wanted to know
when the deoision had been reached that they were entitled
to exemption. I told him that it was my recollection that
AR 23 136
the decision had been made last September or Ootober. I
FILE
find, upon examining the files, that the letter of Septem-
ber 5, 1935, file IR:GC:A-287748 from the Treasury Depart-
/145
ment, contains this decision.
WRV
F/F
Le:WRV:EE:SS
Q

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.85)
; DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVIsER
218
peed
19

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
219
2A
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
LEGAL ADVISER
ZE
23
No.55
DEPARTNTOLF
Division of
FAREASTERN AFFAIRS
VAPR 6-1936
The Japanese Ambaamadoma psents his compli-
1936
to the Honorable the Secretary of State and has
APR 2
the honor to enclose a list of officials of the
Japanese Government who have filed surety bonds with
894.01
or have paid taxes to the Collector of Internal Revenue
in New York during their stay in this country.
The Japanese Ambassador would appreciate
it very much if the Secretary of State would be good
5
enough to transmit the list to the appropriate author-
ities of the United States Government so that the
bonds deposited or taxes pa id mgy be refunded.
811.5723
The Ambassador has further the honor to state
that he has received a cablegram from Japan to the
APR 10 1936
FILED
offect that the Treasury Department instructed all
internal revenue officers in Japan that all officials
of the United States Government are to be exempted from
income
taxation.
(Emelosure)
F/FQ
March 81, 1986.
K.0.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
(a) Japanese offioials who filed surety bonds with
the Collector of Internal Revenue in New York.
Tax
Name
Date
Bond
Amount
assessed
Yorio. Yamamoto
Sept.18/34
#5086424
$400.00
$281.15
Secretary of the
Railway Department
Eizaburo Fuji1
Oot.5/34
#5086860
140.00
67.20
Seoretary of the
Railway Department
Hiroji Nishioka
n
#5086859
140.00
67.20
Secretary of the
Railway Department
Seizaburo Nagata
n
#5086858
140.00
67.80
Secretary of the
Railway Department
Komao Ban
n
#5086861
140.00
67.20
Secretary of the
Railway Department
Mototaro Matsuo
Nov.9/34
#5087621
Civil Engineer of
the Navy Depart-
ment
Tautsumi Masatake
Oot.26/34
#5087342
150.00
Official of the
Formosa Government-
Commissioner
(The duty of the Secretaries of the Railway Department is to
study railway syatems and conditions relative to communication
and transportation and that of the official of the Formosa
Government-Commissioner is to inform the Government-Commissioner
of the market condition of goods imported from Formosa)

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
221
(b) Japanese officials who paid taxes to the
Colleotor of Internal Revenue in New York.
Name
Total Income
Date of Payment
Tax Paid
Kaname Minaru
$68.73
Nov. 16, 1934
Civil Engineer of the
Navy Department
Toshio Amari
42.53
Nov. 16, 1934
Civil Engineer of the
Navy Department
Sukezo Adachi
153.03
Nov. 16, 1934
Commander of the
Japanese Navy
Shigeru Ohno
67.44
Dec. 26, 1934
Civil Engineer of the
Navy Department
Kazuo Horiuchi
100.67
Jan. 17, 1935
Commander of the
Japanese Navy
Tokuji Banna1
156.47
Jan. 29, 1935
Lioutenant Commander of
the Japanese Navy
Ryutaro Kawabata
45.56
Mar. 4, 1935
Civil Engineer of the
Navy Department
Sadao Tsuruo
75.47
Jan. 30, 1935
Lieutenant Commander of
the Japanese Navy
Sannosuke Tamai
5.33
Feb. 5, 1935
Captain of the
Japanese Navy
Shoso Hashimoto
8.72
Mar. 22, 1935
Commander of the
Japanese Navy
Ryozo Fukuda
4.13
Mar. 5, 1936
Captain of the
Japanese -Nevy
Noberu Owada
3.81
Mar. 5, 1936
Commender of the
Jajanese Navy
Saburo Miyata
8.87
Jan. 25, 1955
Sesretary of the
milway Depertment

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
221
(b) gont1nued frem pmge 8
Name
Total Ineome
Date of Payment
Tex Paid
Masaji Okishio
$10.76
Jan. 31, 1935
Seoretary of the Railway
Department
Yoshinobu Shimamura
16.00
July 6, 1935
Secretary of the
Railway Department
Tatsumi Sasamori
16.00
July 6, 1935
Seoretary of the
Railway Department
Yoshito Yorifuji
13.95
July 84, 1935
Secretary of the
Railway Department
Kichihei Funaishi
14.47
July 24, 1935
Seoretary of the
Railway Department
Tsuyoshi Sato
9.07
July 29, 1935
Secretary of the
Railway Department
Eisaku Sato
9.07
July 29, 1935
Secretary of the
Railway Department
Kiyonori Tomiyama
25.16
Jan. 4, 1936
Secretary of the
Railway Department
Saburo Uneo
34.00
April 8, 1935
Civil Engineer of the
War Department
(The duty of naval and army officers is to inspect
ordnance and materials purchased by the Government)
-5-

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.95)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
LEBAL ADVISER
AFR1
No.60
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
APR 1 1936
Division of
oivi
hobi
OF FORFION
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR6 1936
The Japanese Ambassador presents
Department of State
his compliments to the Honorable the Secre-
C94.01B11
tary of State and, with reference to his
894.01 3 11 151
Apr1l 8 1936
note No. 55, of March 21,1936 concerning
the refunding of taxes paid or bonds deposited
894.01
by officials of the Japanese Government since
1934, has the honor to state that his Govern-
ment did not at any time levy taxes on the
salaries of American officials residing in
52
Japan during the period in which Japanese
officials residing in the United States were
taxed.
APR 10 1935
FILED
March 31, 1936.
十
F/FG
K.O.
14

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.90)
The Beeretary of State presents his eomplimeats to
His Kxsellemey the Japanese Ambassador and has the hemer
to ackmowledge the reseipt of his note No. 55 of Mareh 21,
1986, emelesing a list of offieials of the Japamese Gov-
894.01
ermment who have filed surety bonds with or have paid
taxes to the Cellector of Internal Revemue in New Yerk
during their residence in the Umited States. Askmowledg-
B
memt is alse mde of the reseipt of the Ambassador's mote
11/52
Le, s0 of March 31 in whieh, with referemee te the
previeus mete mentiomed, he states that his Geverement
did mes at amy time levy taxes on. the salaries ef Amer-
lean effisials residing in apan during the peried in
mich Japemese effiesels residins in the Umited staten
.
the rry ef state hee ught the ee

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.86)
to the exemptiem in future frem the payment of ineeme tas
 the efficial compemsatiem of any of the effieials memed
in the list who may still be in the Uaited states, the
cameelatiem of the bonds deposited and the refund of the
amounts of taxes paid. Upon the receipt of a reply a
further communioation will be addressed to the Ambessador.
Dopartmons of stase,
APR 8 1950
Apr11 8 1936
maahington.
A true copy of
Hul
FE
.M.A
PAIMISPB:SS

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.96)
Apr1l 8 1936
In roply zede to
004.01B11/52
 dear Mr. Secretary:
89
Reference is made to the act of Congress approved
4.
August 37, 1936, Publio No. 374, entitled "An Aet to
exempt from taxation official compensation of certain
B
foreign representatives ***.: (Session Laws 1935 - 908).
Reference is also made to this Department's letter of
Mrch 20, 1938, enolosing a copy of a note dated Maroh 19
5
2
from the Japanese Ambassador at this capital transmitting
a list of Japanese officials residing in the United States
who wish to be granted exemption from taxation of their
mlaries received from the Japanese Government as compen-
sation for their official services.
There is enclosed a copy of another note from the
Ambassmdor transmitting an additional list of Japanese
officials with a view to the exemption from the payment
of
The Honorable
Kemry Morgenthau, Jr.,
Seeretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.96)
2
of imeeme tax in future on the offisial compenamtien of
any of the offieials mmed in the list who my still be
in the Umited States, the cancelation of the bonds
deposited and the refund of the amounts of tares herete-
fore paid.
Reference is also mde to the letter of the Depart-
ment of State dated September 12, 1935, in whioh, in re-
lation to the Treasury Department's letter of Ootober 9,
1934 (Treasury file IR:GC:I: JCs), and to subsequent
correspondence in regard to the exemption of offioers
of foreign governments in the United States, in a non-
diplomtio status, from Federal income tax with respeot
to wages, fees and salaries received by them in compensa-
tion for their services in the United States, there was
enolosed a list of those countries, inoluding Japan, in
whioh American consular officers and employees and other
nondiplommtic officers and employees are exempt from the
payment of income tax on their offioial compensation.
In accordance with the provisions of the aet of
August 27, 1936, I oertify that Japan grants an equivalent
exemption to employees of the Government of the United
States performing services in Japan, and that the oharac-
ter of the services performed by officers of the Govern-
ment of the Umited States in foreign countries is similar
te the serviess of Japanese officials in the Umited states
desoribed

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.93)
deesribed in the list whieh accompenies the emelesed copp
of the mote of the Japasese Ambassador. I therefere hepe
that the official compemsation of amy of the offieials
mamed in the list who mmy still be in the Umited States
my in future be exempt from the payment of income tax
on their officinl compensation, that the bonds deposited
my be canceled and that the amounts of taxes heretofore
paid by the officials named my be refunded, and that you
will motify the interested officers of your Department
accordingly. In this relation there is also enclosed a
copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador dated Mareh 31
from whioh it will be observed that he certifies that
"his Government did not at any time levy taxes on the
salaries of American officialE residing in Japan during
the period in which Japanese officials residing in the
United States were taxed."
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
A y of
PR 8 1930
Eno losures :
From Japanese Ambassador,
No. 55, Maroh 21, 1936,
with enelosure;
Fren Japamese Ambassador,
No. 60, Maroh 31, 1936.
m
Le w
bm
Neu
FE
A:FM:BB:8S 4/3
57.0

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.95)
The Seeretary ef state preseats his cemplimemts
te Mis Ezeelleney the Japanese Ambassader and has the
honer to refer to his mote Ne. 55 of Mareh 21, 19se,
onelesing a list ef effiolals of the Japanese Gevernment
who had filed surety bonds with or had paid taxes to the
Colleetor or Internal Revenue in New York during their
894.018
residence in the United tates. eference is also made
to the Ambassador's note No. 60 of Mareh 31, 1936, 1n
二
whioh, with referenoe to the previous note mentioned,
/52
he stated that his Government did not a: any time
levy taxes on the salaries of Ameriean officials resid-
ing in Japen during the period in which Japanese of-
fioials residing in the United states were taxed.
As stated in the Department's reply of April e
last the matter was brought te the attentien er the
apprepriate autherity of the Federal Severnment. There
is emelesed fer the Asbaseeder's iafermetiem am

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.93)
-2
exserps frem a letter wmich has just been reeelved
in relation to the matter.
Enclosure:
Excerpt from letter of
Treasury Department,
Jume 4, 1936.
Department of state,
Washington,
June 12 1930
JUN 12 193
the 896.01 8 11/62
ard
FE
mm.H.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.91)
4
JARANESE EMBASEY
WASHINGTON
DLTARTM
1936 APRM 1046
No. 68
EP ATE
SERVITION
DIVISI F FIN
APR 29 1936
Division of
10.01011/48
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
YAPR211936
Depr
The Japanese Ambassador presents
his compliments to the Honorable the Seore-
afrfer
tary of State and has the honor to request
894.01 B 11/53
that the following Japanese official stay-
ing in this country be added to the list
of Japanese officials attached to the
Ambassador's note No. 50 dated March
14, 1936: -
Iwawo Yokota
Secretary of the Tourist
APR 29 1936
Bureau of the Japanese
FILED
Government Railways at
Los Angeles.
(His duty is to study railway systems
and conditions relative to communics
tion and transportation)
April 15, 1936.
F/FG
7
K.0.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.90)
The Seeretary ef state presente his eommlimemts to
Mis Exoelleney the Japanese Ambassador and askmowledges
the reeeipt of his note No. 8 of A ril 15, 19s6, mequest-
894.018
ing that the name of Mr. Iwawo Yokmta, Beeretary of the
Tourist Bureau of the Jap nese Government Railways at
Los Angeles, be added to t: e list of Japanese ot icials
5
enolosed with the Ambas. ador's nute No. 50 of Maren 14,
3
1ast.
It is not believed that there is any ugenay abrord
of the Govermment of the United Btatre comparable with
the Japanese Tourist mreau mentioned,
The Seeretary of state is constrained, therefore, to
aévise the Ambassador that exemption from ineome tax eannot
be extended to M. Yokota. Referenee is made in this
relation te am informal diseussion of the matter over the
toteptheme with an effieer of the Japemese Rabesey.
APR 8A 105
目
pr11 281930
NKT
FE

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 21, 1936.
FA:
Division of
Ms Marsh.
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
Lo:
APR211936
Mr. Valdance.
FE is of the opinion that the Depart-
ment could not with warrant certify to the
Treasury that the "character of the services
performed by employees of the Government of
the United States in foreign countries is
similar to the service performed by
Mr. Yokota". The Japanese Tourist Bureau,
although an official agency of the Japanese
Government, is a tourist agency engaged
in the sale of transportation; and it is
believed that there is no such agency
abroad of the American Government.
The matter was discussed informally
over the telephone with an officer of
the Japanese Embassy.
FE suggests that the draft letter
to Treasury be cancelled and that the
Japanese Embassy be informed that exemption
from income tax cannot be extended to
Mr. Yokota.
D PLY

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.92)
L
My dear Mr. Beeretary:
Beferenee is made to the lettgé of the Department
of state aated Maroh 20, l936, epalesing a opy of note
No. 50 of Mareh 14, from the Japasese Ambassador at this
Capital transmitting è list of ofrieials of the Japanese
Government residing in tho Uaised states who wish to be
granted exemption from taxation of their salaries received
from the Japanese Covernment as compensation for their
official services.
There is enoXosed a copy of a further note from the
Ambassador requssting that she nam of Mr. Iwawo Tokota,
Seoretary of the Tourist Bureau of the Japanese Government
Railways at Los Angeles, be added to the list of Japanese
ofricials enolosed with his note referred to above.
Ix this relation referenee is meée to the Ast of
Comgress approved August 27, 1935, Publie Mo. 394, en-
sitled "An Let to exempt from tazatiom offieial compense-
t1om
The Kenereble
Keary Morgemthmm, Jr.,
seeretary of sthe Treasary.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.91)
L000 1906 - 000).
In nis letter dated september 5, 195s,  sing
seeretary of the Treasury set forth the ylews of your
Depertment conceraing the epplicatios of this legiele-
tiem to ofrieials of the Japanese Mailway Bepartmemt
statiemed 1n the Ua1ted states, file IR:00:4-80v968.
In ascortenee with the provisions of the Let of
Auguss 29, 19ss, I eertiry that Japan grants en equi-
valemt exemptien to employees of the covermmsnt ef the
Daited states performias serviees in Japan, and that the
charecter of the serviees performee by empleyees of the
Govermment of the Baited States in foreign countries is
similar to the gervice performed by Mr. Yokote. I there-
fore hope that he will be granted ezemptiem frem iacome
taxatien cn his official compeasatiem received from the
Japesese goverameat, and that you will motify the iateresten
offieers/ef your Departmemt escerdingly.
sineesely yours,

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.94)
RTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
4/24
Cow
No120
Division of
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 2 4 1936
Department of State

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
4
UNITED STATES TRAVEL COMMISSION
Other nations have accomplished particularly effective results
through the proper organization and coordination of their travel
information plus the use of distribution points in foreign countries.
There are said to be 57 foreign information bureaus in New York
City largely or entirely supported by foreign governments for the
purpose of encouraging travel from the United States. We have no
organized means of coordinating and distributing tourist-travel
information in the other travel-minded countries.
FINANCIAL IMPORTANCE
Our annual travel bill is over $5,000,000,000. This bill proposes a
modest, constructive effort to encourage more widespread and profit-
able travel by American citizens: to divert more of American travel
money to our own country instead of sending hundreds of millions as a
balance in favor of foreign countries in tourist travel each year; and
to attract more foreign tourist money to the United States.
The combined commercial and tourist travel value in the U'nited
States is one of the greatest of our financial enterprises. Roger
Babson estimates that the total travel business of the U'nited States is
11 percent greater than the clothing business. 45 percent greater than
the printing and publishing business, 60 percent greater than the
lumber business, and 185 percent greater than the baking business.
It is 222 percent greater than the total shoe business of the country
and 515 percent greater than the cotton crop and equally greater than
the iron industry in its total annual value. This bill is a modest, but
we believe, a useful method of inducing further travel and bringing
new money and new business to the country.
Investigations have shown a surprisingly wide distribution of the
tourist dollar among the industries of the country. Transportation
agencies, hotels, restaurants. retail establishments, and practically
every line of industry directly or indirectly share in the benefit of the
travel business.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
74TH CONGRES8
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
REPORT
2d Session
No.2254
UNITED STATES TRAVEL COMMISSION
Mancn 26, 1936.—Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union and ordered to be printed.
Mr. LEA of California, from the Committee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce, submitted the following
REPORT
[To accompany S. 33]
The Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, to whom
was referred the bill (S. 33) to encourage travel to and within the
United States by citizens of foreign countries, and for other purposes,
having considered and amended the same, report thereon with a
recommendation that it pass.
Amend the bill as follows:
Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert in lieu thereof
the language of H. R. 5844, as reported to the House on July 10,
1935, from the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce,
by Mr. Lea of California, as follows:
That the Secretary of Commerce shall establish a Travel Division within the
Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce of the Department of Commerce
(hereinafter called the "Division").
Sec. 2. (a) The Division shall assemble, prepare, display, and distribute such
informative materials concerning places of interest, means of transportation,
and hotel facilities, and such other data as it deems advisable and advantageous
for the purpose of encouraging travel to and within the borders of the United
States including Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
(b) The Division is hereby authorized to cooperate with any governmental
or private agency, when so requested, for the purpose of encouraging travel in
passenger carriers or vessels built in the United States or licensed or documented
under the laws of the U'nited States.
SEc. 3. (a) The Secretary of Commerce is authorized (1) without regard to
the civil-service laws, to appoint a division chief and such assistant chiefs, technical
experts, regional travel commissioners, and foreign representatives as may be
necessary to carry out the functions of the division under this Act, and (2) in
accordance with the civil-service laws to appoint, and, in accordance with the
Classification Act of 1923, as amended, to fix the compensation of such other
employees as may be necessary for carrying out such functions. All foreign
representatives so appointed shall be citizens of the United States, and no such
representative shall be considered as having the status of & public minister.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
2
UNITED STATES TRAVEL COMMISSION
(b) The Searetary of Commerce shall divide the officers specified in clause (1)
of subsestion (a) into three grades, and the officers in such grades shall receive
compenestion, to be fixed by such Secretary, within the limits of classes 2, 3, and
4, respeetively, prescribed in section 3 of the Act of March 3, 1927, entitled
"An Aet to establish in the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce of the
Department of Commerce a Foreign Commerce Service of the United States,
and for other purposes", as amended.
(c) The Secretary of Commerce is further authorized to make such rules,
regulations, and orders, and to make such expenditures (including expenditures
for personal services and rent at the seat of government and elsewhere, and for
law books, books of reference, and periodicals), as may be necessary for carrying
out the functions vested in the Division by this Act.
Smc. 4. (a) The Secretary of Commerce is authorized, whenever he deems it
to be in the public interest, to order to the United States on his statutory leave
of absence any such foreign representative who has performed three years or
more of continuous service abroad. The expenses of transportation and subsist-
enee of sueh representatives and their immediate families, in traveling from their
posts to their homes in the United States and return, shall be paid by the Depart-
ment of Commerce in the same manner as in the case of representatives going to
and returning from their posts under orders of the Secretary of Commerce when
not on leave, and, while they are in the United States, such representatives shall
be available for conference work and for such other duties as the Secretary of
Commerce may by regulation prescribe.
(b) The Secretary of Comnierce may, under such regulations as he may pre-
cribe, furnish to the representatives stationed in foreign countries, without cost
to them and within the limits of any appropriation made therefor, allowances for
living quarters, heat, and light, notwithstanding the provisions of section 1765
of the Revised Statutes, but the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to
the representatives of the Division who are living rent free in Government-owned
buildings.
Src. 5. In the application, to any officer or employee of the Division, of the
provisions of subsection (a) of section 6 of the Act of March 3, 1927, entitled
"An Act to establish in the Burean of Foreign and Domestic Commerce of the
Department of Commerce a Foreign Commerce Service of the United States,
and for other purposes", as amended (relating to travel and subsistence allowances
to officers and employees on duty outside the United States), the words "trade
gathering"shall be held to include a travel conference.
Ssc. 6. (a) There is authorized to be appropriated for carrying out the purposes
of this Act not to exceed $75,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1936, and not
to exceed $125,000 for any fiscal year thereafter.
(b) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize the use of any public
funds for the publication or transportation of private advertising material.
Amend the title so as to read:
A bill to encourage travel to and within the United States, and for other
purposes.
The motive of this measure is to encourage travel to and within
the United States. It authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to estab-
lish a travel division within the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic
Commerce. The division will assemble, prepare, and distribute
information concerning places of interest, means of transportation,
hotel facilities, and other matters useful for the convenience and
encouragement of travel in the United States.
Governmental cooperation with American private agencies is
authorized to carry out the purposes of the bill.
The bill authorize in appropriation of not exceeding $75,000 for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1937, and not to exceed $125,000 for
any fiscal year thereafter, for carrying out its purposes.
Such funds shall not be used for the publication or transportation
of private advertising material.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
UNITED STATES TRAVEL COMMISSION
3
DOMESTIC TRAVEL
This measure looks primarily to the convenience and encourage-
ment of our domestic travel. One of its main purposes is to develop a
greater appreciation of the comfort and educational and recreational
values of travel in our own country as contrasted with American
travel in foreign countries. Each year many thousands of American
citizens tour foreign lands who are ill-informed as to the attractions
of their own country. Frequently they know more about the attrac-
tions of Europe than of the unsurpassed attractions of their own
country. Foreign travel attractions have been oversold in the United
States as compared with the educational, recreational and pleasurable
advantages of our own country.
There is now a startling lack of cooperative effort in the use of
advertising material intended to induce or aid travel in the United
States. Practically every concern interested in inducing travel ad-
vertises its own particular interest without relation to the many other
features on which depend the decision of the tourist as to whether he
shall travel and where. There is no coordinated and assembled
presentation of the attractions and accommodations for tourists.
We need not discredit our citizens in foreign travel, but rather give
proper appeal to the even greater attractions of domestic travel. A
citizen well informed by contact with the various sections of our
country would be a much more valuable representative of his country
in foreign travel.
A travel division such as that proposed would not only provide a
convenient and reliable source of information for the aid of our own
people in planning their tourist trips but it should also divert a very
considerable sum of the American tourist money from foreign to
domestic expenditure.
FOREIGN TRAVEL
In the last week in June 1935 over 17,000 tourist passengers sailed
from the United States to Europe. There is no comparable tourist
travel toward our country.
We spend millions a year to promote trade but practically nothing
to promote travel. On tourist travel the United States has an annual
unfavorable balance ranging from $200,000,000 to $600,000,000 a
year in the last 6 years.
There seems little reason to doubt that this tourist-trade balance
could be made much more favorable to the United States by coordi-
nating our travel information at home, and also by providing for its
distribution at strategic population centers in foreign lands.
The United States, through its Consular Service and attachés in the
Department of Commerce, maintains over 300 offices in foreign coun-
tries mostly in populous centers and at every location where foreign-
tourist information is needed. This bill contemplates that the division
in the Department of Commerce shall promote and coordinate the
compilation of information concerning our country that should be
effective in promoting tourist travel and mainly through the utiliza-
tion of existing agencies. so far as foreign travel to the United States
is concerned.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
Calendar No. 1050
74TH CONGRESS
SENATE
REPORT
1st Session
No. 999
UNITED STATES TRAVEL COMMISSION
MAY 13 (calendar day, JuLY 1), 1935.--Ordered to be printed
Mr. CopELAnD, from the Committee on Commeree, submitted the
following
REPORT
[To accompany S. 33]
The Committee on Commeree, to whom was referred the bil
(S. 33) to encourage travel to and within the United States by citizens
of foreign countries, and for other purposes, having considered the
same, report favorably thereon and recommend that the bill do pass
without amendment.
The purpose of the bill as outlined in section 2 is to set up a com-
mission that shall assemble, prepare, display, and distribute such in-
formative materials coneerning places of interest, means of transpor-
tation, and hotel facilities, and such other data as it deems advisable
and advantageous, for the purpose of encouraging travel to and with-
in the borders of the United States (including Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto
Rico, and the Virgin Islands) by citizens of foreign countries. The
Commission is authorized to cooperate with any governmental or
private agency, when so requested, for the purpose of encouraging
travel.
Hearings on this bill disclosed the inadequacy of existing facilities
abroad to maintain centers of information regarding travel to and
within the United States. Witnesses appearing before the committee
called attention to the inability of representatives of the State and
Commerce Departments on duty in foreign countries to furnish de-
tailed information to prospective tourists or to suggest itineraries
suitable for the tourist and the commercial traveler. It was pointed
out that foreign governments and tourist-agency associations main-
tain special offices in the leading cities of the United States where
elaborate displays of posters and photographs, aided by multicolored
illustrated pamphlets, invite our travelers to inquire about the at-
tractions of those foreign countries, while losing sight of the natural
beauties and historical centers of our own country. Estimates quoted

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.98)
2
UNITED STATES TRAVEL COMMISSION
at the hearings accounted for $8,000 spent by American tourists
abroed for every $1,000 spent by visitors to the United States from
overseas.
The committee therefore believes it is of equal if not greater im-
portance to encourage travel in America by Americans as to promote
travel here by foreigners. The commission established by this bill
will be in a position to carry on travel-promotion activities both at
home and abroad. It will naturally follow that considerable assist-
ance in gathering and disseminating pamphlets, maps, and other
material will be had from railway, steamship, air-transport, hotel,
and automobile associations. At present few members of these in-
dustries, either singly or in groups, can afford to set up and maintain
agencies throughout the world. Under the provisions of this measure
every industry, directly or indirectly associated with tourist and com-
mercial travel, will benefit to the extent of its cooperation with the
Government commission.
O

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
Union Calendar No. 826
S. 33
74TH CONGRESS
2D SESSION
[Report No. 2254]
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
FEBRUARY 11, 1936
Referred to the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce
MARCH 26, 1936
Reported with amendments, committed to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union, and ordered to be printed
[Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed in italie]
AN ACT
To encourage travel to and within the United States by citizens
of foreign countries, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That there is hereby ereated a commission, to be known
as the "United States Travel Commission" (hereinafter
5 ealled the "Commission"), which shall be eomposed of the
6 Secretary of State and the Seeretary of Commeree who
7 shall serve as members of the Commission without addi
8 tional eompensation.
SEc. 2. (a) The Commission shall assemble, preparo,
9
10 display, and distribute such informative materials concern-
11 ing places of interest, means of transportation, and hotel

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
2
1 facilities, and such other datn as it deems advisable and
2 advantageous for the purpose of eneouraging travel to and
3 within the borders of the United States (ineluding Alaska,
4 Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands) by eitizens
5 of foreign countries.
6
(b) The Commission is hereby authorized to cooperate
7 with any governmentat or private ngeney, when so re
8 quested, for the purpose of encouraging travel in passenger
9 earriers or vessels built in the United States or licensed or
10 documented under the haws of the United States.
11
(e) The Conmission shall have an offieinl seal, which
12 shall be judicially noticed.
13
(d) The Commission shall make a report to the
14 Congress at the hbeginning of ench regular session of its
15 activities under this Act.
16
Sec. 3. (a) The Commission is muthorized (1) with
17 out regard to the eivil service haws, to appoint an executive
18 secretary who shall receive a sulary at the rate of not to
19 exeeed $8,500 per anmmm, and such regional directors and
20 foreign representatives as nmay be necessary to earry out
21 the funetions of the Conmission under this Act, each of
22 whom shall receive compensation at a rate within the
23 range of $4,600 to $8.000 per annum, (2) without regard
24 to the eivil service laws or the Classification Act of 1023,
25 as amended, to appoint and fix the compensation (not to

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.94)
3
1 exeeed a rnte of $6,000 per anmun) of such experts as
2 mmy he necessary for enrrying out such funetions, and
3 (s) in mecordutee with the eivil serviee taws to appoint,
4 mnd. itn necorlanee uith the Chssifiention Aet of 1023, as
5 amended. to fix the compensation of stcht other employees
6 as mny be mecessnry for earrving ot such fumetions. All
7 foreign representatives so appointed shall be eitizens of the
8 tnited States. and no stueh representatives shall be eon
9 sidered as having the status of a publie minister.
10
(b) The tonmmission is further muthorized to make such
11 rules, regubations, and orders, and to make such expenditures
12 (including expenditures for personal services and rent at the
13 sent of government and elsewhere, and for law books, books
14 of reference and periodienls): as mmy be necessary for ear
15 rying out the functions vested in the Commission by this Aet.
16
Src. t. The Seeretary of State and the Secretary of
17 Commerce umy extend to the Commission and its repre
18 sentatives in forcign countries the facilities of their respective
19 departments, hut any expense involved in connection with
20 the use of such facilities by the Commission or its repre
21 sentatives shall be paid for out of funds made available to
22 the Commission.
23
Src. 5. (a) The Commission is authorized, whenever
24 it deems it to be in the publie interest to order to the United
25 States on his statutory leave of absonce any such foreign

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
4
1 representative who hus performed three years or more of
2 eontinuous service abroad. The expenses of transportation
3 and subsistence of such representatives and their inmediate
4 families, in traveling from their posts to their homes in the
5 United States and return, shall be paid by the Commission
6 in the same tmanner us in the ease of representatives going to
7 and returning from their posts under orders of the Commis
8 sion whhen not on teave, and, while they ure in the tnited
9 States, such representatives shall be available for conference
10 work and for such other duties as the Conmission mmy by
11 regulation preseribe.
12
(b) The Commission mmy, under such regulations as
13 it mmy prescribe, furnish to its representatives stationed
14 in foreign eountries, without eost to them and within the
15 limits of any appropriation made therefor, allowances for
16 living quarters, heat, and light, notwithstanding the pro
17 visions of seetion 1765 of the Revised Statutes, but the
18 provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to the repre-
19 sentatives of the Commission who are living rent free in
20 Government owned buildings.
21
(c) Any offieer or employee of the Commission, while
22 on duty outside the limits of the continental United States
23 and away from the post to which he is assigned, shall be
24 entitled to receive his actual traveling expenses, and his
25 expenses actually ineurred for subsistence, or a per diem

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
5
1 allowance in lieu thereof, to the same extent as is authoriesd
2 by law in the ease of other offieers and employees of the
3 United States. Such expenses shall inelude, in the dis
4 eretion of the Commission, expenses for subsistence for
5 the entire period while attending a travel conferenee, and,
6 in any other ease, for the entire period (but not excceding
7 30 days) while remaining eontinuously in any one place.
8
(d) Any officer or employee of the Commission, while
9 on duty within the limits of the continental United States,
10 shall be entitled to receive his actual traveling expenses, and
11 his expenses actually incurred for subsistence, or a per diem
12 allowance in lieu thereof, to the same extent as is authorized
13 by law in the ease of other offiecers and employees of the
14 United States.
15
SEc. 6. There is hereby authorized to be appropriated,
16 out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appro
17 priated, such sums as may be necessary to earry out the
18
purposes of this Aet.
19
That the Secretary of Commerce shall establish a Travel
20 Division within the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Com-
21 merce of the Department. of Commerce (hereinafter called
22 the "Division").
23
SEc. 2. (a) The Division shall assemble, prepare, dis-
24 play, and distribute such informative materials concerning
25 places of interest, means of transportation, and hotel facili-

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
6
1 ties, and such other data as it deems advisable and advan-
2 tageous for the purpose of encouraging travel to and within
3 the borders of the United States including Alaska, Hawaii,
4 Puerto Rico, and the L'irgin Islands.
5
(b) The Division is hereby authorized to cooperate
6 with any governmental or prirate agency, when so requested,
7 for the purpose of encouraging travel in passenger carriers
8 or vessels built in the l'nited States or licensed or docu-
9 mented under the laws of the United States.
10
SEc. 3. (a) The Secretary of Commerce is authorized
11 (1) without regard to the civil-service laws, to appoint a
12 dirision chief and such assistant chiefs, technical experts,
13 regional travel commissioners, and forcign representatives
14 as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the
15 Division under this Act, and (2) in accordance with the
16 civil-service laws to appoint, and, in accordance with the
17 ('lassification Act of 1923, as amended, to fix the com-
18 pensation of such other cmployees as may be necessary
19 for carrying out such functions. All forcign representatives
20 so appointed shall be citizens of the United States, and no
21 such representative shall be considered as having the status
22 of a public minister.
23
(b) The Secretary of Commerce shall divide the
24 officers specified in clause (1) of subsection (a) into three
25 grades, and the officers in such grades shall receive com-

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
7
1 pensation, to be fixed by such Secretary, within the limits
2 of classes 2, 3, and 4, respectively, prescribed in section 3
3 of the Act of March 3, 1927, entitled An Act to establish
4 in the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce of the
5 Department of Commerce a Forcign Commerce Serrice of
6 the I'nited States, and for other purposes". as amended.
7
(c) The Secretary of Commerce is further authorized
8 to make such rules, regulations, and orders, and to make
9 such expenditures (including erpenditures for personal serr-
10 ices and rent at the seat of gorernment and elsewhere, and
11 for law books, books of reference, and periodicals), as may
12 be necessary for carrying out the functions rested in the
13 Division by this Act.
14
SEc. 4. (a) The Secretary of Commerce is authorized,
15 whenever he deems it to be in the public interest, to
16 order to the I’nited States on his statutory leare of absence
17 any such foreign representative who has performed three
19 of transportation and subsistence of such representatires and
20 their immediate families, in trareling from their posts to
21 their homes in the United States and return, shall be paid by
22 the Department of Commerce in the same manner as in the
23 case of representatives going to and returning from their
24 posts under orders of the Secretary of Commerce when not
25 on leave, and, while they are in the United States, such

=== Page 147 === (confidence 1.00)
8
1 representatives shall be available for conference work and
2 for such other duties as the Secretary of Commerce may by
3 regulation prescribe.
4
(b) The Secretary of Commerce may, under such
5 regulations as he may prescribe, furnish to the representa-
6 tives stationed in foreign countries, without cost to them and
7 within the limits of any appropriation made therefor, allow-
8 ances for living quarters, heat, and light, notwithstanding
9 the provisions of section 1765 of the Revised Statutes, but
10 the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to the repre-
11 sentatives of the Division who are living rent free in
12
Government-owned buildings.
13
SEc. 5. In the application, to any officer or employee
14 of the Division, of the prorisions of subsection (a) of section
15 6 of the Act of March 3, 1927, eutitled “An Act to establish
16 in the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce of the
17 Department of Commerce a Foreign Commerce Service of
18 the United States. and for other purposes", as amended
19 (relating to travel and subsistence allowances to officers and
20 employees on duty outside the United States), the words
21 "trade gathering" shall be held to include a travel
22 conference.
23
SEc. 6. (a) There is authorized to be appropriated for
24 carrying out the purposes of this Act not to exceed $75,000

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
9
1 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1936, and not to exceed
2 $125,000 for any fiscal year thereafter.
3
(b) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize
4 the use of any public funds for the publication or trans-
5 portation of private advertising material.
Amend the title so as to read: "An Act to encourage
travel to and within the I'nited States, and for other pur-
poses."
Passed the Senate July 29 (calendar day, August 16),
1935.
Attest:
EDWIN A. HALSEY,
Secretary.
S.332

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
Union Calendar No. 826
S.33
74TH CONGRESS
2D SESSION
[Report No. 2254]
AN ACT
To encourage travel to and within the United
States by citizens of foreign countries, and
for other purposes.
FEBRARY 11.1936
Referred to the Committee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce
MARCH 26, 1936
Reported with amendments. committed to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of the
Union, and ordered to be printed

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
74TH CONGRESS 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
REPORT
1st Session
No. 1500
TO ENCOURAGE TRAVEL TO AND WITHIN THE UNITED
STATES
Julr 10, 1935.—Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union and ordered to be printed
Mr. LEA of California, from the Committee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce, submitted the following
REPORT
[To accompany H. R. 5844]
The Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, to whom was
referred the bill (H. R. 5844), to encourage travel to and within the
United States, and for other purposes, having considered the same,
report thereon with a recommendation that it pass.
The purpose of this bill, as its title indicates, is to encourage travel
to and within the United States. It authorizes the Secretary of Com-
merce to establish a tourist travel division within the Bureau of
Foreign and Domestic Commerce. The division will assemble, pre-
pare, and distribute information concerning places of interest, means
of transportation, hotel facilities, and other matters useful to encourage
travel to and within the United States.
Governmental cooperation with American private agencies is
authorized to carry out the purposes of the bill.
The bill authorizes an appropriation of not exceeding $75,000 for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1936, and not to exceed $125,000 for
any fiscal year thereafter, for carrying out its purposes.
Such funds shall not be used for the publication or transportation
of private advertising material.
This is a trade and travel encouragement measure as is indicated
by the statement of the Director of the Bureau of Foreign and
Domestic Commerce. It would involve a coordination of activities
for increasing foreign travel in the United States, enoourage visits of
business groups and others, tend to aid in the sale of Americam goods
and travel on American ships. The United States has perhaps been
the most backward of all the great nations in promoting travel frem
foreign countries. Perhaps no country in the world has grester
natural attractions or better travel and transportation facilitis them

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
the United States, but we have been ineffective in capitalizing these
assets so far as foreign travel is concerned.
There are said to be 57 foreign information bureaus in New York
City largely or entirely supported by foreign governments for the pur-
pose of encouraging United States travel in foreign countries. The
United States has no organized means of coordinating and distributing
tourist-travel information in the other travel-minded countries of the
world.
In the last week in June over 17,000 tourist passengers sailed from
the United States to Europe. There is no comparable tourist travel
to the United States.
We have been spending over $10,000,000 a year to promote foreign
trade but practically nothing to promote travel to the United States.
On tourist travel the United States has an annual unfavorable balance
ranging from $200,000,000 to $600,000,000 a year in the last 6 years.
There seems little reason to doubt that this tourist-trade balance
could be made much more favorable to the United States by coordinat-
ing our travel information and providing for its distribution at strate-
gic population centers in foreign countries which are travel-minded.
Other nations have accomplished particularly effective results
through the proper organization and cooperation of their travel infor-
mation plus the use of distribution points in foreign countries.
There is now a startling lack of cooperative effort in the use of
advertising material intended to induce travel to the United States.
Practically every concern interested in inducing foreign travel adver-
tises its own particular interest without relation to the many other
features on which depend the decision of the tourist as to whether he
shall travel. There is no coordinated and assembled presentation of
the attractions and accommodations for tourists to the U'nited States.
The United States, through its Consular Service and attachés in
the Department of Commerce, maintains over 300 offices in foreign
countries mostly in populace centers and at every location where
foreign-tourist information is needed. This bill contemplates that
the division in the Department of Commerce shall promote and
coordinate the compilation of information concerning our country
that should be effective in promoting tourist travel and then mainly
through the utilization of existing agencies in foreign countries to aid
the distribution of such information.
Roger Babson estimates that the total travel business of the
United States is 11 percent greater than the clothing business, 45
percent greater than the printing and publishing business, 60 percent
greater than the lumber business, and 185 percent greater than the
baking business. It is 222 percent greater than the total shoe business
of the country and 515 percent greater than the cot ton crop and equally
greater than the iron industry in its total annual value. This bill
 modest, but we believe, an effective method of inducing further
travel particularly from foreign tourists and bringing new money and
new business to the country.
Investigations have shown a surprisingly wide distribution of the
tourist dollar among the industries of the country. Transportation
agencies, hotels, restaurants, retail establishments, and practically
overy line of industry directly or indirectly share in the benefit of the
tourist business.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
ENCOURAGE TRAVEL TO AND WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
3
A letter from the Secretary of Commerce is hereby made a part of
this report as follows:
DEpArmENT OF COmmRcE,
Washington, April 17, 1935.
Hon. Sam Rayburn,
Chairman Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce,
House of Representatives, Washington, D. C.
My DzAn M. ChairmAn: In your communication of February 21, 1935, you
requested the report of the Department concerning H. R. 5844, & bill to encourage
travel to and within the United States, and for other purposes.
Enclosed is a memorandum from the Director of the Bureau of Foreign and
Domestic Commerce, this Department.
The Department has been advised that the proposed legislation would not be
in accord with the financial program of the President.
Sincerely yours,
DaniEl C. Roper,
Secretary of Commerce.
BUREAU OF FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC COMMEBCE,
Washington, March 6, 1935.
To: The Secretary.
From: The Director, Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce.
Subject: H. R. 5844, a bill to encourage travel to and within the United States,
and for other purposes.
This bill differs from S. 33, introduced earlier in the present session of the
Seventy-fourth Congress, in that it proposes to establish a division in one of the
bureaus of the Department of Commerce to carry out the purposes of the act,
while S. 33 created a commission, consisting of the Secretary of State and the
Secretary of Commerce, functioning as an independent unit.
This Bureau did not approve S. 33, because it felt that a commission as set up
in the Senate bill could not function properly in the promotion of tourist travel.
H. R. 5844, as proposed, overcomes this objection.
H. R. 5844 apparently contemplates the promotion of invisible exports. It
would involve the coordination of activities relating to increasing foreign travel
in the United States in respect to customs, rail and ocean travel—so as to en-
courage visits of business groups and others interested in coming to the United
States for short stays, and thereby would likely aid to a great extent in the further
promotion of the sale of American goods and travel on American-flag ships.
If the purpose of this bill is as outlined above, I see no objection to the Depart-
ment approving it in principle.
CLAUDIUB T. MURCHISON, Director.
O

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
Union Calendar No. 512
74TH CONGRESS
H. R. 5844
1sT SESSION
[Report No. 1500]
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
FEBRUARY 18, 1935
Mr. Lea of California introduced the following bill; which was referred to
the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce and ordered to be
printed
JULY 11, 1935
Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union
and ordered to be printed
A BILL
To encourage travel to and within the United States, and for
other purposes.
1
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
2 tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
3 That the Secretary of Commerce shall establish a Tourist
4 Travel Division within the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic
5 Commerce of the Department of Commerce (hereinafter
6 called the "Division").
7
SEC. 2. (a) The Division shall assemble, prepare, dis-
8 play, and distribute such informative materials concerning
9 places of interest, means of transportation, and hotel facili-
10 ties, and such other data as it deems advisable and advan-
11 tageous for the purpose of encouraging travel to and within

=== Page 154 === (confidence 1.00)
2
1 the borders of the United States including Alaska, Hawaii,
2 Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
3
(b) The Division is hereby authorized to cooperate
4 with any governmental or private ageney, when so requested,
5 for the purpose of encouraging travel in passenger carriers
6 or vessels built in the United States or licensed or docu-
7 mented under the laws of the United States.
8
SEc. 3. (a) The Secretary of Commerce is authorized
(1) without regard to the civil-service laws, to appoint a
10 division chief and such assistant chiefs, technical experts,
11 regional travel commissioners, and foreign representatives
12
as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the
13
division under this Act, and (2) in accordance with the
14
civil-service laws to appoint, and, in accordance with the
15 Classification Act of 1923, as amended, to fix the com-
16 pensation of such other employees as may be necessary
17 for carrying out such functions. All foreign representatives
18
so appointed shall be citizens of the United States, and no
19
such representative shall be considered as having the status
20
of a public minister.
21
(b) The Secretary of Commerce shall divide the
22 officers specified in clause (1) of subsection (a) into three
23
grades, and the officers in such grades shall receive com-
24
pensation, to be fixed by such Secretary, within the limits
25 of classes 2, 3, and 4, respectively, prescribed in section 3

=== Page 155 === (confidence 1.00)
3
1 of the Act of March 3, 1927, entitled "An Act to establish
2 in the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce of the
3 Department of Commerce a Foreign Commerce Service of
4 the United States, and for other purposes", as amended.
5
(c) The Secretary of Commerce is further authorized
6 to make such rules, regulations, and orders, and to make
7 such expenditures (including expenditures for personal serv-
8 ices and rent at the seat of government and elsewhere, and
9 for law books, books of reference, and periodicals), as may
10 be necessary for carrying out the functions vested in the
11 Division by this Act.
12
SEC. 4. (a) The Secretary of Commerce is author-
13 ized, whenever he deems it to be in the public interest, to
14 order to the United States on his statutory leave of absence
15 any such foreign representative who has performed three
16 years or more of continuous service abroad. The expenses
17 of transportation and subsistence of such representatives and
18 their immediate families, in traveling from their posts to
19 their homes in the United States and return, shall be paid by
20 the Department of Commerce in the same manner as in the
21 case of representatives going to and returning from their
22 posts under orders of the Secretary of Commerce when not
23 on leave, and, while they are in the United States, such
24 representatives shall be available for conference work and

=== Page 156 === (confidence 1.00)
4
1 for such other duties as the Secretary of Commerce may by
2 regulation prescribe.
3
(b) The Secretary of Commerce may, under such
4 regulations as he may prescribe, furnish to the representa-
5 tives stationed in foreign countries, without cost to them and
6 within the limits of any appropriation made therefor, allow-
7 ances for living quarters, heat, and light, notwithstanding
8 the provisions of section 1765 of the Revised Statutes, but
9 the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to the repre-
10 sentatives of the Division who are living rent free in
11
Government-owned buildings.
12
SEC. 5. In the application, to any officer or employee
13 of the Division, of the provisions of subsection (a) of section
14 6 of the Act of March 3, 1927, entitled "An Act to establish
15 in the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce of the
16 Department of Commerce a Foreign Commerce Service of
17 the United States, and for other purposes", as amended
18 (relating to travel and subsistence allowances to officers and
19 employees on duty outside the United States), the words
20 "trade gathering" shall be held to include a travel
21 conference.
22
SEC. 6. (a) There is authorized to be appropriated for
23 carrying out the purposes of this Act not to exceed $75,000
24 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1936, and not to exceed
25 $125,000 for any fiscal year thereafter.

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
5
1
(b) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to author-
2 ize the use of any public funds for the publication or trans-
3 portation of private advertising material.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.97)
Union Calendar No. 512
74Th CONGRESS)
H. R. 5844
1sT SESsION
[Report No. 1500]
A BILL
To encourage travel to and within the United
States, and for other purposes.
By Mr. LeA of California
FEBBUABY 18, 1935
Referred to the Committee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce and ordered to be printed
JULY 11, 1935
Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union and ordered to be printed

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.86)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
4/22
ZA
to the Japavose Qmle
S..

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
WASHINGTON
Division of
13
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 23 1930
PR241936
DIVIBION OF FOREION
SERVIUE AMINISIMATION
pr11 25 1936
partment of State
24
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
Sir:
I have the letter of Asting Secrotary Phillips dated March 20,
1936 (Le 894.01 B 11/48), tranamitting a copy of a note dated Maroh
14, 1936, from the Japanese Ambassador in this city, with its enolo-
894.0
sure; a list of officials of the Japanese Government staying in the
United States at the present time, who wish to be granted exemption
from taxation of their salaries which they receive from the Japanese
Government as compensation for their official services, under the
provisions of the Act approved August 27, 1935 (Public--No. 374--74th
Congress)(H. R. 7998) entitled "AN ACT To exempt from taxation offi-
cial compensation of certain foreign representatives * * *
B
Mr. Phillips refers to the viows of this Department concerning
the application of this legislation to officials of the Japanese
Railway Department stationed in the United States as set forth in
Departmental letter dated September 5, 1935 (IR:GC:A-287748). In
5
accordanoe with the provisions of the Act of August 27, 1935, Mr.
4
Phillips certifies that Japan grants an equivalont exemption to em-
ployees of the Government of the United States performing services
in Japan, and that the character of the services performed by em-
ployees of the Government of the United States in foreign countries
is similar to the services of Japanese officials in the United States
desoribed in the list of officials submitted by the Japanese Ambas-
sador. Mr. Phillips expresses the hope that these Japanese offioials
will be granted exemption from income taxation on the official obm-
pensation they receive from the Japanese Government and that the
interested officials of this Department will be notified accordiagly.
The Act approved August 27, 1935, provides in part:
" * * * That seotion 1l6 of the Revenue Aot of 1934
relating to exolusions from gross inoome is amended by
adding at the end thereof a new subseotion reading as fol-
lows:
":(h) Compensation of Employees of Foreign Govern-
ments.--Wages, fees, or salary of an employee of a foreign
govermment (inoluding a consular or other officer, or a
F/F
nondiplematic representative) received as compensation for
official services to suoh goverment--

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
"'(1) If such employee is not a citizen of the
"nited States; and
"'(2) 1f the services are of a character similar
to those performed by employees of the Government of
the nited States in foreign countries; and
"'(3) If the foreign government whose employee
is claiming exemption grants an equivalent exemption
to employees of the Covernment of the United States
performing similar services in such foreign country.
"'The Secretary of State shall certify to the
Secretary of the Treasury the names of the foreign
countries which grant an equivalent exemption to the
employees of the Government of the Inited States per-
forming services in such foreign countries, and the
character of the services performed by employees of
the Government of the United States in foreign coun-
tries.'"
The list of the officials of the Japanese Government, who are
nationals of Japan, includes four naval officers (attached to the
naval inspector's office of the Navy Department in New York), thir-
teen officials of the Railway Department (attached to the office of
the Railway Department in New York), two officials of the Finance
Department (attached to the office of the Tobacco Monopoly Bureau
of the Finance Department in New York), three officials of the Office
of the Financial Commissioner of the Imperial Japanese Government in
New York and four army officers (attached to the Nilitary Inspector's
Office of the War Department in New York).
In view of the certification made by Mr. Phillips the Japanese
officials included in the list submitted by the Japanese Ambassador
are exempt from Federal income tax on the salaries which they receive
from the Japanese Government as compensation for official services
rendered in the United States. The collector of internal revenue for
the district in which the offices of the Japanese officials in ques-
tion are located will be furnished a copy of this letter.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this matter
is necessary, please refer to IT:E:RR-MIM.
Vory truly yours,
Cdaylr
ulay
Ac (soretary.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.96)
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to His Exoelleney the Japanese Ambassador and has the
honor to refer to his note of Maroh 14, 1936, transmit-
ting a list of offieials of the Japanese Government
894.01B
residing in the Unite: States at the present time who
wish to be granted exemption from taxation of their
salaries receiveu from the Japanese Government as
compensetion for their orricial services.
5
4
A letter has now been received from the appro-
priate authority of the Government of the United
States in which it is stated that in view of the
certirication made by the Department of State the
Japanese offieials inoluded in the list submitted
by the Ambassador are exempt from Federal income
tax om the salaries whieh they reseive from the
Japanese Goverament as compeasation for ofrieial
serviees sendered in the Umited States, and that
ao

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.89)
the Gelleeter of Interzal Revesue for the distrsss is
whieh the offiees of the Japsmese ofrieials iaiquestiem
are situated will be advised ascordingly.
APR 25 1936.
Department of State,
A true copy of
AFr1161938
Washington,
804.01 B 11/84
Hat
WRN
Le:WRV

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL AIWISER
MAY 
1
THE BECRETARY OF THE TREASLRY
DEFAPTM N OFSTATE
WASHINGTON
MAY
[iviThonndnorable,
MAY
FAR FASTLRN AFLAIRS
13
MTh dcretary of State.
DIVISION ON VORLION
BERVIUDAUMINISIAATION
Dpi
I have your letter or Apri1 7. 1336, (FA 894.01 B 11/49)
relative to your Department's letter of March 20, 1936, with
Japanese Ambassador in tni: city, transaittin a list of of-
ficials of the Japanese Government residing in the United States
litte
at the present time who wish to oe granted exempticn from taxa-
894.01B
tion of their salaries received from the Japanese Government as
ape 7
compensation for their official services, under the provisions
of the Act anproved August 27. 1935. (Public--No. 374--74th
Congress) (H. R. 7998) entitled "AN ACT To exempt fron taxation
official compensation of certain forein representatives * * *."
You also refer to y ur Department's letter dated September
12, 1935, in which, in relation to thi: Department's letter of
October 9. 1934 (IR: CC:I: JCS) and to subsequent correspondence
in regard to the exemption of officers o: forein goverrments
5
in the United States, in a nondiplomatic status frcm Federal in-
5
come tax with respect to wages, fees and salaries received by
them in compensaticn for tneir services in the United States.
there was enclosed a list of those countries, includine Japan,
in which American consular officers and employees and other non-
diplomatic officers and employees are exempt from tie payment of
income tax on their official compensation.
You enclosed a copy of another note from the Japanese
Ambassador, transmitting an additional list of Japanese ofricials
residing in the United States. In accordance with the provisions
of the Act of August 27, 1935, you certify that Japan grants an
equivalent exemption to employees of the Government of the United
States performing services in Japan, and that the character of
the services performed by officers of the Government of the United
States in foreign countries is similar to the services of Japanese
officials in the United States described in the note of the
Japanese Ambassador. You express the hope that these Japanese
161936
E
F

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.98)
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
- 2 -
officials will be granted exemption from income taxation on the
official compensation they receive from the Japanese Government
and that the interested officials of this Department will be
notified accordingly.
The list of the officials of the Japanese Government (who
are annarently nationals of Japan) includes seventeen naval
officers (attached to the Naval Inspector's Office of the Navy
Department in New York), three officials of the Agriculture ard
Forestry Department (attached to the Japanese overnment Raw
Filk Int-lligence Bureau of New Y rk), one ofriciel of the
Formosa Government--Commissicner (attached to the New York Office
of the Formosa Government--Commissioner). eight naval officers
stationed in places other tnan New York and five army officers
stationed in places other than New York.
In view of your certification, tnis Department nolds that
the Japanese officials included in the list suomitted oy the
Japanese Ambassador are exempt from Federal income tax on the
salaries which they receive from the Japanese Government as
compensation for official s-rvices rendered in tne United States.
The collectors of inte-nal revenue for the districts in which
these Japanese officials are staying will pe advised a: to the
exempt status or their orficial compensation. In addition, in
compliance with the request of the Japanese Ambassador, the names
of such Japanese officiels will be communicated to the collectors
of internal revenue at New York, New York, Los Angeles and San
Francisco, California, and Seattle, Washington, so that taey may
receive certificates of compliance at these ports without
inconvenience.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary. please refer to IT:E:RR-MLM.
Very truly yours,
wayue Jaylr
Secretary.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.95)
May 15 1936
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to His Exoellenoy the Japanese Ambassador and has the
honor to refer to his note No. 54 of March 19, 1936,
894.01B
transmitting a list of officiuls of the Japanese Govern-
nont stationed in the United tates who wish to be
granted exemption from taxation of their se laries re-
ceived fron the Japansse overnment as compensation for
5
5
their offioial servioes.
à letter has now been. received from the appropriate
authority of the Government of the United States in
whioh it is stated that in view of the certifioation
of the Departmont of tate the Treasury Departmont has
held that the Japanese officials included in the list
submitted by the Ambassador are exempt from Federal in-
some tax on the salaries which they reeeive from the
Jepemese Gevermment as cempensation for efficiel savr
1000

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.89)
-8-
1ees rendered in the United States and that the solleet-
ors of 1nternal revenue for the districts in whioh the
Japanese offioiels are residing will be advised accord-
ingly. It is also stated that, in compli"noe with the
Ambassador's request, the names of the Japanese ofricials
concorned will be communicated to the colleotors of in-
ternal revenue at New York City, Los Angeles, San Fran-
cisco nd seattle in order that they miy receive cer-
tificutes of conpliance at those ports without incon-
venienoe.
Department of State,
copy of
Washington.
nd origy
MAY 10 195e.
HdA
894.018 11/55
N11
2m
LelWer EEA.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.95)
DH
LEGAL ADVISER
MAY 1i 183
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASU
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
M
MAY 8
FAR LASTEHN ALFAIHS
DIVISIUN OF FOREIGN
SERVIUE AUMINISTHATION
1936
MAY 23 1936
Phe Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
Sir:
894.01B
I have your letter of Apri1 8. 193€, (FA 894.01 B 11/52) re-
ferring to your Department's letter of March 2). 1936, with it.
enclosure, a cony of a note dated March 19, 19.6, fr  tne
Jaranese Ambassador in this city, transmittine a list of Japanese
official: residing in the United 3tates wno wisn to be grunted
exemntion from taxation cf their salaries received from the
Jaranese Government as comnensation for their official services.
You enclose a copy of another note from the Japanese Ambassador
transmitting an additional list of Japanese officials witn a
view to the exemption from the payment of income tax in the fu-
5
ture on the official compensation of any of the officials named
9
in the list who may still be in the United States, the cancella-
tion of the bonds deposited and the rerund of the amounts of
taxes neretofore raid.
Careful consideration will be given to your communication
and a reply thereto will be made at the earliest practicable date.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:E:RR-MLM.
Very truly yours,
Chayb
Wayne
MAY 95 1936
FILED
Secretary
F/F
G

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
OFFINE OF EDOMONNG ARVISER
DEPARTMENTOE_STAT
DEPARTMENT OF 8TATE
CONVERSATION
APR 30 1936
March 26, 1936.
200
DIVISION OF
THE UNDER SECRETARY
Mr. Katsudonkazaki,
Second Seoretaryys Japanese Embasay.
RECORDS
MAR 28.1936
Mr. Turner.
OFPARIMENT HE OTATE
Subject:
Visit in April to the United States of
Mr. Yutaro Tomita, Japanese
Financial
Commissioner.
Mr. Okazak1 of the Japanese Embassy called by telephone
to state that Mr. Yutaro Tomita, Financial Commissioner of
the Japanese Government to the United States and Great
89
Britain, would visit Washington late in April. Mr. Tomita
4.
desires to discuss questions related to international finance
and currency with experts of the American Government, probably
B
but not necessarily in the Treasury Department. Mr. Okazaki
894
stated that Mr. Tomita would probably wish to meet the
Secretary of the Treasury among other persons. He stated
57
that Mr. Tomita had rank equal to that of a vice minister
of finance in his Government.
Mr. Turner informed Mr. Okazaki that he would take up
the matter with the proper authorities and that he would
communicate with Mr. Okazaki at a later date.
AP
FILED
COMMENT:
Mr. Tomita succeeded Mr. Tsushima in 1934 as Financi
Attaché to the Japanese Embassies in Washington, London and
Paris, and as agent of the Japanese Finance Department. It
F/FG
is understood that he spends most of his time in England.
It

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.91)
- 2 -
It is believed that before his arrival in Washington, a month
hence, an effort should be made to determine whether he has
concrete measures to propose to this Government or whether he
merely wishes to discuss general financial matters. It is
suggested that the Under Secretary or Mr. Hornbeck may wish
to make inquiry of the Japanese Ambassador in this connection.
K

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AAPR 2 3 1936
APIVISIGN6 OF FAR
NOTED
APR 2.1 1936
Mr. Yutaro Tomit
ssioner of the Japa-
nese Government, is to call on Mr. Phillips at 1l:20 a.m.,
April 22. It is expected that during the call the Secretary
will go into Mr. Phillips' office for a few minutes.
Mr. Tomita is a career bureaucrat. Born in 1883, he
graduated from the Tokyo Imperial University; was sent to
Europe by the Department of Finance; was successively
Chief of the Bond Division, Chief of the Division of
89
Exchequer, Chief of the Economic Bureau, and Chief of the
4.0
Savings Account Bureau of the Department of Finance;
administrative officer of the Bank of Japan; member of
B
the Japanese delegation at the Washington Conference of
192l; appointed in 1934 Financial Commissioner of the Japa-
nese Government in England, France and the United States,
5
8
and also foreign representative of the Bank of Japan.
The office of Financial Commissioner for the Japanese
Government in New York, London and Paris assumed great im-
portance when the Japanese Government and Japanese munie1-
AP
palities were floating loans in European and American
R
FIIITD
心
markets. This was especially the case during the Russo-
was the late Mr. Korekiyo Takahashi, who later was Minister
of Finance in a mumber of cabinets. The loans obtained in
F/1
F月
London and New York for the proseoution of that war were
obtained

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
obtained through the agency of the Financial Commissioner.
Although the Japanese Government has not floated any loans
abroad in recent years, the office of Financial Commissioner
is still regarded as one of great importance.
The functions of the Financial Commissioner at times
when no loans are being floated or redeemed by the Japanese
Government are not known. It is understood that exchange
transactions of the Japanese Government are carried out
through the Yokohama Specie Bank, a quasi-official institu-
tion, and it is possible that the Financial Commissioner
may work in conjunction with the officials of that bank.
It is also understood that the Financial Commissioner has
been purchasing, on behalf of the Japanese Government, such
bonds of that Government as may be offered for sale in
European and American markets.
hm./t.
FHD:WTT/DLY

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
NDER SECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
APR 22 1936
Division of
Apr11 21, 1936.
APR 22 1936
RaCENEr
APR 22~1936
Department of State
DIVISIUN OF
nese Government, is to call on Mr. Phillips at 1l:20 a.m.,
April 22. It is expected that during the call the Secretary
will go into Mr. Phillips' office for a few minutes.
Mr. Tomita is a career bureaucrat. Born in 1883, he
graduated from the Tokyo Imperial University; was sent to
Europe by the Department of Finance; was successively
Chief of the Bond Division, Chief of the Division of
Exchequer, Chief of the Economic Bureau, and Chief of the
Savings Account Bureau of the Department of Finance;
administrative officer of the Bank of Japan; member of
the Japanese delegation at the Washington Conference of
192l; appointed in 1934 Financial Commissioner of the Japa-
nese Government in England, France and the United States,
and also foreign representative of the Bank of Japan.
The office of Financial Commissioner for the Japanese
Government in New York, London and Paris assumed great im-
portance when the Japanese Government and Japanese munici-
palities were floating loans in European and American
markets. This was especially the case during the Russo-
Japanese War (1904-1905), when the Financial Commissioner
P
FILED
was the late Mr. Korekiyo Takahashi, who later was Ministen
of Finance in a number of cabinets. The loans obtained in
London and New York for the prosecution of that war were
obtained

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
obtained through the agency of the Financial Commissioner.
Although the Japanese Government has not floated any loans
abroad in recent years, the office of Financial Commissioner
is still regarded as one of great importance.
The functions of the Financial Commissioner at times
when no loans are being floated or redeemed by the Japanese
Government are not known. It is understood that exchange
transactions of the Japanese Government are carried out
through the Yokohama Specie Bank, a quasi-official institu-
tion, and it is possible that the Financial Commissioner
may work in conjunction with the officials of that bank.
It is also understood that the Financial Commissioner has
been purchasing, on behalf of the Japanese Government, such
bonds of that Government as may be offered for sale in
European and American markets.
m0.m.√.
FE:EHD:WTT/DLY

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 18, 1936.
FA:
Miss Marsh.
We believe that we informed the
Japanese Embassy that Mr. Yokota could
not be granted exemption from income
taxes, for the reason that there is no
officer abroad of this Government perform-
ing duties analogous to those performed
by Mr. Yokota.
You will note that the Japanese
Embassy makes no request for reconsideration
of the case of Mr. Yokota, but presumably
that is the purport of the note. Should
we not ask the Japanese Embassy to explain
in detail the character of Mr. Yokota's
duties?
TIHD/DLY

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMNTATE
JAPANESE EMBASSY
7
WASHINGTON
1936 MAY 15 AM 10 20
No.104
Division of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 151936
MAY 19 1936
Department of State
994.01B11
DIVISION OF FOREIGN The Japanese Ambassador presents his
SERVICE AOMINISTRATION
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of
23 1936
May
894.01
State and his the honor to state, with reference
53
to his note No. 68,dated April 15, 1936, that
the official translation of the title of Mr. Iwawo
B
Yokota should be "Secretary of the Board of Tourist
5
Industry of the Japanese Government Railways" in-
6
stead of "Secretary of the Tourist Bureau of the
Japanese Government Railways."
The Ambassador has further the honor to
state that the said Board is expressly distinguished
MAY 22 1936
from the "Japan Tourist Bureau" which was established
as a juridical person.
May 14, 1936.
N.Q.
FG

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.96)
The Secretary of State presents his oomplimente to
His Excellency the Japanese An bassader and has the honor
to aoknowledge the receipt of his note No. l04 of
May 14, l936, in which, with reference to previous cor-
894.01B
respondence in relation to the desired exemption of
Yr. Iwawo Yokota from the vayment of income tax on his
officiul compeneation, the Ambaeeador states that the
official title of Mr. Yokota is "Searetary of the Board
59
of Tourist Industry of Japanese Covernment Railways"
1nstead of "Secretary of the Tourist Bureau of the
Japanese Covernment Railways" as previously stated.
The Seoretary of State will be glad 1f the Ambas-
sader will kindly explain in detail the character of
Mr. Yoketa's duties with a view to further consideratien
beips given the matter of his desired exemptiem frem
samation.of his official ineemn.
state,
May 28 
F2

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.95)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
DEPARTM
WASHINGTON
FZ
94 01311
1936 MAY 15 11 3 09
8
No./06
Divis
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
MAY 19 1936
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of State
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
and has the honor to request that the follodng
894.01
Japanese officials staying in this country be added
to the list of Japanese officials attached to the
8
Ambassador's note No. 50 dated March 14, 1936: -
Kyoichi Suzuki,
Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Communications,
at New York City.
May 21 105€
(His duty is to study systems and conditions
relative to communications exoept railroads)
Ryokiohi Sogane,
Assistant Professor of
the Imperial University
of Tokyo, at Berkeley.
California.
(His duty is to pursue physical research)
Osamu Tsubota,
Secretary of the Japanese
Government Railways, at
Washington, D.C.
(His duty is to study railway systems and
conditions rela tive to communication and
transportation)
MAY 25 1936
FILED
May 15, 1936.
+
K.Q.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.91)
T
May 21 193e
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
Referense is made to the aet of Comgress appreved
Angust 27, 1938, Publ1o No. 374, entitled "Am Act to
exempt frem tazation official compemsation of certais
894.01B
fereign reprecentativee ***, (Session Laws 1935 - s0s).
Referemce is also made to this Department's letter of
March 30, 1936, enolosing a copy of a note dated Mareh 14
from the Japamese Ambassador at thie capital, trams-
11/60
mitting a list of officials of the Japanese Govermmemt
residing in the United States at the present time whe
wish te be gremted esemptton frem tamattem ef their
salartes ressived fron the Japanese Severnment ae com-
pemsasiem fer their official services.
mere is emelosed a copy of another mote frem the
Actpeeeder, tramemitting an additiomel list of Japemese
effssials restding in the Daited ssates.
/metorense to sise made to the latter of the Beparte

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.94)
1954, (freasury file R: 00: 1: J0s), and to subeequemt s
respemdemce in regard to the ezemptiom of officers of
foreign goveraments is the Uaited States, in a mes-
diplemtic status, from Federal inoome tax with respest
to wages, fees and salaries received by them in eompesse-
tiom for their servioes in the United States, there was
emelesed a list of those oountries, inoluding Japan, in
whieh American comsular officers and empleyees and other
mom-diplomatic officers and employees are exempt from the
paymemt of inoome tax on their official compensation.
In accordance with the provisions of the Act of
 August 27, 1935, I certify that Japan grants an equivalent
szemptiom to employees of the Government of the United
states performing services in Japan, and that the charae-
ter of the services performed by officers of the Gevere-
to the services of Japanese offioials in the Umited states
Geseribed in the melosed copy of the note of the aeme
Ambassader. I therefere hepe that thsse Japemese officisls
will be gramted ezemptien fren izoepe tazation ce the 

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.87)
sineerely youre,
Cordell Hull
tmelesure:
Frem Japamese Ambessador,
No. 106, May 15, 1936.
Boutine
nal.
LeWer

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.94)
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
His Excellenoy the Japanese Ambassador nd has the honor
to aoknowledge the recsipt of his note No. 106 of May 15,
894.01B
1936, containing, with reference to his note No. 50 dated
March 14, an additional list of Japanese officials re-
siding in the United States.
The Seoretary of State has brought the
to the
0
attention of the appropriate authority of the Tederal
Government with a view to favorable aotion upon the re-
quest of the Ambassador for the exemption from taxation
on the official salaries of the Japanese officials named
in the note. Upon the receipt of a reply a further oom-
munication will be addressed to the Ambassador.
MAY 21 1936.
A true copy of
Departmest of state,
the  o
na!
washingten,
May 81 1938
006.0111/00
L-W.RN.
FE
m,m

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.94)
HE
JAPANESEEMBASSY
WASHINGTON
mKE
1936 MAY296
No.115
DEPARTMEHI OF
MAY 22 1936
The Japanese Ambassador presents his compli-
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
ments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and with
reference to his note No. 60 of March 31, 1936, concern-
ing the exemption from taxation of American officials
residing in Japan, has the honor to state that he has
been informed by the Foreign Office in Tokyo to the
894.01
ERN AFFAIRS
1936
effect that inasmuch as the Department of Finance of
the Japanese Government does not require the presenta-
B
tion of a special list of the aforesaid officials through
9
the American Embassy at Tokyo, it is deemed expedient,
in order to facilitate the said exemption, that the of-
ficials in question henceforth report their names,
official titles and tax-exempt incomes to the local tax
UN 15 1936
offioes concerned by the 15th of March annually.
The Ambassador begs leave to request that
the above mentioned desire of the Department of
Finance be notified to the American authorities concerned.
May 22, 1936.
To.
2

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.93)
4
RLOEVED
WASHINGTON
1936 MAY 29 AM 10 49
No./18
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND REOORDS
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
SERVIOE ADMINISTRATION
10
The Japanese mbassador presents
c
his compliments to the Honorable the Secre-
tary of State and has the honor to state
89
that the American officials referred to in
894.011311/61
the Ambassador's note No. 115, of May 22,
Departiment of State
8
1936, do not include the diplomatic and
consular officials of the American Govern-
9
2
ment residing in Japan.
FILED
15 19361
May 28, 1936.
F/FG
K.O.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.89)
June 18 19s6.
The seeretary of State presemts his cemplimemts to
the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasary and eneleses
fer the information of his Department and apprepriate
astien copies of twe motes from the Japamess Ambassader
894.01B
at Washingten from which it will be observed that Ameriees
efficials, exceyt diplematie and comsalar effieers,
residing in Japan should bemeeforth report their mames,
official titles and tax emempt incemes to the local tax
1/62
offices coneerned by Marah 15 anmually in order to obtaim
exemytion from Japamese imeome tax.
It is understeod that the term "Ameriean ofricials"
as need in the metes of the Japanese Ambassader, includes
these whe are eustemarily alassified in the Uaited states
a "empleyeee".
JUN 13 1950.
Eclecures:
Frem Jopanese Abasseder,
CB
T
FE
Le
m.m.W.
0-10-28

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.88)
June 18 1936
006.02311/08
The seeretary of state presents his complimemts to
the Nomerable the seeretary of War and eneleses fer the
imfermation of his Department and appropriate astien
copies of twe motes from the Japanese Ambassader at
Washington from whioh it will be obeerved that Amerieas
offieials, exeept diplomatie and consular offieers,
residing in Japan should heneeforth report their mames,
offieial titles and tax exempt incomes to the lecal tax
offioes coneermed by Mareh 15 anmmally in order to obtaim
exemption from Japamese ineome tax.
It is understood that the term "Ameriean ofrieials"
as ased in the metes of the Japamese Ambassader, insludes
these mhe are eustemarily elassified in the Uaited states
as "employees".
JUN 13 193
B
Enclesuses:
20, 1986.
Le
FE
6-10-86
WORD
9.m..

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.91)
June 15 19569
The seesetary of state presents his complimemts to
the Hemerable the Seeretary of the Navy and eneleses fer
the infermatiom of his Department and appropriate astion
coples of twe metes from the Japanese Ambassader at
Waskingten from whieh it will be observed that Amezieam
efficials, exsept diplomatie and consular offieers,
residing in Japen should heneeferth repert their mames,
effieial titles and tax erempt incomes te the lecel tax
offiees coneermed by Mareh 15 anmally in erder to obtain
exsmptiom frem Japamese imeeme tax.
It is understeed that the term "American officials",
as used in the metes of the Japamese Ambassader, ineludes
these whe are custemarily classified in the Uaited states
ae "empleyees".
JUN 13 193
CR
2a; 2086.
LeWRN
a11
FE
m.m.N

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.93)
June 18 19s0
The Searetary of state presents his complimemts tc
the Henorable the Seeretary of Commeree and eneleses fer
the informatiom of his Department and apprepriste metien
copies ef two notes from the Japanese Ambassader at
Washingtem from whieh it will be observed that Americam
offieials, exeept diplematie and consular offieers,
residing in Japan should heneeferth repert their names,
offieial titles and tax exempt inosmes to the lecal taz
offiees concerned by Marah 15 anmmally in order to obtain
exemption from Japamese inoome taz.
It is understeod that the term "Ameriean efficials"
as used in the notes of the Japanese Ambassader, inoludse
these who are sustemarily elassified in the United states
as"mpleyees".
Baeleceres:
A que cony af
the signed
6-10-36

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.91)
June 15 19567
The Seeretary of State presents his complimemts to
the Monorable the seeretary of Agrioulture and emeleses
for the information of his Department and appropriate
astiom sopies of two notes from the Japamese Ambasseder
at Washingten from whioh it will be observed that Ameriems
offielals, except diplomatic and consular offieers,
residing in Japan should heneeforth report their mames,
effieial titles and tax exempt inoomes to the lecal tas
effiees coneermed by Maroh 15 anmually in order to obtain
ememptiom from Japamese income tax.
It is umderstoed that the term "American offieials",
as used in the notes of the Japamese Ambassader, inslmées
these she are custemarily elassified in the Umited states
as "mpleyees".
JUN 13
lee
w.11s
Le
FE
-10-36

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.96)
June 18 1936
To the American Consular Offioer in charge,
Tokyo, Japan.
The Seoretary of State encloses for the information
of the Consular Offioer in charge and such action as mmy
be required copies of two notes from the Japanese Ambas-
sador at Washington from whioh it will be observed that
American officials, except diplomatio and consular
officers, residing in Japan should henoeforth report
894.01
their names, official titles and tax exempt incomes to
the local tax offices oonoerned by March 15 anmually in
order to obtain exemption from Japanese income tax.
B
It is understood that the term "Amerioan officials",
as used in the notes of the Japanese Ambassador, inoludes
those who are oustomarily classified in the United States
9
2
as "employees".
Similar instruotions have been addressed to the
Ambassador at Tokyo and to the other consular officers in
Japan.
Copies of the notes have also been sent to the
Treasury Department, War Department, Navy Department,
Department of Agrioulture and the Department of Commeree,
thieh Departments have offieers and employees stationed
in Japan.
JUN 13 1936.
8
11
LeWrr

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.93)
June 18 1956
To the Azericam Consular Offieer in charge,
Kobe, Japan.
The Seoretary of state enoloses for the information
of the Consular Officer in charge and suoh action as may
be required copies of two notes from the Japanese Ambas-
sador at Washington from whioh it will be obserred that
American officials, exoept diplomatio and oonsular
officers, residing in Japan should henoeforth report
their names, official titles and tax exempt inoomes to
the local tax offioes conoerned by Maroh 15 annually in
order to obtain exemption from Japansse income tax.
It is understood that the term "Amerioan offioials".
as used in the notes of the Japanese Ambassador, inoludes
those who are oustomarily olassified in the United States
as "employees".
Similar instruotions have been addressed to the
Ambassador at Tokyo and to the other oonsular offieers in
Japan.
Copies of the notes have also been sent to the
Treasury Department, War Department, Navy Department,
Department of Agrieulture and the Department of Cemmeres,
shich Departments have offieers and employees statiened
in Japaa.
JUN 13 1930.
2
we
inn
4. /
111
wer
Li

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.95)
'June 18 1938
To the Ameriean Consular Offieer in charge,
Nagoya, Japan.
The Seoretary of State enoloses for the information
of the Consular Offioer in charge and such action as may
be required copies of two notes from the Japanese Ambas-
sador at Washington from whiah it will be observed that
American officials, exoept diplomatio and consular
offioers, residing in Japan should henoeforth report
their names, official titles and tax erempt inoomes to
the local tax offices conoerned by Maroh 15 anmally in
order to obtain ezemption from Japanese inoome tax.
It is understood that the term "Amerioan officials",
as used in the notes of the Japanese Ambassador, inoludes
those who are oustomarily classified in the United States
as "employees".
Similar instruotions have been addressed to the
Ambassador at Tokyo and to the other consular offioers in
Japan.
Gopies of the notes have also been sent to the
Treasary Department, War Department, Navy Department,
Bepartment of Agrioulture and the Department of Commeree,
whish Departments have offieers and employees stationed
in Japan.
JUN 13
3
Lewer
WTT
11
FE

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.92)
June 18 1956
Te the Americam Comsular Offieer in chargs,
Yokohama, Japan.
The Secretary of State enoloses for the informatiom
of the Consular Officer in oharge and such action as may
be required oopies of two notes from the Japanese Ambas-
sador at Washington from whioh it will be obeerved that
American officials, exoept diplomatio and consular
offioers, residing in Japan should henoeforth report
their names, offioial titles and tax exempt inoomes to
the local tax offioes oonoerned by March 15 anmually in
order to obtain exemption from Japanese inoome tax.
It is understood that the term "American officials",
as used in the notes of the Japanese Ambassador, 1noludes
these who are oustomarily olassified in the United States
as"employees".
Similar instructions have been addressed to the
Ambassador at Tokyo and to the other consular offioers in
Japan.
Copies of the notesave also been sent to the
Treasury Department, War Department, Mavy Departmert,
Department of Agriculture and the Department of Gemmeres,
whieh Departments have offiesrs and empleyees statiomed
im Japam.
JUN 13
os:
4.0011/0
URi
22

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.93)
Jtme 15 1033
To the Americam Consular Officer in charge,
Taiboku, Taiwan.
The Seoretary of State enoloses for the information
of the Consular Officer in charge and suoh action as may
be required oopies of two notes from the Japanese Ambes-
sador at Washington from whioh it will be obeerved that
American offioials, exoept diplomatio and consular
officers, residing in Japan should henoeforth report
their names, offioial titles and tax exempt inoomes to
the local tax offices oonoerned by Maroh 15 anmually in
order to obtain exemption from Japanese income tax.
It is understood that the term "American officials",
as used in the notes of the Japanese Ambassador, inoludes
those who are oustomarily classified in the United States
as "employees".
Similar instruotions have been addressed to the
Ambassador at Tokyo and to the other consular offioers in
Japan.
Copies of the notes have also been sent to the
Treasury Department, War Department, Navy Department,
Department of Agrioulture and the Department of Commeree,
whieh Departments have officers and employees stationed
1m Japa
JU 1
细
11/
iwer

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.94)
June 18 1956.
To the American Gonsular Offieer in charge,
Sooul, Ohosen.
The Seeretary of State encloses for the information
of the Consular Officer in oharge and suoh action as may
be required copies of two notes from the Japanese Ambas-
sador at Washington from whioh it will be observed that
American officials, exoept diplomatic and oonsular
offioers, residing in Japan should heneeforth report
their names, offioial titles and tax exempt inoomes to
the looal tax offices conoerned by Maroh 15 anmually in
order to obtain exemption from Japanese income tax.
It is understood that the term "American offioials",
as used in the notes of the Japanese Ambassador, inoludes
those who are oustomarily classified in the United States
as "employees".
similar instruetions have been addressed to the
Ambassador at Tokyo and to the other oonsular officers in
Japan.
Copies of the notes have also been sent to the
Treasury Department, War Department, Navy Department,
Department of Agrioulture and the Department of Cemmeres,
whieh Departments have officers and employees stationed
1m Japan.
N 13 
3
teRv

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.92)
.June 18 1936
-.1057
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Seoretary of State enoloses for the Aubassador's
information,and such action as may be required, copies
of tme motes from the Japanese Ambassador at Washingten
894.01
from whioh it will be observed that American offioials,
exoept diplomatic and onsular officers, residing in Japan,
should henoeforth report their names, official titles and
B
tax exempt incomes to the local tax offioes concerned by
March 15 anmmally in order to obtain eremption from
Japanese income tax.
9
2
It is understood that the term "Amerioan officials",
as used in the notes of the Japanese Ambassador, inoludes
those who are oustomarily olassified in the United states
as "employees".
Similar instruotions have been addressed to the
oo nsular officers in Japan.
Coples of the notes have also been sent to the
Treasury Department, War Department, Navy Department,
Department of Agriculture, and the Department of Commeres,
which Departments have offieers and employees statiened
HU
1m Japm.
JUN 13 1936.
8
En
LeWeN
m.m..

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.93)
The Beoretary of state presents his complimemts to
His Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassador and has the hener
to acknowledge the receipt of his notes No. 115 of May 23,
and No. 116 of May 28, 1936, concerning 1nformation
894.01B
reosived by him from the Foreign Offiee to the effeet
that Amerioan offioials, exoept diplomatie and consular
officers, residing in Japan, should henceforth report
their names, official titles, and tax exempt inoomes to
96
2
the loeel tax offices concerned by Maroh 15 anmually in
order to obtain exemption from Japanese income tax.
Copies of the Ambassador's notes have been transmitted
to the Ameriean Embassy at Tokyo and the American consular
offiees in Japan. Copies of the notes have also beem semt
to the other Departments of the Gevermmemt of the Uaited
States having officers and empleyees statiomed in Japam.
Depertmsmt of state,
Juno 18 1936
90m
Lelwev

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.97)
LEGAL AIWISER
Division of
JUN
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
224
JUN 1 0 1936
TIGE SECRETADEBARTMEHRESATE
RECEIV
partment of State
PARTMENT OF STATE
936 JUN 6 AM 9 20
1930
SERVIDE ADMINISTRATION
209
DIVISION OF
Sir:
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
Reference 1A made to your letter of April 8. 1936 (FA 894.01
B 11/52). with its enclosure, a copy of a note dated March 21,
1936, from the Japanese Ambassador in tnis city, transmitting a
list of Japanese ofricials witn a view to exemption from the pay-
127936
mont of Federal income tax in the future on the official com-
pensation of any of the ofricials named in the list who may sti
be in the United States, the cancellation of surety bonds deposited
by some of them in lieu of paying the tax, and the refund of the
894.01
amounts of tax heretofore paid. There was also enclosed a copy
of a note dated March 31, 1936 from the Japanese Ambassador to
the effect that the Japanese Government did not at any time levy
taxes on the salaries of American officials residing in Japan dur-
ing the period in which Japanese officials residing in the United
States were taxed.
B
The list of officials of the Japanese Government (who are
apparently nationals of Japen) includes officials of the Railway.
Navy and War Departments, and the Formose Government-Commissioner.
9
Under date of April 17, 1936 you were advised that the com-
3
pensation of officials of the Japanese Government (nationals of
Japan) who are naval, army and railway officials is exempt from
Federal income tax. A similar statement was made to you under
date of May 6, 1936, with respect to the compensation received
by an official of the Formose Government-Commissioner.
The collector of internel revenue will be advised as to the
UN 13 1936
exempt status of the official compensation of the Japanese
officials against whom the tax was assessed and will be instructed
to take appropriate steps to have the tax assessments against
those officials who deposited surety bonds in lieu of paying the
tax abated and to inform the surety company of its release from
liability under the bonds. The collector will also be instructed
to request the Japanese officials who paid the tax to file claims
for refund.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT: E:RR-MLM.
F/F
Very truly yours,
G
Wlayoo
The Honorable,
Acting Secretary
The Seorotary of State.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
893.515/1100
FOR
Memorandum
894.01B
State Department
Far Eastern Div.
FROM
Hornbeok
) DATED Apr11 22,1936
TO
NAME
1-1197
General financial situation in China: Question of monetary
REGARDING:
reform
9
Conversation between the Secretary of Treasury and Mr. Yutaro
4
Tomita; present were the Japanese Ambassador, the Assistant
Financial Attaehe of the mbassy, and Mr. Hornbeck.
FRG.

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.95)
7H
3
RECEIVED
weo
DI-WASHINGTON
1936 JUN 17 PM 4 09
NO.128
10
Division of
COMMUN CATIONS
4
JUN 18 19
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ANDR CORDS
DIVISION OF FOREION
JUN 1 9 1936
SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
The Japanese mbassador presents h Department ofState
compliments to the Honoruble the ecretary of
State and hus the honor to request that the
following Japanese officials who recently came
to this country for a short sojourn be added to
394.01B
the lists of Japanese officials to be exempted
from taxation, previously communicated to the
Department of State.
Torashiro Asano,
Lieutenant Colonel, language
9
officer, in New York.
5
Tomojiro Honda,
Major, language officer, in
New York.
(Their duty is to study the American language)
è
Shuichiro Sato
Technical expert of the Japanese
FILED
Government Railways, in New Yorme
8
Kazutoshi Nakashima,
do
do
1936
Seiichi Ogawa,
do
do
Seiiohi Hayashi,
do
do
(Their duty is to study railway systems and
conditions and to inspect goods purchased by
the Japanese Govenment Railways)
June 17, 1936.
K.O.
F/FG

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.91)
June 20 1938
y dear r. seeretary:
Referenee is mede to the aet of Cengress appreved
August 87, 1925, Publ1e No. 374, entitled "An Aet to
exempt frem taxatien effielal cempemsatien ef certaim
fereign represemtatives **e*(Sessien Laws 193s - 90s).
894.01B
Referense is alse made te previeus serrespendenee in
regard to the exempties of efficers and empleyees ef
the Japamese Geverament residing in the United Stases
frem the paymeat ef ineome tax en their effieial cempemse-
11/85
tiem.
There is enelessd a copy of a mote frem the Japamese
Ambassader setting ferth a list of Japamese effieials
cemprising Japasese Army offieers and teehmieal experts
of the Japamese Geverameat Railways, statiened tempererily
in New Yerk.
The Zemerable
Heary Morgeathem, Jr.,
Sesretary ef the Treesury.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.91)
Reterense le alse made to the lotter of the Bepert
mess ef state dated Septesber 12, 193s, in mmich, in
relatien to the Treasury Bepartmeat's letter of Geteber 9,
1934, (Treasury f1le IR:0C:I:JCS), amnd to subeequemt
esrrespendense in regard to the exemption of effieers
of fereign governments in the Uaited states, 1n a men-
diplematie status, frem Federal inceme tax with respest
to wages, fees and salaries received by them in cempemse-
tiem fer their serviees in the United States, there was
emslesed a list ef these countries, imoluding Japem, in
which Ameriean cozsular efficers and empleyees and ether
mem-diplematie effieers and empleyees are exempt from
the paymemt ef ineome tax om their offieial compensatiem.
In accerdamee with the previsioms of the Ast of
Angust 27, 1936, I eertify that Japan graats an equivalent
exsmptiem to empleyees of the Geverament of the United
States performing serviees la Japan, and that the charee-
tor of the serviese perfermed by effieere of the Gevers-
mont of the Uaited states in fereign cemmtries is similar
te the serviees ef Japemese effieials in the Uaited states
Gescribed in the snelesed copy of the mete of the Japanese
Ambassedee. I therefere hepe that these Japemese effielals
vill be grested ememptiem frem inceme tasat ien en the of-
féeial eompensstion they receive fren the Japenese Gevers-
os.

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.87)
mont, ane that you will netify the latevested efrlokes
of your Depertejent secertingly.
simeerely yours,
Cordell Hu
Emelesure:
Frem Japamese Ambassader, No. 126,
Jume 17, 1936.
copy of
JUN 20 1950.
Routine
CR
me
FE
Le
wew
6/18/36
7.m,NA.
Home

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.92)
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to Mis Exeellemey the Japanese Ambassador and has the
honor to ackmowledge the receipt of his note No. 128
894.01B
of June 17, 1936, setting forth the names of Japanese
offioials who have recently come to the Umited States
for temporary duty and whose exemption from taxation
on their offioial compensation 1s desired.
96
5
A copy or the Ambassador's note has been brought
to the attention of the appropriate authority of the
Federal Government and upon the receipt of a reply, a
further commmmieation will be addressed to him om the
subjeot.
Department of state,
June 20 1936
Washington,
A que copy of
nal.
806.018 11/65
12
JUN 20 1936.
FE
toer

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.94)
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to Mis Exeellenoy the Japanese Ambassador and has the
homor to refer to his mote No. 138 of June 17, 1936,
setting forth a liet of Japanese officials, comprising
894.018
Japanese Army officere and teohnical erperts of the
Japanese Government Railways, stationed temporarily in
New York, whose exemption from tamtion on thetr offioial
二
161
compensation is desired.
5
A letter has now been received from the eompetent
autherity of the Government of the United States in whien
it is stated that, in view of the certification ef the
Department ef State, it has been held that the Japamese
offieiale mamed in the mote from the Ambassader are exempt
frem Federal imeeme tax en the salaries whieh they reseive
from the Japemese Geveramens as cexpensation for offieiel

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.88)
sesvicss rendered in the Uaited states, and that the
apprepriate cellecters of internal revemues will be
advised accerdingly.
Department of State,
Washington,
July 24 1938
804.01 B 11/74
 24 1936
2m
FA:FM:VIC:88 7/23
hm
GWORN FE
Hch

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.91)
Division of
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AQE   SATE
9336 U 1  35
BUREAU OF FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC COMMERCE
UN 2 0 1936
©OMUNICATIONS
N S
WASHINGTON
QIVISICN OF
Department of State
RECEIVD
9
JUN.19.1936
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
SERVICE AUMINISTRATION
Jule
Hon.
Wilbur J. Carr,
Assistant Secretary of State,
Depertment of State,
"a shing ton, D. C.
DIPAR MF
Attention: A - C/C
My dear Mr. Carr:
894.01B
This is to ackno:ledge receipt of an informal memorandum,
reference FA 894.01B 11/62, regerding tax-exempt incomes of
non-diplome tic officers of the United Stetcs Government serving
in Japan.
11/66
Appropriete notice is being sent to the office of the
American Commercial Att: che at Tokyo.
Very truly yours,
Lacey. Zaph
Liaison Offiter
JUN 23 1936
FHND
F/FG

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.96)
EA
DIVISION OF
JUN 2 0 1936
VLE
RECEIVED
WARHINGTON DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LEGAL ADVISER
JUN 1
1936 JUN 20 AM 9 29
JUN 26 35
WRS
Sir:
JUN 20
DIVISION OF
IcUNt1 INter of May 21. 1936 (FA 894.01 B 11/60) w
its enclpeprefCQRDopy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador iny
this city, dated Way 15, 1936, transmitting a list of officials
of the Japanese Government reeiding in the United States at the
present time who wish to be granted exemption from taxation of
their salaries received from the Japanese Governnent as compensa-
tion for their official services.
In accordance with the provisions of the Act of August 27,
1935 (section 116(h) of the Revenue Act of 1934, as amendod) you
certify that Japan grants an equivalent exemption to omployees of
the Government of the United States performing services in Japan,
and that the character of the services performed by officers of
the Government of the United States in foreign countries is
similar to the services of the Japanese officials in the United
States described in the copy of the note of the Japanese Ambassado
You express the hope that these Japanere officials will be granted
B
exomption from income taxation on the official compensation they
receive from the Japanese Government and that the interested
officers of this Department will be notified accordingly.
The list of the Japanese officials (apparently nationals of
Japan) includes the Secretary of the Departnent of Communications
in New York City. an Assistant Professor of the Imperiel University
of Tokyo who is stationed at Berkeley. California and the Secretary
of the Japanese Government Railways in Washington, D. C.
In view of your certification this Department holds that the
Japanese officials included in the list submitted by the Japanes
Ambassador are exempt from Federal income tax on the salaries hic
they receive from the Japanese Government as compensation fory
1936
collectors of internal revenue will be advised of the contents or
this letter.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
JUN·96·1936
matter is necessary. please refer to IT:E:RR-MLM.
FILED
Very truly yours.
orepenine Roche
F/FG
人
The Honorable,
secretary.
The Secretary of State.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.95)
The Seeretary ef state presemts his esmplimeats te
His Exsslleney the Japanese Ambasseder and has the hener
to refer to his note No. 106 ef May 15, 1936, submitting,
with referenee to his note No. 50 dated Mareh 14, an
894.01B
additional list of Japanese offieiale residing in the
United States with a view to the exemption from taxatiom
of their official salaries. Referenee 1s also made to
the note of the Department of State of May 2l in relatiem
167
to the matter.
There is enelesed an exeerpt frem a letter ef the
Treasury Department in whieh it is stated that, in view
of the certifieatiex of the Department of State, is hed
been held by the Treasury Department that the Japamese
effieials inelmded in the list submitted by the Japanese
Ambassaéer were exempt frem federel imeeme tax en the
eesth re te ase

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.92)
Uaited states and that the apprepriate eollesteve of
snternal revemue weule be asvised in the master.
Enelesure:
Exeerpt from letter
ef Treasury Department,
June 18, 1936.
Depertment of state,
JUN 85 1930.
June 25 1938
Washington,
006.01311/07
FE
m. m.bt.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.93)
7
In reply refer to
0-2/2610-H-60
ER
LE
N 4 35
4
WAR DEPARTMENT
RSEV
DEPRTMETOF STATE
DEPARTMENTATE
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF
WASHINGTON. D.C.
VoreN
FE
B96 JUN 23 AM 9 48
DIVISION OF
IHN.22 1936
COMMUNICATIONS
DIVISION OF FOREIGO
AND RECOROSTonorable
SERVICE AOMINISTRATION
FAS
The Secretary of State.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
The Secretary of War requests me to acknowledge the
receipt of your 1etter of June 13, 1936 (FA 894.01B 11/62),
894.01B
enclosing copies of two notes from the Japanese Ambassador at
Washington with reference to exemption from Japanese income tax
of American officials resident in Jaxan. The Military Attache,
American Embassy. Tolyo, has been infonmed, with instructions to
advise all personnel under his jurisdiction who miy be concerned.
9
Sincerely yours,
8
8 bs
Chief of Staff.
JUN 25 1936
FILED
7
F/FG

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.94)
5
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
RECEIVED
DEFARTMENT OF STAIS
WASHINGTON
1936 JUN 30 AM 9 30
JUN 27 1998
LEGAL AIWISER
33
COMMUNICATIONS
DEPAR MI NY DE TATE
AND RECORDS
1399
The Honorable,
Livision of
1701
The Secretary of State,
FAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
-1936
Washington, D. C.
894.01
9ERVICE
Department of State
Sir:
By direction of the Secretery, receipt is acknowl-
edged of your 1etter of June 13, 1936 (FA 894.01B 11/62),
B
trensmittin copies of two notes from the Japanese Ambassador
in this city dated 'ay ?? and 28, 1936, relative to the
exemption of Am ricen offici: ls ond employees of the Treasury
69
Deportment reriain in Japan from the Japanese income tax.
This matter hes been brou ht to the attention of
the officials of this Department who have need for this in-
formation.
Very truly yours,
FILED
Wm. H. McReynolhs
Administretive Assistant
to the Secretary.
X

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.94)
PC
103
5
RECEIVED
DEFARTMFNTUAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
1936 JUL 2 FM 3 37
ANU
file
No./38
115
OMML
A1.1
LEGAL ADVISER
  I
E
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
CPARINENI OF STATE
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of
State and has the honor to request that the fol-
894.01
lowing Japanese official staying in this country
be added to the list of Japanese ofricials
41
B
attached to the Ambassador's note No. 50, dated
March 14, 1936: -
Mr. Daisuke Kanetomo, Teohnical expert
of the Department of
Agrioulture and
Forestry of Japan,
staying at Los Angeles.
(His duty is to study the fishery
industry of the United States).
Mr. Kanetomo is leaving New York by the
steamship "Aquitania" on July 16 for Europe. Due to
SEP.2-:1936
his imminent departure the Ambassador would appre-
FILED
ciate it if the appropriate authorities at New York
be early notified in order that he my be given
exemption from taxation ef his salary in sufficient
time.
K. Q.
July 2, 1986

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.95)
BXTH/8
July 8 1930
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
Referemce is made to this Department's letter to
you of Maroh 20, 1936, transmitting a copy of a nete
of Mareh 14, from the Japanese Ambassader, in whieh the
894.01
request was made for exemption from sasation on salaries
received from the Japanese Government for a list of
officials of that Gemernmemt staying in the United States.
B
There is transmitted herewith a oopy of a note of
July 2, 1936, in whioh the request was made that an
additional Japanese offioial staying in the United States
be added to the list heretofore submitted.
In accordanoe with the provisions of the Aot of
August 27, 1935, Publio No. 374, entitled "An Aot to
exempt from taxation official compeneation of certain
foreign representatives mas", I certify that Japan
grants
The Homorable
Menry Morgenthau, Jr.,
Seeretary ef the Treasury.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.91)
Gevermsens ef the Uasted statee perfessing sesrtese in
supen, und that the eharester ef the sesviees pestesmee
by empleyees of the Gevermment of the Uaited states in
fereign coumtries is similar to the serviees of the
Japamese efficial in the Uaited states deseribed in the
enclosed copy ef the note from the Japamese Ambassader.
I, consequently, request that this Japanese official be
granted exemption from income taxation on the effieial
compensation he receives from the Japanese Government,
and that you will notify the interested officers of
your Department aocordingly.
I would appreciate receiving a reply to this com-
munioation at the earliest possible moment, in view of
the imminent departure of Mr. Kanetome who is leaving
Mew York by the Steamahip Aquitania on July 16 for
Europe.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
Enslesure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
Ne. 138, July 2, 1936.
CR
Roptine
 1938.P
vC
FE
79
A lrue copy of
NeM
ned prig
m.m.N
nal.
7/7

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.82)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Mhis Marph. Ang. 26, 1936.
The Sppaners Tberey res ohe
dif the wn prerr cion that the mere
fach/7 heing a Sonerunnt employe
witi ites one ih urump tion.
Yokola onay do, the fa'ch remaning thah
they would ssen to he in a fild
which in morh countrie, would he lith
privali iiti'atine.
Wa are amm.. thah the abowe rugguls
a departure from the rules which we
Lave agreed to usw; buh it sesms to uo
Ital ih would streleh undul, theprorcrions
Tite ach i we were ti ertify thah chis
gorerumend has abroad any offeeral ite
charastn gohon arbier as sinila
li that ot Yohola.
We shiggirk a noti lo the Jafanesr
Encbarry statiy in efpech ltah we are
umabte to idoue to the Treasure e

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.75)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
Jly9, 1926
FF：
poo we majstain
foreig conmtries
oevio simila
to thore perfened
ty m. duanioGohota?
nd, itigatle
plentinent to
goine g th
ne. tie renfoad
ty othen officialof

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.74)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
Me Sept.  Jopan
slayiny
1.5., niles ne
have safficient
infona tim om
are sndirtied
Jrom loration
Shhas feen
propenly
Japamese efficiale.
Minroloct

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.94)
LEGAL AIWISER
1
DEPARTMINA
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
1936 JUL & PM 2 16
No.143
DIVISION OF
COMMNATIONS
gust 81 1930
29
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 9-1936
The Japanese Ambassador presents his com-
jm
pliments to the Honorable the ecretary of tate
DEEPTE
SERION
DIVFFIGN
und, with reference to his note of May 22, 1936,
A0 31 1936
in which the Secretary requests the Ambassador to
explain in detail the character of r. Iwawo Yokota's
894.01B 11/71
duties with a view to further consideration being
given as to the exemption from taxution of his
official salary, has the honor to enclose an excerpt
from a letter of the Department of Japanese Government
Railways concerning the status of the Board of Tourist
Industry and the character of duties of an official
of the Board staying in tis country.
SEP.1-:1936
The Ambassador expresses the hope that the
FILED
attached excerpt would clear the character of Mr.
Yokota's duties in this country and favorable consid-
eration be given with respect to the exemption from
F/FQ
taxation of his salary received from the Japanese
Government as compensation for his official service.
July 7, 1936.
K.J.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
Excerpt from a letter of the Department of the Japanese
Government Railways to the Department of Foreign ffairs,
May 23, 1936.
ith regard to the auties of Mr. Iwawo Yokota,
a secretary of the "Board of Tourist Industry of the
Japunese Government Railways," stuying ut Los angeles,
it seems that the Depurtment of tate of the United
States confuses them with those of employees of the
"Japan Tourist Bureau" or the "Japan Travel Publicity
Association" und somewhat misunderstands that the suid
officiul directly offers assistance to prospective tour-
ists to Japan.
The Board of Tourist Industry, to which Ir.
Yokota belongs, is an administrative organ of the Depart-
ment of Japanese Government Railways established for the
purpose of supervising the activities of the Japan Tourist
Bureau and the Japan Travel Publicity Association." The
Japan Tourist Bureau is a corporate juridical person, the
function of which is to offer assistence to tourists, and
the Japan Travel Publicity Association is a foundational
juridical person, the function of which is to carry on
publicity to induce foreign travelers to visit Japan.
Attention should be called to the facts that the Board of
Tourist Industry does not directly offer assistance to
foreign tourists and that, while the Japan Tourist Bureau
and the Japan Travel Publicity Association are private
organizations, the Board of Tourist Industry is an execu-
tive branch of the Japanese Government.
Mr. Iwawo Yokota, a secretary of the Board of
Tourist
-1-

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
Tourist Industry as above mentioned, was ordered by
the Minister of the Jupanese Government Railways to study
the systems and conditions of the tourist-inducing business
in the United states und, ulso, under the direction of
the Minister, to supervise activities of the Jupan Tourist
Bureau und the Jupan Travel Publicity Association, which
have joint branch offices at Los Angeles and New York.
Nr. Yokota's main duties ure, therefore, not aifferent
in character from those of other officiuls of the De-
partment of Japunese Government Ruilways staying in the
United States. Although, to facilitate his task and to
save expenditure, Mir. Yokota is usine a part of the joint
office of the Japan Tourist Bureau and the Jupan Travel
Publicity Association at Los Angeles, it is not believed
that the character of his duties would be changed by this
fact.
It is hoped, therefore, as to the exemption
from taxation of his official salary, that Mr. Yokota
will be accorded the same treatment as other officials
of the Department of Japanese Government Railways stay-
ing in the United States.
-2-

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.95)
The Sesretary of state presents his esmplimemts to
Mis Emoelleney the Japanese Ambaseador and has the homor
to acknowledge the receit of his note No. 143 of July .
1936, in further relation to the desired exem tion from
the payment of inoome tax of Mr. Iwawo Yokota, Becretary
of the Bonr of Tourist Industry of the Japanese Govem-
ment Railways, Los Angeles, California.
The Secretary of state regrets to advise the Ambas-
sador that inammuoh as the Government of the United states
does not maintain any offioers abroad having duties ef ts
nature of those performed by Mx, Tokota, it is not pomsible
for the Department of state to issue the ccrtifieate pre-
seribed  the Aet of Gongress appreved August 39, loss,
Palie 374 (sesston Laws 1935 - 908), whish, meng ether

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.83)
zoss a t the 
asoster of the serviess performed by empleyees of the
Severament of the Usited states in fereign eeuntries is
amilar to the servioes of the offieial in the Waited
states of the foreign Government coneermed whose exmmpsiem
from the payment of ineome tax is sought.
Departmens of state,
Washington,
angust81 193e
WT
894.028 11/72
A true
thedpe

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.91)
LEGAL AINISER
L23
71
4
REOEIVED
DEPARTMIN OFSTATE
JAPANERMASSYTATE
Fut wied
WASHINGTON
1936 JUL IA PM 1 21
No./49
note to jopaune
DIVISIN OF
Divisth
COTIONS
AND RDS
22 1930
JUL 14 1936
July
DIVISION OP POREIGN
The Japanese mbassauor presents
his compliments to the lonorable the secre-
894.01
tary of State and, with reference to the
87401B11
mbassador's note No. 55, dated March 21,
a
1936, has the honor to enclose an addition-
al list of Japanese officials who paid taxes
2
to the Collectors of Internal Revenue in New
York and Los Angeles during their sojourn in
the United States.
The Japanese Ambassador would appre-
10 823 1936
ciate it very much if the secretary of State
FILED
would be good enough to transmit the list to
the appropriate authorities of the United States
Government so that the taxes paid may be refunded.
(Enclosur)
X.F.
July 13, 1936.
1

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.98)
LIST OF J..P.ISE CFFICI. LC P.ID T.XES.
Places at which
Name
mount
Periou of sojourn.
taxes were pe id.
Hisae Okabayashi
1934 17.24
Lew York
From July 26,
Technical expert of
193 to may 1,
the Bureau of Mono-
1935
5.87
1935.
poly, Financial De-
Total
$23.11
partment.
(His duty was to
inspect tobacco
purchased by the
Jupanese Govern-
ment.)
Takeshi Tukei,
1935  3.67
New York
From May 8,
assistant professor
1935 to August
of the Tokyo Indus-
Number of Re-
ε, 1935
trial University.
ceipt 584288
(His duty was to
pursue engineer-
ing research work)
Katsuji Tanaka,
1933
$64.77
Los .ngeles
From October
Civil engineer of the
14, 1932 to
Department of the
1934
23.39
April 1, 1935.
Navy.
(His duty was to in-
1935
$3.68
spect ordnance and
materials purchased
Total
91.84
by the Japanese
Government.)
(Paid on March
22, 1935, Num-
ber of Receipt
5796)

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 21, 1936.
Mr. Vallance has seen and approved
this draft.
The Japanese Embassy has made
request, under the law recently enacted
by Congress, for refund of income taxes
paid by Japanese officials in this
country. Some of these payments cover
a period extending back to 1932. Inasmuch
as our law provides for tax exemption
only on a basis of reciprocity, the
date of the exemption from Japanese
income tax granted in favor of American
officials in Japan requires determining.
un
WTT/DLY

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.94)
The Secretary of State presents his eomplimemts to
His Exeellenoy the Japanese Ambassador end has the homer
to refer to the last paragraph of the Ambassador's nete
No. 55 of Mareh £1, 1936, in wh1ch the Ambassador stated
894.01B
that he had received a cablegram from Japan to the effeet
that the Treasury Tepartment had instruoted all internal
revenue officers in Japan that all offioials of the
11/72
United States Government were to be exempted from ineome
taxation.
The Socretary of State would appreoiate being
informed of the date on whioh the exemption mentioned
in the Ambessador's note was made effestive.
Departmomt of state,
Waahimgtom, July 22 1936
A prue copy of
JUL 22 1938.PM
OR
som
loev

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.73)
PARTMIENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
con..
at
arl
At Res it jentdapant

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.96)
JUL 20 
Reed 7/ OFIATE
THE SECRETARY OF THE JREASURY
uRV.
RECEIVED
Divistonf
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 15
sini
DIVISION OF
July , 1936 (Le 894.01 B 11/70) th 1t
onclosure, a copy of a note dated July 2, l936, from the Japanese
Ambassador, requesting that the name of Mr. Daisuke Kanetomo, technicaA
oxpert of the Department of Agriculture and Forestry of Japan.
stationed at Los Angeles, California, who expects to leave New Yark
on the S. S. Aquitania on July 16. 1936, be added to the 1iet óf
Japanese officials attached to the Ambassador's note No.' 50, dated
March 14, 1936.
In accordance with the prov1sions of the Act of August 27, 1035
894.01B
Public No. 374, which amended soction 116 of the Revenue Act of:1934
by the addition of subsection (h) thereto, you certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government of the United
States performing services in Japan, and that the character of the
services performed by officers of the Govermment of the United States
in foreign countries is similar to the services of Japanese officials in
the United States described in the copy of the note of the Japanese
Ambassador. You express the hope that Mr. Daisuke Kanetomo will be
granted exomption from income taxation on the official compensation
he receives from the Japanese Government and that the interested officers
of this Department will be notified accordingly.
In view of your certification this Department holds that Mr. Daisuke
Kanetomo is exempt from the Federal income tax on the salary which he
ressives from the Japanese Government as compensation for the official
services rendered by him in the United States. The appropriate
collectors of internal revenue have been advised of the contents of
this letter.
It may be stated that the provisions of the Act of August 27.
1935 which relate, in part, to the exemption from Federal taxation of
the official compensation of certain foreign representatives, have been
incorporated in the Revenue Act of 1936 as section 116(h) and are
applicable to the compensation received for l936 and subsequent years.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this matter
is necessary, please refer to IT:E:RR-RLB.
1uL 2019361
Very truly yours,
levayno OZaylor
Secretary
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.94)
EE
Division
FAR EASTERN ALNS
JUL 181936
Department vi ...l
The Seeretary of State presemts his eemplimemts te
His Exeelleney the Japamese Ambassador and has the hemer
to refer to his mete No. 188 ef July 2, 19s6, reqmesting
that the mam of ür. Daisake Kanetomo, technieal expert
of the Department of Agrioulture and Ferestry of Japam.
894.013
stationed at Los Angeles, California, who expeots to leave
New York on the steamship 4QUITANI▲ om July 16. be added
to the list of Japamese offieials attached to the
11/73
Ambassador's note No. 50, dated March 14, 1936.
The Seeretary ef State hao the honor to confirm the
message by telephone to the Japanese mbasay today to the
effeet that a latter had been reeoived from the competent
authority of the Govermment of the United States in whish
it is stated thst in view of the eertifisatiem of the
Dapartmens of State it had beam held that Hr. Baisake
Eameteme Ss emempt frem the Patcral inceme tam en the
salesy

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.74)
- 8
salasy reectved by him frem the Japenese Gevermment as
compemsatien for the ecfietal serviees remdered by kim
1n the Uaited states, me that the apprepriate callecters
of intermal revemse have bem advised in the matter.
stato.
 26. 196.
W.RN.
2

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.97)
KE
6
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREA
RECEIV
WASHINOTON
CEPARTMENT OF STATE
1936 JUL 21 AM 9 12
Division of
1936.
FAR EASTERN AFLAIRS
11936
Sir:
DIVISION CF
COMMUNICATIONS
I have AduRBG0R0S of June 20, 1950 A 094.01B 11/65), with
its enclosure, a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador, dated
no128
June 17, 1936, setting forth a list of Japanese officials comprising
Japanese Army officers and technical experts of the Japanese Govern-
ment Railways, stationed temporarily in New York.
In accordance with the provisions of the Act of August 27, 1935,
894.
you certify that Japan grants an equivalent exemption to employees 
the Government of the United States performing, services in Japag nd
that the character of the services performed by officers p& the Govern-
ment of the United States in foreign countries is similar 'to the ser-
vices of Japanese officials in the United tates described in the copy
of the note of the Japanese Ambassador. You express the hope that
these Japanese officials will be granted exemption from inoome taxatidh
B
on the official compensation they receive from the Japanese Government
and that the interested officers of this Department will be notified
11/74
accordingly.
In view of your certification this Department holds that the
Japanese officials included in the copy of the note submitted by the
Japanese Ambassador are exempt from Federal income tax on the salaries
whioh they receive from the Japanese Government as compensation for
official services rendered in the United States. The appropriate
colleotors of internal revenue will be advised of the contents of this
letter.
It may be stated that the provisions of the Act of August 27, 1938
(relating to the exemption from Federal taxation of the official com-
pensation of certain foreign representatives) which are inoorporated in
the Revenue Act of 1936 as section 1l6(h) are applicable to the compen-
sation received for 1936 and subsequent years.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this matter
is necessary, please refer to IT:E:RR:MLl.
FILE
3
Very truly yours,
CZaybr
Wayno
Secretary
A
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.78)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
7
Mr. I urner
The sem.
240.
t to
rek..
wh the M

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FOREIGN SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
Lo
Mr. Vallance:
This is the case about whi ch
I /telephoned.
Ater dictating
this letter, 
find that the
periods of the stays in th is
country of the Japanese officials
do not gree ith those in the
previgus oase referred to, and
am yondering whether we will have
to ask for another statement from
the Japanese Ambassador, and con-
tinue to do so every time we get
these lists, which may be quite
frequently.
FM

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.97)
OPFICIAL OOMMUNIGATIGND TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHNNSTON, D, 6.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
Im reply refer to
FA 894.01 B 11/73
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Reference is made to Seo. 116 (h) of the Revenue
Act of l936, in relation to the exemption from tamtion
of the official compensation of consular officers and
employees and other non-diplomayic officers and employees
of foreign governments. Reference is also made to this
Department's letter of Apriy'8, 1936, enclosing a copy
of Note No. 55 of March 21, 1936, from the Japanese
Ambassador, transmitting a list of Japanese officials
with a view to the exemption from the payment of income
tax in future on the official compensation of any of
the officials named in the list who might still be in
the United States, the cancelation of the bonds deposited
and the refund of the amounts of taxes heretofore paid.
There
UCT 19 1936
The Honorable
FILD
Henry Morgenthau, Jr.,
Secretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
-a
There was also enclosed a copy of another note from the
Japanese Ambassador, No. 60, of Maroh 31, 1936, 1n which
he certified that "his Government did not at any time
levy taxes on the salaries of American offigials residing
in Japan during the period in whioh Japanese officials
residing in the United States were tared.
There is enclosed a copy of a furpher note from the
Ambassador transmitting an additional list of Japanese
officials with a view to their exemption from the payment
of income tax on the official compensation received by
them from the Japanese Government during their sojourn
in the United States, and the pefund of the amounts of
taxes heretofore paid.
Reference is also made to the letter of the Depart-
ment of State dated September 12, 1935, in which, in
relation to the Treasury Department's letter of October 9,
1934, (Treasury file IR:00:I:JCs), and to subsequent
correspondence in regard to the exemption of officers
of foreign governments/in the United States, in a non-
diplomatic status, from Federal income tax with respect
to wages, fees and salaries received by them in compensa-
tion for their services in the United States, there was
enclosed a list of those countries, including Japan, in
which American consular officers and employees and other
non-

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
mon-diplomatio officers and employees are exempt from
the payment of inoome tax on their official compensation.
In aocordance with the provisions of Sec. 116 (h)
of the Revenue Aot of l936, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government
of the United States performing services in Japan, and
that the character of the services performed by officers
of the Government of the United States in foreign
countries is similar to the services of Japanese offi-
cials in the United States dascrrbed in the list which
accompanies the enclosed copy of the note of the
Japanese Ambassador. I therefore hope that the official
compensation of any of the officials named in the list
who may still be in the United States may in future be
exempt from the payment of income tax on their official
compensation and that the amounts of taxes heretofore
paid by the officials named may be refunded, and that
you will notify the interested officers of your Depart-
ment accordingly.
Sincerely yours,
Enolosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
No. 149, July 13, 1936,
with enclosure.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.92)
7
4
DEPARTMENTOSTATE
Mris Hen
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
1936 JUL 29 PM 1 40
No.154
JUL 30 1936
DIVISION CF
COMMUNTIONS
SEHVICK AUMINISTRATION
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
AND RLUORDS
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
936
Ima ment of State
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of State
and has the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the
Secretary's note dated July 22, 1936.
894.01B
The Ambassador further has the honor to
state that he has taken steps to inquire of the
Government the exact date on which the exemption
mentioned in his note No. 55 was made effective.
Upon the receipt of a reply, a further communication
will be addressed to the Secretary.
hel FE
AO
人
flu.
11936
July 28, 1936.
X.J.
F/RG
11

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.94)
No.
The Japanesc Ambassador presents his
compliments to te Honorable the Jeoretary of State
and has the honor to aoknowledge the rooeipt of to
Seoretary'e note dated July 2L. 1936.
The anbassador further has the honor to
state that le has taken steps to inquire of the
Covernment the exact date on which the exemption
montioned in his note c. 55 was made effeotive.
Upor the receipt of a reply, a further communieation
will be addressed to the Gecretery.
July 28. 1936.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.96)
KE
No. 887
AMERICAN CONSULATE
E
Yokohama, Japan, July 6, 1936.
DEPARTDENTOFSTATE
JUL 30 1936
DIVISION OF FORLION
SERVICE AUMINIGINATION
SUBJECT:
EXEMPTION FROM JAPANESE TAXATION
1--1055
OF AMERICAN OFFICIALS
5
THE HONORABLE
(S
12
S
E
C
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
CASTERN AFFAIRS
C
WASHINGTON
A06111930
E
R
SIR:
894.01B
I have the honor to report that after consultation
with the Consul General at Tokyo, the contents of the
Department's instruction of June 13, 1936 (File No.
894.01B 11/62) have been brought to the attention of
the four American employees now at this Consulate.
They have been instructed to report the amounts of their
respective incomes to the appropriate taxation autho-
rities on March 15 hereafter and claim an exemption in
accordance with that instruction.
Very respectfully yours,
Yregore vrrile
Gregor C. Merrill,
4JG 15 1936
American Vice Consul.
FILED
125.3/370
GCM/rk
X
F/FG

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.82)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Dipi. 17, 1956.
TC
th. Shigeru fujii
whis
2eleou
ax
the Rauve
mentioned in
the
S. fujii
Ecnbasey's
he
fagainece
Neceker 3. 1934,
note
(Which can
inquirgs of the
6
Doceetained
Er hass),
The
2/w
3ock
Rail rays
7.q.1. telephoae dinetors)
ReC
7to
able
Soued be
inform atiou n
parnish
his
sreeen
ugard
m m.H
whereat auta.
WTT

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.95)
LAW OFFIGES
RECEIVED
KARR AND GREGORY
DEPARTMENT OF STAIE
ISOB EXGHANGE BUILDING
SEATTLE,WASH.
1936 SEP 12 AM 11 24
September 5, 1936.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DIV
SEP14 1936
COMMUNICATIONS
Department of State
94.01B11
Washington, D. C.
LEGAL ADVISER
10
SEP 23 1936
UNVISION
ANO
Gentlemen:
CONFERINCES
SEP 18 1933
DEPARTMENT OF STA
We represent the Sun Indemnity Company
of New York which had the liability insurance
WRN
coverage on an automobile owned by Shigeru Fujii
at the time it w's involved in an accident in
dile ef
Seattle on September 2, 1935. Suit was brought
against lir. Fujii by a party injured in the ac-
cident and the case is to be tried in the near
894.01B
future.
we received information recently that
Mr. Fujii is enroute to Japan but so far we have
September 22 1936
been unable to learn when he left the United States
or where in Japan ho is going.
This letter is directed to  our depart-
ment for the renson that we have recently re-
ceived some information which indicates the pos-
sibi lity that . Fujii may be an agent of the
Japanese Government in the United States. We
wonder if your department I as any iniormation as
to this man or where he might now be contacted?
Yours tmaly,
IARA & GR-GORY,
Payne tare
3Y
Ph:A
15577
SEP 25 1936
FILED
IL

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.95)
September 22 1936
In reply refer to
P0 004.01B 11/17
Mr. Payne Karr,
894.01
1505 Exchange Bu11ding,
Seattle, Washington.
81r:
Ackmowledgment is made of the receipt of your
B
letter of September 5, 1936, and in reply to the in-
quiry contained therein you are informed that the
177
Department's records show that in 1934 there was a
Mr. Shigeru Pujii who was an official of the Depart-
ment of Railways of the Japanese Government stationed
im Mew York City, but the Department appears to have
mo further information coneerning this gentleman.
It is suggested that you communicate with the
effiee of the Department of Railways referred to or
with the Japanese Consulate General at 505 Fifth
Avemme, New York Oity.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of Stater
SEP
A trus copy of
thead origt
J. C. Molmes

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.95)
E
DEPARTMENTOFSTATE
FA
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
JAPANESE EMBASSY
AVIOE ADMINISTRATION
WASHINGTON
No.205
2
September 26 1936
Department of
pliments to the nonoruble the seer tary or   nd
has the honor to re uest t.tin Jap
 tin ittl, ashington, be added to
894.01B
the list of Jrse officials attached to the mbas-
894.01B11/48
sador's note No. 50
ated 1urch 14, 1936: -
Ir. Harukazu Yabuuchi,
ssistant Engineer of the pepurtment of
-£riculture na Forestry.
Ir. Kodo Takumune,
ssistunt ngineer of the Department of
riculture und Forestry.
r. Yabuuchi is leaving Los ngeles on
October 10, 1936 for Jupan und r. Takamune is
SET 2 1936
FILED
leaving Seattle on september 28, 1936 for Jupan.
Due to their imminent departure the unbussador
would appreciate it if the appropriate authorities
at Los Angeles and Seattle be early notified in or-
der that these officials may be iven exemption from
taxation of their salaries in sufficient time.
September 25, 1936.
F/FG
K.Q.

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.94)
The Seeretary ef state presemts his cemplimemts to
Mis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassader and has the hemer
te askmowledge the reseipt of his note No. zo5 of Septem-
894.01B
ber 2s, 1036, in regard to his desire that Mr. Marekasm
Yabmehi, Assistant Engineer of the Department of Agri-
oulture and Forestry, and Mr. Kodo Takamune, Assistant
/7
Engineer of the Department of Agrioulture and Forestry,
8
be granted exemption from taxation on the official com-
pensation reseived by them from the Japanese Govermment.
The matter has been brought to the attention of the
apprepriate muthority of the Govermment of the United
States with a view to favorable astion on the Ambassader's
request for the exemption frem taxation of the ofrieiale
samed.
Upen the reeeipt of a reply, a further respense will
mte te the mbasder' nete.
A trug copy d
8eptember 26 1956
D.C.
FE
Le

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.96)
Beptember 26 1936
.61 3 11/70
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
Referenee is made to this Department's letter to you
89
under date of Marah 20, 1936, enelosing a opy of a note,
4.01
No. 50 of Mareh 14, 1936, from the Japanese Ambassador,
transmitting a list of officials staying in the United
B
States who wished to be granted exemption from taxation
of the salaries received by them from the Japanese Govern-
7
ment as compensation for their official servioes.
8
In his letter dated September 5, 1935, the Aeting
Beeretary of the Treasury set forth the views of your
Department coneerning the applieation of the act of
Congress approved August 27, 1935, Publie No. 374, en-
titled "An Ast to Exempt from Taxation Official Compensa-
tion of Certain Foreign Representatives eess, (Session Laws
1935-908), to officials of the Japanese Railway Department
statiomed in the United States, file IR:40:A-287748.
In
The Honorable
Nenry Morgenthen, Jr.,
Sesretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
In aceerßamee with the provisions of Seetien 116(h)
of the Rovemue Aet of l9s6, I certify that Japan gramts
an equivalemt exemption to employees of the Govermment
of the United states performing serviees in Japam, and
that the sharacter of the serviees performed by employees
of the Government of the Umited States in foreim coumtries
is similar to the services of the Japanese officiale in
the United states desoribed in the enclosed copy of the
note from the Japanese Ambassador. I, onsequently, re-
quest that these Japanese officials be granted exemption
from income taxation on the official compensation they
received from the Japanese Government and that you will
notify the interested officers of your Department ac-
cordingly.
It will be observed from the enolosed note that
Mr. Yabuuch1 expects to leave Los Angeles on Ootober 10,
and Mr. Takamune proposes to leave seattle on September 28.
Due to their immiment departure, I shall be gratified if,
as requested by the Ambassador, the appropriate author-
1ties at Los Angeles and Seattle may be notified at once.
CR
Sincerely yours,
X try copy of
8EP.261936.
Cordell Hull
Enslosure:
From Japemese Embassy
No. 205, September 25,
1936.
LeWRN
FA:FM:GMH BS 8/26
m.m.N
79

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.96)
77
LEGAL ADVISER
OCT 21 1936
TTHE SECRETARY OF THE TREASUPARTMENTOF STATE
LE
r.
OCI 16 1936
1936 C0T 16 M 9 16
Sivi
LASTERN
SERVICE AUMINISTRATION
143
117
DS
I have your 1etter of September 26, 1936 (FA 894.01 B 11/78).
with its enclosure, a copy of a note dated September 25. 1936, fron
the Japanese Ambassador in this city in which it is requested that
the names of Harukazu Yabuuchi and Kodo Takamune, assistant engi-
neers of the Department of Agriculture and Forestry, be added to
the list of Japanese officials attached to the Ambassador's note
No. 50, dated March 14, 1936.
In accordance with the provisions of the Act of Auust 27, 1935.
Public No. 374, which amended section 116 of the Revenue Act of 1934
by the addition of subsection (h) thereto, and section 1ls(h) of the
Revenue Act of 1936, you certify that Japan grants an equivalent ex-
emption to employees of the Gcvernment of the United States perform-
ing services in Japan, and that the character of the services per-
formed by officers of the Government of the United States in foreign
8
6
countries is similar to the services of Japanese officials in the
United States described in the copy of the note of the Japanese
4.0
Ambassador. You express the hope that Mr. Harukazu Yabuuchi and
Mr. Kodo Takamune will be granted exemption from income taxation on
the officlal compensation they receive from the Japanese Government
and that the interested officers of this Departnent will be notified
accordingly.
B
In view of your certification this Department holds that Mr.
Harukazu Yabuuchi and Mr. Kodo Takamune are exempt from the Federal
income tax on the salaries which they receive from the Japanese
Government as compensation for the official services rendered by
6
them in the United States.
Your letter was received too late for the issuance of appropriate
instructions to the collector of internal revenue at Seattle, Washington,
with respect to the case of Mr. Kodo Takamune. It is assumed, however.
that no demand was made upon him when he sailed on September 28, 1936,
for the payment of any Federal income tax upon the official compenga-
tion received by him from the Japanese Government since no inquiry
FILED
was made in regard thereto by the examining officer at the port of de-
parture.
1936

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
The collector of internal revenue at Los Angeles, California,
has been advised of the contents of this letter with respect to
the treatment, for Tederal income tax purposes, of the official
compensation paid Mr. Harukazu Yabuuchi.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:RR-RLB.
Very trily yours,
eZaylor
wayue
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.94)
the Sesretary of state presents kis esmplsmemts
te Mis Ereelleney the Japanese Ambassader and hae the hemss
to refer to his nots Ne. s05 ef September ss, 193s, in
regard to his desire that Mr. Harukasu Yabuueki, Assistemt
Eagineer of the Department of Agrieulture and Ferestry.
8
and Mr. Kode Takamune, Assistant Engineer of the Depart-
394.0AB
ment of Agrioulture and Forestry, be granted exemptien
frem taxation on the official compensation received by
11/79
them frem the Japanese Government. Referenee is alse
made te the mete of the Department of State of Septem-
ber 2s en the subjest.
There is emelesed an exeerpt from a lettes ef the
Treasury Department in whieh it is stated that in view
of the eertifieatien of the Bepartment of state, the
Breasury Department has held that Mesere. Tabumskt and

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.87)
pensstion for the efficial sesvieee fenrs
in the Waited States.
Enelosure:
Exesspt frem letter of
Treasury Department,
Geteber 14, 1936.
trut cup
Depertment of state,
20
October 19 1938
001 19
FE
9
7.mH

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.94)
7
LEGAL ADVISER
TE
DEC 8 1936
JAPANESE EMBASSY
DEPARTMENT OESTATE
WASHINGTON
1413
11
Division of
TAH EASTERN AFFAIN
No. 255
0V211936
Department of State
7:0
1027
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
894.01
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of
State and, with reference to the Secretary's
B
note dated July 22, 1936, has the honor to state
that the exemption mentioned in the Ambassador's
80
note No. 55 of March 21, 1936, was made effective
on and after January 1, 1936.
November 12, 1936
PTLED
1936
X
K.0.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.93)
December 5 1938
In mesly refer to
PA 084.01 8 11/00
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
Referenee is made to the letter of the Department of
state dated April 8, 1936, enelosing copies of two notes
894.01B
frem the Japamese Ambassador mumbered and dated respeetively
55, Maroh 21, 1936, and 60, Maroh 31, 1936, 1n regard te
his desire that certain offioials of the Japenese Geverm-
ment residing in the United States be exempted from the
payment of income tax on the official compensation received
by them from the Japanese Government, the cancelation of
8
0
the bonds depoeited and the refund of the amounts of
taxes theretofore paid.
There is enolosed a oopy of another note from the
Ambassador requesting that the inoome tax paid by the
three officials of the Japanese Government listed in
the emelosure thereto be refunded.
In the Ambassador's note No. 55 referred to above,
be
The Honorable
Beary Morgomthau, Jr.,
Seeretary ef the Treasury.
F
0

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.97)
he stated that he had reseived a message frem Japan te
the effeet that the Treasury Department there had in-
strmeted all internal revemme efficers in Japam that ell
offieiels of the United States Government in that country
were to be exempted from ineome taxes.
Inquiry was made of the Ambessador when the exemp-
tion beeame effeetive, and there is enelosed a sopy of
his note No. 864 of November 27, 1936, 1n whioh he states
that while the exemption mentioned in his note No. 55 of
Mareh 2l last was technically to be made effeotive begin-
ning January 1, 1936, the Japanese Government did not at
eny time levy taxes on the salaries of Amerioan offioials
residing in Japan during the period in whioh Japanese of-
fioials residing in the United States were taxed and that
it has no intention of levying taxes retroeotively on the
salaries received by American ofricials during the period
in question.
Referenoe 1s also made to the letter of the Department
of State dated September 12, 1935, in which, in relation to
the Treasury Department's letter of Ootober 9, l934
(Treasury file IR:00:I:JCS), and to subsequent correspon-
denee in regard to the exemption of officers of foreigm
governments in the United States, in a non-diplomatie
status, from Federal inoome tax with respect to wages,
fees and sslaries reseived by them in dompemsation for
their serviees in the United States, there wes emslosed
a

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.92)
-8
e list of those eountries, 1neluding Japes, in whiss
Amerieen consuler officers and employees end ether mom-
diplomatie offieers and employees are exempt from the
peyment or ineome tax on their offieial compensation.
In eeeordanee with the provisions of the Aet of
Congress approved August 27, 1935 and Seet1en 116 (h)
of the Revenue Aet of l936, I sertify that Japan rantej
from Oetober 14, 1932 and now grants an equivalent exemp-
tion to employees of the Government of the United States
performing servioes in Japan, and that the eherecter of
the serviees performed by ofrieers of the Government of
the United States in foreign countries is similar to the
serviees performed in the United States by the Japanese
offieials named in the enolosed list. I therefore hope
that the desired rofund may be made to the Japanese of-
fiolals named in the list atteohed to the enolosed note
from the Ambessador.
Sinoerely yours,
 Waiton Moore
Leting Seorotary.
DEC 4 1930.PM
BR
Enelosures:
From Japanese Ambassador, No. 149,
July 13, 1936, with onelosure,
No. 264, November 27, 1936.
G
111
272
2411
PAIMIHJB
Le
FE
WR
HOM

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.86)
The seting seeretary of state presente Me eomphs-
meats to Mis Ereelleney the Japanese Anbassades and heo
the hener to neknevledge the reseips of mée note to. 8gs
of November $3, 1936, 1n reply to the mote of the Departmemt
894.01B
of state dated July 22, last, with referenee to tke Ambes-
sador's mete No. 149 of July 13, coneerning the desired
refund of the ineeme taxee paid by the three Japanese
offisials mamed in the list accompanying the nete en the
8
cempensatien received by them frem the Japemese Geveramess
fer effieial serviees rendered in the United states.
The matter has been brought to the attemtiem ef the
apprepriate autherity of the Federal Goverment, and upen
the reeeipt ef a reply a further commumieeties will be
addressed to the Ambessedes en the subjeet.
F/FG
DEC 4 1930.P
CR
operrtmemé of stste.
aal.
Saostmgton.
Decembor 6 1936
004.0111.00
11/21

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.91)
FA
LEGAL ADVISER
NOV 18 1936
KE
NY 18 1936
DEPARTMENT OFST
JAPANESE EMBASSY
DIVISON OF FORLICG
WASHINGTON
No.254
十
711N
894.018
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of
State and has the honor to request that the fol-
lowing Japanese official staying in this country
894.01
be granted exemption from taxation of his salary
received from the Japanese Government:
0
Mr. Shinjiro Akimoto,
Agronomist of the Imperial Japanese
18
Agricultural Experiment Station of
A
the Department of Agriculture and
Forestry of Japan, staying at New
York.
NV 1 1936
FLED
Mr. Akimoto is sailing from New York for
Europe on November 25th.
November 12, 1936
K.O.

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.93)
The Aesing Seeretary of state presemts his comptimemts
to Hie Exeelleney the Japanese Ambessader and has the hemer
to seknowledge the recsipt of his mete Ne. ss4 ef Nevem-
ber 18, l9ss, requesting that the official compensatien of
894.01
Mr. Shinjire Akimoto, Agronomist of the Imperial Japanese
Agricultural Ixperiment Station of the Department of Agri-
oulture and Forestry of Japan, Now York Gity, be ezempted
frem tazatien.
The matter has been breught to the attemtiem of the
apprepriate autherity of the Federal Government with a
view to nstien being taken with respeot to the desired
exemptiem of Mr. Akimete, whe, the Ambaseader states, is
sailing frem New Yerk on Nevember 2s. Upen the reseips
of a reply a further commenteatien will be addressed to
she Ambeoosdee.
A true oopy of
f
PM

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.95)
November 1? 1938
La osly rsur to
006.0111/01
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.
Reference is made to previous correspondense in re-
gard to the desire of the Japanese Ambassador that certain
officials of the Japanese Government staying in the United
B
States be granted exemption from taxatiom on the salaries
received by them from the Japanese Govermment as eempen-
sation for their official services.
8
There is enclosed a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador requesting that Mr. Shimjiro Akimoto, Agronomist
of the Imperial Japanese Agricultural Experiment Station
of the Department of Agrioulture and Porestry of Japan,
New York City, be exempted from taxation on the salary
reseived by him from the Japanese Government. The Ambasse-
dor states that Mr. Akimoto will sail from New York on
Bovem ber 25.
Reference is also made to the letter of the Department
of State dated September 12, 1935, in whieh, 1n relatiom to
the
The Henorable
Henry Nergomtham, Jr.,
Sessetary ef the Treasury.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.83)
mhate merviese in the taited sates, these wae enslossd à
Iást of hese ooentsiee, imsluding Japen, in vmésn Amert
én consmlar esrsoere ane empleyees ene eter mooréiptommète
eésseeve esd emplagese are emeugpt fren the payment of te
e tas en theer efficial compemsatien.
In assordanse with the previsions of sestien 11s (a)
of the Revanue Aet of lsse, I eertity that Japan gments am
equivalent exemptien to employess of the Govermmest ef the
United states performing serviess in Japen, and that the
charaster of the serviees performed w offieers of the
Goverament of the United states in fereige comtries is
similar to the serviess performed w Ir. Akimete in the
Daited states. I therefore hope that his offielal com-
pemestien may be sempted fron the paymemt of iaeeme tas
and that you will metify the interested offieare of yome
Department soseréingly
It will be ebessves that the Askasssder statee thet tr.
Aktmete siape to sail from Now Yerk en Bevember as.
LOR
SAmsevely yeure,
Nov.17 1936.PM
R. Walton Moore
set1mg seemetery.
LOWRN

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.94)
DCR
LEGAL ADVISER
FA
DEC 7 1936
JAPANESE EMBASS
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OFSTAVE
9361350
ARNTOFSTATE
No. 264
X
1930
Gok
1a
The Japanese Ambassador presents his com-
pliments to the Honorable the Acting Secretary of State
and, referring to the note of the Secretary of State dated
72
July 22, l936/ has the honor to state as follows:
Decenter 5 1930
894.01
Although the exemption mentioned in the Ambassador's note
51
No. 55/of March 21, 1936, was technically to be made
B
effective beginning January 1, 1936, the Japanese Govern-
52
ment, as stated in the Ambassador's note No. 60 of March
82
31, l936, did not at any time levy taxes on the salaries
of American officials residing in Japan during the period
in which Japanese officials residing in the United States
were taxed and has, hereafter, no intention to levy taxes
retroactively on the salaries received by Amerioan
DEC 3= 1936
FILED
officials during the period above referred to.
November 27, 1936.
F/FG
K.O.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
DEC 7 1936
DEFARTMENT OF STAIE
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
196 DEC 2 AM 9 47
NOV 3 0 1998
upo
DIVISICN OF
1933
The HonorabnQMMUNICATIONS
81938
AND RECORDS
The Secretary of Stat
FAR LASTLHN ALLAIHS
Washington,
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Department of Srate
894.01B
I have the letter of Acting Secretary Moore dated November 17,
1936 (FA 894.01 B 11/81), with 1ts enclosure, a copy of a note from
the Japanese Ambassador requesting that Mr. Shinjiro Akimoto,
Agronomist of the Imperial Japanese Agricultural Experiment Station
of the Department of Agriculture and Forestry of Japan, New York
City, be exempted from taxation on the salary received by him from
the Japanese Government.
In accordance with the provisions of soction ll6(h) of the
Revenue Act of 1936, Mr. Moore certifies that Japan grants an
•quivalent exemption to employees of the Government of the United
States performing services in Japan, and that the character of the
services performed by officers of the Government of the United
States in foreign countries is similar to the services performed by
Mr. Akinoto in the United States. Mr. Moore expresses the hope that
Mr. Akimoto may be exempted from the payment of income tax and that
the interested officers of this Department will be notified accord-
ingly, as Mr. Akimoto plans to sail from New York on November 25,
1936.
In view of the certification made by Mr. Moore this Department
PIFT
holds that Mr. Akimoto is exempt from Federal incame tax on the
salary received by him from the Japanese Government as compensation.
for official services rendered in the United States. The appropriate
collector of internal revenue in New York City will be advised of
the oontents of this letter.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this matter
is necessary, please refer to IT:RR:MLM.
Very truly yours,
Zayb
Wayua
F/FG
Aoting Seoretary of the Groasury.

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.96)
The Aeting Seeretary of state presents his complimmmés
to Wis Exeellenoy the Japamese Ambassader and has the
hemer to refer to his mote Ne. 254 of Nevember 12, 193s,
requesting that the effieial compemsation of Mr. Shimjiro
Akimete, Agronomist ef the Imperial Japanese Agrieultural
894.01B
Experiment Station of the Department of Agrioulture and
Forestry or Japan, New York City, be exempt from taxatiom.
Reference is also made to the note of the Department of
183
State of November 17 on the subject.
A letter dated November 30, 1936, has mow been
reeeived from the Treasury Department in whieh it is
stated that in view of the eertifieation of the Departmemt
ef state, the Treasury Department has held that Mr. Akimete
is exemps frem Federal ineome tax en the salary received
hy him frem the Japamese Geverament as sompemsatien for
affielal eerviree rendered in the maited stases. It vas

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.84)
reremme in New Iork Gity would be advised of the
coateats of the letter.
Department of State,
Washington,
Deer:er 8 1936
804.018 11/83
FA: FM: GAL: 88
DEC 8 1950
A
the atgnel origi-
9
aal.
Lwes
TmA

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.94)
LE
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
REOV
cwhr
FE
PEPARTMENTOPTATE 1937 JAN 16 AM 9 13
JAN 1 5 1937
annar22 1937
JAN 18193
Tha Honorable.
UVSILU
COMMUNICATIONS
0
MANVIDE ADMINISTRATION
WashingtonD.
I have the letter of Acting Secretary Moore of/Decomber .
1936 (FA 894.01 B 1l/80) relative to a letter of your Department,
dated Apri1 8, 1936, and its enclosures, copies of two notes from
the Japanese Ambassador, numbered 55 and 60, in regard to his
desire that certain officials of the Japanese Government residing
in the United States be exempted from the payment of income tax
on the official compensation received by them from the Japanese
894.011
Government, the cancellation of the bonds deposited and the refund
of the amounts of taxes theretofore paid. Mr. Moore enclosed a
copy of another note from the Ambassador requesting that the income
tax paid by three officials of the Japanese Government listed in
the enclosure thereto be refunded.
B
It appears that in the Ambassador's note No. 55 he stated that
he had received a message from Japan to the effect that the Treasury
Department there had instructed all internal revenue officers in
Japan that all officials of the United States Government in that
84
country were to be exempted from income taxes. It further appears
that inquiry was made of the Ambassador when the exemption became
offective and in his note No. 264 of November 27, 1936, he stated
that while the exemption mentioned in his note No. 55 of March 21.
1936, was technically to be made effective beginning January l, 1936,
the Japanese Government did not at any time levy taxes on the salaries
FILED
of American officials residing in Japan during the period in which 9
Japanese officials residing in the United States were taxed and that
it has no intention of levying taxes retroactively on the salaries
received by American officials during the period in question.
3
In accordance with the provisions of the Act of Congross ap-
proved August 27, 1935 and section 116(h) of the Revenue Act of
1936, Mr. Moore certifies that Japan granted from October 14, 1932
and now grants an equivalent exemption to employees of the Govern-
ment of the United States performing services in Japan, and that
F/FG
k

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
The Honorable,
The Secrotary of State.
the character of the services performed by officials of the Government
of the United States in foreign countries is similar to the services
performed in the United States by the three Japanese officials whose
exemption from taxation is under consideration. Mr. Moore expresses
the hope that the desired refund may be made to such Japanese
officials.
In view of the certification made by Mr. Moore this Department
holds that Messrs. Hisae Okabayashi, technical expert of the Bureau
of Monopoly, Financial Department, Takeshi Takei, assistant professor
of the Tokyo Industrial University, and Katsuji Tanaka, civil
engineer of the Department of the Navy, are exempt from Federal in-
come tax on the compensation received by them from the Japanese
Government as compensation for services rendered in the United States.
The appropriate collectors of internal revenue will be advised
as to the exempt status of the official compensation of these
Japanese officials and will be instructed to request the Japanese
officials to file claims for refund of the Federal income taxes paid
by them.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this matter
is necessary, please refer to IT:RR-MLM.
Very truly yours,
Steprenk Lifen
Al....Secretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.94)
The Sesretary ef state mecsate his eomplimmts
to Mis Bsed lemey the Japamese Abasseder and hee the
hemer to refer to his mote No. 264 of November 27, 19ss,
in reply to the mete of the Department of state dated
July 22, last, with referenee to the Ambassador's mote
Ne. 149 of July 13, concerrtng the destred refund of
the ineome taxes paid by the thres Japamese officials
894.01B
mamed in the list accompanying the mote on the compensa-
tiem reeeived by them from the Japanese Government fer
11/84
offieial servioes rendered in the United states. Refer-
mse is also made to the mote of the Department of state
dated Desember 5, 193s en the sebjeet.
A letter has mow beem received from the Treasury
Departmont, in whieh it is stated that in view of the
carsifieation of the Bepartment of state, the Treeemmy
Sepertment has beld tet Nesere. Nisne Okabayatks, teekmi-

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.91)
sal eupert of the Duress ef Nesepely, Piasmetal Bepert-
mest, Takeshi Taked, assistast prefesser of the Tokye
Lakastrial Uaiversit, and Latsuji Tamaka, eivil engtnees
of the Bepartment of the Navy, are exempt from Pederal
imeem tax on the compemsation received by them frem the
Japanese Goverment as compensatien for servises remdered
in the United states. The Treasury Depertmemt states
further that the appropriate colleetors of intermal rev-
mue will be advised as to the exempt status of the of-
fioial compensation of Japanese offioials named, and will
be instruated to request those officials to file olaime
fer refund of the Federal inoome taxes paid by them.
Department of State,
Janoary 22 1937
Washington,
poy of
origh
ad
894.01B 11/84
Halt
JAN 22 1937.
CB
27
2

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.91)
XE
April 7 1937
LEGAL ADVISER
WASHINGTON
OF
14 1937
1937 MAR 37 PM 3 09
COI
MAP. 30 1937
DIVECN CE
89401811
OMMUT IONS
STATE
OF
No.75
TAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
OIVNIONNPORLION
1137
SEMVICE AUMINIOIRATIOL
The Japanese Ambassador presents
894.01B
his compliments to the Honorable the Secretary
list of the officials attached to the Naval
Inspector's Office, New York, who wish to be
5
granted exemption from taxation of their
salaries which they receive from their Govern-
ment as compensation for their official services.
The Ambassador has further the honor
A1937
to state that all of the officials mentioned
FU0
therein are of Japanese nationality and are not
American citizens.
031
March 30, 1937
K.O.
八

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
Naval officers, clerks and others attached to the
Naval Inspector's Office of the Imperial Japanese
Navy Department in New York
HIROMITSU YANAGIHARA.
.Engineering Captain
TAKEHIKO IWASAKI.
.Paymaster Commander
4 GONTA UENO.
.Engineering Commander
UTARO KOTO.
.Engineering Lt.Commander
YUJI NISHIMURA.
.Ordnance Lt. Commander
SHOICHI DATE.
.Ordnance Lt. Commander
TERUO SHIMOJYO.
.Engineering Lt.Commander
TOMOJIRO IMAI.
.Clerk
KAZUJI SAWADA.
.Clerk
YOSHIKI FURUKAWA.
.Clerk
MON-ICHIRO SHIMOSATO.
.Assistant Engineer
KOZO TAKAHASHI.
.Assistant Engineer
ICHIJUU FURUSATO.
.Assistant Engineer
TAKEICHI YONEHANA.
.Assistant Engineer
KIYOSHI NADA.
.Assistant Engineer
Their duty is to inspect ordnance and materials pur-
chased by the Government.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.96)
April 7 1937
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
There is emelosed a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambessador transmitting a list of officials attached to
894.
the Maval Inspeetor's Office of the Japanese Navy Departmemt
in New York City, who wish to be exempted from taxation om
10
the salaries which they reseive from the Japanese Govern-
B
memt as compemsation for their official services.
In this relation referenee is made to the letter of
the Department of State dated April 7, 1936, tramsmittimg
8
5
a similar list of officers of the Japanese Govermment and
to yeur Department's reply of April 17, last, (Treasury
F1le IT:E:MR-MLM). Reference 1s also made to the letter
of the Department of State dated Beptember 12, 1935, in
whieh, in relatiom te the Treasury Department's letter ef
Osteber 9, 1934, (Treasury Fi1e IR:00:I:J0S) and to subee-
quemt sorreepondenee in regard to the exemptien of efficers
of foreign sovernments in the United States, in a non-
diplematie statms, from Federal ineome tax with respeet
to
The Hoserable
Meary Morgenthau, Junior,
F/FG
Searetary ef the Treasury.

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.90)
te wages, fees and salaries received by them in compense-
tiom for their serviees in the United states, there was
enelesed a list of those cowmtries, imelmding Japan, in
whieh American consular officers and empleyees and ether
mon-diplomatie offlcers and employees are exempt from the
payment of inoome tax on their officlal sompensatiom.
In accordanee with the provisions of the Aet of
August 27, 1935, and of Seetion 116 (h) of the Revemue Aet
of l936, I certify that Japan grants an equivalent exemptiom
to employees of the Government of the United States performing
serviees in Japan, and that the sharacter of the services
performed by officers of the Government of the United
states in foreign countries is similar to the servieeerer
the Japanese officials in the United States deseribed in
the enelosed eopy of the note and accompamying list of
the Japanese Ambassador. I therefore hope that these
Japanese offioials will be granted exemption from imeome
taxation on the offieial compensation they receive frem
the Japanese Government, and that yom will notify the
interested officers of your Department acsordingly.
Sineerely yours,
APR
rdell Hull
9
6
Frem Japanese Ambassader,
Be. 78, Maroh 30, 1937,
20
with enelesures.
Our
F4:FM:IL:SS
mSgom
4/2
Nea
LEWRN

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.84)
Apr11 1529
the secsetary of state presente his ecmplimente to
the menssekie the seeretary of the Nary and resere to
Nts Depestmsst'e lotter of July 5, l9ss, coneesming the
894.01B
demire of the Havy Bepartment to bo advised of the
semee of those matienals of foreign ceumtries, ether
then regulerly aeeredited diplomatie and eemsules effi-
sere and maval and military attaehés, whe are residemt
11/85
In the Waited states or who may be subeequently admitted
to the United states as representatives of foreign ser-
esmmests er agonte of fereige goveraments ané conse-
quemtly are censidered as hevins effieial status.
There is emelesed a eepy ef & mete frem the Japemeee
Ambessedse tsenemitting & llst ef neval effiecse, eleste,
and ethers, atteched to the Earal Imspester's osfiee of
the Impertal Japenese Nery Department in Eow Yosk.
Soplee of the mote and ite emelesure here alse
been soms to the Treasury Department for eppsepsiate
settes.
13 1937.
7
Fus
FEmm

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.94)
The Searetary ef state presents kis eemplimemts
to Kis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassador and has the
honer to aaknewledge the reeeipt of his note Ne. 75 of
Maroh 30, 1987, emelosing a l1st of officials attached
894.01B
to the Japanese Naval Inspeetor's Office at New York City
who wish to be exempted from taxation en the salaries which
11/85
they reeeive from the Japanese Government as compensation
for their official services.
The Seeretary of State has brought the matter te the
attention of the appropriate authority of the Federal
Gevernment and upon the reseipt of a reply a further
semmunieation will be addressed to the Ambassador on
the subjeet.
Department of state,
APR61
Fnshington.
April 7 1937

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.92)
7H
LEGAL ADVISER
MAY 17 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAPANESE EMBASS
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENTOFSTATE
121250
APH 12 1937
2
DIVIBION OF FOREION
M
RVIAUNISTRATION
No.85
pril 20 1937
L
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary
of State, and, with reference to the Ambassa-
894.01311/55
894.01
dor's note No. 75, dated Maroh 30, 1937, has
the honor to request that the Secretary be
B
good enough to cause the following names to
be added to the list submitted therein:
86
MISAO WADA..
.Captain
TAKUJI KATAHIRA.......Engineering Commander
137
FILEL
April 10, 1937.
K.0
F/FG

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.81)
April 20 1959
Ey Gear . seeretasy:
Referenee 1s mde to m letter ef Apssl 7, 1007, -
eleskas a cepy ef a nete frem the Japemese anbesseder
trememittins a lset of effieials attambed to the Tavel
894.01B
Inepeetes'a Offiee of the Japanese Havy Bepartment in
Nou Tork Gity, the winh te be exempted frem tamassen en
the melaries thieh they receive frem the Japesese Govsem-
mmt es cempemsetien fer thesr offieial serviees.
there is enelessd a eepy of a further note trem the
1/86
Ambesseder requecting that the names of Gaptain Meek
Fade and Eagineesing Gemmender Takuji Eatakire be aéded
to the 11st.
In this relatien refezenee is mede to the lettes as
3.
the Department of state dated Apsil 7, 19ss, tsamammsstng
a similer list of efficere of the Japesese Gevesmmens md
to your Bepertmens' s roply of Apasl 19, bane (greaseny
FLle IT:B:RR-Mx). Referenee is alee mmde to the lettee
of the Department ef state dated soptemtss 18, 1ess, Sn
hicn
The e
sremeteny of the tremy.

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.93)
-8
whish, in relatien te the Treasury Departmeat's letter of
Gsteber 9, 1934, (Treasury F11e IR:06:1:J0s) and te smbee-
quent cerrespeadenee in regard to the exemptien ef effieers
of fereign govermments in the Baited states, in a nss-
diplematie status, frem Pederal inoome tax with respeet
te wages, fees and salaries received by them in cempense-
tion for their services in the Umited states, there was
enelosed & list of those comntries, inoluding Japan, in
whioh American consular officers and employees and other
non-diplomatio officers and employees are exempt frem the
payment of income tax on their offioial compenmation.
In sseordance with the provisions of the Aot of
August 27, 1936, and of Seetion 116 (h) of the Revenue Aet
of 1936, I certify that Japan grants an equivalent exemption
to empleyees of the Government of the United States performing
services in Japen, and that the charaoter of the serviees
performed by officers of the Gevernment of the United
States in foreign countries is similar to the serviees of
the Japamese offieials in the United States named in the
enslosed copy of the note of the Japanese Ambassader. I
therefore hepe that these Japenese offieials will be
granted eremptien from imeome taxation en the offieial
compeumation they ressive frem the Japamese Govermment,
aa

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.87)
-2
and that you will netify the saterested effiears ef your
Depertmeat aseerdingly.
sineerely yours,
Cordell Hull
Emelosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
Apr11 10, 1937.
e copy
yhaw
7m
APE 19 1937.
FA: FM: LUH: 88
另
4/18/37
Li
Le CWRN
FE
m.m.

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.88)
the searetary ef state preceats his complimemts te
Ris Emsellemey the Japemese Ambassades and has the hener
to nekmewlecge the receipt of his nete No. 8s of April 10,
19st, in whish he refers to his note No. 75 of March s0,
894.01B
emelosing a list of effieials attached to the Japamese
Taval Inmpestor's Offiee at Wew Yerk Gity whe wished te
be exempted frem taxatien on the salarles reccived by
them frem the Japanese Government as eempensaties fer
8
9
their effieial serviees, and requests that the names ef
Gaptain Misa.o Wada and Engimeering Gommander Takaji
Latakira be added te the list.
The sesgetary of state has brought the mtter te the
attentien ef the apprepriate authority ef the Federal
severamens ane upen the receipt ef a reply a furthew
APR 19 1957.
commmsestten will be addressed to the Anbesseder en the
agset.
.00000
Apr11 20 1929

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.94)
cte
FE
4
FA
ATE
WASHINGTON
1937 APR 1C PM 2 23
28 1937
1.7
APF11
NS
LÉGAL AUVISER
Ai~
No.88
SEAVIUAUMINISTRATIC
The Japanese Ambassador presents his compli-
ments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and
has the honor to say that he has been Informed that
894.01
Mr. Taniguchi, an engineer of the Government-General
of Taiwan (Formosa),and Mr. Sagane, an official of
ω
the Department of Education of Tokio, were asked by
the Internal Revenue Office, New York, to pay income
87
tax on the occasion of their departures for Europe,
and that the former deposited the bond and the latter
made the cash payment, as requested.
In placing the detailed information at the
Secretary's disposal as follows, the Ambassador has
further the honor to state that he believes that they
should be exempted from the United States income tax
as neither Mr. Taniguchi nor Mr. Sagane are Amerioan
citizens and their salaries were received as compensa-
tion for their official services to the Japanese
F/G
Govemment.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Government.
Under the circumstances Mr. Saito would appreci-
ate it if the Secretary would be good enough to cause
the necessary steps to be taken in order that the bond
and cash payment may be returned.
Name:........Mr. Kozo Taniguchi,
An engineer of the Government-General
of Taiwan. Stayed in the United
States from Jan. 31, 1935, until
March 29, 1935.
Bond:........Deposited the bond for the amount of
$13.75 at the Internal Revenue Office
of the New York Customs House.
Name:........Mr. Ryokichi Sagane,
An official of the Department of
Education, Tokio, Japan. Stayed in
the United States about a year and
left New York for Europe on November
4, 1936.
Tax:.........Paid $20.67, as an income tax at the Alien
Division, Collector of Internal
Revenue, Second District, New York,
on 0ct. 30, 1936.
Receipt No. Number of the receipt issued by the Post
Office - 781646
April 15, 1937
Kil.
1

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.89)
The Seeretary of State presemte his emplimeese o
Eis Exeellensy the Japenese Ambassader mad has ths hemes
to nekmewledge the receipt of his mete Ne. ss of Apsil .
1937, stating that ke has been infemed that Mr. Kese
894.01B
Tanigueki, an engineer ef the Gevermment-General of
Taiwan (Fermesa) and Mr. Ryekiehi Sagane, an effieial ef
the Department of Edueation of Tokye, were asked by the
二
Internal Revenue Offiee of New York City te pay ineeme
48
tax when they departed for Europe and that the femmes
depesited a bead and the latter made a eash payment as
requested.
The Aet ef Goagress approved Augast 27, 192s (49
stas. sos), entitled "An Let to exempt frem tammtiem
effieial compensetion ef ccrtain foreig sopsesemtettmes"
mpeés in pert as folloves

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.88)
2
e s rt a qiet ctéto
the eupleyees of the Govezament of the United
states perferming serviees in sush fersige eowr
tries, end the charester of the serviees persesmes
by employess of the taited ststes in feresge coum-
tries."
In erder that the Seeretary of state may be sble to
certify that the eharester of the serviees perfermed by
offieers of the Gevermment of the United states in fereige
seumtries is similar to the serviees performed by Mesers.
Taniguchi and sagane in the United States, he will be
gratified if the Ambassador will furmish a brief deserip-
tiem of the duties performed by those Japanese officers.
The seeretary of state will also be glad to receive
similar informatien in future so that expeditieue astiem
my be taken in eases of the nature mentiened.
Department of state,
APR 28 1957.
A true copy
Weohingoen.
April ·28 1937
nal.
.33/
NMT

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGAL ADVISER
APR 30 1957
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMPATOF STATE
ST
1937 APR 27 1M 9 37
DRDARTMENTOFSTATE
B
DIVISION UF HOREION
SERVICE AUMINISIHATION
My dear Mr. Secretary:
J0m
I have your letter of April 7, 1937 (FA 894.01B 11/85),
with its enclosure, a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador dated March 30, 1937, transmitting a list of fif-
teen Japanese officials attached to the Naval Inspector's
394.01B
Office of the Japanese Navy Department in New York City,
who wish to be exempted from taxation on the salaries which
they receive from the Japanese Government as compensation
for their official services.
In accordance with the provisions of the Act of August 27,
1935, and of section 116(h) of the Revenue Act of 1936, you
certify that Japan grants an equivalent exemption to employees
of the Government of the United States performing services in
Japan, and that the character of the services performed by
8
officers of the Government of the United States in foreig
countries is similar to the services of the Japanese offi-
cials in the United States described in the copy of the note
and accompanying list of the Japanese Ambassador. You express
the hope that these Japanese officials will be granted exemp-
tion from income taxation on the official compensation they
receive from the Japanese Government, and that the interested
officers of this Department will be notified accordingly.
In view of your certification this Department holds
that the fifteen Japanese officials in question areexempt
from Federal income taxation on the compensation received
by them from the Japanese Government as compensation for of-
ficial services rendered in the United States. The appropri-
ate collector of internal revenue in New York City will be
advised of the contents of this letter.
F
/FG

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
In the event that further correspondence relative to
this matter is necessary, please refer to IT:RR:MLM.
Very truly yours,
Roswee weqger
Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.92)
The Seeretary ef state presents his semplimsmts to
Mis Kxeellemey the Japanese Ambassador and has the hener
to refer to his nete Ne. 75 of Mareh 30, 1937, enelesing
89
a list of efficials attashed to the Japanese Maval
Inspeeter's Offiee at New York City whe wish to be
exempted frem taxation on the salaries whioh they
reseive from the Japanese Government as compensation
for their effieial services.
A letter has new been reesived frem the Treasury
Department in whioh it is stated that in view of the
sertifieatien of the Department of state the Treesury
Department has held that the fifteen Japamese offieials
mamed im the list that acsempenied the Ambassader's
nete are exempt frem Pederal inceme taxesien en the
cempempstiem received by them frem the Japenese Gevese-
s for efftesal sorviees rendered by them in te assse
50

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.97)
LEGAL ADVISER
MAY 17 1937
15 1937
may
E
WASHINGTON
FE
MAY 6- .37
7
I have your letter of Apri1 20, 1937 (FA 894.018 11/86), with
its enclosure, a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador,
DIVVIO FOORIGN
dated April 1C, 1937, requesting that the names of Captain Misao
Wada and Engineering Commander Takuyi Yatahire be added to the list
of Japanese officiels attached to the Naval Inspector's Office of
the Japanese Navy Department in New York City, whose exemption from
Federal income texation with respect to their official compensation
was the subject of your letter dated April 7, 1937.
894.01B
In accordance with the pro isions of the Act of August 27,
1935, and section 116(h) of the Revenue Act of 1936, you certify
that Japan grants an equivalent exemption to employees of the
Government of the United States performing services in Japan, end
that the character of the services performed by officers of the
Government of the United States in foreign countries is similar
to the services of the Japanese officials in the United States
named in the copy of the note of the Japanese Ambassador. You
express the hope that these Japenese officials will be granted
exemption from income taxation on the officiel compensation they
receive from the Japanese overnment, and that the interested
8
officers of this epartn ent will be notified accordingly.
6
In view of your certification this Department holds that the
two Japanese officials in question ere exempt from Federal income
taxation on the compensation received by ther from the Japanese
overnment as compensation for official services rendered in the
United States. The appropriate collector of internal revenue in
New York City will be advised of the contents of this letter.
In the event that further correspondence reletive to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:RR:MLM.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Division of
Very truly yours,
MAY 13 1937
Ronwellmazuee
Department of State
Secretary of the Treasury.
17 1937
The Honorable,
F/FG
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
The Seeretary of State presents his eompliments te
His Exeellemcy the Japanese Ambassador and has the hemer
to refer to his note No. 85 of April 10, 1937, request-
ing that the names ef Captain Wimao Wada and Engineering
Commander Takuji Katanira be added to the list of
894.01B
Japanese officials attaohed to the Japanese Naval In-
spector's Office at New York City, whose exemption from
11/89
Federal income taxation with respect to their official
compensation was the subject of previous correspondence.
A letter has now been received from the Treasury
Department in which it is stated that in view of the
certification of the Department of State the Treasury
Department has held that the two Japanese officials
mamed are exempt from Federal income taxation on the
compemsation received by them from the Japamese Gevern-
sent as sempemsatien fer official services in the United
states and thst the apprepriate cellester of interasl

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.88)
roveme in New Yerk Gity will be advisesd asserdingly.
Department of State,
Washington,
May 15 1937
A true cu
MAY 13 1937.
wal.
Le
WRW

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.95)
KE
No. 113
5
AMERICAN CONSULATE
FE
Kobe, Japan, May 27, 1937.
10 11
Information Turrershed to Japanese
SUBJECT:
1-1055
Authorities for Incone Tax Purposes.
11103
Crpy im FE/381
THE HONORABLE
qu
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
894.01B
B
A
WASHINGTON
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
instruction of June 13, 1936, File No. 394.01B 11/62,
directing employees, except diplomatic and consular
6
O
officers, to furnish to the local tax offices in Japan
their names, official titles, and tax exempt incomes
annually, and to report that in accordance with the said
instruction this information was furnished to the Kobe
Internal Revenue Office.
I have subsequently learned from my British, German,
and French colleagues that they have ignored all requests
JUL 71937
FILED
from the Japanese authorities for information regarding
the incomes of their staffs irrespective of nationality.
They also inform me that they do not intend to provide
the authorities with this data.
It is felt the Department may wish to have this
information as of assistance in a future conversation
it may have with the Japanese Embassy on the subject.
FF
Respectfully
0

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
Respectfully yours,
Writtuop RSeow
Winthrop R. Scott,
American Consul.
851.2
FAS/mh
In quintuplicate to Department.
Gopy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.92)
H
KE
woer
FE
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
acod
No./33.
July 22 1937
874.0
CAP EASTLHN AFFAIRS
The Japanese unbassador presents
SERVICE AUMINISTRATION
127
894.01B
list of the officials attached to the Imperial
Japanese Government Railway Office, New York,
who wish to be granted exemption from taxation
of their salaries which they receive from their
Government as compensation for their official
services.
J8 37
The Ambassador has further the honor
to state that all of the officials mentioned
therein are of Japanese nationality.
(Enclosure)
June 17, 1937.
K-0.
F/G

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
RAILWAY OFFICLALS, CLERKS AND OTHERS ATT.CHED TO
THE IMPERLAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT RAILWAY OFFICE
OF THE IMPERLAL JAPANESE RAILWAY DEPARTMENT
IN NE: YORK.
MINORU OTSUKI
Secretary of the Department of
Railways.
YOSHIKI ENDO
Secretary of the Department of
Railways.
TAKEJ1 ITOH
Secretary of the Department of
Railways.
TEIJI NOBUSAWA
Civil Engineer
TSUNEO NAKA
Mechanical Engineer
HIDEO YOSHIZAWA
Mechanical Engineer
TADASHI OKA
Electrical Engineer
TATSUSUKE HAMACHI
Civil Engineer
MINORU YAGAMI
Secretary of the Department of
Railways
KEIICHI YAMANOUCHI
Mechanical Engineer
SHOTARO SHIMADA
Clerk
Their principal duty is to inspect
materials to be purchased by the Government.

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.93)
June 86 1937
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
There is enelesed a copy of a note frem the Japanese
Ambassader, ferwarding a list of offioials attached to
894.
the Imperial Japamese Govermment Railway Office at New
Yert Oity whe wish to be granted exemptien from the pay-
0
memt of imoeme tax on their effieial eompensation.
In his letter dated Beptember 5, 1935, the Aoting
Secretary of the Treasury set forth the viewe of your
6
Department concerning the application of the aot of Cen-
gress approved August 27, 1935, Public No. 374, entitled
"Am Aet to Erempt frem Taratien Official Cempemsatien ef
Certaim Fereign Representatives ***", (Sessien Laws 1935-
9os), to efficials of the Japanese Railway Department
statiomed in the United states, file IR: 00:A-287748.
In
The Henerable
Heary Mergenthau, Jr.,
Seeretary of the Treasury.
F
FG

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.87)
•-
In esssednmse vith the peevistoms of Sestiee sste)
 the Roveme Let ef lsse, I ertsty the Jae gote
p equivelent exeuption to empleyese of the eoverament
of the Baited states perferming serviees in Japen, and
that the charecter of the serviees perfermed by empley-
ces of the Sovermment of the Waited states in fereige
countries is similar te the serviees ef the Japamese ef-
fisials in the Umited states described in the emslesed
Gepy of the mote frem the Japanese Ambassader. I, een-
sequently, request that these Japenese effieials be
greated exemption frem imeeme taratiem en the efficial
sempensatien they received frem the Japasese Sovermment
and that you will netify the interested offieers of your
Bepartment eseordingly.
Sincerely yeurs,
Sumner Welles
..cting Secretary
A true copy of
the singd origl-
Bousing
Emelesure:
Frem Japemese Rabessy No. 133,
J2ns
Jame 17, 1987.
S
FE
Le
6/22
m.m,A
HCA

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.90)
The Seeretary ef state preseats kis eomplimemts te
Kis Beselleney the Japasese Asbeseader, and has the beser
894.01B
to nsknewledge the receipt of his note No. 1ss of Jume 17,
193y, emelesing a list of effieials attashed to the Im-
perial Japanese Gevermment Railway Offiee at New York City
whe wish te be granted exemptien frem the payment of ix-
6
ceme tax em their efficial cempemsetion.
The matter hes been breught to the attentiem ef the
apprepriate autherity of the Geverament of the Waited
stases.
Upen the reeeipt of a reply, further respemse will
be aase te the Lmbesssdes's note.
A true copy of
sapastmens of ssate,
the
dnpyorist
nel.
Jume 26 1937
FE
Le

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.96)
FA
LEGAL ADVISER
JUL 23 1937
FE
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASRY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
KE
JUL 1? 1937
949
1UL 15
My dear Mr. Secretary:
A
i lav the letter of Acting Secretary Sumner 'Tales date
June 26, 1937 (FA 894.018 11/91) and accompanying enclosure, a
copy of a note dated June 17, 1937 from the Japanese ambassador
containing a list of Japanese officials attacned to the Imperial
Japanese Government Railway Office at New York, New York.
In accordance with the provisions of section llo(h) of the
anese
Revenue Act of 1936 you certify that Japan grants an equivalent
exemption to employees of the Government of the United States
performing similar services in Japan; and that the character
of the services performed by employees of the United States
Government in foreign countries is similar to the services of
the Japanese officials in the United States described in the copy
of the note from the Japanese mbassador. You express the hope
B
that tnese Japanese officials be granted exemption from the
Federal income tax on the official compensation they receive from
the Japanese Governient; and that the interested officers of this
Department will be notified accordingly.
6
The Japanese Ambassador in the note addressed to you advises
2
that all of the officials mentioned tnerein are of apanese
nationality.
In view of your certirication this Department holds that the
Japanese orficials included in the copy of the note submitted by
the Japanese Ambassador are exempt from Federal income tax on the
salaries which tney receive from the Japanese Government as compen-
sation for official services rendered in the United States. The
appropriate collector of internal revenue will be advised of the
contents of this letter.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
108757
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:RR:RLB.
Very truly yours,
Pmnweelnaque
Secretary.of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
F
Washington, D. C.
1/1
1

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.90)
The Seeretary ef State presemts his eempliments te
Mis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassader, and has the hener
1894.01811/11
to refer te his mete me. 133 er Jume 17, 1939, emelesing
894.01B
a list of effieials attached to the Imperial Japamese
Gevernment Rallway Offise at New York Gity who wish to
be gramted exemption from the paymemt ef imeome tax om
92
their effieial eempensatien. Referemse is alse made to
the mote of the Department of state of June 2s en the
sabgeet.
A letter has mew been received frem the Treasury
Department in whiek it is stated that in view ef the
cestifieation of the Department ef State, the Treasmsy
e msde shat she Japesese efrieiale memse in
F
the emelecure to the Antesseder's mete are empmge from

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.87)
pervieee rendered ia the Uaited states, and thas thd
apprepriate cellecter ef intermal reveeue will be
advised aceerdingly.
Department of State,
July 22 1937
Washimgton, D. 0.
804.01 B 11/92
Jn1.21 1937.
JUL 22 1937
201
A true cop of
the signegforigl-
:FM: THT:S
aal.
WIT
FE
m,m,

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
BREWER-WEEKS COMPANY
R
P. T. WEEKS
General Advertising Agency
TELEPHONE
Le
DOUGLAS 8235
564 MARKET STREET
S3/N/ 2 PM 1 07
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIF.
A0V 11937
October 29, 1937
Reaust a k. Nov. 4, 1437
A
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Novemrer 2 1937
Dear Sir:
894.01B
We have been notified that there is a law which has been in ef-
fect since June 15, 1917, which provides that whoever, other than
a diplomatic or consular officer, shall act in the United States
as an agent of a foreign government without prior notification to
the Secretary of State, entails certain penalties.
In our business as a General Advertising Agency, in the City of
San Francisco, State of Californie, we have been commissioned to
place certain radio advertisements, namely, talks delivered over
radio stations, and also certain newspaper advertisements, in con-
6
nection with them, on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Committee of
the Japanese Association of San Francisco,
C:
It is our belief in good faith that the funds with which payment
for this advertising is made, and from which we derive our income
in connection therewith, are supplied by resident members of the
Japanese Association in San Francisco, originating with them and
contributed by them as private individuals.
It is therefore our belief in good faith that we are not acting
as an agent of the Imperial Japanese Government, or any other
foreign government, in the United States.
However, in case the question should arise in the future, we here-
by notify you, in compliance with the law, that should the com-
R
mission and contract referred to above involve the expenditure of
any funds originally derived from the Imperial Japanese Govern-
ment or any other foreign government, it is our intention to act
as an agent for such government insofar as the usual services of
an advertising agency constitute action as an agent of a foreign
government in the purview of the law.
We request an acknowledgment of this notification.
BREWER-WEEKS COMPANY
ha
by
ewsr
Affiliased
WAB1LJF
W. A. Brewer, Secretary-Treasurer
Ágencies
In Principal
Cisdes
Member American Asseciation of Advertising Agencies

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.90)
November 9 1937
. W. A. Brower,
Seeretary-Treasurer, Brewer-Weeks Gempany,
5ee Market street,
San Praneisse, Galifermia.
894.01
Your letter of Oeteber 39, 1937, setting ferth
your relatiemship to the Foreign Affairs Gomittee ef
the Japenese Asseeiatien of San Franeisee, has bees
reesived and its sentents duly moted.
B
very traly years,
11/93
For the Seeretary of ssate:
S B. SAYR
Assistant Seeretary
F/A
ov 91957.
 copy of
gin
AN

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.94)
LE
3
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
ARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
1937 V 1 0 50
MEMORAN DUM
November 5, 1937
OF
R
AN
Mr: Hadbrorth:
AGENT IN THE UNITED STATES
OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT
C
Case of the Brewer-Weeks Company,
Representing the Foreign Affairs Committee of
the Japanese Association of San Francisco
894.0
This morning Mr. Ringwalt of the Far Lastern Divi-
sion brought me the attached letter of October 29, 1937
from the Brewer-Weeks Company of San Francisoo, Cali-
fornia, notifying this Department thet, with reference
that
to an act of Congress of June 15, 1917, 1n their "busi-
ness as a General Advertising Agency, in the City of
San Francisco, State of California", they "have been
N.9
commissioned to place certain radio advertisements,
namely, talks delivered over radio stations, and also
3
certain newspaper advertisements, in connection with
LEG1 2 T AON
them, on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the
F/A
Japanese Association of San Francisoo".
The letter further states that the Brewer-Weeks
Company believe that the funds received by them in pay-
ment of the advertising mentioned "are supplied by resi-
dent members of the Japanese Association in San Francisco,
originating

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
originating with them and contributed by them as private
individuals", so that they "are not acting as an agent of
the Imperial Japanese Government, or any other foreign
government, in the United States."
The letter then contains the following statement:
"However, in case the question should arise
in the future, we hereby notify you, in compliance
with the law, that should the commission and con-
tract referred to above involve the expenditure of
any funds originally derived from the Imperial
Japanese Government or any other foreign government,
it is our intention to act as an agent for such gov-
ernment insofar as the usual services of an advertis-
ing agenoy constitute aotion as an agent of a foreign
government in the purview of the law."
The company requests "an acknowledgment of this noti-
fication".
The statutory provision to which the letter under
acknowledgment refers appears to be Section 3, Title VIII,
of the Act of June 15, 1917, commonly known as the
Espionage Act (U. 8. Stat., Vol. 40, pt. 1, pp. 217, 336),
which reads as follows:
"Src. 3. Whoever, other than a diplomatic or
consular officer or attaché, shall act in the United
States as an agent of a foreign government without
prior notification to the Seoretary of State shall
be fined not more than $5,000, or imprisoned not
more than five years, or both."
Mr. Ringwalt agreed with me that the activities of
the Brewer-Weeks Company, in behalf of the Foreign Affairs
Committee of the Japanese Association of San Francisoo,
probably

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
probably involve prinoipally the spreading of Japanese
propaganda in the United States. However, I know of no
law which prohibits such activities. It is a matter of
common knowledge that in recent years agencies of various
foreign governments have been carrying on extensive
propaganda in the United States, prinoipally in the form
of printed matter.
The attached acknowledgment was originally drafted
in the Division of Far Eastern Affairs, but Mr. Ringwalt
said that it did not appear to the officials in the Far
Eastern Division that acknowledgment should be signed by
the Chief of that Division. I told him that it appeared
to me that the acknowledgment should be signed by an
Assistant Secretary, and, in accordance with his request,
I have had the letter redrafted.accordingly.
Richard W. Flournoy
RnD
Le:RWF:BEM: 88

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.94)
FA
Fc
5
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENTABAAEBE EMBASSY
KE
WASHINGTON
937 NOV 22 PM I 38
DIVISION OF
COMMULCATIONS
No.230
ANDRECORDS
1
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of State
and has the honor to send herewith a list of the
894.01 B11/94
officials attached to the Naval Inspector's Office
of the Imperial Japanese Navy Department in New
York, who wish to be granted exemption from taxa-
tion of their salaries which they receive from
their Government as compensation for their official
services.
The Ambassador has further the honor to
F/MF
state that all of the officials mentioned therein
LEU&AN
are of Japanese nationality.
ion of
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOV 2 7 1937
Department of State
(Enclosure)
November 20, 1937
V.1.

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.97)
NAVAL OFFICERS AND CLERKS ATTACHED TO THE NAVAL INSPECTOR'S
OFFICE OF THE IMPERIAL JAPANESE NAVY DEPARTMENT IN NEW YORK
NOBUSUKE YAMAGUCHI
Engineer Captain
TAKEHIKO IWASAKI
Paymaster Commander
UTARO KOTO
Engineer Lieut. Commander
MASAHIDE IWASAKI
Constructor Lieut. Commander
YUJI NISHIMURA
Ordnance Lieut. Commander
SHOICHI DATE
Ordnance Lieut. Commander
TERUO SHIMOJYO
Engine Constructor Ldeut.Comdr.
UMEJI KITAGAWA
Clerk
YOSHIKI FURUKAWA
Clerk
KOZO TAKAHASHI
Assistant Engineer
TAKEICHI YONEHANA
"
ICHIJUU FURUSATO
n
SHOEI ITO
n
n
KIYOSHI NADA
n
n
GONTA UENO
Engineer Commander
SHINICHI ARAKI
Paymaster Commander
ITSU ISHIHARA
Commander
KOWSUKE KUDO
Naval Engineer
Their principal duty is to inspeot materials to be pur-
二
chased by the Government.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 1.00)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Attention of Miss Marsh,
Department of State
Office of Foreign Administration.
Washington, D.C.
Room 122.

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.94)
movomber 27 1957
In reply refer to
7A 004.01 m11
My eear Mr. Seeretary:
There is enclosed & ocopy of & note from the Japanese
Ambassador transmitting a list of officials attashed to
304.0
the Naval Inspeotor's Office of the Japanese Navy Department
in New Tork City, who wish to be exempted from tazatien on
the salaries whion they reseive from the Japanese Govern-
ment as compensation for their official serviees.
In this relation referenoe is made to the letter of
the Department of State dated April 7, 1937, tranemitting
6
a similar list of offioers of the Japanese Government and
七
to your Department's reply of April 26 last, (Treasury
F1le IT: RR-MLM).
Reference 1s also made to the letter of the Depart-
ment
The Honorable
F/MR
Henry Morgenthan, Jr.,
seoretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.97)
-a
memt of state dated September 12, 1935, in which, in
relation to the Treasury Department's letter of Ostober 9,
1934, (Treasury f11e IR:00: I: J08), and to subsequent
correspondence in regard to the exemption of offioers
of foreign governments in the United States, in a non-
diplomatio status, from Federal income tax with respeot
to wages, fees and malaries received by them in compensa-
tion for their servioes in the United States, there was
enclosed a list of those countries, inoluding Japan, in
whioh Amerioan consular officers and employees and other
non-diplomatio officers and employees are exempt from
the payment of inoome tax on their offioial compeneation.
In acoordanoe with the provisions of Seotion 1l16 (h)
of the Revenue Aot of 1936, I oertify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government of
the United States performing servioes in Japan, and that
the oharacter of the services performed by offioers of the
Government of the United States in foreign countries is
similar to the services of the Japanese offioials in the
United States desoribed in the enolosure to the note of
the Japanese Ambassador. I therefore hope that these
Japanese officials will be granted exemption from income
samation on the offioial compemsation they recsive from

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.93)
-8-
the Japanese Govermment, and that you will notify the
interested officers of your Department aceordingly.
sinoerely yours,
Cordell Mull
Enolosures:
From Japanese Embassy
o. 230, Novomber 20,
1937, with en0losure.
A tre copy of
NOV 27 1937.
Boutir
Car
LWORN
FE
TA:FM:FOR:88
822
11/23

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.87)
me Seeretary ef state presents his eomplimente to
Kis Emeelleney the Japanese Ambassader and has the honer
to aekmowledge the receipt of his mote No. sso ef Sovember
2e, 1987, mdesing a list of offieials attashed to the
Seval Inspeeter's Offiee at New York City whe wish to
be sremsed ememption from tamation of their salaries
resetves frem the Japenese Gevernmemt fer their effieial
serviees.
the Seeretary of State has brought the matter to
894.01 B
the attemtiem of the apprepriate authority of the Federel
Severmment ané wpem the receipt ef a reyly a further
emeesien will be séeressed te the Ambassador n
 .
ste.
novemper 27 1937
794

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.93)
FA
MENSTAAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
037
1070
229
JF
VAIN
NS
r2.
207
894.1811
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
compliments to the Honorable the Seoretary of
State and has the honor to send herewith a
list of the officimls attached to the Imperial
Japanese Government Railway Office, New York,
who wish to be granted exemption from taxation
B11/9L
of their salaries which they receive from their
Government as compensation for their official
services.
The Ambassador has further the honor
to state that all of the officials mentioned
therein are of Japanese nationality.
う
(Enclosure)
November 19, 1937.

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
RAILWAY OFFICIALS AND CLERKS ATTACHED TO THE DMPERIAL
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT RAILWAY OFFICE OF THE IMPERIAL
JAPANESE RAILWAY DEPARTMENT IN NEW YORK.
MINORU YAGAMI,
Secretary of the Department
of Railways.
YOSHIKI ENDO,
Secretary of the Department
of Railways.
TAKEJI ITOH,
Secretary of the Department
of Railways.
KEIICHI YAMANOUCHI,
Mechanical Engineer.
TEIJI NOBUSAWA,
Civil Engineer.
HIDEO YOSHIZAWA,
Mechanical Engineer.
TADASHI OKA,
Electrical Engineer
MASATOSHI NOMURA,
Electrical Engineer.
ny
TATSUSUKE HAMACHI,
Civil Engineer.
KEITARO KONISHI,
Mechanical Engineer.
KEIJIRO ISHIDA,
Civil Engineer.
TSUNEO NAKA,
Mechanical Engineer
IWAO YOKOTA,
Secretary of the Department of
Railways.
SHOTARO SHIMA,
Clerk.
AKIRA OZAWA,
Seoretary of the Department of
Railways.
HIROSHI YAMAKAWA,
Secretary of the Department of
Railways.
HIDEO SHIMA,
Mechanical Engineer
SADANORI SHIMOYAMA,
Mechanical Engineer.
TEIICHI INOUYE,
Civil Engineer.
SHOTARO KON
Civil Engineer.
Their prinoipal duty is to inspeet materials to be
purehased by the Government.

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.88)
Nevemter 20, 1937.
894
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
Referenee 1s made to the aot of Congress approved
August 27, 1935, Publie No. 374, emtitled "An Act to
emempt frem taxation official compensation of certsin
fereign representatives ***" (Session Laws 1935 - 90s).
Referenee 1s also made to previous correspondenee is
6
C7
regard to the exemption of officers and employees of
the Japanese Gevernment residing 1n the United States
frem the payment of ineome tax on their offieial sompemss-
sion.
There 1s enelosed a copy of a mete frem the Japasese
Ambeeemder traasmitting a list of Japamese effieials
astached to the Imperial Japanese Gevermment Railway
Offiee at New York Gity.
Referenee is alse made to she letter of the Bepart-
T
/MR
moes
She Nenerebe
Deary Mergeashen, Jr..
Seeretney of the Treasury.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.95)
8
meat of state dated Beptember 12, 1935, 1n mhmtch, in
relatien te the Treasury Departmeat's letter of Oeteber 9,
1934, (Treasury fi1e IR:e0: I:J0s), and to subeequeat
cerrespondenee in regard to the exemptien of effieers
of foreign goveraments in the United States, in a mon-
diplematio status, from Federal 1neome tax with respeet
to wages, fees and salaries received by them 1n compease-
tiom for their servioes in the United states, there wms
emolesed a list of those countries, including Japan, in
which Amerlcan consular officers and empleyees and other
mom-diplomatic officers and employees are exempt from
the payment of inoome tax on their offieial compensation.
In accordance with the provisioms of Seotion 116 (h)
of the Revemue Aot of 1936, I certify that Japan grants
am equivalent exemption to employees of the Government of
the United States performing services in Japan, and that
the character of the services performed by offieers of the
Governmemt of the Uaited States in foreign countries is
similar to the services of the Japamese offieials in the
United states deseribed in the enelosure te the mete of
the Japanese Ambassador. I therefore hope that these
Japamese offisials will be granted exemption from ineeme
taxatiom om the offioial compensation they reseive from
the Japamese Gevermment, and that you will motify the
1aterested

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.91)
-3
Lnterested effieore of your Department seeordingly.
The Japanese Eabeesy has advised the Bepartment ef
State 1nfermally that Mr. Maseteshi Nemure, whese mame
is imeluded in the accompanying list, plans to sail from
New York on November 26. I shall therefore be glad if
advice 1n the matter may be communicated to the appre-
priate officer of your Department at that port at the
earliest possible moment im order that Mr. Momura may
experience mo diffioulty when he departs.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Bull
Enclosures:
Frem Japenese Embassy,
No. 229, Movember 19.
1937, with enelosure.
NOV 20 1937.
Jomg
21
FE
Le
LORN
grip

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.90)
The Seeretary ef State presents his eomplimente to
His Ereellency the Japanese Ambassador and has the homer
to sekmowledge the receipt of his note No. 229 of November
19, 1937, anolosing a li. t of Japanese ofrioiale attaahed
894.01
to the Imyerial Japunese Railway Office at Now York City
whose exemption from taxation on their official oompensa-
tion i: desired.
BII/
Copies of tho Ambassauor's note and its onolosure
C
have been brought to the attention oi the appropriate
authority of the Pederal Government ana upon the receipt
of a renly a further communication will be addressed to
Fi
him on tho jubjeot.
In viow of iniormal advicc received from the Embassy
it was requeoted thut appropriate action be taken as soon
a possible in the case of r. Masatoshi Nomura, whose
name is inoluded in the list aceompanying the Ambassador's
nete and ho plans to sail frem New York on November 26.
A buo cop of
Department ef state.
0V 20 1037.
Wostkkmgtes, Bevember s0, 1907.
MPD
Le aRO
FE
2m

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.97)
FA
KE
5
RECEIVED
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
DEPARTHON- OF STAIL
WRN
WASHINGTON
1937 DEC 14 AM 9 27
My dear Mr. Sedfotaryt
Asc
I have your letter of Noveuber 20, 1937 (FA 894.01B 1, with
its enclosure, a copy of a note from the Japaneso Ambassador dated
November 19, 1937, transmitting a list of twenty Japanese officials
attaohed to the Imperial Japanese Government Railway Office in New
York City.
394.01
In acoordance witn the provisions of section ll6(n) of the
Revenue Aot of 1936 you certify that Japan grants an equivalent
examption to employees of the Government of the United States per-
forming services in Japan, and that the oharacter of the servioes
performed by officers of the Government of the United States in
foreign countries is similar to the services of the Japanese
officials in the United States desoribed in the enclosure to the
note of the Japanese Ambassador. You express the hope that these
Japanese officials will be ranted exemption from income taxation
on the official compensation they receive fron the Japanese Jovern-
ment, and that the interested officers of this Department will be
notified accordingly.
FAR EAST AFFAIRS
You add that your Department has been informally advised by
the Japanese Embassy that Mr. Masatoshi Nomura, whose name is in-
oluded in the list of officials furnished b the Japanese mbassa.
dor, plans to sail from New York City on November 26, 1937. You
therefore hope that advice in the matter may be communicated to
the appropriate officer of this Department at that port at the
earliest possible moment in order that Mr. Nomura may experience
no difficulty when he departs.
In view of your certification this Department holds that the
twenty Japanese offioials in question are exempt from Federal in-
come taxation on the compensation received by them from the
1.
Japanese Government as compensation for offioial services rendered
in the United States. The appropriate collector of internal reve-
nue in New York City will be advised of the contents of this letter
and will be furnished a list of the Japunese officials in question.
01 2 1907
The colleotor of internal revenue at the Customhouse in New
York City was advised November 22, 1937, by telegram, as to the

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
exempt status of the official compensation received by Mr. Nomura.
In the event that further correspondenoe relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:RR:MLA.
Very truly yours,
Pnweeenarer
Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.93)
The seeretary ef stat presents hie compliments to
Nis Ezeellemsy the Japamese Ambassader and hes the henes
to refer to his nete me. 229 ef Mevember 19, 1939, en-
894.
slesing a list of the Japamese offieials attached to
the Imperial Japansse Railway Offiee at New York City
0
whose ezemptiom from taation on their offioial compem-
saties is desired.
/96
A letter has mow been received frem the Treasury
Department in whieh it is stated that in view of the
sertifieatien of the Department of state the Treasury
Depertment has held that the twenty Japamese effieers
mamed in the list are ezempt from Federal ineeme tas es
/MR
the effieinl comgensatien reseived by them from the
Japsmese Govesament end thet the apprepriate collectes
of tmel rovemme ia Bow Tes Gaty woald be ndviond

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.81)
Tosk esty was advised by telogregh n Novesber
as to the eseapt stetus of the efftetal eompensetion
recsived by Er. mseteski Somure whese meme mae ineladee
in the l1st and who had plenmed to seil frem that pest
en Bevember 26.
Depestment of state,
Feshingten.
December 18 1937
LeCORN
A4

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.92)
FA
0
RECEIVED
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
DEFARTMENT OF STA
Ale
D.  13
2
My dear Mr. Secretary:
IONS
23
COMMI
rm
its enclosure, a copy o. a note fro tne Ja anese nhassador dated
November 20, 1937, transmitting a list of eignteen Ja anese ofli-
cials attached to the aval insuector's office o the Japanese
Navy Department in New York City, who wish to be ene pted frm tax-
ation on the salaries wnich they receive from the Japanese overn-
ment as compensation lor tneir o ricial services.
Revenue Act of 1s36, you certify tnat Japan rants an equiya ent
exemption to employees oi the Governnent oi the Unit d States per-
forming services in Ja an, and tiat the c.aracter or the services
perforned by officers oi the Government o. the United States in
894.01
forein countries is similar to ne services or the Ja anese offi-
cials in the United states described i the enclosure to the note
of the Japanese Ambaseador. You ex:ress the hope that these
Japanese officials will be rante exemption from incame taxation
on t.e ofricial compensation they receive from the Japanese overn-
ment, snd that the i teresied of:icers o: this Denartment will be
notified accordingly.
In view of your certificstion tnis Departient holds that the
eighteen Japanese o:ficials in question are exempt Irom rederal
income taxation on the compensation recej ed by them from the
Ja anese Government as canne salion !or o ficial s( rvices rendered
6
in the United States. The tp ropriate collector o! internal revenue
7
in l.ew York City will be advise o. th :ontents oi this letter and
will be furnished a list of the Japanese officials in question.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to ::LM.
Very truly yours,
Rnnvecernaquer
Acting Secretary of the Treasury.
0
The Honorable,
C
The Secretary of State,
F
Washington, D. C.
1
A
+

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.94)
The seeretary ef state presents his cemplimemss
te His Exeellemey the Japanese Ambassador and has the
hemer te refer to his note no. 230 of November 20,
1937, enelesing a list of ofrieials attaahed to the
894.01
Naval Inspeetor's Office at Mew York City who wish to
be granted exemption from taxation of their salaries
B
reseived from the Japanese Government for their official
11/97
serviees. Referenee is alse made to the note of the
Department of state of November 27, 1937, on the sub.
Joet.
A letter has now been reseived from the Treasury
Department in whieh it is stated that in view of the
sertitieatien of the Department ef state, the Treasury
F/MR
Depertment has held that the elghteen Japamese offieials
mened in the list are exemps frem receral imesme same-
he e the frethe

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.86)
-2-
Japenese feverament for official sorviees renéeree
1m the United states.
Department of state,
Washington,
December 28 1937
A true copy of
the sipned origi-
004.01 B 11/07
EE
Le
210
12/23
WRV
102

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.92)
DAR
3
SF
RECEIVED
STATE
WASHINGTON
10 00
1938
ASTERN AFFAIHS
B
LEGAL ADVISER
DIVOOF
115
The Japanese Ambassador presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of State and has the
honor to send herewith a list of the officials at-
tached to the Naval Inspector's Office of the Imperial
Japanese Navy Department in New York, who wish to be
894.01 B
granted exemption from taxation of their salaries which
they receive from their Government as compensation for
their official services.
11/98
The Ambassador has further the honor to state
that all of the officials mentioned therein are of
Japanese nationality.
FEB 16 1938
(Enclosure)
ALD
February 4, 1938.
S

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.95)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
NAVAL OFFICERS AND CLERKS ATTACHED TO THE NAVAL
INSPECTOR'S OFFICE OF THE IMPERLAL JAPANESE NAVY
DEPARTMENT IN NEW YORK.
NOBUSUKE YAMAGUCHI
Engineer Captain
MASAHIDE IWASAKI
Constructor Lieutenant Commander
UTARO KOTO
Engineer Lieutenant Commander
YUJI NISHIMURA
Ordnance Lieutenant Commander
RYOITI SHIRAISHIO
Paymaster Lieutenant Commander
SHOICHI DATE
Ordnance Lieutenant Commander
TERUO SHIMOJYO
Engineer Constructor Lieutenant
Commander
UMEJI KITAGAWA
Clerk
YOSHIKI FURUKAWA
Clerk
TAKEICHI YONEHANA
Assistant Engineer
SHOEI ITO
n
n
CHUICHI ITO
n
n
SHIGERU NAGASHIMA
n
KOWSUKE KUDO
Naval Engineer
Their prinoipal duty is to inspect materials to
be purohased by the Government.

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.83)
February 15 1938.
T
Er. secretary:
these so emelesed a copy of a nete frem the Japanese
894.01
mbessndsr tramsmitting a list of offleials attesbed 
the Eaeal Iaspester's Office of the Japensse Navy Depert-
m at Now Tork Csty she wieh te be emempted freu teme
téen en the salaries rescived by then fren the Japensse
B
Govermmens as compemsetion for thelr effteiel esrvtess.
11/98
In this relatien referemse is maée to the lettes of
the Depestment ef state dated April 7, 1937, tramemitting
a simller ltet of effissse of the Japenese Govesament amé
to your Bepertesmt's reply ef April 26, last, (Treasmsy
File ITtmm-MLM).
neteremee to alse mede to the lettes of the Depart-
most ef stete deted septamber 12, 193s, in whish, Sn
relatsee
The Ressssble
Bary Msogthn, Jz..
F/A
sesretery of the Treesery.

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.97)
relation to the Treasury Department's letter of Geteber 9,
1986, (Treasury Fi1e IR:G0: I:J08), and to subeequemt
correepondmee in regard to the exemption of effiears of
foreigm govermments in the United states, in à men-daplomatie
status, from Federal insome tax with respest to wages, fees,
and salaries reeeived by them in compensation for their
sexvices in the United Btates, there was molosed a list
of those countries, inoluding Japan, in which American
consular officers and employees and other non-diplomatie
offieers and mployees are exempt from the payment of
income tax on their official compensation.
In accordance with the provisions of Seotion ll6 (h)
of the Revemue Aot of 1936, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government of
the United States performing services in Japan, and that
the character of the services performed by offioers of
the Government of the United States in foreign countries
is similar to the services of the Japanese offioials in
the United States desoribed in the enelosure to the note
of the Japanese Ambassader. I therefore hope that these
Japanese officials will be granted exemption from ineome
taxation on the offieial compensation they reseive from

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.90)
the Japamese Gevarment, and that you will netify the
interested effieers ef your Department accordingly.
sineerely yours,
melosures:
From Japanese Ambassador,
no. 14, February 4, 1938,
with enelosure.
8
CR
FEB
15 1938.
Jon.
Le
FA:MM:0Z8:88 2/12

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.92)
he Beeretary ef state presents his cemplimemts to
Kis Emeellemey the Japanese Ambassader and has the homer
te askmowledge the receipt of his nete no. 14 of Fekruary 4,
1ss emelesing a list of officials attached to the Naval
894.01
Imspeotor's Office of the Imperial Japanese Navy Depart-
memt in New York City who wish to be granted exemption
from taxation of their salaries received from the Japanese
8
Gevernment as compensation for their official services.
98
Copies of the Ambassador's note and its enelosure
have been brought to the attentien of the appropriate
antherity of the Federal Govermment and upon the reseipt
of a reply a further eommuneation will be addressed to
the Ambassader en the subjest.
Depestment of state,
F/A
hington,
CR
m
151980.
0.22/0
FE
Le

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.87)
CEH
4C
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
1938 FEB 4 4M 9 29 DATOPAT
wer
L1V
FE 25 1938
IGA
115
AN
UIVISION OF FOROF
BENVIOL AUMINISTRATIC'
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Your letter of Febrw ry 15, 1938 (FA 894.01 B
11/98) has been received. It is noted tn t the Japanese
Ambassador has submitted a list of officials attached to the
Naval Inspector's Office of the Jap nese Navy Department in
894.01
New York City who wish to be exemnted from income taxation on
salaries received by them for their official services. This
matter will be given careful consideration in connection with
B
your advice tn:t these officials should be accorded the ex-
emption requested.
FTLFD
/99
Sincerely,
Pnveermarive
Acting Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
F/A
11

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
894.01B11
NOTE
SEE
611.941z/44
FOR
Memorandum
694.
FROM
A-M
Messersmith) DATED
Jan. 281938
TO
NAME
1 1127
a
REGARDING: Conversation wi th Mr. E. A. Schachner, Editor of CHINA TODAY
who alleged that acco ding to the NFW YORK TIMES Rieve and
a man named Paolino Gerlli have been mamed as the heads of
a Committee to combat the Japanese boyoott..and that the
latter and his assooiates have received $750,000 from Jap-
anese sources.
100
kfo
100

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGAL ADVISER
MAF2
LE
Cumb
TREASURYDEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
MAR 1 8 1938
1933 MR 22 AA 9 18
FAR EASTE 
My dear Mr. Secretary:
tile
Further reference 1s made to your letter of Fehmuary 15, 1938
(FA 894.01 B 11/98), with its enclosure, e cory of a note from the
Japanese Ambassador, transmitting a list of fourteen officials
(nationals of Japan) attached to the Naval Inspector's Office of
the Japanese Navy Department et New York City who wish to be exempted
from taxation on the saleries received by them from the Japanese
Government as compensetion for their officiel services.
894.01
In accordance with the provisions of section ll6(h) of the Reve-
nue Act of 1936 you certify thet Jepen prents an equivalent exemption
to employees of the Government of the United States performing ser-
vices in Japan, and that the character of the services performed by
officers of the Government of the United States in foreign countries
is similer to the services of the Japanese officisls in the United
States described in the enclosure to the note of the Japanese
B
Ambassador. You therefore express the hope that these Japanese
officials will be granted exemption from ircome taxation on the
officiel compensation they receive from the Japanese Government
and that the interested officers of this Department will be noti-
fied accordingly.
In view of your certification this Department holds that the
Japanese officisls referred to are exempt from Federal income texa-
tion on the compensation received by them from the Japanese Govern-
ment for services rendered in the United States. The appropriete
collector of internel revenue will be notified es to the exempt
status of the compensation in question.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:RR:MLM.
B
Very truly yours,
Proweeelmaqer
MAR 2 9 19?
It ing Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
F/FG
11

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.91)
The Seeretavy ef state presents his compliments to
Nis Emsellensy the Japamese Ambassader and has the hemer
to refer to his mete me. 14 of February 4, loss emelesing
a lies ef effieials attached to the Matiomal Inspester's
Offiee of the Imperial Japamese Navy Department, New Yerk
894.01
Gity, whe wish te be granted exemption from taxation of
their salaries received from the Japanese Governmemt as
compensation for their official services.
B
A letter has mew been received frem the Treasury
Department in whioh it is stated that, in view of the
10
eertifieatien of the Department ef State, it has been
hele that the Japanese officers referred to are exempt
frem Federal ineeme taxatien en the cempensatiom re-
eeived by them frem the Japanese Geverament fer serviees
rendered in the taited states and that the apprepriate
eellester ef lnternal revemme will be metiried as te the
 stt ef their ton.
A true eopy al.
F/FG
the seng
Maroh 26 1958.

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.93)
FH
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
1938 MAR 3 D 3 52
No. 4/
  1930
April 2 1938.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
P1143
The Japanese Ambassador presents his com-
Vepartmr  S
pliments to the Honorable the Secretary of State
and has the honor to send herewith a list of the
officials attached to the Army Ordnance Inspector's
894.01
Office of the Imperial Japanese War Department in
New York, who wish to be granted exemption from
ω
taxation of their salaries which they receive
from their Government as compensation for their
02
official services.
The Ambassador has further the honor to
ABR 4-1938
state that all of the officials mentioned thereir
FILED
are of Japanese nationality.
(Enclosure)
March 29, 1938.
F/FG
u
G. P.

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
ARMY OFFICERS AND CLERK ATTACHED TO THE ARMY
ORDNANCE INSPECTOR'S OFFICE OF THE IMPERIAL
JAPANESE WAR DEPARTMENT IN NEW YORK.
TORASHIRO ASANO,
Lieutenant Colonel, Artillery.
KOOYU MORIYA,
Lieutenant Colonel, Artillery.
HIROSHI MATSUDA,
Assistant Engineer.
(Expects to leave San Francisoo for Japan
on April 16, 1938)
Their principal duty is to inspect materials to
be purohased by the Government.

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.94)
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
Reference is made to the aot of Congress appreved
August 27, 1935, Publio No. 374, entitled "An Aet to
exempt from taxation offieial compensation of eertain
fereign representatives ..." (Session Laws 1935 - 908).
894.01
Referemee is also made to previous sorrespondenee in
regard to the exemption of offleers and employees of
the Japanese Govermment residing in the United States
frem the payment of ineome tax on their offielal
compensation.
There is enelosed a sopy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador in regard te the desired exemptien from peyment
2
of federal ineeme taxes of Lieutenant Colemel Terashire
Asame, Lieutenant Colonel Keeyu Meriya, and Assistant
Engineer Hiroshi Matsuda of the Army Ordnanee Inspeeter's
Offiee of the Japamese War Department in New York Gity.
Referemee is alse made to the letter of the
Department
The Ronorabte
Nenry Morgonthou, Jr.,
secvetery of the Treasury.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.93)
0
in rekatien to the Treasury Bepertment's letter of
O0teber 9, 1934 (Treasury f11e IR:00:1:J0s) and to
subeequent correspondenee in regard to the exemptiem
of offieers of foreign governments in the United states,
in a mon-diplomatie status, from Federal ineome tax with
respeet to wages, fees and salarles reseived  them in
cempemsation for their servioes in the United states,
there was enslosed a list of those coustries, inelmding
Japan, in whieh American consular effieers and empleyees
and ether mom-diplomatie officers and employees are erempt
from the payment of ineome tax on their offieial eompemeatiem.
In mccordanoe with the provis1ons of Seetion ll6(h)
of the Revenue Aet of 1936, I eertify that Japan grants
am equivalemt exemption to empleyees of the Goverament
of the Umited States performing services in Japen and
that the sharester of the services performed by offieers
of the Severmment of the United states in fereigm comn-
tries is similar to the services performed in the United
states by the three efficers named. I therefere hepe
that these Japamese effieers will be grented eremptien
frem imesme tazation en the official eompessatiom ressivel
by them frem the Jepenese Severmmeet and that you will
otay

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.88)
-8
motsey the iaterested effleere of your Dopartment
socsvatngly.
It will be observed that Mr. Matsuda expeets to
leave San Frameisee for Japan on Apr1l 16.
Sineerely yours,
Cordell Hull
Enelesure:
Frem Japenese Embassy, no. 41,
March 29, 193s, with enclosure.
e a py of
coclins
CRWN
APR 1 1938.
LeWrN
FE

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.92)
The Seeretary of state presente his eempliments
te Mis Exselleney the Japanese Ambassader and has the
hemer to meknewledge the reseipt of his mete mo. 41 ef
Mareh 29, 19se in regard te the desired exemptien frem
the payment of Federal ineome tazes of Lieutenant Gelenel
Terashire Asene, Lieutemant Colenel Keeyu Meriya, and
894.01
Assistant Engineer Hiroshi Matsuda of the Army Orimanse
Inspeeter's Offiee of the Imperial Japanese War Depart-
mont in Now York Gity.
117102
A eopy of the Ambassader's mote has been breught
to the attention of the appropriate autherities of the
Federal Gevernment and upon the receipt of a reply a
further comwenieatien will be aderessed to him en the
subjest.
ofstte,
A true
Apr11 2 1938.
the
nali

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.95)
i
PARTMENT
ATE
WASHINGTON
LECRETH3BAPR 14AM30
DEPARTMENAT
APR 111938
DIVISION OF
Apri
COMMUNIONS
AND RECORDS
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Reference is made to your letter of April 2, 1938 (FA 894.01
B 11/1o2), with its enclosure, a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador, transmitting a list of three officiels (nationals of
Japan) attached to the Army Ordnence Inspector's Office of the
Japanese War Department at New York City who wish to be exempted
from taxation on the salaries received by them from the Japanese
Government as compensation for their official services.
894.01
In accordance with the provisions of section ll6(h) of the
Revenue Act of 1936 you certify that Jepan grants an equivalent
exemption to employees of the Government of the United States
performing services in Japan, and that the character of the serv-
ices performed by officers of the Government of the United States
in foreign countries is similar to the services of the Japanese
officials in the United States described in the enclosure to the
B
note of the Japanese Ambassador. You therefore express the hope
that these Japanese ofricials will be granted exemption from income
taxation on the official compensation they receive from the Japenese
Government and that the interested officers of this Department will
be notified accordingly.
03
In view of your certification this Department holds that the
Japanese officials referred to are exempt from Federal income taxa-
tion on the compensation received by them from the Japanese Govern-
ment for services rendered in the United States. It is observed
that one of the officials, Hiroshi Matsuda, expects to leave San
Francisco for Japan on April 16, 1938. The appropriate collector
of internal revenue and internal revenue agent in charge at San
R
FILED
心
Francisco, California will be notified as to the exempt status of
the compensation in question.
3
22
Division of
乃
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 1 8 1938
F/FC
Department of State
G

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:RR:RLB.
Very truly yours,
Rnweemaqu
Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.93)
The Seeretary ef state presents his compliments
te Mis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassader and has the
henor to refer to kis note me. 4l of Mareh se, 1938
in regard to the desired exemption frem the paymest
of federal imeeme taxes ef Lioutenant Celonel Terashire
894.01
Asane, Lieutenant Celonel Kooyu Moriya, and Assistant
Engineer Miroshi Matsuda of the Army Ordnanee Inspeeter's
Office ef the Imperial Japanese War Department in New
B
York Gity.
三
/103
A letter has now been reseived frem the Treasury
Department in whiek it is stated that in view ef the
sertifieation of the Department of state the Treasury
Department has held that the Japanese offieers memed
are eempt fren foderel ineme taetien  te mpem-
Gtien ressived by them fren the Japanese Gevesumens

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.91)
Mr. Mireshi Matsuda, expested to leave Bam Franeisee
for Japan on April 16, 1938 and that the Colleeter ef
Internal Revenue and Internal Revenue Agent in Charge
at San Franeisco was notified as to the exempt status
of the eompensation of Mr. Matsuda.
Department of State,
Washington,
Aprii 21 1938.
CR
APR 19 189.
004.01 B 11/103
the
nal.
FE
7
4/16
dur

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
STATT
JAPANESE EMBASSY
MAY 24 1938
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1938 MAY 21 PM
841938.
CHNUNICATIONS
894.01B11
AND RECORUS
No.86
FFAIRS
MA
The Japanese Ambassador presents his compl1
ments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and
has the honor to inform him that Mr. Kenjiro Nishi-
894.01
mura, a clerk of the Department of Agriculture and
Forestry of Japan, wishes to be Eranted exemption
a
from,taxation of his salary which he received from
his Government as compensation for his official
a1
services,
The Ambassador has further the honor to state
that Mr. Nishimura has lived in the United States
since January of 1935, as a clerk of the Japanese
MAY 26 1938
Government Silk Intelligence Bureau at New York,
FILED
F/A
and he is desirous of leaving New York for Europe
on May 28, 1938 on board the S. S. Bremen of the
North German Lloyd Line.
May 21, 1938
T.P.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.95)
May 84 1958
My &sar Mr. Secretary:
8
394.01
There 1s enolosed a copy of a note from the Japanese
ambassador in regard to the desired exemption of
Mr. Kenjiro Nimhimura, a olerk of the Department of
B
Agrioulture and Forestry of Japan, from the payment of
income tax on the offioial compensation reoeived by him
1
from the Japanese Government. The Ambassador states that
0
Mr. Mimhimura has been residing in the United States since
4
January 1935 as a olerk of the Japanese Government Silk
Intelligenoe Bureau at New York City, and that he desires
to leave New York for Europe on May 28, 1938 on board the
steamship Bremen of the North German Lloyd Line.
In this relation referenoe is made to the letter of
the Department of State dated September 12, 1935, 1n
whioh, in relation to the Treasury Department's letter
of
The Honorable
F/WB
Henry Morgenthau, Jr.,
Seeretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.94)
of Getober 9, 1934, (Treasury fi1e IRtsc:1:ses), and to
subeequemt correspondemse in regard to the exsmptien of
offieers of foreign govermments in the Umited states, in
a mem-diplomatie status, from Federal income tax with re-
speet to wages, fees and salaries received by them in
compensation for their services in the United states, there
was enelosed a list of those countries, inoluding Japan, 1n
whieh American consular officers and employees and other
mom-diplomatic officers and employees are exempt from the
payment of income tax on their offiolal compensation.
In aceordance with the provisions of Seotion 116 (h)
of the Revenue Aot of 1936, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government
of the United States performing services in Japan and that
the character of the services performed by officers of the
Govermment of the United States in foreign countries is
similar to the servioes performed by Mr. Wishimura in the
United states. I therefore hope that he may be exempted
from taxation on the official compensation received by him
from the Japanese Government and that I may be advised in
the matter for communication to the Japanese Ambassador.
Boutine
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
Eaelesure:
CO
Frem Japanese Ambassador,
ne. 86, May 21, 1936.
Jm UB
PAIMIPIGISS &/RS
FE

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.89)
The Seeretary of state presents his eempliments
894.01
to Mis Exselleney the Japanese Ambasseder and has the
hener to seknewledge the receipt of his mote me. es
B
of May 21, 19se in regard te the desired exemptiem of
11/104
Mr. Kenjire Nishimura, a elerk ef the Department of
Agrieulture and Forestry of Japan, frem the payment of
imeeme taxeon the efrieial eempensation received by him
frem the Japanese Government.
A eopy of the Ambassador's mete has been tramsmisted
to the appropriate autherity of the Federal Geverament
and attentiom invited to Mr. Nishimura's plan to leave
F/WB
New Yosk for Barepe en May ss, lose en beare the steam-
sháp Beanan of the North Germen Leye Line. Wpen the re
ceipt ef a reply, a further cemmenicatien will be edfressed
長
.
29
copy of
1938.

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE.....811.5123/2568
FORNot
FROM ....Japanese..Embassy
(.-
) PATEDJun0--11--1938-.
8
394.01
TO
NAME
1 1127
REGARDING:
Payment of inco le tax by Yukio Sue tsugu. Tecinical Expert
of Japanese Governnent Silk Intelligence Bureeu at New
York City.
105
Requests refund because of official status.
1w

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.94)
FA
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIBS
TREASURY DEPARTMEI
frusa
WASHINGTON
Department of State
1933 J 21 AM 9 58
HPARTMENT OTT
JUN 1 7 193H
70叫
JUN 21 1938
AND RECCRUS
I heve your letter of Mey 4, 1 3o (FA 894.01 B 11/104).
with its enclosure, a cooy of & note from the Jananese Ambassador
dated May 21, 1938 in regard to the desired exemmtion from the
payment of Federal income tey on the official coapensetion re-
ceived by Mr. Kenjiro Nishimura. a cler of the Denartment of
Agriculture and Forestry of Janen. The Aabassedor stetes thet
Mr. Nishimura has been residirg in the Utited States since
January 193e, as & cler: of the Jananese Governnent Silk
894.01
Intelligence Bureau in New York City, and that he desires to
leave New York for Eurone on ray 28, 1938 on poaru tne Steam
ship Bremen of the North German Lloyd Line.
In accorlance with the provisions of section 1l6(h) of the
Revenue Act of 1936  ou certify that Japan grants an eouivalent
exemption to emnloyees of the Governnent of the United States
3
performing services in Japan and thet the character of the ser-
vices performed by officers of tne Governaent of the United
States in foreign countries is siuilar to the services perforaed
by Mr. Nishimure in the Uniteu States. iou terefore express
the hove thet he may be exemnted froa taxation on the official
0
coanensation received by hin from tne Jenanese Government and
9
that you may be advised in the mat:er for communicetion to the
Jenanese Ambassador.
In view of your certification this Denartnent holds thet
Mr. Nishimura is exemnt fron Federal income texation on the
comoensation received by im from the Japenese Government;as
compensation for officiel service: renaered in the United States.
Under date of ay 25. 1938, the Collector of Internal Revenue,
N
FILED
Customhouse, New York City, was advised as to the exemnt status
2
of Mr. Nishimura's compensation.
13
3
In tne event tiet further corresnondence relative td this
matter is necessery, please refer to IT:RR:LM.
Very truly yours.
Atepheuß Githons
F/A
Acting Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable.
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.94)
The Seeretary of state presents his eomplimemts to
Mis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassador and has the honor
to refer to his note no. 86 of Mareh 21, 1938 and to the
Department's reply ef May 24 in regard to the desired
894.01
exemption of Mr. Kenjiro Nishimura, a elerk of the
Department of Agrieulture and Forestry of Japan, from
8
the payment of inoome tax on the offieial compensation
11/106
received by him from the Japanese Government.
A letter has now been received from the Treasury
Department in whiah it is stated that in view of the
certifieation of the Department of state the Treasury
Department helds that Mr. Nishimura is exempt frem
Federal inceme taxatiom on the cempensation reseived
by him frem the Japanese Gevermmemt for offieial serv-
1ees rendered in the United states, and that wnder
date of May es, 19ss, the Golleeter of Internal Revenme,
@ustembemoe.

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.83)
Sustecheuse, New Yerk Gity, mas advieed as to the exemgs
status ef Mr. Xihimure's compemsation.
Departmont of state,
June 25 1938.
Washington,
004.0121/200
simed urigi-
u
Le-WRo
FE
SILLI
dub

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGAL ADVISER
19.5
5
RECEIVED
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
JEFARTMENT OF STAL
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
November 8 1938.
1938 OCT 13 AM 11 41
NO./84
DIVISION OF FOREION
SERVICE ADMINISTHATON
0CT1 31938
DBPARTMENT OF STATE
The Japanese Ambassador presents
294 01211
his compliments to the Honorable the Secre-
tary of State and has the honor to send here-
with a list of the officials attached to the
894.01
Imperial Japanese Government Railway Office,
New York City, who wish to be granted exemp-
tion from taxation of their salaries which
w
they receive from their Government as compen-
sation for their official services.
The Ambassador has further the
FILED
honor to state that all of the officials
mentioned therein are of Japanese nationality.
(Enclosure)
October 12, 1938.
F/A

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
RAILVAY OFFICIALS ND CLERKS ∴TTACHED TO THE IMPERIAL
JAPANESE GOVERNMNT R ILWAY OFFICE OF THE IMPERIAL
JAPANESE R.ILWAY DEPARTMENT IN NEW YORK.
YASUMITSU OKAZAKI
Civil Engineer
FUWAZO TANAKA
Secretary to the Department
of Railways
TSUTOO TAKASE
Secretary to the Department
of Railways
TATSUICHI NAKAI
Clerk
Their prinoipal duty is to inspect materials to
be purchased by the Government.

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.95)
3
RECEIVED
JAPANESE EMARPMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
tes
1938 C2 AM58
No./91
RECOROS
The Japanese Ambassedor presents his
311
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary
294.01
of Stete and has the honor to request that
the appended list of names of Japanese nevel
officers be added to the list of officials
attached to the Naval Inspector's Office of
894.01
the Imperial Japanese liavy Department in New
York, who wish to be granted exemption from
a
texation of their salaries, which they receive
from their Government as compensation for
official services.
The Ambassador has further the honor
to state that the officials mentioned therein
0C1248
are of Japanese nationality.
FILED
(Enclosure)
F/A
October 21, 1938.
CC

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.97)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
NAVAL OFFICERS ATTACHED TO THE NAVAL INSPECTORS
OFFICE OF THE IP RIAL J. P NESE NAVY DEP.RTM NT
IN NE.. YORK.
TODOMU NAKAMUR.,
Engireer Captuin
Beginning 0ctober 20, 1938
took charge of the Imperi:1
Japenese Fevy Inspectors' Office,
1 Madison Avenue, New York City,
succeeding Engineer Captain
Nobusuke Yamaguchi.
Will reme in in this country about two years.
MORITOSHT MAEDA,
Naval Engineer.
Will shortly arrive here
as he will leeve Japen on
October 24, 1938 on board
the CHICHIBU M RU. /ill
remain here for about a year
and a half.
The principal duty of voth officers is to
inspect materials to be purchased by the Government.

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT ORSTATE
WASHINGTON
6947
DEC
My dear Mr. Secretary:
294.01B11/107
Reference is made to your note bearing date of November 8,
1938 and the copy of despatoh No. 184, presented by the Japanese
Ambassador, both of whioh accompanied your letter of November 8,
1938, FA 851.C1 B 11/.30a
In the copy of the despatch fron the Japanese Ambassador
it is stated that the following subjects of Japan stationed in the
United States are receiving salaries or fees as compensation for
official servioes rendered to it as representatives or employees:
RAILWAY OFFICIALS ANL CLERKS ATTACHED TO THE IMPERIAL
JAPANESE GOVERNN ENT RAILWAY CFFICE CF THE IMPERIAL
JAPANESE RAL LWAY DEPARTKENT IN NEW YORK
Yasumitsu Okazaki
Civil Engineer
894.01
Fuwazo Tanaka
Secretary to the Department
of Railways
Tsutoo Takase
Secretary to the Department
of Raibways
B
Tatsuichi Nakai
Clerk
You refer to the letter of your Department dated September 12,
1935, to the latter from this Department dated Cctober 9, 1934
(Treasury File IR:GC:I:JCS) and to-subsequent correspondence in
regard to the exemytion,from the Federal income tax, of the wages,
fees and saleries of employees of foreign governments in the
United States in a nondiplomatic status.
In accordance with the provis ons of section ll6(h) of the.
Revenue Aot of 1938 you certify that officers and employees of
the Government of the United States performing services in Japan
are exempt from the payment of income tax, and that the character
F/A
of the services performed by employees of the Government of the
United States in foreign countries is similar to the services
performed by the above-mentioned individuals who are nationals
of Japan in the United States.
ii  juu

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2-
In view of your certification this Department holds that the
official compensation received from the Japanese Government by the
above-named employees or representatives residing in the United
States for services rendered within the United States is exempt
from Federal income tax. The interested officers of this Department
will be notified accordingly.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:RR:RIB.
Very truly yours,
John Whtaves
Aoting Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.91)
The Aeting Seoretary of State presents his sompli-
ments to His Exeellenoy the Japanese Ambassador and has
1107
the honer to refer to his note no. los or Ootober 12,
l938 enclosing a list of Japanese railway officials
and elerks attached to the Imperial Japanese Govermment
Railway Office at New York City whe wish to be granted
894.01
exemption from the payment of inoome taxes on the
cempemsatien received by them from the Japanese Govern-
B
mont for services rendered in the United states.
11/109
There ls unolesed an exeerpt from a letter of the
Treasury Departmeat from which it will be observed that
the desired exemptien has been granted.
Enelesure:
Exeerpt from letter ef
Treaeury Depertment,
Becomber 2, 1938.
Departmons of state,
Sagton, Becomber 12 195%
nal.
pn
821/100
Des
LN
12/

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.97)
十
LEGAL ADVISER
DEC 23 1932
RECEIVEL
JAPANESE EMBASSY
DEPARTMENT OF STATF
WASHINGTON
1038 DEC 9 AM 11 57
DIVIONUN
SERVICEADMINSTRATION
No.2/6
20
DEC-1938
DEPARTMENTSTAT
1958.
The Japanese Ambassador present his com-
livision of
pliments to the Honorable the Acting Secretary of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
C211938
State and, in informing him of the appointment of
Department of State
894.01311
Mr. Tatsuo Shiraki, Mechanical Engineer, as one of
the Resident Representatives of the New York office
of the Japanese Government Railways succeeding Mr.
K. Yamanouchi, who left New York for Europe by S.S.
894.
Queen Mery on the 2lst of September, has the honor
01
to request that Mr. Shiraki's name be added to the
B
list of officials attached to the said office of the
Japanese Government Railways, who wish to be granted
exemption from taxation of their salaries, which they,
receive from their Government as compensation for
official services.
The Ambassador has further the honor to
state that Mr. Shiraki is of Japanese nationality.
F/A
December 8, 1938.
N.K.

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.90)
The Aeting Seeresary ef state presemts kis compis-
momts te Mis Exeelleney the Appeinted Japanese Ambassakss
and has the honer to asknewledge the reselpt of the e-
894.01
bassy's mete me. 216 of December 8, 1938 ceneerning the
desired exemption from the payment of inseme taxes ef
Nr. Tatswe Bhiraki, resident representative of the New
B
Yerk offise of the Japanese Government Railways, whe
susoeeds Nr. X. Yamanenchi, whe has departed frem the
Uaited states.
A eopy ef the Ambassador's mete has been transmitted
te the cempetent autherity of the Gevermment of the Uaites
states for appropriate action.
pupertes os state.
Wecksagten,
December 22 1950.

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.91)
secember 22 1935.
004.01  11/110
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Referenoe is made to the letter of the Department
of state of November 8, l93s enelosing a eopy of a cireu-
lar mote addressed to the ehiefs of the foreign diploma-
894.
sie missioms at Washington uder date of August 15, 1938
with a view to the avoidance by empleyees of the various
O
countries of difficulties with respeet to the liability
for the payment of inoome taxes upon their departure frm
ω
the United States. There was also enolosed with the
letter copies of the replies received from the represen-
tatives of oertain missinns inoluding that of the Japan-
O
ese Ambassador.
There is enelosed a copy of a further note from the
Japazese Ambassador stating that Mr. Tatsuo Shiraki,
Mechanieal Engimeer, and a resident representative of
the Mew York offiee of the Japanese Government Railways
desires
π
A1
The Monorable
Kenry Morganthau, Jr.,
Seeretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.92)
--
Gesires te be exempted from the payment of imssme taz en
his effieial cempensation. It will be ebserved thas it
is stated that Xr. Shiraki is a Japanese natiomal asd
that he succeeds Mr. I. Yamaneuehi, who has departed frem
this coumtry.
In acoordanoe with the provisions of Beetion ll6 (h)
of the Revenue Aot of 1938, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to the employees of the Govern-
ment of the United States performing services in Japan
and that the character of the servioes performed by the
employees of the Government of the United States in for-
eign countries is similar to the services performed by
Mr. Shiraki in the United States.
It is assumed that the appropriate revenue offioials
of your Department will be advised in the matter in order
that Mr. Shiraki may be exempted from the payment of in-
come taxes.
Sinoerely yours,
sumner Welled
Acting Secretary
Enslosure:
From the Japanese Embassy,
Routino
BEC 22 1938.
no. 216, Deoember 8, 1938.
S
2m
FE.
FA:FM:HVH:MPW:SS
Le
das
12/20
Jms
yrace

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
JAN 9 1939
DEPARTMENT OF STATT
10
RECEIVED
JAPANESE EMBASSY
DFPARTMEIT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
DIVISION OF FOREION
SERVICE ADMINISTHATION
.968
1073 DEC 29 AM 9 4
DEC 2 9 1938
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
NO.1240
C.
LAI, LASIEMN AIPINS
13
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
994. 01B11
Department or State
compliments to the Honorable the Acting Secrotary
of
State and has the honor to request that the
AND
894.01
opended list of names of Japanese navel officers
be added to the list of officials attached to the
Naval Inspector's Office of the Imperial Japanese
ω
Navy Department in New York, who wish to be granted
exemption from taxation of their salaries, which
they receive from their Government as compensation
for official services.
The Ambassador has further the honor to
state that the officials mentioned therein are of
Japanese nationality.
(Enclosyre)
December 28, 1938.
F/A
S.K.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
NAVAL OFFICERS ATTACHED TO THE NAVAL INSPECTORS'
OFFICE OF THE IMPERIAL JAPANESE NAVY DEPARTMENT
IN NEW YORK.
COMMANDER TADASHI MIKAMI
Will arrive at Seattle, Washington on
December 31, 1938, on board the "Hikawa
Maru". He will remain here for about
two years.
ENGINEER LIEUTENANT COMMANDER KIYOMI WATANABE
Arrived at San Francisco, California, on
December 22, 1938, on board the "Chichibu
Maru". He will remein here for about three
years.
NAVAL ENGINEER TOSHIYUKI MORI
Arrived at San Francisco, California, on
December 22, 1938 on board the "Chichibu
Maru". He will remain here for about one
year and a half.
The principal duty of the above-named officers
is to inspect materials to be purchased by the
Japanese Government.

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.91)
Janvary 5 100
The Leting Seeretary of state presemte his eompli-
ments to His Exselleney the Japanese Ambassader and has
the honor te acknowledge the reeeipt of his mote me. 240
of December 28, 1938 requesting that the appended list
of names of Japanese naval offieers be added to the list
of offiolals attaohod to the Naval Inspeotor's Offiee of
894.01
the Imperial Japanese Navy Department in New York City
whe wish to be granted exemption from taxatien on their
B
offioial compensation.
Cepies of the Ambassador's note and its emelesure
have been transmitted to the sompetent authority ef the
Govermment of the Umited States fer appropriate astiem.
Departmont of ssate,
A true copy of
Washingten,
1989
151080
NPD
08
811/111
2
900

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.97)
In reply refer to
PA 894.01 B 11/111
Ny dear Mr. Seoretary:
Referenee is made to the letter of the Department
of State of November 8, 1938 enolosing for the informa-
tion of the appropriate authority of your Department a
89
4.0
oopy of a oiroular note addressed to the Chiefs of the
Foreign Diplomatio Missions at Washington under date of
August 15, 1938 with a view to the avo1danoe 1n future
B
of difrioulties experlenced upon occasions by employees
of the various countries with respeot to the liability
for the payment of inoome taxes upon their departure
from the United States. There were also enelosed coples
of the replies received from the representatives of
Canada, France, Netherlands, Japan and Venesuela.
There are enolosed copies of a further nete and
1ts enclosure from the Japanese Ambassador requesting
that
F
The Homorable
1
Reary Nergemtheu, Jr.,
A
Seesvtary of the Treasury.

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.91)
-2-
that the appended list of names of Japanese maval effi-
sers be added to the list of offieials attached te the
Maval Inspestor's Office of the Imperial Japanese Mavy
Department at New York City who wish to be granted
exemption from taxation on their offieial compemsation.
In accordanee with the provisions of Seetion lle(h)
of the Revenue Aot of l93s, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government
of the United States performing services in Japan and
that the charaoter of the services performed by employees
of the Government of the United States in foreign coun-
tries is similar to the services performed by the Japanese
offioials named in the attaohed list. It is stated that
all of the employees listed are Japanese oitizens.
Sinoorely yours,
Sumner Welles
Aoting Beoretary
Enclosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
trye copy of
Deoember 28, 1938, w1th
enolosure.
Un 
JA 1.939
08
470
S
Imn
L
FF
FA:FM:MPW:SS
1/4

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.94)
FAT
RLCTREASURY DEPARTMENT
EORTMENTSTATE
WASHINGTON
1939 JAN 4 AM 9 25
DEC 3,1938
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
SERVICE ADMINISTHALJON
D.VISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
111
Ay dear .r. Secretary:
LEPARTMENTOFSIATE
I have your 1etter o1 ece er :2, 1 38 (1A' s4.01 E 11/110)
enclosing a cony oi a note fro the Jacunese bassador which
concerns the desire of the Ja un se overrnent to obtain exemp-
tion from the panent of . cdcral incore tax on the official
compensation received by :r. atsto shiruli, resident renresenta-
894.01
tive of the  ew Yor o: fice or t e Jaranese  ver e:t ailweys.
The subject natter uruer discussior in your letter is
receiving the carerul consiccrat on o. tuis Department and you
will be further acvised in re arc t ereto at the earliest
practicable date.
B
In the event that furti er corresno: dence relati.e to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:1:1:2:RLB.
Very truly yours,
Zaylor
Wlayne
2
Acung secrotary oi the Treasury.
The Fonorable,
The Secretary of State,
hashington, D. C.
F/A
11

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGAL ADVISER
JAN 23 9
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
RECETVED
: PANTMENT OF STATE
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
1939
DIVISION OF FORBIGN
SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
No.8
JAN161939
DIVISIONL
COMMUNICATION-
AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR FASTERN AFFAI
ments to the Honorable the Secretary of State
811.5122/25820
m
with reference to the Secretary's note of August 15,
1938, has the honor to state that Mr. Minoru Yagami,
a Japanese national and Secretury of the Japanese
Government Railways in New York, will leave New York
894-011311
894.01
on February 4, 1939 aboard the steamship "Aquitania"
for Japan.
B
Mr. Yagami's salary wes derived solely from
the Japanese Government as compensation for official
service to the Government while in this country.
3
The Ambassador begs leave to request the
Secretary of State to be good enough to cause neces-
sary steps to be taken so that Mr. Yagami may be per-
mitted to leave the United States without difficulty
with respect to the payment of income taxes.
FILED
January 14, 1939.
F/A
A.K.

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.92)
x
The Seeretary of State presents his eempliments to
Mis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassador and has the homer
to aekmowledge the reeeipt of his nete no. è of Jamuary 14,
1930 comeeraing the departure frem New York on February 4
894.01
en beard the steamship Aqultanle of Mr. Minore Yagami,
Seeretary ef the Japanese Gevernment Railways in that eity.
B
A copy of the Ambassador's note has been transmitted
to the competent anthority of the Government of the United
3
States with a view to the exemptien ef Mr. Yagami from the
payment of ineeme tax en the offieial compemsatiem re-
ceived by him fer serviees rendered in the United States.
nal.
R
pastmt ef state.
January 21 1959

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.96)
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
There 1s enolosed a copy of a note from the Japan-
ese Ambassador conoerning the departure from New York on
February 4, 1939 on board the steamship Aguitania of
894.0
Mr. Minoru Yagami, Seoretary of the Japanese Government
Railways in New York. It will be obeerved that the Ambas-
sador states that Mr. Yagami is a Japanese national.
B
Referenoe is made to the letter of the Department of
State dated September 12, 1933, 1n whioh, in relation to
the Treasury Department's letter of Ootober 9, 1934, (Treas-
ury file IR: GC:I:JCs), and to subsequent correspondence in
3
regard to the exemption of officers of foreign governments
in the United States, in a nondiplomatic status, from Fed-
eral inoome tax with respest to wages, fees and salaries
received by them in compensation for their services in the
United States,
The Honorable
Heary Morgenthau, Jr.,
B/A
Seeretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
Waited states, there was enelosed a list of those sountries,
imeluding Japan, in whieh Ameriean consular officers and em-
pleyees and other mondiplematic offieers and employees are
exempt frem the payment of ineome tax on their official com-
pensation.
In accordance w1th the provisions of Seetion 116 (h)
of the Revenue Aot of 1938, I certiry that Japan grants an
equivalent exemption to employees of the Government of the
United Btates performing services in Japan, and that the
charaoter of the services performed by officers of the Gov-
ernment of the United States in foreign countries is similar
to the services performed by Mr. Yagami in the United States.
I therefore hope that he will be granted exemption from in-
come taxation on his officlal compensation, and that you
will notify the intereated officers of your Department ac-
cordingly.
crell Aull
Enolosure:
From Japanese Embassy,
no. 8, January 14,
1939.
CR
JAN 21 1939
Routin
g2o
recus
22211
M
FF
FA:FM:MCM:SS
m.mA.
1/19

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.94)
Fit
RECLTREASURY DEPARTMENT
72
ARTHENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
SEAVAUMINISIRALION
DIVIS ON OF
14
JAN 16 1939
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I have your 1etter of January 6, 1939 (FA 894.01 B 11/111)
with its enclosure, a cory of Lespatch No. 240 from the Japanese
Ambassador transmitting a supplemental list of the names of
employees of the Japanese Government in the United States, all
894.01
of whom are Japanese subjects, whose exemption is desired fron
the payment of Federal income taxes on their official compensation.
The subject matter under discussion is receiving the care-
ful consideration of this Department and you will be further
advised in regard thereto at the earliest practicable date.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
8
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:P:T:2-RLB.
Very truly yours,
4
John WHanes
▲oting Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
F/A

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION 
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
EUROPLAN
JAN20
E
andoth of Conversation
DEPARTMINI
S ECFIYL
DATE: December 5, 1938.
DCR
SUBJECT:
PARTiciPAnTs: Dr. Walter A. Riddell, Counselor of the Canadian Legation.
Mr. Hamilton,
Mr. Ballantine.
MR. HOR BECK
LAR EASTERN AFFANS
DG6-1938
COPIES TO:
Deoame of Stare
894.01
1-1408
Dr. Riddell stated that the Canadian Government
had been approached by the Japanese Legation in regard
B
to a proposal for the establishment at Winnipeg of an
office of the semi-private Central Bureau of Trade
Associations of Japan, for the study of trade possi-
5
bilities between Japan and Canada, the adjustment of
trade disputes between merchants of the two countries,
et cetera. He inquired whether this organization was
operating in the United States, and whether a similar
approach had been made to this Government by the Japa-
nese Government.
FILED
Mr. Hamilton stated that he did not know whether
204060
the Central Bureau of Trade Assooiations of Japan had
any

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
any offioes in the United States and that no approach
had been made by the Japanese Government in conneotion
with any proposed establishment of an office of that
organization here. Mr. Hamilton added, after consulting
Mr. Ballantine, that he had never heard of any such
organization having been established in the United States.
Mr. Hamilton explained that such an organization could
probably operate here on the same basis as the South
Manchuria Railway Company which had maintained for years
an office at New York without being under necessity of
obtaining permission of this Government. Mr. Hamilton
expressed his regret at being unable to supply Dr. Riddell
with more positive information in regard to the Central
Bureau of Trade Associations of Japan or its possible
activities in the United States, and he thanked Dr. Riddell
for having brought to our attention, as a matter of interest,
the proposal to establish at Winnipeg an office of that
organization.
mm11
Cu
FE:Ballantine:VCI:REK

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.96)
iock
fle
PHCFIYEL
DEPARTMENT OF STA
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN APPAIR
December 12, 1938.
OK
With reference to the Central Bur-
eau of Trade Associ&tions of Japan men-
tioned by Dr. Riddell in his conversa-
tion with you on December 5, it has not
been possible positively to identify
this organization. However, Dr. Riddell
hes informed Mr. Ballantine by telephone
that the Japanese name of this orgsni-
zation 1s the Boeki Kumia1 Chuoka1. On
8
page 63 of the November 30 Manchurian
6
supplement of the New York Journal of Com-
4
merce ie an advertisement of the Japan
Foreign Trade Federation whose telegraphic
address is given as Boekichuo. From this
fact it is almost certain that the Japan
Foreign Trade Federation and Central
8
Bureau of Trade Associations of Japan are
the eame thing. In English translations
of Japanese names of organizations wide
variation frequently occur.
According to an article on page 77
of the same publicetion the Japen Foreign
9
Trade Federation, heeded by Kenl1 Kodema
(former head of the Yokohame Specie Benk
and now President of the Central China
Develoument Company), ws formed on
July 1, 1938, for the purpose of:
1. Guidence, study and surveys neces-
sary for the promotion of foreign trade,
T
1
2. The

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
2. The introduction of industry and
commerce to foreign countries and vice
versa, and
3. The employment of good offices in
the promotion of foreign trade.
The Federetion, made up of 6 ex-
porters' es ociatione, 1l federetions of
exporters' associations, end 4 importers'
aseociat1ons, comprising some 14,000 mem-
bers, maintains trade agencies in 14
cities throughout the world, Sen Francisco
being one of them. Twelve more agencles
are to be esteblished this year. In close
contact with the trade agencles are 12
part-time trade correspondents, three of
which are located n the United States:
at Seattle, Chicago, and Houston.
The only Japanese agency registered
with CA which through 1ts name might con-
ce1vably be 1dentified with the Japan
Foreign Trede Federetion 1s the Japanese
Committee on Trade and Information, 549
Market Street, San Frencisco, Celifornie
(Reg1stration No. 227), wh1ch upon ex-
amination of the registration of the or-
genization appears to be an aseociation
of purely locel Japenese merchants 1n
that city.
Further

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
Further effort will be made to ob-
tain the address of the San Francisco
branch of the Japan Foreign Trade Feder-
ation, and the addresses o? the trede cor-
respondents in the other citiee mentioned,
1f they exist. If end when these addresses
are obtained, it is prop osed to suggest
to CA that the usual circular with regard
to the registration of foreign arents be
sent to them.
11
FE:Schuler: VCI

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.99)
LIST OF AGENTS OF FOREIGN PRINCIPALS
REGISTERED WITH THE SECRETARY OF STATE
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF
THE ACT OF JUNE 8, 1938.
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
1
Frederick Moore
1868 Columb1a Road,
Washington, D. C.
2
American Zeppelin
90 Broad Street,
Transport, Inc.
New York, New York
3
Ugo Tomenotti
General P.0. Box 185,
New York, New York
4
Swiss Federel Rail-
475 Fifth Avenue,
roads
New York, New York.
5
Stephen T. Goerl
R.K.O. Building,
Rockefeller Center,
New York, New York.
6
Edward Cave
205 East Forty-second St.,
New York, New York
7
Wales Advertising
230 Park Avenue,
Company, Inc.
New York, New York
894.01
8
Alexander Cairns,
209 Ampere Parkway
LL.D.
Bloomfield, N.J.
9
Taneo Ta keta
60 East Forty-second St.,
New York, New York.
10
Herbert S. Houston
70 Fifth Avenue,
B
New York, New York
11
Earl H. Leaf
33 West Fifty-fifth St.,
New York, New York
12
The Caples Company
230 Park Avenue,
New York, New York
13
Polish Information
411 Albee Building,
Service
Washington, D. C.
14
White Lowell Company, 595 Madison Avenue,
Incorporated
New York, New York.
15
Hubert Lejeune
"Maison Francaise",
610 Fifth Avenue,
New York, New York
16
Culbertson and Leroy
412-417 Colorado Building,
Washington, D. C.
17
John M. Taylor
311 Azteo Building.
San Antonio, Texas.
18
Attilio Gaudio
101 West Fifty-second St.,
New York, New York.

=== Page 381 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
19
Walter W. George
150 Nassau Street,
New York, New York
20
Briggs and Varley,
14 East Forty-eighth St.,
Inc.
New York, New York.
21
Francis Deák
607 Kent Hall,
Columbia University,
New York, New York.
22
Franklin H. Chino
335 West Madison St.,
Chicago, Illinoie.
23
Frederick V. Williams 605 Market Street
San Francisco, California
24
Gunülach Advertising
400 North Michigen Avenue,
Agency
Chicagc, Illinois
25
Charles W. Hoyt
551 Fifth Avenue,
Company, Inc.
New York, New York
26
Cunard White Star
25 Broadway
Limited
New York, New York
27
Roberts Mathew Firth
320 Bay Street,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada
28
Compagnie Generale
610 Fifth Avenue,
Transatlantique
New York, New York
29
Swafford and Koehl,
341 Madison Avenue,
Inc.
New York, New York
30
John H. Wuorinen
630 Fifth Avenue,
New York, New York
31
William Wills Davies
122 East Forty-second St.,
New York, New York
32
Jananese Chamber of
500 Fifth Avenue,
Commerce of New
New York, New York
York, Inc.
33
Dwight E. Haven
16706 Blackstone Avenue,
Detroit, Michigan.
34
Warren S. Lockwood
Munsey Building,
Washington, D. C.
35
Switzerland Cheese
105 Hudson Street,
Association, Inc.
New York, New York
36
Peter S. Prazmowski
280 Sip Avenue,
Jersey City, New Jersey
37
Robert Holland Tait
Room 608, 620 F1fth Avenue
New York, New York

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
38
Blanehe Foote Hudson
Rocm 608, 620 F1fth Avenue
New York, New York
39
Reuters Limited of
383 Madison Avenue,
London
New York, New York
40
Wildrick and Miller,
630 Fifth Avenue,
Inc.
New York, New York
41
Dr. Paul Wohl
821 Nineteenth St., N.W.
Washington, D. C.
42
Trans-Pacific News
1250 Sixth Avenue,
Service, Inc.
New York, New York
43
Shoji Osato
333 N. Michigan Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois.
44
Juan Francisco
Ritz Carlton Hotel,
de Cardenas
Madison Ave. at 46th St.,
New York, New York
45
Carl G. Orgell
Grent Kills,
S.I./New York
46
Wendell F. Colton
122 East Forty-second St.,
Company
New York, New York
47
Francisco de S.
Hotel McAlpin,
Larcugui
Broadway at 34th Street,
New York, New York
48
Hamilton Wright
30 Rockefeller Plaza
Organization, Inc.
New York, New York
49
Batten, Barton,
383 Madison Avenue,
Duretine and Osborn, New York, New York
Inc.
50
James F. Paget
British Passnort Control
(Cantain-sir)
Office, 25 Broadway,
New York, New York
51
Erwin, Wasey and
420 Lexington Avenue,
Company, Inc.
New York, New York
52
William P. Mangold
110 East Forty-second St.,
New York, New York
53
Robert A. Wright
48-14 Ninety-th1rd Street,
Elmhurst, Queens, New York
54
Hermon W. Stevens
244 Washington Street,
Boston, Massachusetts.
55
William Laurie
606 South Hill Street,
Middlemass
Los Angeles, California

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
56
Robert Whiteford
606 South Hill Street,
Marshall
Los Angeles, California
57
Kahin and Carmody
640 Central Building,
Seattle, Waahington
58
Colonnade Advertis-
430 Lafayette Street
ing Agency
New York, New York
59
J. Raymond Hoover
Metropolitan Bank Building
Washington, D. C.
60
Sir Willmott Harsant
Room 12cl, Nat. Prese Bldg.,
Lewic
Washington, D. C.
61
Clifford E. Green
8/10 Bridge Street,
New York, New York
62
Ernst Schmitz
11 West Fifty-seventh St.,
New York, New York
63
Italy America
12? East Fifty-eighth St.,
Society, Inc.
New York, New York
64
Albert Frank-
131 Cedar Street,
Guenther Law, Inc.
New York, New York
65
Walter Fanccurt Bell
British Passport Control
Office, 25 Brondway,
New York, New York
66
Italion Chamber of
80 Broad Street,
Commerce in New York New York, New York
67
John C. Kelly
30 Rockefeller Plaza
New York, New York
68
Kelly, Mason nd
30 Rockefeller Plaza,
Winsten, Ind.
New York, Nev: York
69
J. Walter Thompson
420 Lexington Avenue,
Company
New York, New York
70
Sherman K. Ellis and
500 Fifth Avenue,
Company
New York, New York
71
Loomis and Hall,
701 Congress Building,
Inc.
Miami, Florida
72
G. F. Snyder
707 Colorado Building,
14th and G Streets, N.W.
Washington, D. C.
73
Eugene M. Prince
Standard Oil Building,
225 Bush Street,
San Francisco, California.
74
Italian Line
624 Fifth Avenue,
New York, New York

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
75
Miguel Echeroray
2 East Thirty-fourth St.,
New York, New York
76
Holland-America Line
29 Broadway,
New York, New York
77
Peninsular News
2 East Thirty-fourth St.,
Service, Inc.
New York, New York
78
Charles M. Carpenter
36 West Forty-fourth St.,
New York, New York
79
Sarah Jane Finegan
620 Fifth Avenue
New York, New York
80
Bertram Lord
620 Fifth Avenue,
New York, New York
81
Red Star Steamship
17 Battery Place,
Co., Inc.
New York, New York
82
Felix Greene
620 Fifth Avenue,
New York, New York
83
North German Lloyd
57 Broadway
New York, New York
84
Hamburg-American
57 Broadway,
Line
New York, New York
85
German Railroads
11 West Fifty-seventh St.,
Information Ofrice
New York, New York
86
Italian Chamber of
604 Montgomery Street,
Commerce of
San Francisco, California.
California
***

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
87
George F. Handel
165 Broadway
New York, New York
88
Ernest D. Gossweiler
61-63 Van Dam St.,
New York, New York
89
Eugene Hevesi
Rm. 410, 25 Broadway
New York, New York
90
Eugene Havas
25 Broadway,
New York, New York
91
Douglas D. Rothacker
729 Seventh Ave.,
N.w York, N w York
92
Trans-Atlantic
80 Broad St.,
Passengr Conierence
New York, N-w York
93
Byoir and Ascociates, 10 East 40th St.,
Carl, Inc.
New York, New York
94
B. rmingham, Castleman 136 East 38th St.,
and Piurce, Inc.
New York, New York
95
Pickrords Colonial,
9 Rockerell-r Plaza,
Inc.
New York, N w York
96
Oscar Diaz Albertini
Habana, Cuba, Aguiar No. 116
97
Falange Espanola
Tetuan St. No. 50, 1st F1.,
Tradicionalista Y De San Juan, P.h.
Las J.O.N.S. De P.R.
98
Alfonso Liranda
Tetuan St. No. 50,
Esteve
San Juan, P.R.
99
Ernest Berger
301-3 First National
Bank Building,
Tamoa, Florida
100
Canadian Pacific
Canadian Pacific Building,
Reilway Company
Madison at 44th St.,
New York, New York
101
Jones & Brakeley, Inc. 150 Nassau St.,
New York, New York
102
Gregory Lance
1220 S.W. Stark St.,
Portland, Oregon
103
Assouioted British
9 Rockefeller Plaza,
and Irish Railways,
New York, New York
Inc.
104
Ugo V. d'Annunzio
Suite 2306-11
595 Madison Ave.,
New York, New York
105
Luis M. Alzamora
21 West St.,
New York, New York

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
106
Vilho Olavi JArvinen
99 Hudson St.,
New York, New York
107
The Gilliams Service, 270 West 39th St.,
Inc.
New York, New York
108
Dr. Laszlo Telkes
19 West 44th St.,
New York, New York
109
Bowman, Deute,
215 Market St.,
Cummings, Inc.
San Frencisco, California
110
Acorn Agency, Inc.
1270 Sixth Ave.,
Ne.w York, New York
111
Norwegian America
24 State St.,
Line Agency, Inc.
New York, New York
112
Kokusai Bunka
630 Fifth Ave.,
Shinkokai (The Soci- New York, New York
ety for International
Cultural Reletione)
113
French Government
610 Fifth Ave.,
Tourist Bureau
New York, New York
114
William Irving
267 Fifth Ave.,
Hamilton, Tnc.
New York, New York
115
Albert Sidney Noble
17 East 42nd St.,
New York, New York
116
Juan Aramburu
Hotel New Weston,
Echevarr1a.
31 East 49th St.,
New York, New York
117
Ramon de la Sota y
Hotel New Weston,
MacMahon
31 East 49th St.,
New York, New York
118
Manuel de la Sota
Hotel New Weston,
Aburto
31 East 49th St.,
New York, New York
119
N. W. Ayer & Son, Inc. West Wasnington Square,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
120
Ivan Pouschine
101 Downing Ave.,
Seacliff, Long Island, N.Y.
121
Orbis Polish Travel
38 Pearl St.,
Bureau, Inc.
New York, New York
122
British Empire
620 Fifth Ave.,
Chamber of Commerce
New York, New York
in the U.S.A., Inc.
123
Swedish American Line 636 Fifth Ave.
New York, New York

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
124
The Dominican Chamber 30 Rockefeller Plaza,
of Commerce of the
Room 3429
United States, Inc.
New York, New York
125
Westel w. Willoughby
1921 Kalorama Road,
Washington, D. C.
126
The American-Swedish
630 F1fth Ave.,
News Exchangt, Inc.
Nuw York, N w York
127
Furness, Withy & Cc.,
34 Whitehall St.,
Ltd.
New York, N w York
128
Josenh Ellner
351 Fourth Avo.,
New York, New York
129
Gdynia Ame rica Line
32 Puarl St.,
Now York, N-w York
130
Falcor Agency
50 Union Square,
Now York, N.w York

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
131
Tetsusaburo Uyeda
Bridlespur Hunt Club
Huntleigh Village,
St. Louis, Missouri
132
Waterman Steamship
80 Broad Street,
Agency, Inc.
New York, New York
133
Anderson, Davis &
1270 Sixth Ave.,
Flatte, Inc.
New York, New York
134
Pan-American Coffee
120 Wal1 St.,
Bureau
New York, New York
135
Frederick U. Dodge
487 Orange St.,
Co., Inc.
Newark, N.J.
136
Charles J. Zeller
1201 East 55th St.,
Chicago, Illinois
137
Alonzo B. Cornell
1l1 Broadway,
New York, New York
138
Antonio Pacheco Padró
Box 510, San Juan,
Puerto Rico
139
Hendrik August
25 Broadway,
Statius Muller
New York, New York
140
Helmut L. Ripperger
630 Fifth Ave.,
New York, New York
141
The Swedish Chamber
630 Fifth Ave.,
of Commerce of the
New York, New York
United States of
America, Inc.
142
Vincent Paul Walsh
44 Wall St., Rm. 1105,
New York, New York
143
Leipzig Trade Fair,
10 East Fortieth St.,
Inc.
New York, New York
144
Ramón Portela Sobrino P.O. Box 1136,
San Juan, Puerto Rico
145
Royal Netherlands
25 Broadway,
Steamship Co.
New York, New York
146
Arthur Sedlák
1450 Broadway,
New York, New York
147
Robert S. Janney
630 Fifth Ave.,
New York, New York
148
Tokyo Commercial and
200 Madison Ave.,
Industrial Museum
New York, New York

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.97)
-10-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
149
Augusto Cueto
Allen 4 Altos,
San Juan, Pu-rto Rico
150
Osaka Syosen Kaisya
17 Battery Place,
New York, N-w York.
151
Fan American
Rialto Theater Building,
Pictures, Inc.
Washington, D. C.
***

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
152
Harold Auten
1540 Breadway,
New York, New York
153
Ellis Advurtising Co.
3003-3057 Main St.,
Buffalc, New York
154
Thomas Cock and Son-
587 Fifth Ave.,
Wagens-Lits, Inc.
New York, New York
155
Compagnia Italiana
626 Fifth Ave.,
Turismo, Inc.
New York, Now York
156
Maxon, Inc.
27el East Jefferson Ave.,
Detroit, Michigan
157
Nippon Yusen Kaisya,
New York Branch
Ltd.
25 Broadway,
New York, New York
158
Mandeville Press
6 East 45th St.,
Bureau
New York, N- w York
159
Racul du Roussy de
70 Went 55th St.,
Sales
New York, Ne w York
160
Paul E. Bewshea
620 Fifth
Ave.,
New York,
N-w York
161
Italian Tourist In-
626 Firth Ave.,
formation Office by
New York, New York
Goffredo Pantaleoni
162
Robert Wilberforce,
270 Madison Ave.,
Director of British
New York, New York
Library of Infor-
mation
163
Angus S. Fletcher,
270 Madison Ave.,
Director of British
New York, New York
Library of Infor-
metion
164
McCann-Erickson, Inc. 285 Madison Ave.,
New York, New York
165
Publicity Associates
350 Fifth Ave.,
New York, New York
166
Buchanan and Company,
1501 Broadway,
Inc.
New York, New York
167
Arthur Louis Colato
The Waldorf Astoria,
New York, New York
168
Antonio de Ire la
Hotel New Weston,
31 East 49th St.,
New York, New York

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.97)
-12-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
6169
Arthur Henry O'Connor 5lo West Sixth St.,
Los Angeles, California
170
John J. Sulger
15 West 47th St.,
New York, New York
171
Gotham Advurtising
250 Park Ave.,
Co.
Now York, N w York
172
Raymond Lange
Le Petit Parisien,
229 West 43rd St.,
New York, New York
***

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.96)
-13-
No.
Name
Address
173
Doremus and Company
120 Bro dway,
Now York, Now York.
174
Swedish Travel Informction
630 Fifth Ave.,
Bureau, Inc.
New York, New York.
175
Jean-Paul Freyec
107 Park Averuc,
New Yor, Ne w York.
176
Mikulas v. Mara
Cacchoslevak Export
Inctitute,
1135 Merchandise Mert,
Chicago, Illirois.
177
Sidney Eric Wherton
655 Fift. Ave.,
New York, New York.
178
Robert S. Farley
165 Broadway,
New Yor., Now York.
179
Lawrence C. Gumbinner
9 East 4lst Street,
Advertising Agency
New York, New York.
18C
r nut Olsen
580 Firth Avenue,
New York, Now York.
181
Hotol Represcatative, Inc.
620 Fifti. Ave., Rr. F08,
New York, New York.
182
Kokussi Kisen Kebushiki
1 Broadwey,
Kcisya
Now York, New Yor.
183
Bass-Luckoff, Inc.
607 Lafoyette Building,
Detrcit, Michigan.
184
Reincke-Ellis-Younggruen
520 N. Michigan Ave.,
& Finn, Inc.
Chicago, Illinois.
185
Frank D. Pavey
32 Liberty Street,
Now York, New York.
186
Brazilian Inforny tion
551 Fifth Avenue,
Bureau
Now York, Now York.
187
Brucc Bliven
40 East 49th St.,
New York, Now York.
188
Robert Charles Harry
London News Chronicle Office
Waithman
75 Wost Street,
New York, Now York.
189
Small & Seiffer, Inc.
24 West 40th St.,
New York, Now York.
190
Gastone Tonelli
Canada Dry Girger Ale, Ire..
100 East 42nd St.,
New York, Now York.
191
C. A. Mackoy & Co.
96 Front Stroet,
New York, New York.

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
192
Board of Tourist Industry
551 Fifth Ave.,
of the Japanese Govern-
New York, N-w York
ment Railways and Japan
Tourist Bureau
193
Frank Presbrey Company
247 Park Ave.,
New York, New York
194
Guenther Carl Viegand
James MeSrerry a Co.,
34th St. & 5th Ave.,
N-y York, New York
195
Lennen ami mitchell, Inc.
17 Eart 45th St.,
New York, New York
196
Ameri cen-Czechoslovak
1440 Sroadwey,
Chambir or Comaorce, Inc. Suite 1563,
New York, New York
197
Ralph Dellevie
561 Fifth Ave.,
New York, New York
198
Albert Nathan
c04 Cetton Exchunge Bldg.,
Houstor, Texas.
199
French Chember of Commerce, 4 East 52nd St.,
of the U. S., Inc.
Now York, New York
200
Picard Advertising, Inc.
250 West 57th St.,
New York, New York
201
North American Office of
383 Madison Ave.,
Haves News Agency
New York, New York
(Agence Havas)
202
Wade Warren Thayer
604-5 Stangenwald B1dg.,
Honolulu, Hawa1i
(F.0.Box 202)
203
Miguel Angel Trujillo
82 Beaver St., Room 702,
New York, New York
204
George B. Ingram
500 Fifth Ave.,
New York, New York
205
German-American Chamber
333 Pine St.,
of Commerce of the
San Francisco, California
Pacific Coast
206
Mithoff and White
516 Martin Building,
El Paso, Texas.
207
Royal Packet Navigation
405 Lexington Ave.,
Company (N.V.K.P.M.)
New York, New York.
208
Italian Chamber of Com-
1023-25 Barracks St.,
merce of New Orleans
New Orleans, Louisiana

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.97)
-15-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
209
R. Guy Frederick
Arctic Building,
S-attle, Warhington
210
Foard of Trede for Ger-
10 East 40th St.,
man-ampicen Comnerce,
Neow York, Now York
Inc.
211
Pierre Clavel
610 Fifth Ave.,
New York,  York
212
Robert St. Clair Co.
2nd Notionol Bank Blig.,
Wilken Berre, Fennsylvania
213
Deuglas L. Cullison
61 Broadway
Now York, N. " York
214
John M. Walczak
383 Mndison Ave.,
New York, New York
215
J. A. Nash and Company
10 Pearl Street,
Now York, Now York
216
Fr-nci. Naticnal Railrcads
"Maison Fronceise",
Rockefeller Center,
6lo Firt. Ave.,
New York, Now York.

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
217
Christopher James Hanratty
105 West Adams St., Pm.900,
Chicago, Illincis
218
(Edmund) Edward Hadley
1708 R Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
219
Ruthrauff and Ryan, Inc.
405 Lexington Ave.,
New York, New York
220
Kenyon and Eckhardt, Inc.
247 Park Ave.,
New York, New York
221
Internaticnal Documents
2960 Broadway,
Service, Columbia
New York, New York
University Press
222
Maric de Biasi Advertising
51 Chambers St.,
Agency, Inc.
New York, New York
223
Hanus Reiss
1265 Broadway,
New York, New York
224
Charles Daniel Frey Co.
333 North Micligan Ave.,
Chicago, Illincis
225
Alan A. Dudley
270 Madison Ave.,
New York, New York
226
Holland-American Chamber
420 Market St.,
of Ccmnerce for the Pacific San Francisco, California
Coast States, Inc.
227
Japanese Committee on
549 Market St.,
Trade and Information
San Francisco, California
228
Jerome Charles Caminada
The Times, London,
280 Broadway,
New York, New York
229
David Tannenbaum
11 West 42nd St.,
New York, New York
230
Louis Stephen Law
630 Fifth Ave.,
New York, New York
231
Arthur Everett Hobbs
501 Fifth Ave.,
New York, New York
232
Pacific Coast Borax Co.
510 W. 6th St., Rm. 200,
Los Angeles, California
233
Guardian Newspapera, Inc.
220 West 42nd St.,
New York, New York
234
Dorland International, Inc. R.C.A. Build ing
Rockefeller Center,
New York, New York.

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.98)
-17-
NO.
NAME
ADDRESS
235
India Chamber of Commerce
665 Fifth Ave.,
or America, Inc.
New York, New York
236
Arnold . Knauth
70 Pine Street,
New York, New York
***

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.95)
MR. HORNBECK
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DEC 161938
NT
FROM
a
21wu m 32collect gvt
vistonof
SAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
HOUSTON Tex 334p Doc 13 38
R C Bannerman
CHIEF SPECIAL AGENT DEPT OF STATE
894.01
Nobuzo Kawai four thirteen West Clay Street Houston has been
correspondent of vuoan foreign trade Federation for about one
month and he was formerly representative of Ministry of Commerce
and industry
Gahwe Postoffice Inspector
535p
8
FTA
894,01311
FILED

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.97)
28
! : vision of
MA. HORNBECH
 AA LASTERN AFFAIRS
B
JAN
DEC 1 6 1938
11938
MENI U SI
ent of State
2po m 115gvt COLLECT
JO- Seattle Wash 1258p Dec 13 1938
Bannerman
Chief Special Agent Department State
Japanese foreign trade federation and federation of exporters of
Japan unknown Seattle so far. Cable address Boekichuo not registered
with Seattle telegraph company, nrohably San Francisco, Tadao
Yasuda, Seattle cable address Shokosho, succeeded Masao Matsumoto
as agent Japanese Ministry of Commerce and Industry October first
this year. Apparently represents all trade organizations.
Yasuda, age 35, arrived Seattle september 21 on SS Hakawa Maru with
wife and son. Was a commissioner commerce and industry in Japan.
Now attached to Japanese Consulate, Seattle, as clerk in its
commerce department. Rented PO Box 22, Nippon station, Seattle,
September 23, giving address 1204 E Spruce Street and telephone
Main O5l5, which is Japanese consulate. May send supplemental wire
tomorrow
Caine
514p

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
rivisionbr
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
B
MR. HORNDECK
ACEC151938
DEC161938
Department of State
1po m 30collect gvt
GA- San Francisco Cal1f 43Op Dec 12 1938
Bannerman
CHIEF SPECIAL AGENT DEPT OF STATE
Retel Nippon tradeagency H K Watanabe manager 549 Market Street
San Francisco, is local branch of the Japanese foreign trade
federation.
Understand Kodama mentioned your wire 1s in Tokio
Hugdal
Acting
808p

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.95)
10℃R
101938
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NO
December 16, 1938.
The contents of FE's memorandum of Decem-
ber 12, 1938, in regard to the Japan Foreign
Trade Federation, with the exce tion of the
last paragraph, were telephoned to Dr. Riddell
of the Canadian Legation on December 12, 1938,
by Mr. Ballantine.
Subsequently the following additional
8
information was obtained:
6
(1) The Japanese Committee on Trade and
4
Informetion, 549 Market Street, San Francisco
(CA's registration no. 227) H. K. Watanabe,
b
Manager, is also the San Francisco branch of
the Japan Foreign Trade Federation.
ω
(2) Nobuzo Kawai, 413 West Clay Street,
Houston, Texas, is the correspondent in that
city of the Japen Foreign Trade Federation.
(3) Tadao Yasuda, Fost Office Box 22,
Nippon Station, Seattle, Washington, (a clerk
in the Japanese Consulate) is the agent of the
Japanese Ministry of Commerce and Industry and
apparently represents all Japanese trade
organizations in that city.
Mr. Ballantine telephoned the information
under (1) above to Dr. Riddell on December 16.
It is proposed to convey the information under
(2) and (3) to CA with a view to having the
usual circular in regard to registration of for-
eign agents sent to the individuals mentioned
I suggst ahho conmniste this d
FE:Schuler:HES
tooproutd

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.91)
EH
Hio
ON OF FOREION
FL
SERVICE ADNINISTRATION
RECEIVEL
ANTMENT JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
AFARTMEN
1939 JAN 25 AM 11 30
NO. 1/
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
The Japanese Ambassador presents his.
211
174
compliments to the Honoruble the Secretary of
Prrision of
F LASTERN AFTAIRS
State and has the honor to request that the name
e strent of State
of Mr. Yasumichi Tasake, a Japanese national,
be added to the list of officials attached to the
894.01
Japanese Government Railways, in New York City,
who wish to be granted exemption from taxation
B
of their salaries, which they receive from their
Government as compensation for official services.
20
Mr. Tasaka is succeeding Mr. Y. Yagami
as resident representative of the New York office
of the Japanese Government Railways. He arrived
at New York on January 12, 1939, aboard the steam-
FILED
ship "Tatsuta Maru" from Japan.
F/A
January 24, 1939.
11
1
人

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.93)
January 51 1989
RT
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.
There is enelosed a copy of a nete frem the Jape-
mese Ambassador concerming the desired exemption from
0
the payment of ineome taxes of Mr. Yaswmiehi Tasaks, a
B
Japeaese matienal who is susceeding Mr. Y. Yagami as
resident representative of the New York office of the
Japanese Govermment Rallways.
20
Referenee is made to the letter of the Department
of State dated September 12, 1935 1n whieh, in relation
to the Treasury Department's letter of Oetober 9, 1934
(Treasury file IR: GC: I: JCS), and to subsequemt corre-
spondense in regard to the exemption of offieers of
fereign gevermmemts in the Waited States, in a mon-
diplematie status, from Federel imeome tax with respest
to wages, fees and salarles reselved by them in sem-
pensatien fer their serviees in the Umited States, there
F/WB
was
Roary Horgemthen, Jr.,
Sesretary of the Treesury.

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.90)
à c Amortean consular effleere and mplegess e
ether non-aiplemntie effleers and empleyees are ememps
frem the payment of inceme tax on thelr of fieial com-
pensation.
In aceordanee with the provisions of Seetiom 11s (m)
of the Revemue Aet of l92s, I cortify that Japan greste
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Sovernmemt
of the Umited States performing services in Japan, and
that the ehmaraster a& the serviees perfermed by officers
of the Government of the United States in foreigm coun-
tries 1s similar to the services performed by Mr. Tasams
in the United States. I therefore hope that Mr. Tasaks
will be exempted from the payment of imeome tax on the
compemsation recei ved by him from the Japemese Govermment
for serviees rendered in the Uaited States and that the
appropriate antermal revenue official of your Departmemt
will be advised accordingly.
simeerely yours,
Cordoll Hull
Enslesure:
Frem Japanese Ambas-
aw
asys,1000.
JAM 80 1950
JAN 31 1959
gus

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.91)
The Seeretary of state presents his complimemts to
Mis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassader and has the hezer
to askmowledge the reseipt of kie mete mo. 1l of Jamu-
894.01B11/120
asy 24, 1939 cemerming the desired exemptiem frem the
paymeat of imeeme tax of Mr. Yasmiehi Tasaka, a Jape-
mese mational who is susceeding Mr. Y. Lagami as residemt
representative of the Mew Tork offiee of the Japanese
Gevermment ailmays.
A eopy of the Ambassador's nete has been transmitted
to the appropriate authority a the Sovermment of the
Uaited States with a view to the exemptien of Nr. Tasaka
frem the payment of imeeme tax en the eompemsatien re-
seived by his fres the Japanese Gevermment for servises
rendered sa the Waited states.
F/WB
Department of state,
January 51 1989
11

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.94)
LEA
RECEIVEL
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
LARTMENT OF STA
WASHINGTON
JAN27 1939
BERVICE AUMINISIHALION
COMMITION
ANDRECOLDS
DEPARTMBN OF SIATE
y cer r. Secretary:
I have your letter of January 21, 1939 (FA 894.01 3 11/113),
with is enclosure, a copy or a note fron the Japanese Ambassador
in ragara to the desired exemption fron Federal income tax on the
compensation received from the Japanese Government by Mr. Minoru
Yagami, Secretary or the Japanese Government Railways in New York,
wa inte as to leave the nited States on February 4, 1939, via
steamshio Aquitania.
894.01B
This matter is under immediate consideration in the Bureau
of Internal Revenue and you will be further advised in regard
thereto at the earliest practicable date.
In the event that further correspondence relativo to this
matter is ecessary, please refer to IT:P:T:2: LM.
Very truly yours,
Johu Whtaves
21
Aong Secre ur or th: Treasury.
!e Hon ruble,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
TATLA
F/FG
11

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.95)
F
LEGAL ADVISER
FEB 11 1939
i
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TREASURY DEPAEFMENT
OFPARTMENT OF ETATE
Fil
WASHINGTON
1939 FEB 3 AM 10 06
10 1939
Division o
JAN347939
OMMUNONS
Febt
AND HUS
1936
LEPAATMBNSQPETATS
My dear Mir. Secretary:
Further reference is made to your letter of Junmury 6, 1939,
894.01B1
(FA 394.01 B 11/111). in which you direct uttention to our letter
of Rovember 8, 1936 und un uccompanyi s cop of a circulur note
addressod to the chiefs of the foroin diplonatic missions at
Washington under dato of xugust 15, 1938, with u view to the
avoidance in the future of difficulties exporienced upon certain
occasions by employees of the varions countries with respect to
their liability for the payment of Federal incone tuxes on their
official compensution upon their dopurture fron the United States.
You enclose a copy or desputch lo. 240 udaressed to your De-
partment by the mbassador of Japan und an accompanying supple-
2
mental list of employees or the Jupulese overlent, resident in
2
the linited states, all or whor. it is stuted are Jupanese subjects.
You assume thut the proper officials of this Depurtment will be
advised in the matter in order that the individuals listed may be
exempted from the pay ent of Federal income taxes on their official
compensation.
In accordance with the provisions of section ll6(h) of the
Revenue hot of 1938, you certify that the Goverrunent of Japan
grants an equivalent exemption to enployees of the ovornment of
the United States performing services in Japan und that the
character of the services performed by employees of the Govern-
ment of the United States in foreign countries is similar to the
services performed within the United States by the individuals
named in the list accompanying despatch .o. 240.
In view of your certification, this Department holds that the
individuals named in the list furnished by the Ambassador of Japan
F/WB
are exempt from Federal inoome taxation on the compensation received

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
by them fron the Japanese Government for official services ren-
dered in the United States. Appropriate instructions will be
issued to the collectors of internal revenue for the districts in
which the individuals are located.
In the event that iurther correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to 1T:r:T:2-RLB.
Very truly yours,
JohnWHanes
Aoam Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.90)
The seeretary ef state presemts his cempliments to
Xis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassader and has the hemer
to refer to hie nete me. s40 ef Desember 2s, 10se re-
questing that the assempanying list of names of Japamese
naval efrieers be added to the list ef effisials attesked
to the Maval Inepeeter's Offise of the Imperial Japanese
894.
Navy Department in Mew York City who wish to be granted
exemptiem from taxatiem ef their efrieial cempemsatiem.
A letter has beem reseived frem the Treasury Depart-
msns stating that in view of the cersifieatiem of the
Department of state, the Treasury Department heles that
the effieors named in the list furnished by the Ambessekpe
are empt free Pederel Laceme tazation en the apem
ed  the frethe se Goe

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.86)
eetlectere of laternal rovemse for te distriete in
the Japemese effieere are statiened.
emt of state,
February 10 1939

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.97)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
SiAIL
WASHINGTON
1939 FE3 8 AM 9 30
DIVISION OF
140 4 1930
DIVISION UF FUHBIUN
MMUNICATIONS
DLI ARTMEN OF STATE
RUDLIU
1938 (FA 894.01 B 11/110) in which yo1 direct attention to your
letter of November 8, 1938 and an accompanying copy of a circul
note addressed to the chiefs of the foreign diplomatic mis tons
at Washington under date of August 15, 1933, with a view to the
894.0
avoidance in the fut re of difficulties experienced upon certain
occasions by employees of the various coun'ries with respect to
their liability for the payment of Federal income taxes on their
official compensation upon their departure from the United States.
You enclose a copy of a note addressed to your Department
on December 8, 1938 by the Japanese Ambassador in which it is
B
stated that Mr. Tatsuo Shiraki, a Japanese national, mechanical
engineer and a resident representative of the New York office of
the Japanese Government Railwa's, desires exemption from the pay-
ment of Federal income tax on his official comnensation. It is
also stated that Mr. Shiraki succeeds 'r. k. Yamanouchi, who has
departed from the United States. You assume that the proper
2
officials of this Department will be advised in the matter in
order that Mr. Shiraki may be exempt from the payment of income
tax on his official compensation.
In accordance with the provisions of section ll6(h) of the
Revenue Act of l938, you certify that the Japanese Government grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government of the United
States performing services in Japan and that the character of the
services performed by employees of the Government of the United
States in foreign countries is similer to the services performed
within the United States by Mr. Shiraki.
In view of your certification, this Denartment holds that
Mr. Shiraki is exempt from Federal income tax on the compensation
received by him from the Japanese Government for official services
rendered in the United States. Appropriate instructions will be
issued to the collector of internal revenue, Customhouse, New York.
New York.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB13 1939
Department et Stats

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
In the event further correspondence relative to this matter
is necessary, please refer to IT:P:T:2:RLB.
Very truly yours,
Johu WHanes
▲ctng Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Hashington, D. C.

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.95)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
No.17
A
rebruary
The Jupanese Embassudor prelsents his
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of
STATE
900
Stae and has the nonor to state thut Mr. asao
TIONS
ORDS
5
, a Japnese nationel and secretary to the
99F
Japanese Financial Commission of the Imperial
894.01
Japanese Government, 12o Broadway, New York City,
since January 28, 1937, wil] leave New York on
February 4, 1939 abosrd the steumship "Aquitani
Division of
FAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
for London.
vopartment of State
Mr. Ogawa's salary was derived solely
24
from the Jepanese Government as compensation for
m
officiul service to the Government while in this
811.5120
country.
The Ambassador begs leave to request the
Secretary of State to be good enough to cause neces-
F/A
sary steps to be taken so that Mr. Ogawa may be
FEB 6.1939
exempted from the peyment of income taxes and per-
FILD
mitted to leave the United States without difficulty.
February 1, 1939.
A.K.

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.91)
February 4 1959
994.01B11/124
W dear W. Besretary:
Reference is made to the message by taèephome to the
Rules and Regulatieme Divisiom of the Baresu of Iasermal
894.01
Revemue em February 2, 1939 coneerning the departure frem
the Uaited states of Mr. Masse Ogawa, Beeretary to the
Japenese Financial Gemmdssien, 120 Breadway, Bow Tork Gity.
I emelese a eopy of the note of the Japanese Ambasss-
der in relatiom te the mmtter. It will be observed that
the Ambassador states that Mr. Ogawa is a Japanese natiomal. -
20
Referenoe is made to the letter of the Department of
state dated September 12, 193s 1n whieh, in relation to the
Treasury Department's letter of October 9, 19s4 (Treasury
file IR:00: I:J0s), and to subsequemt correspemdenee in
regare to the exemptien of effieers ef foreige govers-
mants in the taited states, in a nendiplommtie stetus,
from
Tme Eemereble
Bamry Mergenthen, Jr.,
Sesretnry of the Treseury.
F
11

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.91)
mleriee reseived by then is compensmtien fer thess
serviess ia the Daited states, there was emelessd a Ites
of these countries, ineluding Japan, in whieh Ameriemm
consular offieers and empleyees and ether mondiplemtie
offfcers and employees are ezempt from the payment ef
imeeme tax om their official compensatiom.
In accerdanee with the provisions of Seetiem 116 (h)
of the Revemue Let of 193s, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to the employees of the Geverm-
most ef the United States performing serviees in Japam,
and that the sharaeter of the services performed by
exployees of the Goverament of the United states in
fereign countries is similar to the serviees performed
by Mr. Ogawa in the United states.
Simcerely yours,
Cordell Hull
melesure:
Frem Japamese Ambassader,
no. 19, Pebruary 1, 1930.
JEB 4 1939
gurs
A
207.25
FE

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.89)
The seeretary ef state preseats hie cempliments to
Mie Ezeelleney the Japenese Ambesseder and has the hener
to eskmewledge the receipt of hie note no. 19 of rebruasy 1,
1930 comeerning the departure from the Untted states of
894.01
. msse Ogasa, Seeretary to the Japemese Pimassial Gem-
Mesicm, 1sp Breadway, New Yerk Gity.
Gemfireation is mmde of the message by telepheme te
8
11/124
the Zapanese Ambessador on Tebreary & to the effeet that
infermatiem had been reeeived from the hareau of Tatermal
Revemue that apprepriate instreetiens weuld be issued y
telegraph te the Gellester ef Intermal Revemue at Bew Tost
Gtty for the ezemptien ef tr. Ogawa frem the payment of
imseme taz en the effieial eempemsatien reseived by him
mmsle in he mitet states.
rebruary 4 1959

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.95)
LFA
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
MENTATE
WASHINGTON
FEB 3 AM 10 26
BIVISIUN OF FOHBIUN
SERVICE ADMIMSTRATION
B 7139
JIVIS N OF
FEB11939
COMMUNNS
AND ALJUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATB
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I have your letter of January 31, 1939, (FA 894.01  11/120),
with its enclosure, a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador
concerning the desired exemption from the payment of income taxes
of Mr. Yasumichi Tasaka, a Japanese national who is succeeding
Mr. Y. Yagami as resident representative of the New York office
of the Japanese Government Railways.
894.01
This matter is under immediate consideration in the Bureau
of Internal Revenue and you will be further advised in regard
thereto at the earliest practicable date.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:P:T:2:MM.
B
Very truly yours,
Johe Wttanes
25
Aosu. Socretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
ED
Washington, D. C.
F/A
V

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.91)
The Seeretary of state presente his complimente te
he Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassador and has the honer
to refer to the Embassy's mete no. 216 of Desember 8,
1ose and to the Department's reply of December 22 comeern-
tms the desired exemption from the payment of ineome tazes
of Mr. Tatevo hiraki, resident representative of the
Rew York offiee of the Japanese Govermment Railwaye.
A letter has been received frem the Treasury Depert-
soms in whieh it is stated that in view of the certifies-
tien of the Bepertment of state the Treasury Departmest
Belde that Mr. mirak1 is exempt from Federel iseeme sax
the compensatiem received by him from the Japamese
presmment for offieial serviees rendered in she Umited
petes and that apprepriate imstrustieme will be issued
the Gellester of Internal Revemme, Gusteskeuse, Nee
000.
vebruary 14 1989

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
FEB 28 94
RECEIVEL
TREASURY DEPABTM
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
STA
1939 FEB 17 AM 10 09
WASHINGTON
ONFFORR
FER15 1939
SEHVICE ALMINISPOATION
A
A110
LS
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Further referenoe is made to your letter of January 21, 1959
(FA 894.01 B 11 113), with its enclosure, & copy of a note fron
the Jupanese Ambassador conoernirg the departure from New York on
Februery 4, 1939, on board the steanship Aquitanit of Mr. Minoru
Yagami, a Japanese national who is secretary of the Japanese
Government Railways in New York.
894.01
In accordance with tne provisions of seotion ll6(h) of the
Revenue Aot of 1938, you certify that Japan grants an equivalent
forming services in Japan, and that the character of the seryiDes
performed by officers of the Government of the United Statein
foreign countries is similar to the services performed by
B
Mr. Yagami in the United States. You therefore express the hope
that he will be granted exemption from income taxation on his ofri-
cial compensation, and that the interested officers of this
Department will be notified accordingly.
In view of your certificaticn unaer section l16(h) of the
2
Revenue Act of 193s, this Depurtnent holcs tiet the official com-
9
pensation received by Lr. Yagami from the Japanese Government for
services rendered within the United Siates is exempt from Federal
income tax. Under date of January 26, 1939, the collector of
internal revenue, Customhouse, New York City, vwus informed as to
the exempt status of mr. Yagami's official compensation and as to
the date of his intended departure from the Umitcc States.
matter is necessary, please refer to TT:P:T:2-MLM.
FAR EASTERN AFFA
Very truly yours,
33
John ottanes
Acting Secretary of the Treasury
F/A
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.88)
the seeretary of state presents hie complimemts to
Nis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassedor and hae the hener
to refer to his note mo. 8 of Jamuary 14, 19se eemeerming
the departure from New York on February 4 on board the
S.s. Aguitanla of Mr. Minoru Yagami, Seoretary of the
Japanese Government Railways in that oity.
894.01
A letter has been received from the Treasury Depart-
ment stating that in view of the certifieation of the
B
Department of state the Treasury Department held that
the offielal oompensation received by Mr. Yagami from the
29
Japamese Government for serviees rendered in the United
states was exempt from Federal ineome tax and that the
Colleetor ef Intermal Revenue, Custombouse, New York
City, was infermed under date of Jammary 26, 19s9 as to
the emempt status of Mr. Yagami's effieial eompemsatien
丑
and as toe the date ef his departure fren the taitee states.
35b2039
opentmens of seate.
Le
February 27 1939
0.0011/20
Gus
2/23

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.94)
DIYIBION UF FOHBIGN
TH
SERVICEADMINISTRATION
1939
JAPANESE EMBASBY
ym
No.27
x
Fehruary 28 1939
The Japanese Ambassador presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of State and has the honor
9
to request that Mr. Yoshio Yeto, a Japanese netional, be
894.01B11
ingluded in the list of Japanese officials who are granted
811607
rivision of
811 607
894.01B11/1
FEB 20 1939
in this country.
Departmem of Ste
Mr. Yeto's salary will be derived solely from
the Japanese Government in return for official services
27
rendered it by him in his capacity as Manager of the Japan
Association for the New York and San Francisco International
Expositions.
Mr. Yeto arrived at San Franoisco on January 12,
FILED
1939 and will be attached to the said Association at its
headquarters in the Consulate General of Japan, 5oo Fifth
Avenue, New York City, for the duration of the above mentioned
F
Expositions.
WB
In this oonnection the Ambassador begs leave further
to request the Seoretary of State to be good enough to cause
Mr. Yeto's name to be brought to the attention of the appro-
priate authorities of his Government.
February 15, 1959.
K.

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.98)
February 28 1939
My aear Mr. seeretary:
There is enolosed a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador eoncerning the desired exemption of Mr. Yoshio
Yete, "Manager of the Japan Association for the New York
894.0
and San Francisco International Expositions". The Ambes-
sador states that Mr. Yeto 1s a Japanese national, that
his headquarters will be in the Consulate General of
B
Japan at 500 Fifth Avenue, New York City, and that his
salary will be derived solely from the Japanese Govern-
ment.
2
7
Referenoe is made to the letter of the Department
of state dated September 12, 1935 in which, in relation
to the treasury Department's letter of Ootober 9, 1934
(Treasury file IR: GC: I: JCS) and to subsequent corres-
pendenee in regard to the exemption of officers of for-
•ign governments in the United States, in a nondiplomatic
status, from Federal inoome tax with respeot to wages,
fees
F/WB
The Honorable
Henry Morgenthau, Jr.,
seeretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
fees and salaries received by them in compensetiem for
their serviees in the tmited states, there was emelosed
a list ef these coumtries, inslwding Japas, in which
Amerlean consular offieers and employees and other mem-
diplomatie officers and employees are exempt from the
payment of income tar on their officlal compensation.
In aeoordanee with the provislons of Seotion 116(h)
of the Revenue Act of 1938, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government
of the United States performing servioes in Japan and
that the charecter of the services performed by officers
of the Government of the United States in foreign coun-
tries is similar to the services performed by Mr. Yeto
in the United States. I therefore hope that Mr. Yeto
may be exempted from Federal income taxation on the com-
pensation received by him from the Japanese Government
for services rendered in the United states and that the
appropriate authorities of your Department may be
Ructine
appropriatey inatruoted in the matter.
FEB 23
OR
Sincerely yours,
1939
Coroall Hull
Enclosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
FA: FM: DKP: SS
Le
2/18
gno

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.94)
the seeretary of state presents his compliments to
Kis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassador and has the homer
to aekmewledge the reeeipt of his note no. 27 of rebru-
ary 15, 193e concerning the desired exemption from the
894.01B11/1
payment of imoome taxes of Mr. Yoshio Yeto, "Manager of
the Japan Assoeiation for the New York and San Francisoo
Imtermational Expositions".
A eopy of the Ambassador's note has been tranemitted
22
to the eompetent authority of the Government of the United
states with a view to the exemption of Mr. Yeto from inoome
taxation on the compensation reeeived by him from the
Japamese Gevernment for services rendered in the United
states.
FEB 23 1939.
CR
A true
F/WB
thes
na!.
m
February 28 1989
n
FE
gms

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPT. OF STATE
CHIEF
DIVISION UT JAPANESE EMBASSY
tuleg Service AdlsuINGTON
tO
No.24
February 24 1939
2m
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
livision of
X94.01811
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of
EB221939
Department of State
State and has the honor to state that Mr. Sakad
Yagi, a Japanese national and a language officer
894.01B11/128
of the Department of Education of the Japanese
Government, will leave San Francisco on April
27, 1939 aboard the steamship "Kamakura Maru"
for Japen.
Mr. Yagi's salery, while studying in
this country since his arrival on September 24,
1937, was derived solely from the Japanese
Government.
The Ambassador begs leave to request the
Secretary of State to be good enough to cause neces-
F/WB
sary steps to be taken so that Mr. Yagi may be
exempted from the payment of income taxes and his
departure facilitated.
February 14, 1939.
A.K.

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.95)
February 24 1989
raply refer to
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
There is enolosed a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador oonoerning the desired exemptien frem the pay-
ment of inoome taxes of Mr. Sakae Yagi, a language offieer
of the Department of Education of the Japanese Government,
89
who will sail from San Frano1soo on April 27, 1939 on the
4.
S. S. Kamakura Maru. The Ambassador states that Mr. Yagi
0
is a Japanese national and that his compensation is de-
B
rived solely from the Japanese Government.
Reference 1s made to the letter of the Dopartment
of State dated September 12, 1935 in which, in relation
2
8
to the Treasury Department's letter of October 9, l934
(Treamury file IR: GC: I: JCS) and to subsequent oorres-
pondenoe in regard to the exemption of officers of for-
•ign governments in the United States, in a nondiplomatic
status, from Federal inoome tax with respeot to wages,
fees
The Homorable
F
Honry Morgenthau, Jr.,
WB
seeretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.95)
-8-
fees and salaries reeeived by them in compemsetiem for
their serviees in the United states, there was enelesse
a list ef those countries, inoluding Japen, in mhich
Ameriean eemsular offieers and empleyees and other men-
diplematie officers and employees are exempt frem the
payment of income tax on their offielal compemsation.
In ascordance with the provisions of seetion ll6(h)
of the Revenue Aot of 1938, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government
of the United States performing services in Japan and
that the oharacter of the services performed by officers
of the Government of the United States in foreign coun-
tries 1s similar to the servioes performed by Mr. Yagi
1n the United States. I therefore hope that Mr. Yag1
may be exempted from Federal income taxation on the
compensation received by him from the Japanese Govern-
ment for serviees rendered in the United States and that
the appropriate authorities of your Department may be
appropriately instruoted in the matter.
CR
FEF
23 1939.
sinoerely yours,
Enelosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
rebruary 14, 1939.
2ny
FE
Le
FA: FM: DKP: SS
gup
2/18

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.89)
The seeretary of state pressmts his compliments to
Wis Emeelleney the Japamese Ambassador and has the hemer
to neknewledge the reeeipt of his nete no. 24 of Pebru-
894.01B11/1
any 14, l9se ceaeerming the desired ezemption of Mr. Sakse
, a language effieer of the Department of Beueatien
of the Japanese Gevermment, from the payment of rederal
smeeme tazes on the sompemsatien reseived by him frem the
28
Snpemese Goverament for serviees rendered in the United
0000.
A copy ef the Ambassader's mete has been transmitted
to the competent euthority of the Gevermment of the United
atse with a view to the ezemption ef Mr. Yagi frem
sal iaeeme tazatien en his effieial compemsetion
F/WB
he coparte frem Sam Premeiese en Aprál 87, 1999
...
25
s of asato.
February 24 1939
urigi
nai
FE

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.92)
FA
LEGAL ADVISER
MAR 7 1939
RECEIVEL
LANTNENSTA
1939 FEB 28 AM 9 57
FEB 25 1939
1989
894-011311
Ly deur Mv secratays
I have your letter of Fetruary 4, 1939 (FA), rererrin, to
the messate by tele hone to t e ureau of Interrl Revenue on
February L, l9oe, concernin the depurture fro. the tnitea
to the Japanese Financiul Cos issior, 12c roadway, New Yor
City. You enclosed a copy of the note fron. tie Japanese
Ambassador in rol tio. to the re ter.
894.01B
In accordance .ich tle provisiors of section llo(n) of the
Revenue Act of l9se, ou certify tiht Jupar ar ts un equivalent
exetion to the en loyees or the Govrnert of the United states
perforuine services in Jupun, und tast the cnractor of the ser-
vices perforlied by enployees of the Cov rmment of te unised
States in foreir countrios is si ilur to tn servies formed
by ir. Cawa in tn Unit a stutis.
In viev of  ur cs ti ic tien un er  ction llc(a) of the
nevenue ct of lsot, this bepartment holis tr  the cor unsation
recei  ca ro te pne covrt ' servics
2
renuered ithin the United t. is xelt fro. ideral incore
6
tax. Under dte of iebmuury 2, 19s., the ccllector of intermal
revenue, Custohouse, Hew Yor: City, us alvised by telegran of
the exempt stetus of the conrensution received b. ir. Ceaia und
the date of nis intended departure fre the United States,
1e: ruary 4, 1939.
In the cvent thut furtier corresponuunce relative to this
ratter is necessary, pl ase refer to 1:r:T:2-iI..
FTOED
Very truly yours,
Johu WHaneo
▲oting Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
F/FG
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.93)
The Beeretary of State presents his compliments to
His Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassador and has the honor
894.01
to refer to his note no. 17 of February 1, 1939 coneern-
ing the departure from the United States of Mr. Masao Ogawa,
8
Seoretary to the Japanese Finano1al Commission, 120 Broad-
way, Now York City.
A letter has been received from the Treasury Depart-
mont stating that in view of the certification of the De-
partment of state, in aooordance with the provisions under
Seetion 116 (h) of the Revenue Ast of 1938, the Treasury
Department held that the compensation reeeived by Mr. Ogawa
from the Japanese Government for servioes rendered in the
Unised States mas exempt from Federal inoome tax and that
under Cate of February 2, 1930 the Colleeter of Internal
Revenue, Oustem Nouse, New York City, was advised by
F/A
tologregh

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.90)
-2-
selegreph of the exempt status of the eompensaties re-
saived by Mr. Ogawe and that he would depart frem the
Umlted States on February 4, 1920.
Dopartmeat of State,
March 7 1939
Washingten,
OR
MAR 6 109
A8
m
01011/200
FE
Le
1:MCM:SS
w

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.97)
LEGAL ADVISER
MAH 10 1939
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
FEB88 1939
1939 MAR 3 AM 9 39
20
My dear Mr. Secretaryr
AD REOCAOS
Further reference is made to your retter of faluary 31, 1939,
(FA 894.01 B 11/120), with its enclosure, a c∞by of a note rh?
the Japanese Ambassador concerning the desired exemption from the
payment of income taxes of Mr. Yasumichi Tasaka, a Japanese national
who is succeeding Mr. Y. Yagami as resident representative of the
New York office of the Japanese Government Railways.
894.01B
In acoordance with the provisions of section ll6(h) of the
Revenue Act of 1938, you certify that Japan grants an equivalent
exomption to employees of the Government of the United States per-
forming services in Japan, and that the character of the services
performed by officers of the Government of the United States in
foreign countries is similar to the services performed by Mr. Tasaka
in the United States. You therefore express the hope that Mr. Tasaka
will be exempted from the payment of inoome tax on the compensation
received by him from the Japanese Government for services rendered
in the United States and that the appropriate internal revenue official
of this Department will be advised accordingly.
In view of the certification under seetion ll6(h) of the Revenue
Aot of 1938, this Department holds that the compensation received by
Mr. Tasaka from the Japanese Government for services rendered in the
United States is exempt from Federal income tax. The appropriate
colleotor of internal revenue in New York City will be advised
accordingly.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this matter
is necessary, please refer to IT:P:T:2:MM.
Very truly yours,
Johe wthanes
Aoting Secretary of the Treasury.
F/FG
YAR EASTEHN AFFAINS
The Honorable,
B
The Seeretary of State,
Department ot s
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.90)
The Seeretary of state presents his sompliments
te His Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassador and has the
hener to refer to nie note no. 11 of January 24, 1939
894.01
soncerning the desired exemption from the payment of
inesme tax of Mr. Yasumiohi Tasaka, resident repre-
sentative of the New York offioe of the Japanese
Government Railways.
0
A letter han been reoeived from the Treasury Depart-
ment stating that in view of the eertifioation of the De-
partment of state, in asoordance with the provisione of
seetion 116(h) of the Revenue Aot of 193s, the Treasury
Department holds that the compensation received by
Mr. Tasaka from the Japanese Government for serviees
rendered in the United states is exempt from rederel in-
some tax, and that the appropriate eellestor of internal
revenme at New York City will be advised aseerdingly.
F/FG
separtmest of state,
CBWe
Fashingten,
March 101939
92959M
896.018 11/180
2m
FE
A3 FM: RAVI SS
18/0/20
dimb

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.97)
LEGAL ADVISER
MAR 8 1928
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
RECEVEL TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
1939 MAR 7 PM 12 48
MAR 4 1939
My dear r. Secretary:
fu
copy of a note fron the Japanese Anbassador which concerns the
desire of the Japanese Goverrment to obtain exemption from the
payment of Federal incame tax on tne official compensation re-
seived by r. Yoshio Yeto, anager of the Japanese Association
for the ew York und sun rruncisco International Expositions.
The subjeot matter under discussion in your letter is re-
894.01
ceiving the careful considoration of this Department and you
will be further advised in regard thereto at the earliest
practicable date.
In the event that further correspondenoe relutive to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:P:T:2:CP.
B
Very truly yours,
John WhHanes
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Aotina Secretary of the Treasury.
OF STATE
1939
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
F/A

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.96)
RECEIVEL
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
RTMEFFSTA
WASHINGTON
MAR 7
AM 10 28
MAR 4 1939
LEGAL ADVISER
My dear r. Secretary:
DEPART MENTO
1 have your letter of February 24, 1939, (Fa) enclosing a
copy of a note fron the Japanese Ambassador wich concerns the
desire of the Japanese Government to obtain exemption fron the
894.01
payment of Federal income tax on the o ficial compensation of
Mr. Sakae Yagi, a language oflicer of the Department of Educa-
tion of the Japanese Govornment.
The subject matter under discussion in your letter is re-
oeiving the careful consideration of this Department and you
will be further advised in regard thereto at the earliest
B
practicable date.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matteri necessary, please refer to IT:P:T:2:CP.
B
161
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Very truly yours,
32
MAR-0 1939
John Wttaves
OF STATE
A-M/C
Aoww Secretary of the Treasury.
The Shoretary of State,
FILED
Washington, D. C.
F/A
Y
CC

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
7.1
MAR 21 1939
RE CEIVEDEPARTMENT OF STATI
ARTH JAPANEBE EMBASSY
SERVICEADMIISTHATION
WASHINGTON
R1230
1939 MAR 17 AM 9 34
No.52
March 21 1988
The Jepanese Ambassador presents his com-
pliments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and
894.01
has the honor to request that Mr. Shinichiro Kasugai,
a Japanese national, be included in the list of Japanese
B
officials who are granted exemption from the payment of
income taxes while residing in the United States.
33
Mr. Kasugai, a Professor of Tokyo Imperial
University, has been sent to this country by the Depart-
ment of Education in Tokyo to study for about one month.
His income will be derived solely from the Japanese Gov-
ernment. He arrived at New York on February 25, 1939
FTLED
and will leave San Francisco on March 30, 1939 by the
steamship "Tatsuta Maru".
5
In this connection the Ambassador begs leave
further to request that Mr. Kasugai's name be brought to
F/A
the attention of the appropriate authorities of the
United States Government.
March 14, 1939
4
A.K

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.76)
Goar . Seeretery:
mere ie emelesed a cey ef a nete frem the degasese
Ambesseéer eoneeming the cestred exmptien ef . mmichise
Tmanged frem the payaant of the Pederel insome ten. It wall
be sbserred thet it is stated that ir. Dhougai is a dagemese
matsemal, that be was seat to the Uaited states by the
Japemese Department of Edmeatien for study and that be mill
sail fram Sam Franeisee en Mareh so en the steenship Ratmmte
Referemee is mde to the letter of the Departmemt ef
state dated September 18, l9ss in whieh, in rekesiem to
the Smeesmmay Department's letter of Oeteber 9, 1966
(treetusy f1le B: 60:I: J0s) end to subsecaemt eerseogemé-
mee n regere to the mpten of sfiere s tots
seremmste ia the United states, in a neméiplomatse
statss, frem Pederel imeeme taz with resyeet to wages,
  slris med  t a pet for

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.88)
sir servieee in the taited shatee, there wae snstessd
a liss of these comtries, ineluting Japan, in which
Amcrleen csesular effieere and empleyees and ether nes-
aiplematie effieers and empleyees are exempt frem the
paymeat ef imeeme tax en their effielal compemsatiem.
In aceerdanse vith the provisiems of Seetiem 1ls(h)
of the Revemme Aet of 1938, I eertify that Japan graats
an equivaleat exemptien to empleyees of the Gevermment
of the United States perferming serviees in Japan and
that the charaeter of the serviees perfermed by effieers
of the Gevermment of the United states in fereige eses-
tries is sinilar te the serviees perfermed by Nr. Kasngai
in the Baited States. I therefere hepe that Nr. Kasuga1
may be exempted frem Pederal iacome taxatien en the eom-
pensetien received by him frem the Japamese Gevermment
for serviees remdered in the Uaited states and that the
apprepriate autherities ef yeur Department may be eppre-
priately instrueted in the matter.
sineerely yours,
Routine
Sumner Welles
2
Asting Seeretary
melesure:
Pram Japasese Ambasssder,
ne. 88, Narch 14, 1930.
AA
nal.
Le

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.92)
The Secretary ef state presemts his cempliments
to Kis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassader and has the
hener te acknewledge the reeeipt of his note ne. 52 of
Mareh 14, 1939 coneerming the desired exemptiom from
the Federal ineome tax of Mr. Shinichiro Kasugai, whe
894.01
was sent to the United states by the Japanese Department
of Edueation for study, and who will leave San Franoiseo
on Naroh 30 on the steamship Tatsuta Mary.
A eopy of the Ambassador's note has beem transmitted
3
to the sompetent authority of the Govermment of the United
States with a view to the exemption of Nr. Kasugai frem
Federal 1neome taxatien on the compensation resceived by
him frem the Japamese Gevermment for services remdered in
the Umised states.
Bepartment of state,
March 21 1939
Washingten,
804.01 B 11/183
008
M
MAR 20 1059 PM
2n
Le
:83/17

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
0
MAR 21 1939
REC
ARTNO
DEPABTMENTOFSTATT
SERVICE AOMINITHATION
1939 MAR 17 AM 9 34
MAR11939
No.53
Division of
EASTERH AFFAIRS
The Japanese Ambassador presents his com-
pliments to the Honorable the Secretary of State
and has the honor to request that Mr. Shuzo Takeda,
894.01
a Japanese national, be included in the list of Japa-
nese ofricials who are granted exemption from the pay-
ment of income taxes while res: ding in the United States.
Mr. Takeda, a language officer of the Japanese
/134
Government, has been sent to this country by the Depart-
ment of Education in Tokyo to study for two months. His
income will be derived solely from the Japanese Govern-
ment. He arrived at New York from Germany on February
2. 1939 and will leave San Francisco, March 30, 1939 by
STLED
the steamship "Tatsuta Maru".
In this conneotion the Ambassador begs leave
F/A
further to request that Mr. Takeda's name be brought to
the attention of the appropriate authorities of the
United States Government.
Maroh 15, 1939.
n
A.K.

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.95)
March 21 1939
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
There 1s enelesed a copy of a note from the Japamese
Ambassader coneerning the desired exemptiom of Mr. Shuso
Takeda, a Japanese mational who was sent to the United
states by the Japanese Deparment of Edueation for study
894.
and whe will sall from Ban Franolsco on Maroh 30 en the
steamship Tatauta Mary.
0
Reference is made to the letter of the Department
of State dated September 12, 1935 in whioh, 1n relation
to the Treasury Department's letter of Ootober 9, 1934
(Treasury file IR:CC:I:JCS) and to subsequeat corres-
54
pondenee in regard to the exemption of officers of for-
eign governments in the United States, in a nondiplomatio
status, from Federal inoome tax with respeet to wages,
fees and salaries received by them in compensation for
their
The Homorable
F/A
Henry Nergenthau, Jr.,
Seeretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
their serviees in the Baited states, there was emelesed
a list ef these commtries, ineluding Japan, in which
Amerlean cemsular effleers and empleyees and ether men-
diplematie efficers and employces are exempt frem the
payment of imeeme tax om their offielal esmpemsation.
In accordanee with the provisions ef Beetiem 1l6(h)
of the Revemme Aot of 1938, I eert1fy that Japan grants
an equivalemt exemption to empleyess of the Govermment
of the United States performing serviees in Japan and
that the eharacter of the services performed by offieers
of the Governmemt of the United States in fereiga coun-
tries 1s similar to the services performed by Mr. Takeda
1n the Umited States. I therefore hope that Mr. Takeda
may be exempted from Federal 1ncome taxation on the com-
pensation received by him from the Japanese Government
for serviees rendered in the United States and that the
appropriate authorities of your Department may be appro-
priately instrueted in the matter.
Simcerely yours,
Smmer Welles
Acting Searetary
MAR 20 1959 P
Enclosure:
Frem Japanese Ambassador,
mo. 53, Mareh 15, 1939.
08
B
FA:FM:EGS:8S
3/18
E

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.88)
. The Seeretary ef state presents his eempliments
to Mis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassader and has the
heneb te asknewledge the receipt of his note no. 53 of
Nareh 15, 1939 coneerming the des1red exemptien frem
the Federal ineome tax of Mr. Shuso Takeda, who, 1t is
894.01
stated, was sent to the United States by the Japanese
Department of Eduestion for study and who will sail
frem San Franeiseo on Mareh 30 on the steamship Talanta
B
Baru.
A sopy of the Ambassader's nete has been tranmmit-
4
ted to the competent authority of the Gevermment of the
United states with a view te the exempties of Nr. Takeda
frem Federal imeeme taxation em the eompénestfem tecsived
him frem the Japasese Geverament for serviees rendered
1n the Baited states.
F/A
MAB
Dopertmens  state,
March 21 1930
the sigred origt-
pal.
ur
Le
/10

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.97)
FA
LEGAL ADVISER
MAR 22 1939
RECEIVEL
ATHJAPANESE EMBASSY
DEPARTMENTOFCTA7
WASHINGTON
1939 MAR 17 AM 9 33
No. 54.
The Japanese Ambassador presents his compli-
ments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and has
March 221939
the honor to request that Mr. Tatsuto Toki, a Japanese
national, be included in the list of Japanese ofricials
who are granted exemption from the payment of ineome
taxes while residing in the United States.
Mr. Toki, an architect of the Tokyo Imperial
University, was engaged by the Japanese Government in
supervising the architecture of the Japanese building
at the San Francisco Golden Gate International Exposi-
tion. His income will be derived solely from the Japa-
FTLED
nese Government. He arrived at San Francisco on October
12, 1938 on board the "Tatsuta Maru" and will leave from
New York on March 28, 1939 by the steamship "Bremen".
In this connection the Ambassador begs leave
further to request that Mr. Toki's name be brought to the
F/A
attention of the appropriate authorities of the United
States Government.
March 16, 1939.
Y
AK.

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.91)
March 221939
TH/
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
68
There is enelesed a cepy ef a mete from the Japamese
4
Ambaseader comcerming the desired exemptien of Mr. Tatsute
0
Toki, a Japamese national who has been in the United
3
states for the purpose of supervising the arohitesture of
the Japanese building at the San Francisoo Golden Gate
Imtermational Exposition and who will sall from New York
33
en Mareh 28 on the steamship Brewen.
5
Reference is made to the letter of the Deparment of
State dated September 12, 1935 in whioh, in relatien to
the Treasury Department's letter of October 9, 1934
(Treasury file R:CC: I: JCs) and to subeequent eerrespend-
enee in regard to the exemption of offioers of foreign
governments in the United States, in a nondiplomatio
status, frem Federal income tax with respeet to wages,
fees and salaries reseived by them in compensation for
their
The Honorable
7
/A
Henry Mergenthau, Jr.,
Bearetary of the Treasury.

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.90)
-2
their serviees in the Urited states, there was enelesed
a list ef these comntries, inelmding Japan, in whick
Ameriean comsular offieers and empleyess and other nem-
diplemetie effieers and empleyees are exempt from the
payment of inoome tax on their official eompemsatiom.
In aceerdanee with the provisions of Seetiom 1l6(h)
of the Revenme Aet of 1936, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Govermment
of the United States performing servioes in Japan and
that the character of the servlees performed by officers
of the Government of the United States in foreign coun-
tries ls similar to the serviees performed by Mr. Toki
in the United States. I therefore hope that Mr. Toki
may be exempted from Federal income taxation on the com-
pensation received by him from the Jepanese Government
for serviees rendered in the United States and that the
appropriate authorities of your Department may be appro-
priately instruoted in the matter.
Simeerely yours,
ROL1
SunerLrea
MAR ?
MAR 21 1939 FM
Aoting Seoretary
Enclosure:
From Japanese Ambassuder,
ca
no. 54, Maroh 16, 1939.
9
IC
FE
FA:FM:EGS:BS
3/17
Le
jmb

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.88)
The Seeretary of state presents his sempliments
to Kis Exeellemey the Japanese Ambassader and has the
hemer te asknewledge the reedipt ef his nete me. 54 of
Nareh 16, 1929 semeerning the desired exemptien frem
the Pederal ineeme tax of Nr. Tatsute Teki, whe has
894.01
been in the Uaited states fer the purpese of supervis-
1ng the arshiseeture of the Japanese building at the
B
San Frameisse Geldem Gate Intermatiemal Expesitien and
whe will sail frem New York on Mareh 28 en the steam-
5
A eepy ef the Labassader's nete has been transmit-
ted to the competent autherity of the Geverament of the
United states with a view to the exemptien éf Xr. Toki
frem Fokssal iseeme tammtion em the compensatien re-
essven y kam frem the Japasese Geverament fer serviees
.
nal.
tie signed
March 221939
81-1950
L

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
MAR 22 1939
DEPARTMENT OF STA
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
1959179 50
No.56
211
March 22 1939
The Japanese Ambassador presents his cdmpli-
ments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and has
the honor to request that Mr. Hidetoshi Isobe, a Japa-
nese national, be included in the list of Japanese offi-
899.011.1
AFFAIRS
894.01
taxes while residing in the United States.
ite
Mr. Isobe, a Professor of Utsunomiya AgricuI-
tural College (Governmental), has been sent to this country
B
by the Department of Education in Tokyo to study for about
two months. His income will be derived solely from the
3
9
Japanese Government. He arrived at New York on February
13, 1939 and will leave San Francisco on April 27, 1939
by the steamship "Kamakura Maru".
In this connection the Ambassador begs leave
further to request that Mr. Isobe's name be brought to
the attention of the appropriate authorities of the
United States Government.
F/A
March 14, 1939.
LK

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.90)
The Seeretary of state presents his cempliments
to Nis Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassader and has the
henor to acknowledge the receipt ef his mote me. 5e es
894.01
Narsh 14, 1939 coneeraing the desired exemptien frem
the Federal ineeme tax of Nr. Mideteshi Isebe, whe was
B
sent to the Uaited states by the Japanese Bepartment
of Mducatien fer stedy, and whe will sall frem San
36
Premetsve en the steamship Kamakmrn Mary. on Apri1 27. 1939.
A copy ef the Aabessader's mote has been trasmit-
ted to the competent autherity ef the Goverment ef the
United states with a view to the exemptsen ef Nr. Isehe
frem Pederal ineeme tamesien en the compemsetiem re-
seived by him frem the Japanese Gevesement for sesviees
rentered sa the Wasted seates.
F/A
March 221989
u

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.88)
T/
My dear Mr. Sesretary:
There is emelesed a copy ef a mete fram the Japanese
Ambessader eemceraing the desired exemptiem frem the
894.
Federal ineome tax of Xr. Hidetoshi Isobe, a Japanese
matienal whe was sent to the United states by the
10
Japanese Department of Ldueatien fer study and whe will
B
sall frem Sam Franeisee on April 27 on the steamship
Iaak Man
Referenee is made to the letter of the Departmems
33
of state dated September 12, 1935 in whieh, 1n relatiem
9
to the Treasury Department's letter ef Osteber 9, l9se
(Treasury file R:00: I:J0s) and te subsequent corres-
peadenee in regard te the exemptien of effieers ef fes-
eign geveraments in the Uaited states, in a nendiplematie
status, frem Federal iaceme tax with rospeet to ages,
fees and salaries recelved by them in eempemsetiem fer
their
The Kenerable
F/A
Domry Nergeathas, J#.
Secretary of the Treeoury.

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.88)
a llst of those eomntries, Anslutiag Jegen, la tmsch
Amsrleen concular effleore ent euplegeee ané etter nos
diplematie effieere ane emplegees are exempt trem the
paymest ef imeeme tax en their effieial compemsatiem.
In accerdanse with the previsiens ef Seetiem 1le(h)
of the Revemue Aet of 19se, I certify that Japan greaty
an equivalest exemptien to emplegees of the Severamemt
of the Baited states perferming serviees in Japen and
that the shareeter of the serviees perfermed by effieers
of the Gevermment of the Uaited states in fereige comm-
tries is similar to the serviees perfermed by Nr. Lseke
In the Uaited states. I therefere hepe that Hr. Isebe
may be exempted frem Federal 1meeme taxatien en the eem-
pemsstien ressived by kim fren the Japasese Geverament
fer serviees rentered in the Uaited states and that the
appreprtate authorities ef yeur Bepartmest may be appre-
prlately instrested in the mtter.
sineerely youre,
Rout100
Sumner Wolles
MAR 21 199
Acting Seeretary
melesure:
80. 86, Mar 14, 1000.
FE
Li

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.94)
LEGAL ADVISER
7
MAR 241939
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
1939 NAR 17 AM 9 50
Fie
No. 57
Gn
ch 231939
The Japanese Ambassador presents his compli-
ments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and has
the honor to request that Mr. Kazuo Tanaka, a Japanese
national, be included in the list of Japanese officials
who are granted exemption from the payment of inceme
894.01
taxes while residing in the United States.
Nr. Tanaka, an Assistant Frofessor of the
J
Kyushu Imperial University, has been traveling in the
United States as a temporary visitor. liis income will
37
be derived solely from the Japanese Government. He
arrived at New York on February 25, 1939 and will leave
San Francisco by the steamship Kamakura Maru on April
FILET
27th, accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Sumiko Tanaka.
In this connection the Ambassador begs leave
further to request that Mr. Tanaka's name be brought to
the attention of the appropriate authorities of the
π、
1
United States Government.
March 16, 1939.

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.90)
The Secretary ef state presente his cemplimemte 
Mis Exeellemey the Japenese Ambasseder and has the hemey
to aekmewledge the receipt of his mote no. 57 of Massh e
1839 comeerning the departure from San Franeisee en Apsal
37, 1939 on the eteamship Lamakura Maru of Mr. Kasme Tamake,
Assistant Professor at the Xyushu Imperial University, whe,
.018
accompanied by his wife, has been traveling in the Dmited
states as a temporary visiter.
Informal inquiry of the Bureau of Intermal Revemue of
7
the Treasury Department in relatien to the fasilitatiem of
the departure from the United states of ur. and Mrs. amati
elicits the reply that if, prier to date of sailsms, M.
Tasake will call en the Revemme Agent in charge, Rese sss
Tederal Offiee Dailaing, Civie Conter, San Premstesss mé
shew he pesspert, a sailing pesmit will be ssmse o 
m.
March 231939

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGAL ADVISER
APH 3.1932
RFCEIVEL
JAPANESE EMBASSY
DEPARTMENT OF STA
WASHINGTON
1939 MAR 23 P1 12 35
SERVICEALMINISTHATION
No. 66
1.30
April
1939
The Japanese Ambassador presents his complf
ments to the Honorable the Seoretary of State and has
the honor to request that Mr. Takeo Watanabe, a Japanese
national, be included in the list of Japanese officials
who are granted exemption from the payment of income
894.01B
taxes while residing in the United States.
Mr. Watanabe, a language officer of the Depart
ment of Education, Tokyo, has been in this country for
the purpose of study. His income is derived solely from
3
8
the Japanese Government. He arrived at Boston, Massachu-
setts on December 18, 1938 and will leave San Francisco
by the steamship "Kamakura Maru" on April 27th.
0ml.1
In this connection the Ambassador begs leave
Atates
further to request that Mr. Watanabe's name be brought to
the astention of the appropriate authorities of the United
States Government.
March 27, 1939.
F/FG
A.K.
11

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.94)
'Aprll 1 1989
In reply refer to
FA 004.018 11/138
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
There is enolosed a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador ooncerning the desired exemption from the pay-
ment of the Federal income tax of Mr. Takeo Watanabe, a
CO
language officer of the Department of Eduoation at Tokyo,
6
94.
who has been in the United States for the purpose of study.
It will be observed that 1t is stated that Mr. Watanabe
1s a Japanese national, that his income is derived solely
from the Japanese Government, and that he will sail from
San Francisco on April 27 on the steamship Kamakyra Maru.
3
Reference is made to the letter of the Department of
8
State dated September 12, 1935 in whioh, in relation to
the Treasury Department'a letter of Ootober 9, 1934
(Treasury file IR:GC:I:JCS), and to subsequent corre-
spondenoe in regard to the exemption of officers of
foreign governments in the United States, in a non-
diplomatio status, from Federal inoome tax with respeot
to
The Honorable
Heary Morgonthau, Jr.,
F
Seeretary of the Treasury.
B

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.90)
-2-
to wages, fees and salaries received by them in eompemse-
tion fer their services in the United States, there was
enclosed a list of those countries, inoluding Japan, in
which American consular officers and employees and other
nondiplomatic officers and employees are exempt from the
payment of inoome tax on their offiolal compensation.
In mccordance w1th the provisions of Seetion 116 (h)
of the Internal Revenue Code, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to the employees of the Govern-
ment of the United States performing services in Japan,
and that the character of the servioes performed by
employees of the Government of the United States in
foreign countries ls similar to the services performed
by Mr. Watanabe 1n the United States.
Sineerely yours,
Cerdell Hull
Enolosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
no. 66, Maroh 27, 1939.
2011T100
CR
PAY
A
119325
Ax
20T8
FE
Le
FA:FM:IL:SS
Jurs
3/29

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.93)
The Seeretary of state presents his eemplimemts
to His Exeelleney the Japanese Ambassader and has the
honor to maknowledge the reeeipt of his nete me. es
of Mareh 27, 1939 conoerning the departure from the
894.01
United States of Mr. Takeo Watanabe, a language offieer
of the Department of Education at Tokyo, who has been
B
in the United states for the purpose of study and whose
11/138
exemption from the payment of the Federal inoome tax is
deeired.
A copy of the Ambassador's note has been transmitted
te the competent authority of the Government of the United
States with a view to the exemption of Mr. Watanabe from
the payment of income tax on the offieial eempensation
reeeived by him while in the United states.
1PL.19307
A true goy 
the aigued origt.
Bopartont of stat
nal.
'Aprll 1 1989
Dell

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.94)
4FA
LEBAL ADVISER
APR 11 19.39
7
FC
C. VED
TOF
TREASURY DEPAROMMEMNTOFSTATE
59 ADR 4 AM 9 44
WASHINGTON
UN UF FUHBIGN
SENVICEADMINISTHATION
CF
193
APD1103
CO
IONS
Division of
ORDS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEEAATMENTO
April 10
4PR11 1939
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Depertment of State
Further reference is made to your letter of February 23, 1939,
(FA) and accompanying copy of a note from the Ambassador of Japan
which concerns the desired exemption from the payment of Federal
income tax on the official compensation received by Mr. Yoshio
Yeto, Manager of the Japan Association for the New York and San
Francisco International Expositions. Mr. Yeto 1s a Japanese na-
tional and his headquarters will be in the Consulate General of
Japan at 500 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York.
894.01
In accordance with the provisions of section 1ll6(h) of the
Revenue Act of 1938 you certify that Japan grants an equivalent
exemption to the employees of the Government of the United States
performing mervices in Japan, and that the character of the
services performed by officers of the Government of the United
States in foreign countries is similar to the services performed
by Mr. Yeto in the United States. You therefore hope that the
official compensation of Mr. Yeto may be exempted from the pay-
ment of income taxes and that the interested officers of this
Department will be notified acoordingly.
In view of your certification this Department holds that the
3
official compensation reoeived from the Japanese Government by
6
Mr. Yeto for services performed within the United States is ex-
ampt from Federal income tax. Appropriate instruotions will be
1ssued to the oollectors of internal revenue, New York, New York.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:P:T:2:CP.
Very truly yours,
FTED
StebhenBGibhons
Actans Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
F/FG
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.90)
the Seeretary of state presents his compliments to
Mis Emselleney the Japanese Ambasssder and has the hener
to refer to mis mete mo. 27 ef Fobruary 18, 1ose eeneerming
the desired exemption frem she payment of ineome Saxes of
894.01
Mr. Yeshie Yete, "Manager of the Japan Asseeiatien fer the
New Yerk and San Franeiseo Internatienal Expesitiens".
A letter has been reseived frem the Treasury Depart-
B
ment stating that in view of the eertifieatien of the De-
partment ef State the Treasury Department holds that the
effietal eompensation received by Mr. Yete frem the Japan-
ese sovermment for serviees perfermed in me Uaitad ssates
Ls exemps frem Federal imeeme tax and that apprepriate in-
strwetions will be issved to he Gelleetors of Internal
Revemme at New Yost Gasy.
F/A
APR 8 1939. PM
htagton,
April 10 1980
1811
L

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
FE
APR 11 1954
7
TREASURYIBRAPMNTMENT
:A.1
WASHINGTON
(April 10
Ani
山
1139
CU
1)NS
My dear Mr. SecrOtary.-ORDS
DEATMNSTAIE
Further reference is made to your letter of February 4, 1939,
(FA) and accompanying copy of a note from the Ambassador of Japan
whioh concerns the desired exemption from the payment of Federal
income tax on the official campensation received by r. Sakae Yagi,
a language officer of the Departnent of Education of the Japanese
Government.
In accordance with the provisions of section ll6(h) of the
894.01
Revenue Aot of 1938 you certify that Japan grunts an equivalent
exemption to the employees of the Government of the United States
performing services in Japan, and that the character of the
services performed by officers of the Government of the United
States in foreign countries is similar to the services performed
by ir. Yagi in the United States. You therefore hope that the
official compensation of r. Yagi may be exempted from the pay-
ment of income taxes and that the interested officers of this
Department will be notified accordingly.
In view of your certification this Department holds that the
/140
official compensation received from the Japanese Goveriment by
Mr. Yagi for servioes performed within the United States is ex-
empt from Federal income tax. Appropriate instruotions will be
issued to the collector of internal revenue, San Francisoo,
California.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to(IT:P:T:2:CP.)
livision of
Very truly yours,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
StephenBGibhous
AFR11 1939
artmant of Stale
 Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
F/FG
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.98)
The Beeretary ef State presents his compliments to
Mis Exoelleney the Japanese Ambassador and has the honor
to refer to his note no. 24 of February 14, 1939 conoern-
ing the desired exemption of Mr. Sakae Yagi, a language
offioer of the Department of Eduoation of the Japanese
894.01
Government, from the payment of Federal inoome taxes on
the compeneation reoeived by him from the Japanese Gov-
ernment for services rendered in the United States.
A letter has been received from the Treasury Depart-
11/140
mont stating that in vlew of the oertifioatlon of the
Department of State the Treasury Department holds that
the offloial compensation received by Mr. Yag1 from the
Japanese Government for servioes performed in the United
States 1s exempt from Federal inoome tax and that appro-
priate instruotions will be issued to the Colleetor of
F/A
Internal Revenue, San Franeisoe, California, frem which
port

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.88)
-2-
pert he expeets to sall on April 27 on the ateamship
Kmakure Ma.
Department of State,
Washington, April 0
894.01 B 11/140
FA:FM:MCM:BS
Le
4/7
fat
OR
APR 8 1959. PM

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.93)
LEGAL ADVISER
10
A12
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1939 ADR 5 AM 10 10
Fde
FUHBIGN
livision of
CO.
SNC
I AR EASTERN AFFANRS
Ah.
JURDS
DEPT
AFR 7-1939
Ly dear Nr. secretary:
Department of State
I have your letter of March 21, 1939 (Fa 894.01 B 11/133),
and accompanying copy of e note from the Japanese Ambessador
which concerns the desired exemption of Shinichiro Kasugai, a
Japanese national who will depart from the United Stetes on
March 30, 1939.
894.01
The subject matter under discussion in your letter is re-
ceiving careful consideration by this Depertment and you will be
promptly advised in regerd thereto at the earliest practicable
date.
In the event that further corresrondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:P:T:2-RLB.
B
Very truly yours,
John Wttanes
4
Acting Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
F/FG

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.94)
LEGAL ADVISER
FA
APR 6 1939
DEPARTMENT OF STA!
TREASURYDEPARTMENT
A10
WASHINGTON
EHYLSAONISTHATIUN
A 3 1939
I rieion of
CC.
IAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
NS
AA
URDS
AFE6-1939
STAI
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Department of State
I have your letter of Marcn 21, 1939 (FA 894.01 B 11/134),
and accompanying cory of a note from the Japanese Ambassador
national who will depart from the United States for Jayan on
March 30, 1939.
894.01B
The subject matter under discussion in your letter is re-
ceiving careful consideration by this Department and you will
be promptly advised in regerd thereto at t!e earliest practicable
date.
In the event that further corresiondence relative to this
matter is necessary, plcase refer to IT:F:T:2-RLB.
11/142
Very truly yours,
Tohn whtanes
Acting ecretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
F/FG
11

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.92)
Liee
LEGAL ADVISER
Division of
ic
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 11 1939
JAPANEBPMASSES
WASHINGTON
20
2
199A: 8 P1 12 25
NO.74
SEHVICE ALMINISTRATION
ADR0 1039
The Japanese Ambassador presents his com-
pliments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and
has the honor to request that Commander Ko Nagasawa,
a Japanese national, be included in the list of Japa-
894.011511
894.01B
nese officials who are grented exemption from the pay-
ment of income tares while residing in the United States.
Commander Nagasawa, a language officer of the
Japanese Government, was sent to this country by the
Navy Department of Japan to study. His income is de-
rived solely fron the Japenese Government. He arrived
at San Francisco in May, 1937, and will leave Los
FO ED
Angeles April 24, 1939 by the steamship "Kamakura Maru".
In this connection the Ambassador begs leave
further to request that Dommander Nagasawa's name be
brought to the attention of the appropriate authorities
of the United States Government.
7
FG
April 7, 1939
4
J.K.
1

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.97)
April 12 1939
In reply refer to
PA 004.018 11/144
My dear Mr. Beoretary:
There is enolosed a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador concerning the desired exemption from the pay-
ment of the Federal inoome tax of Commander Ko Nagasawa,
a language officer of the Japanese Onvernment. It will
be observed that it 1s stated that Commander Nagasawa
1s a Japanese national, that his income 1s derived
solely from the Japanese Government, and that he will
8
sa1l from Los Angeles on April 24, 1939 on board the
steamship Kamakura Mary.
0
Referenoe 1s made to the letter of the Department
of State dated September 12, 1935 in wh1oh, 1n relation
to the Treasury Department's letter of Ootober 9, l934
(Treasury file IR: OC:I:JCs), and to subsequent corre-
spondenoe in regard to the exemption of officers of
4
4
foreign
The Honorable
Menry Morgonthau, Jr.,
F/A
Seoretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.94)
-2
fereign geveraments in the Umited States, in a nos-
diplematie status, from Federal income tax with respeet
to wages, fees and salaries received by them in sompemse-
tiom for their serviees in the United States, there was
emclosed a list of those countries, inoluding Japan, in
whieh Amerioan consular officers and employees and other
nondiplomatio officers and employees are exempt from the
payment of inoome tax on their official compensation,
In accordanee w1th the provisione of Seotion 116 (h)
of the Internal Hevemue Code, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to the employees of the Govern-
mont of the United States performing services in Japan,
and that the character of the servioes performed by
employees of the Government of the United Statee in
foreign countries is similar to the services performed
by Commander Nagasawa in the United States.
Sincerely yours,
Routing
Enclosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
no. 74, Apr1l 7, 1939.
CR
APR 11 1939. PM
FE
Le
911
FA:FM:EH:SS 4/10

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.89)
The Seeretary ef State presents his sompliments
to His Exoelleney the Japanese Ambassador and has the
honor to aoknowledge the reoeipt of his note no. 74 of
Apr1l 7, 1939 conoerning the departure from the United
States of Commander Ko Nagasawa, a language offioer of
894.01
the Japanese Government who hns been in the United
States for the purpose of etudy and whose exemption from
the payment of Federal inoome tax 1s desired.
1/1
A copy of the Ambagsador's note has been transmitted
44
to the oompetent author1ty of the Government of the United
states with a view to the exemption of Commander Nagasawa
from the payment of 1noome tax on the official compensa-
tien received by him while in the United States.
Department of State,
F/A
UR
1元
Waekimgton,
u
nal.
111939.PM
004.018 21/244
Ap
FF
Le
A::410

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.93)
ION AND
April 24, 1939.
Dl
co.2 Muogihin ca
FE referS to the attached
letter addressed to the Treasury
Department in regard to tax exemp-
tion of certain Japanese officials
and notes that in the enclosed list
of names of those officials, sup-
plied by the Japanese Ambassador,
there is inoluded the Formosan
Government Commissioner at New York
City. In view of the fact that this
Government does not appear to have
been notified of the establishment
of that office, does Co perceive any
objeotion to the sending of the let-
ter to the Treasury Department?
m.mH
111s
FE:Ballantine:JPS
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
PP 27 1939
Department of State

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
MAY 1 1939
JAPANESE EMBASSY
DEPARTMENT OF STATT
WASHINGTON
1020
D
DIVISION NK FOHBIGN
HERVICE ADMINISTRATION
No.76
29
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
944.
ents to The Honorable the Secretary of State
and, in response to the Secretary's request of
B
August 15, 1938, has the honor to enclose herewit
a list of Japanese nationals resident in the United
894.01
States, other than diplomatic and consular officers,
whose salaries are paid as compensation for official
0J
services rendered to the Japanese Government, in
order to facilitate their exemption from the payment
of income taxes.
The Ambassador has further the honor to
state that employees of the United States are granted
FTLED
exemption from the payment of income taxes in Japan.
April 14, 1939
FA
SK.

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANESE NATIONALS RESIDENT IN THE UNITED
STATES (OTHER THAN DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR
OFFICERS) WHOSE SALARIES ARE PAID AS COM-
PENSATION FOR OFFICIAL SERVICES RENDERED
TO THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
THE FORMOSAN GOVERNMENT COMMISSIONER
350 Firth Avenue, New York City.
Name
Duties
Arrival date
Shuhei Kawazoe
The Formosan Government
Dec. 31, 1938
Commissioner
IMPERIAL JAPANESE ARMY, INSPECTORS' OFFICE
1775 Broadway, New York City
Name
Duties
Arrival date
Ryoiti Naito
Surgeon Captain.
Nov. 14, 1938
Language Officer.
Yukiyoshi Suto,
Military Engineer.
May 9, 1938
Ordnance Inspector of the
Imperial Japenese Army
Kenzi Oyama
Assistant Engineer.
Oct. 11, 1938
Inspector for Aviation of
the Imperial Japanese Army
THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT RAW SILK INTELLIGENCE BUREAU
OF NEW YORK
261 Fifth Avenue, New York City
Name
Duties
Arrival date
Takehiko Uyeda
Seoretary to the Department Aug. 17, 1937
of Agriculture and Forestry.
Tokyo, Japan
Hiroshi Shiga
Civil Engineer of the De-
Feb. 2, 1933
partment of Agriculture and
Forestry, Tokyo, Japan
Motonaga Ohto
Clerk
Nov. 7, 1938

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
The Japanese Raw Silk Intelligence Bureau of N.Y.,Contd.
Name
Duties
Arrival date.
Mantaro Matsumoto
Civil Engineer of the
Jan. 12, 1939
Silk Testing House
Juzo Ohtsuka
n
n
n
n
NEW YORK OFFICE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE IMPERIAL
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS
551 Fifth Avenue, New York City.
Name
Duties
Arrival date
Tatsuo Shirak1
Mechanical Engineer
Nov. 7, 1938
Tokyo Division, Japa-
(from Jepan)
nese Government Rallways
Tsutoo Takase
Seoretary, Japanese
Oct. 27, 1937
Government Railways
(from Japan)
Tatsuich1 Nakei
Clerk, Japanese Govern-
April 9, 1938
ment Railways
(from Japan)
Yasumitsu Okazaki
Civil Engineer, Japanese
Oct. 6, 1938
Government Railways
(from Europe)
Yasumitsu Tasaka
Seoretary to the Japanese Jan. 12, 1939
Government Railways De-
partment
IMPERIAL JAPANESE NAVY INSPECTOR'S OFFICE
No. 1 Madison Avenue, New York City.
Name
Duties
Arrival date
Todomu Nakamura
Engineer Captain.
Oot. 10, 1938
Chief Inspeotor of Con-
struotion and Ordnance of
Naval Teohnical Department
Masahide Iwasaki
Construotor Commander.
May 22, 1937
Inspeotor of Construction
of the Naval Technical
Department.
Ryoiohi Shiraishi
Paymaster Lieutent
Jan. 8, 1938
Commander. Accounting
Inspeetor of the Naval
Teochnical Department and
Department of Naval
Aeronauties.

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Imperial Japanese Navy Inspeotors' Ofrice
(Contd.)
Name
Duties
Arrival date.
Shigeo Toyoda
Engine Construotor Lieuten-
Oct. 1, 1938
ant Commander. Inspeotor of
Construotion of Naval Tech-
nical Department
Shinsaku Yajima
Ordnance Lieutenant Commander. Sept. 7, 1938
Inspeotor of Ordnance of the
Naval Technical Department
Takeo Ejima
Engineer Lieutenant Commander, Sept. 9, 1938
Inspector of Ordnanoe of the
Department of Naval Aeroneutics
Moritoshi Maeda
Engineer. Inspeotor of Con- Nov. 16, 1938
struction and Ordnance of the
Naval Technicel Denartment
Umeji Kitagawa
Clerk. Clerk of Construction June l2, 1937
and Ordnance of Naval Techni-
cal Department.
Chuichi Itoh
Assiatant Engineer. Assist- Deo. 1, 1937
ant Inspector of Ordnance of
the Naval Technical Department.
Shigeru Nagashime
Assistant Engineer. Assistant Nov. 17, 1937
Inspector of Construction of
the Naval Teohnical Department
Takeo Horiuchi,
Assistant Engineer. Assist-
April 1, 1938
ant Inspector of Department
of Naval Aeronautics.
Toshiyuki Mori
Assistant Engineer. Assist-
Dec. 31, 1938
ant Inspeotor of Ordnance of
Naval Technical Department
FINANCIAL COMMISSION OF THE IMPERIAL JAPANRSE GOVERNMENT
180 Broadway. New York City
Name
Duties
Arrival Date
Harukage Ukawa
Secretary to the Japanese
May 14, 1935
Financial Commission
Yoshisuke Isoda
Secretary to the Japanese
Aug. 15, 1957
Financial Commission

=== Page 473 === (confidence 1.00)
TOKYO COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL MUSEUM
200 Madison Avenue,New York City
Name
Duties
Arrival Date
Hisashi Ohnuma
Local Secretary for
Jan. 25, 1938
Commerce and Industry
Yonosuke Tanaka
Assistant Local Secretary
Oct. 1, 1937
for Commerce and Industry
OTHERS
Name
Duties
Arrival Date
Tadasi Nakayama
Assistant Professor, Osaka
Sept. 3, 1937
Imperial University
Keiji Sawada
Assistant Professor, Tokyo
Sept. 14, 1937
School for the Blind
Eisaku Kiso
Professor of the Otaru
Aug. 15, 1937
Higher Commercial School
Taikei Ri
Assistant Professor of the
Mar. 7, 1939
Kyoto Imperial University
Hiroshi Hara
Language Officer of the
Oct. 27, 1938
Department of Education
Shoichi Kimura
Assistant Professor of
Sept. 19, 1938
Hokkaido Imperial University.
Fellowship of Rockefeller
Foundation.
Hiroto Yoshioka
Assistant of Tokyo Imperial
Sept. 5, 1937
University. Department of
Education.
Takesume Soda
Assistant Professor of the
Sept. 19, 1938
Taihoku Imperial University,
Public Health Ofricer of the
Government General of Taiwan.

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.95)
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
Mis Exeellenoy the Japanese Ambassador and has the
honor to acknowlodge the reeeipt of his note no. 76
894.01B
of April 14, 1939 concerning the desired exempt1on from
Federal income taxes of the Japanese officlals named in
the l1st which aocompanied the note.
11/145
Copies of the Ambassador's note and its enelosure
have been transmitted to the competent authority of the
Government of the Umited States with a view to the
exemption of the persons named in the accompanying list
from Federal inoome taxation on the compensation re-
esived by them from the Japamese Govermment for serviees
remdered in the Umited States.
The Seeretary ef State will be glad to be furnisbed
with the asdressee in the Uaited Stetee of the Japanese
ofrseiale

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.90)
-2-
offieials mamed in the last paragraph of the liet in
order that the internal revense autherities conserned
may be appropriately instrueted.
Department of State,
029
Washington,
A true copy
the sianed on
R
nal.
APB 28 1939
004.01 11/145
—0
cwy FE
4/19
m.m

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.91)
'Aprl 29 1939
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
There is emelosed a copy of a note from the Japamese
Ambassader transmitting a list of Japazese effieials en
894.01B
duty in the Uaited States whe are Japanese mationale and
whese eempeasatlen is reeeived from the Japasese Gevera-
moat.
Reference 1s made to the Treasury Department's letter
of September 5, 1935 setting forth the vievs of your De-
二
1
partment coneerming the applieation of the ast of Comgress
approved August 27, 1935, entitled "As Aot to Ezempt frem
Tazatien Offielal Compensation of Certain Fereign Repre-
semtatives eees, to offielale of the Japanese Railway
Department statieaed in the Uaited states, file IR:sG:A-
serres, the mame of five effieials of whieh are iaelmded
The Hemerable
Beavy Mosgomthas, Jr..
Seesetary of the Treaeusy.

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.97)
2
in the emelosed list.
Referenee is also made to the lotter of the Depart-
ment of State dated September 12, 1935 in whieh, in
relation to the Treasury Department's letter of Oetober 9,
1934 (Treasury file IR: CC: I:JC8) and to subsequemt
correspondence in regard to the exemption of offieers
of foreign governments in the United States, in a non-
diplomatio status, from Federal income tax with respeet
to wages, fees and salaries reoeived by them in compensa-
tion for their servioes in the United States, there was
enolosed a list of those countries, 1noluding Japan, in
which American consular officers and employees and other
nondiplomatic ofricers and employees are exempt from
the payment of 1noome tax on their official compensa-
tion.
In acoordanoe with the provisions of Seotion 1l6(h)
of the Internal Revenue Code, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government
of the United States performing servioes in Japan and
that the character of the services performed by offioers
of the Government of the United States in foreign coun-
tries 1s similar to the services performed in the United
States by the offioials named in the enelosed list. I
therefore hope that they may be exempted from Federal
1noome

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.91)
-3-
ineeme taxation om the compensation received by them from
the Japanese Goverament for services rendered in the
United States and that the appropriate authorities of
your Department may be appropriately instrueted in the
matter.
The Japanese Ambassador has been requested to furnish
the addresses in the United States of the Japanese officials
named in the last paragraph of the list.
Sincerely yours,
fxxxxxxxrxrexnxyxxfxitaxxxx
Dexrgex fx x texesexxeniutubx
xxxxdxxtxxtxexretxryxx
Enolosures:
From Japanese Ambassador,
no. 76, Apr11 14, 1939,
with enclosure.
Routise
8
APB 28 1939
九
Le
FA:FM::FOR: SS
4/19

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.97)
LEGAL ADVISER
APR 22 1939
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
LIVISION OF FOREICAPR 18 1939
APR 20 AM 10 11
SERVICE ADMINSTRATION
APR 21 1939
Drvicion of
My dear Mr. Secretary:
 AFFAIRS
Further reference is made to reretarch 21, 1939
(FA 894.01 B 11/134), and accompanying note from the Japenese
Ambassador, dated Larch 15, 1939, which concerns the desired ex-
emption from the payment of Federal income tax on the official
ne121
compensation received by Shuzo Takeda, e Japanese netional who
was sent to the United States by the Japanese Department of
Education for study.
In this relation reference is mede to a letter dated Septem-
ber 12, 1935, from your Department which concerned a letter of this
Depertment dated October 9, 1934 (Treasury file IR:CC:I:JCS), and
to subsecuent correspondence in regerd to the exemption, from the
Federal income tax, of the wages, fees end salaries of officers of
foreign governments in the United States in a nondiplomatic status.
894.01
In accordance with the provisions of section ll6(h) of the
Revenue Act of 1938 you certify thet the Japanese Government grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government of the
United States performing services in Japan and that the cheracter
of the services performed by oficers of the Government of the
United States in foreign countries is similer to the services per-
formed by Nr. Takeda in the United Stetes. You therefore hope that
the official compensation of ir. Takeda may be exempted from the
payment of income taxes and that the interested officers of this
Depertment will be notified accordingly.
In view of your certification this Department holds thet the
46
official compensation received from the Japanese Government by Mr.
He varle
Takeda for services rendered within the United States is exempt from
Federal income tax. Appropriete instructions have been issued to
m1.30
the collector of internal revenue and the internal revenue agent in
charge, San Francisco, California.
FILED
FA
In the event that further correspondence relative to this matter
is necessary, please refer to IT:P:T:2-RLB.
Very truly yours,
John Wttanes
F/A
The Honorable,
Acting Secretary of the Treasury.
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
1

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.96)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
Divist
FAR EASL
a
WASHINGTO
2410 06
Depari
21199
SEAVILEMINISTRATION
1939
LEGAL ADVISED
REPARTMENT OF SIAIE
APR 28 1939
My dear Mr. Secretary:
DEPARTMENT OF STA
I have your 1etter of April 1, 1939 (FA 894.01 B 11/138),
and accompanying copy of a note from the Japanose Ambassador
894.01
which concerns the desired exemption from the paymont of income
tax of Takeo Watanabe, a Japanese national, a language officer of
the Department of Education at Tokyo, who has been in the United
States for the purpose of study and who will depart from the
Rew.
United States on April 27, 1939.
The subject matter under discussion in your letter is
B
receiving careful consideration by this Department and you will
be promptly advised in regard thereto at the earliest practica-
M
ble date.
/147
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter 1s necessary, please refer to IT:P:T:2-RLB.
Very truly yours,
John WhHanes
Ig Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
F/FG
11

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.98)
LEGAL ADVISER
MAY 2 193
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
TREASURY DEPARTMENL
SERVICEALMINISTRATION
939 MAY 1
APR 88 1939
.1939
"on of
My dear Mr. Secretary:
IAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Further reference is made to your letter of Lerch 22, 1939
(FA 894.01 B 11/136), a1d accompanyin? note from the Japanes
exemption from the payment of Federal income tax on the officiar
compensation received by ir. Hidetoshi Isobe, a Japanese national
who was sent to the Lnited States by the Japanese De artment of
Education for study.
In this relation reference is made to a letter dated Septem-
894.01B
ber 1f, 1935, from your Department which concerned a letter of this
Department dated October 9, 1934 (Treasury file IR:CC:1:JCS), and to
subsecuent correspondence in regard to the exemption from the Federal
income tax of the weges, fees and salaries of officers of foreign
governments in the United States in a nondinlomatic status.
In accordance with the provisions of section ll6(h) of the
Revenue Act of 1938 you certify that the Japanese Government grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government of the
United States performing services in Japan and that the charecter
of the services performed by officers of the Government of the
United States in foreig:. countries is similar to the services per-
48
formed by Nr. Isobe in the United States. You therefore hope that
the official compensation of I'r. Isobe may be exempted from the pay-
ment of income taxes and that the interested officers of this Depart-
ment will be notified eccordingly.
In view of your certification this Department holds that the
official compensation received from the Japanese Government by Mr.
Isobe for services rendered within the United States is exempt from
Federal income tax. Appropriate instructions heve been issued to
the collector of internal revenue and the internal revenue agent in
charge, San Francisco, California.
In the event that further correspondence reletive to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:i:T:2-RLB.
Very truly yours,
Johu WhHanes
Acting Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
F/FG
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.95)
H
(2)
DIVIEION OF FUHKION
SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
JAPANESE EMBASSY
JUN 261939
WASHINGTON
DEPASTMENT OF STATE
No.81
The Japanese Ambassador presents his compli-
794.01B11
ments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and has
the honor to request that Engineer First Lieutenant Taked
Ito, a Japanese national, be included in the list of Japa-
894.01B
nese officials who are granted exemption from the payment
of income taxes while residing in the United States.
Engineer First Lieutenant Ito, a language officer
of the Japanese Government, was sent to this country by
the Navy Department of Japan. His income is derived solely
from the Japanese Government. He arrived in Washington,
D. C. June 6, l936, and will leave Los Angeles April 24,
1939 by the steamship "Kamakura Maru".
In this connection the Ambassador begs leave
further to request that Engineer First Lieutenant Ito's
name be brought to the attention of the appropriate autho-
巴
ties of the United States Government.
Divisio:
FA EASTERN AFFAL
B
April 22, 1939
APR 2 6 1939
s.k.

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.97)
April 28 1989
Im reply refer to
FA
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
There 1s enolosed, in confirmation of the message
by telephone to the Bureau of Internal Revenue on
April 22, a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador
conoerning the desired exemption from Federal inoome tax
894.01B
of Engineer First Lieutenant Takeo Ito, a language
officer of the Japanese Government, who planned to sail
from Los Angeles, California, on April 24 on the
steamship Kamakura Maru. It will be observed that the
Ambassador states that Lieutenant Ito 1s a Japanese
national and that his inoome 1s derived solely from the
5
Japanese Government.
0
Referonoe is made to the letter of the Department of
State dated September 1?, 1935 1n whioh, 1n relation
to the Treasury Department's letter of Ootober 9, 1934
(Treasury
The Honorable
Henry Morgenthau, Jr.,
Seoretary of the Treasury.
F7F

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
(Treasury f1le IR:CC:I:JCs) and to subeequemt serre-
spendemee in regard to the exemptien of offisers of
fereign governmemts in the Uaited states, in a nendiplematis
status, from Federal income tax with respeet te wages,
fees, and salarles reseived by them in sompensatien for
their servioes in the United States, there was enelosed
a list of those countries, including Japan, in which
Amerlcan consular officere and employees and other non-
diplomatic officers and employees are exempt from the
payment of income tax on their offiolal compensation.
In accordanoe w1th the prov1slons of Seotion 116(h)
of the Internal Revenue Code, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government
of the United States performing services in Japan and
that the character of the s-rvices performed by officers
of the Government of the United States in foreign
countries 1s similar to the services performed by
Lieutenant Ito in the United States. I therefore hope that
Lieutenant Ito was exempted from Federal income taxation
on the compensation received by him from the Japanese
Government for services rendered in the United States.
7R
Sincerely yours,
29
Cordell Hull
the
Enclosure:
mb
From Japanese Ambassador,
no. 81, Apr11 22, 1939.
LedeS
YE
FE
FA:FM:FB:8S 4/25/39
Jiw

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.94)
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to His Exoellenoy the Ambassador of Japan and has the
honor to aoknowledge the reoeipt of his note no. 81
of Apr1l 22, 1939 ooncerning the desired exemption from
Federal inoome tax of Engineer First Lieutenant Takeo
894.01B
Ito, a lenguage officer of the Japanese Government who
was sent to the United States by the Navy Department of
11/150
Japan and who planned to sail from Los Angeles on
April 24 on the steamship Kamakure Maru.
The substance of the Ambassador's note was com-
munioated by telophone on April 22 to the competent
authority of the Government of the United States with a
view to the exemption of Lieutenant Ito from Federal
1noome taxation.
OR
APR 27 1959
Department of State,
Washingten,
April 28 1939
L
FE
4
Ju3

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.94)
LEBAL ADVISER
MAY 11 9.39
JAPANESE EMBASS
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OF STATF
May 6 1939
3
1118
Division of
No.88
1139
B
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department of State
The Japanese Ambassador presents his compl1-
744
ments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and has
the honor to request that Mr. Juzo Ohtsuka, a Japanese
national, be included in the list of Japanese officials
who are granted exemption from the payment of income
894.01
taxes while residing in the United States.
Mr. Ohtsuka. civil engineer of the Silk Con-
dit ioning House of Tokyo, was sent to this country by
01
the Japanese Government for the purpose of study. His
inoome is derived solely from the Japanese Government.
9
He arrived at San Francisco January 12, 1939 and has
been residing in New York. He will leave New York on
FILED
May 12, 1939 for Europe by the steamship EUROPA.
In this conneot1on the Ambassador begs leave
further to request that Mr. Ohtsuka's name be brought to
the attention of the appropriate authorities of the United
States Government.
F/A
May 2, 1939
y
1K.

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.84)
May 6 1989
T/
Ny dear Nr. Seeretary:
There is enelesed a copy of a mete frem the Japaness
Amkessader ceneeraing the desired exemptien frem imeeme
tax of Me. Jase Oatsaka, sivil eagineer of the salk Ses-
894.0TB
dislening Heuse of Tokye, whe was sent to the Uaited
statee by the Japanese Geverament fer study. It will be
shesrved that it is stated that Nr. Chssvks is a Japansse
matiemel; that his imceme is derived celely frem the
Japanese Gevernment and that he will sall frem New York
en May 12 cn the steanship Erem.
Referense 1s made to the letter of the Department ef
State dased September 12, 19ss in whieh, 1s relatien to
the Treasury Bepartmeat's 1otter of Gsteber 9, 1934
(2ressury file IR:00:2:50s) and to subsequont eorre-
apenéense in regard to the exemptien of effteere of
fereigm
the eneeeble
, I
Geeretesy of the treeery.

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.87)
-0
Soveige poveremsate ia the Vaited ssstes, ia a nentip
Apaatte statue, free Pederal ineeme tas vith peopees to
wagss, fese and salaries received by then ia cempenssties
fer their serviees in the Waited ststes, there wes en-
alesed a list of these commtries, imelading Japem, in
which Ameriean ceasular offieers and empleyees and ether
mendiplematie efficere and empleyees are exempt frem the
payment of imeeme tax em their effieial cempensatiem.
In acserdanse with the provisiems of Seetiem 1le(h)
of the Intermal Revesse Cede, I eertify that Japen greats
an squivalent exemptiem to empleyess of the Gevermment ef
the Uaited states perferaing serviees in Japan and that
the charester of the serviees perfermed by effieers of the
Geverameat of the Uaited States in fereigs comtries is
similar to the serviees perfermed in the Waited States by
Nr. Cktsaka. I therefere hepe that he may be exempted
frem Peleral imceme taxation es the compessetien reseived
by his frem the Japasese Geveramest fer serviees rentered
is the Baited states and that the apprepriate authesitice
of your Bepartaent may be instrested in the matter.
sincerely yours.
OR X
MAY 6 1959•
Roütine
Cordell Hall
Saclesure:
Prem Japanese habaseeßee,
FE
gus
5/5
nal.

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.93)
The Seeretary of state presents his complimests to
His Exeelleney the Japanose Ambassador and has the homer
to acknewledge the reseipt of his mote no. 8s of May 2,
1939 comeerning the departure from the United statea on
May 12 on the steamship Surepe of Nr. Juso Ohtsuka, eivil
894.01B
engineer of the Silk Conditioning House of Tokyo, who has
been in the United States for the purpose of study.
A eopy of the Ambassador's note has been transmitted
11/1
to the competent authority of the Government of the tmited
51
States with a view to the exemption of Nr. Ohtsuka from
the payment of Federal ineome tax on the compensatiom
reeeived by him from the Japanese Government.
Department of state,
May 6 1939
Washingten,
CF
MAY 6 1950
F/FG
004.0 8 21/28
FE
PA:FN:MPW:SS
kus
8/5
11

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.94)
145475
im Reh D
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
1939
DIVISON OP FORBIGN
111939
No. 89
PEY LASIEHN ATFAIRS
Departiment of State
The Japanese Ambassador presents his
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary
of State and, in compliance with the Secre-
894.01
tary's note of April 29th, has the honor
to enolose herewith a new list, giving the
addresses, of Japanese officials to be
exempted from the payment of income taxes,
mentioned in the last paragraph of the list
5
2
enclosed with the Ambassador's note of April
9411/145
no76 14th.
May 2, 1939
(Enclosure)
F/A
dK.

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.87)
May 11 1989
dear Mr. Seeretary:
Referenee is made to the letter of the Depertment of
894.01
state of April 29, 1939 enelesing a eepy of a note frem
the Japanese Ambessader tranemitting & liet of Japamese
effieials en duty in the Waited states with a view se
B
their exemptien from Federal ineeme taxaties. Partieular
referense is made to the last paragraph of the lotter of
thie Department stating that the Japanese Ambessader hed
/152
been requested to furaish the addresses in the Umited
ssates of the Japanese effieiale memed sa the last pare-
graph of the l1ss.
There 1s enelesed a copy of a mete frem the Amtemender
furaishing the infermatien requested. Certifiessien wnfsr
Seeti.om
The Renesable
, 
   .

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.85)
  of  ee of e  t 
sLaeerely yours,
Per the Seeretary of state:
Goorge S. Nesseromith
Assistast Secretary
Eneleoures:
Frem Japanese Aabessader,
May 2, 1930, with l1st.
A true cyby of
the sigp origi-
nal.
1939. PV
FE
gm

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.95)
MAY 4 
TREASURY DEPAPPRTOFSTA
WASHINGTON
1939 MAY  A4 10 26
1939
194.C1B11
AFFAIRS
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Statn
I have your letter of April 28, 1933 (FA) enclaging
a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador concerning
the exemption from Federal income tax of Engineer First
Lieutenant Takeo Ito, a language officer of the Japanese
894.01
Government. It is noted that you certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the United States
Government performing similar services in Japan.
This matter will be given careful consideration and
UJ
you will be advised as soon as possible.
Sincerely yours,
John WHaves
C7
C!
otins Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
F/A
-1

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.94)
Dus
1939
LEGAL ADVISER
ASS
MAY 11 939
10 1939
NGTON
DEPARTMENTOESTANTE
thmo
fm
no.97
1134
The Japanese Ambassador presents his compli-
294.01211
ments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and has
the honor to request that Constructor Lt. Commander
Kitaro Matsumoto, a Japanese national, be included in
the list of Japanese officials to be granted exemption
894.Q1B
Division of
4Y9-1939
United States.
Department of Stato
Constructor Lt. Commander Matsumoto, Inspector
of Construction of the Navy Technical Department, was
sent to this country by the Navy Department of Japan as
Inspector in the Imperial Japanese Navy Inspeotors Office,
1 Madison Avenue, New York City. His income 1s derived
solely from the Japanese Government. He arrived at New
York Apr11 30, 1939.
In this connection, the Ambassador begs leave
further to request that Constructor Lt. Commander Matsu-
moto's name be brought to the attention of the appropriate
authorities of the United States Government.
F/FG
May 4, 1959
S.K.

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.89)
May 10 1980
894.01
My Gear Kr. Seeretary:
There 1s enelesed a cepy of a note frem the Jupan-
ese Ambescader coneerning the desired exemptien frem
B
Feteral imeeme tax of Construeter Lieutenant Cemmender
Kitare Mateumeto, whe was sent to the United states by
the Navy Department ef Japam as Inepestor in the Imperial
5
Japenese Nevy Inspestor's Offiee, 1 Madisen Avemue, Now
4
Yosk Gity. The Ambassader states thet Lieutenant Com-
Mander Matsumeto is a Japanese national and that his
saseme is derived solely frem the Jepanese Government.
Reference is made to the letter of the Department
of State dated September 12, 1935 in mhich, 1n relation
t the Tressury Departmest's letter of October 9, 1924
(treamusy f1le IR: GG: I:JOS) and to subsequent corre-
apenéenee in regard to the examption of effieers of fer-
aign govermment in the United States, in a nondiplematie
status,
A
 Nenerable
Woney Mergenthen, Jr.,
Sesretary of me Treasusy.

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.91)
中
statee, fren Federel sresme tak with respees to wagee,
fese and saleries rescived by then in eomponsstien for
meir serviees in the taited states, there was emelesel
a liet of those eountries, ineluding Japan, in which
Amorieen consular effieers and empleyees and ether men-
aiplematie offieers and empleyees are exempt frem the
payment of imeeme tax on their offieial esmpensation.
In aseordanee with the provisions of Seetien 1le(h)
of the Internal Revenue Code, I certify that Japan grants
an equivalent exemption to employees of the Gevermment of
the United States performing serviees in Japan and that
the eharaeter of the serviees performed by offieers of
the Sovernment of the United States in foreiga ceuntries
1s similar to the services performed in the United States
by Lieutenant Commander Matswmoto. I therefore hope that
he may be exempted from Federal income taxation en the
sempensatien received by him from the Japanese Geverm-
ment fer serviees rendered in the United states and that
the appropriate authorities of your Department may be
instrueted in the matter.
sineerely yomrs,
Routimé
Cordell Hull
Enslesure:
o pal?
do
F
FAIFMtMOM:88
s/e

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.84)
She Sesretary of state presente his complimemts to
s mselleney the Japanese Ambasseder and has the hemer
to amtmowlelge the recelpt of his mete ne. 9? ef May 4,
ssnsesming the éesired exemptien frem Federal aneeme
894.01
tom of Genssrester Licutenant Gesmander Kitare Matsumese.
the tae soms to the Uaited states by the Navy Depertment
 Japen as Inspestor in the Imperial Japamese Navy
B
11/1
Easpeeter's effies, 1 Madlsen Avemue, New York Gity.
A eepy of the Mabessy's nete has been transmitted
5
 mpetens therity of the Geverment of the
ee stetes with a view te the exemptien ef Lionten-
er Mateumete frem Pederal Lnccse tazatiem
a reessvee by kis frem tme Jepasese
Fes s eed   Ut stes
May, 10 1980

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGAL ADVISER
MAY 13 1939
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
May 18 1939
51045
inpati D
No.98
29
The Japenese Ambassador presents his com-
pliments to the Honorable the Seoretary of State and
has the honor to inform him of the departure from the
United States of the three Japanese nationals mentioned
894.01B
below. Their names are included in the list attached
.011511/14
to the Ambassador's note dated April 14, 1939, of Japa-
nese officials to be granted exemption from the payment
of income taxes while residing in the United States.
55
Name
Duties
Departure date
Masahide Iwasaki
Constructor Commander, May 29, 1939,
Division of
Inspector of Construo- by HEIAN MARU,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIMS
tion of Navy Technical from Seattle
MAT 10 1939
Department
Department of slafe
Shigeru Nagashima
Assistant Engineer,
June 1, 1939,
Assistant Inspector
by TATSUTA MARU
of Ordnance, Navy
from San Frang
Technical Department
cisco
FILHD
Chuiohi Itoh
Assistant Engineer,
June 24, 1939
Assistant Inspector
by KAMAKURA
of Oranance, Navy
MARU, from San
Technical Department
Francisco
These Japanese nationals, who are officiala.ef
the Imperial Japanese Navy Inspectors Office, were sent
to this country by the Japanese Government for the purpose
FEG
of study. Their income is derived solely from the Japa-
nese Government.
In this

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.92)
-8-
In this conneotion the Ambassador begs leave
further to request that their names be brought to the
attention of the appropriate authorities of the United
States Government.
May 4, 1939.
火

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.92)
May 18 1939
in dear tr. seeretary:
Referemee is made te the letter of the Departmemt
894.01B
of state of April s9, lose enelesing a eepy of e mete
frem the Japemese Ambassader transmitting - list of
Japanese effieials en duty ia the United states whe
are Jepanese matienals and whose cempensatien is received
11/1
from the Japanese Gevernment.
there is emelesed a eopy of a further note frem the
5
Ambessader stating that Construeter Cemmender Masakide
Iwesaki and Assistast Engimeers Shigeru Magashime and
Chaieki Iteh of the Japanese Mavy, whese manes were
imeluded in the list referred to abeve, will sall frem
the perts mamed and en the vessele and dates indseated
sa the mote.
Gertsfieetion
The Benesable
Samey Mergeatheu, Jr.,
Secretery of the Treasury.

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.88)
Certifieation under Sectien ll6(h) of the Iatermal
Revemme Code mas made in the letter of the Department
of state of April 29.
Simmerely yours,
Per the Soseretary of state:
Geerge S. Besseramits
Lsslstant Secretary
Enclosure:
Fron Japanese Ambassador,
no. 98, May 4, 1939.
copy
ned ory
A)
L0 8
FEgwt
FA:FMM:MCM:SRW:S8 5-8
5-9

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.95)
The Seeretary of State presents his eompliments to
Nis Exeellenoy the Japanese Ambassador and has the honor
to aaknowledge the receipt of his note no. e of May 4,
1939 conoerning the departure from the United States of
Comstruotor Commander Masahide Iwasaki and Assistant
894.01B
Engineers Shigeru Nagashima and Chulch1 Itoh of the
Japanese Navy.
11/155
A copy of the Ambassador's note has been trans-
mitted to the oompetent authority of the Government of
the United States with a view to their exemption from
Federal income taxation on the compensation received by
them from the Japanese Government for serviees rendered
in the United states.
Department of state,
May 13 1989
F/FG
11 195
NPD
MAY
894.01 11/188
FE
PAIPH:NOKIBS

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.94)
LEGAL ADVISER
MAY 8 19394
7
TMENT OF STATE
TREASURY DEPARTMN
CVED
18.1
WASHINGTON
1939 NAY 5 AM 10 55
DIVOON OF FOHBION
Division o
MEAR EASTRUAFFAIN
B
F
C
UNS
1939
Mi 10 1939
11
RDS
Department of Stad
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I have your lottor of April 12, 1939 (FA 894.01B 11/144),
and accompanying copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador,
dated April 7, 1939, which concerns the desired exemption from
the payment of Federal income tax of Commander Ko Nagasawa,
a Japanese national and a language officer of the Japanese
Government who was in the United States on a special mission.
894.01B
The subject matter under discussion in your letter is re-
ceiving careful consideration by this Department and you will be
promptly advised in regard thereto at the earliest practicable
date.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:P:T:2-RLB.
11/156
Very truly yours,
John Wttanes
Acts. Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
F/FG

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGAL ADVISER
MAY 8 932
TREASURY DEPAMEENT OF STATE
VFI,
OF
A.1.
WASHINGTON
1939 NAY 5 AM 10 57
she
EVIINISTRATAY 3 1939
FAR EASIERN AFPAINT
C..
ONS
1939
Mai 10 1938
AY
RDS
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I have your 1etter of April 29, 1939 (FA 894.01 B
11/145) enclosing copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador transmitting list of Japanese officials on
duty in the United States who desire exemption from
Federal income taxes. It is noted that you refer to
previous correspondence with the Treasury Department con-
cerning the anplication of the act of Congress approved
894.01B
August 27, 1935, entitled "An Act to exempt from taxation
official compensation of certain foreign representatives
*****. It is also noted that you certify that Japan
grants an equivalent exemption to United States employees
performing similar services in Japan.
This matter will be given careful consideration and
you will be advised as soon as possible.
Sincerely yours,
John WHaves
Actin, Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
F/FG

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.89)
CHARGE SLIP
PONO. 894,01311
CHABGE TO—
DATB
CLERK'S INITIALS
E8-Vaw Oss
9.34
10-12-45

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.96)
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
LEGAL ADVISER
1939 MAY 6
UIVONUFPUHBIUN
MAY 1A 939
BERVICEADMINISTAATION
No. 99
DEPAITMENT OF STATE
1939
may
12
The Japanese Ambassador presents his com-
以
pliments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and
894.01
has the honor to inform him of the departure from the
United States of Mr. Eisaku Kiso, a Japanese national.
Division of
MAY 10 1939
5
cials to be granted exemption from the payment of income
8
taxes while residing in the United States.
Mr. Kiso, Professor of the Otaru Higher Commer-
cial School, was sent to this country by the Japanese
Government for the purpose of study. His income 1s de-
rived solely from the Japanese Government. He will
leave New York June 21, 1939 by the steamship EUROPA.
In this conneotion, the Ambassador begs leave
F/WB
to request that Mr. Kiso's name be brought to the attention
of the appropriate authorities of the United States Govern-
ment.
May 5, 1939
人
Sk.

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.93)
No.
The Jansnese mbassador presents his com-
oliments to the lionorunle the ecretery of state and
hes the honor to inform him of the denarture from the
United Stetes of Xr. leaku Kiso, a Jopanese national.
whose name is included in the list attarhed to the
Ambassador's note datod vay 2, l93s. of Jepenese ofr1-
c'als to be frented cxemption : ron the reyment of inoume
taxes while residing in the United Stetes.
Mr. Kiso, Professor of the  taru Higher Commer-
clel Sohool. wes srnt to this country by the Jananese
Govarnwent for the purpose of study. His income is de-
rived sclely from the Jenenese Government. He will
leave New York June 21. 1939 by the steamship FUxorA.
In this connection, the Ambussador begs leave
to request that Mr. Kiso's name be brought to the attentior
of the appropriate authorities of the United States Govern
mont.
May 6. 10se

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.96)
May 12 1939
m reply refer to
PA 094.01 B 11/158
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
There is enolosed a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador concerning the departure from Wew York on
June 21, 1939 on the steamship Europe of Mr. Eisaku Kiso,
894.0
professor of the Otaru Higher Commeroial Sohool, who was
sent to the United States by the Japanese Government for
the purpose of study. It will be obeerved that the
B
Ambassador states that Mr. Kiso 1s a Japanese national
and that his income 1s derived solely from the Japanese
Government.
5
Reference is made to the letter of the Department of
8
State dated September 12, 1935, in whioh, in relation to
the Treasury Department's letter of Ootober 9, 1934
(Treasury file IR:CC:I:JCs) and to subsequent correspond-
ence in regard to the exemption of employees of foreiga
governments
The Honorable
Henry Morgenthau, Jr.,
F/FG
Seeretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.89)
-
sorrmmsnse is the mei ted states, in a men-diplematse
status, frem Feseral imeeme tax ma te respeet to vages,
feee and ealaries reseived by thes 1n cempemsetien for
their serviees in the Umited states, there were emelesed
lists of these eeuntries, imeluding Japan, in which
Ameriesn empleyees ef the eharester mentioned are exempted
frem the paymemt ef imeome tax on their offieial cempemse-
tiem.
In acserdanee with the provisions of Seetion 11e (h)
of the Intermal Revesse Cede, I eertify that the Japamese
Geverament grants an equivalent ezemptien to empleyees ef
the Severament of the Uaited states perferming serviees
in Japan and that the charaeter of the serviees perfermed
 empleyees of the Geverament of the United States in
fereign comtries 1s similar to the serviees perfermed by
Mr. Kiss.
I shall, therefere, be glad 1f he may be exempted
frem the peymemt of ineome taz on the compensetien ressived
by kim frem the Jepamese Geverameat fer serviees rendered
in the Uaited states and 1f the apprepriate Intermal
Revemse effieial my be advised accerdingly.
simeerely yours,
RAY  1939 PM
Cordell Hull
APR 11
1939
Baelesure:
A true c
Le
50

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.92)
the seeretery ef state presents his eemplimumts to
Els Exselleney the Japanese Ambassader and has the honer
to aaknowledge the reseipt of his note no. 99 of May 5,
1939 conserming the desired exemp tion from the payment
894.01B
of ineome tax of Mr. Eisaku Kiso, professor of the Otaru
Higher Commeroial Sohool, who was sent to the United
states for the purpose of study by the Japanese Govern-
meat and who will sall from Mew York on Jume 2l, 1939 on
58
the steamship Europe.
A sopy of the Ambassador's note has been transmitted
to the competent authority of the Government of the United
states with a view to the exemption of Mr. Kise from the
payment ef ineome tax on the compensatien received by
him frem he Japamese Gevermmest fer serviees remdered
in the United states.
May 12 1939
Dopartment of State,
Or W
MAY 100n93Hington,
F/FG
A true coby of
AB11989
the sigeed ri
nal.
004.0 8 11/2.00
Le
FE
Jmo

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.97)
LFA
LEBAL ADVISER
MAY 22 1839
DEPARTNONTOFSTATTREASURY DEPARTMENT
ATDIVISION OF FOHRION
B
1939 MAY 9 AM 10 22 MAY - 9 1939
1939
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
 dear Mr. seeretaryof
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CO
NS
B 11/135), and acoompanying copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador,
dated Maroh 16, l9s9, which conoerns the desired exemption from the pay-
ment of Federal income tax on the offioial compensation received by
Mr. Tatsuto Toki, a Japanese national who was sent to the United States by
the Japanese Government to supervise the arohitecture of the Japanese
building at the San Francisoo Golden Gate International Exposition.
In this relation reference is made to a letter dated September 12,
935, from your Department whioh conoerned a letter of this Department
1339
d ted Ootober 9, 1934 (Treasury file IR:CC:I:JCS) and to subsequent cor-
8
espondence in regard to the exemption, from the Federal inoome tax, of
6
4.01
th wages, fees and salaries of officers of foreign governments in the
mnited States in a nondiplomatio status.
In accordanoe with the provisions of seotion ll6(h) of the Revenue Aot
1938 you certify that the Japanese Goverment grants an equivalent exemp-
lon to employees of the Government of the United States performing services
B
in Japan and that the oharacter of the services performed by officers of the
Government of the United States in foreign countries is similar to the ser-
vioes performed by Mr. Toki in the United States. You therefore express'the
hope that the official oompensation of Mr. Toki may be exempted from the pay-
ment of inoome taxes and that the interested officers of this Department will
59
be notified aooordingly.
In view of your oertification this Department holds that the official
compensation received from the Japanese Govermment by Mr. Toki for servioes
rendered within the United States is exempt from Federal inoome tax... Appro-
priate instruotions have been issued to the collector of internal revenue,
Now York, New York..
In the event that further correspondenee relative to this matter ir
neoessary, please refer to IT:PrT:2-RLB.
Very truly yours,
Actil. Seoretary of the Treasury.
F/A
The Honorable,
The Seoretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.96)
LEgAL ADVISER
MAY 22 1839
4.
FECEIV..D
FARTMENT OF STAIE
WASHINGTON
DIVISION OF FOHBION
Davisiongf
1930 MAY 9 AM 9 57
SERVICEADMINISTRATION
FAR EASTERN AFFAIR
MAY 22 1939
D VISION OF
My doar Mr. SoATIoNS
Department of Statey
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
AND RECORDS
Further reference is made to your letter of April 1, 1939
(FA 894.01 B 11/138), and accompanying copy of a note from the
Japanese Ambassador, dated Maroh 27, 1939, which conoerns the
desired exemption from the payment of Federal inoome tax on the
official compensation received by Mr. Takeo Watanabe, a Japanese
national, a language offioer of the Department of Education at
Tokyo who was sont to the United States for the purpose of study.
In this relation referenoe is made to a letter dated
September 12, 1935, from your Department whioh concerned a letter
894.01
of this Department dated October 9, 1934 (Treasury file IR:GC:I:JCS)
and to subsequent correspondenoe in regard to the exemption, from
the Federal income tax, of the wages, fees and salaries of officers
of foreign governments in the United States in a nondiplomatio
status.
In aocordanoe with the provisions of section ll6(h) of the
B
Internal Revenue Code you cortify that the Japanese Government
grants an equivalent exemption to employees of the Government of
the United States performing servioes in Japan and that the char-
acter of the services performed by offioers of the Government of
the United States in foreign countries is similar to the servioes
performed by Mr. Watanabe in the United States.
60
In view of your certification this Department holds that the
official compensation received from the Japanese Government by
Mr. Watanabe for servioes rendered within the United States is
exempt from Federal inoome tax. Appropriate instruotions have
been issued to the collector of internal revenue and the internal
revenue agent in oharge, San Franoisco, California.
In the event that further correspondence relative to this
matter is necessary, please refer to IT:P:T:2-RLB.
Very truly yours,
F/A
AtethenkelGibbone
Aotins Seoretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable,
The Seoretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FOREIGN SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
May 10, 1939.
Viss Hines, Internal Revenue,
advised me by telephone that
the Colleotor at New York City
will be appropriately instructed
with reference to the exempt
status of Mr. Yagi.
FA:VELLIS
