894.50 Japan, Economic Matters., December 4, 1948 - December 3, 1949 (File 1797), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.50-1797-1   Pages: 617   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.50-japan-economic-matters-17/894.50%20Japan%2C%20Economic%20Matters.%2C%20December%204%2C%201948%20-%20December%203%2C%201949%201797-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
AMB
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF SAE
9
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Action:
FE
DEC-41948
info:
2
PLAIN
DIRECTOR
Dopartment of State
0
SAN
Control 1460
EJR
OLI
Rec 'd December 4, 1948
016
7:25 a.m.
NA
AAN
OFD
POS
FROM:
Mosc ow
PA
DCR
TO:
Secretary of State
3
1
6
NO:
2826, December 4.
4
Sovlet prees December 4 prints text Panyushkin's
50
speceh on economic development Japan at meeting
FEC Decemper 2.
/12-448
Sent Department 2826, Department puss Tokyo 48.
SMITH
MAH:RS
Note:
Relayed to Tokyo 7:40 a.m. 12/4/48 VWP
DEC 141948
PLAIN
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TODC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
D/R
December 10, 1948
894.50/12-1048
CONFIDENTIAL
20
MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER,
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
Subject: Program for Eeonomio Stabilization in Japan
XR
You are authorized to inform the members of the Far
894.51
Eastern Commission immediately of the views of your Govern-
ment as set forth in the attaohed statement.
igé Piaudr P. Clapton
for Walter wilds
CSA
Deputy Assistant Seeretary
for Oecupled Areas
Attachment:
Statement of U.S. Government
wss
894.50
WAS
CONFIDENTIAL
FE:NA:MWBishop/pm
E
12/10/48
(Clearel ly
Lns. Barnets)
444

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIRENTIAL
ECONONIC STABILIZATION IN JAPAN
The United States Government sonsiders it a matter of urgemey
that the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers require the
Japanese Government immediately to put into effeet a program of
domestic eeonomie stabilization, including measures lesding to
fiseal, monetary, price, and wage stability, and maximum pre-
duetion for export. The United States Government further believes
that in this conaeetion the Japanese Government should be required
to adopt measures designed to:
a. Aohive a true balance in the consolidated budget
at the earliest possible date by stringent surtailing of
expenditures and maximum expansion in total governmental
revenues, ineluding such new revenue measures as may be neces-
sary and appropriate.
b. Accelerate and strengthen the program of tax
collection and insure prompt, widespread and vigorous crimimal
proseoution of tax evaders.
c. Asaure rigorous limitation of credit extension to
projeets contributing to esonomic reeovery of Japan.
d. Establish an effeetive program to achieve wage
stability.
e. Strengthen and, if necessary, expand the coverage
of existing price control programs.
f. Improve the operation of foreign trade eontrols.
Tighten existing foreign exchenge controls, to the extent
that such measures can appropriately be delegated to Japanese
agencies.
g. Improve the effectiveness of the present allocation
and rationing system, particularly to the end of maximizing
exports.
h. Increase production of all essential indigenous
raw material and manufaetured produets.
1. Improve effieieney of the food sollection program.
It is to be expeeted that the Japanese Government would
develop these measures to meet a target date for the establish-
ment of a single exehange rate not later than three months after
the 1nitlation of the stabilization program.
Conseious
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.93)
CONEIDENTIAL
-2-
Gonssious of its responsibilities wnder the terms of refe
action immediately.
Deeember 10, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Files
Central
894.50/12-1348
This Document Must Be Returned to
THE SECRETARY
December 13, 1948
FE - Mr. Butterworth
The following extracts of the Record of Actions of the
National Security Council at its meeting of December 10
are forwarded for your information and such action as may
be appropriate:
ACTION
NUMBER
SUBJECT
155.
ECONOMIC STABILIZATION IN JAPAN
Concurred in the directive to General MacArthur,
proposed by the Secretary of the Army, regarding
an economic stabilization program in Japan, as
being consistent with the provisions of NSc 13/2
and in the interests of national security.
NOTE: The directive as concurred in by the Coun-
cil subsequently circulated to the
Council by memorandum dated December10,
1948.
**
D/R
7
S/S:WJMcWill1ams:vee/pm
DECLASSIFIED
299563
E.O. 11652. Soc. 11
NSC Lt. Dst. 14,1977
By R√D NARS Dato 2/17/28

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
SECR.T
Tu 2.
1017
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
42156
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OFFICE OF
DEC111948
FINANCIAL & DEVELOPMENT
DIMECTOR
Department of State
13 December 19481
DEC 1 6 1948
Mn N.1
LEPARTMENT OF STA..
Dear Bob:
The exchange of messages with General MacArthur
on the economic stabilization of Japan is enclosed.
You will note that in General MacArthur's reply to
we must all recognize, but has stated that he will do
his best. The full support of the Department of State
ENT OF STATE
will be needed in carrying through this difficult but
61948
essential program. It would be most helpful if you
personally would go next month with Mr. Royall and Mr.
L2-1348
Dodge to Japan to appraise the problem on the spot.
I hope you will do so. In any case, as indicated to
you the other day, we hope that you will send Mr. Nitze
with Mr. Royall.
Ween H. Araper
Sincerely,
William H. Draper, Jr.
Acting Secretary of the Army
Encls: CM OUT 81058
CM OUT 81014
CM IN 8773
CS/A
CM OUT 81080
CM IN 8726
ar
The Honorable
The Acting Secretary of State
SECRET FIL
N
C1
FEB 9 1949
50
FILED
SECRET
19713
4567
4494

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
7-18-46
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
CLASSIFICATION
Collect
Department of State
ArN.
Charge Department
PLAIN
CONTROL
Washington
Chargo to
3191
Mr Joseph M Dodge, President
DEC 14 194E
The Detroit Bank
894.50/12-1448
Detroit, Michigan
R
I understand that the President has asked you to undertake
1451A
importent responsibilities in the economic and financial field in
Japan.
894.51
The Department of State has been seriously conoerued over the
inflationary tendencies in Japan and considers the stabilization of
the Jepanese economy a necessary step in developing a self-supporting
economy. Under present world conditions, the solution of the present
economic diffioulties in Japan is of the greatest importance to the
carrying out of our foreign policy in the Far East.
Your own experiences with German and Austrian economio and
financial problems peculiarly fit you to deal with the similar
CS
problems we fece in Japan today.
/A
I recognize that you have served your country long and well, but
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
the responsibilities you have been asked to undertake are of such oritioal
(OFFICES ONLY)
importance that I feel justified in hoping that you will find it possible
to aosept.
I can assure you of the full support of the Department of State in
PLAYN
Rob A. Rove
2
CR CLEARANCE
EDDort:a-12/14/48
Robert A. Lovett
ct
Cloared with: O/Wilds;NA/Bishop;Nitze Aoting Secretary
OR
Department of State
DEC
14 348

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.95)
E
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARN
ACTION
is assigned to
13
HOJJAN10 1949
RLOEITED
TRC
DLC 14 1948
19007
DEPT. OF STATE
DC/R
EMr. Thorp
Assistant Seoretary
for Economio Affairs
D
DEC 1 5 1948
The Acting Secretary of State
OF
STATE
Department of State
Dear Mr. Secretary:
The program of SCAP for a self-supporting Japanese economy, of
which a proposed appropriation this year of $165 million is an
essential component, is based according to General MacArthur on
the following seven assumptione:
(1)
There will be an integrated and expanding program
STATS
56
of American aid for Asia,
394.50/12-1448
1948   0DE1
BRANGH
(2)
olitical and economic conditions in the Far East
ill permit the necessary expansion of trade,
CL
u.c
(3)
Japan will be increasingly free to conduct its own
2
89485
REC
DEPAPTUE
Poreign commerce and engage in merchant shipping,
he Japanese government and people will take the
necessary eteps in internal policy to accelerate
production and maximize exports,
(5)
Japan's internal economy will be effectively
XN
stabilized,
740.00119
(6)
There will be a speedy and acceptable solution
CONTREL (JAPAN)
of the reparations problem,
A/LA
694.0031
(7)
There will be no international trade discrimina-
tion against Japan or opposition to her freedom
to engage in world trade.
The directive on economic stabilization which has been concurred
in by the National Security Council and The President addresses itself
particularly to the 4th and 5th assumptions. As to the 6th assumption,
894.50/
'SECRÉT 
we have reasonable hope that the reparatione problem will be peedily
resolved. As to the 7th assumption, energetic action in the mi
months, coupled with the establishment of a single exchange rate,
should obtain moet favored nation treatment for Japan. Concerin
the 3rd assumption, I believe that SCAP should be able to achive
50
7322
8

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
a firm and satisfactory solution on the matter of Japanese merchant
ehipping.
The degree of validity of General MacArthur's first two as-
sumptions appears to be a very basic determinant in assessing his
conclusion that hie programfor a self-supporting Japanese economy
will reeult by l953 in achieving a balance between imports and exports,
thereby lifting from the shouldere of the U. S. taxpayer the burden of
support of the Japanese economy. These assumptions would normally be
presented in connection with the defense of the proposed appropriation
to the Congressional committees concerned. Whether they are presented
initially or not, it is certain that their substance will be raised by
the committees concerned, and that it will be necessary to express a
definitive view concerning the subject matter of these two points, and
concerning their impact on SCAp's current plan or any other plan for
achieving a self-supporting Japan.
Your views on the problem raised in the preceding paragraph are
requested at your earliest convenience for the purpose of providing
guidance for use in the defense before Congress of the economic re-
habilitation program for Japan and also for use in providing General
MacArthur with necessary advice for furtner planning. It would be
particularly appreciated if they mignt be forwarded within a week,
since the concepts involved are of such fundamental importance that
the completion of materials for distribution to Congressional com-
mittees in early January muet necessarily await such guidance.
Sincerely yours,
Wieen
William H. Draper, Jr
Acting Secretary of the Army

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.93)
dC/GP
Lilep
SECRET
December 24, 1948
d
VEMORANDUM
To:
S - The Acting Secretary
Through:
ss
From:
E - Paul E. Nitze   N
Disoussion
A letter has been received from the Acting Secretary of
the Army requesting the views of the Department with regard to
two of the seven assumptions made by General MacArthur in pre-
paring the progrem for a self-supporting Japanese economy, of
which a proposed appropriation this year of $165 million is an
ossential component. These two assumptions, whioh presumably
will be discussed in connection with Congressional hearings on
the Army appropriation request, are as follows:
(1) That there will be an integrated and expanding program
of American aid for Asia;
(2) That political and economic conditions in the Far East
will permit the necessary expansion of trade.
Recommendation
It is recommended that the attached letter to Mr. Draper be
signed by the Acting Secretary.
Concurrence
and FE
SECRET FILE
DA P 
SECRET
E:DDort:a
aa.
A.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
DATE: Dec. 24,
1948.
TO
:
FROM :
SUBJECT :
SECRET
FW894
This file has just come to FE for
"RUSH" clearance and FE has concurred.
It is believed important, however, to
indicate that the points raised should
be vitwed not only from the standpoint
of tneir validity as "assumptions",but
also, and more important, from the
standpoint of whether these points are
or are not "conditions precedent" to a
self-supporting Jepanese economy. It
seems to FE that the draft letter to
Mr. Draper fails to deal with this
latter highly important question.
SECRET
894.50/12-1448
DCR IP Unit
FE:JMAll1son:hst

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
December 24, 1948
MEMO RANDUM
To:
S - The Acting Seoretary
Through: 8/s
From:
B - Paul B. Nitse
Discussion
A letter has been received from the Aoting Seeretary of
the Army requesting the views of the Department with regard to
two of the seven assumptions made by General MaeArthur in pre-
paring the program for a self-supporting Japanese economy, of
which a proposed appropriation this year of $l6s millin is an
essential component. These two assumptions, which presumably
will be disoussed in conneotion with Congressional hearings on
the Army appropriation request, are as follows:
(1) That there will be an integrated and expanding program
of American aid for Asia;
(2) That politioal and economie conditions in the Far East
will permit the necessary expansion of trade.
Recommendation
It is recommended that the attached letter to Mr. Draper be
signed by the Asting Seeretary.
Conourrence
O and FE
7u
DUR  
SECRET FILE
SECRET
S/S
DFC 21948
B:DDortia

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
Blue
OEC2810
December 28, 1948
Dear Mr. Draper:
This is in reply to your letter of December 14, 1948, re-
questing the Department of State's views concerning the first
two assumptions underlying the SCAP program for a self-support-
894.50/12-1448
ing economy:
"(1) that there will be an integrated and expanding
program of American ald for Asia;
"(2) that political and economic conditions in the
Far Kast will permit the necessary expansion of trade."
In so far as the first assumption is concerned: no basis
presently exists for SCAp's assumption in regard to "an in-
tegrated and expanding program for American aid." In fact, to
avoid any possibility of conveying a misleading impression con-
cerning this Government's present policy in the Far East to the
Congress, I would sugoest the following language as an appropriate
re-statement of this assumption: "That a considerable increase
in the export productivity of other Asiatic countries will permit
an expanding exchange of goods between Japan and these countries."
The assumption stated by SCAP is only a specification of the means
to be employed in realizing this desired increase in Asiatic pro-
ductivity; if the objective is clearly stated, as in the proposed
redraft, it would not seem necessary, or possibly appropriate, for
SCAP to specify whether its attainment will require U.S. aid.
This is an issue which is presently being studied, but has not
yet been resolved, within the Department of State, in connection
with a general review of the economic and political measures that
CS/A
might be taken by the U.S. Government in support of its objeetives
in the Far East.
let
In
Dca  
SECRET FILE
The Honorable
William H. Draper, Jr.,
Acting Secretary of the Army,
Washington, D. C.
12-1440
DISL.
SECRET

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2-
In so far as the second assumption is concerned: The
Department of otate shares SCAp's hopes for increased political
and economic stability in the Far Rast, but cannot, of course,
prediet whether developing conditions in this regard will,
in fact, be such as to permit the necessary future expansion
of Japanese trade.
The uncertain validity of these two assumptions does not,
in the view of this Department, necessarily render inaccurate
SCAP's relatively modest export projections for FY 1950. It
does, however, raise a question as to whether it will be posaible
for Japan to attain the more ambitious goals projected by SCaP
for FY 1951-53. For this reason, I believe that apecial care
should be taken to indicate to the Congress that this SCAP
program has been reviewed and approved by the U.S. Government
only in so far as it relates to the fiscal year 1950. The
Congress should be informed that, for the fiscal years following
1950, this program represents only SCAP's estimates of possible
Japanese economic performance under certain stated assumptions.
I do not believe that the U.S. Government can support these
estimates until a more adequate basis exists for appraising the
validity of the assumptions upon which they are based.
Under the circumstances, it would seem necessary to justify
the FY 1950 Japanese rehabilitation appropriation to the Congress
as an expenditure designed to bring Japan nearer to self-support
rather than on the basis of any firm commitment that it is one of
three annual expenditures that will surely lead to a state of
Japanese self-support by FY 1953.
I will, of course, inform you promptly if decisions are
reached within the Department of State that would provide a
basis for a further appraisal of the validity of the assumptions
underlying SCAp's program concerning which you wrote me.
Sincerely yours,
Robert A. Lovett
Acting Secretary
07D:ED:HOwen:Mw 12/22/48
SECRET

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
ANDARD FORM NO.
TOP SECRET
DATE: 12/27/48
To : Mr Gay, CP
FROM : se Brown, CP
suect: Economic Implementetion of US Far East Policy.
Upon a cereful re-reading of the attached paper,
I find only three pointe on which I am in serious
disagreement.
Page 10: I think it a mistake from the point of view
of commercial policy to orient Jepanese trade and production
"as far as poe irle" to markets other than Manchuria and
North Chins (by implication, to SE Asia), unless the term
"as far as possible" takes into account sh economic
considerations mfs which limit the desirability of such
8
orientetion. Otherwise we will get an uneconomic
"pecific markets which do not permit it to make the most 
of its naturel advantages.
Pages 10-1l: The redraft of the paper has retained
0
the assumption that Manchuria and North China are under
Soviet domination, and this ascumed fact is cited as
justification for orienting Jepenese trade and production
to other areas. As I pointed out in my other comment, I
do not think there is any evidence to eupport this
7
aseumption.
力
Page 11: I do not like the language of recemmendation
(b), which is unchanged from the firet draft. Although
it might be read to meen only a proposal for study, the
implications sound fer to much to me like a study for
an ERp-type program. The lenguage is so ambiguous that
the study groupe could very well come up with such a
plan, and some importence should be attached, I think,

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
TOP SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR FILES
Economic Implementation of U.S. Policy with Respect to the Far East
Summary
The subject paper submitted for consideration proposes essentially
a Marshall :lan for Asia. This has been consistently opposed by the
U.S. in ECAFE on the grounds that the countries of Asia are at such a
low level of industrial development and economic interdependence that
such a proram cannot succeed, that the co ntries in question have put
forward unrealistic plans for development as the basis for such a pro-
gram, and that the cost to us is beyond our reso rces, given our other
commitments.
The subject paper, however, does not include the ECAFE countries
as such in its proposal, but omits China on the round that it is or
is likely to be Soviet-controlled ("unfriendly") and that therefore it
behooves us to concentrate our aid in the r st of the region (plus
Jaoan, South Korea and Formosa) in order to build up an economic base
ofresistance to the Soviet.
The fallacies in the paper's assumotions are (1) that China or
any part of it now is, or (on the evidence) in future is likely to be,
894.
controlled by the Soviet in any real sense of the word, and (2) that the
rest of the countries for wich aid is proposed form either a politically
or economically interdenendent and manaveable unit. Thus both of the
50
paper's fundamental assumot ons are inconsistent with the facts.
The paper also fails comolete'y to face the problem of the cost of
s ch a program to us.
12.2748
On the question of commercial policy as a possible instrument for
building un the coun ri s involved, the decis'on ultim tely rests with
their own governments, since we can only attemot to get their agreement
to conditions favor hle to tr de and investment. We can by export con-
trels prevent goods goin, to undesirable destinations but we cannot by
this means muarantee shinment of coods, or pr'orit'es for shinments, to
any specific country, since contracts and deliveries are ner,otiated be-
tween purchas r and suoplier w thout U.3. Government intervention in
any way. There rema'ns only the possibility of us'ng Exim Bank loans
and credits or other public lending agencies as a means of assuring
develooment in selected areas. We are already doing what we can to pro-
vide the region with hard currency by our purchases of rice, rubber,
tin and other commodities.
It is suggested, however, that an anpropriately conceived and applied
commercial policy towards China, where factual evidence indicates that
the issue of Soviet control is still in doubt, might secure all the ob-
jectives aimed at by the paper's proposals, at no financial cost and at
little risk, leaving the proposed policy as an alternative (besides which
there are und btedly a number ofothers) to fall back on in case of failure.
TOP SZORET

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
TOPCECRET
-2-
Detailed argument on these points follows:
1. The subject memorandum upon which this memorandum is a comment
states the principal basic interests of the U.3. in the Far East as
follows:
"(a) to neutralize as far as poss ble any threat to U.S.
security interests from continental East Asia;
(b) to acquire necess ry commodities for the strat gic and
economic require ents pr'marily of the United States and
secondarily of Western urove and other friendly areas;
(c) to ene ura e the develo ment on the part of the gov-
ernments c ncerned of interests and objectives which are
consistent w'th t ose of the Un'ted States."
2. The subject paper indicates as co ntries in which action is re-
quired to protect these ir terests (and by hypothesis, countries which
are "friendly"), the follow ng: (1) the Western Pacific Islands (includ-
ing Formosa), (2) South Korea, (3) Malaya, (4) Siam, (5) Indo-China,
(6) Burma, (7) India, (8) Faki ;tan, and (9) Ceylon. (Page 1). The
paper's co ntry-by-country analysis also includes Janan, the Philippines,
and the Netherlands Indies (pages 3-5), which are omitted from the first
list without explanation; an it is evident that as a matter of fact
Jaoan and the Philiopines are considered as deserving the highest pri-
ority, alon: with Sian, India and Pakistan, as potential recipients of
U.s. aid, chiefly on ro nds f their greater politica stability.
3. It appears there ore that the geogranhical scope of the problem
has not received the careful def'nition which the proposal wonld seem
to reuire.
4. By imolicution, such narts of the Far East as are not included
in the list of countries vi oh respect to ich act'on is held to be re-
quired are treated as "unfriendly" or potentially "unfriendly" countries
to be de ded any aid or assistance.
5. The "positive" econonic policy recommended for the countries
deemed worthy of our attention is to consist "in furnishing through
public or private means such canital equ' ment and other supplies as
may annear to he necessary to increase the pro ction for export of
food and raw materials needed in world markets; assisting within the
limits of our resources in uch add tional economic develooment pro-
jects as may anpear sound and self-liquidating; and encouraging greater
exchange of goods within the area." (Page 1).
It is evident throughout the paper that the essence of this
policy is conceived as a coordinated pro ram of economic assistance to
the area, along the lines of ERP; see Recommendation (b), pages 11-12.
6. Admitting for the purpose of discussion the validity of the
paper's assumptions (Paragraphs 1-4 above), concerning which some
comment

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
comment will be made later, t.e roblem resolves itself into two major
quest'ons: (1) Is it possible to re ch agreement with the countries
beneficiaries of the pronosed aid on the nature and scope of the pro-
gram, and on the con litions attached to the aid? and (2) Would the
nature and scope of any oro ra that coild be agreed upon with the countries
involved be "within the limits of our reso irces", given our commitments
elsewhre?
7. The first set of facts to be noted (the paper seems almost re-
ligousl" to eschew facts) is that this whole question has been continu-
ously under dis cussion at the internit onal level ever vince the estab-
lishment of ECaFE. The primary objective of the Far Eastern countries
inter stin: themselves closely in ECafE has been prec'sely to force
the U.S. into a conritment to an ERP for Asia. U.S. Delegat ons to ECAFE
conferences have cnsistently, under instruct' ns from the Department,
o. osed biis.
The roinds of our onnosition have been very largely (1) that the
economy of the arca is chiefly aric lt ral, with a low level of in-
dussri al develoomet, and consequently not inter-denendent in a way to
make an integrated nro ram of large-scale ec nomic aid either poss'ble
or fr itful of improved economic cond't ons; (2) that the proposals
for economic develonment out forward by the countries concerned do not
have a fim basis in existing con mic cond'tions, but seek to achieve
a relatively h ch de ree of industrialization in a relatively short
time, re rardloss of their resources and capaci ies for development; and
(3) that as a consec ence the olans for reconstruction and development
put forward by th se countries, which we are reou sted to finance, are
far beyond the 1'mius of our resoure s, 'ven our other cormitments.
vur reasons are not so frankly stated in our instruct'ons to U.S. ECAFE
Delerabions, but 6 is is tie essence of them. Cf. UNE D-100/48, Nov. 17,
1948 (Posit on paner on 1ndustrial Development, ECAFE).
7. fhe second set of facts consists of the estirates of the finan-
cial reo irerents for such a pro ram, orepared by the countries them-
selves. sCaFE Document E/CN.1l/131 (8 Novenber 194e) estimates total
financial reqa' remens for the recon truction and industrial develop-
ment of ECaFE countri s ut USs13.6 billion over a per od of five
years, of which 6.4 billion reoresents cost of locally available mate-
rials and services and the balance of foreign exchange requirements.
of this total, the amo nt required by C ina was estinated at 6.6
billion, of wich $3.2 billion was necessary to cover the cost of
imports. Eliminating China therefore and taking account only of
the other ECAFe countries (Japan and Korea not included), the total
requirement of foreion exchanve alone over the five year period would
be about US4 billion. Some allowance possibly should also be made to
cover an unknown percentage of req ire ents obtainable from local
sources. Approximitely 4 billion to 35 billion at a minimum would
therefore be re: ired fron the U.S., plus unknown amounts for Japan and
Korea, in adlition to its comritment for l6 billion to Europe over a
five-year period.
8. The

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
 SECRET
-4-
8. The third set of facts to be considered is the nature of the
plans which the countries concermed have put forward. What in essence
most of them propose is the development of large-scale factory indus-
tries, heavy industries, and power orojects; they show little or no
interest in merely ex anding their oroduet on and exports of foodstuffs
and raw materials.
o. Moreover, pra:tica'ly all the countrins proposing programs in-
sist that the eceno ic aid should be unconditional; they are willing
to make no concessions of any kind to foreign private canital, insist
that ract:cally all erterorises of the co ntry be controlled by its
nationals, and appear unw llin even to guarantee the right of foreign
investors to remit profits (if any) or to withdraw their investments
in foreign exchange. Some (e.., Burma) have extensive pro rams of
nationalization under way, which will probably make foreign private
investment moossible. The co ntries in wh'ch these conditions do
not exist are, with the excention of European col nial areas (Malaya,
KEr, ren Indo-China) only the Philinp nes, Siam and Japan. In
addit on, he hyoersensitive nationalism of the countries would in all
probability prevent effective and adequase supervis'on of a public
oro ram (Et? tyme) by Americans on the spot, and it is perfectly
evident that in mo t cases the countries themselves do not have the
technical competence and administrative machinery to supervise it
efficiently and honestly. Phe difficulties of the various China
prourams (ECA, UNRRA) should be a warning on this.
10. The answer to the first of the two questions posed above
in Pa raoh 6 appears to be a caterorical No, unless we are prepared
to allow the countries concerned to dictate the nature, scope and con-
ditions of the a'd. The answer to the sec nd question is one for U.S.
ecor omists and fiscal experts, but it ap ears off-hand that a total com-
mitment of some 320-21 billion for foreign aid over the next five vears
miht be more than we can handle. It should also be remembered that the
initial 4 billion requested by the As an countries (with addi tional
amounts for Ja an and Korea) would probably be only a beginning, and
tat once cormitted we woul be soon asked to match our contributions
to Eurne.
1l. I am informed, however, that it is proposed to turn the question
the other way, an to i qui re what the U.S. can do in the way of commer-
cial policy (i) to encourare private investm nt in the countries under
discussion in order to ss t their ec noic development, (2) to assist
then in obtaining sup lies of capital goods by means other than direct
foreign investm nt, (3) possibly, to influence their cowmercial policies
in such a way as to facilitate the necessary purc ases of capital goods
and the necessary foreign investm nts to enable them to achieve, in some
degree, their objectives of economic development.
12. In general,
1/ Some of these even (e.g., French Indochina) have restrictive policies
but it is assumed that satisfactory concessions might be obtained from
theEuropean colonial powers.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.95)
TOP SECRET
-5-
12. In general, the instruments of commercial policy available to
the U.S. are (1) Preat es of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation, (2)
Trade Agreements, (3) Loars and credits from U.S. Government lending
agencies such as the Exim Bank, (4) Purchasing policies with respect
to the stockoilin of strate ic and other materials, and (5) so long
as they are in effect, ex ort contr 1 policies adtrinistered by the De-
partment of Conmerce.
13. Treaties and trade agreements do not provide and cannot provide
for direct ussist nce to forein countries, but can only seek to establish
cond tio:s as favorable a possible fer ord'nary com ercial interchanges
and forein investments. Our treaties w  rever possible provide rights
for Amer'can bus'ness to operate in foreim countries and protect on for
the'r investnents abroad. However, xoer ence has showm that in general
the vovern ts of Far astern co ntries are at present unwilling to
auree to tems fforli  adeguate rotection for the r' hts of foreign
invest rs. Sone an ar nwillino even to muarartee ncond'tional most-
favore i-n tion tre trert for tra ie. The c rrent ne ot ations with the
"il'opines prov'de an exce'lenh exa ple of th's attitude. A number of
the Far Eastern c ntr es (I ina, bur a, alava, Tndia, Pakistan) have
beco e contract'n mart's o ar,  wever, which does provide m-f-n
treatment as well as sore tariff eircessions.
14. If a large-scale ERP-tyme pro ra s ruled out, loans and
credits from official U.S. Government agencies such as the Exim Bank
must nec ssar'ly be made to individual countries and probably would
have to be justi fied on a project basis, although general nolitical
cons' erat ons m' t, of course, uff ct the leading a enc'es' deci-
s'ons. The be artment can rocomrend ut not decide.
15. The murchasirr policies of U.3. Covernment agencies concerned
with the steck il'n of strate ic corr oiit'es, as well as the policies of
 ose concarned w th ree ren ent of suopli s for Ees countries and Japan
and Horea, alre d prov de lare ar ounes f .3. dollar exchange which
the recivi mts (chiefl- in BS Asia can use for purchases in the U.S. or
elsew:ere. It is do btfil that anyth'ny further can be one along this
line unless it is desired to exoand oroductien of such com odities
either by coverment rrantees  f investments (a la ECA) or by direct
loans. Here again it mi tht be po'nted out th t the des're of the countries
in muestion is net so mue to exound outnit of their present raw material
exports (e.g., ribber, tin), vwhich might endanger future orice levels
and undermine their future interna iona? economic position, but to develop
hitierte unexploited reso rces an: to croute modern factory industries in
order to redu:e imoorts.
16. xport control pol cies of the Department of Commerce do not
provide means for assinins gen ral priorities for supoly of capital
goods and sc rce conmodities to foreign countries, except in a negative
way

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
-6-
0.
way; that is, they may be used to prevent such supplies going to cer-
tain countries but they cannot be used to expe lite deliveries to coun-
tries for which licenses can be granted, since contracts and negotiations
in all cases are between the forein purchaser and the U.S. supplier.
The U.S. Governme t cannot direct the U.S. supolier to give any one pur-
chaser priority over another without subjecting th whole of u.S. economic
life to a regirentation ustifiable only in war-time.
17. It is evident, therefore, that little can be done in the way
of strict co merc:al nolicy to neet what are conceived to be the needs
of the coun ries in  st on or the requirements of U.S. interests with
respect to them (on the basis of the paner's hypothesis). For direct
Us private investment in those countr'es can be encouraged in fact only
by their ow: nolicies towaris forein i:vestors; we can attempt to nego-
tiate satisfactory cond tions for investors in treaties and trade agree-
ments, as we always do, but in the final analysis the decision remains
with the foreign governments. xport control pol cies can of course be
used to ens re that a fair share of licens s for shipments capital goods
and scarce commodities is allott  to the countries concerned, but they
cannut be used in any way to guarantee prompt deliveries or even priori-
ties in deliveries, since in this case the decision rests ultimately
with the i.S. supolior. cur purchasing policies for raw materials and
strat gic cormo it'es are already doino as much as possible, short of
develoom n loans and or jects, to inerease the exports of the countries
concorned ani provide them w'th hard curreney exchange to cover their im-
ports; b:t fundamentally the decis'ons w ich will have to be taken to in-
crease their ex orts significantly are all decis ons that must be made
by the countr es tiemselves. Increased ex orts would of course perm't
the accumulation of resources for further develonment, but most of the
countries are not interested so much in inereased exports as in increased
imports of capital goods and reduced imports of other types of goods.
Fundam ntally, therefore, our cor ercial olicy can be effective in im-
plerenting the naver's pronosal only if it can influence and change in
the ri ht direction what are essentially the domestic policies of the
countries in question. This annears to be a r ther hopeless task in
the short run, in view of the hyoer-nationalism of practically all the
countries concerned.
18. I should like here to return to a considerat on of the paper's
hypothesis, its basic premises.
The basic assumotion, implicit but not clearly stated, is that
there exists a grou of countries in E stern Asia which is friendly
to us, and a second group of countri is which is unfriendly to us and
(moreover) under the domination of our enemies. The implicit conclus-
ion frem this assumed state of affairs is that we should actively assist
the first group in economic develooment on a considerable scale, while
we should have as little as possible to do with the second group of
countries. No evidence is cited to susport e'ther of the two premises,
which aopear as assumotions a priori.
Such

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP SECRT.
-7-
Such evidence as is available hardly supports either of the
assumptions. There is no evidence w. tever, for instance, to support
the incidentalstatement (page lo) that "Unless Japan can increasingly
exchange her exports for necessary imports of feodstuffs and raw mate-
rials fr n South and Southeast Asia countri s, Japan will either re-
quire indefinite U.S. support or fall into dependence upon the Soviet
Un'on for the foodstuffs ani basic materials of Manchuria and North
China." The assumption here is that the Soviet Union controls, or will
iney'tably  ntrol, the foo st fs ad basic materials of Manchuria and
North China; an assumption which resently ava lable evidence contradicts,
and which the present evidence ind cat s is not highly likely for the
fiture -- at least not sufficiently probaole to warrant assuming it as a
fundameutal policy determinant.
Implicitly all of China is written off in the same way, as being
inevi ta l under the cor r 1 of the Soviet nion. Here again the evi-
dence is, if anvth'ny, co radictory. Phe cornlete omission of any
I'scuss' an of the Cn'nese s'tt n or its relat'on to the subject
under cons deration is so strilt'ng as to t row doubt on the val'dity
both of the parer's assur otiens an of its conclus'ons.
n the ot r hrnd, sach v lence as is available certainly indic-
ates no re son to be eve th:t the rn of coun ries described as
"frierdly" are in fact frienily n the sense that we can rely on the
us allies. Phree of the (irench indo-thina, Burra and the NEI) are
in the throes of aivil di turbances of the ma n'tude of real revolu-
tions. ne (Soath Rorea) is I rectly threatened by an undoubtedly
soviet-controlled neghbor. Une (Siam) is in the hands of an unstable
government vtttle adm'nistrative comoetence in economic matters.
Practically all are a"flicted wi th a hyoer-inflated nationalism antag-
oni tic to "western mo rialism" of both the political and economic
varioty. Finally, and oit imnt rtant of all, there exist in wany of
the coanuries anta onisms tovards each other: the Indians are cenerally
disliked in burna, Malaya and French indochina because of their money-
leni'ng procliv'ties, the Chinese are retty well hated everywhere, and
generally speaking there is a mut al distrust among all the countries
concerned. The attitude of pr ctically all of ther (e.g., the thilippines)
towards the Ja anese is well-known.
Nor is the evidence for eco: omic unity anonr the countries in
question any more convincing. Much is made of the ability of SE Asian
countries to supnly Ja an with foodstuffs and raw materials; but this
ability is rela ively linited. Rice, yes; a very limited quantity of
iron ore fren the rhilinp'nes an! halaya; cotton from India, provided
the Indian textile indistr is not veloped to the point where it ab-
sorbs the total Ind'an outout of raw cotton; sugar, petroleum, rubber,
tin and lauxite fron alaya an the NET: but this  just about ex-
hausts the list, ant it does :ot begin to neet Jaoanese needs. As arong
themselves (excl ding Ja an) abo it the only tem in wich substantial
trade could be expected is rice. This limited deuree of interdenendence
in the area is very clearly broitht out in ECAFE's own studies of the
trade and industrial problems of the Far East.
We

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
a
TOP SECRET
-8-
We come therefore to the conclus ons (1) that politically speaking
the distinction between Com unist-dominated are s and non-Communist
dominated areas in the Far East is not a relevant criterion for deter-
mining whether countries are "fri ndly" to us in the sense that we can
rely on them suffic'ently to ju:tify large-scale economic aid for this
reason alone; (2) that o tside of North Kovea (an admittedly Soviet-
cortrolled rerion) there i no evidence that Cormunist-dominated regions
in the Far ast (e.g., anchur a and North China) are either economically
or politically under the cortrol of the Soviets, nor does present evidence
warrant the belief thas they will necessarily be under such control in
the future; (3) that fre: the nolitical oint of view the group of
countries survesta as recisienes of aid are in no sense a homoceneous
troun that could be exmecte  to adont similar ttitudes towards the
problen, or be dealt w t along similar lines within the scope of a
s'ngle pro rar, on the c ntrar beiny or such viverse characters and
haviny so many mut al nta enisns that it wouli be difficult if not
impos 'ble to get them to work together; (4) that from the economic
no':t of viow likewise t ere is so little homogeneity or interdependence
thab a sin-le pre rar can ot offer an hone of s ccess, but will merely
become a starti a point for inlivid al de a ds on the U.S. for the fin-
ancing of individual and perhaus conflictins prograns.
Finally, it sho li be pointed oit that what would constitute a
" hreat to the security interests of the U.S. from continental East
Asia" (a point oovio sly taken fror unother se wce) is never defined,
so that we do not know exactiy what it is pronosed to prevent. Assuming,
however, thr t what is in :ind is soviet c ntrol of countries of East
Asia, it is s geste that instead ot a gigant'c economic aid program
des' med to as a congeries of countries in Eastern Asia, from which
at best only do btful success can be exnected at great cost, we adont
policies des uned to combat establisiment of effective Soviet control
in the only area of E st As'a where the threat is imminent and the
outcome still ir doubt  e, in Ohina. Sact nes sh in
led to encourage trade throuth normal commercial channels between
h na (inelud ng ommuni t-controlled China) and the rest of the world,
drawiny to us and mur oroved friends the sunnlies we need and diverting
t.e. from Soviet control, wh:le at the same time strenothening in
China all elements favorable to a continuance of private enterprise and
hostile to the impos'tion of a Soviet systen; beiny careful of course
to provent exnorts to China of any articles that would directly increase
the  ilitary stren th of a Jomm nist China, or of articles for re-export
to the Sovi t or its satellites.
To adoot the nolicy suggeste: above is to join battle with the
Soviets in the field where the threat is now greatest, where the out-
come is as yet undecided, and where the greatest result can reasonably
be hoped for wi th the least risk, and at the least cost. For such a
policy requires nothing in the way of loa s, credits or investments,
but merely an adjustnert of our policies, trusting the normal economic
incentives to defeat any Soviet control of Chinese trade; nothing is
risked, for if it fails we can always fall back on the areas of Asia
TOP SLORET
covered

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
-9-
covered in the subject paper's proposal; and if it succeeds we have
stopped the Soviet advance before it even reaches the areas in question.
To adopt the policy suggested by subject paper, on the other hand, is at
once (1) To concede complete Soviet domination of China and abandon it
to Moscow, thus practically inviting a further extension of Soviet in-
fluence to the very areas it is desired to protect, and (2) To rely al-
together on the very shaky supuort of a miscellaneous gro up of Asiatic
nations whose reliability has not been demonstrated, whose economic
and political structures are neither homoveneous nor inter-dependent,
and who e territories are so ide'v scattered as to make it impossible
to conceive of them as a strategic unit -- and all this at a cost of
anything from USS: billion upwards.
10
ITP:CP:SCBrown:CI
12-22-48

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
JAN-71949
United States Porlercar
for Japan
Tokyo, December 27, 1948.
No. 804
ACTION
is assigned to
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject: Forwarding SCAP Letter to Prime Minister Yoshida
on the Subject of Economic Stabilization.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to forward a SCAP
894.50/12-2748
press release of December 19, 1948, making public the text of a
letter from General MacArthur to Prime Minister Yoshida on the
subject of sconomic stabilisation. The letter contains SCAP's
comments on the interim directive released to the press on
December 18, 1948.
ACTION
FE
COPIES
TO:
ITP
Enclosure:
OFD
GHQ, SCAP, Press Release of
December 19, 1948 on the
1949 JAN 5 PM 3 18EB - 1 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
0
subject "SCAP Letter to Prime
Minister on Stabilization".
Pos
RECEIVED
21
Original and hectograph to Department
Com
850
EGSeidensticker, Jr.:mis
FRB
FILED
CS/A
ab
wll
UNCLASSIFIED
aim

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 804 dated
December 27, 1948 frem the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo on the subject "Forwarding SCAP
Letter to Prime Mimister Yoshida en
the subject of Economic Stabilization.
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
Public Information Office
IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
19 December 1948
SCAP LETTER TO PRIME MINISTER ON STABILIZATION
General of the Army Douglas Macarthur today forwerded the fol-
lowing letter to Prime Minister Yoshida:
"I am just in receipt of an interim directive from the govern-
ment of the United States forwarded to me in accordance with the
terms of reference of the Far Eastern Commission. This directive
establishes a series of objectives designed to achieve fiscal,
monetary, price and wage stability in Japan as rapidly as possible,
as well as to maximize production for export. Such objectives,
which are listed as an inclosure to this letter are clear and ex-
plicit, and as pointed out in the public release of the United
States State and Army Departments follow an objective pattern, the
general aspects of which have heretofore been commmnicated to the
Japanese Goverament as a means towards the ultimate desired stabil-
ity.
"The directive proceeds from the premises that the prompt
economic stabilization of Japan is a primary objective common both
to the Allied Powers and the Japanese people; that the Americam
people so long as called upon to underwrite existing deficits in
the indigenous resources required to sustain Japanese life are en-
titled to the maximized industry of the Japanese people and the
minimized loss incident to a maldistribution of available resources
or failure vigorously to produce mative raw products or curb ex-
travagance and waste in the operation of government and industry;
and that by positive Allied intervention may obstructions incident
to improvidential political conflicts, unobjective labor strife and
destructive ideological pressures best be avoided.
"The fundamental objective of this action, reduced to language
which all may understand, is the prompt achievement of that degree
of economic self-sufficiency which alone can justify and insure
political freedom. For there can be no political freedom so long
as a people's livelihood is dependent upon the largess of others.
Nor may a people fully mobilize the collective will as an impreg-
nable barrier against evil and destructive ideological pressures
and as en irrestible force toward progressively improved living
standards, if lacking in that resolute dignity which alone springs
from mastery over its own deficiencies.
"Necessarily, the action of the United States is tied in to
the problem of relief and recovery appropriations, which may be
UNCLASSIFIED
expected

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 804
December 27, 1948.
-2-
expected in future only in ratio to progress made through the com-
bined efforts of the Japanese people toward achievement of the
stated objectives. This will call for a reorientation of Japanese
thought and action, with both subordinated to a primary purpose
common to all of the people. It will call for increased austerity
in every phase of Japanese life and for the temporary surrender of
some of the privileges and immunities inherent in a free society.
"There will be no place for interference by management or
labor with the acceleration of production, for the burden will be
shared by every segment of Japanese society. There will be no
place for political conflict over the objectives to be sought as
these objectives are stated with crystal clarity. Nor will there
be any place for ideological opposition as the purpose to be served
is common to all of the people, and any attempt to delay or frus-
trate its accomplishment must be curbed as menacing the general
welfare.
"In keeping with my long established policy, insofar as is
possible, I shall look to the Japanese Government and people for
the vigorous and faithful fulfillment of this stabilization pro-
gram. I have faith in their ability, however stern the requirement
and great the personal sacrifice, to achieve so worthy a national
goal. The course ahead may well prove difficult but its impact
upon individual life will be minimized if the burden is equalised
among all the people.
"It is my earnest hope and indeed my confident expectation
that all Japanese men and women will rally with vigor and deter-
mination to the challenge of this objective. If they do, Japan
will evolve a pattern of progressive stability for all of strife-
torn Asia to emulate. If they do mot, Japan may perish."
Very sincerely,
DOUGLAS MaCARTHUR.
OBJECTIVES SET FORTH IN INTERIM DIRECTIVE OF THE UNITED ST TES
1. To achieve a true balance in the consolidated
budget at the earliest possible date by stringent
curtailing of expenditures and maximum expansion
in total governmental revenues, including such new
revenue as may be necessary and appropriate.
2.
To accelerate and strengthen the program of tax
collection and insure prompt, widespread and vigorous
criminal prosecution of tax evaders.
3.
To assure that credit extension is vigorously
limited to those projects contributing to economic
recovery of Japan.
4. To establish an effective program to achieve
wage
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 804
December 27, 1948.
-3-
wage stability.
To strengthen and, if necessary, expand the cover-
age of existing price control programs.
6.
To improve the operation of foreign trade controls
and tighten existing foreign exchange controls, to
the extent that such measures can appropriately be
delegated to Japanese agencies.
To improve the effectiveness of the present alloca-
tion and rationing system, particularly to the end
of maximizing exports.
8. To increase production of all essential indigenous
raw material and manufactured products.
9. To improve efficiency of the food collection program.
10.
To develop the above plans to pave the way for the
early establishment of a single general exchange
rate.
-0
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
FORM DS-323.
7-18-46
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
A-5
NO.
Washington;
Jan. 7, 1949
USPOLAD,
534
534
TOKYO.
89
Subject is Meeting of Steering Committee, December 21,
1948.
0/1-749
Economic Stabilization in Japan (SC-329/1)
The New Zealand member stated that he was not at this
time criticizing the action taken by the US Government in
issuing the interim directive but rather asking to be con-
vinced, before seeking instructions from his Government,
that the action taken had been a proper and legitimate
exercise of authority by the power which all agreed must
exert authority. He added that he had nothing to criticize
in the substance of the directive, but he could not under-
stand from whence arose the urgency which alone would have
justified the US in taking its action. The US member indica-
ted two reasons for the action of the Us (1) the necessity of
stemming the ra idly rising inflation in Japan; (2) the
immediate necessity of asking the US Congress for appropria-
tions to meet occupation expenses and of convincing Congress
that such funds were being used economically and efficiently.
C
The UK, Australian and Chinese members expressed the view
S
that there could be no program of economic stabilization in
1A
Japan until the fundamental problem of the level of industry
had been settled.
In reply to questions of the USSR member regarding the
nature of the program and intention of the US Government, a
member of the Us Deleg tion indicated that the stabilization
directive was a program of broad objectives rather than a
DISTRIBUTION
program of methods for attaining those objectives; that the
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
program had arisen out of recommendations made by the Young
Mission; that it was the expectation of the US Government
that particular methods for attaining the objectives involved
would be the responsibility of the Supreme Commander; that
the US would keep the Commiesion informed of developments.
The
ws
CR CLEARANCE
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
A-5
NO.
Washington;
Jan. 7, 1949
-2 -
534
The Australian member asked the US member as to the
relationship between paragraph h of the interim directive,
which stated that there should be an increase of all essen-
tial indigenous raw material and manufactured products, and
the problems of reparations and level of industry.
The Committee agreed to forward this subject without
recommendatione to the Commission for consideration.
Replacement of Lost Cultural Objects (SC-272/10)
UK member submitted the following amendment: "sub-
paragraph 3b, second to fifth lines - delete the words 'or
had served to demonstrate the evolution of national culture
and art of the claimant country, or had been used for other
public cultural purposes;' and substitute therefore 'or were
typical of the evolution of the national culture of the
claimant country."
Further action deferred.
Removal of Aircraft and Private Munitions Plants from
Japan (SC-312)
US member stated that he was not prepared to comment
with regard to US position on this subject.
Lovent
Acting
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
3.
(OFFICES ONLY)
0.2
FE
YOFD
FE:NA:ALDunning:clh
1/3/49
CONFIDENTIAL
cc: Amembassy,
London.
CR CLEARANCE
CR
JAN 6 1949

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
January 12, 1949
MEMORANDUM TO THE UNITED STATES MEMEER OF THE
FAR EASTERN COIMISSION
Subject: Economic Stabilisation in Japan (329 Series)
You are anthorized, in your discretion, to use the folloming state-
ment in replying to questions on the above subject which were reised at
the meeting of the Far Eastern Commission on 6 Janmary 1949:
At the January 6 meeting of the Far Eastern Commlssion tim
Chinese and Philippine members raised certain questions regarding a
statement made by me at the Commission meeting of December 30. In that
statement I observed that "Ras material shortages and difficulties in
finding markets for manufactured output will make it most diffioult for
Japan to exceed l930-34 levels even with maximm effort on the part of
the Japanese. Yet, unless those production levels are reached and, even,
in some cases surpassed, due to population, technological and trade pattern
changes, Japan will not be self-supporting and its deficits will fall upon
the United States taxpayer."
894.50/1-1249
My Chinese and Philippine colleagues have expresssd consern over
d
the phrase "in some cases surpassed". I should like to reassure them that
there was no implication whatever in this phrase that SCa or the U.S.
Government contemplated any compromise of the principles set forth In the
Far Eastern Commission decision dealing with "detarmination of the pesce-
ful needs of Japan." They will note that that policy deals with the
problem of Japan's consumption needs or, in other words, the standard of
living of the Japanese people. That policy was explicit in dissociating
the standard of living concept fron any arbitrary prescription for the
pattern of Japanese industry. In other words, paragraphs 2 and 3 of thst
policy make clear that the nature and sise of a Japanese industrial struo-
ture capable of satisfying Japan's peaceful needs will be affected by
CS/B
population growth and various other factors and that the 1930-3h standard
should not be interpreted to imply any specific level for any particular
industry.
Rev.
Charles E. Saltsman
A trua copy ef
Assistant Secretary
the signad crig
OFD:RWBarnett:evc: br:mwc
OFD
NA
(initialed clearances on attached draft)
497

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.93)
MEMORANDUM TO THE UNITED STATES MEMBER OF THE
PAR EASTERN COMMISSION
There is attached a statement which you are authorised to
use at your discretion in replying to questions raised at the
meeting of the Far Eastern Commission on 6 January 1949.
Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant Secretary for Occupied Areas
Enclosure
800W
R13.
OFD
NA
OFD:RWBarnett:evc(FEC)
1/7/219

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
ENCLOSURE
PROPOSED STATEMENT FOR THE U. S. REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
REGARDING JAPANESE ECONOMIC STABILIZATION PROGRAM
At the January: 6 meeting of the Far Eastern Commission the Chinese and
Philippine members raised certain questions regarding a statement made by me
at the Commission meeting of December 30. In that statement I observed that
"Raw material shortages and difrioulties in finding markets for manufactured
output will make it most diffioult for Japan to exceed 1930-34 levels even
with maximum effort on the part of the Japanese. Yet, unless those produetion
levels are reached and, even, in some cases surpassed, due to population,
teohnological and trade pattern changes, Japan will not be self-supporting
and its deficits will fall upon the United States taxpayer."
My Chinese and Philippine colleagues have expressed concern over the
phrase "in some cases surpassed." I should like to reassure them that there
was no implication whatever in this phrase that SCAP or the U.8. Government
contemplated any compromise of the prinoiples set forth in the Far Eastern
Commission decision dealing with "determination of the peaceful needs of
Japan." They will note that that polioy deals with the problem of Japan's
consumption needs or, in other words, the standard of living of the Japanese
people. That policy was explioit in dissociating the standard of living
concept from any arbitrary prescription for the pattern of Japanese industry.
In other words, paragraphs 2 and 3 of that polioy make clear that the nature
and size of a Japanese industrial structure capable of satisfying Japan's
peaceful needs will be affected by population growth and various other factors
and that the 1930-34 standard should not be interpreted to imply any speeifie
level for any particular industry. It is, I believe, well known to the
Commission that the eoonomic statistios being prepared by the Japanese
Government have been based upon the 1930-34 period = 100. Indipes for
industrial productivity are related to that base period. In saying that some
production levels may have to surpass 1930-34 levels if Japan is to become
self-supporting, I was merely making clear the fact that we cannot know
at this time what, exzotly, will be the pattern of Japan's economie aetivity
which will take shape as a result of Japan's efforts to develop a peaseful
self-supporting society capable of playing a part in the economie rohabilita-
tion and recovery of the Far East and the world.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.88)
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
is assigned to
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY
FE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
Canuary 1949
ITP
20 J49
OFD
UNDER SECHE
11949
rectricted paper
ur erts to be
Fi.oncia and Mone-
at th 128th
ay th important
y t Seeretary
lep ir order to
740.00119
of Sommita 2
Control
restate the Far
japan
XR740.co119
FEAC
in either ne ded
th two
tol ey the Su reme
SODU
5
A/LA
DIVS
Clas thee
NORTHEA
JUN 2 0 1951
OVLA
894.50
FILED
/1-17
153.2

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.85)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
the commisrion be reaffirmed to include t instruction to oppose the
paper in committees and to revent its  option as a statement of
olicy by the commission.
Caly last weck, I invitea At-  : Beneral Clark and Mr. Saltzman to
hear a re ort with me from Mr.  minson, a me ber of the Deconcentration
Re view ponrd, osd I an atire vowmred, as I told Mr. Saltzman on that
ccsasion, to have Mr. Matehi  exmlain tmly to the memb rs of the
iater tu eo ite es of t sor custer Co mission just what has been
peau  is a watn pee yet to liminntion os th rconomie concentrations
of onr aa the ma ml operation and current situation. It may well
be tat wr. watehi sm' report wile be usest to the t.s. meaber in
coavi eiu wmrp a re ws the valisity of the t.s. position that no
sarteer pto wata men i. teis ieta is necessary.
Sincer
Wrelian . rapu
 .
Eo er Seeretary of the Ary

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
DetR
NA
In reply refer to
NA
February 8, 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
894.50/1-1749
MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER,
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
In accordance with previous oral instructions, and
pursuant to the U.s. position set forth in the final two
paragraphs of your statement of December 9, 1948, re-
garding "Excessive Concentration of Economic Power in
Japan", 1t is requested that the U.s. Delegation opnose
C 2-230/4, "Policy on Excessive Concentration of Econo-
mic Power". and attempt to dissuade FEC Members from
giving further peliey consideration to this or any other
CS/A
polioy proposal on the subject of excessive concentra-
tion of economic power in Japan. Should C 2-230/4 or a
similar proposal be sent forward to the Commission, you
should prevent 1ts adoption by the Commission.
CHARLES E. SALTZMAN
894.50/1-1949
CK
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
JAN 31 1949 P.M.E
8 1019
FEB
CR/21K
CONFIDENTIAL
FE:NA:RAFearey:aw
1/26/49
6299

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
81949
In reply refer to
NA
CONFIDENTIAL
Dear Mr. Draper:
894.50/1-1749
I have your lette of January 17 to the Aoting
Secretary in which you request that instructions to the
U.s. Member of the Fer Eastern Comm1es1on to oppose
C 2-230/4. "Policy on Excessive Concentration of Econo-
mic ower in Japan" in committee, and to prevent this
paper's adoption as a statement of policy by the Com-
mission, be meaffirmed.
You will recall that the penultimete paragraph of
the United States Statement of December 9, 1948, on
"Exceesive Concentration of Economic Power in Japan
contained the fol owing sentence:
"Accordingly, upon a careful regurvey of
the deconcentration program now well advanced in
Japen, the United States now believes that, as a
practical matter, there is no need to lay down
polieiee for the guidance of the Supreme Comman-
der with resnect to any remaining significant
aspect of the program."
In the final paragraph it is stated that reorganization
C
of remeining excessive concentrations and related pro-
IS
grams "no longer call for the develonment of nolioy".
A
Notwithstanding these clear statemente of policy,
with which the U. . Representative on the Commission is
of course fully familiar, he was orally instrueted when
C 2-230/4 was first submitted to oppose the paper at
every stege of its consideration, end the U. . Member
of Committee No. 2 has followed these instructions
894.50
explicitly.
0
The Honorable
NE
William H. Draper, Jr.,
Under Secretary of the Army.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
explicitly. In view of your request that the instruetiens
be reaffirmed, however, they have now been transmitted in
written form (copy enclosed with this letter) to General
McCoy.
I am informed that Mr. Hutohinson appeared before
Committee No. 2 of the FEC on January 19 to explain the
background and current status of the deconcentration pro-
gram, and that his report was received with much interest.
Copies of Mr. Hutchinson's written reports to you which
you were kind enough to furnish this Department are now
being studied by the concerned offices of the Department.
Sincerely yours,
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Seoretery
Enclosure:
Instructione to
U.S. Member of FEC.
21人
JAN 31 1949 P.M.E
FEB 8 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
RAY
FE:NA:RAFearey:aw
1/26/49
02
6299

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.96)
Y
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUN FOR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER,
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
In accordanoe with previous oral instructions, and
pursuant to the U.S. position eet forth in the final two
paragraphs of your statement of December 9, 1948, regarding
"Excessive Concentration of Economic Power in Japan", it is
requested that the U.S. Delegation oppose C 2-230/4, "Poliey
on Excessive Concentration of Econonie Power", and attempt
to dissuade FEC Members from giving further consideratien
to this or any other proposal whieh would have as its pur-
pose the development of additioml polioy on the subjeet
of excessive ooncentration of economio power in Japan.
Should C 2-230/4 or a similar proposal be sent forward to
the Commission, you should prevent its adoption by the
Commission.
Charles E. Saltzman
Assietant Secretary
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
Da
TO
: The Secretary
DATE: January 25,
1949.
FROM : FE, Mr. Butterworth
THROUGH: S/S
suject: Background for Luncheon with Secretary Royall
SECRET
It is understood that at your luncheon tomorrow with
Secretary Royall he will wish to discuss several of the more
1mportant problems concerning relations with Japan. One of
the chief reasons for Secretary Royall's visit to Japan at
this time is believed to be hie desire to make certain that
the initiation of the economic stabilization program gets
off to a good start. As you know, he is taking with him Mr.
Norman Dodge of Detroit who will remain in Japan as financial
adviser to SCAP. General MacArthur has from the beginning
resisted the efforts of the Washington agencies concerned to
6-
impose on Japan a stabilization program and it was only after
the NAC had taken a firm stand on this matter and after an
h
interim directive had been issued that SCAP took steps to get
the Japanese Government to carry out the desired program.
55
This program is based on the re ort of the Young Mission which
went to Japan some time ago with a view to studying the prob-
lem of the establishm-nt of a commercial rate of exchange and
one of the purposes of the stabilization program is to make
possible the establishment of such a commercial exchange rate.
FE has learned informally that General MacArthur has recently
set up in Tokyo a high economic council to advise him on all
2
economic matters, composed of General Whitney as chairman and
Generals Marquette and Fox. In view of the reluctence of SCAP
to introduce the stabilizetion program, there is some reason
f
to fear thet this economic council may have been set up as a
buffer between Mr. Dodge and SCAP with a view to watering down
any recommendations which Mr. Dodge may make before they reach
General MacArthur. In view of the importance of Mr. Dodge's
mission the President has given him, with the approval of this
Department, the personal rank of Minister, and it 1s believed
that he should have direct access to General MacArthur in
order to achieve the best results. A ccpy of the stabilization
directive is attached as TAB A.
Another matter which may come up during your luncheon with
Secretary Royall is the imolementetion of NSC 13/2, which sets
forth US policy on Japan. As you know, this paper is based
upon
SECRET

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-2-
upon the report made by George Kennan as a result of his
trip to Japan last s ring. One of the primary purposes of
this policy is to encourage SCAP to increase the use of his
executive euthority in carrying out policy, but considerable
resistance has been met in tryin to implement this policy.
Thia resistance comes not only fron General MacArthur him-
self but from various sections of his headquarters who ap-
perently are not in accord with the policy provisions of
NSC 13/2. There has also been some difficulty in Washington
in securing agreement as to methods of implementing this
paper but it is believed that at present relations between
the Department of the Army end the Department of State in
this respect are satisfactory.
The question of United States relations toward the Far
Eastern Commission may also arise, and it is believed you
will wish to resd the statement on this problem which has
een prep:red for your policy bork. Briefly, the Department
f the Army has tak n the position that for all practical
purposes the objectives of the FEC have been substantially
fulfilled and that from now on the scope of action of that
organization should be held to a minimum. While agreeing in
general with this point of view this Department has felt
that the United States Government could not lightly ignore
or by-pess the FEC because of its internationel commitments,
but that every effort should be made through positive action
and leadership to ensure that activities of the FEC do not
infringe on the executive authority of SCAP. It is agreed
that the FEC should not interest itself in deteiled implementa-
tion but only in the determination of brosd general policies
on matters which clearly come within its terms of reference.
One of the reasons for wishin to encourage General MacArthur
to make more use of his executive authority, as mentioned in
the preceding paragra h, is that in this way it will not be
necessary for interim directives to be issued which would
then have to be filed with the FEC and would thereby give
that body a locus standi in many matters.
It has not yet been possible to obtain agreement within
the Department on the reparations program. Pending final
determination by the Department of its position on Japanese
reparations, which it is hoped may be achieved in the near
future, it is not believed edvisable to go into that question
with Secretary Royall at this time. However, you mey wish to
look at the statement in your policy book which has been
prepared on this question.
工
SECRET

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-3-
I am sending you a separate memorendum on the subject
of State Department representation in Japan for your in-
formation in the event that Secretary Royall brings up the
subject.
FE:JMAllison:hst
SECRET

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
u
SECRET
10 Dacember 1948
INTERIM DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER
FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
ECONOMIC STABILIZATION IN JAPAN
The following interim directive of the United States
Government, serial number 96, prepared by the Department
of the Army, in accordance with Paragraph III, three of
the terms of reference of the Far Eastern Commission, has
been received from the Department of the Army for trans-
mission to you for necessary action:
"1. You will direct the Japanese Government
immediately to carry out a progrem of economic stabili-
zation by adopting wiatever measures may be required
rapidly to cchieve fiscal, monetary, price and wage
stability in Japan and to maximize production for
export.
"2. In the development of the above program
you will direct the Japanese Government to adopt
measures designed to:
a. Achieve a t rue balance in the consoli-
dated tudget at the earliest posslble date by
stringent curtailirg of expenditures and maximum
expansicn in total government revenues, including
such nel' revenue me:sures as  ay be necessary
snd appropriate.
b. Accelerate and strengthen the rogram
of tax collection and insure prompt, widespread
and virorous criminal prosecution of tax evaders.
c. Assure rigorous limitation of credit
extension to projects contributing to economic
recovery of Japan.
d. Establish an effective program to achieve
wage stability.
e. Strengthen and, if necessary, expand the
coverage  existing price control programs.
f. Improve
JCRET

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
一2-
f. Improve the operation of foreign trade
comrole and tighten existing forel gn exohange
controle, to the extent that such measures can
appropriately be delegated to Japanese Agencies.
E. Improve the effectiveness of the present
allocation and rationing system, particularly
to the end of maximizing expurts.
h. Increase production of all essentiel
indigenous raw material and manufactured products.
1. Improve efficieney of the food colleotion
program.
"3. The above plans will be developed to meet
: target date for the estaulishment of a single general
exchange rate not later than three montns after the
Initiation of the stabilization program by the Japanese
Ccvernment."
SECRET

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.81)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
2578
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS ÁND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
LEVELOPMENT
DIVISION
1949-
OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AND
1439
DEVELOPMENT POLICY
5
P
Tokyo
FEB 8 1949
ACTION:ORD
INFO
ary 26, 1949
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE
DC/8
0
PE
0 29,1949
ITF
FEb. 7, 199, 3:47 p.m.
TR
O21
De
894.5
(n
itwur. tiy in-
en-
atsiey prtters
Pstere, the niseion
0
we eely
Ai iinonded
i on ubjeets hich
oneernin mhich it
2
oesien shoutd
8
e ie o ey r to to Pokyo,
49
tto
t)
otropty fvore in ss Com
Yo h m Rate  retotivety low
Pate or rour
ortoe wr etly connceted
e ro  to vor
ato at these t to vievao tnts feel
that woujon to wie r wo yalr bo t kee fot moiw sarvot of Dodge
ith Fer 11  on.
Stiensourefndte
thet eeent of r so  -doth  rer ne rote 
mobut pouen ose feotrier   yao er toduetien witt not 
FEB 11
mto etele eooreion we euto sshd ote to o mubsddtes fren
heneeorin
to S
o? toer cos. in this
1
H
arsons roneerrrd in
69
H
fvor er nt of domestte
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.72)
.
2m
Tobyo's A-21,
Januery 28, 1919
stale rememl exeenae pte. Ye are inelined to hold ew, hoe
ever. thet in event grynt of subsidies not controlled e
ictly
nltamete etfeee wala be s ne  thet mich vould obteir
f m
tite  ort r te ere a outeu.
P. Depan mretton er Coloted. Durine week
ding
oe  tot or to more manere  pantes were
leased
be soae rom  tarien mnder dernee tretion progran.
Action
en  ota wee co ner wor ooeted to
taken.by
ood Tour arv
or ep
Iron snd
 or oy ao o per woufeeering
oenies
w A speete labor
acge ment
 Je    ered by s
oor ivin n.
Poe ore ee Prom , hth
ay,ene
 rorhopeel erewt on
117
payy ve watarky by aeregement eoo
C
forheeost wo t bor siturtien ersert
 no
e
 volugtary settlement.
lopoutigelarkete. Alth
 se e
  fl of
 eue to Comunist
75,8
2.00h
regacd,preernt
ceti no
of seue erke
in J pen
o to on Such okets
V DEY
eno btvthour formal
AP per
expe
un urs
arv(n
w la   woe w wo froe tret of Deeemb
1948 bt
t194e.ne inde.
? indur
roto worher woe e toatetively plae
at 64 vbi
7. 
 . Dartng weck en
 Jaury
9
ir
 Inotwont Fo t estr ltshed in Ess me
1thwe
e Govere ent to si puss broce ori
sles
etn eee. Seerel oroninen
nert.
co  o Don,Tee Co
ta.
rey oree ine Investment Boer
OP ia
i e to ex the
o . o  bu  wy he ho eat
eres.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.77)
-7
PTokee's -1,
Jew ry 88, 1949
vo.k or chis porrd, essrutelly vith pererence to manner
which
l e firt orcisims in pcourd nse vith its anno ced stend-

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.92)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
IRGRAM
4472
FROM:
USPOLA, Tokyo
1
P
ACTT ON: ITP
Date of
INFO
( CONFIDENTIAL (FOR DEPT. USE OFLY)
DC/R
0
no actim requid
Feb 21, 1949, 1:25 pm
EUR/X
mce
EUR
Secretary of Stete,
FEB 2 3 1949
FE
Fil
ARA
Vashingto.
E
C.P
OFD
A-27, Pebruary 4, 1949.
1949FEB
894.50/2-449
OLI
(This pirgrem supalement our Aca). January 28,
Recueat cistributien be inited so Depertment
25
for reasens stateo n that eirere)
2. Communist Interierence in Tax Coll ction Prograe. Thd
Jenanese Commualst Party (Jep) ap eurs to h ve been signally suo
cessful in pei ning adherentr by demending lover bakes for the mesces;
attemoting to expose tex ev sion by profite rs, black rketeent
and the wealthy in general, and piving legal counsel on tax math
ters to fermers, fishermen, laborers und smell-scale industrial-
ists and busineasmen. Soncrlled "tax strue le" is reliebly reoorted
es one of mr jor JCP lines of ttack in com ian for Jen. 23 elections.
Intellipence reports indicate thet en aper ciable pronortion of those
who voted Comounist tieket were individuals arateful for assist nce
in gettine their income ana ether tax assesoments reduced by from
20 to 50 percent. Although cubject of cos unist tax interference.
including Comaunist infiltration ato tex cffices, has been reu
larly investigeted by C-2, Internal Revema Division of Sconomic
end Scientific Sectien (Fss) has now reouected G-2 to meke mort
complete and deteiled survey of cirrent situation, vith view to
recommending counter-action to Jenanese Govt.
ITP, D
The Anerican Chat
2. American Businessmen not Satisfie
ITP
Occupetion. While generally appreciative of stens recently teke
P
CH
FILED
for the Chamber in merting Feb. 1 expressea considerable bittene
over trestment received in Jepan, especielly from lo.er echelons 
An various sections of this Headmuerters.
161
3. Prade Necatiett ns wi th Frence ena heleiun.
H
ductin trade talks vith penresentetives of Prench Union and Belrium.
Unton, belenced trad sgreament contemsleted with tetel
PERMANENT RECORD COPY—ThIs cy st be reurned to DC/R tra les  noaon  on aken.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.69)
-
erade
wl plesaing
th Be
wernes ty
ereace.
j. e
CESPXO
01

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.96)
TOP SECRET
Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Officeor
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TO
: FE - Mr. Merchant
DEC0-1949
yBet
FROM : S - Mr. Howard
DIRECTOR
Department of State
sUBJEcT: Economic Aid to Sapan in Poct-Treaty Feriod
At the visk ef tramsaressiny beyone  taactiste security espects
E
toraise sin with you the importance
of having clear te rtment propese ls for economic sid to Japan in the
post-treaty  pree, especi lly t the me of the brief period during
Which GARICA funds continue to be evailable for the purpose. There are
three aspeets of the importence of this protlem which occur to me es
pecially:
894.50/2-6
1. One of the arguments advenced for a stand-by
sP trramgement in preterence to a peace treaty is the
Cre ter ease cf obtainine auuroprietions from Congress
For economic  i te Japan so long as it remains in an
occupied status. Althos h tais contention has some merit,
nevertheless the existence of a concrete and practical
propesal for tihe furnishiny of economic aid to a sovereign
post-treaty Jupun would te helpful in discussions with the
Lepartment of b fense leading to a decision on whether to
49
proceed with the negotiation of a peace treaty.
2. In discussions with Congress concerning a possible
per ce treaty with Japan it will be exceedingly important
for the Lepertment te knov vihet the costs of economic aid
will be and wir't type of legisl tien will be proposed in
A/5
crder to obtain authorization and appropriations for the
eid. Noreever, the Lep rtment should know how the cost
of  intaining U.S. forces in Japen and the cost of economic
aid comp re under the occup tion (where I suppose the
United St: tes cen use locsl currency for most of its ex-
penses in Japan) and under post-treaty conditions where
U.s. forces vill be stationed in Japan on a "pay as you go"
basis.
3. In the long run a sound economic aid program for
Japan for which edequate congressional support can be main-
tained is equally if not more inportant to the security of
the United States than the presence of U.S. forces in Japan,
because of its bearing upon a continuing pro-western orienta-
tion of the Japanese in times of considerable economic stress
TOP SECRET FILE
and in a situstion where their strong trade ties with Communist
China are likely to exert a counter influence.
cc: Mr. Allison, NA
Mr. Hamilton, FE
Rev.
S:JBHoward: bh
Cut
2-649
030624
TOP SECRET

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.84)
INÇOMING AIRGRAM
44480
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
AT
1537
GIVISION OF  AFIRS
1
Io uo actim
A
ACTION: OFD
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
INFO
DC/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Bate o"
T.
February 26, 1949
0
EUR/X
 March 7, 1949, 3:59 
EUR
PT
E
Secre oy of statey
IOF
OFC
.achirpton.
TRO
18
MAR 8 1949
O],T
6
46, y 29, 1949.
P
xR
Ls destoa's -43, February 1
5
9, and eapdjer mirgr is supies. Request dis
0
worbp ofon be Jimised to w ptoen for reasons stated in
66.1. 9431
  Jay 28, 199
2
1
tsovtete aaata eeoeton un catpouttdinoe lre
2
Guonoy, soviey feade Resropenme tve dn dapan, in leuser debed
5
49
Pobruary 18, 194>, to Maj.
Marouet, Shief,conor
and cetensitie soction tos), ta , eluimed disorimination
ag inst seviee Union in Japrp shipyary construction of vescels
for secour forearn interero r. Orenor referred to refurmr of
sus Poreign Prade mnd Comew Svasien so accept soviet crder for
15 s el soiner boate, repren   me reiue ton fron 45 steet  iner
boat. and Mive tuna elippes o ori inally requested by  viuto
in Noresher 1947. In his letem. tr. rorov stated that: un is
refusel shoald be considerel rbtstutely troundless and contra teting
to the par asterm Commistee pe lay lscisions dated 9 Nay 19,
Ho, O5/22 und 20 June 19n7, 2o s14/, mogarding the equal ousore
tunitiss in trade with Japan lor all remours of the United Mations,
becouse C, 30aP simultareou  ith that rufusal agreed to constarnct
in capan ls large steel vees ts ith tosel sonnage of 17a,oso prose
tons for export o Horway, aam rs, Franer, Uos and Philipphnee, as
was repepted in uhe Japanese prees."
工
while this sission her nst pet reeevet copy of sss rer, it
H
ayoor soe have just bem slo for soterruetion in Japan
steor vesoors, four for wt foverets trd one for Horwe to
fuathor contrect for thr
sitionel  aps for hilippine  cereets woll be siphed wit nest
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.70)
Tokyo's eho,
Pebraaay 25, 1949.
wiale of con
i bo eatlaced an
oerbented
a n less
0i
2fustries.
hown.
ti:
WOT
L3
terins

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.77)
revwdpeeso eble
dis
Coclear
ead
n

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
No. 123
Tokye, February 25, 1949.
RESTRICTED
Subject: Establishment of Free Enterprise System in the Ryukyu
Islands.
No actin negnind.
mg.1
G
lile
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Ree'a
Sar:
Mar 4
I have the honor to report that an important step toward
ACTION
economic rehabilitation of the Ryukyu Islands was taken October
894.50/2-2549
FE
26, 1948, when the United States Military Government of those
Islands, with headquarters on Okinawa, issued Special Preclamation
INFO
No. 33, which establishes free enterprise within the Ryukyus, as
FR
well as the rules and regulations under which the Ryukyuans may en-
DCR
gage in trade among themselves and with members of the United States
ITP
occupation forces.
OFD
CLI
Simultaneously with the issuance of this proclamation, a copy
COM
of which is enclosed, the Military Government on the same day sent
AGRI
to the chiji, or governors of the four Ryukyuan regional civil gov-
TAR
ernments, directives providing for the implementation  various
FRB
provisions of the proclamation. Copies of these four rectives
0
2-5
(Nos. 37-40, inclusive) are also enclosed.
Directive No. 37 requires that a declaration of essential com-
modities be made by each of the civil governments every six months.
The declaration and approval of the essentiality of a given com-
modity automatically prohibits its use in trade with non-Ryukyuans
or as an item of inter area Ryukyuan trade until removed from the
list of essentials.
Directive No. 38, sent only to the chiji of the Ckinawa Sivil
Administration, provides for the establishment of special aress
on Okinawa for purpose of commercial transections between Ryukyuans
and United States occupation personnel.
Directive No. 39, sent to the chiji of the four civil ad
ministrations, statee that each administration will establist a
oentral licenaing office for issuance of licenses to persons en
gaging in business transactions in the Ryukyus.
Of more than passiny interest is Directive No. 40, which speci-
fies regulations by wéch permanent committees on Ryukyuan econony,
composed of not less than three and .ot more than five members, be
establisd
RESTRICTED
AY 11 1949
FILED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF ACTTON TAKEN.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 123,
February 25, 1949.
一一
established. Each shiji is directed so appoint representatives
from each of the Cour repional governuents, thess representatives
to be members ef she respeutive indapendent area committees as well
as members of a single com tttee for the otire Ryukyus As stipu-
lated in paragraph  of the direemive, the primary function of the
area committees will be te assemble abs submit data as directed
by the Economics Department, Pilitary Government, relative to pro-
duction, commercial transactions, prices, wasesy population and
living standards wdthin phe area represented The priary function
of the Ryukyuan Committee, as stipulated in paragraph 6 of the
directive, will be the perislic umalysis of economic cenditions and
trends, as reflocted by the data aapembled by the area commatbees,
end the submissier or roeemntstlens to ve Filitary Government for
the achievemene of toe waximmes degpee of kptan self-suffteteney
According to the ykp wy oerent Bectton (ws),
General Headquartere or the rised oatee Far Mast Commnantd, Pokyo,
Snecial Prochamattor Fo, Bo aeh to generally referred to as the
"free ent erpraee ye aaset tony wal? pake on inereased meaniny ooly
with the general revavel of trate unt antestry expeeted te result
from the carrying cut of special economic rehabilitation programs
inaugurated by the Military Government for the current and next
four fiseal years A responsible ofiscer of RMGs on February 22,
1949, pointed cut to an officer of this lission that sauipment,
raw materials and consumers' goods must be injected into the Ryukyuan
econemy in order to provide the basis for recovery on a free enter-
prise basis.
Since the occupat ien of the Ryukyus by United States armed
forces in 1945, the interchange of goods anong the several major
1sland groups has been strictly controlled by the Yilitary Govern-
ment and all transactiens were made only by the civi governments
and supervised by the Military Government. A compli iry factor
in this situation, featured by almost complete stane on of inter
area trade, was the disparity in the price levels between Okinewa,
with the most depressed economy, and the more nearly self-sufficient
northern and southern areas. Okinawa, having the least to trade,
required the most in goods but was unable to pay the re atively high
yen prices asked by the other islands. The lifting of priea con-
trols and lessening of inter-area tra ie barriers th roughout the
Ryukyus, as provided for by Special Proclamation No. 33, is an ini
tial step in leveling the conomies of all areas.
According to the recently-issued but undated Ryukyuan Ecoucmic
Bulletin, prepared by the Sconomics Department of the Ryukyuan Mili-
tary Government, Ryukyuan foreign and inter-area trade prospecta have
improved substantially in recent months. Reswaption of trade, it
is pointed out, will be possible fer the following two reasons:
(1) Some items, especially much-needed cnsuwmers' goods, are avail-
able in Japan for export to the Ryukyus, and are now being purchased
here under Ryukyuan Military Govornsent auspices by meens of a
special dollar fund. This furd accumulates in the Ryukyus from pay-
ment of wages to servants of occupation personnel and for money
expended in the Ryukyus by occupation personnel for Ryukyuan handi-
craft goods, and now amounts to several hundred thousand dollars.
(2) Appropriated
RESTRICTED

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 123,
February 25, 1949.
3-
(2) Approprieted funds fron the United Statee were made available
in fiseal year le49 fer the purpe se of Ryukyuen rehabilitation.
This will make possinle the protessinm. and manufacture of commedi-
ties for export Prior to fiscal ear i949, th use of appropri-
ated funds was restri eted to the alleviasion of disease and un-
rest" level. Imports have thus far been largoly of a relief nature,
shese being purehased mostly in the Unitet Stetes waith dollars and
sold to the tyukyuans for yen in the form of food or food produeing
supplies (e g, fertilizer for agrioulture and lumber for fishing
boats), closhing, stelter and medisal supplies.
While Special Proclamation No. s provides, inter aliau for
the estal lishment of specaal computsees on yukyuan economy for con-
sultation with the Mailitary Government wme ther reeent development
involves the shiftine of ceresin opertlenal reopensibilities to
the Ryukyuans. A Ryukyuan Board ur Erale, mow being formed and re-
ferred to in Article y of the pretMacatien ar the Tmport-xport
Board, vdll handle civilian supply imports as well as the prometion
and opere ion of the act al impert-export trade, Accorling to the
Deonemies Deparwment, Ryukyuan Military Governnent, the Board of
Trade will take action in its field of activity, independent of any
one civil government. As now planned. the Board will conduet the
only Ryukyuan-wd de civil governnent functions thus far permitted
the Ryukyuane by the Military Government.
According to statement s made to an officer of this lission
who visited Ukinawa during the period February 14-18, 1949, there
is considerable optimism manifested on the part both f Ryukyuans
and of Military Government personnel over the immediate and long-
range effects of the introduction of the free enterprise system in
the Ryukyus. Where some six or seven nonths ago  ere were no
privately-owned stores in operation on Ckinawa, there  as been,
since issuance of Special Proclamation No. 33, some nsion in
that field. Small stores, primarily selling locally- de goods,
have been established, together with shops doing such work as watch
end clock repair, the making of household utensils out of alumimum
aircraft scrap and beer cans, at cetera.
It was also pointed out by persons intervi ewei by the efficer
of this Mission that the lifting of price controls and rationing
of indigenous commodities, as well as the lessening of inter-area
trade barriers, also as provided by Special Froclumation No. 33,
will tend to reduce smuggling between the northern lgukyuan islands
and Japan and between the southern islands and Taiwan. Contrari-
wise, thore will now be a natural tendency for goods to move from
surplus areas in the Ryukyue to Ckinawa, which suffered heavily
from the fighting which precaded the occupation of the island by
United States foroes and which later suffered from two of the most
disastrous typhoons recorded in recent history of Okinawa.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosures:
W. J. Sebald
1. Copy
RESTRICTED

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 123,
February 25, 1949.
1.
Copy of Special Proclamation No. 33
issuad October 26, 1948, by the U. S.
Military Government, Ryukyus Command,
Okinawa;
2.
Copy of Military Government Directive
No. 37 issued October 26, 1948, subject:
"Declaration of Essential Commodities";
3.
Copy of Military Government Directive
No. 38 issued October 26, 1948, subject:
"Establishment of Special Areas for Pur-
pose of Commercial Transactions on Okinawa
between Ryukyuans and Occupation Personnel";
4.
Copy of Military Government Directive No. 39.
issued October 26, 1948, subject: "Licensing
of Business Enterprises";
5.
Copy of Military Government Directive No. 40
issued October 26, 1948, subject: "Establish-
ment of Committees on Ryukyuan Economy".
Parchment Mat to Department
510.1
CHBoehringer:ro
RESTRICTED
gWm

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 123
froa the United States Political Ad-
viser for Japan, Tokyo, dated February
UNCLASSIFIED
25, 1949, on the subject "Establish-
ment of Free Enterpri se System in the
Ryukyu Islands."
(COPY)
UNITED STATES MILITARY GOVERNMENT
SPECIAL PROCLAMATION NO. 33
TO THE PEOPLE OF
THE ISLANDS OF NANSEI SHOTO AND ADJACENT WATERS SOUTH
OF THIRTY (3O) DEGREES NORTH LATITUDE
WHEREAS, it is deemed desirable to provide means whereby
Ryukyuans may under certain conditions, engage in free trade on
one economic level, among themselves and with persons of other
nationalities, within their borders.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, W. W. EAGLES, Major General, United States
Army, Chief Military Government Officer of the Islands of Nansei
Shoto and Adjacent Waters South of Thirty (30) Degrees North Lati-
tude, do hereby proclaim as follows:
Article I
DEFINITIONS
In this Proclamation and for all purposes relating thereto:
a. Ryukyu Islands (the Ryukyus) are those islands of Nansei
Shoto and adjacent waters South of Thirty (30) Degr: 's North Lati-
tude.
b. A RYUKYUAN is an individual lawfully inhabiting any part
of the Ryukyu Islands who is a native thereof, or who has taken up
residence therein with the intent of remaining indefinitely.
c. FREE ENTERPRISE is the manufacture of commodities, the
buying and selling of commodities and services without price con-
trol according to prescribed regulations.
d. INTER-AREA TRADE is the licensed exchange of commodities
botween any two of the territorial areas of the four Regional Gov-
ernments; namely, Northern Ryukyus, Okinawa, Miyako and Yaeyama.
Trade between islands of the same Regional Governments is not Inter-
Area Trade for the purposes of this proclamation.
e. MARKET is any place licensed to exchange goods or servi-
oes.
f. INDIGENOUS COMMODITY is any item produced or procured from
the natural resources of the Ryukyu Islands or manufactured therein.
g.
ESSENTIAL COMMODITY is any item declared by Military
Government
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 123,
February 25, 1949.
-2-
Government to be essential for the rehabilitation of the basic
economy of any area within the Ryukyu Islands.
h. RATION is the amount of an essential conmodity allotted
to an individual for a given period of time.
i. SERVICES are jobs requiring specialized skills such as
watch repairing, tailoring etc. offered to the public by a Ryukyuan
in a licensed market.
Article II
FREE ENTERPRISE
Any Ryukyuan will be permitted to initiate and to engage in
Free Enterprise, including Inter-Area Trade, and, will be permitted
to sell his products or services to the Ryukyuan population and
to persons of all other nationalities within the Ryukyu Islands,
except to tho se known by seller to have entered the Islands ille-
gally, subject to the following conditions:
a. Each individual or group of persons desiring to establish
a business, or to engage in Inter-Area Trade, will first apply to
the Civil Administration or Provisional Government of his locality
and receive a license in accordance with such regulations as may be
approved byMilitary Government.
b. Indigenous food and other essential commodities will be
sold without price control in Ryukyuan markets, to Ryukyuans ohly.
The rationing of essential indigenous commodities i: discontinued
but such commodities will not be available for Inter rea Trade so
long as their essentiality to the area of productio ontinues.
c. Commodities not determined to be essential by a Regional
Government and approved as such by Military Government will be sold
by Ryukyuans wdthout price or quantity control to both Ryukyuans
and non-Ryukyuans in markets located in areas which are not off-
limits and which have been previously approved by Military Government.
d. A business licensed and operated by Ryukyuans primarily
to furnish services such as tailoring, watch repairing and cob-
bling, may furnish such services to all persons without price con-
trol.
Users of such Ryukyuan services will deal with licensed
operators only. The license- may perform the work personally or
he may delegate the work to an employee.
e. A Ryukyuan desiring to sell non-essential commodities
or services to non-Ryukyuans, as well as to Ryukyuans, will es-
tablish his market at a place on a main highway which has been pre-
viously approved by Military Government and so marked. Non-Ryukyuans
will not enter any off-limits areas for the purpose of trading in
the markets located therein.
f. Ryukyuans
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 123,
February 25, 1949.
-3-
f. Ryukyuans may engage with other Ryukyuans in Free Inter-
Area Trade in other than essential commodities, such trade to be
licensed both in area of origin and in area to which imported.
Commodities declared to be essential will not be exchanged among
the areas.
g Ryukyuans will not engage in the production, manufacture,
distribution or sale of a commodity which has been made a govern-
ment monopoly, except as agent s of such government.
Articl- III
MILITARY GOVERNMENT CIVILIAN SUPPLY IMPORTS
Goods imported by Military Goverment will be sold to Ryukyuans
on a supplementary rationed basis, determined by the difference in
the quota for the individual, as specified by Military Government,
and that portion of such quota as he may first obtain from indi-
genous goods. The distribution of such supplementary ration will
be dependent upon the availability of such imports at any given time.
Food will be supplied on a caloric basis as defined by Military Gov~
ernment Directives establishing the basic diet. Clothing and other
goods will be supplied on an item basis as prescribed by Military
Government. The price of Military Government imported goods will
be based on the prices of similar indigenous commodities or in the ab-
sence of any similarity to indigenous goods, in line with the cur-
rent level of the general economy; except in case of Military Gov
ernment goods sold to government employees, prices will be set con-
sistent with the fixed government wages, as specified in Article VII,
hereinafter.
Article IV
MEDIUM OF EXCHANGE
The only ourrency permitted for use in transactions between,
or with, Ryukyuans will be the currently authorized circulating
medium of exchange of the Ryukyu Islands. Non-Ryukyuan purchasers
will obtain such currency through channels prescribed by Military
authority.
Article V
MILITARY GOVERNMENT IMPORT-EXPORT PROGRAM
The Import-Export Board of the Ryukyu Islands will, subject to
supervision of Military Government, determine the distribution,
and be accountable for the disposition of goods except those pur-
chased with appropriated funds imported by Military Government for
use by Ryukyuans. Prices will be based on the cost of similar indi-
genous commodities or on a fair value determined by the prevailing
economic condition in the Ryukyu Islands.
Article VI
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 123,
February 25, 1949.
-4~
Article VI
ITEMB FOR USE BY U. S. FORCES
It shall be unlawful for Ryukyuane knowingly to buy, sell
or barter any U. S. Government-issued foods, clothing equipment
or post-exchange items intended for exclusive use by members of
U. S. Military Installations or agencies thereof, except where
specifically authorized by Military Government.
Article VII
COMMITTEE ON RYUKYUAN ECONOMY
Representatives from each of the fow Regional Governments,
appointed from officials therecf, by the respeetive Chiji thereof,
will be organized immediately as a permanent Conmittee on Ryukyuan
Economy. Such Committee will conduet Military Governnent directed
surveys periodically for the purpose of supplying statistical data
on a continuing basis which will reflect the trends in business
enterprises, production, wages, commodity prices, and living stand-
ards. The representatives of each Regional Government will act as
an independent Committee on Economy within its governmental area
and as a constituent part of one Ruykyuan-wide Committee.
The work of the Committee on Ryukyuan economy will be per-
formed by the members as a part of their regular official duties.
Travel expenses incurred by members will be reimbursable from Ryu
kyuan yen budget.
Article VIII
PENALTIES
a. Any person who, in the Ryukyus, engages in Free Enter
prise or Inter-Area Trade as defined in Article I of Special Proc-
lamation Number 33, without a license as required by said proclamation
shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to a fine of not more than
¥1, oo0, or imprisoned for not more than three months, or both.
b. Any person who, in the Ryukyus, engages in the export in
Inter-Area Trade of essential commodities as defined by applicable
Military Government Directives, shall, upon conviction, be sentenced
to a fine of not more than ¥5, o00, or imprisoned for not more than
one year, or both.
c. Any person who, in the Ryukyus, engages in the sale of non
essential commodities to non-Ryukyuans, excapt in a market licensed
for such purpose, shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to a fine
of not more than ¥5,000, or imprisoned for not more than one year,
or both.
d. Any persen who, in any area of the Ryukyus, engages in
the commercial production, distribution, or sale of a commodity
which has been made a government monopoly by applicable Military
Government
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 123,
February 25, 1949.
-5 -
Government Directives, except as an ut horized agent of the civil-
ian governments, shali, upon convietion, be sentenced to a fine of
not nore than ¥5, 0oo, or imprisoned for not more than one year,
or both.
e. Any per son who, in the Ryukyus, accepts into his posses-
sion any Military Payment Certificates, shall, upon conviction,
be sentenced to a fine of not mor than ¥5, 000, or impri soned for
not more than six months, or both.
f. Any person who, in the ayukyus, buys, sells, barters, or
contracts to buy, sell or barter any food, clothing, equipment,
or post-exchange items whdch were amported into the Ryukyus for
the exclusive use of the Armed Ferees, member thereof, or their
dependents, exeept through markets specifically authorized by Mil-
itary Government, shall, upon convietion, be sentenced to a fine of
not more than Y5, Ooo, or imprisoned for net more than six months,
or both.
g. In addition to the above criminal penalties, violators
of the administrative provisions of this Proclamation, may. as
an executive action of the appropriate Regional Government be sub-
ject to suspension or revocation of any license required by special
Proclamation No. 33 of October 26, 1948.
h. Any porson who receives any property what soever frem any
member of the Occupation Forces, regardless of the nature of that
property and regardless of whether the property was wiven freely
or in exchange for money, goods, or services, may,  on conviction,
be fined not more than ¥25,000 or imprisoned for not re than one
year, or both, provided that acqui sition of propert thin the
following categories shall not be considered within the prohibi.
tion of this Section.
1. Property lawfully acquired by transactions is
authorized outlets or markets under Hilitary
Government control.
2.
Property lawfully acqured as relief benefits
from authorized relief agencies under Military
Government control.
3.
Property for which the transferee has a lawful
property pass in proper form, isoued and signed
by a comrissioned of ficer of the Armed Forces
of the United States.
4
Small amounte of personal property of inad nif
icant value given for the recipients own imnedi-
ate uso as a social amanity.
Article IX
RESCISSION
For the
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 123.
February 25, 1949.
For the purpose of effectuating this Proclamation, it is
hereby ordered that the folloidng Proclamations, Directives and
Orders to the people of the ayukyus be rescinded:
Military Government Directive No. 10, dated 20 Sep
tember 1946.
Military Government Directive Nc. 14, dated 25 Ostober
1946, paragraphs 8, 9 and 10.
Military Government Directive No. 26, dated 24 June
1947.
Military Government Din eetive No. 34, deted 24 June
1947.
General Administrative Order No. 2, dated 17 June 1946.
Article X
POWER TO NAKE ORDERS
The Deputy Commander for Military Government may make such
orders or regulations as he may deem necessary for the purpose of
the administration of this Preclamation.
Article XI
TRANSLATION
In case of any conflict or ambiguity bet ween t ny lis), text
of this Proclamation or any other proclamation, orue, or regula-
tion issued under my authority, and any translation thereof, the
English shall prevail.
ArticleXII
EFFECTIVE DATE
The Proclamation will become operative on the lst day of
November 1948.
Given under my hand this
26th day of October 1948.
W. W. EAGLES
Major General, United States
Army Commanding General, Ryukyus
Conmand Chief MilitaryGovern-
OFFICIAL:
ment Officer
JESSE P. GREENE
Colenel Infantry
Deputy Chief of Staff
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
En ho are No. 2 to Despatch No. 123
dated February 25, 1949 from the United
UNCLASSIFIED
States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
on the subjert "Establishment of Free
Enterprise System in the Ryukyu Islands."
(COPY)
HEADQUARTERS RYUKYUB COAND
MILITARY GOVERNDMENT
AP0 331 c/o PM
San Francisce, California
MG DIRECTIVE
NUMBER
37
26 October 1948
SUBJECT: Declaration of Essential Cammodities
TO
Chijis of Regional Gevernneros in the Ryukyis
1. In accordance with Article II, paragraph b, of Seecial
Proclamation Number 33. dated 26 Cctober 1948, a declaration of
essential commodities will be made y each of the Regional Govern-
ments of the Ryukyus and submitted for approval to the Malitary
Government Officer of the area concerned and to the Economic De-
partment, Military Government, Headquarters, Ruykyus Comnand.
2. A regular declaration will be submitted for approval
every six months thereafter,
3. Upon approval of authorities indicated in paragraph 1,
commodities may be added to, or subtracted from, the list of es-
sentials between the pericdic declarations as indicated by the
change of essentiality of such commodities in any of the four
government areas in which they are produced or manufactured
4. In cases of commodities of wrich a certain centage
is essential to the area of production and the balance available
for inter-area trade, such percentages will be inuicated by the
Civil Government conc erned at the time regular lists of essential
commodities are submitted and any time between regular declara
tions that the supply situation warrants.
5. Declaration and approval of the essontiality of a como-
dity, or a percentage thereof, automatically prohibits the use of
such as an item of trade with non-Ryukyuans or as an item of in.
ter-island trade until it is removed from the list of essentials.
BY COMMAND OF MAJOR GENERAL EAGLES:
JESSE P. GREEN
Colonel Infantry
Deputy Chief of Staff
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 123
dated February 25, 1949 from the United
UNCLASSIFIED
States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
on the subject "Establishment of Free
Enterprise System in the Ryukyu Islands."
(COPY)
HEADQUARTERS RYUKYUS COMMAND
MILITARY GOVERNMENT
APO 331 c/o PM
San Francisco, California
MG DIRECTIVE
NUMBER
38
26October 1948
SUBJECT:
Establishment of Special Areas for Purpose of Commercial
Transactions on Okinawa Between Ryukuans and Occupation
Personnel.
TO
: Chiji of Okinawa Civil Administration
1. In accordance with Article II, paragraph c, Special Procla-
mation Number 33, dated 26 October 1948, occupation personnel de-
sdring to purchase Ryukyuan services or items not declared as
essential commodities by proper authorities, may make such pur-
chases from Ryukyuan merchants, artisans or workers in authorized
markets only, which are located on the highways indicated below:
a.
Highway 1 - North from Air Depot at Naha to
Military Police check point near Onna.
b. Highway 13 - North from intersection of high-
ways 44 and 13 to Military check point ear Yako.
0.
Highway 44 - from bottom of MG Hill Shir.-to
Villahe west to Naha.
d. Highway 5 - Asphalt portion only.
. Highway 24 - Entire.
f. Highway 10 - Entire.
2. A copy of paragraph 1 wall be printed on the reverse side
of all licenses issued by the Civil Government, Okinawa, for the
conduot of business within its jurisdiction.
BY COMMAND OF MAJOR GENERAL EAGLES:
JESSE P. GREEN
Colonel Infantry
Deputy Chief of Staff
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclocure No. 4 to Despatch No. 123
dated February 25, 1949 from the United
States Pelitical Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
UNCLASSIFIED
on the subjeet "Establishment of Free
Enterpri se System in the Ryukyu Islands."
(COPY)
HEADQUARTERS RYUNYUS COMAAND
MILITARY COVERNDENT
APO 331 c/0 PM
San Franciseo, California
MG DIRECTIVE
26 Cctober 1948
NUMBER
39
SUBJECT: Licensing of Business Enterarises
TO
: Chijis of Civil Administratnon an the Ryukyus
1. Military Government Directave No. 10, dated 10 Septemper
1946, is hereby rescinded.
2. The folloving regulations providing for the registration
and licensing of business enterprises in compliance with the pro-
visions of Special Proclamation No. 3 dated 26 October 1948, will
become effective immediately.
a. In accordance with Article II, paragraph a, Special
Proclamation No. 33, dated 26 October 1948, each Civil Government
will establish a Central Licensing Office for the issuance of li-
censes to persons now engaged, or desiring to engage, in business
transactions in the Ryukyus.
b. Any individual or group of persons at present engaged
in business, including inter-area trade, will apply wi a 60 lays
from the effective date of this Directive to the Civil ministration
of his locality for a license of operation.
c. Any person or group of persons desiring to engage in
any type of business enterprise, including inter-area trade, will,
prior to the initiation of such business, make application fer and
receive a license from the Civil Government of the area in which
the busine ss is to be established.
d. The Central Licensing Office will inform the prospective
licensee of the provisions of Special Proclamation No. 33, dated
26 October 1948, at the time of application.
e. The original of each application, upon approval by the
Central Licensing Office of the Civil Government, will be stamped
idth an official government seal and given to the licensee. Such li-
cense will be prominently displayed by the licensee in his place of
business at all times. One copy of all applications will te kept on
file by the Central Licensing Office of the Civil Government to which
application was mode. One copy of all applications, upon approval
by the Civil Governments, will be forwarded to the Economies Depart-
ment, Military Government, for the purpose of review and for record-
ing of economic data given thereon.
(1) If
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4,
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 123,
February 25, 1949.
-2-
(1) If there is any objection by Military Govern-
ment reviewers to the operation of the business
for which the license has been issued or to the
licensee as an operator of such business, ap-
propriate action will be taken by the Civil
Government in which the business is operated
to correct the objection thereto or, if deemed
necessary, to revoke the license thereof.
(2)
If an applicant is denied a license to engage
in business or if the same is revoked under the
provisions of (1) above, he will be infermed of
the reasons for such denial by the licensing
official of the Civil Government. When such
reasons are removed, re-application may be made.
If the applicant is unable to satisfy the demands
of the Civil Government required for approval of
application and granting of license, such appli.
cant may appeal said decision to the Deputy Chief
of Staff, Military Government, for reviow.
f. A charge not to exceed one-half of one percent of the cap-
ital to be invested in the proposed business will be paid by licensee
at the time the license is issued. Renewal of license will be made
annually thereafter at a charge not to exceed one-half of one per.
cent of the working capital at time of license renewal.
cost of the Central Licensing Office ani any amount
in excess of such cost will be applied t the
general operating expenses of the regic gov-
ernment concerned.
g. The successor to the operator of a business enterprise will
become the owner of the license upon his succession. Said successor
will report to the Central Licensing Office within two weeks follow-
ing the change and will, at that time, surrender the old license
for cancellation and receive, without cost, a new license for the
unexpired term.
h. All licenses issued for business enterprise upon the Island
of Okinawa will have printed on the reverse side a list of the
highways, as specified in Directive No. 36 dated October 1948, on
which licenses engage in trade with occupation personnel in addition
to Ryukyuans.
3. It is directed that the above regulations be translated and
distributed throughout the Ryukyus and that proper steps be taken
to insure compliance of all concerned. In case of any conflict or
ambiguity between the English text and any translation thereof, the
English will prevail.
BY COMMAND OF MAJOR GENERAL EAGLES:
JESSE P. GREEN
Colonel Infantry
Deputy Chief of Staff
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 5 to Despatch No. 129
dated Pepruary 25. 1949 from the United
UNCLASSIFIED
States Pelitical Adviser for Japan Tokyo,
on the subjeat Establishment of Free
Enterpri se System in the Ryukyu Islands."
(COPY)
HEAD JUARTERS RYUKYUS COPGAND
MILITARY GOVERNMEN
AFG 331 c/0 PM
San Francisco, California
MG DIRECPIVE
20 October 1945
NUMBER
40
SUBJECT:
Setabli shbsent of Gommittees on Ayuspuan Beonomy
TO
Chigis of Reglonal Sovermment, in rhe Ayukgus
I. In complianee with Artisle Vil, Special Prorlamation Num
ber 33, dated 26 Outober 1918, representatives of each of the
four reglonel governments will be appoirted by the rospestive
Chijis thereof to form permanent Somrittees on lyukyuan Econemy
It is desired that such representatives, so far as possible, be
appointed from representatives of the Civil Covernments who at-
tended one or both of the Conferences on Ryukyuan Lionomy held
respeetively in February and in September 1948.
2. When it is necessary that a representative be appointed
who did not attend either Conference referred to in 1 abeve, it is
desired that such representative be appointed from Civil Govern-
ment officials who are conversant vath econonic problems of the
Ryukyus.
3. The Committees should be composed at all tim of not less
than three and not more than five persons.
4. Members of such committees will act dually as iniependent
area committees and as members of one Ryukyuan wide cmittee.
5. The primary funetion of each area committee wil be the
assemblage and submittal of data as directed by Teonomics Depart
ment, Military Government, relative to production, commercial
tranaactions, prices, wages, population and livin: standards within
area represented.
6. The primary function of the Ryukyuan Committee will be
the periodic analysis of econemic conditions and trends, as re-
flocted by data assembled, ani the submittal of recomnendations
to Military Government based on finding: for the achievement of the
maximum degree of Ryukyuan self-sufficiency.
7. Each regional government will, at time of appointment,
infonm Economica Department, Military Government, of the ame,
position title, and any pertinent qualifications of each Committee
member.
BY COMMAND OF MAJOR GENERAL EAGLES:
JESSE P. GREEN
Colonel Infantry
Deputy Chief of Staff
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
DG/R COPY
This copy must be returaed
Portuer
to the Dc/R document riles.
28 February 1949
NC
Bureau of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Mr. W. W. Butterworth
AUG 2 0 1952
Room 3152, New State Building
Department of State
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Subject: Economic Stabilisation - Japan
Dear Mr. Butterworth:
Biles
DC/R
This Document Must Be Returned To
Enclosed herewith is a set of the cables received to date from
Mr. Joseph Dodge, who, as you know, is serving as economic adviser
to General MacArthur.
Inasmuch as these reports are briefs of recommendations made to
General MacArthur and are sent to the Department of the Army for infor-
mation only, distribution of these cables is being carefully limited.
Since the Japanese Economic Stabilisation Program is of interest to
your department, copies of subsequent messages from Mr. Dodge will
also be forwarded to you.
It is requested that a list be maintained of all personnel who
have access to this series of cables.
Sincerely yours,
SIGNED
R. W. PORTER, JR.
Colonel, General Staff Corps
8 Encls
Executive Officer
1. C IN 1485, dtd 7 Feb 49, oy 35
2. CM IN 2938, dtd 12 Fob 49, ey 25
3. CM IN 3406, dtd 15 Feb 49, ey 24
4. CM IN 4967, dtd 21 Feb 49, ey 30
TOP SECRET FILE
5. CM IN 5214, dtd 22 Feb 49, oy 55
6. CM IN 6264, dtd 26 Feb 49, ey 6
7. CM IN 6265, dtd 26 Feb 49, ey 6
SEP19 1952
8. CM IN 4941, dtd 21 Feb 49, ey 77
Shuf Made
104911
DECLASSIFIED
E.0. 11852, Sen. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
OSO Lajier, Apr, 12, 1874
T217.8

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FORDIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
file
for Japan
Tokyo. February 28, 1949.
No. 124
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department use only)
Subject: Economic Stabilization Board's Plan to Stebilize
the Japanese Economy.
Rec'd
Mar 9
 DIVISION OF
ACTION
FE
The Honorable
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
894.50/2-2849
The Secretary of State,
INFO
Washington.
DCR
0
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE
OLI
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a paper prepared by
the Japanese Economic Stabilization Board dated February 10,
1949, entitled an "Outline of Over-all Mensures", regarding the
measures to be taken by the Japanese Government to establish a
stabilised and self-supporting economy. which was submitted to
Mr. Joseph M. Dodge, Speoial adviser to Goneral MacArthur, and
Major General W. F. Marquat, Chief, Roonomic and Soieatific
Seotion, on February 10, 1949.
Firatly, the Board statea that a aingie exchange rate shall
be establiahed this year. As to what the rate w:ll be and when
it will be eatabllahed, laformal converea! ona with a member of
the Board indlcate that, although the Beard had been conaidaring
a rate of between 400 and 450 yen to the doliar, 1n as much as
the Economic and Solentifio Section had indicated that plana
ahould be formulated on the beais that the rate wolld be eatabliah-
ed somewhere between 300 and 350 yea to the dollar, the Board 18
ourrently working on the eaaumption that the rate will be set
at either 33o or 3ão, probably the former, and taat it will be
offieially establiahed about April 1, 1949.
With the eatabltahment of an exchange rate, the Board
takes the position that it will be necessary, during an interim
or transitional period, to undertake the aubaidiaation of certaln
importe and exporte. Food imparte are to be subaidiaed in order
Confidential
to maintain the domestie priee level; however. in general raw
material
CONFIDENTIAL
JUL 11 1949
FILED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OP ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 124,
February 28, 1949.
material imports for axport production will not be subsidized.
(This Mission believes that the latter is of importance in
considering Japan as a competitor in the field of internatiomal
trade.) Additionally, import subsidies are to be granted
where the increase in the price of the imported item would be
such as to effect appreciably the genaral price level. Export
subsidies, on the other hand, are to be paid in those instances
where the contimmed export of the item is rendered impossible
due to the drop in the export price following the establishment
of the exchange rate, but only where there is a reasonable
expectation that the item is capable of being exported at some
future time at the established rate without the benefit of
subsidy.
The Board expects to use the profits that will accrue to
the foreign trade fund as the result of the establishment of an
exchange rate to finance such subsidization as may be considered
necessary. Additionally, profits which accrue to certain
industries as a result of the establishment of the exchange rate
are to be utilized to reduce import and erport subsidies.
However, it will be noted that the Board doss not indicate how
such profits will be captured. It 1s assumed that they would
be obtained through taxation.
The Board admits that if e singie exchange rete "in its
true sense" is to be esteblished and mmintained, rationelisation
of industry mmst be accomplished rather than the institution of
a system of subsidies, which would, in the final anelysis, leave
the present system unchanged.
In this connecticn, e member of the Bconomic Stabilization
Board informed en officer of this Mission that, on the basis
of an exchange rate of 3s0 yen to the dollar, the Board 18
planning in terme of e 10 billion yon subsidization program for
the fiseal yeer beginning April . 1949. Although the Board
estimetes that at a rete of 330 yen to the dollar it would
currently take about 33 billion yen to cover present exports for
the mert fiseal year, it is sonsidered thet a 10 billion yen
subsidy program will actuelly cover about 80 per eent of Japan's
exports. Purthermore, it is entieipated that the remmining 80
per eent ean, for the most part. effeet e readjustment if an
honest effort is mede to rationalise. In this sonneetion,
according to information available te this Mission, although
industry rocoguiaes the inevitability of the establiahment of
a single general erahange rate in the neer future, it is hopeful,
for the most part, that it will be able to obtain govermmental
subsidiss to make up the differenee where necessary rether then
to undertake a genuine overhauling of plante to get rid of, for
example, about a 25 to 50 per cent surplus personnel overhead.
Industry would prefer to retein surplus personnel and abeort it
by expanding produstion, which in turn will depend in most
instances upon increased supplies of rew materials and a final
determination
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 124,
February 28, 1949.
determination of levels of industry.
Secondly, the Board tak the position that no general
price revision, including the prices of the agricultural parity
commodities will be made after the establishment of the exchange
rate. The Board considers that a general upward price revision
can be avoided by increasing production and, at the same time,
cutting production costs. Price adjustments are to be made only
in specific instances and then only for important items. Addition-
ally, price control is to be simplified by releasing those items
which it is no longer necessary to control.
Thirdly, in order to stabilize wages, standard wages are
to be established for industries producing commodities subject
to price control, industries employing more than a specific number
(to be determined) of persons, and those to be designated, and
an increase in the standard wage will have to be approved by the
competent authorities. To implement the wage stabilization program,
which is to be predicated on the premise that the rise of real
wages shall be in proportion to the rise of labor produotivity,
an Over-all Wage Stabilization Council is to be established. At
the same time, the Board proposes that measures be taken to
stabilize at the highest level possible Japan's minimum standard
of living.
Fourthly, with respect to publio finance and the budget, the
Board plans to strike a real balance between revenue and expendi-
tures. Among other things, there is to be a drastio out in
government personnel and governmentel administrative costs, as well
as an effeotive effort made to inorease tax revenues. Publio and
private oredit is to be put on a sound basis. Within the market-
ability limit of Reconstruotion Finamce Bank bonds, loans are to
be made prinoipally to provide funds for equipment in essential
industriss. No deficit loans are to be made.
Fifthly, measures will be taken to inorease food production
through soil improvement, inoreased provision of needed materials,
et cetera. The food colleotion program is to be improved.
Sixthly, every effort will be made to attain l949 industrial
produotion goals, to improve the quality of goods produced, and
to lower produotion costs. Priority in the allocation of produo-
tion materials will be given to the mest efficient industries
producing items of superior quality at low cost. Consideration
will be given to the ratienal adjustment of the tax burden borne
by industry. Of interest in this connection is the statement
that the Board is counting on foreign investment and that due
preparatory measures, such as tax reform, will be undertaken to
facilitate suoh investment. This is of considerable importance
inasmuch as the American Chamber of Commeroe membership estimates
that if ourrent Japanese taxes were to be applied to them without
reservation, most of them would fall within the 75 to 80 per oent
bracket and would be driven out of business. of further interest
is the Board's
CONTIDENTIAL

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 124,
February 28, 1949.
is the Board's statement that, as unemployment develops as 
result of a genuine rationalization of undustry, measures w!ll
be taken to absorb the unemployed in public works and to expend
unemployment insurance.
Finally, all possible measures are to be taken to increase
the production of export goods. Immediate attention will be
given to the revision of the materials allocation system and
steps taken to prevent diversion to domestic consumption of raw
materials imported for the export industry. The Board plans a
drastic simplification of import-export procedures. Japan's
balance of payments position is to be improved by means of active
exploration of foreign markets and more favorable terms of trade.
Additionally, in response to foreign demand, efforts will be
made to increase exports of producer goods in addition to the
types of items exported at present. Again, as indicated heretofore,
every effort will be made to rationalize export industries,
particularly the weak and inefficient.
To date this Mission has no information concerning Mr. Dodge's
or General Marquat's reaction to the Boonomic Stabilization Board's
plan as outlined above. With the possible exception of the wage
stabilization proposal of standard wages, this Mission is of the
opinion that the plan will be well received. In regard to export
subsidies, although General Marquat has stated that there will be
no export subsidies as such, the Bconomic and Scientific Section
does recognize the need for interim subsidization in certein
instences following the establishment of an exohange rate; however,
it is being desoribed as a proposed program of "domestio subsidize-
tion" to industry within the ITo Charter's definition of domestio
aubsidy.
Respectfully youre,
lursecace
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Eoonomio Stabilization Board
paper "Outline of Over-ail
Measures", dated February 10,
1949.
500
DMBane:rab
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 124 dated
February 28, 1949 from the Urited
States Political Adviser for Japan,
CONFIDENTIAL
Tokyo, on the subject "Econonic
Stabilization Board's Plan tc
Stabilize the Japanese Economy".
(COPY)
Outline of Over-all Measures
E. S. B.
10 February 1949
In conformity with the principles set forth in the Nine
Objectives concerning economic stabilization, the following
measures shall be taken to establish a stabilized and self-
supporting economy through the perseverence and efforts on the
part of the entire nation.
1. Establishment of exchange rate
(1) A single exchange rate shall be established in the
month of
this year.
(2) The rate of exchange shall be determined in the light
of the actual state of the over-all national economy and of the
possible extent of the cushioning meesures stated below. The
rate of exchange shall be such that it renders possible the
rationalization of enterprises end the stabilization of domestic
price level whioh are required for the participation in the
international economy end thet it invites no internal or external
apprehensions over its meintenance.
(3) The profits which acorue in the Trade Fund in con-
sequence of the esteblishment of e single exchange rete shall
be utilized to finance the following cushioning measures as a
temporary step pending the rise of production level and comple-
tion of enterprises rationalization, in order to alleviate the
effects of the single rate upon the domestis price level and
export trade. The amount to be utilized for such purpese shall
be limited to the necessary minimum so that the profits should
as far as possible be utilized for econcmic rehabilitetion.
a. As to the imports of foods and other articles, the
price rise of which directly affects the cost of living to a
largs extens, import subsidy shall be paid to such imports in
order to keep their price at the domestic level.
b. Import subsidy shall not in general be paid to such
articles which are imported primarily as rew materials for
export products.
0. As to the imperts of articles other than e. and b.
above, import subsidy shall be paid only in case where the rise
of import price is so large that, in spite of the rise of
operation
CONVIDENTIAL

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 124,
February 28, 1949.
-2-
operation of enterprises, it gives substantial effects upon
the price level.
d. As to export, subsidy shall be paid only to such
enterprises whose export is rendered econcmically impossible
on account of the fall of the export price but which will in
future be able to export at the established exchange rate and
within certain specified amount and period.
e. Large amount of export profits, which may accrue
to specific industries in consequence of the establishment of
single exchange rate, shall be utilized to reduce the import
and export subsidies.
f. The established single exchange rate shall by all
means be maintained. With the single exchange as an index,
rationalization of home industries shall be vigorously expedited
with the object of hastening the change-over to a single exchange
rate in its true sense of the term by gradually reducing import
and export subsidies.
2. Adjustment of Price Structure
(1) Raising of price level at this moment will, in principle,
be evpided as much as possible by means of the rationalization of
enterprises and the increese of production. In view of the fact
that the prevailing price structure appears to be unbalanced in
some respects and that it is necessary to align it to international
price, price adjustment will be made only in connectiom with
specifio important industries. but no general price revision will
be made.
(2) Price adjustment will be made in such a way as is will
not imperil the outlook of production increese end she maintenance
of produotion equipment. And as regards the industries which can
absorb the reperoussion of inoreased cost on consumer price, price
raise will be restrained or sube dies will be redueed.
(3) The price of agricultural produote shall be determined
according to the parity system. Efferts shall be mede, however,
to avoid as far as possible the price rise of parity price
commoditios.
(4) The price of such commodities the state of demand and
supply, operation rate, or other preduction conditions of which
have improved beyond these whieh are foreseen under the present
price structure shall be reduced, thereby contributing to the
stabilisation of the price level.
(5) As to the payment of the price adjustment subsidies,
the level of the stabilisation band shall be reezemined in the
1ight
CONPIDENTIAL

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 124,
February 28, 1949.
- 3 -
light of the international and domestic price levels.
(6) Further efforts shall be made for the enforcemsnt of
price control. Price control, at the same time, shall be
simplified by releasing such items which are no longer necessary
to control.
3. Wage stabilization
Corresponding to the policy of maintaining price level, the
following measures shall be taken for wage stabilization through
the cooperation of labor and management on the basis of the
principle that the rise of real wages shall correspond only to the
rise of labor productivity.
(1) Standard wages shall be established by industries which
shall be the national basis of wages.
(2) Approval of the competent authorities shall be required
in case where the enterprise is going to pay wages higher than
the standard wages or where the enterprise which is currently
paying wages higher than the standard wages is going to raise
them, provided that prior approval may be replaced by report to
the competent authorities in case where the former is not deemed
necessary.
(3) In case of report mentioned in the proceding paregraph,
the enterprise shall be required to prove that the souroe of
payment of wages is neither illegal nor improper.
(4) The souroe of payment of wagem shall be fully examined,
and investigation on the spot shall be conducted if necessery.
In case where the source is found to be inappropriate, necessary
adjustment shall be made with respect to subsidies and price, and
wage adjustment order, moreever, may be issued when deemed specially
necessary.
(5) The enterprises which are subject to the wage stabiliza-
tion measures shall be the predusers of the commedities of whish
official prices are set whe heve nermally empleyees over certain
numbers and others whe are ongaged in the industries te be
designated.
(6) In carrying ous the wage stabilization measures, the
Over-all Wage Stabilisation Counoil (tentetive denemination)
shall be established to be charged wish the researoh inte and
deliberation on necessary mattors.
(7) Measures shall simultaneously be takon te stebilise
people's living, such as the securing of the distribution of
foods, daily necessaries and commodities nesessary fer work, the
adjustmens
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 124,
February 28, 1949.
- 4-
adjustment of earned income tax, etc.
(8) Enterprises required to obtain approval of the
compotent authorities for wage raise shall obtain approval of
the competent authorities for payment of dividends above a
specified level.
Note: (2) above may be replaced by the following:
(2) Report shall be submitted to the competent authorities
in case where the enterprise is going to pay wages higher than
the standard wages or where the onterprise currently paying
wages higher than the standard wages is going to raise them,
provided that, with regard to specified industries, approval
system will be considered. In this case (8) related to restric-
tion of dividends will be deleted
4. Sound public finance and sound credit.
(1) The basic policy will be to keep the size of public
finance within a limit propertinate to the economic power of
the people and reasonable in viow of the distribution of national
income and to maintain the real balance of revenue and expendi-
ture without fail.
(2) The expense for price adjustment will be continued
in conformity with the policy of maintaining price level. The
amount will, however, be reduced es much as pessible by lowering
unit cost and reviowing the coverage.
(3) In order to establish the financial independence of
the Gevernment Enterprise Speciel Ascounts und Civilian Merohant
Marine Cemmission, their operation will be ratiemalized and
their freights and fees adjusted while tranefers, or contribution,
from the general budget will be aliminated or reduced as far as
pessible
(4) Drastie curtallment ef she Governmont personnel and
ccenemy of goneral administratien sest will be effected, while
offerts will bo made te mmsure a reasenebie gurtailment of tho
exponse fer terminatien ef war ete.
Moroever, offerts te assure mound local finanee will be
accelorated and adjustmont of eentributien ef the Contrel dovern-
mont te lecal finence effoeted.
(5) The geastruetien fund snd gecessery inereased werking
capital of the special aeceunts will be limited lest is whould
cause financiai inflation.
(6) Efferts
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.96)
Raclesure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 124,
February 28, 1949.
- 5 -
(6) Efforts will be made to secure tax revenue by
accelerating and strengthening the tax collection program
and by vigoreusly presecuting tax-evaders, while the utmost
will be made to effect seasonal adjustment of the financial
revenue and expenditure.
(7) Efforts will be made to increase tax revenue and
to distribute the burden of taxes fairly as well as equitably,
while, from the view point of maintenance of real capital of
enterprises and of facilitating fereign investments, revision
of the present taxation system such as adjustment of depreciation
and corporate and income taxes will be made.
(8) In view of the limitation of government investment
leans by the Reconstruction Finance Bank will be extended
principally to provide equipment funds necessary for production
increase in the essential undustries with priority within a limit
marketability of reconstruction finance bank bonds permits.
Moreover, no deficit loans will be extended in conformity
with the policy of sound financing.
(9) With regard to leans by crdimary financial institutions,
necessary measures will be taken to assure effective financing
as that concentrated und efficient utilization of funds may be
accelerated and sound business activities may be carried out
with efficiency und to ussure the supply ef leng-term equipment
funds required for economic recevery.
(10) Now savimgs will be imoreassd im erder to ruise supply
of meney und, ut the same time. imcreased issuance of ourremoy.
will be prevented ms fer us pessible.
5. Securing of food.
(1) In order to step up food preduction and meet the moed
for seouring foed, offorts on the part of furmers will be called
for and, at the same time. andeavour will be made te improve,
without delay, the basio cenditions of productiom essential fer
preduction inorease through expediting seil improvememt, seguring
produotion materials etc.
(s) The feed cellection system will be reviowed and the
following mousures will be taken in order te improve the
efficiency of feod celloctien pregram.
a Pro-planting quota allocatien and attondant
incontive pregram will be coatinued, while messures will be
takem te ensble upward revisien of guotas in cases where, in
viow of a geed crep, it is generelly censidered reasomable te
de so.
b. While strengthening feed celloctien program, effert
will be mede te raise farmer reteation in a reasemable manmer
and to diminish return ratiens.
0. Scientific
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 124,
Fabruary28, 1949.
- 6 -
c. Scientific survey cf area under cultivation and
soil fertility will be completed as early as possible to
facilitate the raticnalization of quota allocation and improve-
ment of farm management.
d. As counter-measures to deal with strengthening of
food collection program, effort will be made to secure rationing
of goods required by farmers for theirfarm management and house-
hold use at official prices end to make taxation on farmers as
fair as possible, with a view to stabilizing farmers' economy.
(3) In order to stabilize the dietary life of the people,
measures will be taken to achieve efficient utilization of food
and to improve efficiency cf rationing and consumption on the
basis of review of the present control system.
6. Production increase and industrial rationalization
(1) The utmost effort will be made to attain the target
of production for 1949 or the first year of the Bconomic
Rehabilitaticn Program. Ithis case, effort will be directed
not only towards atta:ning target figures but als towards
improving quality of products and lowering production cost and
that strictly in accordance with the Three Principles of enter-
prise.
(2) Positive measures will be taken to tmprove production
efficiency. to mechan:se fecliities and to reise the technical
level. At the same time new investment and construction basie
to economic resovery wi!l be in:t ated.
(3) In the allocat on of materiale priority is given to
effieient enterpriaes producine products of muperior quality et
low cost and a ayetem wi! be establi sted, under which the desire
of demandante ie refleeted on the allocation of maferlels of the
produete concerned, on the basls ef a regulation.
(4) In order to make neeeseary funds availeble for nomel
businees operatien, due eons deret:on will be given with respeet
to the tazation law ana credit peliey. Speciel ponsideration
will alao be given to finaneing fuade reguired for business
rationalisation and expected to make the bueinees concerned self-
supperting in the future.
(5) Sound foreign lnvestmente contributing to produetion
inerease and economie recevery will be counted upon and due
preparatory measures sueh es tazation reform will be taken te
facilitate them.
(6) The present economle controle will be re=efemined from
the view-point of rationelisation of industry and the eoverage
will be
CONFIDEITIAL

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
2011-18ta
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 124,
Fobruary 28, 1949.
-7-
will be limited in such a manier as will assure effectivensss
of their enforcement. Within this limited covarage, strong
anfarcement will be carried cut to make controls effective.
(?) As the unemployment comes to light as a result of
progress of business rationalization, measures will be taken
not only to absort it into public works as much as possible
but also to expand unemployment insurance.
7. Expansion of export
(1) All possible measures will be teken to inerease
production of export goods under the principle of "export first."
The first and foremost of such measures will be to revise the
production materials allocation system, sc that priority may
be given to the erport indistry and to facilitate the finaneing
of foreign trade.
Moreover, enforcement will be strengthened to prevent
diversion to dcmestic consumption of imported rew materials
for export industry.
(2) kfforts will be made to restore normal foreign trade
through drastic simplificstior of export :mport procedures and
expansion of private trade.
(3) A request will be mede for the adjustment and improve-
mant of foreign relations and measures will be taken to improve
the balance of payments by means of active exploretion of market
for export goods and, improvement of terme of trede, etc.
(4) In response to change in the oversees merket, efforts
will be mmde to export producer goods in addition to the present
export items. In this caes, ccnsiderat: on will be given to
adjustment with the minimum requirement of economic recovery.
(5) From the viewpoint of seeuring export. temperary
measures will be taken to minimize the impect of establishmant
of a single foreign exehange rate. At the same time, however,
efforte will be made to strengthen the competitive power in
world mmrket by expediting. without delay. the ratiomalization
of export industry, especially of week and ineffieient enterprisee.
COMPTTENTIAL

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
TO
: PL - Mrs. Margaret R. I. Carter
DATE: February 28, 1949
SUBJECT:
Paper on Japanese Recovery Program
Attached are three documents relating to a project started in the
summer of 1948 for the purpose of providing factual material as back-
ground for the discussion of the economic recovery appropriation for
Japan in the fiscal year 19:0. These documents include:1) dummy prepared
in CS/s for printed pamphlet, 2) text of pamphlet, and 3) selected statistics
of the Japanese economy, draft, for use as appendix to pamphlet.
As I told Dick Friedman on the phone this afternoon, the turn-over
in the staff of the House f Foreign Affairs Committee has led to doubt
as to whether the Comnittee will issue the proposed pamphlet. The
question of whether or not to issue this pamphlet is currently under
discussion but there is no assurance that this material will be used by
the Committee at all.
In view of the considerable amount of material that has been assembled,
the question has b en raised as to whether PL would find this material of
894.50
sufficient value to warrant the issuance of a pamphlet like this or
whether PL would like to issue this material in some other form.
Although most of the work for this project has been done anonymously
in the Department of State, both the Army Department and SCAP have been
involved in planning and designing, und SCAP has provided some research
assistance. In view of this background and in view of the Army's interest
2
in this subject, it may be that State and Army might want to put out some-
thing along these lines if the House Committee should decide not to.
While we are waiting to heer the decision of the House Foreign Affairs
Cormittee I thought you might want to have a look at this material, in view
of the interest Dick Friedman showed in it today.
Enclosures:
As stated a
EM/R
Anal
MAR 1-13
Cat
OIR:DRF:WSHunsberger:aw

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
2/28/49
MRTC
Warren Huneberger called me to
say that last fall State and Army
ccllaborated in the preparation of
some material (largely statistical)
on the degree of economic recovery
in Japan for the House Com. on FA.
Howard Feiquet of the Leg. Ref.
Service has suggested to Hunsberger
that the Dept. now make this material
available to the public. Hunsberger
wanted to check with us before tak-
ing any position with Peiquet.
I said I hoped that the material
was such that we could (after ap-
propriate clearance) make it avail-
able to the public and suggested
that Hunsberger tell Peiquet to
call you re the whole thing and
send down the material for our con-
sideration.
You may wish to pass this to
en Crosby.
RF

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.80)
Thi. Gos by-Pl
Tleace let me have
your con meats
reer
Moh11949 3

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.94)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
2808
AIRC
2061
FROK:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
Date of
DC/R
CONFIDENTIAL (FOR DEPT USD CHLP)
mailing: March 5, 1949
Rec'd: Mer. 3, 1949 18:22p.m
3
M
Secretary of State,
ACTION OFD
INFO
DC/R
ashington.
08
9
L
Moaction
0
A-50, March 4, 1949.
219
JoHT
4
FE
TOED
Fiee
3/14/49
E
(This sireram supplenente
50/3-449
ITP
1949, ond carlier irar
in this series. Request dis-
TRC
tribution be limitui to
maroment for reasons stated in
A-21 of January 22, 1949.
1. Indaxes of In ustrial reduction Un ler study. Considerable
discussion a: taken place ree mtly in Japanese end Occupatien quar-
ters concerned regerdine analy is of indexes of industrial produesion
which use everage outpus for l 30-24 as base.
any visitors to
Japen have commented to effeet hat cctual industrial output, fron
casual observetion, epeeare  nter then su ested by indexes isyied
by conomie end seientific Jee Mon (ss) of uhis Headquertere. Now
reliably reported Ass reexamininp neightiny of these indexes and may
soon release revised iniexes  mch will reilect greater production
than now in licated.
2. uestion of subsilies for Joal Mincs  m in Raised. Curpent
discussions in biet of 1949-5? buaget and present need for payment
subsidies to coal mines enable thea neet current payrolls has re.
opened thorny question of whet er official prices for coel are ouf-
ficient to enable operators to pay for materials, wages and reguired
texes--not to mention establi: ment of reserves for future expen sion
and profits. The principal mine oimors insist chut coel mining pper-
ations have long been perfons  at "loss," while labor factions d
H
certain elements in Ess have insisted that swmers' incone decivfrom
sale of coal at officiel prices, if ad inistered in efficient mmher
is sufficiont for vages, taxer, supplies, reserves and reasenabl
profit. Susgestion now made tn m tnat actual audit and unal
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.87)
Tokyo's A-50,
March 4, 1949
2
expenditures nd receiptr be mer by neutral" auditors in few se
lected mines o determin. fauts
3. Buray Faht by Mm w In den Liaison Misslon in
Japan informen Merch 1, 9,  Adjutent Cenural, this Headquart rs,
that epplicevlon for suryy i au ly tharat irvaye Skymaster land
ing at Yekyo in March he bean prumad. It vas steted, inter alia.
that authorization for s  rey ignt s muld not be construe to
intliccte approval of any fumure reguest or co mitment for use of
United States nir Force eiltt us in Jepan. Further, no assurance
can be given es to approm u y yecuest by Bheret Airvays to sert
scheduled airline operat ms in :  pen."  imbursement in Urited
States collars regudred for pee clewn produets furnished Bhawt r-
weys fben Unibed States cdesr sourees.
4 Senstruetion of Les tou Indien (ovemment. Indirn
Liaison raission bere seve al to ths aro expsassed to sss its de-
sire 1d have 12 vessels resetap 39,000 tous construc ed in Je
anese shiprerds to reploee l v ssels of almost ccuel tonnage lor
during scific  er s en Set ry 4 informed Hission that act 
may nor be trken to pinr e co  raste for a proxdmately 20,0o0  oss
tons of sripming
Dost awting bn skias ys cuivitiese Officer this is on
visitsnn ukiaava February im l, tnfommed there by representativen
of Boas (Bord of Supol es h Sxecutive Yuan, Chinese Covt) u 
its eperations on Okinas being ser inaved with about loo laboress
sent reeently to iwan at pm ming 3oo due to proceed either
Shanghai or laiwan in f mmetks tusnY stil hes considerablo ue Pul
eguipment at lts instelm lon, iaeluding bulldozers, movable cre e,
trueks, Jeeps and slres. Oefie  uhabte learn how BosEy plens das-
pese shch cquipments uession anformally discussed with Bris G.
John Meckemling, Shief, Syukgara ilitary Government Section, Fam
Cast Comnand. Tokyo, who sail to will endeever forestall shipient
of equi pnent so Shanghal where it right fall into hands of chinese
Communists. As Department is  vare, BosEY operates on Okiner  under
Us-Chinese surplus proporty pgreement of August 1946.
6 Lecencentration Progrs sses. Deconeentration Revier Bound
now studying sases of suven dapeaese spinning companies, with ev dence
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.71)
.
Tokyo's-50.
Perch , 29s
petubrng to com
econeit
500

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.97)
Newsweek
NEWSWEEK BLDG., BROADWAY and 42nd STREET, NEW YORK
1949
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Man/4/#+
March 5, 1949
APR131949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Mr. W. Walton Butterworth, Director
Office of Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Files
central
R
This Document Must Be Returned To
Dear Mr. Butterworth:
It was very pleasant indeed to lunch with you the other day and to
explore further our ideas concerning Japan. It does seem to me that the
Department of State and the members of our Council on Japan find them-
selves in very nearly complete agreement on most of the points involved.
894.50/3-549
We will soon, I hope, be in a position to help create public interest
and understanding for the policies which seem to us so suited to the ad-
vancement of the interest of the United States and to aiding the Japan-
ese to develop along lines both in their interest and in ours. I will,
in accordance with our conversation, pass on to you from time to time
information and reports which seem of interest to us and which might
also be of interest to the State Department.
I am attaching herewith a copy of a brief report sent to me by
Mr. Pakenham, Newsweek's correspondent who is now in China. He stopped
over in Tokyo for a few days on his way to Shanghai and gathered this
information. While there is nothing unusual about it, it struck me as
a balanced and interesting assessment. I am also attaching the account
we discussed of the events of August 14, 15, 1945. Mr. Allison and Mr.
Bishop might be interested in reading this too, and if you like, please
pass it on to them. I will ask that it be returned to me when you have
finished with it, since I have only two copies.
xr
894.50
I am also attaching a copy of the report on the Japanese coal indus-
try drawn up by Mr. Antonin Raymond, a member of our Council. While it
894.6362
would not be proper for the Council to advocate or support Mr. Raymond's
commercial proposals, I feel that it is in the interest of all concerned
DC/R
for us to help such information reach the proper places, and it is in
2
Sω
that sense in which I commend this to your attention. Mr. Raymond will
Anal
117286
T
M A G A Z I N E
N E W S
S I G N I F I C A N C E

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.98)
Mr. W. Walton Buttorworth
March 5, 1949
-2-
probably be in Washington in the near future, and if you would like to
have him discuss his proposals with any members of the State Department,
I know he would be very glad to do so. Mr. Raymond, of course, is well
known to Mr. Allison and to others charged with responsibility for policy
toward Japan.
With best regards, I am
Sincerely yours,
Hany f. Tem
Harry F. Kern
Foreign Editor
HFK:sr
Enclosures:

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
Apr11 14, 1949
Dear Mr. Kern:
I am returning, alas belatedly, the enolosures
to your letter of March 5, which have been read by
me and my associates with interest and appreciation.
FW 894.5
Thank you very much indeed for your thoughtfulness
in sending them to me.
Incidentially, Mr. Raymond called at the Depart-
ment recently and discussed at some length his proposal
regarding coal 1ndustry in Japan. I must say I was
1mpressed with his analysis and I hope and trust that
the Department of the Army wil? be too.
With kind regards.
Faithfully yours,
3-549
W. Walton Butterworth
Director for Far Eastern Affairs
Enclosures:
1. Report by Mr. Pakenham.
2. Account of events of
August 14-15, 1945.
3. Report by Mr. Raymond.
Mr. Harry F. Kern,
Foreign Editor, Newsweek
Broadway and 42nd Street,
New York, New York.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.94)
2936
INCÓMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INVE TRENT ARd 
DEVELOPUENT
AIRGRAM
A
ACTION: OFD
INFO:
DC/R
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
L
O
Date of
FE
CONFTD MTIAL (FOR DEPT USE C.LY)
maili:
March 12, 1949
E
ITP
Rec d:
rch21,1949
TRC
07R1
1:16 P.M.
Secretir of State,
MAR 8 1949
Hasnington.
894.50/3-
A-58, arch 11, 1929.
(This airgram supolements this Missicr -50, March 4,
1949, and earliar airgrms in this s is. Roquest dis-
r bution be Limited to Department fe  easons stated in
-21 of January 28, 1949. On basis present and six
revious airgrams submitted in this  mes, Department
s requested to indicate whether it  found reports
of value and also whether it desires s Mission to con-
inue subnitting such airgrams.)
1
Opposition to Reduction of Japaner Hovernment Personnel.
In its attempt to balance the 1949-50 buuge, Japanese Government
considering large-scale personnel cuts. Hc ever, certain divisions
of Lcononic and Scientific section (is ) a raising strong ob-
Jection. to personnel cuts, in particular mi istry or bureau of Jap-
anese Covernment with which they are directly concerned. Such divi.
sions, especially Price and Rationing, Laber, and Researeh and Re-
ports, state sharp reductions in personnel viil impair Jupanece bility
to furnish data needed to carry out aims of Jccupation.
2 Eaployment of Japanese Abroad, Re Mission's A-52, March 7.
1949, reliminary telegram on Midzuno case nct yot cleared by Chief
of Staff, this Headquarters. However, G-l ucbion reports willing-
ness liberalize policy regarding employment or Japanese abrond, and
plans call staff meeting about March 15 to i cuss program. Check
note and telegram formulating Mission'e vies on subject have been
drafted and will be presented at that meeti g. applicabion also in-
formally received by Headquarters for emplo ment three Japanese singers
in Haweii for six weeks. SCAP commercial acuount would receive their
dollar salaries ($l,o00 each) and singers would be paid yen valent
工
by Japanese Government. There are also appi ations, details lam
H
for short-term employment of Japanese by Tw leth-Century-Fox
view benefits accruing to SCAP commercial ascrunt, Mission has dv ated
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action tak
erat
CONFIDLIAL

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's A-58,
Karch 11, 1949.
- 2-
liberal treatment of these applications.
 Surgest:! CiP Obsorver Attend Londen Wheling Conferepgee
Lt. Col. H. C. SC U. ICk, Chief, Natural Resources Seotion, SCaP Heed-
quarters, in pre: mce officer this Hission, March 10 infomally pointed
out to kmbassado" (ascoigne, head of United Kingdom Lisison Mission,
de sirability of . ing SCiP observer attend forthooming Whaling Com-
fe ence in Londo Gascoigne stated that, while he personally agreed
that wuch attend  by CiP obeerver would probably be good thing.
"fran ly speakin:  ne British are pretty well fed up with the mtire
b ine:s." litlo: elaborating, however, he said he would tranmdt
su geio.: to LoI to ascertain H. li. Government's views. Colonel
:chune later st: ! to ofricer this Kission that he had deliterately
id 'gestion ly as it would have been impossible to do so in
witi, especia. since invitation would have to come from Lritish.
Colone! :clanck  soguently told Gaacoigne that attendance of SCAP
ot: rver dthout  ing power would not interfere with Conference but
we l mable SC present its views on international whaling ques
tin, and vithou uch explanation by representative familiar with
J. in. i: situati it would be difficult for Conference to have firet
iforntien  that situation.
1. Japanes  mbership in ILo. In conversation larch 10 with
officer this Lis 1, ir. P. Ratnam, First Secretary of Indian
Livison ission, ; ated he had lengthy argument wdth Ir. R. Rao,
(11) ) Assista.. Director General, International Labor Ofrice (ILo),
nc i, Japan to   erve Japanese labor conditions, in which Rao had
st ate he would :, favor having Japan resume its membership in IIo
at ur sont time: ccording Ratnam, ilao took position that attendance
b Je)n at this ine would not be truly representative of Japanese
1.cor inaanuch a. olegate for Japan would be SCap representative.
tiip asssrtedly s.i ed it vould be better to wait until peace treaty
signed after whi.: Japan obtrins some measure of independence so that
it can send delef : truly representative of Japanese Jabor. Ratnm
took cpposite vit ., stating that better for Japan san: CAp ropresente-
tive ather thanne for indefinite period.
5. Foruirn  ade Developments. (1) Korean-SCAP trade talks
o ene March 10.  orean delegation reportedly hopes for trade totalling
£.40,000,000 durin period April 1, 1949 to March 31, 1950. Trade wi1l
probaly be by d Liar open account with quarterly clearance. (2) Re-
view of SC.?-Ste Ling Area Trade Agreement due begin Herch 17. Pre-
Liminary surveys indicate each side has underbought. Sterling area
coordinator fore.  s difficult inter-area payment probla., dnce now
r. vea d that tr I will not move as originally planned between Japan
annd any part of erling area except possibly New Zealand. (3) Re
Ti rkey's financi l inability send delegation to Japan, SCAP sees no
nossir1lity
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo's n-58,
arch 11, 1949.
-3-
possibility itsel sending mission to Rear East before next fall.
(4)  has protested to Indian Government against restrictions im
posed by Indian provincial governments on movement of Mathia cotton,
pointing to dif ic ulty and uncertainty of signing contracts for Indian
cotton if policis of central and provincial governnents inconaistent.
SEBALD
5.0
DM/GEB/GW/SGS:1:
CONFIOONTIAL

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF ANERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
DIVISION OF
Tokyo, March 14, 1949
mo acin ryuied
Mauch 25,29
No. 149
mis
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject: SCAP Announces New Procurement Policy.
REC'D
MAR 21
894.50/3-1449
AC TION
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to forward a copy
FE
of a SCAP press release of February 21, 1949, headlined, "Invoke
INFO
Strict Economy Measures for Occupation Requirements". The enclosed
FR
press release outlines revised procurement procedures which have
DCR
been established "with an eye to the stabilization of the Japanese
OLI
economy."
OFD
ITP
POS
COM
TREAS
Enclosure:
LABOR
Copy of GHQ, SCAP Press
Release Regarding Procure-
ment dated February 21,
1949.
Parchment Mat to Department
400
EGSeidensticker, Jr.:mis
UNCLASSIFIED
MAY 2- 1943
FU
DMR
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OP ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 149
from the United States Political Ad-
viser for Japan, Tokyo, dated March
14, 1949, on the subject "SCAP Announces
UNCLASSIFIED
New Procurement Policy".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST CONLAND
Public Information Office
1330
Press Release:
21 February 1949
INVOKE STRICT ECONOHY MEASURES FOR OCCUPATION REQUIREHENTS
With an eye to the stabilization of the Japanese economy, SCAP
Note:
has issued instructions to invoke a new and stiffer procurement pol-
icy.
A recent review of the current procurement policy has indicated
that certain revision toward reduction of items of procurement and the
institution of stricter controls will keep to a minimum the financial
NSc polinn
impact of the Occupation Forces on the Japanese economy.
In the fi ture, directives to the Japanese Government wdll include
only those requirements for the Occupation Forces which would normally
be furnished Zone of Intericr forces through the expenditure of appro-
priated funds. Any other procurement, unless specifically authorised
by SCAP, will be on a reimbursable basis. No procurement demands will
hereafter be initiated for the purpose of raising above existing stand-
ards of Occupation Force's services or facilities.
Procurement demands, when necessary, will be issued for essential
requirements only when the requirements are such that they cannot be
fulfilled from assets or means already available. Supplies, materials
and equipment will not be procured from the Japanese economy when they
can be obtained by requisition from the United States. Supplies, 
quipment and materials excess to the authorised needs of the Occupation
will be released to the Japanese Government as soon as practicable.
Manning tables and manning levels for all types and categories of
Japanese labor are being critically re-examined with a view to effect-
ing substantial reductions A review of the Japanese labor situation
will be made whenever possible to effect a maximum reduction in numbers
and to limit or eliminate entirely overtime payments except for domes-
tic servants. Indigenous labor will not be employed to perform the
functions of military personnel in combat organisations, except to the
extent that the employment of civilian personnel by such organisations
is authorized by regulations.
Any new constructions will be limited to only the most essential
operational requirements of the Occupation Forces which cannot be met
by any other expedient. Naintainance will be provided only for those
facilities occupied by the Occupation Forces and standby maintainance
for facilities definitely required for future occupancy. The number
of dependent housing units in Japan is now firm and no additional con-
struction will be authorised at the expense of the Japanese Government.
-0-
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.92)
INCOMINGAIRGRAM
45120
DEPARTMENT OF STÀTE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS. TELEGRAPH BRANCH
NAR291949
AIRGRAM
6445
DEPAR METT OF STATE
1
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
A
ACTION: OFD
Date of
II FO
CONFID NPLAE FO DEPP  OY)
mailing: March 19, 1949
DC/R
TICE Ne'd: March 28, 1949, 1:28 p
I
E
EUR
PI
Secretary of State,
MAR291949
E
TRC
UEPAHIMENT OF STAIE
Washington.
OLI
G
a-65, Narch 18, 1049
894.50/3-1849
GA
(This sirgran supp ments shis Mission's A-58, Farch 11,
1949, and earlier  rgrans in this series. Request dis.
trioution be linite to Dopartment for reasons stated in
A-21 of January 28, 194).)
1. Parine  wa of  en-Do lar tatio Faximum ratio of yen-
dollar exchange now euployed for export goods is 450-1. It is
antici aved tis atio  11 soon be pared down to 425-1 maximum
in attempe to force rati mliz tion in Japanese industries and to
prepare way for further educt on. Such reduevion needed in con-
nection with plan estat  sh single yen-dollar exchange rate.
2. Dodge Group Sun prtins deali stic Slements in E33. Dodge,
financial aiviser to Gen ral MancktThun, is reinforcing more ren-
listic group of economic experts in conomic and  ci entific Section
( ss), General Headquar rs, in discussions with Japanese officials
regarding 1949-50 budget. In ali ning hinself with this group,
which hicherto has fre  nsly been in minority, Dodge is recom
mending adontion much stiffer attitude toward huge Japanese Gov-
ernment sub sidies to ind stry and insisting subsidies be sharply
reduced. le is aiso str ssing importance of prompt, drastic mea-
sures for rationalizati of panese inlustries. ICHIMADA Hisato,
Governor, bank of Japan, is reportedly in accord with Dodge's hard-
boiled attitude. Dodge leo indicated to officer this Hission that
he was favorably impres d vith IK Da Hayato, new Finance Hinister,
regarding whom Dodge sei that, unless Ikeda either consummate liar
or exceptionally god a or, h is fully cognizant of Japan'
ent "hot-house" cconomy nl need for sound financial policies
3
工
3. mploment of manew Abroad. (teference item 2, A5,
H
Earch l.) At resent ccting in n uction Seneral Headquarteps
attended by repre sentatives th s Mission and by representativeso
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.67)
Poe6
Karch o. 2949.
ee  moeood
ser
1
one
..
1
,
50
22

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.93)
e
ÍNCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND REÇORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
AIRGRAM
814
GIVISION OF AA ATAIRS
Filo no
51949
2
FROF:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
M
45315
ACTION: OFD
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INPO
Dase of
DC/R
CONFIDENI IAL
(CAORT DAPT USD ONLY)
mailing: March 26, 1949
L
FE
Rec d: Apri1 4, 1949 12:23 p.m.
E
NIAL  CEVELOPMEI 
ITP
Secretary of mate,
APR 5 1949
T
TRC
Washi agon
OLI
DEPARTNENT OF STATE
894.50/3-2549
A-75, Maren 25
(Thi3 airgran supplements ties Nission's A-65, Harch 19,
1949, an earlier airgrans i. this series. Request dis
tribution be limited to Deyartment for reasons stated in
A-21 o1 : anuary 28, 949.)
1. Beduction of YeleDollam matio. In 1-65, March 19, 1949,
statement made that maximum rati of yen-dollar exchange for ex-
vort goods is h50-1 and thet thi ratio will soon be reduced to
425-1 resently there are few  teeptiors above 450-1 ratio ap-
plicable to export comnodities.
lovever, these exceptions tem-
porary ane ksto-l rate considere
oasie.
2. entabive Agreenent on P4)-50 budget, Tontative agree-
ment on Japanose budget for fis  year commencing pril 1, 1949,
reached durin week by oficials of Japanese Government and Economic
and Scientific Section (uss), ts Headquarters. Practically all
newspapers reported fact that bul et "handed to Japanese Govern-
ment by 3 officials" on  are 3, 1949. Eucget is consolidated;
although appreciably larger than priginal Japanese general budget
it represents appreciable cuts rom total. which would have been de-
rived from cld-style general account budget plus supplementary bud-
gets. hen Japanese oflicials cemplained that certain budget items
were contrary to political pled pus of Denocratic Liberal Party
which wen clear-cut mandate in snuary elections, Dr. Sherwood M.
FINE, Hss ronomic and financial adviser, informed them that such
pledges evidently made without egard to actual economic conditions
in Japan. This ission believes Premier Yoshida able force buet
through Diet, using strong statements made by Joseph N. DODGE,CA
aconomic adviser. ith agreement in principle reached on budg,
as now laying stress on need for decision ro estanlishnent ofsin e
H
exehange rate Although opiniore in Ess differ, in agcordance it
varying econonic schools of thought, now believed that exchang  rate
PERMANENT RECORD COPYThis oy musb emed to DCRm s  n of n .

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.69)
7
Tokyo s A-75,
March 25, 1349.
-2-
ficials concerned, relammve low rase cf roo to Boo still favered.
3. Boal mission to pavin ae done  P trnde mission to
batin merice leaviag tekre Farch s. fu  co nizant of fact they
wall carouttedtty unesnber mel uartaeere le craticiese y Uuited
tetee prettor tortor hiehy pe ceil p murirw post eiht years,
haye corsire indea te wl pair orbet. Hission,
wieh ral tol or pie of mant et atttpes nee
setiauveaa sre r rte arl ben
ore ne t  t
aoerat wou h oer wuve, or cal y sohed-
re
thorrov.rrent.
cono to e?
open sououns to wu o by ebo o ore 
wharored oreta
and soey or reirir s  a e o r
place cetten texslen  so  erey 
Poet of foreang wo mdes of teusr yor tu oe  uee od us
fof

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.73)
.
Tokyo' ,
Merch 25, 1929
3
contere, wuooer woay ow oo wone tore, or Ooorall are
ag
en commereis
avebeen
rtesaleies
ts
Fe
rmard,
500

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.88)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
45520
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
TICE D
DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
FINANCIAL & DEVELOPE
Iede us action
APR 181949
2707
APP131949
DEPARTMENT OE STAL
FROM:
bate of
CONFIDAIAe (OL PT
Railin: April 2, 1949.
d: Apr. 12, 1949 2:24p.m
3
The Secrtarp o Seate
E
ACTION OFD
vachisston
INFI
DC/R
A-82, april 1, 1949.
FE
ARA
(rhis air gram supubemonte this Hission's A-75, Harch 25,
F
1949, amd earlier alrgrams in snis series. Request dis-
ITP
tribution bo limitui to beparurens for peasons stated in
OLI
A21  Jnuary242)
1
Shuont ef Melt rom Tsinetao In viev critical situation
prevailing in mmirgtao, brmteve bepa tment will be interested to
note that hamme vessel shaas Siing presumably chartered by Chi
nese alt ao dni stratim, reheduled Teave that port on or about
6
March 2 viih e,soo tonr o? salt for unloading hobe. Cale made
Tokye tbrough ebinese asmon in Jap n nd Foreigm Prade and Gon-
meree  onent ma kcionti Cie Sestion (nss), this Heed-
quarceve.
2. Battunalicati a 2' Pestile Industry Pleases Narquat. At
weekly i s ssatr meetim: mrch 2s, attended ty officer this Yissdon,
Magor tuneral N. E. MAh Uat, Saiea, , praised Las Textile Division
in glowing beras for  meemtionalty fine work" done in connection
with rationatluation dapanase textile industry. while targuat
did not alaborate on whnt mad teen done, he leld up mss accomplish-
ments in bexwile field ne worehy of emulavion by other mss divisions.
3. Fear Criticisn of Som Prade Pission to satin America.
Following departure several deys ago of sGap Prade l'ission to Latin
america, ofticer of this vission inforwed by several Ess division
chiefe, especially by chief of lextile Sivision, that americantex
porters Likely be extrenely critical of this Head uarters for Pend
ing Trade ission into urca in vhich merican trade itherte dohdrent.
as indlcaced ow -75, Mareh a5, frade Missten will attcmpt hin 
licity, a feat not likely of accomplishment. On other hand, 
ever, it will, if deemed necessar., endeavor to point cut needror
王
expanding Japanese exports to reduce Occupation costs.
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.96)
SEP
for Japan
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
No. 206
Tokyo, April 5, 1949.
REC:D
APR.11
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACTION
FE.enc
Subject: Transmission of Excerpts from Diet Address by Director
não
General of Economic Stabilization Board.
FR
fil
DCR
ITP-ene
OFD
OLI
The Honorabld
POS
The Secretary of State,
COM enc
Washington.
TREAS..ene
FRB
Sir:
AGRI
TAR
I have the honor to forward a translation of significant
LABOR
excerpts from a policy address delivered to the Diet on April 4,
894.50/4-549
NSRB
1949 , by Mr. Takayoshi AOkI. Direotor General of the Economic
Stablization Board, covering the economic policies of the Yoshida
Cabinet. This translation was published in the April 5, 1943 is-
M
use of the Hippon Times, Tokyo.
Mr. Aoki stressed the necessity of adhering to SCAP's Nine-
point Economic irective of December 19, 1948. To attain a bal..
anced budget, he said, "badly needed" expanditures for public worlks
have been elininated and price subsidies drastically curtailed.
Every effort will be made to collect taxes "under the existing
tax system, " he is quoted as stating, while steps will be taken
to equalize the tax burden and to atilize appropriated funds ef-
ficiently.
A yen counterpart fund will be established to cover all
Unitel States aid pn ropriationa , lir. Aoki said, the "original
purport" of those up ropriations had not been realized owing to
their having heretofore been "used without restriction".
Mr. Aoki urged voluntary savings for the purpose of capital
accumulation. With United States aid, he said, sufficient funds
shuuld be available for maintenance of capital and for economic
rehabilitation, although, as the importance of the Reconstriction
Finance Bank diminishes. measures must be taken to obtain the "vol-
untary cooperation" of private banks toward proper channeling of
capital.
Regarding the price structure, Mr. Aoki said that no general
upward revision is contemplated at present. Although subsidies
SEP
are undesirable, he said, they are necessary to prevent severe
FILED
dislocations and to cushion the intiiel shock of a single exchang
2
rat
69
UNCLASSIFIED
FAP
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO D€/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF ACTIONTAKEN.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.88)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 206,
April 5, 1949.
-2-
rate; subsidies will be kept to a mininmn through industriel ra
nalization, however, and import subsidies will be considered
"a transition 1 measure." Some upward revision of staple food
prices will be necessamy, he added, but the people should "bear
t unbeareble" for the sake of econonic recovery.
Mr. Aoki coutinued his address with an exhortation to labor
 management to increase production. and vith a statement of
 Goverment's determinatior to rationelize Jepanese inaustry
 te atrract foreign capital. Rationclization is especially
secesecry in exmport industries, he seid, since the Govormment in-
tminate all subsidies upon the este lishment o a single
he e rate. Ratienelization is so trke the forn o lowered pro-
tar oosts, und that in turn means that wage rises muist be ac-
pted y inereased productiee. The wmemplopment thet is lakely
To pesvls fron irdustriel rationalization will be ceaterd by chan-
in laior into expanding exmport industries ard int industries
arivias foreig capitrl, end er "insurence and other womphoyment
res as far as permittea  the ma' ionel econo ." he Gov
t. . Aoki continued, desires "sowna developet f er
.
. Poki elso requestoc fermers to spur production. md es-
sured the Dist that the Govermment woula work for loe percent
rice cellections mud for rice over-quota production cna delivery.
Pmrove en's in production conaitions, inclunry i fomm, vill
he mshed "as macn as the nationel economy pernits." Steps will
to t men to suepty fertilizers to fereers, ee beee pa mont vee
s   
13  .
To ppeote epporte ad remove the epemone coonow fror its
 se .  , e G   
preority to procurement ofaterirls for erport snaustrs cs, ave will
   s     
 emec endquertese vll be egstee o pete epr
mueve  to "improve tr de bese."
vit e declane of offeetave purekestne pover 
e reelt Drom rationalie tion. . aos cor  wh
"re ur cucly pprovtne descersesupply sttuetion of materee"
cconenie co trots wall o sirplified. Phe sreten of distritstion
Rodene will bo revised t restore "the prinerple of cerretih on."
To list of controlled naterials will be reluced, vegetebles will
be cacontrolled, and "practical measures commonsurate with reality"
will be taken upon the reopenin: of restarrents.
Ir. Aoki concluded is adaress with a pre iction that Jupan
vill become solf-supportiny through the promotien of euports, the
establislusent of a single exchun e rate, u tie introdnetion of
corein cmital.
Respectfully yours,
E: closure:
W. J. Sebald
Fivo copies of translation of ex-
cerpts from Address by Director General
of Economic Stabilization Board.
500
EGSeidensticket, Jr.irc

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to Déspatch
dtd April 5, 1949, fro
USPOLAD, Tokyo, on the
subject "Transmission
of Excerpts from Diet
Address by Director Gen-
eral of conomic Stabi-
NIPPON TIMES
Apr 5, 1949
(1)
lization Poard."
speech on the nation's econo-
mic policy follows.
The text of Mr. Aoki's Diet
"After four years of diff-
reconstruction of our country
will not be achieved unless we
"I am convinced that the
First Step
revenues which are indispen- voluntary
sable for putting Japan's secure necessary funds for much
ly cooperate for securing tax lutely necessary to obtain tuh
economy on a self-supporting
fields as deemed cssential from
cult travel in the postwar
achieve, despite difficulties, the
basis.
the standpoint of national eco
period, the Japanese economy
economic stabilization which
"Regarding the U.S. aid ap-
nomy.
has at last come to show some
signs of stabilization as evi-
ward economic self-support
constitutes the first step to-
propriations for Japan's eco-
nomy, inasmuch as they have
"The Government wishes to
Seek Fund Contral
denced by the gradual rise in
along the nine point directive.
been heretofore used without
take some proper steps re-
production, slowing down of
inflation, gradual rise in real
In this belief the Government
will execute various econo-
restriction their original pur-
port has not been fully realiz-
regard to future changes in
garding fund control with due
inçome of workers. This has
mic
measures by request-
ed. Therefore, Government
situation and to promote the
been made possible, thanks to
ing
enterprises to carry
intends to specify in the bud-
sound development of secu-
the sympathetic assistance and
out
forceful rationalization
gets such aid in terms of Yen
rity market with a view to
guidance of the Allied Powers
measures and by asking for
in order to putting the aid to
promoting self procurement
and to the efforts and coope-
our people to put up with
the most effective use. That
of capital. Furthermore, such
ration of the whole nation for
strict austerity.
is to say, the Government will
measures as will enable a ra-
rehabilitation demonstrated in
"The true balance of the
put all the aids in a special
tional amortization is under
delivery of foodstuffs, increase
consolidated budget referred to
account called U.S. Aid Coun-
consideration in order to pre-
production of coal and in other
in the nine-point directive
terpart Fund for Japanese Sta-
vent any further depletion of
felds of economy, for which
means a thorough elimination
bilization and to put them to
capital.
I take this opportunity to ex-
of inflationary factors on the
the most proper and effective
"Next is the price policy at
press my warm thanks.
side of public finance. For that
use, that is, to economic re-
the present stage. The point
Unheaithy Elements
purpose it becomes necessary
habilitation, redemption of
at issue- here is to stabilize
that it still harbors not a few
ever, a careful scrutiny of our
national economy will reveal
umhealthy elements, the worst
"On the other hand, how-
to secure a real balance of
consolidated revenues and ex-
and special accounts and other
Governmental agencies. In
formulating the balanced bud-
penditures inclusive of general
ernment wishes to make it
Government bonds, etc.
problem of financing, the Gov-
clear to establish and carry
"In connnection with .the
Spend Less
sound financial policy and to
now that we are expected to
ponding to the aforestated
proach the international level
prices at a low level corres-
make domestic price level ap-
aid amounting to several
year. We must not forget that
of which being the foreign
hundred million dollars.per
the stabilization signs of our
get all sorts of economic re-
quirements compete. each
other on the budget and the
Government had to work very
should be found in the accu-
ciple that sources of funds
out a sound financial policy.
That is to say, along the prin-
participate in the interna-
tional economy with the es-
tablishment of a single ex-
change rate, thereby paving
economy are based on the sup-
hard in adjusting them. On
mulated capital, the people are
he way toward stabilization
port of the citizens and enter-
the expenditure side the Gov-
requested to minimize their
of well-balanced economy.
prises of U.S.A. The produc-
ernment had to slash the bad-
personal expenditure and 
The current price structure
tion equipments of enter-
ly needed public works ex-
maximize their savings, and
established in June last year
prises are getting worn out
penditure, enforce administra-
enterprises are requested to
has been distorted due to
and their real capital is getting
fast depleted.
Enterprises
tive adjustment, rationaliza-
tion of special accounts, and
procure their necessary funds
through their own production
subsequent economic changes
to the detriment, in some
depend for their operation on
reduce other expenditures. As
efforts and capital accumula-
respects, of reasonable opera-
huge amounts of price adjust-
ment subsidy and deficit fi-
regards the price adjustment
expenditure which is needed
tion within the framework of
the so-called 'Three Principles
tion of economy. Necessary
adjustment will be made to
nancing for them is accumulat-
ness and independence ...
ing, thus losing their sound.
ent Japanese economy mus!
"In other words, the pres-
for price stabilization, the
has been drastically curtailed,
items to be subsidized have
been reduced and unit subsidy
thus making it necessary for
of Enterprises'.... Thus, the
Government tried to eradicate
tors both in public and private
all potential inflationary fac-
finances.
however, in so far as possible
remedy the situation. Over-
all raise of price level will,
be avoided at this time. In
particular, freight transporta-
tion changes and the prices
excess of its real capacity by
be said to be operating in
the subsidies and American
rationalization. Import sub-
enterprises to enforce drastic
sidies have also been reduced
sound financial policy as stated
however, that even under such
"It
goes without saying.
current level and prices of
of. stabilization-band materi-
als will be maintained at the
aids. In case the present trend
to the minimum which busi-
above the Government has to
consumption goods of which
is left unchecked, an insecure
economic prosperity will be
ness accounting and household
budgets permit.
see to it that funds really es-
sential for the maintenance of
productionconditionshave
improved will be reduced in
built upon the precarious
No Alternative
production activities and for
order to contribute to the
basis. It is, therefore, my con-
"As regards national
economic rehabilitation be
stabilization of household
viction that the future eco-
venues, there is no alternative
fully secured. Inasmuch as a
budget and balancing of price
nomic policies must be geared
but to collect and secure tax
substantial portion of the U.S.
structure.
to the real stabilization of
revenues to realize a true bal-
aid has been made available
Subsidies Undesirable
Directive issued by SCAP in
December last year clearly
economy.
points to this direction and
shows that the Allied policy
toward Japan has reached the
stage where it demands the
"The Nine Point Economic
ance in the consolidated bud-
gets and the Government is
determined to make every ef-
fort to secure as much tax re-
venue as possible under the
current taxation system. The
aware of the fact that the
Government is of course well
current tax burden is by no
for construction and rehabili-
tation purposes and for gen-
eral industries through the re-
demption of Government
bonds, R.F.B. bonds, etc., the
industrial funds estimated to
be available for the 1949 fiscal
year both for equipments and
for operation are not consider-
included in the proposed bud-
get in order to stabilize prices
price adjustment subsidies is
such subsidies are not desir-
at low level. Fundamentally
able from the standpoint of
rationalization of economy and
"Substantial
amount
of
stabilization and self-support-
ing of Japan's economy. With
a view to establishing a self-
ed to double its efforts to im-
means light and is determin-
prove the method of taxation
ed necessarily insufficient in
total for the maintenance of
estimated business activities.
Hovever, to abolish all subsi-
independence of enterprises.
dies at one stroke at this mo-
supporting economy, the Nine
in the course of the year so
However, in proportion as the
ment is merely to cause un-
Point Program aims at vigo-
as to make the tax burden
function of the Reconstruction
necessary disturbance in our
rously enforcing stabilization
more equitable on- one hand
Finance-Bank is reduced and
vulnerable economy. The
measures and carrying on a
and to minimize the actual
the relative importance of
amount of 'subsidies as appro-
thoroughly rational operation
spending of the appropriation.
general financial institutions
priated is deemed to be the
of economy. - For this purpose
to sell state properties, etc. on
increases in consequence of necessary minimum. We will
it purports to implement nine
the other in order to alleviate
their enlarged cash in lhand see to it that the amount of
point measures as a prepara-
the people's burden. But, at
through the redemption of subsidy per unit be slashed.
tion for the establishment of
the same time, it is requested
Government bonds, R.F.B. that subsidy payment be cut
a single exchange rate......
that the people will positive-
Bonds, etc., it becomes abso- down through rationalization

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
HPON THLES
Apr 5,1949
(2)
 enterprises, and that no
Output Hike Essential
ancing production increase
"With regard to unemploy-
unnecessary and unjustifiable
"It is needless to say that
and necessary construction
ment which may arise in con-
subsidies be paid out.
the basić measures to really
within the framework of fund
sequence of the enforcement
stabilize our economy lie in
limited by sound financial
of the aforementioned policies,
"With regard to the problem
securing and increasing pro-
policy. Enterprises, therefore,
the Government will do its
of eliminating the discrepan-
duction. It is for this reason
are requested to rationalize
best to absorb them in in-
cies between domestic and in-
that the Government calls for
themselves through reduction
dustries which will expand in
ternational prices and adjust-
all-out efforts on the part of
of production costs. The Gov-
future, such as export in-
ing the impact of exchange
management and labor. The
ernment on its part intends to
dustries, in particular, as well
rate upòn domestic price struc-
increase in production, how-
take necessary measures to
as in new enterprises to be
ture, it is urgently necessary
ever, can serve as a basis for
secure necessary funds.
financed from foreign assist-
for the normal development of
sound economic development
"Such is the general policy
ance fund.
Insurance and
our economy in the future that
only when it is based on ra-
toward enterprises. The Gov-
other unemployment measures
the domestic price structure
tional production management.
ernment is concerned abcut
will be extended as far as
which has long been secluded
'It is in this respect that the
the possible effects of the en-
permitted by the national eco-
from international economy
Government has clearly es-
forcement of such policy upon
nomy.
develop into a reasonable and
tablished the 'Three Princi-
medium and small enterprises.
"At this critical juncture of
natural one as an integral part
ples of Enterprises' and is pre-
The Government is convinced
the Japanese economy, the
of international economy. That
pared to carry out appropri-
that as long as medium and
Government is desirous of
is to say, we have first to en-
ate measures in conformity
small enterprises endeavor to
seeing sound development of
deavor to align our price
with the Nine Objectives in
rationalize themselves in ac-
labor unions and relies upon
structure to the international
order to enforce rationaliza-
cordance with the Nine Ob-
the consciousness and all-out
one in order that the Japanese
tion of enterprises and to en-
jectives in cognizance of the
efforts of the working popu-
economy gains self-support in
courage induction of private
part they play in the develop-
lation.
the international economy.
foreign capital on thus sta-
ment of the Japanese economy.
"Now I am going to explain
"On the other hand, violent
bilized economy.
The Government will endeavor
about problems concerning
impact of the establishment of
"That is to say, as regards
to nurture such medium and
agriculture. The production
a single exchange rate and the
the basic industries, such as
small enterprises.
increases in agriculture is of
alignment of domestic and in-
coal-mining and electricity,
"As the aforementioned
fundamental importance to the
ternational prices upon enter-
enterprises, are requested to
policy of economic stabiliza-
present Japanese economy
prises and household budget
operate profitably within the
tion will be carried out rigo-
from the standpoint of firmly
should be avoided as far as
framework of the current
rously, rise in real wages in
establishing the basis for eco-
possible for stabilization of
price structure through ra-
future can be attained only
nomic rehabilitation as well
price level. The Government
tionalization of management.
through combined efforts on the
as of reducing the importation
will, therefore, pay import
The policy with regard to
part of capital and labor for
of foodstuffs. In view of the
subsidies as a transitional
such industries has tended to
the increase of production. It
above fact, I request the farm-
measure in order to mitigate
be based on a production-in-
is needless to say that the
ers to make further efforts to-
such undesirable impact. It is
crease-first-principle, with the
Government will renew its
ward the production increase
needless to say that the import
result that they have depend-
efforts to stabilize the living
of foodstuffs at this critical
subsidy payment be minimized
ed too much upon generous
of workers through'the estab-
moment. The fact that the
through the reduction of pro-
assistance of the Government,
lishment of distribution order
food crisis our nation suffered
duction costs.
such as subsidy payment and
and securing of living neces-
in the postwar period has
"In spite of the aforestated
deficit financing. Various un-
saries in cognizance of the fact
been finally overcome is
price policy aimed at stabiliza-
reasonable and unsound ele-
that the working population
largely attributable to the
tion at low level, it is unavoi-
ments have, therefore, re-
bear the brunt of reconstrue-
efforts made by the farmers,
dable to raise consumer's
price of staple foods on ac-
count of the rise in agricul-
mained in these industries.
"As regards export indust-
Export Rate Set
tion. If an econpmy spoiled by
deficit financing, subsidy pay-
ment, price raising, etc., be
for which I do not know how
ment has decided to take mea-
to thank them.. The Govern-
tural parity indices, passenger
rles, in articular, the ration-
continued to be spoiled, infla-
sures designed to have the rice
fare and communication char-
alization of which is urgently
tion will proceed indefinitely
quota system operated more
ges for the realization of finan-
called for in order to compete
and the national economy will
efficiently and more fairly than
cial independence in Special
with foreign enterprises in the
never attain self-support and
ever, for which purpcse noth-
Accounts. Again some price re-
international market, the Gov-
stabilization. The living of the
ing will be left untried to sec-
visions of consumer goods is
ernment has set the maximum
working population will con-
ure 100 per cent production
necessary in consequence of the
export price ratio at ¥425 on
stantly be threatened. The
and delivery by the farmers
abolition of some of the im-
and after 1 April as another
Government is convinced that
of the pre-planting delivery
port subsidies. However, sav-
step toward the establishment
such is not in the interests of
quota allocation for 1949
ing of consumption and ac-
of a single exchange rate, and
the working population. The
which has already been de-
cumulation of capital is in-
will strongly promote their
Government is determined to
cided, while the production
dispensable for the self-support
rationalization with the idea
take really constructive meas-
and delivery of foodstuffs over
of national economy. The re-
that export subsidies will en-
ures even though they might
and above said allocation will
construction of the Japanese
tirely be abolished when a
not be palatable. It is desired
be tried. by all means.
economy can be attained only
single exchange rate is estab-
that enterprisers as well as
"As for the improvement in
through saving and austerity
lished.
workers"cooperate with the
production conditions indis-
on the part of the State, en-
"As to the effect which the
Government in full under.
pensable for the strengthen-
terprises and household. It is
condition of fund supply has
standing of the fact that the
ing of àgricultural production
upon enterprises, enforcement
Japanese economy will be re-
capacity such as land reform,
sincerely requested that the
of a strict sound financial
constructed and the living
the Government will under-
people will bear the unbeara-
policy as stated above will
standard of the Japanese peo-
take to make efforts at ex-
ble to overcome an austere
mean that the industrial fund
ple raised only after we have
pediting the said improverment
living which we have to get
has to be financed generally
overcome a severe trial now
as much as the national eco-
through.
from accumulated capital.
confronting us through our
nomy permits. At the same
That is to say, no deficit fin-
sweat and tears.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
IPPO IIS
Aor 5, 1949
(3)
time the Government will
To Boost Export
austere national life, and the
minimize through the afore-
"For the purpose of wiping
gradually improving demana-
mentioned maintenance of the
out the ill-fame of "economy
supply sutation of materials,
present price structure finan-
stilts" and of achieving eco-
the economic control of mater.
cial burdens on the farmers
nomic rehabilitation by our
ial such as allocation and ra-
both in agricultural manage-
own efforts, the Government
tioning of materials and price
ment and household budget
has determined to reduce do-
control will be simplified as
while taking measures to sup-
mestic requirements as much
far as possible and be strength-
ply as much fertilizer and
as possible, to make efforts
ened in effectiveness of the
other reproduction materials
for the reduction of produc-
enforcement in the reduced
as possible. As for the price
tion cost and to develop and
scope of control, thus contri-
of rice, wheat, barley, etc.,
promote export as well as to
buting to the establishment of
back payment for the increase
increase invisible export. To
order in the distribution field.
of agricultural parity index
realize the above, the Gov-
In promoting the rationaliza-
since the price revision in
ernment has established the
tion of enterprises mentioned
1948, will be made along the
principle of top priority to
above, restoration of initiative
policy determined by the Gov-
export, along which efforts
and profitability of enterprises
ernment to secure agricultural
are being made for the pre-
are required first of all. From
reproduction. On the part
ferentialprocurementof
this point of view, it is intend-
of farmers, however, I believe
materials for export indus-
ed to abolish such control as
they must refrain from de-
tries, smooth operationof
requires unnecessarily com-
pending wholly upon measures
trade financing, etc. -In addi-
to be taken by the Govern-
tion, the Government is try-
plicated procedure and to de-
ment, and minimize consump-
ing hard to simplify the trade
vise strong measures to intro-
tion and accumulate capita!
procedures and enlarge ex-
duce principle of competition
by their own hands through
port and import on the pri-
in case necessary controls are
their own organization so as
vate basis to the end of re-
enforced. It is for this pur-
to invest it in agriculture so
turning to normal trade while
pose that it is intended to re-
that the farmers themselves
requesting GHQ for the ad-
adjust the distribution Kodans
may open the way for the ex-
justment of external rela-
system, to reduce items of de-
pansion of agricultural pro-
tions such as the positive de-
signated production materials
duction.
velopment of export markets
and to abolish rationing con-
"The next problem is about
trol of fresh vegetables at this
measures for export promo-
and the improvement of trade
time. Furthermore as regards
tion. I have so far dwelt on
terms.
the pending reopening of res-
the measures to 'stabilize do-
"The Government has adopt-
tauránts practical measures
mestic economy. In view of
ed the Export-First-Policy
commensurate with realities
the present conditions of
mentioned above and is going
will be taken.
Japanese economy, that is,
to exert its utmost effort to
"When we rigorously exe
having a colossal population
execute it successfully. How-
cute the domestic economic
of 80,000,000 on a limited ter- ever, the export encourage-
stabilization measures in ac-
ritory with poor natural re- ment measure by grant of ex-
cordance with the Nine Objec-
sources, and barely maintain- port subsidy is not acceptable
tives and promote economic
ing the present production for international considera-
rehabilitation through develop-
and living standard by the tions. Therefore, it has be-
ing our export on the stabiliz-
support of huge amount of come absolutely necessary for
ed economy, the establishment
funds and materials extended the Japanese economy to effect
of single exchange rate will
by the U.S.A., it is most the rigid rationalization of en-
be realized at an early date,
urgent to promote export terprises and to improve tech-
the induction of foreign·pri-
thereby enlarging the scope nical level by developing
vate capital will be encourag-
of economic circulation in scientific technique in order to
ed in expectation of mainte-
order to secure the self-sup- secure a footing in the inter-
nance of the exchange rate,
port and rehabilitation of
national competitive economy.
employment will be increased,
economy.
Those who are engaged in
living standard will be im-
export industries are hereby
proved. Thus it is believed
specially requested to do their
that self-support of Japanese
best.
economy will be realized. It
"In view of the expected
is my belief that only by real-
decline in effective demand
izing the above, Japan will be
and general.purchasing power,
recognized as a welcome mem-
which will be brought about
ber of international society and
by rigorous execution of ra-
the way will to open for in-
tionalizationprogram and
dependence and peace,

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.97)
DARD FORM NO. 54
SECRET
U - Mr. Webb
DATE: April 6, 1949
TO
E - Mr. Thorp
FROM :
SUBJECT:
Interpretation of NSC 13/2: Japanese Zaibatsu Policy
Files
Contral
This Documont Must Bo Roturned to
Problem
It has become necessary to resolve the following major policy
894.50/4-649
issues with respect to the Japanese reform programs:
1. To what extent does NSC 13/2 permit intervention by SCAP
in the implementation of the reform programs and guidance of SCAP
by Washington in connection with these programs?
2. Should steps be taken to assure that the program to
prevent re-emergence of the Zaibatsu form of industrial organiza-
tion, embodied substantially in existing legislation, be preserved
in essentially its present form?
Discussion
1. Interpretation of NSC 13/2
Paragraph 12 of NSC 13/2 relating to the reform programs
in Japan states that no new programs shall be initiated and that
steps shall be taken to bring about as rapid assimilation as
possible of existing programs by the Japanese, accompanied by a
steady decrease of pressure by SCAP.
One interpretation of this paragraph is that there should be
no further interference of any kind from Washington in the
prosecution of the programs, and that SCAP should step in when
but only when the reform programs are being carried out in such a
way as to constitute in his judgment a danger of interference with
the revival of the Japanese economy. It prohibits any communica-
tions between Washington and SCAP, such as requests for information,
relating to the programs.
The other interpretation agrees that the Japanese should be
given an increasing amount of freedom to carry out the programs
on their own initiative. Intervention would have, in any case,
to be by SCAP, but Washington might advise SCAP when, in their
judgment, they felt that he was not carrying out the mandate of
NSC 13/2 correctly. Intervention by SCAP would be proper when,
but
APR 9 1958
DC/R
DECLASSIFIED
FILED
E.O. 11652. Sec. 11
Anal
NSC Lt. Ut. m.1977
TOP-SEORET
Ey RvD NAns Da1o. 3/12/28
Rev_
Cut

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
but only when, it was necessary to prevent the aims of the reform
programs from being subverted, whether due to too lax or too
rigorous implementation. Washington should at all times be kept
fully informed on the progress of the programs.
2. The Zaibatsu Program
Japanese industry has been characterized in the past by
concentrations of economic power unique in character and unparalleled
in any other industrial nation. They have been based in large measure
on the social and political power of a few families and individuals,
and have been maintained in part through extensive use of holding
companies, intercorporate stockholdings and interlocking directorates
in such a way as to unite large segments of industry in many different
fields of manufacture and sale. Their strength has been enhanced
through close relations with the leading banks and resultant favor-
able treatment in the granting of credit. The deconcentration
program (set forth in the Basic Post-Surrender Directive and re-
affirmed in detail in SWNCC 302/2) was instituted to correct this
situation.
The Japanese Antitrust Law (Law No. 54) was passed by the
Japanese Diet in March 1947. Its purpose is to prevent the re-
emergence of the Zaibatsu form of industrial organization after
completion of the deooncentration program.
The Deconcentration Review Board, a group of private U.S.
citizens, was sent to Japan by the Army last spring to investigate
the deconcentration program. At the time of its arrival, changes
in the Antitrust Law were being drafted jointly by SCAP and
Japanese Government agencies mainly for clarification. The DRB
took an interest in this problem and subsequently made proposals
for revision of the law. Amendments practically identical with
the recommendations of the Deconcentration Review Board were later
introduced in the Japanese Diet and are soon to be acted upon.
Some of these changes would materially weaken the law, particularly
those provisions which place limitations on intercorporate stock-
holdings and interlocking officerships and directorates.
The proponents of these changes would argue that revival of the
Japanese economy is likely to succeed only if the Japanese assume
real and effective responsibility for accomplishing that objective,
and that this may require the re-emergence of social and business
mechanisms similar to those existing prior to the war, which enabled
Japan to assume leadership industrially, commercially and financially
throughout the Far East. They also assume that the revisions of the
law
TOP-SECRET

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
law proposed by the Deconcentration Review Board have been freely
adopted by the Japanese with a genuine desire to permit combinations
of business to be formed, in the belief that such combinations
will increase productivity within Japan and improve Japan's com-
petitive position in world markets. If this is the case, the
United States cannot afford to impose on Japan unwelcome concepts
of business fragmentation and inefficient business organization.
To do so merely means to prolong the confusion now prevailing
in the Japanese mind and to increase the burdens being borne
by the American taxpayer for relief of the Japanese economy.
Those opposed to the trend toward weakening of the Zaibatsu
program argue that the establishment and maintenance of a truly
competitive business structure in Japan, far from delaying recovery,
is the best means of assuring a substantial revival of the economy,
because it is only through the stimulation of competitive activity
that highly-efficient, low-cost production and technological
advance will emerge. Not oaly will a competitive system create
a stronger and more stable economy within Japan, it will in addition,
through improving the quality of Japanese products, better Japan's
competitive position in foreign markets. The opponents of the
present trend argue further that the disruptive effect of the
business reorganization is over-emphasized, and is a factor to be
considered only in connection with the nearly-completed deconcentra-
tion program, not with administration of the Antitrust Law.
The opponents of the proposed changes in the Antitrust Law
feel that they are largely of Deconcentration Review Board
instigation and constitute an interference in the previously
successful assimilation of the Zaibatsu program by the Japanese,
in direct contradiction to the requirements of NSC 13/2. This
activity of the Deconcentration Review Board can only be inter-
preted by the Japanese as a reversal of U.S. policy and will
contribute to a conviction on their part that we are not sincere
in our previously publicized intent to establish a democratic
political and economic system in Japan. The recent growth of both
Communist and extreme conservative strength in Japan has been
alarming. If this conviction becomes firm, it would contribute
materially to a further trend toward these extremes.
Recommendations
It is requested that you make a decision whether Paragraph 12
of NSC 13/2, relating to the reform programs, is to be interpreted
as meaning that:
1. There
TOPSECRET

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP-SECRET
-4-
1. There should be no further interference of any kind
from Washington in the prosecution of the programs and that
SCAP should step in only when in his judgment implementation
threatens to interfere with revival of the Japanese economy.
There should be no official communication between Washington
and SCAP relating to these programs.
2. Freedom of action by the Japanese should be granted
increasingly as they give evidence of having assimilated the basic.
purposes of the reform programs. Intervention by SCAP, on his
own initiative, or on the advice of Washington, should take
place only when it is essential to prevent action which would
materially prejudice the accomplishment of the basic purposes
of the program. A formal means of communication between Washington
and SCAP should be established whereby State may be kept fully
informed on the progress of the programs.
If your decision is in favor of (2) above it is requested
that you further decide, with respect to the Zaibatsu program,
whether the Department should take a position against the current
weakening of the program. If you decide affirmatively, I recommend
that we approach the Army with a view to taking the following steps:
Strong public reaffirmation in Washington of our basio
Zaibatsu policy;
Early withdrawal of the Deconcentration Review Board;
Appropriate publicity in Japan concerning these steps
and a clear indication to the Japanese Government that revision
of the Antitrust Law should await a thorough review of its
desirability.
RCD
ITP:IR:RCDixon:osm
TOP SEORET

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.97)
TO
FE - Mr. Butterworth
DATE: April .6, 1949
FROM :
E - Mr. Thorp
SUBJECT:
Japanese Deconcentration
On March 1 a memorandun was submitted to FE by E analyzing
and criticizing the Hutchinson reports on the activities of the
894.50/4-649
Deconcentration Review Board and on the Japanese Antitrust Law.
FE's reply seems to suggest that the points to which E's
criticisms are directed are mainly of a technical nature worthy
of corrective action only if the United States intends to insist
upon an "airtight" deconcentration program in the purely
economic sense.
We feel that FE is ignoring the fact that there is, and
has long been, a basic difference in approach between E and FE
on the policy itself. as well as on the interpretation to be
placed upon NSC 13/2 as related to the reform programs in general.
Since this difference has not been resolved, I am forwarding to
the Under Secretary the attached memorandum setting forth these
two opposing viewpoints and asking that he resolve the issues.
You will note that, with regard to the deconcentration program,
CS/MDR
we have placed primary emphasis upon whether the Japanese
legislation to prevent re-emergence of the Zaibatsu form of
organization should be preserved.
d.d
15
894.50
Cst
RCD
ITP:IR:RCDixon:osm
14-649

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
FORM
CLASSIFICATION
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
11 AM4
CONFTDENTIAL
CONTROL
X Charge Department
Washington
1132
Charge to
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APR 6 1949
TOKYO
INFO: ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER.
129
Comite Mtg
Subject: Smary Steering/m/obg, Mar 29, 1949
Agrarian Reform in Japan (SC-335)
89
USSR member expressed dissatisfaction with bibliography of documents containing
94.
1nfoodom on agricu tural ref rm in Japan, SC-335/1, circulated by Seeretariat and
.50
reintreduced reodtox that SCAF be requested  supply Commopp with necessary
data and inforputbm concerning tim ful illment of tim land reform program in Japan.
-649
USSR motion defeated by 6 to 1.
Comite
Steering/xxxxxxxxa acceptei Xx amendment intrcduced by US m Mar 22 to reword
an
para 1 as follows:QTE In the view of the FEC mxequitable and sound agrarian reform
UNQTE
program is an important factor favoring the democratization of Japan./momx
U. S. Member proposed that as alternative to his amendment to delete para 3 c,
he could accept para if worded as follows: QTE to these ends the basic principles
UNQTE
underlying the measures set forth in para 2 above are approved./xmx He added his
GoVT yould accept in place of first subpara  para 2: QTE The following steps have
UNQTE
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
been taken in Japan since the surrender in ti.e field of agrarian reformA
(OFFICES ONLY)
Australm member stated tt US modification of para 3 c was unacceptable
It  his view tit present wording would have effect  assisting SCAP in
overcoming inertia in carrying out reform progrem which was to be expected
CS/H
from Japanese.
uss
CR CLEARANCE
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFICATION
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
CONFIDENTIAL
Charge Department
Washington
Charge to
-2-
UK member tentatively suggested folAmbg revision of US modification para
3 c: QTE To these ends the FEC approves the basic principles underlying the measures
of those measures.UNQTE
set forth in para 2 and the intentions timerenf.ox Further discussion postponed.
Fishing and Aquatic Industries in Japan (SC-271/10)
US Member stated xk his Govt was reconsidering its position. PhilApe member
attn
Comite
called to/akkxxkxxx xf/Somodokme kiadodduoaooaox report in Weekly Summary, No. 174 of
Natural Resources Section that there were numerous violations  authorized fishing
areas by Japu fishermen. Action deferred.
Compleint Against SCAP by Deported German National (SC 330/6)
This paper with minor modifications was forwarded to thx Commr.md
Japnn Assets in Neutral Countries (SC-295/6)
Frhook member pointed out..kuck his delegation does not understand why four-power
machinery should be set up to marshal assets. He felt tud procedure adopted for
Gerpm assets in neutral ccuntries should be adopted, wherein three occupying powers
were entrusted with task of marshalling assets. In case Japan, US  sole occupying
power and should be entrusted alone to marshal assets. Chive memberchallenged
DISTRIBUTION
Friomix description  US as sole occupying authbmdhy. Fr member indicated
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
tixk it was a question of fact, not of principle. Action deferred.
CONFIDENTIAL
CR CLEARANCE
2

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.92)
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
alleck
CONFIDENTIAL
DepartmendeNf State
Charge Department
Washington
Charge to
-3-
Replacement of Lost Cultural Objects (SC 272/12)
Removal of Aircraft and Private Munitions Plants from Japan (SC 312)
Retained on agenda.
192041
ACHESON
1949 APP 6 AM 10 54
ACCEPTANCE DESK
M aD
DCT
FE:NA:ALDunning/ikb
4/5/49
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
CONFIDENTIAL
CR CLEARANCE
APR 6 1949
736838

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.84)
45631
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT-OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
3536
1
N F  
ATROOAL
CR191949
ACT : OD
FROP:
USPOLA, Tokyo
INFO
DC/R
ENTOF STATE
Dat : of
PE
meiling:
April 9, 1949
E
ITP
Date rec'd:
Apri1 18, 1949, 17:15 
ULI
 OF FIAND
Sempetmry of state
11949
894.50/4-849
A04,1 2, 1949.
OPARTENT OF STATE
Ie
4-27-
 draem suoae ts ths Pission's -82, pril 1,
1os, mnd carlier airppams in this series. e dest dis-
A
trabutten be lirmitet to lepartment for reasons stated
1a -21 of Jammary 23, 1942.)
1 Baednea atabe mta Mopajderee imaecurate. co.t: De-
cencemnrnsfon kevtow toard pmdso) has refused aceept rusponsibility
for etatemmts recensly s ty r. atter Horonlkco, member of
Boare, befom Far wasm lotcion. Recominr bo cdef of snt
Trust )  rbe ava eor e e eentifie setion (os,
this  ernee contain numerous in
accuraete. b rge   on spe r, as prvase citizen
while trst md reete to thee utehonson's toip to bash.
nidential File
augton as poporbine of wat  for ab tplier that his statements
xe
could be eon sidered as puing ofrtcind, and that DtB phould accupt
responcjbility therefor
mi-rust and Cartels Division especially
disturbed by Hetelhinson sharcer of arbitrary and dictatorial en-
foreement ef nti-frust Lav, and meintains that enforeument nov. no
more artitrary then before arrival of peard. this  pestion being
invessi ted further wi sh vlew possibl prepy ration cespatch to
De arnt.
tere ot interpretation have been approved and vdil b hopended to
FILED
coa Korean trade and Cinaneial arrang ments (see thi Mission's
1
despatehes Ho 174 of March 21 and Ho 203 of April 1) upon vali-
8
dation of tn se arrany mente by both parties. First covere cleace
1949
ance or ol norean acccunts and provides that financial arrangament
工
is ro to m ms to paye mbs on contracts oubstandin, on pril a,
H
19y twose contracvs te bo b conelvded within ebome 9o daya
under eld oun account arrangumepts.
eutlelent of crelite
PERMANEN RECORD COPYT    to DC  

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.74)
enerin
eo letter ef inter
ronraton
be
Forn
.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.69)
med, re nment
1
usted
at
contr
1

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.87)
FORM D&323
7-18-46
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
NO.
Washington
571
894.50/4-849
UsPCLA,
1571
TOKIO.
A-82, May 13, 1949
74,9531
 acting
a- , Aoril 8,
sceatr tion
i.r at tements
9531
π
the artter is seine
694
to t e :essible preecre-
cesr: tel: could
plis, to the
ire in refusine to
Hutelinson'e stetemert
iu the D desire
cret situstion?
ACHESO
DISTRIBUTION
hwis
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
46
W2
S
大
CONFILE TIL
RaY
8
CR CLEARANCE
h
21K
Claned
RAY

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.95)
FORM DG-323
7-18-46
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
NO.A.
Washington,
Ref
USPOLAD,
TOKYO.
Reference is made to tho confidentiel airgram A-84,deted April 8,  ayaly
l94e frem the Folitical Adviser renorting a mumber of items of interest
t the Denit. Peregra ? therein refers to the refusal of the Decon-
by Mr. Walter utchinson, memher f the Board, before the FEc. 
Even aSter Son. MeCoy'e tatrent of Dec. ? before the FEC
 ryatt.
stabing the ruasohe for US withdrawal of support of FEC 230 the
Commission continued to take an uctive inter st in the progress of
the Deconcentration program. r. Hutchineon, in his testimony before
the FEC, commented somew at critieally on the progress which had been
m de be ore the D arrived on the scene, outlined the implementation
 the program under the aeis of the DRe and made sone general
o servations the  cocentration policy. M Hutchinson's
aprearance before the Econonics Coumittee of the Fic had beer approved
by the Army Dap't. which agreed with the State Dep't. that every
effort should lo made t) persuade Conmission members that further
policy action on the problem of deconcentration was unnecessary. Mr.
Tutchinson's remarks vent far towar is ansveving questions in the
minds of several Comicsion memlers who regarled his stetement as
authoritative, perticularly when there elapsed a period of 8 weekg
from the time when h met with the Co mission to the time when he
notified the Secretariat to the Commission that their record of his
statoment was correct ahd that e could pprove it. Despite itr.
Hutchinson's ur umentetion, however, members of the FEc continue to
in icate an intorest in the Deconcentration program and are considering
un o poliey en this m tten wich woula, roedly speaking, endorse
DISTRIBUTION
the princinles contained in yicti Deconcentration and Anti-trust
DESIRED
legirlation.
(OFFICES ONLY)
In the event that members o the c in considering Japanese
deconcentretion solicit further copments from the US it is essential
that the ctatus of r. Hutchinson's testimony be clarified. If
the report before the FEC is inaccurate, it is desirable
that the Dep't have the correct infornation. The Dep't.
would
CR CLEARANCE
CONFIDENTIAL
★ U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OPFICE-1947 73636

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.96)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
Washington,
NO.
-2-
would, therefore, appreciate receiving any information available
regarding the DRB's refusal to accept responsibility for the
Hutchinson statements. in particulan, it is important to know:
of t. Hutchinson's report
1.
only parts of it.
2.
1f only part, what sections does the R3 refer to?
3.
here the statements are inaccurate wnat is the correct
situation?
4.
Any other information available which would be helpful
to the Dep't. in its state.nents before the EC.
The ission's comments are re uested.
Actison (RCD)
S
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
CONFIDENTIAL
AB
CR CLEARANCE
ITP:IR:HEFassberg:prg
ITP
FE
4-27-49
(martin)

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FORN RIE
OF THE
TED STATFAGA
894.50/4.124927
Vaites statee Politioul riser
W
J
REC'D
APR.21
File
DlR
ACTION
FE
nFO
FR
DCR
OFD
ITP
OLI
POS
E
1.1
Files
884.50/4-1249
This Document Must Be Returned To
t'
CONF
CS/ H
t:e
Prime tinister eppeeled for acceptapce or f pther
custerit, witt a spirit or econoric p triotisa".
141952
FILED
FILE
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OP AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.75)
2O.DL
The Prime minister lee took ur  suiber of
inturnstional  na cliticul uostions Me errreused
hope for the early ls str fon si Juresese  ining
abread, "abo e o etlod so a weir fourte winter
in cols pountrteur. fs gleo por srr ts ourc ent ruscors
of Je an's roeeibm. tolv et i tot er war, nd
urged the eo leto t s t   pucors  ating
 os to,  Toshide pressed
 convi s
i J
l poconscru tion
 s a b
sountre
wile e   
prun Pertre  t 
s 
o. e  
the scone u
Prie
- iseer ctrepct, e
r  t 
 t
  e pic
or the Frike  tntst
of wte e
1 
19
romices . to c
 t  
such  te no  to, uo her
thereus
phlte
vorke
to cert
rirst et
or the 
revi
se sa mt sofentfric
setion 
  rovis
incpusistent
sconomic
luri e1
l onforehces
ttet the
result o wi
the D u tie
Liberal Fuy' 
dresties'l cu lol
suurters e  s      t  e rto
Liberal Part
 the
gubinet's f il e   ' iolse on
Ir. Yoshide d the Pinanee inister. To a considerable
exvent, mr Ixeda, s Pinunee I inistry bureauorat and
comparatively e neweo er in the party, 1e vulnerable to
such attacks, some of which have called for ris resignation.
Prine
CONFIDETLAL

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.81)
CO FIDEITIAL
--
Prine iInister Voshida, however, has cup opted Ir. Ikeda
without reservatien and has stated that the advice
received fron Generel Fesd uarters on the budget must be
viewed in the nature of a firective whicn ust be carried
out regardless of hov party cuurain pronises are affected.
hile party oprosition to vevisisn of the budget
had no crfeet in see ria  justlents more fevorable to
the Demor.sie Libel l Perty's osition, the iscue hes
served to cephasize still Purther te heteroreneous
character of tie s so: etic Liberel Farty. Fectional
alignments were consi ler ol intensified fter the
Ieotion when the tri e inister's shoi se or cabinet
memvers icnorel t s  ivatlole ef co e of the ol - usrd
elements  it i e tr. Jontpor rs over the buiet
has servel to uo  us  e e tfiesences nd bas at
the se ti e pid   1 corosition vithin the
criticice t. e les lels.
There is ibele 
entents sfforts
to imple eat the .
il ppovide  llitional
Lesues upon h 
 pnos  ithin tte party
cen attck..
The File Minister,
hovever, ejey..
of  olitical sts sure and
prestiee, fop 
- eritleis
e he t ut
the resene me e  e i rel Farty b.
no leuers o. 
Looler. Toshtdu.
while it i tye   to cser te ov pucce fully
the Yoshide saslnet  a  eo c-  's seonou is revovery,
  s
sbility
 wosti e
I
the Yeohidu  
ta  ort to put she
Fine-Foint 
tto suuesssful
operc sion, d. iul
ol  l
likely to  
 Pul ental P ctors
ol.rt ot.r.
the ol
tur ver co
rilctiont
erore the
eleotion, it
slonsrters voula be
saclsried  pt:  Jo. poract: Li ur i Purt oabinet tended
by ir. Yoide. Ir tt '   tn protses sre
now rora houn te otl stete 
the Jure a eeane , rese a n pronises were
ejuelly unreslistis berest pleetion. The evereae
Japarese soeri t
Wsadquarters, ich
anticiputed s e.sc atic Is perel vletory before t.e
election, rulsel mo  eutl w ur ing the party's
cumpaign pled est i.
hile
COIFIDEITL.L

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTLAL
-4-
While there can be no doubt of the unrealistio
character of the Democratic Liberal Party's position
with respect to its pre-election pledges and the
necessity for drastic steps to s tabilize the Japenese
economy, the course of the dispute over the bud et
affords another exa ple of hov action by General Head-
quarters has leced tho Cabinet in power in an untenable
position with resrect to its political commitents.
Prime Minister Yoshide has faced a similar situ tion in
his two previous csbinets, end te undoing of the Ketayama
and Ashida catinets cun be attributed in good part to
their being compelled to abrogate their parties' led es
to the elector te becsuse of Headguarters insistence thet
a particular course f ction be followed.
The oprosition parties in the Diet have launched
an ettack a sinst the Cebinet on the budget guestion.
hile there is considerable constructive and honest
criticism of the provisions of the budget end the economic
repercussions e..pected, it is culy too apparent thst the
opposition is more concerned vith msking political capital
of the Jemocratie Liber I Party's default on its compaign
promises. For exu...nle,   okes un for the Social
Democratio Party c r ed sit "tle Democretic Liberal
Party s psncellei all its election pro ises" at the
first Diet sessios ufter le eneral election, snd thst
"this deceptive  otivity of the srty is a serious atter
from the stend oint of lia entry olitics". Secretary
General TcitD. yuiel.i o. ti e Japan Counist Party
desoribed the Prime inister es the worst traitor ever
seen in the Listory er tie worla," ans fesanded the
im.ediate resisnation of tle Cabinet.
There is little po.cibility thct the presont opposition
in the Diet will e cble to uxert any influenoe on
the govermlent's polioy :ith res gut to tho bud et nd
the Nine-Point Recover Progru in view of the prepenlerant
position or te De oor tie Lihesul rty. On the eter
hend, the e io litule cabt tle the Prli.e  inister is
sonorned wit the tite  be vior  the f loal
elerente ithin m c desire to keer
reminded thet ti uir t ort ls eeeseas to hie na tit
they do not rre e tod.
i t? .lly youre,
. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Five clippings of the P ine
Kinister's Folioy peech,
Apri1 4, 1949.
Copy to: Amcrican Embassy, London
Parchment Mat to Depart...ent
361.2
CNSpinks: mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 215
dated April 12, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Prime Minister's
Policy Speech of April 4, 1949".
THE MAINICNI:
Apr 5, 1949
Japan's Ailing Economic Body
Major Operation, Says Prime Min
We Will Courageously And Patri
Endure Pain; Country Must Get Al
Without Outside Help As Soon As
TOKYO, Apr. 4.—Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida
ministrative speech at the plenary sessions of both Houses of
today.
The text of his speech follows:
Denies Rumors Re Japan's International Position
The outcome of last general elec- to carry out drastie
tions has clearly demonstrated that
reforms and effect imp
the Japanese people were eager to
have the political situation stabilized
of tax collection int
and that they wanted to put their
Government in the hands of robust
ditures, further cuts will
conservative parties.
My Government, brought into be-
ernment properti
ing by an overwhelming popular
people's tax bur
support, is now prepared to put its
as these plang
convictions into deeds and pursue
will be convoke
vigorously its policies for national
ordinary session tot
reconstruction. For only by so do-
sary legislative 
ing can the Government meet the
True economie stablity
people's expectations and trust and
gress depend upon the d
make Japan deserving of the gener-
ous assistance from the Allied
national problem under
Powers.
and currency policies.
is important that all po
The reckless warfare of ten years
are linked to the nation
has left this sountry in a condi-
It is the Government
tion of indescribable destruction
and confusion. In order to clear
aggravation of inflation 
the war's aftermath and to rebuild
Unless the Government
our country, we must squarely
the steps to curb in
face the realities of the situation.
country will be rulned. It
We should boldly plan and em-
very hard for the G
bark upon a long-range program
cut down subsidles, in
with a united and determined will.
general. expenses,
This point was strongly emphasiz-
done.
ed in General MacArthur's letter to
me of December 10, 1948 concerning
the Nine-Point Economic Stabiliza-
tion Program and also in the more
recent statement of Mr. Dodge. I
thyself am convinced that without
such a program there will be nò re-
construction.
The budget about to be submitted
to you is one which the Governm

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No.. 215
-2-
April 12, 1949.
especially of the United States of
I avail myself of this. occasion to
America. However, what is import-
touch on a subject of géneraleon-
ant is that we should às soon as pos-
cern. Rumors of various kinds are.
sible become self-supporting and be
able to 'get along without outside
help. I earnestly hope that all Japa-
nese will resolve to achieve national
reconstruction without depending on
wake of a great war. But,the
Allied mrunificence alone but by dint memory of last war is still tod fresh
of their spirit of self-reliance and by in the minds of all nations, and no
their willingness to 'submit to
country wants war: I sincerely hope
austerity and hard work.
that our people will not be misled by
In this respect I believe we sbould
such rumors emanating.from ab-
do well to emulate the British peo-
road. On the other hand, it is most
gratifying that Japan is coming'to
their gallant struggle for economic
ple who are so solidly united in
be invited to participate in inter-
national conferences in the feld of
independence.
science, religion, the Red ,Cross and
I hope the strong and'responsible
labor, and she is being permitted to
policies the Government proposes to
despatch trade missions to various
pursue will mcet with whole-hearted
quarters of the world.
support and cooperation on the part
We hear frequently mowadays
of the entire nation.
of the "extreme right" or the "ex-
I should like to add here a word
with reference to the single exchange
treme left." But these epithets are
rate which is soon to be set up. A
used mostly by those who have an
single exchange rate Is, needless to
axe to grind. I am confßdent that
say, indispensable for the promotion
a vast preponderant mejerity of
of trade and the induction of foreign
Japanese strongly desine the eco-
capital. Japanese economy today
nomic reconstruction and rehabili-
tation of the country and are de-
appears on the surface to have at-
tained a measure of stability. But
tarmined to work and cooperate
this stabiiity rests upon American
toiward that and. However, there
aid, and there lurks within it many.
are those, though a very small
a factor tending toward instability.
minority, who not only obstruct
We must first of all regain a healthy
national. reconstruction but are
economic power. Otherwise, we
shall not be able to maintain a sin-
and chaos upon the sountry. The
gle exchange rate even if one is
existence of this latter group, re-
established. Nor may we hope to
grettable a it ia, is a fact which
attract forcign investments to our
shores.
we must recognize.
The Government's other programs
 conclude, the budget we are
for national reconstruction include:
submitting represents the obligation
Pramotion of export industries;
which the Government of postwar
Promotion and improvement of
Japan should have earried out, but
agriculture; Unemployment coun-
which has happened to be neglected
ter-measures: Disaster relief meas-
until this day. Japan at this june-
ture needs unity. She needs econo-
ure; Renovation of education;
Advancement of science; Enhance-
mic petriotiam. I fervently hope the
nation will unite in an all-out effort
ment of morality.
to observe the Nine Principles as
With respect to these Individual
fully and falthfully a any other ob-
programs, the respective competent
ligations imposed upon her by the
Ministers concerned will give you de-
Allled Occupation policy. That is
tailod explanations in due course..
the only way to win our goal of
As Foreign Minister, I want to
democratic government and of eco-
speák concerning-the repatriation of
nomic independence, so that Japan
overscas Jápanese nationals. So far,
may be' welcomed back by other
more than 6-million have been
Powers as an active member in the
brought home, but I regret to say
society of nations.
that there, still remain move than
400,000 of our compatriots who are
compelled to pass their fourth winter
in cold countries.
I desire to express my sincere
sympathy for them and their fami-
to have b

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
MB
DIVISION OF
ACTION CO
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
7
CONFIDENTIAL
Action: FE
DIVISION OF
Info:
Control 4729
P
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
NEA
Rec'd Apr1l 13, 1949
APR131949
OLI
NK
4:36 a.m.
CIA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AAr
OFD
FROM:
Tokyo
Officeof
POS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DCR
TO:
Secretary of State
APR 131949
DIRECTOR
894.50/4-1249
FO:
117, Apr1l 12
Department of State
FROM SCAP TOKYO TO DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Fu 89450/4-1249
CITE 69213.
Reference 1103252,11 February 1949 (State serial 49,
February 10).
Gase of Midzuno was considered in light of SCAP's
c-(3292 part tnree. Dccision made that (A) employ-
ment of Midzuno would not be of special benefit to
Japanese economy and (B) would not be of decided
benefit to India's economy. This application 1s
considered in nature of test case by general head-
quarters, particularly as Indian representative
Tokyo indicates that there are some 2o0 such cases
pending. General policy is still under consideration,
acd additional information for possible transmission
to the Indian representative wiil be forwarded as
available.
SEBALD
1B:RT
Confidential Fil
CONFIDENTIAL
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
10-5201m-1

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.94)
DO NOT DO
DETACH THIS FORM
TE
RECORD COPY
894.50/4-1249
THE ATTACHED COPY OF ADESPATCH  TELEGRAM AIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
TOKYO
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
TEL.
117
3
M-184
11-9-48

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE—DIVISIQH:OFCOMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
7
CONFIDENTIAL
1949 APR 13 AM 10 40
Action: FE
Info:
Control 4729
P
DC/R
NEA
RECORDS BRANCH
Rec'd Apr11 13, 1949
OLI
4:36 a.m.
CIA
AAN
OFD
FROM: Tokyo
POS
DCR
TO:
Secretary of State
EO:
117, Apr11 12
FROM SCAP TOKYO TO DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CITE 69213.
XR
Reference 1103252,11 February 1949 (State serial 49,
February 10).
Case of Midzuno was considered in light of SCAP's
c-63292 part three. Decision made that (A) employ-
ment of Midzuno would not be of special benefit to
Japanese economy and (B) would not be of decided
benefit to India's economy. This application is
considered in nature of test case by general head-
quarters, particularly as Indian representative
Tokyo indicates that there are some 200 such cases
pending. General policy is still under consideration,
and additional information for possible transmission
to the Indian representative wiil be forwarded as
avallable.
SEBALD
BB:RT
894.50
wss
Ancl.
CONFIDENTIAL
4-1244
INFORMATION COPY

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
DATE: May 2, 1949
TO
: NA - Mr. Bdd
FROM : NA - Mr. Green A1 9
dirp
sUBJECT: Tokyo's 215 6f April 12, 1949
Yoshida's policy speech before both Houses of the Diet on April 4
was a forthright effort to explain the unavoidably painful character of
FW
the corrective measures required to overcome the present economic crisis.
Mr. Spinks observes that Mr. Dodge and ESS forced the present govern-
ment to eliminate or drastically reduce many of its campaign commitments,
such as elimination of sales tax, no increases in rail fares, continued
subsidies, expanded public works program. These "adjustments", forced on
the Democratic Liberals in the interest of balancing the budget, have
placed Yoshida and particularly Finance Minister Ikeda in a difficult
position, particularly with respect to the numerous factions within the
Democratic Liberal Farty. Yoshida has, in self-vindication, stressed
publicly that the "advice" of GHQ with budget must be viewed in the nature
of a directive to be carried out regardless of how campaign promises are
affected.
It is true that the budget issue has exposed Yoshida to the attacks
of strong opposition alignments within his own party, but the Prime
Minister's stature and prestige are such that no one is likely to displace
him.
If the Democratic Liberal Party's campaign promises are now regarded
as inconsistent with the actual state of the Japanese economy, their s
promises were equally unrealistic before the election. The average Japanese
is therefore wondering why GHQ, which anticipated a Democratic Liberal
victory before the election, raised no question regarding the party's cam-
paign pledges at that time. Like his two predecessors (Katayama and
Ashida), Yoshida has been compelled,by Headquarters' insistence that a
particular course of action be followed,to abrogate his party's pledges.
This insistence of GH was in good part responsible for the undoing of the
Katayama and Ashida regimes.
Attachment:
Despatch 215 of April 12, 1949
NA:MGreen:br
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.90)
THE FOREIGN SEAVIKCIE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AFRICA
DCIR
e States Political Adviser
GDIVISION 
for Japan
NORTHEASTSIAN
Tkyo, ril 13, 1949.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No ail
An125,49
reo'd
APR. 18
ACTION
FE
ENC
Pranpletlation Problems of
894.50/4-1349
INFO
FR
DCR
ITP
ENC
OLI
ENC
LABOR
ENC
T g  lit  Ad er has the nouor to transmit
heroith for  Deparrm nt'is inf rret on five copies of a
pemplet t asan  n troblem, prepared by
Je Por
fe ied under date of
C
ns . A l it on, the pamphlet con-
ds i Iflinb puli problem as related
lit onsd stand rd living, and the sug
Itl,her industrialization,
i=par'
ne
1949
Paretonent Hat  the Departrct.
UNCLACSIFTED
MAY 1 0 1949
FILJDA
his
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OP ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.97)
D-22020
JAPAN'S POPULATION
PROBLEM
FOREIGN OFFICE
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
JUNE 1948

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
CONTENTS
I. Introduction
II. Existing Conditions of Japanese Population
1
1. General Trend of Japanese Population
Table I. Changes in Japan's Population
8
Table II. Comparison of Population Density in
Japan and Other Countries
Chart. Declining Trends of Birth and Mortality Rates
in Japan, and England and Wales
7
Table III. Japanese Population Movement
9
Table IV. Reproduction Rate of Japanese Pop-
ulation.
11
Table V. Future Japarese Population
13
2,
Characteristics of Post-War Population Increase
15
Table VI. Estimated Data of Population Classified
by Sex and Age Group as of October
1,:1947.
17
Table VII. Estimated Data of Population Increase
between 1946 and 1950 Classified by
Sex and Age Group..
19
III. Japan's Economic Reconstruction and the Limits of her
Feeding Capacity...
21
1. Absorption of Increased Population in Japan
21
Table VIII. Changes in Distribution of Population
to Respective Industries.
23
Table IX. Increase in Population of Principal Pre-
fectures
25
Table X. Statistics of Emigrants
(1) Japanese Residents in Foreign Countries 27
(2) Japanese Residents in Former Japanese
Possessions
(3) Total

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.95)
2. Economic Reconstruction and Limits of Employment 31
Table XI. Statistics of Employment Based on the
Census Returns of 1940 and 1947
Table XII. Comparison of Population for Employ-
85
ment and Employed Population
Table XIII. Estimated Annual Personal Expenditures. 37
C)

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.98)
I. INTRÓDUCTION
With her territory reduced to Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu, Shikoku and
their adjacent islands, Japan faces a population problem more acute than
ever, which is being doubly aggravated with the influx 'of numerous repe
triates from abroad.
The problem of population is inseparably bound up with (1) economic
conditions and (2) standards of living. Three antidotes are generally pre
scribed for oyer-population: (1) birth control, (2) higher industrialization
and (3), emigration. The present report will deal with these questions per
taining to Japanese population in brief outlines.
It may be added that Japan's population preblem will have to be at
tacked not only from the numerical point of view, but also from the angle
of quality. For instance, the character and the abilities and attitudes of
the people' constitute the key that opens the door to emigration, although
the qualitative phase of the problem is not touched upon in the present.
report.
II. EXISTING CONDITIONS:OF JAPANESE POPULATION
1. General Trend of Japanese, Population
The census returns show that Japanese population as of October 1st,
1947, was 78,627,000. .But the Statistical Study Group of the Economic
Stabilization Board estimates that it will have · attained 81,618,000 as of
October 1st, 1950 (Note).
A population of 81,618,000 will represent 86 per cent over that of
1900, when Japan has no colonial possessions and depended little on foreign
trade: 48 per cent over 1920: 28 per cent over 1930. (See Table I.)
The density of population per square kilometre of cultivated area is
1,405 in Japan, which compares with 907 in Britain, 803 in the Nether-
lands and 763 in Belgium. The significance of this comparison may till
be accentuated, if the fact is taken into account that Britain, the Nether-
lands and Belgium have vast overseas territories. (See Table II.)
Note: This being considered underestimate, another calculation is currently baing made.
C i )

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
The birth rate of Japanese people is generally believed to be extremely
high. As a'matter of fact, since 1920, when Japan's 'economy entered the
stage of high industrial development, the birth rate.has steadily fallen.
This exactly coincides with the situation in Britain where the rate began
to detline with 1876 as the turning point, when the country attatned the
fult stabtre of colonial empire. (See Chart.) The decline may be acoousted
fof advance in marriage age, and wide-spread practice of birth cotrol a
a result of 'concentration of population in urban areas and advatnce 
dustrialization. The' sharp drop in the period immetiately, after the termi-
nation of the war and the subsequent sharp advance eaused by the retun
of numerous repatriates including ex-servicemen may be, considered 
transient phenomerna, and it is believed that the declining trend will reappeer
before long, with further urbanization and industrialization. (See Tables I
and IV.)
Population increase is influenced also by the decline in the death rae
through the promotion of public health. Whereas the hard living daring
the closing days of the war and thereafter drove the death rate upward fer
a brief period, a comparative stability has been regamed recently at a level
plightly lower than the. pre-war rate. It is expected that improved health
measures in the future would bring about a further reduction in the death
rate of this country, making up the fall in birth rate to that extent. But
there will be the limit to the decline in death rate. It is believed, therefore,
that with the diminishing birth rate the rate of natural increase of Japanese
population is bound to decline. (See Table III.)
In fact, Japan has already passed the peak. of population increase.
Some Japanese demographers predict that within & certain period of time
(20 to 50 yearg), the country's population will attain its maximum of 8,-
000,000 to 112,000,000 and will thereafter either remain stable or begin to
decrease. (See Table V.) Japan's population problem is, therefore, not of
tomorrow but of to-day. It is the present situation that calls for an hn-
Hiediate solution.
C2)

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
Table I
Changes in Japan's Population
Population in
Estimated Population In-
Aréas where
crease by 1950 in Areas
Total Popu-
Date
Census was
Designated over Each Year
lation
Taken on April
Named (in 1,000 and in
26,1946
percentage)
Jan. 29, 1872
34,806,000
(See Note.)
46,812
134%
Jan. 1, 1900
43,847,000
(See Note.)
37,771
86
Oct. 1, 1920
55,963,053
55,153,578
26,464
48
Oct. 1, 1925
59,736,822
58,946,440
22,672
38
Oct. 1, 1930
64,450,005
63,639,731
17,978
28
Oct. 1, 1935
69,254,148
68,427,340
13,191
19
Oct. 1, 1949
73,114,308
72,324,658
9,293
13
May 1, 1946
74,024,000
74,024,000
7,594
10
Oct. 1, 1947
78,627,000
78,627,000
1,991
3
Oct. 1, 1950
81,618,000
81,618,000
0
0
(Remarks) 1. Figures for the years from 1872 to 1947 are those published by the Statis-
tics Bureau of the Cabinet.
2.
Figures for the years 1920, 1925, 1930, 1935 and 1940 are the census returns.
Those for 1872 and 1900 are estimated figures, compiled in the light of the
returns of censuses taken after 1920.
3. Figures for 1946 and 1947 are based on the censuses.
4.
Figures for 1950 are estimation by the Economic Stabilization Board as
published in August, 1947 and subject to modification upon the completion
of recalculation currently being made.
(Note) Same figure as for "Total Population" is taken, and the increase in number and
in percentage is estimated accordingly.
C 8 )

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
Table I
Changes in Japan's Population
Population in
Estimated Population In-
Areas where
crease by 1950 in . Areas
Total Popu-
Date
Census was
Designated over Each Year
lation
Taken on April
Named (in 1,000 and in
26,1946
percentage)
Jan. 29, 1872
34,806,000
(See Note.)
46,812
134%
Jan. 1, 1900
43,847,000
(See Note.)
37,771
86
Oct. 1, 1920
55,963,053
55,153,578
26,464
48
Oct. 1, 1925
59,736,822
58,946,440
22,672
38
Oct. 1, 1930
64,450,005
63,639,731
17,978
28
Oct. 1, 1935
69,254,148
68,427,340
13,191
19
Oct. 1,1949
73,114,308
72,324,658
9,293
13
May 1, 1946
74,024,000
74,024,000
7,594
10
Oct. 1, 1947
78,627,000
78,627,000
1,991
3
Oct. 1, 1950
81,618,000
81,618,000
0
0
(Remarks) 1. Figures for the years from 1872 to 1947 are those published by the Statis-
tics Bureau of the Cabinet.
2.
Figures for the years 1920, 1925, 1930, 1935 and 1940 are the census returns.
Those for 1872 and 1900 are estimated figures, compiled in the light of the
returns of censuses taken after 1920.
3. Figures for 1946 and 1947 are based on the censuses.
4. Figures for 1950 are estimation by the Economic Stabilization Board as
published in August, 1947 and subject to modification upon the completion
of recalculatíon currently being made.
(Note)
Same figure as for "Total Population" is taken, and the increase in number and
in percentage is estimated accordingly.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
Table II
Comparison of Population Density in Japan and Other Countries
(Unit: Density Per Square Kilometre)
Density for
Density for
Cultivated Area in Per-
Total Area
Cultivated Area.
centage of Total Area
Japan
222
1,405
16%
United Kingdom
196
907
22%
Netherlands
268
803
33%
Belgium
271
763
35%
France
76
183
41%
U.S.A.
17
92
18%
(Remarks) 1. Figures are those compiled by the Institute of Population Problems, Welfare
Ministry.
2. For population of Japan the estimated figure compiled by the Econqmic
Stabilization Board for 1950 is employed, and her cultivated area then is
deemed same as in 1930.
3. Densities for total and cultivated areas in U.S.A. are those for 1940 and 1988
respectively.
4.
Densities for total and cultivated areas in Britain are those for 1939/40 and
1938 respectively.
5, Figures for both Belgium and Netherlands are those for 1940.
6. Densities for total and cultivated areas in France are those for 19s9 and
1936 respectively.
( 5 )

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
Table II
Comparison of Population Density in Japan and Other Countries
(Unit: Density Per Square Kilometre)
Density for
Density for
Cultivated Areain Per-
Total Area
Cultivated Area.
centage of Total Area
Japan
222
1,405
16%
United Kingdom
196
907
22%
Netherlands
268
803
33%
Belgium
271
763
35%
France
76
183
41%
U.S.A.
17
92
18%
(Remarks) 1. Figures are those compiled by the Institute of Population Problems, Welfare
Ministry.
2. For population of Japan the estimated figure compiled by the Econqmic
Stabilization Board for 1950 is employed, and her cultivated area then is
deemed same as in 1930.
3. Densities for total and cultivated areas in U.S.A. are those for 1940 and 1988
respectively.
Densities for total and cultivated areas in Britain are those for 1939/40 and
1938 respectively.
5, Figures for both Belgium and Netherlánds are those for 1940.
6. Densities for total and cultivated areas in France are those for 1939 and
1936 respectively.
( 5 )

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.95)
DECLINING TRENDS OF BIRTH AND MORTALITY
RATES IN JAPAN, AND ENGLAND AND WALES
1078
England and Wales

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.93)
DECLINING TRENDS OF BIRTH AND MORTALIT
RATES IN JAPAN, AND ENGLAND AND WALES
1078
England and Wales

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
Table
III
Japanese Population Movement
(Per 1,000)
Year
Census Returns
Birth Rate
Death Rate
Increane Rate
1900
31.69
20.31
11.38
1905
30.49
21.09
9.40
1910
33.91
21.07
12.84
1915
33.05
20.09
12.96
1920
36.19
25.41
10.78
1925
34.92
20.27
14.65
1930
32.35
18.17
14.18
1935
31.63
16.78
14.85
1940
28.94
16.23
12.71
1941
30.75
15,52
15.23
1942
29.74
15.53
14.21
1946
Jan.—Mar.
17.60
18.26
(一) 0.66
Apr.—Jun.
25.23
19.13
6.10
Jul.—Sep.
30.87
18.36
12.51
Oct.—Dec.
31.56
15.16
16.40
1947
Jan.—Mar.
29.36
16.53
12.88
Apr.—Jun.
38.60
15.44
23.16
Jul.—Sep.
39.96
13.47
26.49
Oct.—Dec.
34.52
13.60
20.92
1948
Jan.—Mar.
31.24
12.74
18.50
Apr.—Jun.
37.77
13.31
24.46
(26.50)
(16.42)
(10.08)
1950
(24.00)
(16.22)
(7.78)
(Remarks) 1.
Figures for the years, 1900 to 1942, are based on the " Vital Statistios"
compiled by the Statistics Bureau of the Cabinet.
2. The quarterly. figures for 1946, 1947 and 1948 have been computed by the
Institute for Population Problems, Welfare Ministry, in terms of anngal
rates.
3.  Figures for 1950 are estimation by the Economic Stabilization Board, 
published in August, 1947.
C 9 )

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
Table IV
Reproduction Rate of Japanese Population
Net
Gross
Year
Reproduction Rate
Reproduction Rate
1925
2.491
1.548
1930
2.301
1.524
1937
2.117.
1.483
1.175
Estimate I
1.679
1950
Estimate II
1.520
1.064
(Remarks) 1. The rate of reproduction is calculated by R. R. Kuczynski's method and
represents the probability of a mother giving birth to female who in the
next generation will become a mother. The gross rate is compiled without
deducting mortality, while the net rate is obtained by deducting mortality
from the gross rate.
2
Figures for 1925 to 1937 are based on census returns as compiled by the
Statistics Bureau of the Cabinet.
3.
Figures for 1950 are calculated on the basis of birth and death rates of the
estimated population as published in August,1947, by the Economic Stabilira-
tion Board.
4. Source: Institute of Population Problems, Welfare Ministry.
( 11 )

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
Table V
Future Japanese Population
Year
Dr. Teijiro Ueda's
Dr. Tomonaga Nakagawa's
Figures
Figures
1935
68,108,000
69,254,000
1940
71,846,000
73,939,000
1945
75,261,000
78,986,000
1950
2
78,355,000
84,886,000
1955
81,144,000
90,107,000
1960
83,582,000
95,956,000
1965
85,776,000
101,609,000
1970
87,723,000
106,858,000
1985
118,554,000
1995
122,328,000
2005
122,187,000
2015
118,493,000
2025
111,777,000
(Remarks) 1. 'Dr. Ueda's figures are quoted from his work "Japan's Population Policy,"
pablished in 1937.
2
Dr. Nakagawa's figures are quoted from the chapter on "Future Population
on the Basis of Proposition II" of an article entitled "On the Estimation of
Future Population," which appeared in the May, 1940 number of the period-
ical "Studies in Population Problerhs."
C 18 )

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
Table V
Future Japanese Population
Year
Dr. Teijiro Ueda's
Dr. Tomonaga Nakagawa's
Figures
Figures
1935
68,108,000
69,254,000
1940
71,846,000
73,939,000
1945
75,261,000
78,986,000
1950
2
78,355,000
84,886,000
1955
81,144,000
90,107,000
1960
83,582,000
95,956,000
1965
85,776,000
101,609,000
1970
87,723,000
106,858,000
1985
118,554,000
1995
122,328,000
2005
122,187,000
2015
118,493,000
2025
111,777,000
(Remarks) 1. Dr. Ueda's figures are quoted from his work "Japan's Population Policy,"
pablished in 1937.
2. Dr. Nakagawa's figures are quoted from the chapter on "Future Population
on the Basis of Proposition II" of an article entitled "On the Estimation of
Future Population," which appeared in the May, 1940 number of the period-
ical "Studies in Population Problerms."
C 18 )

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.97)
2. Characteristics of Post-War Population Increase
As stated above, the Japanese population has - registered a marked
increase since the termination of the war. This increase is due to two fe-
tors: firstly, the repatriation of overseas Japanese residents amounting to
5,842,000 persons' (as of April 29, 1948) and secondly, the temporary advance
in birth rate after the war's end, coupled with a relatively rapid decline in
death rate.
Now what will be the effects of a population increase of this kind?
In the first place, let us study the trend of increase according to sex. It
2
is estimated by the Economic Stabilization Board that during 4 years and
5 months from April 26, 1946 to October 1, 1950, the increase in the
male population will account for 64 per cent, nearly twice that of'female
population. Of the male increase, repatriates from abroad represent about
60 per cent, while female repatriates account for some 30 per cent of the
increase in female population.
In the second place, breakdown of the estimated increase by age groups
will show: 14 year olds and under account for 12.8 per cent: 15 to 59
year olds who belong to the generative age account for 81 per cent: and
60 or more year olds form 6 per cent. Namely, the increase in the gen-
erative age group occupies an overwhelming propórtion. As regards the
changes in each age group, a slight increase is shown each year in the aged
group, while the youngest group undergoes a gradual decrease, reflecting
the decline in the birth rate. On the other hand, in the generative age group
accounting for 81 per cent of the total increase, the increase in male popu-
lation ranging from 20 to 39 years represents some 40 per cent of the total
increase. This is largely due to the fact that repatriates from abroad mainly
belong to this age group. Thus, apart from the change in the curhent birth
rate, an annual increase of some 600,000 to 700,000 in the generative age
group may be expected for ten years to come, owing to the repatriation of
overseas Japanese and the maturing of the now youngest age group. (See
Tables VI and VII.)
C 15 )

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
Table VI
Estimated Data of Population Classiffed by Sex and Age Group as of
October 1, 1947 (in 1,009)
Classification,
Total
Male
Female
Population in
Total
77,564
37,964
39,601
Each Group
0-14 Years old
27,042
13,678
13,364
15-59 Years old
44,609
21,686
22,924
60 or more Years old 5,913
2,600
3,818
Percentages
Total
100.0%
48.9%
51.1%
0-14 Years old
34.9%
17.6%
17.2%
15-59 Years old
57.5%
27.9%
29.6%
60 or more Years old
7.6%
3.4%
4.8%
(Remarks) Figures are derived from "Data Relative to Recent Trend of Population" of.
the Institute of Population Problems, Welfare Ministry, and are complled by
deducting foreign nationals from the adjusted total published by the Economic
Stabilization Boand.
( 17 )

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
Table VII
Estimated Data of Population Increase between 1946 and 1950
Classified by Sex and Age Group (in 1,000)
0-14 Years 15-59 Years
60 or more
Classification
Total
old
old
Years old
Total
Apr. 26, 1946
72,876
26,184
40,920
5,771
Oct. 1, 1950
80,922
27,212
47,475
6,236
Increase
8,046
1,028
6,555
465
Percent of Total
Increase
100%
13
81%
6%
Male
Apr. 26, 1946
34,749
13,234
18,986
2,529
Oct. 1, 1950
39,938
13,782
23,405
2,751
Increase
5,189
548
4,419
222
Percent of Total
Increase
64%
7%
55%
2%
Female
Apr. 26, 1946
38,126
12,950
21,934
3,242
Oct. 1,, 1950
40,985
13,431
24,070
3,484
Increase
2,859
.481
2,136
242
Percent of Total
Increase
36%
6%
27%
3%
(Remarks) Figures are based on the data of estimated population, as published by the
Economic Stabilization Board in August, 1947.
（ 19)

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
IIL JAPAN'S ECONOMIC RECONSTRUCTION AND THE
LIMITS OF HER FEEDING CAPACITY.
1. Absorption of Increased Population in Japan.
. From the early years of Meiji to 1930, during which the population of ths
country increased from 33,000,000 to 64,450,000, it was only through the
progress of industrial technique and accumulation of capital that not only
the increased population could be fed, but also the standards of living could
be raised gradually. If we compare- the returns of the cens:a taken in
1920 and 1930, it will be seen that the agricultural populatior. remained
almost unchanged, while the total population increase by 8 million during
the decade was wholly absorbed by occupations other than agriculture. In
order to make this possible, it was necessary to import raw materials from.
abroad to eke out the slender domestic resources as well as to develop a
large scale export industry and overseas markets. (See Table VIII.)
The depression of 1929-1930 diminished the scale of economy to such.
an extent that it created a large amount of surplus population. This cen-
sus of 1930 revealed the existence of some 300,000· unèmployed population,
in addition to which it was estimated some 2,000,000 were laid off. The
surplus population did not show directly in the unemployment statistics,
but most of those who lost their work sought refuge in agriculture as well
as small and medium scale commerce and industry.
This meant that both rural and urban areas were loaded with an 'ex-
cess supply of labor, bringing down the general wage level and standard
of living. After the war's end, economic chaos and decline of industry
gave rise to a large scale exodus of urban population to farming areas.
Moreover, sizable number of repatriates are making their way into agricul-
tural communities. Meanwhile, some portion of the surplus continues to
remain in cities, inflating urban employment (Note). (See Table IX.)
(Note) "The creation of a labor market in Japan was marked by the fommation of a re
servoir of potential stagnant labor drawn largely from a dispossessed peasantry
whose absorption into industries was retarded by the slower pace in the develop-
ment of large-scale industry. That such absorption took place is not denied, but
the extent to which á surplus population was left stagnating in the countryside
and. in the cities is an important factor limiting the standard of living and the
wage level of Japanese labor." ("Japan's Emergence as a Modern State" by E
Herbert Norman; Page 159)
C21)

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
The development of overseas labor markets toward the cloée of the
19th century served to solve the population problems in some of the Euro-
pean countries. In the case of Japan, the number of overseas residents,
which amounted to only 230,000 around 1905, gradually increased. During
the thirties the Government took active measures to encourage emigration
for the solution of her population problem, but, on account of restrictions.
imposed on Japanese immigration by sparsely-populated countries, the result
fell far short of expectations.
As shown in Table X, the principal areas where the Japanese immi-
grants have settled in the Western Hemisphere are the contirental U.S.,
Hawaii, Canada, Brazil and Peru; while in Asia they are China, Manchuria,
the Philippines, British Malaya and Dutch East Indies. Under the Gentle-
man's Agreement between the United States and Japan of 1908, and also
the so-called Lemieux Agreement of the same year, Japanese immigration
into the continental United States, Hawaii and Canada was limited to the
extreme. In particular, after the enforcement of the Immigration Act of
the United States in 1924, the continental United States and Hawaii have.
been entirely closed to Japanese immigrants. Therefore, any increase or
decrease in the number of Japanese in these areas (including Canada), since
then is accounted for by natural growth, and transmigration or repatria-
tion. A marked increase in the number of Japanese immigrants was regis-
tered in Brazil, due largely to the subsidies which were given by the San
Paulo State Goverument from 1908 to 1922. The Japanese Government
also gave subsidies and provided. preparatory training to the prospective
emigrants, so as to adapt them beforehand to the manners and customs of
a receiving country.
The sudden increase in the number of Japanese residents in China and
Manchuria in 1940 is attributable to the political developments on the con-
tinent during the preceding years. (See Table X.)
C22)

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
Table VIII
Changes in Distribution of Population to Respective Industries
Classification
Population
Percentage
Increase or Decrease in
comparison with 1920
1920
1930
1940
1920
1930
1940
1930
1940
Total Population
55,963,053
64,450,005
*71,380,643
8,486,952
15,417,590
Employed Population
27,260,784
29,619,640
32,482,516
100.0%100.0%100.0%
2,358,856
5,221,732
Agriculture
14,286,592
14,131,025
13,841,576
52.4
47.7
42.6
(-)155,567
(-)445,016
Aquatic Industry
536,604
568,436
542,958
2.0
1.9
1.7
31,832
6,354
C
Mining Industry
447,717
315,476
597,755
1.6
1.1
1.8
(-)132,241
150,038
£3.
Manufacturing
737,233
Industry
5,138,758
5,875,991
8,132,314
18.9
19.8
25.0
2,993,556
Commerce
3,661,649
4,905,655
4,881,538
13.4
16.6
15.0
1,244,006
1,219,889
Transportation &
Communications
951,863
945,116
1,364,596
3.5
3.2
4.2
(-) 6,747
412,533
Public Service &、
Profession
1,516,765
2,005,192
2,194,893
5.6
.6.8
6.8
488,427
678,128
Household Work
662,072
802,167
708,945
2.4
2.7
2.2
140,095
46,873
Others
58,764
70,582
218,141
0.2
0.2
0.7
11,818
159,377
Unemployed Population 28,702,269
34,830,365/ 38,898,127
6,128,096
10,195,858
(Remarks) Figures are derived from "Data Relative to Recent Trend of Population" of the Demographical Research Institate of the
Welfare Ministry.
* Figures do not include men in military service.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
Table IX
Increase in Population of Principal Prefectures (in 1,000).
Increase in Population
Percent of
Prefecture
Population as of
of Principal Prefectures
Total
over 1920 in Number
Increase
and Percentage
1920
1930
1940
1930
1940
1930
1940
Hokkaido
2,359
2,812
3,273
453
914
5.3%
5.8%
(19.2)
(38.7)
Tokyo
3,699
5,409
7,355
1,710
3,656
20.1
21.8
(46.2)
(98.8)
Kanagawa1,323
1,620
2,189
297
866
S.5
5.0
(22.4)
(65.5)
Aichi
2,090
2,567
3,167
477
1,077
5.6
.6.2
(22.8)
(51.5)
Kyoto
1,287
1,553
1,730
266
·443
3.1
2.6
(21.4) (34.4)
Osaka
2,588
3,540
4,793
9522,205
11.2
12.9
(36.8)(85.2)
Hyogo
2,302
2,646
3,221
344
919
4.1
5.4
(14.9)
(39.9)
Fukuoka
2,188
2,527
3,094
339
906
4.0
5.3
(15.5)(41.4)
Miyazaki
651
760
840
109
189
1.3
1.1
(16.7)
(29.0)
Whole
55,963
64,450
73,114
8,487 17,151
100.0
100.0
country
(15.2) (30.6)
(Remarks) 1. Figures are based on census returns compiled by the Statistics Burean of
the Cabinet.
2.
The Prefectures enumerated are these having populations above the national
average. Increases in the populations of Hokkaido and Miyazaki Prefecture
may be accounted for by the progress of land reclamation in these aremm.
Some of the other Prefectures include such cities and towns as developed
modern manufacturing and mining industries.
( 25 )

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.96)
Table X
Statistics of Japanese Emigrants
(1) Japanese Residents in Foreign Countries
Territory of
Far Eastern
China
Manchuria
Hongkong
Siam
Indo-Chir a
French
British Malaya
(incl. British
India and
British
Dutch
East
Philippines
Australia
and
Continental
U.S.A.
Hawali
Ca
U.S.S.R.
(incl. Amoy
North Borneo
Burma
Indies
Occania
1904
8,550
2.170
103
1,635
384
2.652
H.469
48,354
65,008
8,888
1909
3,600
16.607
31,427
856
185
2,611
792
780
2.156
R.960
76,709
65,760
8,850
1916
5.148
27.770
58.852
1.178
224
339
7.103
1.021
3,956
6.263
6.041
100,955
96,060
18,279
1920
6.238
64.511
81.385
1.780
261
289
8.278
1,368
3,559
9.339
5.548
125,285
108,109
17,688
1925
721
47.613
97,179
1,561
293
27
6.950
1,219
4,195
8,995
3,883
133,080
125,764
1.9,670
1330
2,970
51,391
112,137
2,219
336
346
7.427
1.916
6,325
19.572
1.948
99.552
120,908
20,885
1935
2,383
56.106
322.394
1.402
412
2.9
7.857
1.507
6,508
25.52x
.072
112,418
151,285
20,183
1940
810
365.112
S19.614
702
557
206
8,839
1,131
6,281
28.793
2.122
94.731
91,764
22,065
Mexico
El Salvador
Caba
Panama
Venezuela
Colombia
Peru
Bolivia
Chile
Brazil
Argentina
Paraguay
Uruguay
Others
Sub-Total
1904
454
1.186
5
5
468
188,691
1909
2.465
4.40
145
605
27
1,231
229,189
1916
2.7:7
6.767
5
324
16,555
50
6
:8
2,984
920
2,284
191
170
5,910
815
429
33,456
2,027
17
4
925
3,632
6.36
241
10,969
657
556
49,400
2,609
6
6.
930
5,832
787
228
12
122
20,535
551
610
116,562
4,027
8
88
5,470
8
771
328
13
174
22,570
369
658
192,823
5,001
20
66
5,030
7
658
355
39
293
21,200
641
595
202,514
7,006
674

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
(2) Japanese Residents in Former Japanese Possessions
South Seas
Kwantung
Saghalien
Korea
Formosa
Sub-Total
Islands
Territory
1903
12,361
71,910
16,613
100,014
1910
31,017
171,543
88,043
62,338
362,944
1916
66,280
320,938
142,452
51,129.
580,799
1920
105,899
561,384
166,621
3,671
137,914
975,494
1925
189,036
424,326
189,630
7,430
184,001
810,097
1930
295,196
501,867
232,299
19,839
233,158
1,246,352
1935
331,943
588,429
269,793
51,861
384,923
1,621,948
415,9S1
1940
*650,104
346,663
84,478
202,8271,700,013
(Renarks) * In the absence of a figure for 1940, the 1939 figure is given above instead.
(3) Total
1906
238,731(1)
1910
586,133(2)
1916
920,086
1920
1,145,S95
1925
1,333,490
1930
1,851,823
1935
2,559,063
1940
3,396,243
(Remarks) (1) 1
Figures for emigration to foreign countries are those for the year 1904,
1.
while emigration to former Japanese possessions is given in figures of 1906.
(2)
Figures for emigration to foreign countries are those for the year 1909,
while those showing emigration to former Japanese possessions are figures
of 1910.
( 29 )

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
2. Economic Reconstruction and Limits of Employment.
According to the returns of the national census taken on October 1st,
1947, the unemployed numbered only 670,000. Comparing these returns
with those of October 1st, 1940, it will be seen that, while the total popu-
lation had registered an increase of some 6,100,000 during the interval, the
percentage of the employed against total population declined from 44.78 to
43.02 per cent only. In spite of a marked fall in the level of production,
the ratio between the unemployed and the employed remained almost un-
altered.
Next let us examine the distribution of the employed population among
various branches of industry. Notwithstanding the reduction of agricultural
production in 1947, estimated at about 90 per cent of 1940, the farm
population showed an increase of 23 per cent. Also in the mining and man-
ufacturing industries, despite the sharp decrease in production to about 20
per cent, the employment was maintained at as high as 90 per cent. Taking
the productivity during the years 1935 to 1937 as 100, the indices as of
October, 1947 were only 28 in mining industry and 33 in manufacturing
industry respectively, on the basis of the average production per person
employed. The excessive absorption of population by agriculture as well as
the presence of redundant labor in mining and manufacturing industries in
the post-war period, as mentioned above, have caused a sharp decline in
the productivity of labor throughout all the industrial branches, as compared
with the pre-war level, resulting inevitably in the lowering of real income
and standards of living, which stand at 54 per cent of 1930-34 level. (See
Table XI.)
If those in the ranks of latent unemployment were added to statistical
4
figure, the number of the jobless would, it is said, reach 4,000,000. (cf.
Draft I of Economic Reconstruction Plan dated May 17th, 1948, of the.
Economic Stabilization Board.) And it is estimated that if the inflated
employment in 1947 has been trimmed down on the basis of a real wage
corresponding to that for 1930-34, it would have thrown out of work as
many as 15,300,000.
With increased production in the course of reconstruction of Japan's
economy, the situation is expected to turn gradually for the better. But
(81)

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
according to the Economic Rehabilitation Plan annouced by the Economic
Stabilization Board in May, 1948, even if in 1952 the mining and manufac-
turing production will have been raised to more than three timès over 1947
(122.4 per cent of 1930-34 level), the export to more than nine times (95
per cent of 1930-34 level), the import to more than three times (82 per
cent of 1930-34 level), and even if the productivity of labor is increased to
twice the level of 1947 (90 per cent of 1930-34 level), the living standard
of the people will still remain at 90 per cent of the 1930-34 level, with an
estimated jobless population approaching 2,000,000. (See Tables XII and
XIII.) The increased production as mentioned above can only be attained
provided that the difficulties pertaining to transportation, power supply and
currency inflation will have been removed at the start of the first year of
the plan and that overseas market conditions will have gradually turned for
the better, enabling both import and export to expand. But it is feared
that the attainment of these objectives is no easy matter. The presence of
a surplus of population, during the period of economic reconstruction of this
country, handicaps accumulation of capital, and accordingly retards economic
recovery. Measures that can conceivably be taken for the solution of this
problem would be: (1) to raise the level of industrialization, accompanied,
as stated in the foregoing, with a wider practice of birth control; and (2)
to encourage emigration abroad. The former question will be dealt with
in detail at another opportunity, while as to the latter question it may be
said, as has been pointed out, by. Professor W. Thompson of Miami Univer-
sity, that in a country like Japan where the rate of population increase has
shown a sure sign of lowering, the emigration will most effectively contribute
to relieving the pressure of over-population and consequently checking the
fall in living standard (Note).
(Note)
......." The birth rate in Japan is declining faster than the death rate, and the chapce
is that her population will grow less and less rapidly during the next few decades.
...This decline in the birth rate is likely to be acgelerated by any considerable
migration which would lead to improvement in the living.......Only after a country
has reduced its death rate to reasonable low limits so thát migration does not of
itself lead to further reduction and after it has begun to control its birth rate can
migration on a large scale furnish any permanent relief to population pressdre.
There is reason to believe that Japan has reached or soon will reach this condition."
("Population and Peace in the Pacific" by Warren S. Thompson: Page 327)
C82)

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
Table XI
Statistics of Employment Based on the Census Returns of
1940 and 1947 (in 1,000)
Increase in
Classification
Oct. 1. 1940 Oct. 1, 1947 Increase
Percentage
Total Population
72,540
78,627
6,087
8%
(Total Population
Total Employed Popula- for Employment)
lation
32,483
33,881
1,398
4
Agriculture
13,549
16,622
3,073
23
Forestry
292
480
188
64
Aquatic Industry
543
710
167
31
Mining
598
667
69
12
Building Industry
955
1,320
365
38
Manufacturing Industry
7,033
5,722
(-) 1,311
(-) 19
Public Utilities
143
191
48
34
Commerce
3,508
2,190
(-) 1,318
(-238
Finance
238
210
2
1
Transportation & Com-
munications
1,364
1,507
143
10
Service Trade
1,845
838
(-) 1,007
(-) 55
Profession
1,555
1,127
(-). 428
(-) .28
Public Service & Organ-
ization Management
639
1,271
632
99
Others
218
444
226
104
Unemployed Population
672
672
Non-Employment Popula-(Population not for
tion
Employment)
40,057
27,251
4,017
10
9-Year Olds and Under
16,823
(Remarks) 1. Classified figures for the year 1947 are unadjusted values, the total of which
does not agree with the total employed population.
2. Comparison given above is approximate, because of the differerices in the
definitions of categories between 1940 and 1947.
( 83 )

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
Table XII
Comparison of Population for Employment and Employed Population
(in 1,000)
Classification
1948
1950
1952
Population for Employment
36,395
37,871
38,978
Employed Population
32,584
35,004
36,983
Population Employed in Each
Branch
Agriculture
16,216
16,613
16,863
Aquatic Industry
661
707
742
Mining Industry
503
512
519
Manufacturing Industry
4,279
5,565
6,386
Civil Engineering
1,538
1,887
2,076
Transportation &
Communications
1,633
1,696
1,758
Commerce
4,576
4,840
5,449
Public Service & Professions
2,325
2,329
2,333
Others
853
855
857
Non-Employment Population
43,595
43,747
43,994
Unemployed Population
3,811
2,867
1,995
(Remarks) Figures are based on the Draft I of Economic Reconstruction Pla, published
in May, 1948, by the Economic Stabilization Board.
C 85 )

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 171 === (confidence 1.00)
Table XIII
Estimated Annual Personal Expenditures
(1930-34 Average Prices)
Classification
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
Personal Expenditures
6,835
7,506
8,313
8,941
9,628
(in million Yen)
Index
79
87
97
104
112
Per Capita Personal Ex-
85.4
92.8
101.8
108.6
116.0
penditures (in Yen)
Index
69
72
79
84
90
(Remarks) 1. Figures are based on Draft I of Economic Reconstroction Plan, published
by the Economic Stabilization Board.
2. 1930-34 level is taken as 100 for the indices in the table.
( 37 )

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.90)
INGOMING AIRGRAM
457
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANDI
AIRGRM
4239
From:
uS 0.0, Tokyo
2
Date of
Z
CONFID.NTLL
mailing
o 16, 1949
ACTJON:
(FOR DEPT US U.LY)
OFD
Date1e d: 11 21, 1949
INFO
DC/R
FE
Secretary of State,
delo us acty
E
ITP
Washington.
CEPARTMENT OF STATE
OLI
DEPARIMEDE STATE
A-92, Apri1 15, 1.949.
(This sirgran supulcaents this Tatssian's -st, pril 8,
1949, and earlier airxrams in this uries. moruest
3114
distributien be Limited to Departmert for reosone stated
in A-21 of January 28, 1949. This :eries of alrgrems
will be continved, in accordance ith she penartment's
air mail instrustion No. 51 dated peil 5, 1949, made in
response to a juery contained in. the introduccion to iess,
March 11, 1949.)
1. Progress Neport Under 9ePoint  Lacitiaation  lan. Dedge
Lission about 10 days ago reguested .cono ic and cientific Ssc.
tion (ESs), Heneral Headouarters, SS?, ier  report on econonic
work done by Ess in effort to implement ? point economic stabili-
zation program contained in S0a 1s Docember 29, 1 2o letter tc Prime
Minister YosHIDA Shigeru. This Lission hs now mace arrangements
to receive copy of this progress report; copies thercof will te
transmitted to Deparw.ent with comment within few cays. At weekly
UsS staff meeting April 18, 1949, ettenici by officer of this Vis-
sion, Lajor General . F. Mut UAr, Chief, ESe, refcared to report
and indicated he was not altogether sutisried vith it, mainly be-
cause ESs division chiefs had not clearly de narcate projects under-
taken to iplement progran as opposed to nork carrit on as part
of regular functions.
Confidd
2. Seneral Haroust on Japanese overnnent or punel Cuts, At
weekly Iss staff meeting cited above, Teneral Parout took un so-
called Honda plan for overall 30 pereent reduetien ir. Japanese Cor.
erament personnel. le stated Ess must soudy questi n carefully
that it could not agree to general so parcent recu on vhicho ta
江
reduce personnel in key Japanese Jovernment areae lee pe puired
AP
R
a
2
PERMANANT REQORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken
9
69
e

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.76)
Tok v
11
 .
ated
olic:
XR
694.6031

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.80)
Tobes
April is
Fr ch 
J
1545)
xn
894.8151

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.93)
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
otion Assigned to
viser
Dato or Aotiem
REC'D
MAY 3
ACTION
ITP ENC
INFO
FR
1.n Deard
AL TRADE POLICY
DCR
FE ENC
OFD
OLI
894.50/4-2049
COM ENC
GEPARIMENT OF STATE
TREAS ENC
LABOR
AGRIC
TAR
NSRB
FRB
m
Encl. no.2
molosuré to be
ferwarded when
ressived in CS/R
Proces.
The Jenuary
4.3 times th
=lows
poport,ov 
Cxcluding
sligntly dirferent
9á percent
textiles, the prelr
in the period
of the 1930-34 level,
 of the 193034
April-December, 174
FILED
Level.
The increased
reports
1
DMR
0
ACTION COBYLASSIFLED
RETURN TO DC/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.82)
Tokyo:s Despatch No. 238,
April 20, 1949.
-2-
reports
r
elestric
ted that
-two
im
 13 persent
nt above
ceable in
increased
urpassing
e was thus
 were
ro longer
r frm
mers io de-
10th
reein
n in 1947
Dleck
use of
 reports
:11
not
n ifter
1
c ly
ro
ven of
Arrther
 mere de-
eshetre
stra
 in govern-
went 
 isb raements in
nenm
pents for
rie e
 errrovinely
were e e  the reports
note, hoo contribu  te be slowns
porenc expension.
Phe potae of publie te metuctriel co pe ooet sroe the pre
cediupr wre he proporton   upppr (deposits.
bearine on he slowing own of nfl   ud as increased
suppli-s of matericle, especially s l o  l such paycho-
legical fectors e "a sene of sta ility"  mpenying the decline
of the black market.
c. Rise in real weges:
A thir! indication of econonis s al ilisat on is found in the
rise of res1 wages, which by November 134a ha! ri sen to a level
of 70 percent, above the figure for November, 1947. The 1948 figure,
however
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.86)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 238,
April 20, 1949.
however, i Ised on wurves in larle inlustries, and the con-
clusions w il nst be o f lo, tetl reports stabe, if smal-
ler intusver rr.  i in  I waces is partly
explaineinghouseholds
hevingine
 rewthed static and
rurel ine ro
or i pe a in November,
1946, 0
 Kovember, 1947, effi-
cial pric
riee were therefore
reletiv
in1947
Bo
out in 224
th reports
conel,
  situssion
ilization.
Pireee
 find, is the
r
 millin.
in pf
year
Imete
-se were
34.3
 eontent of ex
srm hile im-
por
ou tre le
re
turn  e prerr pet
ru ex ess to
make up forP
One of she causee of 
the reports
state, ise vnwillin
to risk beving
impor surplus der
facte ine for  en  o ey in 1946
are listed es ignorence of  wet  m rker, tort supplies of
materiels and fures Sor erpore iar stpie, over pompllcated expert
precedures, and poor quelit f oe. ons brigntened some
what in late 194s, p rly eceuse of e onclumen of bilateral
arrangements circuiventing doller pa. n. Although only co ton
textiles have mede any netable revivl wven shey are beapered by
unwillinghess on the por uf traditional vus omers to bee, and in-
ventories hsve therefore mounted to se eral months production.
b. Unsound manegement:
A second cause for worry is found ir he unsoundness of in-
dustrial manegement nd in the whittling uway of indusirial capital.
Present tax policy, i: is no ed, nakes inaiequcse provision for
amortization, so tha. enterprises are alle to maintain capitel cnly
by illegal jugeling of accounta. Enter rises -ve mereever extremely
depen lent on borrowed fun,  re una le to enlarge their capital.
Subsillies constitute nol er deterrent to soun management. Pro-
portion of labor cost to sotal cost, it is netei, has risen and "is
also an important factor for unscund managenent" It should be
noted, however, the! errlier in the report it v s concluded that
labor
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.86)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 238,
April 20, 1949.
-4
labor costs hat propertione e elined in P4c. The present
statement p renti rFor  t incpe ses from prewar costs.
The time bas co he repe on inme, o promete the
rationaliza ion  iaeen   ns'ree in accerdance with
the Phree Shonucie Prineepi   Pmancine, ne subsidies.
ill herefor be
grem for e to   ent so wich aids
shoult te o or
c. ern rr
mhe opehers of ohe  or 
II couse for di smay
in the deberiors i n of n  i n epr1 res urres. Because
an inoreasinel loree roporoion of ull werks funds is eoing
for rehabilion catur n for vanti m. fheed damaze is
mounting par by ear. Overra f foveses continues et en ac-
celerauint pace. peplacemant of sor ine is laccing because of low-
rent policies, sil- lowl  lecaciom  reilrosds make adequate
repeir impossible. Co muntest ponts  ve soerorel simm larly
d. Low e erof rFying
Finelly, seusr fer cocerm i soem n he vslemde in sten
dard of livin  1 hou  p i s, survey in Pekye
reveele were or     en 46 percent
of the 1934-36 level.  eli  in expen litures
for clouhing en housint.  i i ws. he reports note,
does not mean that e in enora ve risen, non.
laboring city dwellers ao wl fr ve fered.
4. How Problena Antlcipated
a. Unbelonce retween dome tie r inrerne nal price struetures:
Certein problem are anticape et  e re. prts wih regard to
the enforcement of he Nine Point Beonemic Stef Taat ton Program
Thus wi le varietions in export tollar-yen ratits, nd even wider vari-
ations between import and export raties, are vi ewed with alarm. The
yen-doller ratio for exports, it is note', becomes hicher as the
list progresses fron unprocesse  Pini ed naterials, this is at-
tributed to a declining efficieney of la er ani to the necessity of
obtaining raw and semi-processed rater  is throh the black market.
The spread between iaport and expert rotios is accounted for by
"subsidies" in the orm of artificially low intermel sales prices.
by the practice of paying c.i.f. prices for imports ani charging
f.o.b. prices for exports, and b internel subsid es to belster the
domestic price structure. It wiil be nes-sser, the reports conclude,
to rationalize industry and improve laber proluativity. However, no
specific suggestions are given for accomplistint these ends.
b. Problems
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 238,
April 20, 1949.
-5°-
b. Problems resulting fron decline of inflation:
The reports then procee o dwel: on the decline in pur-
chasing power asvr enced  inerersing inventories and declining
department store sales. It is not  le clear, however, how much
the phenomenon is actually due to lereasing purchasing power and
how much to increasing pro u tion ni lecreasing demand. The de-
cline in urcheses of consu.ers oois is poted with approval in
view of the necessity of coneer'r  ing or export production, the
decline in pur heses of proiuc r s coode, however, is found to be
indicative of inlequate capiI cccurulion an therefore cause
for alarm.
The plight of farmers ani il ine medium enterprisers is
expected to become more acute  economic stahilization progresses.
Farmers are clres y suffering from decline in acricultural prices
accompanied b an increae in pris of menufctuced gcods, and are
moreover confronted with a repidly rounting rural population and a
corresponding decrease in he ize ? she verage farm. Small and
medium enterprisers are similarly ei th financial preblems as
inflation slows tom a! th posion of  lerge manufacturer
improves with increases in roductron. he piight ef the small
manufacturer is evidenced   re mher ef wage disputes
in small industries en! b he leclin f wc in smell industries
as compared with those in l re iniurtri.
c. Econonic controls:
The reports then nole that, with eeenocric stat ilization,
material controls should give way e menet ry centrels. and price
controls should be made elastic noug: to "make ssible an effec.
tive adjustment" to lemand md supply. e current vegetabies
market is pointed to as offering n oppor wriy for the institution
of these elastic contcols. he centrols regui: by the Nine Point
Progran, however, are to bo c rried out vigorously. tnough "without
interfering with the rinciple ? free competiti n'" How this is to
be managed is not explained, aIt ongh it is pointed cut that the
present cost-plus systen of price detemin tion must be elininated.
d. Pressures for continued inflation:
In spite of the earlier concl sion that enterprises are rela-
tively better able to pay wages now than in 194?, wage increases at
a time when currency and prices "are showing a sin of stabilization"
may be a cause for inflation in view ef the clcse margin under which
certain industries, notably coal and electric industries, are operating,
the reports state. It is therefore feared that upward revision of
wages may lead to a demand for upward revision of prices; why down-
ward revision is not possible in those inlustries presently operating
with considerable margin is not explained.
The reports continue with a survey of the iifficulties of public
finance and the pressures for deficit finance. Tax collections, es-
pecially of self-assessed taxes, have lagged, and revenue sources
have almost been exhausted. It. is therefore concluded that a
ced
budget
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.89)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 233,
April 20, 1949.
-6-
budget cn be aind u le xpenditures,
chiefly by elimin ticn oflie ni cuts in the government
payroll.
otonial source of inflation
opposed to one nether,
 reguiring that rehabilitation
take p ce uly as fast
n  acouulted.
ka J. Sebal
Enclosures:
entitle
2.
Pive copis f r vr 
theroof isoe on
Perehment Hat to Ben
500
EGSeidensticker, Jr.rle
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.97)
ANALYSIS OF; CURRENT
ECONOMIC SITUATIÓN OF JAPAN
elosure No. 1 to Despatsh No.
January:1949
Economic Stabilization Board..

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.98)
Table of-Contents
L. Foreword
2. Signs of economic stabilization
(1m Rise of production level and ite
General observation of the increased produotion
of mining and manufacturing industries
b. Causes for production increase.
c. Bumper crop of major agricultural produote
(2) Slowing down of inflation.
Indices showing the slowing down.
b. Reasons for the slowing down.
(3) Rise of real wages
a. Movement of wages.
b.  Reasons for the rise of real wages.
o. Effeot of the rise of real wages.
3. Actual situation underlying the superficial improve
(1) Acoumulation"of import: excess.
Outline of export and import.
True picture of export slump and ite causes.
c. Other factors for accumulation of import excems.
(2) Unsound management of enterprise.
a. Real state of-unsoundness.
b. Turning point for sound management.
c, Limit of self-aupporting managoment.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.95)
2
(3) Deterioration of pational land and eating
national wealth.
Cumulative increase of rivers calamities.
b. Exhaustion of forestry.
Underreplacement of housing.
d) Insufficient regairing of transportation and oomin
tion facilities.
(4) Privation sustained by the Japanese people.
Present standard of living as compared with that in
pre-war period.
b.Recent trend.
4a. Newly arising problems.
(1)
Unbalance between domestic and internatienal pride
struotures.
(8)
Emergence of new phase with the progress of coenomic
stabilization.
Insufficient purchasing power.
b. Problems of farmers and small and medium enterprimem
(3) New probiems of economio control.
Economic centrol in general.
b. Problems of price control.
(4) New epur for infketion.
One-aided mse-rise.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.94)
Fopeword
On 18 Décember 1948.tho State and War Departmonte
United States issued a directive to General MacArthe
cerning the stabilization program of the Japanaso eod
and the Pubric Relations Office of the General Heague
Supreme 'Commander for the Allied Powers released the
day'a letter of Genoral MacArthur addressed to Premier
based on the directive? The aim of the directive ls to 
the Japanese Government to stabilize the Japanese edonpmy
the fiscal, monetary, price, wage and other aspeote and to
enhance to the maximum the production of export goods.
The letter of General MacArthur specificelly points qut the
"thero can be no political freedom so long as a peoplea
livelihood is dependent upon the largess'of others" and oml
for vigorous efforts on the part of the Japanese peaple.
Three years after the tarmination of hostilities, the
world economy is steadily making progress toward recovary
in spite of the underlying besic peataicta. The production
level of the ma jority of Jerapean countries, for in
come to surpass the pre mar Jefel, and their acohamer
stage in whish, freed from the state of omargemey
were pro-ocoupied with food, coal and transportabion
argrbeing made to maintain and develop the no
on the sound curreney and oredit ayatem
Under such ciroumatanças of the
neae eeonomy haa come to

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.97)
e. g., relatively steady increase of production, slowing
down of inflation, gradual rise of real wages of workers
However, a close obscrvation of the Japanose gconomy wini
Immediately indicate that there are lots-of unsound elemont
underlying the current economic situation. One and the
of them is the trade duficit which runs into 500,000,000
yearly, which means that the signs of economio stabilizatlon
are sustained by nothing but this large amount of foreign
assistance. On the other hand, the deterioration of the nabi
resources has not ceased in the. form of the consumption of the
real assets of enterprises and the increased damages from
natural disesters. Prompt increase of production and exports
and the stopping of inflation as its prerequisite, is essential
and indispensable in order to eliminate those unsound element
The Anherent contradictions of the Japanese economy have,
since the termination of the war, been hidden from our eyes on
account of the progress of inflation and the isolation from
the international economy. Now that the time is coming
when a single price ayatem internally and externally apallem
be established, bold efforte mhaald be launched upon to 
out wherein lie emmenttal problams and to seek for their
fundamental solution.
Sians of economio stabilization
As stated before, the Japanesa maonomy In
siens of edonomio stabilization in di) the

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
production, (2) the slowing down of inflation, and (3) the
rise of real wages.
The following chart shows the trend of these three indices
the years 1947 and 1948, e. g., the production index of ti
mining and mahufacturing industries shows the trend of (1)
the month-end outstanding issue of Bank of Japan notes and
the Tokyo blackmarket consumers' goods price index show the
trend of (2), and the national average industrial wages (t
deducted) divided by consumers'.price index show the trand
(3). (Average January-March being 100)

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.96)
Mineralans industrial production
4 Real Wages
Wage : MinthlyLabor ltatistics by the Labor
(Compiled biy the G. H. Q.)
Price? Comaumers Price Index by the Itat
150
1948
1348
23年
83年
1947
22年
22
100
Curreney ssuance (Iseue of Bank of Japan note)
Black Market price (cimpiked by the Bank of
1947
22.年
200
1947
22年
150

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
(1) Rise of production level and its causos.
a. General obsorvation on the increased production of min
ing and manufacturing industries.
The production of the mining and manufacturing-industries
in recent months shows a stoady increase as seen in the fol-
lowing table. There hns been no stagnation ns experienced
in the fall to winter of tho preceding year, and the produe-
tion has reached the level some 3og highor than n year ago.
Production Index of mining and manufacturing
industries.
(Monthly avorago 1930-34 - 100.)
F.Y.
April May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sopt. Oet.rov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar.
1947(A) 39.9 42.2 42.3 41.7 41:3
43.1
43.6 41.8 44.6 42.5 45.5 49.5
1949(B) 49.8 51.7 52.9 55.1 55.6 60.6
61:0 61.1
/A(5) 125 123 125 132
135 141
140 146
A
The comparison o the metual production in-the morrths
April to. October with-thet in the corresponding poriod of the
preceding year shows that thore was a considorably great in-
cresse of production in most branches with only a few ex-
ceptions, such as cotton yarn, rayon fabrios, lutber, rnil-
ay passengor car, etc. The following nre the branches which
Wowed large incroase

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.97)
Railway froight car
4.5 times
Aluminum
2.8
pig iron.
2.7
Caustic soda.
2.4
Rayon yern.
2.2
ordinary finished steal
2.2
ship.
2.1
Sodn ash
1.9
Tryck.
1.9
Bicycle
1:8
Pyrites.,
1.6
ordinary paper
1.4
Electvolytic coppor
2.4
Zinc
1.4
Cement
1.4
Electric motor.
1.4
Cotton fabrics.
1.3
Carbide
1.3.
ammonium sulphate
1.3
Raw 311k
1.2
the mte of lncrease in the above table may not necepsarily
mofleet the gotual stato of industry ns the preduction ind
proseding year itself was extremely unbnlanded and i
It is to be noted, howovor, that the proaessing or
materials (iron and ateel. moda,-ato) and

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.96)
8
of related industry (railway froight car, ship, truck, rayon
yarm otc.) are among the branches which showod gront inerease.
As soen above, the textile industry showed a relatively
slow racovery on account of the stalomate of tho cotton spin-
ning industry crused by the i:sufficiont import of rew cotton
ard the lack of purchasing power in the foreign mnrkots, while
the metal, chemical, machinory and other industries showed
marked increases ns seen in tho following table.
Industrial Production Indox (1930-34 =100)
Min- Tex- Hetal nchi- Corn- Chomi- Food others
ing. tiles
norymics nal
Apr.-
Sept.
1947(A)82.5 21.1 37.2 43.5
43.1
47.6 44.2
85.5
1948(3)96.7 23.5 63.7 69.5
59.3
77.659.5
101.6
B/A(%) 127 111
171 157
137
163135
119
As to the toxtilo industry, not only its rate of incraase
of production low but the production levol itaalf-ts alo low.
It makes the goneral production index low  
45 in tho'weight of the 1930-34 gepe
n. I the tex
tile industry is oxcludod from he goneral index, the
monthly production indox ns follome, reaahing some 90%
of the l930-34 level.4n last Baptegber.
Industrial

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.97)
:9.
Industrial Production Indox Excluding
Taxtilo Tudustry.
(1930-34 - 100)
April May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sopt.Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Fob.
1947(AY 54.0 57.9 53.3 59.3 59.9 63.3 63.9 62.5 67.7 64.4.66.5 7
1948(B) 71.8 75.2 73.4 31.3 81.8 89..3 90..6 90.2
B/A
132130 134 133 137 141 141 144
b. Causes for production incresse.
(a) Improved supply of fuel and power.
The produ:tion.of coal md the generation of electrioity
for the. first half of this fiseal yeafr (April -September)
were 126% and l04s respectively of thoso of the corresponding
period of the preceding year, and the allocation of coal and
eloctrin powor to tho mining and manufacturing industries was
137% and l08%respectively
As to the electric power supply n merked decrease was
experienced in the hydro power generation during the summer and
autumn seasons in 1947, owever, due to the fact that the river
water incronsed to an exceptionnl degree during the autumn
and wintep months last year, the hydrb power generation this
winter hes come up to 135% of. the averago level. Purthermore
a favorable result in the thermal power generntion is being
brought about by an increased supply of coal. And he si-
tuation has been much improved in the electrio pow

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
10-
supply. At the same time, the consumption of eloctricity
has beon rationalized thereby causing the rate of production
increase to be renter than tho rnto of electricity supply
increase.
1943(0) P7A
CB
1946(4) 1947(B) (Apr.
Sopt.)
Production indox of min-
ing and manufacturing
industries.
35.5
43.1
54.3
121
126
Electricity generation
index.
184.0
193.9
215.5
106
111.
(1930-34 = 100)
(b). Increased import of raw materials.
The imports of iron ore and coal and coke which had boon
practically nil in the last year wero 210,0oo tons and 610,000
tons respoctively in tho first half of this fiscal year,
resulting in tho incroase of the iron and steol production.
The same thing is true with the imports snlt for the
soda industry. The import ar matt in the first half of the
last fiscal year mes 454,0nn tons wh1le 1t was 527,00n tons
in the fimet half of this fiseal year. The chomical ribre
intustey and other industries which use soda prospered as a
result. The three-fold incrense of the aluminum production was
caused by the increased import of bauxite. Meanwhile the
import of raw cotton in the first half of this fisoal year
74,on0,o00 lba, or 91% of the import in the corrosponding
period of the preceding year, which was one of the

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.96)
-11 -
why the cotton industry remained stalomato.
(c) Improvament  transportation.
The goal of the railwny transportation for this fiscal
year is 130,000,00o tons. The volume of transportation in the
first half of this fiscal yoar was 60,871,000 tons 1.e. 95%
of tho goal and 3% noro than tho volume of transportation in
the corresponding period of the precoding yenr. The
increase was e en greator with respect to the maritime trans-
portation. . The domestic trnsportation by stoam-boats in
the first. half of this fiscal year wes 6,52n, 00o tons or 104%
of the transportation tar et and 63% more than that in the pre-
ceding year. The increase of marine transportation of coal was
especially remarkable, showing an effective shifting of coal
transportation from land to soa.
(d) other causes.
One of the othor causes was the dacreased domand of the
Oscupetion rorces. In tase of conl, for instance, the allo-
oation for the Occupation Forcos diminishod to 1.6% of the
entire supply, in the first half or this fiseal year, comparod
As to carient, the demand vas prly 1s% of the entire mupplp ir
the f rst half of this fiseal year, coppared with Go% in the
corrbsponding period of-the. preooding yoar.
Furthor causes which inorensed the production were the
improvement of labor effricieney mmdtabaiy

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
- 12 é
inproved food situation and the rise of real wages as stated
below. The effect of the price revision in July is clearly
observed in the increased production of, for examplo, non-
ferreous metals and others. The rolease of stock of materials
following the upward price rovision no doubt gave favorable effeot
upon production.
Bumper crop of major agricultural products.
The major agricultural production has surpassed the pro-
duction in the proceding. year by log due to the favorable wea-
ther and the increased supply of fertilizer and agrioultural
implements. The. production increaso of wheat and sweet pota-
toes was especially romerkable. The crops in the throe
conseçutive years of 1946, 1947 and 1948 no doubt contributed
a great deal to the recovery of the Japanese economy.
Tmit
1948(A) 1947(B)A?B
Rice
10,000 koku
6234
5865
…106
Wheat
1n
1947
1496
122
weet potatoes
1.000,000 kan.
1617
1177
136
572
584
98
Potatoes
T
In terms of rice,
Total
10,000 koku.
9054
8128
111
The delivery has been made very satisfactorily. me ratio
of delivery to the collection quota at the middle of November was
follows:-

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.93)
- 13 -
1946
1027
1053
Rice
29%
28
43
Theat
90
10T
102
Sweet potatoos
45
36
75
Potatoes
73
107
The rate of delivery of rico and svout otatoes is almost
twice as high as that in the precediny year, and the over-
quota delivary is also beiny made steadily. Tho rensons are
that the delivery price including various ineentives approach-
ed the lovel of the bleckmarket price, that the pre-planting
allocation caused farrers to prepare for delivory, that the
blaclmarket profit has been reduced due to the improvement of
the urbar food situntion, and that farmers were forced to
deliver their products on account of the cush shortage caused by
the rise of tax and price.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.97)
24
(2) Slowing down of infletion
Indices showing the slowing down
The Bank of Japan note issue which did not show iacrease in zhe
firstmix-months began to incre-se after July and reached ¥- 355,300,000,000
by the end of December. The ponthly rate of increase, however, is lowor
then that of the preceding year as shown below, and the increase in a ar
of 1948 was 62% as compered with 135% of 1947. As to the issuence during
each month, normal pattern is gredually reappeering i.e. the issuancd
decreased in the middle of the month and incressed in the latter part of
the month.
Yonth-end issue Percentage ir.creese
percentage
of Benk or Japan over the preceding
Incresse over
note
month
the preceding
Tonth in the
preceding year
April 194E
￥ 220.4 billion
0.
5.8
May
223.5
1.4
6.0
June
230.6
3.2
5.1
July
241.4
4.7
5.4
August
254.2
5.3
2.8
September
262.1
3.1
3.8
Getaber
279.5
6.6
7.3
November
294.7
5.4
Decepcer
The kackmarket price which hed tended to to stagnant since about
August 1947 bas elmoat teer pozged et the level 60% higper than-the 1947
perage as to the productive materinls and to bighe me to the consumere,

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.90)
一
15
goods on sccount of the sroremenvioned currency situetion, inereese of produc-
tion, eliminetion or eleye or vishcnorca cetloning, veductien of tlack-
merket raryin causcd r: ppice reisier. ete. tle cas p te clrice rise
of :roductie --teri-l-
thon that o? corower's goe:s in tue pre-
cedine year, the ate ef price phme of te later as prester in lole es price
of ste,le foo erd other consumer': cors soves sesor1 sise whils the
price rise of procustive veterirl= were le s remericble ecause c the increase
of prouuctio, the frect or the rice revision, nd ths ifficult financtal
conditior cf enterprises.
The officiel price rss raisei fret June to Octoter ty some c0% es to pro-
ductive waterials sns some c03 -s to consumer's goous. The dirfere. ce between
the ofricial an tl ckearset price s therety sreetly reduced, und in some
instarces the lackrerket prives ucar er lover then the offiviel prices
The effectre coneumre':r (cr) ich  r ll cone te be
stagrent irce August 1o47. 
 tlararet priec, rose
temporarily prouns  A
to th visior or the orricial price.
but the rigine terpo tccane pi therearter  t the tnerease of the
staple food rationin
irice
lncrmer et rice
rfective price
1..ex
ircex
C.
Lenk of
Statis-
Jepet;
Jrpen;
tics
To y-
Ty-
To.0-
To:0-
Proiuctive Eureau;
Fro.uctive
Consumer's reterials
CPI
rateria's
coods
(Tokyo)
april 194
1E7
210
158
164
15€
166
119
219
157
173
152
164
June
105
222
158
1€6
15
1ε7
July
275
277
158
191
222
200
eugust
331
336
160
ε3
255
208
September
356
333
162
1E3
275
209
Octoter
375
400
161
734
292
199
Novemter
404
220
164
1ε5
292
217
December
405
130
165
1ε9
225
一

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.96)
115104
15
186%
172
e1
60
till the end of November
December
b. Ressons for the slowing down
(a) Effect of the anti-inflation financial measures
The national budget of thie fiscal year including the
budget rens a bigh a & 473, 100,000,000 for the Gemeral 4ccount revenue and
expenditure, and the net amount runs as high as 1,01f,300,000,000 if the
Special Accounts are included.  The belance of General aocount, horever, ha
been improved as compared with that in the preceding year due to the ingredm
tex collection and the restraint of payment, and the outstanding treasury bill
at the and of November was £1ε,000,000,000. In the Special Accounts, the net
increase of the bond and long term loan from April to November were ¥22,200,000,000
and ¥4,700,000,000 respectively as compared with the correepeeding figures of
the preceding year of ¥31,300,000.000 and ¥14,400,000,000. ofleoting buch
financisl situations, the demand for the financial fund for the first half
of this fiscal year was not more than £47,000, 000, 000. The indwetrial fimane
iemreased a great deal In the second quarter on account of the increase of
working fund remultent from the revision of official price. The financing
from pciwate financial institutions together with that from the Reconstrugtion
 pance Bank was inereased by fle0,000, 000,000 during the peried from Apr11
to September, On the other hend, the increase of genersl depesit which ran
on1y 349,900,000,000 in the first quarter went up to £106,900,000,000 in the

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.95)
17
socond quarter, and shoned net increase of £145,200,00c,000 in the 1
the fiscel year even after deducting the withdrawal prior to July of tin,b
of the First Elocked Account, thereby contributing a great dee! to the slo
down of the increase of the currency issuance. The July-September imerem
of the general deposit is attributed to the fact that the tendency to save'
stimuleted due to the slowing down of infletion, that the First Elecked
was released in July end trensferred into general deposit, and that the sub-
:stentiel pert of loan for-the working fund which was increased sfter the price
revision of July ras entered temporarily as deposit. As a result, the rate or
return of funi was 70% in the period from April to September, which considerably
surpemses the corresponding figure of 47% of the preceding year. Koreover,
the time deposit proportionetely increased even though slowly. The following
table shows the monthly brlance of the demand anu supply of fund. The ratio
of finencial and iriustrial fun's is 21 to 7, showing the decrease of financial
fund as compared with the preceding year.
(In Billions of yen)
Apr. Key Jun. Jul.
Aug.Səpt.. Total
4. Public
Apr.-Sapt. 1947
Finarce
11.1
10.0 16.1
46.9
26.3
National
Finance
(Expend1-
tures in
exces of
revenues)
Increase
of Lacal
Bonds
10€
26320.13231 14.6
0.3
Industrial
Loens
7 13.3 30.5 27.6
52.E 50.9 179.E
6000
Increase of
R.F,5
Loágo
408° 6.1 5.7
5.77.42.7 32.4
22.E

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.96)
18
Increase
of Loan
by General
Financial
Inst.
7.0
6.3
19.7 23.2
30.4
2£
115.4
53.2
Increese of
other Indus
trial
Loans
x7.1
0.9
5.1 xl.3
15.0
7..1
32.0
x16.0
c. Net
Increase of
Funds
ε.0
16.5
32.6 29.6
LE.3
61.2
196.2
49.4
Net Shortage
of Funds
(A-B-C)
x1.2
2.2
0.ε
9.2
14.5
5.1
20.6
36.9
Increese of
Issue of
Bank of
Japan
Notes
1.5
3.1
7.1 10.8
12.ε
7.9
23.3
40.6
Note: aIn "et Ircrerse of Funds" sre included "Deposits by
Public Sodies", "Incresse of Inpald advance for Food
Piurchese" ctc. in dditicr to the ret incrsese of
gereral de osits.
b) X shows seerease.

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.94)
19
(b) Increased supply of meterlals, especially of retlona
The ircrease of projuction es stated stove incresssd the supply
of product ive materiels end consumer's goods, therety contributing to the
gloxing dor of infletion. In psrticuler, the full retioning of staple
food in the sensorel sficit perios, the 2.7 go rationinx after lovonter,
the increoce of supplenentery rationing to the vorkers, the strangthening
of the control of :erishatle foo s, etc. re the contriouting fectors
to the sloring corn of inflction.
According to the consumers' price survey (cPs), the percentage of
expenciture for rationes fooistuff  the ousehol: food sxperditure was only
32% in July 1947 when the delay and cishonor of retioning wes gorst
but it rose to 40-45% in 194€. 4s to ths sta le fooc, the percentege
rose from 57% in July 147 to 701 recently.
(c) Increase of the sense of psychclogicel stability.
The shrinkege of bleckmerket ang the sloving cown of price rise
have given a sense of stability to the fenerel puhlic. The decrease of
the nowement of rush for goo s, rise of the propensity to seve, increased
activity or capital market, relative cecrense of cash transaction - these
contributed to the slovin orn of inflation. It is noteworthy that such
sound circuletion hes coms to Le soen.
(3) Rise of reel rages
.Vovement of ages
"The rovemept of the national average per capit, monthly rages of
industrial enployees as shoer in the. "Wonthly Lebour Ststistics" of
the Miaistry of Lsbour is as follona.
1947
Jan,Mar.
June
Oct.
average
3963
Magea of in-
dustrial erployees
(4)
1,ε19 yen
3.050
100

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.97)
20
Consumers' effective
price (all cities)
(B)
100
158
180
213
227
Real wages (a'/B)
100
104
137
176
171
Note: A' is the index of A tax deducted.
while the average. nominal wages increased from ¥1,E19 in 1947 to ¥6,921 or 3.ε
times as high by November l94E, the price level went up during the same period
only 2.1 times so that the real "ages went up by 70%.
It is to be noted, however. that "onthly Lsbour Statistics" is based on
the research mainly on large enterprises (all : lents with more than l00 em-
ploypes and 10% of plents with not. less than 30 nor more than 9 employees)
and that the movement of wages in the smaller enterprises is not represented
therein. The real wages above-mentioned denote those mainly in large enter-
prises.
b. Reasons for the rise of real wages.
The fact that the neminal wages rose more than the price level did
is examined in details below.
(a) Troed of wages.
The wages rose 3.2 times during the half a year period immedistely
after the wer, Since then the rate of rise hes steadily been & to 9% every
month (1,6 times in half a year. n  year) regardle f th pace
of price rise, When the eef riee lal auerpeased that of nemthal wages.
the real wagee ment don, pd mos
(b) Demand of hemesbolc bedget
the remerkable ripe af memingl weges mes due to the fact that
the real wages in the immediate post mer perlei was as low as l0% of. the

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.97)
21
pre-war level and there hes been very strong demand from the household economy
for the wage rise. While the curve of price rise was sharp, however, the rise
of wages necessarily lagged behini the price rise. As the tempo of price rise
gradually slowed down, the real wages gradually increased, especially after
4ugust l947. The tempo of the rise of real ages has recently been remarkable.
(c) Changes in income distribution-
The slowing down of inflation reduced the inflation income in favor
of the earned income. This is one of the importent reasons why the price level
remained stagnent in spite of the rise of nominel wages. The household budget if
the working class showed some 30% improvement in the last one year while the
level of consumption of the urben ordinary household in CPS remained practicelly
unchanged. It is to be noted elso that the decrease in income of the rural
population contributed to the improvement of the real wages of the urban
workers As stated below, the widenin difference of wages in the large
enterprises and those in the medium nd small enterprises served to raise
the real wages as seen in the monthly Lebour Statistics".
(d) Capacity of enterprises to pay ages
The changes of wages as seen from the accounting of enterprise
are as follows,
1947
Jan.-Mar. Apr.-Jun. Jul.-Sept.
Ooté:
average
1948
3961
1948
1948
average per capita
wages (a)
100
168
217
299
361
Volume of employ-
ment (B)
100
100
101
104
206
Volume of produe-
tion (c)
100
129
169
221
213
ges per unit of
(AB/C)
100
130
130
141

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.97)
22
Note: Wolume of production" is production index computed ith the
weight of 1947 average mege payment by industry groups as compiled
in the "Monthly Labour Statistics" of the Ministry of Labour. The
purpose of using such weight is to contrast the production with
wages. This production index, therefore, is different from the
ordinary index based on the weight of pre-mar industrial structure.
It is to he noted also that the weiglht of medium nd small enter-
prises is very small due to the afore-mentioned nature of "Month-
ly Labour Statistics."
The everage per capita wage in October 194E was 3.6 times as high as the 1947
average. The production was roughly doubled during the same period without
much change in the amount of employment. That is to say, the labour pro-
ductirity was raised at the rate roughly similar to the rate of production
increase, so that the wage per unit of products was raised by only £o%
over the 1947 everage. It was only 30 to 40% rise till round September.
Meanwhile. the official price was doubled in June compered with the 1947
average by October. The effective prige of poductive materials was 1.6
times and 3.0 times as high respectiyy.
The capacity of enterprises
to pay, therefore, las considampbly increased in spite of the rapid
rise in per capita wages, thus making it poseible to sustain the wage
rise.
c.: Effect of the rise of real wages
(a) Rise of consumption level,
According to the researeh on the household budget of the warking
class in Tokyo-to made by the Tokyo-to sovese
ent. the coneumptian level
Dotover-Hovember 1948 was by 20 to 2 igher then the 1947 avere.

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.96)
23
1947
Jan.-Mar. Apr.-Jun. . Jul.-Sapt. Oct.-N
average
1948
3943
1948
1946
Household expenditure
(4)
100
164
207
257
233.
Consumers' effective
price (b)
100
148
172
206
209
Real household ex-
penditure (A/B)
(Consumption level)
100
111
120
125
137
gain, aß seen in the following table, the household expenditure of the working
clase is epproaching the househole expeniiture of the urban populetion in general
as compiled in the "Tokyo-to Consumers' Price Survey (CPS)(Both in terms-of
Household of 4.5 members).
1947 average Jul.-Sept. 1948
Oct.-Nov. 1948
Household expenditure of
working class (4)
4,120 yen
10,449
11,544
PS (B)
5.,357
10,454
11,705
4/B
77%
100%
99%
(b) Improvement of household budget
According to the Tokyo-to research me-the household budget of working
class, the un-earned income-pccupied  of whole income in 1947, but that
percentage was reduced to l0 by September 1946. The household deficit has
also been decreased. and the balance mas almost restored by July tolmowepher
as seen below
Perceptege of deficit expenditure as against the whole expenditure
1947
Jan.-Mar,
AprJun
Jul.-Sept.
Oct.
terage
3963
1948
1948
3
*11
3
shoms deficit.)

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.95)
24
(c) Improvement of lobour efficiency
Such rise or real nges and improverent of liv ing standard and house-
hold economy ncturelly lnpressed latour stebility vnd rate of ettendance, there-
by increesing labour :friclency.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
3. Actual Situation Underlying the Superficial Improvement
The Japanese economy ms shown some improvements in 'the paat
few years, as are seen in rising production level and, real wages
slowing down of inflation, etc.,-but we should not forgot the fent
that there are various draw-backs conoealed in the back of these
superficial favdurable phenomena, e.g., (1) accumulation of im-
port excess, (2) whittling down of actual assets of enterprise
caused by unsound management, (3) depreciation of national wealth
by devastation of land, and (4) deterioration of labour efficienoy
resulting from low living standard.
(1, Accmmulation of import excess
a. Outline of export and import
According to the returns on export and import in terms of
U.S dollar since January 1948, import increased by 28 per cent
in monthly average against that in the corresponsing period of
1947, while the monthly'export in the January-April remained only
65-80 per oent of the monthly average in 1947. The result 1s that
although the exports in May and June were l00 per cent and those in
July and August were 170 per cent as compared with those in the
cornosponding months of the previous year, the manthly avenage
export in January-August period was only by 9per pent over the
monthly export average in the preceding year. As a resuit, the
amount of import excess has already reachsd 324 million U.
dollars and it is expected to reach 500 million U. s. dolturs
for the whole year

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2-
Trade Balanee sinoe War End
(in 1,000 U.s. dollas)
Export
Import
Import excoss
War End - End of 1946
103,292
305,303
202,101
1947
173,68
526,130
352,562
1948 (Jun-Aug)
126,001
450,360
324,359
Ratio of average export and import from Jehuary
through August of 1948 egainst average oxport and import of
1930-1934 convorted into prcsent dollar pr1ce 1s 34 per cent
in import and only 9.8 per cent in export.
A comparison of the soale of our foreign trade in
1947 with that of other countries will toll how small out
expert has been since the end of the war as shown in the
following table.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
1947
1936
Export
Import
Export
Import
Japan
173
526
1,037
1,053
Philippine
266
608
81
6.0
China
239
656
125
217
Malaya
611
643
217
175
Hongkong
317
390
108
139
France
1,787
2,909
548
899
Italy
768
1,702
235
259
United Kingdom
4,821
7,203
1,475
2,490
U.S.A.
15,363
6,547
1,454
1,434
(in 1,000 U.S. do1lars)
The following table shows, for referenee, the
export and import from January through ugust 1948 
broken down by main categories as compred with that of
1947 cnd 1934.
Export
(1n 1,000 .S. do1lars)
1948(Jan-Leg)
1047
Percentage
in 1934
Aquatie Products,
Cannod Food (incl.
(7.9)
Fats and Oil)
6,349 (5.0)
5;717 (3,3)
Leather and Hide Goods. 4;237 (3.3)
345 (0)

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.98)
Chemical and Rubber
(4.8)
7,998 (6.4)
4,749 (2.8)
Goods
42,000 tons)
(Chemical Fertilizer
(58.4)
70,748 (56.1) 133,399 (76.5)
Textile
5,625,000 1bs)
(Cotton Yarn
(Cotton Fabrics
262,559,000 yards)
43,733 beles)
(Raw Silk
6,882,000 1b8)
(Rayon Yarn
Mine Products, Ceramics
(9.4)
16,616 (13.3) 14,039 (7.8)
and Metal Goods
653,000 tons)
(Coal
13,000 tons)
(Cemen't
48,000 cses)
(Shaet Glass
Machineries and Instruments
(5,8)
6,812 (5.4) : 7.073 (4.1)
Miscellaneous Goods
(incl. lumber and papon)
(13.7)
13,666 (10.8) 8,146 (4.7)
(100)
Total
126,001 (100) 173,568 (100)
Import (in 1,0oo U.S. dollar)
1948(Jan-Aug)
1947
Percentage
in 1934
(7.6)
198,674 (44.1) 307.436 (58)
Foodstuff
8,478 (1.9)
5:130 (12).
Fata and 011
Chemical Products
39,335 (8.8)
80,132 (15)
(2.5)
end Rubber
120,860 (26.8) 82.823 (15.7)
Textiles

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.96)
5
(Rotton345,000 bales)
Lumber and Paper
1,519 (0.3)
1,780 (0.3)
18
Mine Products, Ceramics,
Metals and Machineries
67,117 (14.9) 48,414 (9.2)
(28.6)
(Iron Ore
163,000 ·tons)
(Phosphate Rock
328,000 tons)
(Coal
585,000 tons)
Hide and Leather
3,101 (0.7)
221(0)
(0.9)
Others
11,076 (2.5)
194(0)
(7,4)
Total
450,360 (100) 526,130 (100)
(100)
b. True picture of export slump and its causes
Comparison of ratio between production and export during
the period of Jaunary through August 1948 with that in 1957
is shown in the following table, which indicates the fact
that present export of all the commoditie except cotton
fabrics is relatively, small.
Rate of
Rate of
Ratio of'export
production
Export
againat pro-
recovery in
recovery
duction
Jan-Aug, 1948. for the
1957
1948
against
same per-
(monthly
monthly aver- lods
avarage)
age of 1937
Steel
17.0%
0.5%
17,1%
Amm. Sulphate
97.0
16.8
20.8
Cement
25.9
2.0
17.4
et Glass
36.7

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.98)
6
Rew Silk
16.2
13.8
6:.9
55
Cotton Yarn
17.3
12.8
4.2
Rayon Yern
9.8
7.3
17:7
Cotton Fabrics
18.0
24.8
32.9
This is the result of the limited export capacity caused
by the necessity to secure minimun domestic reguiroment at
present whn production level itself is very low.
But as it has hocome the supreme requirement of the
time to inprove the balance of trade by increasing export.
we can furthorwore increase the export both by increasing
production and restricting domestic consumption.
Causes for the export slump are as follows:
(1) Low purchasing power in abroad
Because of dollar shortage of foreign countries caused
by the import excess against the United States since the
end of the war, their. importation is being concentrated on
essential materials such as foodstuffs, basic reconstruetion
materials, etc., with the result that textiles and sundry goods
which used to be our leading export 1tems do not sell wet
abroad.
Cr: the other hand, Far Eastern countriss
which used to be our main export market do npt heve surrioi
purchasing

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.98)
7
purchasin~ power because of civil wars and war danages.
As a result, market for Jucanese oods has considerably
shrunk after the war.
(i) Lack of free exchanre of Currency
As the free exchange between . S. dollar and
sterling has been suspended agt in since July l:48, we, cannot
balance import excess from dollar area with export ex-
cess to sterling area, as we did before the war. Fur the
trade with non-dollar area, therefore, tarter systen or
bilateral settiement :vstem will have to be adopted, thus
limiting the export within the amount of the import..
Tue extraorainary slump of export in the first half of
the year was partially attributable to the fact that many
countries had withheld the pu chase of Japanese goods
pending the conclusion of such agreements. Tuese factors
together with those mentioned in (i) above have caused
recent export slump of textile goods, (Sock of cotton
fabrics for export at the end of september amountod to
300-400 million yards and that of raw silk at the end of
November to 90,000 bales, These stocks are eguivalent to.
several months produetion respectively.)

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.87)
2
(heference)
xport ane import by reas.
(in 1,000 W.. al1s)
154 . -
1947
134
Price
i:tic
atio
detio
X.
LX。
Lx.
In.
7.S.A.
.000 20.027..211.691.910.4
24.2
Other arerican
Countries
1,000.7,0
.1.
0
5.2
.5
Asia & aus
tralia
.5911
.7.5
E.€
Europe and
africa
22.909 10.005 1.2
1:.22.2
13.9
1c.7
(iii) small epert capacity o: rasic materials.
althourh basic materials have a bir murket; their
export capecity is l: ited because of unsatisfactory re-
covery of their predvetion and heavy demand for domestic
reconstruction. ut in case the export of textile goods
fails to incre se, it will bucone necessary to make "hunger
export" of these meterials.
(1v)

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
9
(iv) Unsatisfactory procurement of materiels and
-fund.
Industries whose products are being exported at weak
yen ratio are having difficulties in obtainin nedessary
fund in view of their precarfous future export.
It is desired in this connection that some protective
measures be taken for them.
(v) Absence of exchange rate.
Under the present setup in which yen and dollar are
not connected directky, there is no sufficient incentive
for exporters to maximize dollar proceeds from export:
The absence of exchange rate is furthermore impeding busi-
ness transactions in'various respects.
(vi) Deteriorated international compititive capacity
of enterprise,
High cost of production caused by wom out equipment
and over employment in the inflationary economy, together
with deterioration of quality caused by lowered teohnique.
has weakened international competitive capacity of our
exports:
(vii) Other causes.
Because of the ignorance on the pert of Japansse
traders regarding overseas market, they are prevented from
having informapion on the trend of foreign demand and on
the commodity prices abroad and are unable to form their
own juagement about adequate "offer price".
Tod much complicated export prooedures should
not bé overlooked in this regerd

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
10
C. Other factore for accunulation of import ex-
cèss.
It is needless to say that increase or import and the
export slump are the direct causes of accunulated import
excess, but there is hardly any room for reducins inport
as it is limited to only minimum necessities: But the
absence of exchange rate and the imorance of overseas.
market are affectinr our import in a wey to increase' it
more than actually required.
Worldwide rise in price should not be overlooked ns
one of the factors for tip increase of import excess as
compared with the prewar time. (wholesale price in U.S.
4. in Jume 1949 was 2.9 times that in 1902). when in-
port and export are well balanced, the effect of high
price coula be nullified, but as it is, it would only.
increase the import excess..
The more important factor is the deterioration of
trade conditions, Price rise in imports is higher than
that in exports. Particularly, this is the cese with
foodstuff which occupies major part of imports. Whole-
sale commodity price index in U. S.  shows that agricul-
tural commodity price in June 1948 was about 8 times
that in l9t3, in contradistinction to. 21 times rise
in non-asricultural commodities,
The inerease of freight is also one of the main
factors for import excess. The present peroentage 
freignt in the price of imported goods is 32 in salt
rom the Mediteranean, Scp in crude oil from U. S.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
11.
in coal and 30% in iron ore from Hainun Island.
The total freight in l947 is estimated at nc less
than loo million U. S. dollars out of the import of
700 million U. S: ácllars.
(2) "nsound manerement of enterprise.
a Real state of unsoundness.
Postwar economic policy has been focussed on overcom-
ing under-production and prevontion of catastrophic infla-
tion. Te attain this objective, it has become inevitable
to enforce production increase even by aisregarding profita-
bility of enterprise and low price policy at the expense
of maintenapce of real capital of enterprise. The fact
that such a policy has been continuously adopted after
destructive war econoy has undermined soundness and self-
support of enterprise.
(1) Suspension of depreciation
Whittling down of real assets of enterprise is due,
on the one hand, to the actual shortage of capital accumula-
tion in the hard up economy and on the other, to the
treatment of depreciation under the existing tax law.
At present when the assets acquired in the past are
very much under-valued through the progress of inflation,
under-depreciation will result from the application of the exit-
ing tax law which stipulates a fixed rate of depreciatien
against the old book value of the assets. The following
table

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.94)
12
table shows.the comparison between the prevailing dp-
elation and depreciation based on current price in muin
industries.
Ratio of depreciation
agginst totel cos
prevailing Depr.
Depr. made on
Rucio of
current price (B)(E) suinst(a)
Iron & Stvel
Co.
0.132%
4.20%
£2.9 times
B Cc.
0.070
2.05
29.7
C.Co.
0.255
4.59
44.8
Madhine fe.
 Cu.
0.467
12.65
30.9
B.CO.
0.230
4.97
21.5
Automobile 
.Co.
0.550
9.32
19.7
Puer 
Co.
0.896
2.33
20.8
Ship Bi-n.
A Co.
0.200
7.80
29.9
B. Co.
29.5
Electricity
Nippatou.& 9
Haiden Co.
1.270
41.53
51z

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
13
As is shown in the above table, present depreciation in oaly
about one thirtieth of that which would be made.on the basis
of current price: This is a virtual suspension of deprecia
tion. Tue ratio of depreciation based on current price to
total cost is between 5 and 10 percent, as is also shown in
the above table, excepting such industry as electricity whose
capital expense is exceptionally large.
I. is imaginable that enterprises would not leave
their real assets to whittle away but that they take some
steps for the maintenance of their capital by various manipula-
tion in book-keeping. tc. But tho.qustiee lics in that these
manipulations can only be made by illegal method.
(ii) Accumulation of deficit loan.
Another indication of unsoundness' of enterprise
management is the accumulation of deficit loan. although
sueh loan is to be restricted drastically in accordance with
the "Three Principles" which became effeotive since the end
of 1948, total amount of deficit lean out of all RFB lomm
1s estimated at 19, 300 millien yen at the end of August
l948 and there is no possibility of repayment thereof.
oreover, the composttion of capital in enterpri
shows that the borrowed money is too big aompared with its
own capital, Inability of enterpriaes to enlarge their own
capical and their dependence upon borrowed money are important
cpuses for the loss of soundness and independence of enterprises,
11112

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.97)
Speeial price of ∞al for 8 key industries is 1,000 per
ton, while produstion ∞st is 2,388 yen per tom amd price
for general consumer is 3,344 yen per ton.
Subsidy for special price for 8 key industries is 2,S44
yon por ton.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.93)
(1:1) duge amount of price adjustment expenditure
huge amount of price adjustment expenditure for
key industries has also to be considered es indication or
unsound enterprisa.
In the l948 budget (including the supplenentary bu
the total of price adjust:ent expenditure, administrative
expenditures for meterials cnd orice edjuatpent and subsidy
to C&℃ amounts to 30,to0 million yen or 17 per cent of the
total budpet, the breskdewn of wiich by inaustrial catemorieo
shows high per centu of such subsidies in the total cost 
1s shown below:
subsiay pur ton
Ratio o sursicy Rutio of ubmi
ugainst procuc
against com
tion cost
sumers price
97%
coaf(speciel price)
¥2,144.86
2000
234%
Pip Iron
For forriing
9,920,000
71
193
ourers
11,490.000
92
20
Ordinary steel 1c.299.0c0
57
106
Copper
72.030.000
45
78
Soda Ash
11,684,000
58
105
Liquid Censtic 11,017,000
42
59
6adall,
monium
Sulohitc
940.01
52
79
altrouf: the payment of such subsidies hs been caused
by factors for w icl: enterprises should not be held responsible.
e. F., low price policy of the Government, .low operationaf rate
of industry, chanpc in rew materiel supply conditions, eto.,
neverthelcss, these subsidies will constitute a difrioult
question in thu alignment of internal and international price
levels throur! the establishment of a single exohange rate.

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.97)
15
(iv) Increesed ratio of labor cost.
The fuct that the proportion of lebor cost hes increased
considerably in the totel cost is also an importunt factor
for unsound management from the viewpoint of profitability of
enterprise. This is due to such factors as low productivity
of labor, deterioration of mechanical equipments, low cngineer-
ing technique, etc. In other words, it clerly shows that
labor productivity has been lowered moro than decrense of
real wage.
The follcwing table shows some eximples of the ratic
of labor cost to the total cost.
June 1948
Prewar
Certain Paper Mfg.Co.
25%
8%
Certain Automobile Mfg.Co.
25
10
Several Cenont fg.Co.
27
à

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
b. Turning point for sound manegement
Such unsound nanagement as mentioned above should not
be allowed to continue inderinitely. In fact, nev factors in
management of enterprises can be seen since last year, making pro-
gress toward s junder management.
For instance, as has been mentioned in connection with the
improvement of real weges, better condition of management may be
pointed out to heve been brought about by raising operational
rete in essential industries and the upwerd revision of official
price. In connection with this, resumption of capitel accumula-
tion in some enterprises is reported. It should not be ignored
that, in proportion as the stock msrket becomes 'ective, a way
has been ovened for thc raising of'own capital and the capital
composition of enterprises is getting improved. They ere, how-
ever, improvements in & reletive sense and it is undoubtedly
fer from being really sound manecement. Furthermore, monipuln-
tions such as raising of official price, grunt of subsidy,
deficit financing, etc., which have so far temporarily concealed
or postponed various :anegeriol coutradictions inhorent in cnter-
prises heve now reached their limit through the nerrowine of eap
between official price and blackmarket price levels end the
requirement of.the Three Principles for enterprise. It is : ow
& high time thet in conjunction with the setting up of a single
exchange rete, the retionelization of enterprises end their self-
support be energetically promoted.
In

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
-171-
In connection with the above, tax lews conoerning business
enterprises should be reconsidered from verious viewpoints. For
example, unless the principle is established to the effect that
price differentiel profit levy be imposed only on the amount ex-
ceedine normal stock, reecquisition of liquid essets would become
impossible, end the result would be to penalize tho industries
for the products of which official prices have been set up. With
regard to the progressive income tax, the ratio of inoome to the
capitel in the cese of an old company whose capital is booked at
the old money value will be much greater then that of a new
company, thus resulting in an unreasonably unbalanced taxatión
between them. In order to realize the self-sunport of enter-
prise and to let them have a sufficient competitive. power in
international market, attention should be paid to the maintenance
and expansion of productive power. These problems require to be
reconsidered from the long range soint of view in conjunotion
with the problem of depreciation.
C. Limit of self-supporting management
It should be noted, however, th:t there 1s a certain limit
on salf-support of enterpriss. Industries can be classified
from the atandpoint of self-support into three catsgories; i.e..
(1) industries which, even when left unprotected, can become
solf-supporting and stend international competition, (11):industries
which can become self-supporting in future, if temporary pro-
tection is given, (iii) industries which have no possibilityor
becoming lf-sutrt.

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.98)
- -8 -
As regerds" (i) no harm will be done if self-support
polioy be enforced but (ii) and (iii) ssove may require
different trestment. It will be necessary that som: temporery
protection be given to mainteil such industries which ure now
temporarily handicapped under the extraordinary post-war con-
ditions through the extreme deisriorstion of oper tional rete,
wear and teer of squipments enc drastic changc in raw materiels
conditions. An easy-going protactive policy will,of course, not
be allowed in view of ths spirit of the International Trade
Charter. But it will b: necessary to set aside in indiscriminate
application of a uniform method and prepere such countermeasures
as will meet the requir ments of individual industries.
(3) Deterioration of National Land and Eating Up of
National Wealth.
Cumuletive increase of disaster.
Almost no efforts to conserve or maintain national 'land
have been made during the war and subsequent inflation period
with the resultent cumulative increuse of disasters. For
instance, flood damages are estimsted as follows.
(In Million Yen)
Fleoa control
In terms of 1946
expense
officiel Price
Level
1944
183
1,118
1945
979
3,654
1946
2,435
2,435
1947
16,499
3,794
1948
52,897
6,850
The

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.97)
- 19 -
The demeges done by floods to agriculturel products,
housing, household articles, etc. ars sstimated to be far
more then the direct demeges done to river constructions shown
in the above. Thus, every one will understenc how huge pro-
portion of nationel wealth is being lost annually by floods.
In addition to ths nitional dam  es steted sbove, deterrent
effects on production activities such ss agricultural produotion
end transportation rasulting from rscurrent floods cen not be
overlooked. Totel damages in rivers, fsrm lends, forestry and.
herbour durine 1948 fiscal yesr amount to 86,300 million yen
and, on top of this, rehatilitstion reguirement for the demages
amounting to 20,200 nillion yen in ths prooedins yeer was carried:
over to this fisc:l yaar. Of the sbovs, totel eppropriation for.,
this year 1s 26,600 million yen including 18,400 million yen in
the national budget, leeving the damage amounting'to 9,900
million yen unattended. As this will we ken the resistence of
land &gsinst natural disusters, even e small rein-fell would
cause flood, eg rsvating netural disaster such as ferm lend
devastation, destruction of forestry, etc. Thus rehabilitation
of damages caused by netural disaster is giving heavy pressure
on the public finance, and in the approprtation for public works 
rehabilitation occunies about 5 per cent, thus necessitating re-
duction of expenditures for preventive works such as mountain and
flood control. This in turn is causing progressive increase of
disasters. On the other hand, it is also restrictfng construction
works

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
-20-
works reguired to meet nel. situ tion such s rahehilitation
of harbours necess ry for inc: eacin forein trade.
b Fxli-ustion of forectry
As for fore try, continuous ov:r-cuttinc of treas has
created even widening aip between deforested sra: snd
aforested :ree since 1 30.
Deforested .et
Aforested rda
Over cutting
1944
729,000 cho
434,0C0 cho
295,000 cho
1945
488,000
193,000
295,000
1946
587,000
300,000
287,000
1947
522,000
434,100
83,000
1948
661,000
283,000
378,000
Especially forestry near vill ges is beinz elmost wiped
out as timbers therefron cun more e sily be transported.
This is aggravating the devustation of forestry ereas
neer villages which is moinly responsible 'for disesters.
In order to maintain timber production while conserving
forestry resources, efforts h ve to be m-de to plant
saplings and to exoloit forestry in distant mountains
heretofore unutilized. Inasmuch as, however, these effort
are not economicel, tre over-cutting of for-stry near villages
is still going on for timber production.
c Underreplacement of. housing
In pre-w-r d. ys, 70-80% of urban population was living
in rented-houses, paying 17-20% of their total living expenses

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
as house rent. Vhile hosuin? expenses pccury only 4 of the
total livin? expenses (houss-rent proner is only 0.6%) present-
ly because of the control on rouse and lund rents since wer time,
the rise in construction cost of new houses is perticulerly re-
markable as compired with the rise in other prices. Thus, the
proper rent for new houses is as high es 25 times of the present
C.P.S. rentel. Such baing the csse, alnort no new rented-houses
ere being constructed. The present housing economy mey be seid
to depend on the eating up of old rented-houses, and this is one
of the deterrent factors to the advancement of labour productirity.
d. Insufficient rspairing of trsnsportation
nd communication fcilities
The whittling down of capital in reilways is indicated
clearly in the followine records of steel consumption in rsilways.
Equipments
Vericles
Grand
Con-
Con-
Totel
struc-
struc-
Pepirs
tion
Total
Repairs
tion
Totel
1936
59,710
97,910 157,620
26,969
34,093
61,062
236,682
1937
52,210
92,830 145,040
26,606
40,414
67,020
212,060
1945
13,058
2,040
15,098
17,180
13,905
31,085
46,183
1946
19,280
8,732
28,012
28,012
35,794
58,749
86,761
1947
25,906
4,000
29,906
29,405
31,879
61,234
91,190
1948(plen)
57,300
33,910
91,210
35,000
55,193
90,193
181,403

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.96)
-22-
As indicsted sbove, the stesl conrurntion is reduced to
less than one helf as comn red with that in the pre-Chine-
Incident period when the Covernmsnt reil.. ve Aere over-ted
more or less on  normel besis. It is furtlhermore noted thst
as regards the llocction of such small  mount of steel v ilatle,
the greetest :duction is made in the repair of equipments while
a comparetively bi  mount i: given to the repair and construc-
tion of vehicles in order to meet the more urgent requirement
of trsnsport:tion cpecity iner-ase.
Although the al ocation of steel for reilweys has been
increasing materially rocently, such incrseses re not yet suf-
figient to counteract the effects accumul ted by insufficient
repeirs in the past. The efficiency of comnunication has extremely
declined as a result of the cripoling war damages and the un-
satisf ctory maintenence. For instence, only one out of ten
electric poles requiring replecement is being ectuslly repleced,
and 30% of eutomatic telephone exchanges is over-aged. Thus,
only 37s of city telephones in big cities is usable, end we will
find that the line is budy once out of three cells. This, in
turn, tends to lower the business efricienoy. As seen above, the
fact thet the basic fectors of economic activities such as rell-
way  nd comnunic:tion ere not yet fully recovered from the war
demages, but re still eating their cepitel, tend to lower the
efficiency of industricl ectivities and to increase the cost of
production of our exports.
(4)

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
-23-
(4) Privetion sustsined by the J. ponese psople.
2. Present staindard of livinr as compared with that
in pre-w.r p:riod.
The Japenese people &re compelled to sustain privetion es
a result of the low production level and incrsased population
after the war. The recent stenderd of livine as compered with
that in pre-wir period on the basis of statistics is rouahly es
follows.
1934-1936
Jul.-Sept. 1948
Family expenditure (A)
100
12,700
Erfective consumer price (B)
100
27,400
Real femily expenditure
(A/B)
100
46
Note:
(a) "Family expenditure"
The pre-wor figures ere bssed on the survey of the
Statistics Bureau, while the post-war figures ere based on the
survey of workers' family expenditure made by the Tokyo Metro
politan Government.
(b) Iffcctive consumer price"
This is a tentative computation mace on 80 itema chosen
from the Consumer Price Survey of Tokyo-To made by the Stetfsties
Bureeu, taking into.eccount difference in the weisht of each item
before nd efter the wer.
The fumily expenditure is l27 times es high as the prewar
lèvel, while the price level has risen 274 fold, with the resalt
that the consumotion level is below 50% of the pr

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.97)
-24-
Further, the consumption level by itens is comp red with the
pre-wer level is s follows:
90%
Stapls food
lion-staple food
70%
Fuel and lirht
90%
Clothing
10-207
Housing
10-20%
Others
50-60%
Comperatively littlc fall is seen in the consumption level
of those indispensable goods, uch as food, sts ple food in
particul:r, fuel nd licit, while  m.rked decline is record-
ed in clothin und housing. The pronortion of food in the fmily
expenditure, i.e. the Eneel's index, is now strikinaly large.
It was about 35 before the wer but it is now cbout 65%. This
faot shows the deterloration in the composition of expènditure.
b. Recent trend.
We have pointed out the f ct th t, as a result of the rise
in reel wa es, the workers' consumption level rose by 30-  over
thet of 1947 towards the end of 1948. ut ts meens only that
the consumption levals of workins end other classes heve been
levolled et the expense of the 1 tter. There is es yet no sfen
of imorovement in the consumption leval of town-dwellers as a
whole or of fermers.
1947
1948
Averege.
JanrMar. Anr-Jun
Jul-Sept Oct-Nov.
Femily expenditure
(A)
100
140
161
195
217
Consumer price(B)
100
158
174
215
220
Peal family expenditure
(A/B)
100
39
93
91
99

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.91)
- 25 -
Note:
(a) F mily eroenditure":
The figurer r based on th monthly exnsnditures of
a family a ivan in tia uonsumr P:iee Survay, (the epereve
of ell citier)" of the Durceu of st.tisties.
(b) "Conouner price":
The Picure: re besed on ths "Conouner Price Ind ex".
(the aver.se of 11 cities)" of the St:tistics Bureau.
Under the circumetences the workers' consumotion level
itself'is more th n lik-ly t, come to a standstill.
This eontinued lo.. st nd rd of living will not only have
s negetive sffects on ths workers' will to work, but lso cause
decline in l=pour p. oructivity in the long run.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.97)
4.. Newly arising problems.
with the implementation of the Nine Econoric Objectives on the
above econamio ground, some now problems are axpected to arise,
16e., unveiling of unbalance between the domostic. and the inter
national price structures, rolative over production, distress of
farmers and small and medium erterprisers, unomployment, etc.
Constant study and review of tho effectiveness and methods of
edonomic control is necessary in connection with the implemen-
tation of the Nine Economic Objectives. Furthermore, moments
for spiraling of inflation are still at work, consequently the
Japanese economy will have to travel a thcrny path for the time be-
ing, being exposed to the danger of inflation and deflation si-
multaneously.
(1) mbalance-between domostic and international price
structures.
there is a mide gap betwoen our price structure and the in-
termetional one. The yen-dollar price ratios applicable to export
and import goods (F.O.B.. for exports and C.I.F. for imports).
indicate an extremoly wide variety from v25 for hydrochlorio aoid
to v85o for.celluloid brooches. noughly weighted averages in ac-
cordance with trade volume are v315 for exparts and 131 for imports.
Yen-dollar ratio of major oommodities - yen value of
one dollar as of October 31, 1948.
(Compiled by Poreign Trade Bureau, RSB)
Cotton yarn
¥85.
Cotton fabri.. 1l0-155

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
Raw silk
370
silk fabric
160-280
Rayon fabrio 200-220
Staple fiber fabric
100
Woolen yarn
150
Woolen fabric
230-270
Machinery
Motor-vehicle
¥275 Motor, transformer, etc.
200-350
Bicycle
450-500
Steel vęssel
350
Locomotives 240-320
Metal products.
Eleotric wire 195-220
Fuel
Coal
4280
Agricultural products.
Canned goods 150-300 Tea
290
Mandarin
360
Aquatio products
100-250
Timber
¥280-450
Fertilizer
Superphosphate ¥380
Ammonium sulphate
570
themical products.
Caustic soda
¥170
Hydroghlmriclacid
25
Colours
650
Tyres for motor-
vehiole.
220
Tyres for bicyele
Colluloid produots 650-850
370
Hide and leather 250-350
Sundry goods.
Lacquer tray
T480
Motal-laoquer flower Vase
Pottery
270-350
700

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.97)
1 ores and netal
Iron ore
¥135
.Pig iron
110
stael
120
Boxite
190
Fuel
Cok1ng coal 160-270.
veavy oil
170
Foodstuff
Wheat
¥140
ice
66
Sugar (refined)
sugar (Cuba)
110
240
Raw textiles
Raw cotton 75
wool
225
Rubber
Raw rubber 300
Hide and loather
Raw hide and leather 140
Pqrtilizer
Phosphate ore 15)
Potassium
120
Timber
Luan
30
Salt
9-130
Chemicals
210-470
The main factors responsible for this wide differentiation
of yen-dollar price ratio are believed to be as follows:-
I. Under econonic isolation during the war, the industrial
structure was reorganized with an emphasis.on was production.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
II. Since the end of the war, there has been an unbalanoe
between industrial and agrioultural production.
III. The extent of war-time enterprise reorganization or
war damages and of fall in operation rate due to short supply
of power and raw materials widely varies by industry and by
size of enterprise.
Iv. Dependence on black-market varios by industry and by
size of entorprise.
The reason why the average yen-dollar rate of import goods has been
maintained at a lower level than thet of export goods as mentioned
above is that inported staple food-mhich is the biggest item of all
the imports has been released at low price compatible with that of
domestic agvicultural products. his is a sort of subsidy and consti-
tutes the major reason why there has been left no surplus in the.
Trade Fund Special Account which ought to have a huge amount of
surplus in consequence of that huge import excess over export,
If these price adjustment subsidies are reduced together with
appropriation for Special Accounts for Government enterprises on
account of financial necessity, the price boost centering on the
higher prices of pig iron and steel may be extended unevenly,
resulting in a still further unbalanced price structure.
The fact that the yon-dollar ratio gets worse in proportion
as the goods are processed, e.g., from yarn to faurio as shom in the
above table, is partly due to the greator dependence upon blackmarket-
ing for acquisition of raw materials, eta. of mall and medium enter-
prises which do the most of processing. But fundamentally it

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
5
shows the higher labour cost, i.e,, the fact that the degree of
decline in labour efficiency in Japan vis-a-vis that in foreign
country is greater than the degroe of docline in real wages of
Japanose labourers vis-a-vis that of foreign labourers. Thus it
testifies to the urgelt need of restoring labour productivity in a
oountry like Japan which his to inport raw naterials and export.
processed goods.
As prerequisite to the return of Japanese economy to inter-
national economy, the unbalanced price structuro in Tapan has to bè
aligned to the international price structure. For that purposo it
is necessary to. reorganize industrial structuro, rationalize enter-
prises and to inprove labour productivity. In the neantime the
elimination of inefficiont industries and the rosulting unemploy-
ment will be inevitable. And yet. a drastic decline in production
and export should be provented, and the decline of yen value due to
the agravation of inflation should be provented in order to
maintain tho established exchango rato. Thus it must be admitted;
that great many probloms are involved in conneotion with the
impending sstablishrent of a single exchange rate.
3

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.97)
6
(2) Emergence of new phase with the progrese of sconomic
etabilisstion.
With the slowing down of inflat:on and the gradual stebilisation
of economy, basic uroblems of Japen.'s economy uhich have been veiled
by inflation will be exposed to the light one by one. ost character-
istio of them will be the eppeerance of incufficient domestic purchas-
ing pover, problems concerning farmers, small and medium enterprisers,
and unemployment problem.
a. Insufficiont purchasing pover
Hith the reduotion of fictitious purchasing povor crested by, in
flation, purohasing porer hss alroady bopun to be stolemeted at a
comparatively' low level, duo to the Jimited homc merket and the decline
of nationel income in post-wer days. Since last year a serier of defle-
tionary measures such es enforcemont of tax colloction and control
of industrial financing have been put into practice for the purrose
of checking inflation. This, together ith the large-scele raising
of official prices in 1947 end 1948 which has had the effect of almost
outting a portion of purchasing porer, has led to further decrease in
purchesing powor. On the other hend the restoration or agricultural
end industriel production and the increase cf sconomdc sid from'foreign
-ccuntrios hayo ircreased the supply of mterials, thereby giving rise
to the fictitious over-production. The folloving tab'e reprecents the
snlas of epartment stores as an index of falling purcheeing power and
indicetce that thoce sales have an tendency to decreace when the prion
incroese is token into account.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.97)
A Salos index
B Rctail prioe
A/B x 100
index
Apr.-Jun. 1947
100
100
100
Jul.-Sépt. "
118
160
74
Oat.-Deo. "
1S6
277
67
Jan.-Mor. 1948
205
325
63
Apr.-Jun. "
268
352
76
Jul.-Sept "
282
535
53.
In addition, inesmuch es the sales of depertment stores have been
getting relatively adventageous compered with those of smell and medium.
shops, the total sales including the latter must show a still greater
decresse.
Another index of the felling purchesing power is furnished by
the increase in the stocks of products:
The following table shows the monthly indices of the stocks in
business warchousos in big 6 cities, indicating a notable tendeney of
the stocke to incrgese.
Jan. 1947
Mar. 1948
Jun. 1948
Sept. 1948
Textiles
100
120.7
124.2
.137.4
Faper & pulp
100
142.2
172.5
195.6
Metals
100
80.8
91.1
Chonicals
100
354.3
157.3
19T.5
Sundry goods
100
169.3
195.5
209F
Avcrego
100
124.1
132.3
156.0

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
8
The decline of mirketability is conspicuous with respeet to
radio sets, electric bulbs, books, eto. whilc insufficient purehas
ing pomer is seen for basio materials, such as, low-grade coal,
sement, ammonium sulphate, electric wires, eto.
How should the above fall of purchasing power be interpreted?
As regards conaumers' goods, the above phenomnon is attributable to
the fect that the production has. increased relativly speedily when
the real income of the poople remained at a low level, that the
pent up demnd for consumers' goods during the war hes boan satiafied
to some extent, that the surplus purchasing pomer orested by infls-
tionary income has been curtailed by the slowing dowm of infletion,
sto. However, in view of the fact that consumption has been eating
capital since the end of the war, it should be regarded as a sign
of sound economy that consumption be so curtailed as to be dovetailed
with production, and it is a requirement of the Nine Eoonomio bjeo-
tives that the saved consumption be shifted fer amport.As for
produstive meterials, the fall of.pmohesing power for them is to
be attributed to the redustion of financial expanditure end in-
dustrial investment  the one hand and to the increase of supply
on the other. the problem is that deepite the huge potential
demande for produotive materiale for the replenishment of morn
out aed sbsolete equipment, for the repair of devastated nationel
resouross, etc., they cannot become effective ones through the in-
sufficient acoumulation of capital. One of the important esonomic
policies to be taken up hereafter will be to mintain effective

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
9
domond for productive materials in the fields necessary fcr the
restoration of economic capapity and the promotion of oxport.
B. Problems of farmer and small and
madium onterprisers.
Even in the pest, agriculture and small end medium commorciel
and industrial entarprisos mero the fields whore various contradio-
tions of Japanese economy wore exprossed in a concentrated form.
For som timo after the war thoy wero placed in a relativaly
advantageous position, thanks to the progress of inflation and
to the absolutely insufficiont supply of foodatuffs. With the
slowing dom of inflation, howover, they show the possibility of
being confronted with moro serious problems than in pre-war deys.
The strengthening of economic stabilization program, with an
emphesis upon the rationalization of enterpriees, belancing of
budget and promotion of export, has the denger of bringing the
accompanying contradictions into. the economics of farmers as
well as of small and medium enterprisers.
To begin with, lot us consider agrioulture. The mgrioultural
production in 1948, favoured with good memther end increased sup-
ply of fertiliser and other produetive meteriala, could attain
more than 10% inorease oer that in the preceding year .In
spite of the above production increase, however, the poat-mar boom
seen in farming aconoxy shoms a sign of gradual decline, due to
the stagnant prices of agrioultural products, the reletively higher

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.97)
of commodities essential to egrieultural cocnony, enfcros-
of tax collection, etc. The post-mer povemint of tho bleak-
markat prices in the following table indiostes that the prioes of
staple foodstuffs have gradually been placed in an unfavourable
position.
Staple food-
Textile goods
Daily nece-
stuffs
saities
Septembor, 1945
100
100
100
April, 1946
214
208
121
October,"
141
251
241
April, 1947
238
678
261
October, "
411
913
363
Apr1l, 1948
608
1,218
500
June, 1948
784
1,303
580
August, "
676
1,361
649
October, "
575
1,355
671
(Blackmarket pes jadeg.af.consumerás gooda in Tokyo,
comp1l  Bnk of Jap)
The-Tetkewing takle showe the fact that the tax burden per
farmer bowsehold bes been on the gradal increase.
Tams & levies
Betio of taxes
to income
1924
57 yen
8%
1941
56
3
1945
618
13%
5,764
15%
1946
10,045
22%
1947

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.97)
11
Inasmuch as the ratio of genoral tax burden to the nmational
income has sharply increased since the end of thé war the tax
burden upon farmers cannot nocossarily bo said to be to heavy.
But owing to the relative decline of farmers' income since 1948,
the levies on farmers ero becoming a heevy burden. Under these
circumstances, the economy of farmers has gradually worsened as
which shop that the curroncy holding in egricultural and fishing
villages in June,1947 wee 28,5% wherecs ac
to 20.1%. The deposit in the agricultural associatione all over.
shange is taken into account.
Furthermose, the discount of agrioultural bills, ineugurated
last year to cope with ths tight money conditions for farmers,
amounted to 2.4 billion yen in total as of September 30, 1948.
The regionel dietribution of the above sum 1s 54% for Hokkaido,
25.5% for Tohoku and 16.5% for Hokuriku totalling 96%, indicating
the worse economic condition of the single-crop areas.
In addition to the racent economio conditions of farmers
mentioned above, there are such fundamentel problems as rapid
incroase of agricultural pormiation since the end of the mer
and the shrinkage of farming unit. The agrioultural populy.
tion as of August 1, 1947 1s a little over 36,500,000 or 4
of the total population, indicating an increase of 2,370,000 pr

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.95)
12
6.7% over the population as of April, 1946. The number of farmors
a of August, 1947 shows  23 inorease over that as of 1940.
A a result, the average aren of cultivation per former has
been reduced considarably as showm in the following table.
No. of farm
Cultivated
Average aroa
units
area
per farm unit
Ang. '41
5,499,000 5,860,000 cho
1.07 chó
Apr. 26, 146
5,698,000. 4,986,000
0.88
Ang. 1,47
5,909,000 5,011;000.
0.85
On the other hand the expansion of arable lands, or reclams-
tion ha not necessarily progressed satiafactorily as shom by
the feet that the total area reolaimed after the war is merely
318,000 cho or52.8 of the plan. Particularly the actual-re-
elammtion during April to Aagust, 1948 was 19,000 cho or 8.5% of
the plen. The above unsstisfactory prograss of reclamtion is
mot only de to the ihafficient supply of funds and matariala
but also to the relative decline in prices ofrlemtal
products.
ks rogards the sall sod madius eaterprises. shieh tave bem
depandent very much upon lacicmriet, theg are advarssly affected
ty the slowing dom of infletion and the geadual alignmgat of
efficial and bleckmerkst priess. The strengthening of oom
power of large enterprises against smell and medium enterprises
as a rosult of the increased operation of squipment and the in-

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.95)
●13.
creased supply of officially:prioed goods due to the producticn
increese in large enterprises have further aggravated their situa-
tion. In combination with these factors, financing for them is
getting more and more diffioult. The distressing conditions of
small or medium enterprises are revealed by the fact thet there
have recently been rolatively more labour disputes in thtm and by
trend of movements of wage levels in large enterprise and small
or medium enterprise. According to the survey made in Onaka by
the Oaaka Chamber of Commoroo and Industry, the average vage of
mle workers in small and modium entorprises employing 30 to 100
workers in Osaka in Januery-Junc, 1947 was 102.1% of that in large
enterprises employing over 200 workors but the peroentage fell
to 99.2% in July-Decomber, 91.3% in January-Jums, 1948, 93.6%
in July-August and 75.7% in September-October 1948.
Thus the distress of farmerslend small and medium enterprisers
which entail a huge number of the unemployed will constitute the
new problems to be raiged in-consequence of the economio stabilise-
tion.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.95)
2
-14 -
(3) Ne: preblers of econocic contrpl.
. Econoric control ir goneral.
The increise of roluction nd the alo ing con of infls-
tion kave raise scre questions for ccononic control. The most.
cōhspfcuoue? them is the incressed prestige of "price". In
price cortrel it vill become mecessory to take such slastic
measures es -ill meke ponsi: le en effactive edjustment func-
tions of "price" :ased on demand-supply relation.
On the other hend, in roportion to the enforcement of
the Three Frinciples of nterprises in preparation for the
returr of Jepanese economy into international economy, stress
should be leic or the self-support of entcrprises, thich in
turn mekes it necesesry to odily the present control formulee in such 
"ay as will permits rore room for the principle of competition
snd independence of enterprises. In eddition, constant in-
provemert rs "ell as ell-planned exscutlor of supervision
is required in. order to prevert ineffictency end corruption
; on the part of the governcent agencies concermed xith economte:
control. As en svarle of the ieg of vorking of the former
control forrulee, the celieverent of vegetabls control (of
perisheble foo's controls) πill te studies on the basis of
the enslyeis of the rouseho expenditure es belows

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.95)
15
Percentage oß
Actial re- Fatio of the
Fercentage
rstion in the
ceipt of
blac.-narket
of increase
totel purchase
retion ago- price to the
in household
of household
inst allo-cfficial
expenditures
catior. by
price
"hen ell_ure
the Govern-
prooured ip
rent
black-mrket
lst'period
July-Dec., '47
6.5%
10.9%
3.00
tines
0.37
2nd period
Dec., '47
when strengthening
measure of
control was
enforced.
June, '42
55.56
61.9.3
2.00 times
1.63
3rd Period
July-suz.,'4E
55.53
51.83
1.20 times
0.14
The sbove lgures sho that curing the first period the rations
were less than l03 o' the total : urchsse, reflecting the neligible
effect of control, tist duric: the secon' perior control echieved mome
Segree of succeas ur to the grsat efforts cade and that during the
third perte the inercase of suppl comh inei -ith the narrowing of
f tetreen blackmsrket end official prices ceused by the raising of
the latter lessened the effect of control egain. As for the third
period, it is to be neted that, the increesed aupply, caused conspiguous
dealine

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.96)
decline of the bleckmarket price and the free whole-ssle prices
of most vegetebles fell by 20-303 belor the officiel ones, thus
reducing the necessity of depercing upon rations,
that
despite the decline of the tholesale price the bleckmarket retail
price vas preventec from falling by the official retsil rice.
It mey be regarisé ss e noticeeblo csse in the new sconomic
stage that the thove contra ict on hes taker place in such
seasonal products as vegetables hose officiel price cannot corra.-
pond to the crice fluctustion tased on cerend-suppl, relation.
In such a case, it is considered that the way hes bee paved
y actual facts for mal in- th: control forrulae elastic or
reducing the scope of control.
So much for the problems of economic control caused by
the phenge in domestic econoric conaitions. furning to pro-
tlems of economie control irom the interretional point of
view, it is found that the slowing down of nflation nd the
Inorease of production ve not been achieved of our own ef-
forts alone but also by incressine foreign sids. The Xine
Cbjective Economie Ststilizetion Program has made the.
necossity of control clear in its five items, i.es,
vigorous lirit-tion of crcdit extension, waye stebilize-
tion, strengthening cf existing price control progrees,
im:rovenent

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.95)
-17.-
improvement of the effectiveness of the present allocation en ration-
ing sster to the end of mnxiizing export and iuprovement of the
efficiency of the foo: colluction grogrem. Acove all, it will
be requir-d for the Jepanese economy to be sble to support it-
self without foreien ci that the allocetion nd rationing esigned
to elin mrte all ssptes snd mavimice the vsilenility of soods
for export be executed effectively s the ivot of future ecoromic
control.
Time has nor come for us to formulste, enc execute vith
greater vigour, such cevices es vill assure effective control
without interfering with the principle of free competition so that
the pecessity of control mey not conflict vit!. the revision of the
control formule callec for b, the net cevelopment of the domestic
econony as mentioned stove.
b. Froblems of urice control
A fer problems articularly to be confronted vith in the
- future in connection "ith price control shich is the nair aspeet
of econonic control  ill e r.s belo
(=) Lininution of vifference letween official and black-
market prices.
As a raturel corsequacce of the rsising of the official 
lce es vell os the sta mant trenc of the bleckmarket price,
jlfference

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.94)
difference beteeen official enc blackmerket prices bes recertly.
teen reduced greduelly. Accordin: to the survey mnde by the
Eank of Japan, the ratio of the officinl to the blackmarket
price, which ees 1 to 30 in September, 1045 shortly oftor the end
of the "er, mas reducsd to 1 to 3 in October, l945 cue to the
fect that the official price had been raised gbout 60 folis
during the intervening tiret years while the bleckmarket price
hed clirced up merely 7-€ folds. In sddition. difference is
less then 15C3  rith regard to one-fourto of the main
cormodities hile the blnckmer et price ie below the official
ith regard to sbout 5% of the ccmmolities. This reduction
of sifference is p rticularly noticieble vith cegard to pro-
uotior rsterials.
Accordine to the Tokyo C.P.S., the rtio of the everage
price of retionsc food to thet of non-rationed food wes
reduced fron 3.2 to 1 : uring august o Octcter, 1947 to 1.6
to 1 during -ugust to Octoter. 4.
(b) Officiel price anc cemana-supply relation
Orficiel price erd demand-supply relation es such were
not a tis protlem in the past when the disperity Letxeen the
official ano tlactmarket prlces es plae crouch. Hovever
recertly as the cisperity hetmeen the officiel anc black-
market.rices

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.90)
- 19 -
morket prices bas generelly b.en rrauced greduell, "hile tlackmariet
price hee egun to vividl. efloct cerane-supply relation sue to
fell in pure csinr porer ond iserease in pcolcction, the official
price has core to e 1- ced ir - de icete reistionship vith derand-
supply relation.  The rbove reletionchi i: particulerl delicete in
cases here u isi clastie. chere suppl. s core to
exceed derem, er rore erenl-ss ply celetion shers e strong
seasenal fluctustion. T.is iriicuter tont Japsnese economy hes
ertered into e rex ste, e "ler tre cfiiciel price structure made
by merely iline  productten costs shoul be revised and demend-
supply relatior shouls c taker into sccount. hese circumstances,
together with the probler concernin tn recuctier of ifference
tetveen the dorestic and internationsl prices mentioned already,
cell for the revier c: ths efficial price systes based mainly
on cost sccountins.
(c) Lirit of orricip! pice rrise
 The redvetior of alrfarence et ec the officiel and
! lackmerket ptees ano tp ste mction of bleckmer et prices
involve protlars re latir to the penerel official price
level For xarple. is th ofricir price iv courled in
the aerr Puture  raisir t  e seele from B,700 to
¥7,L00 (tas prove lin  age levei c111 h ve reacued ap-
proxirptel. to this hcight t e tcginning of 1949) slong
the preset procedure, there ill take place'a strange
stste of pffairs that tie tlecknorkst price of 30-40s of the math
commoditie

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.91)
- 20 -
commodities will perhaps re telow the official. This indicates that the
gereral official price level has ro" approeched the limit.
The sbove cxplairec ststh of affeirs testiries to the fact thet
Japanese ecoromy has entered into e nen stage where it is no more
possit le to take suct. eay-gcin: mossures es whitewashing of the
basic unsounancss or he post-ar Japanese economy by tne operation
of officiel rice,  in tni. sense f are fnceu ith the neces-
sity of funiemertar
y roans or frertal attack.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.95)
21
()e sur For iorlatio
.
as we h ve siIcsed sieto, tle vre ls risin
whil: ell the other inflation indices such as currency
and prices are showing a sign of stabilization. T:is one-
sided wage rise is bound, socner or later, to heve an
effect on currency and prices, and to givea spurt to in-
flation
rus.
, in the follow-
ing manner.
(a) It s been shown above that the vave ner unit of
product has not risen in spite of the rise in the wage
per employee. From this fact, it may be concluded that
the wage-rise does not work as a financial burden upon
enterprises and, therefore, will not be followed by
price rise. Tuis may be true if the whole industry is
seen as a whole, but a careful study of details reveals
that there lie problems worthy of attention. Tue most
noteworthy of all is i remarkable divergence of produc-
tion trends amons industries. T roduction level in
November, 1948 ss compered with the average ror 1947
show a striking divergence anong industries, while the
volume of employment remained unchanged during this
period (i.e. labour productivity has risen in propor-
tig to production increase). There is no noticeable
dafference of the wuse per employee amone industries.
The
1 increase of production and per capita
wage

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.97)
wage by industry in November, l94e over the average for
1947 is as follows.
(1947 vereer =.1)
production.
Wage
The average of anufac-
turing industry
2.2
5.6
etal
5.4
4.0
Lachinery
2.3
2.8
Chemical
1.7
4.1
Ceramic
1.6
5.9
Textile
1.4
5.3
Food Manufactur-
ing
1.2
5.6
Coel mining
1.3
2.5
Electrical industry
1.1
3.3
Avil service
1.9
(3.1 in Dec,)
 Note: The figures show the weighted average of indug-
ries within each cetegory based on the average total
pay-roll by industry in 1947 as given in the month-
ly labour statistics,
The movement of mage per unit of product varies ade-
ly among industries, The official prices heve, however,
been raised uniformly at the same rate as the raise of
per capit: wage, giving e sizable margin to certain indus&
.iss end atimulating wage-raise in them. This wage-raise
gives the gue to workers in other industries operating with
little margin, giving rise to the pay problems in coal-
mining, electrical industry and givil service and increasing
the

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
the danger of reprosussions on prices. This vicious
cirole is partly due to the present method of revising
official prices but mainly due to a difference. of produc-
tion trend among industries. anyhow, it cannot be denied
that the rise in wage has possibility of reacting upon
prices in the above-explained manner. In the future,
its reaction may take the form of a spur for the revi-
sion of official prices.
(b) Suppose the wage-rise does not raise price by
its pressure upon the eccnomy or enterprises. Even then,
unless the &vailability of consumers goods is increased,
the price-rise is more than likely to follow the wage
rise at least in view of the present relatively stagnant
supply of consumer goods (including agricultural produots)
compared with industrial produots. In this case, how-
ever, if the consumption level of workers is raised at
the expense of that of other classes, the effect of wage-
rise will be offset by increased availability of consumer
goods even without any incroase in the total volume or
consumer goods, As a matter of fact, until recently, the
consumption level of workers has been raised to a con-
siderable-extent in this manner, but this process seems
to be no more possible.
after all, it may well be said that we are now
standing at the crossroads whether the inflation would
be accelerated by increased wages such as mentioned
above, or a rise in wages could be checked by the enforce-
ment

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
ment of a sound financial policy. The average wagee
in November last has risen only by 5.3% as egainat
the preceding month. There are signs today tht the
very rise of weges tends to be kept in check.
b. Difficulty of achieving a real belance of
the nationel finance.
(a) Exhaustíon of sources of revenues.
The revenue of the general budget for the current
fiscal year including supplementary budget emounts to
as high as 473,l00 million yen. Tnis consists of taxes.
and stamp duties (7%), Monopoly Bureau profits and
income of other government enterprises end properties
(22%). price differentials (5%), end other (6%).
The collection of taxes and stamp duties as of end.
of Oetober is only 33% of the annual target, amounting
to 102, 200 million yen. Tris delay is due to the un-
successful collection of self-assessed taxes. The.
collection of self-assessed taxes is only 23% while
that of withheld taxes is already 79%. Not only with-
held income taxes are proving to be a heavy burden upon
the workers' family budget, but also self-assessed tazes
are increasing its pressure upon proprietary entre-
preneurs, partly because of unaxeidable unfair alloct-
tion of self-assessed taxes reaulting from difficulty of
assessing proprietary entrepreneurs' income, but fundamentale
ly. because of decreased nominal income as a result of
the curbing of inflation. Tue tax paying capacity of

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
25
the pebple seems to have approsched its limit. Hoavy
local taxes are levied without coordination with the
national taxes, which is necessitated by the difficulty
of the local government finance. Rational coordination
between them is considered to be necessury.
2
(b) Necessity of curteiling expenditures.
In the future, it will be more and more difficult
to increase revenues. The only woy of achieving a real
balance of the public finance will, therefore, be the
curtailment of expenditures. The breakdown of the
expenditure by item for the current fiscel year is as
follows:
Sun
Porcentage
(i. 100 mil-
(5%)
lion yen)
Total oxpenditure
4,731
100
Expenses for ter-
mination of war
1,141
24
Expenses for price
sajustment
806
17
Expenses for locel
finance
672
14
Expenses for publio
works
495
10
Expensus for recon
struction of govern-
ment enterprises
430
Investment to Recon-
striccion Finance
Bank
180
4
Others
1,007
21
The expense for termination of war occupies one-
fourth of the total. but it must be assumed thet its our-
tailment is out of the question. The expense for price
adjustment is 17% nd is the socond largest item. But.

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.97)
smch as the expense for reconstructied of
mont enterprises is, in reality, to be transferred 
the Railway and Communication Special Accounts, it cas
be called exponse for price edjustment. The expenss
for price adjustment, therefore, will total 26 of the
total expenditurs and be greater than the expense fer
termination of wr. In view of the present extreme
unbalance among prices, it is inconceivsble totally
to eliminate this expense for pricc adjustmont, but
it is believed to b. urgent to effect a considerable
out in this item even for no other purpose than of
making entorprises self-supporting. Tne cut in the
government pay-roll is of urgent nocessity pending simoe
some time ago from the viewpoint of curtailment of
public expenditurc. On the other hand, the pay soale
of.the Government employees has been raised and there
will arise need for publio erpenditure in some form
or other to take care of the rapidly inoreasing un-
employment. There lie many difficultiee in the wáy
of achleving the real balance of public f'nance which
is apt to run into deficit.
c. Requirement of funds for rehabilitation.
The capital payment for rebabilitation bas been
a spur to inflation oven up to now in the form of in-
cressed public expenditure for disaster rebabilitation
and other public works and of inflation caused by the
Reconstruction Finance Bank loans.
As the Economio Retabilitation Program is put
inte operation this year, investment will be required
for production incresse and export expansion in opeming-

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
27
up of new ccal mines development of new hydrsulic
power plants, repair and improvement of government
railway, railway electrification, improvement of
harbour installations, increase of newly built ships,
flood control, soil improvement, reclamaticn and other
agricultural enterprises. The first collection of data
made by the Economic Rehabilitation Cclittee reveals
that the reconstriction works alone will require 2.700
billion yen (at prices as revised in July, 1948) in 5
years and the industry will roquire 3,500 billion yen
(equipment funds plus incre sed operation funds) if
the requirement made by euch denanding grcup is to be
met to a certain extent. Tris estimate may involve some
padding and double counting, but it shows how onormous
a capital investment is reguired for the reconetruotion
of the war-torn Japanuse economy. For the 1949 fiscal
year alone, according tc the seme estimate, the new
investment of 480,000 million yen is required for re-
construction works end that of 520,000 million yen for
industry, while the estimated national income in the
same year at the same price level is 2,200 billion yen.
As not more than 20% of this income is estimated to be
available for capital investment, the capital payment as
indicated above will perhaps be impossible. Here lies
the ccnflict between stabilization and reconstruotion.
Too hasty effort for reconstructicn is feared to become
a cause of new inflation.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
Conolusion
The Japanese economy is in an extremely abnormal
state partly due to ite structurel deformation cèused by
war und the defeet and partly due to the progress of infi
that followed. It is difficult to restore a normal and spund
economy with one stroke even in connection with the establl
of a single exchange rete, for such an attempt would cause
disturbance and confusion in the domestic economy. However
will never attein a self-supporting economy if we rest idly in
such a state of affairs as we ere now in. We should take
advantage of the establishment of a single exchange rate by all
means to normalize our economy step by step within as short a
period as possible.
Economic measures from now on should primarily aim at the
normalization of economy through the stabilization of currenoy
and restoration of normal funetion of price. The netional
economy should be rationalized in this process, thereby builaing
the basis for economic self-support on which sound onhancement
of production and export pan be realized
One of the important factore in the normalixation of-economy
is the restoration of the independence of enterorises. As distinet
from the past days of economic isoletion, enterprises in fature
will first of all be required to stand international competition.
They are required to manege themselwes'independently and rationally
olearing themselves of inefficient management which depended on
the state, and to accumulate capital necessery for repairing and
modernizing deteriorated equipment in conformity with principles
of economic stabilization urgently required for our national ecohomy.

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
Our ain after the re torevion ef a tilizis an pormel
1
economy will be the attair.cert or e self-su oortint ecnomy
which no lonaer require: forel n assintence. Sevin  or con-
sumption is essentil end  ndisrensable in order to overcome
various diffioulties ahead of uc. The standari of living mey
rise efter the economy hes bee me self-sunrortine. Put until
then the Jauncce peo le will have to sustain rivation under the
burden of stebiltzetion or purrerey, ccoumul tion of cenital,
promotion of export, ete. he objective s ceonomie self-support,
however, is ot ale apuir : or the llied ations but
essentially a turrt, whic the  nere nosle desiring national
independence and fut rs o.ne: ity shoule choose to work for at
any price. This is a hi  for the snanese people to prove
to the vorld th t thy re oterrined or well s above courageously
to accomplish this hari t s viven to them.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
ANALYSIS OF CURRENT
ECONOMIC SITUATION OF JAPAN
894.50
March 12th, 1949
4-204.9
Economic Stabilization Board

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
-1-
Table of Contents
1. Foreword
2. Signs of economic stabilization
(1) Rise in production level and its causes.
General observstion of the increased production
o: mining and manufacturing industries.
b. Causes of production increase.
c. Eumper crop of najor agricultural products.
(2)
Slowing down of inilation.
a. Indices shewing the slowing down.
b. Reasons for the slowing down.
(3)
Rise in real wegus.
a. Movement of wages.
b. Reasons for the rise in real wages.
c. Effects of the rise in real wages.
3.
Actual situation underlying the surerficial im-
provement.
(1)
Accumulation of import excess.
a. Cutline of export and import.
b. Factors causing import surplus.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.96)
(2) Unsound management of enterprise.
a. Real state of unscundness:
b. Turning point for sound management.
c. Limit of self-supporting management.
(3)
Deterioration of national land and eating up
of national wealth.
a. Cumuletive inerease of rivers calamities.
b. Exhaustion of forestry.
c. underrer eurent of housing.
d. Insuffic' rt repairing of transportation and
communication facilitics.
(4)
Stalenate in standari of living privetion susteined
by the Jo s ople.
H..
Precent si nusrd of living as compared with that
in pre-wr worjod.
b. Recent trend.
Newly srising problems.
(1)
Unbslancc between domestic and internationai price
structures
(2)
Emergence of new phase with the progress of-economie
stabilization.
a. Insufficient purchasing power.
b.
Froblems of farmers and small and medium enter-
prisers.

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
(3)
New problems of economic control.
a. Economic control in general.
b. Problems of pricu control.
(4)
New spur for inflotion.
a. One-sided wage-rise.
b. Difficulty of achieving a real balance of
national finance.
c. Requirement of funds for rehabilitation.
5. Conclusion

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.99)
Foreword
On 18 December 1948 the State and War Department
United States iesued an interim directive to General
concerning the stabilizetion program of the Japanese
and the Public Relations Office of the General Headqu
Bupreme Commander for the Allied Powers released the foll
ing day a letter of General MacArthur addressed to Promis
Yoshida based on the directive. The aim of the direeti
to cause the Japanese Government to stabilize the Japmere
economy in the fiscal, monetary, price, wage and other 
pects as quick as possible and to maximize the production
of exports. The letter of General MacArthur specifically
points out that "there can be no political freedom so long
as a people's livelihood is dependent upon the largess of
others" and calls for vigorous efforts on the part of the
Japanese people.
Three years after the termination of hostilities, the
world economy is steadily making progress tóward recovery
in spite of the underlying basic conflicts. The production
leyels of most European countries, for instance, have come
to surpass the pre-war levels, and their ecomies are in a
stage in which, freed from the state of emergency when they
were pre-occupied with food, coal and transportation, efforts
are being made to maintain and develop the economie circu
lation on the sound currency and credit system.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.98)
Under sueh circumstances of: the world edohomy
Japanese economy has come to show some signs of
e.g., relatively steacy increase in production, sio
of inflation, gradual rise in reel wages of workers,
However, a close observation of the Japanese economy
immediately indicate that there are lots of unsound
underlying the current economic situation. One and the
most of them is the trade deficit which runs into about
000,000 yearly, which means that the signs of economi
lization are sustained by nothing but this large amount
foreign assistance. On the other hand, the depletion of
national resources has not ceased in the form of the con-
sumption of real atsets of enterprises and the inereased
damages from natural disasters. Prompt increase in produot-
ion and exports, and the arrest of inflation as its pre-
requisite, is etsential and indispensable in order to elimi-
nate those unsound elements. The inherent contradictions 
the Japanese economy have, since the termination of the war
been hidden frem ur eyes on accqunt of the pragese of ine
flation and the itolation-from the international economy.
Nom that the time is coming when bold efforts should be made
to spot the essential problems and to seek for their sunda
mental solution.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
2. Signs of economic stabilization
hs stated before, the Japanese economy in 1948 is.show-
ing sings of economic stabilization in (1) the steady increase
in production, (2) the slowing down of inflation, and (3) the
rise in real wages.
The following chart shows the trend of these three indices
for the years 1947 and 1948,-e.g., the production index of the
mining and manufacturing industries shows the trend of (1)
above, the month-end outstanding issue of Bank of Japan notes
and the Tokyo blackmarket consumer's goods price index shows
the trend of (2), and the real wages index the national average
1ndustrial weges (tax deducted) divided by consumer'= price
index) shows the trend of (3). (Average January-March being
100)

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
Mineral and industrial production
4 Real wages
Wage: Monthly Labor tatistics by the Labor Depa
(Compiled by the G. H. Q.)
Price: Consumers Price Index by the statiatios Bus
1248
1948
23年
23年
150
150
1347
22年
100
100
2
3
Currency isuance (lssiue of Bank of Jafan note)
Black Market price (Compiled-by the Bank of gapan)
1947
1947
22年
22年
200

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
一
(1) Rise in production level and its causes.
a. General observation on the increased production of
mining and manufacturing industries.
The production of the mining and manufacturing in-
dustries in recent months shows a steady increase as  seen in
the following table and has reached the level some 35% higher
than that a year ago.
Production Index of mining and manuf cturing industries.
(Monthly average 1930-34100)
F.Y.
April. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar.
1947(A)
39.9
42.2
42.341.7 41.3
43.1
43.6
41.8 44.6 42.5 45.5 49.3
1948(B)
49.8
51.7 52.9 55.1 55.6 60.6 61.4 61.9 64.4
B/4 (8) 125 123 125 132 135 141 141 148 144
The comparison of the actual production in the April to
December period with that in the corresponding period of the
preceding year shows that there was a considerably great in-
crease in production in most branches with only such few ex-
ceptions as cotton yarn, rayon fabrics, lumber, railway passen-
ger cor, tc. The following are the branches which showed
large increase,

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.98)
Railway freight car
5.3 (cr by 4.3 times
incrsase)
Aluminum
2.7
Caustic soda
2.5
Ordinary finished steel 2.2
Rayon yarn
2.2
Bicycle
2.1
Fig iror
2.0
Sods ash
1.5
Electrolytic
copper
1.8
Truck
1.6
Ship
1.6
Cement
1.6
Ordinary paper
1.5
Ammoniur sulphate
1.5
Cotton fabrics
1.4
Carbide
1.4
Zinc
1.4
Pyrites
1.4
Sulphuric acid
1.3
Calctum cyanamide
1.2
Calcium superphosphate
1.2
The rate of inerease in the above table may not necesearily
reflect the actual state of industry as the produetion in
the preeeding year itself was extremely unbalanced and

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
abnormal. It is to be noted, however, that the processing
of imported materials (iron and steel, aluminum, soda, etc.)
and the production of related industry (railway freight car,
ship, truck, rayon yarn, etc.) are among the branches which
showed great increase.
As seen above, the textile industry showed a relatively
slow recovery on account of the stalemate of the cotton spin-
ning industry caused by the insufficient import of raw cotton
end the lack of purchasing power in the foreign markets, while-
the metal, chemical, mchinery and other industries showed
marked increases as seen in the follcwing table.
Industrial Production Indices by industries
(1930-34100)
Min-
Tex-
Metal Machi- Cera-
Chemi- Food
1ng
tiles
nery
mics
cal
Apr.-
Dec.
1947(A) 87.1 19.9 38.4 45.2 46.0
48.8
44.5
11
1948(B)100.5 24.2 71.1 76.4 65.4
78.1
60.2
B/A(8) 115122 186 169 142
160
135
As to the textile industry, not only its rate of increase
in production but also the production level itself is low, thus
Iowering the general production index as it occupies 45% in
the weight of the 1930-34 general index. Excluding textile
industry from the general index, the monthly production index
1n December last reached 96% of the 1930-34 level.
Industrial

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
Ipdustrial Production Index Excluding
Textile Industry
(1930-34= 100)
Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan 
1947(A) 54.0 57.958.8 58.8 59.9 63.3 63.9 62.5 67.8 644
1948(B).71.8 75.2 78.4 81.3 81.8 89.3 90.6.90.2 96.0
BA 132 130 134 138 137 141 141 144 142
b. Causes of production increase.
(a) Improved supply of fuel and power.
The production of coal and the generation of eleq
tricity in the months April to December last year were 12i and
105% respectively of those in the corresponding period of the
ceding year, and the allocations of coal and electric power to min
ing and manufacturing industries were 138% and ll0% respectiwely
As to the electric power supply, a marked decresse
was experienced in the hydro power generation during the summer
and autumn seasons 1m 1947. However, due to an exceptional inereasm
in river-water during the last autumn and winter, the hydro powen
genemetion has come up to 135% of the average level. Furthermore.
the thermal power generation is encouraging owing to an increaged
supply of coal, thus resulting in a great improvement in the eled-
tric power supply. At the same time, due to the rationalization
of electricity consumption, the electricity requirement per unit
of output has become less, thus rendering the rate of production
increase greater than that of electrieity supply imerease.

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
(1930-34-100)
F.Y.
F.Y.
1948(C)
1946(A) 1947(B) (Apr.-
B/A
C/B
Dec.)
Production index f min-
ing and manufacturing
industries
35.5
43.1
57.0
121
132
Electricity Funeration
index.
161.C 178.0 201.0 110 113
(b) Incronsed import of row materials.
The imports of iren re and coal which had been
prectically ni1 in 1947 werc 410,(10 tons and 980,000 tons res-
pectively in 1948, resulting in the increase in iron and steel
production.
The sme is true with the import of salt for soda
industry. The impcrt of salt in 1947 was 820, 000 tons while it .
was 1,18(,((( tons in 1948. The chemical fibre industry and
other industries which use sode prcspered as a result. The
three-fold increase in aluminum production was caused by the
increased import of bauxite. Meanwhile the import of raw cotton.
in the ronths April to Cctober of last year was 74, 000, 00c Ibs.
or 91% of the import in the corresponding period of the preced-
ing year, which was one of the reasons why the cotton indust
remained stalemate.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.97)
- ? -
(c) Improvement of transportation.
The goal of railway transportation for F.Y. 1948
is 130,000,000 tons. The volume of transportation in the months
April to December of 1ast year was 95,900,00( tons 1.e.- 97.5%
of the goal of the period and 13% over the transportetion in the
corresponding period of the preceding year. The increase was even
greater with respect to maritime transportation. The domestic
transportation by steam-bbats in the months April to December of
last year was 9,970, 000 tons or 117% of the target and 61% more
than that in the preceding year. The increase in merine trans-
portation of ccal was especially remarkable, showing an effective
shifting of coal trensportation from land to ses.
(a) other causes.
One of the other causes was the decreased demand of
the occupation Forces: In caee of coal, for instance, the allo-
cation for the Occupation Forces diminished to 3.0s of the entire
supply in the months April to December of last year, compared .
with 4,6% in the corresponding period of the preceding yeer. As
to cement, the demand was only 11£ of the entire supply in the
months April to December of last year, compared with 66 in the
corresponding period of the preceding year.
Further causes which increased the produetion were
he improvement of labor efficiency and stability indaced by the

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.97)
- 10 -
improved food situation end the rise in real wages as ststed
below. The effect of the price revision in July last year is
clearly observed in the increased production of, for exemple,
non-ferrous metals and others. The release of stock of mete-
riels following the upward price revision no doubt gave favorable
effect upon production.
c. Bumper crop of major egricultural products.
The major egricultural production has surpassed the
production in the prece ling year by about lc& due to the favorable
weather and the incrcased supply of fertilizer and agricultural
implements. The production increase of wheat and sweet potatoes
was especially remarkable. The bumper crops in the three con-
secutive years of 1946, 1947 and 1948 no doubt contributed a
great deal to the recovery of the Japênese economy.
Unit
1948(A) 1947(B) A/B
Rice
10,000 koku
6,234
5,865
106
Wheat
11
1,947
1,496
122
Sweet potatoes
1,000,000 kan
1,617
1,177
136
Potatoes
572
584
98
Total
In.terms of rice,
10.000koku
9.054
8.128

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
The delivery has also been very satisfactory. The ratio
of delivery to the collection quota at the end of December as
compared with previous 2 years was as follows:-
1946
1947
1948
Rice
58%
68
83
Wheat
.90
108
106
Sweet potatoes
70
74
107
Potatoes
81
108
115
The delivery of rice reached its planned goal on 17th
February of this year and the ever-quota delivery is also
being made steadily. The reasons are that the delivery price
including various incentives approached the level of the
blackmarket price, that the pre-planting allocation caused
farmers to prepare for delivery, that the blackmarket pro-
fit has been reduced due to the improvement of the urban food
situation, and that farmers were forced to deliver their pro-
ducts on account of the cash shortage caused by the ise in
tax and prices of farmor's
necessities.
(2) Slowing down of inflation.
a. Indices showing the slowing down.
The Bank of Japan note issue which did not underg
much change in the first six months began to inerea
July and reached ¥ 355,300,000,000 by the end of De

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
12-
The monthly rate of increase, however, is lower than that of
the preceding year as shown below, and the increaae in a year
of 1948 was 62% as compared with 135% of 1947. As to. the
1ssuance during each month, normal pattern is gradually re-
appearing i.e. the issuance decreased in the early part of
the month and increased in the latter part of the month.
Month-end issue
Percentage in-
Percentage
of Bank of Japan
crease over the
increase over
note
preceding month
the preceding
month in the
preceding year
April 1948
¥ 220.4 billion
0.8
5.8
May
223.5
1.4
6.0
June
230.6
3.2
5.1
July
241.4
4.7
5.4
August
254.2
5.3
4.8
September
262.1
3.1
3.8
October
279.5
6.6
7.3
November
294.7
5.4
6.2
December
355.3
20.6
23.0
January 1949
341.5
3.5
0.5
February
322.4
5.5
1.2
The blackmarket price which had tended to be stagnant
since about August 1947 has almost been pegged at the level
60% higher than the 1947 average as to the productive materiais

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
and 8o% higher as to the consumer's goods on account of the
aforementioned currency situation, increase of production,
elimination of delayed or dishonored rationing, reduction of
blackmarket margin caused. by price revision, etc. While the
rate of price rise of productive materials was greater than
that of consumer's goods in the preceding year, the rate of
price rise of the latter was greater in the first half of
1948 as price of staplc food and other consumer's goods show-
ed seasonal rise while the price rise of productivo materials
were less remarkable because of the increase in production
and the difficult financial condition of enterprises.
The official price was almost doubled from June to
November. The difference between the official and bIackmarket
prices was,thereby greatly reduced, and in some instances the
blackmerket prices became even lower than the official prices.
The consumers' priee index (CPI) which had gradually come
to be stagnant sinee August 1947, keeping pace with the black-
market price, rose temporarily around July and August due to
the revision of the official price, but the rising tempo be-.
came slow thereafter due to the increase of the staple food
rationing and other favourable circumstances.

=== Page 280 === (confidence 1.00)
-14-
Official price
Blackmarket price
Effective
index
index
price index
Bank of
Bank of
Bank of
Bank of
Statis-
Japan;
Japan;
Japan;
Japan;
tics
Tokyo-
Tokyo-
Tokyo-
Tokyo-
Bureau;
wholesale Retail
Productive
Consumer's CPI(Tokyo)
materials
goods
April
187
210
158
164
166
May
189
219
157
173
164
June
-196
222
158
186
187
July
275
277
158
191
200
August
331
336
160
183
208
September
356
383
162
183
209.
October
375
409
161
184
199
November
404
428
164
185
217
December
408
430
165
189
225
b. Reasons for the slowing down.
(a)
Improvement in the fiscal and monetary situations.
The scale of the General Account for 1948fiscal
year is ¥473,100,000,000, or 2.2 times as big as that for the
s fiscal year while tax ollection through last December
preceding
was as much as 50% of the target, a substantial increase al-
though not suffielent by any means, as compared with 33% in
the corresponding period of the
fiscal year The exce-
preceding
ssive disbursements in the period from April through Decembe
last year was 40.5 billion yen as against 40.9 bili1on

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
in the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal. year;
which is a good improvement if we consider the expansion of
budgetary scale for r948 fiscal year as against that for" the
 fiscal year. In the Epecial accounts, the net increase
preceding
in bond issue and borrowing in the period from April through
December last year runs as high as ￥ 139,400,000,000, or 2.7
times as much as that in the corresponding period of thereceding
fiscal year. This, coupled with the increase of bond issue
for local finance, eccounts for the expánsion of total' excessive
disbursements in pullic financ for 1948 fiscal year as much
as 2 times as agoinst that in the
fiscal year. However,
preceding
the increase in excessive disbursements in the Special Accounts
is mainly attributable to the increase of payments for the
delivery of rice quotas. Out of the total excessive disburse-
ments in the Special Accounts in the period from April through
December 1947, ¥ 28,700,000,000 1s attributed to the Spec1a1
Account for Food Control while the excessive disbursements
attributed to the said Special Account in the corresponding
period of 1948 run as high as ¥ 90,000,000,000. The excessive
disbursements of this kind are to be collected in due time.
Furthermore, inasmuch as the long term bonds in 1948 were
fully absorved, the aforementioned excess disbursement in
the Speciel Account did not takerthe form of note issuance
in its entirety. If we consider such factor as this, we
may conclude thet the issuance of bank notes/has been more
/for public
restrained than in the
fiscal yeer.
financial reasons
preceding
Although

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
16
Although the increase in industrial fimance in the april
June period remained comparatively small, following the revi
sion of official prices in July, loans particularly from general
financial institutions expanded sharply, and the- total industrial
loans in the period from April through December run as high as
¥293,100,000,000, or 2.6 times as much as thet in the corres-
ponding pericd of the
fiscal year. The greatest reason
preceding
why the rate of currency expansion has decreased as previously
stated in spite of such large exdessive disbursements as stated
above in both public finance and money market is thet general
deposits have increased substantially. The amount of general
deposits hes increased steadily month by month and especially
since August the rate of increase has been conspicuous.
Thus, the increase in general deposits in the period from April
through December runs as high as ¥ 306,500,m00,00, or 3 times
as against that in the corresponding period of the
fiscal
preceding
year. Such increase in deposits as stated above is mainly
explained as follows:
(a) People's will to save has been enhanced since
last year by such factors as the shrinkage of blackmarket eco-
nomy, slowing down of fnflation, etc.
(b) Enterprises have been inclined to deposit
greater part of their cash in hand.
Querterly

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
Quarterly demands and supplies of funds are shown in the
ing table and the ratio of public finance as against indust
finance (40% to 60%) is somewhat decreased as compared with
that in the
precedfngcal year.
(in 100 million yen)
1948
B.1947
Apr,-Jun.
Jul.-Sept. Oct.-Dec. Total
Apr.-Dec
I. Fund Demand
614
1,325
2,787
4,726
2,087
2.3
1. Public
Finance
141
409
1,425
1,975
958
2.0
National
64
339
1,255
1,658
931
1.7
Local
77
70
170
317
27
11.7
2. Industrial
Finance
553
1,016
1,362
2,931
1,429
2.5
R.F.B.
166
158
191
515
381
1.3
3. Duplicstion
#80
*100
0
180.
ó
(Government Investment
in RFB)
Fund Supply
528
936
1,8753,3391,055
3.1
1. Increase in
General Deposits
394
1,069
1,602
3,065
1,014
3.0
2. Other Deposits 87
140
290
457
149
3.0
3. Capitelization of
Financial Institnions
and Increase of eash
in hand()
47
273
43
183
x108
x1.7
III. Shortege of funds
I-II
86
389
912
1,389
1,032
1.3
IV.
Currency Expansion
118
315
931
1,362
1,033
1.3
Revolving
Rate
II/I 85%
70%
675
70%
50%

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
(b) Increased supply of materials, especially of
rations.
The increase in production as stated above increas
ed the supply of productive materials and consumer's goods, theré
by contributing to the slowing down of inflation. In particular
the full rationing of staple food in the seasonal deficit .period
the 2.7 go retioning since November, the increase in supplement-
ary rationing to the workers, etc. are the contributing: factors
to the slowing down of infletion.
According to the consumer's price survey, (Tokyo),
the percentage of the physical volume of rationed staple-food
in the volume staple food purchase by household was only 57%
in July 1947 when the delay and dishonor of rationing was worst
but it has improved to sbout 70%-80% recently.
(c) Increase in psychological stability.
The shrinkage of blackmarket and the slowing down
of price rise have given e sense of stability to the general publie.
The weakening of rush for goods, enhancement of the will to save,
increased activity of capital market, relative decrease in cash
transaction-- these contributed to the slowing down of inflation.
It is noteworthy that such sound circulation has come to be seen.

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
9-19-
(3) Rise in real wages.
a. Movement of wages.
The movement of the national average per capits
monthly wages of industrial employees as shown in the "Monthly
Labour Statistics" of the Ministry of Labour is as follows.
1547
Jan.-Mar.
jun.
Oct.Nov. Dec.
average
1948
Wages of in-
dustrial employees
(A)
1,819 yen 3,050 4,395 6,574 6,921 9,038
Index of above
100
168
242
361
381
497
Consumer's effective
price (all eities)
(B)
100
158
239
Real wages(6'/B) 100
104132176171205
Note: A' is the index of A tax deducted. Sharp rise in Doo
was caused by year-end bonus.
While the average nominal wages increased from ¥ 1,819 1n 1947
to y 6,921 or 3.81 times as high by November 1948, the price 1evel
went up during the same period only 2.27 times so that the reei
wages went up by 70%.
It is to be noted, however, that "Monthly Labour Statisties"
is based on the research mainly in large enterprises (all plants
and work pleces with more than l00 employees and 10% of plants
and work plsces with not less than 30 noremore than 99 employees)
and that the movement of wages in the smaller enterprises is not
represented therein. The real wages above-mentioned denote tho
mainly large enterprises.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.97)
b. Reasons for the rise in real wages.
The rise in real wages is attributed to the fact
the nominal wages rose by demands of labour unions more than
the price level did and is examined in détails below.
(a) Demand of household budget.
The wages rose to 3.2 times during the half year
period immediately after the war. Since then the rate of rise
bas steadily been 8 to 9% every month (1.6 times in half a year
2.8 times in a year) regardless of the pace of price rise.
The remarkable rise in nominal wages was due to
the fact that the real wages in the immediate post-war period
level and there has been very
was emtraordinary low
strong demand from the household economy for the wage rise.
While the curve of price rise was sharp, however, the rise in
wages necessarily lagged behind the price rise. As the tempo
of price rise gradually slowed down, the real wages gradually
increased, especially after August 1947. The tempo of the rise
in real wages has recently been remarkable.
(b) Changes in income distribution.
The slowing down of inflation reduced the inflation
income in favor of the earned income This is one of the import-
ant reasone why the price level remained stagnant in spite of the
rise in nominal wages. The household budget of the working
class showed some 30% 1mprovement in the last one year while the
1191

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
level of consumption of the urban ordinary household inap
remained practically unchanged. It is to be noted also tha
the decrease in income of the rural population contributed to
the improvement of the reel wages of the urben workers. As
státed below, the widening gap in wages in'the large enter
prises and those in the medium and small enterprises served
to raise the real wages as seen in the "Monthly Labour Stati-
tics!
(c) Capecity of enterprises to pay wages.
The changes of wages as seen from the accounting
of enterprise are as follows.
1947
Jan.-Mar.Apr.-Jun. Jul.-Sept. Oct. Hov. Dec
average
1948
1948
1948
1948 1948 1948
Average per
capita wages
(A)
.100
168
217
299
361 381 497
Volume of employ-
ment (B)
100
100
101
104
106
107 106
Volume of produc-
tion(c)
100
129
169
221
216
222 228
Weges per unit of
products (AB/C)100130
130
241
176 183 230
(Note: "Volume of production" 1s production index computed
with the weight of 1547 average wage payment by industry groups
as compiled 1a the "Monthly Labour Statistics" of the Ministry
of Labour. The purpose of using such weight is to contrast the
production

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
production with wages. This production index, therefore
different from the ordinary index based on the weight of
industrial structure. It is to be noted also that the
e1b
of medium and small enterprises is very small due to the afor
mentioned nature of "Monthly Labour Statistics.")
The average per capito wage in November 1948 was 3.8 times as
high as the 1947 average.  The production roughly doubled during
the same period without much change in the amount of employment.
That is to say, the labour productivity increased at a rate
roughly similer to the rate of production increase, so that
the wage per unit product increased by only 80% over the 1947
average. It was only 30 to 40% rise tili around September
last year. Meanwhile, the official price was doubled in. June
compared with the 1947 average and was raised to es much as.
4 tiwes by November. The ffeetive price of productive materials
was 1.6 times and 3.0 times as high respectively. The capacity
of enterprises to pay, therefore, relatively increased in spite
of the rapid rise in per capita wages, thus making it possible
to sustain the wage rise.
c.. Effect of the rise in real wages.
(a) Rise in consumption level.
According to the research in the household budget
of the working class in Tokyo-to made by the Tokyo-to government,
the consumption level of October-November 1948 was by over 30
higher than the 1947 average.

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
1947Jan.-Mer. Apr.-Jun. Jul.-Sept
average 1945
1948
1948
Household expenditure
(A)
100
164
207
257
283
Consumer's effective
price (B)
100
148
172
206
209
Real household ex-
penditure (h/B)
(consumption level) 100
111
120
125
132
Again, as seen in the following table, the household expenditure of
the working cless is apprcaching the household expenditure of the
general urban population in the "Tokyo-to Consumers' Price Survey
(CPs) (Both in terms of household of 4.5 members).
1947 average
Jul.-Sept,1948 0ct,-Nov.1948
Household expenditure
of working class(A)
4,120 yen
10,449
11,544
Household expenditure of
urban population(CPS)
5.357
10,454
11.,705.
A/B
77%
100%
99
(b) Improvement of housenold budget.
As was stated in the Report on Japanese Economi
Conditions published in May, 1947, in the household budget of
working class, the
igcome occupied 20% of the whole
supplementaly
income in 1947, but that porcentage was reduced to 10% by
September 1348 to the improvement of the income composition.
The household deficit averaging 7 per cent in 1947 also de
creased and the balance has been almost restored since y 1948.
(g)

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.96)
- 24 -
(c) Improvement of labour efficiency.
Such rise in real woges and improvement of living
standard and household economy naturally increased labour stabi-
lity and rate of sttendance, thereby increesing labour efficiency.

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
-25 -
3. Actual Situation Underlying the Superficial Improvement
The Japanese economy has shown some improvements in the
past few years, as seen in rising production level and real
wages, slowing down of inflation, etc., but we should not
forget the fact that there are various draw-backs behind
these superficial fevourable phenomena, e.g., (1) accumulat-
ion of import surplus, (2) whittling down of actuel assets
of enterprise caused by unsound management, (3) depletion
of national wealth by devastation of natural resources,,and
(4) stalemate in standard of living.
(1) Accumulation of import surplus.
a. Outline of export and import
According to the returns on export and. import in terms
of U.S. dollar since January 1948, import inereased by 30 per
cent in monthly average against that in the corresponding period
'f 1947, while the monthly export in the January-Apri1 remained.
only 65ß0 per cent of the monthly average in 1947. However, the
xports recovered to 100 per cent in May and June, 170-180 in
July-September and as high as 324§ in December. On an yearly
basis, the exports in 1948 reached a level 49% higher than that
in 1947, However, the surplus imports amount to 420 m1llion
dollars and are still increasing.

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
Trade Balance since War End
(in 1,C00 U.S. dollars)
Export
Import
Import excess
War End-End of 1946
103,292
305,393
202,101
1947
173,568
526,130
352,562
258.621 682.612
423,991
1948
Ratio of average export and import in 1948 against
average export and import in 1930-34 in terms of present
dollar price is 343% in import and only 13.5% in export.
A comparison of the scale of our foreign trade in 1947
with that of other an Eastern countries will tell how small
our.export has been since the end of the ar' as shown in the
following table.
1947
1936
Export
Import
Export
Import
Japan
4173
526
1,037
1,053
Phil1ppines 266
608
81
60
China
239
656
125
217
Maraya
611
643
217
175
Hongkong
313
390
108
139
Siam
93
135
81
49
India
1,143
1,521
410
276
Netherlands East
India
128
202
109
(in 1,000 000 U.6. dol1ars)

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
The following table shows, for reference, the export and
import from Jsnuary through
1948 broken down by mein
September
categuries as compared with that of 1947 and 1934.
As you can see in the table, the weight of each export
category has almost recovered to prewar level, but that of
import shows  remarkable increase in "Foodstuff" category
'eompared wit that in the prewar year (though that of
1948 (Jen.-Sept.:47.0) decreased compared with that of
1947:58.4). That means import weight of producticn mate
riels and meterials for export has become relatively small.
Export (in 1,C00 U.S. dollars)
1948(Jan.-Sept.)
1947 Percentage
in 1934
Aquatic Products
Canned Food (incl.
Fats and Cil)
7,179(4.7)
5,717(3.3)
(7.9)
Leather and Hide Goods
4,246(2.8)
345(0)
Chemicel and Rubber
Goods
8,938(5.9)
4,749(2.8)
(4.8)
Textile
85,976(56.6) 133,499(76.5) (58.4)
Mine Products, Ceramics
and Metal Goods
22,483(14.8)
14,039(7.8)
(9.4)
Machineries and
Instruments
8,652(5.7)
7,073(4.1)
(5.8)
Miscellaneous Goods
(incl.lumber and paper)
14,577(9.6)
8,146(4.7) (13.7)
Total
152.051(100)123.568(100)(100)

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
28
Import (in 1,OC0 U.S. dollar)
1948(Jan.-Sept.) 1947Percentage
in 1934
Foodstuff
241,630(49.0)
307,436(58.4) (7.6)
Fats and Cil
8,592(1.7)
5,130(1.2) (6.6)
Chemical Products
and Rubber
42,059(8.2)
80,132(15.4) (2.5)
Textiles
124,294(24.2)
82,823(15.7)(43.0)
Lumber and Paper
1,522(0.3)
1,780(c.3), (3.4)
Mine Products, Ceramics,
Metals and Machineries
80,421(15.7)
48,414(9.2),(28.6)
Hide and Leather
3,543(0.6)
221(0)
(0.9)
Others
11,173(2.2)
194(0)
(7.4)
Total
513,144(100)
526,130(100)
(100)
Note: Trades with Korea and Formose are excluded from
"Percentage in 1934"
Turning to the export and import situation by areas, it
is shown in the teble below. It shows that the trades with
mon-dollar area are balanced because barter or bilateral settle-
ment agreements are adopted or while the balance of trede with
dollar area is unfavorable, The eonclusion of these agree-
ments is meinly responsible for recent export increase, and
for thet reason it is gratifying. But it must be noticed

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
that we are still far from the stage in which, as in pre-war
days, our surplus import from dollar area is effect by sur
plus export to sterling area.
. Export and Import by Areas (in 1,O00 U.S. dollars)
1948
1947
1948(Jan.-Sept.)
Amount
Ratio
Ratio
Ratio
Ex.
Im.
Ex.
Im.
Ex.
U.S.A.
42,400
341,700 27,9% 66.5% 11.6% 91.9% 18.4 34.2
Other American
5.2 3.5
72,000 1.4 14.1
Countries 2,200
Asia & Aus-
68.8 5.9 57.5 45.6
75,200 76,000 49.4 14.8
tralia
Eurppe and
32,300 23,300 21.2 4.5 19.2 2.2 18.9 16.2
Africe
b. Factors causing surplus import.
(a) Low level of export,
Our export. in the first half of 1948 was very dis-
comaging. One of the reasons is the lack of free exchange of
currencies. Äs the free exchange between U.S. dollar and sterl-
ing has been suspended again, sterling area countries have re»
stricted their imports, for fear of having surplus import,
from Japan, Textiles, in particular, which used to be our
major exports ceased to be so as foreign countries limited
their imports to foodstuffs. and basic materials with the

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
-30
result that stock for export amounted to a volume equivaio
to several months production. On the other hand, the export
of basic materials for which there were demand from foreign
countries has been limited because of unsatisfactory recpvery
of their production and heavy demand for domestic reconst-
ruction. Furthermore unsatisfactory supply of materials
and funds for export industries, lack of information regard
ing overseas market conditions, too. much complicated export
procedures, deteriorated quality of commodities resulting
in less competitive capacity in worid market, etc. contribut-
ed to the unusally small export. However, as mentioned above
since July last export situation has much improved and the.
total export in 1948 C.Y. is estimated at 258 million dollars,
49% increase over that in the preceding year. This export
increase in the latter half of 1948 is considered to be
attributable to the conclusion of trade agreemenbs with Britrs
Commonwealth of Netions, Netherlands, etr hich made bilateral
settlement without directly using dollars possible, steady
rehabilitation of indigenous production and emooth price ratio
operation.
It is needless to point out that the recent import inarease
1s only in relation to the export in the first half of the year
and the present export has by no means obtained a satiafactory
dimension.

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
-31
Comparison between production-and export during the peri
of January through September 1948 on the one hand and those
1937 on the other is shown in the following table, which al
indicates that present export of all the commodities except
cotton fabrics is of very small dimension.
Rate of
Rate of
Ratio of export
production
Ex.port
against pro-
recovery in
recovery
duction
Jan.-Sept.1948 for the
1937
1948
against month- sume per-
(monthly.,(Average
ly average of ióds
average) for Jan-
1937
Sept.)
Steel
21.4%
0.3%
17.1%
0.2%
Amm.Sulphate
111.5
13.7.
20.2
2.5
Cement
30.2
2.0
17.4
1.6
Sheet Glass 42.6
11.9
13.4
3.7
Raw Silk
19.2
12.9
64.9
43.6
Cotton Yarn 19.1
15.0
4.2
3.3
Rayon Yarn11.4
6.7
17.7
10.4
Cotton Fabries
18.4
25.5
32.9
45.7
The above decline in export was caused by the neceseity
to satisfy minimum home requirements under the present Iow
level of production. But at present when the 1mprovement of
trade balance by the increase of export has become e para
necessity it would not be said that there is no further
to increase export by production inerease and
consumption.

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.98)
-32-
(b) Other factors.
It is needless to say that increase in import
and the export slump are the direct causes of import surplus,
but there is hardly any room for reducing import as it is
limited to only minimum necessities. But it cannot be denied
that the lack of information on overseas market, etc. tend
somewhat to increase the amount of import.,
Worldwide rise in price should not be overlook-
ed as one of the factors for big increase of. import surplus
as compared with the. prewar time. (wholesale price in U.S.
A. in June 1948 was 2.9 times that in 1933). When 1mport.
and. export are well balanced, the effect of high price could
be nullified, but as it is, it would increase only the import
excess.
The more important factor is the unfavourable
trade terms. Rates in price rise in import items are higher
than those in export iteme, Particularly, this is the case
with foodstuff which occupies major part of imports. Whole-
sale commodity price index in U.S.A. shows that agricultural
commodity prlee in June 1948 was about 3.8 times that in
1933, 1n contrast with 2s1 times rise in non-agricultural
commodities,
The increase of shipping charges is also one
of the main factors for import surplus
The present
age of shipping charges in the CIF priçe of impot

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
-33
1s 82% in salt from the Mediteranean, 56% in crude ci1 and
37% in coel from U.S.A. and 30% in iron ore from Hainen Island.
The total freight charge in 1948 is estimated at
more than 100 million U.S. dollars out of the import of 700
million U.s. dollars.
(2) Unsound management of enterprise.
a. . Real state of unsoundness.
Postwer economic polioy has. been focussed on overcom-
ing'under-production and prevention of catastrophic infla-
tion. To attein this objective, it has become inevitable to
enforce production increase in disregard of profitability
of enterprise and low price policy at the expense of maint-
enance of real capital of enterprise. The fact that such
a'policy has been continuously adopted after·destructive war
economy together with the lack of will to make an independ-
ent and efficient management on the part of entrepreneurs
has undermined seunness and self-support of enterprise.
(a) Inadeqnate amortization.
Whittling down of real assets of enterprise is due
on the one hand, to the actual shortage of capital accumula-
tion in the hard up economy and on the other, to the treat-
ment of amortization under the existing tax law.

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.98)
34.
At present when the asscts acouired in the past
are very much under-valued through the progress of inflation
under-amortization will result from the applic tion of the
existing tax lew which stipulates a fixed raté of depreciation
against the old book value of the assets. Furthermore, inade
quate amortization is attributable to the low price policy
which, as a principle, does not permit to incorporate into
official price more than a fixed amount of amortization based
: . on the old book value of the assets.
The foliowing table shows the comparison between
the prevailing amortization and the amortization to be made
in case assets are reappraised at current price in main in-
dustries.
Ratio of amortization against total cost
At book value(A) At current price(B) Ratio of (B)
against_(A)
Iron & Steel
A Co.
0.132%
4.20%
32.9 times
B.Co.
0.070
2.05
29.7
C Co.
0.235
4.59
44.8
Machine Mfg
A.CO
0.467
12.65
30.9
B.CO,
0.230
4.97
21.5

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.97)
35
At book value(k) At current price(B) Ratio of
(B) against
Automobile yfg.
0.550
9.32
19.7
A CO.
Paper Mfg.
0.396
7.89
20.8
A CO.
Ship Bldg.
A.CO
0.300
7.80
28.8
29.5
B CO.
Electricity
N1ppatsu·& 9
1.372
41.53
51.2
Haiden Co.
table, present amortization is only
As is shown in the
above
about one thirtieth of that which would be made sgainst current
price. This means a virtual saspension of amortipation. The
ratio of amortization based on current price to total cost is
between 5 and 10 percent, as is also shown in the above teble,
excepting such industry as electricity whose capital expense
is exceptionally large.
It is imaginable that enteeprises would not leave
their real assets to marttle away but that they take some steps
for the maintenance of their capital by verious manipulation
in book kmering, etc. But the guestion lies in that these
manipulations can only be made by allegal methods.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
(b) Lccumulation of deficit loan and borrowings.
Another indication of unsoundness of. enterprise
management is the accumulation of deficit loan. lthough such
loan is to be restricted drastically in accordance with the
"Three Principles" which became effective since the end of
1948, the amount of deficit loan in.the total PFB loan 1s
estimated at 18,700 million yen of which loan to coal in-
dustry alone amounts to 12,600 million yen at theyend of
-cember 1948.
Moreover, the. composition of capital in enterprise
shows that the borrowed money is too big compared with its own
capital. Inability of enterprises to enlarge their own capital
and their dependence upon bprrowed money are important'causes
for the loss of soundness and independence of enterprisesi
(c) Huge amount of price adjustment expenditure.
A. huge amount of price adjustment expenditure for
key industries has also to be considered as a sign of unsound
enterprise.
In the 1948 budget (including supplementary budget),
the price adjustment expenditure amount to 62,500 million yen
or 13 percent of the Generel ccount expenditure. In case
37,200 milion yen which was transferred from General Account

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.98)
37-
to Special Lccounts for Railways and Communications es well
as 6,500 million yen for subsidy to the Civil Merchant Marine
Corporation are added thereto, the total amount will be 22
percent of the General Account expenditure. The price adjust-
ment subsidy per unit of products under safety band assumes,
as is shown below, xtremely large proportions in th total
cost.
Articles
Bare Consumer's B.Subsidy per C. Consumer's
price x 1
ton
pricé
Coal(Special
1,000
70%
234%
¥3,344
2,344
price)2
Pig Iron
15,080
9,930
5,150
65
193
For forging
11,480
3,600
76
320
Others
16,299
15,400
51
106
Ordinary Steel 31,699
181,060
79,046
102,04
77
Copper
Soda Ash
22,789
11,684
11,:05
51
105
Liquid Caustic
11.07
18.702
32
29,719
Soda
22,734
9.940
12.794.
89
Ammonium
Note: xl
Bere consumer's price denotes the sum total of
producer's pmice and freight and other charges, which, is the
absence ofsubsidy constitutes consumer's price:
*2 The general consumer's price of coal is 3/344.86
But for the coal to be supplied to the five basic industhis
price is kept by subsidy.

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.97)
-38
Such subsidies have become necessary by factor
for which enterprises should not be held responsible e.g
low price policy of the Government, low operational rate of
industry, change in raw material supply conditions, ete
nevertheless, these subsidies will constitute a difficuit
question in the alignment of internal and international prie
levels through the esteblishment of a single exchenge rate.
(d) Increased ratio of labor cost.
The fact that the proportion of labor cost has
increased considerably in the total cost is elso en important
factor for unsound management from the viewpoint of profit-
ability of enterprise. This is due to such factors as decline
in operational rate, deterioration of mechanical quipments,
low technicel level and will to work, etc In other words,
it shows that labor productivity bas declined in greaterrrate
than that of decrease in rei wages.
The folloring table shows some examplee of the
ratio of labor cost to total cost.
Sept. 1948
Prewar
eer
27%
7%
Motor
38
27
Fehicle
54
25
sm1p
43
22
Pu1p
28
43
Raw Silk
32
13
Coal
20

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.98)
89
b. Turning point for sound management
Such unsound management as mentioned above shourd
be allowed to continue indefinitely. In fact, new factora in
management of enterprises can be seen since last year, point
toward sounder management.
For instance, as has been mentioned in connection with
the improvement of real wages, better conditions of manager
have been brought about by raising operational rate in eamential
industries and the upward revision of official price. In con
nection with this, resumption of capital accumulation in some
enterprises is reported. It should not be ignored that, in
proportion as the stock market becomes active,' a way hos
been opened for the raising of own capital and the capital
compeoition of enterprises is getting improved. They are,
however, improvements in a relative sense and it is.undoubt-
edly fer from being really sound management. Furthermore,
manipulations such as raising of official price, grent of
subsidy, deficit financing, etc., which have so far temporrily.
concealed or postponed various mahagerial contredictions in-
herent in enterpr1ses heve now reeched their limit through
the narrowing of gáp between urficial price and blackmarket
price levels and the reguirament of the Three Principles for
enterprise. It 16 mow the high time that in congunction with
the setting up of a single exchange rate, the rationalisstion
of enterprises and their selfesupport be energetically ps

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.98)
- 40.-
In relation thereto, tax laws concerring business enter
prises should be reconsidered from various viewpoints. por exem
with regard to the corporation tax, the ratio of income to the
capital in the case of an old company whose capital is booked
at the old money value will be much grester than that of a new
company, thus resulting in an unreasonably únbalanced taxation
between them. ,In case the price differential profit levy is
imposed on the normal running stock, the reacquisition of liqu
assets would become difficult, thus penalizing the industries,
for the products of which official prices have been set up.
In order to realize the. self-support of enterprise and to let
them have a sufficient competitive power in international market,
care should be taken to the maintenance and expansion of pro-
ductive power. These problems require to be reconsidered from
the long range point of view in conjunction with the problem
of amortization.
c. Limit of self-support.
It should be noted, however, that there is a certain
limit on self-support of entermime, Industries can be clas-
sified from the standpoint of self-support into three categories;
1 d) industries which, even when left unprotected, can become
self-supporting and stand international competition, (11) in-
dustries which can become self-supporting in future, if temporpry
protection is given, (iii) industries which have no posaibili
of becoming self-support.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.97)
As regards (i) no harm will be done if sclf-suppoi
policy be enforced but (ii) and (iii) above may require dif
trestment. It will be necessary that some temporory proteat
be given to maintain such industries as are now temporsrily
hendicapped under the extraordinery post-wer conditions thro
the extreme deterioretion of operational rate, wear and tear
equipments and drastic change in raw materials conditions.
essy-going protective policy will, of course, not be allowed in
view of the spirit of the International Trade Charter. But it
will be necessary to set aside an indiscriminate application of
a uniform method and, taking into consideration the prospective
pattern of Japan's industrial structure, to prepare such count-
ermeasures as will meet the requirements of individual industries.
(3) Deterioration of National Land and Depletion of National
Wealth.
a. Cumulative increase of disaster
Almost no efforts to.conserve or maintain: national land
heve been made during the war and subsequent infle tion period wi
the resultapt eumulative increase of disasters, For instan
flood demages are estimated as follows.
(La 1111on'Yen)
In terms of 1946
Flood control
expanse
officialPrice
1944
183
1y118
1945
979
1946
1947
1948

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.97)
-42
The damages done by floods to agricultural. products
housing, household articles, etc. are estim ted to be fer more
than the direct damages done to river constructions shown alove
Thus, every one will understand how huge proportion of national
wealth is being lost annually by、floods. In additicn to the
national damages stated above, veterrent effects on prodnction
activities such as agricultural production and transportation
resulting from recurrent floods cen not be overlooked. Total
damages to rivers, farm lands, forestry and harbours in 1948
. fiscal year amount to 86,300 million yen and, on top of this,
rehabilitation requirement for the damages amounting to 20,200
millfon yen in the preceding year wss carried over to 1948
fiscal year. of the abbve, the total appropriation for 1948
fiscal yeer is 26,600 million yen including 18,400 million yen
in the national budget, leaving the damage mounting to 79 900
million yen unattended. As this will weaken the resistence of
land against natural disasters, even a small rain-fall would
cause flood, ggravating matural disaster such as farm land
devastation, destruction of forestry, etc. Thus.rehabilitation
of damages ceused by natural disaster is throwing. heavy burden
on the public finance, and in the appropriation for public works,
rehabilitation occupies about 35 per cent, thus necessitating
reduction of expenditures for preventive works such as mountatl

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
-43-
and flood control. This in turn is causing progressive in-
crease of disasters. On the other hand, it is also restrict
ing construction works, such as rehabilitstion of herbours
necessary to cope with the increasing foreign trade.
b. Exhaustion of forestry.
As for forestry, continuous over-cutting of.trees has
created an ever widening gap between deforested area and forested
area since 1930.
Deforested area
Aforested area
Over-cutting
1944
729,000 cho
434,000 cho
295,000 cho
1945
488,000
193,000
295.,000
1946
587,000
300,000
287,000
1947
522,000
434,000
88,000
1948
661,000
283.000
328.000
Especially forestry near villages is being almost wiped out
as timbers therefrom can more easily be transported. This
is aggravating the devastation of forestry preas near villages
which is mainly responsible for disasterm. In order to maintain
timber production while conserving forestry resources, efforts
have to be made to plant saplings and to exploit forestry in
distent mountsins heretofore neglected. Inasmuch as, however,
these efforts are not economical,..the over-cutting of forestry
near villages is still going on for lumber production.

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
-44-
.c. Underreplacement of housing.
In pre-war days, 70-80% of urban population wes living
in rented-houses, paying 17-20% of their total living expenses
as house rent. While housing expenses occupy only 4% of the
total living expenses at present becsuse of the control on
house and land rents since wer time, the rise in.construction
cost of new houses is particulsrly remarkable as compared with
th rise in other prices. Thus, the proper rent for new houses
1s as high as 25 times of the present C.P.S. rental. Such being
tr, csse, almost no new houses-to-let are being constructed.
T! e presant housing economy may be said to depend on the eating
of old rented-houses, nd the shortage of housing is one of
the deterrent factors to the advancement of labour productivity.
d. Insufficient repairing of transportation
and communic tion facilities.
The depletion of capital in railways is indicated clearly
in the foilowing steel consumption in railways.
Grand
Vehicles
Couipments
Construc-
To
Repeirs
Construc-
tion
Total Repairs tion
Total
2936
59,710
97,910 157,620 26,969 34,093. 61,062 236,682
1937
52,210
92,830 145,040 26,606 40,414 67020 212,060
2,040 115,098 17,180 13,965 31,085. 46,183
1945
13,058
1946
19,280
8,732 28,012 28,Q12 35,794 58,749
91,190
1947
25,906
4,000 29,906 29,405 31,879 61,284
948(01en)57,300
33,910 91,210 35.000 55.193

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.98)
- 45 -
As is indicated abovey the-steel consumption has been
greatly reduced as compared with that in the pre-China-Indident
period when the Government railway were operated more or less
on a normal basis. It is furthermore noted that as regards the
allocation of such small amount of steel available, the greatest
remuction is made in the repair of equipments while a comparatively
big amount is given to the repair and construction of-vehicles in
order to meet the more urgent requirement of transportation cape-.
city increase.
Although the allocation of steel for railways has
increased somewhat recently, such increases are not yet suffi-
cient to make good the effects accumulated by insufficient repairs
in the past. The e?ficiency of comaunication has extremely deelin-
ed as a result of the crippling war dameges and the unsatisfactory
maintenance. For instance, only one out of ten electric poles
requiring replacement is being actually replaced, and 30%
automatic telephone exchanges is over-aged. Thus, on 63 out of
l00 calls we will find that the line is either busy or out of
order. This, in turn, tends to extremely lower the business
efficiency. The fact that the basic factors of-ecomomiecti
vities such as railways and communications have not yet fully
fecovered from the war-damages, but are still depleting their
capital, lowers the efficiency of industrial activities and
ncreases the production cost of our exports.

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.98)
(4) Stalemete in Stindard of living.
a. Present standerd of living as compered with that
in pre-war paricd.
The Japanese people are compelled to put up with a
sustained usterity as a result of the low production level
and increased population after the. As is seen in the follow
/war.
ing tuble the recent household expenditure in Tokyo-to is
127 ti as much as ghat in pre-war period, while prices
wort up 2/4 times, with the result thet our consumption level
is less than half that in pre-war period.
1934-1936
Jul  Sept. 1988
Family expenditure(A)
100
12,700
Effective consumer's price(B)
100
7
27,400
Real household expenditure
(A/B)
100
46
Note: (a) "Household arpenditaire"
The pre-war figures are based on the survey of the
Statistics Bureau, while the post-war figures are based on the
survey of workers' hcusehold expenditure nade by the Tokyo-to
Government.
(b) "Effective consumer's price"
This is a tentative computation made on to it
ch sei fron the Consumer Price Suryey of Tokyo. madey
cs Buresu, based on the pre-war level.

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.98)
-47-
Further, the consumption level by items as compered with.
the pre-wer level is as follows:
Staple food
90%
Non-staple food 70%
Fuel and light
Clothing
10-20%
Housing
10-20%
Others
50-608
Comparatively little fall is seen in the consumption
level of those indispensable goods, such as staple food, fuel
and light, while a marked decline is recorded in clothing
and housing. The proportion of food in the household ex-
penditure, i.e. the Engelds index, is now strikingly large.
It was about 35% before the war but it is now about-65gThis
fact shows the lowering of living. standerd.
b. Recent trend.
We have pointed out the fact that, as a result of
the rise in real wages, the workers' consumption level rose
by 30 over that of 1947 towards the end of 1948. But. this
means only that the consumption levels of working and other
classes have been raised at the expense of the latter. There
is as yet no sign of improvement in the conoumption level of
town-dwellers as a whole or of farmers.

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.98)
-48 -
1947
1948
Average Jan.-Mar. Apr.-Jun. Jui,-Sept. Oct.-Dec.
Household ex-
penditure(A)
100
140
161
195
252
Consumer's price
(B)
100
158
174
215
.220
Real family ex-
penditure(A/B) 100
89
93
91
111
Note: (a) "Houschold expenditure":-
The figures are bbsed on the monthly expenditures
of a household as given in the "Consumer's Price Survey, (the
average of all cities)" of the Bureau of Statistics.
(b) "Consumer's price":-
4
The figures are besed on the "Consumer's Price
Index" (the average of all cities)" of the Statistics Bureau.
However, the fundamentel cause of the above
fsct is found in the extraordinsry shrinkabe of productoon and
foreign trade resulting -from surrender, and the present living
standard itself is being supported by an enormous amount of
relief fund. Ae a pre-requisite to the improvement of living
standard, we must make our best efforts for the increse of
production and export.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.98)
- 49 -
4. Newly ariging problems
With the implementation of the Nine Economio Objectives
on the above economio ground, some new problems are expect-
ed to arise, i.e., unvdiling of unbalance between the domes-
tię and the international price structures, relative over
production, increasing distress of farmers and small and
medium enterprisers, unemployment, etc. Constant study and
review of the effectiveness and methods of economio oontrol
1s necessary in connection with the implementation of the
Nine Economic Objectives. Furthermore, pressures for
spiraling of inflation are still at work, consequently the
Japanese economy will have to travel a thorny path for the
time being, being exposed to the danger of inflation and de-
flation simultaneously.
(1) Unbalanco between domestio and international price
structures.
Our present price structure is at variance with our
pre-war one as well as with the international one. The yen-
dollur price ratios applicable to prts and imports (F.O.B.
for exports and C.I.F. Irr loport), indipate an extremely.
wide range of vergety.

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.99)
- 50 -
Yen-dollar ratios of major commodities -
yen value for one dollar as of the end of January,1949.
Only textile is as of February 1st, 1949 (Compiled by
Foreign Trade Bureau, ESB).
Exports
Textile
Cotton yarn
¥250
Cotton fabric
250-420
products
Raw silk
420
Silk fabric
300-420
Rayon fabric
300
Staple fiber
fabric
300
Woollon yarn
500
Woollon fabric
350
Machinery
Motor-vchicle
¥430
Transformer
320
Bicycle
510
Radio set
550
Locomotives
300
Stoel reasel
500
Motor
340
Motal
Steel bar
Y240
products
Fuel
Coal
¥320
Agricul-
Canned goods
Y300
Tea
330
tural
products
Mandarin
340
Timber
¥320-420
Chemical
Caustic soda0o
Hido and Leather 580
products
Colours
500
Celluloid products
600
Tyres for bicy-
clo
570

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.98)
-51-
Coramics
Coment
¥320
Shoot glass
600
Potteries
600
Sundry
Bamboo pro-
Mirrors
600
goods
ducts
¥450
Imports
Mineral
Iron ore
¥125
Pig iron
67
ores and
motal
Salt
103
Bauxite
158
Fuol
Strong Coking
¥178
Heavy oll
284
Coal
(B. Heavy oil)
Foodstuff
Wheat
¥165
Sugar
177
Raw tex-
kaw cotton
tiles
(for domestic
(uso
¥ 80
(for export
250
wool
120-140
Rubber
Paw rubbor
¥154
Hid and
Raw bade and
1oc ther
loather
¥120
Forti-
Phosphate ore
¥154
Potassium
82
lizer
Timber
Luan
¥ 77
Chomicals
¥206-350

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.98)
-52
The main factors responsible for this wide differenti-
ation of yon-dollar price ratios are belioved to be as
follows:-
(a) Under economic isolation during the war. the in-
dustrial structure was reorganized with an cmphasis on war
production.
(b) The rate of decline in production level and labour
productivity in the post-war period was different from in-
dustry to agriculture.
(c) The oxtent of war-time enterprise reorganisation
or war damages and of fall in operation rate due to sho
supply of power and raw materials widoly varies by fmmuutry
and by size of enterprise.
(d) Depondence on black-market varies by industry and
by sizo of enterprise.
The reason why the vorage yen-dollar rate for Amports has
been maintained lomer than that for exports as shown abovo
is that imported staple food and major raw materials which
are the biggest imports have been released at artifically
low prices commonsurate with Gomostic pricos., This is a
sort of subsidy and constitutes the mjor reason why there
bas bocr no surplus in the Trade Fund Special Account which-
ought to have a huge amount of surplus in consequence of that
huge import oxcess over exporti The fact that imports are
priced at C.I.F. terms.and export are priced at F.O.B. to
and that shipping charges and other oharges are incory

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
- 53 -
in the prices of imports constitutes another reason for
boasting import prices. Furthermore, the price adjustment
subsidies and transfers to be made from the General Account
to the Special Accounts for Railway and Communication con-
ttes a distortion in the determination of domestic prices
which requires correction.
The fact that the yen-dollar ratio gets worse in pro-
portion as the goods are processod, o.g., from yarn to fabric
as shown in the above tablo, is partly duo to the greater
dependence upon blackmarketing for acquisition of raw mate-
rials, etc. of smail and modium enterpriscs which do the most
of procossing. But fundamontally it shows the rolatively
higher labour cost, i.e., the fact that the dogree of declfne
in labour efficiency in Japan vis-a-vis that in foreign
country is groater than the degree of declino in real wages
of Japanese labourers visa-vis that of foreign laboureres
Thus it testifies to the urgent need of restoring labou pro-
uctivity in e pountry liko Japan which has to import raw
materials and axport procossed goods.
s prerequisite to the return of Japanese economy to
internutional economy, the unbalanced price stnncture in
Jcpan lms to be aligned to the international price structure

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.98)
- 54.-
For thut purpose it is necessary to reorganizo industrial
structure, rationalize enterprises and to improvo labour
productivity. In the meantime the elimination of inefficient
industrios and the resulting unemployment will be inovitable.
And yot a drastic docline in production and export should be
provonted, and the declino of yon value due to the aggrava-
tion of-inflation should be prevonted in order to maintain.
the established oxchange rato. Thus it must bo admitted 
that great many problems are involved in cennection with
the imponding ostablishmont of a single exdhange rato.
(2) Emorgenco of now phaso with tho progress of economic
stabilization
With the elowing down of inflation and the gradual
stabilization of oconomy, basic problems of Japan's economy
which have boen veiled 'by inflation will be exposed to the
light one by one.
Most characteristic of them will be the
appearance of insufficient domestic purohasoing power, pro-
bleme concerning farmers, small mmd medium enterprisers,
and unemployment problems
a, Insufficient purchasing power
With the reduction of purchasing power created by
inflation; purchasing power has already begun to.be stale-
mate at a comparatively low level, due to the limited home
market and the deoline in national income in post-war daya.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
-55-
Since last year a series of deflationary measures such as
onforcemont of tax collection and control of industrial
financing have been put into practice for the purpose of
checking inflation. This, togother with the large-scale
raising of official prices in 1947 and 1948 which has had the
effect of almost cutting a portion of purchasing power, has
led to further decrease in purchasing power. On the other
hand the restoration of agricultural and industrial product-
ion and the increase cf economic aid from fereign countries
have increased the. supply of materials, thereby giving rise
to the fictitious ovor-production.
As a sign of docline in purchasing power increased.
stocks of products may be pointed out. The monthly indices
of stocks in businoss warehouses in eight big cities show a
sizable increase of stocks as in tho following table.
Ja. 1947 Mar. 1948
Jun. 1948 Sept. 1948
Textiles
100
120.7
124.2
137.4
Paper & pulp
100
142.2
172.5
195.4
Motals
100
808
822
98.6
Chemicels
100
154.3
157.3
191.5
Sundry goods
100
169.3
195.5
229.3
Aperage
100
124.1
132.3
156.0

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.96)
- 56 -
Ancther index of the falling purchasing power 18
furnished by tho decline in sales of depmrtment stcres:
Declining tendency of sales is seon if pric riso. is taken
into account.
A Sales index
B Retail price indox
Apr.-Jun. 1947
100
100
Jul.-Sept.
118
140
Oct.-Dec.
17
186
à40
Jano-Mnr. 1948
205
282
Apr.-Jun:
2p8
306
Jul.-Sept.
11
282
468
In additfon, inasmuch as the sales of dopartment
stores have been getting relatively advantagenus compared
with-those of small und medium shops, the total sales includ-
ing tho lattor must show a still greater decrese.
The declino of marketability is consplcuous with
rospect to radio sets, electric bulba, books, etc. whilo in-
sufficiont purchasing power is seen for basic mmterials, such
as, low-grado coal, cemont, ammonium sulphato aleotrie wires
9tc

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.97)
- 57 -
How should tho above fall of purchaing power be
As regards consumerés goods, the above
interpreted?
phenomenon is attributable to the fact that the produotion
has increased relatively speedily when the real inoome of
the pooplo remained at a low level, that the pent up'demand
for consumer's goods during the war has boon satisfied to
somo extent, that the surplus pruchasing power created by
inflationary inoome has boen ourtailod by the slowing down
of inflation, etc. However, in view of the faot that con-
sumption has been oating capital since the end of the war,
it should be regarded as a sign of sound econcmy that con-
sumption be so curtailod as tc be dovetalled with pro-
duction, and it is a requirement of the Nine Economic
Objectives that the saved consemption be 'shifted for export.
As for productive materials, the fall of purchaaing power for
them is to be attributed to the reduotion of finanoial ex-
penditure and industrial investment on the ine hant and te
the increased supply on th ther. The more fundamental
cause is that the decline in the capital acoumulating capa-
city in the post-war economy has been brought to the surface
by the slowing down of inflation. Hereimmalso lies the
reason why the vast potential demands for the replacement
of worn out and obsblete equipment, for the repa ir of
dévastated national rescurces, the existence of surplus

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.98)
-58 -
lubour power cannot become effective ones. One of the im-
portant oconomic policies to be taken up horeafter will be
to maintain effective demand for productivo-matorials in
the fields necessary for tho restoration, of economic capa-
city and the promotion of export.
b. Problems of farmer and small and medium
enterprisers.
Even in the past, agriculturo and small and medium
commorcial and industrial enterprises were the fields where
various contradictions of Japanese economy were expressed
in a concentrated form. For some time aftor the war they
were placed in a relatively advantageous poaition, thanks
to the progross of inflation a nd to the absolutely in-
sufficient supply of foodstuffs. With the slowing down
of inflation, however, they show the possibility of being
confronted with more serious problems than in pre-war days.
The strongthening of economio stabilization program, with .
en omphasis upon the rationalization of enterprises,
balancing of budget and promotion of export, has the danger
of bringing the accompanying contradictions into the ooonomics
of farmors as well as of small and medium enterprisers.
To begin with, let us consider agriculture. The
agricultural production in l948, favoured with good weather
nd increased supply of fertilizer and other productive
materials, could attain more than lo% increase over that in

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
-59-
the preceding year. In spite of the above production in-
crease, however, the post-war boom seen in farming economy
shows a sign of gradul decline, due to the stagnant prices
of agrioultnral products, the relatively higher prices of .
commoditius essential to agrichltural economy, enforcement
The post-war movement of the
of tax collaction, etc.
black-markot prices in the following tablo indicates that.
the prices of staple foodstuffs have gradually been placed
in an unfavourable position.
Dally neces-
Staple food Textile goods
sities
100
Jan.-Jun. 1946.
100
100
80
120
111
112
264
190
Jan.-Jun. 1947
195
408
282
Jul.-Dec, 1947
286
540
398
Jan.-Jun. 1948
300
615
490
Jul.-Doc. "
(Blackmarket price index of consumer's goods
in Tokyo, compiled by the Bank of Japan.)
As tho above figures indicate the- indiceg in con
caming aren (Tokyo), the delivery prices at farms will in-
dicute the trend moreestrongly.

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
-60-
The following table shows the fact that the tax
burden per each farmer housohold has been on the gradual in-
crease.
Taxes & lovies
Ratio of taxes
to income
1934
57 yen
8%
1941
56"
3%
1945
618 "
15%
1946
5,764"
15%
1947
10,045"
22%
Inasmuch as the ratio of general tax burden to the
national inconc has sharply increased since the end of the
war, the tax burgen upon farmers cannot necessarily be said
to be too hoavy. But owing to the relative decline 
ancome sinco 1948, the levies on farmers are becoming & heavy
burden. Undor these circumstances, the economy of farmor
has gradually worsened as shown, for instance, by the d-
ings of the currency hoidings survey which show that the
currency holdings in agricultnral and fishing villages at
the end of 1947 was 29,470of the total whereas they deolined
to 2.3 The deposit in the agricultural associations all
over the country shows distinctly a decreasing tendeney when
the price change is taken into account.

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.98)
-61-
Furthermore, the discount of agricultural bills,
inauguratod last year to cope with the tight money con-
ditions for farmers, amounted to 2.4 billion yon in total
as of September 30, 1948. The regional distribution of the
abovo sum 1s 54% for Hokkaido, 25.5% for Thhoku and 16.5%
for Hokuriku totalling 96%, indicating the worse eoonomic
condition of the single-crop areas.
In addition to the recent economic conditions of
farmers mentioned abovo, there are such fundamental pro-
blems as rapid increase of agrioultural population since the
end of the war and the shrinkago of farming unit. The agti-
cultural population as of August 1, 1947 is a little over
36,500,000 or 46% of the total pópulation, indicating an in-
crease of 2,370,000 or 6.7% over the populat1on as of
April, 1946. The number of farmers as of August, 1947 showe
a 23% increase over that as of 1940. As a result, the
average area of cultivation per farmer has been reduced
condiderably as shown in the following table.
No. of farm Cultivated
Average area
units
area
per farm unit
Aug. 1941
5.499,000
5,860,000 cho  1.07 cho
Apr. 26, 1946
5,698,000
4,986,000
0.88
AUE. 1, 1947
5,909,000
5,011,000
0.85
Note: The decrease in cultivated are is believed
to have been caused by the inerease in the
failure of registration.

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.95)
- 62 -
On tho other hand the expansion of arablc lands, or
一
reclamation has not necessarily progressed satiefactorily as
shown by tho fact that the
total area rcclaimod after
the war -is r 1y 333,c00 cho or 70.3% cf the plan.
As recards the srall and medium enterprisos , which
have been denendent very much upen blackmarket, they are
adversely affocted by the slowing down of inflation and the
gradual alignment of cfficial and blackmarket prices. The
strengthoning of competitive power of large enterppises
against small and mcdium ontorppisos as a rosult of the in-
creased operation cf equipmont and the incroased supply of
officially pricod goods due to the production increase in
large enterprisos have furhher aggravated thoir situation.
In compination with these facters, financing for then 1s
getting morc and more difficult. The distreasing conaitons
of small or medium onterprises are revealed by the fact that
there h ve recantly been relatively more labour disputes in
them

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.94)
2
-63-
them and b, trond of movements of wage levels in large
enterprisc and small or medium enterprise. According to
the survey vado in Osaka by tho Csaka Chamber cf Commerce
and Industry, the averege wagc of malo workers in snall
and mediun ent rprises omploying 30 to 10o workers in
Osaka in January-Juno, 1947 was 102% of that in largo
enterprisos omploying over 2oo workers but the penoentago
fell to 99% in July-Docembcr, 91% in January-June, 1948,
88% in July-September and 84% in Cotober-Decomber, 1948.
Thus the distress of farmors and small and medium
unterprisors ond the increase of unemployment will constitute
the new problems as the economy gets stabilized.

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
-64-
(3) New problems of economic control.
a. Economic control in general.
The increase of reduction and the slowing down of
inflation have raised some questions for eçonomic control. The
most fundamental of that the weight of control shifts-from
materiais to money in accordance with the restoration of
balance. between demand and supply of materials and'the sta-
bilization of currency. In price control it will become neses-
sary to take such elastic measures as will make possible en
effective adjustment functions of "priceQ besed on demend-
supplyrelation.
On the other hand, in proportion to the enforcement
of the Three Principles of enterprises in preparation for the
return.of Japanese economy into internationel economy, stress
hould be laid on the self-support of enterprises, which in
turn makes it necessary to modify the present control formulae
in such a way as will permits more room for the principle of
competition and independence of enterprises. In addition, con-
stant improvement as well as well-plamned execution of super-
vision is reguired in order to prevent inefficiency and corrup-
tion on the part of the government agencies concerned with
economic control. As an example of the review of working of
the former control formulae, the. achievement of vegatable

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.97)
-65-.
control (of perishable foods controls) will be studied on
the basis of the analysis of the household expenditure as
below:
Percentage, of
Actual re-
Ratio of the Percentate
ration in the
ceipt of
black-market of increase
total purchase
rotion egu-
price to the in household
of hcusehold
inst actual official price expenditures
allocation by
when all are
the Government
procured in
blacktmarket
1st period
6.5%
10.98
3.0 times
0.3%
July-Dec.,'47
2nd period
Dec:,147
(when strengthening
meesure of
control was enforced)
-June148.
55.5%
61.9%
2.0times
1.6%
3rd Period
July-Aug,, '48
55.8%
51.8
1.2 times
The above figures shew that during the first period the
rations were less than lo of. the total purchase, reflecting the
negligible effect of control, that during the second period
control achieved-some degree of success due to the great efforts
made and thet during the third peried the increase of supply
combined with the narrowing of gap between blackmarket and
officiel prices caused by the raising of the latter lessened
the effect of control again. As for the third period, it is
to be noted that, the increased supply caused conspicuous

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.98)
- 66 -
decline of the blackmarket price and the free whole-sale prices
of most vegetables fell by 20-30% below the official ones, thus
reducing the necessity of depending upon rations, that despite
the decline of the wholesale price the blackmarket retail price
was prev:nted from falling by the official retail price. It
moy. be regarded as a noticeable case in the new economic stage
that the above contradiction has taken place in such seasonal
products as vegetables whoee official price cannot correspond
to the price fluctuation based on demand-supply relation.
In such a case, it is considered that the way has been paved
by actual facts for making the control formulae elastic or
reducing the scope of control.
So much for the problems of economic control caused
by the change in domestic economic conditions. Turning to pro-
blems of economic control from the international point of view,
it is found that the slowing down of inflation and the increase
of production have not been achieved by our own efforts alone.
but also by incneamáng Foreign aids. The Mine Objective
Economie Stabilization Program has made the necessity
trol clear in its six items, i.e., effective utilization:of
fund, wage stabilization, strengthening of existing price
control programs /1improvement of the effectiveness of the
/ strengthening of exchange control,

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
- 67 -
present allocation and rationing syster to the end of meximiz-
ing exports and improvement of the efficiency of the food
collection program. above all, it will be requested to
effectively carry out the allocation and rationing designed
to eliminate all wastes and maximize the availability of goods
for xport as the pivot of future economic control.
Time has now come for us to formulate, and erecute
with greater vigour, such devices as will asrure effective
control without interfering with the principle of free com-
petition so that the necessity of control may not conflict
with the revision of the control formula called for by the
new development of the domestic economy as mentioned above.
b. Problems of price control
A few problems particularly to be confronted with in
the future in connection with price control which is the main
aspect of economic control will be as below:
(a) Liminution of difference between official and
blackmarket prices.
As a natural consequence of the jaising of the
official price as well as the stagnant trend of the blackmarket
price, difference between official and blackmarket prices has
recently been reduced gradually. According tó the survey made
by the Bank of Japan, blackmarket price was more than 20 times
tht

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
68 -
that of official price to the blackmarket in September, 1945.
But the ratio between them was reduced to 1 to 3 in October,
1948 due to the fact that the official price had been raised
about 60 folds during the interventng three years while the
blackmarket price had climbed up merely 7-8 folds. In addition,
di'ference is less than 150% with regard to one-fourth of the.
main commodities while the blackmarket price is below the
official with regerd to about 5% of the commodities. .This
reduction of difference is particularly noticiable with re-
gard to production materials.
According to the Tokyo C.P.S., the ratio of the average
price of rationed food to that of non-rationed food was reduced
from 3.2 to 1 during August to 0ctober, 1947 to 1.9 to 1 dur-
ing July to September,1948, and 1.6 to 1 during October to
December..
(b) Official price and demand-supply relation.
Official price and demand-supply relation as
such were not a big. problem in the past when the di
between the official and blackmarket priees wenough.
However recently as the disparity betwen the official and
blackmarket prices has generally been reduced graduai
blackmarket price has begun to vifidly reflect demand-s
elation due to fall in purchasing power and increase in

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
-69-
production, the official price has come to be placed in a
delicate relationship with demsnd-supply relation. The above
relationship is particularly delicate in cases where demand
is highly elastic, where supply has come to excess demand,
or where demand-supply relation shows a strong seasonal
fluctuetion. The above fact, together with the alignment.
to international prices indicates that consider to Japanose
economy has entered into a new stage where we have to 
elasticity to the present cost-plus determination of official
prices and to reflect in them the demand-supply relation and
international prices.
(c) Limit tc the raising of official price,
The reduction.of difference between the offieial.
and blackmarket prices and the stagnation of blackmarket prices
involve problems relating to the general official price level.
Inasmuch as the whole offieiel price level has come to be
more influenced by such economic factors as the quantities of
money and trensactions, the room for raising official prices
by piling up the costs has become small.
The fundamental unsoundness of the post-war
Japenese economy has so far been concealed by the raising of
official prices and other methods, but the above-mentioned
phenomena indicate that the time has oome for their fundament-
al solution.

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.97)
- 7 c =
(4) New spur for inflation.
a. One-sided wage rise.
As we have already indicated, the wage is rising
while all the. other inflation indices such as currenoy and
prices are shewing a sign of stabilization. This one-sided
wage rise is bound, sconcr or later, to have an effect on
currency and prices, and to give a spur to inflation, in
tho following manner.
(a) It has boen shown above that the wage per unit
of product hes not risen in spite of the rise in the wgge
per employee. foom this fact, it may be conoluded that the
wage-r_se does nct work us a financial burden upon enter-
prises and, therefore, will not be follcwed by price rise.
This may be tnne if the whole industry is seen as a whole,
but a careful study of details reveals that`there lie pro-
blons worthy of attontion. The most noteworthy of all is a
romarkablo divergonce of produotion trends among industries.
The production level in November, 1948 as compared with the
averago for 1947 show a striking divergence among industates,
while. tho volune of'employment remained unchanged during
this period (1.e., labour productivity has risen in proportion
to production increase). There 1s no ncticeable difference
of tho wago por. omployee among industries. The increase of
production and per capita wage by industry in November, 1948
over the average for 1947 is as follows:

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.98)
-71-
(1947 -average =. 1)
Production
Wago
The average of manufactur-
ing industry
2.2
3.6
Metal
3.4
4.0
Lachinery
2.3
3.8
Chemica1
1.7
4.1
Coramic
1.6
£.9
Textile
1.4
3.3
Food Manufacturing
1.2
3.6
Coal mining
1.3
3.5
Electrical industry
1.1
3.3.
1.9
Civil service
(3.1 in Dec.)
 Note
The figures show the weighted average f in-
dustries within each cstegory based on the
average total pay-roll by industry in 1947
as given in the monthly labor atatistics.
The movement of wage per unit of product varies
widoly ancng industries. The official prices have, however,
been raised uniformly at the/same rate as the raise of per
/almost
capita wage, iving a sizable margin to. certain industries
ind stimulating wage-rise in them.
This wage-raise gives
he-due to workers in other industriea operating with

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.97)
-72 -
little margin, giving rise to tho pay problens in coal-
mining, electrical industry and ivil sorvice and increas-
This vicious
ing the danger of repopeussions on prices.
, cirole is partly due tc the present method of revising
official prices but mainly due to a differonce of pro-
duction trend among industries. Anyhow, it cannot be denied
that the riso in wage has possibility of reacting upon
prices in the above-oxplained manner. In the future, its
reaction may tako tho form of a spur for the revision of
official prices.
(b) Suppose tho wage-rise doos nct raise price b
1ts prossure upon tho econory f enterprises. Even then,
unloss tho aveilability of ccnsumors goods is-increased,
the price-rise is more than likely to follow the wage rise
at least in vlow of the present relatively stagnant supply
of consumer's goods (including agriciltural products) com-
pared with inlustrial products. In this case, however,
if the consumption level of workers is raised at the ex-
pense of that of otner classes, the effect of wage-rise
will be offset by increased availability of consymer's
goods eyen without any increase in the total volume of
consumer's goods. As a matter of fact, until rebently,
the consumption lovel of workers has been raised to a con-
siderable cxtent in this manmer, but this proces seems
to be no more possible.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
- 73 -
After all, it may well be said that we are now
standing at the crossroads whether the inflation would be
accelerated by increased wages such as mentioned bove, or
a rise in wages could be checked by the enforcement of a
sound financial policy.
b. Difficulty of achieving a real balance of the
national finance.
(a) Exhaustion of revenue sources.
The revenue on the general budget for the
98  fiscal year including supplementary budget amounts to
as high as 473,100 million yen. This consists of 316,000
million yen of taxes and stamp duties (67%), 104,200 million
yen of Monopoly Bureau profits and income of other government
enterprises and properties (22%), 22,100 million yen ofyprice
differentials (5%), and 30,800 million yen of others (6%).
The collection of taxes and stamp duties as of the end of
December was only 50≈ of the annual target, amounting to
- 158,900 million yen. This delay is due to the unsuccesoful
collection of self-assessed taxes. The collection of self-
a  sessed taxes is only 33% while that of withheld taxes 1s
elready 71s. Not only withheld income taxes are proving. to.
be a heavy burden upon the workers' family budget, but also
self-assessed taxes are increasing 1ts pressure upon indi-
viduel entrepreneurs, This is partly due to the decline

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.98)
-- 74 -
in nominal income resulting from the slowing dovn of infletion,
but chicfly due to the unequal distribution of tax burden
which is likely to happen within the self-assessed taxes
on account of the inaccuracy.of the reports make by ente
preneurs and of tne difficulty of grasping eccurate figures.
It is a serious question that in addition to national
taxes, heavy local taxes are levied on account of difficult
local finance at a time when the tax-paying capecity of the
people seems to have epproached its limit. Rational coordi-
nation between them is considered to be necessary.
(b) Necessity of curtailing expenditures.
In the future, it will be more and more diffi-
cutt to increase revenues. The only way of achieving a real
balance of the public finance will, therefore, be the curtail-
ment of expenditures. The breskdown of the expenditure by items
for 1948 fiscal year is as follows:
Sum
Pepoasstage
(in 100 m11110n ye0)(3)
Total expenditure
4,731
100
Expenses for. ter-
mination of war
1,141
24
Expenses for price
625
13
adjustment
Expenses for local
510
11
finance
Expenses for public
works
495
10

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.97)
-75-
Sum
Fercentage
(in 100 Million yen)
(万)
Expenses for recon-
struction of govern-
ment enterprises
413
9
Subsidy to CMMC
. 65
1
Investment to Fecon-
struction Finance
Bank
180
4
Others
1,302
22
The expense for ermination of war occupies one-fourth
of the total, but its/curtailment is out of the question.
/large scale
The expense for price adjustment is 13ß and is the second
largest item. But, inasmuch as the major part of the expense
for reconstruction of government enterprises occupying 9%
of the total is; in reality, to be transferred from the General
Account to the Railway and Communication Special Accounts, it
can be called expense for price adjustment. In case the sub-
sidy to CMic is added thereto the price adjustment expenditure
will the expense for pecupy 22 percent of the entire budget
and ussumes the more or less the same proportion as the war
trmination expenditure. In view of the present extreme un-
balsnc among prices, it is inconceivable totally to eliminate
thie price adjustment expenditure, but it is believed to be
urgent to effect a considerable cut in this item even for no

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.99)
-76
other purpose than of making enterprises self-supporting. The
cut in the government pay-roll is of urgent necessity pending
since some time ago from the viewpoint of curtailmont of'
public expenditure. On the other hand, the pay scsle of the
Government employees has been raised and there will arise
need for pubtic expenditure in some form or other to take
care of the rapidly increasing unemployment. There lie many
difficulties in the way of achieving the real balance of
public finance which is apt to run into deficit.
c. Requirement of funds for rehabilitation.
The capital payment for rehabilitation has been a
spur to inflstion even up to now in the form of increased
public expenditure for disaster rehabilitation and other
public works and of inflation caused by the Reconstruction
Finance Bank loans.
In order to pave the way for production increase and
export expansion with the achievement of a self supporting
economy, one of the Nine objectives as target in the first
year of the Economic Rehabilitation Program, investment will
be required in opening-up of new coal mines, development of
new hydro-electric power plants, improvement of iron and.ateek
plants repair and improvement of government railway, railyayp
electrification, improvement of harbour installations,

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.98)
.- 77 -
increase of newly built ships, flood control, soil improvement,
reclamation nd other agricultural enterprises. The first
collection of data made by the Economic Rehabilitation Committee
reveals that the reconstruction works alone will require 2,700
billion yèn (at prices as revised in June, 1948) in 5 years
and the industry will require 3,500 bill.on yen (equipment funds
plus increased operation funds).if the :cquirement made by each.
demanding group is to be met to a certain extent. This estimate
may involve some padding and double counting, but it shows how
enormous a capital investment is required.for the reconstruction
of the war-torn Japanese economy. For the 1949 fiscal year
alone, according to the same estimate, the new investment of
480,000 million yen is required for reconstruction works and
hhat of 520,000 million yen for industry, while the estimated
national income in the same year at the same, price level is
2,200 bi11ion yen.
Not more than 20% of this inçome is estimated-to be
available for capital investment. Inflavion may make a new
advance unless the capital payment is curtalled to the size
proportionate to capital accumulating capacity. Here lies
the conflict between stabilization and reconstruction. Too
hasty effort for reconstruction is feared to become a cause
of new inflation On the other hand, however, two mue

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.96)
- 78 -
emphasis on stabilization wili frustrate our hope for rise of
the economic level in the future several years ahead and in
the immediate future, give rise to a series of problems such am
low production, lack of purchasing power, and unemployment.

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.99)
5. Conclusion
The Japanese economy is in an extremely abnormal and
sound state partly due to its structural deformation caused
by the long war. and the defeat and partly due to the progress
of inflation that followed. It is difficult to restore a
normal and sound economy with one stroke even in connection
with the establishment of a single exchange rete, for such
an attempt would cause serious disturbance and confusion in
the domestic economy. However, we will never attain a self-
supporting economy if we rest idly in such a state of affairs
as we are now in. We should take advantage of the establish-
ment of a single exchange rate by all meane to normalize our
economy step by step within as short a period as possible.
Economic measures from now on should primarily aim at the
stabilization of currency and the normalization'of economy,-through
the restoration of normal function of price The national
economy should be rationalized in this process, thereby build-
ing the rasis for economic self-support hich mound enhance-
ment of production and export can be realized
One of the impertant factors in the normalization of economy
is the restoration of the independence of enterprises. As dis-
tinct from the past days of economic isolation, enterprises in
future will first of all be required to stand international
competition. They are required to manage thenselves independent-
ly and rationally clearing themselves of inefficient management

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.99)
which depended on the state, and to accumulate capitel ne
sary for repairing and modernizing deteriorated equipment in
conformity with.principles of economic stabilization urgent
required for our national economy.
Our aim after the restoration of s stabilized and normel
economy will be the attainment of a self-supporting economy
which no longer requires foreign assistance Our post-wer
economy isbeset
with many fundamental difficulties such as
enormous loss of national wealth, rapid increase of populatioh,
exhaustion of resources, and drastic change in the conditions
of foreign trade caused by the war. Saving of consumption
is essential and indispensable in order to overcome various
difficulties ahead of us. The standard of living may rise
after the economy has become self-supporting. But until then
the Japanese people will have to sustain privation since the
major part of production increase will have to be utilized for
capital accumulation and export expansion. The objective of
economic self-support, however, is not alone a reqummmo
the Allied Nations but essentially a target, which the Japanese
people desiring national independence and future prosperity
should choose to work for at any price. .This is a high time
for. the Japanese people to prove to the world that they are
determined as well as able courageously to accomplish this
hard task given to them.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.95)
894.50/4-2149
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Advisef
15
for Japan
Tokyo, April 21, 1949
No. 245
REC'D
MAY 2
RESTRICTED
11S
231
ACPION
Subject:
Implementation of the Nine Frint Economic
Stabilization Program in Japan
DE
INFO
FR
DCR
ITP
The Honorable
OFD
The Secretary of Stat,
OLI
Hashingten
894.00/12.-2748
POS
COM
Sir:
TREAS
FRB
I have the lonor to refer to his Yission's despatch No. 804
LABOR
dated December 27, l94s, 1ransmi1: ing a opy of a letter sent
December 19, 1946, by Seneral MacARrHUm t) Prime Minister YOSHIDA
Shigeru regarding an in erim directive from the United States Gov-
ernment estal lisling a series :f bje:tiv-s designed to achieve
fiscal, monetary, price and wage stabilit in Japan as rapidly
m
as possible.
Prime Minister Yoshida on De mber ?2. 194s, acknowledged
General MacArthur's letter and stat  an part:
"As you have pert inently pointed out in your
letter under reference, speedy ecoromic r-habilita-
tion of my country has becone , comron ol eative both
to Japan and the Allied Powers, parti ularly the
United States of Amerira.
"The objectives set ferth in antvrim lirective
of the United States are these hich you have hither-
to repeatedly indicatel te  covernment and I am
happy to say that th vir importance is fully apprec i-
ated by my government.
"Fully ru-lizing that the sacrifice and determi-
nation of the Japanese people can alone solve this
situation, my government determines to respond to your
faith in the alility of the apanese people in the
achievement of thesc objectives."
The objectives set forth in General MacArthur's letter are
generally referred to as the Mine Point Economic Stabilization
Program, the implementation of wiich, in so far as General Head-
quarters, SCAP, is concerned, being entrusted to the Economic and
1/
Scientific Section (Ess) of this Headquarters. Enclosed is a copy
工.
FILED
of an
RESTRICTED
17
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OP ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.86)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
- 2-
of an 3SS memeranium lated Jry 29 199, which contains the
out line of a progran to siie mic stataliztion in Japan
pursuant to the United Suatoe interom lor- tave A cording to a
respensible ESS off lal, hi memeranIm v Jassified RESTRICTED
owang to the tontativ natur  prtoan  temente contained therein
wach nake t peratve thet   atn thereer be permitted.
Readeng of s an  ay of the proects
Listed therein ave re rerly  r r y various divisions
of ss us part  r  mall rivi  To ir inclusien in
the memoran   
re intensive
work in the diretr  to the dertakeng of new
progect to prov for tror poe nr he Soabellcation
Program in caeh frett of end
Infat
r.ve  Ss under the
Statlen ore
oprest reports dated
Fary 1 m rl 
 he Dodge Mission
w arrived . F  n F
Copies of these re-
REID,
Dode assion,
not ahi f the i 
ress repor
should properly
 at under the
Stakilisation Pocn.
tn but that the
acblevoent  o..
r Beid be
lieves shoul re1o
rgram include
the folleng
y1.
1
Ancouoent   P
Aut  thae 
bour week s fr m 
×14.5041
work week brag we
e
814.572
nai presen f ,
8945123
3.
Pightening f he Pank  n plioy.
effective February .   iastmont of
the graduated bank rate sys um e as t. reduce
the spread betwen ule rede une rate and banks
894.51
loan rates as lcans fron th- E rk of Japan inerease
894.5111
relative to deposits,
4
Utilizing the ptlication f the Stal ilization
Program as their chief weapen, officlals of the
ESS Lator Division were able to persua le repre-
sentatives of the TMectric Power Morkers Union,
Coal Horkers Union, Suemon s Union, Shipbuilding
Workers Union and Private Railway orkers Union
to call off threatened work stoppages and reach
894.5045
amicable
RESTRICTED

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.75)
e D 
ipril 
h
27404
ring
aes
ther
0114
141
-1
1111
一
sreport
w
port ont
ey mnts, bagrlighted
by the dravdng up of 
11949
s0 ril ,
Det
Careful
secordine to or. ody so   o  to make siilar pro
natine from dashengoon were   pat o oe Army and the
fuil ane vigorou apeemenee f e   ernt Proeram.
The nterest uf the  partoemm io rooo vine nfermation
regarling
RESTRICTED

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.87)
Toryo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
regarling the uaplementation of the Progran is appreciated by
this Hission uch will undertake to rep'rt on the subject at
periodic pntervals.
Reopectfully yours.
randum entitled
tl reve Seocomic
n inpan
 rbm lated February
bv : Stal
ndu1prl
Department
500
RESTRICTED

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 245,
dated April 21, 1949, from United States
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
RESTRICTED
the sutject "Implementation of the Nine
Point Economic Stabilization Program in
Japan."
(COPY)
PRCGRAY TC ACHIEV: ECONOMIC STABILIZATION IN JAPAN
PURSUANIT TO INTERE DIRECTIVE OF TIE UNITED STATES COVERNMENT
(Sollated January 29, 1947)
1. chiev a true balanc in the consolidated budget at
the earlisst possible date by strinvent curtailing of expendi-
tures an! maximum expansion in tstal sovernment revenues, in-
alulin sach ny revenue measures as may be necessary and appro-
priat
a Th Japanese Goverrment Las Leen advised that in
all future budt: overn ent expeditures must not exceed an-
ticipated revenuo.
t (1) In +he Japanese Fiscal Year 1947-50 budget
the General Accont subeilies to e overnment railways and
comaunication nterprises vill be elivinated by increases in
rates for their services sufficient to pake such operations self-
suffirient. Ir ff ting these rate in reases every effort will
be made to mini ise increases in the Consumer Price Index.
(2) overnment cutlays for capital aprovement
of covernaent nterprises will be limitel to amounts necessary
to aaintain exis' in plants and provide for necessary expansion
and the rate increases in sub-paragraph b above will be based
on est imates for repir and maintenance costs in addition to
operating expenses
(3) Government expenditures in other capital programs
such as publi: werh: will be limited to restrirted priority pro-
jects which directly contribute to enhantement of the national
productivity except a: noted in (s) below.
(4) All foreign trad- subsidies will be financed
by the Foreign Trade Fund and will be of temporary duration Sub-
sidies for imports will be limited to:
(a) Cost of living items (principally
foods, fertilizers, and cotton for domestic
consumption.)
(b) Strategic industrial raw materials
essential to production where price increases
would have a major disrupting impact upon the
entire price level.
(5) Subsidies for indigenous production will be fi-
nanced from the General Accounts budget and will be limited to
the
RESTRICTED

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.87)
Enclosure Mo. 1 to
Tokyo's De spatch Ho. 245,
April 21, 1949.
the minin lev e
bust rial
 ove. from the begin-
als will Ye eliminated
fro
 wi utstantially
reducd no
wnt will be re-
luced uipgh
rias and in
r   demo
crati un
the present scale
or reduc.
nt b wcelerating dis
 position of 
frin trale stocks.
sont ceilinoe s coee tal ml indostrial preper
ties will be revi el 
P eral price levels
and tax assesss t 
increased
tnto the next Diet
session.
tacollection
and insure pronst wn luser d n! v
treal pre recution
of tax evaders
a. The Hti al P Serv  Pine roeraanizet into
one centrally controlled un: direre i, semi-autonomees, prefes-
sional stem.
Iectors is being pit inte effoct in
order to attract the tu st pwailable
pualificd personel.
is the soreenine of prospective tax
porsonnel anI the investigation of tax
persenel su pected of corruptien is
being esta lished in the central office
(3) The
RESTRICTED

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.84)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
3.
(3) The tax emple eeetraining program
is being irtenrifie?.
. Ma povision in  otret ef souring greater
efficiency are bing mrle an l buni strative, assessment,
collection and aceountins procea p f  upanese tax offices.
e. Fre recentlytrel rreed ene rcement arm,
the Noal  Insp eors, instructed to concentrate
on largor t tuerceee, e pe n? pruminal prosecu-
tion cases uni to cperate inlep adeat f oe field offices
of th ta. servi.
d rointed special
taxy precuratore, v are a ussi t all reeien, and prefes.
e  bing  e  n ed.
bee n sr pe entet  te sext Diet ses
sion providing   rf eti por  va ee th for taxpayer
evasion n for orral.
.      s G
en  cnd
 An verall sry  f te strueture is being con-
ducted with ohe'etiv of si ns t (1) uffect more eguit-
able distributien of uhe te eier, mi ( p-allecate tax rev-
enue sources amon abi, r et r d   overnrents
b. begisleteon wel  pr ponted in  nest Diet ses-
sion to revise corporation m sor prefete  Javs aneluding
corrn  present iepiti
3. Asaure rarorens litataen of crdat extensten te pro-
jects contributin: o pronemi: :ove in Je
a. The Bank of Japan is str nguhening its tight lean
poliey in orler to forme private mis t. vee t ir ewn funds
discreetly, thus prevonting vscape fren -ther crelit contrels
(by re ort to the central bank).
b. Fresent int erest anl redisc unt rat wall be nain-
tained for the belaner af the frccal ear subjee to priodie re
view vith a view to deterninig fi desirability of inereases as
a means of tihter crelit ontrol.
c. Legislation is being prepared for mactmert which
will re uire a deposit ruserve system requiring all b aks to main-
tain reserves with the Dank ef Japan in accordance with ratios to
be
RESTRICTED

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch Mo. 245,
April 21, 1949.
-4-
be set within limitati ns ficd  Iiw is lesislation will
give th- Eank of Japan r ate ever tll control of the leading
activities of all Jyans  nk n! all permit tightening fund
positicns at my ciae in  afority itl credit imitation pol-
icy. Reserves v ll le ropuired in ash and benis to the extent
necessary to ventrol cr-dit expanslen.
d. Th loan priority schelules approved on 4 January
c
1949 will be adjusted peri dically to meet changing conditions:
(1) High priorities Lave been limited
to specifie key industries, thus re-
iucing ull inlustries cot specifically
listed to the lowest class.
(2)
Whenever supplies of critical materials
impreve, or vhenever the item being pro-
duced has lost importan, priorities
will be adjusted coatinucusly siving
highest priorisy to thos key industries
where slortcges are pmost acute.
perters und manuf-cter ra f export items
wall be iver hi hest pri rity This in-
cludes discount of lills arising cut of
manufacturing for export or originating
from transactiens invelving proour ment of
raw materlels Sor expert.
(4) Leans by trust companies wall be made
subject to loan prioriby regulations.
(5) Loans by agricullural cooperative associ-
ations will be rastricted te members only
since these associations are not subject
to loan pricrity regulations.
(6) A complete reviex of priority classifi-
cations will be nade at the end of the
fiscal year.
e. The Temperary Money Rate Adjustment Law will be re-
vised to make loans by trust companies subjert to the legal maxi-
mum rate plus trust fees.
f. The loan limit plan covering increases in new bank
deposits is being continued. This plan currently apportions the
use of monthly increases in deposits between government finances
and
RESTRICTED

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 tc
Tokyo:s Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
-5-
and loans guaranteed by the Reconstructien Finance Bank (40%)
and industry (60,3) The portion lirected into government fi-
nance will be inereased if pos ill:  1 step in overcoming in-
flation.
g. Phe reorganized Inlustrial Bank is being encouraged
to participate to a greater ext-nt in the equipment loan field,
thereby relievin: the Reconstruction Finance Bank to some ex-
tent and subjecting borrowers to more careful scrutiny.
h Legislation is being prepared for submission to the
next Diet for a reorganization of the Reconstruction Finance Bank
providing for the follesing:
(1) Fore drastic limat vtion of funds avail-
able fer le an
(2)
The elinination of deficit lcans and
operatin Prund loans.
(3)
Limitation of loans for equi ment to most
urgent r babilitat ion progects and re-
quiring partici ali n ly commercial and
special banks and pubjeet to effering
of ade juat- sec urity.
(4)
Limitation to the industr al field elim-
inating loans for agriculture. publi:
works, public welfare, etc.
4. Establish an effective program to achieve wage stability.
a. The Japanese Governmert will adept and anncunce as
formal policy the fellowing three principles:
(1) No increase in official prices for
wage increases;
(2)
No deficit financing for wage in-
creases,
(3)
No government subsidies for wage
increases.
b. To enforce these principles insofar as government
employees are concerned all future appro riation bills (except
subsidy bills covered by available revenue) will include the fol-
lowing rider:
"No part of any appro riaticns contained in
this Act shall be used for subsidizing in-
dustries in orde. to provide wage increases,
loans
RESTRICTED

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.87)
Enclosure Ho. 1 tc
Tokyo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
--
Toune to cover r te oned ty wage
inareaces, or rr  overmment offici
als whe, as part   ctieas, crant
ancreaeve in cfc pre for th purpose
f inere
a Fer laber in priv  inlostry ontror is being exer-
cised by withholdins approval  p  phcrease and thereby lim-
iting wege inorease to pre eeds f inore sed p luctron, higher
efficlency, lower unit cost, .
d in the event f iis in  industries management
and later relation cnmitt    inar ted to insure that
colleevive taroainine is arre I: puir al ly wathin the framework
of the "three principles."
e Lator d  p he gram is being
mebilicel  roeg spec ral sso-eponser-? prr onwade laber management
conferences beginning   
f. In he evore ppreereen f u "hree pranciples"
pending establi shnent f crrerea for mssicl wage increases
and necessary alministratav: anl , fer rent machinery.
(1) Criteri
 . 
in  stry rea
(b) Enereacee above e anbueery area
average vihr be p oattes if ap~
proved in stv nee by the aimini-
tratave agency on the basis of sound
criteria, primarily increased pro-
ductivity.
(c) All enterprises wull be reguired
to inerease inlividtal wages to
a statatory miniaum wage estab-
lished under provisiens of the
Laber Standards Law
(d) In case of significant increases
in cost of living, the administra-
tive agency will pericdically au-
thorize wage increases to secure
maintenance of real wages.
(2) Administrative
RESTRICTED

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.88)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 21.5,
April 21, 2949.
(2) Administrative Maci
(三)
ath
full
() 
Stren
existin: price contrul ro
a he  
antrute te per
nit no price increases wac
e gneral price
Level during Japanese Freel Par T w  be nce reases
which cannet bo avepde' ly eereae in other atoms.
b The Japanese Poverrment Lar Len instructed te per-
mit decontrol of prices enly under cortain crateria ineluding a
balanced supply and dmand rolati mshap Len such actaon will
not be inflationary m? te capan? covevage whenever the free price
of an uncontrolled item tend te enere ot the Conpumer Price
Index.
c. During Fy 1949-50 prire of c-rtain imported cost-
of-living and industrial raw mat rial it ms vall b eld by sut-
sidies (paragraph I.1.(4)).
d. During JFY 1949-50 tonestic price Ineruases w11
not be allowed for proviling funis for wage inereases (4.c ).
e In
RESTRICTED

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.82)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch Nc. 245,
April 21, 1949.
e In ffecting ra inratrovide government
revenne durane y o 
wile b mate to prevent
increases in t- Conser Iri
bee gradu
domesei r
wwill be a
price-poelire arraao mon
r lmers to cover
coste oftin a
 sf or lower the
Consumer irice ir
trengthened
nomi: In-
ls and
extent that
. Jueese agencles.
o
ganiz
ar allocation
of fune
 Gov
orn ent
d to -stab-
Lish  Foreien me
stins
iistrios t
(二)
1 all Jep-
nterned
ins
natler e 
ang trens
actions.
change pelioy.
(4) ointaan complete an) curront records
of cn r, ement
and cenr itrents.
The Jepanes Soveront wall bo dn ted to integrate
Jepanese and foreign banke inte cutatla sted contrcl procedures.
d The Japanese Sovernment wall to directed to utilize
fully
RESTRICTED

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.90)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
--
fully the Sus om Ser vice n the pplicn ien of foreign exchange
control..
Upon th sti i men! f the Foreign Exchange Con-
trol Doar unt roostrat n  th eve structions, the Jap-
anese Govern ont will be n str ted to toinate Soeki-che and
its Kodans as commercial rno gencies.
7 Puprove the tew ffectas of the present alloca
tion anl rationin. syst w  rvic rali te phe end of maximiz.
in: exports.
PAND I CONSUTLE PRCDUCTS
a. tatlonung of so ur e  bsistenee items will be con-
tinued to provi t min e roauir me wn a nen-diserimina-
tory baslsy and slaitanel ts' omtien of srarce items will be
made to thos wut t th aivanrement of ecenomic
rehabalitation.
b The Japanm overmont t been instructed to elim-
inate the "chost populat  n"  raslen lists vstimated at about
2 million for the Augut  n   apanese Government
has also been instrurted to r  micclascafication of self.
suppliers as portial ppliere an prtial self suppliers as
non-suppliere, unlor supervi an f mlitoy overnment in order
to rectify erroneou dtrttt .
Spocial clresetbrooer euyerve on wall be applied
to the follovine rat on t m wch av ther ber lew recently
or are newiy pnstituted
(1) Prob and vegetahble
(2) Textile distralution.
(3) Charcoal and fireweed.
(4) Soap.
d The Japanese Government has been instructed rapidly
to distribute accumulated firewoed and other home fuel stocks
and eliminate domestic use of electricity as fuel during the
dry season.
e. The Japanese Government has been instructed to im-
prove the effectiveness of its distribution system, particularly
the distribution of scarce items as incentive for production goals
by special groups, e g. fishermen, miners, charcoal and fire-
wood producers, etc.
f Enforcement
RESTRICTED

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.85)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tckyo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1945.
70-
f. t ef dis being
strengthened
C s  s
Econemie Investi oe ? so as
to cnable it  nistrative
inpection ver ne  sponsible
fer the alrinisuatien cf p oromie
entrels.
(2) es. bran wt prrs and
lear instr tien. to apanese agen-
rres enllstirs the cupport of various
covernment? an  ve nes to pre-
vent dietrabutier f rrned items
sde muuhorise? tv hannels cr
at bigher than ofercral prices.
(3) concerted drvee  Bkarketing
11v
A
 T presremane prat eT anomee Stabil-
izatie Foard valr  r rsel  the
() Prourame e p  iy in advance of
the beginning  al ie pordprevaion be made for
reviewing   prfer on a current
basis
 Such proorbasis cf
realist ic ev hoa an f aveilatle eap  er ohan based
upon sumarree of vllapoo ppr.r
to Instrw tiome in pro ose f froutstcon be assued by
the conomir Stabililion toart   pntle ministries
requiring:
(1) Sulmiasi m of pragr me be Seonomie Stabil-
ization Beard based on estumated und i m repirements and rea-
listac estiates of materials availatili . seg gating end item
requirements into export and indigenou cor umptior Export pro-
grams wall in every instance be accerled pref.rontial treatment
and be set at maximur possible levels.
(2) Ministerial bureaus vall present their material
requirements on an end item basis only fe those supplies coming
within their competence.
(3) The Ministry of Construction will be desig
nated as the cmpetent Ministry for the all  ation of all ma-
terials for new construction and major rehatilitation.
(4) Insofar
RESTRICTED

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
-11-
(4) Insofar as is practicable each manufacturing
plant shall be assigned to a single competent bureau responsible
for evaluation of the in-put and out-put patterns and the co-
ordination of such out-put patterns with the programs set up for
the entire industry. Allocation ickets will be issued directly
to the plant operator. Specific delineation of delegations of
responsibility shal? be made by the various Ministries to the
local and district offices along with procedurfor the control
of allocations.
i A vigorous enforcement progran designed to eliminate
materials deliveries to unauthor zed industrial consumers is
being initiated utilizing the facilities of the Economic Inves-
tigation Board.
j. An intensive drive is being conducted to eliminate
theft of electric power.
k. Allocation of materials will be coordinated with
the credit priority system and where appropriate with allocation
of foreign exchange.
8. Increase production of all essentlal indigenous raw
materials and manufactured products.
a. Inereased production is being programmed in de-
tail, based upon:
(1) Maximizing production of coal, ores,
petroleum and ether minerals.
(2)
Channeling basic materials into pro-
duction of semi-finished preducts,
such as iron, steel, eavy chemicals,
coke, etc.
(3)
Ey careful allocation of basic raw
materials and semi-finished products
maximize production cf end items
which contribute to economic recovery,
with increased quotas for export.
b. Maximize generation of electric power through com-
pletion of largely finished hydro plants and rehabilitation of
damaged hydro facilities.
c. Restrict non-essential construction and encourage
industrial, residential and public works construction and rehabil-
itation which definitely contribute to economic stabilization by
enforcement
RESTRICTED

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
-12-
enforcement of building license systen and allocation of build-
ing materials.
d. Require mere efficient peration and improved qual-
ity of end products by:
(1)
) More effective cocperation within
and between existing Japanese re-
search and technical agencies.
(2)
Development and use of worthwhile
inventions and techniques.
(3)
Improving the development and use
of technical standards.
(14.)
Utilication of the technical develop-
ments of cther countries through the
services  f expert consaltants, tech-
nical documents and patents
(5)
Concentration of produntion in efficient
plants by leying power and essential
raw material, t ineffi: lent producers
and to these whose end products do not
meet regured specifications.
(6)
) Use of sperial SCAP-empl-yed technical
consultants on key industrial operations
such as hot and cold strip mills.
Importation of spacialined modern machinery in key
industries.
f. Encourage investments by means of exchange controls
in essential basic and foreign trade industries.
g.
Secure maximum cooperation between labor and man-
agement by:
(1)
Stressing the importance of indus-
trial peace through bargaining in
good faith; requiring contracts to
contain peace clauses nd rievance
Machiner.
(2)
Provision of
.e housing and
rations, including incentive goods
and extra ration's for special cate-
gories.
(3) Improving
RESTRICTED

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
--
(3)
Improving werkins cendislons with
particular stress on sifety and sani-
tation.
(4)
Enc ouregino extre chifes whenever pos-
sible, peril:ularly fer making up pro-
dustion losses lue te helidays
9. Improve efficieney cf the food collection program.
a. The Japanese Goverru nt has been directed to amend
the necessary laws to proviie fer revision upward of pre-planting
quotas at harvest tie vlen arvest onditions permit.
b. The crop reperting service will be improved in order
that accurate crop estimates ray b sbtauned and quotas assigned
at the highest practicable level.
Monetary bonu and in rtv geeds for over-quota
deliveries will be consinued, ani tne incentive goods distribu-
tion systen will be strengthned
d. Collection an! pr luction of indigenous oils, par-
ticularly difficult becv'se o? the multitide of small producers
of oil-bearing seeds and fish wil, vill le increased.
e. Control over the transportation and sale of staple
foods will be vigorously enferced
f The Rural Information Pregran will be continued
stressing the importance of maximizing food production and crop
collection, and furnishing technical information and guidance.
Agricultural food preiuction wall be increased by
(1) Insuring availability of materials,
equipment, and supplies (emphasis on
fertilizer and pesticides),
(2)
Improving agricultural techniques,
including
(a) Development of new plant
varieties, and research on
new agricultural practices,
(b) Control of rice insect pests,
(c) Land reclamation and refores-
tation, to prevent damage to
agricultural
RESTRICTED

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure Nol 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
-14-
agricultural land and to
repair lanage tich has oc-
currel (ererion, flecds and
earth puakes),
(d)
Increased productien and util-
ization of root creps by con-
trol of incects and diseases,
preservation ind storage
(3) Compulsory crop unsurance,
(4)
Strongohenirg farn credit,
(5)
Cobtrolling livesterk pregram.
(6)
Jontinuing Japaness agricultural re-
form program.
h. fficieney of the fishing inlustry will be in-
creased by:
(1) Insuring availability of vital ma-
terials essential to production,
effectiv allocation and deliveries
to insure adequa y and efficient
utilization,
(2)
Strengtly ning the credit situation
to enable fishermen to cbtain needed
materials,
(3)
Developing methods of andling and
processing fisheries pro ducts to re-
duce waste from spollage and maximize
utilization;
(4)
Applying sound conservation and good
management policies to effect sus-
tained high yield of aquatic products.
i. The third Antarctic whaling expedition will provide
most products as food and alleviate critical shortages of fats
and oil.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 245,
da!ed April 21, 1949, from United States
Folitical Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
RESTRICTED
the subject "Iaplementation of the Nine
Point Economic Stabilization Program in
Japan."
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Economic and Scientific Section
MEMORANDUM
12 February 1949
SUBJECT: Progress Report on Program to Achieve Economic Stabili-
zation
Specific actions taken subsequent to the receipt of the U. S.
Government Interim Directive on Economic Stabilization and pur-
suant to its terms are indicated below. In addition, implementa-
tion of the Directive has taken the form cf more forceful effectu~
ation of instructions issued and pclicies transmitted to the
Japanese Government previously. Certain measures implementing
the Directive require legislative action of the Japanese Diet.
The first Diet session subsequent to the receipt of the Directive
began 11 February 1949.
GENERAL
19 December 1948
General MacArthur transmitted Interin Directive to the Japa.
nese Government pointing out that the fundamental objective of
the Directive is the prompt achievement of thet degree of economic
self-sufficiency which alone can justify and insure political free-
dom.
Prime Minister Yoshida acknowledged receipt of the Directive
and replied that his government, fully realizing that the sacri-
fice and determination of the Japanese people can solve their
problem, was determined to respond by achievement of the objectives.
22 December 1948
First major contract under Siam-Japan trade agreement com-
pleted, involving exchange of manufactured products for Siamese
rice allocated to Japan.
30 December 1948
Netherlands-Japan t89 million trade pact finalized.
22 January 1949
French Union-Occupied Japan trade talks resumed.
1. To
RESTRICTED

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
-2-
1. To achieve a true balance in the consolidation budget at the
earliest possible date by stringent curtailing of expenditures
and maximum expansion in total governmental revenues, including
such new revenue measures as may be necessary and appropriate.
1 January 1949
The National Public Service Management Committee commenced
studies of the possibility of effecting reduction of government em-
ployees.
10 January 1949
The National Public Service Authority announced that its
regulations now called for a 4S-hour work week (up from 40 hours).
1 February 1949
The yen-dcllar price ratio on textile commodities was re-
duced from approximately 20 ratios to 4, with a top ratio of
420-1.
A draft budget is in preparation providing for elimination of
deficits in railway and communications accounts through rate in-
creases.
2. To accelerate and strengthen the program of tax collection
and insure prompt, widespread and vigorous criminal prosecution
of tax evaders.
Over thirty new tax evasion cases have been referred to the
procurators for criminal prosecution from 15 December 1948 to 15
January 1949. This compares with fifteen referred in the preceding
nine months, and none before that in the modern history of Japan.
3. Assure rigorous limitation of credit extension to projects
contributing to economic recovery in Japan.
Effective 15 February 1949, the Bank of Japan bank loan pol-
icy will be tightened further by adjustment of the graduated bank
rate system so as to reduce the spread between the rediscount rate
and banks' loan rates as loans from the Bank of Japan increase
relative to deposits.
The loan priority schedules, giving special consideration
to export, coal and fertilizer industries, approved on 4 January
1949 went into effect at the end of January and will be adjusted
periodically to meet changing conditions.
Pursuant to the program of limiting funds available for loans,
the Reconversion Finance Bank loan schedule for the fourth quarter
of the 1948-1949 fiscal year was reduced on 29 January 1949, after
review, by l.6 billion yen.
4. To
RESTRICTED

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
-3-
4. To establish an effective program to achieve wage stability.
Utilizing the publication of the Stabilization Program as
their chief weapon, the Labor Division, ESS, was able to persuade
representatives of the Electric Power Workers Union, Coal Workers
Union, Seamen's Union, Shipbuilding Jorkers Union and Private Rail-
way Workers Union to call off threatened work stoppages and reach
amicable settlement of cut standing wage negotiations at terms com-
patible with the overall stabilization objective.
The Japanese Government has been instructed that it will
follow the following three principles with respect to wage rates:
a. No increase in official prices for wage increases.
b. No deficit financing for wage increases
c. No government subsidies for wage increases.
27-30 January 1949
A Labor-Management Conference was held under SCAP sponsorship.
Firm line expressed by SoiP pointing out that if labor and manage-
ment are unable to reach harmonious agreement through the adoption
of realistic and mutually acceptable policies and practices for
increasing production and stalilization of wages pursuant to the
"Three Principles Program," then the adoption of a direct wage
control program is unaveidable.
5. To strengthen and, if necessary, expand the coverage of ex-
isting price control programs.
23 December 1948
Raw silk prices announced
Guaranteed as minimums until 31
March 1949.
In conference with Japanese officials instructions have been
issued to permit no price increases which will upset the exist-
ing general price level during the fiscal year 1949-1950 and to
balance increases which cannot be avoided with decreases in other
items.
6. To improve the operation of foreign trade controls and tightem
existing foreign exchange controls, to the extent that such meas-
ures can appropriately be delegated to Japanese agencies.
31 December 1948
Announcement made that beginning February 1 Japanese manu-
facturers of cotton and woollen textiles will be permitted to
purchase
RESTRICTED

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. ? to
Tokyo's Despat:h No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
-4-
purchase raw materials from Poeki Cho instead of Boeki Cho re-
taining title This step tends to place textile industry on a
true cost basis.
14 January 1949
New SCAP circular an1 dir-ctiv- to the Japanese Government
issued broadening scope of busiress activities permitted for-
eigners and allowing imitel nvestment nd acquisition of busi.
ness properties where they cont ribute to Japanese economie re-
habilitation.
15 January 1949
Anneunc ement made that foreign inpor' -export houses desir-
ing to ppen lranch ffice in Crupied apan are now authorized
to de se on a ne Jisoriminatery besis.
22 January 1949
SCAP approy-I nury  eur ts Sor conducted tours up to
25 lags, the form r maximms leine 7 days
25 January 1942
Directiv issued orlering revision of controls governing
movement of roperty incl jing curreacy and financial instruments
which individuals, other tian members of the Occupation Forces,
may carry n nering n y pn
1 February 1942
Phe Japaness Governunent was directed to reorganize existing
exchange controls and estallish a forelgn exchange control board
to coordinato alministratien of fereign trade and exchange con-
trols.
7. To improve the effectiveness of the present allocation and
rationing systen, particularly to the end of maximizing exports.
28 December 1948
The Economic Stabilization Soari sutmitied allocation tables
allocating scarce materials based on av ilatility to users with
highest priority based on essentiality The period of validity of
allocation tickets wa: reduced to prevent diversion to non-essential
users
9 February 1949
Informal memo of Chief, ESs, to Ministry of Ccimerce and In-
dustry and SB Director General requested immediate promulgation
of ESB regulations centralizing allocation and rationing system of
motor vehicle supplies, including petrcleum products, tires and
tubes, in the Ministry of Transportation.
Distribution
RESTRICTED

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
-5.
Distribution of firewood has been accelerated in January and
February. Ration has been raised to dispxse of stockpiles and dis-
courage use of electricity for heating.
8. To increase production of all essential indigenous raw ma-
terial and .anuf.ctured products.
1 January 1949
A program for the procurement of technological literature
from Rehabilitation Funds was initlated
4 January 1949
An additional 75 Japanese business a1 industrial concerns
17 January 1949
SCAP Foreign Investment Board and standards for foreign busi-
ness activity announced.
25 January 1949
Announcement made that 30,000 long tons of Austrian pig iron
will soon arrive in Japan for use in steel products for export.
Washington ras beer requested to recruit three consultants
(a hot strip reller and two coal rining engineers). These con-
sultants have been reeruited and shculd arrive in Japan shortly.
9. Improve efficiency of the food collectien program.
21 December 1948
NRS official in ceremonies held at Tokyo s symbolic Rice Bridge
pointed out that to justify continuation of the incentive program
farmers must do their best to maintain the 2 7 go ration level.
24 December 1948
The Japanese Government was directed to amend the necessary
laws to provide for revision upward of pre-planting quotas at har-
vest time when harvest conditions permit
RESTRICTED

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.95)
Enr Tosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 245,
ditud April 2, 1949, from United States
RESTRICTED
Fliti al Alviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subje:t 'Implementation of the Nine
Point Eonomic Stabilization Program in
pan"
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR TIT ALLIED POWERS
Econerir and Sorentafit Secsion
MH/1f
5 April 1949
MEMORANDUM
SUBJECT:
Progress Report n Progrem to Achieve Economic
Stabilication
Listed below r  me p fi otiune vaken subsequent to
progress report of 1. Fubruary 9a) Paragraph numbers refer
to appropriate paragraphs pn the nine point program.
1 A bult for the ay anes overnnent which provides
for a true balane in th pensoliiated goverrment accounts has
been informally mi    the Japanese Govern-
ment and i, to l. uhr itt to th- Diet This budget provides
for the elimin tion ef he overnont as  contributing factor
to inflationary tr nis.
5 March 1949 the Japanese overnment was instructed to elim-
inate two cf th four for in tr  dan and to curtail drasti-
y the functions of the mang twe Kolans In addition to
being a curtailment of cyp ditures, this actien alse paves the
way for elimination of sovernaental trade operations.
Instructions have been is uei  r li puidation of the Petroleum
Distribution Kedan effectiv-  April.
2 Results in the fieli of  riminal prosecution of tax
evaders are encouraging Since last December there have been 78
indictments in the District Courts and 13 prison sentences have
been imposed In the first income tax evasion cases to reach the
High Court prison sentences were imposed in two mejor cases. These
two case: re being cleared for review by the Supreme Court and
it is anticipated that the two individuals involved will be the
first income tax evaders in the modern history of Japan to have
been imprisoned.
3. The Japanese Government has been instructed to prohibit
further 1ssuance of RFF debentures during the 1949 5Q fiscal year.
4 Up to date there has been no break in holding the wage
line. In accordance with the "three principles", there have been
no price increases, no deficit financing and no government subsidies
for wage
RESTRICTED

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's Despa..ch No. 245,
April 2, 194.
-2-
for wage increases and there have been no sutstantial work stop-
pages since the previous report. During this period, disputes on
the part of metal mine workers, seamen and electric power workers
have been settled.. Direct action has been taken to effect dis-
continuances of payment of union officials and cther substantial
expenses by management as provided for in the Trade Union Law.
5. Nuxercus requests for upward revision of key commodity
and manufactured item prices have been rejected by Ess. Claims
for price adjustment have been denied on the score that they would
be inflationary Instead, existing pelicy is to force rationali-
zation and more efficient utilization of existing capacity to ob-
viate the need for price increases and to improve the utilization
of existing scarce resources.
6 The Foreign Exchange Control Fcard (to coordinate adminis-
tration of for-ign trade and exchang= contreis) was activated by
the Japanes- Covernnent.
Procedare was formalized for pemitting foreigners in Japan,
who are legally untitled to posses: foreign exchange, to purchase
Japanese xp rt 1 yie goods.
The Japanes were instructed to pormit the processing of ex-
port document supported by assignatle ltters of credit.
Procedure wis formalized permitting for ign buyers to act
as their own shippers.
The Japanes Foard of Trade has anrounced effective 1 April a
yen-dollar ratio of 330 to 1 for imports and a maximum yen-dollar
ratio of 425 to 1 fer xports.
A financial and trade plan has been negotiated with the Republic
of Korea (South Korea), contemplating a volume of trade aggregat-
ing $78 million (subject to ratification by the Reputlic of Korea
and SCAP).
7. Cn 15 March 1949, the Japanese Government issued an order
which in effect was a step toward raticnalization of the textile in-
dustry. It required that a priority list based on efficiency and
performance be established for mills and factories and that the
allocations be based on top priority to the most efficient mills.
Under this order, the number of mills receiving allocations will
be reduced from some 1,500 to less than 100,
8. On 10 March 1949 a formal directive was issued to the
Japanese Government on the subject of stabilization of the coal in-
dustry, This directive pointed out the essentiality of improvement
in efficiency in order to provide 42 million tons of coal for the
fiscal year 1949-50 without increase in the con sumer coal price or
subsidies and without resorting to deficit financing, The memorandum
further listed necessary steps which should be t ken by the Japanese
Government in order to reach this goal.
In order
RESTRICTED

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 245,
April 21, 1949.
-3-
In order to increase availability of power, the Hirohata
Thermal Power Company with a capacity of 23,000 KW was placed
in operation. Hydroelectric additions were made amounting to ap-
proximately 60,000 KW.
Contracts were signed for the construction of ships for ex-
port totaling 78,610 dead weight tons; dollar value $14,800,000.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.96)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
45921
5595
AIRGRAM
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
Date of
2
CONFIDINTIAL
Mailing:
April 23, 1949
A
(For Department Uce Only)
ACTION: OFD
INFO
Date Rec'd:
April 28, 1949
DC/R
11:12&.m.
FE
Secretary of State,
4PR2 949
E
A
ITP
Washington.
DEPARTMET OF STAT
OLI
A-96, Apr11 22, 1
894.50/4-2249
(This airgram cupelements thio Miesion's A-92, april 15.
1949, and ear ie: airarams in this series. Request
di stribution b: limited to Department for reasons stated
in A-21 o nury 29, 1949..)
1. Pope nepert Gontroveray. Publicatic by Neweweek April
18, 1949, of the ticle ntitled "What's Wrong in Japan? Plenty,
Blasts Survey Expert " was featured here by the following dovelop-
ments: (1) receir  SCxF of telegram from Colonel Frederick POPE,
quoted in the Neunk article and now cnroute to the United States
after making a survoy of the Japanese chemical industry, otating
he had been seriously misguoted and had nothing but admiration for
rehabilitation progress in Japen under direction of Ceneral MacARTYUP,
and (2) release by ensral Headquarters, CA, on April 20 of a 17-
page press release purportiny to be complete Fope report. Copies
of latter being treantoutted to Department; ef ort also being made
to determine whether press release contains complete report. If
not, will endeavor pltain couy complete report from .conomic and
Scientifie Section (Hss) for tranamittal to Department.
2. BOTRA Equiment Offered to SCAP. At weekly Ess staff
meeting April 18, attended by officer this Hssion, Hr. Theodore
COHEN, Special Aseistant co Chief, ESS, and CAP delegate to re-
cent ECaly conference, Dangkok, stated ho hed been approached by
Chinese delegates to conference regarling possible CAr interest in
purehase certain epuiprent from BOrRa, Chinese Covernment Board of
工
made of l) Diesel-en ined fiehing boats (possibly of American rigin)
supplied so Chins under UNfRA program. Cohen stated Chinese aesert.
edly unable operate vessels due lack Diesel oil. Noxt day M.
1949
W. 3. VAUdHAN, Chief, EsS Industry Divisien, usked oficer this
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central filés with notation of actiontaken.

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.76)
8
Tokyo's -96,
Apri1 22, 1919
- 2.
Mieston waerbe ce at or e sopltes uvallable for
sale conde be roe
Siee etooet ss that doubtrul
whetl or
 s enme and that
thisoestie n nsby reentative
.
sion rises
as to o rio
:cri t to ei  eceived frea
from Urt  o. ovever preve  dsveloante in China might
make t vho pdee they
wllg ell ea r wrrs. dded
cons eretie e  r equ pent o  ese som unists and
Uss. eber  ere Apr  wh Frlin NAY, earoute
from sa r rre he d br w  Lean ission, who
was in eta  iona in Lana n 6 d Later wtt Un
Washtcgton or fue
  China e Patios Ray exprrssed ocinion
that is was "abe e chinese o attmpt to eel materials re
cedived
addin s m iele in scess of require-
ments stt  ned to onaasions or iven to nation,
ue
atle to  to r stiv uee of then. Ho
stebed.  o d ter by ss.
3.  d o d.  boen Dr.
Robe    , and ass
foreign trete P   vs iay traee cetweon Jepen end merican,
British  Frne  or sor er aprit l. Or. Sieburth s
preliminary pe l u trade under "orf  sccount,"
apparenet     preee s  kng open ac
count.
 e  ely ce with esional clear
ance on deaane if er t lance exceede miilion dellaps. soa?
officials veuu  cor iny under otatisties
contrels, simi ar o eeme arerme in foree wth Sterling
area. Pesai ble   dapan, for dhica o acourate estimates of
quentity or val  vllo te, e pde s ethe, rey and other
cotton pieeeode,  te d foh ee. dreps, taxtile echinery,
canned ood, and va s toports Prem Piscnde. e ally inderi-
nite, may bnelude mopicl chemtcals aad dyesturfk, non-ferrous
metais und mvel roe, mshinery, potach, und el yo Consider-
atton mso beinr en o pessible barter er Jupamere copver, alu-
sinud, sine, eat w   pi ron waee beh to raie Gerden
oro. or cuher w 
pr         ephng
  r  r e on
for soe s w  o o e er , porr out
t    

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.81)
Tokyo's :-96,
April 22, 1941.
-3-
to trade and what they car trade, since responsibility for meeting
dollar- ansfer proulen  ss ith S and final dtermination of
inport-e x rt rogram mue therefore be made in Gen ral Headquarters,
SOAP.
4 Smn of s0 mrsan Prade oe Firncial rreements.
Dr. Sho o.
 ri ncial nd cescoadc advise to deneral
Lar ua, pr t in   sehbeauhed sigr s Koron Srade and
Finanes rgeaente  ep hie weekend bete s ot under-
standin as reoorted in  vious airr ms in shis smie  and in our
despa   03 of Ap . 194, lave been pprov b General
Headauae es. SAP, and   be eppended to arrange ont if ac-
cepted creans
 panbatin  an frade t weeky Ess st mee ing
April  Y perel Merquse veferren te telogram recel el Erom Mr.
Prans   ore, Chier Dss Foreirn Trade end Cor vere, Divi sion
and he o p rade  sion to basin Americe pre sunt in Mexico,
and et d slas it does a look ar if we are yoiny to  s auch
busine from.  edico."
april 19,  Russail . HAL acting
ief
   i n Mrade on Semmerce ivision, state1 to officer of
whis  pm that L had seived poreeal pirail lete fren
rdeke to hielh atr  epte lly peener cott Lm or ne oti
ation
treerat es opr d to biloteral trrle a reemats vdth
:in
 co tri shis bin ts ine eh enawent's recon
endet a a cubeet a mated n rcont bee ran o  s Head
varte
6.   
of New ur nie dt.
 ber o Sh Sis beg sent
here t  dy Jap's  sructare,  mied pri le s starf
mectin leneral Par ue conttensed a nie errival, stating that
many J ar se boljove work of sose o sien vill co ult in
Lover  xea. Genal  at adied e be d ir eome cor ain
key Jao nese finaactal prohorities toat no roe cti n is paxee wdll
be mate in 1949-50 so car commreing pl t. 194
7. palaxation of  panese fax Dotlecplon Bf rhe Distuphs
Margust. Ao sece sss st f meetina, Coneral arart stobed to p.
L H. mose. Chier, Ess lnoeomal Rev moe Divi mon, rat ne "very
much di turbod" to rece reports inricatin shat Finence Min-
ietry Patrsion Bureau ad caset mo on tax so lee lon scive Cor
4  yl year by cutlin back to bax uicer lary mmber

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.84)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
46109
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
OIVISION OF FIRINCIL AFTARS
I l us actin
006
NAY (1949
7
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
GLD, Tok yo
BA
ACION: OFD
IN
230. 1949
DO
EOR
to le
y 5,1949,12:
E
II
MAY 6 1949
DENT OF S
894.50/4-2849
tste
 to De-
Di eu
fr
n
pr
du
cf
bi-
i
∴-
(On)
MAY 121
FILED
1949
HH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.86)
t.o

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.67)
To
201

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.66)
To -10
srie
.2
8G
er
3

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.96)
7E
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
VISION OF
Tok. c, April 30, 1949.
ORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIR
No. 271
11949
NA
REC'D
Action Assianed to
MAY 9
FPARTNENT OF STATE
Noala
Action Turen
ACTION
FE ENC
Subject: conomic Stabilia ion
rogram and Dodge udg
NA·FE
INFO
FR
DCR
file
OFD ENC
ITP
The Honorable
894.50/4-3049
OLI
The Secretary of State,
COM ENC
Washington.
TREAS ENC
FRB
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Hission's despatches No.
124 of February 28, 1949, "Sconomic 3tabilization Board's Plan
to Stabilize the Japanese Economy," and No. 23 of April 20, 1949,
m
"Transmitting Copies of Hemorand- on Japanese conomic Situation
1/
Prepared by Economic Stabilization Soard;' to forvard five copies
of an Sconomic Stabilization Board memorandum of Harch 9, 1949,
2/
"Stabilization and Reconstruction,' and of a nencrandum of March
19, 1949, "Outline of Cver-all Feasures." h-rew th follows com-
ment on the Board's views on econotic stetiline: en end the Dodge
budget as indicated by the first of these memorande. The second
is en emplification of an earlier sui forwerded vi'h despatch
No. 124.
The conomic Stabilization Boari's Hareh 9 memorandum pre-
sents in some detail he oard's (ani, it mey Ia inferred, the
Yoshida Government's) belief that ab lization should bu ap-
proached cautiously. If ste ilize in me sures are adopted too
swiftly, the Board seys early in 'he stul, "the possibility can-
not be precluded thtt nessures, ho ever re: sonable nd orthodox
they may be, may not be able to demonstrate their effectiveness
to the fullest degree." Having thu circuaspectly indiceted its 
reluctance to take fima measures, the Board then proceels to out-
line in some detail the deflationar. and recessive con ivions
likely to result from too-swift retrenciument.
The basic difference between the Bo rd's position and that
held by Kr. Joseph M. DODGE, finencial aiviser to General
MackRrHuR, the study stetes, "lies in whether the domestic velue
of currency shell be stabilized at  siigle stroke or whether
the domestic and foreign value of currency shall be stabilized
gradually over a period of about two ears." Thus, although "of
course finance wiil be made to achieve a consolidate balance,"
the
FILED
RESTRICTED
DECLASSIFIED
NN20 760050
Arthortty...
Th G2T217.78
DMR
ACTION COPY

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 271,
April 30, 1949.
-2-
the issuance of construction bonds, Reconstruction Finance Bank
debentures, and locel bonds, should be allowed to continue "to
the extent that it would not stimulate inflation." Should such
devices be prohibited, the accumulation of funds through saving
will fall far short of industrial requirements, the study notes
(the Board's March 12 study, forvarded with despatch No. 238,
took a more optimistic view regarding the possibility of in-
creased savings), and the effect will therefore be not stabili-
zation but deflation.
The study paints an exeeedingly black picture of the tight
meney marxet to result "in case the extension of credit is re-
strained in addition to the true balance of the consolidated
budget." fotal supply of capital, it is stated, will amcunt to
325 billion yen in 1949, in comparison with 450 billion yen in
1948 (presumably both figures are computed on he basis of cur-
rent price levels). "Equipment funds," as dis nguished from
"working capital," will total only 135 billion yen as against a
demand for 190 billion yen. The report therefore concludes that
the attainment of production targets for coal, iron and steel
becomes "hardly possible" without sacrificing production in other
industries.
It may be noted that the Board's fears of a stringent money
market are apparently borne out by available statistics for early
1949. The Bank of Japan's Monthly concmic Report for February,
1949, shows that deposits in all banks (excluding interbank de-
posits) decreased by ¥2,431 million in January and increased by
only ¥ó,O50 million yen in February as compared with an increase
of ¥27,550 million in November and ¥68,491 in December, 1948.
Similarly, total loans decreased in January, and increased in
February by & sum equal to only about 40 percent of the September-
December average. The decrease in loans, however, can be attri-
buted to the deflationary effects of the Nine-Point Program only
if it is essumed that banks refused to exiend lcans in anticipation
of credit restrictions; while the decrease in savings may be
partly attributed to tax collections and to delays in Government
payments. Moreover, the gloomy picture painted by the Board does
not take into account direct Government investment of Americen aid
counterpart funds, which, accordinε to the usually relieble Nihon
Keizai Shimbun, are now contemplated to the extent of 80 billion
yen, a point, however, on which no final decision has et been
made by SCAP.
The March 9 study concludes that "in case stabilization mea-
sures are directly enforced," capital accumulation wil. decline,
the atteinment of a self-sustaining economy will be retarded, and
stabilization will be "only of an unstable nature." The Boarc
recommends that capital be allowed to accumulate "with the gradual
elimination of inflation;" that import subsidies be retained and
prices realigned to favor producers' goods; that the surplus in
the "Foreign Trade Special Account" (now incorporated into the
Counterpart Fund) be used for long-term investment; and that finan-
cial controls be tightened.
It may be concluded without injustice, however, that the com-
pilers of the report avoid a direct statement of its real aims and
conclusions. The burden of the argument throughout the study is that
a tight money market should be avoided, and that credit restrictions
should not accompany a balanced budget. It has been widely suggested
in the press that Bank of Japan's currency and credit policy will be
relaxed
RESTRICTED

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 271,
April 30, 1949.
-3-
relaxed at the instance of the Economic Stabilization Board, the
Bank representing the last possible source of currency and credit
expansion with the drying up of Government deficits and Reconstruc-
tion Finance Bank deb es. The Nihon Keizai Shimbun and the
Kogyc Shimbun have further reported that the Bank of Japan's basic
policy differences with the Yoshida Government will possibly force
the resination of ICHIMDA Hisato, Governor of that Bank, who is
said to favor rigid credit controls and ic oppose use of the Bank
as vehicle for inflation.
Although the March 9 study carefully records its approval of
the principle cf balanced public finence, it is clear from earlier
memoranda forwarded vith despaich No. 238, as well as from certain
passages in the instant study, that the Board is not happy with the
Dodge budget. Thus the "Analysis of Current Economic Situation of
Japany," forwarded with despatch No. 238, dwelt at some length on
the difficulties of public finance, and concluded that "there lie
many difficulties in the way of achieving the real balance of public
finance which is apt to run into deficit." The current study, more-
over, describes the disastrous effects to be expected not only from
credit restrictions but also from curtailment of Government expendi-
tures. If the Communications Ministry or the Transportation Ministry
reduces its expenditures, the study notes, "ripples will extend
throughout the national economy, which while interfering with one
another will enlarge themselves in their successive stages."
It is therefore not unreasonable to conclude that, perhaps for-
political reasons, the conomic Stabilization Board hopes for re-
laxation of the Dodge budget. It would perhaps be unjust to state
as did the Socialist newsletter Seikai Jcho recently, that the
Yoshida Government intends to run through the present budget and
force supplementary appropriations -- in any case SCAP supervision
should preclude such a development -- but the conomic Stabilization
Board has already pressed the Dodge Mission for revision of the
Counterpart Fund and of import subsidies to compensate for the setting
of a higher exchange rate then had been expected. whatever the
Government's motives in making these suggestions, the need for care-
ful supervision over public finance is clear.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures: (2(T
1.
Five copies of "Stabilization
end Reconstruction"
2.
Fives copies of "Cutline of
Over-all Meesures"
Parchment Mat to the Department
500
EGSeidensticker Jr.:lee
RESTRICTED
(87312)

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.96)
nclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 27
ted pril 30, 1949, from the United
ates Political Adviser for Japan,
okyo, on the subject "Economic Stabf
liza ion oard's Reactions to Nine
Point Program and Dodge Budget".
STABILIZATION AND RECONSTRUCTION
9 Maroh. 1949
Economio Spabilization Board

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.95)
PART I BASIC CONCEPTS
The Stabilization Program.
In view of the fact that the overall picture or th
evonomio stabilization program of your Headquarters is
yet unknown, we mey invite the censure of imprudenge
drawing such conclusinns regarding the program as are
given below. However, from what we can infer from 
lirectivos issued by your Headquarters and other data
concerning the implementation of the nine economio objeo
tives the foremost stress in the immediate stabillzation
measures appears to be placed by your Headquarters on
ourrenoy stabilization and mainteance of foreign erohan-
ge rate. Accordingly, we believe that the executiontof
the follewing measures is being demanded by the presens
anese economy.These peasures are:
(1) To effeet the complete stoppage of the infla-
tionary Srond and make poasibie Pormal industrial,
and commeroial activities.
(2) To stabilize domeatio price level ana offe
the maintenance of a foreign emohange
(5) To carry out a posltive rattonasien
enterpnisos,

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.96)
(4) By stabilizing domestic economy and by pr
ing export trade, to strengthen the link betw
Japanese economy and international eaonomy
normol conditions and create basic conditions
the induction of foreign cabital.
The effectuation of these economic-stabilization
measures indeed is essential, for the economic recovery
Japan. we aro not slow to recognize that in the ligh
pest thinking on the subject these measures are highly
reasonable and effective in seouring results with apeed
and precision. However, if Japaneße economy has not
sufficiently recovered to a point where it wan withetand
them, the possibility cannot be preoluded that meapures.
however reasonable and orthodox they may be, may not be
able to demonstrate their effectiveness to the fallest
degree. This should not -be taken as an intention, on our
part to lessen the efforts we are ca'lleh upon to make or
to attempt to defend oar poaition. Such is definitbly
not our: purpose.
With,the utmost eandor me ghall now prement our
viaws on the present subydot mith the regue
there by any inaccuradken, bhey be cofreated.

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.95)
At the same time we recognize that there are in-
umenable loop. holes in the Japanese economy which,
togther with the distortions in the economy, have been
retarding economic rehabilitation. We intend to elimi
nate them by enforcing some effective financial, price
and allocation programs, which, when formulated, will be
submitted to you.
II. Differences between wo Concepts.
In our view the basic differenges between the
thinking in the Economic Stabilization Board thus far and
the thinking in your Headquarters are to be found on the
following points:
a. Ideas Held by GHQ.
Curroncy should be stabilized as aoon ás possible
at latest within the year 1949. For this purpose the
two largo outlets of ourroncy, namely, deficit pubkie
finance and oreation of credits by central bank,
should bo stopped. Especially with regard to finanoe.
there should be aghleved a true balangd in the conso-
lidated budget, inclusive of bantral and local
and of the general and spedial acconnte
end expenditures for.puhily
to. so billion yan and
Roconatradtton Ey

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.94)
construation bonds should not be recognized. Not
only the price level but the price structure as wall
should hardly be changed.
b. Our Ideas
Inflation should finally be terminated during th
1950l fiscal year. That is to say, currenoy tabills
tion should be effected gradually by stages and pard-
lolled therewith dislocations from international prion
structure would also be gradually rectified. To
this end, even though the price level is kept unohang
the priée structure should be brought as close as
possibie to a world price struoture. Although af
finance will be made to achieve a consolidated balan-
oe, the issuance of construotion bonds, RFB deben-
turas and local bords should be permitted to the
extent it would hot stimulaterinrlation.
In a word, the differende lles in whether the
domestie yalue of ourrepcy shagld be stabilized at a
single atroke or whebner the domestio-ant forelgn
valus af ourreneyshould be atanilla
a porfad of about two poare.  We do

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.92)
5
is any basic difference of viowe regerding the-point
that currency stabilization is a preliminary conditios
of economic recovery. However, the question is not
simply one of "time", but afao a way orythinking
with regard to capital accumulatiqn. To put itm
another way, there seems to exlet behind the two
types of thinking a difference in appreclatlon af to
at what level of living and at what level of prodtuo
tion tre stabilization should be effedted.
In this connection, the defferent concepts on
deflatfon and disinflatioa pem also be pginted out.
We think that defiatlon will follow the im
plementatian of measures now being suggeated by the
GHQ for the following sedson:
(1) In case the public finahces are balanced
and the areation of credit is stopped, the
Inorease in gurrendy will pa halted If n
pepple ges un improsbisn that the inflation
has been virtualsy tarmidatedvin condoquange
ofythe currency stabiligatfony the puio
level wilt mot zomaln mallt la, but wilk

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.96)
decline in viow of the fact that prioe index
1s more than the ourrency index ( 203
(2) Although the increasd of savinga in 1948
year is estimated at 34c billion yen, majorepur
it assumes the form of temporary eavinga and only
a rolatively samll amount will be entered as realls
long term deposits On the assumption that the
saving propensity is the same as in 1930-54, the
increaso in savings in l949 fiscal year following
the stoppage of inflation will be about l8c billion
yen. However, the above assumption will be too
optimistic and the saving propendity will be much
samller than is representeh by the abovo figuree
if we take into conpideration the fart that the
standard of lving is Ge for wage marnars and
78% for fammers respectively of the bagio poriod.
Tho cevings will in fact fall eventually far bel
the above 180 billion yen reaulting in the mhor
supply of working capital, notito speak of
mont funds, thus causing daplime th the
the producer goods.

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.96)
(3) It 1s a historical course,of event that, after
stoppage of inflation, economy does not get immedin
normalized but passes through  dérlatienary pertc
The above course will be the more conspfouous:the
more has the inflation, been vicioua and the sho
period in which the inflation is stopped.
The policy of restricting loans adopted by the Reich
bank after 7 April 1924 causod a severe shortage 
working capital rosulting in a stabilization panie.
The restriction of loans carried out'by Binandi in
Italy after October 1947 was followed by a deolino in
pricea by 15 - 20%, 1n 1iving cost by 12% and 1m
industnialis' production despite the increase n raw
materiale and power supply.
These facts pröve that, Inder capitaliatic ayatme,
inflation cannot be terminated within short perio
without causing deflation.
Disinflation can be effectuated me
a fairly long period or nder thé
eoonpmy

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.90)
The gourée of disinrlation in Japan will not
samp an in England, in viow or the fact t

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.97)
Assuming that 5 years hence, in the course or
nomic recovery program, we have a population of B7,6
we heve estimated that the minimum scale of economy whe
would be self-supporting and operating without derfcit
call for:
Production level of mining
and Manufacturing Industries
135%(1930-34-100)
Agricultural, foreatry and
Fishing Industries
106%
Exports $1,650 m1llion
(At presont value)
Import $2,750 m1ll1en
Level of living 80%
(1930-34-100)
and we have arrived at tho conslusion that unless capital
be accumuhated somehow to tho amount necessary for attathing
the lovel given above our economy would not become sel
sustaining in the true sense of the term. It is precisely
because of this that in our program we, have considered tha't,
while stabilization is necessary, a simultaneous acatmulation
of capital is also necessary and to the same extent.
In our view the currenoy stabilization alone should not.
be the single supreme objective, because we belieteath
pregent conditions in Japan the stabilisation of curr
and by itself will not solve the antire problem and
attempt at.producing only an appearanee of,aurpeney.
zation certainly would not be a shontwout to the
ment of a solr-auppprsing coonomt

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.95)
10
1s that with the producticn of our mining andamanufacturing
Industries at about 60 per cent of tho prewar level and
living of wage earners 60 por cent of prewar standard.
national economy could not possibly function without derl
In order that our economy may bacome self-supporting it
essential that by greater accumulaticn of capital and ra
of the production level it be lifted up to a scale wheres
can function on a rational basis. Stabilization muat gp
hand in hand with rocovery. If Japanese econcmy must qulekly
lessen its dependence on foreign eid, then to that extent the
requirements for recovery can not be ignored.
Hereip lies
tho difficulty.
Admittedly stabilization of inflation is an urgont task.
Unless stabilization is achieved neither rationality of econ
my nor, the law of values can be realized in their true sense.
Unless currency is stabilized and economy recovere ratlonality
many of the obstaclos and contradictions whigh now exist in
our economy may not be eliminated. wo are not slow to e
that currency stabilization is prelimindry to ecqngmie seco
and self-sppport. The problem exists in hoy thas ata
1s to be achieved. It is our bollef that suoh atat
meaaures should be adopted as wonld pmrmit tho modum
of opital
As sources of capital accumulation the folle
montioned:

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.94)
Domostic accumulation of capital.
(1) Voluntary savings by individuala
(2) Profits in enterprises.
(s) Tex proooods
Accumulation of capital with foreigr oapitul
(1) Governmont aid.
(2) Private foreign oupital.
Of those poasible sources, perhaps the largost is
ary savings by individuals. However, under present conds
wherein the level of consumption of the people in genoral
no more than 60% of the average level for 1930-34, theretmay
not be a large source of capital aocuriulation (In the yeara
1930-34 savings were made by: those whose inoome was abovo,80
per cent of the average level of living).Bader the preat
prive structure, capital accunulation from the profité of-ing
dustriak and commercial enterprises would be little.and
ly apeaking, the tendency to disinvest would rather be.
stronger. So long as expenditures Por cpnsumpt
conatitute the greater portion of rinance anstne
mulation of capital through taxea can not be-gt anyuer
amount In faot, the stronger the dethand for
roxceacive tax busdoh, so muckmejore disfiouttymould
 mhital accunulation:by such a mathed as th

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.97)
12
Tho vlew is cxpressed tha't if oconomy is stabilized
acoumulution of capital in.far roater/volume tham at pre
would bo possible. However, is not this view an optimistto
one whioh overlooks the fact that, theoretically and hiab
cally, in the initial stage of deflation, as Schumpter pol
out, capital accumulation becomes less (improvemont of the
level of living):
If we follow this line of thought the conclusion woul
be that in order to accumulato large quantities of capital
under our prcsent conditions, wa would be compelled to carry
out/highly planned manipulation of our economy or to adopt
/a
inflationary mothods. As both methods are impractidable
under present ciroumstances, however, we think there 1s no
feasible method other than to effect a gradual tapering off
of inflation while at the same time advancing our econqmy by
greater planning.
On the other hand, regarding capital accumulation through
foreign aid, mammuch as we are obliged to act on the assump-
tion that government aid will henceforth be gradually redueed
the question hingee on the induction of private foreign capit
But could we be so optimistio as to think that if our sconomy
becomes stable, private foreigh capital would flow into
nogesaary fields or'could we not also say that the outlook
that suoh capital would not so easily be induoted would"be
the more correct view to taket
The

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.96)
-18
The sole exoeption would be a loan from the Intorna
Monotary Fund. Hure the question l1es in whether we
pect a loan in any large amount.
o are fully cognizant of tho diffigulty of aso
It is precisely begause or
capital with our own offort.
that we havo thought, in order to produce capital, howeyer
modest it may bo, of making supplementany mettsions of the
price structure which would to some extont be favourable to
produeer goods and thereby increaso the acoumuletive power or
industrics themselves; of inorousing financial investment
and of dirocting counter part Funds forward accurulation of
capital without absorbing it ontirely as subsidy for exports
and imports. That any rise in the lovel of living would be
curbed to some oxtent on this acuount is perhape umavoidable

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.95)
Part II. Effects of the Stabilization Program.
I. Effeots on Production and Purchasing Power
(1) Dimunition of Industrial Funds
In case the extonsion of credit is Restrained in additio
to the true balance of the consolidated budget the inore
in savings which was a reflection of inflation will be ex
pected to bocome much less in 1949 than in 1948. Even 1f
account i's taken of the Industrial Bank debentures, utilizat
ion of the fund at the Deposit Bureau of the Ministry of
Finance, sacurities investment and self investment (nuch ma)
not be expected unless the present official prices be udjust-
ed), the supply of industrial funds at the maximum will be
as follows:
(in billion, yen)
Equipment funds working capital
1948
19491948
1949
25.0
285.5
150.5
Commercial Banks
310.5
Agricultural Cooperatives,) 24.8
20.0
0
to.
Industrial Bank
10.0
0
Deposit Bureau
Reconstruction
68.2
30.0
4.3
0
Finance Bank.
15.0
20.0
15.0
20.0
Securities Invostment
etr Investment
18.0
20.0.
1020
20.0
gial financing by
1020
vernment
126.01550

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.97)
15
As regards the equipment funds, if those for the reco
agrichlture, forestry, and aquatia industry as woll as for
ing are deducted to obtain the amount available only for
dustries, and calculated in terms of the current price level
wil! be seen that the amount of 120 bill1on for 1949 falls
more than 20 per cent below the corresponding f1gure for 1948
which amounted to ¥140 billion.
Of the equipment funds mentioned above, the pmotion under
control of the governiont will account for only 32 percent inr1
as compared with 54 per cent in the preoeding fiscal year. This
may be interpreted to wean tho weakoning of the controlling powd
of thd government through fimanoial means.
(2) Disperity betweon Supply of and Demand for Fund
Disparity betweon the requiroment for funds to earry out the
original production plan and tho amount of funds available u
tioned above will be as shown in the following table, indicating
that the attainment of production targets of coaI, 1ron and et
becoming hardly possible.  It is true if priority is given to
thoir production, the targets for these essential materiels may
attained. But in that case, owing to insuffiolent mupply'of oquir
ment funds and consequent lowering of purohasing power in other
industries, as mentioned below, the result will be relative ow
produotion or basic materials, The following table, thererore is
drawn up on the estiration that their production will algo fail
short of the targets.

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.96)
16
(in billion yen)
Demand for
Funda avail-
equipment
able for
(A)-(B)
funda (A)
equipment(B)
Mining
30.1
14.15
16.95
(Coa1)
25.0
11.5
155
Textile
7.6
7.6
0
Metal
10.75
8.65
8.1
(Iron and steel)
9.76
7.76
2.0
Machinery
8.38
6.3
1.58
Coramios
1.2
C.95
.0.25
Chemicals
13.38
10.3
3.05
Electricity
43.0
24.7
18.3
10.
Gas
1.4
1.4
0
Transportation
31.95
£5.3
6.65
8.0
(Shipping)
21.8
16.9
4.76
8.0
Agriculture, forestry and
aquatic industry
(Food-processing, fishery,
eto.)
10.3
8.4
1.93
9.0
Total fon essential
industries
158.1
:08.88
40.00
Grand total (incl. funda for
recovery of agriculture
forestry, eto. and for hous-
ing, oivil engineoring and
commerce)
190.0
135.0
15:0
19030
Noto: Demand for equipment Funde wili be differat if the
adjustment 1s disapproved. The above figur
different from those in, the paperton
outh
ldasures.

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.96)
17
(3) Effects of Dimunition of Funds on Production
The factors which are likely to affect the production
the fiacel yoar 1949 may be enumerated as follows:
a. Amount of imported raw matorials and power supr
b. Outcome of prico problem (coal and electricity)
Amount of subsidies (iron and steel and fertili
d. Supply of working capital;
o. Purohasing power both at home and abroad
bo will first deal with the "primary" offects or tho din
of equipont funds on production.
(a) Coa1
hs the supply of funds for general equlpment is re
to two-thirda of the amount pequired in the coming year, to
nothing of tho slicing of funds for housing for mineratund for
developing new mines, thus falling oven below the amount act
supplied during l948, coal output for the curront fiseal year
ostimated at 35 million tons may be tho most optimlatler
for tho next. year. Even if promotion of mining effisioney
rationalization of operation is considered, the output is es
to be around 36 million tóns.
(b) . Ison and ateel.
Besidos the reduction in the funds for the housir
workers, the reconstruotion of blast furnace and obei
nace for ttaining the plan to produce
haye to be postponod, with tho roault
to fall below the produotion hual by

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.96)
(c) : Electricity
In the event of an increaso in the eleotridit
approved only to the extent of about 1.4 timée the ou
atch remainder of' revenue derived from the sale of oled
after payment for coal for use in the thermal goneratit
as may be assigned to repairs of installations, mili
than that of the preceding year. Power output may Be
at the level of 1948, but 1t will be impossible to ind
keoping with the plan for increesed production in 194
it bo possible to develop new resources for steppedeup
during 1950-51. Thus the economic standards 1n the fulu
be sericusly affected.
(d) Shipping
Since the building works brought over from the
1948 will have to be contipued, hew buildings will have ta be
duced by one-fourth and repair and conversion work by some
thirds of the plan. Certainly, the reduction in the equiple
with consequent deereased production of besic materials may
ly affect the amount of produete in the sucõedsive higher
production. But the question wo are most concerned mbout ip
declining punchasing power.
(4) Purchasing Power for Producezbs"Good
During the fiacal year 1949, a marked decrease in t
of inzestmont in equipmente la antigipabad. Thta will
with the governmen't finande as well as with pris
he following table contains the main in

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.93)
Investment in Bquir
(1n billion
Amount parts- Ammount adjust- Rs
Classification
ally estimat- ed by prioe
am
1948
Y.1948M)
Public works(tncluding
107.4
89.5
locally financed works)
Construction of railways
and communication in-
34.6
41.5
stallations
Private business invest-
1440
1100
120.0
ment
295.9
208.
Total
244.1
Noto: The rate of price increase is eatimated at 20 pepan
In so far as the figures given in the above table indio
purchasing power will fall by about 30 per cent. But, a a
of fact, some home demand for the so-dalled produocf s good
be represented, besides-the above, by such portion of runi
penses in the State and private business financbe'sa aru dd
for amortization and maintenance of equipments, and aleo fort
chasing the so-called producer's goods as raw patarlala (ap
the case of coal and steel as raw material). The amo
kind of domand may properly 'be estimated at a leval allg
the pocord or the current yeer.
a sharp rise in the damanditof pr
pont lg expected during l949.
#iniahad ateel for mmahl
th24on5

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.91)
odae the purchasing power on the ove
) Taking the three
to acoount, -- tho inveabpant In
Toroproducor's gooda aa contained in'tho mund
the governmont and private business rinande.
ror export -- it is presumed that the combined efr
for producer's goods during 1949 will not rise
results of 1948. It will be concluded from tho above
formulated by the Economic Stabilizetion Board whidh
per cont inorease in the production o? these goode d
over the amount of 1948 will become unworkable, remul
relgtivo overproduction of these goods, as the roduetic
the gurantee of a corresponding purohasing power, and
plan 1s enforced numerous frictions and losses wmii be
It may be added that, if for lack of funds on acbown
growing "dásinflation" or deflation the business be fabeed
pose of its stock, tho tendency as. desoribed above would fu
be accentuated.
(5) Far-reaching Effeots of Deflationary Tendenoy.
u. Then is it practibable to avoid confusion and
on a peaceful way toward stabilization, if we reduce 'the pl
the level of 1946 in reference to production of these gooda
It may be hardly practicable.
Because, in the first place, the demand for prd
goods will be compoved of altered itons, even though it
amount. mey bo oquivalent to that of l948. As tha ayat
duotdod mannot ho reorganlzed overenight to meet bhe on
dimund tho afrocto daused by tho sabarigs.
ofeintuatdy and buslnesa
ea aproal

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.97)
As the possibility of a panic cannot be visualize
abstract description like the above, we will describe b
an endless chain of repercussions can be developed thro
flationary trend, by means of citing ccncrete cases
csappose the government's purchasing power is so dimis
that the Communication Ministry discontinues to purchase
munication appliances. The manufacturer of communicatica
ances falls into arrears with its payment to the manufact
clectrio wires.and the wire supplier in turn beconos a bnd
to the copper mine operator. Suppose again the Transportal
Ministry rofrains fron palcing ordors for rolling stocka wilr
unable to pay for the iron and atéel supplied, in turn gitile
rise to delay in paying the coal bills by the steel-manufaot
Thus the dimunition of state finances will not only affoct the
manufactures of cormunication appliances and rolling stocka alond
but produce a series of repereussions. Ripples.will expand
ghout the national oconomy, which while interfering with one and
ther will enlargo themsolves in their successive stages. In the
course of development, some of the business units may not be ablo
to stand the strain and may become bankrupt. Eventually the
financial institutions which financed the companies might ba in
volved. In such ciroumstances, 1t is expoctod that rat&onalimat
1on and readjustment of business may throw an unoxpected numbes
of workers jobless, at least for the transition period.
b。

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.97)
b. While the unemployed population increases
hand, the real weges of the employed will incroase on the
as the riso in price is arrested or the fall in pricereata
their power to purchase necessarioa will increase in pro
If ve take all the factors into account such ns inereat
number of memplpyed, increase in the real wages of the
decrease in the (income of the so-called inflation-prorite
tho auo:nt of effective demand for consumen'a goods may rem
what it is at present or may show a slight incroase. But ad
purohasing power of the so-called inflation-profiteera is
podted to fall, the domand for luxuries and services that mry
dispensed with will decrease, while on the contrary the pure
power will increase for consumor's goods necessary por livi
As in the case of manufactur of produoer's goddmmen
tioned before, the production of consumer's goods also cgnnot
adapted to a change in/donand immediately, (among othors, the
/the
total capecity of supplying food and clothing materials being
lipited), so that similar confusion will arise accompanied by
disturbing developments.
c. hs hinted in the above description, the capabilit
of an industry or a business unit to tide over the/possible urte
genprally depends upon the amount of funds particularly
working capital available. Apart from the own cap tal funda
the funda raised from outside will have to be aupplied 
as the supply of government funds will be aimited to some
spacifio uses. Thus the success or failpre of entorp
have to be detormined solely by whother or not the b
iny t cive them credita. But the banke,

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.97)
will of course decido fron the business point of view. In
existing price structure, however, it cannot generally
that higher is the inpertance of a business the poorer is it
profits. Heroilåes tho reason for our apprehension in regetd
the stabilization measuros which are aimed at restoring the
economy to its normal course immediately. If under the
conditicns (particularly with the price structure still
ed) tho stabilization measures are onforced, it is foared that
branches of industry as are essential for the nation may ours
much and thoso to bo oliminated may survice prospering. It i
foarod that the intontion to remove tho distortions caused by
infltion fren the nation's econony may not be attuined. out
intontion to overcome inflation and to attain stabilisation
some length of tine, as mentioned bofore, was not only basod on
the dual objective aimod at stabilization and simultaneously at
capital accumulation. It was also basod on the idoa to reotify
the distorted factors, notably the distorted price structure
wiht tho increasing productivity, and to put an end to the int
flation without cuusing much friction. (The present prioo
structuro can bo rectified only when the productivity has in-
creased to a cortain lovel.) It was our intention to lot in-
flation itpelf proparo the condition for its adjustriont.
The policy of reatricting crodit extension was firat
adoptod by tho Italian Government aftor the.World War II only
whon her mining and manufacturing output hnd recovered do
cent of the prowar levol. Yet a 15 per cont docroase in
is roported to have boen cauked by stabilisation modgure

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.97)
24
The recent measures to stabilize currenoy in the Weat
were also taken after her production had climbed up to
per cent of prewar level. The industrial output of Japan
sent accounts for only 60 per cent of so of the 1930-51
As compared with the production of 1938-39, the present outpu
still remains orly 40 per cent. For these economic reasci
well as from politioal and social viewpoint), wo conaide
premature to onforce stabilization measuros immediately.
reasons mentioned before, we fear that the oopnomic aajust
the precase of overcoming inflation would not bring about
dosirod results. With regard to the materials allocation
enterpriees oan not purchaso the materials if they have no mon
so that the material allocation program cannot be worked out as
is planned by the government.
Consequently the control of
rials wmtr is so important both for export and eseential indu
may Docome ineffective.
d. The supply of working capital in the amount of 1go
billion under the plan as mentioned before is emeover-estimation,
being based on the over-estimated amount of increase in the eak
Once the deflationary trend set in, the banka would have a
o demands for loans to obtain working capital to tide over the
crisis. The precedent in Italy ahowe this cleurly Thie may
likened to the case whero
: even non-smokers receive. tob
when it is rationed, juat as those who are papable of rece.
credita may get loana more than neeosaary for thdir bugine
the posaible raault that those
from obtaining thom, Thone possibilitiepte6

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.97)
probable cimunition of working capital below
mentioned before, may compel the business
of ite equipment funds to operating purphabs
the situation all the more serioualy.

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.95)
26
II. Outlook on Employment.
Judging from the employment index for the past one
employment in the field of manufacturing industey 
ture has been gradually decreasing, while there was a
Increase in omployment in the field of comuerce, servl
professions, Thus the net increse of employment for
one year did not exceed more than 350,000 to 400,000
whereas supply of labor has incroased by moro than 1.
persons during the same period. Therefore, according
figures published by the Statistios Puroau of the prese
ber of those who are unemployed is ostimated at 1 200,
1,400,000 persons, but, if the hidden unomployment 1s to
Included in the number, it totals more than 2,430,000 p6
Under such oiroumstanoes what will bo tho offeot of the
stabllizatlon measures on omployment? It is naturally
difficult to describe it at full length. But it Is meayor
expeoted that in the field of mining and manufactaring inde
a copsiderable amount of unemployment will unavoidably arise
rom the intensification of rationalization, dwindling bffeoti
demaad, and low production. Moreover, it is aleo expeoted
with the drastic out in the expenditure for pubiic warka a.
considerable portion of those who are now employeu in the
field of gonstruotion industry, will be thoown outcef thgl
jobs, and a large numbor of the omployees of the goverpmer
central as well as loeal, will lose their Jobe
the atruamlining of the govurnment stre
the udemployement as can ho olcarly
foliowing figurea:

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.97)
-27-
(1) From Mining and Manufacturing. Industry. 500,000 to 600.
(2)
From Construction and Housing Industry. 100,000
(3)
From Streamlining of the Government
Structure.
400,000.t0 450.000
Total
1,000,000 to 1.150.000
The above figure covers only those who are now employed
but are likely to be dismissed in the very near future. But
there is another ssurce of supply of labor, i.e. numerous gra-
duates from varicus schools, repatriates from overseas, eto.
Supposing that thay cannot find an opportunity of employment
or cannot be absorbed ints expanding branches of industry, the
total number of the unemployed will reaen as high as 4,000,000.
persons.
In this connection, it must be reacalled that the sotial
security system of this country is so poor and inndocuate thint,
in case no brastic measures are to be taken for the strongticn-
ing and oxpansion of this system, the army of the unempluyed
thus swollen is bound to give rise to serious social unreet.
Even if the unemployment relief program which was recently
decided upon by tne Caninet is to be put into operation, only
670,000 persors or thereabouts will be covered by this program,
as is explained below:
1. Unemployment Insurance:
(1)
regular employees
420,000
(2) day laborers
130.000
550,000
Temporary Relief Measures
to ihe Unemployed:
130,000
3. Livelilsod Fr tection:
20,000
TOZAL
670,000
Therufore

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.95)
Therefore those who are thrown outwof their
either go back to the rural distriets where their
and acquaintances live or beçome retail-dedlere or
venders, using a very small amount af retirement all
their capaital. This is nothing but a disagreeablo
of what ha pened in the depression years of the paet.
also anticipated that, owing to the tight busineeg oont
or hard livelihood, the medium and small soale traders
cities as woll as rural districts will be degraded to
of the laborers, thue adalng themselves t5 the army of the
unemployes An active cross movement of labour between th
creres and rural diatricts will take. plece. But, in vlew of
prevailing food and houaing shortage, the free movement di
labour will be extromely diffioult, and thore will be formed
a so-called "daposit of surplus population"
Under these clroumatanoes, the healthy developmento
the labor unions wilr be im eded, and It is expeoted that
the future labor probleme in thie country will be very
grave and serlous
III. Porspeative of the Puture.
It is aur belief that if a rapid economlo stabilizatti
is foroibly bushed through, capital acoumulatiou will
impalrud, so that oventuably, gvan if stabillambLom m
attalned to a certaln exont, were will,be droated
fiesure in the grounawark whi

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.97)
89
(1) Agriculture
In the economic rehabilitation program, 25.
yen is being requested out of 90 billion yen publto wor
penses.es capital investment for the production inorepn
agricaltural, forestry and marine industries and l0.2 bi
sut of rohaoilitation funds for agricultuge, forestry and
for the 1949 fiscal year.
Recently, however, it has been indicated by i
querters that the overall pubiic works expenses in thergon
account be curtalled to 50 billion yen. Assuming that the
works expenses for agriculture, forestry and marlne produgt
be cut down to the extent of-13 billion yen and the rehabll
tion funds for agriclture, forestry and fishery to 6 billlon
what will the resultant effects be?
The dimicution in the caoital investment will probably
not, have such a large effect on production during the 1949
50 perlod. As an immediate problem, however, it is expected
as a matter of course that the will to deliver quotas on the
part of farmers wilf be impaired and thus make difficult the
securing of rice collection. What we are afraid of partidu
larly, nowever, is the effect on futuee agricultural produotion
The agrioultural outputs after four years, when compared mit
those contemplated An our rehabilitation program, would conr
stitute an approximate decrease of 1.2 million kokk, Idom
puted in terme of brown rloe). This aspeot, mhon ahown
as against the project program, will be as, fbilowa:

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.96)
Reduotion in oubput (compu
koku) Consequent to Curtallmedt
ment for Agrioulture
Rehabilitation Program Stabilization
Neme of Projact Amount of Inoreased Amount of
Enterprise Production Enterprisb
(A)
Development
48,000 chobu 950 (1,000 18,000
kóku)
Roclamation
of Lakes
1,864
816
Irrigation and
drainage
92,000
234
73,060
Land 1mprovement,316,000
756
85,000
Totel
1.947
The quantity of agricultural produetion cannot hein?
ing wilaly in accordance with changes In the natural condit
TIn order to achieve a planned increase in the agrioul
products such measures as modernization of agricultural ma
dovelopment, realamation, irrigation and drainage for agriot
and lahd improvement muat be taken. Sinoe, however, agriou
this country cannot hope to become the object of profitable
ment on the part of private banks, and glnóe not too much 
be placed on the own savings of the agrioultural population
reorganization of the agricultural land syatem has pean efi
State Investment is tne only resort if develobment of agrie
is to be aehieved.
Ir aurtallment of State investment is to be ofde
exbent that it is expected at thls time, developmdnt
annot bo hoped for whlle agriculturat prodmotio
in thy future to undergo wido,flactgat

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.95)
51
GARIOA funds it is felt that it would be difficult to
during 1949 fisoal year the allooation calories of the proos
fiscal year. Moreover, at a time when we haye to prepareou
selves for further reduction in the foreign appropriabed fun
the effecta resulting from laok of agricultural inveetmmnt
through the bogging down of agricultural production, Berid
jeapardize the future food problem and it is feared tha
stabilizatlon:will be threatened from this quarter.
(2) Fublio Works.
What will be the situation if it were to be presumedthat
public worka expenses be cut down to something like 5o billion
 or the same time the flotation of construction bonds
Ia the Rhiltay and Commanfcatton Special Accounts and the flota
tion of locel banda were to be stopped?
Our public work program will be undermined and as a reault
thereof, It would not be 'herd to imagine that any repair or expan
Blon in the faoilities of production, tranaportation and clvii
welfere will become extremely dirfigult, to say nothing of aiml
difficultres In ourbing thq tendeney for geometrio imcrease In
disasters.
Some wr the more important effecte which will arise La
respective apheres of public morka from curtailment of entmtppit
expenses may be enamerated as followes
(a) mratiy, as river disasters are extremely seriods in
thelr results, even If speclal strees. is laid on the allocati
of funds, there is a strong consensus of opinion that during the
1949 fiscal year only 30% of the disasters of the preceding f
year, wnlle up to the flood season only 20%, will have besarn

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.97)
(b) In addition to being in en extremely devastat
dition as a result of indiscriminate felling during the
forests, through yearly.fellings, have some 200,000 ono
requiring afforestation. Thus, the area which will regu
restation after five years will become 2,200,000 cho1
tation were to be oarrled out witnin the framewor of
vided, the amount of enterprise will approximate to only
cho per annum. We are placing conslderable nopes on-priv
Investments, but were tnis to be denied, bare foreste art
years will have reached 1,325,000 cho and will congtitute
for the occurrence of fresh disasters.
(c) With respect to harbours, hithereto, the war dampge
recovary of.land facilities themselves were not adequately
effected. The dredging work within the harbours have been
carried out in no adequate manner. within the framework of
the fund which is expected at present, it is consldered the
only 65% of the scope of enterprise deemed necessary frop the
movement of cargo following the livening up'of trade can be
accomplished when barges outsids ports and harbours are used
judging from the present situation where about 40 to vo
higher rates have to be paid as compared to within the port
or harbours, the slowing down of ports and barbour enterpris
constitutes through the Inoreased in atevedoriag expenses.
very disadvantageous position from the polnt of view of trad

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.95)
The foregoing in confined to examplosxn certa
only. It should not be diffiqult to,supose, howevs
similar.features will occur with rdspeet to roads,
produptfon, housing and other civil welrare faplliti
come under the purview of public works
What is desired to be stressed in conclusion te the
thim.country's transporation and power, puch as railv
communications and electricity will be delayed conmidaral
bly. With respect to elfectric power, the davelopment-or
electric cources cannot be under-taken anew while the poghp
ment of repairs on various facilities for cutting down"lo
must be postponed to. a considerable extent. Again, with
respect to the railway, 'delay de the paogress of electri-
ribakion for saving of coal cannot be avpided.
From these circumatances it is not hard to imagtnd
that dirfieulties will occur in attempting to raise the
level of production in the future. Morpover, even if
sévazal years hence private foreign capital,are to be
introdaced on a large seale, dirriopitiea an
however in trying, to use it fimediately in such a way
aa to'make it useful for ecpnomic rehabilitatton.

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.99)
Iv.' Conclusion:
We have explained about the dirfer
of GHQ and ours with regard to the measures
zation and pointed out that the idea of att
tion at one stroke will not necessarily be a
self-sustaining economy in the future for the
reasonss
1) In case the stabilization measures are dr
enforced, the result will be a sharp deoline in
accumulation.
2) Consequently producer's goods industries mila
dead-locked. And eventually be liquidated, with reaul
large unemployment.
3) In consequence of the reduction of funds under 
direct control of the State, the funds and materials will
be concentrated in enterprises which, though not so nece-
ssary for economic rehabilitation, have strong power to get
credit.
4) Small capital accumulation at present not only
means a poor gain in the future, but may enlarge the
substantial disinvestment.

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.99)
5) Under such circumstances, it will be diffighlt
attain such level and structure of economy as should be wh
the self-sustaining economy is realized.
6) If the economy is temporarily stabilized on a low
scale, such stabilization will be only of an.unstable ma-
ture, and disinvestment wiil continue somewhere in the
national ecoromy.
We consider it absolutely necessary therefore, while
putting priorily on stabilization, to maximize the accumu-
lation of capital to raise producticn level eyen at the
temporary sacrifice of rise in living standard, with a
view to establishing at an earliest possible date, a
truly self-sustaining economy which is perfectly free from
disinvestment.
For that purpose, adoption of the following measures as
have already been stated, is considered necessary.
(1) Simultaneously with the gradual elimination
of infl tion capital shall be accumulated.
(2) By the alignment of internal price a structure
to the world price structure as much as possible the import
eubsidy shall be saved and at the same time the disparily
between

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.99)
tetween the consumer's goods and the producer's goods shal
be adjusted in favor of the latter so that enterprizes may
be able to accumulate their own capital to some extent.
(3) The surplus in the Foreign Trade Special
Account accrueing from the sales of goods and materfals
imported by U.S. Appropriated Funds shall not all be given
away as import and export subsidies, but be partially used
as a long term funds such as the fund for development of
electric power sources.
(4) The control on funds shall be,tightened and
an arraggement be made to secure the equipment funde to
such industry as is considered desirable In the interests
of the nation.
Maght it not be said that such policy is a truly
short-cut to the self-sustaining economy which is aimed
by the nine point program?

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.98)
Inclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 271
date1 pril 30, 1549, from the United
ntes olitical dviser for Japan,
okyo, on the subject "Economic Stabi-
liza Ion ourl's Reactions to Nine-
ine Progrom and Podge Budget"
On "Outline of Over-all Measures
10 March 1949
E.S.B.
It was acknowledged in the "Analysis of Current Economic
Situation of Japan" that recent superficial stabilization of
economy and rise in production level has been achieved only
through large amount of economic assistance of the United
States and that underlying such phenomena is the fact that
the Japanese economy itself is running a course of poverty.
The Economic Stabilization Board is resolved to implement
the Nine Objectives on Economic Stabilization in cognizance
of the fact that the year 1949 is the first year to carry out
the Economic Rehabilitatfon Program aimed at putting the
Japanese economy on a self-supporting basis. In prospect
of an early establishment of a single exchange rate the national
economy should be rationalized, export should be enhanced to
the utmost, distortion in price structure should be eliminsted
and the scale of public finance should be brought down to
the minimum, thereby normalizing the national economy. At.
the same time, new investment necessery for the establishment
of self-supporting economy should be secured even at the
sacrifice of the tempo of improvement of the living standard.

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.99)
Such is the basic idea underlying the "Outline of Over
Meesures". The following is the explanation of the conerete
program, the details being subject to further deliberation.
Your examination of the Outline is hereby requested
1. Establishment of exchange rate.
a. A single exchange rate shall be established in the
month of
this year.
b. The rate of exchange shall be determined in the'light of
the actual state of the over-all national economy and of the
possible extent of the cushioning measures stated below. The
rate shall be such that it renders possible rationalization of
enterprises and stabilization of domestic price level which
ere required for participation in the international economy
and that it invites no internal or external apprehensions over
its maintenance.
c. Under the 1949 trade program of $ 1,040,000,000. 1mports
and $600,000,000 exports (Refer Appendices 7 and 8), the surplus
accrueagg in the Foreign Trade Fund Special Account will be
¥132,000,000,000 at the ¥300 rate (¥145,200,000,000 at the
¥330 rate; ¥154,000,000,000 at the ¥350 rate). This urplus
shall be utilized, pending the reaiization of production in-
crease and enterprise rationalization, for cushioning the
impact of the establishment of exchange rate on the domestic
price level and export, but such amount shali be cut down to
the minimum to appropriate the belance for economie rehabili
tation fund.

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.98)
(1) As to the import of food and other articles
price rise directly affects the cost of living to a large
import subsidy shall be paid in order to keep their price
the domestic level. Import subsidy shell not in generel
given to such articles as are imported primarily aa raw mater
for making exports.
The price rise of imported commodities shall as far
possible be effset by the rise in operation rate at yarious
stages of production and rationalization of enterprises, there
by cutting down the amount of import subsidy without-ultimat
affecting the price level. The totel amount of import subaidy
is ¥103,000,000,000 at the ¥300 rete (¥122,000,000,000 et the
¥330 rate; ¥134,500,000.000 at the ¥350 rate).
(2) Exports shall-in principle be on a single export
import rate besis. Of those lexport industries which eannot
operate under a single rate basis but which will in future be
able to operate on that basis, export subsidy shall in principle
be given up to the new PR ¥400 at the ¥300 rate (new PR ¥420
at the ¥330 or ¥350 rate) with the exception of subsidy payment
to silk and shipbuilding industries. The export subsidy cal-
culated on such bas1s will be ¥18,400,000,000 ($15,100,000,000
at the ¥330 rate; ¥11,400,000,000 at the ¥350 rate) (on the
basis of 84% fulfilment of export program). In the above
estimate the price rise in imported commodities resulting
from the reduction of import subsidy as stated in (i)abo
price adjustment of basic materials underjthe below
tioned vi:s..". Adjustment of praoo atri

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.98)
(3) The import differential profits accruing in
some industries under a single exchange rate (¥7,700,000
at the ¥300 rate; ¥7,000,000,000 st the ¥330 rate; ¥6,700,
000 at 350 rate)/and the export differential profits in
subsidized industries (¥2,000,000,000 at the ¥300 rate;
000,000 at the ¥330 rate; ¥4,800,000,000 at the ¥450 rate)
be utilized for the saving of the import and export subsidie
(4) Even though the export and import'subsidies are
economized as aforementioned the Foreign Trade Fund Specia1
hes to make ¥20,000,000,000 inv1sible. trade peyment, ¥300,(00
payment for adjustment of previous contracts and refunding of
some ¥10,000,C0C,000 debts. Even if the latter two are not
counted, the surplus accruing in the Foreign Trade Fund will
be used up for the import and export subsidies. On the other hen
the equipment fund requirement for economic rehabilitation is
estimated at ¥190,000,000,c0c, of which at 1east ¥10,000,000,000
has to be financed from by the Foreign Trade Fund. It is, thoi
fore, necessary that the trade subsidies be further ourtaild
and invisible trade payment reduced, giving due consideration
to its impact upon the domestic price level.
(5) A single exchange rate, if established, shall be
maintained by all meane. The rationalization of industry ahell
be promoted and trade subsidies reduced in order to bring bot
the establishment of a real single: exchange rate.

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.98)
-5
2. Adjustment of price structure.
a. The basic policy shall be to make no revisionor
which will affect the general price level and especially
cost of living.
b. The current price structure, however, is distort
That is to say, the prices in such besic indust
coal and electric power are not balanced with those in menur
turing industries.
(1) If the goal of coal production is set at 42, 000,00p
tons, both ends of the industry will not be met even with the
utmost efforts of enterprises unless coal price per ton is
raised by ¥337.
Note: If the current coal price is maintained, 'the 1949
production will not be more than 36, 00c, o00 tons. In
addition, financing to such deficit enterprises will not
be made smoothly. Against the ¥25,00c,00C,c00 requirement
of eruipment fund of which the Reconstruction Finance
Bank w1l1 finance ¥9,500,C00,000, 1t is expected that
the coal industry will acquire not more than ¥11,500,0cC
000 from privste financial institutions, with the result
thet developnent of new mines, construction of miners
houses, maintenance. and repair of old mines will become
extremely difficult and coal production from 195o onward
will be adversely affected.

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.98)
(2) The electric power industry cannot be oper
profitably without some 60% rise in the power charge
current power charge in terms/purchasing power parity wil
/of
$1 for loo, indicating a wide gep betwen power chae
and abroad.
Note: Neither the payment of wages on 77,l0o basis no
special repairing can be carried out at the current rate
of power charge. It is necessary that the coal consumn
for thermal power generation be cut down from 4,650.000
tons to 2,500, c00 tons, resulting in a 6% cut in the power
supply. It will become impossible to increase capitalizat
issue debentures for the purposes of reising fund for the
development of power sources.
(3) The freight of cargoes has to be doubled so long.
as the Government Railway h:s to cerry on e self-supporting
basis, even if the operation is considersbly rationalized
(freight of coal, iron ore,iron, steel and mine timber being
exempted from the raise.) With regard to marine transportatid
some 50% raise is deemed unavoidable.
Note: The current cargo freight is only 75.89 t
as high as that in the base year

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
(4) In contrest to coal, electric power and transporta
tion charges as above mentioned, other industries have gained
expected profits due to the fact that their operationsl rates
have risen over the low operstional rate anticipated in the
July price structure. The above fact is evidenced by the
appearance of maney enterprises paying wages higher than those
incorporated in prices.
Note:
Wages incorporated Wages actually
in price
paid in November
Iron and Steel
5,388
10,413
Chemical fertilizer
4,800
9,872
Motor
4,500
6,393
ship building
5,127
9,948
Paper and pulp
4,624
9,219
Cement
4,040
9,337
c. Therefore as for the basic meterials, such extent of
price adjustments as mentioned above shall be made to secure the
increased production and maintenance of production equipments
and their repercussion shall be ebsorbed by effort of enter-
prise and improvement in operationel rates of industries in
higher steges.

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.97)
With the object of equlizing the burden of enterpris
each industry, the ttems and consumer's prices of the eur
stabilization band commodities shall be reinvestigated
(I) The consumer's prices of steel, pig iron fo
forging and cest iron pipe will be raised by 30%.
Current price , Revised price
Steel
¥16,192
¥21,047
Pir iron for forging
¥5,150
¥ 6,695
Cast iron pipe
¥12,250
¥151925
(2) No subsidy shall be given to'steel for export
and thick sheet for shipbuilding (341,000 tons).
(3) As regards copper, the consumer's price,shail be
raised to the international level, i.e., by 45$.
Note:
Current consumer's price
¥102,104
Revised "
147,920
(4) Subsidies to lead, zinc and alminum sheil-be
abolished.
Note:
Current consumer's Revised Rate
Price
consumértsr
price
Lead
¥59,103
¥89,978
Zimc (electric) ¥46,237
¥61,240
Aluminum
116,195

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.98)
(5) Soda
(a) Soda ash:
Cubsidy shall be cancelled
Note:
Revised price Rate of a
Currentprice
1.76
¥11,105
¥19,497
(b) Caustic soda: Subsidies, except to rayon
and staple fiber, shall be cancelled.
Note:
The current price shall be reised by 30-70%
(6) On condition that household gas charge is raibed
in cities and towns by 75% and in the country by 10%, the p
of coal for gas and coke shall be raised.

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.97)
10
d. The necessary sum for price adjustment subsidies
1949 is estimated at v85,700,000,006, 1r calculated 1n a00
ance with the purport specified in c. above and on the bese
or the maximum wage incorporated inpprice, that is, 1.66
times as much as ¥3,7oo base. From the viewpoint of eco-
nomy, this must be reinvestigated.
Note:
1. Subisdies for stabilization band commodities
(a) Calculated on assumption that coal price,
olectric power charge and freight will not be raised.
Coal
227,631,000,000
Iron and steel
¥38,618,000,000
Fertilizer
¥17,905,000,000
¥89,001,000,000
Copper
¥3,758,000,000
Caustic soda
¥1,089,000,000
(b) aise of basic matorials price and freight.
Coal per ton ¥377 ¥ 5,126,000,000(For des1gn-)
(ated in-
(dustries
(10,310,000
(ton x V430
(For sta-
(bilization
VE,769
(band com-
000,090
(modities,
(other than
designated
industries
(galculated
(on the base
(of 377

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.97)
Electric power aharge
rsised to 1.6 fold.  2,642,000,000
Freight raised
¥1,000,000,000
(except 5 items)
(a) + (b)
¥97,769,000,000
2.. Curtailed sum of Subsidiea
Pig iron for forging
726 ¥5,150 x 0.3 x.47900
Steel
6.276 ¥14,671 x 0.34
264 ¥12,550 x 0.3 x 70.000
Cast iron pipe
Price differentm pro-
fit of steel for ex-
1,169
port
1.607 ¥102,015 x. 0.45 x 35.cc℃
Copper
(ton)
Caustic soda
665 except for rayon and
staple fiber
Subsidy for coal for
1,381.
household gas
Total
¥85,687,000,000
e. As for the price of agricaltural products, parity
system will be applied, but efforts shall be made to avert
the raise of prices of parity commoditios as much as possible
(1) The present steps will be enforoed in a way
not to lead to a rise in agricultural parity. For example
tho consumer's price of fertilizer shall not be raised.
(If subsidies for chemleal fertiliser be cancelhed, parit
index will be raised almost by los.)

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.98)
(2) The current agricultural parity index of wheat
and barley 1s l1c and that of rice 1s 132. It, however
hiked up to around 143, in January already.
(3) Therefore even if the parity index widl stop
to hike hereafter, some revision of consumer's price will
be inevitable as the result of subsequent payment.
f. If the price increase in the basic materials is to
be abgorbed by the secondary and third products together
with the above-mentioned measures, it is expected that the
rise in the consumer's price level will be at most 14,77%
of the presént level. If the black market pricea are not
affected by the price revision, it is estimated that the.
inerease in the household expenditure caused by the up-
ward revision of constmer's prices will be approximately
5.3% of total expenditure. of household expenditure sinde the
expenditure paid at official prices is 36.15 % of the tota1
expenditure of household budget.
Conaidering the extent to which the wage-earner's income
tax is reduced, the above-mentioned price revisionwis esti-
mated to be the maximum limit to maintain the present real
wage-level.
g. Further efforts shall be dx tosenfondeand
insure price dontrol, but the price controi of little
tical value shall be simplified.

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.98)
3. Wage Stabilization
Along with the policles to maintain the price 
and to increase real wages in response to the inoreade
the labour efficiency, the following measurcs will be
taken to stabilize wages.
a. Standerd wages by industries shall be establia
which shall be of national standard.
Note:
Establishment of standard wage involvos com
plicated and difficult problems. If the 6,Sohayon
monthly base of government workers 1is used as the
referential data, national industries average ages
will be 5,894 yon a month.
The following is the comparison of wage differen-
tials (5,894 yen multiplied by &ctual differential rate)
and wages incorporated in price

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.99)
-14
Wage Differentials and
Actual Payments by Major Industries
Kind of Industry
Incorporated wage
July-October Average
October
Metals refining and
raw:materials thereof
135
5,012
105.9
8,010
133:1
Bolling stocks
128
4,736
105.1
6,195
99.6
3. Shipbuilding
139
5,127
132.8
7,827
161.3
10
4. Chemical fertilizer
0130
4,800
131.8
7,768
126.5
83
5. Synthetic fiber
0107
3,972
63.3
3,731
47.5
6. Silk-reeling
58
2,129
46.3
2,729
43.9
7. Cotton spinning
075
2,790
53.1
3,130
47.6
3,L29
8. Wool spinning
0 93
3,427
64.3
3,790
54.4
3.57
9. Silk and rayon
weaving
074
2,753
58.3
3,496
52.8
3.47
10. Food processing
86
3,176
76.1
4,485
84.5
5,553
11. Electrical industry
0120
5,124
93.2
5,493
108.3
7,120
12. Coal mining
155
5,753
141.9
8,364
130.6
8,586
13. Metal industry
0145
5,380
106.6
6,283
103.5
6,801
National average of
Industry
3,700
100.0
5,894
100.0
Public service
3,791
109.0
6,307
(Note I.)
The incorporated wage means the wage which is in-
corporated in the price adjusted last June. The kind of in
dustry with the mark o means one for which special meeaures
vere

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.97)
were taken. The wage, computed on the besis of Brao
working hours per day and 25 working days per month, ln
cludes all kinds of wages other than over-time payment
(wage, salary, various kinds of allowances, bonua and
ment'in kind).
(Note 2) The wage ratios by industries for July to October
1948 were computed on the basis of wages actually paid tur
1ng the four months (July to October) (in tno M nthly Labour
Statistics of the Statistics Bureau, Prime Minister sr Orrie
The actual wagos by industries was derived by multi-
plying ¥5,894 or the national average industrial wages
(which is oquivalent to ¥6,307 ror public service personnel
as adjusted by the differonce of personnel structural be-
tween industry and public service) by the above ratios.
(Note 3.) The figures for October are the same as those
in tho Monthly Labour Statistics and indicate the average
wages both for labourers and clerks, male and female.
b

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.98)
b. Wages exceoding the standard wage shall be
unchanged. Report, abvever, shall be made in case
enterpriso is going to pay wages higher than the standa
wages or where the enterprise which is currently paying
wages higher than the standard wages 1s going to raise th
(Brior approval shall be required with regard to speciried
industries.)
c. In cuse of making roport mentioned in the preceding
paragraph the entorprise shall be roquired to prove that the
I source of wugos is noither illogel nor impropor.
d. The source,wages shall be fully oxamined, and in-
/of
vostigation on tho spot shall be conducted, if necessary.
In cave where the source is found to be inappropriate,
necessary adjustment shall bo made with respeot to qubeidies
and price, and wago adjustmont order, moreovor, shall be
ibsued when deemed spocially nocessary.
0. The enterprises which aro subjoct to wage stabili-
zation measures shall be in principle the producere of com-
moditiea for which officiel prices are sot up and who have
normally employoes over certain number and others who are
engaged in the industries to bo desingatod.
Note

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.97)
Note: In case tho above certain number of employees
1s set at 500, the following will bo the number or
factories and the,number of workers thereor.
No. of factories
1.431
(0.12% of total of enterprisea)
No. of workers
1,973,847
(23.4% of total of.workers)
f. In enforcing tho wago stabilization program, tho
Over-ail Wage Stabilization Council (tontative denomination)
shall be established to be chargod with rosearch into and.
deliberation on necessary mattors.
g. Along with the wage stabilization program,moasures
shall simultaneously be taken to stabilize poople's living,
such as the securing of distribution of food, necessities
of life and labourer's necessities, adjustment of earned in-
come tax, etc.
4. Sound Public Finance.
a. The basic policy shall be to keep the size of
publio finence within a limit conmiensurate with national
economic power and reasonable from tho standpoint of the
distribution of national income and to maintain the true
balance of rovenue and expenditure.
In 1948 total expen
a1ture of public finance (¥650,000,000,000) was 27% of the
natione1

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.96)
18
nat1onal 1ncome (2,393,000,000,000 at the November 19
price level). It is planned for the figcal year 1949
the total expenditure of public finance (inclusive of
Special Accounts and local public finance), be around
¥775,000,000,000 (of wh1ch ¥600,000,000,00018 for Genera1
Abcount), which is also approximately 27% of the national
income (v2,843,000,000,000 at the Novemben 1948 pr1ce 1evel)
(Refer Appendix 1.)
b. Price adjustment oxpendituro shall be maintained in
keeping with the policy to maintain the price level. The
amount will, however, be roduced as much as possible by
lowering the unit subsidy and reviewing the coverage ao that
thel tota1: sha1l become about ¥65,700,000,000
c. In order to establish financial independence of the
Government Enterprise Special Accounts and the Civil Mer-
chant Marine Commission, their operation ahall be rationaliz-
ed and thoir frefghts and fees adjusted (Railway cargo freights
exclusive of those of coal, fertilizer, iron and stoel and mine
timber bo doubled and marine freight and communication chang
1ncreased by 50%)
The trasnfer from the General Acdoumt
to the Government Railway and Communication Special Adcousts
shall be cancolled and subsidy to the civilikrahant
Commission shall bo l1mited to around M6,o0c,0 ,O

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.95)
- 79-
duced by ¥4,200,000,000 in 1949 (bringing down to averag
¥52,800,000,000-in and after 1950) through large m
administrative readjustment; the Termination of War Ex-
penditures shall be reduced to approximately ¥120,000,000 000
11.1
through reasonable curtailment. On the-dther hand distribut
1on fund for local govornment shall be reduced to ¥72,000,
o00,00o through the establishment of sound public finance or
the local government.
As for public works, genersl welfare facilitics shall be
restricted in favour of production facilities (agriculture,
aquatie industry, forestry, etc.) and land proservetion
facilitios (river, torrential improvement, aforostation,
etc.).
. The construction fund and increase in working fund
in Special Account. 1s estimated at M110,000.000,000
(¥60, 000,000,000 by 1ssu1ng 1ong term bond; 20,500,000,
000 bybor ter bond; 29,500,000,000 by 1oan) and 20,000.
000,000 in,the,local government bond.
Efforts shall bo made
to cover such expenditure through accumulated savings in de
to prevent inflation through public finance.
L

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.97)
f. Utmost efforts shall be made to expedite and
force tax collection and to thoroughly prosecute tax
setting the goal at ¥420,000,000,000 for the fiscal yean
At the same time seasonal adjustment of revenue and exb
diture shall be made.
g. The tax system shall be amended, by adjuatment or
corporation. income tax, etc., with a view to inoreasing
/tax,
tax revenue, making oquitable distribution of tax burde
maintaining real capital of enterprises (rovaluating capi
raising the amount of amortization, etc.), and inducing
foreign cepital./As regards amortization of fixed assets,
about one half of the current value shall bo made the basis
instead of the old book value. (Tho revaluation of capital
shall be made on 30 June 1949.)
b. The total industrial fund shall be 390,oco.och.coc
of which 90,c0c,00n, 000 for equipment fund and ¥200,00c,
000,ccn for working fund. It is 160 v00,c00,000 decrease
in total as compared with the previous year, but eleotrio
power source development, dron and steol, agricultural and
fishery shall be financed preferentially. In order to uso
fund efficiently and preferontially for economic rehabili-
tation, minimum necessary financing by the Reconatruction
Finance Bank and solf acquisition of find by enterprises
shall bo necessary in addition to find control of private
monatary institutions. (Refor Appendix 2.)

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.97)
1. As regards financing by the RFB, equipment
quired in essential industries shall be preferontially pro
ed w1thin the extent of absorption of the RFB bond (2780
000,000).
Thè Government inveatment in the RFB shall be W40,000
o09.o00 which will be assigned for the reinbursement or the
RFB bond.
Deficit financing shall not be made in order to maintain
sound finance!
j. Financing by private financial institutions shall
àlso be made offectively and preferentially for ossential
use so that sound oconomic activities may be operated amooth-
ly, and necessary steps shall be taken to socure supply of
long term equipment fund required for economio rehabilitation
(¥190.000.000,000.for 1949). (Rofer Appëndix 9.)
k. Efforts shall be made achieve 320,000,000,000 in-
orease in savings. The increase of currency issuance Bhall
be restrained to the utmost, ao that it may be limited to
¥54,000,000,000, taking into account of 30% 1ncreaa0 1n year-
ly production.
5. Securing of food supply
a. Food production shall be inoreased as planned in
Appendix 4. For this purpose, efforts on the part of fer
shall bo called for, land improvement 250,000 oho for 1
shall be expedited, and agricultural production material
ahall be secured.

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.97)
28
32,320,000 koku for rice, 7,460,000 koku for wheat and
barley, 743,260,000 kan for sweet potatoes. and 324,80000
kan for potatoes, or 46,88o,000 koku in terms of rice
The delivery system shall bo reexamined to attain this goal.
and collection shall be strengthened.
(1) The pro-planting quota aystom and incentims
related thereto shall be contind but steps shall be taken
so that additional quota shall be assigned in case it 1s
reasonable in the light of good crop
(2) Corresponding to the strengthoning of collect
1on, retention by farmers shall reasonably be increased
(netention by partial self-suppbying farners shall be raised
from 3.15 go to 3i5 gay and baok ration shall be reduced aa
far as possible.
(3) scientific investigation of cultivated acreage
and nature of land shall be completed as soon as possible
with a view to rationalizing delivery quota and improvinot
agricultural managanent.
c. Measures shall bo takon to effectively utilise food
in order to stabilize food situation. The rationing syst
shall be reexamined to mako it more effective. Supposing
the food imports for this year 1s 2,830,000 toná, avereg
urban and rural food supply per person will be 1,348 calo
and l.832 calories respectively. (Eefer Appendixx6,)

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.96)
6. Strengthening of production and rationalization of
enterprises.
a. Utmost efforte will be made for the attainment or
the production goalgfor 1949 set in the Economic Rehabilf
tation Program, as well as for ths qualitativo improvement
of products and reduction of production cost by strictly
abiding by the three principles of enterproses. (Refer
Appendix 3 with regard to the production programs of major
manufacturing and mining industries)
b. Positite measures shall be adopted for tho mechani-
zation of equipments and the raising of technological level
to improve production efficiency simultaneously with the new
investment in and the development of new coal mines, eleotrio
power sources, construction of ship, iron and stael works,
etc. which serve as the basis of econonmic rohabilitation.
The total amount of equiprient funds hecossary for the sbove
wi11 bo ¥190,000 000,0c0:
c. In the allocation of materials, priority Bhall be
given to superior enterprises producing gooās of uxcollent
quol ity at lowor production cost while a formula will be
established wherein the selection of producers by con-
sumers cen automatically be reflected upon the allocation
of rew matorials for production.
à

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.96)
84
d. Necessary consideration shall be given to finane
and taxational (See paragraph 5.) measures in order o
pedite tho accommodation of funds necessary for the normal
activities of entorprise (The total amount of operatienal
funds for 1949 sha11 be 200,000,000,000 while,spedial pon-
sideration will bo givon tc those funds neceasary for the
rationalization of enterprises which havo tho possibility o
revival.
e. Great expectation will be had upon the induooment,
of sound foreign capital/eccnomic rohabilitatin. For the
/contributing to the strengthening of production and
purpose of expoditing above inducement, necessary amendment
of the taxation systom, raising of the depreciation basis
of fixed assets from the prosont book value to around hair
the current value, reduction of the rato of corporation tax,
and other necessary preparations will be made
f. The prosent economic control system will bo reviowed'
from the standpcint of ratronalization of entenprieos.
The controlled items shall be limited to such ones as oun
be offectively controlled while enforcemont being stronghhen
ed on such limited itews.
g. Unemplcyment'created by the raticnalization of enter
prises shall be absorbed in public works, etc. as"much a
possible while such measures as enlargement of the une
ment insurunco syste shall be taken.

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.98)
7. Export promotion
a. Tho export program shall be as shown in Appondi
and for tho purpose of accomplishing such program all kino
of measuros shall be taken on top priority to export
including the preferential allocation of produotion mater
and tho expediting of financing to foreign trade.
In additicn, enforcement will be strengthened for the
purpose of preventing materials imperted for making exporte
from being diverted to domestic use.
b. The present foréign trade procedure shall be simpli-
fied thoroughly so as to enlarge importtata export on the
private basis, thereby contributing te tho return at.the
earliost possible date to normal trade transaction.
c. Request shall be submitted/to the GHQ, SCAP/for the
coordination and improvement of relations with foreign countmte
so that measures may be takon for the improvement in the balunce
of international payments through the posibive development or
export markets and the improvement of trddo terms, eto.
d. Coping with the transition of export merkets, offort
shall be made to export production goods in additicm th end
products, while making adjustment with the minimum requi
of production goods for domestio sconomic rehabiatatich

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.97)
o. Temporary measures will be taken to oushion
1mpacts of a single exchange rate to be astablishedire
securing export, while the rationalization of export in
dustries, particularly of feeble enterpripes, shall be
pushed forward promptly so as to strengthen the competi
power thereof in the world markots.

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.98)
Table No. 1
Balance of National Economy
(In Billion Yon, At Pi
Level in Nov. 1948)
Others
National Incomo. etc.
(1948)
Itom
Amount
Percentage
Item
(I) Personal Consump-
(I) National Income by
2,847.0
89.2
tion Expensos
Distributivo Shares
1,182.0
(37.0)
(II) Privato Capitali-
1. Earnod Income
zation
2. Proprfeter's Income
1,560.0
(48.9)
1. Industrial Invest-
(a) Agriculture &
ment
570.0
Forestry
(a) Finanoing
(b) Other Businoss &
(b) Direct Invest-
Profession
990.0
rent
3. Others
105.0
(3.3)
6020
2. House Construction.
23.0
0.7
(III) Financial Expenditure
(II) Amortization
(III) Adjustment Item
323.0
10.1
1. General Account
1. Transfer Income
38.0
(1.2)
2. Special Account
8. Indirect Tax
185.0
(5.8)
3. Local Financo
3. Profit of Monopoly
100.0
(3.1)
(IV) Balance of Inter-
Bureau
natioal Paymenta
Total
3,193.0
100.0
Total

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.96)
Table No.. 2
Estimation of Demand and Supply
of Funds
(In Billions of Xen)
1848 F.Y.
(I). Demand
1, Public Finance
158.0
(a) National
122.2
(b) Local
35.8
20
2. Indus trial Investmant
450.8
esd.o
(a) Goneral Financial Istitutions
310.3
210.0
(b) R.F.B.
72.5
80.0
(c) Direct Investment
68:0
90.0
(a)
Investment from Surplus of Foreign
10.0
Trade Funds
Total
608.8
514.0
(II) Supply
1. Finanoial Institutions
403.8
320.0
Increase in General Doposit
381,6
31020
(b) Other Increase in Capotal
45.4
30.0
(e)
Capitalization of Finanoial
14.0
Institutions
(d) Incrense of Cash in Hand
37.2
680
2. Direct Investment
(a) absorption of Securities
(b) Solf Ingestment

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.98)
29
18.0
3. /Government Investment
4. Surplus of Forgign Trade Funds
499.8
Total
119.0
(III) Shortage of Funds
123.8
(IV) Currency Expansion
342.6
(V)
Issue at End of Quarter
(100.0)

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.97)
30
Mining and Mamufacturing Industry Produstion Program
Table No. 3
1948 F.Y.
1949 F.Y.
Index as
Itep
Unit
Estimation
Plan
1930
Coal
thousand ton
34,408
42,000
Iron Ore
571
1,000
Crude Petroleum
thousand Kil. litre
225
Raw Silk
bale (132 1bs)
139,600
156,687
Cotton Yarn
thousand lbs
292,000
346,500
Woolen Yarn
23,600
32,407
Cotton Fabric
sq. kil. m
1,042,826
Ordinary Pig Iron
thousand ton
5,599
1,830
Ordinary Steel
1,920
87.50
Original
thousand ton
1,800
Rolled
n
1,173
80
Rerolled
n
40
Special Steel
98
87
90
272,72
Silicon Steel
ton
55,100
62:000
85,45
Machinery
ton
(Steel Ccnsumption)
()
971,920
124,61
Cement
thousand ton
1,950
2,800
76,99
Sheet Glase
t.
box
1,860
2,250
85,58
Soda Ash
ton
77,300
110,000
581.52
Caustic Soda
9
114,100
140,000
156,56
Ammonium Sulphate
n
972,800
299.87
Calcium Cyanamide
n
243,300
280,000
140,33
Rubber
n
23,900
39,000
75,00
Paper
thousand lbs
1,006,400
1,100,000
67,09
Hie and Leather
ton
24,000
81,45
Salt
280,000
425,000
70,13
"M180"
thousand kan
111,485
145,787
92,15
Beer
thousand koku
474
964
110,42
" Sake"
1,853
48,96
Overall Produotion
Index
56-57%

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.91)
-31-
Table No. 4
Foodstuff Production Program
1948 F. Y.(Estimation) 1949 F.Y.(Plan)
Itom
In thousand koku
in thousand koku
Rico
62,340
61.140
.
20,340
aheat, Barley
18,300
287
1n
304
n
Bean
thousand kgn
in thousand kan
SWoot Ectatoc
1,617,670
1,528,460
Potatoo
607,980
n
719,49
n

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
Table No. 5
Staple Food Distribution Program
( 1950 U. S. F. Y. )
(Uniti Th
For Industry
Produetion Seed Fodder Food Total Collection & Other
Rice
9.176
129
4,620
4,849
4,423
135
Barley
551
23
73
170
266
285
56
Wheat
973
46
460
506
467
40
Sweet Potatoe
1,548
115
85
555
755
793
423
361
Potatoe
540
74
8
205
287
253
97
176
Cereal
700
40
268
234
542
158
76
73
Starch
1,051.05
Total
14,310
456
538
6,596
7,590
6,720
858
5,919

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.96)
33
Table No. 6.
Calory Intake from Staple Food
(1950 U.S.F.Y.)
2
(1) Urban Aroas (In thousand tons Brown Rice
Equivalent)
(")
6,778
Rationing to Normal Consumers
770
Supplenontary Rations for Workers (")
(")
132
others
(n)
7,674
Total
46,556
Actioned population (nuriber in thousand)
Calory Intake (incl. Supplomontary Ration
1,472
for Workers)
11
(Rations for Normal Cónsumors
1,348
only)
(2) Rural Districts
(")
6,587
Farmers retention
827
Rationing to Partial Sclf-supplier (")
(n)
7,416
Total
36,137
Rural Population (number in thousand)
1,832
Calory Intake

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.96)
-34-
Table No. 7
Export Program
Amount(in
Item
Million
Remark
Dollars)
Textile
173
Cotton yarm 32 million 1ba
Cotton Products
Cotton Cloth 650 million
sq. yards
Staplo Fiber
3
4
Hemp
Raw Silk
37
100 thousand bales
Silk Products
35
46 million yards
Wool Products
32
Artificial Silk
30.03℃
Othors
5
Paper & Paper products
4
12
Rubber
Hide and Leather
1
83
Steel 630 thousand tons
Machinery
allocated.
57
Motals
17
Pottery
6
Glass
24
Vicaobeoue 
7
Canned Goods
6
Timber
22
6
Agricultural Productsí
Procossod Foods
2

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.98)
Marine Produo%
12
Medicines & Chemicals
10
Coal
14
1,200 thousand tm
Cement
10
600
Total
600

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.98)
Import Pregram
Table No. 8
Amount
(thousand dollars)
Iron Ore, Mon-ferrous metal Ore
98,443
Iron Ore 2,260 Pig
213,610
Raw-Cotton 850, Wool
Silk yarn 5.920 (thousand
Rubber
16,904
Raw Rubber 39
Leather
10,532
Hide & Skin 15.045
Mne Material
2,413
Glue Material
8.443
Tannin Material
4,189
Tannin Extract 9.£15
73,887(B)
Petroloum 600(thousand. kil. lit
Petroloum & Its Products
(thousand kil. litr.) Heavy ll
Coal
57,800
2,400
Chemicals·& Medicines
32,571
Salt 1,400 Bensene 2, Caaein 3
Gum Resin
8,984
Damal 1.372 Shellao 6.916 pine
Oil & Fats
115,236
Copra 55.5 Soy been3
Fertiliser
50,693
Ammonium nitrate 226 Phosphate
Foodstuff
324,547
2,673 Sugar (370
Foedetuff
9,000
150
Timber & its products
11,633
Lawan, Pulp wood, Teak Total 1.170(
Medicine
2,741
Santonin 1000 gm D.D.T, 210 tona
Insecticide
173
289 (U.S. ton)
Mi scellous goodF
7,290
Briettle (I million lbe.) Ship acce
Ampella 2.500 (thousand sheets)
Total
1,040,646

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.98)
37
Industrial Fund Requiramente for 1949 Fiscal Year
1949 E.Y
194
Aszessed
Rough Estimate
Item
R=qiirement
Funds for
R.F.B. Loan@
of R.F.B.
Explanation
Equioments
and Investment
Loand (Actual
Tota!
from Yen
incrésse per
(including the
Proceeds in
anmum)
next item)
Special Account
for Foreign
Trade
nds for Equipments
A) Mining
38,666
28,101
26,700
22,638
(a) Coál
34,7
25,000
25,000
21,464
New Starting
Miners' housing
(b) Metals, Petroleum
and others
38,77
3,101
1,700
2,172
Petro.
Others
B
Hamufacturing
81,272
53,356
20,900
14,407
(a) Metal
15,540
12,650
8,200
2,259
Iron & Steel
13,075
10,678
7,500
1,975
Blast Furnaces
Onen hearth Furnaoss
Rolling Mills
Transnortation, Housing
and Others
Non. Ferrous
2,465
1,972
700
286
(b) Machinery
16,408
10,938
4,300
2,693
Elbotrio, Communication
Faxtile, machine tool
4,990
3,396
819
Electric My
Communicat
Textile
Ship
1,241
1,241
174
Rolling-Stock
3,459
2,540
412
6,73
3,761

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.96)
38
25,393
10,005
1,700
.3,810
390
501.
479
556
Rayon
s11r
2,601
1,757
Staple Fibre.
Chesical Fibre
Synthetic Fibre
Cone-winders
4,255)
8,817
Cotton
Spining
Staple Fibre
Wool
Others
2,122
2,861
9,286
Knitted goods, Dying,
1,392
4,188
and Others
4,624
9,844
4,800
(d) Chemica! Industry
12,334
2,682
Soda
8,444
6,331
Organie Snthetio
General
Dye
Hood-nulo
Drug
Others
1,942
Suloh. Ammonic
3,891
3,513
Sul-hurio Acid
Fertiliser
Others
Porcelain & Crockery
600
210
2,418
1,440
Cement
(a) Cerafle
Others
Fat& 01
0)
9,179.
4,590
Liquor and Wope
Ic) Food-Procesing
1,811
Milk Produgt
Others
1,300
3,919
(0) Others
21,400
31,801
55,043
17,090
trie  Gas
53,266
30,024
21,000
Mectric Power

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.97)
500
1,777
1,977
5,707
8,000
21,657
53,834
rioulture & Fishery
71,255
38,52
40,817
12,900
479
Transportation
15,400
12,600
0
0
(c)
6,700
5,400
(Private Railways
0
5,900
10,000
Automobile
20,775
12,900
28,217
23,126
12,900
(b)
Marin
(Steel-dhip Trans.
25,970
22,301
2,800
0
2,800
Ware-houses
(Wooden
3,776
0
Stevedoring
4,356
Facilities
(Harbour
000
It can not be aco
14,268
0000
indrstrial funds.
23,053
othere
2,750
1,330
here as it ia the
Schools
1,200
3,458
Hospitals
24,076
10,000
Private Buildings
3,769
1,738
Others
7,057
90,000
190,000
Equipment Funds
290,394
Total (A)
Under in vestigation
Capital
130,310
200,000
Aa for the
Total (B)
390,000
90,000
formation
420,704
orivate
(B) Grand Total
be ad

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.98)
Note; 1. Prices are based on the present base.
2. Some issions are found in the requirement in respect to the operational fund requirements and Othere for P.I. 19
3. The actual R.F.B. loan for 1948 (figures for 4th quarter are planned ones) represents the anmual net increase, so
actual smount of lcan consists of the above actual R.F.B. loan plus amount of loan returned by each industry. The
figures shcwn in the itematized explanation on assessment are newly loaned amount.
4. 5 07 million yen for Agriculture, forestry and aquistic industry in the colum of estimated actual R.F.B. lean
consists of 2,717 million for general plus ¥2,990 million for agriculture forestry, fishery rehabilitation,
which is brcken down into 1, 500 million for the 3rd quarter (estimate) and the 4th ququter (plan).
5. Out of  30,000 million lean to be extende? by R. F.B. 10,000 million and ¥5,000 million will be met by the
surplus in Foreign Trade Special Account and the repayment to R.F.B. respectively. Therefcre, the Government
investwent in R.F.B. will be ￥ 40,000 millin and R.F.Bl bonds ¥35,000 million.

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.96)
:TANDARD FORM ID.SA
DIVISIONOFO
OFFICE OF
TO
: Mr. W. W. Butteryorth - FE
SUBJECT: Suggested Visit of Mr. Joseph Dodge to the FeRRaEtarn Commission
IPARTMENT OF STATE
1. In recent weeks, members of a number of FEC delegations have
expressed to me informally the desirability of a visit to the Far Eastern
Commission by Mr. Joseph M. Dodg, adviser to General MacArthur on Japan's
economic stabilization program. FEC delegations have, I gather, been
greatly impressed with Mr. Dodge's forthright public statements while in
Japan and feel that he could throw a great deal of valuable light on the
present economic situation in Jpan and on the outlook for Japanese
economic recovery.
2. I understand thet Mr. Dodge is on his way back to the United States
by boat, and although I do not know when he is expected in Washington I
thought I might pess along to jou the suggestion that he visit the
Commission while in the city. Since the subject of economic stabilization
九.84
is at present before both the full Commission and Committee No. 2: Economic
and Financial Affairs, it would seem quite appropriate for him to appear
before either body.
3. In talking with delegates here, I have not intimated that I am
aware of Mr. Dodge's imminent return to this country, ha ing merely
indicated that if he should return I would be glad to m ke inquiry con-
cerning the possibility of his visiting the Commission.

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION
is assigned to
No. 45 to Pepartment.
at
ud to
Action A
Acon Tken
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Kumming, Yunnan, China, May 5, 1949.
UNCLASS IF TED
Sybol 02
1'
rricer -Subjpot
"News Article" on American Ecomomic Poliey in
Japan.
to DC/R
2.03
The Honorable
D
The Seeretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
894.50/5-549
I have the honor to enclose the translation of a "news
article" purporting to describe the economic policy of the
United States in Japan. This article was puhlished in the
"Cheng Yi Pao" (Justice Daily) on May 3, 1949. As noted in
my despatches nos. 43 and 44 of May 3 and May 5, 1949 the
editorial policy of this paper, formerly the most objective
and reliable in Kumming, has within the past two weeks changed
completely, adopting a strongly anti-American tone and spout-
ing Marxist dogma.
Respectfully yours,
LaRue R. Lutkins
American Vice Consul
Original and hectograph to Department.
Copy to Office of Embassy, Canton.
Copy to USIS, Cantom.
JUN 15 1949
350
FILED
LRLutkins/heu
λ
DVR
UNCLASS IF IED

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.99)
Tekro - The econcmic pillar of American support of Japanese militarism -
the Japanese armaments industry plan - is now in full swing. According
to information received here, the Hoffman Group which visited Japan in
December of last year advocated the reestablishment and expanrion of
the Japanese iron and steel industry; 1l million tons of steel, 6 million
tons of cast iron, and 12 million tons of rolled steel were set as the
production goals to be achieved by 1955. Such an objective far exoeeds
Japan's normal economic needs and is even greatly in excess of the high-
est level of iron and steel production attained by Japan in wartime.
Two-thirds of the scrap iron required by Japan's iron and steel industry
will be supplied by the United States. Moreover, all Japanese mamufactur-
ing industries which are closely related to armament industries, such as
ball-bearings, sulfur, etc., are to be revived with the support of American
monopoly capital.
At the same time the various huge American monopolies, whioh even in
the pre-war period had developed close ties with the Japanese Zaibatsu,
have now come to control the capital of the Zaibatsu. Many international
patent agreements have been signed between American monopolies and the
large Zaibatsu companies. Westinghouse, Sooony, eto. have aoquired more
that half of the shares of the Mitsubishi Company. The General Electrio
Company owns 45 peroent of the Mitsui shares. 35 peroent of the shares
of the Juyu Electrical and Chemical Company are beld by the International
Telephone and Telegraph Company. The American Lead Company controls over
half of the shares of the Japanese Chemical Company, Ltd. The Japanese
automotive industry is subject to an even greater extent to the control
of the Ford Company and the General Motors Corporation. The Socony Oil
Company is monopolizing the supply of gasoline and the petroleum refin-
ing industry in Japan.
General MacArthur, the executor of America's policy of supporting
Japan, requested in a recent report to the United States Government that
the committee responsible for the liquidation of the various companies
of the Zaibatsu be dissolved, that the removal of the various enter-
prises of the Japanese armaments industry be halted, and that the pay-
ment of reparations be stopped. MacArthr was firmly of the opinion
that the United States should take unilateral action to solve these
problems without awaiting the decisions of the Fer Eastern Commission.
In his report MacArthur emphasised the necessity for American monopoly
capital directly undertaking the revival of the Japanese armaments
industry.

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.87)
QUTLINE OF MATTLAE FOR DI CUC IO ITH MH. LODOE
1. oes the stabilizstion progrsm suffer from = laok of
Incentiva on the part of the Jemamese Covernment to take
initlative in economic mattere? loes the overnment reesive
adecu te infors-tion re slc nupropriatione, foreign exehange
balences, eto., to enable it to sot intelligently and foreefully
for stu: iliz-tion an recovery: Ia there too muoh interferenee
ty lorer rcrelone of  e couarters? Is so, now oan this best be
endec
s C 13/ε been more widely dlsseminated sinee
decl ali le tlon or most of veper?
sul n C tate-over of nIo und ho be praetiel
sid cesir cler hn t other orgsnlzstionel ohanges in the
econoalc flelc may ce desir ble?
. Is productic ceing concentrated increreingly in the
uoet efficlent rlents: in deooncentration interrering with
reoovery: is the urar interferin, with reoovery" hould
tsxes de rrduoed, colncident with  recuctlon of subeldles?
. hat are cresent oruler ve nese attitudes toward
the st illz tion  ro: r  o the tulx of the eople feel it
is somet in inroeed by the pccn -tlon to tueir disudvantnge,
or vo they "reelve lonc run ne fuirly Immeuiste benefits to
themeelve iro: the :ro r  o they :eroeive Ineentivee to
make thes vend thelr effort: to its succeas: ave mueterity
factore o ily been verer rsizec. is te ared for more
:o ult eaucstion  to tne cenetits of tir ro.r  n t 1
the un 1 yent e1tu t.
c in troet termev iitie
11: nmente
been tr by tae ror
C. t cro, r is peinr ae i uttine the occurntion
on - e-you-e reinbursitle sis
ul the occupetlon
forces  rcuired to live vit in  ixed yen  rorriation
roviet tr tre u et:
7. arlo forelr nke te errlttod t ne  e in u ceestio
sankin usinees In  un er norm 1 nese repulatione
t etion stoul v t ken to wim u cloime for com-
penertle of pro erty olcers ior es suffered 
treir r ertieeurin the r

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.84)
fule
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DC/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE • DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS NDDECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
ORTHEASTSIANAFFAIRS
2
MAY 1 6 1949
A
ACTION: PE
2814
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INPO
DC/I
USPOLAD, Tokyo
SA/M
EUR/X
CFD
May 7, 1949
D
A
Bas Ree d:
May 13, 1949 3:58 p.
Officeof
FAR FAAN AFFAIRS
10943
CT
D
State
8
 Seral  F. MAR
4
(), , r, at weekly
 office his icsion.
CC
5
ceainiug mombers of
, fiaencil adviser to
nion the Dodge
er and shat its
tele
r in such for
 inanciel and economic 
  od further that, while 
Kr. todg
iin balks sith Seneral
Mac
o dose by various Ess
davisic.
r. someral Harguat went on
to 
 was probably "good
si..
no indicabion that he would
propoe
 rey Hs added that
prey d
 all too often would speak
hepi
 mly to adopt contrary view
 some  starf meeting,
denera
Uhiof, Bes Labor Division.
to co u 
s betn coal mining opetors
and abor  n
 myoide strike was tnevitabll
Hepler  e
n don at 3 
wall r n
 as foveed to reduce ges,
ovio
 nd. protosted that 
agot
Durtter that officialor
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
工
GOF ILERPA

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.74)
Fokyc1ε A-109.
May (, 1949
--2 --
Tanre, conse vat ive Lacor mion strougest in Kyusha, had informally
indicetee to him that sage cuts ppoeared inevitable but shat offici~
sis c Zen Selkdian. vomunts dorinates lpbor union of Hokkside which
inct ine on merges ish rs vgorousi, oppoeed accepuance vage
cute. ephe expresee opaor thre se  ght be necasuary so let
coal mhmre steike for fey daye an order "save ace" and that they
woell eventually bs oblige s ace ap: lower varves es part of over-
meetin Sone   ed o riactple pn deeped in Iss
for . 
ned.
urpeo ar to ave one
be
eol ustead of t e
arately
sure more sore reloeup
on useoe
o usp for
bonavisions
Sneral t smitially
exprese
or eevogativen
of div
 on  me  that
plan
i
 t me meut
ing menson
sor  d contra s w foretg
buyero or c
vatrout  detils he
comented 
5. 
recom.endee
  s
thetie   
isspabch
No. 200 dats1 
ing the. suesl
b3
tent po
5
13
staff moet.
Pr Lid
Divasion. ces.eeu .
taken Aoto tts
He said pcs fos v 
 but l or son
after, vtenecal ic
il e 0 pescet
above corcescenting
CONFLMA

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.80)
Tokyo's A-109,
May 6, 1949.
 3
7. State. Comerce mm rmy dssion to Japan. At April 25
and Key 2 ESs staff meetings, Gonorel arguat mentioned possibil-
ity of special economic missi on being despatched to Japan by De-
partmentsof Soate, Ccmnuree and ry Aecording to statements made
Ney 2 y General Marrmet, this m ssion sould interest itself pri-
marily in puustion of re lscing or uliminatina "red tape" fron present
foreign exchange and trade contrela
8. Conuroller rer  Loss mendva. Senral Hoat May 2 ex
proesed opinion sss muse have ia osn conbroller or ctee face pos
sibility phar Par ceoserm Sooutcclon so sppoint controller for
dt. He vddel orat F) cootretl. r appointed. puald Pind plenty
to do in thie lhead osp ir a etao other shan uhose covred
b ESS
9 Sh de J oe U k er E bon Freagbe Gon-
forence cad by meebero. ner og wo? eaertenn steeehip lines,
have n   e   to r b
fore dt on Me o to wow caus  y Somucrence should net be dis-
solved d wr preoer Confoee oae ystem shos no ce de
elared ie umlr sopance e r tee officer pods Mle
sion has hae er l ec ereesons  wn la ger petained by
Conferencetrt
Mer Prosident for Far Sest,
Anerica Pr
   b deupateh now
under pr peracion
ou sbv  orereree y omed in
sult, PransPel    o Preght Costerone
also vitaily iatcestd.
to heads of rocoigo mussiose ore e pon bravel ebcod o daoarese
tuchnicians (see 2 or meen ?  mrgoing ranal povision in
Goneral Headgart. S  e  side t hn ,
which torm dnebuden  o n p . slie eeepe so n
labor, may go abreed wnloos hoso ef vovaerr of teehntctans would
injure Japanese econery or sotto cone tbute cnreasonably te dovelop-
ment of indostries in coapetisice. wit poeurs py Japer sse nlustries
Latter proviston dest nel coact rjeallr co cover ser cul bure. DAr
also prepared pefuse trevoe For smay taobamlcire whose aetivitle. abroad
likely to pre dee smr cs Sccmpatte Pinmsiel woetl nos yet
worked cut, but underetet  e ntrting eeraton
of peyaente unde progce o   apenee Focn E
change Scard.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.83)
Tokyo's A109,
Mey 6, 1949
-4
11 Proposal for Uce of SCaJAP Ship for German Trade. Dr.
Robert STLsuatli representative of Under Secretary of Army and in-
terested in Japen Tricone trade (see previous recent airgrams in
this serics, has muggested to officicls concerned in this Head-
quarters that, an enterins wedg for extension of SCAJAP shipping,
ons Japanese uhip be put on Japan-Bremen run. No SCAAP ship has
yet cone as far as Hedtsoramson area. Ess apparently interested
out Las nst  machei  cision. Phis Mission of opinion that,
if zxtensios AsP shiping desired. less conapicuous and probably
less contror seirl pun eca b inaugurated.
1. hu iu Pnmel armanrenunt Under Consiceration. offi-
eiale of mtienal Dankt or  elpinn and Bank of Belgian Congo now in
rokyo pegettaoin rinenel  wagemeut. sarlier proposal (our
uspttch o  of Februay 1, 1949 will bo concicerably modified
becaus o  virn reluct nce   up special escrow dollar acc sunts.
Belgiane so unell lina  otiue trcde and commodity arrangement,
prefeir he e onl crrey coutrois, with some assurence tr de
wdll be b nod se eccativeo have suag sted that ar
pengont sar to n ron up wsh Uruguay (never finalized)
ule o er
co tio out conclusion mot yot reacted
vu, n   en erangent. being sub
wutved  sb doopstch
.  Dbued er e Baance r ee Lasien bere
has pretesber, in note tur Cone val Beso puarters, asainrt unfavoreble
balance    sepn r y ee p puesed restow o trade sdth
peesdbibste e anee   w ateempt to sorlate pupctased
from tel 
HOTON
500
/
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.95)
FORM DS-323
7-18-46
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLABSIFICATION
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
Washington,
NO.
CONFIDENTIAL
2445
c445
194.50/5-609
USPOLAD,
TOKYO.
A-103, June 31, 1047
Reference your A-109 of May 6, 1949, with particular
reference to Item 9 regarding action by Japanese Fair Trade
Commission against Far Eastern Freight Conference.
The despatch referred to in the subject airgram bas not
894.50/5-649
yet been received. Information has been received from a
Washington source, however, that the hearings have been
postponed indefinitely. Department desires all available
information regarding the indictment, reasons leading to
postponement of hearings, present status, and any other
pertinent developments.
Webe
WEBB
AOTING
(RCD)
DIBTRIBUTION
DEBIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
894.50
wis
CONFIDENTIAL
uds
G
84
Clearance:
CR CLEARANCE
ITP:IR:SESmigel:fab
6/16/49
TRC/S NA
/H
01
JUN 20 194 PM

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.97)
TO
PL - Mrs. Carter
DATE: .May 2, 1949
PL - Mr. CroBby B
FROM:
SUBJECT:
Report on the Japanese Recovery Program.
Atteched is the documentstion which you sent me some weeks ago asking
for my views ss to whether or not it should be reproduced. I called
Boyd Crawford of the House Foreign Affeirs Committee and asked him if
his comsittee plenned to release this document. He told me that he
did not know but that he would cul' me in & few days. Very shortly
fter my call to Crawford Sol Bloom died. Crawford told me he would have
to wait until later before deciding on this cuestion. Since I had not
heard from the House Forein Affairs Committee, I taid called them last
thy
neek ani "ar tola thrt ttdi not plan to put this report in print unless
the Depertment ci" not co it. Mr. Hunsberger, DRF, will follow our
reconmendations unless the work entailed in making last years figures
current is too great.
I recomiend th't we go ahead with this project if that is in accordance
with PB's ne" publication program. ne certainly neec more information
on the eceno"ic situation in Japn. The hearings for the economic
recovery appropriation for Japen h' ve not yet been held but I doubt if it
would be possible to have this report reproduced in time to be of any
help to those who will testify.
FM/R
Anal.

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.85)
RAF
INCOMING AIRGRAM
NH
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS ANDRECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
HM
MAY 1949
Office of
FAD FASTERN AFFAIRS
Action Assigned to
085
Action Taken
Do
tate
7le
DUR
Date of Action
14,3
Action Orrice Sybol
1y 20,7949,11:07 n
Name or ofricer
Direet:o: 1c Le/R
个杯
894.50/5-
d
  ion
xabicr
al Pey. ssoci-
13
mt,a.nor
illiem
49
ATELD
tolleCity
k for
act
F2
OY
CSA
xeellent
f rmy
13
i n
LED
6
592
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.71)
9
sinvee
ale or Com
erep
d
it

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.80)
Tokoe11
1C
th

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.73)
Tokyo' 3 a-117,
May 13, 1949.
announned shat t Manist r  cats oh Frace, now being
ostabl sed, voula be epere o  pors cortrol licensing
system witn Foretn reherme  ve Soasd to handle decails or
progra m d h anks as  a.  coustuve. Colonel Pyder
stated st Jarse     e  poren to
handle spect
tobe pessed
on bySo
er S ectod Jpanese
to pue ovou yors
t  s of Juy I or
 r
 P b Abroad. Colonel
liycer
l visin , 0AP,
now
a ent to reter 
tents ou
we  e dir euve on Far
1
bin ton vad beon noti-
nl
ayder
600
11
eencative
ASt
ten
nd
to epr
orthe
 after
e er eas
Ter
 coneude
oy r
on
Tréaente brede.
the
Schure
orer
 cberienls.
and pt. iro, 
ne neo
in

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.75)
Tok ors 117,
Mey
49
agreet
tree
:T
nsneso
in
uunched
ere
111

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.79)
DC/Q
RAF
USNL, TFFo
C
Aution Assigned to
HA
te o
meiling
lay
191
Action Taken
Nay 127 
LY
DIVISION
ice 
Re officer
1949
Diréetion to DC/R
7,1ARTMENT OF STATE
F 
Derra McEv, P
pen, senedulet lea
894.50
da .es iens
ad
 ter th. cit.
er ve aar c
nene
301
one
/5-
t
lic
cos
).1.
211
2049
t
ai
suso: stne.
ts (h. C: tre
ti1.st
d
F. TA PF. 
rt
JUN131
FILEDH
1949

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.67)
A-2.24.
May . 1949.
2-
roleon  
d     e 
nsdisbuse
 i
7.13
ccencentrn
:ico lew aftur
 in error
tiou law,
cerpoopondent
rr
al Feadcuarters,
trate nission
l b
r.d
peldcy of
o
nterst
  s
0
1
ee Davisin
to
or conl

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.71)
 e to i conl or uality specir id
bolon
m who hind oadi shat
xc. eno (Bbard ot Tr de)
sm sted thae oLete ao
rade reoresntati
ilon
b yt saueby
lokato
C
es::1
:1.1
 in New Yo re
2010
tsPinre
I y to unpor wtre ran of
elsSe
p
 oon wchan t
，
shoor 
5.
OL
 he beo
oon

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.84)
Tokyo's A.le2,
May , 19991
plan, they que ticning viilisy of teking action along ra-
tionalizatice Linee under Deco centration bav. Interested cSaP
officiels have tated so cricr shis Missien that hearings will
probably lne ictle effees en Ptocl order, tut that Tokyo Shibaura
labor union, s snteresbsy p s siny leccmcentration plan
and will pretally uppeal  pr sais er nd possibly to courta.
In latter regare, pegal pr  Pener 1 Hearguarters, SoaP, has
exprossed ioe  co cabt   to ta court actlon in vlew
fect sret crer prlouck
  recourse to
courts ie
over nd union would
no doubo pake pro
s possible denial of
sich rec 
500

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.90)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
G DIVIN OF
NA
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
JUN201949
Action Assigned to
bction Takon w asT
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
requn
Date of Aotion
RECD
JUNE
10 Qren
Tile
ACTION
Name of Ofricer
FE
Direotion to DC/R--
894.50/5~2649
LNFO
0/h
OFD
ITP
CLI
FILE
1949
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 344,
May 26, 1949.
-2-
Department, however, to point out certain passages in Mr.
Hutchinson's remarks which seem to this Mission to be more or
less at variance with the facts, or which may be considered mis
leading in their emphasis.
On page 2 of the appendix to the minutes of the 138th meet-
ing of the Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs, Mr.
Hutchinson stated that "the Anti-Trust and Cartels Division of
SCAP was following a position that was not consistent wdth the
intent of the statute. They were recommending to HCLC that they
arbitrarily designate these companies as excessive concentrations,
and provided for no hearings. There was no test made to objec-
tively find out whether or not any given company was an excessive
concentration under the definition of the statute."
The implication is, of course, that the method of designation
was inconsistent with the Deconcentration Law, and that the Decon-
centration Review Board instituted practices more in keeping with
that Law. It should be noted, however, that there is no provision
in the Law for hearings prior to designation, and, so far as this
Mission is aware, the procedure for hearings has in no way been
altered since the arrival of the Board. Companies were designated
on the basis of standards set up under Articles 3 and 6 of the
Deconcentration Law. It would be somewhat difficult to prove that
the designations were or were not "objectively" tested according
to those standards. No provision is made under the Law for hear-
ings prior to tranemittal of the proposed order for reorganization
nor have any such hearings been held since the Board assumed its
duties. Moreover, the Deconcentration Law was written by the Anti-
Trust and Cartels Section, which should therefore be assumed to be
acquainted with the Law's intent. Exception may well be taken to
the Law itself and to the manner in which it was written, but that
would of course involve arguments unrelated to the question raised
by Mr. Hutchinson.
Mr. Hutohinson's statement on the same page to the effect that
the Board felt impelled to give the company a hearing "in order to
dotermine what facts were in existence showing that the company was
an excessive concentration" is open to similar criticim, since the
Law required no hearing regarding the designation itself, and since
no provisions for hearings have been instituted by the Board in ad-
dition to those in effect when the. Board arrived. Mr. Hutchinson's
quarrel would appear to be with the Law itself, rather than with the
manner in which it has been administered.
On page 3, Mr. Hutchinson states that the Board's "Four Prin-
ciples" in effect "gave to each company the right to have a hearing."
So far as we are aware, the "Four Principles" established no such
right, nor would a careful reading of them indioate that they were
intended to do so.
Mr. Hutchinson states on page 4 that, "if the program had pro-
ceeded as it had started out...there would have been pretty close
to
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 344,
May 26, 1949.
-3-
to 300 breakups." It should be noted, however, that only 100 com-
panies were still on the list of designees for reorganization when
the Board arrived in Tokyo.
On the same page, Mr. Hutchinson states, without reservation,
that "the Zaibatsu had been completely eliminated and destroyed.".
This is certainly a debatable point; it may be noted in passing
that only 30 per cent of the securities confiscated by the Holding
Company Liquidation Commission have been sold, and that complete
surveillance over the buyers of that 30 per cent has not been pos-
sible; that the banks and insurance companies through which the
pre-war family combines exercised much of their control have been
left intact; and that the personal fortunes of the Zaibatsu families,
though under close control, remain sizable. The argument here is not
whether measures to counter these facts are possible or desirable,
but simply whether or not the Zaibatsu in the commonly accepted sense
of that term have been destroyed, and it is the opinion of this
Mission that Mr. Hutchinson's statements are much.too sweeping.
Similar exception may be taken to Mr. Hutchinson's statement on page
16 that "Baron" Mitsui "has lost all."
On page 6, Mr. Hutchinson states that holding companies have
been dissolved and divested of securities and property; at the top
of the same page, however, he states that they "are being liquidated."
The latter statement is the more accurate of the two; none of the
larger holding companies have been completely liquidated as yet. While
a distinction may be drawn between "dissolution" and "liquidation,"
it is believed that the first statement creates an impression of more
sweeping accomplishment than has actually been the case.
On page ll, Mr. Hutchinson states that more effort has been ex-
pended in recent months than beforein distributing stocks among
employees of the company in question. It is believed that there is
little evidence to support this statement. Policy with regard to
the disposal of securities has always emphasized sales to employees
of the company and to residents of the area in which the company is
located.
. On page 14, in discussing the question of reorganizing the tex-
tile industry, Mr. Hutchinson implies that the fundamental problem
in that case was one of protecting the rights of the company, and
that the Board stepped in to protect those righta; as the chairman
implies in his next question, however, the same questions of property
rights were not so overriding in the case of Japan Iron and Steel.
The point to be made is that guarantees under the Law were observed
in both cases, and the fundamental question was not one of property
rights but one of the presence or absence of an economic concentration
within the meaning of the Law.
On
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 344,
May 26, 1949.
-4-
On pages 20 and 21, Mr. Hutchinson implies, though his tes-
timony is far from clear, that 54 operating companies are being or
will be broken up. A better estimate would be from 6 to 10 com-
panies, although the Board has not yet completed its deliberations.
Although, as noted above, the Board has not positively repu-
diated Mr. Hutchinson's statements, it seems likely in view of the
frequent errors included in those statements that the Board could
not give them the status of official pronouncements; the Board
has in fact refused to do so in its terse memorandum on the private
and personal nature of those statements. The Board's refusal to
repudiate the statements, on the other hand, may be attributed to
the fact that disagreements in high echelons of General Headquarters
are rarely given publicity even in official circles. It may be
pointed out that for this reason Major General W. F. Marquat, Chief
of the Economic and Scientific Section, has refused to forward a
rebuttal to either the present F.E.C. minutes or to an earlier re-
port submitted by Kr. Hutchinson to the Department of the Army.
Respectfully yours,
cea)nenton
Cloyce K. Huston
Chargé d'Affaires sd interim
Parchment Mat to the Department.
500
EGSeidensticker, Jr.:lee
CONFIDENTIAL
2313

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.84)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDSOF TELEGRAPH BRA
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
1949
Action Taken 
AIRCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
:129
1OH
US POLAD, Pokyo
Date of Action
0.se c
ActGOR9IPm SY-bol
mnil in
Hey 28, 3749
Name of Officer
1:A
: June 7. 1949 2: 30 p.m
C ]: Direction to DC/R
N
DC.
EUR
E
Secnetary of  its,
TP
88
OFD
Hashington
OLI
A-131, Hay 27. 1949
50
(Tiis rgrc. suppienents thie ) tssion s a-122, ay 2,
4
1s  a ler rgrans in his  las lecest
  1  D  
1  2899.
lference isn to
t, A   , re ardin Ja D" sech to be : at
San Francisct  r shat ty': oo serv nce f erld frale Weer Hay
22-28, b r. mals cv, Pres dent ( Aarcan Jhaer of  
merce in Japen c p sted to supply a copy I his specei to ol icer
of this Vissior prior so hi: dop eture  ron okye Kay 21, Mes
stated that  lhai no yet  ap)evet so ech. le sdded, lowev
that
he planned te v sit vashin ton eat call uper Departient offict
con
cerned with Far Dastern affnira. Suggertier made shey request
y
of speech from him.
2. Praiu for Cenera Nul.  20 issue of United fs
Sptciel Daily Fnuncil.  csiomic lorls Lea evied, re leasec olkyo
on reatricted Faste, wontajn ei followden cor ents on liajor Ger l  F.
,    i i ,  d
ter
s: The : Ty . o i cdp to m con
le 1
int erested in tte ecc maie up hure  ih n he ts bare 
12
be presented vi h a ninber c? plana for remo.irg rogoie dons
p吧
vate foreign tosiner sten. Tsese olane bave oeen ram up by
Hillisn F. rargt as, Chief of concnic ar Se onti e Hec ion.
tire varquat ets a chence, ho prs forard ds  leas fo li: tant
Sometimes he makes gains. , foretaimes hi gher orricials but hi
But larquat it al veye trying. it is krown tnat rquat wants  k
wich toreign tusines sren an J pan ard ncar their compiaints on te sete
PERMANEN T RECORD COPY. Thils copy mitr be retarnod to DC/R tontrat tles wite metatien ef aotion taton. I,

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.72)
2.
1
1.1
fi.c
re
d
661.9431
1
111
1
5
11
1
..U
t
 to colonel e thas sion reur
r t  s trad vv al p  cigs a
rts
inala1

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.76)
vd
1p
xe
694.003
aj11.
n
1.. y

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.83)
NOW
se r tor he
660d.9431
cop1y

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.80)
DRYISION
JUN 15
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
setson sakon mo achity
JUN 1 5 1949
2N113
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Date of Aotion
Action Orrioe Syubol.....
CL. PE
eme of offieer -...
894.50/6-349
xe
5.
994.5171
rc
re
BしL
in
CJ
örr
C.2 -,
ti
c c.ts
19 0
FILED
王
Exehs
po
2
6
al orh ne o d
ins
1949
clr prrane
.ert
Pinlcod trode 
ni c om
VR
lvno exesro
it wi
660d.9431

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.73)
f.sontativ
t lunt to w
it
l conar
re uct
.0
the .
5.
ner
CO
lch
4e
00
2.1
efor
j
cove , they
894.77
e
x crciu
11y1.1
l
xe
tle c.
55ine
994.542
t Japan  cinicians
tt ees, nd sha. coi.?
ally in reonse so v: s
501.BD Aour
anzkok.
PIE TON

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.83)
Me DER
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMUNCATIONS AND RECORDS TELERRAPH RAON
erfice ef
PAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Astion A med to NA
11949
DINBCTON
Depertomemn of State
2870
DIVISTON OF
1POLAD, TOO
1
3.1
11949
:o50.
inn 11. 19.3.
PARTMENT OF STATE
894.50
11.11
1.44
-1049
am uu plenout h1. H1ln  . June 3.
cerliur strt.  i: thi: rerinu loquost dio-
ra l1 lud to pe tmen ror roas na steted in
91
I ustid lon ndoxdu a yet classifind
00 c01.
Vovenrch end ro, rane Jivisi, ur Economic and
xR
ien.1
1on ). lo. ead uctarr ne now r
in bch
894.60
buia.
co nt: inl in cher countri.
(Soe ite 50. murch 4. 1 19) Nar bus1s w1 1 g1ve gonoral 1n-
dustrita1  tion iador ror pr : 19 9 of appioximstely 89 per
cent of 153 4 avoraze compe cd ith currently publishod index if
Ye
71.6   (so thle Mig1 '14. June , 1949). Boliov
894.6362
new index sa sa wiil be ule sed y  withir rort two monthe.
2 Corruta ou oal Pruluctiun Drivo.  faronce made to this
Mission's d  p itch no s72 dutad  pril 30, 1944, containing supple-
montary iuim tion on drivo or increr uod coal production. Mottion
theruia wadc oi presence in Japan of Nr. Poul R. PAULIck, coal rin
EILED
export urou, t to Jupun to rs 1st saparoso 1n producing 42,000,000
motric tone c1 coal duriny current fiscal yeer cumoncing April?,
1949. Paulich, kmown by officar of this Miusicn when be visite
HH
China in 194: in connuction with RCa oconomic rohabilitation pr
gram, stutec June 9 to the offiser that ho had considoreble doubt as
to ability :opanase mines to produse thnt emount of conl. Paulick
addeu vint, wnen ne visited muny coel mines in Chine he wes eware of

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.71)
1050180:25.
June 10, 1949.
port svl  t o e s
pointod out begiinings
of vame cule  vorier Jommunie poted i crin not apparont in
Hokkatee pou  id t t ho vo about t leuve tyo for soveral
w 
 e hve mie ivinerding trend of
pelrtieal  e udce eI sser snd ton no would appre
slate spoo a
yole tte  srcater detull pon roturn to
PoL,0.
1
3
no. 1tem -100, pril 28.
19, ro boy r
ei ol i  on roportThie
ste dor ho 
uble so obtad
co of e or  renamitral to
7e
Daw etroot
ein onco
 tnt could oe
aly obtert r
o t nt should Doper
m  
op tode matso
sut e  of my be re.
 vt  met may wier
to
s  s  po   theof whie
ce be ge. 
ugton  de
owpay be notod thut
rer 1n co
a cor on te e Ciehia Mission
70
siretosulphc
of 
tteh r  ont thet rep
the efor mr
clunble une
erd d es    ducsve rieey
of vor e
redtnot blo t
ornc
thissee
reer ronched sote
Irnish Consul Seraral
entPror sion
6606.9431
xporte us o.p cted
 ot ttt oroduete, one shir
894.5151
m 
aa rdened whai oll
luioid, et ce ora
4608.5151
de
dur e hepi contoet coneluded
rae thonto
 949 o
1500)
roe oe pro s T pen  with elesrane os
of o ne ne r to o  ither party.a in
cos of co ne prng ec r ll ooarete  dor
poce fo o le cooun
oo  to  lon t opa M
pp t e s froved urrenats.
hiene(seeblow).
wkeo
eeed

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.74)
To. yo .
Jno do
5.
1chier end one
Bolgien Mone, ry
ec. 62 orn
xe
2.2
igr exchange 
.9431
is
tch
 an crecits acc u
yo gusstioned x
05
rovision
leted. In thi
o1 10r13610
110
ad exprosee
tn Gl. H
tves of Bol, Lan
ntlors with s
enthhehe
1
boue esponsisle
rer um direetcr
in en to t let he nad bee
ling by ser:I
is conuection
 pot cevlower
be
etjere en in ult
icanl courtoe
 can bo adjur ed
t ccueted  od
rreremento
epperontly 
rrice
Ye
n so sout to
sveden
Jo ed at eve
610.9431
1101
0o For1.
satate
tto cchduled
6451.4431
()
 do en due 
ubutitute r
20
692.9431
pents
shica
 f 
500
1

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.94)
COMEIDELTIAL
In reply refer to
OFD
21
JUL 20 194S
My dear Colonel Hendricks:
It occurs to me that you and your colleagues
at the working level in the Army may be interested
in looking over the attached paper on "Publio
Relations Aspects of the Economic Stabilization
894.50/6
Program in Japan".
This paper was prepared by some of our research
analysts in the State Department who had previously
analyzed reactions across the board of Japanese
public opinion to the Economic Stabilization Program.
The attached paper represents their general ideas
as to how an understanding of the basic purposes
6-1349
of the Stabilization Program might be improved and
hostility to certain of its provisions diminished
or eliminated. Their recommendations have no
official standing within the Department; however,
some of us feel that certain of the recommendations
do have real merit and might profitably be drawn
to your attention and possibly, should you consider
it desirable to do so, to the attention of officers
at the working level in Tokyo.
If you or Mr. Foster wish to talk about this
paper, do not hesitate to give me a ring.
Sincerely yours,
Robert W. Barnett
Economic Adviser
Office of Financial and Devolopment Policy
C
S
Enclosure.
Cnr
JUI 
Lt. Col. E. W. Hendricks,
9
Civil Affairs Division,
1043.
Department of the Army,
Room 2E-550, Pentagon Buhding.
3
OFD/ tarne t:mek
ogm
7/16/49
(r. McDiafmid)
(ir. searey
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.97)
JUN 13 19M9
CONFIDENTIAL
PUBLIC RELATIORS ASPECTS OF THE ECONOMIC STABILIZATION PROGRAM IN JAPAN
During the past few months, the economic stabilization program has met
with widespread opposition from the major segments of Japanese society -- op-
position that is having edverse politicel repercussions and is a potential
threat to the successful implenentation of the stabilization program and to
the prestige of the United States occupation.1 While a dogree of opposition
to certain aspects of the stabilization progrem having immediate adverue ef-
fects on the special economic interests of labor, business, and farmers 1s
unavoidable, much of the opposition can be traced to a lack of underatanding
of the over-all economic situation facing Japan as well as of tho basic ob-
jectives of the stabilization program and to a strong tendency to overeatimate
adverse effects of the program end undereatimate its long-run benefits.
It is believed that there is a need (1) to institute an educational
program to demonstrate the necessity for a stabilization program and its basio
contributiona to the economic recovery of Japan and to a higher stardanl of
living in future years; (2) to make use of all possible economic incentives
and ameliorative moasures within the fremework of the stabilization prozrum
in order to reduce the opposition arising from labor, unamployed groupa, and
small and medium-sized business to manageable proportiona, and, if poesible,
win the full cooperation of those groups.
A. Educational Program
Since there is a vide lack of understanding of econonic stabilization
in Japan, the fundamental objective of the educational progran would be to
1. S00 0IR-4938 (PV), Apr11 19, 1949 CONFIDENTIAL.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDRNTIAL
2
demonstrate that the achievement of economic stability is an important and
necessary step toward the eventual attainment of econamic self-support and of
optimm recovery under conditions of self-support. Beyond establishing the
over-all necessity and value of the stabilization program to the Japanese eco-
nomy, the educational material might be geared to correlating the self-interest
of the Japanese worker, businossman, and farmer in the achievement of oconomio
stability through pointing out the stabilization program's effectivenoss in
maintaining the present standard of living and in securing prospective im-
provements in living standarda. Furthermore, the educational program might
actively counteract the unfavorable criticiam of the role of the US in ini-
tiating a stabilization progrem with some onerous aspocts by demonstruting
that (1) the adverse offects are in fact minim zed by US aid; (2) ths (S is
protacting the various economio groups affected by enforcing equitable dis-
tribution of the burdens of stabilization; and (3) the uS 1s basically ir-
terested in maximizing the Japanese atandard of living under present and future
world trade conditions and not in limiting Japanese exports and the lovel of
industry to the detriment of the Japanose economy.
A clearer understanding of the stebilization progrem and the achleve-
ment of wider support for its implemontation would be gained through informa-
tion relating to and explanation of the following:
1. The present economic status of Japan and the Far East and the re-
lation of both to the world ocanomy.
2.
The role of the US in bolstering the Japanose oconomy and th
standard of living since the end of the war.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.98)
COMFIDENTIAL
3
3.
The absolute necessity of optimm performance and cooperation on
the part of Japanese labor, business, and famers in order to
stabilize the economy and thus contribute to the achievement of
economic recovery and better living conditions than would other-
wise be possible.
4. The advantages of a stabilization program as compared with other
allegedly possible solutione to present depressed economic can-
ditions.
5.
The over-all relationship between stabilization and econaric -
covery -- pointing out that these objectives are not antithetical
but directly rolated and interdependent.
6.
The mechanics of the stabilization program -- explaining the opera-
tions of the over-all progrem, the part played by each of its nine
points in achieving stability, and the rationale underlying each
point.
7.
The relationship of the stabilization prcgram to the standerd of
living and to individual economic self-interest during tho prpsent
year as well as in future years -- pointing out, first, thet, while
present living standards are low, they woul! be substantialiy lower
without US aid; and, second, that future increases in the etandard
of living are dependent upon success of the stabilization picgram,
the performance of the Japanese economy in utilizing US aid, and
the genoral recovery of Far Eastern and world trade.
8.
The effect of the stabilization progran on Japenese foreign trede
and its contribution toward achievement of a level of trade that
will by 1953 probably result in a self-supporting ecamomy in Japan.
9.
The effect of the stsbilization program on productivity -. the
general prospect of increased production and increesed aoits
of goods and services for the domestic economy.
10.
Comparative studies between the stabilization program am uller
programe for economic recovery and stability instituted in vor tem
and eastern Europe.
11. The probleme of unemployment and bankruptey of emall and rct: un-
sized business -- placing emphasis on the relative security of the
bulk of workers and businssamen, the provisions for temporr re-
lief of the people edversely effected, and the future reebsoption
of these marginal businesses and unemployed workero once prx uctivity
increases. (While these explenations would probably be cous cored
unsatisfactory by the umemployed and by bankrupted bucinoamin, they
would serve to make the bulk of businesemen and workers feol wore
secure.)
CORFIDENTIAL

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.93)
7
COIFTLE:TIAL
4
While such en educationel progran wculd be designed to minimize op-
position to the ttabilization progran baseu on lack of understanding on the
part of all segments of the society, emphasis should oe placed on labor, the
opposition group thuit is test oranizcd, most vocal, and most vulnereble to
Camrurist propagenda. Lebor's particuler rievances — wage stetilization,
unomployment, end hi, h taxetion -- may be mitigated in part by the ameliora-
tive meesures mentioned pelow. Howover, its porsonal stake in the achieve-
ment of stauility end ineguitaole distributicn of the burdens of stabili-
zation end econcric recovery will .ve to be brought out clearly in the educa-
tional nterial. In addition, a acasure of labor participation, even in an
a ivisory role, in the iaplemenbation of the stabilisation progran .ight reduce
lepor's suspicion of the pro, ri: ns a method or rstracting its newly gained
rights. Fintlly, labor cooperation will be uore likely if labor is assured
that even under a conservative government its vesic rignta, guaranteed in
tao cons titution, will be ruspected and not undermined.
B. Econonic Inoontives for economic Stabilication
Economic stabilization in Japan is essentialto achievement of a self-
supportin, cconony. No progran with the latter as its goal can be successful
CONILLETTIAL

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
5
in Japen until order is brought out of the internal economio chaos that has
prevailed in varying degrees since the end of the war. A balanced budget,
rigid limitations on credit, and strict enforcement of tax laws are all neces-
sary to put the economy on a sound financial basis. Similarly, wage-price
stability is necessary to curb the inflationary spiral that has prevailed
since the end of the war. Effective controls to enforce allocation of
scarce imported raw materials into channels that will leed ultimately to the
erport of goods manufactured from these materials are also importaut to maxi-
mize foreign exchange earnings. The stabilization progran is expected to
achievo thooe goals.
In the implementation of this program it is important to place the
temporary hardships connected with this program -- such as the elimination
of certain umeconomic producers, reduction in employment, eand tight credit --
in the context of gains that are expected to reault from the broader recovery
program of which intornal stabilization is an integral and importent part.
In SCAp's most recent program for a solf-supporting economy, more
realistic, perhaps, than previous recovery programs, the Japanese people
are offered new incentives each year as the performance of the economy moets
the annual goals contemplated by SCAP. Increases in consumption of food,
textiles, and other commodities may be anticipated as Japanese trade oxpands.
For example, consumption of cotton, wool, rayon, silk, given a reegxnable
oxpansion of trade, is estimated by SCAp to increase gradually fron 2.5
pounds per capita in 1949 to noarly 5 pounds per capita in 1953. Fox con-
sumption should likewise increase as Japanese exports increase. These in
creases are tangible incentives thet could be used in association with the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
6
public relations program described above.
In addition to these long-run incentives inherent in a program for a
self-supporting economy, there are a number of incentives that could be of-
fored to the Japanese people this year and be made an important part of a
public relations progrem. These incentives, it is believed, could be offered
without interfering with the fiscal policies of the economic stabilization
program.
First, it would be possible to release to the Japanese people or
certain sectors of the economy, as incentive goods, perhaps 200 million
out of the 260 million yards of unsold cotton fabric in stock. This stock-
pile has been in existence for about two years and the chances of seiling
these fabrics are poor inasmuch as they were manufactured early in the oc-
cupation vithout sufficient regard to postwar market requirements. SCAP
has ostimated that cotton textile consumption alone will be ahout 1.6 pounds
per capita in fiscal year 1949; the reloase of an additional 200 million
yards would represent a 50 peroent increase in cotton consumption. Ir addi-
tion, there are unusually large unsold stocks of such cotton goods  sing-
lots, socks, end shirts that could be released to the Japengse peoplc s
incentivo goods.
Socond, it vould be posaible to institute somewhat lerger tax ex-
emptions for lov income wage sarners, most of vhom are in the eroup wtcae
tazes are withheld at the source. These tax reductions could soon be more
than offeet if enforcement of the tax laws affecting the self-asseseed
groups were improved.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDINTLAL
7
Third, there appeara to be no conflict between a flerible wage policy
administered under careful SCAP scrutiny and the stabilization program. The
ctabilizaticn program might profit from the correction of certain wage in-
equities that exist today, and such corrections would dispell the misappre-
hencicns held by Japanese workers that the stabilization program has "frozen"
their viges permanently.
Fourth, any significant increase in umemployment during 1949 and 1950
coulr be met with a positive course of action on the part of the Japanese
Gover nrent in the form of expanded unemployment compensation and public works
pret ams within the framework of the present balanced budget. Even if un-
employent should not increase, the Japanese people would undoubtodly react
Favorably to the announcement that plans are being made for such an even-
tuslity. There would appear to be threo possible ways by which these programs
could be expanded without upeetting the present balanced budget, although
inauiiiciont data are available in Washington to permit a definitive appraisal
of thr magnitude of coste and resulta to be antioipated.
1. Occupation costa, wh1ch reprosent 125 b11lion yen in the 1949-50
budget, might well be reduced even before these programs are
expanded. Economies on the part of SCap could reduce these
costs somewhat. Any further reduction in the occupation costs
borne by ths Japanese -- unless such costs were assumed by the
US and paid for out of appropriated funds, a prospect that seems
remote in vieu of the present status of the Department of Army's
budget for 1950 -- could come about only from a reduction in the
size of the occupation. Thin is a fundamental problem that can-
not be appraised fully in this paper but would appear to be worthy
of further study in Washington and Tokyo.
2.
It is conceivable that a small part of the counterpart fund might
be profitably used for certain public works programs. There are
meny worth-while public works projects, such as highway construc-
tion and reforestation, that could be initiated in Japan without
eignificant capital expenditures. At present, however, not
enough is known about how tho counterpert fund will be used --
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDINTIAL
8
other then for its announced basic purpose of counteracting in-
flation .. to do more then suggest the possibility of using a
part of the fund for the purpose of oombating unemployment.
3.
The termination of reparations removals from Japan would eppear
to release for other purposes the umutilized portion of the
2.7 billion yen appropriated for that program in the 1949-50
budget. It is reported that somewhat over 2 billion yen re-
main unexpendod.
COHFIDENTIAL

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.94)
JUN 1 3 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
PUBLIC RELATIONS ASPECTS OF THE ECONOMIC STABILIZATION PROCRAM IN JAPAN
During the past few months, the economic stabilization program has met
with widespread opposition from the major segments of Japanese society -- op-
position that is having adverse political repercussions and is a potential
threat to the successful implementation of the stabilization program and to
the prestige of the United States occupation.1 While a dogree of opposition
to certain aspects of the stabilization progrem having immediate adverse ef-
fects on the special economic interests of labor, business, and farmers is
unavoidable, much of the opposition can be traced to a lack of underatanding
of the over-all economic situation facing Japan as well as of the basic ob-
9
jectives of the stabilization program and to a strong tendency to overeatimate
0.5
adverse effects of the program and underestimate its long-run benefits.
It is believed that there is a need (1) to institute an educationd
program to demonstrate the necessity for a stabilization program and its basio
contributions to the economic recovery of Japan and to a higher standeni of
living in future years; (2) to make use of all possible economic incentives
1
and ameliorative measures within the fremowork of the stabilization program
in order to reduce the opposition arising from labor, unemployed groups, and
small and modium-sized business to manageablo proportions, end, if possible,
vin the full cooperation of these groups.
A. Educational Program
Since there is a wide lack of understanding of economic stabilization
in Japan, the fundamental objective of the educational progrem would be to
uN
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDRNTIAL
2
demonstrate that the achievement of economic stability is an important and
necessary step toward the eventual attainment of econcmic self-support and of
optimm recovery under conditions of self-support. Beyond establishing the
over-all nocessity and value of the stabilization program to the Japanese eco-
nomy, the educational material might be geared to correlating the self-interest
of the Japanese worker, businessman, and farmer in the achievement of oconomio
stability through pointing out the stabilization program's effectivenvss in
maintaining the present standard of living and in securing prospective im-
provements in living standards. Furthermore, the oducational program might
actively counteract the unfavorable critioiam of the role of the US in in1-
tiating a stabilization program with some onerous aspects by demonstrating
that (1) the adverse effects are in fact minimized by US aid; (2) the US is
protecting the various economio groupe affected by enforcing equitablo dis-
tribution of the burdens of stabilization; and (3) the uS is basically ic-
terested in marimizing the Japanese standard of living under present ni future
world trade conditions and not in limiting Japanese exports and tho lorel of
industry to the detriment of the Japanese economy.
A clearer understanding of the stabilization progrem and the echieve-
ment of wider support for its implementation would be gained through informa-
tion relating to and explanation of the following:
1. The present economic status of Japen and the Far East end tlu re-
lation of both to the world eccnamy.
2. The role of the S in bolstering the Japanese ecanomy and the
standard of living since the end of the war.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
3
the part of Japanese labor, business, and farmers in order to
stabilize the economy and thus contribute to the achievement of
economic recovery and better living conditions than would other-
vise be possible.
4. The advantages of a stabilization program as compared with other
allegedly possible solutions to present depressed economic con-
ditions.
5. The over-all relationship between stabilization and economic re-
covery -- pointing out that these objectives are not antithetical
but directly related and interdependent.
6.
The mechenics of the stabilization program -- explaining the opera-
tions of the over-all program, the part played by each of its nine
points in achieving stability, and the rationale underlying each
point.
7.
The relationahip of the stabilization program to the standard of
living and to individual economic self-interest during the present
year as well as in future years -- pointing out, first, thet, while
present living standards are low, they would be substantially lower
without uS aid; and, second, that future increases in the etandard
of living are dependent upon success of the stabilization program,
the performance of the Japanese oconomy in utilizing US aid, and
the general recovery of Far Eastern and world trade.
8.
The effect of the stabilization progrem on Japamese foreign trade
and its contribution toward achievement of a lovel of trade that
will by 1953 probably result in a self-supporting economy in Japan.
9.
The effect of the stabilization program on productivity -- the
general prospect of increased production and inoreased amounts
of goods and services for the domestic economy.
10.
Comparative atudies between the stabilization program and other
programs for economic recovery and stability instituted in western
end eastern Europe.
11. The problems of unemployment and bankruptoy of small end medium-
sized business -- placing emphasis on the relative security of the
bulk of workers and businesamen, the provisicns for temporary re-
lief of the people adversely effected, and the future reabeoiption
of these marginal businesses and unemployed workers once productivity
increases. (While these erplanations would probably be considored
unsatisfactory by the unemployed and by bankrupted businecaxm, they
would serve to make the bulk of businessmen and workers feel more
secure.)
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.96)
CUFIDPIAL
4
lWhils such an eduoational progran would be designed to minimize op-
position to the stabilization progran based on lack of understanding on the
part of all segments of the society, omphasis siould pe placed on labor, the
opposition group that is test organized, most vocal, and most vulnereble to
Comnwist propagenda. Labor's particuler rievances -- wage statilization.
vnemploynent, end high taxation -- may be ni tigated in part by the ameliora-
tive moesures mentioned below. However, its porsonal stake in the achieve-
ment of ata ility end inequitable distribution of the burdens of stabili-
zotion and econonic reccvery will have to be brcught out clearly in the eduda-
tione! aaterial. In addition, a ncasure of labor participation, even in an
advisory role, in the implementetion of the stabilizetion progren right reduce
lacor s suspicion of the pro ren ns a method of tractin its newly gained
ri hts. Finelly, labor cooperation will ba worc likely if labor is assured
that even under a consorvative government its pasic rights, cunranteed in
tho conscitution, will be respected and not undermined.
. Economic Inoentives for Economic Stabilization
Economic stabilization in Japan is esaential to achievement of a self-
supporting cconomy. No progran with the latter as its goal can be succesaful
CONFIDE:TIAL

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
5
in Japan until order is brought out of the internal economio chaos that has
prevailed in varying degrees since the end of the war. A balanced budget,
rigid limitations on credit, and strict enforcement of tax lews are all neoes-
sary to put the economy on a sound financial basis. Similarly, wage-price
stability is necessary to curb the inflationary spiral that has prevailed
since the end of the war. Effective controls to enforce allocation of
scarce imported raw materials into chanmels that will lead ultimately to the
export of goods manufactured from these materials are also important to maxi-
mize foroign exchange earnings. The stabilization program is erpected to
achieve thoso goals.
In the implementation of this program it is important to place the
temporary hardshipe connected with this program -- such as the elimination
of certain umeconomic producers, reduction in employment, end tight credit --
in the contert of gains that are expected to result from the broader recovery
program of vhich intornal stabilization is an integral and important part.
In SCAp's most recent program for a self-supporting econony, more
realistic, perhaps, than previous recovery programs, the Japanese people
are offered new incentives each year as the performance of the econouy meets
the annual goals contemplated by SCAP. Increases in consumption of food,
tertiles, and other commoditios may be anticipated as Japanese trade expands.
For example, consumption of cotton, vool, rayon, silk, given a reaecnable
expansion of trade, is estimated by SCAP to increase gredually fron 2.5
pounds per capita in 1949 to nearly 5 pounds per capita in 1953. Foxà con-
sumption should likewise increase as Japanese exports increase. These in-
creases are tangible incentives that could be used in association with the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
6
public relations program described above.
In addition to these long-run incentives inherent in a program for a
self-supporting economy, there are a number of incentives that could be of-
fored to the Japanese people this year and be made an important part of a
public relations program. These incentives, it is believed, could be offered
without interfering with the fiscal policies of the economic stabilization
progrem.
First, it would be possible to release to the Japanose people or
certain sectors of the economy, as incentive goods, perhaps 200 million
out of the 260 million yards of unsold cotton fabrio in stock. Tais atock-
pile has been in existence for about two years and the chances of selling
these fabrics are poor inasmuch as they were manufactured early in the oc-
cupation without sufficient regard to postwar market requirements. SCAP
has estimated that cotton textile consumption alone will be ahout 1.6 pounds
per capita in fiscal year 1949; the release of an additional 200 million
yards would represent a 50 percent increase in cotton consumption. in add1-
tion, there are unusually large unsold stocks of such cotton goods ss sing-
lots, socks, and shirts that could be raleased to the Japanese people as
incentive goods.
Second, it would be possible to institute souewhat larger tax ex-
emptions for low income wage earners, most of vhom are in the group whose
taxes are withheld at the source. These tax reductions could soon be Lore
than offset if enforcement of the tax laws affecting the self-assessud
groups were improved.
CONFIDEIITIAL

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENIIAL
7
Third, there appears to be no conflict between a flexible wage policy
administered under careful SCAP scrutiny and the stabilisation program. The
stabilization program might profit from the correotion of certain wage in-
equities that exist today, and such corrections would dispell the misappre-
hensions held by Japanese workers that the stabilization progrem hes "frosen"
their wages permanently.
Fourth, any significant increase in umemployment during 1949 and 1950
could be met with a positive course of action on the part of the Japanese
Government in the form of expanded unemployment compensation and publio works
programs within the framework of the present balanced budget. Even if un-
employment should not inorease, the Japanese people would undoubtedly react
favorably to the announcement that plans are being made for such an even-
tuelity. There would appear to be three possible ways by which these programs
could be expanded without upsetting the present balanced budget, although
insufficient data are available in Washington to permit a definitive appraisal
of the magnitude of costs and results to be anticipated.
1. Occupation costs, which reprosent 125 b1llion yen in the 1949-50
budget, might well be reduced even before these programs are
expanded. Ecanomies on the part of SCAP could reduce these
costs somewhat. Any further reduotion in the ocoupation costs
borne by the Jepanese -- unless such costs were assumed by the
US and paid for out of appropriated funds, a prospect that seems
remote in view of the present status of the Department of Army's
budget for 1950 -- could come about only from a reduction in the
size of the occupation. This is a fundemental problem that can-
not be appraised fully in this paper but would appear to be worthy
of further study in Washington and Tokyo.
2. It is conceivable that a small part of the counterpart fund might
be profitably used for certain public works programs. There are
many worth-while public works projects, such as highway construo-
tion and reforestation, that oould be initiated in Japan without
significant capital erpenditures. At present, however, not
enough is knoun about how the counterpart fund will be used --
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDRNTIAL
8
other than for its anmounced basic purpose of counteracting in-
flation -- to do more than suggest the possibility of using a
part of the fund for the purpose of combating umemployment.
3.
The termination of reparations removals from Japan would appear
to release for other purposes the uutilized portion of the
2.7 billion yen appropriated for that program in the 1949-50
budget. It is reported that somswhat over 2 billion yen re-
main unexpended.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION
TO
: NA
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
DATE
Jane 28, 1940
FW 874
JUN28 1949
FROM : FE - Mr. ButterWorth
anknowledemetfipatitted
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
sUBECT: Letter from Admiral T. Toyod
Hould you draft an acknowledgment for the attached
and return it to me as I have not yet had a chance to
reed the enclosure to Mr. Grew's letter.
BurcaRop
TAR EASTERN AIRS
AUG 1 9 1952
ASSISTANT SECHETARY
Itpartment of State
FE:WNButterworth:mw

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.93)
OFFICE OF
JOSEPH C.GREW
AFFAIRS
MANCHESTER
MASSACHUSETTS
June 15, 1949
Dear Walt:
894.50/6-1549
The enclosed letter from Admiral T. Toyoda,
formerly Japanese Yinister for Foreign Affairs, and
its enclosure may interest you. As Toyoda, whom I knew
very well, has been  urged, I suppose that his letter
should be handled discreetly.
Best regards,
Sincerely yours,
Fonorable W. Waltcn Butterworth
assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Enclosures: Letter from Admiral T. Toyoda to Mr. Grew
79
May 31, 1949.
Copy Resume of Private Opinion, May 2, 1949.
1
(excerpt)
7
DEASD
122655
7
EO 1152.
NND 760175
4

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
May 2. 1949
RESUME OF PRIVATE OPINION
.......The sending of Mr. Dodge to Japan is aimed at stabilising the
Japanese economy and alleviating the burden of the American Tax payers.
In order to achieve his aim, boosting of industry, partioularly inorease
of export is of imperative necessity. To gain this goal, however, it
goes withou saying that the enforcement of the Dodge budget only is
not sufficient and it is extremely important that the following measures
should be undertaken:
1)
A firm attitude towards Communiet movements.
2)
Tignting of the Labor Standard Law.
3)
Adjustment of excessive laborers already existing and those
to be expeoted by the Enterprise Reorganization and Reconstruo-
tion Plan.
4)
Un-Employment measures.
5)
Food problems and expansion of fishing districts.
6)
Ship building and chartering of ships to increase revemues
from invisible trade. (approximately 20% of foreign trade
is wasted for freight charges.)
7)
Release of Reparation problems.
8)
Authorization of Over-sea detachments of diplomats andoivilians.
9)
Lifting or the purge, particularly for those formally engaged
in industry and foreign trade.
10)
The invitation to Japan of an influenoial, industrial adviser
and a capable adviser, well informed of industrial and
economical problems, possessing consolidated politioal power
(this may be made on the burden of Japanese government).
Of the above, the itens of critical importanoe and whioh must
be realized are:
1) A stern attitude towards Communist movement and Labor movement.
2) The invitation of an adviser possessing consolidated politioal
cower and the influencial industrial power.
3) Food Problem.
It is only when the above three are undertaken in parallel to
implementation of Dodge's draft budget, which tackles the matter from
inancial view point, that the objeot of U. S. A., the self-support of
Japanese economy in the near future can be expected. However, should the
implementation of the Dodge budget only be enforced, negleoting other
measures, there is great possibility of the program ending in failure
and fear of leading Japan into a further chaotic state.
15

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Although there seems tc be some people in the American government,
who underestimate the rapid development of Communist movement in Japan
and its results, the activity of the Communists is inoreasing every day.
It is no exaggeration to say that those who enjoy the freedom of speech
and action today are the Communists. The National Government in China,
the country which is most intimately related to our country, is being
pushed into the Kwangtong and the Formosan districts, and the dominance
of the Communist party in China over a greater part of China is a matter
of course. Nothing definitely can be said yet about the future of Japan.
However, should the Dodge program end in failure unfortunately, it oan be
expeoted that there will be a great confusion of thoughts and with the
Japanese manifesting their weak points, Japan will turn Red. Thus unless
the prompt, firm and thorough aid from America is extended, there is every
fear that Japan will fall into the same fate as China.
The Far Eastern countries are fearing the rehabilitation of Japan.
But Japan, which has no resources, is completely powerless, and the fate
a
of Japan is in the hands of thers, should the supply of resouroes be out.
Japan's strong point is her strategically important location and her
industrial capacity. Only by effectively and adequately utilizing the
above advantages, do I firmly believe that Japan could become the
barricade for Communist movements in the Far East, which is being expeoted
from U. S. A., and become the supplier of manufactured goods in the Far
East, that is to say, to undertake the important role of acting as a
stabilizing factor of peoples of the Far East.
Tre Lnc

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.99)
473, 1 chome, Shimo-ochiai,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
May 31, 1949.
FAR EASTERN
My dear Mr. Grew:
I received your letter dated April 18 on the 24th of the same month.
"Ten years in Japan" has, as expected, proved to be one of last vear's
best sellers. How widely your book was read by the Japanese of all classes
is shown by the fact that it ranked 4th in the number of issues. The book
that ranked first was, if my memory is correct, an article written by
Dr. Nagai regarding his experience of receiving an atom bomb in Nagasaki.
Although I deeply regret your retirement from the diplomatic service,
I sincrely feel grateful to hear directly from you that you are still
having various responsibilities and duties and are loading a busy life,
particularly to hear that one of the mcat important jobs you are undertaking
at present is to provide a constant and a practical solution for the various
problems that Japan is currently facing. Morever, the efforts you are
extendir.g by exchanging opinions with various circlas and by so doing deep-
ening the understanding towarde Japan is a matter which all the Japanese
are feeling grateful for. It is my desire to have your activities known by
all your old friends in Japan and to have them join in in toasting for the
health of the "best friend of Japan".
Contrary to the position you are enjoying, I have been purged and,
regrettable as it may be, I am leading a quite life, a life which they call
in Japan farming when fine and reading when raining, as described in my
last letter. However, I heve occasional chances to meet Mr. Sebald and I
herein enclose a resume of the talk with him on the day before hie recent
return to the States for your personal perueal. I have presented my
private opinion in the most frank manner in view of the extremely difficult
position which Japan is now placed. Thinga, I fear, are turning out be as
I had expected. As described in the "Bulwark of Asia", the last book
written by the late Mr. Vaughn, the general Manager of U.P. in Asia, who
unfortunately died through an accident on Jan. 30 this year, current Japan
is quite different from the Japan of several years ago, while the Japanese
themeelvee have changed completely------a fact which I think you are one
of those to be most surprised. The Japanese, at present, have lost all
hope for the future and have no definite idea of their own. I regretfully
have to admit that this trend is stronger amongat the youth. There is no
doubt that the overwhelming majority of the Japanese are and will be the
most faithful ally of America, and in this respect I can not agree with
Mr. Owen Latimore's article "Japan is nobody's ally" published in the
April edition of the magazine "The Atlsntic". Nevertheless, should mis-
taken measures and methods be taken towards Japan, no one can guarantee
that Japan will not be swept into unexpected directions, because after all
nearly eighty million Japanese are confined to four small ialands with in-
adequate food, while on the other hand, comnunism is infiltrating into
China, our neighbor, and other countries in the Far East. Should there be

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
a general election in the near future, it is generally agreed that the
communist will gain at least a hundred seats. Although Japan is ardently
desirous of maintaining peace and neutrality in all times, I do not
hesitate in saying that her geographical situation in Asia makes such an
absolute impoesibility. She will no doubt either have to lean towarde
America or Russia.
As noted in my resume, I sincerely desire the dispatohment of an in-
fluencial and broad viewed person having experience in handling industrial
and financial problems and who posesses a coordinated and a wide range of
political knowledge to be an adviser of the Japanese Government together
with hie attondants. A great number of experts have been diapatched to
Ja. an nitherto. The opinions and recommendatione from such experts
certainly suited the iniividual probleme covered within their respective
fielde, particulariy up to the ond of ly4s when Amorica was intending to
treat Japan in accordance with the lines of the Fotzdam Declaration.
However, I feel they have become unsuitable since the change in the
American policy in ly46. Unless a coordinated adjustment is mnde, taking
into account the influence to be extended in other circles by such opinions
and recommendations, it is rather doubtful whether the results of such
recommendations were of great value from a view point of the Japanese
rehabilitation.
Considering my purged position I think I have gone a little too far.
Although the relation between Japan and America resulted in the most
regrettable and unfortunate coneequence due to the inability on my part,
I am still sincerely desiring to see the recovered and further improved
relationehip between the two countries and the conolusion of an agreement
desirable to our mutual interests. I have written this letter motivated
by such feelings as the above which I hope you will understand.
Please send my best regards to Mrs. Grew.
Sincerely yours,
1./02.rda

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.91)
prees
June 29, 1949
PAR EASTER-ERST
191952
Dear Joe:
Thank you for your letter of June 15 with
1ts interesting encloaures. You may be sure that
in any use of the material we shall be careful to
protect Admiral Toyode as the source.
1
5
With warm regarde.
Faithfully yours,
W. Walton Butterworth
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
15
Manohester, Massachusette.
FE:NA:MWB1shop/pm

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.93)
47120
Burroughs
B
BURROUGHS ADDING MACHINE COMPANY
 DETROIT 32. MICHIGAN
EXPORT DEPARTMENT
June 17, 1949
DION OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
Mr. Orville J. McDiarmid,
JUNG19496/21149
Acting Associate Chief,
1
Division of Financial Affairs,
Department of State,
£94.50/6-1749
Washington, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Mr. McDiarmid:
∴44,51
xx
recent Dodge Mission to Japan has or intends to publish a report
4
on their recommendations, and if so when it will be available.
894.7
Yours very truly,
Lowans titily ohn
Edward Littlejohn
EL:bd
179238
CS/K
八
1949
ED
-1749
Printed in U. S. America

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
FN
My dear Mr. Littlejohn:
Reference is made to your letter of June 17, 1949 inquiring
894.50/6-1749
whether the recent Dodge Mission to Japan has or intends to publish
a report on their recommendations.
The Dodge Wission does not contemplate publishing a comprebensive
report of the character you probably have in mind. As you may know,
Mr. Dodge went to Japan as financial dviser to General MacArthur
primarily for the purpose of making recommendations respecting the
implementation of the stabilization program in Japan which General
MacArthur had issued to the Japanese Government on December 17, 1948.
Inasmuch as the purpose of the Dodge Mission was primarily that of
implementation of established policy rather than to make an economie
survey of the Japanese economy, the work of the Mission did not lend
itself to presentation in a formal published report. While in Japan
Mr. Dodge issued certain press releases summarizing the measures
which he considered essential for the successful execution of the
stabilization program. I regret that I do not have copies of these
releases available here but they may be obtained from General Head-
quarters, Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers in Tokyo. If you
have any specific questions you would care to raise regarding the
stabilization program in Japan or other financial and economic matters
relating to the occupation, I vould be pleased to endeavor to obtain
the desired information for you.
Sincerely yours,
194
0gm
Orville J. McDiarmid
Associate Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
Mr. Edward Littlejohn,
Burroughs Adding Machine Company,
Detroit 32, Michigan.
U8/K
10
OFD:FN:OJMcDiarmid:erm
6/21/49
up
CR
NA
21

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.83)
MBRAF
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
D9R
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
JUN28 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Action Tekon
03
Direetonto
FOR
894.50/6-
a supnts
andrli
1749
194
0 1 50 
Somr co ld o lon a fod
SLIOgL ONN
Sawlogc
le peey at ose cnd abrond dering
v prerite pealisre in cn
c. 1 be r.
0 00ng 1942045 hen 
l 1 1925 or 1046 0 
nlliantand S
81
FILFT
ril proben
1945
工
11.4417
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.97)
1

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.96)
1.
ira

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.70)
Corcln
:1:
1
9.Aplic
ra). Harquat, Chi, 
altr
constdurd  ree 
 she  b 
i
10 r2eoso Duin c
ed posr  or 
seet as co sibitity o recur reign  shs
oung
11. Plan to Opn Tou t Ho ela. Es  spone1.
al F dqucrtere. Sclp, o at apt to scoure auter ettv
 de ents ow l in  ene e y ret l.
 e totelt may be mde ava latl: to purict ane :  me c
pprodccers
1(oru

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.81)
53
7ta for iron cout
1011

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.92)
MGDE/R
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
75
NA
Action Assigneg to
Jelgy , 45
NA
894.50/6-2449
net
liose of Crficer
Direction to DC/R
工
FILED
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
9

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.83)
Tokyo's A-163,
June 24, 1949.
.2-
memorandun for Japanese Gevernnent cequiring that a "Foreign Credi-
tors' Yen Account" be established in favor of non-resident foreigners
and of juridical entitice with head offices abroed shose representa-
tives or agents have not filen clalms for amounts die them. Account
made neceusary by elrins arisiag fron liquidution of verious Japanese
companies, ineludin compunine sith head ffices abroad liguidated
by order of s0AP (this Hi sion s aeepesch no. 65 of February 2, 1949).
Contenplated that Japane se Jovernmont will disouse funds upon claime
of beneficiaries or cheir gents, or apon ordere of General Head-
quarters. Present Yon Sustec Account meintsined by Bank or Japan
considered uncatiafastory fer pament to foreign creditore of liqui-
dated firms bocause prier  approval required for any paymenta from
that account
3. soli rle evior re un Reannual review of trade
position bo reen wo nd erling e now under way. Preliminary
otudy of da an'e is cr daileaten shat purchases Srom Sterling Ares
have been ascelerut o sine lert poviey (this hission's deapatch no.
206 of Apri1 26 te17, in' te mre no 130 or Apri1 23, 1949), out
question of wheuher r le l balenee to caul sfaction of sterling
Area authoritiss muut msit sudy or upan s exports ndians es
pecially reuain apprchoneive over posstble adverse ofreet on their
foreign exchunse pomcen  odle on ir porticipatier in Japan-
Sterling Aree trate.
L. Desobiction er No apt vote eb with post bote Pinaliged
with reference to r 1e so  derpatch co 367 dated June 9, 1549.
entled otaton e el et dh Uss", it may be
neted that nogotiatione in quostlot por peachine final stage, sccore
ding to sbatomente made J mo  o etficer of this Miceion by colonel
Relph J. Hifohbsb, efficiet tn Ms To vimm frace ne Comeree Division.
Sovict Prade Roprosontative hagglinr orve detaile but paid piving la
on sll cssential po ate c rerer in crare sontraet pohonel ischell
stated shet contraet vo b vors ltrly to emoneed to poovode for con
chant chock up or ouality anate ces, aot underetuntiee t et priee for
cool of pubetandero pottty wo lr  one oor sovoward prospoky
5. Leject  ab for e sp in (k p. Conevl
Readguarters. Far bst Comrard. oke  tete erer e  
vised Depertment of yt
ve
t de h       

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.89)
Tokyo's A-163,
June 24, 1949.
-3
Corporation (ChAc) for bi-weekly traffic stop at Naha, Okinawa, on
their route of lion: Kong-Taiwen-Tokyo and return. lelegram referred
to another message dated eptamber 16, 1948, regarcing previous CNAC
application, statir: that vhere was no military or civil requirement
for proposed Ckae traffic stop us adequate service now being provided
by Alerican carriers. CIuF: quoted ther as disapproving latest CNAC
request because l) t.. ir Force fxcilivies not readily available at
Haha to pupport adullional civi ai line operations; (2) present ser-
vices provided  merican air carriers more than adecuate; (3) auth-
orization of additional carriers to generate traffic i kinawa would
be incensistent with us CAD poliey so limit number and fregueney of
civil carriers accoreing co req irements; and (4) authori sation of
additional carrier to generate traftie in Okinawa voul. estaulish pre-
cedont whereby other airlines operating thrsugh thie area might feel
they should be ranted same pri rile e.
6 Country or (rigiu Sauuárement to be Amended. Ess has pointed
out to the Depariment of Amay shat s0aP1n 1535 dated Februacy 20, 1947,
requires Javanese levornmment to enstre that articles prepared for ex-
port be marked, stamped, tran led or labeled in legitle Snglish hade
in Sccueied Japan." rele ran states that ducing pest rear aunerous re-
quests received from tuyere co exeast goeds fron marking provisions in
cases where goods de stinei for poun vy whose domestic legi slation does
not reguire indication of count y a origin. Ess pointa out that it would
appear peasonatle to permit steh exoptions from m rkd g on exports for
vhlch buyer vdll certiiy that  oode de stineu for such pcuntries and that
buy-r does rot lesire sueh rucing.
 reeommend. rev1sion SCAPIN 1535
accordingly. adding that mlees co rary advice ceccived from lashington
prior to Jone 3, 1949, proposei rertcion w11 be  ccounlished here.
7. Technical Informution For 13sa. Under date 1 arch 26, 1949,
Mr. R. RhNDIron, Technical tepre ent: tive of Uosn Covernment, Tokye re-
cuested Scientific and Technical viviston, s, to sup ly (1) conplete
technical data and vorkiny dennin's of best and mort modern types of
Japanese steel cuna cliprers, and () coopl-t v errie.1 data and des-
criptions of processee and methoas of shemieal preceryetlor of fishing
nets, ineludline dr mdags of e plant, liste of chemiest wnd other
materlals used. Under dave Jane 23, 1949, 3s Divisior. concserned For-
warded matorial regestd br sitch.
3. so-febat Prade nt Jontrovevay v S-Pelgian
por sary Prea Financiat Arwan eent e Jsen 5. Ae175. me 10, 1 49)
D

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.75)
Tokyo' , x-16,
June 24, 194
otlll not sstts itr héof of tar, seneral deadquartere, s0aP.
haviny rai so le ited me ions vre. vere basie to negetiations
cemmences deet rreer
o as Iso spcessed desire fer agreement
en for  larts  conr ui o  er henged, cuiesion of whtch
isiorseeItm
1 b s ursr considovasden
le b   and
FUSTO

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.94)
RM/R.
TANDARD PORM NO. 64
SECRET
FM/R
DATE: July 1,
To: FE - Mr. Butterworth
9
894.50/7
FROM : NA - Mr. Bighop
suBJEcT: Discussion on Japan Between the Secretary and Ambassador
Franks.
With reference to the attached memorandum of conversa-
tion between Mr. Bevin and the Secretary, I attach a L.
memorandum from you to the Secretary tranemitting memoranda
Returned to
on the three subjects--reparations, gold and trade-- men-
tioned by Mr. Bevin.
The firet and third memoranda are attached heretó.
I understand thet the memorandum on gold is being sent to
you by Mr. Knapp.
DC/:
Anal
Rev-
SECRET FILE
Cat
FE:NA:NHemmendinger/pm
SECRET

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.74)
008890
SECRET
-004235
Copy220 
Atoericsn mbesay - Faris, France
June 14, 1949
Farticipunte:
r ovin
y
Fs 1moion)
n
G. SIPE
2.
So: 1.a to:
'oet!
dand discussed the
u tt ofr Japne le s s ad e ht ny view wa roeording
feir the eereth
thinth
of  wrmrersdur
ais for posalble
vin thenerers prbl
rwet with Japen
e
e thore
Cen she wo
 hey w t
for the cuat of
of trece. In
of
r1
tI aid
d tsus
3.100

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.83)
fale DYR
INCOMING AIRGRAM
NA
No0
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF CUMMONICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Jule 1214a
JUL111949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
54
leBiu
L
USPOLAD, TOs?
TPO
y2,194
Ju'y, 7949
:7a
894.50
9. une 24.
17-
wacots soated
249
Besult or Japensert ng
ot tde erioi which
te pods
r under u open
u  lar ly by
 Colonies also 
outh  Frica sold more th.n
conr c and felenvific
 eunde only
tus that thore is no
daneo lo not
es
 of ri n dolle
 of p11 23,149.
Pakee  do net wupear everky
川
 mas greed the
FILED
d sterlin: may
vjate conversion
hao piven no ofrici
1on
王
1800
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.72)
Tokyo's A-173,
July 2, 1949.
expansion in voluse of trade. ther oreelers for discussion will
inclatd psition of en re ot tr le unier irran erent, and ever-present
qesuion of traders' disabdli ies.
2. Droxced a entin Viewed with raiscivines.
suar foreim trade ea cbs te vorr w ar officer of this lission
corain eu s ro i  potiy signed apan-renine
Crad rr  1 f  no. 2 of ne ,1949,
free oao  w peeve a rovat of hief of af
el,  ris   r drs or orion of freight
el r s    ri   wil espeel ap rehenion.
coa e wll to carrid in
tineoieof ayprooon
o
Ikla I. bV, his
e f son ardin appli
euir omen) for pordsuien
h t sll apartent
byl  P s.ey sti he wae presontly
th ht concern had teen
Lien ed b  o  t  str oube viet cis herer and that
eo   te le said furt er
t V    u a   n for urebase or
npos.nri
ler  vn ehase siout be cousider ed
s a
rivatavsto.
   Cor Japese exorts
e s that he dinot
ftokny
ore aton
   21  seten by  se 
   orer sonfeee. Post snroreion
11
99
shipinontee under
.10
   sehod for 
00
onf s  ed
 t c.l

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.71)
PSA
J119.
1
h Plon Crem p's Prane oreation
o
 Frem Senurence con panies now
exted o
sion  september 1.wath
etbe Yneseatea by
o w uot wo into force
eJebin
∴ €
arion
.
x
 bonproubgate
 be

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.89)
MB
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
→HM
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
7
A
Action: FE
info:
ActRec'd July 7, 1949
E
11:48 a.m.
P
SAM
OLI
CIA
DIVISION OF
DOL
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
ITP
OFD
JUL-71949
POS
PA
Dirbction to D/R
DCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Nas ne 26 pubtished artfo fe
   Jan.
Summary
mnd wore to Poster revival
894.5
n on cr Punds US
7
  i Japanese
 Per aiding
Po owins
0
fund for occupation
xp er appropriation
he materials
0E SIAIF
rnom1e
,ra sum
anm snd Southern
6
r  materla
covers
1 nd prineipa ly
s6,, sotton
whi.r U Army negotiated
1:1
osmarized
chould read
3
turar production
i1 pereent;
aber produesivity
anniua Conmistee
year plan from
主
  delar
 plun requace
3t a3
CENTRAL FILESWITH
AREN

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.68)
FLAYN
-2 55.  .  
at least $2.630,00 frem 01
Un surface tt erpears us dmper a latn ea end loare
and formee
an foe prrreer ahier trg Ja en's
m s
sneir pi ne  el eey ae strikee soverr
 x te of b Phe
be
is
1.
ch
1

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.96)
MM DS-322
7-1.48
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect
NOCH
Department of State
Charge Department X
CONTROL
Charge to
UNCLASSIFIED
3978
CLASSIFICATION
一
JULY 16 194
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
FOR DCIT ÜSE ONLY
TOKYO,
INFO:: ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF,
FOR ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER.
894.50/7-749
36
Nanking's 1455, July 7 repeated for your INFO and
SCAP CI&E SECTION.
(Telegraph Branch: Please repeat Nanking's l455, July 7,
Control No. 2245.)
2
(a.u.3)
CS/CC
1949 JUL 16 AM 11 28
ACCEPTANCE DESK
8
94.
DC/T
i
C
749
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONAY)
CA WM
FE:NA:HWMogeley:db
7/14/49
UNCLASSIFIED
CLASSIFICATION
Corlections made on this original MUST be made on ail
copies before delivery to Telegraph Branch.

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.80)
INCOMING ÁIRGRAM
pea
AFFAI
boted.
:158
11949
ACL
Jule 15u
I o), lekyo
le
9
See etary of stome.
rchington
A17, J00y 6. 1945.
894.50/7-84
(This
JUL
ies.
men
1949.)
of tre ie reveal 1 y pee mt
M . )
349
here Pae announced uh iaee
of Lanese beiles o 
pended until furtler notice
out that ordors for which payron
month period (ror waien porioe r
extenx od by mut cal consunt, co.e ate
whier lis Hajesgis lovornmene i
pacipants io the now Praso 
not cear." dcensing "er an p ro.
wit te reeumed upon cosplebicn
FILED
工
Swiss Offeres Pule
H
hot. nog to ofricial ewioe expror
tal  of trade vath Jepem (thi.
a scientirle seetton ()
   c
PERMANENT RECQRD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's A-176,
July 8, 1949.
~2
Swise Govurnment to make suggestions. Ess's reply would appear tanta-
mount to telling Swiss that only way to balance trade would be for them
to cut down their purchases from Japan.
3. Hore Exchanges Open but Operations Remain ConfIsed. Opening
during past few days of securities exchanges in Kyoto, Kobe, Hiroshima,
Fukuoka, end Niigata completes SCAp's imnediace plans for putting the
Securiti s and Exchanges Law into oporation (uhis Mission's despatches
nos. 324 and 325 of May 20, 1949). Investigations by interested Es
official:: indicate, however, that operations are far from smooth and
that "bucket-shop" operations parsist. Particularly pointed out that
delays in reporting stock transactions to clients (attributed by dealers
to unfam  iarity with new procedures and to lack of clerical help) give
rise to nispicion that dealers are not buying or sellin; at instant
specified by client, but are waiting until close of day's business to
formalizo transactions at day's high or low Although ddely ettributed
to new eahange procedures, Ess officials note that confueed condition
may well be explained by such factors as reported recession in United
States, owing Lator unrest, and rumors of devaluation of pourd sterlin
4 lerouting of British Airways Considered. United Kingcon Liaisor
Mission under date June 14, 1949, asked General Headqusrtero fer permis-
sion for British Overseas Airways Corporation to route their regul rly
scheduled air service fron Hong Kong to Tokyo via Amoy and thence diroct
to Kagoalima, Kyuahu, and to Tokyo. General Headquarters in menorandum
to UKLH dated July 2 stated that Commanding General, Far East Air Forces
was condicting atudy regarding this matter and that Ukl would be ad-
vised as soon ae study completed
5. Telegrams Exchanged vdth Iubrandtcen Sompany. Poference mede
to item (3), A-173, July 2, 1949, regarding investigation by Japanese
Fair Trate Commdsaion of Far Eastorn Freirht Conferance. Proparation
second dospatch on this subject being postponei since believed essential
points o? controversy already reported However, Department may be
Interested in telegrams exchanged botween sbrandt sen Company, New York,
shipping concerr largely responsible for conferences to be subjected
to invesuigation both in United States and in Japan, and Genera) Head-
quarters. SCAP. Followine, telegram sent o General MacARTHUR by
Iabrandtcen Company received nere June 28: "Ssction 28 Japanene Marine
Tranaportation Mill passed Japarese Diet last session prohibits steam-
ship con:srence groups use deferred rebate system or similer restrictive
exclusive patronage rate practicus, Informed confer nee steanship lines
Japar to  ed Sea Mediterranoan Surope violating this Law to detriment
our ince ndent American sblo operatlons iy use of identical prohibited
CONFTDENAL

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.90)
Tokyo'. A -176,
July 8, 1949.
-
practices. we will appreciase you issue appropriate orders the se unlaw
ful monopolistic tactics which contrary Japinese American laws and pub-
lic interest. Please (advise) action taken." Civil Transportation
Cection, General Headquarters, July 9 tele rephing following reply which
aporoved July 7 by Chief of Staff: "The foliowing is in reply to your
cable of June 27. Mhether or not the Far as ern Preight Conf rence
practices now in effect are in accoriance vith the Japanese arine Trans
portation law is a question for the Japan overnment to decide. A
notice of hearing on this question i scheduler for late Sopte.ber
Interpretations and administration cf Japanese law is a respon ibility
of the Japanese Governm nt nd it ie the est bliened policy not to inter
fere in watters which are the respon ibilit, f the Jayunecse Government.
6. Liberal Sales olicy for Peuls tusied ns now investigating
possibilivy adoption mcre liberalized salun policy for sale of culcured
pearls. Heretofore, Department of Army s centcal Purctasing O fice (orc)
in Tokyo has, in substance, veen atle to lctpce policy sales , ras ices
during past four years nd is still endce oriny to maintain mo opoly on
sales of pearls which s cictly linited to ccupa ton personnel  4 sec
tion clso involved in formrmlation sa es p liey tecause it has in custody
large stock of pearls, olmse said to te  neig torl so ue.C  s rings
Out side males by Sfo in post exehanges preesialiy only otner ales per-
mitted are for expo t; todey Ampess tle 'er courists, poe ontisl: to
buy as post exchanges or Sveresas upply stores  where earis pre cecae
sionally sold), to purchare pearle in  pu ap hese arl p odvcers
and dealers believe current practjess e t restriet al of pes ls;
obviously they woul welcore more iberel l  oliey.
7 sokp Trade erfices abroad  on rast fer weeks had held
diseussions regardiog soatus of sear e ir   ffice in lew Yor anm pos
sibility of opening up addscdonal of lees I peed Er.   Yc Dny or,
Ess Director for Prade nd conmerce, cf opinien Hew Yors office should
be sales office whereae  Foreign Prade v Jon mrce ivision believes
that orrice can best serve Japan's titere ts  being trrde pre potion
office no conelusion peacheu on ut ponts metamval, phou no veing
given to opening sirilar offices in rdia m Parioten nd, in conection
with pecently coneluled Japan-Trisone apw t, er of ee in rakfort.
8. Adoption Frivave laportaoa moceuoss istaved. Finn) deceils
of arran ements for private importtn, prooe  pe pay been selr red and
now antl ipated sevoral woeks wdll pars lerore preee ares inat teed and
forein ychange control and ricensir a set u

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's A-176,
July 8, 1949.
9. Sentiment in ESS on Sterling Area Trade Arrangement. Prelimi-
nary discussione for renewal of Japan-Sterling Area Trade Arrangement
have ccmmenced in ESs and, although several of icials in executive offi.
of Fss are inclined to be extremely critical o.: Arrangement, no one ha:
been atle thus far to suggest agreement equelly as satisfactory, not to
mentior agreement likely to be considered more satisfactory. Feeling
of those in Ess closest to foreign trade situarion that, without Sterling
Area Arrangement, trade between Japan and tiat Area during past year
would lave been appreciably lower Discussions directed along lines to
expand terms of Arrangement along more multilateral lines.
HUSTON
500
DIM/CHE/EGS:lce
CONFIDINTIAL

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.97)
TARO ORNO. 
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
OF- Mr. Robert Barmett
DATE: July 14, 1949
FROM
SUBJECT:
Paper om "Public Relatioms Aspects of the Ecomomic Stabilizatiom Program
im Japan'
Herewith 6 copies of the paper you requested om July 13th
and a draft memo for Mr. Butterworth to Mr. West.
894.50/7-1449
Enclosure:
As stated above.
CS/J
AUG 5 1949
FILED
OIR:DRF:CDuBois:aw
183240
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
OFD - Mr. Robert Barmett
July 14, 1949
DRF - Cora DuBois
Paper om "Public Relations Aspects of the Ecomomic Stabilisatiom Program
in Japam
Herewith 6 copies of the paper you requested om July 1sth
and a draft memo for Mr. Butterworth to Mr. est.
Enclosure:
As stated above.
OIR:DRF:CDuBois:aw
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
STAGDARD mem NO. 6
DRAFT
TO
Mr. Robert West, Deputy Assistant
DATE: July 14, 1949
Secretary of the Army
FROM :
W. W. Butterworth, Department of State,
Office of Far Eastern Affairs
SUBJECT:
Attached Paper on "Public Relations Aspects
of the Eoonomic Stabilisation Program in Japan"
Attached is an informal paper prepared at the request of OFD.
It is in no way to be construed as polioy recomendations but there
may be some suggestions of interest to you or to certain officers
in SCAP.
894.50/7-1449
Enclosure:
As stated above.
AUG3 1949
FILED
CS/J
W
h
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Mr. Robert Wost, Deputy Assistant
July 14, 1940
Seeretary of the Army
W. W. Butterwerth, Departmemt of State,
Office of Far Eastern Affairs
Attached Paper on "Public Relations Aspests
of the Eoonomio Stabilisation Program in Japan"
Attached is an informal paper prepared at the request of OFD.
It is in no way to be construed as polioy recommendations but there
may be some suggestions of interest to you or to certain offieers
in SCAP.
Enclosure:
As stated above.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.86)
NA
fil sc/p
Ac:
RAF
Ac
NWB
Dat
ACt
894.50/7-1549
10
工
工

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.74)
ea
3
naield
1F
ile,
201014

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.81)
zto
redninrin
1.
treign race
offic ae
rby
3
i1n.
745017
16
55.94.31
C

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.78)
pr1l
1.le
a
be

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT D
DETACH THIS FORM
FILE NO.
RECORD COPY
894.50/7-1549
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A 
DESPATCH
TELEGRAM AIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
TOKYO
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
D-457
MR
M-184

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FORD E
OFH
DC/R
IT STATES'FAEA
CONTRÓL COPY
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, July 15, 1949.
No. 457
JUL 2 9 1949
REC'D
JULY 25
ACTION
(FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY)
CONFIDENTIAL
FT
INPO
FR
DCR
1TP
OFD
Subject: Forwarding Memorandum of Conversation Regarding
OLI
"Current Economic Problems in Japan."
TRC
The Chargé d' Affaires ad interim has the honor to enclose,
894.50
as of possible interest to the Department, a copy of Memorandum
of Conversation, "Current Economic Problems in Japan", between
Mr. Ormond FREILE, Chief, Industry and Commerce Section,, Far
Eastern Affairs, CAD, Department of Army, and Mr. David M: MAYNARD,
Economic Counselor, of this Mission.
ait.
Enclosure:
Memorandum of Conversation,
dated July 8, 1949.
Parchment mat to the Department
500
DMMaynard:pf
CONFIDENTIAL
2813

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclesure No. 1 to Despatch No. 457,
dated July 15, 1949 frem the United
States Political Adviser fer Japan,
CONFIDENTIAL
Tekyo, en the subject "Forwarding
Memorandum of Conversation."
(COPY)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
July 8, 1949
SUBJECT:
Current Economic Problems in Japan
PARTICIPANTS: Mr. Ormond FREILE,
Chief, Industry and Cemmerce Section,
Far Eastern Affairs, CAD,
Department of Army
Mr. David M. MAYNARD,
Econemic Counselor,
Diplomatic Section
Mr. Freile is shortly departing for the United States and
suggested a conference. He stated that he was anxious to know my
personal point of view on a number of general and certain specific
questions, currently of special interest to the Economic and
Scientific Section, General Headquarters.
GENERAL
1. (a) I stated to Mr. Freile that I believed that the
general economic situation in Japan is much better than reflected
by any of our currently published indices; that the standard of
living of the majerity of Japanese was much better compared to their
standard of living before the war, than was usually admitted by our
various Divisions. Mr. Freile stated that he agreed with this en-
tirely and also reiterated the statement that the Japanese people
as a whole were much better off than we usually reflected in sta-
tistical measures.
(b) Mr. Treile stressed the fact that the great problem
of the nert year will' be to increase sales, or in shert, to sell.
During the past three years a great deal of effort has heen expended
on getting the wheels of industry rolling and te increase production.
This phase of rehabilitation has been largely successful and we now
can produce in many lines much more than we are currently selling.
I agreed
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Dospatch No. 457,
July 15, 1949.
- 2 -
I agreed with Mr. Freile in this statement and stressed to him the
obvious point that we must send out Japanese salesmen and reflect
seriously on adopting a more realistic pricing policy.
(c) Mr. Freile asked my confidential opinion of the present
organization of ESS and the economic work in Japan, stating that he
was recommending a sharp cut in the ESS Staff, and further stating
thet he felt a basic reorganization should take place with the present
unwieldy ESS Section broken into several parts, as for example, a
Financial Section, a Trade Section and an Industrial Section. His
idea also included a civilian economic adviser at the Chief of Staff
level who would coordinate the various sections concerned with
sconomic problems.
I told him that my thoughts were in the same direction, but
went much farther and informed him that I believed that not only
segments of ESS but also segments of the Natural Resources Section
and other Sections should be brought into a co-egual status under a
civilian economic adviser at the Chief of Staff level. In other
words, instead of NRS we should have a Division of Agriculture and
Forestry and another of Mining and that ESS should be broken up into
such divisions as Financial Division, Division of Commerce and a
Labor Division, a change which would make the local Divisions roughly
correspond with the various department in Washington. I further
stated that, as compared to the 2200 persons now concerned in eco-
nomic activities in General Headquarters, I would like to see a slash
of 95% by January 1, 1951. That we should get further away from
operating the Japanese econamy, and maintain,an advisory capacity
with certain financial controls. In other words look toward the post
peace treaty stage. Mr. Freile replied that he agreed in general,
although perhaps not in detail. That there should be a definite over-
all reorganization and he agreed with my position that such a re-
organization should look toward the goal of being absorbed into a
normal foreign Mission, that is, an Embassy, sometime in the not too
distant future.
2。 TRADE ARRANGEMENTS
We both agreed that we did not like bi-lateral trade arrange-
ments in principle, but felt that there had been no other way in 1948
and for that matter in l949, to get trade started and increase the
level of Japanese trade. Although it was easy to be critical, no
one either in Tokyo or Washington had been able to suggest any better
alternate than the trade arrangements negotiated. We were both
convinced that with the sterling area trade would have been appre.
c:ably lower during the past year without the sterling area agreement.
We further agreed that, although there were very great difficulties
to overcome in renegotiating the sterling agreement, (realizing the
current position of England vis-a-vis dollar trade and the position
of convertibility), that it would be very unfortunate if the sterling
area agreement
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 457,
July 15, 1949.
-3-
area agreement could not be renewed. We further agreed that all
trade arrangements concluded should look forward to mmltilateralism
and felt that the clauses included in recent arrangaments with
Argentina and other South American countries made such an erpansion
possible. ESS has a very important job renegotiation and implement-
ing these trade agreements.
3. FLOOR PRICES
An exchange rate having been set, we both felt that it was
no longer necessary to maintain floor prices ane both felt that the
floor pricing system should be abolished. At the same time it must
be stressed to the Japanese Government that they must not permit any
justifiable accusations of "dumping", that is, selling for export
belaw domestic prices or below cost. We also agreed that an important
job to be done was to convince the Department of Army, Department of
State, Department of Commerce and especially the Department of
Commerce Regional Officers who daily contact American businessmen
that although Japanese competition would be keen it would not consti-
tute "dumping". That under general policies we could not "have our
cake and eat it too"--that is, we must either let the Japanese export,
or we must go on subsidizing the Japanese economy out of the American
tarpayer s pocket.
4. PRIVATE IMPORTING
We both agreed that every effort should be made to speed up
agroement on details of the mechanism to permit private importing.
We also agreed that one of the most difficult problems in this fon-
nection was to get a clarification from the Department of Army as to
exactly what they intended to buy for Japan. It appears to be
impossible to develop a sound import licensing procedure unless some
definite idea as to the Army's purchasing intentions is known.
5. INCENTIVE OR RETENTION PLAN
We both agreed that the plan for the retention of a small per-
centage foreign exchange by the Japanese exporter was a good thing.
It is very essential that Japanese should be allowed to go abroad to
sell. We both agreed that it would be sound to advance funds to
reputable concerns for this purpose to be paid later by money earned
under the retention plan system.
6. MOST FAVORED NATION TREATLENT FOR JAPAN
Mr. Freile had read various papers I have prepared on this
subject and stated that he was in substance in agreement that Most
Favored Nation treatment for Japan was important. However, he agreed
that there were a great many other problems far more important and
furthermore indicated that without a crystalization of the policy of
the Japanese Government and/or SCAP in reference to Japanese import
tariff that any bargaining on a technical level was, at this time,
premature and futile.
7. SHIPPING
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 457,
July 15, 1949.
-4-
7.
SHIPPING
We both agreed that Japan should have more shipping at its
disposal so that more goods to and from Japan could travel on
Japanese bottoms, It was pointed out that under the present arrange-
ment an appreciable portion of the appropriations for Japan was
merely a hidden subsidy to American shipping.
8.
SCAP TRADE OFFICES
We were in agreament that the SCAP New York Trade Office
should be a trade promotion office and not a sales office. We also
were in agreement that other trade promotion offices should be
opened up in the immediate future, among the first being offices in
Pakistan, India, and Germany.
9. LULTIPLE CURRENCY PROBLEVS IN JAPAN
We were in agreament that there should be a minimum number
of currencies in Japan and that an endeavor should be made to work
toward the wider use of yen in transactions involving licensed con-
cerns with, of course, the proper controls of exchange accounts of
convertible yen strictly maintained. Four currencies are already in
use in Japan and we should try to cut this number down instead of
adding currencies for specific uses.
10. PEARIS
We agreed that the sale of pearls should be still further
unfrozen and that the monopoly or control of the pearl business in
Japan by the Army's Central Purchasing Office should be broken.
David M. Maynard
Economic Counselor
500
Daynard:pf
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.94)
gmA-
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
894.50/71549
PERSONAL AND
CONFIDENTIAL
July 21, 1949
Fu.
Dear John:
Returnea to Tokyo yestercay fro a lo-day trip to doknaido.On
y returu noticec that May-rd's despatch no. 457 of July 15, 1949,
transmittin- copj of memo of conversution with Freile of DA had
been sent cut wi thout dosi nation "FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY".
A reacin~ of this memo will reveal why that designation should
vo onto it.
Am sendin- en eir-rum to tnis effect but believe the sendin- of
this note mi-ht εecomplish matter sconer.
at weekly stef meetin- t..is mornin- leurned of plan to make
you nead or Na. Cou .tul tions! Please let me know how I can be
of ~reatest help.
tw 894.
Re-ards to Walt et el. In mucn aste us my desk is sky high with
papers una unanswerea tele-rams.
Sincegely,
he
. oehringer,
First Secretuy of Missi on.
17-1549
CONFIDENTIAL FILE

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.91)
K
THE PORE SE
ITED STAT OF ASA
Aill
sele
Unised States Pelitical Adviser
fer Japan
244.50/7 549
No. 457
REG'D
JULY 2
ACTION
CONFIDENTIAL
FE
DNPO
FR
BGR
ITP
Subject: Forwarding Memorandun of Conversation Regarding
OF
"Current Econemic Preblems in Japan."
OLI
TRC
Files
Central
DC/R
The Chargé a' Affaires ad interim has the hener to enolose,
as of possible interest te the Department, a copy of Meperandum
of Conversation, "Current Economio Problems in Japan"  between
Mr. Ormond FREILE, Chier, Industry and Commerce Section Far
Eastern Affairs, CAD, Department of Army, and Mr. David . MAYnARD,
Econemic Counseler, of this Mission.
Beturned to
ait.
Enclesure:
Memerandum of Conversation,
dated July 8, 1949.
Parchment mat to the Department
500
DDaynard:pf
CONFIDENTIAL
CE/H
2313
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OP ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclesure No. 1 to Daspatch No. 457,
dated July 15, 1949 frem the United
States Pelitical Adviser fer Japan,
CONFIDENTIAL
Tekyo, en the subject "Forwarding
Memorandum of Conversatien."
(COPY)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
July 8, 1949
SUBJECT:
Current Economic Problems in Japan
PARTICIPANTS: Mr. Ormond FREILE,
Chief, Industry and Commerce Section,
Far Eastern Affairs, CAD,
Department of Army
Mr. David M. MAYNARD,
Economic Counselor,
Diplomatic Section
Mr. Freile is shortly departing for the United States and
suggested a conference. He stated that he was anxious to know my
personal point of view on a number of general and certain specific
questions, currently of special interest to the Economic and
Scientific Section, General Headquarters.
GENERAL
1. (a) I stated to Mr. Breile that I believed that the
general economic situation in Japan is much better than reflected
by any of our currently published indices; that the standard of
living of the majority of Japanese was much better compared te their
standard of living before the war, than was usually admitted by our
various Divisions. Mr. Freile stated that he agreed with this en-
tirely and also reiterated the statement that the Japanese people
as a whole were much better off than we usually refleoted in sta-
tistioal measures.
(b) Mr. Jreile stressed the fact that the great problem
of the nert year will' be to increase sales, or in short, to sell.
During the past three years a great deal of effort hes heen expended
on getting the wheels of industry rolling and te inorease production.
This phase of rehabilitation has been largely successful and we now
can produce in many lines much more than we are ourrently selling.
I agreed
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 557 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 457,
July 15, 1949.
- 2 -
I agreed with Mr. Freile in this statement and stressed to him the
obvious point that we must send out Japanese salesmen and reflect
serieusly en adopting a mere realistic pricing policy.
(c) Mr. Freile asked my confidential epinion of the present
organization of ESS and the ecenomic work in Japan, stating that he
was recommending a sharp cut in the EsS Staff, and further stating
thet he felt a basic reerganization should take place with the present
unwieldy ESS Section broken into several parts, as for example, a
Financial Section, a Trade Section and an Industrial Section. His
idea alse included a civilian ecenomic adviser at the Chief of Staff
level whe would coordinate the various sections concerned with
econemic problems.
I told him that my thoughts were in the same direction, but
went much farther and infermed him that I believed that net enly
segments of ESS but also segments of the Natural Resources Section
and other Sections should be brought into a co-equal status under a
civilian economic adviser at the Chief of Staff level. In ether
words, instead of NRS we should have a Division of Agriculture and
Forestry and another ef Mining and that EsS should be broken up inte
such divisions as Financial Division, Division ef Cemmerce and a
Labor Division, a change which weuld make the lecal Divisions roughly
cerrespond with the various department in Washington. I further
stated that, as cempared te the 2200 persens now concerned in ece-
nemic activities in General Headquarters, I weuld like te see a slash
of 95% by January 1, 1951. That we should get further away from
operating the Japanese ecenomy, and maintain an advisory capacity
with certain financial controls. In other words look toward the post
peace treaty stage. Mr. Freile replied that he agreed in general,
although perhaps net in detail. That there should be a definite over-
all reerganization and he agreed with my position that such a re-
organization should look toward the goal ef being abserbed inte a
normal foreign Mission, that is, an Embassy, sometime in the not too
distant future.
2. TRADE ARRANGEMENTS
We both agreed that we did not like bi-lateral trade arrange-
ments in prinoiple, but felt that there had been no other way in 1948
and for that matter in l949, to get trade started and inorease the
level of Japanese trade. Although it was easy to be oritical, no
one either in Tokyo or Washington had been able to suggest any better
alternate than the trade arrangements negotiated. We were both
convinced that with the sterling srea trade would have been appre-
ciably lower during the past year without the sterling area agreement.
We further agreed that, although there were very great difficulties
to overcome in renegotiating the sterling agreement, (realising the
current position of England vis-a-vis dollar trade and the position
of convertibility), that it would be very unfortunate if the sterling
area agreement
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 558 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 457,
July 15, 1949.
- 3 -
area agreement could not be renewed. We further agreed that all
trade arrangements concluded should look forward to multilateraliam
and felt that the clauses included in recent arrengements with
Argentina and other South American countries made such an expansion
possible. ESS has a very important job renegotiation and implement-
ing these trade agreements.
3. FLOOR PRICES
An exchange rate having been set, we both felt that it was
no longer necessary to maintain floor prices ane both felt that the
floor pricing system should be abolished. At the same time it must
be stressed to the Japanese Government that they must not permit any
justifiable accusations of "dumping", that is, selling for export
belaw domestic prices or below cost. We also agread that an important
job to be done was to convince the Department of Army, Department of
State, Department of Commerce and especially the Department of
Commerce Regional Officers who daily contact Aerican businesamen
that although Japanese competition would be keen it would not consti-
tute "dumping". Thet under general policies we could not "have our
cake and eat it too"--that is, we must either let the Japanese export,
or we must go on subsidizing the Japanese economy out of the American
taxpayer's pocket.
4.
PRIVATE DMPORTING
We both agreed that every effort should be made to speed up
agreament on details of the mechanism to permit private importing.
We also agreed that one of the most difficult problems in thie son-
nection was to get a clarification from the Department of Army as to
exactly what they intended to buy for Japan. It appears to be
impossible to develop a sound import licensing procedure unless some
definite idea as to the Army's purchasing intentions is kmown.
5. INCENTIVE OR RETENTION PLAN
We both agreed that the plan for the retention of a small per-
centage foreign exchange by the Japanese exporter was a good thing.
It is very essential that Japanese should be allowed to go abroad to
sell. We both agreed that it would be sound to advance funds to
reputable concerns for this purpose to be paid later by money earned
under the retention plan system.
6. MOST FAVORED NATION TREATIENT FOR JAPAN
Mr. Freile had read various papers I have prepared on this
subject and stated that he was in substance in agreament that Most
Favored Nation treatment for Japan was important. However, he agreed
that there were a great many other problams far more important and
furthermore indicated that without a orystalization of the policy of
the Japanese Government and/or SCAP in refarence to Japanese import
tariff that any bargaining on a technical level was, at this time,
premature and futile.
7. SHIPPING
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No: 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 457,
July 15, 1949.
7. SHIPPDO
We both agreed that Japan should have more shipping at its
disposal so that more goods to and from Japan could travel on
Japanese bottoms. It was pointed out that under the present arrange-
ment an appreciable portion of the appropriations for Japan was
merely a hidden subsidy to Amerioan shipping.
8. SCAP TRADE OFTICE
We were in agreement that the sCap New Tark Trade Office
should be a trade promotion office and not a sales office. Ne also
were in agreament that other trade promotion offices should be
opened up in the immediate future, mong the first being offices in
Pakistan, India, and Germany.
9. MULTIPLE CURRENCY PROBLDS IN JADAN
We were in agreement that there should be a minimum number
of ourrenoies in Japan and that an endeevor should be made to work
toward the wider use of yan in trensactions involving licensed con-
cerns with, of course, the proper controls of exohange accounts of
convertible yen strictly maintained. Four currenoies are already in
use in Japan and we should try to out. this number down instead of
adding currencies for specifio uses.
10. PEARIS
We agreed that the sale of pearle should be still further
unfrozen and that the monopoly or control of the pearl business in
Japan by the. Army's Central Purohasing Office shoula be broken.
David'M. Maynard
Eoonomio Counselor
500
Daaynard:pr
CONTIDENTIAL

=== Page 560 === (confidence 0.98)
TO
NA - Mr
Rond
DATE: August 4, 1949
1R
NA - Mr. Reedy
FROM
Tokyo's 457 of July 15, 1949
SUBJECT:
Various economic problems were discussed between Mr. Friele
(CAD, Army) and Mr. Maynard of POLAD, as recorded in a memo of
conversation forwarded hereunder.
Mr. Freile and Mr. Maynard agreed that present Japanese
living standards, compared to pre-war days, are better than 1s
shown by Division reports and statistics.  It was also agreed
that a surplus of production over sales in many lines necessitates
sending out of Japanese salesmen.
Mr. Freile recommended reducing ESS and dividing 1t into
task sections; he also suggested a civilian economic advisor to
coordinate these economic sections. Mr. Maynard further mentioned
placing segments of ESs, NRS, and other Sections under this ad-
visor, thus making local Divisions correspond roughly with those
in Washington.
Mr. Maynard recommended a cut in the number of workers in
econom1c affairs in GHQ by 95% by January 1, 195l, facilitating
use of limited advice with certain financial controls rather than
complete operation of Japanese economy. Mr. Freile generally
agreed.
Both agreed thet bilateral agreements had been necessary in
lieu of other suggestione; trade agreements should make possible
later multilateraliem.
Japanese exporters should be allowed to retain a small per-
centage of foreign exchange, should be allowed to go abroad to
sell, being advanced funds for such travel to be repaid under the
retention system.
A definite Japanese import tariff policy 1s necessary before
MFN bargaining.
More Japanese goods should be carried 1n Japanese bottoms.
New York Office should engage in trade promotion, not sales;
trade promotion offices should also be opened in Pakistan, India
and Germany.
A minimum number of currencies should be used, with use of
yen desirable.
The sale of pearls should be unfrozen and Army's Central Pur-
chasing Office monopoly of pearls broken.
NA:Reedy:clh:aw

=== Page 561 === (confidence 0.88)
bile DE/R
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
NE
4632
7
ACTI-N:FE
AYRGRAM
INF
DC/R
89
ITP
D
4.
GRe
FROL:
USFOLAD, Tokyo
FR
50
CI
Date of
COMTOE PLAL
mailing: July 21, 1949
7
Rec'd:
Jr77 26, 7949, 4:70
FOR DLPARTE ET JSL ONLY
Sac -etary of tato.
esl. uneton.
4-14,1y . 1949.
Urpe itly requcst thet this Lission's COrn DENTLAL despatch
no. 15" c: Ju?y 15, 1949, subject: Forwardin: Memorandum of
Converset:on Regarding 'Cur ent Economic Probiems in Japan'".
be desi nted F DeerTT USL LY."
HUOTON
121/500
CHBochringer:p
14
HH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
GOFLL

=== Page 562 === (confidence 0.77)
INCOMING- AÍRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONSIAD REOORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
hile De/R
449
453
CC/R
E
TSP
FRM
UFOLAD, Tokyo
I
Late o.
mt
July 22, 1249
Date e'a:
Juny 26, 949
33
6
4
CHLY
5
0
7
2
110
2
649
11 180July 
, ana prec ras ir ts series. Roguat
a trtrution t l iter to Department for reusons
 1n 2)  ny 28, 1943.)
 Leoncuic officor visirs roskaico: veonomie rerorting efine
ef o mocfen visfte? hockeico cume per d uly 2 0o, l949. c
tine. borever, ront an trarelline with rafl poad tein trom Tosyo to
Suppace. eapital of lorxatae, end csturl alote requiring aboue 54
hoere ah euy. Srevel an hos kalso s thousl invo viag short di
teeces, se tio-coroamins ane strticutt to srrango. Althoush
aespa l seiey peepares oo eit, Deparary sey bo darserested in
r s   s. dk co  to Lel, both 
Le  s e o  d  s resphely. 
arees he ve eee sbaeve at very  ld wineery Ye or occupet or
u. lr. r r ril. ambes, put no pap er meaurace sig
H
A le  betn cveee siailar, with mejo crops including e
v   ,  , v l  dy p 
   eoe i th ee  ule n f ee is
 e d oe sse rl, 
reoperively
10001t
PERMANENT RECORD COPY—ThIs copy must be retumed to DC/R central Hes with motation af action taken.
4200.00.

=== Page 563 === (confidence 0.91)
Tok:0's A-165,
Ju1y 22, 1949.
-2
largely centered in southwest parts thereof. Lapression gainet that
Japanese in Hokkaido much better off than shose in lonshu, with fcod.
stuffs generally avallable in greater varisty and et loxer prices.
Hokkaido reteins atmosphere of frontier country; an such it is
featured oy heavy and wastoful cutting of foreste, opening up of new
falming lands, muehroomine grouth of cities, intenso civic and insular
pride, ard some desire to be treatod lese as an aree for explo tation
by Jepanese capitalists frem Honshu than to have developaent of island
directed by long-residunt or Hokkaido-sorn Tapanese Evitencs of
lutter is givon by electlon recently of Holkaiic-bon man to sarve ns
govarnor or island, this replecing formor system whureby cevernore,
usually fron other parts of Jupen, appointeo by Jspaneso Gcvernmant.
Not much concorn epparoatly felt among Japaneee crficiuls there over
unemployment or ability of island to p sorb Jeparosy being reputri-
ated fron Soviet Union. Loth Japanose und Occpetion cificlai.
towever, outapoken fo expressirg need for Ap to perrlt tnoss offisinls
to take more positive stand against co muniem. Yei for expasslor o?
Jepanese fishing aress elso raised by Jecanese as baing o parotnt
importance to Hokkaido, where export danana tor cenaca ve ine pvocucss,
plywood, and lur ber (especielly Hokkaido's r ous wivs ck) lhan beea
nuch below oxpectationa.
2. Britieh Serding Licslon Despits Slne Posislon cu Couvarsi-
bility: Although ScrP has remained firm in ponition the sterling
accepted in peyment for Japaneso aiports pust be ccuvertielo, London
has fina ly decided to sand miesion vo aososiete ter Trado Arrangement.
Earlier announcement pagarding cencelletion of misaior (Slis Miss: on
A 180 of July 15, 1s49) thus aopors cramntic gsotura to cruseura
Schp, confronted with posuibilisy or cimtnished exrorts, inte waiving
convertibility. Urited Kingdc. Lieisen Misvicn (mLs) screes heve
confidentially indicated to orficl als of beononie and Selcetiric
Saction (ESs), Gansc al Feadquartsrs. tCAP, shat onden hal no inten-
tion of refusing to bargain or of cutting otf trade. Srisiuh frace
Miosion wes scheduled to leave Londor on Juns l; talks here aimed et
nagotiation of new (rade Arrargeaant vill probubly begia rcurd vgodt
1. Meanyhile, recent Uikl annoicamert regarding suspe!on ef
isouanco or import icensee for textiles (this Viasion' .-I t of
July 8, 1949) appoers to have beer received with eguani ity  ESe,
it being believed that Britieb merehaits have alrer ey ceasreated er
textils p'trchases a proximately equal in volune to orctar): ur les sor
CONFIDENPIAL

=== Page 564 === (confidence 0.86)
Tokyo'8 11-185,
Ju1y 22, 1949.
- 3 
1949 third quartor had liconsing bean continued.
3. Trade batween Jepan and Sweuen Under Review: Rovion of
trading position provided for in Jupan-Swedish Trade Arrungement
(this Mission's despatch no. 715 or November 2, 1948) incicutes that
Japan bought :7, 1e, 000 worth of Smedish procucte, anc exported
5, 287, 400 worth of goode to Cxoaen during l94s firar belf. Renumed
that trade will sventually balence since Swedet iesucs licanaes on
basis of bulancl ng individuel vransuctjons; edveree belalce indicelud
in above Cigures largely eccounted for by fact thnt Wss pases statastice
on contracte vallaated. Sveden's exporto for o ronth period aro ele-
what greater then amount plenned ror sotira year, while Jupan's exnorle
are only sligitly under pro acted rigure. Proccests nov that trade
durirg laat hall or year ptll jug sinee Japan's dertd for pulp largely
filled. Ciher coamoditieo in trade plan may procuce vcrtsin limited
volure of irade; for eranpl: local repcesent tive or Sxeulsh fim
(SkF) manuracturing bell-bearinga stater July Bl to o. ficer of shis
Mission tht, after monthe of cfrort to obtein contracte for Jepanede
purebases of ball-hearings (acholy for export products suen as bicyclus).
Le had finaliy cpen assurel thet e preliminsy contraet vas in slgns,
with otner businass pending. Only hope for brlek t atv. hovavec, would
appear to racuire Swedish purcleses of rayo: yarn ard vapanese purchases
of Sy adist rayc pulp.
4. Other Poreice Trae otes: (i) Trado Arranenect betweer
Paktstan and Ccr opled Jayan. "cheauled to bo returnd bo Sarachi for
approval this w ek, remaing urder discuusia is ib3 Je weciticn ts
modirlcatlone i: Trado Plan (tie Misslen's  leo  ole la, 1949).
Arrergen eno pre er has been aa nacd te mate 8 oper ese a cowmat-
ment thau a stat enent or luusrsions. baiseusnioss consinrs ln s sa
to the feaaability and desipab Lity of openire : Spra, Pecaotina
Office in Kareci i. (2) Ur ictals fror Notherlenda en ir. Tp 
have informed nerel Hsadguaysere, sop, tlat teey vo no objeet n
to publieasior ef texts of  rade and Linenciul rrara ts besseen
Nethorlalas ane indouesie ane Decupted Fapac   cotified ur
sigaud Arrangovents thus sow conesacsed unelussirte Pecae phads
and subsi diary , ocunents, suct ae conferarce mie  latters 
inteupretati n, in genorul  mmain confidentiol
5. Facthe Liberelizacien or Esport Fry cscuras: s further on ep
toward liberaii ut lon or ex oro p oes uree, e uuru, veek ar  cunced
CONFIDE..PLAL

=== Page 565 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's A-185,
July 22, 1049.
that it would not be necessery in future for foraien treders to use
standard contract forms for exports valued εt less than 450, 000.
ror such exports contracts may now be made on forms selected by con-
tracting parties; however, upproval by :inistry of International
Trade and Industry and vulidation by General Hoadcuurters, SCap, still
required. Contracts made as part of barter contrect end contracts
for processing of rew materials will still raquirs speciel standerd
contracts. Nonetheless, it is hoped sbove cited Liberalization vill
elininate staidard form cortracts for Eo to 90 p'r cent of all cxport
deals.
6. No Lacision Reachec en lininatica of Ficor Prices: Although
continued discussions held detisen Lse una J cenese Govcrnient
officials concerned regarding eliminatlon of ail ploor pricee for
oxports, no rual prcer ess in that diractioa nede during week under
review.
7. Japaneso Apprehensive over Reduced Cecupstion Activity:
Reliably reported that U.S. Eigtth Arry. with headquarters in Yokohema.
in process of reducing size of ite civilian effaiis teens (until
recently kuoun as militery government teams). Ferred by Japanese
officials, as well as by ESs Price and Distributien Division and Ess
Internal Revenue Division, that if surveillarce over crep and tex
collections iu not continued by such teams ccllections will fel: off
sharply. L hes been discussing witn anpropriate J.S. Army ofricialo
possibility of continuing these functions by civilian affairs toams
during coming year, evon if only to li ite' extont.
HUSTON
500
Lie./Ch/LGS:p:
C.FIL.TI.L

=== Page 566 === (confidence 0.89)
fale Dc/R
RAT-
INCÓMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
N
Action Arsianed to
FAM EARTLAN AFT
DIVISION OF
Actien Taken
1949 ORTHEAN AFFAIR
1231
MIRECTOR
of State
AG-81949
1
FROM:
IEPARTMENT OF STATE
Actio. Frice Symbol
Date of
Failing:
Joly 29, 1949
co
2
Roc'd:
Aug 7.  10:0.
2
ACTION: FE
EP.RTLENT USE ONLY
INFC
DC/R
Bes y tary
E
ITP
OFD
CLI
A-1C9, Jul
 plements this Fission's A-185,
8
n preceding airgrams in this
6
 uner distribution be limitcd to
4
o reusons stated in a-21 of Jenuary
5
0
Scap Sirectives to Japanere: Major Ge l.
1.
 , Sp, stated few days ago to i of shi
7
isslon t   por cere of all directives to Japanese dovorrwt hed re-
1
cently teen  u s part of program to turn over more an more uir
2
trative re e.  ti eo to Japanese Government. lisins tion cf ss
8
directiver t bo  lovel oy further cancellatione, ucce tar toe
4
almoni, wao cdus e this genoral question continued sc te v ao 
6
study in Seneres Hoadt arters.
2. Contractlo in Rishth Army Activitics: Accorains e . .  ro
Yokohama, Eighth Army profectu ss
JOLOF, Cos
acolhed (s 2. 155. July 22, 1949), w1th civil  m 1ee
beingy centered n resi onal offices. Civil Affairs sectica or glth y
to be ubolished by Janary 1. l950, and remaining civi rairs  ets
of Eighth Army so be bpought directly under General Heea mst  s, n
Mtiitary personnel in civil Afrairs Teams schedulol to b roued to
mum with finai objoetive or having Eighth Army devote it: ll? o
operations und trainina.
3. Cleaves vo ussington on Glove Complaint: Rerers 
despatch no. 44s July 9, 1949, regarding conpleint of A:s  1.:
Krntted Glove wd itsen Manufacturers against apanase in. .
vious despatcres un sece subject Mr. deherr  cuhavee
工
Divicion,
  entiic section (hs), HQ. s0P, 
H

=== Page 567 === (confidence 0.88)
Tokyo's A-169,
July 2E, 1949
2
he has telegraphically requested be postponed uatil ugt 1. Les, stch
contalping all pertinent lettere and telegran, not pialy rent c
Dopartrent, being forwarded soonest possiblo.
4. Japaneee Economic "Crisis" beins Inves igated: Deci iv
sion of this Wission giving high priority to prepariti. spctc
regarding so celled impending econonic "crisis" in Jupan, coucornirg
which reports presumably sont to US by corrsepondents her of mcrican
press Expest send despatch to Department in about t k; air 
give cross-section Japaneso prese comment pluc s
several important Cccupation and Japanose parsonalit.
ne
Point Economic abilization Progren and so-called Do.
be repcrted upon
5 Other Despatches Under Freparation: Subjets
patches which conomic Division or this Mission has se
: easenably early transmittal to Dapartrent inciude 
Communist Chine, eatablislment or Policy Bourd byP
110
vided for in Hine Point Progrem, and Japan Taivaa
reference to sule of Taiwan sugar to Japan. iraay 
on establishment and functions  now sinleor 
and Iudustry. for mhich mimeographed copies ci scloru
One ofricer or heononie Division planning covete cor
time attending and ruporting upon important Cap-St
tions which commence next week and likely to :cntinue
wOGks
Sovlete Again Raliae uostion cf Openirs Kobe ic:
GRovov, Soviet Trade Pepr aentative hore, hus g in ralsed
Headquarters question or sstablishing branch trede 
lar reguest mede about one year age vhen General Heac
proposal (with Ess recommondation) on grounds bht ov
area did not warrant setting up separite office. Lute
1
Headquarters that such en office would be difficult 
8t
Soviets would undoubtedly use offics as focal pcin
vIcy
in the Kwansai area
7. Sterling Arse Negotietions to Begia No 
Trade Coordinator in Tokyo has officially notified
Trade ission sent from London; he has request th
Argust 1 Mission wes evidently deepatcuec vitho:
ire
cea's demand for vuiver cf corvertibility. i..
202
reply to that demand has not yet tesn trane 
25
ie eluher that Sterling Aree net us positi

=== Page 568 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo's A-189,
July 23, 1949.
- 3 -
Lokyo would indicate, or that assurances havs been given c! hi1 I
that conceesions will be considered by SCif. Sterlilg Are: Tiels cr-
ordinator has in ormed ESs trade ofricials that Trade Fissen i: bg
sent us result of encouraging outcome of conf ronce betn.n !
Macarthur and Economic Counsellor of United Kingdom Liaison icnici.:
interested officiels in Ess unable to guess what General muy s s mid.
Views on possitle outcome of approaching conference beconing lo is opti-
mistic in view of sterling Arec dollar crisis; believad hos bhat
Sterling Aree will probebly buy about $loo million worth o: Jenenoue
goods and will sell to total of ebcut l25 million, tims Jmatin
laree part of SCAi's "excessive" sterling holdinge.
8. Six Latin American Trede Arrangemente Ratifici:f,
General Headquarters, SCAF, has approved Trade Arrungc
Occupied Japan and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Uruguay, , n Mi
without anend ent. Ess officiels surprised thet no col
Argentinian and Chilean Arrangements, both of nhich sic
veasicns not common in SCaP-negotiated sreemeats (f
ment is aware, gave particuler notice to Argenttnian chippi 
insurance; latter contained commitment to pay froe dolis . cs 
Chilean products). Texts will be forwarded es aveilah.
9. Plans for Private Imports Rejected, Indefinitcly lelav:
f r limited return of Japanese importe to private merc! ent, e o
arlier (A-153 or June 18, 1949) as boing under conslderat n wiih v1
1 set as target date, have been rejected by M jor Gene al. .  
Chier of ESS, as "too complicated and restrictive." Tar et : no
set. somewhet wishrully, for August 15 in ordor to cover e y.
wool imports; interested officials edmit prospoct doubtful, h.
hile foreign trade officials had been eware of luet tact pre
somewhat complicated and restrictive, believed that it  
at moment, and relt that important thing to open private io
soms measure as soon ss possible. This Mission srces diisu 
see what General hss accomplishad by veto.
10. Other Foreign Trade Notes: (1) Froneh have 
for purchase of 9200-ton cargo vessel, price 1, 700,  (
puhiished, and need not be considered classified).
under open account, uctuelly barter for potash ode 
fideutial deel (this Missicn'o despatches ica. i o' 
CONFLLLTLL

=== Page 569 === (confidence 0.94)
7
Tokyo's A-169,
July 28, 1949.
-4-
and 310 of May 14, 1949). (2) SCAF trade officiels drawing p "trade
plan" for Ryukyus, in which it is boped to acquire up to   illion
from Ryukyuan GARIOA and EHOA experditures. Mcst interetin: deal
would involve resale of abcut 3 million worth of Burmese ris, for
which SCAp could, of course, pay siorling. Sterling Area cu hcritie
have agreed that shipments to Ryuk us need not be congiderei eirtrepet
transactions as result of which Stirling Area must be sold dollare und:
Overall Payments Arrangement. (3) SCAP's version of Trade rengement
with Pakistan mailed to Karachi fc: concurrence. Draft, if p roved,
will probably be signed in Tokyo tnd will supplant October, l9es drar.
Texts will be forwarded. (4) Finel reconciliation of Reterlando Open
Account es of February 28, 1949, 1y ESs Funds Control Division, showo
Japanese purchases at total of 2'1,950.37 w1th sales at 26, 653.25.
11. Question of Setting Up C aime Tribunal: Refereno: made tc
telegram no.  91540 of July 16, 949, eent to ScAr by Depa tncat o
Army on treetment of United Natiors nationals' property in Jiren.
transmitting text of proposed poliy statement prepared by Dept tr.ec
concerning restoration of such propsrty in Japan which provi , 
alia, for establishment by SCaP of inter-Allied Claims Tribucn?.
Question of setting up Tribunal given mixed response in  
level circles. Goneral feeling is that, although it might  wis to
permit presentation of claims in near future, any paymens  ul
deferred for several years. Current estimete of total cli. :ich
might be filed for property damaged within Japan, and cl:
Japenese securities, in magnitude of ll7 billion yen. of lr , 
billion yen ostimatedly required for restoration property or  tis
to prewar condition, about 45 billion yen to covor unpaia i .
Japanese Government foreign currency obligetions, and bl
to pay foreign currency obligations now due.
12. Work Relief Discussed: Discussion between ESS snd Japmsse
Government continues on various proposals for work relie o ei c
rent unemployment problem arising from rationalization . 
C. W. HEPLER, Chief, ESS Labor Division, stressing idea that moncy
work projects should only be approved when unenoloyment in
develops, rather than giving blanket approval for projects.
BPALD
500
DI:/CHE/EGS:1e0/pf

=== Page 570 === (confidence 0.76)
RAF
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUATIONS AND RECORBSTELEABRANC
Acti
FAR EASTERN AFFAIR
1949
AU.
DIRECIOR
Apmartreent of State
E565
IF(
694.
5
0
0
4
49
 leavin Poy
JORE
θ.1
t
  be te ell . to 1ot
1ontoof
rucidtil ninet
iutie n.te ce
ote
1 p
orircsnt
工
0
PERMANENT RÉCORD COPYTD

=== Page 571 === (confidence 0.64)
..
lorr
lo  

=== Page 572 === (confidence 0.69)
Tokyo's A-196,
August 4, 1949.
=
43, 856, 000; hevs epanoes col sial, jute, und voci wusto arc
 3 procurement from Sterlies reu to limit (in son susos, ipetcated
tut contenplated purchaner exeued re sonable requtrecents: tris
i is especiully in case or wool'. c.a nope in rouur chat Indie wil
de avallable pediu sterle p  pndiena vo egreed t
Lavestigete poae rllitles  a  y hos opbina tie. Step
r f    r e d Fdes  lr r
corditio    e to peiso
ore dut ileo
t d 
u
 cetton
ice
reese
h
dea s a ntve
10
te pree er to
obe
bley
78
weutre
chur
1
aut fee

=== Page 573 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
F
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
PER
No. 544
Office of the . . Political Adviser
3ya
for Japan
SECRST
DCIR
(For Department Use Only)
Tokyo, August 10, 1949.
Nox .l
Tle
10n
Subject: Pransmitting Laormimy cenonte Jounselor David M.
Raynard ntitled "Pro ressive Decentrol of the Eeonomy
of Jpn".
The Honorable
The Jecretary of State,
Jashington,).J.
Jir:
I have the honor to trammit herevith a copy of a memorandum by
894.50/8-1049
Forei urvice ier Davi . aY.), Jounselor for Sconomic Affairs,
entitled "Pro ressive Jecontrol of the Heonemy of Japan". As the Depart-
ment is aware, r. Hamard as beer in harge of the conomic Section of
this lission ever since he arrived in Pokyo almost two years ago. As
Liaison Officer between this Mission, in its capacity as the Diplomatic
Jection o? eneral dquarters, an! te conomic and Scientific Section
(ss) of leneral Head puarters, r. aynard s been in intinate daily
contact wit the Hearpuarters officer ans pur onrel responsible for di-
rect in the ceonony  Ja an under the cecupat ion. He has accortlingly
/h
been in an ileal positio. to observe all Headquarters operations in the
econemic fiel n t umulate matur and well-foundationed views on the
question o occupation controls an: the various sta es by which they may
most appropriately uni profitably be relinquished in the process of re-
turnin the economic administration of he country to Japanese hands.
Ar. Laynard believes that Japan has reached a sta e in its economic
rehabilitation where it shouli he released from Occupation controls as
rapidly as possible; he consilers that the thirteen hundred employees
presently serving in the Economi: ! cienti:ic Section should be re-
duced by seventy- ive per cent by July 1, 1950, and ninety-five per cent
by January 1, 1951, ultimately brin in the nuiber of Americans engaged
in economic control and reportin; to about fifty. He contemplates the
cradual transformat ion of this reluced personnel into what would corres-
pond to the nomal complement of an important and strategic Embassy es-
SECRET FUE
tablishment.
894.50/8-1049
SECRET
Nhile
C.
Cつ
77
CS

=== Page 574 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's no.544,
August 10, 1949.
-2-
SECRET (For Dept.Use Only)
Nhile i.r. Maynard's memorandum should be considered as representing
his own personal views and may have the aspect because of its brevity of
over-simplifyin a difficult problem, I believe that the Department will
find it of exceptional interest because of the particularly advantageous
position in which he has veen placed for the formulation of his conclu-
sions. The ission shares his view that a rapid and progressive reduc-
tion of personnel is necessary in the economic as well as in other fields
of Occupation activities, and hopes that a coordinated plan can be evolved
whereby such reductions may take place in the various fields of control
with a view to the earliest possible return of the administration of the
country to Japanese hands, leavin only an over-all surveillance and gen-
eral policy control on a hih level until such time as a treaty of peace
or other international arrangenent can be concluded with Japan.
espectfully yours,
Lrsecace
. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Copy of memorandun by 50
D. k. haynard entitled
"Progressive Decontrol of
the Economy of Japan" dated
August 5, 1949.
500
CKHuston:cs
11
In triplicate to the Depaftment.
SECRET

=== Page 575 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
Enclosure to Despatch no. 544 dated August
(For Department Use Only)
10, 1949 from the Office of the U. S.
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled:
"Transmittin; Memorandum by Economic Counselor
David . Haynard Entitled Progressive Decontrol
of the conomy of Japan".
(opy)
August 5, 1949.
IHORANDUN
TO:
d. . Sebald
FROM:
David .. Maymard
SUBJECT:
Progressive Decontrel of the conomy of Japan.
One of the most iaportant lecicions to be faced is the political
and economic advisability of the United States continuing to heavily
subsidize Japanese econemy.
As lon as United tates appropri ates funis for the use of Japan
it will be necessary to exercise certain controls of the expenditure of
these funds. Mr. DoD.E recently states "that Japan is living beyond its
means". It is firmly believel that this statement is correct and that a
realistic approach to Jap nese economy wouli indicate that Japan, unless
it is to remain a pemanen irain on the kmerican taxpayer, should seek
to esta: lish its economy at a level at which it can be self supporting.
If drastie measures are taken in: cold un! hard facts faced this self-
support should be achievei by he unl f )l at the latest.
Japn has reached the point in he levelooment of rehabilitation
where pesoval  orei n i.e., "oseup ti n" sntrsls of its economy
should pregress as rapilly as poseible. h word "control" here is used
to encompass what is vometimes referred to  proponents of those controls
as "benevolent uidance". It woul: n r ally be to the interest of all
concerned to have an early peace reaty. If, howevor, international com-
plications are such that no treaty can he si ned for several years, it is
strongly urei that orein control  inie to the irreducible min-
imum consistent vith a lisarmed Japan.
In considerin the future economi: controls in Japan one should not
lose si ht of she faet that a an wa net a backward agricultural country
witkout wo lern inhwstpior, to For wxmy le, we see today in the State of
Laos. To the contrary, Japan in l9lo had ohe of the finest merchant
marines in the worli, the best railroa! system in the Far Hast, the finest
steel mills an. cotton mills in Asia. It had highly developed insurance
and banking institutions md tralin, institutions vhich encircled the
lobe.
Japan's
SHO.GET

=== Page 576 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 544
Aug. 10,1949.
-2-
SECRET (For Jept.Use Only)
Japan's ratin as an international credit risk was high, as loans
were serviced and paid. That this reat economic organization played
into the hands of an Iaperialistic Hilitary group, which attempted to
dominate the Far ast and finally launched a war, is a tragic commentary,
but does not modify the extent of the development of prewar Japan or the
ability of the Jasanese to finance their own economy.
On the other hind, one must e fully aware that there is, and always
will be, schools of thought that will endeavor to prove that Japan must
have continuous direction an: financial support rom Anerica for many
decades to cone. In nany cases proponents are uided semi-consciously
by self-intere t, an! in other cases by those en lowed with a missionary
complex a fervent zeal stron in their conviction of the superiority of
merican culture, and their  elief that the wherican way is the answer to
all problems.
A new constituion ha bee rusented to the Japanese with the inter-
vention of JAP. Many laws an: decrees have been passed by the Japanese
either under direct oriers or under the suggestion of GHi. In general,
the tendency has been towand direetin Japan, holding up as a model the
anerican economic, social, iniustrial and legal pattern. In fact, laws
have been passed at the su ge stion of Sections of JQ which have given the
Japanese people rights asi rotection only gained after decades of struggle
in the Inited State. In the lior field, for example, rights were given
to Japanese lator n t only nknon in prewar Japan, but greater than gen-
erally iven t 1 hor in the nited tates. Laws against monopolistic
practices have been ore severe than normally applied in america and the
economic pur e las put a bani f "uilty" without trial on most if not all
of the really reat in mmmtrialists in Japan.
after low yeare  peu aney i i irmly believed that future policy
of the United tateo sholi be to withdraw civilian control from Japanese
"economy as rapidly as possible. The a minist ration ani/or direction by
Jeneral Headquarter: of the operation of the rai lrcads, the building up of
the Merchant Marine, the minin o coal, the weavin of cloth, catching of
fish, the rationin, of ooistu fs, shoul all revert to the Japanese people,
and the secupation civilian advisors shoul: confine themselves to policy
and a few strict financial controls. In other words, the concept of oc-
cupational functions shoul: chine from operatin and directin: to inspecting,
advisin, un! reportin.
It would not be an error to state that until Amorican direction and
administration of Ja an's econony is withdrawn, le an: competent Japanese
will not appear or emerge on the scene to assume full responsibility. A
vicious cirele is here presented. A hi h official o: the conomic and
Seientifie Section statel that leneral Headquartere must supervise tax
collections "as the Jasanese pefuse to assume tha: responsibility". At the
same time Japanes: politician o? in luence states that, "as the Occupation
orders or suegests almest all  the present laws ineluding the system of
tax collection, that as lon, as the Occupation is here it is the Occupation's
responsibility to carry out the laws".
In reviewing
SEC.ET

=== Page 577 === (confidence 0.89)
7.
Lncl. to
Tokyo'ε S/4
Aus. 10,949
SECRET (For Dept.Use Only)
In reviewine the developments of the last two years, definite pro-
gress has been made in relinquishing controls, but this progress has been
too slow. Japanese overmaent officials and even Jabinet officials still
leave detailed decisions to the vari s sectins of Jeneral Headquarters,
and many in livi luale in en ral Headguarters continue to ive "advice" in
such a manner tht it, in pructice, mstitutes an order to Japanese of-
ficials.
There are a nuarber  ceetiens of deneral Headquarters involved in
pelicies overnin a n's vcenomy an 1 number interested in the economic
and commercial li o . lthouh the conomic and Scientific Section
is by far the largest te eesions o eneral Headquarters so concerned,
the Hatural tesources ection, the Jivil Jomaunications Jection, the Civil
Property Pmtolian, a t ivil ransportation Section, are also con-
stantly involved in the Iy to L operation of Japan's economy. The total
number of personnel si ned tn thes Sections on July 1, 1949 numbered well
over 2,000.
A bureaucruey, no atter  reason for its origin, nor the place
of its existence, leeds and res on itself like cncer, and is believed
that the aoove seetions  m ea! marte ve been no exeeption to
this mule. I s t pmio ln, lut an inevit ble mule that a
lare reaueracy n u tify i actions an consistently
sek   n.
hnearly
10 1ric citizens and
some su  oh r. s ction governs
or couches    monomie nt co mereial life of Japan,
lievel thit Ca an would be
un 9 y Janary I, .   tion   drastic one and will
neet wit strone resistamee  mt which on the surface seem plau-
sible r lo ical  tn c ie Fron self-ustification.
Attumpto in   r onnel have not been very
successful. ome onth  nrl A , hi' or the Economic and
Scienti ic section ruested : stuiy  s possible reduction of per
sonmel but in fhet nearly vv  ivi len in the luction cmme to the con-
elusion that vtronar oenrel voce resuired.
If, however, a re luetien in  trol of cnese economy is en-
visioned, it is essential ani Lmurative to fores a parallel Gut in Oc-
cupation pecsonnel.
It is susestel ir a target be leptet for decontrol so that such
decontrol can be lone in an oriorly fashion, placiny , 12 and 18 months
as tiree levels  en civilian employees in the cconomic branches of GHQ be
cut respectively, 50, 75 i 95. This o r wouli roughly mean that by
January 1, l5l, the nuaber of Aiean en ga ed . the cconomic controls
and reportin in an wouli t xeeed 50.
Due to
SEORUT

=== Page 578 === (confidence 0.91)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 544,
Aug. 10,1949.
-4-
SECRET (For Dept. Use Only)
Due to the contract status o the civilian employees of the Army
and considerin t e geo raphical pre lens involved in ship ing of
families and effects, such an "operation" as inlicated above, takes
stron nd early action i it is not to cause undue hardships and in-
justice to in ividuals, and it shoul: be realized that in many cases,
Jon ressional and Union pressure will be brought to bear.
In lookin forward to a  n whici is not a ward of the United
states, but an inde wnlent nat ion an friendly nation, the time has come
to drastically curtail forein control of Japanese economy.
By 1951 it is pr dicated t t if the peacc treaty has not been signed,
the tate Department ill asstume primary responsibility for the civilian
covernment in Japan. It should t en be recor.ended that advising the
"Commissioner" or bassalor, Would be an conomic Kinister assisted by an
Economic Jounsellor, who in turn vonli be serviced by a number of Attaches.
These would b: a Jommercial Attache, Jivil Jommunications and Transporta-
tion Attache, inin; att ché, aricultural Attaché, Labor Attaché,
Petroleum Attaché, Ireasury Attaché and such others as may be deemed nec-
essary. For example, the Treasury tlaché would take over the reporting
on Japan's finance and control of any specific interests of American ap-
propriated funds, absorbin eh rk as s now tone by the Funds Control
Division, te Inturnal venue ivision, the Jinance Jivision and certain
functions of th Jorin Liidation Jommissi oner's Office. The Mining
attache would take over  poportin, n: aivisory functions now carried
on within the Hat ual  sourees Jection, as the Jommercial Attache would
absorb the resi ue of he pes onrltie of the Forein Trade Division
and a considerable aroun'    carried en under the Prade Service
Division, Yextile ivi  rseare Pro ras ivi sion. Likewise, the
Labor Attache wouli peport, Por ever, on itens  interest to the Depart-
ment of Lhor in shin ton, ive ivies to the ap mese, absorbing that
work noy carriet on  t abor vistom, mt te ricultural Attaché
would cover mry prol oms n oner  te aural tesources Section
ant woult work losely on a  or iny soihe kle  value to the Department
of Aris tue.  n    n e Jivil Jommunication
Section une  Jivi Freat n eetin  t be assi ned to a Com-
munications Attaché.
In short the orgnieacien in ll wout: concict o a relat ively small
roup ef officer po ortin to a Sonmte Pone  mssador through an
Sconomic ist. i metions    Ivise (on reuest), to in-
peet, t bo report on  va entsese cconony.
irablly s r p mi   Purth rree o Pat oventually it
wall cot a oi" e ontn  pot t rate ic basey.
s/ avid Y. Maynard
conomie Jouncelor
A true cop?
of the signed
original

=== Page 579 === (confidence 0.90)
AWB
STANDARD FORM NO. 54
SECHET
RAF
theen
TO
Ar Bon
DATB August 24, 1949
AD
FROM : HA - Mr. Reedy
file
SUBJECT: Tokyo's Ho. 544 of au. ust 10, 1949
SOR
Ar. Sebalu forueres a cony of & report by Fso David M.
keynart, counselor for zconomic A feirs, entitled "Progressive
Lecontrol of the sconomy of Jepsn". Er. secslc places ereat
expnesis on r. ynar 's cometence in view of nis experience
in Jann. accorcing to this report the folloving situption
exists:
Japen hss been non-self-surportint since the end of
the var. If the merie:n public is to te relieved of the
strein, J: en muet suprort herself; this cen possibly be
7
done by the end of 1951.
C
Since no pce tre: ty is in si t, economic controls
f
s..oult ce rela eu to neriit fullest utiliprtion of
carslese productive ccilities.
In men cases mericans still cssume an ettitue
1 vorine continuin c ntr 1 over Japan.
Xuc. or the present Jepanese Government has been set
up anc is perrtin uncer orders or stron edvice from
 The chn es trought by cemocratization and reform
hove not cone br effort of the neople; they were tiven
ty Ga. The U.. vositlon should nov become tt of
inspectine, :svisin, pne reportine.
Competent Jenanes. leaders will not Lecome effective
until tiey cre sllowed sufficient responsibility. It is
recomnences th:t Ess re cut 7F per cent by July 1, 1950,
and v per cent by anurry 1, l9sl, desnite the trouoles
it will cause.
To eccomplish. tils, it is : skec thst c eredual program
for reductions be suoptet so thrt the number in economic
controle end renortine by Jenu=ry 1, 195l, will be no more
then fifty. Tais must be carefully planned to prevent
unnecesrrry iereship to Ess persoanel.
It is recommended th:t (presumine State Depertment
responsibility for civil covernment by l9sl) the Conmissioner
or Ambassscor ce pdvised by en Lconoaie inister who would be
sided by attuches in the verious economics fielcs. Their
function,voule te thet of euvisi
inspegting
 and reporting.
SECHET

=== Page 580 === (confidence 0.81)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
RAP
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
hib ock
1
ASTS
Actic:
38
Tk: F
小：
894.50/8-
Seara
1249
se
b31
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central fles with notation of action taken.
H

=== Page 581 === (confidence 0.70)
Tokyo's ,
august 22, 294
Generet abt tay
sor totn spr
weekso ep e
1
and pse l a as, bu us.
ren usee th a
were beine she   ie s le cor 
1
and ter  us cos vor
of laeeeare nt. 
tempy  er
preat o 
aray   ex c
ameris
!
Lurgu
ulens 1
eftet
ne
g
shoule 
1
fo
osa
not de e le

=== Page 582 === (confidence 0.68)
TOS,O
013
13…
5'110
105
t is
Les be
SLEU
LEJG!
0f 102t
ctaterc)
r,
devote.otie.it.i
be t
8Lision vl
these  an   stesr
to Dep ut
6.r rospe
Generalthat
  r  t te f
Jeer corrs c1s pri, 1949. Gort
  , 1   1
50112-51
reicae an erce ivict,
port 1 294911
portrtude out 

=== Page 583 === (confidence 0.81)
Tokyo's A-¿♡?,
August 17., 1949
Xarquas ronare1 t i, i uxpors outlouk
give thotlt:
as back o. tuying o
25111
and meaunto 
attomp to 'gell 
7
tae
ADOU
milli..
ton il
pendine
rution ro
tusion, erace a last oer'
bave brouet wit.; poor briefire of - vicn  i
may have beon te  in announcing carli i n i
and thut miug ar  ir fuct haro beaa de
London h  ing es i to prese for hipper
than crnon-cr bilisy. Go.loral ur a e.
3
lcor upon or tu cued carcellation ec
good, no ous  1  tish irion horu, c cl s o.
to make a ss e  ccuvartioiliey gussti
8.iieb xle m
play up diata ro effecte ou Japan    e
anmouncomst  inuing isstance c t . 
rss orficlele, tow ser, teliove thet he toe l
quartor 1sas may ve beon in purt cue tc un iic..
chanta thut auct uc mbergo could be axp ed, uat 
purchases will in long run maintai: bich rel; i.
purchases by 3erllug Areu, same ofriciai stat, it.
depressed only ty comparison witt abnormu... y la..g 1..
3
ceding months, Sharp dacline in Japanes: ipor
to be more diructly connected with repcr: .: rec.s..
than with Sterling Arou's economy measu:
9. Announcaccnt of agencies arrord cut
to loak in Mirintry of Internatlonal Truu, end in
Mainichi Shimbun lest week came out witn.. .
banks, but not purance compalies, havs.
establiat ugen e abroad. s besiego r.
well as for expleration of pparent dice. 
cmpunies, ntlo loreier misciors prprs..o
untlatera. ct er in oponing bant 

=== Page 584 === (confidence 0.83)
Takyo's n-zcz.
august 12 1941.
 3
imply tt   ed  m  
.ont   is rod b 
Jinit
It 1.
for
LD
amit2nnbur of ba
10
but noli t.  thorcug rocrica
ou takoat ope u rirato import trade. .hino.
15 terget deto or piomentatior of prog. t.
no one vilne rit himselt on poast u 
11 Deconcea tien Report not to  Iro
has sed thut rort praparsd by Deconur ratin
7
not ho reproducud, nd ouly one copy wi to e.
necracy unclear, elshough, in visw of ireq at l
in past, consid ro. posaible that report r:. con ai:
tc Acti-Trust nd Cirtele Section of Ess. : ti-?rust
Section meammbije 1s preparing own report,  uile this
to prepare roport 1 reaponse to Doparus s A-)19.
500
CHBoehringer/MSaidensticker, Jr:lee
CONFIDEVTIAL

=== Page 585 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
A - ×r. ond
DATE: AuEu8t 15, 1949
FROM :
SUBJECT:
Cle:rance of Atteched
In the atteched air ran FCLA ie asked to brine to the atte
tion of the rusnonsible SCAt officials for comrent certain ques-
tions erising out of en Orientel Econo ist erticle reporting a
trend  owards concentration of production in efficient plants
which, the Criental Economist sug, ests, may come to conflict
vith the deconcentrstion pro ras. It is my belief that the air-
ram would not serve e useful purnose end should not go out.
3
Ky reasons for so feelin ere steted in part in the immedi-
C
ately unüerlyin co:y of & letter vhich Mr. Butterworth sent
to mr. Louee last april. In this letter Mr. Eutterworth expressed
full a:proval of messur s seine initiated by the Dodge Miselon
15
to terminate conditions under wilch scarce materials were  ing
10
llocstec to an excessive number of plants, with resulting veste
and lgr everege costs of prouuction. Such a state of affsirs
CO
was cleerly an impeciment to production end trade revival. It
1
is specificall; steted in the lelter that prevention of the
1
development of "excessive concentrations of economic power"
5
should not stand in the way of the concentration of productio
4
in the minimum number of rlants recuired to meet the demand.
In addition to this factor, NSC 13/3, as stated in enother
attachec memorendum of last Anril, makee SoAP the wetchdog of
the deconcentration and other reform programs. If there 1s
any conflict cetween concentration for efficient production and
ceconcentration in the interests of e competitive economy,
SCAP's stsff may te expected to be aware of it end to ensure that
necessary meesures re taken by the Fair Trede Commission under
C
the anti-monopoly Lew. It i= hera to see, moreover, how the two
L.
could seriously conflict, as tihe "concentrrtion" in cuestion
C.
does not refer to the comciiation of plents uncer a single control 
but rather the allocation f rav materials to a few efficient 
plants rather then to eny plant whici. can cleim to be engaged 
in en inaustry using a particuler rew meterial. This concentra-
tion of rew materiels allocctions nak's it h: ruer for new con-
cerns to tet a st:rt, but the ceconcentretion protram is not. an
infent industry"(plant) protection progrem. If it were it would
ponstitute en extremely serious oustacle to economic revival.
Thiraly, clthough we should not normally obstruct recueste
for inform tion from SCAf, there is dan er that the atteched air-
grem vould be misinterpreted by SoAr as encouragement for the 
though...
Cer
COIFIDENTIAL

=== Page 586 === (confidence 0.95)
CONEIDENTIAL
-2-
thought that production shoulc arain be dispersed among an exces-
sive number of plents eec operatine at a small frection of
capacity.
I am sfraid it voulu Le inpossible to re-write the air-
gram to remove these ciificulties, unlcss FeLk were requested
to report vurely on its ovn, vithout takine the metter up with
¿Ss, e cuestionable procedure. If you wisi. I coulc talk with
cornett, wi.o annarently has not seen the tirgram, and see what
can ce done.
COHFILENTIAL
FE:RA:hAFe rey :cb

=== Page 587 === (confidence 0.90)
In reply refer to
NA
Dear Mr. Keefe:
In Mr. Eond's atsence I sm returning herewith copy
of "Japan--umrary of Basic Fconomic Information',
which you forwarded to thie Department for clearanoe,
together with a wemorendum of August 16 from r. Warren
 Huneberger, ncting Chief of the Division of neseerch
Files
Central
for the Fer ast, containin commente and su geetions
on the paper for your consideration.
Douont Must Be Returzs
"incerely yours,
894.5078-1849
Robert A. Fearey
Division of Northesst Asian Affairs
nclosures:
1. Copy of Japen
survey.
?.emorandum from
Xr. Huneberger.
8
r. H. Douglas Keefe,
十
"oreign Service Operetions Staff,
DC/R
Room 3857,
C
55
A11 Hw
Department of Commerce.
1
工
PE:NA: RaFe: rey: db
x
8/18/49
-5

=== Page 588 === (confidence 0.96)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
fle DE/R
RAY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
Office o
11
FAR EASTERN AFF.
1949
2
BA
5061
ACTION: FE
AIRGRAM
INPO
DC./R
E
ITP
CFD
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
OLI
894.50
Date of
CONFIDENTIAL
mailing:
Angust 22, 1949
Roo'd: Aug. 28, 1949 9:19 a.m.
50/8-1949
FOR DEPARTTENT USE ONLY
Secrstary of State,
Washiugton.
A-206, August 19, 1949.
(This airgram supplemente this Mission's
A-202, August 12, 1949, and precoding air-
grame in this series. Request distribution
be limited to Departmant for reasons stated
in A-21 of January 28, 1949.)
1. Dodge Letter to Finance Minister Held Up: At weekly staff
zeeting August 15 of Boonomic end Scientific Saction (KSS), attanded
by officer of this Miss1on, Major General W. F. MARQUAT, Chier, ESS,
statod that General MacARTHUR had received original of letter sent
by Mr. Joseph M. DoDGE, hero last spring as financial adviser to
SCAP, addressed to Finance Minister IKEDA Hayato. Gezeral Marquat
stated ho and Ganeral MacArthur had agreed that this letter, which
assertedly strossed need for etrict Japanose adheronce to Nine Point
Economic Stabilization Program and which also contained statemonts
aimed to allay Japanese fears concerning severity American oconomic
FILED
recessicn, shculd be revised aud cent to Minister koda as GãQ
comumication. Apparently referring to statemont in Dodge lotter
regarding shortage of crodit, Goneral Marquat wryly comented to
offect thst "there is no shortage of oredit in Japan, but an excesn
of peoplo waiting to bo taken curo of."
2. mession of Issuance of 1 ooo Yen Notes: At sano megting.

=== Page 589 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's A-206,
August 19, 1949.
，2-
avinced scant anthusiasm for proposal which, he said, if adopted,
would probebly have unfavorable psychological reaction tending to
weaken stand against inflation. Present highest note in circulation
1s for 100 yon.
3. Plans for VoORHEkS' Visit: At August 15 starf meeting, General
Harquat instructod EsS division chiefs to prepare briefs of their
activities and problms for Voorhees, Under Secretary of Army, due here
aocn. He asked that these briefs be factual, that they contain no
nezsonal viewpoints, and that they be without benefit of "Utopian
philosophy." Additiomally, E3S preparing statoment of achievements
under Nino Point Program since last such statement propared just prior
dcparture Dodgo Mission last apring.
4. Returna from Tourist Traffic: At sam• ataff meeting, Coneral
Marquet roforred to momorandum prepared by Mr. M. H. HAlrr, Executive
Orrioer, ESs, regarding invisible exports dorived from Japan's emall
but expauding tourist treffic. Total receipts for July 1949 sstimsted
at $150, C00 (quipped Ganeral Marguat: "Invisible, indeed!"), highest
monthly total thus far recorded since Jenuery 1948 when travel receipts
firet rscorued. Gexeral Marquat added that study of value primarily
bscause it pointed to potantialities of tourist trafric as source for
dollars. Meanwhile, it wey be uoted that Halfr, who has done much work
on problem of inducing Ganeral Hoedquarters, especially G-l Section,
to adopt liberalized policies designed to encourage increased tourism
in Japan, hes been named by General Marquat as SCAP representative to
attend meetinga or ECAFE ad-hoc Sub-Bommittee on Travel to be h.l
Cstober 12-17 at Singapore.
5. Proposod Travel or Japanese to Bangkok BCAFE Meeting: In re..
Iponce to ECAFE invitation to have SCAP representatives attend meeting
August 2? of Sub-Committee on Iron and Steel at Bangkok, ESS and
Slatural Resources Section have proposed sending two Japenese naticnale
unaccapunied by American porsonnel. Both ESS and NRS stated they
prasontly uuable spare personnel for this purpose. ESS now awaiting
vord frem Ecnykok as to whether or not political and other considera-
tions mnks it inadvinable send Japanese alone to meeting. One of
Japanese is official in Ministry of International Trade and Industry.
the other profesaor of Eccnomic Goology in Tokyo Uuiversity
5. "Losport Bazaers" Runniug out or Textiles: At Auguut 15 s
sort mssns is was rsported thet so-eallsd "export hazaare" (deapctch
516 Auguet 2. l949) were running short of text1les, hithorte
OONDSTA

=== Page 590 === (confidence 0.86)
Tokyos A-206
1ug20t 19,1949
-3 -
Lealing itu sold for dollars et bazaars uader ES3 auspicos; alao that
Jepaaass officials or Textile Kodan reoponsible for supplying textiles
vern "aragging their fest". apparently scheming to divert toxtiles
Iro is purpose to danestic market. Kodan not anxious to move its
stoctu frooly, since largo-scale liquidation of such stocks would
orco Kodar out of bueinass. General Marquet commanted: "We've got to
et thsso toxtilas intc the expozt bazaars, aven if we have to drive
te sccan out oi buainens. These taxiile sales provide a legul sourge
o dollers and wo koed doliars badly in view of oxport alump.
7 S0 Purchesos of Taiwan Sugar: Rerrance 1tem (4), A-202,
cou cerling partmoct o Army tulegram of August 6 urging thes Scap
wv l or mjer prt oi soo, oo tcn of Taiwn sugar. Under
 eust s, ss rep ted t effect that Jupan's programmed cugar
xsment  949 50 1sc year arounts to 320, c00 mot1c tons
o? waich 2co. coo tono orpected to bo purchaesd from Taiwan on barsar
: cis Nonr comptction of cur vent so coo-scl coutrect (our despatch
ro blé. sugct 2 1949), 239 ccutemplateo iuitiutise negotiosions for
peoourarent aaditioual so. coo tone Emphacized that preseatly not
prostleablo to attaast rirn arracger ests for larger quaatities.
Adred, horsser, thet sup eu'e sugar rmpors reguiramoata sill bo re-
vacxos poriodically and iu liert of oxports siforts will be made to
alleviats Taiven'o oconcmic plaght by increesing sugar procuromant.
e epertsont'u Vaewe on Jepanoee Techaicians Diocuesed: Depart-
ment s viox regwding travel o? Japaness technicians (Dept's. air
meis Aastructton no 164, July 14. 1949) have been discussed with
cszcials of LsS pea G  Ceetaons, Gf. SCAP. While 1t lo relt that
cnttion shonid be  ercised ut first with vi w eeloction politically
shd sorally cecoptuble candidaces, hoth Sect ons concur in Depart.
peas e vioto, wo point to administration or foreign axchange
rutention progron (our c3spatcn 2o. 430, July 5. 1949), which 18
shinistcred aleoss sxc usively by Japansae, as ideal goal. Theso
Socticse grde that teetsleiuno should but rerely be donied par-
miscien to o abroad ou rouuds of contribut ing to poasible compe
tiiiou pith japenose inoustrtes und noring thet cuch ccmpetisicr is
Lovtabke, wotae ut tret previso tn soaptn coss eos soecificlly
  pot cct sorieulture. They agree Finally, thut carreney
 bon delro  stcrl ll to considered fer paymsnt whed

=== Page 591 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's A-206.
August 19, 1949.
9. Circular on Forsign Business and Investment Activities:
SCAP Circular no. 2 of January 14, 1949 (our despatch no. 48, January
24, 1949) 1s now in process of revision. Proposed amandments, which
are undergoing lengthy stafr processing, would apply oaly to portion
of Circular covaring business activities. Distinctiom between foreign
nationals resident in Japan on or before September 2, 1945, and those
subsequently admitted is to be abolimhed, while license must be
obtained fron Japanese Government, with concurrence of SCAP, to engage
in banking, inourance, transportation, public utilities, professiomal
sorvicos, the dissenination of education, informational, or cultural
materials from abroad, or othor businesses which may be designated by
SCAP. Proposal has concurrence of thi: Mission, and is considered
stop forward because it abolishes artificial distinction betwoun per-
manent residents and recsnt antrants, and places more responsibility
on Japaneso Government. All businesses other than those listed will
not require license, while would-be businesamen will no longer be
required to provo that their activities will further Japan's econcmic
rehabilitaticn or otharwise advance SCAP objectives. Significant
alco is fact that recipients of foreiga erchange will no longer have
to le liconsed.
10. Sterling Aree lalks Continue to Lag: Complote 1nformation
not yet having beon received from London, negotiations toward new
 ade arrangament with Sterling Area oontinue to lag. Conferences
bstween SCap and Sterling Area trade eoordinators indicate that un-
delivored Sterling Area purchases already sontructed for total
considerably higher figure (possibly as large as $50, 000, 000) than
had been axpected. This will of course result in diminished Sterling
Aree purchases under new arrangement; $100, 000, 000 1s st1ll cozs1dered
likely figure for such purchases, with additional 26, 000, 000 in un
delivered purchuses under old contracts. Total of 100, o00, 000
includes epproximately 14, C00, C00 under GARIOA and EROA coordinatica,
chiefly for procurement of tropical products; it is possible tiat pro-
ourement of foodsturfs and petroleun may add $35, 000, 000. ESS foroigu
trade ofriciels conclude thet chier lesson thus far derived from con
forenos is that Japen ust look tcward new markets, aspocially in
Latin Ameriea; generous program for GARIoA procurement in Latin Amori
ic being prepercd in anticipation of arrival of Under Secrotary of
Aray Voorheos.
SEBALD
500
CONRIDEERTAL

=== Page 592 === (confidence 0.79)
hile DC/R
Rot
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF CQMMUNICATIONS AN ECORDS TELEGRAPN BRANCN
JIV OF
HI ASTSIAN AFFA
528
1949.
PAOFSIA
TNF
10
1.
2
he
89
4.50
1.49
0
2:
F.M.
8
1
2
2649
20
:2
rit
1294
1. Roo671o1 ot
  roortior of Roonm
and ctentiri a iol ( oral li quartere, rougt up t
reconc  y    y jo Geral W.  R, Ci.
Ess At Aueuke 2s cactire. unod Yarent indic ated thet reorganiz
aticn. atost o four or rire  han peer l 15 monthe, was being put
into afrost rae tit . .polpol ctaga inrolves appotatmont
Mr Calvin 0. Rrri, in : tc: overal onth es sdvicer on pro-
ductton and utslities, a csputy cief rolacire Lt. Co). F. B. Rokk
who paned axucrirs ofricar under erity Ap ointsout ei 1lin for
second most ipurtalt  post caullidarou forwert step in gemeral
movmant to have s contrast operntions and erconnel with now
asin ceilecud c Fyoille  Japanose conon paraions
rathor uhan cot i ee plenil snt netual oporution or Jo  onomy.
Taty cer coue sloh ia vwericen pereolur a of ss now celled for,
歪
wit., et:ll rurt: er cutr eted batcrs nd 194?. nocora1ng 1949
Bhote o t arleu Ye: tos lou ned iro and aneol lueinoes from
petton up; ne poare o  coil i  ie in
PERMANENT MECO RB COPT.THde wapy meust be returmeT to DOYR bexraPales with notaen of actlen taken.

=== Page 593 === (confidence 0.84)
Takyo = A-21ε,
Aigunt 26, 1949
. 2 -
Bottlanecks Preventing Mazimized Exports: At same stafr
meti Goaeral Marguat cevoted considerabie attentic to impanding
arrivs: of Jrder Secrotary of Army VoorikkS. Rererring to Mime Point
Eoonom!: Statilization Program, he said ly point not earried out
s c(ar ill, luvolr ma. :sing r,orte. (tonero). Merquat went on to
icse mab proper1acuet in dotasl with
d n.
n
11.
Lun'l door sed,-atr tan
n iand: docontro  coal, non in ndoslat
on f uont doclionr conte fild to be
 r LearoHe eaid thut.aranee perforanc arter
con lo ont oliod vullc  crrerully wetahed tu giving good indicetion
ne  s'b):perioraance wnen othar ite decontrolled ad
w r ic ess relaxed. Gnral arquet stated thet
co.  l cperators. wol he toraed "now taitatou," were inrlatiom
mli ic. aid litont upon ra sing prices by devious mothods. He waid
ti .  ico of coal decon rol to Japanese Govt, which now being
d la , st nake point abeolutely aloar to Japanece that any
att y (. on ursir part to 'rig-market" would be countared imediately
by s icatlcn cooticl meaours.
 (snics of 1 Co0 Yan Notes Dooided Upon: R 1t (2): A-206,
Au: . 3, 1 s9, (eperel Merouat at same mouting stated that docision
now l hed in rnora! Aitquarters to permit Jepanese Govt to issme
neow i  n notes despite continued oppositin to proposal by Kss
Finnaco Livisica roponartu of plan saic lasuance larger danomina-
tion otes noild onitle brko to dimisr 20 per cont of thoir mployees,
owl s o docronsed reot Lor counting notes, and pormonnel rodustion in
turn ri sbt rnnuit in owei comnerciel interast rates. Geperel Marquat
sa!, lorover, that Japansse authorities wouid be asked to propare
way fo. issunnce of ror notes in order allay publio fears that ourrenay
convarsion irminant cua to correct inflationnry trend in pablio mind.
Questian or lasuance of new notes discreetly ciacuused August 26 by
officer thin Missiot with responsible offiolal of Bank of Tokyo, re-
feroncs being made by officer to recent press itm containing denial
by Finance Xiuister regarding plan for iesuing now notes. Bank of
Tokyo o'ri:lul statec that problem counting notes in banks vory serious;
that present l00 yor note comparable to prowar 50 sen or cae yen note
in buying poxer; that issuance 1,ooc yen note, which would be weleomed
CONYIDENTUL

=== Page 594 === (confidence 0.84)
Tokyo 3 A-212
Auguet 26, 1949
3 -
both by banks and gereral public, would bave nc aarked inrlationary
effect at this time when camodity prices showing tandency to level
OFF.
Intavest Rate for Counterpart Fund Loans: At August 22
reetiy. Sa cral Yarquat raferred tc discussions with Japanese author-
ities guruing intereut rute to bo chargod for loans made to Japanese
Iadura as, ut cetore, frosn U S Counterport Fund. Ho said that
Japaneso had auked for  por cant per anntus rute, but Ess i to recom-
mond c  prtnont of Army rte ot 7 5 pe cent in recognition of
turront rivats cenrerciat lateres. cates about 12-14 per cant.
Gentr larclat added tLit wuon Tepanese benko lower their raten to
7.5 por cent, ss might ps silling to recxmmerd zdoption 5 per coat
rete Pc Co it rpurt Fund icans
(6 LLau: Tong Fim Dfie Tuiwen Sugar: R0 item (7), A-208. con-
cerri Gil' purcheses c aiwan sugar, Dept may be interested to pote
that , mt r cate Aa, us: 19 roceivod offer ran the Agent kero for
Fone  4 Sovt treusnitted on behelf of Jerd ne Hatheson & Co., Ltd.,
Eong l fr . 0o pstr1 tons of rsiwan sugar at $115.00 por ton,
c.i.1 p s. por. Uadur date August 24, ESS iaformod Hong Kong
Govt ut t this ofer"canno bo given favorable considaration at
proscd  ue ss all sres cequtrementa have booe met."
 A i en- Jaoasese Acbitratios Comnittee: Re itm (5), A-117,
Vey l. Jvat n tlic sub et, M Druco AlrchLzcN, American lewyer,
Tokyo gut 3 iuiorned ms ing cf board of govoruors, Amcrican
Chasber c C m eree in Ju that arrungenants for estab)iahment of
Americer  up o se erbi rs ou comnstee prectically completed.
datchiecn F o states tha n: had  evoted more han three weoks or hie
can tin  ic otistto s. veriuc Japarene crganizations, propera-
tian cf comonts, na! c ampondence with srican Arbitration
Joumiscio. or York, a. h woulo ake rull d: tails of ner comittee
avallet  f raner so to pertmoct prlor  pabllo aresuncemens
hero ar j. w Tork
Kre u in sn rru vermitred to Fractica Iew Bare: August 25
roprosecta t ro Japanea Arrorroy Gr pural e rrice callod at thia
Yissten aeine that udges Surnehl s. YR.L und Robert T. FRYAN.
vell kneva la Shargha. s rerican comnunity, ra: been grantad licensos
July la. lo to prap ie Lar in Japon. Pepresentative from Attoraoy
JONPEEA

=== Page 595 === (confidence 0.81)
[okr08 212,
115185 20, 1.949.
- 4 
Ganoral's offics reqtested, since impossible send mail to Shanghai,
Kission iafom fudges Tranklin and Eryen o? forogoing in tolegram
to Ahoossan, Shanghul. Iu view of outetanding poaition hold by
Juds en lin and Iyon emone Americans in Calne, and boliof their
pres pacs in Jepan mot id benetit lccal Amer can businose cosmunity,
shis Aie lor agreod to cend telegrer ao surgested.
? yr'l Ropor udly avore Return of Srade Aesociatione:
Jep se at stry o Javerztionn rae snd duatry (Mrr), So
Porcie Trace  Seecee Pficaals st na  anforsally propossd
bas sveses ahil so pre er  reiga trace tsoul ssione be established
art er soolttfen of  por p cea. Prr srguos that some cortrol wlll
ba meguioud to auaero thst duaping doen hot tato place, ane that beat
coa ul be tb eerrr sd by orgentsed exsortere, surjoct of
cou e c couc rol by Hnictry Mrml propoves to circunvent ESs Anti-
txoit  C.ctele Davisica by dat olucing ron floor or Diet bill
loziltstng cx ort correl crscciatiore; la that eveat, however,
Gov raa snt Loctlen cr Cie. SC., wosld he taul approving authority,
and  would bs consulted at dincretlea of that Soctien. NirI hopos
So ut  rt csrong ples ox vrgent peeeasisy to coavince Goverment
Soctiou sla bill should not be vocood. Milr will probably not under-
suke proxram, hovever, unlese it hae suppost of Ess Foreiga Trade end
Corsrce Divicion thici upmt wy not be fortheoming dospite some
disooeicion by thet Dir uton se Feror plan. This Vission believes
sust, slchougi many ofticiul cortrele whould be abolished ao rapidly
as posgiole, it may de mmrine to manctian return so control by
privete ausccietiope in prsforssce to Japanoss Govt supervioion in
fore or foruian enchuige or cust sts cont rols.
10 Storlinz ea Picture Derk: Surrey of cerry-ovors (un-
delivercd pertiona a oid contrants) ancicntes unexpeetedly high
totale For umcelivered Japanese sal ces no Starlieg froe. Most pessi-
sistac Lss cfricials theretore Lolr thst csn prceurement, uside from
thas p coasesy to liguteato wulero etorliny belances. will bo es lor
as é2s 020, c00. £ss orricials hevo rherefore ocse up with interost-
ing preposal, not yot mubriutes to Sterling Asoa ncgotiatons, that
Jepan invees oxcese stecliny balonesc in Sterling Area ebtpping
intoreets. Huanwallo, Area megotiators ceaticue to vait for word
frer Icnden Opimxcns in Gmeral eadqueraors vary as to cause fox
dolay sore cynica? im xs thut Tapun, faiccd with felling importa,
CONFIM.TLA

=== Page 596 === (confidence 0.80)
2
Tokyo s l2.
hugust 25, 1949.
-5
May bo forced into making concessions to Sterling Area demands for
Lurger purchaces; othor viow is thut Lordon is too busy preparing
for Wuahington tolks on ocher subjects to worry about Jupan.
11 Fapanoy Suggsat Stockpiling of Gocds in Excess of Import
Program: MirI has mada publio its views thet barter arrangements
s ould be coneidored evan when proposed inports would be in axeess
or cuautit cu anthortced on iuport progrem. Thoory ie chat it would
b: tctter o have stolke of imported iron ore or pulp than stocks of
d erticaliy-made plhccularo or teys. s however, aenertedly fears
I cs sic urrenguooni world lsad to icst o: collars on itamn tiat
a gt evoatually so sla to U. , or tact domping migho even onou.
 ier erungemente vth  S. particulniy ara regarded with suspielon,
 iwi poesiti for cxporter to mshe prcrit oy sandins ran matorialo
t. ap a ven thorh roos reesived in redarn nst be sold bolow cost.
cntt Te do urcungm ant with sormeny Amaita Aoproval:
Lrd rrt  Prede Ar amrarent bstwaen Trizone Gormany and Ocoupion
3 pn (o cospeser   or August 19. ls49) being formerded to
   Po p rovel
Hir taxt makes cloar that
   no yitv cosmilse to buy good in quantitie
 Ple, ad lorr cotal oatamplaved Jupenece purchases Srom
2 Coo  to  933 00 to be in liro witn S0aP-authorized import
 m l vit or aehe to othor trdo arrangemanta. Con-
ate rchmon  raufecturss frox Corany aresticelly roduced
 a atcl rds lmost eliaiaasod) while proposed surchase
  fom 90 200 to $5, 000 c00. subac to Wahngo
a pr. rogardirg uge cf cpsropriated fumes Bhen approvel, craft
vii o viy ailou to aohington for truno ittel to Trizons govormora.
13. Other Foretm Prade Sotce: (1) Commodity experto of 2ss
Foratga Prece wnd Scoxroo Division have teen ordered vo maxtmize
po dhascs fror Dolghan Lalotury Area sinee such purchuses coatinue to
iy ur belund seles (2)  Textile Drjuion has proposed that
vemto dáaaion bo despatchod to llodle bast with vieu to expanded
dolinr sat or. Teztilo zales to Biddle Rant bave hitherto been made
Ramgaly in  sorlirg tuough orsrapots: feeltus now is thet, vince
Epig proe carrot prchace enoe ror  oede, onsropot trado,
cpoemelly vhrousr Aloe shosld be atoppo cad de lar calen to Middlo
Bis zaxlrlze. trepees trade prioxlou woutd viait Egspt. Turkey,
Ten. Lry Sv Ab. hiopt.  Arplaniotan
:23
SEHVLD
 /  , 

=== Page 597 === (confidence 0.91)
JDJ
u.
1.1
A...
2
G(V
Would you please draft reply to
the attached? Have we ever
determined what the Iranians
have requested, or answered
their request?
GCM

=== Page 598 === (confidence 0.81)
3003 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
Lagles mere, Pa.
Wear tn. me Ghee.
her. Aram clepamed me
haclen Sday hat Ihoo am lootn
forward to (ni fleasme ofa fank
you ai lhi near fuluine.
Anuch ha, happoncd donce mre
last met ant thane are rond, Ehich
need The chacked ifwe are Ereach
mi parfrct underetandrig e
894
boki descic.
EP111949

=== Page 599 === (confidence 0.81)
3003 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE
WASHINGTON, D C
2
Soti I woli 5ki Seeutary potale
on July 29", 2 cwoouls lke
egan turge upm yon ai ad
Disabilil; ofpkacatrig kubli
opunion in Dran by exconding
5 tuy Esun liy e largor mearare
ecouomic and mulitary an.
Jestance.
n thien comneelion , Shave
Terted mlie foress cmal lai
Stali Separtmont uas under
Susidcratin a Confrchensive
torofram fn ine econsmc de-
telopmon'l & lei rean Gast"

=== Page 600 === (confidence 0.76)
3003 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
3
Thice arle negune a pproriationy
by Engress.
isl you arle bean nan.
nntmid inti forofram om
lie luni, susfoslid oy on this
hesli Sn toreigh afgairi.
hey Counlig shonld asd be
henalized becanse ih servd
tie altied cance frilhfull, du.
lening thi war, becanse ih wan
we fomit o remit aggromin
ans commnnesm, antimor
sta: ling, n i oon initialve
antiee s oun reones, a
Le Con yen plan of social and

=== Page 601 === (confidence 0.70)
3003 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
4
ecnic mifirscment.
Halan shinld de who are
Vironumsly emetuig onbverrve.
Aslxn m mer oune feeleo.
ai lly  opl f srea
o, be especially farsured,
Encmmpe: amt Sienphened.
Than honld me man kedout
leater  lii omle wthia has dome
Is uinch fn a then Comlieg and
hay fn leni aini hi seen ig-and
ecns ecbe al 
-  ip ealigns.
Sny om

=== Page 602 === (confidence 0.84)
SEP 71949
CONMP IDEEPIAL
206
To the
Lsting Laited stases Politieul Advieer fur Japen,
Texye, Japa.
The Searetary of State forwards herewith mo eopies of a report
preduoed by ic Divialun of Research for Far East, entitled Publle Relatione
894.50/8-2849
Aayeots or  Houonle Stabilleation Prorram a ap. lhough 
applloability or certain paragraphs of the roport may nave shanged in the
light of evests siaee the paper was pregares in ane luss, it is belleved
chat the apar's besio thesis still as morit. At your dimaretion, sestiuns
of the rejort may be disoussed with propriate a? efficiale. Your comments
 wall   of ay a fricial wit wix yu may d ci mater
would be ppreaiated.
SEP
A true copy of
the signed orig-
1945
inal
Emelosure:
Two papioss Publio ielationg
Ampoets of the heonomle Seabllisatiun
Fregrean in Japna
CS
/H
Cleeds.
93
RS
Clennd 
berger(ahrider)9/2/
FB

=== Page 603 === (confidence 0.94)
September 2, 1949
Dear Mr. Ambassador:
Thank you very much for your note of August 28th.
I agree that there are elements of misunderstanding which we
should strive to clear up, and I am sure that we shall be suc-
cessful. On your return to ashington I suggest that we find
an oarly opportunity to talk fully and frankly about all the
pending matters between our two Governments, especially the
894.50/8-2849
questions of economic and military assistance.
Sincerely yours,
George C. McGhee
子
His Excellency
Hussein Ala,
1心
Ambassador of Iran.
SEP 
: I:JDJe heg:cd
CS/H

=== Page 604 === (confidence 0.89)
THE POREKGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Dele
894.50/8-3049
C
It-al ivise
2949
REC'L
SEPT
ACON
FE
1NC
DCR
ITP
OFD
OLI
TRC
s/s
L
81103
This Document Must Be Returoed Te
FD
VD
X
TY
01:15
dotd .F
Parcane ret te he Der
500
CS/H
ehrger P
RESTRICTAD
JUL 141952
FILD
AOTION COPY

=== Page 605 === (confidence 0.80)
cto Desput No. 599
949rtheUnited
iviser or Japan
Je runsnassion ef
 Foeme in
t:OL
pricea"
sortf
1 wer thar peat
a1.d
trde
prra
 .
requir
rtant as
previas to  ar 
so Jan
and todj sh. repres
Lest ruvered atpreILlleve
Lesser importace then nay cher   ar now Paine 
Carl c Camptell  the  omt  S u t  has the best
picture of the status of post fevere nelin reatren: fcr Japar In
this connectior 1 can no' bo emyhe  oo stromely :har Japan must
be encouraged lo revar its entir  u: . helu. a' the carliest
possible moment
F Our
RESTRICTED

=== Page 606 === (confidence 0.79)
bclostre
to Tokye 3 Despe
gu82345
1:17 a3 1
pits
de slld alse
ar e
The
 fuirly
cud impree
week
ut : or
Corteinly
fr.e
?
d.s
kr defirrte
a oo.d
IC
ere s an
program
but
!!
balanced !
3.5.
1 be
ration
suca ue fish
rl cn perrl: shourd be
relazei
1 In
Far let.r  econon
Before the wer Jauese s' ati is vere n i "ptimiatic aide"
since the war mest of the profeast rs? stat: !cians have endeavored
to prove how tadl: cff Japu
es t mean that Jopan is
prosperous tut i: does mes. that it  t as badiy eff us fre
quently pic'ured
13 I believe
RESTRICTED

=== Page 607 === (confidence 0.81)
to To

=== Page 608 === (confidence 0.91)
41
itu
TO
: NA - Mr. Bohd
DATE: September 19, 1949
85
dep
SUBJECT: Tokyo'B 599 of Auguet 30, 1949
This brief memo by Mr. Maynard, containing various
Lil
observations and recommendations on the Japanese economy,
1s worth looking through. Note that he considere Japan
far better off economioally than some ESs figures tend to
indicate.
I queetion the wisdom of his recommendation for a
general review of Japan's labor policy, whioh eeems to
overlook both the political implications of such a move
as well ae the fact that Japan already has a large surplus
FW
of workers which an increase in working hours would tend
to swell.
1
2019

=== Page 609 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT D
DETACH THIS FORM
FILE NO.
894,50/8-3049
RECORD COPY
DESP.
THE ATTACHED COPY OF ADESPATCH  TELEGRAM AIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
599 FROM TOKYO
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
7
M-184

=== Page 610 === (confidence 0.96)
SÉP 141949
DC/R
THE POREIGN SERVICE
CONTRÓL COPY
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
894.50/8-3049
Un:ted States P:litical Adviser
for Japan
Tokye August 30 1949.
REC 'D
No. 599
SEPT.9
RESTRICTED
(FOR DEPARTLENT USE ONLY)
ACTION
FE
INFO
DCR
ITP
Sutject. Transmissien of Memorandun en Current Prctlems in Japan
OFD
OLI
TRC
s/s
The Acting Pol:tical Adviser has the honer to enclose a copy
L
of a memorandum dated gust ε 1949 prepared by r David 
PD
MAYIIARD former Economi: Counselor of this Mission who left Tckyo
VD
August 9 for the United States regarding surrent esonomic and
other problems in Jupar
It will be noted thut many cf Lr Maynard a observations were
reported in expanded form in his memorandum of conversetion on July
8. 1949 with Lr Ormond FREILE. Industry and Commerce Section Far
Eastern Affairs CAD Department of the Army a copy f which meme-
randum was transmitted to the Depariment as encicsure te this
Mission s despatch no 45r dated Juiy 15 l949 Nonetheless it is
bel:eved that the Department will find usefut the enelosed brref
statemene of Japen s problems the ociat on of wheon in the
majority of cases cont nues to re eive est eatier n Generel Head.
quarters SCAP
cait
Enclesure:
Cepy of memerandum
dated August 8 1949
Parchment mat to the Depertment
500
CHcehringer.pr
RESTRICTED
82313

=== Page 611 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclesure No. 1 to Despatch No.. 599
dated August 30. 1949 from the United
States Palitical Adviser for Japan.
RESTRICTED
Tokyc. on the subject "Transmission of
Femorandum on Current Problems in
Japan"
(COPI)
LEMORADUN
August 8 1949
C  Boehringer
From
D M Maynard
Subject Current Problems in Japan
I The principol pret lem i. Tapun twe years uge was production
Our present great problem is sales
I is believed that "ficor prices"
should be abolished It is of sourse essenttal to set up some sort of
contrei to see tha :here is no "wapiny" or  ther words that no
goods will be exporved at lower than domestie prices or lower than cost
2 It is believed thet the present systen of trade arrangements
is the only systen that can be werked cut at the present time and
althcugh t hey are far from satisfuctory I kiow of no tetter substitute
It shouli be sareasuI the' trade arrat yenores shoula loek toward multi-
laterelisn
but it w ould aleo sonstautly ue stressed that ne trade
arrengemest is a arantes f wy v arcent of trde with any given
.ountry
Pravate experte ure cow a r  atther  u.  exception tut it
is most inpert to see that she syer e  s u hly aeveloped te per-
mit private inperts that is imperts y inaividual firms rather than
by the Japanese overet
Tais prrvute traue cf cearse will require
a well prgenisee exchange contrei
4 It seems ue ne vory importa' that we cenotantly push for
expansion of Japanese merchant marine Th:s is extrerely important as
previous to the war shipping was a lurge souree of neme to Japan
and today shipping cests represent a large icller empenditure
Most favored-nation protoeel is inportant but I believe of
lesser importance than many cther protlems thet we are now facing Mr
Carl C Campbell of the Economie and Scientific Secticn hes the best
picture of the status of most favored nation treatment for Japan In
this connectior it can not be emphasicsed too strongly that Japen must
be encouraged to revamp its entire tariff schedule at the earliest
possible moment
Our
RESTRICTED

=== Page 612 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo s Despatch No. 599
August 30, 1949.
2 -
6. Our foreign investrent policy is not so liberal as it
should be and every effort should be made to permit at least profits
on investment to be taken cut in foreign exchange We should also
greatly liberalize our rulss on the expenditure of yen funds earned
by foreign countries The outstand:ng example of this is the motion
picture yen funds A moratorium on taxes on fcreign investment should
also be considered It is certain that unless we liberalize our for-
eign investment peliey there will be  inpertant foreign investments
in Japan in the :mmediate future
 I feel that one of the more inportant problems is the early
establishment of a claime conmiseion Settlement of war claims will
take many years and the goneral principles goverring a claims com.
mission should be quickly estat ished as this would also tend to
interest foreign capital in Jepan
8 The general laber policy in Japan should be reviewed The
present Laber Divtsien of Ess has been what I would consider fairly
reasonable but it has inherited some extremely leftist and imprac-
tical laws fren. the early days of the Occupation It would seem
highly questi nable whether Japan can presently afford a 40 hour week
and many of the cther privileges granted in early days of Occupation
which are toc extravagant fer the pest war Japanese economy Certainly
such frills as the payment of wages from pompany pay-rolls and giving
free office spuce to latir organizers en union cfficers should be
discontinued
9
Another snportaut preblem is the revaluation of capital
assets
I believe that Mr Shoup a prmeent mission will make derinite
reconmendations in v.s gar
Mr aiustments are essential for
a scund tax progran.
10 I feel tha: the Dedee analysis of budgeting preblems is en
outstanding Jeb There are many groups trying to change his program
but it is still of utrcst importance that we try to meintain a
balanced buuget end cut al: subsidies at least all export substdies.
il. I bel: ave that we should de:eatrol items tow under ration
such as fish Furthernore the present ccntrol on pearls should be
relaxed
12 In senclusion I feel thut Japun is far tetter off economi-
cally than some of the statistics compiled by ESs tend to :ndicate
Before the war Japanese stat:sticians were on the "cptimistic side",
since the war most of the profeasional statisticians have endeavored
to prove how badly off Japan is Th:s does not mean that Japan 1s
prosperous but it does mean that it is not so badly cff as fre-
quently pictured
13 I belleve
RESTRICTED

=== Page 613 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. I
to Tokyo a Despatch No. 599
August 30. 1949
3
13 I believe that everything possible shcuid be dene to
permit travel of Japunese abrcad and to pernit the travel of tourists
in Japun Greet progress has been mede during the last six monthe.
but there are still many rules and puen red tape which might be
eliminated
RESTRICTED

=== Page 614 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT D
DETACH
THIS FORM
FILE NO.
RECORD COPY
894.50/9-149
A-21
THE ATTACHED CCPY OF ADESPATCH  TELEGRAM AIRGRAM
π
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
FROM TUKYO
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
C
184

=== Page 615 === (confidence 0.72)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORBS TELERRAPON
AL CRAN
FI.
Frm: U
FA
8.9.1
1.219
(  s hises 
art cor r atrpreeo n tuds ecrass Fo
neuo  T aas   ssi n er Fr  ster 
te reine  pruse re oto e rrd
ont e ican layer pr sening 0 rse. 
50
 ey, in cheaege Yok be Fiee
cent pee, hbis tim Lae niready rred t tenece
 si an s r r  n r
 comenco . . Daneey sta1 that b.
ou o ru  peolie are thas ho  s pol tivoy o
vee. addiny   prod  cive 
7-
rabae veter vhah  esentielly B o
sar and a ndjer potnt ct lasae an suit 
io  csn plrming to submit sn ce
Pussttlo Sale cr Japancse Coppar 
Anericar tndera dealin n me tcis in ipn 
thi Issien ua ist 3) and v iced reare 1
   r Icndor and Antwerp is bein r
ad,
Czech  vakin. aurrery, ero Rmnrin. Pm
10
mote  se te y ba 
nd,
a crbited a doer
CONFTEMA

=== Page 616 === (confidence 0.80)
25.
jpb 1. 14.
. 2 -
au.ul A v:l ? a arti Iy sulalantistins c is laio Router'
atho C: b.priim; ort (of a pp)
1
dcoi
1.hiuop
rdurig
uIP.  e lvtlro to he Doon
1. ut d u Cur n o uaialy lo P and aud thg.
 l. motoco lcrk I a ioa. ttor uo bo
st  vitoa. un a:1 ocion (Es) oficilo c
orntd; soss lbi it axistn ulis Misiion may roquest Dopt to lastruet
mout.si.s Lonlon anl Srussein to lnvagti ate.
3 Noruot c" Ras tutea to Chine: Accordius: to u former member
of Chin:se Vission nere Occup: tion nuthor: ties rocently restitated as
Joctud rropersy roon ch.na 2i, 000 kliorr ms of ouum aud 40 or 50
ilogra: cf norph no wuict  asserte y n cuntody of chinee
'Isaion latter ieresred i sellirg ti cse narcctics, valzed at pprod-
nataly 400. C00, 1o ord to culse funtd for mnintanancs of Missiom here.
informwt advisoc o have Chixnse Mi slor lake up mattir with Chinese
babing lesir slirgarcotice in S. Intereting
'o notn ntorwant  uto the o fern hed poen re eved by Oüinese
leajon rom poten: al byor  Teiar
 Es Preo cupat: nn xith Voor hee Visit: No regular weskiy
F.35 atar? moeting lld tlim woek owing to urrlvel August 29 of Under
iscretary of Army Tracy . vocriikem. for whom ES3 personnel prepared to
irwote fiiil program or briefing Sopt. 2 end 3
5. ScAP Propuses Sbutting Off Sterling Area Entropot Trade:
Ln viow of inabili:y of  terling Area to buy mufficient Japenese goods
for own use. Ess Tantile Division has proposed that fwction of Sterling
Agea as ontrepot for shirment of Japanese goods, chiefly to Southeast
haia, Widale kast, and Postern Europe, be stopped, and that U D. im-
ports of grey goods for processing and transshipment bo limited to
10,000, 000 y  anoually Proposal ham brought forth strong protests
from Sterling Aree representatives here, who propose to limit rather
than eliminate antrepot trade, and who objoct to restraints on British
processins: of Japanese goods Details of British proposal not. yet
iraileble Meanwhile, drawing up of trede plan contimmes to otag-
ate, end all that is certain 1s that Sterling Area purchases as
. eviocsly roported, will be tharply cut beck frum last yeer
ONENAL

=== Page 617 === (confidence 0.87)
Tokyo's A-215,
Septcaber 1, 1949.
-3
6. Dollar irade with Siem under Consideration: In view of
fact that dollar muthorizatione are reporteily easior to get for ex-
ports of Jepanese tertiles to Siam than authorizaticas under opem
account, ESs Foreign Rade and Comaarce Division officials have de-
oided to nuggest thai ad, irrangamant with Siam, Wlich nxpired Jane
so but extended 1 derinite y, be ranegotiated on basis ef straieht
dollar paymunts. Thoy  not especially dissatiefied with present
Arrangomont, howevsr, and ili probably nos prass for drestio ro-
visions ir Siamase saen reluctent. Re Dopt's instructicn no. 189 of
Angust 1o, despatch presently in proparation will point cut that there
is no imesdiato plen Fo: storping (mporte fron Siem; new vloe contracts
ero in feot neariug concico on.
7. Suges sot Yopsun 1 uto Roviax in Tol yo Sept. 15: ESs beg
suggosted tha revicu o? ti udo positlon botwean Japan end Koren take
placo in Tokye eginviny yt. 15. ss ueablo sand representetives to
Sooul, as sugestud by or m Cov. In vier of fact that balance
running against Japall, s   ciala anxiono that roviow take pleee
8023L℃ pOS3ib1G.
B. Cher Forat T ho  ctas: (1) Cer cral Hoedquertore, SCAP,
ben rotest sd the. oparstiou o. bask-to-back latterc of oredit with
S sdon are leeving Jupe cce oxportore without sufficient eredit to
finace trensactiuns. o oocrated by Swediel sxchargs control cuthori-
tien, crodite in favor of Tupanseo ssportors may be dzawn upon only
after nd to eztcit shat Sro h ssportor has drawm o credit pot up
Ly Schr 3s trede ofiiciab. Lold suat no sch syatam was contomplated
undor Tapar Saetis Trade Am genset. (2) Neshorlonds Micsion in
formet by l3s thes pst tinn o foreign orchcage by erportere vmder
open acoowe will, sukjcet so cppreval o? Hission savolvod, bo book
tranaction. paymt to be mude an looal currency throngh opum acccunt.
roctes snes cceree initieily ts party appeuving as oxperter or cxport
contract, tus wey ts trencfoossd to pther parties in "ohein of eapply."
SEBALD
800
Chsoohringer/rscsncticlter, 
CONVDLNTTAL
