894.51 Japan, Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., January 2, 1945 - November 22, 1948 (File 1675)
ID: 894.51-1675   Pages: 738   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.51-japan-financial-conditions-14
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
894.51/1-245
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
1945-1946 budget estimates for Japan.
894.5
-245
T
S
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
AGNH10
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Dated.._..Jan..2,..1945.
Bo
-Switzerland
File No.
860f.51/1-245
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1—1540

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
OSTRSUTAN
31345
LEGATION OF THE
OSAICEW
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Bern, January 16, 1945
No.
10590
APR -  1945
Unrestricted.
DEPARTMERI I 1
Por
The Seeretary of State,
Washington.
1945FE6
Sir
STATE
894.5
I have the honor to report that the Berlin DEUTSCHE
ALLGEMEINE ZEITUNG, January 9, 1945, published a tele-
graphic despatch dated Tokyo January 8, 1945, from its
Eastern Asia correspondent Wilhelm Schulze, on Japan's
financing of the war.
A translation of the despatch is
attached.
It reviews the new tax law, which is to be presented
to the Japanese Parliament in the second half of January.
645
The new tax law is expected to increase the yield from
taxes in 1945 by 21% compared to 1944. The most important
increases are on earned incomes from 15% to 18% and on
other types of personal incomes from 18% to 21%. The tax
on alcoholic beverages is to be raised, but is not
expected to increase revenue substantially, as all
alcoholic beverages are rationed. Entertainment taxes and
taxes on railway tickets are alsc to be inoreased.
Respectfully yours,
Munsthase
J.'Klahr Huddle
CS/D
Chargé d'Affaires a.i.
1 Enclosure:
Translation as stated.
APR 3 1945
FILED
File No. 851
GR/acd
Darler. Hill
Original and Hectograph to Department.
HECTO SEFP TO

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
(Enclosure to despatch No. 10590, January 16, 1945,
American Legation, Bern.)
JAPAN'S FINANCING OF THE WAR.
by Wilhelm Schulze, Eastern Asia correspondent.
(Source: Berlin DEUTSCIE ALLGEEINE ZEITUNG, January 9, 1945)
Tokyo, January 8, 1945
The Japanese overnment has decided to submit a
supplementary tax law to Parliament, which will meet in
the second half of January. The aim of this supplementary
law is to raise the necessary funds for the conduct of the
war and to reduce the surplus purchasing power in order to
avoid dan erous tendencies in the Japanese monetary situa-
tion.
This is the ninth supplementary tax law since the
start of the war in China in 1937. Compared to 1944, the
ield rom taxes will increase by 21% in the financial
year 1945.
8
The most important provisions of the supplementary tax
law are the increases o tne normal income tax, the normal
corporation profits tax and a few indirect taxes. The tax
on earned incomes, which up to now has amounted to 15%,
after the deduction of certain exemptions and the amount
required for the support of members of the family, will be.
increased to 18. The tax on other kinds of personal
incomes will be increased from 18% to 21%. The tax imposed
on incomes from government loans will amount to 22% in
future, instead of 19% as at present. The tax rate imposed
6
on incomes resulting from dividends and real estate will be
increased from 20% to 23% and the nomal corporation profits
tax from 30% to 33%. The extraordinary corporation profits
tax, however, which ineludes war profits, will only be
increased from 20% to 22%.
These taxes which are to be collected, according to
the supplementary tax law, represent the main sources of
revenue of the Government, as the increase of the indirect
taxes, which is also planned by the Government, seems to be
only nominal.In this connection, the taxes imposed on all
alcoholic bevera es are once more to be increased, but an
increase in the yield remains theoretical, as all alcoholic
beverages are rationed in very small quantities.
A bottle of beer, for example, which up to now has cost
one yen, will cost two yen in future. A rown-up person,
nowever, receives only one bottle a month, and sometimes even
less as the breweries are working primarily for the army.
Thus the inerease of receipts from these taxes will be very
small. The price of a bottle of Japanese whisky of first
quality has been increased from 50 to 70 yen and whisky of
second quality from 36 to 50 yen, but for months already, no
whisky has officially been alloted. It seems that only the
tax put on rice wine will be profitable, because rice wine
has regularly been sold, although in small quantities. Up
to

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
to the present, l.8 liters of this wine, first quality,
have cost 12. 30 yen
nd quality 8.30 yen. Now, these
two qualitieto
mplaned by  new quality which
in future will cost 15 yen. Sake d Japanese spirit of
third quality will cost 8 yen in future, namely an increase
in price of 70%.
The increase in the entertainment tax is more or less
nominal, as the number of theatres and cinemas, which are
still open, is very small compared to earlier times, and
the entrance cost has been considerably reduced, in order
to enable the poorer classes also to see the performances.
A tax of lo0% will be imposed on tickets which cost 1 yen,
150% on tickets up to 5 yen, and 200% on tickets which
cost over 5 yen.
The tax on railway-tickets will also be increased, but
not to such a large extent. lip to the present, e tax amount-
ing to ll.5o yen has been imposed on a railway-ticket from
Tokyo to Osaka.
The new tax will amount to 13 yen. This
measure will probably not greatly reduce the number of
Japanese passen ers, which is very large at present.
GR/pk/acd

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARD FORM NO.4
Office Memorandum · UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: Jan. 22, 1945
FMA - Mr. Reinstein
TO
FE - Mr. Ballantine
XXXX :
FINANCIAL DIRECTIVE FOR MILITARY
SUBJECT :
GOVERNMENT IN JAPAN
The attached draft directive has
been received from the Civil Affairs
Division for our concurrence.
Will you please return to me with
your approval or such comments as you
deem necessary.
A
Harold W. Moseley
EUR:HWM:LA

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
WAR DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF
files
CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION
WASHINGTON 25
19 January 1945
OF
DISTRIBUTION
OFFICE
JAN 22 1945
OFFICE
ATE
MEMORANDOM
Director of European Affairs
State Department
SUBJECT: Financial Directive for Military Government in Japan
There is inclosed herewith, for concurrence, copy of
draft financial directive, dated 19 January 1945, on the
above subject.
894.51/1-
J. H. HILLDRING
Major General
Director, Civil Affairs Division
eharh Rades
1 Incl
as above
OHAS. L KADES
Lt Colonel, GSC
1945
Asst. Executive
"THIB DOCUWENT CONTAINS INFORMATION
AFPECTING THE BATION L DE ENSE OF THE
OBITED STATE W THI& THE ANING OF THN
BSF ONACE A U. S. C. 50; 31 and 32. TH
894.51
TRANSM. S . C. THE REVELA:. P ITS COB-
TENTS IB ANY MA VNER UNAUTHOBIZED
PERSON IS PROHIBITED DI AW."
40
Bmm
FEB1-1950
FILED
1945
SECRET

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
DRAFT
19 January 1945
FINANCLAL DIRECTIVE POR HILITARY GOVERDMENT IN JAPAN
1. You will use supplementary military yen (Type "B") issued pursuant to
military proclamation (hereinafter referred to as supplemental yen) and regalar
yen currency in your possession. Regular yen currency will include curremsies
which are now legal tender in the area. Supplemental yen will be deelared legal
tender and will be interchangeable at par without distinction with regular yem
currencies. Records will be kept of the amount of such currencies used y your
forces.
2. Japanese military yen issued for circulation in territories oecupied
by the Japanese will not be legal tender within Japan and will not be acceptable
nor interchangeable with supplemental yen or regular yen currencies.
3. For military reasons, you will have the right at all times to use regular
or Hawaiian series U.S. dollars. You will, however, avoid the use of regular
or Hewaiian series U.S. dollars whenever possible and will resort to their use
only in emergencies.
4. If it is found necessary to use regular or Hawaiian series U.S. dollars, thy
following provisions will epply to such use:
a. A proclamation will be iasued requiring all persons to accept the
regular or Hawaiian series U.S. dollars at the established date. Transactions
8
at any other rate will be prohibited.
b. The issuance of regular or Hawaiian series U.S. dollars will cease
h
and supplemental yen and regular yen currencies will be issued in their place
as soon as possible.
c. Regular or Hawaiian series U.S. dollars will be withdram from cir-
culation as soon as such withdrawal can be satisfactorily accomplished.
d. Records will be kept of the emount of reguler and Hawaiian series
U.S. dollars used by your forces.
5. U.S. dollars (except as provided in paragraphs 3 and 4) will not be
permitted to circulete in the area. If you consider it advisable, you may require
all holders of U.S. dollars (unless it is found necessary to authorise their use
"THIS DOOONENT COSTAINS IMPORNATION
APPBCTING THE BATIOB:L DE/ENSE OF THE
UBITED STATE WITOIA THE : ANING OP THE
BSF ONACE A . U. S. C. 50: 31 and 32. THE
S.UA CR TBE REVELAP ITS CO
PHRSON IS PROHIBITRD D. LAO.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRPT
pursuant to paragraphs 3 and 4) and all local holders of gold eein and balliem.
foreign exahange, foreign curreney which is not legal tender in the area, amd
foreign securities to deposit against appropriate receipt all or part of their
holdings of suah property under such torms and conditions as you deem advisable,
the subsequent disposition of, or payment for such deposits to be a matter of
later policy determination by the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
6. The provisional rate of exchange to be used exclusively for pay of
military and naval personnel and for military and naval accounting purposes will
be __ supplemental yen, and/or regular yen currency, to the .s. dollar.
Transactions at any other rate will be prohibited. A general rate of exohange
may be furnished to you later.
7. All foreign financial transactions of any kind, including all exports
and imports of currency and securities, will be prohibited, except as permitted
under regulations you may issue. Army Finance Officers and Navy Disbursing
Officers may, however, be authorized to accept U.S. dollars from personnel of
your forces, end from other authorized personnel, for conversion into supplemental
and/or regular yen currency at the established rate of exchange, after satisfying
themselves as to the source of such U.S. dollars. Except for military or au-
thorized personnel, no requests by holders of yen currency or deposits, for the
exchange of such currency or deposits for U.S. dollars or eny foreign currency
or foreign exchange, will be allowed except in accordance with official exchange
regulations promulgated by you after notification to and approval by the Joint
Chiefs of Staff.
8. The Financial Division of the Civil Affairs Section for Japen will in-
clude in its functions the control of all funds to be used by your forces within
the area other than U.S. dollars, the disposal of which will be under the control
of Army Finance Officers and Navy Diebursing Officers of your forces. It will
maintain such accounts end records as are necessary to indicate the supply, con-
trol and movement of all currencies including U.S. dollars if used, and other
funds, as well ae finencial data required for the determination of expenditures
erising out of operations and activities involving participation of your military
"TRIO DOCUMENT COFTAINS IBVOSNLATION
forces.
SPPBOPIEG THE HATLONL DEFENSN OF THE
UMITED STATEC BITBLA THE:ANIBG OF TOB
BF ONAGE AU. B. C. 50: 31 d 82. 
IB PROHBITED . LA.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
a. In so far as operations relate to the provision of yen currencies
for the pay end other cash requirements of military and naval components of your
forces, the Financial Division will supply supplemental yen or regalar yen our-
rency from currency on hand, and will record the debit against the military and
naval forces concerned.
b. In so far as operations relate to the provision of yen currensies
for civil administration, the Financial Division will supply supplementary yen
or regular yen currency from currency on hand and will record the debit against
the appropriate Japanese authority, edministration, or agency.
c. The records of the Binancial Division will indicate in all cases the
currency in which receipts were obtained or disbursements made by the Finanoial
Division.
9. When satisfied that eny bank or other financial institution is under
adequate control and supervision, you may use such bank or other financial in-
stitution for official business. You may designate under direct military control
branch
and eupervision the Bank of Japan, or any bank thereof, or any other suitable
bank, as agent for the Finencial Division of the Civil Affairs Section. It is
not anticipated that you will make credits available to the Bank of Japan or any
other bank. However, if in your opinion, such action becomes essential, you
should report the facts to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for further instructions.
10. You will put into effect the following financial controls:
a. Pending determination of future disposition, all gold, foreign cur-
rency, foreign securities, accounts in financial institutions, credits, valuable
papers and all similer assets held by or on behalf of the following will be im-
pounded or blocked end will be used or otherwise dealt with only as permitted
under licenses or other instructions which you mey issue:
(1) Jepanese national, state, provincial, and local governments,
and agencies end instrumentalities thereof.
(2) Other enemy governments, the egencies and instrumentalities
thereof, and their nationals.
(3) Owners and holders, including nentral and United Nations Goverm-
ments or national authorities, absent from the areas of Japan
under your control.
SECHET

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
(4) All persons, political organisations and societies regarded
as hostile or dangerous to military security.
(5) Persons under detention or other types of custedy  the mill-
tary authorities.
b. No governmental or private bank or ageney will be authorised to issme
bank notes or currency except that you may so authorise the Bank of Japan whem it
is under adequate military control and mupervision.
c. No military pensions (except for physical disability limiting the
pensioner's ability to work) shall be paid.
1l. You should put into effect only such further financial measures as you
deem necessary for military reasons. Accordingly, you may at your discretion
take the following steps:
a. Place banks under such control as you deem necessary to insure that
adequate facilities for military needs will be provided and that instructions
and reguletions issued by military authorities will be fully complied with.
Banks should be closed only long enough to introduce satisfactory control,to
remove objectionable pereonnel, and to issue instructions for the determination
of accounts to be blocked under paragraph l0a above.
b. Close all stock exchanges end similar financial institutfens, for
such period as you deem necessary.
c. Issue a proclamation prohibiting or prescribing regulations regard-
ing transfer or other dealings in real estate and securities.
12. Basic accounting instructions, supplemental to the foregoing directive,
are contained in Annex "A" hereof.
"TRIS DOCOMENT COSTAINS IÉPOMMATIOB
APFECTING THE BAT: ON L Do EBSS OP THE
UNITED STATFC W THIN THE ANING OP TE
BSI OACE AU. 9. C. 50: 31 and . 
TRANSMS.UN C: THE REVELA: ITB CO
TENTS I ABY MANNER TO/V UNAUTNORIED
PEROOS 1S BROBLDITAD B. LAS."
SPCHET

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.84)
SICREI
DRAFT
DUEASCIAL DIUSCTIVE JOH HILITASY COTRDCNT DH JARAN
1. Yom vill use applementary military yen (type "p) fesmed puromeme to
military preelamation (hereinafter roferred to ss mapplemental pem) mmd pegeler
yem curreney in your poseession. Xoguler yen curreney will inelnde umrsemsiee
which cre nou lagul tender in the aroa. upplemsatal yem vill be dealered legal
tender mad will be interohangeeble at par withont distinetlen with rognlar yem
currencles. Fecords will x topt of the nmoumt of such correncies used by your
foroes.
2. Jepnn se nilitary yon iseued for ciroulation in territories comupied
 the Jponrae will not bo lognl tonder wahin ingma me will met be eeeptatle
nor interchan eable with sopplopontel yon or regmler yen ourreneies.
3. ror military renoons, you will hvve the right at all times to wee regaler
or lavellen werice .. collere. You will. hxwaver. mvotd the uan of egalar
or lvallen seriee V.s. dollers whenaver osalble nd will recort to thelr ase
only in ocergencies.
4. If it ls found nocessary to ue romlar or Hewnlion sories U.s. dollare, the
followlm: provisione will p ly to such ee
a. A proclomction will e Ssmme regnirine 1l pereone to pecopt the
repuler or rmalien peris.. collars at the cstsbliuhed date. ransmetiems
at eny osber reto will be prohibited.
b. The leenance of romalar or Beveiien cerlee .. collere will coase
and sup lepental yen ond regulr yon cuurrencies wil! e iasued in their pleme
ns soon ns ossible.
e. ppmler or mwailan serieo U.s. collare will be withormm from eis
culetion as coon as such vitlvirewel cen he eetisfoctorily nocompliebed.
d. ocorte will be hept of the mmount of rogular end Hmmiien soriee
.. oliars weed by your forces.
5. U.. collars (exmopt e provided in pereeraphs 3 end 4) will mot 
permitted to cireulnte in the crea. If yom conaider it mivieable, you mey reguire
ell lholcere of .s. dollare (unlese it is found mecessary to sntherime smir wee
"TRIS DOOUMENT CONTAINS INVORNATION
APPECTING THE BATION:L DEESSE OP THE
OBITED STATFS  THIA THE ANIEG OP THB
BSr 0NA E 0. 8. C. 50: 31 and 2. 
TRANSN.C THE REVELAPITO OO

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.82)
SECRET
parsuant to paregraphe à cnd 4) ond all leeal heldere ef seld eein and tiltaés
farelgm sxshenge, foreign curreney vtateh is met legml tecfiee ta the seen, an
forelg sesurities to daposit cgainst sppropriate ressipe all er past of thmte
holdings of sush property mter meh terms ond concitions as yom deem advientle.
the subeequent dimposition of, or ptoment for, suoh depesite to bo a metter of
lator polioy cetermimetion  the Jolnt Chiefe of Staff.
6. he previsional rate of exciange te e used exekmsively fer pey f
nilitary and aaval persoanel snd for military and navel asccuntins perpesss will
be _ mupplementel yen, nd/or rogular yon ourrenoy, to the 8.s. dollar.
Frenemcttene at aay other rate vill be prohibited. A cemesel rete of erabange
ney te urniahed to you leßer.
7. All foreim finanolel transactions of any kind, ineluding all experts
and importo of murreney rnd seeurities, will be prahibited, oxeept as pemmitted
under rgclations you poy losne. Ary Finence Officere end Navy Dlebarsing
fficere ay. however. bo cthorised to eecopt .S. collere frem pereoanel of
your forces, ond from other sutiorized ersonnel, for comversien into supplemental
umd/or roguler yan corrency t thn establishod rate of ezohenge, after matletying
thomealvos en to the wouroe of much .. dollere. scopt for military or 
thorimod pereonnel. no repe te  inlders of yen carrenay or depeelte. for the
exchanre of suah currency or de neite for U. . ollore or y foreln curreney
or forelen exchwnse, vill e allowed enet in cccorlence with offieinl emabeng
rogel tlons romlgted  you after notifieation to é approvel iy the Jotat
chiefe of tosf.
8. The Inenotal ivietem of the ivll Affairs ection for Japen vill in
alade in its fnctione the control of all fumes to be ueed by your foroes withis
the oren other than .. sollare, the ciupocal of whieh will be uader the control
of Army FAnance fficers m Sevy Meburains Cfficere of your foroen. It will
acintain much nccounts and rocorde ns re poceasary te Indieate the mapply, eom
trol ond veveent of ell curreneies incluin U.. collare if need, end ethes
funte, cc woll ef fimameial dato roquired for the determination of expenditmres
crieing cut of o erations nd antivities involving partlcicatten of your malleasy
PCHIS DOOUMENT COSTAIBB IMPORSATIUB
foroes.
APVROTING TEL NATIORIL DE: ENSE OF THE
ULITED STATF  THIE THE ANING OU T
U. 8. C. 60; 31  2. 
ONAE
1T8 005
ATHEREVELA
1 ROBITRD  LA.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.84)
SECRET
. in s far as eperatione relate àe the previeem of ye maés
for the pat ad other cash roquireente of militasy é mvd epeste ef ye
furees, the Finsmcial ivisien vill mply pplomeatal yem or segiee m s
reacy fron currency on iond, m will reeord the debit agatmst the militesy mé
noval foress compermed.
b. In o fer ae operatione relste to the provisiom of yon cusvemsiee
for elvil ministration, the Finaneial Vivieton vill wapply wapplememtasy yn
or regular yen cnrrenay from curreaey on hand cad will poeovd the debée agaimet
(the eppropriate Jmpanese anthori. cuministration, er cemay.)
c. The records of the Vinaseisl tvision will indieate in all cmsee e
currenay in whieh reosipte wore obtained os disbursocente meée by the Vimemsdal
ivision.
inqo
9. then catisfied that cry beak or other finanetnl institmslem is mder
adeguate control sar mmyervision, you ny uso enah benk or other flmmmaial is
stitution for offletel businoe". You may Gestgn so wmner direot militasy contrel
branch
and supervielo the Bok of Jan, or ny tank thereof, or aay other maitale
Senk, as sgons for the inengtel ivision of the ivil Affalre Sectiom. It is
not antlaipated thaß ou will wake crenite eveiloble to the unk of Japas or 
ciher bank. owmver, if in your opinion, nsh ction boenmes essential, you
abould reyort the foots to tho Jolnt Chiefs of  taff for further imstrmetieme.
10. Tou will ut inso cffect the fellowing finemelal controlel
. en in determintion of ftre clepeaislon. ell reld, forei 
emcy, forelen seeuritics, sccoum'e in fimnncial inetisutione, orodite, valmable
pepore snd ell vimiler cecete held y or on belelf of the following will be im
pounded or tlocked nd will he nsed or otherwiee deelt  ith only cn permitted
under liconses or other inatruesione which you y iseue!
(1) Japunese nntional, state, provincial, ond loeal covernmente,
and ganaiee crd insérmmentelities thereof.
(2) ( ther onery governmonte, the egenotes end inotremeatelsties
theroef, cae their netionels.
(3) Uwners and holdore, Including nentral snd Uaited Ratleas Gevesm
monte or netienel nthorities, ebsont from the areas of Japam
under your contsol.
SECHET

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.84)
SECRET
(4) All pereons, pelisieal orgemisatiens mmd sosieties megistel
as heatile or dangerous to military eecurity.
(5) Pereone mder dotontion or other wpes af custedy  the mill
tary mutherisies.
b. Ho govermmental or private baak or agoney will bo muthsrised to isme
bank notes or currenay exoapt thet yon may so cuthosime the Sonk of Japem when ss
te under miequate military control nnd mapervision.
c. Tio military pensione (exeept for phrateal cimmbility limistns the
pemsioner's ability to vork) uhall be pad.
11. You chould put into of eet only moh further fimmmeial memswes as yom
demn meceeaary for nilitary reecons. Accordingly. von may at your dlemrwtism
takn the fellovine steps:
. lace banke wnler much control s vou conm necesenry to inenre thmt
adequcte facilitiee for military neede vill no provided end that instrmetioms
and ulotlons lesmed by militry uthorities vil? be fully complled with
Hanks ahoald be closed only lon" enouch to introduce setisfnetory contrel, to
romove objeetionable personcel,  to isme inctructions for the cet mieation
of mecounte to be blocked mder parogreph l0n phove.
b. Close all stock exahenrss end simllor finaneiel iastitatiena, for
suah period ns ymm deum neoossary.
c. Issue a proclomation rohibitiny or prescribing rogulations regaré
img srensfer or othor dealings in reel cstate and ceourities.
12. Hasic accoumtin: imstrnctiono, mp lomentel to ths forogoing Airootive.
are contained in Annex "" hereof.
THIS DOODUET COSTAINS INVORNAPION
AWVBOTIRG THL NATION L DENENSE OF THE
ONITED STATE  TOLN THS ANING OF THE
U. 8. C. 50: 31 and 32. 2
ITS 00
BEr OVA
THE REVELA.
TRAHN
NAUBL
PTO IN ANY M
PERO I IID : LAO."
SECKET

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Chungking, China, January 30, 1945
RESTRICTED
FEB
41945
No. 108.
2 Oss
5
October 28, 1944 issue of Toyo
Keizai (Oriental Economist), Tokya. 
山
C
2/23D
5
3
iU
71945
2r
The Ambassador has the
condensed
trhslation by the American Coordinated Translation Center
894.51/1-3045
he of an article on inflation in Japan which appeared
i
the October 28, 1944 issue of the Tokyo Toyo Keizai
(oriental Economist). According to this article, the
total yen note circulation in Japan at the end of
September 1944 showed un increase of 92 percent over
the corresponding total curing the last 10 days of
DOR/C
September 1943. It is slso stated that total unsub-
scribed bonds held by the Bank of Japan at the end of
September 1944 reached the significant total of
Yen 9,530,000,000.
Enclosure:
Ozalid original to the Lepartment.
850-J
CHB/mcl
141945
CS
DOR
口
GA

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
DC/Rbile
WAR DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF
CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION
WASHINGTON 25
27 Jan 45
DISTRIBUTION
JAN 2 9 1945
MEMORANDUM FOR Mr. H. Freeman Matthews
OFFICE
Director of European Affairs
State Department
SUBJECT: Basic Accounting Instructions (Supplemental to
Financial Directive for Military Government in Japan)
There is inclosed herewith, for comments, copy of draft
accounting instructions, dated 26 January 1945, on the above
subject.
PCL
11945
894.51/1-2745
Incl
J. H. HILLDRING
as above
Major General
Director, Civil Affairs Division
lhas KKadeo
CHAS. L. KADES
Lt. Colonel, GSC
Asst. Executive
x
40
"THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INPORMATION
APPECTING THE NATIOKL DE-ENSS OF PHE
894.51
3722m
UNITED STATE WITOIN II NING OP THB
ESF ONA :E A U. 8. C. 50: 31 Snd 32. THE
TRANSM.SS.U. O: THE REVELA.
 ITS COB
TESTS IN ANY MA GERUNAUPHORIRED
PERSO IS PROHIBITED D. LAW.
FEB1-1950
FILED
SECRET
S

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.94)
 BOCUN? CORTAINS ION
LITDATIHEANIP
26 Jan 45
EF CA :EU. 8.C. 50: 31 .
 MN
 18 R 1 L
BASIC ACCOUTITING INSTRUCTIONS
(Supplemental to Financial Directive)
1. Your Civil Affairs Section for Jepan will be so organised as to provide
for:
a. Centralized control of accounts and records of the Civil Affairs
Section.
b. Uniformity of accounting policies end procedures for the Civil Affairs
Section.
c. Appropriate supervision of major financial functions in such a
manner as to assure reasonable internal controls and safeguards, including the
separation of accounting controls from the function of handling cash.
2. The Civil Affairs Sction should, in so fer as practicale, incorporate
in its procedure standerds of personal accountability and personal responsibility
equivalent to those applicable to the militery and naval components of your forees.
3. You sh uld keep eppropriate centralized records of ell yen curreney made
aveilable to you by the Treasury Depertment or from other sources, for either
military or civil administration purposes. The emounts which you so receive
should be currently reported to the Wer and avy Department, as the case may be;
theo War or Novy Depertment will in turn report to the Treasury Department. All
yen currency required in the rea by your forces, ither for military or civil
administration purposes, will be obtained from the Financial Division of your
Civil Affairs Section for Jupan.
4. Yen currency advanccd by the Finencial Division of tho Civil Affairs
Section for Japan to army and navy disbursing officers will be evidenced by
receipts. In r spect to each advance for tho purpose of making such expenditures
in the area as are chargeable to War or Navy Department appropriations. the
Financial Division of the Civil Affeirs Section for Jepan will report the details
thereof by radio to the War or Navy Department, as the case may be which will
in turn report to the Treasury Department. In eddition, cach disbursing officer
receiving advances for such purposes will submit an independent report by radio
of the amount received by him to the War or Navy Department, as the case may be.
SPCRET

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
For your information, upon receipt of these reperts the War or Mavy Departmemt
will authorise the Treasury Department to reduce the cfficial cheeking account
balance of the disbursing officer concerned by the dollar equivalent of the 
ported advance at the established rate of exchange, end to set aside the sme
amount in an carmarked account.
5. On expenditure, the relevant Var or Navy Depertment appropriation will
be charged for the dollar cquivalent, at the established rate of exchange, of
such yen expenditures es normally would be charged to such appropriation if the
expenditures were made in dollars.
6. Yen expenditures in the area by your militery end naval forees, other
than expenditures outlined in poregreph 5 above, will he made without charg
to War or Havy Department approprintions. Advances of yen curreney for the pur-
pose of such expenditures will be effected without equivalent dollar amounts being
set aside in earmarked accounts by the Treasmury Department.
7. Receipts will be required from all officers or organizations receiving
advances of yen currency from the Financial Division of the Civil Affairs Section
for Japen.
8. The Financial Division will maintain records as to the sources and
distribution of any funds, currency, or finencial assets acquired or confiscated
by your forces from any source vithin the crea except from prisoners of war.
9. Control accounts of the Civil Affairs Section for Japan should be main
tained in terms of yen. If currencies other then yen re involved. they will be
recorded in temms of yen at the csteblished rate of exchange, but the accounting
records will provide for identification and segregation of all such currencies.
Identification and segregetion will not be roquircd as between supplemental mill-
tary yen currency and regular yen currencies, excopt as may be necessary in the
accounts which pertain to the issuance end circulation of supplemental military yom.
10. If it is found nacessary to use roguler or Hawaiian Series U.S. dollare.
any transfer of such currencies acquired by your Civil Affairs Section for Japan
to army or navy isbursing officers will be identified in the accounting records
in terms of U.S. dollars as well as in the yen equivalent.
4 1l. To supplement hasic accounting records of your Civil Affairs Section
for Japen relative to its operations, in such manner as to provide over-all data
2

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.96)
GECRET
of an essential nature pertinent to intergovernmental settlement of costs arising
out of operations and activities within the area involving the participatiom
of your forces, you will require appropriate headquarters and other componemts
of your forces to furnish the Financial Division of the Civil Affairs Section for
Japan with periodic, preferably monthly, summary reports of available information
pertaining to their expenditures in the arca for military, as distinguished from
civil administration purposes, segregating their expenditures on account of:
a. Pay of troops, i.e., that portion of pay retained by personnel of
your forces for local expenditures.
b. Services and supplies obtained within the area.
12. Provision will be made, within the framework of the Civil Affairs
Section for Japan for a continuing and current audit to the extent practicable,
of accounts, funds, assets and sup orting evidance by personnel who will be in-
dependent of custody ef oustody of funds, supplies, assets, accounts and support-
ing evidence. As soon as you deem such adion practicable, it is intended to pro-
vide for a further audit of the accounts of your Civil Affairs Section for Japan
by an agency outside of the Civil Affairs Section and of completely independent
status. This egency and the extent of such outside independent audit will be
designated by the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
13. As soon as practicable, you vill furnish the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
for the Treasury, War and Navy Departments, with the following periodic, preferably
monthly, reports:
a. Belance sheets of the Financial Division, Civil Affairs Section for
Japan and such supporting schedules as may be appropriate.
b. Statements of receipts. expenditures and advances of funds by the
Financial Division of the Civil Affairs Section for Japan, classifying:
(1) the receipts as fully as practicable according to
(a) source, i.e., from whom received.
(b) type of currency, and
"TNIO DOOONEST CONTAINS IWFONNATION
(c) character
APPECTIDG THE A: N L Or N:E OF PHB
(2) the expenditures and
TRANS.SS.ONC:THE REVELA. ITS COS
(a) recipient,
BTS I ANY MAINSR ): ONAULNORISED
(c) type of currenoy.
SECHEI

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.92)
SECKET
In the case of advances for purposes which are chargeable to apprepriatiens,
this report need shew only the total sms advanced to aray and to navy disbureing
offieers, and the type of currenay.
c. Ourranoy statement showing amounts of supplemental military yen
ourreney received, issued, stroyed and outstanding.
14. Yon will maintain the following records relative to supplies for eivilim
use coming under your control:
a. A quantitative record, by commodity, of supplies received by you
for civilian use from the U.S. Government.
b. A quantitative record, by commodity, of all supplies issmed b you
for civilian use, including supplies issued from military stocks. These recerds
will include supplies issued es direct relief. Appropriate receipts, concerning
each issue of supplies, will be obtrined from the approved indigenous distribating
organizations and, in the abcence of such organizations, eppropriate certifics-
tion will be required of a representative of the U.S. forces.
c. A record of the quantity end cost of civilian supplies feceived by
you tirough local purchases.
d. Money velue records of proceeds of sales of civilian supplies.
c. A record of the quantity end cost of exports, by commodity.
"THIS DOCDMEET CONTAINS INPOMMATION
APFECTIBG TBR WAI. ON.L DE HNE OF THE
UBITED BTATEC  THIN IHS ANIJO OP THE
 NGE A0. . C. 0: 31 .
TRASSA.SS.ON CI THE REVELA.: ITO 
PS 1 AY NANNR O NAUE
EO 18 ROGAID . LAS.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.94)
BSe
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Chungking, China, January 30, 1945
RESTRICTED
FEB
41945
No. 108.
2 0ss
31915J0
5
4
October 28, 1944 issue of Toyo
R
Keizai (Oriental Economist), Tokya.
E
5
2/23
DHB
71945
2
FEB 1 7 1945
The Ambassador has the
condensed
t
hslation by the American Coordinated Translation Center
894.51
he of an article on inflation in Japan which appeared
i
the October 28, 1944 issue of the Tokyo Toyo Keizai
(oriental Economist). According to this article, the
1/1-3045
total yen note circulation in Japan at the end of
September 1944 showed un increase of 92 percent over
the corresponding total curing the last 10 days of
DOR/O
September 1943. It is slso stated that total unsub-
Drrk
scribed bonds held by the Bank of Japan at the end of
September 1944 reached the significant total of
Yen 9,530,000,000.
Enclosure:
Ozalid original to the Lepartment.
850-J
CHB/mcl
141945
CS/D
DOR

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
(Enclosure to despatch no. 108, January 30, 1945)
(from the American Embassy at Chungking, China )
RESTRICTED
(Condensed translation by American Coordinated
Translation Center, Chungking, of article from
October 28, 1944 issue of Toyo Keizai (Oriental
Economist), Tokyo. Paragranhs in quotation
marks are full translations while the rest of
the article is summarized.)
INFLATION
"Nowadays people are talking about inflation and it
is true that there is a marked inflation in the notes of
the Bank of Japan. At the end of September the note issue
reached the large sum of Yen 13,730,000,000. This is an
increase of Yen 1,090,000,000 over the weekly average of
Yen 12,640,000,000 during the 1ast 10 days of August.
The weekly average for the last 10 days of September
1943 was Yen 7,130,000,000; therefore, the present figure
is an increase of Yen 6,600,000,000 over the same period
of last year. In other words, there is an actual increase
of 92 percent."
"In addition to this monthly inflation there is a
tendency towards lowering the rate at which notes return
to the Bank of Japan which is making us take notice. That
is to say, the inflation notes issued at the end of the
month do not easily flow back to the Bank at the beginning
of the next month. Thus there is a tendency to let the
inflated notes remain in circulation. If this situation
continues to the end of the year, I (who not stated) am
afraid there will be an unusual inflation."
"The process of this inflation, it goes without saying,
begins with the swelling of public expenditure and the
dispersal of government capital. The overall dispersal of
government capital is inareasing month by month and year by
year. In the past the government capital was quickly
furnished by the purchase of bonds, But this has slowed
down recently. The bonds which are still unsubscribed and
which remain with the Bank of Japan are accumulating. Not
only that, but the money lent out by the Bank of Japen for
the purpose of forced subscription of bonds is also increas-
ing. At the end of September the Bank of Japan had on hand
Yen 9,530,000,000 of unsubscribed bonds. At the same time
the money lent out by the Bank of Japan reached the large
sum of Yen 5,610,000,000. This sum may well tell half of
the story of the inflation in the notes of the Bank of
Japan."
The reasons for inflation or the causes of inflation
are entirely natural. It is a part of wartime economic
life. The rate of production increase does not run parallel
with the rate of inflation. The price of goods is naturally
increasing. A sum of money allocated for a certain production
does

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
does not result in im ediate production. Money given to
military supply production necessarily goes into the
hands of civilians who will spend the money for their own
needs or will return the money to the Bank in the form of
savings. With the high cost of living, more money is
needed in the market. Furthermore people are reserving
some of the cash on hand for emergency needs in case of
air raids.
The solutions to these problems are:
1. Be stricter and more careful in the use of
government carital;
2. Pay more attention to how the money is used
and watch where it is going and how it is
being spent;
3. Make sure of a just and eyuitable distribution
of income.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.93)
894.51/2-1045
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Submits information regarding two new series of
government bonds issued in Norway.
894.5
ju
1)
C1
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Agm #259
See
7
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Dated
Feb. 10,1945
Bern
xTax
File No.
857.51/2-1045

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.94)
wwB
LEGAL ADVISED
Frle wup
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
FEB 28 1945
WASHINGTON
25
LE
Tohe
In reply please
refer to:
81003
FEP 101945
SNCLVO
EEVED
5
file
STATE
Attention: Mr. W.H. Reeves
894.51/2-
Dear Sirs:
HOK
Enclosed is a copy of a letter from the Honorable
Alexander Viley with a copy of e letter from one of his
constituents, Mr. Cherles R. Woods, containing an in
1945
quiry concerning Japanese and German bonds. Since the
Inquiry relates to claims it is being forwarded to you
together with a copy of our reply.
Yours v ry truly,
L. C. Aarons
Acting Director
CS/D
State Department
Washington, D.C.
FILED
io
Enclosures
H
FOPVICTORY
BUY
DOR LO U
UNITED
WAR
BONDS
AND
STAMPS

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
C
80678
0
UNITED STATES SENATE
P
Y
January 18, 1945
Honorable Henry Morgenthau, Jr..
Secretary of the Treasury
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Secretery:
I am attaching a letter and enclosure from Mr.
Charles R. Woods, 46-15th Street, Fond du Lac, Wisconsin,
concerning his inquiry regarding Japanese end German bonds.
With the return of the enclosed correspondence,
will you kindly let me have a report in duplicate which I
may transmit to Mr. Woode and oblige.
Sincerely,
/S/ Alexander Wiley
Alexander Wiley
ml
incl.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
C
0
P
46-15th St.
Y
Fond du Lac, Wisc.
Jan. 15th 1945
Hon. Alexnader Wiley,
U. S. Senator
Washington, D.C.
Dear Senator Wiley:
I am again writing you regarding the bonds, Japanese
and German, left in my fathers estate totaling somewhere around
$35,000.
The inclosed letter from Mr. Gamble will show that some
thought is being given to this matter.
What claims if any have been placed egainst Foreign Funds
and essets -- could you find out? Do you think it worth while
looking into at this time?
Do you not agree that a bond is si milar to a mortgage
and is firt claim against a government.
Also this is important --- Do you think you coul get a
list of the Foreign Bond holders that is American citizens who hold
alien enemy bonds. I know thay have a list as we had to declare
th:t we owred these bonds and that they were not registered in a
Foreign country. If it is possible to obtein this list and it
should be available to ar American citizen. I will send you a list
of the issues I am interested in
Very truly.
/S/ Charles R. Woods
Please return for my files.
A.W.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
C
0
P
Y
September 15, 1944
Dear Mr. Woods:
Reference is made to your letter of September ?.
1944, giving a short description of a plan to sell more
War Bonds.
The plan which your propose is, briefly, for this
Goveriment to assume the bonded debt enemy countries
owe to citizens of the United States and to pay the
accrued interest and principal of that debt out of the
German-owned assets in the United States which are
either plocked by the Treasury under Executive Order
8389 as  mended, or are vested by the Alien Property
Custodian.
There are two major difficulties with your plan.
First, Congress has not vet ecided upon the policy with
resrect to the post-war disposition of enely-owned assets
in the Uniter States; anr, second, the total assets owned
in Germany and claims asserted against Germany by United
Stotes exceeds considerably the German-owned
as=ets in the Uniter States.
This Departnent coul not embark upon a progrem such
as you sugrest until  ft-r Congression: 1 policy has been
cecided. Furthermore, in view of the disn rtiy in total
as-ets, to do rs you suggest woula be to giver prefer-
entiel treatment to certai rouns insofar as their
rights against Germany are concerned.
Sincerely yours,
Ted R. Gomble
National Director
War Finance Division

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
25
FEB 19 194%
La reply please
refer te: 80678
My dear Semateri
Reference is made to your letter of January 18, 1945, ad
enclosed correspomdence from Mr. Charles R. Woods of Fond du Lae.
Wissonsin.
In reply to Mr. Woods' inquiries, it is suggested that he
be informed that this Department has not established any procedure
for the receipt of claims against blocked property. It is the
practice of this Department to refer inquiries relating to alaims
to the Department of State and accordingly. we are referring a
copy of Mr. Woods' inquiry and your letter, to that Department with
a copy of our reply.
Although the cenous of forsign property conducted on Form
TFR-500 by this Department does mot constitute a registry of claims.
there is enclosed for Mr. Woods' information a copy of the latest
compilation of statistics from the reports. The purposes of the
census are set forth in an Article which appeared in the July 10.
1943 issue of Foreien Conmerce Weeklx. a copy of which is alse en-
closed.
A list of United States citizens holding bonds of enemy countries,
such as Mr. Woods requests, has not been compiled. The information
necessary to prepare such a list would have to be taken from the re-
ports on Form TFR-500 on file with this Department. Because of the
confidential nature of these reports, this Department has comsistently
mintmined a policy of denying requests for information concerning
them from persons other than the reporters themselves.
Yours very truly.
(Signed) Herbert E. Gaston
Aoting
Secretary of the Treasury
Honorable Alexander Wiley
United States Senate
Eaclosures

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
25
Nb 19.19
In reply refer to
Le 894.51/2-1945
My dear Senator wiley:
894.51/
Reference is made to your letter of January 18,
1945 to the Seoretary of the Treasury and to the
correspondence enclosed therewith from Mr. Charles R.
Woods of Fond du Lao, wisconsin, regarding German and
Japanese bonds in his father's estate, and to the reply
datea February 19, 1945 signed by the Aoting Seoretary
of the Treasury. As was stated in that reply the
Treasury Department has referred to this Department a
copy of your letter and Mr. Woods' inquiry, together
with a copy of the Treasury Department's reply.
5
In so far as Mr. woods' letter suggests the possi-
bility that the Government of the United States might
take up the matter of the bonds at the present time, it
may be said that the Department does not ordinarily under-
take to interoede with foreign governments on behalf of
Amerioan nationals who have purohased the bonds of such
governments. It is to be noted, moreover, that Mr.
Woods does not etate whether the bonds have matured or
that there is any indication that there will be a default
upon maturity. Furthermore, it is not possible under
exlsting oiroumstenoes to take up with enemy countries
olaime whioh may be found to be valid, nor oan the
Department state when suoh a course may become praetie-
able. Nevertheless, 1f Mr. Woods desires to furnish the
89.
Department information conoerning the bonds, such infor-
mation will be made of record in the Department for such
future consideration as may be appropriate.
The Department
The Honorable
2-1945
Alexander wiley,
United States Senate.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
The Department is suggesting to Ameriean mationals
who have property in enemy territory that they submit to
it statements regarding suoh property along the lines
indicated in the enolosed memorandum dated Mareh 20, 1942.
The filing of suoh statements is not to be regarded as
the filing of formal diplomatio olaims, but sueh imfoma-
tion may be useful in connection with any post-wmr efforts
to protect American interests. If Ur. Woods wishes to
submit to the Department a statement concerning the bonds,
he might well be guided by the enelosed memorandum, in so
far as it is applicable. The information supplied should
inolude the identification and desoription of the bonds,
their face value and their purohase price, the fasts con-
cerning their aoguisition by Mr. Woods' father and con-
cerning their devalution upon the latter's death, the last
payment of interest made on the bonds and how and when
Amerioen oitizenship was aoquired by Mr. woods, by his
father, and by any other persone who have previously owmed
the bonds or to whom they may have passed upon the father's
death.
Sincerely yours,
Dean Ee
Acting Secretary
Enclosure:
Memorandum
Maroh 20, 1942.
hUB
3/5/45
51人
MAR
945

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.94)
25
Mereh 19, 199
In reply refer to
L0 894.51/2-1945
094.51/2-1945
The Acting Seoretary of State presents his compli-
ments to the Seoretary of the Treasury and refers to a
letter of February 19, 1945 (Reference 81003), s1gned
by the Acting Direotor of the Foreign Funds Control
Division of the Treasury Department, transmitting a
copy of a letter from Senator wiley and a oopy of a
letter to Senator Wiley from Mr. Charles R. Woods, regard-
ing German and Japanese bonds. A copy of the Department's
reply to Senator wiley 1s transmitted herewith.
Enclosure:
894.511
To Senator wiley,
DCR - ECA Unit
80
2
W:Boist
1945
C
Le:WWB:HR
3/5/45
C
MAR
540

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.92)
894.51/3-145
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Inforne nine large anks in Iokyo, Osaka and Iagoya
ert to corsolideted.
ruc/ah
894.51/3-145
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
a #353
(Dospatch, telegram, inciruction, letter, otc.)
From! Bern
Datedarc 1,
To.
962.51/7-145
File No.
1-1540
F

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.88)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
ε94.51/3-2345
SUBJECT
Letter from J. T. Ruche ccncernin pussibility cf realizing
on his investments in Germany and Japan.
二：
fp
上
33
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
otちer
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, lotter, stc.)
Dated
1rch ,15
From
mes . rray USS.
To
File No.
E62.51 Bundheluers/3-2345
U. 8. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICK 1—1540

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.76)
Un. Claylon-
Yon will he ntrets
in thr Toopont of a
conversatin heliveen tm.
frew t Un. Monganlhun.
Phemo ploued lhe pand an
OFE.
Jo

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.95)
SAD
A-C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Telephone
3A
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE:
June 25, 1945
3.31
SUBJECT: Directive on Japan
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
W. L. CLAYTON
PARTICIPANTS: Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Henry
Morgenthau, Jr.;
JUN 2 7 1945
Acting Seoretary, Mr. Grew
A-C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
COPIES TO: S; SA/WP; A-A; A-C; FE; JA
894.
epe
1-1408
Secretary Morgenthau telephoned this morning to say
that under what was known as an "Informal Committee for
5
Germany", headed by Mr. Clayton as chairman, we got out
what everybody seemed to think was a pretty good directive.
He said he understood that there was now a group, not
9.
headed by Clayton, getting out a directive on Japan,
1
and that the Treasury Department, as well as the State
2
Department, was wholly on the outside. Mr. Morgenthau
54
said that the Treasury Department had a real interest in
this directive and he would appreciate it if I would make
9
some inquiries about the matter.
I told Seoretary Morgenthau that the directive was not
yet in final form and there would perhaps be modifications
before it was sent out anywhere. I inquired if there was
a financial angle in it, to which Mr. Morgenthau replied
that there was a financial angle in all of these questions
once we begin to occupy these countries, adding that the
Army has a strong finance section. Mr. Morgenthau said
that Treasury had been in on the direotive for Germany
and also on the one for Austria, and he wondered now why
they were being excluded regarding Japan. Secretary
Morgenthau said that they would like to get in on these
things
FLH
2545
liev
Ced.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
things while they were still in the formative period.
To an inquiry of Mr. Morgenthau as to why Clayton was
not chairman of the group on Japan, I told him that
Mr. Clayton was not conversant with the Japanese situa-
tion, and that in order to solve all the problems re-
lating to this bituation, it was necessary to know all
about conditions in Japan, the psychology of the people
and all the rest of it.
I told Mr. Morgenthau that this matter would have
to be passed by our Staff Committee in the Department.
before we submitted it to anyone else. Mr. Morgenthau
said that he and his assistants would like to have a
look at it before it was too late. I said that nothing
had as yet crystallized and that the question would have
to be put to the War and Navy Departmants. I added that
we would let him have a look at the paper in due course.
1.0.
Joseph C. Grew
U JCG:MA

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.79)
4E
46-15.
Fond du Fic Win
Le farhman o stali
Uasnington D. C.
Sencter Wilay, uuB
ntlem
891.81/8.345
094.51
I in prranding mfomation as umdicalid
 wetter on r  partnt outten
894.5
Ito Senaton Wrie by Dean acheron,datio
Thanan 19ih 1945.
1/7
Iam reguesting timo ction on te
1.7
in hsleu
n l g avi 
g
 so-tm cosicen on amagee
goot nson (onitside or pociticn) why
2
9

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.69)
Wihane mo th sigh to te nennitused
I am hohe the Tniasury de fartmant ai
wais. the dicken with m in 1943
unfaid tat taper.  cont worh sull
hine I tatn a that i all I hans
hirm athe to jo".
I sh that ioreigm Junch
Ith1tonto le aair.
n tevent non, do a  wither relsase
In mom, for the touch a pa walre
re-hn it s ie imonn 
vsone indio. id , the tn de to
 omen h a fuu
i id- m a clmall isniting
Tmeign sontioled ny in m,
innA -trndhThronsa d - cmenican
i smal aver ton  on at tas ttirrtection.
ot pd pitng
'mswtat tihe a
Thin weat n
Charter t Uoods

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY-FGS
46 - 15th St.
Fond du Lac, Wisc.
July 26th, 45.
Hon. Alexander Wiley,
Senatorial Office Bldg.,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Senator Wiley:
On March 2lst you wrote me a letter with enclosures
from the State Dept. Under clip I am sending letter to
State Department and answering such questions as pertain
to my case.
I have been trying to get Mr. A. T. Brenner, the
present Trustee to write a letter, but no success, guess
he don't get anything but grief and therefore is not
interested. Althaigh he might have written you separately re
this matter. Is that possible?
I am enclosing a clipping from Colliers magazine.
I cannot see why we are not entitled to protection and
also why we cannot file a claim or lien against the frozen
funds. My belief is that we are merely getting or making
certain that these governments are forced to complete their
transactions. If you investigate you will also find that
our Government appointed Dawes and Young to O.K. these German
loans making it all the more reasonable to expect their help.
Please look over the material I sent the State Dept. I
am very hard-up as I cannot work the way I used to. I have
requested if possible to release the over-due interest money.
To go back to an early letter of yours in which you said
that only newspaper people could get names of German and
Japanese bond-holders - You can see what a pressure it would
be to get others to help us by writing letters to their
representatives. I donit see why a Senator could not get a
hundred or so names. Do you know G. A. De Witte, managing
editor of a Washington paper, could not he get us some
names. Mr. De Witte is a former Fond du Lac boy.
Thanking you for the interest you have shown.
Very truly,
(signed) Charles R. Woods.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
Copy--FGS
PHIL A. WOODS SHARE OF F.R. WOODS ESTATE.
ORIENTAL DEVELOPMENT BONDS ( guaranteed by the
Japanese Government as to principal and interest)
8M-
Oriental Development 6' due 3-15-'53
Seria1 number of bonds 6014, 17831, 18964, and
18965, 14052, 14053 and 14054 and 14051 together with
3-1-42 coupons and subsequent coupons are in default. Bond
purchased by Trustee of the F.R. Woods estate for $7982.00
2M
Oriental Development 5-1/2 s, due Nov. 1st '58
serial numbers 4208 and 4209' together with May 1st
'42 and subsequent coupons are in default. Bonds
purchased by the Trustee of the F.R. Woods estate for
$1827.50.
7M
Oriental Development 5-1/2's due Nov. 1-'58
Seria1 number8 8182, 14741, 14727, 13176, 14221,
15787 and 13184 together with x' 5-1-42 and
subsequent coupons are in default. Bonds were purchased
by trustee of F.. Woods estate for $3233.77
2M
German 7 percent External Bonds due Oct. 15-'49
Serial numbers O4832 and 08691 together with
Oct. 15th 1941 and subsequent coupons. These
bonds were (?)by F. R. Woods at the time of his death in
1929 and therefore became part of his estate.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
Copy- FGS
GERMAN GOVERNMENT BONDS AND ORIENTAL DEVELOPMENT BONDS
(guaranteed by the Japanese Government as to principal
and interest)
Charles R. Woods share of F.R. Woods Estate
11-M Oriental Development 5-1/2's due Nov. 1 - 158
Seria1mumbers 2943, 2944, 3015, 4206, 4207, 9276,
9277, 9278, 9279, 9280 and 11675 together with
coupons as 5-1-42 and subsequent coupons are in default.
The purchase price of these bonds were $10,289.75. These
bonds were purchased for the estate under the trusteeship of
the Commercial National Bank of Fond du Lac, Wisconsin
2 M
German External 7 8 (Dawes Loan) due 10-15-49
Serial numbers 086990 and 048321 and coupons as
of 10-l5-'41, together with subsequent coupons are
in default. These bonds were held by F.R. Woods at the
time of his death and became a part of his estate. Cost
of these bonds were $1050.00 each and are carried by the
estate at a value of $2037.50
6 M
German Government 5-1/2's due June 1st 1965 -
(Young Loan) Serial numbers C51786, C57577,
C57579, C57580 (7), C57581 and C57578 - together
coupons as of 12-1-41 and subsequent coupons. The bonds
were purchased by the Trustee of the estate for $1523.04 and
are carried at that value

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
Copy-FGS
ANSWER TO FORM LETTER ISSUED BY DEPARTMENT OF STATE
March 20, 1942
(1) Two attached sheets show the information regarding these
bonds.
These bonds are all registered with the government on forms
issued for that purpose
(2) Value as listed according to trustee's report are mostly
the actual ∞st at time of purchase altho in some cases municipal
bonds of German cities were sold at a loss and the money reinvested
in German government
(3) Information given on sheets to further inform you
all these securities were purchased thru brokems on the open
market in the U.S.
(6) At all times these bonds were held in the U.S. and
were purchased purely as an investment for trust funds
(7) By far the greatest part of the bonds were purchased
after i929 by the trustee
(8) (9) Does not enter into our situation.
NOTE: I wish to state that bonds are not due as yet - but
when a bond does not pay interest it is considered in default.
Citizenship of F.R. Woods: - Frank Woods was born at Auburn Corner -
in Geauga (?) Co., Ohio. His grandfather fought with the
Revolutionists in the Revolutionary War.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.93)
3
LE
FREDERICK VAN NUYS, IND., CHAIRMAN
PAT. MCCARRAN, NEV.
WARRIN R. AUSTIH, VT.
CARL A. HATCH, N. MIEX.
JOHN A. DANAHER, CONN.
TOM CONNALLY, TIX.
ALIXANDER WILRY, WIS.
JOSEPH C. O'MAHONEY, WYO.
WILLIAM LANGER, N. DAK.
ALBERT B. CHANDLER, KY.
HARLEY M. KILGORE, W. VA.
CHAPMAN REVIRCOMB, W. VA.
HOMER FERGUSON, MICH.
lnited States Senate
ABE MURDOCK, UTAH
KENNETH S. WHERRY, NER.
ERNEST W. MCFARLAND, ARIZ.
BURTON K. WHEELER, MONT.
CHARLES O. ANDREWS, FLA.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
WILMA L. ABER, CLERK
August 3, 1945
The Secretary of State
LECAL ADVISER
State Department
Washington, D. C.
AUG 6-1945
OFFICE OF THE SECEETARY
3-9.45a
Refer to:
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE
The Secretarr wichen
an ceknowle sment ent
Lmp,
itely if this
coation cannot be
aliswered in three days.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.51/8-345
With reference to letter from Dean Acheson,
Acting Secretary of State, dated March 19,,1945, I
am enclosing another letter from Mr. Charles R. Woods,
with enclosures, with reference to German and Japanese
bonds.
With the return of the enclosures, will you
kindly let me have a report in duplicate which I may
transmit to Mr. Woods and oblige,
CS/A
Alland Nley
Sincerely,
Alexander Wiley
mm
igcls.
ENIES
HN 
894.51
5Au  
AUG1 11945
REGEIVED
DIVISIN CF
Le
8
13
345

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
25
In reply refer to
Le 891.81/8-345
AUG 11 1945
844 51/8-34
My dear Senator W1ley:
I refer to your letter of August 3, 194ß, trans-
mitting a letter to you dated July 28, 1945 from
Mr. Charles R. Woods of Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, and a
letter of the same date from Mr. Woods to the Depart-
894.51/8-345
ment which was accompanied by data regarding his
interest in German and Japanese bonds from the estate
of his father, F. R. Woods.
As was indicated in the Department's letter to
you dated March 19, 1945, the information supplied by
Mr. woods has been made of record for such possible
future consideration as may be appropriate.
The Department is not as yet in a position to
state what provisions may be made in the peace settle.
ment with Germany and Japan with respeot to such
obligations. As you mre no doubt aware, there will
be many olaims of different types against both
those enemy countries, of which such bonds will
probably form but a amall part. The establishment
C
of the necessary procedures for the determination of
S
the validity and amount of claims against Germany
/LE
and Japan by the various governments concerned, on
their own behalf or on behalf of their nationals, will
necessarily take some considerable time.
Inasmuch
The Honorable
Alexander Wiley
United States Senate.
EC
w

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
-8
Inasmuoh as Mr. Woods' suggestions regarding the
use of frosen funds for this purpose appear to invelve
questions falling primarily within the competence of
the Treasury Departpent rather than within that of this
Department, I am sending a copy of Mr. Woods' letter to
that Departmant.
I am returning Mr. Woods' letter and data regarding
his bonds, copies having been made for the Department's
files.
Sincerely yours,
Enclosures:
Mr. Woods' letter, July 26,
1945 and data regarding
bonds.
Routine
Le-WWBishop: FGS
8-9-45
OR
AU
11 1945

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.96)
35
G11
In reply refer to
Le 891.81/8-345
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and
894.51/8-345
refers to his letter dated Maroh 19, 1945 (Le 894.
51/a-1945) in reply to the letter of rebruary 19,
1945 (reference 8l003), signed by the Acting Direotor
of the Foreign Funds Control Division of the Treasury
Department, transmitting a copy of a letter to Senator
Wiley from Mr. Charles R. Woods of Fond du Lao,
Wisconsin, regarding certain German and Japanese
bonds. A copy of the Department's reply to Senator
Wiley was transmitted with the lotter referred to.
The Secretary of State has received from Senator
Wiley a letter dated Auguet 3, 1945, transmitting a
letter dated July 26, 1945 to him from Mr. Woods and
another letter of the same date to the Department
from Mr. Woods, furnishing the information requested
in the final paragraph of the Department's letter of
March 19, 1945. Inasmuch as Mr. Woods makes certain
comments and suggestions regarding the use of frosen
funds for the payment of suoh bonds, the Becretary of
State transmits herewith a copy of Mr. Woods' communioa-
tions and a copy of the Department's reply to Senator
Wiley.
Enclosures:
From Mr. Woods to Senator Wiley
From Mr. woods to Secretary of State (with enolosure)
2.
3.
From Secretary of State to Senator Wiley.
C
Le-WWBishop: FGS
S
C
27
8-9-45
1
11
口

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
FN - Mr. McGuire
DATE: August 6, 1945
FROM
FE - Mr. Ballantine
SUBJECT:
Financial Directive for Japan
COMMENT
29 a. It is stated here that Bank of Chosen and
8
Bank of Taiwan notes are to continue to be a part of
0
the yen currency, while in 33 a (3) it is stated that
4
the offices of the Bank of Taiwan and Bank of Chosen
are to be closed. This appears to be inconsistent.
5
39 a (1). Would it not interfere seriously with
ordinary administrative functions (which we desire to
8
keep going) to "impound or block" all "property" of
the "national, prefectural and local governments", even
3
if property and assets are to be released under license
4
soon after impounding?
5
39 a (3). It may be undesirable, both for political
and economic reasons, to block or impound the properties
and assets of the Japanese Imperial Household. It will
be impossible to determine whether or not it will be
politically desirable to impound such property and assets
until further developments in the situation have taken
place. Economically, it would appear undesirable to halt
C
the activities of the Imperial Household Ministry, which
operates much as does a large business house in administer-
C
ing the Imperial properties, which consist principally
C
of forest land and shares in well-known concerns, such as
the Bank of Japan and Nippon Yusen Kaisha. To stop this
administration would throw thousands of Japanese out of
work and would apparently accomplish no useful purpose.
It is therefore suggested that the authority to impound
or block these properties be made contingent upon in-
structions from Washington.
39 a (5). There is no organization known as "National
Shinto" whose funds and properties could be impounded. How- 
ever, funds will probably be found belonging to the Bureau
of Shrines of the Ninistry of Home Affairs, the Bureau which
auperyises the National Shinto shrines at home and abroad.
5
RM/B
Such
8
Anal.
F.. Dickover
9
ROv.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Such funds should be impounded. Sectarian Shinto is
under the supervision of the Ministry of Education, and
as sectarian Shinto is classed as a religion, its funds
presumably cannot be impounded.
39 a (7). The objective of this article is not
understood.
40 a. This appears to be a very large order. Is
it believed that men will be available to carry it out?
Officers of FE will be glad to discuss these questions
with you any time on Tuesday morning.
JA:ERD1ckover:MP

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
In reply refer to
FN 894.51/10-2245
NOV 26 1015
My dear Mr. Christensen:
Reference is made to your letter of October 22,
1945, relative to your $1000.00 Imperial Japanese
894.
Government 5-1/2 percent bond due in 1965 and your
1000.00 C1ty of Yokohama 6 percent bond due in 1961.
5
Your inquiry regardin the fate of your bonds
cannot be answerea definitively now, but the following
/10-2
may ve helpful to your understanding of the Depart-
ment's osition.
In general, the Department considers that invest-
ment in foreign bond: is prim rily a private trans-
2
action into whicn the purchaser voluntarily enters
4
after calculating the risk involved. In case of
default it is not the practice of the Department to
5
negotiate directly for American nolders, but the
Department does endeavor to render such assistance
as it appropriately can to them or their representa-
tives. In this connection your attention may be
called to the Foreign Bondholders Frotective Council,
Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York, New York,
CS/VJ
organized several years ago as a central repres ntative
body. The Council was established witn the encourage-
ment of the Lepartment, but a cts on its own respon-
sibility. It is understood that the Council 1s now
interesting itself in the situation of such obli-
Eations as those held by you, and you may wish to
communicate with it regarding your bonds.
I think you will ap reclate that the Department
1
1s unable to state at the present moment what pro-
vislons, 1f any, affectin such obligations may be
included
Mr. J. P. Christensen,
Port Angeles, Washington.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
included in the peace settlement, or what provisions
for prior payment of claims arising from the war may
be included therein. as you are no doubt aware, there
will be many claims and demands o1 different types
against Japan and against persons and municipalities
in that ceuntry, of which such bonds as those owned by
you will probably ccnstitute only a small part.
However, the Lepartment will make a record, for
such consideretlon as may be aporo riate, of the infor-
mation previously sent in by you. If it should later
be lound ap ropriat for this Government to take any
action i repect t such ouligations, due announce-
ment thoreor will be ma e in order that interested
Americar c itizens may be vrc erly ini ormed. You will
doubtless desire, therefore, to watch the public press
for Information regar ing any developments that may
affect yo.r noldings.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
James C.Corliss, Assistant chief
ivision of Financial Affairs
Hy
LE
JA
StCR
FN:VWJones:gw
11/16/45
OFD
33

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.86)
#
DepantmenD of Ftale
1R
Washington 2.C
LEEAL ADVISER
feradur
FN, mr. Corliss,
Rv. Lo 894.51/799
OCT 3 1 1945
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
I wonder if you could advise me in brief
of the fate of my Papanese Bonds (2000)
894.51/10-2245
and very mucht bolige
Yours Truly
DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
urimer
NOVN1: 1945
110.
J. P. christensen.
Aur
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Port Angeles W"
25
HO:
0
JUN 12 1951
T

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.87)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE C. T UNITLD JTATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tr,,over ber 24, 1945.
.c. 76
D
DEPARMENIIA
Division of 10 g
Econon Deve
DIVISION OF FINANDIAL AFFAINS
H
RECEVE
DIVISION OR
T
1.01945
9
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
I bave the
tr it  re ort of an interviow
vit: Fin nce
Viscount I U (arrearing in the
Jiji News Servir
r ) init Finance
j. i tor 1 sei
veriment compen-
sselv d contracts;
XR 894.512
t al act
"ever tual
'ic
"  tri t i: po tion" of a war
ueinition of
 it was un-
war
it it taxing the
fair to
scrki
nay
STATE
racticality
relatics " ight
ar
 shold
IVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
ECUNOMIC AFFAIRS
1:01
BEPARRMENT OF STATE
jrtai
+' "testic sharing
 c roduetign of capi-
JAN 2 : 1946
a one rselve
tal rocd shn  lis  ssed in  few years
promine
ug cnentI u cn unfaverably b sera
HIBUSAA has issied
dental
Japanesc espayers
no pu
or wodificaticn of thes
tion
licity on the jamount of Government payments inSon
ms
with
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.81)
- 2 -
with cancellatior: o war cortracts but various sources t
mate therri ret ched between seven and twel
lilliun yen. t cr.  assuned that the bulk or these pay
itv
 to + mjor war  rolucers, the zaibatsu fir.
ViscrI
oc i-s strategic position
rescrnt Catiet, is himself the
cr uilut fun1liese 1s  former
cIIasitions in Mitsui,
toheson, Jr.
ro Jij
Neve Ler I,
tiral a
vorsc carlc.,
Jeryicei

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.85)
Enclosure to Despatch 1o. 76 of November 24, 1945, from the
Acting Political adviser to the Suyreme Commander fortthe
Allied Fowers, Tokyo, Ja ar, on the subject "Views of Finance
inister sss."
Cource: Jiji News Service,
November 18, 1945.
VAA D FAV DILCHTINUATION
C. L.DY CO. TRATIONE
 ,(i). Fro osals immediately
to inco. time ucrern nt
ensetions to war
1 duatries or ise
t: re dieavered by Vis-
interview with
the rese
yere from
las' enl arrived
lrines of
al inet  ost.
co orcations to
criticism l the
p-boosted industri-
lic's severe loss
estiors of war
ein vatched
himself
sar cint-
ewe not
tole
an
n
commions
t contin-
t eolln se
tsther or
itrartly
ece trration or
ssted
are er
rofit
r. It may be
caoitle,"
ra  their bank de-
cait
hava enverted their se-
c ritien int. ev lle
t evade the property
t, 1eeo
"In view of

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.88)
"In vie u"  os il ilitic," he went on to state,
"ther fore,
vt, lefcre tal ine action on the sug
cester
 r-tigt lar.  ich would ef-
txvsion."
led:t al, he said,
114
tat ct cash and
net, and
tend to
rices."
"anyone
tt to evado
CIUAWA
vitally
i ister alsc
declared,
'e ining on
ever-ounting
is' ns lisor-
crel lasis."
rther
.ir ilarly,
+i be  redi-
rc t le lévied,
to to ror-
lves
 to
110t
.. continued,
de osits
ruet t a
r or
 ore of
courtry."
artime
"1 shoul]
fri
ite pos-
ional
"I sain that

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.81)
- 3 -
i t in lstion icin cwn to the uestion of
itin tis comtry," Viscount de-
11.
 chrtualiy be solved by
tuestion should
solv
ts clone."
a vier that
sacrifices
weslth
or .rgent
o to
r de ily
tt or on
"over the
sirin our
tro to of
"Le'
 shoula le
meprelling
, cleicring for our shares in
what we lav iti
oido at the moment
 o routior coong
curselves
lred.
iaured
— refer
or cly
ur-
cds
ister

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.92)
JCF
TrtAngeles, Wash, Dec1s1945.
DepartmenDof Slate
Washington,.
Attention: mr. Pames E. Corliss
Assistant Chief Division FinancA
F.N.89451/10-2245
Deaw Fir: Your farou of 26"-ult has been
duly received by the writer; it was a reply to a
leter of Undensigned reguesting information on
the status of Papantse Bonds
4
Your letlter is clear and informative on) e
Bepartments atlitude in matters of foeign=
securitres. S fully appreciate and commend
niew nelativwto fouign investors
Yours very Truly
FILEL
11951
Ahustensen.
J.p.christensen.
PoptAngeles w
1

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Jo
IIVISION MERAL F
No. 148
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject:  Tranemitting Copy of Law for the Establiohment of
the Foreign Trade Fund.
DEPARMENT OF STATE
OILJAN 2 3 1946
Division of Foreign
Economic Development
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to
transmit copies of Law for the Establishment of the Foreign
894.51
Trade Fund passed by the recent 89th Imperial Diet and
promulgated on December 21, 1945.
1/12-2945
DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
Pincer
JAN 141946
Fi6
Enclosure:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Copy of law as stated.
Original and hectograph to Department.
851
JSService: jwb
H1L
CS/D
APR 29 1948
MENT OF STATE
fl
894
DOX OFD Unit
Ano?
946
DEJTO
SENT TO FR

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to despatch no. 148 dated December 29, 1945, from
the United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan, on the
subject "Transmitting Copy of Law for the Establishment of
the Foreign Trade Fund".
Law for the Establishment
of the Foreign Trade Fund
No. XXVI
We hereby give Our sanction to the Law for the
Establishment of the Foreign Trade Fund approved by the
Imperial Diet and cause the same to be promulgated.
This twentyfirst day of the twelfth month of
twentieth year of Showa.
Signed:
Hirohito
Seal of Emperor
Countersigned: Baron Kijuro Shidehara,
Prime Minister
Viscount Keizo Shibusawa,
Minister of Finance
Sankuro Ogasawara
Minister of Commerce and
Industry
Law No. 53

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Article l. A foreign trade fund is hereby established for
the settlement of account due to the foreign trade by the Govern-
ment.
Article 2. This fund 1s fixed at ¥50,000,000 to be set
aside from the surplus due to the settlement of the fiscal year
of l944-45's accounts belonging to the special account for the
adjustment of the exchange and trade.
Article 3. In cases of this fund proving insufficient,
the Government, on the responsibility of the Exchange and Trade
Adjustment Special Account, may make a loan in order to tempor-
arily supplement the fund.
The loan specifies in the preceding paragraph, at the
latest, must be refunded in the following fiscal year.
The Government may appropriate the surplus of the Netional
Treasury, in stead of the loan specified in Paragraph 1, within
the fiscal year in view.
Article 4. This fund may be utilized for the acquisition
of various goods for the foreign trade, the foreign currency,
or different goods as may be specified by the Imperial Ordinance.
All businesses concerning the operation of this fund, as
specified by the Minister of Finance, shell be treated by the
Bank of Japan.
Article 5. The fund operation profit and the accompany-
ing miscellaneous revenue arising from the operation of this
fund, as well as the business expenses, the fund operation
commission, the accompanying various expenses and the fund
operation losses arising from the operation of this fund, are
placed under the exchange and trade adjustment special account.
In cases of necessity for the disbursement of the expen-
diture which, in accordance with the provision of the preceding
paragraph, is placed under the exchange and trade adjustment
special account in question, the Government may make a loan on
the responsibility of the same account.
Article 6. In cases of the property belonging to this
fund either being lost or reduced in value, the Government,
irrespective of the provision of Article 4 of the Exchange and
Trade Adjustment Lew providing for the establishment of the
special account for the exchange and trade adjustment and other
measures, must redeem such loss or decrease in value, either by
meens of the surplus arising from the settlement of account be-
longing to the exchange end trade ad justment special account,
or by means of this fund.
Supplementary Provision:
The present law shall come into force as from the day of
its promulgation.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
CENTRALSERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH SECTION
AC ON: OFD
INCOMING TELEGRAM.
INFO:
S
U
MO-P-X
10288
A-B
A-C
IVSI   
PLAIN
SA
SA/M
London
ESC
SPA
Dated February 27, 1946
EUR
FE
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
Rec'd 5:30 p.m.
DC/L
FC
OIC
Secretary of State
OPI
CY
Washington
FEB 2 S 1946
DC/R
894.
2355, Twenty-seventh
FOR STATE AND TREASURY
5
1
Financial column of TIMES this morning reports and
282
comments on reply by Chancellor of Exchequer in Parliament
2
yesterday to an inguiry about possibility of a resumption
第-28-84
of the service of Japanese loans. Characterizing his
2746
reply as showing "more than lack of sympethy" paper states
"Mr. Dalton thought that the prospects were not very
bright. Asked then if the government would do everything
in their power to promote resumption of payments the
Chancellor said, "I cannot imagine why any Britisher
should own Japanese bonds at all", a retort which brought
Mr. Eden to his feet with the question "Was 1t not of
interest that we should try to get these loans?" To
this Mr. Dalton replied hat if there wes anything to
be screwed out of the Japanese there were a lo of
stronger claimants than prewar holders of Japanese bonds".
TIMES comments "The Charcellor's cblique aspersion
on the patriotism of the present holders of Japanese bonds
is unfortunate. It is nct only unfortunate but quite
misplaced for many of the loans in question were issued
in London when Japan was officially an ally of this
country".
"Underlying his remarks however there would seem to
be the familiar automatic assumption tha the claims of
prewar bondholders are of small consequence compared with
those of say war damage or reparation payments --- in
any case it is only from the prewar investments in Europe
and the
PLAIN
PERMANENT RFCORD COPY: THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R WITH NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.86)
ILAIN
- #2355. Twer ty-sever h from Londor.
srd the Far East ha & y ti i  rease in United Kingdom
versea investrent ite c be lcoke for to relleve
tnir country's internat ral Flnan ial difficulties.
to nis rot of na: l s1 lteest? It ls going to be
" poor lookout for the cor ohoiders if it is not. Ir
onfiscation is tc f llow a  me lcall: on a change
1: politi al relal ior:. ye his seoms tc be the
:I:Imate implicat: on r Mr. ait r.'s rply".
JAL.MAN
:IA:N

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
: Finauce i Loaus
ACTION COPY
DWISION OF
OF0.7
CNTRAL SERVICES
DEPARTMENT QF STATE
TELEGRAPH SECTION
INCOMING TELEGRAM
ACTION:DC/L
INFO:
402
EUR
OFD
EG
DIVICION OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
PLAIN
No action
SA/M
A-B
London
65
A-C
FE
Dated March 1, 196
ESP
ITP
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Rec d 9:57 1st
FC
CY
OCD
SECSTATE
ARA
UC/L
OIC
1946
PLIALSON OFFICE
DC/R
FOR STATE AND TREASURY AND EMBASSY AND TAYLOR
Strong protests continued to be raised in the
8
finaneial press against the statoment of the Cnencellor
6
of the Excheguer concerning the possible resumption of the
4
service of Japaneso loans as a result of the statement
acording to the FINANCIAL TIMES Japanese bonds slumped
5
relapses in German and other ex-enemy bonds and general
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
uncertainty among forelgn issues
OEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAR
6 1946
The FINANCIAL TIMES comments in part:
4
"Feeling in the market was that if all ex-eneiy bonds
9
are to be treated so cavalierly by the government con-
fidence in the market for bonds or foreign nations con.
stituting an important par: of our remaining foreirn
investments would be destroyed. Hoy were investors to
tell which nation may become "ex-enemy" one day.
"The damaging effeet of the Chancellor's statement
was instanced yesterday in the case of Brazilian bonds.
Directly oving to his remark. Brazilian bonds were sold
and deelined with the result that the Brazilian Government
was able to make its substantial repurchases for sinking
fund purposes as cheap prices to the national loss"
It was pointed out that all the Japanese loans were
raised in this country under the soundest auspices when
Japan was an ally of Britain. The 1924 1ssue arose out
of the earthquake in 1923 and the five and a half per
cent 1930 stock represented a refunding of the 1905- loah
floated during the Russo Japanese war.
"In connection
PLAIN
PERMANENT FCORD COPY: THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R WITH NOTATION OF ACTION TAKE

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.79)
1
P
2-.2479.
"In  voet
cane i
pluted or
"het the  3: To
C
ed :
unding
of  paret os t.
od
c11
. Britich
Trecury a i  er
.C.
101
Cou
the hance 1 1.
a in this
our y he  hi.
"I" 1. later
lat.ne
lawes and
Younr loan e 1
11
2
1m
 bour
Jover coen v. in
ehe
loan 
sri the
Youn 10en r. 19:0
"A steen
thsomine
e when
rhe sunry own
eatney
precions
asset was ur icyl.
7 cupc
as 1
that the
britlsh Coer ment
tt
forn
held
abrond and almgat
1t.s f
or. their
debts to t1 s vour
The pry: ger.
17
at the
a for
Japetuse bor dr ac
111
18 2r
ser. that
the boadholer sJ
3JUS
SUD1G
.issod but
shoul be c roful1
sied
n all
ms
on Japunese p para
NGIAL T
ge8s
that in equiy a s
88
 ma ie
nolders
claim: to ra prer
aratior
DriAl
omment 1n th TN
one
1078:
"Haviry gere
in vh!
ure shergee r he
fe
.sked
their lains Th
sing
:if
the last wer he
18
an (83
must be assu ou ur
d25.1
(1y)
hen private Taims
11
to re
parations tea" the
oldr
o Dear
he Toss otherwee
'a be 
nly by the
vanquished out lso his r.
8 inc1
victors
own etizerof
ow. oi
ebi s
of the ex-enany cou 
neeess
he light
of their cape. ity to y on  econem ve reached
some sort of order u'n. but  e such  u se vould
be the direse resai i the war  wld no e pation
year th
PLAIN

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
1
PLAIN
-3-#2479, First, from London
bear the burden of any loss rather than the individual
bondholder who can ill afford to make the gesture even
in the national interest. In the nation inflicts the
loss and takes the reparations the nation should face
the liability."
WINANT
MP
PLAIN

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.95)
0
OFD
ACTION:DD/L
1504 //
INFO:
AC
A#D
EUR
DIVISION OF FINNHOAL 
FRO
DC/L-A
ITP
LONDON
CP
IR
DAT
March 6, 1946.
OCB
DEPARTUENTOPSTATE
R.CD. 9:ll a.m., Mar.14
OFD
FN
DC/R
UNR STHIOTD.
Caostate
894.51/3-646
MAR1 5 1946
ashington
fle
∴-235. Meran 6, 1340
Reference is ade to the Embassy's telegram
No.2479, warch 1, and Embussy's report No.288.
Maroh 2, 1946, subjeot: "1944 and 1945 Annual
Reports of the Council of Foreign Bondholdors and
Counoil's Reaotion to r. Dulton's Statament on
Japunese Bonds".
Un aroh 4 deslers in the Foreign Bond Seotion
of the Stook harket sent a protest to the Stook
Exohange counoil against Ar. Dalton's atatemant on
Japanese Bonda. Other bodies. inoluding the
Assogiation of Investment Trusts, the British Insurence
isaooiation, and Counoil of Foreign Hondholdors, huve
sent protests to the Chancellcr of the xohe uer.
ith regard to these protests, the following
conjectures of Paul Einzig, publiahed in the Financial
Times, oroh 5, are vuoted for vhst they are worth:-
"It is now possible to form u clearer idea
about the attitude of the Chanoellor of the
Sxohe uer towards British-owned foreign loans.
Thero is every reason to believe that his hostile
referenoe to Japenese loans did not indicete his
ganeral attitude towards foreign louns, and that
under him the Treasury will uphold the bondholdero'
claims ageinst defaulting foreign debtors.
On the other hand, his statemont indioetine
that in his view the claims of holders of Jupanese
bonds/

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
1504 //
A-235/
- 2 -
bonds ranked behind a y other oleius did
indicate his considered attitude in the
matter of the priority of reparatione clains
over re-ler claims. lio is knorn to huve
held suoh views even teiore he os::e to the
Treasury, though in the Coalition Government
his views vere over-ruled by thoee of members
of the ..ar Cabinet who had favoured the
priority of bondholders' olaias.
Now that ar. Dalton is Chenoellor of
the Exohe uer and a lecding member of the
Cabinet ho is certainly in a position to make
hie views provall, all the lore so as those
Ministers who, in the Coalition overnment,
were in favour of conceding priority to pre-
war claims are no longer in the covernsent.
There can be no doubt that .r. Dalton's
attitude also ap lies to claims againist
Cermany. It is not possible to asoertain, however,
what views he tokes of the sawes und Young Loans,
both of vnioh lad been issued under the
patronuge of ths Lreusury under a Labour
Governaent."
GALL AN
inton/jrm

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.93)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH SECTION
CTC
-V
INCOMING TELEGRAM
PLAIN
ACTI)N: DC/L
London
INF:
A-C
Dated March 6, 1946
EUR
A-13
Rec 'd 4:42 p.m., 6th
SA/
ITP
ES!
SECSTATE
FC
OCI:
DC/
2668, Sixth
Reference MyyEL a479, Maroh 1 and Embassy's airgram
A-235 Warah 6, 1946.
In enswer to quostions io House of Commons on
894.51/3-64€
M.rch 5 Mr Dalton sdded littie to his previous statement
on conpersation to hol lore of vapanese bonds except
to inporm Houss thet ho was going to disouss the problem
w: tn reprosentatives or ccuni. of Foreign Bondholder
Arsoclation of Irvegtmout Tm ats and the British Insurance
Arsociation. Harssrd xcerp s by aimmail.
GALLMAN
140
PLAIN
946
PERMANENT RFCORD COPY: THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R WITH NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.92)
DC/R ROUTING SLIP
Toli
FROM
NO.393
FRIFN
ACTION
COPIES TO: / JA
1JK
I CP
/FE/R
30CD
/FEC(ERD)
1ED
1 1F1
OFS
10 Com 3 war
, reas
Naiy
2.
Capies.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.94)
LW
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
PTN
FOR JAPAN
JK
DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 393
JUN-3 1946
File
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT: Application of Emergency Financial Measures and Pro-
posed Tax Laws to Foreign Nationals
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to re
port that on March 2 this Mission forwarded to the Chief of
Staff of this Headquarters copy of a letter fron the Yokohama
Branch of this Office (a copy of which is enclosed), in which
Information was requested in order to be able to reply to in
quiries from American citizens in Japan who are not connected
with the occupation forces, whether the emergency financial
894.51/4-2546
Woleasedby
measures recently put into force by the Japanese Government
are applicable to American citizens.
There is enclosed a copy of a memorandum dated March 28,
Com,eaz,
1946. from the Chief of Staff replying to our inquiry. It is
stated in this reply that the emergency financial regulations
Was. Navy
are applicable to all "private foreign nationals (Allied as
well as non-Allied)", who were permanently domiciled in Japan
prior to September 1, 1945, and who are not "specifically
accredited by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to
perform duties which he considers necessary". It is also
stated that Allied and neutral nationals who have been given
permission since September 1, l945, to enter Japan for purposes
of interest to the Allied nations "will be extended the same
privileges as military personnel and persons assimilated to
military personnel".
There is also enclomed a copy of our memorandum to the
Chief of Staff dated February 18, 1946, in which there are
presented questions raised informally with this Mission by
FILED
the Swiss Diplomatic Representative in Japan, and by Mr. Oscar
Morland, Chief Political Adviser to the Personal Representative
of the British Prime Minister in Japan. These matters had to
do primarily with the exemption of official and personal funds
of diplomatic officials of neutral gevernments and with the
question whether foreign firms or foreign nationals would be
exempt from the proposed new taxes and capital levy in Japan.
The Chief of Staff replied on March 4, 1946, in a memorandun,
copy of which is also enclosed, to the effect that the Japanese
Government has agreed to exempt "from deposit blocking" official
p
and personal funds of all duly accredited Allied and neutral
diplomatic and consular personnel. It was stated that in re-
S
y
gard to the question of exemptions of foreign firms or foreign
nationals from the proposed new taxes and capital levy. the
matter was still under consideration snd no decision has yet
DCR - OFD Unit
been
2

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
2
been reached. In this connection, it may be noted that this
Mission expressed previously to Scap the informal opinion that
the treatment of foreign firms and foreign nationals under the
proposed new tax laws was a matter which should appropriately
be referred to Washington for decision at a Governmental level.
especially in view of the probable international complicatioa.
Buch reference has been made by priority telegram of March 23
to the Chief of Staff for the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Enclosures:
1.
Letter from Yokohama Branch
Office, February 27, 1946.
2.
Memorandum from Chief of Staff,
March 28, 1946.
3.
Memorandum to Chief of Staff,
February 18, 1946.
4.
Memorandum from Chief of Staff.
March 4, 1946.
Original and hectograph to Department
851
MWBishop: jwb
mwB

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
1
Eaclosure No. to despatch No. 393 dated April 25, 1946, frem
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Application of Emergency Financial Measures and Pro-
posed Tax Laws to Foreign Nationals".
COPY
Yokohama Branch of the Office
of the U.s. Political Adviser
 Hdqrs Dighth Army, AP0 343
Yokohama, Japan
February 27, 1946
Max W. Bishop, Esquire
Acting U.B. Political Adviser
SCAP
APO 500
Sir:
This office has received several inquiries from American
citigens who are resident in Japan and who are not connected
with the Occupation Forces, asking if the new currency res-
trictions and freesing of bank deposits are applicable to
them. They point out that it would be impossible for them to
maintain anything even remotely apgroximating an American stan-
dard of living if they were limited to an income of but 600
per month for a family-head and Xlo0 for each additional mem-
ber of the family.
It would be appreciated if you would furnish this office
with the information necessary to reply to these inquiries.
Very truly yours,
(U. Alexis Johnson)
U. Alexis Johnson
American Foreign Service
Officer in charge
MW/kah
851.5

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch No. 393 dated April 25. 1946, from
the United States Political Aariser for Jepan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Application of Emergency Financial Measures and Pro-
posed Tax Laws to Foreign Nationals".
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
28 March 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR: The United States Political Adviser
SUBJECT
"Freezing Regulations" as applied to American
Citizens.
In reply to your letter of 2 March 1946 concerning the
Japanese Emergency Financial Measures Ordinance and the exemp-
tions from it which may be granted American citisens in Japan
who are not connected with the occupation forces, the regu-
lations of the Japanese Government apply as follows:
a. Private Foreign nationals (Allied as well as non-
Allied) with permanent domicile in Japan established prior to
1 September l945 and who are not specifically accredited by
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to perform duties
which he considers necessary, shall be subject to the provisions
of the Japanese Emergency Financial Measures Ordinance. Allied
and non-Allied nationals in the category of this paragraph
who are without current income from salaries and wages shall
be permitted to pay for any special food rations which the
Japanese Government may extend to them voluntarily or under
ScAP directive by withdrawal of cash from their bank accounts
or by use of restricted check.
b. Allied and Neutral nationals who have obtained permits
from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers to enter Japan since 1 September 1945 for purposes of
interest to the Allied Nations will be extended the same privi-
leges as military personnel and persons assimilated to mili-
tary personnel.
(S.J.Chamberlin)
S. J. CHAMBERLIN
Maj. Gen., GSC
Acting Chief of Staff

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
Eaclosure No. 3 to despatch No. 393 dated April 25, 1946, from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Application of Mmergency Financial Measures and Pro-
posed Tax Laws to Foreign Nationals".
COPY
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, February 18, 1946.
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Staff.
Mr. Pierre Micheli, Swiss Diplomatic Representative in Japan,
called this morning and asked the following questions in regard
to Japanese recent regulations concerning issuance of new Japanese
currency and proposed new taxes and a capital levy:
(1) How are the personal and official funds of neutral gov-
ornments and their officials to be converted and do the restric-
tive regulations apply to these funds?
(2) In view of the inability of foreign nationals to exist
in Japan on the small allowance of 300 Yen a month, are the re-
strictive regulations to apply to foreign nationals and foreign
firms?
(3) Are any exemptions to be made for foreign firms or
foreign nationals in the proposed new taxes and capital levy in
Japan?
With regard to the third question, Mr. Micheli pointed out
that Swiss firms in Japan during the war had been unable to con-
duct their business in a mormal manner and had been operating at
a loss. They were therefore in no position to meet the probable
high taxes without complete liquidation of their businesses. He
mentioned in particular the firms of Nichisui, Leibermann, Walchli,
Nestle S.A., all of Kobe; Siber Hegner, Kobe and Yokohama; and
Schulthess and Company (formerly Charles Rudolph), Yokohama.
We informed Mr. Micheli that, in accordance with his specific
request, we should be glad to lay these questions before SCAP.
but it was suggested that he should himself approach SCap through
the regular liaison chennels of G-2.
Mr. Oscar Morland. of the British Liaison Mission, has infor-
mally raised similar questions regarding British nationals resid-
ing in Japan.
Max W. Bishop
Foreign Service Officer in Charge
851.
MWBishop:vs

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to despatch No. 393 dated April 25, 1946, from
the Umited States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, om the
subject "Application of Emergency Financial Measures and Pro-
posed Tax Laws to Foreign Nationals".
COPY
4 March 1946
SUBJECT:
Exemption of Certain Categories of Funds from
Blocking.
MEMORANDUM FOR UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISOR.
1. With reference to your memorandum of 18 February 1946,
requesting information on exemptions from the deposit blocking
program, Imperial Japanese Government has agreed to the follow-
ing exemptions from deposit blocking:
a. Official funds of all Allied and neutral goverp
monts are exempt from blocking, and are permitted to be com
verted into or withdrawn in new currency.
b. Personal funds of duly accredited dtplomatic and
consular personnel, of Allied and neutral nations are also
exempted from blocking and may be withdrawn in new currency.
This exemption is strictly limited to foreign nationals on of-
ficial missions for their own governments and duly accredited
to ScaP: it does not extend to nationals of Japan or of a third
country working temporarily for a duly accredited foreign re-
presentative or mission.
c. Private foreign nationals with pormanent domicile
in Japan will be treated on the same basis as Japanese nation-
als, except that in those cases where a special food ration is
given to foreign nationals, either by the Imperial Japanese
Government on its own initiative or in compliance with SCAP
directive, permission will be given to withdraw funds necessary
to purchase the special ration in cash or by restricted check
as the case may require.
2. With reference to your question on exemptions for foreign
firms or foreign nationals from the proposed new taxes and capital
levy, this matter is still under consideretion and no decision
has yet been made.
(S.J.Chamberlin)
S. J. CHAMBERLIN
Major General, GSC
Acting Chief of Staff

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.80)
F
8Y12146
FN. NJonl'
Devesein 4 Forcegn Deaveis admemes hation
S0 n.
DUR
Washen Ten D. C..
beullemon:
894.51/8-1246
In accorlanre weeh yor
re gucre f an gust 12t 1946, thal
kaedes 4 Jap anese daesau
kaldey
nhe ceoule.
K
IM 2ere s tpae  01/2/1454
iis to pmiee
recns 
CS/A
Hirrey C. Dreen
894.51
FILED
8
-1246
1951

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.95)
EA
NOV0
In reply refer to
FN
My dear Mr. Green:
89
Reference 1s made to your letter of August 12, 1946,
4.
relative to certain Imperial Japanese Government dollar
bonds due in 1954, which you hold.
5
Apparently your inquiry was motivated by a Press
Reloase by the Department dated August 1, 1946. This
8
Release was intended to refer to equity interests in
1
Japanese companies rather than to bonds issued by the
一
Japanese Govornment.
2
4
A definitive statement regarding the future position
9
of Japanese dollar bonds is not now possible, but the
following may be helpful to your understanding of the
Department's policy with reference to such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
securities is primarily a private transaction into whioh
the purchaser voluntarily enters after calculation of
the risks involved. In the case of securities issued by
private entities, it is expected that holders will
attempt to socure compliance with the contractual torms
through the usual channels when resort to such measures
becomes possible.
C
S
In case of default on dollar bonds guaranteed by or
issued by a governmental entity, while the Department does
A
not negotiate directly on behalf of American holders, it
does endeavor to render such assistance as may be appropriate
to such holders or their representatives. In this con-
nection, attention may be oalled to the Foreign Bond-
6
holders Protective Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street,
F
New York, New York, established several years ago to
serve
20
Mr. Harry Green,
Rock Hall,
Maryland.
人
f
a
8

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
serve as a central representative body. The Council
was created with the encouragement of the Department,
but operates on its own responsibility. It is under-
stood that the Council is interesting itself in such
securities as your Japanese Government bonds, and you
may wish to write to it in this connection.
I think you will appreciate that the Department is
unable to state at the present moment what provisions,
1f any, affecting such obligations may be included in
the peace settlement, or what provision for prior pay-
ment of claims arising from the war may be agreed upon.
As you are no doubt aware, there will be many claims and
demands of different types against Japan and against
persons and municipalities in that country, of which
such bonds a.: those owmed by you will probably constitute
only a small part.
However, the Department will be glad to make a
record, for such consideration as may be appropriate, of
any information you may send to it regarding your
holdings. This should include, in addition to the data
contained in your letter, the face value, the purchase
price, the manner and date of your acquisition of these
securities, the date of the last interest payment, and
the manner (whether by birth or naturalization) and
date of your acquisition of American citizenship. In
case you acquired citizenship by naturalization, the
number of your naturalization certificate and the name
and location of the court in which you were naturalized
should also be stated.
Jf it should later be found appropriate for this
Government to take any action with respect to such
obligations as those you own, due announcement thereof
will be made in order that interested American citizens
may be properly informed.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
NOV
19
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
FN:VWJones:gs
10/30/46
OFD
7JK

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.86)
- Rock Hall
manyland
Ding Fon e Adminiam
State Dept
fted
Lat. redraf
Dushingtm D.C-
10/25/46
894.
ettor
AUG 1 4 1946
5
STATE
OF
80
the!
Fhildes
34
3M Imbrialakune
2/1954
力
2
LED
i4
securites
It the pasitl ralue of
十

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.80)
Thelen A.B. Shan
August 13 *19%

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
DEC 619
In reply refer to
FN
My dear Mrs. Green:
Reference is made to your letter of August 13, 1946,
relative to certain 6-1/2% Imperial Japanese Government
bonds due in 1954, which you hold.
Apparently your inquiry was motivated by a Press
Release by the Department dated August 1, 1946. This
Release was intended to refer to equity interests in
Japanese companies rather than to bonds issued by the
Japanese Government.
A definitive statement regarding the future position
of Japanese Government dollar bonds is not now possible,
but the following may be helpful to your underatanding
of the Department's policy with reference to such obli-
gations.
The Department gonerally considers that investment
in foreign bonds is primarily a private transaction into
whioh the purchaser enters after calculation of the
risks involved. In case of default on dollar bonds
issued or guaranteed by foreign Governments, it is not
the practice of the Department to negotiate direotly for
American holders, but it does endeavor to render such
assistance as it appropriately can to them or their
representatives. In this connection your attontion may
be called to the Foreign Bondholders Protective Counoil,
Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York, New Tork, which
was established several years ago as a central repre-
sontative body. Although the Council was organized with
the encouragement of the Department, it acts on its own
responsibility. It is understood that the Council is
now interesting itself in such bonds as those held by
you, and you may wish to write to it in connection with
your holdings.
You
Mrs. Helen R. P. Green,
Rock Hall,
Maryland.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
You will appreciate that the Department is unable
to state at the present moment what provisions, if any,
affecting such obligations may be included in the peass
treaty or what arrangement for prior payment.of claims
and demands arising from the war may be made. As you
probably kmow, there will be many such claims and demands
against Japan and against persons and municipalities
of that country, of which such bonds as those mentioned
by you will probably constitute only a small part.
Nevertheless, the Department will make a record,
for such consideration as may be appropriate, of any
information you may submit regarding your bonds. In
addition to the information contained in your letter of
August 13, 1946, it is suggested that you furnish the
Department with the pertinent details regarding the face
value, the date of the last interest payment, the manner
and date of acquisition, the purchase price and the manner
(whether by birth or naturalization) and date of your
acquisition of American citizenship. If it should later
be found advisable that American holders take any further
steps in conneetion with suoh obligatlons, due announce-
ment will be made in order that the holders may be
properly informed.
The Department very much regrets the delay in re-
plying to your inquiry.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chier
Division of Financial &ffairs
2207
OF
CR
FN:VWJdnes:g8
11/26/46
Dru
16F.M

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.93)
N0vV-81946
PRATE
QOi IRS
VIF EAN
UNRESTRICTED
NO.313
To the
United States Political Adviser to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers,
894.51/8-1346
Tokyo.
The Secretary of State transmits herewth copies
of an excerpt from a letter dated August 13, 1946, and
of the enclosures thereto, adaressed to the Department by
the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, Incorporated,
relative to the Americen interest in Japanese dollar
bonds floated in the United States. The Political
Adviser will note thet part of this interest may per-
tain to Japenese companios thi mey be affectcd by the
monopoly dissolution progrem, and is therefore reported
as requested in telegram C-62653 of July 9, 1946. The
remaining interest, representod by bonds of the Japanese
Government and Japanese Municipal ities, will provido
the Political Adviser with data regaroing the nature and
extent of American holain s of such bonds.
This correspondence is forwared for the information
and use of the Political Adviser and of the appropriate
C
section of the Staff of the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, and for whatever action may be deemed
appropriate at this time in the protection of the
2
American interest involved.
There are also enclosed two copies of the Report
of the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, Incorporated,
covering the activities of the Council m the years
1941-1944, inclusive. The origin end purposes of the
Council are described on page XIV of this report. It is
the policy of the Department to give to the Council, as
the representative of American holders of dollar bonds
issued or guaranteed by foreign governments or their
political subdivisions, such assistance as it properly
can.
Enclosures:
t
A trub copy of
the aighed ai-
As above-described.
alaelud
nal.
FN:JCCorI1ss:gs-11/4/46
8
8

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
EXCERIT FROM LETTER OF FOREION BONDHOLDRRS PROTEOTIVE
COUNCIL. INCORPORATED. TO DEPARTMEDT
DATED AUGUST 13. 1946
"There is enclosed a statement which may give the
information the Department had in mind as to the ten
dollar bond issues of Japanese corporations, three of
which carried the guarantee of the Imperial Japanese
Government at the time of their issuance, and seven of
which were assumed by the Japanese Electric Generation
and Transmission Company and the Imperial Japanese
Government. We were able to arrive at the amount of
bonds held in Japan through reports from the Fiscal
Agents, including the Yokohama Specie Bank, before it
was in liquidation, by means of the cancelled coupons
which were presented in lieu of cash at the last interest
date for which funds were made available in 194l. We
believe these figures to be reasonably accurate, and
by deducting the principal amount of bonds, as repre-
sented by those cancelled coupons, we have arrived at
a balance of $43,534,500 outstanding bonds for these
ten 1ssues held other than in Japan. You will, of
course, note from the enclosures that the Mitsui Bank
Itd.. is Trustee for four of these corporate issues,
and that the Industrial Bank of Japan is Trustee for
three, both trustees, of course, being Japanese
institutions.
Sincerely yours,
A. H. Wylie, /s/
A. H. Wylie,
Secretary. "
Enclosures.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
TRUSTEES FOR DOLLAR LOAMS
According to the indentures covering the loans
listed hereafter, Japanese banking corporations were
not only trustees, but the bond contract itselr was
made between the obligor and the Japanese banking
institutions as trustees, as follows:
Mitsui Bank, Ltd. as Trustee for -
Nippon Electric Power Co. Ltd. 6-1/2% 1928-1953
Toho Eloctric Power Co. Ltd. 7% 1925-1955
Tokio Electric Light Company, Ltd. 6% 1928-1953
Shinyetsu Electric Power Co. 6-1/2% 1927-1952
Industrial Bank of Japan, Ltd. as Trustee for -
Great Consolidated Electric Power Co. Ltd.
7% 1924-1944
Great Consolidated Electric Power Co. Ltd.
6-1/2% 1925-1950
Ujigawa Electric Power Co. Ltd. 7% 1925-1945
Yokohama Specie Bank, Ltd. as Trustee for -
Imper1al Japanese Government 6-1/2% 1924-1954
Imperial Japanese Government 5-1/2% 1930-1965
Tokio, Gtd. by Japanese Govt., 5-1/2% 1927-1961
Yokohama, Gtd. by Japanese Govt. 6% 1926-1961
Taiwan Electric Power, Gtd. by Japanese Govt.
5-1/2% 1931-1971
The loan contracts for these five issues, for
which the New York Agency of the Yokohama Specie
Bank, Ltd. is Fiscal Agent of the obligor, pro-
vide for the continuation of that Agency so
long as any bonds are outstanding, or that the
obligor will designate a Successor Fiscal Agent
in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York,
notice thereof to be given the purchasers or their
successors.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
FISCAL AGENTS FOR DOLLAR LOANS
Yokehama Specie Bank Ltd. (in N. Y.) in liquidation
by N. Y. State Banking Commission.
Total
Presumably Held
Outstanding
Outside Japan
2 Natl.
Imp. Japanese Govt. 6-1/2
93,914,700
30;880;500
Imp. Japanese Govt. 5-1/2
58,740,000
11,879,500
2 Munic. Tokio 5-1/2
12,438,000
1,368,400
Yokohama 6
12,464,000
1,163,000
1 Corp. Gtd. Taiwan El. Pwr. 5-1/2
19,573.000
3,935:000
197,129,700
49,286,200
Dillon, Read & Co.
3 Corp. Gtd. Great Consol. 7
2,397,000
1,132,000
Great Consol. 6-1/2
2,337,000
419,000
Shinyetsu 6-1/2
4,194,000
1,309:000
8,928,000
2,860,000
National City Bank
3 Corp. Gtd. Oriental Develop. 6
10,366,000
7,211,000
Oriental Develop. 5-1/2
11,057;000
4,202,000
Ujigawa El. Pwr. 7
2.859.500
1.140.500
24,282,500
12,553,500
Guaranty Trust
2 Corp. Gtd. Toho El. Pwr. 7
712,000
547,000
Tokyo El. Light 6
47.393.000
20.393.000
48,105,000
20,940,000
Harris Trust
1 Corp. Gtd. Nippon Elect. Pwr. 6-1/2
4,952,000
3,246,000
Grand Totals
283,397,200
88,825,700

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
STATEMENT OF JAPANESE DOLLAR LOANS
(Thousands of Dollars)
Total
Amount
Amt.Out-
Int.
Issued
Matures
Issued
standings in Ja
National
Impl Japanese Govt.
6-1/2%
2/1/24
2/1/54 $150,000 $ 93,915  68,0
Imp. Japanese Govt.
5-1/2%
5/1/30
5/1/65
71,000
58,740
46,860
Municipal
Tokio
5-1/2%
4/1/27
4/1/61
20,640
12,438
11,070
Yokohama
6%
12/1/26
12/1/61
19,740
12,464
11,301
Corp. Gtd.
Gt. Consolidated a
7%
8/1/24
8/1/44
15,000
2,397
1,268
Gt. Consolidated a
6-1/2%
7/1/25
7/1/50
13,500
2,337
1,918
Nippon Elect. Pwr. a
6-1/2%
1/2/28
1/1/53
9,000
4,952
1,70
Oriental Development c 6%
3/15/23
3/15/53
19,900
10,366
3,15
Oriental Devebpment
c 5-1/2%
11/1/28
11/1/58
19,900
11,057
6,855
Shinyetsu El. Pwr. b
6-1/2%
12/1/27
12/1/52
7,650
4,194
2,885
Taiwan El. Pwr. c
5-1/2%
7/1/31
7/1/71
22,800
19,573
15,638
Toho El. Pwr. a
7%
3/15/25
3/15/55
15,000
712
165
Tokyo El. Lt. a
6%
6/15/28
6/15/53
70,000
47,393
27,000
Ujigawa El. Pwr. a
7%
3/15/25
3/15/45
14,000
2.859
1.719
14 Issues
Grand Totals
$468,130
$283,397
$194,572
Assumed by Japanese Elct. Generation & Transmission Co.
and the I.J.G. beginning April 1, 1939.
b. Assumed also by Japanese El. Gen. & Trans. Co. at some later date in 1940.
Guaranteed at time of their issuance by I.J.G.
End of 1944

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.95)
Cable Address
Tolophone
Bondholder
Whitohall a-7855
Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, Inc.
46
ky
Ninety Broad Street, Now York 4
DAR
August 13, 1946
OFFICE
161946
Vte Dho
Dear r. Livesey:
a ste teme
I am enelosing eoptes of two office memos, which
I wrote November Zth last, concerning Japanese dollar bonds.
I believe the enclosure to one of these memos may give you
the informetion you had in mind as to the ten dollar bond
issues of Japanese corporations, three of which carried the
894.51/8-1
guarantee of the Imperial Japanese Government at the time of
their issuance, and seven of which were assumed by the
Japanese Electric Generation and Transmission Company and
the Imperial Japanese Government. We were able to arrive
at the amount of bonds held in Japan through reports from
the Fiscel Agents, including the Yokohama Specie Bank, be-
fore it was in liguidation, by meens of the cancelled coupons
which were presented in lieu of cash at the last interest
date for which funds were made available in 194l. We be-
lieve these figures to be reasonably accurate, and by de-
CH
ducting the principal amount of bonds, as represented by
46
those cancelled coupons, we have arrived at a balance of
$43,534,500 outstanding bonds for these ten issues held
other than in Japan. You will, of course, note from the
enclosures that the Mitsui Bank Ltd. is Trustee for four
of these corporate issues, and that the Industrial Bank of
Japan is Trustee for three, both trustees, of course, being
Japanese institutions.
If this enclosure does not give you the exast
CS/A
information you had in mind, please let me know. I would
presume, that an additional source of information as to
American holdings of Tapanese corporate bonds vould/be,
if they are available to the state Depaftment, the re-
ports filed by the bondholders on Treasury Department
Form TFR-500.
With beet wishes, believe me
Sincerely yours,
Frederick Livesey, Esq.,
Q. H. lozphe
Adviser, Office of Financial
and Development Policy,
1815 "H" St., N. W.,
A. H. Wylie,
Washington, D. C.
Secretary.
Fnclpsures.
3
F

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.92)
Swor
Trusties for Llollar Loane
Asserding to the indentures covering the leans listed here-
after, Japasese beaking eerperations mere not only trustees, but the
boud comtrast itself was mede between the obligor and the Japansse
banking iastitutions as trustees, as follower
Mitsui Bank, Ltd. rs Trustee for -
Mippon Lloctrie Pewer Co. Ltd. 6j% 1928-1953
Toho Eloctric Power Co. Ltd. 7% 1925-1955
Tokio Klestrio Light Company, Ltd. 6 1928-1953
Shinyetau Electric Power Co. 6g% 1927-1952
Industrial Bank of Japan, Ltd. as Trustee for -
Great Conselidated Electric Power Co. Ltd.
7% 1926-1964
Great Consolidated Xlectrie Power Co. Ltd.
61925-1950
Ujigawa Electric Power Co. Ltd. 73 1925-1945
In vies of the reports of the siesure by tur troops of the
flmancial institutiops within Japan, and in order to protect the in-
terosts of the amapican holdars or the issues listed above, it/ would
seen consideratigh should be given to the appointmest of a soscesser
Trustee, prefergbly an Americaa/institution, partignlarly in view of
the contrect prpvisions under which the properties covered by these
loams ure wortgaged in faver of the bonds.
e.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.93)
Yokohume Shm R,td, as Trmte for
Imperial Japaness Government 6% 1924-1934
Ixperial Japanese Gevernment 52% 1930-1965
Tokie, Gtd. by Japanese Govt., Sà% 1927-1961
Yokohama, Gtd. by Japanese Govt. 6% 1926-196l
Taiman Eleatric Pewer, Gtd. by Japanese Govt.
51931-1971
The loan contracte fer these five issues, for whieh the
New York Agoney of the Yokohame Specie Bank, Ltd. is Fiscal Agent
of the cbligas, provide for the continuation of that Aganey so long
as any bonds are outstasdiag, or that the obligor will desigmate a
Succeeser Fiseal Agent in the Borough of Nanhattan, City of Mew York,
netice thereof to be given the purehasers or their suecessers.
Simse the New York Aganey of the Tokohame Specie Bank Ltd.
is in liquidation, and dinse all of the five iasues ars obligations of
or guaranteed by the fapanese Govarnment, in order to proteet the in-
terests of the holdgrs of dollar bonds of the fovagoing iasues, for
mhicn thet Agemey was designated Fiscal Ageat in the loan contraets,
it is suggested that the Japansse Goverament, through the Supreme
Allied Commandaxd, be called upon to designate = $uccessor Yiscal Agent,
as provided by the bond contracts for the five designated loans.
A.W11.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.96)
+12
Frical Agente for LOsllar Loane
Lokobama Beegie Bank Ltd (in N. Y.) in liquidation
by N. Y. State Banking Commission.
Total
Presumably Sela
Outstanding
utd
2 Matl. Imp. Japanese Govt. 6#
93,914,700
30,880,380
Imp. Japanese Govt. 52
58,740,000
11,879,500
2 Munias
Tokio 5
12,438,900
1,368,400
Yokohama 6
12,464,000
1,163,000
1 Core. Gtd. Taiwan El. Pwr. 55
19,573,000
3,935,008
197,129,700
49,226,200
Dillen. Read & Co.
3 Corp. Gtd. Great Consol. 7
2,397,000
1,132,000
Great Consol. 6
2,337,000
419,000
Shinyetsu 6
4,194,000
1,309,000
8,928,000
2,860,000
Hational City Bank
3 Corp. Gtd. Oriental Develop. 6
10,366,000
7,211,000
Oriental Develop. 5%
11,057,000
4,202,000
Ujigawa El. Pwr. 7
2,859,500
1,140,500
24,282,500
12,553,500
Guaranty Trust
2 Corp. Gtd. Toho El. Pwr. 7
712,000
547,000
Tokyo El. Light 6
47.393,000
20.393,000
48,105,000
20,940,000
Harris Trust
1 Corp. Gtd. Nippon Elect. Pwr. 6
4,952,000
3,266,000
Grand Totals
283,397,200
88,825,700

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.93)
STATENENT OF JAPANEDE
(Thoneands oferliina)
Inte
Lemmed
ational
2/1/24
211/54
Imp. Japamese Govt.
6% Fob. 1, 1924 Fob. 1, 1954
Imp. Japamese Govt.
5 May 1, 1930 May 1, 1965
72,000
Takio
5% Apr. 1, 1927 Apr. 1, 1961
20,640,288
12
Tokehama
6%
Dec. 1, 1926 Dec. 1, 1961
19,740,000
Cere. Gtd. (10)
Gt. Consolidated 
7 ug. 1, 1924 Aug. 1, 1944
15,000,000
2,39%
Ct. Conmolidated a
6 July 1, 192 July 1, 1950
13,500,000
2.337
Nippon Elect. Pmr. a
6% Jan. 2, 1928 Jan. 1, 1953
9,000,000
Oriontal Development c 6% Mar.15, 1923 Mar.15, 1953
3
19,900,000
10,366
Oriental Development c 5 Nov. 1, 1928 Nov. 1, 1958
19,900,800
11,05
Shinyetsu El. Pwr. b
6% Dec. 1, 1927 Dec. 1, 1952
17
7,650,000
Taiwan El. Pwr. c
5% July 1, 1931 July 1, 1971
22,800,000
19,573
Toho El. Pwr. a
7%
Mar.15, 1925 Mar.15, 1955
15,000,000
712
Tokyo El. Lt. a
6%
Junel5, 1928 Junel5, 1953
70,000,000
47,393
Ujigawa El. Pwr. a
7%
Mar.15, 1925 Mar.15, 1945
160000,000
14 Issues
Grand Totals
$468,130,000
$263.3
a Assumed by Japanese Elect. Generation & Transmission Co. and the I.J.G. begim
April 1, 1939.
b Assumed also by Japanese El. Gen. & Trans. Co. at some later date in 1940.
c Guaranteed at time of their issuance by I.J.G.
11944

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.95)
LUANS
CA7
Outstanding Bal-
d)
Reported as
ances Supposedly
Held in Jamea
Hold Outside Jaman
Truetee
Fieosl Arent
$63,034
$30,880,300
Yok. &p. Baak
46,860
11,879,500
Yok. Sp. Bank
11,069.
1,368,400
Yok. Bp. Bank
11,301
1,163,000
Yok. Sp. Bank
1,265
1,132,000
Dillon, Read
Ind.Br.of Japam
1,918,0
419,000
Dillon, Read
Ind.Bk.of Japan
1,706,
3,246,000
Harris Trust
Mitsui
3,155,
7,211,000
National City
6,855,000
4,202,000
National City
2,885,00
1,309,000
Dillon, Read
Mitaul
15,638,0
3,935,000
Yek. Sp. Bank
165,
547,000
Guaranty Trust
Nitsui
27,000,
20,393,000
Guaranty Trust
Mitsui
1.719.00
1.140,500
Ind.Bk. of Japan
National City
$194,571,500
$88,825,700

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.94)
NOV 01946
In reply refer to
FN
My dear Mrs. Ryugo:
Reference is made to your letter of August 24,
1946, relative to certain Imperial Japanese Govornment
and Tokyo Electric Light Company, Limited, dollar bonds
88
which you hold.
6
Apparently your inquiry was motivated by a Press
Release by the Department dated August 1, 1946. This
5
Release was intended to refer to equity participation
in Japanese business enterprises rather than to bonds
or other obligations of such companies or of the
8
Japanese Government.
1
2446
A definitive statonent regarding the future position
of Japenese dollar bonds is not now possible, but the
following may be helpful to your understanding of the
Departnent's policy with reference to such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
securities is primarily a private transaction into which
the purchaser voluntarily enters after calculation of
the risks involved. In the case of securities Issued by
private entities, it is expected that holders will
attenpt to secure coapliance with the contractual terms
through the usual channels when resort to such measures
becomes possible. This would apply to your Tokyo
lectric Light Company, Limited, bonds.
C
In the case of dollar bonds guaranteed by or isauod
by a governnental entity, a classification which would
72
include all of the bonds you hold, while the Department
does not negotiate directly on behalf of Anerican holdors,
it does endeavor to render such assistance as may be
appropriate to such holders or their ropresentatives. In
this
Mrs. Mutsu Ryugo,
Jait
5049 Kensington Avenue,
2
St. Louis 8, Missouri.
F
8

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
this conneetion, attention may be called to the Foreign
Bondholders Protective Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad
Street, New York, New York, established several years ago
to serve as a central representative body. The Council
was created with the encouragement of the Department, but
operates on its own responsibility. It is understood
that the Council is interesting itself in such securities
as the bonds held by you, and you may wish to write to
it in this connection.
I think you will appreciate that the Department is
unable to state at the present moment what provisions,
if any, affecting such obligations may be included in
the peace settlement, or what provision for prior pay-
ment of claims arising from the war may be agreed upon.
As you are no doubt aware, there will be many claims and
demands of different types against Japan and against
persons and municipalities in that country, of which
such bonds as those owned by you will probably constituto
only a small part.
However, the Department will be glad to make a
record, for such consideration as may be appropriate, of
any information you may send to it regarding your
holdings. This should include, in addition to the data
contained in your letter, the purchase price, the
manner and date of your acquisition of these securities,
the date of the last interest payment, and the manner
(whether by birth or naturalization) and date of your
acquisition of American citizenship. In case you acquired
citizenship by naturalization, the number of your
naturalization certificate and the name and location of
the court in which you wero naturalized should also be
stated.
If it should later be found appropriate for this
Government to take any action with respect to suah
obligations as those you own, due announcement thereof
will be made in order that interested American citizens
may be properly informed.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
NOV
19
James C. Copiiss, Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
vw
FN:VWJones:gs
CR
11/7/46
the elgned
nal.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.85)
FN
Division of Foreigod Service aamincatiation
State Wepartment
In accordance with thw recent DK
request a file statemente of holdinge
the frelowing data:
I Inprial Jrpanese Svernment toma
matuity -value f, ooo due may ,1965
meumr 8589
89
4
II Tokyo Dent Kabushiki Kaishia
Wokys Electin drgho Comgaanylinitos
matuity value of 3 0oo die Jine 159052
8
3-2446
mumbrr 1917
8938
68464
1946 AUG 27
28063
66976
66977
68406
A111
I Jotab
matuity value f , ro.
主E
0
13576
Let. ans.11/7/46
IN. VwGonesigs
DCR, (ZFD Uni
Mis Mutso Ryugs
F
5049 Keneingtm Avemie
te. tns 8, missine
august 24,1946

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.85)
best. 1 1946.
State Departuent:-
Deiision I Foreign Saurce Qeghta
Dear ders:
1
68
94.51/9.
ts per enclosed elipping
amadsising you that I hold
Light Co. 1at67% Dollar Series
due 6/1s/53 bunchased ou 6/15/28
yours truly
Helen he. Reith
173 Riveisede Drind
new Gork 24 ky.
TLED
5
SEPI01946
FD Un
f
v1

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.92)
1946
In reply refer to
YA
894.51/9-146
Hy dear Miss Reith:
Receipt is acknovledged of your inquiry dated Septembar L.
1946 with regard to a recent news release in relation to hold-
ings of Japanese ssouritios.
Enclosed for your infortation is a copy of the Departmens's
press release of August 1. 1946, to which you evidently refer
in your commmication. This was issued for the purpose of
proteoting Amarican interests in certain Japaneso business entey-
prises which may be affeoted by the program of monopoly diseelu-
tion being inangurated by the Allled Powere in Japen. Toa vill
note tht the release mequested only relevant data regarding
interests not previously reported to the Umited States Tremsusy
Department. Ne inforation is being reguested by the Depertment
at this time concerning Tokyo Mleatrio Light Company Dollas
Series bonds.
Sincerely yours,
For the Asting Seoretary of States
CS/V
James W. Gantenbain
Asaistant Chief, Division of
Foreign Service Administration
Enclosure:
18
Pross release of Agust 1, 1946.
51
Miss Helan K. Reith.
173 Riverside Drive.
Now York 24, Now York.
FAiHSmith:im
9/9/48
PY

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.93)
J0
The National City Bank
YED
N
of New York
ESTABLISHED 1812
1946 SEP 16 AM 11 52
RWD
CABLE ADDRESS"CITIBANK"
ASE QUOTE INITIALS
Division of Foreign Service Administration, State Department
Washington,
D.C.
Dear Sirs:
Under date of August 2, 1946 a notice appeared in the New York Times
894.51/9-
which stated that "American holders of securities or obligations of Japanese
business enterprises were urged today by the State Department to file state-
ments immediately with ite Division of Foreign Service Administration giving
information which will serve to protect their enterprises in the program of
monopoly diesolution being undertaken by the Allies in Japan."
There is some doubt regarding the interpretation of the term "obli-
gations". Does this refer only to bonds and/or securities of Japanese business
enterprises or may it be interpreted in its broader senee to cover ordinary
1046
debts owed by Japanese business enterprises which are documented by a signed
note, draft or other suitable inetrument?
While we do not hold bonds and securities of Japanese business
enterprises, we do have obligations of the latter type and would like to know
1f it is in order to file statements with your Division of Foreign Service
Administration in cover of such monies due us from Japanese commercial borrowers.
Yours very truly,
7.
DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
FILED
C
(1)
ino.
01947
1
SEP 1 1946
20
894.51
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
GOROFD Unit
LH
nai.
Rev.
PANESE AND KOR
MIG AFFANS
Cai
 OF STATE
947
1046
Dist.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.95)
JAN 161947
In reply refer to
YN
The National City Bank of New York
New York, New York
Attention: Mr. R. W. Doyle
Assistant Comptroller
Sirs:
Reference is made to your letter or September 10,
1946, relative to the notioe 1n the New York Times
of August 2, l946, regarding the filing of statements
by American holders of securities or obligations of
Japanese business enterprises.
The notice to which you refer was apparently
motivated by a Press kelease by the Department, dated
August 1, 1946. The Lepartment's release was intended
to refer to equity in Japanese enterprises, rather
than to notes, drafts or other documents evidenoing a
debtor-oreditor or contractual relationship, which the
Department would asaume holders will enforoe by avail-
ing themselves of the usual methods, when resort to
such measures becomes praoticable.
It is regretted that the reply to your inquiry
has been so long delayed.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
OFD Unt
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chief
Rev.
Division of Financial Affairs
Gai
1
0gm
J
FN:JCCorliss:f1 1/10/47
JAN

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
FN
00118196
In reply refer to
FN
Bank of Montreal,
64 Wall Street,
New York 5, New York.
Sirs:
Reference is made to your letter of September 30,
1946, relative to $3000 Tokyo Electric Light Company,
Ltd., 6% bonds, which you hold in safe custody for
Messrs. J. & A. Scrimgeour, 3 Lothbury, London,
E. C. 2, England.
The information received by you from the National
Foreign Trade Council, Incorporated, apparently was
based on a press release by this Department, inviting
American citizens to transmit information which they
believe would serve to protect their interests in
conneotion with the program of monopoly dissolution
inaugurated by the Allied Powers in Japan. The
Department's release, however, was addressed only to
American citizens and referred to equity participation
in Japanese business enterprises, rather than to bonds
or other documents evidencing a lien upon the earnings
or assets of such onterprises.
You may wish, however, to communicate with the
Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, Incorporated,
90 Broad Street, New York, New York, relative to the
bonds described in your letter. As you probably know,
the Council was established several years ago to serve
as a central body representative of interests of
American holders of foreign dollar bonds in default.
In
Re
Ja
Dizt

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
In negotiating with foreign governments for the adjust-
ment of the defaulted situation of such bonds, however,
it has been the practice of the Council, so far as
possible, to have any agreement cover all dollar bonds
of a particuler issue, regardless of the nationality
of the holders. The Council is following this
situation carefully, and will doubtless take such steps
as it may feel advisable to protect the interests
of holders of these defaulted doller bonds when it con-
siders that it is appropriate to do so.
Very truly yours,
For the Acting Socretary of State:
James C. Corliss, Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
the slunc
n2l.
OFD
10/9/46
271948

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.95)
.R. BALL
CABLE ADDRESS;
C. T. AULPH 
AGENTS
"HOCHELAGA"
F. W. HUNTER
Pank of Montreal,
AGENCY
NEWTORK 5,
30th September, 1946.
IN REPLYING
SEC
PLEASE QUOTE.
ano. 0/9/46
AN: NGuis
OEPARTMENT OF STATE
K
State Department,
894.51
Division of Foreign Service Administration,
Weshington, D. C.
Dear Sirs:
In accordance with information received from tha
National Foreign Trade Council Inc., 26 Beaver Street, New York 4.0
N.Y., we wish to advise that we hold in safe custody for
I
Messrs. J. & A. Scrimgeour, 3 Lothbury, London, E. C. 2, England,
3046
of British registretion, the following Japanese security:
$3,000. Tokyo Electric Light Co. Ltd. First
Mortgage 6, Dollar Series Bonds due
June 15, 1955.
This information is furnished for the purpose of
protecting our clients' interest in the prorem of monopoly
dissolution being inaugurated by the Allied Powers in Japan.
Yours very truly,
CS/ A
tauers
Agent.
894.51/9-3046
FIL
ESC: GM
cc: Messrs. J. & A. Scrimgeour
OFD Un
X
te

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.96)
RECEIVED
LAW OFFICES OF
CPARTMENT OF STATE
HAMMACK & HAMMACK
DC/R
904 SPRING ARCADE BUILDING
541 SOUTH SPRING STREET
DANIEL M. HAMMACK, IB
194(H0CTck21 PM 4 13
LOS ANGELES I3, CALIFORNIA
DAN S. HAMMACK, JR.
MICHIGAN 7676
October 17, 1946
CAREY MCWILLIAMS
ASSOCIATE
DC/
RECOrA CRANCH
Department of State
Atten: The Secretary of State
Washington, D.C.
In re: FF 894.51/773
Dear Sir:
We have heretofore had correspondence
with you in reference to this matter.
I find that
I wrote you beginning January 8, 1942. You very
894.51/10-1746
kindly answered me from time to time.
We are wondering if any procedure has
as yet been outlined in reference to the collection
of the amounts due on these Japanese bonds.
We dislike to keep troubling you in
reference to this matter, and if there is any more
appropriate agency to whom we should write we shall
be glad to follow your suggestion.
Yours very truly,
Hammack & Hammack
DSH:HG
FILED
1
2
351
CS/ A
OCB OED Unit
FH
∴nal
DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
and.11/21/46
Rev.
Cat.
NOV 6 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.93)
FN
1830.
In reply refer to
FN 894.51/10-1746
2619
Hammack & Han mack;
541 South Spring Street,
Los Angeles 13, California.
Sirs:
894
Reference is made to your letter of October 17,
194c, relative to certain Japanese Government franc
bonds held by your client, Elizabeth J. McCloy.
Thero has been no chonge in this situation since
the Lepartment's 1etter of arch 8, 1946. In 1ts
letter of that dste the Depertnent suggested that you
might wiah to write to the Foreign Bondholders Pro-
tective Councll, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York,
New York, and to the correspanding French Council,
regarding these bonds. The Departnent believes that
this suggestion cen appropriately be made even more
strongly at the present time.
Very truly yours,
or the ecretary of State:
F21t
O
Jenes CCorliss, Assistant Chiof
Division of Financial Affairo
FN:JCCorIiss:gs
11/21946
NOV. 25 1946 F.1
08

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.91)
1946012 217020
LEGATION OF SWITZERLAND
ne1/4
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
DIY OF IPANESE ANO KOREAN
ECINOMIC AFFAIRS
De/p
MEMORANDUM
OC1311946
12
/Lb.
pie
The "Commercial and Financial Chronicle", in
its publication of August 8, referreu to a release of the
Depurtment of State of August 1, providing for registration
of securities of Jupanese bueiness enterprises held by
Americn ans cert in foreign nationals.
The Federal olitical Department, which was
a rized of tnis rossibility, hes requested that it be
894.51/10-2546
est blished whether the  rcvisions of registration, which
ure to serve s a meusure of rotection to the security
holders, could also be extended to Swiss n.tionals. It
has been point d out th t moinly the following securities
are in Svi. s hnds :
7 % Great Cons. Electric Power Company, Ltd. (of Japan)
Ser. "A" due 8/1/1944
S
6 % Oriental Development Company (Tokyo Takushoku
DEC 11 1946
/HH
Kabushiki Kaisha) Gold Deb. due 1953
FILED
5 1/2 % Oriental Development Company Ltd. 1958
Ext.s.f.Debentures
5 1'2 % Taiwan Electric -ower Company Ltd. due 1971
6 % Tokyc Electric Light Company Ltd. 1st. Mtge. Bonds
due 6/15/1953.
DCK OFD Unit
na
FLIt
at
Dist

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
This matter has been discussed today with
Mr. Henry D. Owens, Division for Japanese and Corean
Affairs, Department of State, and it would be very much
ap:reciated if the Department would see its way clear
to accede to this request und ts outline to the Legation
of Switzerland the rocedure to be followed.
Washington, D.C., 0ctober 25, 1946.
F.453 - Bpyjt

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.94)
MEASORANDUN
The Department of State ackmewledges the recsipt of the
memerantum frem the Legatien of Switserland dated Oeteber 25,
1946, in whiek it requested that the heldings of Swiss matien-
als in Japanese seourities be registered with the Divisien ef
Foreign Servise of the Departmeat as a measure of pretectiem
to their iatereate in the mmmer provided for V. 3. holders
of Japanese seeurities in the Departmeat press release no. 535
of August 1, 1946.
The Departmemt will forward to the Supreme Comander fer
the Allied Pevers, Tokyo, through the Division of Fereign
Serviee Administration, any information on this subjest which
the Swies Legation my subait. Hovever, watil fimal polisy
is established by the Far Eastern Commissien as to the treat-
ment umder reeonstrustien and reparations programs, of the
property in Japan of the matienals of the Uaited Matiens and
other foreign countries, it will set be pomsible for the
Anal.
Rev.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.90)
-2-
Departaest te give any assureness as to the extent er mature of
the pretectiem to Swiss interests that will be affasded. Eeslesed
for your csaveniemse is a oepy of the crigimsl press release deal-
ing with this smbjeet.
Enclosure:
Pross rolease no. 535
Department of State,
Àà  
Washiagtom, Decemner 61044
 d rig
15
894.51/10-2546
er.
JK:NGottrell:mw
12/2/46
JA
Lo
WE
02

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.96)
DC/R
DIVISION OF
ACTION cdPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
ALAIN
4
Action:
ESP
Info
7:48 p.m.
U-E
A-H
ACTINF
EUR
OCD
FROH:
Vaticen City
ESP
DC/L
TC:
Secretary of State
ES
V
2
ITP
GA
OFD
FC
NO:
107, Tuentleth
3
894.51/1
DC/F
Japene funds itemized imy despaten 552, November 13,
teken over by me today with Allied approval, placed
In proseribed joint trust account in Vaticen City
benk called Instituto Opere Religione. Detalls follow.
GOWEN
2046
DEPA
DEC 17 1946
FILED
PLAIN
L.F.C
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.95)
LAW OFFICES OF
HAMMACK & HAMMACK
9O4 SPRING ARCADE BUILDING
File
fide
B4I SOUTH SPRING STREET
DANIEL M. HAMMACK, 1B4B-1918
LOS ANGELES I3, CALIFORNIA
D. S. HAMMACK
MICHIGAN 7676
DAN S. HAMMACK, JR.
CAREY MCWILLIAMS
ASSOCIATE
December 3, 1946
mc Clay
Mr. James C. Corliss
Assistant Chief Division of Financial Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
In re: FN 894.51/10-1746
894.51/12
Dear Sir:
This will acknowledge receipt of your
letter of ovember 26th in reference to this
matter.
In accordance with your suggestion we
have written to Foreign Bondholders Protective
2
Council, Incorporated as per copy of letter
herewith.
e trust you will epprove.
-346
e very much appreciate your assistance
in this matter.
Yours very truly,
Hermacy & Haymack
ByW
DSH:HG
15
894.51/
OUVISION OF FIHAGIAL AFFAIRS
1F43
ORT
H
12-346
DEPARTMENT F STATE

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
LAW OFFICES OF
AIR MAIL
HAMMACK & HAMMACK
9O4 SPRING ARCADE BUILDING
LOS ANGELES 13, CALIFORNIA
MICHIGAN 7676
December 3, 1946
Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, Inoorporated
90 Broad Street
New York, N.Y.
Gentlemen:
e are writing y u at the suggestion of James c.
Corliss, Assistant Chief, Division of Finanoial Affairs.
e represent Elizabeth J. McCloy of this city. Miss
Mocloy is the owner of thirty-one bonds of the government of
Japan, 4 Series of 1910, due Vey 15, 1970; eech of these bonds
is of the denominetion of 50n franos; coupons are attached to
each bond.
The coupons falling due on November 15,1941 were
presented for payment through the bank of  iss MoCloy, but the
coupons were nnt paid.
We will a preciete it if you will adviso us what courso
should be teken to protect the interests of our client in refor-
ence to these bonds.
If you handle euch matters please advise the basis of
representation.
Ir. Corliss also suggested that we write to the French
Counoil, which we ascume is sn organization similar to your own,
in reference to the matter. ould you edvise us to take this
action, and if you dn will y u please give us the exact name and
addresa of the Frenoh Council organization.
We will very much appreciate your assistance in this
matter and enolnse stamped air mail envelope for your reply.
Yours vory truly,
Hemmeck & Hammack
DSH:HG
By
cc James C.Corliss
Department of State
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF JAPAE AND KOREAN
Despatch No. 556
ECOROONG AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
JAN 7-1947
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO HIS HOLINESS THE POPE
Vatican City, December 5, 1946
RESTRICTED
0-/1
Subject: Allied Joint Trust Account for the control of
TC
official funds of the former Japanese Diplomatic
Mission to the Holy See.
fy遇
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
ESp
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my telegram No. 107 6f November 20,
1946 reporting that on that day the official funds of the former
894.51/12-546
Japanese diplomatic mission to the Holy See were placed in an Allied
joint trust account in the bank known as the "Istituto per le Opere
di Religione", State of the Vatican City. A copy of the bank's
letter of receipt for these funds (Italian paper lire 1,449,692.90
equal to $6, 443 at the rate of lire 225 to the dollar) and a copy
of a pertinent letter addressed jointly to the said bank by this
Mission and the British Legation to the Holy See are respectfully
enclosed for the Department's records.
The French and Chinese diplomatic missions to the Holy See were
entirely agreeable to the establishment of this joint account. How-
ever, they indicated orally that by not undertaking to participate
for the time being in the opening of the joint account they would
thereby circumvent certein technicalities which they wished to avoid.
In other words, the account was established with the full approval of
701 7466a1-1346
all the Allied authorities concerned.
SPD ESPYA
X1894.51
Mr. Kanayama, the former Secretary of the Japanese diplomatic
mission to the Holy See, his wife, and their three children are still
residing in the State of the Vatican City, it being understood that
they will be ready to proceed to Japan within the next few months,
as explained in my despatch No. 552 of November 13, 1946. Further
developments with regard to their forthcoming repatriation and the
CS/A
possible sale of the articles described in my above-mentioned despatch
will be duly reported to the Department.
Respectfully yours,
Franeein euen
Franklin C. Gowen
Foreign Service Ofricer
Assistant to the Honorable Myron C. Taylor
894.51
Enclosures:
1. Copy of letter of December 5, 1946
FILED
from Istituto per le Opere di
CR OFD Unit
Religione to this office.
2.
Copy of letter of November 20, 1946 to
Istituto per le Opere di Religione from
this office and British Legation to the
12.546
Holy See.
Bist.
In quintuplicate to Department
FCGowen/jp
toy to reclop Conlise
711.4

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
ENCLOSURE-NO. 1 TO DESPATCH NO. 556 OF DECEMBER 5, 1946 ENTITLED
"ALLIED JOINT TRUST ACCOUNT FOR THE CONTROL OF OFFICIAL FUNDS OF
THE FORMER JAPANESE DIPLOMATIC MISSION TO THE HOLY SEE*, FROM
FRANKLIN C. GOWEN, FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICER, VATICAN CITY.
COPY
ISTITUTO
per le
OPERE DI RELIGIONE
Vatican City,
December 5, 1946
Prot. No. 59091
Posiz. No. 2573
CONFIDENTIAL
Gentlemen:
We are in possession of your letter of November 20, 1946
and the relative amount of Lire 1,449,692.90, concerning the
Joint Trust Account No. 3620 in the name of the British Legation
to the Holy See. and the Office of the Personal Representative of
the President of the United States of America to His Holiness the
Pope, and we beg to confirm to you that the account in question
was duly established on our books on November 20, 1946.
This amount is to be kept by this Istituto per le Opere di
Religione until called for jointly by the mentioned two Representa-
tives or their officials. This Amministrazione will pay to Mr.
Masahide Kanayama, a member of the former Japanese diplomatic
Mission to the Holy See, the sum of Lire 50,000.- per month,
beginning with the month of November 1946, and until further or-
ders from you. In the case of each payment Mr. Masahide Kanayama
will give us a formal receipt.
It is understood that additional expenditures have to be
specifically authorized in advance in writing by the Representa-
tives above specified. Mr. Kanayama is not authorized to exercise
any control over this joint trust account.
Sincerely yours,
(Signed) ALBERTO DIORIO
Presidente
ISTITUTO PER LE OPERE DI RELIGIONE
CITTA DEL VATICANO
The Personal Representative of the
President of the United States of America
to His Holiness the Pope,
Rome.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
ENCLOSURE NO. 2 TO DESPATCH NO. 556 OF DECEMBER 5, 1946 ENTITLED
"ALLIED JOINT TRUST ACCOUNT FOR THE CONTROL OF OFFICIAL FUNDS OF
THE FORMER JAPANESE DIPLOMATIC MISSION TO THE HOLY SEE", FROM
FRANKLIN C. GOWEN, FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICER, VATICAN CITY.
COPY
The Personal Representative of the
President of the United States of America
to His Holiness the Pope
2, via Boncompagni, Rome.
November 20, 1946.
Gentlemen:
Referring to Joint Trust Account No. 3620 dated November 20,
1946 in the amount of Lire 1,449,692.90, which was established today
through Mr. Franklin C. Gowen, Assistant to the Honorable Myron C. Taylor,
in the name of the British Legation to the Holy See and the Office of
the Personal Representative of the President of the United States of
America to His Holiness the Pope, this is to confirm that the above
mentioned sum is to be kept by your Instituto until called for jointly
by the undersigned or their official representatives and that you will
be so kind as to pay to Mr. Masahide Kanayama, a member of the former
Japanese diplomatic mission to the Holy See, the sum of Lire 50,O00.-
per month for his actual and necessary living and household expenses
for himself and his family. This payment of Lire 50,000.- per month
to Mr. Kanayama is to begin with the month of November, 1946 and to con-
tinue until further orders from us, it being understood that in the case
of each payment Mr. Kanayama will give you a formal receipt for your
archives. Such additional expenditures as we may in due course autho-
rize to cover obstetrical and other medical expenses for Mrs. Kanayama
will also be deducted from the deposit in question, but only when speci-
fically authorized in advance in writing by us or our official repre-
sentatives.
It is understood that when Mr. Kanayama and his family will have
left the Vatican City State to proceed to Japan, which may take place
in the course of the next few months, the unexpended balance of the
sum in question will be delivered by you to us against our joint
receipt. Mr. Kanayama has been duly informed in accordance with the
foregoing and is not authorized to exercise any control over this
joint trust account.
Thanking you for your kind attention to this matter, we are
Sincerely yours,
(Signed) D. G. OSBORNE
His Britannic Majesty's Minister to the Holy See
(Signed) FRANKLIN C. GOWEN
Foreign Service Officer
Assistant to the Honorable Myron C. Taylor
To the
Istituto per le Opeedi Religione,
Vatican City.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.94)
F8 11947
In reply refer to
FN 894.51/12-1546
894.51/1
My dear Mr. Young:
Reference is made to your letter of December 15, 1946,
relative to three Tokyo Electric Light Company, Limited,
dollar bonds which you hold.
The Department vill make a record, for such considera-
.7
tion as may be appropriate, of the data contained in your
1
letter, but in order that there may be no misunderstanding
一
as to the significance of the Department's acceptanoe of
5
this information, the following statement regarding the
46
Department's policy may be helpful to you.
The Department considers thet investment in foreign
securities is primarily a private transaction into which the
purchaser voluntarily enters after caloulating the risks in-
volved. In the case of securities issued by private entities,
it is expected that holders will attempt to sscure compliance
with the contractual terms through the usual ohannels when
resort to such measures becomes possible.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued or guaranteed
by a foreign government, it is not the practice of the Depart-
C
ment to negotiate directly for American holders, but it does
endeavor to render such assistance as it appropriately can to
1
them or their representatives. In this connection your atten-
J>
tion may be called to the Foreign Bondholders Protective
Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York, New York,
which was established severa: years ago to serve as a central
representative
De
J
Mr. T. C. Young,
634 Vest Broadway,
Long Beach, California.
心山

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.97)
275
-2-
4ula
representative body. The Council was organised with the
encouragement of the Department, but it acts on its owm
responsibility. It is understood thet the Ceuncil is now
interesting itself in such obligations as those held by you
and you may wish to write to it in conneotion with your
bonds. Some time ago, at the request of the Council, the
Department tranamitted to the United States Political Adviser
to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers at Tokye, a
complete statement regarding the dollar bonds issued or
guaranteed by Japanese governmental entities. This state-
ment was sont for the information and use of the Political
Adviser and of the appropriate section of the Staff of the
Supreme Commander, and for such action as might be deemed
appropriate in the protection of the American interest
involved.
It will be appreciated thet the Department cannot state
at the present time what provisions, if any, may be inserted
in the peace treaty regarding such obligations, or what pro-
vision for prior payment of claims arising from the war may
be made. You are doubtless aware that there will be many
claims and demands against the Japanese Government and against
persons and municipalities in that country, of which such bonds
as those owned by you will probably constitute only a small
part.
Nevertheless, the Department will make a record, for such
consideration as may be appropriate, of the data you have sub-
mitted regarding your bond. If it should later be found advis-
able that American holders take any further steps in connection
with such obligations, due announcement will be made in order
that the holders may be properly informed.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
James é. Corliss, Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
010
AVF
OFJK
LE
FN:VWJhes:yw
2-4-47

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.87)
 Long Beach Calig, 171s/46
LE
Was hington A.C.
Bear Srr
Retter drafed sn 7N:
Thiongh The Friss Nail Bank 
894.
of Vriginia Minn three
paying 2775.50 Oash far them0
fonast were rssned lby
Takyo-ELec Light Co Limite
and I have reccivis no
interest Srines de count War
Oonditiom..
I wones live to mmake
your
bonn 1871 in Norwalk Ond
I am nou past 74 years!
afage and need this manay
to live an.
2

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.81)
Grvaranly Truss Co. of
New yorn asvises me
to take the matter up with
Will you kindly
asvice me whar to do?
P011eunq
634 WesBroadway
Long Beach
Colip

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
EN
APR1 194
894.51/12-2046
In reply refer to
FN 894.51/12-2046
My dear Mr. Nakahara:
Reference is made to your letter of December 20,
1946, regarding dollar bonds of the City of Yokohama
and the Tokyo Electric Light Compary, Limited.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not now
possible, but the following may be helpful to your
understanding of the Department's policy with regard
to such obligations.
The Department considers that investment in foreign
securities is primarily a private transaotion into which
the purchaser enters after calculation of the risks in-
volved. In the case of bonds issued by private entities,
as are the Tokyo lectric Light Company bonds, it is
assumed that holders will be prepared to avail themselves.
if necessary, of the usual methods to secure enforoement
of the contractual provisions, when resort to such
measures is possible.
In the case of obligations issued by, or guaranteed
by, governmental entities, --a category which would include
both the Tokyo Electric Light Company and the City of
Yokohama bonus, --it is not the practice of the Department
to negotiate directly for American holders, but it does
C
endeavor to renuer such assistance as it appropriately
IS
can to such holders or their representatives. In this
connection attention may be called to the Foreign Bond-
<
holders Protective Council, Incorporated, 90 Broad Stroet,
New York, New York, which was established several years
ago
Mr. Tsuyoshi Nakahara,
1031 King Street,
Seattle, Washington.
12-2046
R

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
ago to serve as a central representative body. Although
the Council was organized with the encouragement of the
Department, it operates on its own responsibility. Several
months ago, at the request of the Counoil, the Department
transmitted to the United States Political Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tokyo, a com-
plete statement of outstanding dollar bonds issued or
guaranteed by Japanese governmental entities. This state-
ment was forwarded for the information and use of the
Political Adviser and of the appropriate section of the
Staff of the Supreme Commander, and for such protection
of the American interest therein as might be appropriate
and feasible in the circumstances. The Department frequently
suggests to holders of such securities that they may wish to
communicate with the Council relative to their respeotive
holdings.
The Department is unable to state at the present time
what provisions, if any, affecting such obligations may be
included in the Peace Treaty with Japan, or what provi-
sion for clains arising out of the war may be made. As
you are no doubt aware, there will be many claims and
demands of different types against Japan, and against munio-
ipalities and persons in that country, of whioh such bonds
as those to which you refer will probably constitute only
a small part.
However, the Department is always glad to make a record
of any holdings of American citizens, for such considera-
tion as may be found to be appropriate, and suggests that
they send to it the pertinent details identifying and des-
cribing their bonds (name of obligor, dates ofissue and
maturity, interest rate, and currency in which payable),
the purchase price, the date and manner of purchase, and
the date and manner (whether by birth or naturalization)
of their acquisition of American citizenship.
If it should be found advisable that American holders
take further steps relative to such obligations, due announoe-
ment will be made in the public press.
Sincerely yours,
James C orliss, Assistant Chief
MAR
Division of Financial Affairs
31 947P.M.
2719
FN:VNJones: yw
3-24347

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.83)
103/ Kung st.
11
L6DAR
二
出
TO FM
3
3-24-47
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE
8pla
eaidi:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
96
I would like to irquire
about the foreigw bord f the
The Tokyo Eleclie Leghl Corpary Lomited,
68
the" City oI Yolohama," caod the
4
Jagarede Indeament I Japan, 1910
5
4. Frered Loan,. Ecwas enformed
2
them the Tearanly Trmal Co o N.Y,
4
the ageat d oned the above borde that
you would have the exact infrration
in regard to the above mentioned
ford's. I would leke to tcrow ifl
S5
or ary bordiolders are will te able to
collect the crlluston the vorde, if
M
5
these boveds are f ary walue row or
will be ru the fihlurd wher conditions
fas seltled, and of the corporaion 
I that there are frozen frnds aamovoting

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.85)
ti a Million dollars whieD was to
have been weed for paymet 
rateriet and principle in deposit
at Guaranty Tush Co  Ry.
and the Chase Ratioval Bonk I My.
2.f thece furde are rfeogened,cwill
it be afplied t fogment I interect
sirce he 1, 1941 t the precent teime?
Are the prper procedure for
foreign bond holders to wake a file
I claim agoinsh the corporation
or agent dur your departrent
in-order to be able t recewe
ary value latew on for these ford?
so,wtat srforwalion muct
file with your deparlvent. Outhe
in regard to collectirg the catevct

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.86)
of the bond...
I would ppreciate very me
if you cou furni Dme with 
all the information you have 
regard to the bords in question
and the arswer to the above
to the bord ruquestion.
Yourr tuly,
Gseeyohw Nakahara

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.92)
.2
Jopaneae Secaritiis
FEP 181947
UNRESTRICTED
NO.426
894.51/12-2346
To the
Acting United States Political Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo.
The Secretary of State encloses a copy of a
letter from the international tandard Electric Cor-
poration, dated December 23, 1946, regarding the
possibility of obtaining certificates pertaining
to securities held by nationals or companies in trust
or safekeeping for account of the Corporation as of
December 31, 1946.
It would be appreciated if the Acting Political
Adviser would t ake such action in the matter as may
be appropriate and feasible.
Enclosure:
dc
C
S
As stated above.
894.51
.RT.
FEr 2Y
Cor11:11 2/10/47
JK

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.92)
1
FN
In reply refor to
FN
y dear Mr. Roemer:
lieference is mede to your letter of December 23,
l946, regardin: the possibility of obtaining certifi-
cates pertainin to securities held by ce tain Japanese
natlonals or con anies in trust or safekeeping lor
account o1 the international :tandard lectric
cor oration as of ecember 31, 1946.
A copy of your letter has been transmitted to
the Acting united States rolitical Adviser to the
Supreme Commander Ior the Allied Powers, at Tokyo,
ror such action as may be appropriate and feasible.
The Department will be lad to forward to Arthur
nderson & Company any report it may receive in the
matter.
Sincerely yours,
or the Lecretary of state:
Janesy vorliss, Assistant Chief
ivision of inancial Affairs
r...noemer,
Vice-iresident end Comptroller,
international -tandard rlectric Corporation,
67 road treet,
Few Lork 4, Lew York.
A
.:JCCorliss:fl
2/10/47
9

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FOn NO. 
DAT: Janury 2, 1947
TO
FN
FROM
FA - James W. Gantenbein
SUBJECT :
Letter of December 23, 1946 from
the International Standard Electric
Corporation.
The attached letter is referred to FN
for whatever action may be deemed
appropriate.
FA:URFriant:im

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
International Standard Electric Corpg
De
67 BROAD STREET
NEW YORK 4, N. Y.
PEC 2 7 1946
December 23,
United States State Department
Division of Foreign Service Administration
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:
894.51/12-2346
In connection with the regular annual audit of our accounts
now being made by Messrs. Arthur Andersen & Co., will you kindly ar-
range to have them furnished with certificates containing a descrip-
tion of any securities held by the following Japanese Nationals or
companies in trust or in safekeeping, including directors' qualify-
ing shares and securities held in custody for our account as at the
close of business December 31, 1946-
Nippon Electric Company Limited, Tokoyo
2 Mita Shikokumachi Shiba-ku, Tokoyo
(Nippon Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
Sumitomo Electric Industries Limited, Osaka
60 Okijima Minamino-cho Konohana-ku, Osaka
Sumitomo Honsha Limited, Osaka
(formerly known as Sumitomo Goshi Kaisha)
According to our records, which date prior to the opening
of hostilities, the following was the status of shares held for our
account-
Certificates for 22,930 Nippon Electric shares heb
Nippon Electric Company Limited, Tokoyo
1
Certificates for 66,000 Sumitomo Electric shares held
2
Sumitomo Honsha Limited, Osaka
9
5
Due to exigencies brought about by the war, we are forced to
confirm custody of our holdings in this manner and we would ask that
you arrange to forward this r equest to the appropriate authorities in
Japan.
894.51
May we suggest that the above-mentioned certificates be
airmailed direct to Arthur Andersen & Co., 67 Wall Street, New York 5,
C
N. Y.
S
POR OFD U
Youns very truly,
7N
HaRden
DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRO
Replied /10/47-JCCrliss
Thot.t J0hyo 21/10/47-J00
31947
H. C. ROEMER
Vice-Bresident and Comptroller
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.95)
NationalHeadquarters
412-415 BEASON BLDG.
TELEPHONE 5-6501
SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH
Northern California Office:
San Francisco Regional Office
228 McAllister Street
JAPAN
San Francisço 2. Caltfornia EAGUE
Phone: Market 8442
Jamuary 6, 1947
1. Room 5
SAN  15, C.
WEst 6644
JAPARESE AHERICAN CITIZENS LEAGUE
20:1 DUCH STE:T, Rom 5
SAN 0 15, CA.
WEst 6644
Mr. Edwin M. Martin
Chief, Division of Japanese & Korean
894.51/1-647
Economic Affairs
State Department
Room 16, State Building
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Martin:
We would appreciate to learn if any possibilities have
recently developed whereby residents of the United States
might file an application for redemption of Japanese yen de-
posit certificates, where the deposit was made at a branch
in this country of a bank in Japan. Or, if such a claim
vT
procedure is not yet established, is there any way to establish
the claim through filing a declaration of such owmership at
this time?
Our offices have been receiving enquiries on the above
questions from time to time, and, in particular, Mrs. Fukue Iida,
2050 Bush St., San Francisc9, Calif., has asked us to enquire
whether it is possible for her to file a claim now for funds
represented by Yokohama Specie Bank Yen Deposit Certificate
No. 80546, dated 0ctober 18, 1946,
In our work as Northern California regional office of a
CS/V
national educational organization, also offering services to
Japanese American residents in this area, we would certainly
appreciate your informing us of up-to-date available develop-
ments on the above matter. Any other pertinent information
would also be appreciated.
N
FILED
Sincerely yours,
2
f
JAPANESE AMERICAN CITIZENS LEAGUE
ON OF JAPANESE AND KORE
No. Calif. Regional Office 
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
For
Joe Grant Masaoka
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Regional Representative
JAN 11947
by f pamashita
offier Secy
DCR OFD Unit
14/471010
nai
Rev.
f
Yar
For Bettey Americans In A Greater America

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.97)
JAN 211947
In reply refer to
JK
894.
5
My dear Mr. Masaeka:
Reference is made to your letter of Jammary 6, 1947, inquiring
as to whether asy procedures have been established for filing claims
to yen deposits in baaks in Japan which were established through
647
deposits in branches of such banks in this country. You inquire
further as to the possibility of filing a declaratiom of ownerahip
of such deposits at this time.
No proeedure has been establisbed by which claims for property
in Japan owned by persons in the United States ean be processed. You
are, of course aware, that no foreign exchange transactiom under whick
Japanese yen balances may be converted into U.S. dollars or other
foreign eurrency are possible at the present time. Japam has mo
foreign exchange assets available to effect such conversions, and even
after a commercial foreign exehange rate is established, an action not
foreseen in the near future, it is altogether likely that conversion
of yen balances not arising out of current foreign trade transactiems
will be subject to very comprehensive foreign exchange controls.
Inasmmch as the yen deposits to which you refer are property in
Japan owned or controlled by persons outside of Japan, such balances
are blocked by a directive of the Supreme Commander for the Allied
CS/V
Powers, to the Japanese Government, and any transaction or transfer
of such funds are prohibited at the prement time. You do not state
whether or not the owmers of these perticular accounts are citisens
of the United States. If so, their accounts would come under the
category of properties which the Japenese Geverament has been in-
structed to preserve and protect pending return to their owners. If
the
Mr. Joe Grant Masaoke,
Regional Representative,
Northern California Office,
Japanese American Citisens League,
2031 Bush Street, Room 5,
San Francisco 15, Califormia.
Ia

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.88)
-2-
the aeesunte are the property of mationals of this sountey, and eomplste
depesit sortirleste member and other pertinent informatien, the Bepart-
meat will be glad to initiate isquirise with the Supreme Cemmemder for
the Allied Pewers as to the presemt statme of these sesounts.
Sincerely yours,
Edwin M. Martin, Chief,
Division of Japanese and Kereem
Eoonomie affairs.
à o sy
tho
1/15/47
226
JK:OJMcDiarmid:mw
FA
197F

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
Mr.Hea
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
D:J. 15, 1948.
TO
: FE: Mr. HamxIton
surject: Transmittal of Attached Memorandum.
The attached original of OE's budget
memorandum, which you may want for your
files, has finally been found after being
lost en route from OE.
The Army is not making a similar
request for the American zone of Germany
because western Germany has been incor-
porated in the ERp requests. I am told
that l billion dollars 1s allotted all
of western Germany under the Plan for
the 15 monthe ending June 30, 1949. This
includes funds from all sources, however,
not just from the Treasury.
NA:RF/hho

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
PAM
DATE: January 7, 1947
FROM : OE - Mr. Whitman
suject: Army Department Pehabilitation Request for Japan,
1 Apr11 1948 - 30 June 1949.
Army and SCAP estimate that raw material and other Category B
requirements for a Japanese economic recovery program during the
15 month period beginning April 1, 1948, will amount in total to
452 million dollars. This is in addition to the GARIOA program for
disease and unrest imports amounting to about 497 million for this
period (FY 1949 GARIOA is 406 million). Of the 452 million for
rehabilitation, Army estimates that 272 million will be obtained from
bank credits based on the Japanese Export-Import Revolving Fund,
proceeds of exports, and barter transactions. It is planned that
Files
-untral
imports of raw materials to be manufactured into export goods, will
be financed primarily by the occupied Japan Export-Import Revolving
Fund, but that in addition, raw materials will be required to fill
the pipeline and to provide for goods retained in Japan for domestic
cnt Must be keneu
consumption.
The 180 million rehabilitation request is distinguished from the
GARIOA appropriation, primarily on the basis of types of materials
and services which may be purchased. E.g. about 350 million out of
the total of 452 million of expenditures on the rehabilitation pro-
ram will be for basic commodities, such as textile fibers, rubber,
woodpulp, etc., which, while they may in part be retained in Japan
for domestic consumpation, cannot be purchased with GARIOA funds.
Transportation costs, the purchase of certain end products from Army
surpluses in Japan, and the procurement of a limited amount of machinery,
etc., for Japanese industry, makes up the remainder of this program
in addition to basic raw materials.
According to the statenent which the Army proposes to make to the
Bureau of the Eudget and Congress, in support of the rehabilitation
request, the 180 million for this 15 month's period will enable Japan
to accumulate sufficient working capital in her export accounts to
abviate the need for future appropriations of this sort, and to stimu-
late exports to the extent required to enable Japan to achieve self-
support by the end of 1952. In addition, other appropriations osten-
sibly earmarked for relief expenditurcs, will be progressively reduced
by about 100 million per year during 1950, 1951 and 1952. The latter
C
assumption, however, is based not only upon an expansion of Japanese
exports, but upon an increase in short-term borrowings at the rate f
8
DO/R
roughly the amount by which relief expenditures are to be reduced.
工
A
Thile OE agrees in principle with the rehabilitation request ofi1gg
C
million, we are not convinced of the accuracy of the Arry's esthats
u,
of subsequent years, nor of the validity of the assumptions upowhich
they are based, and consultation with the Army is in progres on the
Cat.
justification to be presented to the Bureau of the Budget and Congress.
07m
OE:OJMcDiarmid:mw

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
FN
FEB
In reply refer to
FN
My dear Mrs. Pulley:
Reference is made to your letter of January 12,
1947 relative to four 1000 Oriental Development
Company, Limited, bonds which you hold.
A definitive reply to your inquiry is not now
possible, but the following may be helpful to your
understandin; of the Department's position.
In general, the Department considers that invest-
ment in forein bonds is essentially a private trans-
action into which the purchaser voluntarily enters after
calculatin, the risk involved. In the case of obliga-
tions issued by private entities, it is assumed that
holders of such obligations will avail themselves of the
usual methods for enforcement of the contractual term
when resort to such measures becomes practicable.
In case of default on dollar bonds issued or
guaranteed by a government, while it is not the practice
of the Department to negotiate directly for American
holders, the epartment does enceavor to render such
assistance as it appropriately can to them or thoir
representatives. In this connection your attention may
be called to the  orein sondholders Protectiye Council,
Incorporated, 90 road treet, New ork, New Tork,
organized several years ago as a central representative
body. The Council was established with the encouragement
oi the uepartment, but acts on its own responsibility.
It is understood th t the touncil is now interesting
itself in tho situation of such bonds as those to which
you
Mrs. Lillian Pulley,
9l1 "est Oakridge,
Ferndale, Michigan.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
323
-2-
you refer, and you may wish to communicate with it
in the matter.
Some time ago, at the request of the Council,
the epartment transmitted to the United States Politioal
Adviser to the Supreme Comnander for the Allied Powers,
at Tokyo, a complete statement regarding the dollar
bonds issued or uaranteed by Japanese governmental
entities. This statement was sent for the informat ion
and use of the folitical tdviser and of the appropriato
section of the taff of the upreme commander, and for
such ac ion as may be ceemed appropriate in the protection
of the merican interest involved.
1 think that you w ll appreciate that the Depart-
ient is unable to state hat provisions, if any,
aiiectin uch obli ations may be included in the peace
tre ty or what arrangement for prior payment of claims
and demands arisin, fron the war may be made. As you
prob bly know, there will be many claims and demands
a ainst Japan en against persons and municipalities
in that country, of which such bonds as those montioned
by you will probably con: titute only a small part.
Revertheless, the Lepartment will make a record,
for such consl eration as may e appropriate, of any
int ormetion you may submit regardin your bonds. In
addition to the information contained in your letter
of January la, 1947, it is sug ested th t you furnish
tho vepartment with the pertinent deteils regarding
the manner and date of your acquisition of the bonds,
the purchase price, the date of the last interest
payment, and the nanner (whethor by birth or naturaliza-
tion) and date ol acquisition or American citizenship
by you. It It shoul later be found advisable that
anorican holers take any further steps in connection
with such obli ations, due announcement wi ll be made
in order that the holers may e properly informed.
The stamped self-addressed envelope cnclosed with
your letter is returned herewith, since official
correspon ence of the epartment is carried unaer
Governnent frank.
Sincerely yours,
James C. Corliss, ssistant hief
Division of Forein Affairs
07m
Enclosure:
CR
JK
Stamped envelope.
FN:VWtones:f1
2/4/47

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FRM NO.
D: Janury 17, 1947
TO
FN
FROM :
FA* James W.Gantenbein
SUBJECT :
Letter dated January 12, 1947 from
Mrs. Lillian Pulley.
The attacherlis forwarded to FN
for whatever action may be deemed
appropriate.
FAYURFriant:im

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.87)
FN
Fcrndale, Mich.
Division of Froreign Service
DIVISION OF FINANOIAL AFFAIR8
Washington, D. C. Repey dupesh 14147
n-vWJonee
Dear Sir:-
Devalopement-bonds. (no.3894)
o 00External loan thirty year, 6%,
1000 Enternal Lran- 30yr. 6% Lold
(20.10016)
debenture bond, due Mar. 10; 195-3
Interest payable Sept. 15 and
Mar. 10.
(2261492)
100 0 Uriental Lrvelopemgnt Co dimited
Enternal loan 30yr. 5 2 0% Lold
Lebenture bond dive Nov. 195-8. Lnterest
prayable May I and lov. 1
1000 Oriental Levelossment Co. Feimited
External Coan 30 yr. 3 2 of Told
payable May! and Nov.1
Is there anything to be done
about them?

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.79)
 yours infet.
Whe fillian Philley
911 Wrxt Cackridge.
Furndake,
Mich.

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.93)
LEGATION OF SWITZERLAND
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
DYR
MEMORANDUM
874.51
The Legation of Switzerland begs to
acknowledge receipt of the Memorandum from the Department
of State dated Decembef 6, 1946, in which the Department
declared its preparedness to forward to the Supreme Com-
894.51/3-1447
mander for the Allied Powers, Tokio, through its Division
of Foreign Service Administration statements by Swiss
holders of securities or obligations of Japanese business
enterprises containing information which they believe will
JUN 12 1951
FILED
serve to protect their interests.
The Legation is now submitting in
quadruplicate 63 separate declarations drawn up by
EPAR
various Swiss banks. For the convenience of the appropriate
0
authorities, there is also enclosed in duplisate a summary
list giving the names of these banks, a
weldas
the amount
E
and type of the securities reported. It would be very much
51
appreciated if these declarations could be dealt with in
the manner provided by the Department's press release
DO1 FLUn
0x
No. 535 of August 1, 1946, as agreed.
.By...
Ri
Dis1

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
At the same time, the Legation wishes to
inquire at the request of the Federal Political Department
in Berne about the possibility for Swiss holders of filing
declarations also for securities issued by the Japanese
Government, its subdivisions, or by communities, towne,
etc. The Legation would be very much obliged to be ad-
vised as to the practicability of this suggestion.
Washington, D.C., March 14, 1947.
Enc1
F.453 - Bp/jt

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.86)
BONHOTE & CIE
ANNOCE
NESCHATEL
Adresse télégraphique:
l'gsooiotion Suisso des Banquiors  BAL
BONHOTECO
d'om,runts d'ontropr ses japonaises libellés on dolles
ORÉQUES POBTAUX I IV 492
TÉLÉPHONE : 5 12 71
Mous sougslenée, Messicuro B è , Benquiere,
4 L, cortirions que les titres ci-dessous:
Ly44, "Da1d0" Nos. M. 1208. 13512.
sont ls pre risle do oi tovane sulssos, domicillée on Juisae.
Noucnetol, 2o 2: Janvies 1947.
Romitl-

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.88)
PICTET & CIE
GENÈVE
DECLAIATIOH
JPC/1m
Mous soussigaée, PICTrt & CIE, certifiens que Mademe Oabrielle
Chauvet-Ader, de nationalité suisse, habitent à Genève, pesséde
depuis une date entérieure au 2 septombre l959 :
1.000.- cap.obl. Byes Oriental Development Cy. No. 886/7(2x 500
on dépst ohes J.P. Worgen & Co.Ine., Mew-York.
Cenéve, 1e 10 janvior 1949.
PPOn PICTT & CI
eco.icn

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.95)
BONHOTE & CIE
NEUCHATEL
ANNONCE
Adresse télégraphique:
BONHOTECO
OHŁQUES POSTAUX : IV 499
à l'Association Suisse des Banquiers à BALE
TÉLÉPHONR: 5 12 71
d'emprunts d'entreprises japonaises libellés en dollars
Nous soussignés, Messieurs BONHOTE & CIE., Banquiers,
à NEUCHATEL, certifions que le titre ci-dessous :
. 500.--CaP.nOM. OBLIG. 61% GOUVERNEMENT IMPERIAL JAPONAIS 1824/54
No. D. 9185
est la propriété de citoyen suisse, domicilié en Suisse.
Neuchatel, 1e 16 janvier 1947.
Rohw

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
QUADRUPLICATA.
IANCA UNIONE DI CREDITO
DISTINTA
BANQUE UNION DE CRÉDIT
Lugano,
23 Janvier 1947
LUGANO
BORDEREAU
Assooiation Suisse des Banquiers
Bâl e.
per
pour
.10.000.-
non.0bl.6% Orientel Development Company,1953
10/1000.-,N.2698,5304.5583,7127/8,7503.
7680,11910,16292,18050,
titres appartenant à des porteurs de nationallté auisse domieilids
Suisae depuie avant 1e 2 septembre 1939.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.95)
GONET & Cº
ANNONCE
NYON (SUNE)
d'emprunts d'entreprises japonaises
Télégrammes: GONETCO
libellés en dollars.
(Selon circulaire n° 1396 de 1'Association Suisse des Banquiers)
. 2.C00.- cap.oblig.6% ORIENTAL DEVELOPMENT C°. Ltd Ext.Loan
30 Year Go1d 1953, nº.16849/50,
déposés chez nos correspondants, la Martins Bank Limited, à
Newcastle upon Tyne. Ces titres sont la propriété d'une société
ayant son siège à Fribourg (Suisse), qui a été reconnue comme
suisse par l'Association Suisse des Banquiers.
Nyon, 1e 13 janvier 1947.
p. pon. GONET & Co.
Rhihr

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
CRÉDIT SUISSE
NEUCHATEL
Télégrammes
CRÉDIT
7
Tél. 52251
L
7
Déolaration
Emprunts d'entreprises japonaises libellés en dollars.
Nous soussignés, Crédit Suisse à Neuchatel, déclarons
par la présente que nous détenons pour le compte de personnes
de nationalité suisse, domiciliées en Suisse!
 1.000.- obl. 52% Taiwan Eleotrio Power Co. Ltd.
40 year Sinking Fund, Gold Bonds due
July 1.1971
N°13702- 1/1000.-
titre qui e:t leur propriété depuis une date antérieure au
2 septembre 1929.
Neuchatel, 1e 14 janvier 1947.
/C R E D I T
SUISSE
145

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.93)
BANQUE DE L'ÉTAT DE FRIBC G
/c 21 janvier 1947
FREIBURGER STAATSBANK
FRIBOURG.
GARANTIE DE L'ÉTAT - STAATSGARANTIE
deh
Adp. T6l6g.: BANQUETAT
Compte de chèques postaux No ll a 49
Téléphone No 2 27 71
Dapruata d'entreprises jeponsiees
ibellés en dollare.
1 oblig.6 % Oriental Development Co. due 15.3.1953 à eb.000ar
No.11591.
Co sisre appartient à
DANOUE DE L'ÉTAT DE FRIBOURG
Cend
une société amérioaine.
B. 14373

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.91)
ROGUIN & C'E
LAUSANNE
Ligte doa t
A.1000.
77
GREAT CONS. ELEOTRIC POWER CO. OF JAPAR 1944.
Shrie A, Numéro M.4390.-
de propriété suisee depuis avant le 2.9.39
Roguin a co
180

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.91)
24th Jammary 1949
UNION BANK OF SWITZENLAND
WINTERTHUR,
UNION DE BANQUES SUISSES - SCHWEIZERISCHE BANKGEBELLSCHAFT
CABLE ADDREBS: BANKUNION / TELEPHONE: 21211
List of poourities hela by Union Bank of Bwitaerlank.
Hinterthur. for socount of a Swiee ollent.
: 200.-.- 6% Bonds Tokyo Kleotrio Lighs Co. Limised
lat Uortgage 1928 due 1953
Hos. 14120/21
Unlon Bank of Switzcrland
wan
485 e W1.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
ENQUETE EMPRUNTS D'ENTREPRISES JAPONAISES
LIEBELLES EN DOLLARS
Circulaire Association Suisse des Banguiers
No._1396_du_8_1anvier_1947.
Les titres mentionnés ci-après appartiennent
à des porteurs susses au sens de cette enquête :
6% or The Oriental Development Cy Ltd. 1953 Ext.
(Toyo Takushoku Kabushiki Kaisha )
2.000.--
No. M 10751/52
5.1/2% Taiwan Electric Power Cy Ltd. 1971
2.000.--
No. 1518/19
Au total :
4.000.--
Lausanne, 1e 11 Janvier 1947.
REDIT
à l'intention de la Légation Suisse
à Washington par l'entremise de
1'Association Suisse des Banquiers.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.95)
COPy
CREDIT SUISSE
Loans issued in 3 by Japanese Societies.
CLARUS
Property of a Swiss citizen living in
Sudtzerland.
Amount
Denomination
supplied with coupons per..
$ 1:000.-
6% Oriental Development Co. 1953
Sept. 15th 1941
No. 2624
and subsequents
CRÉDIT SUISSE
Glarus, Jannary 10th 1947.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.96)
CRÉDIT SUISSE
GENEVE
Oenève, 10 13 janvier 1947.
Siège social à Zurich
BALE - BERNE - COIRE - DAVOS - FRAUENFELD - GENEVE
7
GLARIS - KREUZLINGEN - LAUSANNE - LUCERNE
LUGANO - NEUCHATEL - ST-GALL - ZOUG
AROSA - INTERLAKEN - ST-MORITZ - SCHWYZ - WEINFELDEN
AGENCE à NEW YORK
30 Pine Street
Télégrammes: C R E DIT
Téléphone: 5 22 00
L.
L
SERVICE DES TITRES
Enquôte sur les avoire d'entreprises jeponaises
libellés en  Us appartenant à des pereonnes
physiques ou juridiques de nationalité suisse.
DECLARATION
Hous sousaignés déolarone que nous détenons pour
compte de peraonnes visées :
 1o00.-- 7 reat Coneol. leotrio Power Cy. 1944
No. 14012 . op. au 1.8.1940 et suiv. att.
Genave, 1e 13 j nvier 1947.
IT SUISSE
No 2

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.70)
CRÉDITSUISSE
BERNE
2o o  
 o  
dabollón en .
90000.)
    s o.Ld.953
0. 1207.4
..0
to Vo
   .
2072 0. 20470.
muaird..
re no o   ve 24.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.97)
Dé clara tion.
Par la résente nous certifions avoir en dépôt
chez nous :
. 1,Ooc.- 7% First Mtge Sinking Fund Gold Bond Sie A.
Great Jonsolidated Electric Power Comp. 1.8.1944
no.M 11759 = 1 titre à 3.10cc.-
propriétaire de nationalité Suisse
domicilié en uisse
et nous prions les autorités américaines compétentes de bien
vouloir déienare les intérets suisses vis-à-vis du débiteur
japonais en uestion.
Bâle, 1e 25 janvier 1947.
CREDI T SUISSE

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.97)
Deolaration.
Par la présente nous oertifions avoir en dépôt ahes nous
resp. sous notre direction à New-York les titres japonais
suivants :
§. 2, 000.- 6% Gold Deb.The Ori ental Development Comp.
Ext. Loan due 15.Maroh 1953
No. M 19014/15 = 2 à 8.1000.-
propriétaire: de nationalité Suisse
depuis naissanoe
domi cilié en Suisse .
3. 1,000.- 6% Gold Bds. Tokyo Eleutrio Light Co. Ltd.
Ist. Mtge due June 15th 1953
no. 52279 = 1 à 8.1000.-
en dépôt ohez notre New-York Agenoy. 1dc atified
propriétaire:
de nationalité Suisse
domicilié en Suisse
et nous prions les autorités américaines compétentes de bien
vouloir défendre les intérêts suisses vis-à-vis de oes entre-
prises japonaises en uestion.
Bâle, 1e 24 janvi er 1947.
CREDITSUISSE

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.95)
Liste
des Emprunts stipulés en D o 1 1 a rs
AENTREPRISNSJAPONAISES
gérés par le
CREDIT SUIGSE& ZURIOH.
de prapriétá Suisaa.
$ 1.000.- 7%
Great Consol. Eleotrio Fower Co Ltd of Japan,
Sgrie A per 1.8.1944
No  11736.- 1/1.000.
15.000.-6
Oriental Development Co ( Toyo Takushoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
30 year xt.Loan Gold Deb. per 16.3.1953
No  2625. 2866, 4922, 6291, 10706/11, 10783/89.
15629/30. 18920. -15/1.000.-
 11.C00.- 5 Taiwan Electrio Power Co Ltd
Sinkg Fa 3ds per 1.7.1971
No: 1517, 13706/07. 16313/14 - 5/1.000.-
en plus & 6.C0.- en dépôt è New York, dont les mméros
ne nous sont pas conmus.
81.000.-6
Tokyo Eleotrio Light Co Ltd
Ist Mortg ds of 1928 per 15.6.1953
No 39977 - 1/1.000.-
Zurioh, 1e 27 Janvier 1947
OREDITSUISSE

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.95)
cone.
Swiss propriety of Japanese sesurities stipulated in dollars
 1'OOO.-- S ObI. TAIWAN ELEOTRIC POWER COMPANY LIMITED
FORTY YEAR SINKING GOLD BONDS 1971.
Nr. 7934 - 1/1'000.-- nom.
Owner:
Jwiss nationality
Seourities lodged with:
Guaranty Trust Company, New York
These ascurities are identified.
Lugano, January 25 th, 1947

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.91)
Union de Banques Suisses
Lausanne
Association Suisse des Banquiers
Bale
Liste des valeurs d'entreprises japonaises libellées en dollars,
de propriété suisse, reposant dans noo caisses
oblig. 6% Oriental Development Cy. Ltd. 1953
$。 20·000.一
n
5 % Oriental Development Cy. Ltd.
Ext.Loen 1958
。
500.-
6
Tokyo Dento Kabushiki Kaisha
(Tokyo Electric Light Cy. Ltd.) First
Mtge G.B. 1928/53
$。1460.-
75
Great Coneol.Eleotric Power Cy.Ltd."A"
1924/44
$. 2'000.-
11
6 Great Consol.Electric Power Cy.Ltd.
1925/50
ま。
3'000.-
11
5% Taiwan Electric Power Cy. Ltd. S.F.G.B. 1971 $.
1·000.-.
Lausanne, 1e 29 janvier 1947
UNIO  LAN UES SHISSES
Tray
ei

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.94)
UNION DE BANGUES SUISSES
GENEVE
ANNONCES
des emprunts d'entreprises ja-
ponaises libellés en dollars.
Conformément à la circulaire No.
1396 de l'Association Suisse des
Banquiers à Bale
 1000.-- 5 % Ext. Co1d onds Oriental Development 1928/58
No. 13109 - 1/1000.
titres reposant dans nos cal sses pour le compte a'une personne
phyaique de nationalité italienne, domioiliée en Turquie.
$ 6000.- 5. xt. Go1d sonds Or1ental evelopment 1928/58
No. 1055/58; 7338; 18404 - 6/1000.
titres reposant dans nos caisses pour le compt e d'une personne
physique de nationalité allenande, domiciliée en Suisse.
3000.-- 6 xt. Deb. Cold honds Orienta1 Development Cy. 1923/53
No.  9772; 10077; 18645 - 3/1000.
titres reposant dene nos daisses pour le compt e d' une personne
morale avec siège en suisse, aveo prépondérance italienne, domi-
ciliée à l'étrunger.
Genève, 1e 16 janvier 1947
UNION
danussaiesee

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.91)
UNION DE BANCUES SUISHES
GENEVE
ANNON C E S
2
des emprunts d'entreprises ja-
ponaiees libellés en dollars.
Conformément à la oiroulaire No.
1396 de l'Assooiat1on Suisse des
Banguiers à Bale
 6000.-- 6 1st Mtge. Cold Sonds Tokyo Electrio Light Cy. 1928/53
No. 21126: 21133/37 - 6/1000.
titres en dép8t chez Comptoir Hational d'ecomptes Faris.
Limoges, sous notre direction, propriété d'une personne phy-
si ue de nationalité francaise, domiciliée à Monaco.
Genève, 1e 16 Janv1er 1947
UIN
de sangues oufased
rbell
Jum

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.93)
UMION DE BANQUES SUISSES
GENEVE
ANNONCES
des emprunts d'entreprises ja-
ponaises libellés en dollars.
Conformément à la oirculaire No.
1396 de l'Assooiation Suisse des
Banquiers à Bale
1923/53
 1o000.- e t. Den. celd Ponde Orientel Development Cy Lta.
No.  5059/64; 6838; 18395/97 - 10/1000.
1923/53
 10000.--6
6% Ext. Deb. Golu Bonda Oriental Development Cy Ltd.
No.  5065/74 - 10/1000.
titres reposant dans nos caisses pour le compte de per-
sonnes de nationalité greoque domiciliées en Suisse.
UNION
Banquessutse
SWhlobeet
Genève, le 16 Janvier 1947

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.93)
UNION DE BANQUES SUISSES
GENEVE
A N N O N C E S
des emprunts d'entreprises ja-
ponaises libellés en dollars.
Conformément à la oirculaire No.
1396 de 1'Association Suisse dss
Banquiers à Bâle
 3000.-- obl. 7 Great Consol. Electr. Power Cy Ltd 1924/44
Sie A
No. M 9309; 11104; 11105 = 3/1000.
titres reposant'dans nos cuisses pour le compte d'une per-
sonne morale suisse, aissant pour le compte de personnes
francaises.
3000.--
6 & lst & G1 S/F Bonds Great Cons. Electric Power 1925/50
No. 1113/15 - 3/1000.
titres reposant dans nos caisses pour le compte d'une per-
sonne physique de nationalité suisse, domiciliée en Turquie.
Genève, 1e 16 janvier 1947
UNION
anqueSu18e8
ahm lobelt

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.94)
UNION DE BANQUES SUISSE
GENEVE
ANNONCES
des emprunts d'entrepriees ja-
ponaises libellés en dollars.
Conformément à la circulaire No.
1396 de l'Association Suisse des
Banguiers à Bale
 500.-- 5. Ext. Gold Bonds Orienta1 Development Cy Lta 1928/58
No. D 1828 - 1/500.
 2000.-- 6% Ext. Deb. Gold vonde Uriental Development Cy Lta 1923/53
No. 11983 = 1/1000; 395; 804 - 2/500.
$ 2000.-- 6  lgt itge Gola 3onda Tokyo lectrio L1ght Cy Lta 1928/53
No. 32307; 52781=1000.
titres reposunt dans nos ca1 ses pour le compte de personnes
physiques do nationalité suisse, domiciliées en Suisne.
7 325.-- prtrlat n 8t
F Bonds Great Cone. Eleotric Power 1925/50
trtrea en depôt chez Dominick & Dominick à New York, sous notre
direction, propristé d'une personne physique de nationalité
suisse, domiciliée en uisse.
No. 12485; 9348; 6808: 5778/80 5092: 4478; 4269; 2212.
Genève, 1e 16 janvier 1947
UNION
Ban queGuiased

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.94)
3.Doppel
UNION DE BANQUES SUISSES
cunts &'antreprises japonnais libellés an dollars, selon ais
No. 1396 du 8 janviar 1947 de 1'ksscciation Suinse dea Bengaiees,
 6'000.- nom. G1% Great Cons.Elootrio
Power Co.Ltd. (Japan) 1950
No. 1 1104/9
le propriátaire est de nationalité suisoe.
 7'000.-nom.
6% firat Mortgage Gold Bonds
Series Tokyo Elootric Light
Company Ltd. 1928/53
Bo.13537,38721/25,67506
les propriótaires cont de nationalité italienne.
 10'000.- nom. 6% External Loan 30-yoar Gold
Debenture Bonds The Criental
Development Company Ltd.1923/53
No.M 775/78,4153/56,8170/71
le propriétaire est de nationalité italierme
Berne, 1e 25 janvier 1947
UNIOE DE MAIQUER SUISSES
198 f/N. 11. 39.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.95)
UNION BANK OF SWITZERLAND
ZURICH
Statement
covering Dollar Bonds of loans of Japanese enterprises
par valuo
description of the
securities
ceouritios
deposited
1000.
6) Gold Sonde Tokyo lectric Licht Co.
with us in
Ltd. due 1953 No.5755
Zurioh
2000.-
6) Gola Bonds Criental Developmont Co.
in our name with
Ltd. duo Yaroh 15, 1953
National City Bank
Hos.2038/39
New York
4000
6% Cold Bonds Oriental Dovolopment Co.
Ltd. due 1953
at our Branoh Office
Nos. 6529, 6918, 16288, 18318
Chiasso (Switzer-
land)
2000.
5is Oriontal Development Co. Ltd. 1928
in our name with
due 1958 J0s. 9753/54
Guaranty Trust Co.
New York
4000
6 Great Consolidated Eleotrio Power
Co. Ltd. 1950 First and Ceneral Lortg.
with uo in
/F Gold Bonds Hos. 1116/19
Zurich
e confimm that the above mentionod socurities are in the beneficial
ownership of holdors of wiss nationality.
Zurioh, Jamuary 27th, 1947.
UTNITON AI OF TTZRLAND
ann

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.93)
Déolaratien
d'ebligations libellées en 8 U.S.A.
d'eptreprises jeponaises.
Nous déclarons Stre dépositaires soit ches nous soit à l'étrangor
per l'entremise de nos correspondunts des titres désignés oi-après
appertenant à des personnes physiques ou morales suisses:
 3,OOO.- G First MOrtgage Gold Bde. MIPPO DENRYOKU KABUSHIKI
KAISHA (Mippon Eleotrio Power Company, Limited)
1953; titres déposés ches nous; no 2535/37;
* 4,O0O.-- 6 & f1rat Mortg. Gold BOnds TOKYO ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPAMY
1953; titres déposés ohes nous; no 26684/87;
 1. 000.- 7 & DAIDO ELECTR1C POWER COMPANY LIMITED 1944, Ser1O A,
(Great Consol.Slectrio Power Co.Ltd. Gold Bonds);
titres déposés à New-York; no 11071;
 1,O00.-- 6 & External Loan Gold Deb. OHIENTAL DSVELOPMENT C0.LTD.
TOYO TAKUSH KU RABUSHIKI 1953; titres déposés à
Bew-York; indication du muméro suit;
8 75,OOO.-- Sà 40-year SKg Pd Gold Bond TAI AN ELECTRIC PORER CO.
LTD. 1971; titres déposés à Buenos Aires;
no 2711/85.
Zurich, 1e 14 Janvier 1947. SOCIETE ANONYME LEU & CIS.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.97)
DECLARATION
d'obligations libellées en § U.8.A.
d'entreprises japonaises.
Nous déclarons que les titres désignés ci-après sont déposés
en Suisse et appartiennent à des personnes physiques de
nationalité Suisse, domiciliées en Suisse:
 3,000.-- 6% Bonde Oriental Development Co. 1953
No. 8936/38---
 1,000.-- 6 Bond Tokyo Electrio Light Co. 1953
No.25729----
Zurioh, 10 31 Janvier 1947.
SOCIETE ANONYME LEU & CIE.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.92)
T AMERICAN EXPRES COMPANY INC.
SInLPORTEPLATZ 3 "ZENTRUM"
AIR MAIL
ZURICH
Deolaration.
e herewith confirm that ve are holding in safeoustody
account with The Americen Expres Co.Ino., New York Ageney.
65, Broadway, New York
:1.500.- Criental Devslopmont Company, S2 bonds due November lst,
1958
ir. 14815 of
1.000.
r. 1071 of
500.
which are the property of
mrs. ugenia oser - osiander,
wiss citizen
In der Hub 5
Zurich, vitzerlanu
since a date prior to upteaber 1st, 1939
Zurich, January 20th 1947
hexpre o.Inc
Ytam
FN/Me
 CPO DB

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.96)
SCHWEIZERISCHE N TIONALBANK - BANQ  NATIONAL
BANCA NAZIONALE SVIZZERA
ZURICH-BERNE
AARAU, BALE, GENÈVE, LAUSANNE, LUCERNE, LUGANO, NEUCHÁTEL, ST-GALL
BIENNE, LA CHAUX-DE-FONDS. WINTERTHOUR
SUCCURSALE DE GENÈVE
TELÉGRAMMES: NATIONALBANK
TELÉPHONE No. 4.28.47
COMPTE DE CHEQUES POSTAUX NO. I. 177
A N N O N C E
à l'intention des Autorités des États-Unis d'Amériquo
par l'intermédigire de ls Légstion de Suisse è Washington
d' obligations d'emprunts d'entreprises JAPONAISES,
libellés en dollars U.S.A.
CATEGORIE.
£. 7.00O.- GREAT CON OLIDATID ELECTRIC POWER CY.Ld.7 1944
F/A
( DAIDO DENRYOKU KABUSHIKI KAISHA )
COUPURLS.
7 0bligations de . 1.000.- No. 3034, 3645, 7878, 11968,
No. 12769/70, 14007,
avec coupons à 1'échéence du Ier.Février 1942
et suivantes, titres remboursables depuis le
Ier.Août 1944.
PROPRIETE.
Ces titres appartiennent depuis une date antérieure au
2 septembre 1939 à une personne de nstionalité suisse,
domiciliée en Suisse et sont déposés dans nos caisses sous
son dossier également depuis une dste antéricure au
2 Septembre 1939.
GEVE, 1e 1o Janvder 1947
BANGUL NATIONALLLSISSE

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.94)
BANQUE NATIONALE SUISSE
Sucounmule du BALE
DECLARATION
conoerning Japanese Dollar - Loane in
possession of Swiss individuals.
Securities deposited with: Banque liationale Suisse, Basle.
Amount:
Loan:
deposited since:
 1,000.- 5 ity of Tokio ext. Toan of 1927,
13th. Ootober
1931.
No. 19817 = 1 à 8 1,000.--
Basle, 28th January 1947.
Banque Nationale Suisse
heWilhish
usein

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.96)
BANQUE CANTONALE . AUDOISE
LAUSANNE
ANNONCE
d'emprunts d'entreprises japonaises
libellés en dollars.
$ 1.000.- cap.obl. 7% Daido Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha,
1924/44, "A"
Nos. 3315, 6224 2/500.-
propriété de Madame Léonie VERNET-AUBERT,
de nationalité suisse
domiciliée: 16, av.de Champel,
GENEVE (Suisse)
$ 500.- cap.obl. 62% Daido Denryoku Kabuahiki Kaiaha,
1925/50,
1,500.- N0. 816
propriété de: Monsieur Gustave BONNARD, négociant
domicilié:40, avenue de Rumine,
LAUSANNE (Suisse)
nationalité suisse
Lausanne, 1e 13 janvier 1947.
BANQUE CANPONALE VAUDOISE
ar

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.94)
Lo nok 1e 22 Janvier 1947
BANCA
Concerne: Annonoe des titres d'entreprises japonaises
libellés en dollars de propriété suisse qui
se trouvent sous la gérance de la Banoa Popo-
lare di Lugano à JUGANO (Suisse)
. 2.000.--nom.Ob1. 6% Tokyo Eleotrie Cy. Ltd.
nos. 25939. 31426.
8. 20.000.--nom.0b1. 5b% Ville de Tokdo 1927
nos. 4352/3.13324/33.13344/5.19507/11.
19659.
. 40.000.-nom.0b1. 52% Emprunt Japonais 1965
no8. 12210/29.34482/5.58477/92
SUAA

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.92)
4th. Dispatch
NOTIFICATION
of Japanese Issues in U.S.A.-Dollara.
e keep for socount of a Swise
Customer, residing in Switzerland :
.1,000.--, (thoueand pollare) 5 Thirty-Five Year
Sinking Fund Gold-Bond
IAL JAAN CVNT 1935/1965,
n0.37852 à .1,000.--.-
Schaffhouse, 27th. of January 1947.
CAD BOILAFPHOUSE
BANCU.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.86)
ST.GALLISCHE KANTONALBANK
BANQUE CANTONALE DE ST.GALL
Staatsgarantle
Telephon 3.16.61
Postchedk-Konto IX 219
Wertschriften-Abteilung
sgoci tior suisse da Bon uiers
Paloe
St. Gallen, den
ebrury 4, 1947.
St-Gall, le
lerire
In viow of your endoavoura in f vour of
iviss rol lere of J: p-nene securltics , ve tereby bee
to eter fer reprosentrtion
lot. C oltyo 1 etriot co.
6. Firt "ort: re 1u1d Fond 1928/1953
No. 36563
iet ro loed t tre tlo 1 city Trah of Hew
ork in our w but ior o ount of  Swise vntionel
resiain in It iv (I iti le .).
ours 1. ithiully
Ber 
TOGAL

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
DU PASQUIER, MONTMOLLIN & CIE
NEUCHATEL.LE
UISSE)
DEOLARATION
Certifiant la propriété suisse
Nous oertifions que les titres suivants :
. 1.000.- ob1. 5 JAPON 1930/65 xt.
En 1 titre No. 22286. .
ont été de fagon ininterrompue depuis le 7 décembre 1941,
la propriété de oitoyens suisses, domioiliés effectivement
et d'une fagon permanente en Suisse, ou de personnes juridi-
ques, de sooiétés commeroiales ou d'associations de personnes
avec siège en Suisse, reconnues comme créanciers suisses par
l'Association Suisse des Banquiers.
Nous déolarons expressément avoir pris connaissanoe des dis-
positions et sommes prêts à prouver en tout temps l'exaoti-
tude de la présente déolaration sur la base de nos pièces
justifioatives.
Neuchatel, le 11 janvier 1947
PP. DU PASQUIER MONTMOLLIN & CIE.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.95)
ANTONCE DES
DUPASQUIER, MONTMOLLIN & Co.
NEUCHATEL (Sul838)
EMPRUNTS D' ENTR PRISES JAPONAISES LIBELLES EN DOLLARS
EN DEPOT
CHEZ MESSIBURS DU PASQUIER, MONTMOLLIN & CIE
Banquiers à Neuch&tel
. 9.000.- 001. 5
Taiwan Eleotrio Power Cy Ltd. 1931/1971 or
En 9 titree de . 1.000.- No. 7972. 7978/85
Aveo coupons au ler juillet 1941 et suivants attachés.
Beuchâtel, le 9 janvier 1947.
PP. DU PASQUIER MONTMOLLIN & CIE.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.77)
XLLAP3
itre  proprióté cuioso depuie une dato
entóriouro am 2 poptonbre 1939
sans intarruption.
/ 1.0  co. obl. S Tho Cri ontal Dovelopmant Compeny
Lited, rut axtáriour or à 30 ms 1928-1958
1 tre Ho.8648
a xo on . to 4 oor 1947
u curarte do in pouxie-Ponto ( utee)

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.94)
DECLARATION DE TITRES JAPOBAIS
Nous soussignés, LOHBARD, ODIEll & Cie, Banquiers,
1l, Corraterie, GEnvE, certifions que les titres japonais mentionnés
dans la présente déclaration appartiennent à une personne résidant en
Suiese, de nationalité non-ennemie des tats-Unie ou de leure Alliés.
Titres en dépôt, cous notre direction.
chez Messieurs J.P. MOGAn 2 Co, Ino. à Sa York
3 1000.- (M1110) 00P.ObI.S4 IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT 1965
No 26601 un t1tre de 3 1000.-
Genève, le 20 janvier 1947
PPOn LOMBARD, ODIER & C'•

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.93)
DBOLARATION DS TITRES JAPONAIS
Nous soussignés, LOMBARD, ODIER & Cie, Banquiers,
ll, Corraterie, Gxueve, oertifions que les titres japonmis mentionnés
dans la présente déolaration appartiennent à un porteur de nationalité
suisse, domioilié en Suisse.
Titres en dépôt, sous notre direction.
ohes Messieurs J.P. MORGAN t Co. Ino. è New York
9 3000.- (TrO16 X1110) CaP.Ob1.56≈ IXPERIAL JAPANE3E G0VBRNMENT 1965
No 18994. 19448. 19449. trois t1tres de § 1000.-
Genève, 10 20 janvier 1947
PPOn LOMBARD, OD:Z & C

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.94)
DECLARATION DE TITRES JAPONAIS
Nous souseignés, LOMBARD, ODIER & Cie, Banquiers,
1l, Corraterie, GRNEVE, certifions que les titres japonais mentionmés
dans la présente déclaration appartiennent à des personnes de mationalité
suisse, domiciliées en Suisse.
Titres en dépôt dans nos caisses
8 500.- (C1nG COnt=) OaD.OD1.6 IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMZNT 1954
No 11251. un t1tre de & 500.-
Titres en dépôt, sous notre direotion.
ches Mossieure J.l. MOkGAN A Co, Ino. è New York
2 5000.- (C1ng X111e) Cap.Ob1.61& IMPEBIAL JAPANE3S 00VERNA58T 1954
no 3983. 4782 à 4785. 5819. oix titree de 8 500.-
No 392. 37904. doux t1treo de 3 1006.-
Gendve, le 20 janvier 1947
PPon LOMBARD, ODI & C

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.94)
DEOLARATION DE TITGBS JAPONAIS
Nous soussignés, LOMBARD, ODIsS & Cie, Banquiers, 1l, Corraterie,
GnsvE, certifione que les titres japonaie mentionnée dans la présente
décleration appartiennent à une permonne de nationalité suisse,
domiciliée en Suisse.
ritres en dépôt sous notre direction
chez Messieure J.P. MOHGAN s Co, Ino. è New York
? 1000.- (M111e) CBP.OD1.61 ORI3NTAL DEVEL0PMENT C0 1952
No 682. 683. doux titres de § 500.-
Gendve, le 20 jaavier 1947
PPon LOMBARD, ODIE & C

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.93)
DECLARATIOE DE TITRES JAPONAIS
Nous soussignés, LONBARD, ODIER & Cie, Banquiers,
11, Corraterie, GEnkvE, certifions que les titres japonais mentionnés
dans la présente déolaration, appartiennent è des personnes de mationalité
suisse et domioiliées en Suisse.
Titres en dépôt, sous notre direction,
ohes Messieurs J.P. MOnGAN & Co Ino. è MW YORK
8 BO00.- (Huit Mille) OaD.ODl1B.SAx ORIENTAL DEVELOPMENT C0 1950
No 12151. 12152. 12221 à 12226. hu1t titres de 8 1000.-
Gendve, 1e 18 janvier 1947
PPOnLOMBARD, ODIER C

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.82)
ASSOCIATION UIE DES DTUDIRS
BALE
Emprunto o'entrepriceo juponaisos, Libellés on collars.
de propristé suisco. córús por l. maacl & CIs. à Cenbve :
. 12.oo. do pital. bligations G T TAL DEVLO
CO. LDTTD L953.
108. 429. 10843. 10992. 12462/63. 16627. 17422/27.
(22 t1tr03 20 A. 1.000,-).
. lo., d . io   
L 1 . L D 195.
Ho3. 2344. 5062. 6152. 6525/26. 6684. 6705. 7547.
7994. 3717. (1o t1r03 do A. 1.000.-).
A. 7.Soo. do conitel, obligatiomo 7 Gs commoLmamsD
0 0. 194.10.
1ba. 371. (1 t1tre do  50o,-).
4787. 5126/27. 3308. 8318. 0531. 9928. (7 s1tr0s
Co . 1.000.-).
Gonòvo. 1o 27 janvier 1949.
PPS HENTSCH & C
oa.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.91)
ANNONCE
de tit en jsp onaia.
Hous déolerons que los titres auitants:
2. 4.000.-obligations 5iS Ville de Toklo 1927/61
nos.5705.8974/76. (4 X $.1000.-)
reposent sous notre direction chez M.
Dominiok & Dominick d New-York et sont
lu propriété depuis avent le 2 soptem-
bre 1929 d une personne de nationalité
suisge domicilioe en Argentine.
Geneve, le 20 janvier 1947.
BORDIER & C
16. Rue de Hollande- GENEVE
2osis2i

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.95)
ANNONCE
de titres japonais appartenant à
des résidents suisses.
Nous déolarons que les titres suivants:
6. 2.000.-0b1igations 618 Emprunt Japoneis 1924/54
Nos.4625.4626.de8.500.
6403.de 8.1000.-
reposent sous notre direction chez Hessieurs
Doninick & Dominiok a New-York et sont la
propriété depuis avant le ler septembre 1939
de ressortissenta suissca dcmiciliés en Suisse.
§. 1.000.-0b11gat1on 64% Emprunt Japonais 1924/54
No.40210.de $.1000.-
reposent sous notre direction chez Messiours
Dominick & Dominick a New-York et sont la pro-
pri6té depuis avant lo ler septembre 1939 d'une
personne de nationalité frangaise domiciliée
en Suisse.
Genève, 10 20 janvier 1947.
BORDIER & C
16, Rue de Hollande - GENEVE
Rousicrni

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.87)
FERRIER LULLIN & CIE
15,RUE PETITOT
GENÈVE
Adr Télègc FERULIN-GENÈVE
Téléphone4.02.00
EM
Emprunte d'Entreprize
Gentve, l0 28 Jnvier 1947
Japonaisos livellér on
collere
:soslation ulase des san ulere
831●
Nous déola: onr détenir pour le sompte de poreonmes
de n tionalit& suirse, domiolliéor en uirms, les valeurs
suivanten :
10.000.-
COP. OBL. GS GRKAT COR OLIUA AD ELECTHIC POWER CY. LTD.
1925/1950 (Viret & Con.Mtam SinkeFund Gola Bonde)
Nos. 2212 4269 4478 5092 5778/80 6808 9358 12485 (10 000-
pures de 1.000.-).
5.000.
COR. ODL. OF SeS ORIENTAL DSVX OPIGNT COMPANY 1TD. 2920/80
Nos. 11090/93 11151 (5 cupure: de  1.000.-).
FP0

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.94)
SOCIÉTÉ ANONYME DE GÉRANCES ET DE DÉPOTS
S. A. G. E. D.
COMPTE BANQUE NATIONALE SUISSE: 2156
66. RUE DU STAND
COMPTE DE CHEQUES POSTAUX:I SO9O
GENÈVE
ADRESSE TELEGR:SOCAGED GENÈVE
TELEPHONE: 42.360
DECLARATION POUR VALEURS JAPONAISES
Nous soussignés, S.A. de Gérances et de Dépôts, 66, rue du Stand.
Genève, certifions que nous détenons les valeurs japonaises mentiommées
oi-après pour le compte d'un ressortissant espagnol domioilid en Espagne:
sous notre direction auprès de Messieurs J.P. Morgan & Co. Ino. Mew Yosk
; 4.900.- Japanese Government 6g% Feb. 1, 1954
No. 64171, 83900, 128375, 53683 ($1.000.- on.)
7983 (1500.-) 98/99, 9594/95 (8100.- ch.)
Genève, 1e 28 janvier 1947.
S.A DE GERANCES ET DE DEPOTS
F.D
Rds

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.91)
SOCIÉTÉ ANONYME DE GÉRANCES ET DE DÉPOTS
S. A. G. E. D.
COMPTE BANQUE NATIONALE SUISSE 2156
66. RUE DU STAND
COMPTE DE CHEQUES POSTAUX: I SO90
GENÈVE
ADRESSE TELEGR SOCAGED GENEVE
TELEPHONE: 42.380
DECLARATION POUR VALHURS JAPONAI GS
Nons soussignés, S.A. de Géranoes et de Dápôts, 66, rue du tand,
Genève, certifions que nous détenons les valeurs japomaises mentionnées
ci-après pour le compte de ressortissants suisses domioiliés en Smisse:
auprèn de notre Etablissement
700.- Japanese Government 624 1954
No. 1013. (.500.-) 8936/37 (100.- oh.)
4.Ut O.- Great Consolidated Eleotrio Power Co. lst. Mtge.
ser. "A" 7% Aug.1, 1944
No. 6187, 8467/58 (81.00.- 0h.) 288, 1016 (.600.- 0h.)
sous notre direotion aupros de la National City Bank of New York. New Yosk
2.0.- Japanese Dovernmont  1965
No. 48496, 9136 (81.000.- oh.)
mons ln direction de ln Société de Banque Buisse emprès de Dominick è
Dominiok, Now York
 I.00.- Greet Consolidated Eleotrio Power Co. lst. Mtge. ser. "A"
74 Aug.1, 1944
No. 12209 (31.000.-)
Gonève, le 28 janvier 1947.
S.. DE GEAC ST D DETS
V-D.
hal

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.96)
SOCIÉTÉ ANONYME DE GÉRANCES ET DE DÉPOTS
S. A. G. E. D.
COMPTE BANQUE NATIONALE SUISSE: 2I58
66, RUE DU STAND
COMPTE DE CHEQUES POSTAUX: I 5090
GENÈVE
ADREBSE TELÉGR.: SOCAGED GENÈVE
TÉLÉPHONE: 42.360
DECLARATION POUR VALEURS JAPONAISES
Nous soussignés, S.A. de Gérances et de Dép8ts, 66, rue du Stand,
Genève, certifions que nons détenons les valeurs japonaises mentionnées
ci-après pour le compte d'un ressortissant suisse domioilid à l'átranger:
1.000.- Japanese Government B2% 1965
No. 29938
Genève, 1e 88 janvier 1947.
S.A. DE GERANCES ET DE DEPOTS

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.94)
SOCIÉTÉ ANONYME DE GÉRANCES ET DE DÉPOTS
S. A. G. E. D.
COMPTE BANQUE NATIONALE SUISSE: 2156
66. RUE DU STAND
COMPTE DE CHEQUES POSTAUX:I5O9O
GENÈVE
ADRESSE TELEGR:SOCAGED GENÈVE
TÉLÉPHONE: 42.360
DECLARATION POUR VALEURS JAPONAI BS
Nous soussignés, S.A. de Géranoes et de Dépôts, 66, rue du Stand,
Genève, certifions que nous détenons les valeurs japomaises mentionndes
ci-après pour le compte d'une personne morale anglaime, domioilide à
l'étranger:
6. 00.- Great Consolidated Eleotrio Power Co. Ltd. 7% 1924/44 série "A"
No. 5687, 5605, 7920, 10793, 10866, 13555 (81.000.- ah.)
Gandve, l0 28 jenvier 1947.
S. A. DE S ET D 

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
SOCIÉTÉ ANONYME DE GÉRANCES ET DE DÉPOTS
S. A. G. E. D.
COMPTE BANQUE NATIONALE SUISSE: 2156
66. RUE DU STAND
COMPTE DE CHEQUES POSTAUX: I 5090
GENÈVE
ADRESSE TELEGR.:SOCAGED GENÈVE
TELEPHONE: 42.360
DECLARATION POUR VALEURS JAPONAISES
Nous soussignés, S.A. de Gérances et de Dépôts, 66, rue du Stand,
Genève, certifions que nous détenons les valeurs japonaises mentionnées
ci-après pour le compte d'un ressortissant étranger non-ennemi des Alliés,
domicilié en Suisse:
sous notre direotion auprès de la National City Bank of New York. New York
 2.000.- Japanese Government 52% 1965
No. 22574/75 ($1.000.- oh.)
Genève, le 28 janvier 1947.
S.A. DE GERANCES ET DB DEPOTS

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.93)
BANQUE
CHARLES PERREAU S. A.
Genève, le 2  194
ADRESSE TÉLÉGRAPHIQUE
6. RUE DE L'UNIVERSITÉ
PERREAU GENÈVE
TÉLÉPHONE : 4.72.40
GÉRANCE DE FORTUNES
ACHAT ET VENTE DE TITRES
ENCAISSEMENT DE TOUS COUPONS
AD SECRETARIAT DE L'ASSOCIATION
GARDE DE TITRES ET VALEURS
INSTALLATION FICHET
SUISBK DES BANLUIERS
ADMINISTRATEURS
BALE
A. TARDY
M. BAEZNER
Assohengraben, 11
Ref.: V/lettre No.1396
du 8 Janw1er 1947
ANHONCE DES TITRES JAPOHAIS DS PROPRIETE SUIRE
" libellés en dollure
203.2000-- 0010 JAP0N 6 1/25 1924/54 (8/a)
31000-Hos.38579/80-127981-
2 x 100 - N0s.6512-8940
.3.000. 0b1. OINTAL EV L0PMENT 6% 1953 (m/a)
3 x 1000 - No8.10854/6-
Genbve le 29 Janvier 1947
BATU CH RL PEREAU S.
Meu

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.95)
ARMaND Von ERNST & CiE, BERN
Déolaration
Faisant suite à la oiroulaire No l396 de l'Association
Suisse des Banquiers à Bâle nous déolarons que nous possé-
dons sous notre gestion los obligations d'entreprises japo-
naises suivantes stipulées en dollera:
 3'O00.- The Oriental Development Company Ltd. external
lonn thirty year 6 ≈ gold debenture bonds
1953
No 3370, 7728/29
appartenant è des personnes de nationalité suisse, domi-
olliées en Suisse.
 125'000.- The Oriental Developmont Company 52% gold
debenture bonds 1958
Nos 660/63, 1018, 1204/07, 1820/21, 1894 de 500.- nom.
n
653/61, 910, 2541, 3142/43, 3206/210, 3286/293,
3396/3400, 4365/66, 5259, 5261/65, 5496/500, 6459/62,
6556/71, 8793/94, 10056/57, 10650/51, 12353, 12431
12565/69, 13121, 13126, 13139/143, 13239/242, 13276/79,
13836, 13988/90, 14510, 15446/48, 15499/502, 15697/700,
15928, 16592, 16786/87, 16890, 18388/89, 18406,
18692/94 do 1c00.- nom.
uppartenant à une société rinunoière suis e dont les
actions sont en posseasion de personnes anglaises, do-
mioiliées en Angleterre.
Berne, 10 24 Janvier 1947
VI. 45. — 2000.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.91)
Annonoe
concernant la propriété suisse en titres d'entreprises
japonaiseo libellás en dollars
 5.000.-- 5 oblic. 6 Tokyo lectrio  ight Co., Ltd.
I. yp. 1o1lur- crie 1953
10 39342/6
outicr, 1e 15 janvier 1947
AU POULAIR ISSE

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.94)
Au Seorétariat de
l'Asseciation Suisse des Banquiers
3, St.Albangraben
Bale
Enquète relative aux titres japonais libellés en U.S.A.- *
selon votre oiroulaire No.l396.
Propriété suisse.
6t% oblig. Japan Electrio Generation & Transmission Co.Ltd.,Tokio
auparaVant: DAIDO DENRYOKU KABUSHIKA KAISHA, 1950
8 1.000.-
No. 6208
62% oblig. Imporial Japanese Gov. 1924/54
8
500.-
No. 3076
Lucerne, 1e 16 janvier 1947.
BANQUE POPULAIRE SUISSE
1m

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
Kantonalbank von Bern
Berne, le 27 janvier 1947.
BANQUE CANTONALE DE BERNE
A la Légation de Suisse
WASHINGTON
Emprunts d'entreprises japonaises
libellés en dollars.
Messieurs,
Nous corformant aux instructions de l'Asso-
ciation Suisse des Banquiers à Bale et en vue de
1'action de sauvegarde entreprise par nos Autorités,
nous vous informons que nous avons en dépôt dans nos
caisses
1,O00.-- Oriental Development Co. Ltd. (Japan )
Ext. Deb.
Gold
1953(1923)
No.
M
8939
pour le compte d'un s u i s s e
Veuillez agréer, Messieurs, nos salutations
distinguées.
BANQUE CANTONALE DE BERNE
( annonce établie en quatre exemplaires )

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.97)
Kantonalbank von Bern
BANQUE CANTONALE DE BERNE
Berne, 1e 27 janvier 1947.
A la Légation de Suisse
WASHINGTON
Emprunts d'entreprises japonaises
libellés en.dollars.
Messieurs,
Nous corformant aux instruotions de l'asso-
ciation Suisse des Banquiers à Bale et en vue de
l'action de sauvegarde entreprise par nos Autotités,
nous vous informons que nous avons en dépôt dans nos
caisses
8 1.000.--  Tokvo Electrio Light Cc.Ltd.. first
Mtge Gold do1lars Sies 1953 ( 1928 )
No.8849
pour le compte d'un français.
Veuillez agréer, Messieurs, nos salutations
distinguées.
BANQUE CANTONALE DE BERNE
( annonoe établie en quatre exemplaires )

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.96)
Kantonalbank von Bern
BANQUE CANTONALE DE BERNE
Berne, le 27 janvier 1047.
A la Légation de Suiese
WASHINGTON
Emprunts d'entreprises japonaises
libellés en dollars.
Messieurs,
Nous conformant aux instructions de 1'Asso-
ciatior Suisse des Banquiers à Bale et en vue de
l'action de sauvegarde entreprire par nos Autoritér,
nous vous informons que nous avons en dépôt dans nos
oaisses
 10.000.-- 5t% Oriental Development Co. Ltd. (Japen)
Ext. Deb. Go1d 1958 (1928 )
No. D 1825/1826 2/500.
M 9271/9273, 11326, 17430/17434
9/1,000,—
pour le compte d'une personne de nationalité espamole.
Veuilleg agréer, Messieurs, nos salutatiops
distinguées.
BANQUE CANTONAJE DE BERIE
( annonce étalbie en quatre exempleires )

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
BASELLANDSCHAFTLICHE KANTONALBANK
BANQUE CANTONALE DE BALE- CAMPAGNE
HAUPTSITZ LIESTAL
GRUNDKAPITAL UND RESERVEN CA. 4O MILLIONEN FRANKEN
FILIALEN
STAATS GARANTIE
AGENTJREN
ARLESHEIM.BINNINGEN
ALLSCHWIL,MUTTENZ.PRATTELN
BIRSFELDEN
EINNEHMEREIEN IN
GELTERKINDEN, SISSACH
ALLEN GROSSEREN ORTSCHAFTEN
WALDENBURG
DES KANTONS
GEGR
1864
WERTSCHRIFTEN-ABTEILUNG
Déclaration
de titres japonais se trouvant dans la propriété de personnes
de nationalité suisse et ayant leur résidence habituelle en
Suisse.
$ 1,000.-- nom. obl1g. Imperial Japanese Government 51% 1965
No. 30445.- -
$ 2,000.-- nom. obl1g. Tokyo Electric Light Co.Ltd. 6 % 1953
No. 2290; 53373.= 2/1000.--
Liestal, le 21 janvier 1947
BANQUE CANTONALE DE BALE-CAMPAGNE
Joues a

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.96)
ZAHN & CIE
TELEGR.-ADR.: ZAHNBANK
TELEPHON 21970
DECLARATION
$. 3.000.- 6% Tokyo Light Co. I. Mtge Gold Bonde 1953
r. 56682, 56697, 56699 = 3/1000.-
Lodged with BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO., NEW-YORK,
unter the name of Zahn & Co.. Benkera. Basle.
- General Ruling Nr. 17, Certification Br. 3 -
We deolare that these securities which were acquired on
September 7th 1932 have been since this date in the uninterrupted
beneficial ownership of swies nationals residing in Switzerland.
Basle, January 15th, 1947.
Y& Co.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.86)
ANBONOE DES TITRES JAPONAIS, géráe par notre Bazge.
0005  0 2 1920  1 1262
tranche amériesine
20b1. 0  1000.= no 23049-53
propriétairal Suisse, domicilid em Suisse
22'000.- 0k2. 51  8tet 90 Jaxon 1930 mn 1 ma1 1965
tranche américaine
1001.1000.=00 16285
propriétaire: Français, domicilid en Prance
(le titre est déposé à Londres)
pp. Lüscher & Cie.
B a l e , le 7 février 1947.
1.memb
yolw
Banqulers
BALE

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.97)
Erklärungen sohweiserischer Banken betr. auf Dollar lautende
Anleihen japanischer Unternehmungen.
Schweis. Bankverein, Basel
 27.500.- Great Consoli-
dated Eleotric Power Co.7%
 2.000.- 1dem6 1/2%
& 6.000.- Taiwan Eleo.Power Cy
& 14.000.- Tokyo Eleotr.Light
 27.000.- 5 1/2  Oriontal Develop.
8 7.000.- 6 % 1dem
& 1.000.- Ujigaea Electr.Power
1
Lüscher & Co.
Basel
 6.000.- 5 1/2  Japan 1930
1
Zahn & Co.
$ 3.000.- 6 % Tokyo Light
1
Basellandschaftl.Kt.Liestal
8 1.000.- 5 1/2 % Japan
Bank
& 2.000.- 6 % Tokyo Light
1
Kantonalbank von
Bern
§ 10.000.- 5 1/2 % Orienta1 Develp.
1
Born
& 1.000.- 6 % Tokyo Light
1
& 1.000.- Oriental Develop.
1
Schweiz. Volksbank
Luzern
& 1.000.- Jap. El. Generation
500.- 6 1/2 % Japan 1924
1
Moutier
8 5.000.- 6 % Tokyo El.Light
1
Armand v.Ernst & Cie. Born
 3.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
125.000.- 5 1/2 % Oriontal Develop. 1
Bque de l'Etat de
Fribourg & 1.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
Bque Perreau S.A.
Genf
 3.200.- 6 12% Japan 1924
8
3.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
S.A.de Gérances et
2.000.- 5 1/2 % Japan 1965
1
de Dépôts
6.000.- 7 % Gt.Consol.Eleo.P.C.
1
1.000.- 5 1/2 % Japan 1965
1
700.- 6 1/2 % Japan 1954
4.000.- 7 % Gt.Consol.El.Power
2.000.- 5 1/2 % Japan 1965
8
1.000.- 7 % Gt.Consol.El.Pow.
1
8 4.900.- 6 1/2 % Japan 1954
1
Ferrier Lullin
n
& 10.000.- 6 1/2 % Gt.Conso1.E1.Pow.
8 5.000.- 5 1/2 % Oriontal Dovelop.
Bordier & Cie.
 2.000.- 6 1/2 % Japan 1924/54
 1.000.- dito
1
$ 4.000.- 5 1/2 % Tok1o 1927
1
Hentsoh & Cie.
n
 12.000.- 6 % Orienta1 Develop.
10.000.- 6 1/2  Gt.Conso1.E1.Power
7.500.- 7 % dito
1
Lombard, Odier
& 8.000.- 5 1/2 % Oriental Develop.
1
1.000.- 6 % dito
1
5.500.- 6 1/2 % Japan 1954
1
3.000.- 5 1/2 %
1965
1
1.000.- 5 1/2 %
1965
1

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.96)
Genf . & 1.000.- 5 1/2 % Oriental Develop. 1
Piotet & Cie.
Bque Cant. Neuch.
L.Ch.F.
§ 1.000.- 5 1/2 % Oriental Develop. 1
Bonhôte & Cie
Neuch.
 500.- 6 1/2 % Japan 1924/54
1
2.000.- 7  Gt. Consol.El.Power
1
Du Pasquier Montmol.
8 9.000.- 5 1/2 % Taiwan Eleetr.
1
8 1.000.- 5 1/2 % Japan 1930/65
1
St.Gall.Kt.Bank
Gt-Gall & 1.000.- 6 % Tokyo Eleetr.
1
Schaffh.Kant.Bank
Sch'hau 8 1.000.- 5 1/2 % Japan 1933/65
1
Boa Pop.di Lugano
Lugano
$40.000.- 5 1/2 % Japan
20.000.- 5 1/2 % stadt Tokyo 1927
2.000.- 6  Tokyo Electr.
1
Boa Unione d.Cred.
& 10.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
Banque Cant.Vaud1
Laus. & 1.000.- 7 % Daido Denryoku
500.- 6 1/2 %
1
Roguin & Cie
n
1.000.- 7 % Gt Consol.El.Power
1
Gonet & Cie
Nyon & 2.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
Schweiz.Nat.Bank
Basel & 1.000.- 5 1/2 % C1ty of Tokyo
1
n
Genf
& 7.000.- 7  Gt Consol.Eleotr.P. 1
American Express Cy.
Zoh
& 1.500.- 5 1/2 % Oriental Develop. 1
A.G. Leu & Co.
n
 3.000.- 6%
1.000.- 6 % Tokyo Eleotr.
1
3.000.- 6 1/2 % Nippon Denryoku
4.000.- 6  Tokyo Klectr.
1.000.- 7 % Daido Electr.Pow.
1.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
75.000.- 5 1/2 % Taiwan Eleotr.Power 1
Sohweiz. Bankgesell.
& 1.000.- 6 % Tokyo Electr.
6.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
2.000.- 5 1/2 % dito
4.000.- 6 1/2 % Gt ConsolEleotr.P. 1
Basel 8 3.000.- 5 1/2 % Taiwan Electr.Pow. 1
Bern
& 6.000.- 6 1/2 % Gt Cons.Eleotr.
7.000.- 6 % Tokyo Electr.Light
10.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
n
Genf
500.- 5 1/2 %
n
2.000.- 6 %
2.000.- 6 % Tokyo Eleotr.
325.- 6 1/2 % Gt Consol. Eleotr. 1
3.000.-7 %
3.000.- 6 1/2 %
n
1
20.000.- 6  Oriental Develop.
1
6.000.- 6 % Tokyo E1.Light
1
7.000.- 5 1/2 % Oriental Develop.
3.000.- 6 % aito
1
Laus.
20.000.- 6 % dito
500.- 5 1/2 % dito
1.460.- 6 % Tokyo Dento Kabushiki
2.000.- 7 % Gt Conso1.El.Power
3.000.- 6 1/2 % dito
1.000.- 5 1/2 % Taiwan Electr.P.C y 1

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.95)
Sohw.Bankgesellsch.
Lugans  & 1.000.- 5 1/2  Taiwan E1.Power 1
W'thur & 200.- 6  Tokyo Blectr.
1
Schw. Kreditanstalt
Zürieh  1.000.- 7  Gt.Consolxl.P.
15.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop
11.000.- 5 1/2  Taiwan E1.P.0y.
1.000.- 6  Tokye El.Light
1
Basel 8 1.000.- 6 % idem
2.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
1.000.- 7 % Gt Consol.Eleotr.
1
Bern &
1.000.- 6 % Gt Oriental Dev.
1.000.- 6 % Tokyo Electr.L.
1.000.- 5 1/2 % Taiwan Eleotr.P. 1
n
Genf
& 1.000.- 7 % Gt Consol.Eleo.P.
1
n
Glarus & 1.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
n
Lausannes 2.000.- 6 % idom
2.000.- 5 1/2 % Taiwan Elec.Power 1
Neuchat.8 1.000.- 5 1/2 % idem
1
Total 8 689.285.-
Total 63 Erklärungen in je vier Ausfertigungen.
21. Feb. 1947.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
SWISS BANK. CORPORATION
Basle, 7th Febr.ry 1947. PP/SCH.
GENERAL MANAGER
TBL.EGRAMS:
SUIDEILEG BALE
To the Swiss Legation,
Washington.
Dear' Sirs,
Re: Swiss owned Dollars Securities issued by Japanese
ent erprises.
In accordance with instructions received from the Swiss
Bankers Association in Basle, we give you below to the intention
of the Department of State Washington, for transmission by them
to the Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces in Tokyo, the list
of wiss owned Dollars securities of Japanese enterprises which
we are keeping in eafe custody for our clients:
 27.500.- Great Consolidated lectric Power Co. Ltd. (Japan)
7% ext. first Mortgage S.F. Gold Bonds Series A 1924/44,
No. 9682,12490,11740,4512,11970,8252,999,3062,1370,
7064,972,3209,6883,7960,4112,12672,1022,2108,3706,7430
13431,11241,498,10124,11307, 9730,4076 (27x1000)
901 (1x500);
2.C00.- Great Consol dated lectric Power Co. Ltd. (Japan)
6 first  Gen. ortg. S.F. Gold Bonds 1925/50.
No. 5396, 8945 (2x1000);
6.c00.- Taiwan lectric ower Co. Ltd. 5?  S.F.Gold Bonds 1971,
No. 7929/33,2647 (6x1000);
14.O00.- Tokyo Ele tric Liglt Co. Ltd. 6% First Mortgage Bonde
1928/53,
No.3171,45765,66722/3,59563/4,19010,64034/5,20728.
23526,47740/41,52955(14x1000);
27.000.- Oriental Development Co. Ltd. 5? % ext.S.F.Deb.1958,
No. 1329/30,1487,8646,8647,8801,9500,11107,12013,12577,
14309/11, 16791, 18195,10902,8818/21,18536,15704/8,
17517(27x1000);
7.000.- Oriental Development Co. Ltd. 6 ext..F. Deb. 1953,
110. 223/24,232,10770,15632,3757 (6x1000). 371,462 (2x500)
1.000.- Ujigawa Electric Power Co. Ltd. (Japan)first Mortg.
3.F. Gold Bonds 1945,No. 4179 (1x1000).
Very truly yours,
SEISS BANK CORPORATION

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
inyuire at the request of the Feueral Political Depart
in B-rne about the possibility for Swiss holders of fill
declarations Liso ror securities issuea by the Japanese
Government, its subaivisions, or by communities, tome,
etc. The Leg&tion would be very much obliged to be ad-
vised as to the , ractic bility of this suggestion.
Washington, D.C., Marcn 14, 1947.
Encl.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.96)
ZAHN & CIE
TELEGR.-ADR.: ZAHNBANK
BASEL
TELEPHON 21970
$. 3.000.- 6% Tokyo Light Co. I. Mtge Gold Bonds 1953
r. 56682; 56697, 56699 = 3/1000.-
LodGed with BROWN BROTHERS HARRTMAN & CO., WEW-YORK,
under the name of Zahn & Co., Bankers, Basle,
- General Ruling Nr. 17, Certification Br. 3 -
We declare that these securities which were acquired on
September 7th 1932 have been since this date in the uninterrupted
beneficial ownership of swiss nationals residing in Switzerland.
Basle, January 15th, 1947.
Pa.ZAHN & Co.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.97)
PICTET & CIE
GENÈVE
D E C L A R A T I O N
JPC/1m
Nous soussignés, PICTET & CIE, certifions que Madame Gabrielle
Chauvet-Ador, de nationalité suisse, habitant à Geneve, possède
depuis une date antérieure au 2 septembre 1939 :
$ 1.000.- cap.ob1. 5/2% Oriental Development Cy. No. 886/7 (2 x 500)
en dépôt chez J.P. Morgan & Co.Inc., New-York.
Genève, 1e 10 janvier 1947.
Ppon PICTET & CIE

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.95)
.BONHOTE & CIE
NEUCHATEL
ANNONCE
Adresse télégraphique:
BONHOTECO
ORRQUES POSTAUX : IV 492
à l'Asscoiation Suisse des Banquiers à BALE
TÉLÉPHONE: 5 12 71
d'emprunts d'entreprises japonaises libellés en dollars
Nous soussignés, Messi urs BONHoTT & CIE., Banquiers,
à NEuCHiTEL, certifions quo le titre ci-dessous :
. 50C.--Ca. NO. OBLIG. 6 CUUV NEMENT TIPERIAL JAPONAIS 1924/5
No. D. 9185
est la propriété de citoyen suisse, domicilié en Suisse.
Neuchâtel, 1e 16 janvier 1947.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.94)
BONHOTE & CIE
ANNONCE
NEUCHATEL
Adresa télégraphique:
à l'Association Suisse des Banquiers è BAtE
BONHOTECO
OHLQUES POSTAUX: IV 492
d'emprunts d'entreprises japonaises libellés on dolla
TÉLÉPHONE: 5 12 71
Nous soussignés, Messieurs BONHOTE & CIB., Banquiers,
à NEUCHATEL, certifions que les titres ci-dessous :
. 2.00O.--caP.nom. 7% GREAT CONSOLIDATED LECTRIC POWER CY.Lt
1944, "Daido Nos. M. 12993, 13512,
sont la propriété de citoyens suisses, domiciliés en Suisse.
Neuohatel, 1e 13 janvier 1947.
Poi

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.98)
ORIGINAL.
BANCA UNIONE DI CREDITO
DISTINTA
BANGUE UNION DE CRÉDIT
Lugano, 23 janvier 1941
LUGANO
BORDEREAU
ner
Association Suisse des Banquiers
Bâl e.
your
.10.000.
nom.Ob1.6% Oriental Development Company,1953,
10/1000.-,N.2698,5304,5583,7127/8,7503,
7680,11910,16292,18050,
titres appartenant à des porteurs de nationalite auisse domiciliés
Suisse depuis avant le 2 septembre 1939.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.92)
GONET & Co
ANNONCE
NYON (SUISSE)
d'emprunts d'entreprises japonaises
Télégrammes: GONETCO
libellés on dollars.
(Selon oiroulaire n° 1396 de 1'Association Suisse des Banquiere)
À. 2.000.- CaP.ObL16.06 GRIENTAL DEVELOPHENT C•. LtA EX.LOm
20 Year_0014 1953, nº.16849/50,
déposés ohez nos correspondants, la Martins Bank Limited, à
Newcastle upon Tyne. Ces titres sont la propriété d'une mociété
ayant son aidge à Fribourg (Suisse), qui a été reconnue comme
suinse par l'Association Suisse des Banquiers.
Nyon, 10 13 janvier 1947.
p. pon. CONET & Co.
R frhe fbrmarud

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.91)
UNION BANK OF SWITZERLAND
WINTERTHUR, 24th Jammary 1947
UNION DE BANQUES SUISSES - SCHWEIZERISCHE BANKGESELLSCHAFT
CABLE ADDRESS: BANKUNION / TELEPHONE: 21211
List of seourities held by Uaion Eank of Switzerlonk.
Winterthur, for socount of a Swiss client.
£ 200.-.- 6% Bonds Tokyo Eleotrio Light Co. Limited
1st Mortgage 1928 due 1953
Nos. 14120/21
Und
na
485 e W1.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.96)
Tuplicate
SCHWEIZERISCHE
Basel, January 27th, 1947
BANKGESELLSCHAFT
UNION DE BANQUES BUIBSES - UNIONE DI BANCHE SVIZZERE
UNION BANK OF BWITZERLAND
WN
Swiss Legation
Telegramme: Bankunion / Telephon: 2 18 20
Washington
Postscheck-Konto V 4614
Dollar-issues of Japanese
Enterprises
Gentlemen,
We beg to inform you that we hold sinse before
September 2, 1939 for a person of Swiss nationality residing in
Switserland the following seourity :
#3,000.- Teiwen Electrio Power Co.5/2% Bonds due 1971
No.7958/60 = 3/1000.-
Yours feithfully,
UNION BANK OF SWITZERLAND
The
Through Swiss Bankers Association
Besel.
185 Ba.

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
UNCLASSIFIED
URGENT
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
FOREIGN SERVICE OPERATIONS MEMORANDUM
AIR MAIL
To:
USPOLAD, TOKYO
From:
The Department of State.
F.W.
Subject:
Swiss holdings of securities or obligations of
Japanese business enterprises.
Reference:
SCAP telegram C-62853
8
The Acting Secretary of State encloses 64 declara-
tions, in triplicate, prenared by various Swiss banks regard- 
ing Swiss holdins of securities or obligaticns of large
f
scale Japanese business enterprises. These declarations
were submitted to t. e Department by the Legation of Switzerland
at Was ington, D. C.
The Iolitical Adviser is recuested to refer these
declarations to the Supreme Commander in accordance with
telegran No. C-62853, for whatever action may be deemed
appropriate in the circumstances.
Enclcsures:
64 declarations.
1 5
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.95)
ANNONCE DES TITRES JAPONAIS, gérés par notre Banque.
 5'000.-- ob1. 52 % Etat de Jaoon 1930 au 1 mai 1965
tranche américaine
5 0b1. à $ 1000.-- no 23049-53
propriétaire: Suisse, domicilié en Suisse
 1'000.-- ob1. 52 % Etat de Japon 1930 au 1 mai 1965
tranche américaine
1 0b1. à 8 1000.-- no 16285
propriétaire: Français, domicilié en France
(le titre est déposé à Londres)
B â 1 e , 1e 7 février 1947.
pp. Lüscher & Cie.
N.Tmamb
"yohw
Banquiers
BALE

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.95)
Erklärungen schweizerischer Banken betr. auf Dollar lautende
Anleihen japanischer Unternehmungen.
Schweiz. Bankverein, Basel
 27.500.- Great Consoli-
dated Electric Power Co.7%
2.000.- idem6 1/2%
 6.C00.- Taiwan Elec.Power Cy
£ 14.C00.- Tokyo Electr.Light
 27.000.- 5 1/2 % Oriental Develop.
8 7.000.- 6 % idem
8 1.00.- Ujigaea Electr.Power
1
Lüscher  Co.
asel
6.000.- 5 1/2 % Japan 1930
1
Zahn : Co.
11
8
3.000.- 6 % Tokyo Light
1
sasellandschaftl.Kt.Liestal
1.000.- 5 1/2 % Japan
Bank
 2.c0.- 6 % Tokyo Light
1
Kantonalbank von
Bern
 10.000.- 5 1/2 % Oriental Develp.
1
Bern
 1.000.- 6 % Tokyo Light
1
必
1.000.- Oriental Develop.
1
ochweiz. Volksbank
Luzern
1.000.- Jap. El. Generation
必
500.- 6 1/2 % Japan 1924
1
11
moutier
p
5.00c.- 6 % Tokyo El.Light
1
armand v.Ernst a Cie. Yern
β 3.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
125.000.- 5 1/2 % 0riental Develop.
1
que de l'tat de
Fribourg 
1.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
que Perreau ..
Genf
p
3.200.- 612 Japan 1924
p
3.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
s.n.de Gérances et
11
2.000.- 5 1/2 % Japan 1965
1
de Dépôts
6.000.- 7  Gt.Consol.Elec.P.C.
1
1.000.- 5 1/2 6 Japan 1965
1
700.- 6 1/2 0 Japan 1954
4.000.- 7  Gt.Conso1.El.Power
2.000.- 5 1/2  Japan 1965
1.c00.- 7  Gt.Consol.E1.Pow.
1
 4.900.- 6 1/2  Japan 1954
1
Ferrier Lullin
11
 10.000.- 6 1/2  Gt.Conso1.E1.Pow.
A 5.000.- 5 1/2 % Oriental Develop.
1
Bordier  Cie.
11
p
2.000.- 6 1/2 % Japan 1924/54
必
1.000.- dito
1
p
4.000.- 5 1/2 % Tokio 1927
1
HentschCie.
11
 12.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
10.000.- 6 1/2 % Gt.Conso1.E1.Power
7.500.-7%dito
1
Lombard, Odier
11
必
8.000.- 5 1/2 % Oriental Develop.
1
1.000.- 6 % dito
1
5.500.- 6 1/2 % Japan 1954
1
3.000.- 5 1/2 %
11
1965
1
1.000.-5 1/2 %
11
1965
1

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.94)
n.
Pictet & Cie.
Genf
 1.000.- 5 1/2 % Oriental Develop. 1
Bque Cant. Neuch.
L.Ch.F.
 1.000.- 5 1/2 % Oriental Develop. 1
Bonhôte & Cie
Neuch.
 500.- 6 1/2 % Japan 1924/54
1
2.000.- 7 % Gt. Conso1.El.Power
1
Du Pasquier Montmol.
11
9.000.- 5 1/2 % Taiwan Electr.
1
 1.000.- 5 1/2 % Japan 1930/65
1
St.Gall.Kt.Bank
Gt-Gall
 1.000.- 6 % Tokyo Electr.
1
Schaffh.Kant.Bank
Sch'hau
1.000.-5 1/2 % Japan 1935/65
1
Bca Pop.di Lugano
Lugano
$40.000.- 5 1/2 % Japan
n
20.000.- 5 1/2 % Stadt Tokyo 1927
2.000.- 6 % Tokyo Electr.
1
Bca Unione d.Cred.
11
 10.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
Banque Cant.Vaud.
Laus.  1.C00.- 7 % Daido Denryoku
500.-6 1/2 %
11
1
noguin  Cie
1t
§ 1.000.- 7 % Gt Consol.El.Power
1
Gonet  Cie
Ny on
2.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
schweiz.Nat.Bank
basel
 1.000.- 5 1/2 % City of Tokyo
1
11
Genf
 7.000.- 7 % Gt Consol.Electr.P.
1
American Express Cy.
Zcn
 1.500.- 5 1/2 % Oriental Develop. 1
A.G. Leu & Co.
11
8
3.000.- 6 %
11
1.000.- 6 % Tokyo Electr.
1
3.000.- 6 1/2 % Nippon Denryoku
4.000.- 6 % Tokyo Electr.
1.c00.- 7  Daido Electr.Pow.
1.00.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
75.000.- 5 1/2 % Taiwan Electr.Power 1
Schweiz. Sankgesell.
11
3
1.000.- 6 % Tokyo Electr.
6.000.- 6  Orienta1 Develop.
2.000.- 5 1/2  dito
4.c00.- 6 1/2 % Gt ConsolElectr.P. 1
11
Easel
3.c00.- 5 1/2  Maiwan lectr.Po. 1
11
Bern
6.000.- 6 1/2 % Gt Cons.Electr.
7.000.-6 %TokyoElectr.Light
10.000.- 6 0 Oriental Develop.
1
11
Genf
500.- 5 1/2 %
11
2.000.-6 
2.000.- 6 % Toky0 Electr.
325.- 6 1/2  Gt Consol.Electr. 1
3.000.-7 %
11
3.000.- 6 1/2 %
11
1
20.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
6.000.- 6 % Tokyo El.Light
1
7.000.- 5 1/2 % Oriental Develop.
3.000.- 6 % dito
1
11
Laus.
20.000.- 6 % dito
500.- 5 1/2 % dito
1.460.- 6 % Tokyo Dento Kabushiki
2.000.- 7 % Gt Conso1.E1.Power
3.000.- 6 1/2 % dito
1.000.- 5 1/2 % Taiwan Electr.P.Cy 1

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.94)
Schw.Bankgesellach.
Lugano 8 1.000.- 5 1/2 % Taiwan El.Power 1
11
Withur 
200.- 6 % Tokyo Electr.
1
Schw. Kreditanstalt
Zürich
 1.000.- 7 % Gt.ConsolEl.P.
15.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop
11.000.- 5 1/2 % Taiwan E1.P.Cy.
1.000.- 6 % Tokyo El.Light
1
11
Basel
8
1.000.- 6 % idem
2.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
1.000.- 7 % Gt Consol.Electr.
1
11
Bern
8
1.000.- 6 % Gt Oriental Dev.
1.000.- 6 % Tokyo Electr.L.
1.000.- 5 1/2 % Taiwan Electr.P. 1
11
Genf
1.000.- 7 % Gt Conso1.Elec.P.
1
11
Glarus 
1.000.- 6 % Oriental Develop.
1
11
Lausannez
2.000.- 6 % idem
2.000.- 5 1/2 % Taiwan Elec.Power 1
11
Neuchat.§ 1.000.- 5 1/2 % idem
1
Total
689.285.-
Total 63 Erklärungen in je vier Ausfertigungen.
21. Feb. 1947.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.95)
C'RÉDIT SUISSE
NEUCHATEL
Télégrammes
CRÉDIT
7
Tél. 52251
L
7
Déolaration
Emprunts d'entreprises japonaises libellés en dollars.
Nous soussignés, Crédit Suisse à Neuchatel, déclarons
par la présente que nous détenons pour le compte de personnes
de nationalité suisse, domiciliées en Suisse:
 1.000.- obl. 51% Taiwan Electric Power Co. Ltd.
40 year Sinking Fund, Gold Bonds due
July 1.1971
N°13702 = 1/1000.-
titre qui est leur propriété depuis une date antérieure au
2 septembre 1939.
Neuchatel, 1e 14 janvier 1947.
CREDIT
SUISSE
1:5
Rd.

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.97)
SWISS BANK CORPORATION
Basle, 7th February 1947. PP/SCH.
GENERAL MANAGER
TELEGRAMS:
SUIDELEG BALK
To the Swiss Legation,
Washington.
Dear Sirs,
Re: Swiss owned Dollars Securities issued by Japanese
enterprises.
In accordance with instructions received from the Swiss
Bankers Association in Basle, we give you below to the intention
of the Department of State Washington, for transmission by them
to the Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces in Tokyo, the list
of Swiss owned Dollars securities of Japanese enterprises which
we are keeping in safe custody for our clients:
 27.500.- Great Consolidated Electric Power Co. Ltd. (Japan)
7% ext. first Mortgage S.F. Gold Bonds Series A 1924/44
No. 9682,12490,1174C,4512,11970,8252,999,3062,1370,
7064,972,3209,6883,7960,4112,12672,1022,2108,3706,743
13431,11241,498,10124,11307,9730,4076 (27x1000)
901 (1x500);
2.Coc.- Great Consol dated Electric Power Co. Ltd. (Japan)
6? % first & Gen.Iortg. S.F. Gold Bonds 1925/50,
No. 5396, 8945 (2x1000);
 6.Coc.- Taiwan Electric Power Co. Ltd. 5† % S.F.Go1d Bonds 1971
No. 7929/33,2647 (6x1000);
& 14.Oc0.- Tokyo Ele tric Light Co. Ltd. 6% First Mortgage Bonds
1928/53,
No.3171,45765,66722/3,59563/4,19010,64034/5,20728,
23526,47740/41,52955(14x1000):
 27.000.- 0riental Development Co. Ltd. 51 % ext.S.F.Deb.1958,
No. 1329/30,1487,8646,8647,8801, 9500,11107,12013,12577
14309/11, 16791,18195,10902,8818/21,18536,15704/8,
17517(27×1000);
7.000.- 0riental Development Co. Ltd. 6% ext.S.F. Deb. 1953,
1o. 223/24,232,10770,15632,3757 (6x1000),371,462 (2x50
4
1.000.- Ujigawa Electric Power Co. Ltd. (Japan)first Mortg.
S.F. Cold Fonds 1945,No. 4179 (1x1000).
Very truly yours,
SWISS BANI CORPORATION
X.M

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.97)
.UNION BANK OF SWITZERLAND
ZURICH
Statement
relative to bonds of Japanese entreprises issued in Dollars
principal amount
description
deposited with
$ 1.000.--
7% Ujigawa Electric Power Company
us in Zurich
Ltd. due 1945 No.M 1763
We confirm, that the bondholder is of Swiss nationality.
Zurich, February 27, 1947
WK/OH
UNION BANKOF SWITZERLAND
ma
EINLAGE
715

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.94)
A n n o n c e
concernant la propriété suisse en titres d'entreprises
japonaises libellés en dollars
 5.000.-- 5 oblig. 6% Tokyo Electric Light Co., Ltd.
I. Hyp. Dollar-Serie 1953
No 39342/6
Loutier, 1e 1; janvier 1947
BANQUE POPULAIRE SUISSE
Mlau

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.94)
Au Secrétariat de
l'Association Suisse des Banquiers
3, St.Albangraben
Bâ l e
Enquête relative aux titres japonais libellés en U.S.A.-
selon votre circulaire o.1396.
Propriété suisse.
62% oblig. Japan Electric Generation & Transmission Co.Ltd.,Tokio
auparavant: DAIDO DE.RYOnU AEUSHIHA KAISHA, 195o
1.000.-
No. 6208
6% oblig. Imperial Japenese Gov. 1924/54
500.-
110. 3076
Lucerne, 1e 16 janvier 1947.
BANQUE POPULAIRE SUISSE
"Minkn

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.94)
ROGUIN & CE
LAUSANNE
Liste des titres japonais de propriété
suisse, en gérance dans nos caisses.-
8.1000.-
7%
GREAT CONS. ELECTRIC PCIER CO. OF JAPAN 1944,
Série A, Muméro L.4390.-
de propriótć suiese depuis avant 1e 2.9.39.
Loguinn7
160

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.93)
An 3eorétariat de
l'Asseciation Suiese dee Banquiers
3, St.Albangraben
Bale
Enquéte relative aux titres japonais libellés en U.S.A.- 
selon votre ciroulaire No.1396.
Propriété suisss.
Gg% oblig. Japan Eleotrio Generation & Trensmisaion Co.Ltd.,Tokio
auparavant: DAIDO DSNRYONU KABUBHIKA KAISHA, 1950
$ 1.000.-
No. 6208
62% obl1g. Imperial Japanese Gov. 1924/54
500.-
No. 3076
Lucerne, 1e 16 janvier 1947.
BANQUE FOPULAIRE SUISSE

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.97)
Kantonalbank von Bern
BANQUE CANTONALE DE BERNE
Berme, le 27 jamvier 194.
A la Légation de Suisse
WASHINGTON
Emprupts d'entreprises japonaises
libellés en dollars.
Messieurs,
Nous corformant aux instruotioms de l'Asso-
ciation Suisse des Banquiers à Bale et en vue de
1'action de sauvegarde entreprise par nos Autorités,
nous vous informons que nous avoms en dépôt dans nos
caisses
 1,000.-- Oriental Development Co. Ltd. ( Japan )
Bxt. Deb. Go1d 1953 ( 1923 )
No.  8939
pour le compte d'un s u i s s e .
Veuilles agréer, Messieurs, nos salutations
distinguées.
BANQUE CANTONALE DE EERNE
( annonoe établie en quatre exemplaires )

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.97)
Kantonalbank von Bern
BANQUE CANTONALE DE BERNE
Berne, 1e 27 janvier 1949.
A la Légation de Suisse
WASHINGTON
Emprunts d'entreprises japonaises
libellés en dollars.
Messieurs,
Nous corformant aux instruotions de l'asso-
ciation Suisse des Banquiers à Bale et en vue de
l'action de sauvegarde entreprise par nos Autosités,
nous vous informons que nous avons en dépôt dans mos
oaisses
8 1.000.- % Tokyo Electrio Light Co.Ltd., firet
Mtge Gold dollars Sies 1953 ( 1988 )
No. 8849
pour le compte d'un français.
Veuilles agréer, Messieurs, nos salutations
distinguées.
BANQUE CANTGNALE DE BERNE
( annonoe établie en quatre exemplaires )

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.97)
Kantonalbank von Bern
BANQUE CANTONALE DE BERNE
Berne, le 27 janvier 1947.
A la Légation de Suisse
WASHINGTOM
Bmprunts d'entreprises japonaises
libellés en dollars.
Messieurs,
Nous conformant aux instruotions de 1'Asso-
ciation Suisse des Banquiers à Bale et en vue de
l'aotion de sauvegarde entreprise par nos Autorités,
nous vous informons que nous avons en dépôt dans nos
oaisses
 10,000.-- 5t% Oriental Development Co. Ltd. (Jepam
Ext. Deb. Gold 1958 (1928 )
No. D 1825/1826 2/500.--
n
M 9271/9273, 11326, 17430/17434
9/1,000.—
pour le compte d'une personne de nationalité espagmole.
Veuilleg agréer, Messieurs, nos salutations
distinguées.
BANQUE CANTONAEE DE E
( annonce étalbie en quatre exemplaires )

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.97)
BASELLANDSCHAFTLICHE KANTONALBANK
BANQUE CANTONALE DE BALE- CAMPAGNE
HAUPTSITZ LIESTAL
GRUNDKAPITAL UND RESERVEN CA. 4O MILLIONEN FRANKEN
FILIALEN:
STAATS GARANTIE
AGENTUREN:
ARLESHEIM.BINNINGEN
ALLSCHWILMUTTENZ.PRATTELN
BIRSFELDEN
Q:
EINNEHMEREIEN IN
GELTERKINDEN,SISSACH
WALDENBURG
ALLEN GROSSEREN ORTSCHAFTEN
DES KANTONS
GEGR
1864
WERTSCHRIFTEN-ABTEILUNG
Déclaration
de titres japonais se trouvant dans la propriété de personnes
de nationalité suisse et ayant leur résidence habituelle en
Suisse.
1.000.-- nom. obl1g. Imperial Japanese Government 51% 1965
No. 30445 -
 2. 000.-- nom. obl1g. Tokyo Flectric L1ght co.Ltd. 6 % 1953
No. 2290, 53373 = 2/1000.-- -
Liestal, 1e 21 janvier 1947
BAIQUE CANTONALE DE BALE-CAMPAGNE
Jours

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.92)
SOCIÉTÉ ANONYME DE GÉRANCES ET DE DÉPOTS
S. A. G. E. D.
68. RUE DU STAND
COMPTE BANQUE NATIONALE SUISSE: 2156
GENÈVE
COMPTE DE CHÈQUES POSTAUX: I5090
AORESSE TELEGR: SOCAGED GENÈVE
TÉLÉPHONE: 42.380
DECLARATION POUR VALJURS JAPCNAISES
Nous o sai 's, S.  s  de Dépôts, 6e, rue du Stand,
Genève, certifions que nous détenons les vileurs japonaises mentionnées
ci-epres pour le ccmpte d'un ressortissant suisse domicilié à l'étranger:
1.0c0.- Japnese Govornent 51% 1065
. 29958
Gem. 1e 8 r 1147.
S.. D ECS ET DE PEPOTS

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.88)
SOCIÉTÉ ANONYME DE GÉRANCES ET DE DÉPOTS
S. A. G. E. D.
COMPTE BANQUE NATIONALE SUISSE: 2156
66. RUE DU STAND
COMPTE DE CHEQUES POSTAUX: I5090
GENÈVE
ADRESSE TELEGR: SOCAGED GENÉVE
TELEPHONE: 42.360
 PR VALSNS JATCHAISES
Wour sossis, S.. a  o Dpoes, 66, rue du Stand,
denove, cur ionsen
nons los l-urs ju onaises mentionnées
ci- rès  cur le cemte d'une personne morale mplaise, domiciliée à
l'étrunyer:
 6.c00.- Grent Censclide ed Slec:cic Pover Ce. Ltd. 7% 1924/44 série "A"
Ne. 5527, 5605, 7920, 10793, 10866, 13555 (1.000.- ch.)
Gen.1  .
S.A.  C EP DE-DPOTS

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.92)
SOCIÉTÉ ANONYME DE GÉRANCES ET DE DÉPOTS
S. A. G. E. D.
COMPTE BANQUE NATIONALE SUISSE: 2156
66. RUE DU STAND
COMPTE DE CHEQUES POSTAUX: I 5090
GENÈVE
ADRESSE TELEGR: SOCAGED GENÈVE
TÉLEPHONE: 42.360
DECLARATION POUR VALEURS JAPONAISES
Nous soussirnés, S.A. de Gérances et de Dépôts, 66, rue du Stand,
Genève, certifions jue nous dátenons les valeurs japonaises mentionnées
ci-a ros  our le cempte i'un rossoruiss nt (trancer non-ennemi des Alliés,
dovicilif er Suisse:
sous noure direosion our s de lo Mutional City Bank ef New York, New York
3 2.000. se Go 5,1965
. 22574/70 (1.0.- .)
Gentve, 1e 38  vi r 1847.
S.A. D CES F DE DEPCTS

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.96)
BANQUE
CHARLES PERREAU S. A.
Genève, le...
29 Janvier 1947
ADRESSE TÉLEGRAPHIQUE
6. RUE DE L'UNIVERSITÉ
PERREAU GENÈVE
TÉLÉPHONE : 4.72.40
GÉRANCE DE FORTUNES
ACHAT ET VENTE DE TITRES
AU SECRETARIAT DE L'ASSOCIATION
ENCAISSEMENT DE TOUS COUPONS
GARDE DE TITRES ET VALEURS
SUISSE DES BANQUIERS
INSTALLATION FICHET
BALE
ADMINISTRATEURS:
A. TARDY
M. BAEZNER
Aeschengraben, 11
Ref.: V/1ettre No.1396
du 8 Janvier 1947
ANNONCE DES TITRES JAPONAIS DE PROPRIETE SUISSE
n
libellés en dollars
1"
.3.200.-- 0b1. JAP0N 6 1/2% 1924/54 (f/a)
3 x 1000 = Nos.38579/80-127981-
2 x 100 = Nos.6512-8940
.3.000.-- 0b1. ORIENTAL DEVELOPMENT 6% 1953 (m/s)
3 x 1000 = Nos.10854/6-
Genève 1e 29 Janvier 1947
BANQUE CHARLS
PERREAU S.A.
on

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
BANQUE DE L'ÉTAT DE FRIBOURG
Ie 21 janvier 1947
FREIBURGER STAATSBANK
FRIBOURG.
GARANTIE DE L'ÉTAT -STAATSGARANTIE
den
Adr. Télég.: BANQUETAT
Compte de chèques postaux No ll a 49
Téléphone No 2 27 71
Emprunts d'entreprises japonaises
libellés en dollars.
1 obliε.6 % Oriental Development Co. due 15.3.1953 à $.1.000.--
No.11591.
Ce titre appartient à
¿ANQUE DE L'ÉTAT DE FRIBOURG
une société américaine.
B. 14373

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
ARMAND VON ERNST & C=, BERN
Déclaration
Faisant suite à la circulaire No 1396 de l'Association
Suisse des Banquiers à Bâle nous déclarons que nous possé-
dons sous notre gestion les obligations d'entreprises japo-
naises suivantes stipulées en dollars:
$ 3'OoO.- The Oriental Development Company Ltd. external
loan thirty year 6 % gold debenture bonds
1953
Nos 3370, 7728/29
appartenant à des personnes de nationalité suisse, domi-
ciliées en Suisse.
$ 125'O00.- The Oriental Development Company 5t% gold
debenture bonds 1958
Nos 660/63, 1018, 1204/07, 1820/21, 1894 de $ 500.- nom.
n
653/61, 910, 2541, 3142/43, 3206/210, 3286/293,
3396/3400, 4365/66, 5259,5261/65, 5496/500, 6459/62,
6556/71, 8793/94, 10056/57, 10650/51, 12353, 12431
12565/69, 13121, 13126, 13139/143, 13239/242, 13276/79,
13836, 13988/90, 14510, 15446/48,15499/502, 15697/700,
15928, 16592, 16786/87, 16890, 18388/89, 18406,
18692/94 de 1'000.- nom.
appartenant à une société financière suisse dont les
actions sont en possession de personnes anglaises, do-
miciliées en Angleterre.
Berne, 1e 24 janvier 1947
VI. 45. — 2000.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
DU PASQUIER, MONTMOLLIN & CIE
NEUCHATEL.LE
DECLARATION
Certifiant la propriété suisse
Nous certifions que les titres suivants :
. 1.000.- ob1. 53% JAP0N 1930/65 ext.
En 1 titre No. 22286.
ont été de fagon ininterrompue depuis le 7 décembre 194l,
la propriété de citoyens suisses, domiciliés effectivement
et d'une fagon permanente en Suisse, ou de personnes puri-
dique, de sooiétés commerciales ou d'associations de person-
nes, avec siège en Suisse, reconnues comme oréanciers suisses
par l'Association Suisse des Banquiers.
Nous déolarons expressément avoir pris connaissance des
dispositions et sommes prêts à prouver en tout temps 1'exao-
titude de la présente déolaration sur la base de nos pièces
justifioatives.
Neuchatel, 1e 11 janvier 1947
PP. DU PASQUIER MONTMOLLIN & CIE.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.96)
DUPASQUIER, MONTMOLLIN & Co.
NEUCHATEL (Sulsse)
ANNONCE DES
EMPRUNTS D' ENTRLPRISES JAPONAISES LIBELLES EN DOLLARS
EN DEPOT
CHZ MSURS D PAR, MONLLN & IE
Banguiers à Neuchetel
********
. 9.000.- 0b1. 5%
Taiwan Electric Power Cy Ltd. 1931/1971 or
En 9 titres de . 1.000.- No. 7972. 7978/85
Avec coupons au ler juillet ly41 et suivants attachés.
Neuchatel, 1e 9 janvier 1947.
PP. DU PASQUIER MONTMOLLIN & CIE.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.92)
DU PASQUIER, MONTMOLLIN & CE
NEUCHATEL.LE
DECLARATION
Certifiant la propriáté suisse
Nois oertifions que los titres suivants :
. 9.000.- ob1. S TAIRAN KLectdo Pome Ld. 1971
En 9 t1tros de . 1.000.- No. 7972. 7978/85. ...
ont été de fegon 1ninterrompue depuls le 7 décembre 194l,
la propriété de oitoyene suisses, domiciliés offectivement
et d'une fagon pemonente en Suisse, ou de personnee puri-
dique, de sooiéte. co.. verululen ou d'ascocistions de person-
nes, aveo siège en Sulsse, reocnues ccuzc oréanoiers suisees
per l'Aseociation Suieee dos Banquiers.
Rous déolarene ex, re incnt aveir pris cornaineance den
diupesitions at sospes prets à prouver en tout temps l'exao-
titudo de la práuente déclaratioo sur la base do nos piboes
juotifioatives.
Bouohatel, le 11 janvier 1947
PP. DU PABQUIER MOHTMOLLIN & CIR.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
EMPRUNTS D'ENTREPRISES JAPONAISES LIBELLES
EN DOLLARS
Titre de propriété suisse depuis une date
antérieure au 2 septembre 1939
sans interruption.
 1,000.- cap. obl. 5t% The Oriental Development Company
Limited, Emprunt extérieur or à 30 ans 1928-1958
1 titre No. M 8648
La Chaux-de-Fonds, 1e 14 janvier 1947
BANQUE CANTONALE NEUCHATELOISE
Succursale de La Chaux-de-Fonds ( Suisse)

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
DECLARATION DE TITRES JAPONAIS
Nous soussignés, LOMBARD, ODIER & Cie, Banquiers,
11, Corraterie, GENEVE, certifions que les titres japonais mentionnés
dans la présente déclaration appartiennent à une personne résidant en
Suisse, de nationalité non-ennemie des Etats-Unis ou de leurs Alliés.
Titres en dépôt, sous notre direction,
chez Messieurs J.P. MORGAN & Co, Inc. à New York
$ 1000.- (Mi11e) Cap.Ob1.51% IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT 1965
No 26601 un titre de $ 1000.-
Genève, 1e 20 janvier 1947
PPon LOMBARD, ODIER & C

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
DECLARATION DE TITRES JAPONAIS
Nous soussignés, LOMBARD, ODIER & Cie, Banquiers,
1l, Corraterie, GENEvE, certifions que les titres japonais mentionnés
dans la présente déclaration appartiennent à un porteur de nationalité
suisse, domicilié en Suisse.
Titres en dépôt, sous notre direction,
chez Messieurs J.P. MORGAN & Co, Inc. à New York
$ 3000.- (TrOis Mille) cap.ob1.52% IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVRRNMENT 1965
No 18994. 19448. 19449. trois titres de $ 1000.-
Genève, 1e 20 janvier 1947
PPon LOMBARD, ODIAR & C

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
DECLARATION DE TITRES JAPONAIS
Nous soussignés, LOMBARD, ODIER & Cie, Banquiers,
ll, Corraterie, GENEVE, certifions que les titres japonais mentionnés
dans la présente déclaration appartiennent à des personnes de nationalité
suisse, domiciliées en Suisse.
Titres en dépôt dans nos caisses
$ 500.- (Cinq Cents) Cap.ob1.61% IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT 1954
No 11251. un titre de $ 500.-
Titres en dépôt, sous notre direction,
chez Messieurs J.P. MORGAN & Co, Inc. à New York
$ 5000.- (Cinq Mille) Cap.Ob1.62% IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT 1954
No 3983. 4782 à 4785. 5819. six titres de $ 500.-
No 392. 37904. deux titres de $ 1000.-
Genève, le 20 janvier 1947
PPon LOMBARD, ODIER&C

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.98)
DECLARATION DE TITRES JAPONAIS
Nous soussignés, LOMBARD, ODIER & Cie, Banquiers, 1l, Corraterie,
GENEVE, certifions que les titres japonais mentionnés dans la présente
déclaration appartiennent à ume personne de nationalité suisse,
domiciliée en Suisse.
Titres en dépôt sous notre direction
chez Messieurs J.P. MORGAn & Co, Inc. à New York
$ 1000.- (Mi11e) Cap.ob1.6% ORIENTAL DEVELOPMENT Co 1953
No 682. 683. deux titres de $ 500.-
Genève, 1e 20 janvier 1947
PPOn LOMBARD, ODIER& C'

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.98)
DECLARATION DE TITRES JAPONAIS
Nous soussignés, LOMBARD, ODIER & Cie, Banquiers,
11, Corraterie, GENEVE, certifions que les titres japonais mentionnés
dans la présente déclaration, appartiennent à des personnes de nationalité
suisse et domiciliées en Suisse.
Titres en dépôt,sous notre direction,
chez Messieurs J.P. MORGAN & Co Inc. à NEW YORK
$ 8000.- (Huit Mille) cap.oblig.5t% ORIENTAL DEVELOPMENT Co 1958
No 12151. 12152. 12221 à 12226. huit titres de $ 1000.-
Genève, 1e 18 janvier 1947
PPon LOMBARD, ODIER& C

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.97)
ASSOCIATION SUISSE DES BANQUIERS
BALE
Emprunts d'entreprises japonaises, libellés en dollars,
de propriété suisse, gérés par IM. HENTSCH & CIE. à Genève :
. 12.o0o,- de capital, obligations 6% THE ORIENTAL DEVELOPMENT
CO. LIITED 1953.
Nos. 429. 10843.10932. 12462/63. 16627. 17422/27.
(12 titres de $. 1.ooo,-).
. lo.ooo,- de capital, obligations 61% GREAT CONSOLIDATED
ELECTRIC POVER CO. LDNITED 1950.
Nos. 2344. 6o62. 6152. 6525/26. 6684. 67o5. 7547.
7994. 8717. (1o titres.de $. 1.000,-).
. 7.5oo,- de capital, obligations 7% GREAT CONSMLIDATED
ELECTRIC POWER CO. LDITED 1944, 1st.
Nos. 871. (1 titre de  50o,-).
4787. 5126/27. 8308. 8318. 8331. 9928. (7 titres
de $. 1.000,-).
Genève, 1e 27 janvier 1947.
PPON HENTSCH & C
ed.
540

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.96)
ANNONCE
de titres jap onais.
Nous déclarons que les titres suitants:
. 4.000.-obligations 52% Ville de Tokio 1927/61
nos.5705.8974/76. (4 X $.1000.-)
reposent sous notre direction chez MM.
Dominick & Dominick à New-York et sont
la propriété depuis avant le 2 septem-
bre 1939 d une personne de nationalité
suisse
domiciliée
en Argentine.
Genève, le 20 janvier 1947.
BORDIER & Cl•
16, Rue de Hollande - GENÉVE
Tousiernin

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.97)
ANNONCE
de titres japonais appartenant à
des résidents suisses.
Nous déclarons que les titres suivants:
. 2.000.-obligations 62% Emprunt Japonais 1924/54
Nos. 4625.4626.de .500.-
64403.de $.1000.-
reposent sous notre direction chez Messieurs
Dominick  Dominick à New-York et sont la
propriété depuis avant le ler septembre 1939
de ressortissants suisses domiciliés en Suisse.
$. 1.000.-cbligation 62% Emprunt Japonais 1924/54
No.40210.de $.1000.-
reposent sous notre d irection chez Messieurs
Dominick & Dominick à New-York et sont la pro-
priété depuis avant le ler septembre 1939 à'une
personne de nationalité française domiciliée
en Suisse.
BORDIER & C•
Genève, le 20 janvier 1947.
16, Rue de Hollande - GENÉVE
2orsier

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.95)
FERRIER LULLIN & CIE
15,RUE PETITOT
GENÈVE
Adr Télégr FERULIN-GENÈVE
Téléphone  4.02.00
Emprunts d'Entreprises
Genève, le 28 janvier 1947
japonaises libellés en
Dollars
Association Suisse des Banguiers
Ba le
Nous déclarons détenir pour le compte de personnes
de nationalité suisse, domiciliées en Suisse, les valeurs
suivantes :
10.000.-
Cap. Ob1. 6% GREAT CONSOLIDATED ELECTRIC POWER CY. LTD.
1925/1950
First & Gen.Mtge Sink.Fund Gold Bonds
Nos. 2212 4269 4478 5092 5778/80 6808 9358 12485 (10 cou-
pures de $ 1.000.-).
$
5.000.-
Cap. Ob1. or 51% ORIENTAL DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LTD. 1928/58
Nos. 11090/93 11151 (5 coupures de  1.000.-).
PP  LL 8

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.91)
SOCIÉTÉ ANONYME DE GÉRANCES ET DE DÉPOTS
S. A. G. E. D.
COMPTE BANQUE NATIONALE SUISSE: 2156
66, RUE DU STAND
COMPTE DE CHEOUES POSTAUX: I 5O90
GENÈVE
ADRESSE TELEGR.:SOCAGED GENÈVE
TÉLÉPHONE: 42.360
DECLART: POUR V LURS JIPON ISES
Nous s ssi n's, S./. de 'rances et de Dépôts, 66, rue du Stand,
Genève, cortifions gue nous enons les valeurs japonaises mentionnées
ci- près pour le compte d un ressortissant espagnol domicilié en Espagne:
sous notre direction aurrès de Messieurs J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. New York
 4.900.- Japanese Government 6% Feb. 1, 1954
No. 64171, 83900, 122375, 53683 (1.000.- ch.)
7983 (8500.-) 98/99, 9594/95 (100.- ch.)
Genève, 1e 28 janvier 1947.
S.A. DE GERANCES ET DE DEPOTS
R
X.D.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.84)
SOCIÉTÉ ANONYME DE GÉRANCES ET DE DÉPOTS
S. A. G. E. D.
2156
BE. RUE DU STAND
1 5090
GENEVE
SOCAGED GENEVE
TELEPHONE: 42.300
0
IS
ss, S.  Ds,66,r utand,
Gen ve, certiriens ie nous d'terons les valeurs japonaises mentionnées
ci-arès cur le coapte de r-ssortissnts suisses domiciliés en Suisse:
ou res de nopre alissesent
70c.- J ese 6:21954
1013E 0.)89/37(100.- cn.)
. : O.- ir.t Cons lia ed Slec ric Pover Co. ist. Ntge.
.71,1944
6127, 84:78(0.-) 285,1016 (500.- cn.)
snoon1 tio Ciwn  Hew York, New York
2.0.- J t 51965
48495,9135(1.00.-)
son aicion e 1 Soi  rquc Suisse surris de Dominick &
Dominic, Ne" York
L. Co.- re Coroli d coc cor C. Ist. Mtme. ser. "A"
71244
12201.-
…47.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
CREDIT SUISSE
Loans issued in $ by Japanese Societies.
GLARUS
Property of a Swiss citizen living in
Switzerland.
Amount
Denomination
supplied with coupons per..
 1'000.-
6% Oriental Development Co. 1953
Sept. 15th 1941
No. 2624
and subsequents
CRÉDIT SUISSE
Glarus, January 10th 1947.

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.99)
CRÉDIT SUISSE
GENEVE
Genève, 1e 13 janvier 1947.
Siège social à Zurich
BALE - BERNE - COIRE - DAVOS - FRAUENFELD - GENEVE
7
GLARIS - KREUZLINGEN - LAUSANNE - LUCERNE
LUGANO - NEUCHATEL - ST-GALL - ZOUG
AROBA - INTERLAKEN - ST-MORITZ - SCHWYZ - WEINFELDEN
AGENCE à NEW YORK
30 Pine Street
Télégrammes: C R E D IT
Téléphone: 5 22 00
SERVICE DES TITRES
Enquête sur les avoirs a'entreprises japonaises
libellés en $ USA appartenant à des personnes
physiques ou juridiques de nationalité suisse.
DECLARATION
Nous soussignés déolarone que nous détenons pour
compte de personnes visées :
$ 1000.-- 7% Great Consol. Electrio Power Cy. 1944
No.M 14012 . op. au 1.8.1940 et suiv. att.
Genève, 1e 13 janvier 1947.
SUISSE
No 2

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
CRÉDIT SUISSE
BERNE
Propriété suisse en titres
d'entreprises japonaises
libellés en Dollars.
(Titres se trouvant dans nos
caisses.)
$ 1'000.- 6% Oriental Development Co.Ltd.1953
No. M 10724
$ 1'000.- 6% Tokyo Electric Light Co.Ltd.lst.Mtge.
No. 39978
$ 1'000.- 51/2% Taiwan Electric Power Co.Ltd.
40 Year S/F 1971 No. 10478.
REDIT
SUISSE
Berne, 1e 30 janvier 1947.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.97)
Déclaration
Par la présente nous certifions avoir en dépôt
che z nous :
$. 1,Ooo.- 7% First Mtge Sinking Fund Gold Bond Sie A.
Great Consolidated Flectric Power Comp. 1.8.1944
no. M 11759 = 1 titre à $.looo.-
propriétaire de nationalité Suisse
domicilié en Suisse
et nous prions les autorités américaines compétentes de bien
vouloir défendre les intérêts suisses vis-à-vis du debiteur
japonais en question.
Bâle, 1. 25 janvier 1947.
C R E D I T
SU.IS SF

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.96)
Dé claration.
Par la présente nous certifions avoir en dépôt chez no
resp. sous notre direction à New-cork les titres japonais
suivants :
$. 2, OUC .- 6% Gold Deb.The Ori ental Development Comp.
Ext. Loan oue 15.arch 1953
No. M 19014/15 = 2 à $.1000.-
propriétaire: de nationalité Suisse depuis naissance
domicilié en Suisse .
. 1,Oc0.- 6% Gola Bas. Tokyo Electric Light Co. Lta.
Ist. tge due June 15th 1953
no. 52279 = 1 à .1occ.-
en depôt chez notre New-York Agency, identified
propriétaire:
de nationalité Suisse
domicilié en
Suisse
et nous prions les autorités américaines compétentes de bien
vouloir déionare les intérêts suisses vis-à-vis de ces entre-
prises japonaises en uestion.
Bâle, 1e 24 janvi er 1947.
C R E D I T
SUISSE
omdh

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
ENQUETE EMPRUNTS D'ENTREPRISES JAPONAISES
LIEBELLES EN DOLLARS
Circulaire_Association_Suisse_des_Banguiers
No. 1396_du 8 1anvier 1947.
Les titres mentionnés ci-après appartiennent
à des porteurs suisses au sens de cette enquête :
6% or The Oriental Development Cy Ltd. 1953 Ext.
(Toyo Takushoku Kabushiki Kaisha )
2.000.--
No. M 10751/52
5.1/2% Taiwan Electric Power Cy Ltd. 1971
$ 2.000.--
No. 1518/19
Au total :
4.000.--
Lausanne, 1e 11 janvier 1947.
à l'intention de la Légation Suisse
à Washington par l'entremise de
l'Association Suisse des Banquiers.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.97)
L i s te
des Emprunts stipulés en D o 1 1 a r s
d'ENTREPRISESJAPONAISES
gérés par le
CREDIT SUISSE à ZURICH.
de propriété Suisse.
 1.000.- 7%
Great Consol. Eleotric Power Co Ltd of Japan,
S0rie ▲ per 1.8.1944
No M 11736.= 1/1.000.-
15.000.-6%
Oriental Development Co ( Toyo Takushoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
30 year Ext.Loan Gold Deb. per 16.3.1953
No8 M 2625, 2866, 4922, 6291, 10706/11, 10788/89,
15629/30, 18920. -15/1.000.-
 11.000.- 51% Taiwan Electrio Power Co Ltd
Sinkg Fd Bds per 1.7.1971
No: 1517, 13706/07, 16313/14 = 5/1.000.-
en plus $ 6.000.- en dépôt à New York, dont les numéros
ne nous sont pas connus.
$ 1.000.- 6% Tokyo Electrio Light Co Ltd
Ist Mortg Bds of 1928 per 15.6.1953
No 39977 = 1/1.000.-
Zurich, 10 27 Janvier 1947
CREDITSUISSE

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
Conc.
1
Swiss propriety of Japanese securities stipulated in dollars
 1 O0O.-- 5% Ob1. TAIWAN ELECTRIC PO ER COMPANY LIMITED
FORTY YEAR SINKING GOLD BONDS 1971.
Nr. 7934 = 1/1'000.-- nom.
Owner:
Swiss nationality
Securities lodged with:
Guaranty Trust Company, New York
These securities are identified.
Lugano, january 25 th,1947
ANK OF SWITZERLAND
ANNEXE
N247

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.92)
Union de Banques Suisses
Lausanne
Association Suisse des Banquiers
dale
Liste dea veleurs d'entreprises japonaises libellées en dollars,
de propriété suisse, reposant dans noo caisses
oblig. 6% Oriental Development Cy. Ltd. 1953
. 20000.
5i% Oriental Development Cy. Ltd.
Ext.Loan 1958
500.-
I"
6%
Tokyo Dento Kabushiki Kaisha
(Tokyo Electric Light Cy. Ltd.) First
tge G.B. 1928/53
. 1460.-
7%
Great Consol.Electric Power Cy.Ltd."A"
1924/44
$.
2'000.
11
6g% Great Consol.Electric Power Cy.Ltd.
1925/50
S。
3000
5% Taiwen Electrio Power Cy. Itd. S.F.G.B. 1971 $.
1:000.
Lauaanne, 1e 29 janvier 1947
UNION DE BAN UES SUZSSES
Tway

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.90)
UNION DE BANGUES SUISSES
GENEVE
A N N O N C E S
des emprunts d'entreprises ja-
ponaises libellés en dollars.
Conformément a la circuluire No.
129; de l'nsaociation Suisse des
Ban diera t sale
 1000.-- 5 Ext. Gola ponas riental Development 1928/58
No. 13109 = 1/1000.
ti tres re o ant dans nos cai sses pour le compte a'une personne
piysi ue de huticnalite italicnne, domiciliée en Turquie.
 c000.- s xt. lola onds criental sevelopment 1928/58
No. 1055/58: 7338: 18404 = 6/1000.
titres reposant duns nes caisses pour le compt e d'une personne
pysiaue de naticnulité allemande, domiciliée en Suisse.
 3000.-- 6 Ext. De0. cold ponas Crient.1 Development Cy. 1923/53
No. M 9772: 10077: 18645 = 3/1000.
ti tres reposunt dans hes cait ses pour le compt e d une personne
morule avee sie e en suisse, avee prépondérance italienne, domi-
cilijs  l' trunver.
Genève, 1e 1a junvia, 1947
UNION
usutsses
Wam
lobels

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.94)
UNION DE BANCUES SUISSES
GENEVE
A N M O N C E S
des emprunts d'entreprises ja-
ponaises libellés en dollars.
Conformément à la circulaire No.
1396 de l'asociation Suisse des
Banjuiers à Bale
 6000.-- 6 1st mtre. Gold sods Tokyo Electric Light Cy. 1928/53
No. 21126: 21133/37 = 6/1000.
tit res en dépôt chez Comptoir Hational d'Escomp tes Taris,
Limoyes, sous notre aireetion, progriéte d'une personne phy-
i ue de nationalité rncaise, domiciliée à Monaco.
Geneve, 1e 16 junvi er 1947
Wobeet

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.92)
UNION DE BANQUES SUISSES
-GENEVE
A N N O N C E S
des emorunts a'entreprises ja-
ponaises libellés en dollars.
Conformément à la circulaire No.
1396 de l'aasociation Suisse des
Banguiers  bale
10000.--
6  Ext. Deb. old Bonds Criental Development Cy Ltd. 1923/53
No. M 5059/64; 6838; 18395/97 = 10/1000.
10000.--
6: Ext. De0. Gola ponas Oriental Development Cy Ltd. 1923/53
No. M 5065/74 = 10/1000.
titres re osunt dans nos caisses pour le compte de per-
sonnes de nationalité rec ue domiciliées en Suisse.
ULICI
de panuues ui sses
Mobelt
oneve, 1e 16 junviar 1947

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.97)
UNION DE BANQUES SUISSES
GENEVE
A N N O N C E S
des emprunts d'entreprises ja-
ponaises libellés en dollars.
Conformément à la circulaire No.
l396 de l'association Suisse des
Banquiers à Bâle
 3000.-- ob1. 7  Great Consol. lectr. rower Cy Ltd 1924/44 Sie A
No. M 9309; 11104; 11105 = 3/1000.
titres reposant dans nos caisses pour le compte d'une per-
sonne morale suisse, a, issant pour le compte de personnes
françaises.
3000.--
6  1st & Gl S/F Bonds Great Cons. Electric Power 1925/50
No. 1113/15 = 3/1000.
titres reposunt duns ee caisses pour le compte d'une per-
sonne physi ue de nationalité suisse, domiciliée en Turquie.
Geneve, 1e 16 janvier 1947
VNI9N
dbanques sulsses

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.95)
UNION DE BANQUES SUISSES
GENEVE
A N N O N C E S
des emprunts d'entreprises ja-
即
ponaises libellés en dollars.
Conformément à la circulaire No.
1396 de l'association Suisse des
Banquiers à Bâle
 500.-- 5 Ext. Gold Bonds Oriental Development Cy Ltd 1928/58
No. D 1828 = 1/500.
 2000.-- 6% Ext. Deb. Gold bonds Oriental Development Cy Ltd 1923/53
No. 11983 = 1/1000; 395: 804 = 2/500.
 2000.-- 6 1st Mtge Gold Bonds Tokyo Electric Light Cy Ltd 1928/53
No. 32307; 62781 = 2/1000.
titres reposant dans nos cai ses pour le compte de personnes
physiques de nationalité suisse, domiciliées en Suisse.
 325.-- 6≈% 1st & G1 S/F Bonds Great Cons. Electric Power 1925/50
titres en dé êt cnsm Dominick  Dominick a Hew York, sous notre
direction, ro ris a'une persome physigue de nationalité
suisse, domiciliée on suisse.
No. 12485. 9348; 6808; 5778/80; 5092: 4478; 4269; 2212.
Genève, 1e 16 janvier 1947
UNION
dganques suisdes
ttobelt

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.96)
UNION DE BANQUES SUISSES
Emprunts d'entreprises japonnais libellés en dollars, selon ciroulaire
No. 1396 du 8 janvier 1947 de 1'Association Suisse des Banquiers, Bale.
 6'000.- nom. 62% Great Cons.Electrio
Power Co.Ltd. (Japan) 1950
No. M 1104/9
le propriétaire est de nationalité suisse.
 7'000.- nom. 6% first Mortgage Gold Bonds
Series Tokyo Electrio Light
Company Ltd. 1928/53
No.13537, 38721/25, 67506
les propriétaires sont de nationalité italienne.
 10'000.- nom. 6% External Loan 30-year Gold
Debenture Bonds The Oriental
Development Company Ltd.1923/53
No. M 775/78, 4153/56, 8170/71
le propriétaire est de nationalité italienne
Berne, 1e 25 janvier 1947
UNION DE BANQUES BUISSES
At
198 f/N. 11. 39.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.97)
UNION BANK OF SWITZERLAND
ZURICH
Statement
covering Dollar Bonds of loans of Japanese enterprises
par value
description of the
securities
securities
deposited
$ 1'000.--
6% Gold Bonds Tokyo Electric Light Co.
with us in
Ltd. due 1953 No.5755
Zurich
$ 2:000.--
6% Gold Bonds Oriental Development Co.
in our name with
Ltd. due March 15, 1953
National City Bank
Nos.2838/39
New York
$ 4:000.--
6% Gold Bonds Oriental Development Co.
Ltd. due 1953
at our Branch Office
Nos. 6529, 6918, 16288, 18318
Chiasso (Switzer-
land)
$ 2'000.--
52% Oriental Development Co. Ltd. 1928
in our name with
due 1958 Nos. 9753/54
Guaranty Trust Co.
New York
$ 4:000.--
62% Great Consolidated Electric Power
Co. Ltd. 1950 First and General Mortg.
with us in
S/F Gold Bonds Nos. 1116/19
Zurich
We confirm that the above mentioned securities are in the beneficial
ownership of holders of Swiss nationality.
Zurich, January 27th, 1947.
UNION BANK OF SWITZERLAND
Ihman
EINLAGE
779

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
Déclaration
d'obligations libellées en $ U.S.A.
d'entreprises japonaises.
Nous déclarons être dépositaires soit chez nous soit à l'étranger
par l'entremise de nos correspondants des titres désignés ci-après
appartenant à des personnes physiques ou morales suisses:
 3,OOO.-- 62% First Mortgage Gold Bds. NIPPON DENRYOKU KABUSHIKI
KAISHA (Nippon Electric Power Company, Limited)
1953; titres déposés chez nous; no 2535/37;
4,OOO.-- 6 % first Mortg. Gold Bonds TOKYO ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY
1953; titres déposés chez nous; no 26684/87;
1,00O.-- 7 % DAIDO ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY LIMITED 1944, Serie A,
(Great Consol.Electric Power Co.Ltd. Gold Bonds);
titres déposés à Nev-York; no llo71;
1,OOO.-- 6 % External Loan Gold Deb. ORIENTAL DEVELOPMENT CO.LTD.-
TOYO TAKUSHOKU KABUSHIKI 1953; titres dépOsés à
New-York; indication du numéro suit;
 75, 000.-- 52% 40-year Skg Fd Gold Bonds TAIWAN ELECTRIC POWER CO.
LTD. 1971; titres déposés à Buenos Aires;
no 2711/85.
Zurich, 1e 14 janvier 1947. SOCIETE ANONYME LEU & CIE
AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
LEU&CO ZURICH
EINLAGE
03069

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
DECLARATION
d'obligations libellées en  U.S.A.
d'entreprises japonaises.
Nous déclarons que les titres désignés ci-après sont déposés
en Suisse et appartiennent à des personnes physiques de
nationalité Suisse, domiciliées en Suisse:
 3,000.- 6% Bonds Oriental Development Co. 1953
No. 8936/38---
 1,000.-- 6% Bond Tokyo Electric Light Co. 1953
No. 25729----
Zurich, 1e 31 Janvier 1947.
SOCIETE ANONYME LEU & CIE.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.97)
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY INC.
SIHLPORTEPLATZ 3 "ZENTRUM"
AIR MAIL
ZURICH
Declaration.
We herewith confirm that we are holding in safecustody
account with The American Express Co.Inc., New York Ageney,
65, Broadway, New York
 1.500.- Oriental Development Company, 52% bonds due November 1st,
1958
Nr. 14815
of
1.000.-
Nr. 1071 of
500.-
which are the property of
Mrs. Eugenia Moser - Osiander,
Swiss Citizen
In der Hub 5
Zurich, Switzerland
since a date prior to September 1st, 1939
Zurich, January 20th 1947
The meriean Express ConInc.
Ippnal
FN/Me
S R CPS Ds

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.97)
SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK - BANQUE NATIONALE SU
BANCA NAZIONALE SVIZZERA
ZURICH-BERNE
AARAU, BÁLE, GENÈVE, LAUSANNE, LUCERNE, LUGANO, NEUCHÁTEL, ST-GALL
BIENNE, LA CHAUX-DE-FONDS. WINTERTHOUR
SUCCURSALE DE GENÈVE
TELÉGRAMMES:NATIONALHANK
TELEPHONE No. 4.23.47
COMPTE DE CHÉQUES POSTAUX No. I. 177
ANNONCE
à 1'intention des Autorités des Etats-Unis d'Amérique
par l'intermédizire de la Légation de Suisse à Washington
d' obligations d'emprunts d'entreprises JAPONAISES,
libellés en dollars U.S.A.
CATEGORIE.
. 7.000.- GREAT CONL OLIDATD ELCTRIC POWER CY.Ld.7 1944
F/A
( DAIDO DENRYOKU KABUSHIKI KAISHA )
COUPURLS.
7 0bligations de . 1.000.- No. 3034, 3645, 7878, 11968,
No. 12769/70, 14007,
avec courons à 1'écl.éence du Ier.Février 1942
et suivantes, titres remboursables depuis le
Ier.Août 1944.
PROPRIETE.
Ces titres appartiennent depuis une date antérieure au
2 septembre 1939 à une personne ue netionalité suisse,
domiciliée en suisse et sont déposés dan nos caisses sous
son dossier également depuis une dste antéricure au
2 Septembre 1939.
GElLVE, le lo Janvier 1947
BANQUL NATIONALH SUISSE

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.95)
BANQUE NATIONALE SUISSE
Buoournale de EBALE
DECLARATION
concerning Japanese Dollar - Loans in
possession of Swiss individuals.
Securities deposited with: Banque Nationale Suisse, Basle.
Amount:
Loan:
deposited since:
1,000.-- 52% City of Tokio ext. Loan of 1927,
13th. October
1931.
No. 19817 = 1 à 8 1,000.--
Basle, 28th January 1947.
Banque Nationale Suisse
Usein
KeWithisch

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
Annexe
251
ANQUE CANTONALE VAUDOISE
LAUSANNE
ANNONCE
d'emprunts d'entreprises japonaises
libellés en dollars
$ 1.O00.- cap.obl. 7% Daido Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha,
1924/44，"A"
Nos. 3315, 6224 2/500.-
propriété de Madame Léonie VERNET-AUBERT,
de nationalité suisse
domiciliée: 16, av.de Champel,
GENEVE (Suisse)
$ 500.- cap.●bl. 6t% Daid• Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha,
1925/50,
1/500.- No. 816
propriété de: Monsieur Gustave BONNARD, négociant
domicilié:40, avenue de Rumine,
LAUSANNE (Suisse)
nationalité suisse
Lausanne, 1e 13 janvier 1947.
BANQUE CANTONALE VAUDOISE

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
Luganok 1e 22 Janvier 1947
Concerne: Annonce des titres d'entreprises japonaises
libellés en dollara de propriété suisse qui
se trouvent sous la gérance de la Banca Popo-
lare di Lugano a LUGANO (Suisse)
. 2.000.--nom.Ob1. 6% Tokyo-Eleotric Cy. Ltd.
nos. 25939. 31426.
8. 20.000.--nom:0b1. 51% Ville-de Tokio 1927
no8. 4352/3.13324/33.13344/5.19507/11.
19659.
. 40.000.--nom,0b1. 51% Emprunt Japonais 1965
no8. 12210/29.34482/5.58477/92

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
lst. Dispatch
NOTIFICATION
of Japanese Issues in U.S.A.-Dollars.
We keep for account of a Swiss
Customer, residing in Switzerland :
.1,O00.--, (thousand Dollars) 52% Thirty-Five Year
Sinking Fund Gold-Bond
IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT 1935/1965,
No.37852 'à 8.1,000.--.
Schaffhouse, 27th. of January 1947.
BANQUE CANTON LE DE SÇHAFFHOUSE

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.98)
ST.GALLISCHE KANTONALBANK
BANQUE CANTONALE DE ST-GALL
Staatsgarantle
Telephon 3.16.61
Postchedk-Konto IX 219
Wertschriften-Abteilung
Association Suisse des Banguiers
Bâle.
St. Gallen, den
February 4, 1947.
St-Gall, le
Dear Sirs ,
In view of your endeavours in favour of
Swiss holders of Japanese securities , we hereby beg
to enter for representation
 lo00.- 6% Tokyo Electric Light Co.
6% First Mortgege Gold Bond 1928/1953
No. 36563
which are lodged with the National City Bank of New
York in our name but for account of a Swiss National
residing in Italy (Initials E.S.).
Yours faithfully
BAN UE CANTONALE DE ST.GALL
Bruncer

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.97)
Dup l icate
BANQUE CANTONALE DE ZURICH
GARANTIE DE L'ÉTAT
Swiss Bankers Assoeiation
Service des Dépôts
Basle
TÉLÉGRAMMES: KANTONALBANK
TÉLÉPHONE 231730
D. No 13634 wl/DF
à rappeler dans toute la correspondance
Dear Sir,
We take the liberty of referring to your oiroular letter
No. 1396 of the 8th January 1947 regarding Dollar bonds issued
by Japanese enterprises and herewith ask you kindly to inform the
Swiss Embassy in Washington that we are holding
.25.000.- 6 % Oriental Development Co. Ltd. Tokio 1923/53
which are deposited in our name with the Chase National Bank of
the City of New York. New York, and whioh are the property of a
person of Swiss nationality domioiled in Switzerland.
Up to a short time ago these securities were deposited
in New York under the name of an Egyptian Bank . This is the reason
why they were not reported to you before the 3lst January 1947,
whioh was the time limit fixed by you in your above montioned eir-
oular.
We hope that in spite of this delay the Swiss Embasay in
Washington will be able to inolude the above securities in its
reports to the Commander in chief of the allied Powers in Tokyo.
Yours faithfully,
BANQUE CANTONALE DE ZURICH
Nee
3.
Prière d'adresser toute correspondance à la Banque Cantonale de Zurich, Service des Dépôts.

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.93)
LEGATION OF
SWITZERLAND
E5
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
DC/R
MEMORANDUM
FONG
The Legation of Switzer/anag
W
BN
the Department of State 64 declarutions draw
up
E
55
894.51/3-2447
various Swiss banks regarding securities of Japanese
business enterprises held by Swiss citizens.
The Legation is now submitting an
additional declaration dated February 27, from the
Union Bank of Switzerland in Zurich and would appreciate it
if also this document could be forwaraed through the
designated channels.
CSA
HID
Encl.
79451/3.2447
Fi. Un
F.453 - Bp/jt

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.94)
UNION BANK OF SITZERLAND
ZURICH
Statement
relative to bonds of Japanese entreprises iseued in Dollars
prinoipal amount
descr1ption
depoeited with
€ 1.000.—
7 Ujigawa Electrio Power Company
ue in Zurioh
Ltd. duo 1945 No.N 1763
e confirm, thet the bondholder is of Swiss nationality.
Zurioh, February 27, 1947
AK/CH
UNION BANK OF S ITZERLAND

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.96)
MEMORANDUM
The Department of State acknowledges the receipt of
the Memoranda from the Legation of Switzerland dated
3-2447
March 14 and March 24 1947, with which there were sub-
mitted in quadruplicate 64 separate declarations prepared
F. W.
by various Swiss banks regarding Swiss holdings of securities
or obligations of Japanese business enterprises.
87451
The Department has forwarded copies of the 64 declara-
tions to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers at
Tokyo for whatever actin may be deemed appropriate in
3
the circumstances.
1
2447
In answer to the Legation's inouiry as to the pos-
sibility of Swiss holders of securities issued by the
Japanese Government, its subdivisions, communities, towns,
etc., to file declarations thereof with the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers at Tokyo, the Department will be
pleased to accord the same treatment to securities and
obligations issued by the Japanese Government as was out-
15
lined in the Department's Memorandum to the Legation dated
December 6, 1946.
0

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.96)
705
J. HENRY SCHRODER BANKING CORPORATION
CABLEADDRESS: SCHROBANCO
46 William Street
JIVIS:ON OF JAPANESE AND KOREAU
New York 5,
"IN YOUR REPLY PLEASE REFER TO
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
April 9th, 1947
APR 211947
CJM
Dear Ed:
Following the last talk I had with you and some
of your associates, as well as with the War Department, on
the subject of Japanese trade financing, I have been trying
89
to develop some thoughts for a more concrete program of
action. It is, of course, very difficult at this stage to
4.51/4-9
get down to anything like a specific proposal, mainly be-
cause so many of the essential elements in the situation
are as yet unclear. On the other hand, I believe that the
best way to clarify some of the open issues involved is to
start an exchange of ideas; with this in view I have dis-
cussed the matter with another banking institution - one of
the largest commercial banks in the country - which has ex-
pressed interest in joining us in the study and possible
47
handling of such financing.
In order to start the ball rolling I should, there-
fore, like to set out below a few lines of approach and sug-
gestions which I am, of course, making in a strictly informal
manner, in the hope that doing so may provoke further dis-
cussion and eventually lead to the initiation of more formal
negotiations.
I don't have to tell you that there are at present
four main reasons why it is difficult to contemplate a pri-
C
CS/A
vate credit arrangement to finance Japanese imports:
1.
We are as yet unclear as to identity, status
(legal and practical), and resources of the debtor
under such an arrangement.
2.
No one is going to be willing to lend dollars
unless he can see quite clearly where the dol-
lars are going to come from for the repayment
of the loan.
3.
The dollar famine throughout the world is in-
creasing rather tnan decreasing and countries
other than the United States will be more and
2年
more reluctant to pay for imports from Japan
in U.S. dollars.
4.
Congress appears to have been told that dollar
export proceeds will in the first instance be
used toward repayment of occupation costs,
7
FD 0
mainly food supplies.
5
f
2

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
On the other hand, it seems to me that none of
these difficulties is really unsurmountable and what we
have got to do is to make a realistic appraisal of present
facts and figures and future prospects and then see just
exactly where private financing can come in.
I believe that the wisest thing to do would be
at first to try to set up something on a fairly small
scale so as to see how things work out in practice and
then try to enlarge the scope later on once some kind of
a record has been established. It would, furthermore, be
advisable to proceed from the start in such a manner as
would enlist the cooperation and interest of as many lead-
ing banks in various parts of the country as possible so as
to have a broad base on which to build for the future.
Here then, is what we have in mind at this stage
of our discussions:
A banking syndicate to be formed for the purpose
of arranging a credit in the amount of, say, $20,000,000
to $25,000,000 to SCAP directly, or to an agency of SCAP,
or to an agency of the Japanese Government under complete
SCAP control. Such a credit would be used exclusively for
the purpose of financing imports into Japan of cotton and
certain category B imports from the United States or from
any other country in the Western Hemisphere or from the
Philippine Islands. It would be utilized by availments
against shipping documents covering such imports into
Japan and could, of course, be drawn down in installments.
There would be a specific understanding that every avail-
ment would be repayable out of dollar proceeds of exports
of merchandise processed out of imports financed by the
syndicate, as this is thought to facilitate the granting
of a clear first lien on such export proceeds. In order
to make the operation attractive to the banking community,
each availment should be outstanding not more than 180 days,
possibly with the privilege of one renewal for 90 days
under unforeseen emergency circumstances.
As security for such a credit one might contem-
plate the following:
(a) A cash margin of 25% to be maintained
during the life of the credit, such
margin to be taken out of SCAp funds
or such other funds as the Var Depart-
ment may make available.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
(b) A first lien on the goods thus financed
while they are being processed in Japan,
under the trusteeship of SCAP.
of the lenders on the goods thus imported,
processed and exported.
(a)
A commitment from SCAP, given at the time
the credit is arranged, to establish a first
lien on, and a notified assignment of, pro-
ceeds of exports from Japan to the United
States or to countries other than the United
States but payable in U.S. dollars, sub-
ject to approval by the lenders in each
individual case of any country so involved.
(e)
Some assurance from the War Department that
in the event of unforeseen emergency condi-
tions (such as war or a prolonged production
stoppage in Japan or some other force majeure
occurrence) the War Department would take
appropriate steps to safeguard the ultimate
repayment of any availments outstanding.
I repeat that the above merely represents a sug-
gested basis for further discussion to which I should like to
get your reaction. I shall be in Washington for a few days
during the latter part of this week and shall be ready to
explore the matter further with you and your associates in
the State and War Departments. In the meantime, I am sending
copy of this letter directly to Colonel Gilchrist.
Sincerely,
Bore
Norbert A. Bogdan
Vioe President
Edwin M. Martin, Esq.
Chief, Division of Japanese & Korean Economic Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.99)
Edwin M. Martin, Esq.
Chief, Division of Japanese and Korean
Economic Affairs,
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
From
J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation
46 William Street
New York City
April 9, 1947
N. A. BOGDAN

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
ISION OF JAFANESE 
ECOOIG AFFAIP
OF STATE
April 9, 1947
Dear Jaek:
Friends and clients of ours, Messrs. Hart Ine. in
Boston, have just been in to see me with te following prepo-
sition. By way of introduction let me say that this is s
well estublished firm of wool merehants in Bostom, of Dutch
origin, with offices in Argentina, Uruguay, Australia, Holland
and recently I also believe in Africa. They are at the top
of the list of wool shippers from South Amerioa at the present
time and command excellent standing in trade circles.
Bhat they propose is to form a small group of three
to four wool houses for the purpose of shipping $3,000,000 to
$5,000,000 worth of raw wool from South Amri and Autralla
to Japan for combing and spinning into yarm. fhis wool would
be turned over to Japanese mills "in commissiem", 1.e. it
take the yarn out of Japan and sell it in werld markets (out-
side the United States). Por all expenses imeurred in Japan
(such as freight, labor, profit to the mills ete.) the group
would pay not in yen or in dollars but in raw wool. The not
result of the transaction, as far as Japan is concerned, would
be the sale of labor by Japan against payment in wool which in
turn means foreign exchange to her. The whole transaetion
would of course have to te carried out under the trusteeship
and supervision of SCAP as the wool people here would want
somebody to see th.t instructions are complied with, schedules
adhored to etc.
Messrs. Hart have been doing this kind of business
with Italy, Holland and Germany for some time and are, of
course, well experienced in this field. Italy has recently
stopped the issuance of permits for these processing opera-
tions ed this 1s probably why Messrs. Hart are now anxious to
develop the Japanese angle.
Such financing as may be necessary to swing a deal
of this na ture is available here through private channels with-
out in any way involving SCAP or other governmentel agencies.

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
Alternatively, Messrs. Hart are also interested
in selling wool to Japam on a barter basis, taking raw silk
in return for disposal in South Ameriea and other marhmts
outside the United States.
They are ready to begin concrete negotiatioms at
once and have asked w to assist in setting up the deal.
I shall be in Washington Thursday, Friday and Saturday of
this week and will have further details for diseussion with
you.
I am sending copy of this letter to M Martin.
Bincerely yours,
Morbert A. Bogdan
Vice President
Colonel John R. Gilchrist,
Chief of Economic Section,
Civil Affairs Division
War Department, Pentagon Bldg.
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.94)
AP30194
In reply refer to
JX
89
My dear Mr. Begdan:
Thank you for your letter of Apr11 9, 1947 expressing your esm-
5
timming interest in the subjest of fisancing Japenese trede, and in
1
whiok you presest certain matters as bases for further diseassies
on the subjeet with the Department of State and the War Bepartmeat.
In view of the exploratery disoussiens between yeurself and
6
State and War Department representatives on the 11th and 14th of
4
April, 1947, I will not attempt to diseess the spesifie poiats
raised in yeur letter, but rather will outlime informally eartais
of the principles under which we feel private fimaseing of Japemese
imports might be arranged.
As I believe you know, in trade arrangements between Japan and
other coustries, meither Scar mor the United States Gevermmest asts
in the capacity of a coatrasting party. Swsk agreemests, kesever,
are entered into between the Japanese Govermmeat and the other
sigsatery under the surveillance of scaP, whe, wader present pelicy
dirsetives, has control over the allecation of the proeseds of
CS/
Japanese exports for the peyment of meeessary imports, er other
approved purposes. As was also indicated in the eenversations with
you, it seeme altogether likely that any arrangements wader waiek
A
private finanoing of Japanese imperts may be made, a similar relatien-
ship as bstween SCaP, the Uaited States Goveramont, Japen and the
private lender, would have to be established.
I am aware of the concern of private finansial institutions
in connsetion with the finamcing of Japanese imports, that they be
assured adoquate safeguerds in ease the proeeeds of Japasese exports
6
should preve inadequate to repay private loans, in additien to pay-
力
ing for such necsssary imports as cannot be parehased with appro-
priated funds. It is, of course, the poliey of this Goversmsat that
Japan become sccnomically self-suffieient as soen as peesible, thus
eliminating the burden presently imposed on the United States tax-
力
payer of paying for disease and wmrest imports. Whatever may be
the future pelicies with respect to oesupatien costs, ineluding the
costs of disease and unrest imports already seat to Japan, the
primary
2D Unit
R
Mr. Norbert A. Bogdan,
Vics President,
J. Henry Sehroder Banking Corparation,
46 William Street,
Y11
Now York 5, Bow York.

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
prinary objective at this time is to meet as large a partien as
Therefere, the State and Ear Departaeate are very anziome te iasrease
the orer-all volmme ef Japanese ferelgn trade as soom as pessthle,
and are alse amare that private fisessial institatiams mhick my
engage in loading astivities shiah esstribete to this ebjestive, wiil
desire te be adequately pretested.
A further objective of this Geverament's peliey tomards Japaness
fereige trade, is to place that trade on a maltilateral besis to the
largest extent pessible cempatible with meeting the fimaneial eblige-
tiems commected therewith in the ourrenoies in whieh peymost is
roquired. It is therefere desirable that eredit furmisked frem
private seurees be usable in as wide an ares as possible, so that
imports may be secured em favorable terms.
With the above primeiples in mind, it is eessidered that private
extensien of credit to premote Japamese foreign trede might be based
on the following considerations:
1. Expenditure of the proceeds of private loans should at
this time be confimed to the purohase of imperts to
Japan, to be wsed in self-liquidating prodaction pro-
grams of a character to maximise the preceeds of Japan-
ese oxports. For example, to provide the neeessary
experience to all parties concermed, and to previde
assurance that the terms of smch leans eam be fully
complied with, it will probably be advisable to relate
the imitial leams to speoific commedities such as
ootton, wool, ete., mhich eam be satisfactorily pro-
cessed im Japan, and for which a satisfactery export
market is knowm te exist.
Sinoe large quantities of raw materials for impert te
Japan can probably be obtained in other than dollar
areas, it may be desirable to obtaim credits in
sterling and other curremeios. The extent to which
such leana may be arranged, will of csurse depemd on
the terms and conditions under whieh thay can be
obtained, and the relative advantages of purehasing
imports in areas where these credits sonld be spent.
It is centemplated that, during the initial period
of private fimamcing, exports resulting from raw
mterial imports, will be disposed of in the areas,
and currencies from whick such loans are obtained.
3. Insofar as may be consistest with 1 and 2 above, it
is desirable that the conditions wnder whioh leans
are made, shomld provide sufficient flexibility in
respest to the dispositiem of Japanese exports, ss
that satisfactory prices for such exports my be
obtained.
4.ea

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.89)
705
-3-
When the pattarn of private fineméing eperations is well
has bess sesured, it is believed preferakle that lesiers
loek to the gemeral preoseds of Japasese eaperts for
repayment rather than to the proseeds ot these speeifis
exports shick result fres imperts finamsed by the parties-
lar londing eperatiens. It is esasidered ressenable,
hewever, when it beesmes prastieakle to engege in epere-
tions of this type, that there be mmintained in the
fund shich is te be weed fer repaymont of private aredita,
a sufficient eash mmrgin er ether seeurity to prstest
lenders against ths postpomement of payment on their
loans, in event of uafereseen develepments, smek as a
meajor collapse of export prices of Japesese goeds er
similar eventumlities.
It is suggested, therefore, that while directing our immediate
attention toward working out arrangements by whioh imperts of
apecifie materials for Japanese export indastriss can be privately
finaneed, and under which lenders will leak prinarily to the
resulting exports for repaynent, you and yeur assosiates alse esm-
sider the feasibility and mecessary terms and arrangemeate mader
whick the fimanoing of imports, other than food supplies and the
like, may be separated frem sarmarking the procseds of spesifie
export for repayment. Such arrangements we feel will be mere
strictly in accerd with the policies of this Goverament and of the
Far Eastern Commission, with respect to Japanese foreign trade.
Sincerely yours,
Edwin M. Martin, Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economio Affairs
N22
29
9oe
07ml
JK:OJMchiarmid:mN
4/21/47
ESP
BA
H
CAD
m Fuay
Ce silchint
Phone
and Col 7tartron
0gm
 21
07?

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.91)
0011
 UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DO
UTCLASSIFIED
"Tokyo, April 11, 1947"
No. 968
DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
MAY 2 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.51
SUT:
Protection of Shareholdings and Debentures in
Japanese Concerns Omed by United Nations and
Kationals Thereof
The United tat rolitical Adviser has the hcnor to
quote a communic tion dated April 1, 1947, from the Office
of the Civil Pro crty Custodian, General Head uarters,
Supru e Comm ander for the Alli a Fowers, setting forth
particulars vith ro srd to the protection of shareholdings
and debentures in Japans se ve crrns oired by United Nations
end the natinals thercof:
XP740.
"1. Ref rence is wade to t lephone reiuest,
6 Lurch 1947, to C lonel E. 3. D denhoff, CPc/-
FP/tr, for information as to vhat procedures are
beins uscd to  rotect the inv stments of the
United Hutions and icnals thereof in Japanese
conceins.
FN-OFD
"2. Th Jopanese sovermment is requir a to
precarve and protet all  roperty, including
Tina tcia s. Sts, o. ne a3  7 Jecember 1941 by
ESP
the Tuit  ticns chd the nationals thereof
under the provisions of emorerdu. for the
Iperial Japenesc Jovernmert, f1le A5 091.112
CS/V
NH
(13 Sep 45)1, 30AT 33, 17 0 tember 1945,
subject: Proteetion of Allima and Axis prop-
JR
rty, fro u, P.
LE
"3. The Japanese Jove rn ent is re uired to
ensure that ne transactiona ar ufPected,
OU D
without th rior asproval of Ghe, sCar, involv-
ing in an  e roperty of United Nations and
mati nals thsreof  teh is mot in the custody of
the omer. This protection is afforded under the
rovisi ns of remor  dm for the Imperial Japanese
JOVrm e t, f11 A7 130 (23 Sp 45)23, 0APIN 45,
F1
22 September l945, subjuct: Coatrol of Finaneial
DEPARTNENT
FE
Transactions, from , sP.
47 MAY
MAY 
4.51
"4. A plan is currently in operation to
RECEIVED
Treao
provide maximum protection to United Nations
nationals'
FL Jn
6
02
SRT.

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Tokyo's No. 968,
April 11, 1947.
nationals' investrents in Japanese concerns which
are desi nated for reor anisation or liquidation.
In this connection there are inclosed for your
information copies of C/N from CPC to ESS, 8 Nov
46, subject: Protoction of Foroign Property
Interests; C/ from CPC to EsS, 5 Dec 46, subject:
Protection of United Mations Mationals' Interest
in Reor anization of Japanese Industry; and 1tr,
27 Dec 46, from the Holding Company Liuidation
Commissior to Major Robert M. Cooper, Chief,
Liquidation Branch, Ess.
"5. Statistics have been compiled and are
being compiled by the Japanese Government as
directed by interested Staff sections of GHe,
SCAP on tie extent of foreign investment in
Japanese concerns. Investments so identified
and reported automatically receive maximum
protection afforded by the above noted direc-
tives to the Imperial Japanese Government, under
the supervision of interested Staff sections.
"6. The Civil Property Custodian maintains
under active custodial protection all known
property owned on 7 Dec 41 by United Nations
nationals.
"7. When property not previously identified
is reported, ilmediate action is taken to inves-
tigate its current status, location and condition,
and to include it as investi ated under active
custodial protectio: and supervision pending res-
titution or other appropriate action. Concerned
agencies are advisod an to the results of inves-
tirations made.
"8. It is re uested that DS encourage all
persons communicating t rough diplomatic channels
regarding property in Japan to make certain that
adequate and accurate information be initially
supplied. Submission of full names, citizenship
status, and accurate descriptions of real property,
personal property, financial assets and/or claims
obviates the incidence of troublesome and lengthy
delay necessary to repair omissions."
The three enclosures to this despatch were received as
enclosures to the communicution quoted above.
Enclosures:

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
Tokyo's No. 968,
April 11, 1947
Enclosures:
1. Copy of check note from
Civil Froperty Custodian
to Economic and Scientific
Section, ovember 8, 1946,
file No. 004.01.
2. Copy of check note from
Civil Property Custodian
to Economic and Scientific
Section, Dcember 5, 1946,
file No. 004.
3. Copy of letter from Holding
Company Liquidation Commission
to Economic and Scientific
Section, December 27, 1946.
Original and hecto raph
to Department
wm
350
GBruner:ena

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No.968,dated April 11, 1947
fro the United Stat-s Political Acviser for Japan, Tokyo,
on the subject "Protection of Shareholdings and Debentures
in Japanese Concerns Ovned by Unitel Nations and Nationals
Thereof"
COPY
File Nc.: O44.O1 Subject: Prot ction of Foreign Property
Introsts
From: Civil Property
To:
Es/Anti-Trust & Cartels
Custcdial./FP
Date: 8 November 1946
1. It is re uostec th:t ths following procedures for
the protectio: of Fer irn Property b. established in the
dissolution of rurtricta cone rns:
a. Issue written instruotions to the Japanese
helding co pany li uidat ton comrission to the following
effect:
(1) Before disposal is made of
any st c: or other securities,
a: invorti.tio. will be made
intc the ownershi of same;
(') If stock in a holding
company is found to have been
ouned on or at any time aft r
7 December 1941 by a non-
Ja un se, the prcceods from
the li uidation of acsets will
be raid into a eash r serve
set up for thet puroose and
riority in thece prceseds
giv to the Poreiun owner;
(7) Securities fornerly hel
by heldin" c panies in
subsidiery concerns will be
investi- t : and if fond to
boye beer oned by a for isn
maticnal or b: a foreirm com-
pany on ur after 7 Decenber
1941, vi11 be held by the
heldine compan li uidation
conmission pendin instructions
fro.. Cre re urding their dis-
posal.
(4) If the subsidiary concern
is to be dissolved, the pro-
ceeds fror the li uidation of
the arsets will be paid into a
e sh recerve set up for that
pur  se and priority in the
proceeds given to the for ign
owner.
b. Issue

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 968,
April 11, 1947.
-2-
b. Issue written instructions to the holding
company liquidation commission to the effect that patents,
industrial machinery, and other property, tangible or
intangible, which cun bo identified to have been owned
by a foreign national or commpany on 7 December 194l must
be handled separately sabject to the primary jurisdiction
which Crc has over such property.
2. This Section would appreciate a copy of any
instructions issued.
P.H.T.

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 968 dated April 11, 1947
from the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
on the subject "Protection cf Shar holdings and Debentures
in Japanese Concerns O ned by United Nations and Nationals
Thereof"
COPY
File No.: 004.
Subject: Protection of United Nations
Nationals' Interest in
Reorganization of Japanese
Industry
From: Civil Property
To: ESS/Chief
Date: 5
Custodian/FP
December 1946
1. Reference is made to check sheet to EsS/Anti-
Trust and Cartels, file 004.01 (8 November 1946) subject
"Protection of Foreign Property Interests" which requested
specific protection of United lations int rests in the
dissolution of restricted concerns.
2. It is furt er re uesteu that, in any action taken
by Ess with respeet to the reor anization of Japanese
companies, United Hations nationals' interests be safe-
guarded.
3. Before any plan for reor anization of a Japanese
company is upproved, ? is re uested to reguire that
arrangements be made to insure possible restitution to any
United Nations national who had an inter st in the company
as of 7 December 194l of the porc ntage of stock contro1
which he had on 7 Jecen ber 1941, to ether with any and all
ri hts nd  riviles which belor ped to said United Nations
national on 7 Ducenber 194l or vhich accrued thereafter to
him or to the stocl hich he cmes, includin the preemptive
ri lit to iurehase ne: steck.
4. It ia mu ue te that a dreft. of the lan for re-
or vmination of any co..pany in lici. United Hations na-
tienals' interests ary lnvolved   rieh a crc prior to
final aprrovel of ellen.
P.H.T.

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 968 dated April 11, 1947
from the United Statcs Folitical Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
on the subject "Protection cf shareholdings and Debentures
in Japanese Concerns Ouned by United Nations and Nationals
Thereof"
COPY
THE HOLDING COI FAIY LI UIDATION COLLISSION
27 December 1946
TO: Lajor Robert . Cooper
Chief, Liguidation Branch
ESS, GHS, SCAP
Report on steps taker an procecdings
instituted in compliance with re uire-
ments contained in the statement made
by Lajcr Robort . Ccoper before the
Commissioners of the E lding Company
Li uidation Com ission on 19 December
1946.
1. Of the securities delivered by hclding Com anies and
already in its possession, it has been the policy of
the Coinission not to trunsfur to itself the titles of
such securities as are nok: to have been formerly
owmed by for ie nabionals or forcign companies, but
to simply hold the. in custedy.
Investigations 'ovo been ins'ituted to further as-
certain any such securities os may heve been formerly
alien ownet vhich have not so far been brought to notice:
and such as may be certifiec thereupon, to~ether with
those lready knorn, vill be peparat ly earmarked pending
instruetions fro the Civil Iroperty Custodian. (For
accounting purposes, they will be debited to the "Secu-
rities in C stoay Acco nt" under sub-suction "Alien Prop-
orties Acccu.t".)
2. Proeeeds realizes fro. prcurities so held, to-ether with
any income that may acerue thereen, will be paid into
s seial caah resert funa pet u. for the purpose.
(a) The Cor ission's resulutip e for Acccuntin- to
be amended sc us to previd for entries of such
trans ctions by acaint fcllowinr acccunts:
Acccunt
Doftrition
Alion Iropextics
I t preeveds realized on
Ruserve Fund
Alien Troporties shall be
sted to this acccunt
Alien Iroperties
Income accruint on Alien
Inc me Fund
rope ties shall be posted
to this ace unt
(b) Separate bunk aee mt will be msintained for
a  sit of procu as und inco. on Alien Prop-
erties, and will be d bitsa to "sank Account"
under e b-svetisns "Aalien froperties Reserve
Ind Account" and Alien Properties Income Fund
Account", respectively.
3. Instructions

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl No. 3 to
Tokyo's 968,
April 11, 1947
- 2 -
3. Instructions have boen issued to all desi nated Holding
Con anies reuesting then to:
(a) Investi ete racords of omership of all such
securities of their subsidiary concerns as have
been in their possession at any time or on after
7 December 1941 - such investi ation requiring,
amon others, inspection of Shareholders' reg-
istries of s usidiary concerns -, in order to
ascertain whether any of s ch securities were at
any tine during the same period alien owned,. and
to furnish on or before 31 January 1947 report in
full identifying such securities as are found to
have been so owmed, togeth r with their present
o nershi and location.
(b) Separately handle and lcld any of such securities
so owned as are r meinin in their possession,
together ith any ineome that may accrue thereon,
and pay into special roscrve fund set up for the
purpose proceeds that may be realized from liquida-
tion of any such securities, pending instruction
from the Civil Property Custodian or the Commission
rogarding their dis osition, and to report on
neasures taken in accordance therewith, or on any
changes, or as  ay be re uired from time to time.
(c) Notify any and all known present owners or such
pe sons known to be in cctual possession of such
securities so owned, to take such measures as
are provided in subpara raph (b) above, and to
re ort to the Comission of notifications so
s rved and ccknowled e ont thereof by the present
owners or ossessors.
4. Instructions have been further issued to all designated
Holding Companies re uestin them to make report on
patonts, industriel pchinery and other property, of
Whatever dcscription, tangible or intangible, other than
securities, thet have been in their possession at any
time on or aftor 7 December 1941 and which have been
owned by foreign national or for.irn company at any time
during thc sane period.
5. Provisions of the preceding four paragraphs will be
applied to all such securities as may later come into the
possession of the Com ission and to all Holding Companies
as may later be designated.
/s/ T. Sasayama
Chairman of The
Holding Company
Liquidation Commission

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.96)
1.453.
Form DS-302
(7-2-16)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
SECRET
A
14
Action: ESP
Control 2461
Info:
U·E
Rec'a July 8, 1947
A H
OCD
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
like
5:15 p.m.
CIG
ACTINF
DC/I.
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
ESP
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
OFD
ES
FROM:
T
OBP
JUL9-1947
GA
FC
TO:
Secretary of State
JK
OIC
DC/R
NO:
Unnumoered, July 8
7/14/47
FROM CINCFE
894.51/7-847
Fourth RTAc weeting held 8th July. Committee unanimously
approved SCAP evaluation procedures for reparations dis-
tribution purpoaes but reserved approval if values are to
be used as part of any final reparations settlement in
monetary teras. Diseussed SCAP procedure for distributing
pooled machine tools with general approval, minor questicns
to be olarificd in one week. Scnf announced release some
pooied machine tools for reparations. Actual lists pooled
machine tools for partial edvanced transfer program should
be aveilable 60-90 daye.
Have recsived no definite word ErA, namos, companies of
busineme group or Hodge. Based URAd have had transporta-
tion billets ready since first July.
Please clarify
situatlon with definite information.
Request report 1948
budget earliest, algo clarification statua Kane as OIC
Or OUSRRD.
MESSAGE UNSIGNED
DM: CWD
SECRET FILE
FILED
11947
工
工
SECRET
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THHS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATIOH OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.89)
FornOS-302
ACTION COPYT
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
A
1
aecatre
Aotion: o
DEPARTWENT OF STATE
Info
U-E
A/119,1947
A-日
FE
P
OCD
FROM:
SAP, Tokyo Japan
CIG
DC/L
20:
WDBCA ES
ESP
OPD
2.43481
190859z
DC/P
Peve to State Dopartment to Martin for information
89
REURAD SER 553, 18ta.
4
This redio 1s in four parts. Part One. Many financial
institutlons closed by SCAP pursuant to SCAP IN74, 30
5
September 1945, and in process of liquidation, while
almont holly cwncd by apanese, were domiciled outside
of Japan Bank of Tetwan, for example, was 98.8%
Japanese owned and loo% Japanese controlled although head
ofrlse vas in Teikotu, Foraosa Japanese branches operater
indepeniently and a copmerelal banks, and in addition
6
Tokyo tranch was the liaison ofrice between Government of
4
Japan cnd Provincia) Govermtent in Formosa. The Japanese
7
transhes o? the Bank of Taiwin were closed in accordance
R
vih ps vagraph 41 of J3 133o, 15 anl are in prosess of
REC
Ligutdauioy under vhe Bank of apan as Soap's agent.
To dare ne creditors claime have been settled. Because
of the lerge voluas of ma l depositore invelved it is
re)t shat further delay ia meeting depositors claims 1s
0
wrir e, iu viev of whe following At closing,
 ty  hosed a ba oece due home office of 2,412.1
mlo e, agalt wht  aasete in the awoust of 1.8i 7
nt earmarked as seourity. These assets
conadat or tve ossts i,y ses I wlllien yen and bank deposs ts
r 49.6 m ttoe yea Sareney iseued by the Bunk o 
Teiwes home crfres otal 23?.9 mtllion yen secured by
miseollanvoao ases ss or 4to mlllion yen in Taiwen and
79? 9 milios yes or the above-mentioned hypothecated
as secu in Japan The baleace of the home office account
vas the resutt of aeepauletlon or clearings.
Pert tso
Ta order thet apureae depooitors and othet
FILEDHI
creditors
1947
PLAIN
H

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.90)
PLAIN
2-Coutro1 5343, fron Tocgo
credltprs whosr claims arose in Japan may be paid off
to che Lintt or capacity here, it is proposed in
igatdattng apanese branches of the Bank of Taiwan
to aisre a a for the time being the home office account.
fhis wil'  ause a depletion of the security assets
theoretl a) ly earaarked as reserve againat the note
issue, but it js believed tbat any claim for the bajance
due the ye orfice should be made by either Formosa
or his ar the ttme of Pinal reparations settlements.
Parr tireo
In oxder thet he Liquidaticn of closed
imatitnt s may nos be held up, request authority to
D. ee rtt ligaidation of the Dank of Taiwan without
egard to tome orrice claime.
Pert fou While in Tokyo, Watnan was advised R. E.
Christeley information.
VP·RJA
PLAIN

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.87)
SECRET
Security dassification
approved by3/24/47
Num
DCRth Fb
In reply refer to
JK
MEMORANDUM TO THE SECRETARY, SWNCC
Subject: Proposed Policy Statement en Japanese
Public Finance
Attached is a proposed policy statement on this subjest
894.51/4-2247
representing the views of the State Department. It is requssted
that the paper be referred to the Subcosmittee for the Far East
for consideration.
J. H. Hilldring
State Department Member
State-War-Navy Coordinating Committes
oA JFD Un.
vev
A/FK
a1.
SECRET
1
力6
AP 18
17
S
CC.H.
HO
85
ce
21/4/4T
JK:HOwen:il
3/24/47
A-H
2
2
f
7

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.96)
1.453.
Form DS-302
(7-2-16)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
SECRET
A
14
Action: ESP
Control 2461
Info:
U·E
Rec'a July 8, 1947
A H
OCD
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
like
5:15 p.m.
CIG
ACTINF
DC/I.
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
ESP
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
OFD
ES
FROM:
T
OBP
JUL9-1947
GA
FC
TO:
Secretary of State
JK
OIC
DC/R
NO
Unnumpered, July 8
7/14/47
FROM CINCFE
894.51/7-847
Fourth RTAc weeting held 8th July. Committee unanimously
approved SCAP evaluation procedures for reparations dis-
tribution purpoaes but reserved approval if values are to
be used as part of any final reparations settlement in
monetary teras. Diseussed SCAP procedure for distributing
pooled machine tools with general approval, minor questicns
to be olariricd in one week. Scnf announced release some
pooied machine tools for reparations. Actual lists pooled
machine tools for partial advanced transfer program should
be aveilable 60-90 daye.
Have recsived no definite word ErA, namos, companies of
busineme group or Hodge. Based URAd have had transporta-
tion billets ready since first July.
Please clarify
situatlon with definite information.
Request report 1948
budget earliest, algo clarification statua Kane as OIC
Or OUSRRD.
MESSAGE UNSIGNED
DM: CWD
SECRET FILE
FILED
11947
工
工
SECRET
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATIOH OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.86)
S
which are to be spens in a memner ar for a pampeem, mnt
explicitly stated, and so propesed ampentitures sheald be
emitted frem sech begets. Emsutive agemies having cegnismse
of sech badgete shonld repert fally to the apprepriate Leglakattve
brasch during the eourse of the fieeel yuer anserning the
expenditure of fmnds sutherised in sesh badgets. In adtisies,
a ladapesdent agomey, whsse hesd is appeisted by, ad areskly
respensible to, that Logialative branch, should eandant sush
audito as may be deemed meeeseary te assure tat enpenditares
are made in acesrdance with, and fer the parpesse spenified is,
the bedgets, mad sheuld repert ite findings to the legialative
branch as required. The previstems of tais pasagruph sheald
also apply to the expemditares of enterprises emmed in mhele os
in part: by the sovermmest. Sash expeaditures shsuld be cubjest
to legislative serutiay and contrel.
5. Patlia Eméituree. Japencse publie empenditeres aheuld be
effected enly for pesssful ends related to the wall being of the mation
as & whele. They should net be effected for amy parpees imesnsistent
with the objestives of the eccupaties. As ese of the ssass of earaying
out this poliey, all direct and indirest gevereesatal subsidies sbeuld
be subjest to review by SCAP. Hs shoald dieappreve sesk absidies im at
Loast the fellowing cases:
a. Where they are being greated in order to imarease
prodesstive capacity in any indestry tarmad "mar mapperting"
in Shscc 302 (SCAP may grant emseptiene to this provisien where
mecessary to nest the minimam meede of the Japanese eenasny).
b. Where they wald have the effeet of sapperting the
memspalistie gronth or pesitiem of any firm or fimms, or of

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.88)
2
increesing the prefite earned by smch firm ar fimme
boyend thst gemerally earned by siailar esterprisss threnghes
the .
6.2
a. The Japaness Gevernment shonld make erery effort to
distribate heldiags of the natiemal debt as widaly as pessible
ameng disferens alasess of the pepalation ss a mhele, A vigerems
campaige to inerease popular bend purehasss and pestel serings
depesits sheald be inaagurated. Bends sboald be sald, im se far
as prestieable, direstly to the ultimste halder thereef, mther
them threugh am istarmediate agensy each as the Benk af dapan.
b. The Japemese Govermmsnt should met pay a higher rate of
interest em its debt tham is necessery to attrect funds inte
goveraesat bends. At least tee types of issues sheald be fleated,
therefore: the firet type to attrest the savings ef peresms
of limited meeno-to be parchased emly by individmale, is
limited ameuats, and to pay & relatively high rate ef interests
the seeond type to attrast the funds of institutiams and of
wealtay pereens-to be purchased by individmals and imstitutiems,
in wnlimited amounts, and to pay a lower rate of interest. Interesé
 existing geveramnt bende sbould be regulated in sceordsee
with the prissiples stated abeve.
c. Iaflationary methess of finaneing soverament ssapenditeres
should be abemdened in se far as pessible. In line with sub-
paragraph (a) abeve, the ase of evesdrafts at the Bank of Japen
should be replased by direst sales of bend issues, as seom as
preaticable.
Poliaies siailar in purpese to these spssified abeve should be
purseed by the lesal govermmeats, as well as by the matianal gevermmeente.
7. Iamatian. The Japensce Governmens sheald be reqeired to
rovise its taxatiem lams and enfereoment prosedares in saeh & mammer as to

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.86)
eenferm mech mere clesely thsm heretefere to standerde of ten legislation
ability to pey in enter to effect a mare equitable déstribatien ef weslth
and incese tase that currestly prevailing in Japen, callestisn ef adeguste
revesme to meet gameral expendituree and to liquidate a resssmable pertion
of the national debe, establlakases mnd administratien of tas lase in
sach a may as to ressve alesés of wesertainty and artitrerinass, and to
afford mesimm pretestien agaiast evssion tarough maladrisistratien and
eallasion betwoen tax peyere and tax assesament and cellestiem anthesities.
To this nds
a. The pareomal iuseme tax should csmpe er fall cnly
nosimally on inceme in the lever braekete (in se far as is
pessible without depriving the Japemsse Geveramens of an iniiapems-
able seuree of revesme), and should be more stesply pregressive
than hitherte in its applicatiom to imeemes in the upper médle
and higher breckets. In any reerganisatiem of the imssme tex
aystem alang pay-as-you-go Lines, care should be taimm to avedd
granting subetantial tax advaatagee to upper braeket inoams
resipiente threagh complete forgiveness of tax indebtoness.
b. A highly pregressive death duty (sift md estate Sax)
should be instituted. The prosest yates of dapansss asta
dustes skould be cubodastdelly tserussod.
e. A professiemal, ceatralised system for ths effestive
administration and enforeemsut of insome taxes sed death dutios
should be brenght inte being. All infemmeties meesssery te the
fell cellectiem of these taxes should be sesured, without legal
hiadranee, by the govermmest. Consideratien skrald be siven
to eliminating the use of holding eompanies and similar means of
ovading the personal income tax. Cricimal punalties should be
impesed en all perosns sesking to ovsde these temes.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.87)
d. Effeotive eesperetion tamse aheuld be applied in sash
a way as toe prevent large cesperasieme frem aosmisting stapable
, in epcess of proper reserves)
fanda y altabalding prosite fron distribstien to sestalde.
While it is desirable frem the stamdpeint of desememtrekiem poliey
thss to compel large corperatiome to seek fumds for empamsien
from cuteide credit or iavestment ssurees, decenosstratiem paliey
dees net mke it desirakle to se restrict smaller cerperséiems.
6. Tamse whese ineidense is regressive, such as exsise
and ccmsumption taxee on articles of commem and meseesery use,
should be abelisked er redseed to nemimal rates (im so far as
this is pessible witheut depriving the Japemese Gevermmoms of an
indiepemeable souree of revenue). Cemsemptiom tames shouid,
however, be applied to lumry goods.
f. The fast that inflatiom has arested now types and
slassss of wealth should be recegaised is tamtiem pallay,
which should aim at tapping these souress through smeh meams
as steep capitel gaime and mese prefite tams.
§. Any fuads assigned to Japamese natienals or mterprises
in cempensatien for essets seised as reparstions should be derived
frem the preeseds of a special tax which would not have boem devised
or applied had it not been fer the necessity fer preeuring mesk
21.
Lecal goveramsats in Japan, as well as the natienal govermmsnts
should not be limited in se far as types of taxing pomer are coneerned,
but should be dirested to devise and apply taxes whose imaidasse is im
lime with the prinsiples of pregressive taxatios. The Minister ef Pimasse
should have suffieient supervisery powere sver the taxatien pelicies of
lesal geveremente to ensare thet these are reasenably wmiferm im type
and rate, amd thet they cenform to the primaiples of taxatiem set forth
abovo.

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.81)
RECONMENDATIONS
a. It is reeemmended that:
a. Previding that Jaint Chiats of Staff have me objestten
from & military peint of vien, tho eamslasieme be appreved
by tihe State-Har-evy Soerdinating Camitteeg
b. The peper be tramenitted to the as and Dasy Dapartmants
for infermatiany and
e. The State Dapartmens be reguseted to tramands tihe
peper te the U.S. representative en the Far Eestera Gammissien
with instrestioms to endesver to obtais e paliey desisdam by tihe
Gamiesien along the Linee of tihe emelnsieme set serth, mé
with msthorisatiem to aocept shanges wkieh do mst alter thsdr
substanse er istent.
JX:NOm11
3/24/47

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.80)
CONFIDENTIAL
APPERDIX "A"
PAGES EARIEE C IE PEEEE
1. The Raste Roemamie and Pinensial Direetive (smce Sa/7)
stares:
"25. It is the intent of the taited statee Gosesmmemé
to eneousage and shew faver tos
"a. Pelistes widch pormit a wide distributien ef imsems
and of erakip of the meame of predstien and trade."
2. The repert of the Aémrde issien farthee empidase the
nescesity of introsmsing pregressive taxasien iste Jepen, In ester
to farther desemesstrasiem polley.
3. SCaP reeently mast to the Uaited States Mr. Mmesy Shsvell.
a member of the Fimense Divisisn of 3CaP's staff, to esmber with
fiscal experts in the United States conesrming desisable ehangss
in Japamese tax Las. Upem his retara te Japen, Mr. Smvell mmée
recesmendations to the Seperese Commander cemeoraing saeh shemges.
These ressssendatiems, whieh run parallel to those of thte paper,
are mew being considared asd givem effeet in Japan.
JX:0m11 /2/47

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.83)
APPENDIX ""
CONFIDENTIAL
1. tia Coa
Ia the pest, esssssive cad bsreensratie cestrel ef depensse
publie cimassee hass hagaried. This is ebviesaly untstrable
frem the stasspeint of dessesatie prestioss. It is thevetere
messssery to Smsiet apem fallest publisity eeesmming Jepemese
publie fimamees, end em the strietest pessible legiak tive
contrel erer sesh fisssess.
2. Pshlla Emditarsa
the dapemese Geverament has, in the past, uosd pahlie eapendétares
further the wndecirable pelicise ef silitarim and indmstriel esnsentse-
ties. It has furthered militerien, net enly tkreegh direst apprepriatiems
fer the fighaieg forees, bus also threugh variems types of sabeidice
and publie marke mhese maie purpese was te belster Japen's mr petasstíal.
The peliey of indestrial conccmtration was furtiared by sebsidies
to favered Zaibaten coneerne. It io evident tiat sCAP mert emereise
sush csatral over Japemese publie expenditares as may be ssesesary
to provent thees polisies.
3. Publia Pobt
à. It is desirable to no distribuste the natiomal dabs as to
abeerb as mssk exoess purehasing peser ameng the Japenese
people as a whale as pocsible. Tais sam bsst be assomplisked
by a very wide distributiem of the natiesal debby appropriate
steps should bo takn to thie end.
R It is ovident tast the rates of interest required to
atrast fmads inte gevernment bonds will very according te
the type and wealth ef the inveater invelved. This has been
recogaised in this country, by the lesusaee of differens types
of basds paying difforent interest ratec, and purehasable in
different amounte. This is dens in erder to attrest iate
goveramsnt conée the fande of nem-umalthy individeals, ly

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.86)
CONFIDENTIAL
2
effering ssh indiviinals an attrestien retam, witeme
sbligating the govarmnt to pay a sindlerly bigh retum to
maltly individuals and isstitatiens wideh weald be willing to
bay government bonds st Lemer rates of laterest. Pask & paltey
is eepssially desirable in Japen, in view ef cur deceneemteattem
by pelley there, and in view er ar desire to effeet a wéder
distribution of wealth in thms soumtry.
i. The desirability of fisaneins povernmnt ependituree
through means less inflatiomary then the wee of eves drafts
at the Bank of Japan is salf-evidest in view of swerent dapemase
ecomeaic conditions.
4. Taxation
Generally speakings the present Japamese tas strueture appeere
to be regreasxive in iucidence. The tax law bestew wafair and
sigalricant Sex sxiventages upon u per brenket wmeemmed imeeme
resipients. fut ull typus uf imsome are subjast to fall tamtiem.
The combinatien of rulativoly sigh mormal tax rates, heovy eommspaiem
taxes, and insufficiently greduated surtex retes has redased the
meaimal pro rossive foatures of the imesme tas. Alee a laxity
in smforcement, as well i te corrupsibility of the elested
income tax coenittee wan, provides atrong inoentives for tax evasion.
Rafereuxent of tho income tax is notesless for its laxdty. Never
im the histcry of Japen has tiure ben a eimgle sase ofesrviction
fer tex ovasion. euccsatisatien oi the tax stresture end an improve
mat in the machinory for its collectlon, therefere, mheuld mot miy
affest i mider diatribution of mmalth but sbould alee imcroeve the
revesme availablc to tho centrel governeent. emoeratisstin of
the tan system sbould inclade the applleatien of affestive mnd
pregressive incomo and deatk tax rates, and shoald, im so far as
pessihle, direct the application of comemptien tamss to lumries
rather then pecsssities. Corperation tases, whore prestiesals,

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.83)
2
>50
CONFIDENTIAL
2
would alse to desirable, from the srmdpeint of daintenttem paihge
in crder to prevent the :ccumlatiom of ewess pratits, amd ems to
reterd the sutosstic mpansion of larger emterprises. same spesial
tamme ney lso be xcessery in srder to strike at mow somssss of
wealsh sreuted by inilation.
5. Somratiens Ceapenention
The Japanese Coverncent hould net be allemed to py reperetiems
exmpensetion out of existing revenues sinee the net effest of thée
woald bo to umbalance the tudget otill further, and tame to opur
on the prooent infintionery movesent. If reparmtioms eoapanenkien
is to e peid, the unie smula be raised threugt a apeaial tam
which would distritute the reparatleee burdes ameng the besdmees
commmnity s a miole, in proportion to the ability of ite vmrioms
msmbers to ar tast barian.
6. Lecal Tuxatin
the principios stated in this paper shoald, of comrse, apply to
local overnments s wall as to the national govermet Leeel
taxation in Japan hau ceen notably marrow, wsoguitable, amd imeztetemt.
The taxine powers or the local govarnmmats sbomld be brendened,
se as to perait theso governimats to give foroe to the primeiples
of pregressive taxstion.
JX:2D0:11
4/2/47

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.83)
SECRET
SHONES
JAPANESE PUILIC FINANCE
1. thst messuses shosld be taken by scap sith sespest to dapannse
publie fiaesse in erder to cesist in the decseretisetian and stablliestiom
of the Japamose coomeng?
LATR HAD   POE
2. See Appemáix "A".
DISGERION
3. See Appamdix "B.
CORCLIES LONR
4. Pemesratia Sestral The diseretiemary entherity of the
Kinister of Pinssee, and of ether matienal and lecal effistale, with reepest
to Japenese publie fimanse sheuld be redeeed, and the astherity ef matienal
and lecal legialstive bedies ever sech publie finesse sheuld be fmssesesd.
To this ands
a. The type and amount of matiomal and lecal tams to be
lovied, and the maanar in whiak they are to be callested, aheald
be fully spesified by the appropriste national and lecal
legislative bodies after pablis bearings. Emeative effiials
shculd have no authority to modiry tax direstives whieh taey
reesive free cuch legialative bedies, and ebsuld farmish a
detailed aoconting of the implomentetien of these direstives
to sush bodiss.
b. All publie axpenditures, both at the mationel amd lecal
level, should reqaire the approval of spprepriete legialative bedies,
and aheuld be aseousted fer te sush bediee. Natiemal asd lesal
goveramsate shenld suiait slear and detailed sadgote to their
respective legislasive bedies, in suffiaient time to allow for
fall beerings and legislative dieoassiem befove the begimsing
of the fiseal year. Sueh budgste shsald sentaia me acccusks

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.82)
whish are te be spont in a mammer ar ter a papesn, me
empllaitly stated, and no preposed apenditmres shemld be
cnitted fren cmsh bstgete. Eameutive ageneles heving cegpieanse
of sash badgete sheald repert fally to the epprepriste Lagtalative
beaneh dusing the eouree ef the flesal yeer cameosming the
expesditere ef fmnde sutbericed is such badgats. In stties,
 sdapednt ay, mse hesd is appetd by,  drestly
respemsible to, that Legialative hranch, sheuld eastuse sush
andite as may be deemed neseseary te assare thst expendéteres
are mede is aceardasse with, and for the parpeses sposified ta,
the besgots, and sheuld repers ite fiadinge to the lagialative
branch as required. The previsiems of this pammgreph shonle
alse apply te tihe expenditares of enterprieees emsd in whale or
in part by the goverament. Such expenditures should be subjeet
to legislative serutiny and cantral.
5. Publle Eamtitacaa. Jepence pubilie apamdataree should bo
effooted ealy fer pescarul ands related to the mall being ef the matism
as a whels. They should not be effected fer aay parpece imesmslstent
with the objoctives of the occupation. is eme of the meens of earrying
sut this polisy, all direct and indirest gevernnsatal smbsidies sbeald
be subjest to review by SCAP. He should disappreve smsh ssbaidies im at
least the fellowing eases:
a. Whare they are being granted in erder te imarease
prossstive capecity in aay indestry tesmed "mar sappesting"
in SkNCC 302 (SC:P may grant axosptiens to trds provisien mhsre
necessary to mest the miniman peess of the Japemeee ecencey).
b. where they wuld have the effest of supperting the
mamapalistie grosth or pecition of any fimm or fimmm, or of

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.83)
inereesing the prefite carest by sesk fiam er fime
begend thst gamsrally earaed y sisilar estoeprisse threnghens
the smg.
6. 
a. The Japenese Gevermment ahould maise eveey attert to
distribate haldings of the natiemal debt as widaly as psesible
ameng disferent alesses of the popalation es a mhale. à vigeseme
esspaige to iacresse popalar bend purehases and pestal sesinge
depesits sbeald be insngerated. Beads abeald be sald, in se far
so prectiesble, direstly to the altimste holder therees, mther
then tareugh an Lnterasdiste ageney sech as the Besk of dopas.
b The Jepasese Covermmeat aheald mot pay a higher zate of
imberest on ita debt them is necsssary to attreet funde inte
govarnment bende. At least to types of issase should bo flested,
therefere: the firet type to attreet the maviage of pereems
of Liaited messsto be parokeced enly by individmale, in
limited aments, and to pay a relativaly high rate of interosts
the secend type to attract the fumss of institatiame ame of
wealtay pereens--te be purehesed by individmals and imstitutioms,
in unlimited amsunts, and to pay a lemer rate ef interest. ateresé
an existing govarmmnt bende shoald be regaleted in sessrdanee
with the principles stated above.
c. Laflatienary metheds of fiasneing peveremnt espenditures
should bo akendned in se fer as possikle. In lime witk sab-
paragraph (a) abeve, the ase of avertratts at the Bask of Japee
should be replased by direet males of bend issmss, as seem as
practicable.
Polisies similer in purpose to thsse spesified sheve should be
purssed by the lecal governmento, as wall as by the mational govermmens.
7. Iaxatien. The Japansse Geveramsnt should be rageired to
revise ite taxatiem lamm and enfereensmt precederes in coeh a mmeer as to

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.80)
eentope msh mare elecaly thsm beretesore to standerde ef tan laglalatton
a properly gualified opplicatiin of the principleu of
abllity to pay Ls ender to effect a mere oquitakle distribetiam af wealth
and imeems than that eurrestly prevelling is dapen, eollestim ef edeguate
revesme to eet pemeral expenditures and to ligeidate a resssnable pertion
of the nstional debe, cstabllaene and adsintstration of tan Lame la
cesh a ay as to rease alannte of mmsertainty and artitrertmns, and to
afford meximm protestien agaiast evesien tareugh maladssisteetsen and
eallnsion beteeen tax perere and tex asceeamant and sellectien anthesltles.
to this nds
a. The pereemal inseme tax should mompé er fall enly
mesimally om ineeme is the lewer breekets (im se fer as is
pessible withont depriving the Japemsse Geveramsst of s Indlepome-
able seuree of revemee), nd sheuld be mere steeply pregreesive
then hitherte in its applieation to imoemes in the upper midile
and higer breskets. Ln ay reorgminatism of the imesme ten
ayotem aleng pay-ae-you-ge lines, eare ahould bo taiam to avoid
granting subetantial tax adrantages se upper bracket inseme
recipionts threugh cssplete forgivenoes of tax indebtedness.
b. A highly progressive death duty (girs and estate tax)
should be iastituted. The-pressat-rates of Japanaes dssth
duttee ssoale be sutstantially ássreased.
e. A profeseiemal, cantralised system fer the affestive
admiaistration and enferesmsns of imme taes end éeath duties
should be brenght imte being. All infermatiam mseescary te the
fall callestien of these taxes should be secured, withsus legel
hiedranee, by the geressmess. Cemsideratism sheald be givom
to elimimating the wse of holding cempemise and similar meeme ef
ovading the poreonal inceme tax. Crimimal pemalties shomld be
ispesed an all persene sseking to evade these temss.

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.84)
d. Ecteotive corperatten taase aiesuld be applied ia aash
I in apoese f proper reserves,
fomda hy tbalding presite cren distrttien to reale.
Thile it is desirable frem the stomdpaint of dessmsmtrsttm pettey
thms to compel large corperatiome to seak fads for epsmsisn
frem cutside credit er isresteest ssurees, deccneemtraties paliey
does not make it desirable to se restrist smaller csrpesstseme.
6. Taxss shose insidemse is regressive, smsh as emsise
and consumptien tamse en artieles of commen and nesssaery use,
should be abaliaked or redmeed to nemimal ratee (in no far as
this is pessible withost depriving the Japanese Pevermment of as
indlepemeable souree of revemme). Cemsnspéien taxss should,
howver, be applied to lumry goods.
f. The fect that inflatiem has created mew types and
clasese of weelth shoald be recognised in taxatiem peliey,
whish should aim et tapping these souress threugh sesk mosms
as steep capital gaine and eess prefite tame.
E. Any funds assigzed to Japanese natienale or stesprises
in cempemsatiem for assets seised as reparstiene skould be asrived
frem the preceeds of a special tax whish would met have boem devised
or applied hed it not been fer the nesessity fer presuring sash
fads.
Lecal pevermmente is Japen, as well as the natienel goveraesnts
should mot be linited is se far as types of taxiag pomer are comeermed,
bat sbould be directed te dovise and apply tames whose imsideese is im
lime with the prinsiples of prograseive taatiss. The Minister of Fimsnee
shoald have sufficient supervisory pevere over the taxatiom policies of
lscal goverssents to ensure that these are reasenably uniform in type
and rate, and that they conform to the primaiples of taxatiem sot fortk
abo.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.79)
RECOMMMDATENS
0. It is resemmsmted thass
a. Previding that Jains Chiete of Staff heve me ebjestßen
frum a military peint of vion, the camalnsiame be appreved
by the State llar leay Gosrdinsting Cammesteeg
b. The peper be trammmitted to the tar and Kary Departasste
for informations and
a. The state Departmens be requested to trammmit the
peper to the U.s. representative en the Far Lestern Gamlsslem
with instrestiams to endeaver to obtain a paliey desdaiam iy the
Commiosiem alens the linse of the ccaslusiame sot forth, mé
mith aethorisasien to aecept changes stieh de met alter thete
substence or intent.
JX:NOman:1]
3/24/47

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.78)
CONFIDENTIAL
APTIX "A"
1. The Reste Romnamte and Pinenelal Béseotive (ammce Sa/7)
statess
2s. It is the intens of the Usted statee Sovsmeené
to emesurege snd shew faver to:
"a. Pelisies mdch pormlt a wide distribution ef inseme
and of mersip of t me of predstie nd trade."
2. The repere of the Etmerde issien farther anphesicss the
sessssity ef intredmsing pregressive taxssiem isto Japen, in eeter
to farther deccmsestrutiem palley.
3. scAP reeankly caust to the taited States Me. Semsy Shavell,
a mssber of the Fimsnee Divisien of scap's staff, te cmmtur wite
fiesal emperte in the Éaited States coseorming desisable ehangee
in Japamese tax la. Upon kis retarn to Japan, r. Shavell maée
recemmemdations to the Saprome Commaader conserning soch eianges.
These reosmmendatiene, whieh ram perallel to these of tats paper,
are msw being cencidered and givem effest in Japen.
38111 /2/47

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.83)
CONFIDENTIAL
APPEROTX "g"
BLAGHBAION
1. Damearatia Castrn
In the past, anseutive and beressoratie eentsel of dapasess
public fimenoes bas tmapisd. this ie eovismly tesdoale
frem the stasdpeine of demeerstie prestiess. It is thsetere
mescssary to insist upem fallest publieity comeemming dapemese
pablie fimmmess, and en the strietest pessible Lagiab tive
csntrel ever ssah finamees.
2.
The Japamose Gevermment hes, ia the pest, uosd pablle eagendétures
further the umdesireble palicise of silitarism and indestrial comesntee-
tiem. It has furthered silitarian, mst anly threugh direst appreprietdoms
fer the fighsing foress, but alee threugh variess typse of sahetdies
and pablie warice mhese main perpese was to belster Japam's war petossial.
The poliey of insectrial consentration was furthered by smbsidies
to favered Zaibatsu censerne. It is evidens tat sCaP mest emersise
each costrel ever Japenese publie expenditares as may be messssary
to prevent these palisiss.
3. lla De
à It is desirable to so distribute the national debt as to
abeorb as mmch excess purohasing power ameng the Japasasse
people as a whale as possible. This ean best be eceomplimhed
by a vory wide dietributien of the national debt, appropriate
stops ahould be taken to thie end.
B. It is ovidens thnt the rates of intorest required to
atrest fande ieto govermmest bonce will vary acoording to
the type and wwalth of the invester iavalved. This has been
recogaised in this country, by the iasusnee af differens types
of bends peying different intorest retee, and purohasablo in
differemt amcumte. This is dame in erter to asteect inte
goverament beaée the fede of mom wealtly individnale, by

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.86)
CONFIDENTIAL
，
effering sash intividnals an attrastion reters witihont
bligating the povere to pe a siadlanly igh ret to
wealtily individsale and institutions which weald be willing to
buy soveramant bonde at lomer rates of interest. sask a palley
is especially desirablo in Japen, in viow of our deseseemtretion
by peliey there, and in view of our desire te offeet a wéder
distributien of wmalth in that coumtry.
2. The desirability of finensing goeveranse espentitesee
threugh mmeme Lese inflatienary then the use of evee éeafte
at the Benk of Japem is salf-ovidest in view of current dapansse
ecanemis cenditions.
4. I
Gemerelly speaking, the present Japasese tax strestare appeare
to be regreasive in imaidense. The tax lawe bestow wafair and
sigaificant tax advantages upen upper breckst unessmed imoome
resipéents. Ret all types of imcome are mubjest to fall taméiem.
The esmbisation es relatively high mermal tax rates, heevy emsumptéem
tames, and insufficiontly gradmated murten rates has redseed the
nominal progressive features of the inseme tax. Alse a laxity
in enforeamant, as well as the corraptibility of the slested
insome tax sosmittee msn, provides strong insontives for tax evesisn.
Enfercement of the incame tax is noterioms fer its laxity. Never
im the histery of Japan has there been s single ease ofeonvistise
for tax ovasion. Demperatisation of he tax atrestare and am improve
mns in the machinory fer its colleetion, therefere, sbenld mst ealy
affest a wider distribatien of weelth but skould alee imeresse the
rovesse available to ths centrel goversment. Damsoratisstion of
the tax syatem sheuld inalndo the applicatism of effeetive and
pragresaive inoame and deash tax rates, and sheald, in so far as
pessible, direet ths application of comsmeptiem tamse to lumries
ratiber thes mosessities. Cerperatiem tamms, whers prestieable,

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.76)
CONFIDENTIAL
woald sise bo dasdsabie, tren the damdpolat of dappsststtm petigo
1
in eoder to press tise osslatien ef mese poacts, sé time te
retrd the teée apsin of Lager eeres. sme apeial
tame may alse be mesessasy in erdee to ateiie as maw sessee on
ealth reated bye.
5.
The Japensse Goverament sheuld sst be alloued to poy repereséams
cempemestisn eut ef ecisting rovemnse cinse the not estuet ef thle
woald to to mabalamse the badges stll ferties, and thme to aee
a the preoent intlatiemery mvomest. If reperetésme esmpemention
Ls to be paid, the thande ahould be raieed through a apesial tam
whish wwald distribute the reperatiens turden smeng the besiases
eommmity as a whale, in preportiem to the ability of ite varioms
membare to boer that brden.
6. Lesal Taien
The prinsiples stated in this paper sheald, of esurse, apply to
losal gevernemte as wall as to the nstiesel geveremeeé. Lesel
taxatien in Japan hes besn notably marren, mequitable, and imedtisient.
The taxing powore of the local govermmente sheald be kroademed,
se as to porait these povernsmts to give foree to the primeiples
of pregressive taxatisn.
JK:Dom:il
/2/49

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.90)
(7-8-48)
DIVISION OF
ACTION 
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
13-M
PLAIN
N
Action: DC/I
Control 4917
Info:
MAY 1 9 194
s/s
UE
2:35 m.m.
A-H
SA/M
FE
FROM: Shanghai
Financial & Development
OCD
MAY 1 9 1947
CIG
TO
Secrotery of State
ITP
ESP
C
1190, J1xtoenth
OPT
FC
DC/R
TOR SOE TR ATRY ADD GOMMERCE FRON GSADAY.
894.5
 ntl  try nered in SHaG
 15
H Yo. Hay 15 ontrel). The United States Congress
y vr  r lerno loen t Japer, possibly emounting
 uhe blllen cllar coor the next five years,
5
  Ry , WALL STREET JOURNAL -
ponont.
ley roeoctes that the Arprlcen Militery Governmant
parc tea uerror are raking preliminory studies
to by main cro lit Japon viil poed to prevent an
aost bronsr su sais that he thecries behind
31
nts tecn'i eradst atudy are
Tirat, Japan must
be enobjer bo wave  ovn vey peone deally, second,
5.1677
poun must hovo croo to to pobebili toto peacotimo
Hadastry cor a icatie oue hird, eoon's cxports
pt bl  to ay  br o.
theso three de yer pimro, Cvorley aasorted, reguire
3
rom ti- talcs with tho Araricau Militery Jovernment
MAY
Jri
Priciala. C oaley povcreet cn the oirference between
FILED
thot Jepan m at impore ant what she can export nay
2
perega co. seco villiou annvully  in deficit -
2
ar total s ue bi is d  tar fer the fivo years.
19
Poue lcus top croclta from Acsrice ropayable in twent
or thirty voors wot a bs peo irea. Jo adaitien. Japan
 no   o w1o  500 million es sher
LRC
torn credit
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY-MUSTBE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.89)
PL477
-2-, #1190, S1xteenth. rom Shangha1.
term oredit to finance hor purchase of ray materiels
such as cotton which 1 urgently needed for the
production of oxport goods, Oromley said."
DAVIS
EEC:PPM
J.

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.94)
ADORESS OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIC
Jrode
THE SECRETARY OF STAT
WASHINGTON 21, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
gn
MEIORANDUM
TO
: JK - Mr. O. McDiarmid
DATE: May 29, 1947
FROM
SUDJRCT:
DRF Information Note #69, Financial Statement on Commodity
Credit Corporation Cotton Advances to Japan
Attached is DRF Information Note #69, Financial Statement on
Comnodity Credit Corporation Cotton Advances to Japan, which has been
prepared at your request.
XR
894.51/5-2947
OCT 2 6 1951
FILED
Attachment
W.5.4.
R
DRF:WSHunsberger(RHirschtritt):mjc
6.8
15
CS
2
2947

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
y
RESTRICTED
DRF Information Note #69
May 29, 1947
FINANCIAL STATEMENT ON COMMODITY CREDIT
CORPORATION COTTON ADVANCES TO JAPAN
The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCc) had, as of March 31, 1947,
delivered about 452 million pounds of raw cotton valued at $122.03 million
1
f.a.s. US ports to the US Commercial Company (USCC) for shipment to Japan.
The accrued interest on these shipments by the end of March was $1.93 million,
bringing total CCC advances to 123.96 million. As shom in Table 1, CCC
accounts receivable from the sale of cotton textiles processed from advanced
ravw cotton amounted to 2.33 million, resulting in a net advance of $121.63
million. UScc advances for freight and insurance for cotton shipped have
been covered from the proceeds of cotton textile sales.
The above data are extracted from the financial statement of the
US Commercial Company dat ed March 31, 1947. However, since title to raw
cotton shipped to Japan does not pass to the Japanese agency until delivered
ex-vessel Japanese port, it is of significance to note financial data shown
in Table 2 on cotton reported as delivered to Japan. Data in Table 2 on
advances for raw cotton delivered to Japan have been extracted from other
UsCc material. Receipts from sales of cotton textiles and disposition of
net receipts have been selected from Table 1 (based on official financial
1. Iinder the terms of the State-Mar-Agriculture-USCC contract dated
February 7, 1946, covering export of raw cotton to Japan and ex-
port from Japan of textiles produced from CCC cotton.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
RESTRICTED
statement showing disposition of receipts). Thus, met USCc advanoes
shown in Table 2 are the result of deduoting from landed cost of
cottom reported as delivered to Japan the expenses of the USCC for
cotton shipped although not necessarily received in Japan by March
31, 1947. Accordingly, on the basis of the value of raw cotton
delivered to Japan (about 420 million pounds by the end of Maroh),
CCC gross advances total $114.96 million and net advances $112.63
million, the CCC having been credited with $2.33 million from the net
proooeds of cotton textile sales.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
-3-
TabIe 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENT ON ADVANCES FOR RAW COTTON SHIPPED TO
JAPAN AND RECEIPTS FROM COTTON TEXTILE SALES THROUGH
MARCH 31, 1947
CCC shipments
Raw cotton shipped (f.a.s.)
$122,026,931.68
Accrued interest
1,936,268.27
Total CCC advanoes
123.963.199.95
U.S.C.C. expenses for cotton shipped
Ocean freight
7,587,754.14
Insurance
508,212.55
Total USCC advances
8.095.966.69
Total CCC-USCC advanoes for cotton shipped
$132,059,166.64
Receipts from sale of cotton textilss
Gross USCC prooeeds from sales
$11.898,292.47
Less: Commissions to USCC
$237.965.85
USCC expenses
8,095,966.69
Total USCC deduotions
8.333.932.54
Net USCC proceeds
3,564,359.93
Plus deposits against future
sales deliveries
114,789.77
NET RECEIPTS
3.679,149.70
Disposition of net reccipts
Aocounts reoeivable
$1,230,351.36
Deposits against future deliveries
114,789.77
Balance due CCC
2,334,008.57
Net USCC advances
Total USCC advanoes
8,095,966.69
Less deduotions from proceeds of sales
8.333,932.54
NET
$237,965.85
Net CCC advances
CCC accounts reoeivable
$123,963,199.95
Less amount payable from net receipts
2,334.008.57
NET
$121,629,191.38
a. It appears that insurance outlays in this finanoial statement cover
only cotton aotually delivered to Japan and not cotton being shipped.
b. 2 peroent commission on gross proceeds from sales.
Source: US Commeroial Company, Finanoial Statement Covering Trade with
Occupied Areas, March 31, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Table 2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT ON ADVANCES FOR RAW COTTON DELIVERED TO
JAPAN AND RECEIPTS FROM COTTON TEXTILE SALES THROUGH MARCH 31, 1947
CCC cotton delivered to Japana
Raw cotton delivered (f.a.s.)
$113,038,865.26
Accrued interest
1,921,283.38
Total CCC advances
$114,960,148.64
USCC expenses for cotton delivereda
Ocean freight
$7,078,823.71
Insurance
508.212.55
Total USCC advances
$7.587.036.26
TOTAL CCC-USCC advances for cotton delivered 122,547,184.90
b
Receipts from sale of cotton textiles
Gross UScC proceeds from sales
$11,898,292.47
Less: Commissions to USCC
237,965.85
USCC expenses for cotton shipped
8,095,966.69
(USCC expenses for cotton delivered)
(7,587,036.26)
Total USCC deduotions
8.333.932.54
NET USCC proceeds
$3,564,359.93
Plus deposits against future sales deliveries
114,789.77
NET receipts
$3.679.149.70
b
Disposition of net receipts
Acoounts receivable
$1,230,351.36
Deposits against future deliveries
114,789.77
Balance due CCC
2,334,008.57
Net USCC advanoes
b
Total UScC advanoes for cotton delivered
$7,587,036.26
Less: deduotions from proceeds of sales
8,333.932.54°
NET
$-746,896.280
b
Net CCC advanoes
CCC advanoes for cotton delivered
$114,960,148.64
Less: amount payable from net reoeipts
2.334,008.57
NET
$112,626,140.07
a. Based on USCC data not included in the company's financial statement.
b. See Table 1.
o.
Includes a 2 peroent commission on gross proceeds from sales totaling
237,965.85 and expenses for cotton shipped but not yet reoeived in
Japan totaling $508,930.43.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.95)
Form DS-302
(7-2-16)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
F
Office of
INCOMING TELEGRAM
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Inte
JUN - 7 1947
15
PLAIN
DIRECTOR
CA
artment of State
Action:
FE
NA
Info:
PI
Control 1978
3/8
BEA
A-B
Rec'd June 6, 1947
A-H
5:22 p.m.
SA/M
BUR
FROM:
Mcscow
SPA
OCD
TO:
Secretary or State
2-1947
CIG
Hile
B
DC/L
NO:
2041, Sixth
ESP
OFD
RED STAR June 4 "Dilemma in Jepan" by V. Avarin
FC
reviews A. Roth's book ststing bock acquires vital
OIC
interost becsuse Americun reactlon 1s now openly
PA
raising question of including Japan amongst co ntries
EUR/T
who should recelve American Toans, arms and military
89
DC/R
equipment "for struggle ageinst Communism". Jap
ncnarchy as bulwark ane weapon against Soviet Union
94.5
end ommunism--is guiding idea or rar Eastern
Munichites now carrying out policy of American
monopolies. In Far East as in Europe representatives
51/6-647
of American finencial ligarchy are sowing wind, end
shall reap whirlvind.
Department repeat Tokyo as Moscow's 3.
DURBROW
Note:
Repeated to Toxyo 6/6/47, 7:10 p.m. Acting WC-MG
REP: PAL
JUN 16 1947
FILED
H
H
PLAIN
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
OUST PE LTURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
ROTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.98)
Anno; hot fr teloo
STDARD FORM NO. 64
whrch I il amange
TO
IR - Mr. Vernon
DATE: sune12, 1947
Pegialatioin
IR - Mr. Wells 
FROM :
SUBJECT:
Japanese Securities and Exchange Law
The two basic objectives of any modification of the Japanese
law on corporate activities should be (1) the fullest practicable
disclosure of corporate activities and (2) more effective control
by stockholders over management. These two policies are corollaries
to the deconcentration and decartelization of Japanese industry.
The basic philosophy of any modification of the Japanese company
law should be oriented towards protecting not only stockholders
and creditors, but also towards preventing the resurgence of
zaibatsu control with all its attendant undesirable business
practices. The revision of corporate law to these ends has been
adopted by SWNCC as the policy of the United States Government.
In this respect the February 1947 Japanese Securities and
Exchange Law is designed solely to protect stockholders and
creditors. It is quite obvious that the Japanese public and the
world at large can be injured by corporate policies or actions
which benefit a company's stockholders and creditors. This is
particularly true of cartel arrangements.
It would seem to have been more advisable to have enacted
894.
one law in Japan similar to the British Company Law, 1929,
embracing both the objectives mentioned above. Japan, like
England and most of the other countries of the world, is not
hampered as is the United States by having numerous jurisdictions
each with its separate incorporating statute. The creation and
operation of business entities in Japan is controlled by the
Japanese Commercial Code (Japan is a Civil Law country), and
it is believed that there is no legal obstacle to enacting
one basic company law including the two objectives.
One or more experts, presumably.from SEC, should be sent
to Japan as soon as possible to supervise the drafting of a new
law or, if it should be decided not to enact a basic law, to
amend the present law and to prepare "ordinances" (regulations)
implementing the Securities and Exchange Law. (These ordinances
would presumably eminate from the Ministry of Finance.) This
law is relatively brief (92 articles) and is apparently not
intended to become operative until implemented by ordinances
inasmuch as 33 provisions contained in 26 of the articles
specifically

=== Page 332 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
specifically require such implementation. 1/ The law itself
has apparently been drafted rather hastily, for, even discounting
distorted phraseology presumably resulting from translating
the original Japanese text (the official text) and the numerous
grammatical and typographical errors, there are omissions,
duplications, errors, ambiguities, and unwise provisions which
will have to be remedied.
Omissions
Article 6 contains examples of the type of omissions which
would appear to render the Japanese law rather ineffectual.
Section 9 of Article 6 provides that the statement to be submitted
to the Government as a prerequisite to the flotation of securi-
ties shall contain "matters to be stated on the prospectus."
Inconceivable as it may seem, nowhere in the law is there any
description of what is to be included in a prospectus, and in
addition it is implied in Sections 9 and 10 2 that the contents
of a prospectus are not to be subject of an ordinance. Obviously,
if the law is not to be amended or repealed, an ordinance will
have to be issued setting forth the information to be included
in a prospectus.
In
1 Attached to this memo is a summary of the articles requiring
implementation. This summary should make it clear that the scope
of the ordinances is sufficiently broad and complex to justify
assigning an expert to Japan.
2 1. Objective of company, trade name and matters pertaining to
capital or subscription.
2.
Business of company.
3.
Business result of company for the latest three business
years.
4.
Matters pertaining to property of company.
5.
Stock value of company at the end of the latest three years.
6. Plan on the use of funds raised as a result of the issue
of stocks or debentures concerned.
7. Types, descriptions, quantity and value of stocks or
debentures concerned.
8. Conditions for flotation or entrusting of flotation of
stocks or debentures concerned.
9.
Matters to be stated on the prospectus.
10.
Other matters as may be prescribed by an ordinance. (Emphasis
added.)

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
In both the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 (Section 10)
and in the Company Law, 1929 (Sections 34-38 and the Fourth
Schedule) the information which must be included in a prospectus
is set forth. Similar requirements should have been included
in the Japanese law.
The other sections of Article 6 (i.e., of the first eight
sections) contain the type of information required on the
registration statement. When compared to the comparable pro-
visions of the Securities Act (Schedule A) or the Company Law
(in Britain the prospectus serves also as a registration state-
ment), the Japanese law seems hopelessly inadequate. These
eight sections are so brief that if effective disclosure is
to be enforced and if Japanese corporations are to be given
a fair definition of the scope of the information that they are
required to divulge, considerable study and care should be taken
in drafting the ordinance provided for in Section 10. This
ordinance assumes greater importance when it is realized that
in the eight sections, comprising as they do only 14 lines,
an attempt was made to establish requirements comparable to
those spelled out in 208 lines of the Securities Act.
Duplications
The following examples of duplication in the Japanese law
is given to illustrate the careless draftsmanship. Article 18
provides "if the amount of net assets of a securities dealer
happens to be smaller than the amount designated by the Govern-
ment in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article l6, the Govern-
ment shall immediately suspend his business." In Article 42
it is stated "if the amount of net assets of a member happens
to be smaller than the amount designated by the Government,
the Government shall immediately suspend 3 transactions on the
securities market and at the same time notify the securities
exchange of such fact." These two articles coulu very well have
been combined.
In Article 25 it is provided that securities dealers shall
"as may be prescribed by an ordinance, prepare a document
pertaining to the business and state necessary particulars there-
on." Not only is this provision objectionable for indefiniteness,
but
3 The word "his" has apparently been inadvertently omitted, for
as the provision now reaas all transactions on the exchange would
be stopped by the failure of one member to maintain his net assets
at the prescribed level.

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
but also it would seem to duplicate Article 27 which requires
dealers to prepare and file an annual "business report...as
may be prescribed by an ordinance."
Errors
Article 38 begins "should the license as prescribed by
paragraph 1 of Article 31 be obtained..." Article 31 does not
refer to licenses, and Article 32, to which the quoted section
apparently refers, contains only one paragraph.
Unwise Provisions
Inadequate investigatorial powers were delegated to the
Securities Transaction Commission. The carelessness of the
draftsmanship is exemplified in the phrasing of Section 3 of
Article 78, which contains the kernel of the powers of the
Commission; the other sections merely authorize the Commission
to "deliberate", "review", "make public", and "participate".
Section 3 empowers the Commission "to make investigations on
matters relating to enforcement of this law and, if deemed
necessary, to summon interested persons or to request 4/ the
submission of documents and books." (Emphasis added.) It is
difficult to perceive the logic in distinguishing between
witnesses and docunentary evidence in this provision. The section
authorizes the summoning of witnesses (presumably with the corollary
power to punish for contempt), but it only authorizes the Com-
mission to "re uest", but not to require, the submission of
documentary evidence. In answer to the possible contention that
"request" actually is intended to mean "require", it should be
pointed out that our courts, and presumably also the courts of
most foreign countries, usually give a narrow, and not a broad,
construction to delegations of quasi-judicial authority to an
administrative agency.
Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the SEC is given
rather wide, but quite carefully delineated, investigatorial
powers. The SEC "may, in its discretion, make such investigations
as it deems necessary to determine whether any person has violated
or is about to violate any provision of this title or any rule
or regulation thereunder...any member of the Commission or any
officer
4 It is possible that "request" is an inaccurate translation of
the (official) Japanese text. In the Oriental Economist of May 24,
1947 (published in Japan), the word "demand" is used. The phraseo-
logy in the magazine is quite different from the text transmitted
to the Department.

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
officer designated by it is empowered to administer oaths and
affirmations, subpena witnesses, compel their attendance, take
evidence, and require the production of any books, papers,
correspondence, memoranda, or other records which the Commission
deems relevant or material to the inquiry...In the case of
contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpena issued to, any person,
the Commission may invoke the aid of any court of the United
States...in requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses
and the production of books, papers, correspondence, memoranda,
and other records. And such court may issue an order requiring
such person to appear before the commission or member or officer
designated by the Comaission, there to produce records, if so
ordered, or to give testimony touching the matter under investiga-
tion or in question; and any failureto obey such order of the court
may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof."
In view of the desirability of encouraging in every way
the disclosure of Japanese corporate activities and of the policy
of preventing excessive concentrations of economic power in Japan
it would appear illogical and contradictory to grant more
restrictive investigatorial powers to the Japanese Comaission
than are given to the SEC.
Attachment:
Summary.
5 The Japanese law fails to provide for judicial enforcement of the
Commission's rulings and orders. This of course will have to be
added, presumably by law, for it is very doubtful whether such a
provision could be included in an ordinance.
IR:AWWells:oms

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.99)
Provisions of the Japanese Securities and Exchange Law Reguiring
Implementation by Ordinance
(Relevant articles in parenthesis)
As may be prescribed by ordinance....
...registration statements shall be filed with the Govern-
ment (6)
...information on matters not specified in the first nine
sections of_Article 6 may be required on the_registration
statement discussed in the body of the memo (6)
...annual financial reports shall be submitted (12)
...the Government shall keep and provide copies of extracts
of registration statements and annual reports (13)
...licenses for trading in securities shall be issued (15)
..."net assets" snall be defined (16)
...securities dealers shall deposit a "business guarantee
fund", on which those who have transactions with dealers
have a preferencial right over other creditors (20)
...if dealers desire to offer securities or handle flota-
tions, they shall file such fact with the Government (23)
...all dealers shall prepare a document on each transaction
for delivery to the other party (24)
...dealers shall prepare "a document pertaining to the
business" (25)
...dealers shall prepare annual business reports, which the
Government may order to be published appears to be a dupli-
cation of Art. 257 (27)
...Government may mediate between dealers (31)
...dealers can establish an exchange (32)
...districts shall be established within each of which only
one exchenge shall be permitted (33)
...dealers may effect the registration of.an exchange (38)
...a securities

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
.."a securities exchange shall effect registrations" the
meaning of this Article is obscure; it may be a duplication
of Article 387 (39)
...a "membership guarantee fund" for an exchange shall be
set up (48)
...exchanges may fine or expel members (49)
...transactions begun by expelled members may be completed
by others (50)
...exchanges shall issue regulations (59)
...exchanges shall file descriptions of securities to be
listed on, or withdrawn from, exchanges. (60)
...members of an exchange may collect a margin from trusters (67)
...members shall prepare Transaction Reports on transfers of
entrusted securities (69)
...measures shall be taken to prevent any vicious effects
with respect to transactions on exchanges (76)
...necessary matters pertaining to the Securities Trans-
action Commission not specified in the law shall be
determined (82)
...Government shall grant hearings (83)
...Government shall be notified if any director, partner,
auditor or shareholder having a l0% stock ownership in a
company purchases or sells stocks in that company (84)

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.96)
1.453.
Form DS-302
(7-2-16)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
SECRET
A
14
Action: ESP
Control 2461
Info:
U·E
Rec'a July 8, 1947
A H
OCD
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
like
5:15 p.m.
CIG
ACTINF
DC/I.
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
ESP
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
OFD
ES
FROM:
T
OBP
JUL9-1947
GA
FC
TO:
Secretary of State
JK
OIC
DC/R
NO:
Unnumoered, July 8
7/14/47
FROM CINCFE
894.51/7-847
Fourth RTAc weeting held 8th July. Committee unanimously
approved SCAP evaluation procedures for reparations dis-
tribution purpoaes but reserved approval if values are to
be used as part of any final reparations settlement in
monetary teras. Diseussed SCAP procedure for distributing
pooled machine tools with general approval, minor questicns
to be olarificd in one week. Scnf announced release some
pooied machine tools for reparations. Actual lists pooled
machine tools for partial edvanced transfer program should
be aveilable 60-90 daye.
Have recsived no definite word ErA, namos, companies of
busineme group or Hodge. Based URAd have had transporta-
tion billets ready since first July.
Please clarify
situatlon with definite information.
Request report 1948
budget earliest, algo clarification statua Kane as OIC
Or OUSRRD.
MESSAGE UNSIGNED
DM: CWD
SECRET FILE
FILED
11947
工
工
SECRET
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THHS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATIOH OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGATION OF SWITZERLAND
3
RECEIVED
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
DEPARTNENTOFSIATE
1947 AUG 27 PM 1 42
MEMORANDUM
3-2447
200
ESP
DC/M
3-1447
894.51
WEFN
The Legation of Switzerland begs tó
refer to its Memorandum of March 14 and March 24,
transmitting to the Department of State declarations
drawn up by various Swiss banks regarding securities
of Japanese business enterprises held by Swiss citizens.
The Legation is now submitting an
additional declaration dated July 23, 1947 from the
894.51/8-2247
Sviss Bank Corporation in Basle (Société de Banque
Suisse) and would appreciate it if also this document
could be forwurded through the designated channels.
JUN 121951
Washington, D.C. August
2
DONNSTON OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
SEP2 1947
Encl.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFD Ont
C
A
LCY
1子
CCTEUR

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.95)
BOOIÉTÉ DE
BANQUE SUISSE
Bäle, le .....23...juillet...1947...g...
2872
Bordereau Association Suis se des B anquiers, Bâle.
$ 10.000.-
obl. 6 % Oriental Development Company Ltd. 1953
No. M 7307-7315 de $ 1.000.- valeur nominale
D 385,404 de $ 500.- valeur nominale
Le propriétaire des titres est citoyen de
Lichtenstein domicilié au Lichtenstein.
568-1000-VIII-39

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.97)
3
UNITEDCSTATES POLITICAL ADVISER
RECELVED
FOR JAPAN
1947 SEP 11 AM 9 50
Tokyo, September 3, 1947.
RESTRICTED
CC/M
NCH
No. 1259
SUBJECT: Report Prepared by the Bank of Japan Entitled "Establish-
ment of Self-Supporting Economy and Credit".
GIVISION OF FRAANCIAL AFFAMRS
The Honorable
SEP 1 6 1947
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
'oep
I have the honor to enclose one copy of a recent report entitled
"Establishment of Self-Supporting Economy and Credit", presented to
this Mission informally by ICHIMADA, Hisato, Governor of the Bank of
Japan. In view of the mumber of statements appearing in the Japanese
894.51/9-347
press concerning Japan's need for foreign loans, it is felt that the
section of the report dealing with international credits is of timely
interest.
An assumption is made in the report that in order to maintain the
average living standard authorized by the Far Eastern Commission (1930-
1934) an industrial level equivalent to that of 1936-1937 will be
necessary. Although the report fails adequately to explain the basis
894.
for such an assumption, it may be justifiable in view of such factors
as the following: the increased population of Japan; the loss of
revenues from "tourism", shipping, insurance, transportation, remittances
from relatives overseas, and other invisible exports; and the loss of
relatively cheap sources of supply.
Attention is invited to the industrial statistics quoted in the
report. Production and consumption figures for 1936-1937 appear inflated
in comparison with similar statistics given in the Japan Year Book, 1947
(published by the Foreign Affairs Association of Japan), and the Japan-
Manchukuo Year Book, 1940 (published by the Japan-Manchukuo Year Book
Company, Tokyo).
Respectfully yours,
Coittmin Benee
CS/JEC
William J. Sebald
Counselor of Mission
Enclosure:
"Establishment of Self-
SEP 29
FILED
Supporting Economy and
Credit" (single copy).
Original and hectograph to Department.
850
RHbushner/blc
kb

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.92)
-stablishment of self--upporting
conay und redit

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.98)
Establishment of Jelf-
supporting Soonomy and Credit
Contents
page
I. Foreword
1
II. Method of Calculating
amount of redit Required ... 2
III. tructure of stabilized
Economy
7
IV. Annual Plans Towards
stabilized Economy
36
V. Amount and Forn of
Required Credit
53
VI. Conclusion
58

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.98)
I. Foreword
anelyzing the trends of the Japanese eoonony
during the period from the termination of the war
to the end of 1946 in a brief paper under the title
of "n study on the present economio conaition of Japan"
some months ago, we foretold that the diffioulties
then confronting the Japanese economy in both produotive
and financiel phases would be intensified day after
day to indicate critical conditions in the latter half
of 1947. We at the same time pointed out that such
a crisis would be beyond the limit which the Japanese
economy was cble to surmount with strength of its own,
end further mede it clear that foreign assistance
would be absolutely necessary for Japan to attain an
eccnonio recovery.
Little improvement has been witnessed in this
basic situation subsequently, but it has rather been
aggrevated. It is undeniably true thet the measures
adopted by Jepan have not as yet been carried out
effectively, due to the unstable political situation
and other factors. nd there is no saying that
efforts would be directed with renewed vigor to enforce
the counter measures. all in all, however, there

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.97)
● 2-
is no other way left for Japan than to ask for
foreign aids in order to avert the imminent economis
orisis and to attain a recovery from the present
deteriorated conditions. and yet, foreign aids.
if given by piece meal without definite plan, or
granted after the Japanese economy had crumbled away,
may be liable to end in waste, insted of attain-
ing fully successful results. hen asking for foroign
aids, therefore, a concrete plan which is possible
of realization must be formulated with the objeet
of achieving the establishment of a minimum self-
supporting economy. A tentative plan is set forth.
in this paper.
II. ethod of alculatine mount of redit Required.
"hen, in what form und how much credit will be
needed for the Jepanese econony which is at the verge
of a collapse, to regain its onn footing? Tnis
is what the present study attempts to determine.
In this study, the following method is adopted
to calculate the volune of crdit required:
(A) In the first place, an estimate will be
mace of e scale of en industriel structure

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
under a stabilized condition of the Japanese
economy.
(B) annual plans will be formulated after re-
okoning the period that may extend until
the restoration of a stabilized economy
on the basis of various conditions.
(C) Cn the basis of (a) and (B), the amount of
credit required for euch year will be caloulated.
Under this plan, it is necessary in the first
place to imagine a certain structure of stabilized
economy as the aim to be accomplished. It is presumed
that a stabilized economy means an economio condition,
where at least,the following requirements are fulfilled:
(A) The reproductive structure is pleced on the
right track.
(B) International trade accounts are equibalanced.
(0) At least a minimum living stendard of the
netion is meinteined.
The scope of stabilized cconomy varies according
to levels at which the living standard of the nation
is to be kept. iowever, if this cguntry, a defeated
netion, is to receive aias from its former nostile
nations, there must neturally ce a certain limit to

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.96)
:
- 4 -
obtainable amount of credit, and therefore, the
immediate reconstruotion goal should be fixed at a
minimum economic stability, and further eoonomio
recovery should be aohieved by this nation's own strength.
Pertaining to the industrial structure, a plan should
be formulated on the basis of the current industrial
conditions. Such an industriel plan, therefore, d ll
be designed on the basis of the existing productive
capacity, taking into account the removal of facilities
for the reparations and possibilities of rehabilita-
tion and new installations.
As regard to the international trede accounts,
a close study is to be made as to whether it will
be possible to equibalence receipts and payments,
giving consideretions to the production of and markets
for export goods, production abroad of those goods
which this country needs and invisible trude receipts
and payments, etc. in determining a minimum living
standard, per cepital minimum average requirements
of clothing, food and housine will be calculated,
and studies will be made as tc whether such minimum
average requirements can be secured or not. It is
particularly necessery to exemine conditions of employ-
ment under the planned industrial struoture. It is
further to be stated thet under a stabilized economy

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.97)
● 5 -
it 1s necessary for the nation to emerge from the
state of diminishing reproduction and to obtain a
olear perspective that the economy will be papable
of recovering by its own power, and thus the ability
to repay the credit should be included in the plan
for a stabilized economy.
The strueture of stebilized economy now under
consideration is conceivec chicfly fron the angle
of produotion of goods. hevertheless many other
requirements must necessarily be fulfilled at the
same time in order to reelize a stabilized economy.
The prinoipal of the requirements conceivable ere
listed as follors:
(a) It is absolute pre-requisite to have finangial
and monetary pclicies established and a stability
of ourreney brougnt forth. lthout a stuble currenoy,
production does not inorcase, enterprises are not
able to earn profits and tne national living cannot
be free fron uneasiness.
(B) olution of the repurations problem is neces-
sary. Ihe industrial strueture receives decisive
influences eccording to the oxtent of the repare-
tions.
(3) llevietion in the buraens of the Cocupa-
tion Forces' expenses is necessary. No stability

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.96)
一 6 -
can be expected under the present conditton, where
large tolume of goods are used for the Occupatien
Forces and isolated from the process of reproduotion.
(D) Even under e stabilized economy, the controis
should be maintained to a substantial extent. Under
the stabilized economy essuned herein, the. production
will be still far from being sufficient, and thus
it will be necessary to maintuin the controls to
considerably wide ranges for rational distribution
of scerce goods.
(a) The foreign trade structure must be well set
up. It is necessary to ailow this country to emerge
from the present form of foreign trade vhich is entirely
under the' control of the allied Powers, and to create
et leest such a condition, under which Jupan may be
permitted to trade with other netions with a fair
degree of frecdom within the trede plan.
Taking into account diverse fectors it would
be appropriste and necessery to set the time to attain
a minimum degree of stabilized economy at about the
1950 (when population in this country 1s
end of Junc,
expected to reach 79, =00, 000). 1n reckoning the
amount of credit reguirec, therefore, annual plans
will be formulated coverine the period of three

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.96)
- 7 -
years beginning July, 1947, and deficits in the
international trade accounts will be computed.
Attention is called in this conneotion to the
facts that the present study has been made from
the stendpoint of setting up a minimum degree of self-
supporting economy, and therefore the national living
will be still very low even when the planned stable
economy is ettained, thet the netional living before
suoh a time will be far the worse, und that there is
some room for doubt as whether the nation will be
able to endure suoh a life of poverty end privation
for a prolonged period.
III. structure of tabilized conomy.
For the maintenance of the 1930-S4 average
living standerd, es approved  the Fur mustern
Jommission, and for the realization of balanced
international trade accounts, it would be neces-
sary for Jepan to restore he: industrial scope
to the 1936-7 leve1. the Japanese Industrial
structure in those deys mey be fathomed by the
following figures; populctin: 7 million; annual

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.95)
- 8 -
(consumption: 49 million to 53 million tons); ordimary
steel meterials: 4.3 million to 4.6 million tons;
cement: 4.5 million to 5 million tons; caustio soda:
0.32 mill1on to 0.34 million tons; cotton yarns:
1,5cc million pounds; annual emount of export
business: 2,692 mill1on; imports: 12,763 million
(exports and imports in 1936); netional income:
¥13. Coc million to Vl4, ccc million. The mining and
manufacturing production in those cays was 3 to 4
times the pre ent output and agricultural produotion
1.3 times. If considcration is given to a netural
increese of population (it is forocast thet Japan's
population in 195c wil1 be approxinately 13. larger
than the 1936-7 figure, this nation will be able
to maintain the 192 -4 consumption level only when
the present industricl soale is prought un to the
above-nentioner l-vel.
assulin thet un ihdustrial strueture which
enables Japen to inte in the l(-s averege living
standcrd, to equibul nee its intern tional trade
accounts and furthermore to sttain full employment,
can be nened a true st bi ixed econony (in this

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.97)
- 9 -
case, the basio coal requirements will be 58 milllm
to 60 million tons, on the basis of the present malory)s
4,000 to $5,c00 will1on of foreign crodit will
probably be needed to reise the present poor eeenomie
conditions to that level. However, the permission for
the 1930-34 "living lcvel" 1s after all a basis for
permissible "industrial level" and it does not mean
to guarantee the uplifting of the living conditions
to that level. Fcreign eids naturally will be very
limited if this nation may receive them. This country
therefore, should ask for foreign sids only to sueh
an extent as to enable it to atlain a minimum economie
stebility, and should plan to ahieve the greater stabili-
ty and broader economic recovery with its own strength,
without any outside assistance. On this viewpoint,
the first series of recovery aim is set at the 1ndustri-
al scale, international receipts and payments and level
of consumption as given below, vith annual coal
supply of 38 million tons as a buse. The assumed
industrial strueture at the time of expeoted stebility,
when compared with the present conditions, indicstes
thet, wherees such fsciiitie as munition plants
whioh are unnecessery for a peaceful Japan and those
which are earmerked for the reperations will diminish;

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.98)
-10 -
sueh branches as transportation, coal, electrie power
2
and export industries will have to be expanded
Yet, it is unthinkable that the nation's industrial
struoture itself will undergo any broad ohange,
as the greater emphasis will inevitably be plaeed
on the utilization of the existing industrial
facilities in vies of the poorness of the import-
ing ability of this nation.
(1) Industrial scale.
(A) Production of Basic Goods.
The total coal supply is estimated at 38 million
tons, of which 35.3 million tons represented by
domestio production and ?.7 million tons by imports.
This volume of production is about the same as
that of 1934, and is equivalent with 60, of the highest
production record of the pest (1940). The planned
distribution of coal among the principal branohes are
compared with the present and prewar coal distribu-
tion in the following teble:

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
(In thoumenée of
Branches
Distribution
1946
Fiscal
under this plan year
Railways
7,450
20%
6,960
30%
Consumption
at mines
3,150
9
2,250
10
3,020
7
Electric
power
2,640
7
1.450
6
2,860
Iron and
steel
4,550
12
1,500
7
5,25018
Gas, cokes
3,000
8
1,320
6
2,210
5
Chemical
fertilizers
3,500
9
1,330
6
2,000
Poor
Others
13,710
35
8,190
35
25,550
58
Total
38,000
100
23.C0C
100
44,610
100
The base of 38 million tons in quantity is a
l1ttle less than 80,, of the 1935-37 average, but it
is believed that the productive activities of
generel mining and manufeoturing industries based
on the above distribution plan will be but 50%
or 60 of the prewer level, because coal consumption
per production unit has risen in every industrial
branch due to soarcity of suitable varieties of coal
and degradation in quality of coal. Generally speak-
ing, however, the quelity of coal will be better
than present ts importation of excelient coal is ex-
pected, and this point has been taken into account

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.97)
-
power and operations of railways.
The total electrio power requirements to meet
economic activities et the time of economio stability
are estimated at approximately 30,000 million k.w.h.
(35,0c0 million at source). s against these large
requirements, the total power supply at souroe will
be limited to only 29,500 million k.w.h., inoluding
27,600 million k.w.h. of hydro-electrio power and
1,900 million k.w.h. of thermal power, after the removal
of the reparations facilities, indioating a shortage
of about 5,5co million k.w.h. Logically, additional
hydro-electrio power guneration facilities for ap-
proximately 5,000 million k.w.h. will be necessary,
even if the power requirenents are reduoed to a furthest
possible extent, by supplying gas, chereoal and fire-
wood in plece of electric power for brenohes other
than the mining unc manufecturing industries. However,
actually possible new installations of generation.
facilities are estimeted at no more than 2,500 mil-
lion k.w.h., and. thus the power consumption is ex-
pected to be plaoed under fairly rigid regulations
even at the time of stabilized eccnomy. The assumed
electric power requirements of 30,000 million k.w.h.

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.97)
. - 13 -
at the time of economic stability are consideramly
large, reaching the level of 1935-36, suoh being
due to sharp inorease registered after the end of
the war in demand from branches other than the min-
ing and manufacturing industries, such, for instanee,
as lighting, heating and special purposes (manufao-
ture of salt, etc.).
The supply of pig 1ron is estimeted at 1,500,000
tons (of which 1,40c,00c tons are of domestic produe
tion) and that of steel materials at 1,500,000 tons
(domestic product1on: 1,400,000 tons)* In order
to meet future industrial expansion the priority
system will be continued in favor of iron and steel
in connection with the allocation of ceal and in
other respects. In spite of suoh priority, nowever,
the assumed production of iron and steel looks
very poor when compared with the record in 1939,
when actual production amounted to 3,000,000 tons
on the base of 39 million tons of coal supply.
This is due to serious influences fror the decline
in quality of coal and shortage of high-grade iron
ores. The assumed production of steel, 1,500,000
tons, is no more than 37: of the 1935-37 average

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.97)
-14 -
(4,250.0c0 tons), but quadrupgleg the output during
last year. A normal demand for steel materials
three or four years hence 1s estimated at 2,250,000
tons (by Iron and steel ssociation) or at 2,650,000
tons (by the &inistry of Commerce and Industry), but
1t is believed thet, on the basis of the industrial
soope envisaged, the supply of 1,500,000 tons will be
fairly sufficient to secure steel materials for repair
of generel industrial facilities, besides supplying
moderate volume to the collieries and machinery
plants for the purpose of guarenteeing expanded
reproduction.
The supply of nitrogenous fertilizers comprises
1,200,000 tons of ammonium sulphate and 350,000
tons of nitro-lime. These figures indicate a shortage
of 20 to meet the estimated normal demand of
2,Coc,C0c tons. But the netion should be satisfied
with this sum of production of the nitrogenous ferti-
lizers, es there is a limit to the supply of coal
for this branch afterealocetions on the preferential
basis for the iron anu steel industry. It is to be
added, however, that the produetion of 2,000,000
tons would be possible, if ooal of the better

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.96)
- 15-
quality can be supplied even in the same quantity.
The production of ammonium sulphate during 1939
was 930,000 tons while 1ts imports amounted to 
50,000 tons.
The production of cement is estimated at 3,oo0.-
o00 tons, whioh approximetely meet the estimated future
normal demand of 3,050, 0c0 tons. cement was produoed
to the amount of about 5, 000, 000 tons during 1939,
but the output declined to merely 1,c00,000 tons
lest year, approximetely 50; of which having been
consumed by the Cccupation Forces. In the present
study, considerable emphasis is pleced on the produe-
tion of cement in order to meet huge cement require-
ments for the reconstrustion work.
The production goals of sods industries are set
at 13o,000 tons of caustic soaa ana 1c0,C00 tons
of sode ash, these figures representing 39y and
43, respectively, of the 1937 output, soda re-
quirements for those branohes other then the chemioal
and textile industries, have been compressed to a
oonsideruble extent, in viev of the fect thet the
soda industry is closel involved in the repara-
tions.

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.98)
-16 -
As the fiber industry conatitutes the bask-
bone or the export industries of this nation, the
greater importence is placed on it than on any other
industries, save the coal and iron branches, and
1ts goal is fixed ut the realization of the three-
yeer fiber industry plan, which was formulated joint-
ly by the ministry of Jommerce and industry and the
Fiber Association. To put it in figures, the produo-
tivity of the fiber industry at the time of stabilized
economy wil1 consist of 4,370,000 spindles and 184,000
sets of looms for cotton spinning, facilities for
production of 12c million pounds of reyon ena those
for 237 million pounds of staple fiber, while the out-
put of cotton yarns is estimated at 7c. million
pounds, that of rayon at 12( million pounds and that
of staple fiber at 90 million pounds. For the
attainment of the foregoing production plan, many
bottlenecks are to be surmounted in connection
with importation of raw materials, such as raw cotton,
raw wool and hemp, adcitional installations of
equipment and acquirement of suffioient supply of
eaustio soda, coal, pulp as well as labor, but the
plan should be carried out in defiance of all

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.97)
-17
difriculties in order to realize a self-supportims
eeonomy.
(B) Tranaportation.
It is believed that the transportationd system
will be capable of meeting the afore-explained
industrial scale, with an anuual railway capaoity
of l44 million tons and maritime shipping capacity
of 20 million tons as a base. Following thetermima-
tion of the war, it was disoussed at one time as
to the feasibility of re-shifting to the maritime
transporation of those classes of freight (coal.
in particular) which had been diverted from maritime
to lend transportation system during the wer. In
view of the limitec future possibilities of the
shipbuilding industry, however, it is forecast
thet the greater emphasis would remain on the land
transportation. In comparison with the monthly
freight carrying capacity of the railways of
3.50c.000 tons w1ith the coal allocat1on of 6,700,000
tons for the current year, the asswmed monthly
freight carrying capacity of 1,000,00c tons with the
ccel allocation of 7,450,c00 tons appears to have

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.97)
- 18 -
these figures have been obteined on the basis of
a plan to allot imported coal for iron and steel,
leaving other high-grade coal as far as possible
for the railways. The dilapidation as well`as
possible removal for the reparations of looomotives
and freight cars present a question of serious
magnitude, and therefore, some consideration has
been given to the allooation of steel meterials for
inoreased production of these rolling-stooks.
In order to raise the present base marine trans-
portation cepacity of 6,660,000 tons to 20,000,000
tons, 1t wil1 be necessery to import 1, 000, 000 tons
of freighters (approximt tely 20c million), since
annual shipbuildine is estimated at merely 150,000
tons for the coming two cr three yeers with possible
available supply of steel materials for the period.
(C) Agricultural Production.
The present annual domestic production of farm
products 1s about 75 of the 1930 record, but 1t is
estimeted that the peroentage figure will rise to
118 when the planned stability will be realized.

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.96)
- 19 -
sent 69,630,000 koku (a koku= about 5 bushels).
barleys and wheat 24,130,000 koku, potatees (1nelnd-
ing sweet potatoes) ,000 million kan (a kan= 3.75
kilogrammes) and soy beans 470,000 tons.
A summary of the planned stable economy has
been given with respect to the prinoipal industries
in the foregoing paragraphs. And it is expected
that a total economic activities would reaoh about
70% of the l935 level when the plan is real1zed.
In other words, the ennual national inoome under
the planned stable economy will amount to l2,000
million (in terms of the 1935 prices), as against
the 1935 national income of 14,500 million.
Remarks are to be added with regard to the re-
quirements of the Cooupation Forces and removal
of facilitics for the reparations. For the former.
supplies are estimeted at 50c, cco tons of coal
(total ocal supply: 38 million tons), 18,000 tons
of steel materials (total steel supply: 1,500,000
tons), 5, 000 tons of pig iron (total supply:
1,5c0,000 tons), 100,000 tons of cement (total

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.97)
-20-
supply 3 mill1on tons) and 50,000 cases of sheet
glass (total supply: 1,700,000 cases). These figares
are considerably smaller than the volume supplied
to the Oocupetion Forces during last year, but the
volume of the supplies has been reduoed to this
extent in anticipation of a broad contraotion of
the Oooupation Foroes' expenses by the year 1950.
Should the Cooupetion Forces' requdrements exoeed
the above-given figures, the nation's total supply-
ing cepacity will have po be increased so much.
"ith respect to the latter item, it is to be stated
that those plants earmerked for the reparations
are not included in the productive capacity under
the present plan on the ussumption that they would
be removed.
(2) Internatfonal keceipts and rayments.
The volume of import requirements widely varies
acoording to the industrial scule and level of liv-
ing conditions thet are to be maintained. On the
assumption thet 80 million of population will maintain
the 1930 level of l1ving conditions, Japan will
be required to import 683 million of foodstuffs,

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.98)
1131 million of feede and fertilisers, Yl, mil-
lion of fibre materiale and Ylg517 million of other
items, totaling Y3,400 mill1on in terms of 1936 aom
ty prices, according to an estimate made by the Fosiga
Office. In terme of the current value of th United
States dollar, the above total approximates $1,700
million, and it will be utterly impossible for Japan
to import that much goods in view of its export ability
under the stable economy assumed herein. In the present
study, the utmost importance is placed on the
promotion of the export iadustries, but the study leade
to the conolusion that the export business can be
expanded at the best to merely a half ($1.200 million)
of the 1937 record in the light of the tempo at which
the domestic industries in general are recovering
and of the rapidity with which economic recovery is
being attained in various East Asian countries, which
are the main markets for the Japanese products.
With a view to financing the importe within such
a limit of the export abtlity, about $260 million
is appropriated for the importation of 6 million
koku of rice, 10.72 willion koku of wheat, 320,000
tons or soy beans, 1 willion tons of salt and

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.98)
-22-
300,000 tons of sugar in order to ssoure the staple
food ration of 3 "go" par capita per day, and h31
million for the importation of fibrous materials,
1,750,000 balee of raw ootton, 350,000 bales of raw
wool, 130,000 long tons of rayon pulp. As a result,
the importation of other goods had to be cut as far
as possible: coal to 2.7 willion tons, heavy oilk
to 1.33 million kiloliters, steel materials to
100,000 ton8, pig 1ron to 100,000 tons, rubber to
30,000 tons and lumber to 6 million koku (a koku = 10
cubio feet). Thus total imports are estimated to amount
to $1,200 millicn. Under such circumstances, the import
cantrol would be indispensable even under the planned
stable economy.
The fiber products are all in all the nucleus
of the export trade of this country, and therefore,
the utmost stress is given thereon. If the selection
of export goods ia to.be zade in point of profitableness
to the donestic econony, the greater importance should
be placed on such itegs as small-tyce machinery,
eartherwares and porcelains, materia medica, dyestuffs
and other chemicals, canned goods, objects of arts
and industrial arts, for which raw materials are

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.98)
-23 -
available within the country, production costs are
relatively cheap or large amount of labor is
required. However, there are oertain restriotions
to these goods in respect to the markets abroad,
productive capacity, etc., and it is unreasonable
to expect large amounts of export business from
eitter of trese iteme. The fiber products (60% of
all exports), therefore, are the only category, 
fairly subetantial export business can be expected
of for some time to come. It is thue believed
the Japanese eccnomy is destined to return to such
an industrial structure as hinging around the light
industries. It ie, of course, necessary to increase
as far as possible the production of the export
articles other than the fiber products, regardless
of their export values, since it is with their aids
that this nation will oe able to bring its export
trade to the annual total of around 1,200 million.
In the following paragraons, an attempt shall be
made to examine individual export industries.
Assuming that the three-yesr fiber induetry
plan will be materialized nearly as planned and
moreover that per capita don cstic consumption of

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.96)
一 -
textiles can be restricted to 4 pounds per year,
exports of fijer products are estimated at comsidare
ably large amounts, viz., cotton products $350 million,
woolen goods $130 million, rayon $37 million, staple
fiber tissues $30 million, raw silk and silk fabriem
$130 million, aggregating about $700 million. Riw
sink, which had hitherto been much expected of, bas
come to betray such expeotations as its sales and
prices have declined under the pressure of nylon and
other factors. Nevertheless it is estimated herein
that about l20 million of foreign funds will b
obtained from sales of raw silk, with its exports of
200,000 bales at the prices of 4.50 dollars per 1b.
Due consideration given to the question con-
cerning the future markets, the export industries
of this country should be diversified to a furthest
possible extent. It is to be pointed out particulat-
ly that the chemical and machinerycindustries
should play an important role in the future export
trade. These industries have not as yet been developed
in the East Asian countries adjecent to this nation,
and the moderate priced Japanese products of medium-
grade are suitable for the Far Eastern markets.

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.98)
In addition there are several fadtors faverable to
the products of these two industrial branches:
their technical levels have been raised due to the
war, that their equipment has also increased and that
they have advantages in obtaining high prices in
comparison with cost of raw materials, However, it
is impossible to expect large demands sor these
products, in view of the speed at which the economie
recovery iε being made in the ast Asian markets.
Anotner thing is that many of plants in these two
industrial branches are to ve removed for the payment
of tne reparations leaving only obsolete eguipment.
Furtner, the present los level of general economio
activies will render racid recovery of these in-
dustries extrenely diifioult. In these circumstances,
the most we can expect would be exports of l0o mil-
lion in total, consisting guinly of such exports as
materia medica, sesing machines, bicycles, cameras,
time-pieces and fertilizers. The next largest export
business ie found in the agricultural and aquatio
products, including wheat flour, tea and cannea goods.
Wheat exports art estimated in anticipation of the
return to the prewar methoo of processing and re-exporting

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
wheat flour made of imported wheat (30 million in )
Large demand for tea will be available from the Unised
States and Canada while considerable erpeotations oan
be entertained with respect to exports of canned salmen,
tuna and tangerine oranges to different countries.
Thus, the total exports of agrioultural and aquatio
producta are estimated at s94 zillion. Other prinoipal
export items are rubber products $30 million, earthen-
wares and prucelaine #24 million, glass $24 million,
toys 88 million, lumber $24 million, papers $3 million
and metals 7 million. In the subjoined table, ratios
of the foregoine export anc import items to the
respective totals are compared with the corresponding
percentages recorded in the past:
Imports
Items
Under this
1935
1930
plan
Iron and steel
3.6
8.3
5.9%
Non-ferrous metals
2.8
4.7
3.3
Fuels
5.8
10.0
12.4
Coal
1.4
1.9
2.2
Others
4.4
8.1
10.2
Chemicals
7.7
13.8
14.2

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
Fibers
39.2
37.9
Machinery
6.9
6.8
8.9
Farm products
27.0
14.0
14.4
Others
7.0
4.5
9.6
Total
100.0
100.0
100.0
Exports
Agricultural and
aquatic products
8.1
8.0x
9.1%
Chemicals
2.2
4.9
4.0
Yarns
15.4
19.9
32.4
Textilee
47.1
40.0
33.6
Coal
0.3
0.3
1.4
Earthen-wares
and porcelains
2.1
1.7
1.8
Rubber producta
0.8
0.1
0.3
Glass and
manufactures
thereof
2.1
0.9
0.6
Metals
0.6
2.7
1.5
Machinery and tools
9.7
6.0
2.3
Sundry goods
11.5
15.5
13.0
lotal
100.0
100.0
100.0

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.98)
(3) Level of Conmmption.
The level of consumption under the stabilimed
economy will first be studied in the fiel of feed
stuffs. The Japanese people at present are supplies
with a little less than 1,700 calories per capits
per day, as against ahittle less than 2,200 calories
in 1930. Under the stabilized economy, the people
in this country will have a little less than 2,000
calories per capita per day, estimating the total
populations at that time at 79,460,000, and inorease
of 17 per cent as compared with the present rate
but a decrease of 9 per cent as compared with the
1930 level.
#hile the composition of foodstuffs will
undergo no particular changes, under the stabilised
economy, there will be much difference in it if
compared with that of 193c. In the staple food, the
consumption of rice vill decrease, while increases
will be seen in the consumption of wheat, barleys.
sweet potatoes and Iriah potatoes. yeanwbile, the
consuaption of fish and meat will decrease by 33
per cent, and 50 per cent, respeotively, indicating
an inevitable shortage of a considerable amount
of albumen.
The conaumption of warious kinds of seasoning
materials will decrease, particularly that of sugar

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.98)
-29 -
will-drop markedly. The consumption of salt, oil,
bean-paste and soy-bean sauce eto. -- will deerease
by 10 to 20 per cent. Thus it is noted that the
living condition of the péople, so far as the food-
stuffe are concerned, will remain very poor even under
stabilized economy.
while the above estixation was made on the
average per capita consumption of foodstuffs, it
should be noted, at the sare time, that it is extremely
difficult to carry out aotually equal distribution of
food. "hen we reulize that we are the defeated nation
and the consumption level is low, as a whole, as
has been explained in the preceding paragraphs,
we have to do our utuost to divide equally what is
being left. Actually, however, it is impossible
to avoid the difference between the rich and the
poor, and also between the rural and uroan food
conditions. People living in the urban district
are in the most disadvantageoue situation.
It is, therefore, neceesary to give attention to
the food rationing in to towns and cities. It will
be possible to supply 3 "go" of rice per capita
per day, if the preeent ratioging systen is maintain-
ed without undergoing much change, and about 50 per

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.98)
-30-
cent of rice and wheat and 45 per cent of potatoes
actually produced are collected in the forn of the
quota delivery. The 3 "go" ration of staple food
will include rice, sweet potatoes and Irish potatoes.
Even if this increased ration is attained, it would
rean that the people in the urban area would be
supplied with approximately 1,800 calories per capita
per day, which are still far from being sufficient,
although some improvement will oe seen compared with
the present ration.
The amount of consumption of textile goods,
under the stabilized cconoxy, per capita per year
will be a little less than four pounds which is
two times as much as the present amount of two
pounds, but a little less than one half of 9.5
pounds of 1930. 1lk and hemp yarn will sedmarked
decreases in their consumption, while the rate of
consurption of rayon and etaple fibre will increase.
Ir. tne meantime, however, the amount of clothing
materiala in stock held oy merchants and general
consumers will decrease. faking this point into
account, it can be said that the expected amount of
consumption of textile gooda under the stabilized
economy would be still insufficient.

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.95)
i
-32 -
Lastly, we want to disouss the housing con-
ditions, During the Pacirio War, 2,l00, 000 houses
were lost by airraids and 550,000 houses by the
dismantling. Taking into considerat ion the housing
shortage during the war, est imated at about 1,l80,-
oo0, and other factors, the shortage at the time of
the termination of the war may be estimated at ap-
proximately 4,300,C00 houses. tssuming that some
300,000 houses have been built in the post-war period,
the present shortage of houses would be around 4,-
000, 000. Judging from the present supply of build-
ing materials, such as, iron, steel, timber, cement
and sheet glass, it will be impossible to build more
than 1,200, 000 new houses during the coming three
years. Most of the new houses will be temporary
dwellings built mainly with timber, so it is expect-
ed that some 200, 000 houses may be lost in fires,
floods, storms or mey collapse by corrosion. Ac-
cordingly, the increase in the nunber of houses
would be 1 imited to not more than 1, O00, 000. The
acute shortage wili continue for a considerable
period.

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.98)
- 32 -
(4) Employment
In the last place, we wish to review the em-
ployment level under stabilized economy. In order
to realize the stabilization of economy in the real
sense, it is absolutely necessary to effect the full
employment. The production scale for the maintenan-
ce of the full employment would be set on the basis
of the 6o-million-ton coal production, on the as-
sumption that the productivity of labor would re-
cover to the level or the 1930-35 period. However,
what is meant in the "stabilized economy" mentioned
here is the minimum scale as explained above and
its economio activities are limited to around 70
per cent of those of the 1935-37 period. It is
impossible, therefore, to expect the realization
of the full employnent.
Estimating the tot al populat ion under the stabi-
lized economy at 79, 46c, v00, the number of population
employed is est imated at 52,17, 000 or 40 per cent
of the total population, on the assumption that the
aforesaid productive scale and the average labor
productive capacity in the 193e-35 period would be
attained. The population employed will include

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.97)
- 55 -
15,400,000 agrarian population (47 per cent); 00.
000 workers in the marine aquatic products industry
(1.8 per cent); 500,000 workers in the mining in-
dustry (1.6 per cent); 6,850,000 workers in the
manufacturing industry (21 per cent); 3,790,000
workers in the commerce (11.8 per cent); 1,850,000
workers in the transportat ion industry (5.7 per cent)
2,200, 000 workers in the public offices and "free"
ocoupations (6.8 per cent); 740, 000 domest1o worker
(2.3 per cent) and 220,000 workers (0.7 per cent)
in other industries.
It will be noted that of the above-listed
branches, agriculture and manufacturing are the only
industries capable or absorbing a large number of
workers. In view or the fact that the agrerian
population in the 1935-37 period was 13,840, 000, 1t
would result only in further minimization in the
scale of the farming unit if any attempt is made
to supply more population to the rural district
than the above-mantioned 15,400, 000.
Accordingly, whether the expected full employ-
ment can be realized or not depends upon to what
extent the manufacturing industry can absorb more

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.97)
- 34 -
labor. It will be impossible, however, to in-
crease the number of workers in the manufacturing
industry more than the above-mentioned 6,850,000,
with the productive capacity under the stabilized
economy estimated at around 50 per cent of the
1935-37 period. Thus the unemployment population
would become 7,590, 000 or 9.8 per cent of the total
populetion, which corresponds to the l2-fold of the
unemployment populat ion in the 1935-37 period. The
number of the unemployed montionod here is estimat-
ed, by deduct1ng 32,170, J00 eaployed workers and
39,69-,C00 persons having no occupations from the
total population of 79,460,000.
To allow the une nployed population of 7,59o,-.
o00 would be inconsistent with the idea of the
stabilization in economy. It will be necessary,
therefore, to increuse chances of employment, so
that the number of the unemployed can be reduced
as much as possible. For that purpose endeavours
will have to be done to absorb the unemployed in
various industries as far as possible, by cutting
working hours or by some other neans, and further
large scale unemployment relief works will have to

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.94)
-35 -
be launched by financial disbursements. Evm
it must be admitted that the number of the umempleg
ed in the early part of the year 1950 would not bo
less than the three million level. Here lies the
reaaon why the projected economy can not be called
as a stabilized economy in the real sense of the
term.

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.97)
-36-
Assuming that the industrial scale under the
stabilized economy as mentioned above would be at-
tained in June, 195o, the following annual programs
are mapped out. The course to be taken annually for
the realizatlon of the stabilized economy is decided
in the prograns which are divided into two aspeots--
production scale and international trade balance.
(1) Production Soale
The first yeer program covers the period bet-
ween July, 1947 and June, 1948. The industrial
scale during the year is based on the coal produc-
tion' of 30, 000, 000 tons (plus 600,000 tons of im-
ported coal) and on the steel production of 700, 000
tons (plus 1o0, tons of imported steel). This
estinate roughly corresponds with the scale plan-
ned in the "1947-year Goods denand and supply Plan"
of the Economic tabilizntion Board.
Considerins that the B's program is based on
the pr.,-Mar., fiscal year, and thet the coal pro-
duct ion is supposed to reach the 2,500, 000-ton lovel
in October, it is feared thet the attainment of its

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.99)
- 37 -
goal will be diffioult. On the contrary, as the
ennuel program under this plan begins in July each
year and ends in June, following year and is for-
mulated on the assuption of foreign credits to be
obtained, we believe it possible to attain the fixed
goal. It must be noted, however, that the supply of
basic materials in this period would be tight and
insurricient in the world market, and it would be
impossible to expect much for the importation of im-
portant materials. It would also be very diffioult
to achieve speedy revival of the devastated in-
dustries, the speed of revival in the first year of
the program would thus be comparatively slow.
The supplias of the principal products expect-
ed for the first year of the plan are as follows:
(In thousands of tons)
Domestic Production Imports
Coal
30,000
600
Pig iron
600
100
Ordinary steel materials 700
100
Caustic soda
80
Cement
1,700
Ammonium sulphate
950

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.98)
Domestio Production Imports
Cotton yarn
480
(million lbs.)
Land transportat1on 114,000
Marine transportation 10,000
一
As imports of gooda in the second year from
July, 1948 to June, 1949, would become muoh easier,
judging from the economic trend of the world, a broad
increase in the tempo of the industrial revival is
attempted. 3liding scale productions with a special
emphasis placed, as in the first year, on the pro-
duction of iron and coal are cont inued in this year.
If the first year is for the construotion of the
ground work for the economic revival, the second
year will be the year for its development. In other
words, the second year constitutes the nucleus of the
three-year program.
The supplies of the prinoipal goods estimated
for the second year are:
(In thousands of tons)
Dome stic Produot ion
Imports
Coal
33,500
1,500
Pig iron
1,000
200
Ordinary steel materials
1,000
250

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.96)
- 39 -
Domestic Produotion Imperts
Caustic soda
100
Coment
2,200
一
Ammonium sulphate
1,100
一
Cotton yarn
598
一
(million lbs.)
Land tranaportation 138,000
Marine transportation 15,000
The goal of the supplying ability during the
third year, beginning in July, 1949 and ending June,
1950, 1s set at a point slightly lower than the
stabilized economy level, on the assumption that the
industrial soale at the end of the third year, that
is, at the end of June, l950, wili reach the level
described in "Structure of Stabilized Economy".
The supplies of the principal goods estimated
for the third year are:
(In thousands or tons)
Domestic Iroduction
Imports
Coal
35.000
2,400
Pig iron
1,300
100
Ordinary steel materialsl,300
100
Caustic soda
130
一
Cement
2,800
一

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.97)
-40-
Domestic Produetion Imports
Ammonium sulphate
1,200
Cotton yarn
700
(million lbs.)
Land transportation 140,000
1
Marine transportation 20,000
It must be added that the industrial reconstrue-
tion program has inseperable relations with the re-
moval of equipments for reparations payments and also
with the demand fron the Occupation Forces. With re-
gard to these points a tentative plan has been for-
mulated on the following assumption.
It is understood that 30 per cent of some 1,000
plants that have been specified for the reparations
payments will shortly be renoved. we estimated that
the actual removal of the 30 per cent plants will re-
quire three years in consideretion of the possible
destructive effect on Japan's economy if the removal
1s carried out too rapidly, available transportation
facilities and packing efficiency. The amount of the
direct demand alone fron the Occupation Forces during
the last year was enormous, including 822, 000 tons of
coal (4 per cent of the total supply); 18, 000 tons
of p1g iron (21 per cent); 51, 000 tons of steel

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.97)
-42 -
materials (11 per cent); 490,000 tons of cement (85
per cent); 8, 000 tons of ingot iron pipe (87 per cont);
85 per cent of the total supply of the earthen and
porcelain wares and l97, 000 boxes of sheet glass
(26 per cent), and it is expected that a large amount
of materials will be demanded during this year too.
It must be stressed, however, that it would be almost
impossible to expect the realization or the stabiliz-
ed econony, so long as such an enormous amount of non-
reproductive consumption cont inues.
With regard to the demand from the Oocupation
Forces, therefor, it was inevitable in our study to
take a prenise that the demand will decrease gradual-
ly with the last year's record as its peak.
(2) International Trade Balance
The following annual pro grans are formulated on
the international trade, under the principle of re-
stricting imports and encouraging exnorts as much as
possible aiming et balance in the international
trade at the end of June, 1950, the terminal of the
third year:
(In millions of Dollars)

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.98)
- 48 -
Year
lst Year
End Year
Exports
558
788
1,647
Imports
838
988
1,047
Unfavorable balance of
invisible trade (such
as, payments of freight
charges)
150
200
200
Net unfavorable belance
of trade
450
400
200
First year.
The following are the principal export and im-
port artioles end the amounts thereof, estimated
for the first year.
(In million of dollars)
Exports
Anounts
Imports
Amounts
Yarns
121
oodstuffs
250
(Raw silk
77)
Fibre materials
246
(Raw cotton, wool,
pulp etc.)
Textiles
282
Fuel
44
(Coal, heavy oil eto.)
Cotton piece-goods
148
achinery
55
Woollen fabries
42
Salt, Crude rubber, 70
fertilizers etc.
Rayon and staple fibre 21
tissues
Iron, steel and
materials thereor
9
Knitted goods
64
Hon-ferrous metals
7
Agricultural & aquatic
products (tea and
29
Vessels and
canned goods)
their fuel
100

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.97)
- 43 -
Exports
Amount s
Imports
Amounts
Chemieal products
6
Freight charges
150.
and oth er expenses
Rubber goods
10
Total with others 908
Machinery and tools
16
Total with others
538
As to necessary amount of 1mports for the first
year of the present plan which will begin in July,
1947, foodstuffs are estimated at 250 million on the
assumption that per capita staple food ration will
be kept at 2.5 "go" per day; and fuels at $4e million,
presuming that 600, 000 tons of coal and one million
kiloliters of heavy oll will be imported. Por im-
ports of steel and its materials 9.8 million is ap-
propriated, while imports of raw materials for textile
goods are estimated at $246 million covering 1.2 mil-
lion bales of raw cotton and 150, 000 bales of raw
wool, etc. Imports of fertilizers, rubber, salt,
etc., which are related with the chemical industry
are estimated at 7o million and those of maohinery
at 55 million. Assuming that one nillion gross tons
of vessels will be imported during first two ysars
for strengthening the marit ime transportation capacity,

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.98)
- 44 -
loo million is allooated for the first year. the
foregoing figures put together, the total will reaeh
s838 million, which would further escend to sum of
988 million, if freight charges are added.
Articles and quantities thereof, as given above,
are desired and needed by Japan, but there is a
certain amount of doubt as to whether that muoh imports
will be poasible or not, considering from the angle
of the demand and supply situation in the world eoo-
nomy as a whole, and also as to whether or not the
prices of the commodities involved are liable to
rise. The former question makes itself more keenly
felt particularly in connection with steel materials,
pig iron, coal, rubber, wool, pulp, timber, vessels
etc. We cannot help but recognizing much dirficulty
considering from the fact that notwithstanding last
year's special import application no import was
materialized with regard to these articles. But since
these materials are essential for the reconstruction
of Japan's economy, earnest request must be made to
the General Headquarters explaining the actual situ-
ation of the country. And, if it is impossible to
import them even after such a request, it would be

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.98)
-45-
neceshary to import things which are easily impert-
able; for exmaple,' the importing or heavy oil, im-
stead of coal, and ore instead of steel material will
be necessitated. The prices of import goods are
based on the prices of medium-grade artiales in the
United States, and freight oharges and other ex-
penses are set aside as expenditures in the invisible
trade. However, it is quite impossible to foresee
the future commodity price trends in the United
States and there may be considerable changes in the
purchase cost according to price fluctuations in
future. Principal exports to meet the imports will
be 400 million of textile products comprising l40-
. ooo bales of raw silk, 8.0 million yards of cotton
piece-goods, lo0 million yearus of staple fibre and
rayon fabrics, etc., 16 million of machinery, 21
million of timber, lo million of rubber goods, $29
million of tea and canned goods etc., totaling 538
million. There are various problems with regard to
realizat ion or this export plan, viz.: (1). Export-
ing power is weak due to the poverty of economic
activities as a whole. (2). rincipal export in-
dustries like fibre industry have been destroyed

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.98)
-46 -
besause.of the war. (5). There is diffioulty in
having olose connect ion with the demand of the world's
market due to thé controlled trade. (4). Trede re-
lations with countries other than United States, and
particularly with couth East Asiatic countries are not
yet on the regular course, and moreover, these countries
in general are experiencing difficulties owing to
shortage of funds for settlements of international
accounts. (5). Import ing of raw materials for ex-
port industries is not necessarily smooth. (6). As
the ofricial purchase prices of export goocs are in
many cases lower than the black market quotations,
there is strong tendency of goods flowing out through
illegal channels, and therefore, much effort is need-
ed even for the realization of this much exports.
It is to be perticulerly noted that best effort is
necessary to check pro gress of inflation, which
stimulates the black-market trading and is liable
eventually to cause a collapse of the export plan.

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
-47-
3econd year.
The following are the principal export and
import articles and the amounts thereof, estimat-
ed for the second yeer.
(In millions of dollars)
Exports
Anount
Imports
Amounts
Yarns
599
Foodsturfs
243
(Raw silk
89)
Fibre materials
332
(Raw cotton, wooll,
Textiles
407
pulp etc.)
Cotton piece-goods 200
Fuels
50
(coal, heavy oil eto.) 
Woolen fabrics
59
Machinery
56
Rayon and staple
fibre tissues
31
Salt, Crude rubber,
fertilizers etc.
77
Knitted goods
94
Iron, steel and
Agricultural &
materials thereof
24
aquatic products
42
(tea and canned goods)
Non-ferrous metal
13
Chemical products
8
Vessels and their fuel
110
Rubber goods
30
Freight charges and
ot her expenses
200
Machinery & tools 32
Total with others
1,188
Total with others 788

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
As it is thought that the demand and supply
situation in the world economy will be imppoved in
the second year imports of such items as machinery,
heevy oil, coal eto., which are needed for the
economio recovery are planned to be imported at
high levels, with a view to hasten recovery. In.
other respects there is no basic difference as
compared with the first year, but the export power
will probebly show a fairly conspicuous upwerd
tendency from this period.

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
-49-
Third year.
The following are the prinoipal export and
import artioles and the amounts thereof,
estimated for the third year.
(In millions of dollars)
Exports
Amounts
Imports
Amounts
Yarns
201
Fibre materials
431
(raw cotton, wool,
(Raw silk
107)
pulp etc.)
Textiles
517
Raw cotton
265
(fibre materials)
Cotton piece-goods 225
Raw wool
116
Hoolen fabrics
TOT
Fuels
53
Rayon & staple
(coal, heavy oil etc.)
fibre tissues
59
Foodstuffs
253
Knitted goods
102
Tron, steel and
Agricultural &
materials thereof
34
aquatic products
60
(tea, canned goods,
Non-ferrous metal
24
wheat flour)
Chemical products
83
Chemical products
(salt, rubber,
(firtiligers & materic
fertilizers etc.)
medida)
Rubber goods
30
Machinery
53
Machinery and tools 48
Freight charges
Earthen wares and
and other expenses
200
porcelains
14
Total with others 1, 047 Total with others
1,247

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.97)
-50 -
It is expeeted that the amount of exports equmls to
that of the imports for the third and final year f the
reconstruction plan, but still the amount of payment
for freight charges and other exponses will remain to
form an unfavorable balance of the international accountà.
However, it is asswned under the present plan that the
international receipts and paynents, inoluding the in-
isible trade aocounts, will recover cquilibrium at the end
of the final year.
of different groups of the exports, textile goods
amount to 7co million; forming 7., of the total exports.
the ratio being greater as compared with 58: of 1936.
Corresponding ratios of other goods show not much dif-
ference irom the prewar figures. Consilering problems
concerning export markets and the poverty of ability to
acoumulate capital or the ability to invest new capital.
it is inevitable to attaoh importance to the effestive
utilization of existing produotive power es far as short
period problems are concerned. Such a thing as large-
soale converaion of export industries to meet the new
situation cannot be an immediate problem.

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.96)
-51 -
secure 40 of the whole, and this peroentage is mearly
equal with the figures of 1936, but 26, for foodsturfs
doublee the 1936 reccrd 6f l n the other hand
the peroentages of chenicals, fat oil, bres and motals
show mome decreese.
Further, it must here be addeu that the annual plan
of the foreign trede balance hes beer prepared on the
basis of follonin supposition.
(a) In formulating the export and import plan, partioul-
arly the emport plen, matters relnting to markets have
also been taken into consideration to a certain extent,
and in this case it has been presuned that great im-
provement will be made in trade with foreign countries
other then the United States, Whiel at present is being
hampered by various conditions. It is considered that
there will be no change in futur with regard to the
importance or the marlets in  ast sia and in South See
countries es the marret for the eports of Japen. but
no regular trade with these countrics is reopened at
present.
estoration of trade to normal condition by
the conclusion of barter agroement or agreement on
settlements of international eccounts with each of the

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.96)
-82-
countries is the prerequisite for the reconstrustion of
Japanese industries. Again, these countries have not
yet recovered from the war calamities and laok in the
power to settle their international trade acoounts, and
unless this problem is solved by the aid of the United
States or by other means, o repiu recovery of Japan's
export industries can be expected. But it hes been
presumed thet pet improvement ill  witnessed in.
these aspeots in the neer future.
(b) In oalouleting the prices o export ond import
goods, merzet prices in merica heve been referred to.
The amount of import duty are not inolded in the import
cost as the tariff schedule is mot yet available, and if
this amount reaohes to a large swn so uch sep will be
made in the present plan.

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.93)
- 53 -
V. The amount of credit needed and the form of eredit.
(1) The amount of credit needed.
As it is clear from the foregoing analysis, in
order that Japan's economy will resoh a minimum stabi-
lizetion point by the end of the first helf of 1950.
colossal total ,pillion  unfevorable in
ternationel trade balence will be inevitable for the
three years wider this Ian;
 villion for the
first yeer, 4 million for secomd year, ond 200 mil-
lion for the third yea. In orde: to mate this possible
it is necessary to secure credits waieh vill cover the
aformentioned emount of exdess or imports over efports.
It is elso necessury to obt: in meterial oredit in
some fora or other por the securine of rew materials
of export industries. he smount of imports of rew
materials whieh become the objeet u these credits will
reach she lar e sum of 25e million in tue first year.
344 million in the second yeer and
433 million in
the thire year, nen only rive
rincieal items of
paterials or rav cot on,  ool, pulp. honp end mubber
are taken us reserence.
in other ords, the amount
of credits needec will conprise the total or arorementioned
amownt or 1.os million whien will be the expeoted amount
of excess oi iuports over exports and a curtain short-
term credit which makes the iuport or rev materials
possible.

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.94)
- 54-
(2) Form of eredits.
With regard to credit problems only thing that Jap
can do as a defeated nation is to ask the favourable
attitude of the Allied Powers, and she is not in a posit
ion to argue concerning the form of credit and other things
In asking for oredit, however, it is necessary to appeal
along with possible line in accordance with kinds and
nature of credits.
(a) If we considor various conditions, the only country
that Japan can ask for credit is the  ited tates and
therefore we mant earnestly as. merican fovour. In view
of the present unstabilizet condition of Japan's economy.
however, civilian credit can be secured from the United
States only when sound vecurity can be orfered; for ex-
ample, credits for raw moterials agcinst whioh finished
products can be offered as security. Hatirally there could
be no other way leit for Japan thnn to ask the United
States Govemrent for besic crcdits needed for its economie
reconstmmetion.
(b) Since the cessation of hostilities, Jepan has been
obtaininy large cmounte or nido n the nme of relief ex
penses. If this kine on nits will bs consimted for the
three yeare to come, nd the expert proecods are permit-
ted to bo used totally es funde tor ifportiny materials

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.94)
-55-
needed for reconstruetion, considerably elestie eemmmis
reconstruetion mey be possible. On this basis, the
aforementioned amount of credits needed is analysed as
follows.
a. If it is possible to have a part of foodstuffs.
fertilizers, medical gcods, table salt, heavy oil, gaso-
line and lumber finenced in the form of relief ex-
penses, es shown in the following table, the importation
of materials needed for recqonstruction other than ship-
pinge cen be met with the expert ability.
(in millions of dollars)
First year: lotal 35u,(foodstuffe 218, fertilizers 19,
Materia medioa Zu, salt S, a part of heavy oil and gaso-
line 20, lumber 29, etc.
Second year:
Potal S (foodstufis 253, fertilizers 20.
materia medioa 1, salt 5, hcavy oil tnd sasoline 20
and lumber 7,
Ihird year:
Totol 2u, (roodstulle S)
Grand totel
85
b. ven if the loan of relier expenses mentioned
above is per itted there will be e auricit of vloo mil-
lion in import funds tor wach of the Tirst cnd the second
year due to importation of ships neeseu lor the home use.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.96)
-56 -
This problem will be solved for the time being, if the
amall-sized vessels for the use of American Foroes are
allowed to be either transferred or lent, by the spooiel
favour of the American Government; in the form of sales
of surplus military goods on oredit or charter. We.wish
to add that under this plan an annual sum of $150 million
to $20l pillion is accounted as freight oharges and various
other peyments to foreign countries, this being due to
the total loss of ocean-goin: vessels, and if Japan is
permitted to possess this kind of vessels, its inter-
national trade balance can be reatly improved.
o. In order thet reconstruction program under this
plan be put into smooth operation, aforementioned credit
must be granted, together with recognition to the prin-
ciple of using export procced as. funds for importation of
reconstmmotion materials on  prefereutisl besis, and of
using them for the repoyment oi relief expenses only when
there is surplus noney.
(c) In addition to the above mentione: fundanentel re-
construetion credit is county wi ed short term
oredit for the importation of rav intorials, suoh as
cotton, wool, pulp, hems, ubber uto. or this kind of
oredit there is sure mortgece in tmo fom os inished
goods, but if negessery it is by  menns possicle to

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.98)
-57-
effer the industries concerned as mortgage.
Besides the credit of raw materials, if it is pes-
sible to get civilian aids from the United States with
regard to equipment and technics, economio recomstruetiom
will be greatly facilitated, even if the monetary value
of such aids may not be large.
(d) It would be necessary to errange so that repaymemt.
of credit may be made after the establishment of self-
supporting economy (middle of 1950), in accordence with
the degree of recovery of the national strength and o a
long-term basis. Viewed from the condition of Japan's
economy after the realizetion of the self-supporting
economy under thie plan, it is desirous that the terme of
at least l0 years amortization plen mey be recognised.
Credit in the form of rew materials will be, of course, of
short-period, but if revolving credit is permitted it
would be necessery to fix the meturity at about the end
of l950. It may perhaps be a feasible plan to offer the
gold held by the Bank of Japan, as collateral for oredit,
if necessary for the acquirement of oredit, and if
approved by the Allied Powers.

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.85)
- 58 -
vI. Conolusion.
That colossal amount of. aids from foreign countrio
are necessary for the reconstruction of Japen's eponomy,
has been exanined by figures in the foregoing paragraphs.
But it is prenature to coiclude that Japan's economy will
become sclf-supporting autonatiunll in e course when
the credit is secured as expee . or the credit to
attein expected result, various vouditions must also be
fulfilled at the sane time.
(1) it is esst med in t is ple  ms verious clements of
production would show ri r crtisi y.ur this. the
labtur problens uust se sulved ly sta  lsation of the
political situation, uad at he sme li  internal
econurle straeture should be vatloelinct, whereby to
creute sucl  condition as to er  e  cconomy to fune-
sion mo  or eie wole. or   bne dlation ust
be e,d sece fo e at of comodities
boto
eot co
opesi tme e sovemnt nd ho people for the
reeomotmetion or ueo to s a o  sablished.
tshe problens
of reparasre mnd ocoupatton  e sa vim be favourably
seleu aau. oreie redonstruction

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.94)
-59-
see these problems solved rapidly and rationally.
(3) Under this plen it is also presupposed that the fem
ign trade system will be adjusted in such a way as te rem-
der it possible to carry out the trade plan. For this
the trade system of this country must be reedjusted, and
at the same time economoi restoration must be accelerated in
foreign countries, partioularly the countries in South
Mast sis which ere the important markets for Japanese
exports. ithout the economic restoration of meighbour
ing countries, recovery of Japan's industry is impossible.
(4) wastly it has been taken for n ted under ths
plan that the people cen bear the lowest standard of
living. It would be very nard to endure lire poverty and
privations ror a prolonged period, but the people must
Fransly realize the cold fact thns tats nation wes de-
feated in uhe wer, wnd must beer liifioult life of for-
bearanee wi nopes in ruture.
mons the uaitios ust ti d there ere con
6
ditions about whicn mins con  on c he part of
Japan, but thepe  o e e solved
throuch its wo efort.
 that without
the maxi forts to rese
our own

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.96)
-60-
strength it is impossible to obtain foreign mide, mor
is it possible to attain desire result of foreign mids
even if given. Hithertthere have been not a few
points to be regretted in the efforts made by the
Governmentand the people of Japan in this respect,
but it is believed that the coalition Cabinet which
has recently been formed would make uiited efforts to
the fundamental recovery of the home ceonomie strue-
ture. owever, it is not lons simee the defeat, and.
naturally there is a limit to the politioal power of
the Goverement, end therefore, cas support and
assistance of the llied Jorces is sarnestly desired.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.96)
Supplementary Tables
Table
I : Supply of Frincipal goods under Stable
Peonomy
Table
II : stimated Internati onal Recoipts and
Payments under table conomy
Table
III : Comparison of Jonsunption evels
Table
IV : voal istribution ilan under  table
conomy
Table
: istribution ci  teel  aterials under
tabilized conomy
Table
VI : mployment in piiferent Industries under
tabilized conomy
Table
VIl : Changes in Supply or .rincipal Commodities
Table
ViiI : nnual mport- los
Table
Ix : nnuel xport- lans
Table
4 Summery or le for mportation of
Credit

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.93)
Table I. Supply of Principal Goods under Stable Eeene
Unit
Under the Plan
Existing
193
(At end of 1949
produoti-
fiscal year)
vity
soal
1,000 tons
 2.700
35300
25.000
45,858
Pig iron
1.000
Metric tons
& 100
& 97
1.400
5,614
2,308
Ordinary Steel
8100
& 80
Vaterials
1.4:0
7,722
4,674
Lead
11
3
& 95
15
48
10.8
Lo-grade Lignite
:1
5.000
3.000
1
Heavy Oil
1
1.33
&3,912
kiloliters
81
Gasoline
18
490
49
&l.742
Salt
1. 00 tons
1.0
350
350
556
Caustic Soda
11
135
473
340
Seda ash
19
2.
504
230
Carbide
i
55
277
257
Sulphatio acid
98
2,5.0
3,469
3,080
Coment
9
3
3.520
5.834
Sheet Glass
1,(00 
2.30
4,619
Rubber
1.000 tons
40
50
83
Sulphate of ammonia
1.2.0
689
934
Nitro-lime
d8
35
227
253
Super-phosphate of
1,5
1,141
1,560
lime
Cotton yarn
illion bs
729
2,700
1,586
Woolen, Goods
10
148
90
230
710
Staplefiber yarz
Rayon yarn
12
180
335
Raw silk
1, balés
22
150
92
1
Papers
illion bs
32
1,183
1.066
1
Lumber
1. co koku
81.50
68
65.00
79.426
&6, 663
51.00
Fats and vils
1.o tons
159
& 19
584
309
Rice
1.coo koku
6.00
&11,879
69.638
66,319
Wheat and barleye
&10.723
& 1,32
24,131
24,774
Note:- (1)
Existing productivity indicates the aotual produotivity
Period from the end of the war to May, 1946.
(2)
Figures for the existing produotivity and the pess
Produotion record are based on data oompiled by the
Economic Researoh Society and the Ministry of Ce
Industry.
(3)
& indicates quantity of importa.

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.95)
Table II.
Articles
Iron & Steel
Ordinary Steel ton
Serep
Pig iron
100
Iron ore
Others
Non-ferrous metals
Elecrolytio copper
20,000
Lead
20.000
Tin
400
Electrolytic zino.
10000
Aluminin
5000
Others
Fuels
Coal
ton 2.900.000
Gasoline
n.
490000
Heavy oil
1,330000
Light qil
n
210,000
Others
Chemicels
Salt
ton 1,000,000
Fats & oils
195000
Crude rubber
n
30.000
Kaliwn
n
210:000
nock phosphate
11
800.000
thers
Fibre
Raw Cotton
bale 1,750,000
Wool
350,000
Others
Machinery
Agr. Produots
Rice
1.C00koku 6,000
Wheat & barley
11
10,723
Gorn
ton
300,000
Joy beans
11
324,400
Sugar
1,000picul
3,000
Lumber etc.
Others
Invisible payments
Total
Note:-

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.87)
cente under Stable Zeamy.
Artioles
Exports
Amount
00)
Unit quant1ty (in $1,000)
124
r roduots
99,169
475
"heat lour
ton
ZLU.CUC
23,540
185
L'08
27.000
18,910
65C
Janned food
2C.043
417
thers
36,676
397
401
ne cale
32,225
72
ateria Medion
7,500
225
'rtilizers otiers
24,725
9:4
224,957
5. S
ot'on
1.1.D.
8.00
47,880
6
.001
11
LBUC
26,985
454
ilk
bal e
2.
119,580
opners
3C:512
541,194
01 on
l....sq.
91,320
288,630
.501
69.6
103,050
ilk
6.
29.935
t..Jilk
84
37,653
tople fibre
233.30.
29.342
osier
13
12486
P.4.
baere
4,048
1.
J:.
J.,7
4,312
8
24,426
.55
ahber gooos
40.000
7
11,000
15.00
0.13
7,37
D.CCC
achincs
instr.lente
73.00
147,399
Misoellaneous
unr
1.
L
24,426
0.15
11
7.862
0.00
.129
6.5.7
Loy
9,769
0.1
ticles of
4.75
rts and in-
9,53
justrin! art
12.213
€,92
ちEPS
90.000
10.0
7,97
10.054
"ots
1.220,054
merket prices at the end or 1946 o tained
a fow whish are met eleer are besed en figares

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.96)
Unit
1950
1980
1935
1946 Indes
(1930-100)4
le food
Lee
119,762(1) 123.915
126.728 99.672(11) 96.6
arley
4,912
4,0151
aked barley
n
37,949
7,966
7.519|21,194
170.4
beat
19
9,386
10,403
west potato
n
53,534
35,369
27,485 44,588
151.8
otato
24,995
8,614
10,731 16,721
290.0
oy bean
17
2,803
2,960
2,446 1,988
94.6
aer food
reen
Kan
24.203
25.115
25.242 19.768
96.3
1sh
11
1.283
19.99
18.66 10.08
67.2
eat
monme
224
446
507
160
50.8
11k
go
9.59
13.75
14.50
8.80
69.7
asoning
ngar
kin
3.30
20.82
23.62
0.33
15.8
139
ait
x6
e.72
11.51
11.39
7.17
75.7
78.5
at oil
kg
.629
C.826
1.129
0.171
76.1
55.7
1s0
kan
2.8
2.242
2.28
1.29
85.9
91.8
oy
sho
4.48
6.82
6.83
3.20
65.6
65.5
xuries
ea
monmo
118
120
119
59
94.1
94.9
pirits
sho
1..1.
2.8
ruit
kan
4.318
809
2.341
igarette
piecc
38
859
623
alorie per day
1.978
2.17
2.96
1.694
91.1
94.3
12
hing
tton yarn
1b
2.516
6.516
7.929
0.908
38.6
31.7
277
ol
11
0.664
1.004
1.675
.359
60.1
36.0
silk
1R
0.043
0.525
375
0.016
8.1
11.3
gon & Staple
ibre
11
.566
0.293
1.553
0.593
193.1
36.3
nen yarn
11
0.251
1.082
2.103
0.038
23.1
11.9
and Total
n.
3.980
9.526
13.640
1.914
41.7
29.1
Notes:
Figures for 1930, 1935 and 1940 are based on investigation
by Liaison Sec., the Dep't. of Agr. and Forestry.
(1)
Fer capita per day 2.5 g
(11)
Based on figures for 194? rice year.

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.95)
Year
Aotl igre
plan
clessification
1946
1940
Export
1,100
750
2,09
Transportation
7.454
6,962
5.568
Marine
1,625
787
3,80
Sub-total
9,079
7,749
9,372
Production materials
Iron & Steel
4,551
1,454
11,479
Metal machinery
1,175
567
2,827
Chemicals
1.475
667
7.150
Fertilizers
3,500
1,234
Liquid fuel
250
10
30
Gas. cokes
3.000
1.393
3.945
Electric power
2.640
1,058
5,898
3.7
Sub-total
16,391
6,383
31,646
15,02
National livglihood
Ceramic ind.
1,930
1,034
4,665
Fibre ind.
1,870
715
6,724
6,966
Foodatuff
1,068
370
1,503
1.42
Briquettes
680
300
2,200
1,430
Oookong & bath
1,750
1,295
3,25
4.075
Sub-total
7,498
3.714
18,317
18,188
Others
For cooupation Fomes
400
845
29 Conmumption
at mines
3,150
2,376
2,920
3.649
Gv. & publio bldg.
200
247
694
185
Others
200
1,396
2,921
1,872
Sub-total
3,950
4,864
6,535
5.700
Grand total
38,018
22,710
65,870
50,935
Noto!
Astual fiqures in the pest were based on investigations by
Nippan Coal Distribution Co. and "Demand & Supply
Prinsipal Materials" by Eoenemic Stabilisation Bos

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.97)
Haterials Ser experts
Transpersasion
Land
275.000
Sea
124,006
Communications
23,000
Sub-total
422,000
Produotion materials
Coal
135,000
Fertiliser
20,000
Machinery
200,000
Others
227,000
Sub-total
582,000
Necepsaries of People's
Livelihood
Food Stuffs
37,000
Necessaries of life
11,000
Medical, sanitation
2,000
Sub-total
50,000
Materials for restration
Dwellinge, Rivere,
Roads, Nater-works
76,000
Agrioultural Development
36,000
Other Special materials
for restoration
40,000
Sub-total
152,000
Others
For the use of
Cooupation Forces
16,000
Others
12,000
Government use
1,000
Sub-total
31,000
Iron and Steel, Second
period finished goods
203,000
Total
1,500,000

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.97)
how the population
1950
is engaged in dir-
ferent occupation.
64,450
ulation
79,460
100
29,619
31,169
32,172
40.5
100
13,958
ing oocupation
14,131
15,401
47.8
558
568
1.87
industry
602
S15
491
1.66
industry
502
74.4
373
AANG
25.6
129
turing industries
5,875
7,036
21.30
6,853
7.5
509
working
12.7
871
ery
6.3
432
als
leotricity,
2.3
160
-works
le, earth and
3.8
259
15.9
ing
1,089
ring and wooden
6.0
414
5.5
377
tuff
eering and
31.0
2,126
ding industry
9.0
618
4,890
8
11.78
4,905
3,793
945
1,207
5.77
1,857
o
77
1,425
portation
73
1,046
27
379
23
432
nication
2,660
al and professional
2,005
2,123
2,196
6.82
743
540
802
io services
742
2.3
70
182
110
0.7
226
industries
ation without
ation
39,690
49.7
34,830
40,085
58,120
9.8
loyed population 7,598
atage of
45.0
43.7
44.0
40.4
oyment

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.96)
Table VII.
Changes in supply of
1967 fiseal year (July-Jume) - l949 fi
Estimates
figures
1947
for 1946
al
1,000 ton
22,450
& 600
1,500
30,000
33,500
-iron
172
& 100
& 200
600
1,000
dinary steel
”
320
& 100
& 250
700
1,000
materials
ad
11
6
10
& 15
6
8
w-grade liguite
2,365
4,000
5,000
avy oil
1,000 kl.
& 249
& 1,000
& 1,200
&
7.6
62
73
soline
&
66
& 450
& 450
2.6
38
42
1t
1,000 ton
353
&
750
& 800
428
500
500
ustic soda
19
29
30
100
150
da esh
22
70
80
95
rbide
”
231
350
450
500
bonic
acid
10
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,400
ment
-1
1,004
1,700
2,200
2,800
eet glass
1,000 boxes
755
1,500
1,900
2,200
ober
1,000 ton
20
35
40
43
monium sulphate
533
950
1,100
1200
me nitrogen
321
270
300
320
perphosphate of lime
600
1,000
1,200
1,400
ton yarn
1 million pounds
194
389
500
600
ollen goods
ip
28
33
50
68
ple fiber yarns
19
1,711
25
50
68
70
10.6
30
85
on yarn
silk
1,000 bales
100
150
174
220
ers for
general use
million pounds
191
150
180
ber
1,000
koku
60,000 &
44,000
&
6,000
63,000
85,000
and fat
1,000 ton
1.1
& 84
&
75
25
50

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.95)
figures
for 1946
1947
1,000 ton
22,450
a 600
80,000
Pig-iron
10
172
& 1.00
800
Ordinary steel
320
& 100
& 250
materials
700
1,000
Lead
6
10
& 15
6
8
Low-grade liguite
”
2,365
4,000
5,000
Heavy oil
1,000 kl.
& 249
& 1,000
& 1,200
7.6
62
75
Gasoline
n
&
66
& 450
& 450
2.6
38
42
Salt
1,000 ton
&353
750
& 800
428
500
500
Caustic soda
19
29
80
100
Soda esh
9
22
70
80
Carbide
231
350
450
Carbonic acid
1,000
1,500
2,000
Cement
-p
上，004
1,700
2,200
Sheet glass
1,000 boxes
755
1,500
1,900
Rubber
I,  ton
20
35
40
Ammonium sulphate
533
950
1,100
Lime nitrogen
7.
321
270
300
880
Superphosphate of lime
600
1,000
1,200
1,400
Cotton yarn
1 million pounds
194
389
500
600
Woollen goods
28
33
50
68
Staple fiber yarns
19
1,711
25
50
65
Rayon yarn
10.6
30
65
70
Raw silk
1, 000 bales
100
150
174
220
Pepers for general use
1
million pounds
191
150
180
Lumber
1,000
koku
60,000 &
44,000
&
6,090
63,000
65,000
oil and fat
1,000 ton
1.1
& 64
&
75
25
30
Rice
1,000 koku
& 107
& 2,000
& 3, 00
61,200
80,000
64,224
Wheat and barley
18
& 3,039
&
16,305
.&
14.850
11,500
19,833
22,516
Note:
& indicates volume of import.

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.98)
Table VIII. Annual Import-Plans
Fiscal year
Fiscal year
1947
amount
1948
amount
1949
Unit
Quantity ($1, 000) Quant1ty ($1, 000) Quahtity
on, Steel.
0,808
24,830
Materials for
1000ton
100
5,475
250
13,687
100
Common steel
Sorap iron
550
Pig-iron
100
2,650
200
5,300
100
Iron ore
100
1,683
300
5,051
400
Others
782
n-ferrous metals
7,147
13,837
Electrolytis Copper
20
Load
22
4,598
25
5,225
25
Tin
1.9 2,549
3
4,025
4.4
Electrolytic zinc
5
1,254
10
Aluminium and
others
19
3,333
els
44,840
50,079
Coal
600
3,518
1,500
8,212
2,400
Gasoline
1,000kl.
450
13,313
450
13,313
490
Heavy oil
1,000
14,182
1,200
17,018
1,330
Light oil
133
1,997
170
2,432
200
others
11,830
9,104
lemical industry
70,614
77,119
Salt
1,000ton
700
8,239
750
8,574
1,000
oil and fat and
their materials
7
100
6,362
150
9,543
195
Raw rubber
25
9,750
30
11:700
30
Potassium
"
205,2 2,390
210
3,004
210
Rook phosphate
760
16,702
780
17,895
800
Chemicels and
others
27,171
26,403
26,00
xtiles
246,751
332,405
451,980
Raw cotton
1,000bales
1,200 181,802
1,500
227,490
1,750
265,40
Wool
150
49,949
250
82,915
350
116,381
Pulp and others
15,000
22,000
50,000
chineries and
apparat us
55,000
56,000
53,000
ioultural products "
258,840
283,730
304,586
Rice
1,000k0ku 2,000 26,600
3,000
39,990
5,000
66,650
Wheat, Barley
16,305
146,623
14,850
133,650
12,000
108,000
corn
1,000ton
200
13,440
250
16,800
290
19,
Boya beans
259
27,821
307
32,975
315
35,747
sugar
1,000picul
60
3,986.
150
9,915
200
16,525
Lumber and
thers
40,390
50,400
60,176
pping and their
100,000
100,000
10,766
ars
45,000
50,000
-total
838,000
988,000
ments invisible
de
150,000
200,000
200,000
nd total
988,000
1,188,000
1,247,000

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.98)
Table IX. Annual Export-plans.
1947
1948
Unit
Quant it y
Amount
quantity
ABount
($1,000)
($1,000)
loultural and
1,000
29,283
42,163
tio producta Tea
ton
10,000
5,000
20,000
10,000
30,000
Inned or bottled
Dods
9,283
12,163
thers
15,000
20,000
mical
6,844
8,266
bdical goods
2,844
4,266.
mmonium sulphate
nd others
4,000
4,000
ns
pounds
121,877
159,304
otton
1,000
48,000
28,000
62,000
37,200
70,000
ioolen
re
4,000
10,280
7,500
19,275
10,500
taw silk
1,000
bales
130
77,400
150
89,775
180
3taple fiber and
1,000
rayon
pounds 10,160
6,197
21,400
13,054
41,000.
brics
sq. yds
282,568
407,003
Cotton fabrics
1,000
856,000
148,173 1,160,000
200,796 1,300,000
Woollen fabrics
28,800
42,624
40,200
59.496
68,600
Silk fabrics
n
25,100
12,550
36,700
18,350
50,200
Rayon fabrics
74,925
9,440
174,380
21.971
298,840
Fiber fabrics
26,888
3,387
75,555
9,519
177,777
Cotton hosi ery
1,000
72,000
64,734
104,400
94,151
127,400
108
pounds
Others
1,600
2,720
ton.
al
1,000
816
3,198
890
3,410
1,000
ramic ware
7,000
10,000
14
ber goods
10,000
30,000
30
ass manufactures
3,204
6,406
9
tals
4,076
5,898
7
chineries and
1mplements
16,147
32,284
48
cellaneous goods
1,000
53,803
83,266
133
koku
Lumber
860
21,006
860
21,006
1,000
24
Furs hides
1,243
3,552
5
Papers
2,895
3,000
3
Toye
5,318
7.977
7
Articles of arts
and industrial art
3,510
7,811
11
others
19,831
39,920
Total
538,000
788,000
1,047

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.97)
Teble X. A Summary of Plan for
1. Amount of Credit Required
(In thouams
Payments in
Exports
Imports
Excess
Imports
invisibel
trade
1.,1947-
n.,1948
538,000
838,000
300,000
150,000
1.,1948-
n.,1949
788,000
988,000
200,000
200,000
400,000
1.,1949-
200,00
n.,1950
1,047,0001,047,000
0
200,000
Total
2,373,000 2,873,000
500,000
550,000
1,050,000
Note: Amount of Credit required does not include revolving drodit
2. Contents of Credit Required
Relief expenses
Credit in
Revolving
Tos
shipping
Credit
Jul.,1947-
350,000
100,000
150,000
600.0
Jun.,1948
Jul.,1948 -
300,000
100,000
180,000
580.00
Jun.,1949
u.,1949-
200,000
0
200,000
400,00
Jun.,1950
Total
850,000
200,000
200,000
1,250,00

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT DETACH FROM WHITE
COPY
FILE NO.
R E C C R D C O P Y
THE ATTACHED WHITE COPY OF A TELEGRAM OR AIRGRAM
894.51/9-847(REC'D)
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE YEL-
LOW ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL
RECCRDS BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
THE COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
TOKYO
一
WAR
DEPT。
--00000--
FILDD
85805

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.99)
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE-DIVISIONRDGECOMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REPRODUCTION OF WAR DEPT MESSAGE TO STATE FOR INFO
RESTRICTED
Control 2290
4
Info:
Roo'd September 8, 1947
U-E
7:59 p.m.
A-S
EUR
FROM: WDSCA ECON
FE
OCD
TO:
SCAP, Tokyo, Japan
ITP
OFD
NR:
WAR 85805
FC
DC/R
Reurad June C 53497; reourad May W 97340. Proposed UK-
SCAP sterling trade arrangement is subj.
1. For your info state on 26 Aug submitted aide-memori
on subj to British Reps Wesh, of which fol are significant
portions: "State is now in pos to propose that all trede
between Japan and sterling areas, with exception of cotton
textiles exports, be conducted on a sterling basis, sub-
stentially as proposed by the United Kingdom Treasury
Delegation.
"The specifio provisions of an arrangement to whioh Us Govt
and SCAP are now in a pos to agree, are as fol:
"A. With exception of exports of cotton textiles manufactured
in Japan from rew cotton supplied by agenoies of US Govt, all
trade between Japan snd UK and colonies, and suoh other
portions of sterling ares as may desire to participate, should
be conductod on a sterling basis. Any sterling acquired by
SCAP in connection with suoh trade or other sterling acquired
from areas outside sterling aree and whioh is currently oonvert
convertible to US dollars under applioable internatl agreements
and understandings, should be fully utilizable for pmts within
sterling area, or for conversion to dollars in accordance
with Sub-Para C and D below.
"Bank of England should, at request of SCAP, establish an
acot with appropriate designation, and convertible sterling
reod by SCAP from whatever source acquired, would be held in
that acct, from which outpmt would be made for Japanese
purohase from sterling
RESTRICTED
FILED
INFORMATION COPY

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
-2-#WAR 85805 from WDSCA ECON
purohases from sterling area. Any balances of convertible
sterling now held by SCAP in other acots may be deposited in
this aoot at the option of SCAP.
"C. Sterling balances in above aoct should be avail on
demand for purchase of dollars at Bank of Englands officiel
selling rate for dollars ageinst sterling at option of either
party to the agreement. Any sterling purchased by SCAP for
deposit in the acct against dollars or other ourrenoies,
would be credited to the acot at Bank of Englands offioial
buying rate for such currencies.
"D. It would be understood that SCAP could exercise the
right of converting sterling balances to dollars as provided
in C above, at any time that he considered such
conversion necessary for protection of foreign exchange assets
of Japan, or for conduct of Japanese foreign trade. In
particuler, such conversion would be appropriate at any timo
dollars wore regd to repay obligations incurred as a result
of expenditures within the sterling area for Japanese imports.
However, it would be understood that, except when SCAP acquired
e surplus of sterling which there appeared to be no reasonable
prospect of utilizing within the sterling area for a substantial
period, or when a depreciation of sterling in terms of US
dollars appeared imminent, or other exceptional circumatances
occurred, SCAP would convert sterling balances in his acct into
dollars at six months intervels. Such conversion would apply
to all monies on deposit in Bank of England acct at time of
conversion, rogardless of when or where acquired, and regard-
less of how long on deposit. It would be understood, however,
that SCAP would unless prudent adm of Japanese foreion ex-
change assets counselled otherwise, retain in sterling on
conversion rates a sum sufficient to meet estimated nere-term
ommitments in sterling aree. It is proposed that conversion
dates of 30 June and 31 Dec be established.
"E. Should either party find it necessary to terminete
above arrangements, which such termination would be effective
after three months notice, and the liquidation of any balances
would be carried out in same manner, and upon seme dates as
somi-annual conversion provided above.
"If provisions outlined above are acceptable to Govt of
UK, it is hoped thet other countries within sterling area, in
add to the UK and
RESTRICTED

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
-3-#WAR 85805
from WDSCA ECON
add to the UK and colonies: may also adhere to this arrange-
mont. SCAP has indicated that he considers the adherenoe
of Australia essential for the success of the program, and the
participation of India and New Zealand highly desirable. It
1s also proposed that open acot dollar or other balanoes,
whether to the debit or r-dit of SCAP and whioh have arisen
out of trade between Japan and sterling area countries,,and
which exist at the time of initiation of this arrangement,
bo included in this plan and be settled on the same basis
as subsequent transactions between Japan and the sterling area.
"State is aware of the considerable limitation on the soope
of this arrangement whioh has been necessitated by the
exclusion of cotton textiles manufactured from rew cotton
supplied by US Govt. It is hoped, therefore, that when
present obligation under arragoments for the sup of US raw
cotton to Japan cal be liquidated, and other financial arrango-
monts established, such as non-dollar financing of Japanese
imports of raw materials, that athe proposal contained herein
can be modified to include all trade between Japan and the
sterling area. SCAP hes indicated athat he considers credit
arrangements in sterling either on a gen or spocifio commodity
basis extremely important for expansion of Japanese trade with
sterling area. It is stherefore the hope of this govt and
of SCAP, that such credits may be made avail in sterling during
the operation of arrangements outlined above.
"If program as outlined herein is acceptable to the Govt
of UK, it is suggested that State be so informed, in order
that errangoments can be made by SCAP for implementing these
arrangemonts without further delay."
2. Believed here arrangements as substantially set forth
above will be acceptable to British. Upon receipt by State
of official British notification of acceptence, SCAP
will be advised for immediate implementation. Suggest in
meantime SCAp (1) prepare for establishment acot with Bank
of England and (2) determine status outstanding open-acot
balances with sterling area countries with view sto settle-
mont as provided in above arrangemont.
Informally advised by
RESTRICTED

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
-4-#WAR 85805 from WDSCA ECON
Informally advised by British Reps here Australia in all
probability will adhere to  rengoment, subj olearance
with Canborra. Nothing fu her.
NOTE: C 53497 1s CM IN 3218 (18 June 47)
ORIGINATOR: CAD
DISTRIBUTION: USW, CAD (StaTO), P&O
CM OUT 85805
(Sopt 47)
DTG 062007Z
mec
FAE
RESTRICTED

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.99)
1578
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
TO
: Mr. Havelick - OFD
DATE: September 17, 1947
Mr. Saltzman - SA
RNN
FROM : Mr. Whitman - OE
SUBJECT: Arrangements For Securing Bank Credits To Finance
Japanese Imports.
1. The FEC by policy decision of 23 July, 1947 (FEC 032/25), made
certain stocks of precious metals and other convertible Japanese-owmed
assets available for assisting in the financing of Japanese foreign trade
programs. Pursuant to this authorization, SCAP has established an Occu-
pied Japan
Export-Import Revolving Fund, the initial assets of which
will consist principally of these convertible assets of a value approx-
imating 137 million dollars, which will subsequently be supplemented by
the net proceeds of Japanese exports. The purpose of this revolving fund
is to serve as a credit base for bank loans to be used in financing self-
liquidating import-export programs in Japan, and for the direct purchase
of raw materials to be used in such programs. This memorandum is to bring
certain problems connected with the implementation of the FEC policy and
the SCAP program to the attention of officers of the Department concerned
with the policy aspects of the matter, and with representing the Depart-
ment on the Board of the Export-Import Bank.
6
2. War and State Department representatives have discussed several
different proposals of U.S. banks, in respect to the securing of loans
under the general provisions of the revolving fund plan referred to above.
It has been decided that the first program to be financed under this pro-
C
gram should be one for the financing of raw cotton imports from the U.S.
to supplement supplies now being secured from the Commodity Credit Cor
poration, which has supplied Japan with her raw cotton requirements during
the first two years of the occupation. The plan proposed for obtaining
bank fihancing of this raw cotton involves the participation by the Export-
Import Dank to the extent of approximately 25 percent of the total of the
60 million dollar credit which is considered as the maximum amount neces-
sary to have outstanding at any one time in order to maintain production
in the Japanese cotton textile industry. The plan for carrying out this
cotton financing arrangement, involves the establishment of the North
American Cotton Corporation (NACC) which would be an open-end corporation,
the capital of which (approximately $3,000,000) would be subscribed by
the cotton shippers, and which would be the acceptor of 9-month drafts
drawn by the shippers on the landing of the cotton in Japan. The con-
troller of the proposed revolving fund, on behalf of SCAP, would be res-
ponsible for putting NAcc in funds to pay the shippers' drafts at or
before maturity date. The revolving fund would be reimbursed from the
proceeds of the sale of cotton textile exports manufactured from cotton
secured under this arrangement. The gold and other assets in the fund
would be the ultimate security to the banks, and the Export-Import Bank
which would buy the drafts which had been accepted by NACC.
3. In

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
3. In addition to the initial credit which it is hoped to arrange
with Export-Import Bank's participation for financing the raw cotton pro-
gram, it is hoped to secure a general line of credit for SCaP directly from
a consortium of private American and foreign banks. It is tentatively pro-
posed that this general line of credit be used in the first instance to pay
off outstanding obligations to the CCC for raw cotton previously and cur-
rently being supplied to Japan, possibly to liquidate drafts held by the
Export-Import and private banks under the cotton financing arrangement
outlined in 2 above, and to procure other raw materials to be used for self-
liquidating production programs in Japan.
4. In the course of discussions with the Export-Import Dank's repre-
sentatives, the cotton shippers, and representatives of private banks,
certain questions have arisen in connection with the basic documents on
which the program outlined above is based. These documents are the FEC
policy statement authorizing the use of the Japanese-owned convertible assets
for trade purposes (Attachment 1), and SCAP Circular No. 9 implementing this
authorization (Attachment 2). In respect to the FEC authorisation, the
principle question relates to the authority of SCAP to pledge the value of
the convertible assets as security for specific loans, or for a general
line of credit. This question arises because of the provision in the FEC
policy statement that the value of the assets should be preserved for repara-
tions, even though they may intially be used to acquire foreign exchange for
production programs. The Legal Advisor's Office of the State Department
has rendered an opinion that the pledge of these assets for credit purposes
is permissible under the terms of the FEC policy statement (Attachment 3).
It is considered that the terms under which the assets are to be utilized
as set forth in SCAP Circular No. 9, provides adequate safeguard against
the dissipation of the assets, and that unless such use is possible, the
FEC policy statement is impracticable of implementation. The Legal Advisor's
Office has also expressed the opinion that the assets in question may be
removed from Japan for safekeeping without liquidation, or may be pledged
in Japan with a committment by the SCAP that he will remove the assets from
Japan in case a political emergency renders such action necessary.
5. At the time the FEC policy statement was under consideration by the
FEC, the British representative on the Steering Committee of the Commission
expressed some doubt as to the possibility of using the assets in a "trading
account". He apparently felt that such use might be incompatible with the
"preservation of the value" thereof. However, in later discussions with
representatives of the State Department, British representatives have ex-
pressed the view that the revolving fund arrangement as set forth in SCAP
Circular No. 9, provides adequate safeguards against the dissipation of
the convertible assets.
6. A further question may be raised having to do with the priority
claim against these assets by trade creditors, such as the Export-Import
Bank or private banks on the one hand, and the U.S. Government for the
recovery of its occupation costs in Japan, and of other governments as
reparations claimants on the other hand. It is considered that the author-
ization by the FEC to utilize these assets for trade purposes clearly
iplies

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
implies that any claims against the assets in connection with trade opere-
tions will have a prior claim on such assets. This will be explicitly set
forth in the U. S. position on occupation costs which is currently being
prepared for presentation to the FEC. Even without this additional support,
however, it is considered that the protection to trade creditors is ade-
quate under the terms to the FEC policy statement, and of SCAP Ciroular
Ño. 9.
7. Representatives of private banks interested in participating in
the proposed consortium, have expressed even more concern about the location
of the convertible assets themselves than in the legality of SCAP's authority
to pledge and liquidate the gold for trade purposes. The bankers feel that
if the gold, etc. remains in Japan, considerable danger exists that it will
not be available to meet any claims, not otherwise satisfied, that they may
have because;
a. Domestic upheaval or foreign invasion might result in loss of
the oollateral;
b. Legal access to the collateral would be difficult if it is not
located within the jurisdiction of a U.S. court;
c. Assets in Japan would be more accessible to reparations claim-
ants which might bring political pressure to bear on the U.S. to use
the assets for reparations, if they are still in Japan, and such
pressure might be exerted at a time when the U.S. would find it dif-
ficult to resist.
In view of these misgivings, the bankers have stipulated that loans will be
made against the assets in Japan, only at a rate of interest of 3 to 4
peroent, and on condition that;
a. Unequivocal legal opinions be secured regarding SCAP's auth-
ority to pledge the assets, and dispose of the collateral to meet
claims of the banks;
b. SCAP undertake to move the collateral from Japan, in event
of emergency such as imminence of war, or internal disturbance, or in
event such a drastic decline in world prices occurred that the neces-
sity of selling the collateral to meet outstanding claims became
apparent;
c. A debt ceiling of 100 percent of the value of the assets be
established.
These conditiops have,been commnicated informally to the State Depart-
subsequent credit extensions will depend to some extent on experience with
the cotton credit. If the assets, or sufficient of them to cover outstand-
ing utilized credits, were transported to the U.S., the banks have indicated
they would lend at 2 to 22 percent under the terms of SCAP Circular No. 9,
without as
comprehensive

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Comprehensive a legal opinion as otherrise. This is probably due to the
legal protection they feel they would obtain from having the gold within
the jurisdiction of a U.S. court. The Department has the question of the
political implications of moving the gold under consideration at the
present time.
8. A further related problem is that of considering the adequacy and
clarity of SCAP Circular No. 9, both for pruposes of the above program,
and in relation to other programs such as the so-called "crank-up" program
for the recovery of Japanese foreign trade. It is considered that certain
changes (Attachment 4), in the Circular, are desirable to make for greater
flexibility in the use of the assets of the fund. These changes have been
discussed with certain representatives of the private banks who did not
consider they would reduce the willingness of the banks to extend credit
under the Circular. These changes have been communicated informally to the
War Department. While Var Department representatives have expressed agree-
ment with the intent of these revisions, they have thus far been averse to
making changes in SCAP Circular No. 9 at this time. State Department repre
sentatives, on the other hand, consider that any changes deemed desirable,
should be made prior to incorporation of the Circular into contracts for
loans to Japan.
9. The present status of the proposed cotton credit in the Export
Import Bank, appears to be that no formal action will be taken at the Board
of Directors level prior to receipt of a legal opinion from SCAP on his right
of disposition of the convertible assets. This opinion is expected shortly
from Tokyo.
10. It is recommended that:
a. The State Department representative on the Board of the Export
Import Bank endeavor to expedite the consideration of this matter by
the Bank, particularly by urging that the Bank formulate any requests
for further legal or factual information required from the Department
of State as soon as it is practicable to do so.
b. A decision be reached by the Department, in viewof the facts
cited in paragraph 7 above, on the question of moving the convertible
assets from Japan to the United States for safekeeping, bearing in mind
the probable political results of such action. In this regard, it is
suggested that a compromise, satisfactory to the banks, would be to
only move such portion of the convertible assets (approximately $40
million) as equal in value the amount of the cotton credit that will
probably be utilized during the four months subsequent to October 31,
1947, which is the date such utilization will begin. The movement of
this amount would seem politically justifiable on the grounds that
it is required to secure a commodity most essential to the revival of
the Japanese peace economy.
a1m
OE:OJMicDParmid:mw
SA
NA
(Fearey)

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.86)
In reply refer to
A
GOT S 1947
894.51/9-2947
SKCBET
MENORANDUN POR THE UNITED STATES MENDER,
FAR EASTERN CONNISSION
In accerdanee with a memerankum dated September 29,
1947, from the State-War-Navy Coordimating Gommaistee,
there is emelosed a sopy ef swndd set, Prepesed Pelley
Statement en Japanese Publie Fimanee, whish was appreved
by the State-War-Navy Ceordimating Gommittee en Septen-
ber 26, 1947.
The United States Nember, Far Eastern Gemmisai en,
is requested not to submit the senelusisns of this
paper to the Cemmissien with the view to sbsaining a
poliey desisien en the subjeet unless susk a desisien
proves mesessary to avert adeptiem by the Far Eastera
Commission ef ether conelusions en the same subjeet.
Charles E. Saltamam
CS/V
Assistant Seeretary
Rev.
Cat.
Enclesare:
SWNGO 362
c27
S
ESO
947
Som
6
QD
elearad
wrid
FE
AnS
OF-m.Owen
gCp
Ces.
T
CCH.
30

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
DOR
WASHINGTON, D. C.
003
197
SWN-5714
29 September 1947
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
SEP 0 1947
Subject: SWNCc 362
1/30/47 ALD
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Forwarded herewith is a copy of SWNCc 362 as approved
by the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee on 26 September
1947.
It is requested that the Department of State transmit
this paper to the U.S. representative on the Far Eastern
894.51/9-2947
Commission with instructions not to submit the Conclusions
for FEC policy decision unless such a decision proves
necessary to avert FEC adoption of other conclusions on the
same subject.
Copies of this paper have been furnished the Army and
Navy Depertments for information.
For the State-War-Navy Cbordinating Committee:
Chairman
A/FLH
Enclosure:
Copy No. 50, SWNCC 362
CRET FILE
THIS DOCUMENT IS DECLASSIFIED
WHEN ATTACHMENT IS REMOVED
SECFT

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.92)
LEGATION DE SUISSE
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
Memorandum
De/R
FNOEWEFE
The Legation of Switzerland begs to refer to its
Memorandums of March 14, 24, July 23 and August 22, transmitting
banks regarding Japanese securities held by Swiss citizens.
The Legation is now submitting additional declarations o
August 27, 1947, from the National City Bank of New York, and of
September 2, 1947, from Mr. Jacques Ruch, New York and would
appreciate it if also these documents could be forwarded through
the designated channels.
JUN 121951
Washington D.C., October
CS/V
cel eur
Gue a.
FFS
894.51
NT OF SIAIE
2 PM 1 
OCT 6 1947
EIVED
1C/M
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Anul.
5
10-14

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.96)
- -JACQUES RUCH
50 EAST 72ND STREET
September 2,1947.
NEW YORK 21, N. Y.
:tatement
In reference to the enclosed letter of the National
City Bank of Hew York,N.Y.,dated August 27,I947,adressed
to me,concerning:
 3oo0.- Great Con: olicated .lectric Power Company Ltd.
6 I/2 % Bonds cue July I,195c,No. IIIc/12
I vish to state the residences of my wire, Cecili. luch
born de la Guardia and mycelf:
1939-4.28.194I Collonges s/ Salève,Haute Cavoie,France
libre(non occupied)
4.28.I94I-9.28.I945 13 Avenuc Verdeil,l-usanne,witzerland
since II.3.I945 until nov our reridence is Nevw York,N.Y.
We bot ere resicent: in. the U.S.A. from I922-1933
and our tro c ildren are nrtive American citizens. My
son crccucs uch jr erved in the U..A. Army Air Forces.
Tεccues Ruch

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.96)
The National City Bank
of New York
ESTABLISHED IBIZ
New York 15. N. Y. August 27, 1947
CABLE ADDRESS "CITIBANK"
IN REPLYING PLEASE QUOTE
CSA-3-JJC
Iir. Jacques Ruch
50 E.st 72nd street
New York 21, Yew York
Deur Sir:
RU: Account Jacques Ruch and/or lirs. Cecilia Ruch nee De La Guardia
Wo are pleased to respond to your letter of August 20, 1 47, request-
ing a statement concerning your holdings of $3,000 Great Consolidated Electric
Power Coanany Liited 6 Bonds due July 1. 1950, represented by bonds Nos.
1110/12 fer $1 00: each with July 1, 1940 and subsequent coupons attached.
Wo are pleused to c nfirn that these securities were forwarded to us
Se tember 2. 1 45, by the Union de Bunque Suisse, Geneva, their reference
To. 44491. for your uccount und we are presently holding these bonds in
safeteeping.
We huve on record license o. 1Y-771106-5, dated Apbil 24 1946
which exnired July 23. 1 46. reading as fellows:
"affect the debit md ith drawal specified in your unplication,
relative to the uccount of  ni n Ban: of witzerland, Geneva,
Switzerland provided such cash and securities ure held by you in
a blocted account in the nane f Jacques Ruch nd lirs. Cecilia
Ruch. nee De L. Guardia".
The $3. O00 (reat Consolidated Hlectric Pover Company Bonds were included in
the securities referred to in this license. Further, we have on record a
declaration from the Union Bont of Svitzerland. dated February 13, 1946.
describing these securities mong others md stuting tht they have been
owned by Mr. Jacques Ruch since a date prior to  ril 3. 194) without
interraption until Sentenber 7. 1 45, the date of delivery to the National
City B n: of How Y r.
We ure also holding license . Y-C04165-T dated Ceptember 6, 1 46
covering un unlinited period. which states "you ure hereby cranted the privileges
of Ceneral License o. 42. as mended". The aoplicati n for this license
states "my nationality is and always ws Swiss, from wiss parents and
ancestry. My wife. Cecilia de La Guardia Ruch is of Costa Rican origin;
her father Wencesla de L. Guardie was fer many years Costa Rican Minister
to ingland and for the past 15 years has been Hinister to Cuba. Ahen she
married me in 1 4 she automat cally became a wiss citizen".
Be assured we tute pleasure in forwarding this information to you
and trust that it will ssist you in the pegistrution of these bonds as you desire.
Very truly yours.

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.87)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
AYR
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
SECRET
A
3
CORRECTED COPY 11/18/47
J:30 p.m.
Aution
Control 763
info.
J-E
AD
-S
DEPARTMINYOR STATE
E
1.10 a.m.
D
"IA
NOV19.4
R
TO
Seeretary or Svate
10:
: 55838, C0veber 2, 2947
PROK CCAP TORYO JAPAN TO CSCAD (ECON)Y PA S TO STATE
Thae Pacio ir two parto Sub deet 1s Japanese externay
485003.
Reference 1n  82650, July 24, 1947
80
PARE
6
4
Pro eda es. channeis tud priorisles for TEM runorfe and
fpther inguirles vii be maintained as per URAD.
EM
5
punn ror each sountcy cnd dr tviduatly based upon data
present ty available wtrr be forwarded through channels
upon coar 2et ion.
O
PART 2.
1
2
Final repose, sabetvled Pebruary l, lo48, will not
47
be authoritative if beses upon date presently available,
For the fo owlng ceasont
Intormation f on spanese sousces contalns signilicant
gaps in evalua sioms
D. E vimate of miesing and erroneous dasa, elshough made
by test cbtainable Japanese finaneiat opinior, is noe
asseptable and wiil be gubject so mjuactriatle attack
 not orroborates or vvified.
8
C
2. Recommend exenange of externel ansete data on
IS
Covernmental level with sountries mere major portion
15
of eesets are socated. particutarly China ine uding
十
0
Manchuria
2
STHISTEOPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
16 52918-1

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.80)
SECRET
-2-  c 55838, October 2, 1947 from Tolkyo
Manehuria, Ruseia, Sngland, France, Netherlands, and
their dependent areas Informally, members foreign
missions lere pecountze need for exchange of information
and may be utilized au alrernate source of data. Pro-
posed setlos will.
 et umon rreatment of material to minimize
overs  i i iom f rinal reporty
 d slese essete in key areas;
rortse moune pmses for pegotintione on ultimate
pticn oe
to progran tor dmplementation of
rstee ses s te wppy cetalled aree catelogues
uf weaajesred cara in ws sune now in preperetiony
 Foreign severmmemre vo ruerden reciprocally their
orfeciul csvimetes et votal Japaneve aagets and other
repts of : unrodie ege les in moet inatances already
to aate so re uupported by all availeble
sos re propertrs sues ws eanevs name, deseription
 mer o  se) eation and velue.
v reeepr a me soa vepy or meterdal from
 y
er ve ryis of dat can be
preppd ty coee e wotee evacuatsen ar United Soetee
i e wi  be made folloning collation
ot foreagn gor ermmmeat wabereek with figuree presently
Cmino-464, act.

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
Classification
DeputyDirector
FE
10-2-47
0.
SECRET
430
o.
To the
Orficer in Charge of the Ameriean Mission,
Manking.
The Seeretary of State eneloses for the inferma-
tion of the Embassy a copy of SWNCC 362, "PROPOSED
POLICY STATEMENT ON JAPANESE PUBLIC FINANCE", &PPPOVed
by the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee on
26 September 1947.
Attention is called to paragraph 5 ("Reparations
Compensation") or Appendis "B", the portion of the
document which will doubtless be of most interest to
the Embassy.
CS
Enclesure:
1. CC 362, 0 44.
DCR
OFD Unt
Anal
Rev.
SECRET FILE
SECRET
Oat.
Dist.
1947 P.M
CR
HST
SICP
FE:HSTumas
CA
10-2-47

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.96)
1658
DARD PORM NO. 64
Office MemorandunATE
UNITEDASTATES GOVERNMENT
A-S
9 1947
TO
: OFD - Mr. Ness
DATE:
October 7, 1947
M. SALTTMAN
A-S - Mr. Saltzman
FROM : OE - Mr. Whitman
A.5 fier
SUBJECT: Recent Developments in Program for Securing Bank
ecs
Credits to Finance Japanese Imports.
131148
1. Reference is made to my memorandum of September 17, 1947 on
"Arrangements for Securing Bank Credits to Finance Japanese Imports",
which was submitted (to Mr. Havlik and Mr. Saltzman) for your considera-
tion. This memorandum will supplement the previous memorandum, and bring
you up to date on more recent developments concerning this problem.
2. SCAP has been queried by the War Department on the question of
removing the gold and other convertible assets from Japan for safekeeping.
In reply, he recommended against transporting the gold, mainly on grounds
84/1151
of the political repercussions in Japan and in other FEC countries, of
such action. He stated however, that in his view, these considerations do
not apply to the silver which amounts to about one-third of the total, and
†he indorsed the War Department proposal to attempt, if necessary to secure
the bank credit, to sell the silver to the United States Treasury.
Gen. Draper remarked at a recent SVNCC meeting following his return from
Japan, that in informal discussions in Tokyo, he had been given to under-
stand that while SCAP did not favor the transport of the gold if it could
be avoided, he would not stand out against this measure if adequate bank
credits could not otherwise be secured.
3. A legal opinion from SCAP on the powers of the Supreme Commander
in connection with the utilization of Japanese-owned assets for trade pur-
poses, has been received and discussed with officials of the Export-Import
Bank. While this opinion is deemed to adequately set forth SCAP's authority
as a military occupier of Japan to take possession of and utilize publicly-
owned Japanese gold and silver, the Export-Import Bank officials are not yet
satisfied that the Far Eastern Commission policy statement provides all
19
necessary authority for the use, and if necessary, the dissipation of the
assets for trade purposes, rather than to hold the value thereof for
reparations. The Office of the Legal Adviser is furnishing the Export-
Import Bank with additional facts regarding the basis of authority of the
Far Eastern Commission, and the implementing power of SCAP in relation to
Far Eastern Commission policies.
4. An additional development which would appear to materially assist
in securing bank credits based on these assets, was the approval by Top
SWNCC on October 3, 1947 of SWNCC 236/49. This paper establishes as U.S.
policy that the Japanese trade deficit shall be a first charge against
certain categories of assets, including categories to be the initial assets
of the proposed import-export fund, and subject to the condition that
private credits extended for the procurement of Japanese imports will be
prior to the repayment of other advances (U.S. Government) for this pur-
pose. It would appear that this, together with the provision in the
Basic

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.96)
-2 -
Basic Post-Surrender Policy for Japan, approved by the Far Eastern Com-
mission, which states that reparations shall not prejudice the defraying
of the costs of the occupation and the maintenance of a minimum standard
of living, provides all necessary support for our interpretation of the
Far Eastern Commission policy on utilization of these convertible assets
for trade purposes.
5. Representatives of the private banks concerned with this credit,
have raised certain additional legal points regarding the authority of
the controller of the export-import fund to safeguard their collateral,
in view of the fact that SCAP as such is not to be a party to loan con-
tracts. Means of satisfying the banks on this point are being diseussed
between SCAP and the Department of the Army.
6. The recommendations contained in paragraph 10 of the previous
memorandum are not considered to be altered by the facts cited above.
01m
OE:OJMcDiarmid:mv

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.98)
NOARD FORM NO. 64
DATE: November 3, 1947
TO
: CE - Mr. Whitman
sUBJECT: Liquidation Program
DRF is apprently talking only of stocks (20 to 25 billion total),
whereas the 50 percent estimata by SCAP may relate to total securities
(stocks, debentures, bonds, etc.). For the closed institutions, accord-
ing to SCAP figres, stocks were 2.4 (book value at closing date), bonds
(including governments) 11.3, and total assets 132.2. DRF has a figure
3.2 for shares of closed institutions. There may be a certain amount of
double counting, but this would also te true of total security figures
on which percentages are based.
On the problem posed by Reinstein, we have to break it down between
necessary liquidation under past anu irrevocable action and future action
regarding which we have discretion or the extent of which will depend
on administration of existing or proposed legislation. The liquidation
of assets of closed institutions, the proceeds of the capital levy and
the liquidation resulting from the Reorganization and Reconstruction
law, are necessary steps in the implementation of previous legislation
having a wider objective than simply liquidation, and the only questioh
is how and when the liquidation is to be accomplished. I feel the main
thing on these is speed, and would favor maximum independence of action
by the Japanese Government. SCAF has never made up his mind or been told
how much "supervision" by his staff is necessary, and thus I think it
594.51
has been poorly applied as shown in Roger's comments. This is what I
had in mind for soma sort of mission.
On the Zaibatsu program, I am not sure I know just where we stand.
I gather the security holdings of the top holding companies (list seems
to run about 67 companies with holdings of 6.2 shares and .5 other
securities)have been turned over to HCIc for liquidation. I don't know
exactly what portion of these are pure holding companies, but gather
from the list that all except 8 to 12 are holding-operating companies.
九
In addition, personal holdings of Zaibatsu "men" outside the top hold-
ing companies amount to .6. The necessity for liquidation of these
securities is also presumably not open to question.
Just how much the two measures to accomplish the remainder of the
program will or should add to the problem, seems to be the only open
question. These measures are the "Anti-Monopoly Law" passed by the
Diet last April, and the Deconcentration Law now approved by the Cabinet
and before the Diet. The Criental Economist estimates securities to be
liquidated under Anti-Monopoly Law at 12 billion, including about 90,000
different stocks. There may be overlapping between this figure and the
6.7 billion of the "Zaibatsu" group, although this is not self-evident.
How much the Deconcentration bill will add to this is anyone's guess.
The

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
The total I get out of this is about 35-38 billion of stocks plus
11.2 bonds for the closed institutions, and an unknown number of bonds
resulting from capital levy receipts, R & R law and Zaibatsu program.
(I suppose top holding companies which are being dissolved as distinct
from reorganized held bonds and debentures, as well as stocks).
I don't know what conversations you have had with IR on this
subject, but I would like a discussion on the relation between the Anti-
Monopoly Law and Deconcentration bill, and how they are to be adminis-
tered. I assume the former is directed primarily against "practices"
and the latter against "institutions", but from my reading they seem
to overlap. The vague wording of the latter seems to me to make its
consequences for the Japanese economy entirely unpredictable. A
secondary question is the relation of these two measures to United Nations'
investments. Welsh apparently told Fullam (ITT) it would not apply to
foreign corporate holdings, but that is certainly far from clear from
its text. I suggest we talk about these points with IR at an early staff
meeting.
OE:OJMcDiarmid:mw

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.80)
TANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
TO : CE - Lr. artin
DATE: October 28, 1947
FROM : A-T - Ir. Reinstein
sUBJECT: Liquidation of ccurities in Japan
I attach the enorontu: prepared ly DrF which I mentioned to you
tccay, regardin licuidation of recurities in Japan. You will see
that, pu jcet to veriou : lificatiene, articularly that of double
socuunties, ss ir srsteo at the pecurities to be liguidated
un er  variour pwo wo wcr  ave initieted arount to sonething
lire alr   tol cutrtanin cecurities in Japan. It does seem
bo re tt s  e py rtous prora.
To tor  poee toout sepen the more it poome be me that some of
wu oortoor nerit  car  loo ins at to see whether it is
 to oe eserebay yourila oe carry out all that we have set out
to 0.
wre yon prd poburn the sbteched paper to me in due course:
Whitna-connto?
A
-b21e r . 23, 1947
L.
on7
Pet.,
D dae 
3) rato t, lfund i cant
A- inten
COCTELETIAL

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.87)
Mr. Jehn Davies
Gotber
Charles C. Stelle
Der Information Note fl07, Information on the Liguidatien of seeurities
in dapan
Attached is ar Information Note f107, Informatiem an the Lagaidation
of Securities in Japan, which has been prepared at your request.
DRF: JWLydaan(WPickard)dw
ocp1es:1m

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.94)
COUFIEBNTIAL
DRF Infermstiem Nete ev
G0teber 22.1967
INPORMATION ON THE LIQUIDATION OF SECURITINS IN JAPAN
Sesurities eventually to be disposed of by Japamese Severmmsit extherities
have beem and are being aequired a the result of a mumber of progrems. Seme of
these programs are directly or indirectly related to the Zaibatsa disselutiem
program; others are not related to the Zaibatsu program at all (See appemded
chronology.) The value of the shares to be disposed of has been estimated by
ScAP, in terms of paid up value, at almost 20 billion yem. The feee valme of
these securities is probably smewhat higher, possibly about 25 billiem yem.
Of the sstimated paid-up value, about ome-third (6.9 billiom yem) reprsseats
stooks to be liquidated for the Hold ing Company Liquidation Commissiem as liguidat-
ion agent fer Zaibatsu sesurities; about 16 percent (about 3.2 billiem yom)
to be liquidated for the Closed Institutions Liquidation Cemissiem md the
Bank of Japan, as liquidetion agents for closed institutions (imcluding oversees
development companies, colonial banks, special wartime companies, ete.)s
about 18 pereent (3.7 billion yen) for the Ministry of Finamee, as agent fer
securities colleoted through the csp ital levy tax (impesed both to preduse
revenue and to deconsentrate wealth); and about s0 peroent (6 billion yem)
for the Ministry of Comeree mhd Industry, as agent for securities to be
liquidated under the Enterprice Reorganisation and Reconstruetion Law (which
protides for financial reorganization of companies that suffered spesial wartime
10080s).
Other higher estimates of the total Talue of shares to be dispesed of
have appeared in Japansse souress, but these stimates parently ineluds categorics
of privately held seourities, the disposition of which is as yet extromely wmoertaime
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.95)
COPIDXMTIAL
In my ease, eastiem muld ppear meeessary in the use of valme estimates ef
coperate seourities that are to be dispesed ef by the Japasese Serermmemt.
There is ne indicatien of the mount of double-counting that might cosur is
estimating seourity values under conditions of an intrieate system of pyremiéed
cerporate stimetures. In addition, there has been a drastie redustiem im
the gemeral level of industrial astivity md a esssation ef aetivity in mr
industries, a loss of assets in oversees and formerly oscupied aress, bemb
destruotion of part of the assets within Japan, eto. Under these cemditioms.
a readfustment of carporate sapital val uss is in order, and an attempt is being
made in Japan to effeot this readjustment. The offect of this readjmstmemt
on the value of outstanding securities, whether privately held or held by
publie bodies for disposition, would appear to be suoh as to render msertain
the meaning of a 20 billion yen paid-up value figure or 25 billion yem per
value figure.
This problem is further complicated by the surrent inflatiom in Japam.
Por exemple. a though SCAP estimates indicate that the securities to-be dis-
posed of constitute about 50 percent of the va ue (paid-up or per value) of
outstanding securities, this stated value has less significance as inflation
proceeds. For example, a comparisèn of the 20-or 25 billion yen figure with
prewar estimates of national income would show that national ineome in any prewar
year was less then this amount. It probably only spproached this amount in
the early years of the war. Japanese estimates of national income in the post-
surrender period bear an entirely differont relation to this figure. Japamese
officiais estimated the national imoome for 1946 at l32 billion yen in the first
half of that year and now estimate national income for l947 at about 8s0 billion
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.95)
CONPIMSNPIAL
8
yes, a figure that refheets inflationary conditiens and te a sh emalle 
some industrial recevery. Similarly, the 2o er 2s billien yem figure appsers
to skrisk in comperisen with liquid wealth outstanding in the form of ourremege
Bank of Japen notes eutstanding before the eurremey ceuversien in Fekreary mé
March l946 reached abeut 70 billien yen. After a sharp contrastiom they have
now climbed to almost ls0 billion yen. Bank depesits and pestal savings
depositis rose from about l20 billion yem before the surremder to almmst 200
billion yen by Apri 1 1947.
Security prices, on the other hand, remsin relatively depressed. It
would p pear that ourren inflationary conditions would thus fasilitate the fereed
sale of securities. The diffioulty encountered in lerge-scele dispesal have besm
attributed to a variety of reasons, including swoh fasters as the relmstmee of
farmers to buy securities and the undesirability of permitting persems whe have
benefited by the inflation to acorue windfall advantages in security purehasing.
The recent disposals of sesurities by the Securities Coordimatien Liquidesiem
Committee (val ued at about 400 million yen) reportedly did not demomstrate my
wide-spread buyer interest. It is difficult to determine at this time and at
this distanee whether this reported lack of interest will prevail in future sales
or whether an edueationel program for the public coneerming steck owmership, eompled
with more diršot and vigorous sabesmanship, covering a wide geographieal area
of Japan would result in successful disposal of the remondeus q amtities
iavolvod.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
CHRONOLOGY OF LIGS IDATIGN OF CORPORATE BEGURITIES XE JANGE
September &, 1965:
 besie petiey fer sesupatian ad entrel of dapen
statement contained the follewing pessage affveting
Zaibatsu disselution: "to faver & pregrem for the
disselutiom of the large industrial end benking
combimatiens which have exeroised eemtrel ef a
great part of Jepan's trade md industry."
Cstober 31, 1945:
SCAP (SCAPIN 215) crdered the Japamese Govermment to
freese all sesurity tramections of the fifteem majer
besiness cembines in Japan and their subsidiaries.
(This direstive was revised by SCaPIN le90 of My .
1947, whieh permitted certain transsstioms with seap
approval.)
Deeember 8, 1945:
SCAP (SCAPIN 40S) stablished a "Sebedale of Restrieted
Concerms." A restristed sonvern is a eempeay that mst
secure SCaP permission to perferm asts met senstreed to
be in the normal course of businees in order to prevemt
dissipatien of assets by these companies watil
dissolution or reorganisation has been ashieved.
Jamuary 18, 1946:
SCAP (SCAPIN 615) approved the appeintmest of a Cemmistee
of Conservators for closed institutions. This Sammiteee
was ordered, in socordance with the seap direstive ef
September 80, 1965 concerning closed imstitutiems, "te
seise, slose, md anot allow te reepen emsspé at the
direotion of SCAP, the heed offiees, bramshes and
agencies in Japan of all banks, develepment compaaies.
and institutions whose foremost parpese had bees the
finsncing of colonisation and develepment astivities in
areas outside Japan, or, the fimeneing of war predsetiom
by the mobilisation and contrel of finameial reseuress
within Japan, its colonies and Japanese-escupied territery."
(The Committee of Comservaters besame the Closed Institutisms
Liquidation Commission (CILc) in Jume 1946.)
April 20, 1946:
The Jep anese Goverzment establis hed the Balding Gempaxy
Liquidatien Cemmission (HCLc) by Imperial Brdinanee
253. The H0L0 was entrusted "te promete the prempt liquid-
ation of pweh eompanics es may be desigmated ...
by receiving transfer ef seeurities... and other
properties owned by them, and by adainistering and
dispesing of such securities md other properties with a
view to demoeratising the ownership and management of
enterprises."
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.94)
July 23, 1966:
SCAP (SGaPIE 1079) approved the Imporial Grdimsnse
that established the mase.
Angmt 8, 1946:
The Cabinet, Finsnce md Jastise Misistries Srdinemee
mas issued. This crdinesss enforeed the prorisseme of
Imperial Ordinanee 233 of April 20, 1946.
August 27, 1946:
The meic designated fer liquidation the five leeding
ZAIBATSU helding companies.
September 28, 1946.
SCAP (sCAPIN 12ss) issued supphementary regulatioms
affecting restrieted concerms. Gertsin somserms were pre-
hibited frem asquiring direstly or indirestly en imterest
in any non-restrieted conoorn.
Octeber 1946:
The Enterprise Reconstrustion md Reerganisatiem Law and
the Finameial Institutions Resenstructien md Reergamisatism
Law were promulgated. These lam required fimemeial
reerganisation of companies that had suffered spesiel ar
lesses.
November 21, 1946:
The M0Lc des ignated for liquidatiom 40 additesal Zaibatss
had sontrelled appreximately 70 peroeat of Japemsse eer-
porate wealth by means of a complieated holding eempamy
structure pyramided upon operating compamies.
Hovember 26, 1946:
SCAP (SCAPIN 1363) anlarged the jurisdietion of the maLe.
The Japanese Govermment was ordered to vest im the moLß
express authority to ressive, bold, manage, and admimister
the properties and asseks of desigeated Zaibatss family
members with a view tomard sventual liquldatien and
distribution of these properties and assets and esmpemsatiom
of the family mmbers.
Desember S, 1946:
The HCLC designated fer disselutien 20 additienal
Zaibatsu holding coapanies. It was anmoumeed that these
wore of the second level of importance. As of this date,
therefore, S5 Zaibatsu holding companies had beem desigmated
for dissolution.
Docember 25, 1946:
The Japanese Diet passed a law establishing the Seeurities
Coordinating Liquidation Committee (SClC). This Cemmittes
is composed of one representative from eash agemey charged
with the liquidation of securities for the Japamese Géverm-
mont. (See Chart on page a-5)
Fobruary 20, 1947:
The HCLC nomed 56 of the weelthiest mombers of the Zaibatsn
families as "designated persons," in accordance with Yuk
1863 of November 26, 1946.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.93)
CONVIDENYIAL
as
March 31, 1947:
The Japenese BMot passed the Japanese atéotraps w
knowm se the "ßaw Relating to Prokibitiem of Prtwake
Nonopely akd Nethode of Presorving Pair Trade." The
majer previsiens of the las prokibit private memepelies,
unreasonable restraints of trede, wafair metheds of
competition, and undue disparities in bargaiming pemer.
April 12, 1947,
The mti-trust law passed in Marek mas to come iste effeet
in July 1947. A Fair Trade Cemissien was establlshed e
administer the law.
June 18, 1947:
The law establishing the Securities Geerdimsting
Liquidation Committee was premalgated, md the Cammittse
heid its first meeting. The Cemmittee has the felleming
functions:
1. To formulate operating procedures for the erterly
distribution of securitiss ef any agemey.that hes
or may kave securities for liquidatiom. (ses
table on p.e-6.)
2. To prepare market amalyses and detemime the rate
and methods of distribution.
Z. To establish a centralised system of registratiem
fer all securities.
4.
To determine methods of providing a bread and
diversified ownership.
5. To suporvise the actual marketing presedare of re-
ceiving and accepting bids, asting as agent fer the
constituent agencies in sales and al lesetiems of
sales.
July 1947:
The Securities Coordinating Liquidation Comaittee began the
first sales of securities for liquidation agemeies.
August 11, 1947:
The SCLc first pla ced Zaibatsu stocks on salle. Restrieted
bank deposits wore permitted to be used in steek tram-
saotions. (To prevent inflation, stocks seld to bayers
using restricted deposits are placed in the sustedy of the
SCLC for a twe-year period. Buyers ressive oaly depcsit
receipts, but may have all other stockholder privileges.)
September 21, 1947:
The Japanese Cabinet approved the contreversial Amti-
Eeonomie Concontration Bill. The purpase of the bill, as
stated, is "to destroy overooneentration of csomemie powor
in order to reconstruot the national economy on a somad
demueratie basis." The MCLC is to be given additional
power te supervise the dissolutien of cempumies affeoted by
this bill.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.81)
Getober €. 1967s
aomeed that nly ee millian yon worth of
seourities hed been seld,
CONFIDKNTIAL

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.96)
AGEECIES POR THE LIQUIDATION OF CORPORATE SECURITIBS
Glosed Institutions
Liquidatiem Cemmission (CILC)
Liquidation agont
for apprexinately
100 elesed institutions
Helding Cempany Liquidations
Cemmissien (ECLC)
Liquidation agent for
Zaibatsu securities
Bank of Japan
Securities Coordination
Liquidation Committee
Liquidation agent
for 5 elsed institutions
Composed of representatives
Salee to
from each of the five
the publio
liquidation agencies
Ministry of Finance
Disposal agent for
securities cellested
through capital levya
Ministry of Cemmerce and
Industry
Liquidation agent for
sesurities to be
liquidated under the
Eaterprise Reorganisation
& Reconstruetion Law
a. Capttal levy - a spesial tax on property
COMPIDENTIAL

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.89)
LIQUIDATION OF CORPORATE SEOURITIES
Aquidation Agont
Appreximate Peid
Walm of Soontt
2,700,0.(13)
CILC
NOLO
6,900,000,000*
Bank of Japan
500,000.000
Ministry of Finance
3, 700,000,000 
Ministry of Commeree & Industry
6, 000,000.000 
Total paid-Up value
19,800,000,000
Souree: SCAP, Sumation of Non-Military Activities in Japen, June I047.
CONFIDERTIAL

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.95)
208
OSFIRF
DOUGLAS, PROCTOR, MACINTYRE & GATES
JAMES H. DOUGLAS, JR
ATTORNEYS AT LAW
TELEPHONE EXECUTIVE 0440
ROBERT PROCTOR
CABLE DOUPROC
MALCOLM A. MACINTYRE
73O SOUTHERN BUILDING
SAMUEL E. GATES
OchRe
WASHINGTON 5, D. C.
CARL MCGOWAN
JOHN F. MECK,JR.
MAURICE WINGER,JR.
JOHN S. HANCOCK
ROY B. KELLY
November 15, 1947
Files
Central
OC/R
lee'd By
Lir. Ross Whitman
Economic Division
Department of State
Room 16, Old State Department Building
Washington 25, D. C.
Re: Japanese Credits.
Dear Mr. Whitman:
I am enclosing herewith three copies each of (a)
draft of proposed report to be rendered to the Far Eastern
Commission in respect to proposed Japanese financing, and
(b) proposed amendments to SCAP Circular No. 9 that will
894.51/11-1547
be transmitted to Tokyo late today or early Monday with
the understanding that further changes may be suggested at
the time of the proposed telecon between the Pentagon and
Tolyo on Tuesday at 6:0o P.i., as well as the master drafts
from which these were prepared.
I will be in touch with Messrs. Southall and
Kirkpatrick early Monday morning so that any further sug-
estions they have may be in hand before the telecon.
Sincerely,
Nalelin A. Mardalge
C
5
S
Enclosures
15

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.94)
D-281
DCR
DANITFOF
STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
F OCCUPIER MAPAN
ECONOMIC AFFAI
DEC 3-1947
DEPARTMENT OF
Tokyo, November 18, 1947.
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 1398
SUBJECT: Collection Into One Repository of Currencies and
Financial Instruments Surrendered by Repatriates.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose five
/11-1847
copies of a directive issued by this Headquarters (SCAPIN 1812),
dated November 6, 1947, setting forth procedures to be followed
by the Japanese Government in collecting into one repository
ACTION
currencies and financial instruments surrendered by repatriates
OE
upon their arrival at ports of entry into Japan. Certain curren-
cies and financial instruments issued by Japanese financial
COPLES
1087D
agencies are excepted from the provisions of the irective.
FE
FN
LE
1947 DEC 1 PM 4 26
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AS
Enclosure:
RECEIVED
SCAPIN 1812, dated
LIAISON
DC/L
Nevember 6, 1947 on
8
subject "Concentration
of Currencies and Finan-
cial Instruments Surren-
CS/A
dered by Repatriates at
Ports of Entry in Japan"
(five copies).
Original and ozalid to Department
701.32/7114
RHBushner/blc
STATE
1947 M  1 33
CI NC
894.51
5
WC/M
R
DEC 8-1917
FILEL
11

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMNDER FOR THE ALLTED POWERS
APO 500
4G 131 ( 6 NoV 47 )CPC/GP
6 November 1947
(SCIPIN 1812)
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
THROUGH:
Centrel Lipison Office
SUBJECT:
Concentration of Currencies and Financial
Instruments Surrendered by Repatriates
at Ports of Entry. in Japan
1. Reference is made to the followimg memorende for
the Japanese Govornment from General Hegdquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allicd Powers:
P. AG 370.05 (7 May 46)GC, Anncx VI to SCAPIN
927, 7 Mey 1946, suhicct, "Repatriation," as amended;
b. G. 131 (29 NoV 46) ESS/FT, SC/PIN 1368, 29 NoV-
ember 1946, subicct, "Surrcndcr of Forcign Exchange Assets,"
as amended.
2. The Jananosr Governmont is directed to take im-
mediate and apnronrigte actfon in conformence with directions
conteined heroin end require thet al4 currencies and finan-
ctal instruments surrendered by renatriates at the veripus
norts of entry in Janen under provisions of reference la
above, rxclusive of those: cited in paregraph 3 helom, be de-
posited in the Penk of Jaran, Tokvo.
P. Rcccipt forms similar to CPC/A. CPC/B, end
CPC/C as prescribed in reference 1b above, will he utilized
in the concontration progrem. The Janenese Government is
dirocted to obligate the Pank of Japan to issue to port
officiels or other denositors of renatriated currencies and
finencie1 instruments reecint forms similar to CPc/A and
CPC/B. One cony of cach reccipt will be submitted to
Goneral Heed qurrters, Sunrome Commander for the Allicd Powers;
b. Curroncics and finencia1 instruments concentret
ed under this nrogram w1ll be plaecd dn snociel custody by 
the Bank of Jopan. for ultimete disposition by the Supreme
Commender for the Allied Powers.
3. Pank of Japan yen, Jepanese military notes, Cen-
trel Boseryc Pank.of China notcs, Fedorri Reserve Bank of
China notos, Southorn Pogions Developments Bank notes, Bank
of Mongolia notos, Benk of Menchou notes, nd finencial
instruments exprossed in terms of such currencies ere

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.95)
G 131 ( 6 Nov 47 )CPC/GP (SCAPIN 1812)
oxcepted from this concentretion nrogrem.
4. An initial accounting for pll repetrieted curren-
cies and finencial instruments denosited with the Bank of
Jenan, Tokvo, wil1 be accomplished by 31 December 1947.
Thereefter, the Japancsc Government will submit to General
Headquarters, Sunreme Commander for the Pllied Powers,
monthly reports of currencies and financiel instruments
surrondered by repatriates during the interim periods.
a. Currencics end financial instruments eccumu-
lated at the various ports of entry will be deposited week-
1y with the Pank of Japan.
5. The Japaneso Governmont is further directed to
furnish Gonoral Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Illied Powers, a detailed summery renort, in duplicate,
similar to and cont=iring information solicited on form
CPC/C, of pll curroncies end financial instruments deposit-
ed with the Pank of Japan in compliance with terms of this
memorandum. Summary roports will be suhmitted at the cnd
of tho initial noriod, 31 Deccmber 1947, followed by month-
ly summery roports thereafter.
6. Direct communication between the Ministry of
Finance end annronristc sections of Generel Headquerters,
Sunrome Commander for the Allied Powers is hereby author-
ized to imnlement this memorandum.
FOR THE SUPREE COFTNDER:
nuoya
R. M. LEVY,
Colonel, AGD
Adjutant General.
2

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.95)
32
94 N   11
DAIS ON OF O
UNITED STATES POLITIGAL ADVISER
D9
LE
FOR JAPAN
OEPATE
ECOOMIC
DEC 12 1947
Tokyo, November 20,51947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF
UNCLASSIFIED
RECEIVED
EWT
No. 1406
DEC3.1947
lte
OFSTE
SUBJECT:
Interim Agreement for the Sterling Fimancing of Private
Trade with Japan.
894.51
1/
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose copies
of the text of the interim currency agreement megotiated by the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers and the United Kingdom,
1/11-2047
2/
and copies of the accompanying press release of November 15,
1947, concerning the sterling financing of private trade between
the United Kingdom and such other parts of the sterling aree as
specified by the United Kingdom Liaison Mission and Japan.
As indicated in the enclosed press release, participants
in the interim agreament at present include only the United
Kingdom, its Colonies, Mandates, and Protected Areas, and the
Dominions of Australia and New Zeeland. Other Dominions and
Hong Kong ars as yet undeeided whether they will participate in
07
the interim arrangement.
Sterling accruing to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers as a result of this interim arrangement will be deposited
in accounts to be established with the Tokyo branches of the Hong
Kong-Shanghai Banking Corporation and the Chartered Bank of India,
Australia and China, and outpayments will be made by the Supreme
Commander from these accounts. A central account will be main-
tained in the Bank of England at London. Six months after the
effective date of the interim agreement, provided a final agree-
ment regarding this matter has not been reached beforehand, any
sterling balance remaining in the account is to be converted
into United States dollars.
In this connection, the terms of the interim agreement do
not envisage the sale for sterling of cotton tertiles manu-
CS/V
factured in Japan from American cotton sold to Japan under de-
ferred credit terms.
Enclosures:
cu
1. Copies of tert of interim
curremcy agreement, as stated.
2.
Copies of press release of
DEC 15 1947
November 15, 194?, as stated.
FILED
F14
Original and ozalid to Department
T
S-851
7RB
DMBane: vr

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.99)
Eaclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 1406, dated November 20, 1947, fãom
the Aeting Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subjest: "Im-
terim Agreement for the Sterling Financing of Private Trade With
Japan."
COPY
Interim Agreement for the Sterling Fimamcing
of Private Trade with Japan
1. Pending final agreement betweem the United Kingdem,
United States Treasury, and the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers regarding the acceptance and convertibility of sterling
which may accrue to accounts of the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers as a result of trade between the United Kingdom
and Japan, the terms of the interim arrangement contaimed herein
will govern the conduct of private trade between residemts in the
United Kingdom and such other parts of the sterling aree as the
United Kingdom Liaison Mission may from time to time specify to
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers and Japan.
2. Sterling will be accepted from private trade representa-
tives of the United Kingdom and other parts of the sterling area
specified by the United Kingdom Liaion Mission in accordamce
with Clause 1.
3. Sterling accruing to the account of the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers in the manner indicated above may be freely
utilized by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers within
the United Kingdom and other parts of the sterling area specified
by the United Kingdom Liaison Mission.
4. Accounts will be established by the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers with Hong Kong and Chartered Banks into
which will be deposited all sterling proceeds as indicated above
and from which all outpayments in sterling will be made.
5. The terms of this intorim arrangement shall ∞ntinue in
effect for a period not to exceed sir months from the date of
this memorandum unless the terms of a final agreement as
referenced in paragraph 1 above should serve to supersede or
nullify provisions herein. At the end of six months after the
coming into effect of this agreemant, the sterling proceeds of
the above account shall be ∞nvertible into United States dollars.

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.98)
Eaclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 1409 dated Movember 20, 1947 from the
Acting Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject: "Jaterim
Agreement for the Sterling Financing of Private Trade with Japan.*
GENERAL HT ADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COILIAND
Public Information Office
Press Relcase:
1330
15 November 1947
SCAP ANNOUNCES INTIRIM CURRENCY AIRANGLIFNT
TO FACILITATE TRADE VITH STLRLING AFFAS
Acoption of en interin currency arrangcrent by SCAP
and the Unitcd Kingcom to facilitate privatc trade between sterling
are as and Japan, was anncunced today by General MccArthur.
The arrangement provides that sterling will be accepted in
private trade for Japinesc goods and that SCAP, in turn, will pay
sterling for goods which are purchascd from sterling areas
cesignated by the United Kingdon. All sterling received by SCAP
will be acposited in tvwo accounts to be kept in London, and nll
outpaynents by SCAP vill be made fror these accounts. The sterling
brlances in thcs accounts will be converted to United States
collars semi-annually at the requcst of SCAP. The two central
accounts will be with the Hong Kong Shanghai Banking Corporation
nd the Chartered Bank of Indic, Australic, and China.
Porticipants in the interim agrcement so far include the United
Kingdon, her colonics and mandated and protected areas and the
Cominions of Australia and New Zealand. The other Cominions
and Hong Kong are not parties to the agrcement at this time.
While characterizing the arrangenent as a "substantial
cchievement" tovard liberalizing the terms of privote trade
between Japan end sterling areas, S. J. Janow, chief of the
Plans and Programs Group of thc Foreign Trade Division, explained
that it is merely e prinary m asure intended to allow British
traders to buy more freely in Jopan until an overall currency
greement is reached. Negotiations on an ovcrall agreement have
been in progress in Woshington D. C. for some time.
The currency probler, Mr. Janow noted, has been a major ob-
strclc restricting trace betwcen the sterling aren countries and
Japan.
Purchases in Jrpan by representatives of sterling area
countries have been subjcct to the same restrictions that apply
to purchases in dollar areas.
-0-
PREPAID REPLY RADIOTELIGHAPH J SSAGE
SIRVICE NOV AVAILABLF FHOM JAPAN
Organizations or rersons in Jpan authorized to possess
Military Payment Certificates, British Armed Forces Special
Vouchers or Foreign Trade Payment Certificates, may now file
prepaid reply messages to any point accepting this type of
service over United States, Ii-nila and Osaka-Colombo radiotelegraph
circuits, it was announced by SCAP's Civil Comrunications Section
today.
This authorization amplifies the existing arrangement whereby
non-accredited organizations or persons, including Japanese
naticnals, are authorized to receive reply paid messagos over these
circuits.
-0-
(over)

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.97)
USO CAMP SHOS TAKES FINAL BOW BEFORP TACTICAL TROOPS OVERSEAS
WITH THE EIGHTH ARIY IN TOKYO--Tvö thousand SoIdiers were on
hand last night in the Canr Dreke theatre to wetch the final per-
formence of a U.S.O. Camp Shows unit before tactical troors over-
seas.  Searchlights, provided by nearby Johnson Air Base, were
utilized outside the theatre in Stateside preriere style.
The U. S.0. troupe, consisting of entertainers in the Shows 960
and 970, wil1 give the fina1 oversers perforrance tonight at 7:30
p.r. at the Ernie Pyle theatre in Tokyo.
-0
IX CORPS HFADOUARTERS COLPANY CUINTET LOSES, 34-32
VITH THE EIGHTH ARY IN SENDAI--With Eugene Manahan, Englewood,
N.Y., and Robert Dye, Hamilton, Ohio, collecting 1l roints each, the
Sendai Division 3d RS cowncd IX Corrs Headquarters Cor pany, 34 to
32, in an IX Corps Basketball Lergue gane here.
In another loop battle, IX Corps Hilitary Police Fictoon edged
the 583d Engineer Constructien Group quintet, 56 to 48. Micheel
Dinaro, "oodside, L.I., N.Y., led the victors with 26 points while
James Warter, Knoxville, Tenn., wos high for the Engineers with 19.
-0-
YOKOHANA AIERICAN HIGH SCHOOL LLEVEN BOY'S, 19 TO O
HEAPCUARTFRS TIGHTH ARIY, YOKOHAMA--Paced by the ball-toting
of T/5 Frank Brunc, New York City, end Pfc. Jim Hague, East Orange,
N.J., the 12th Specia1 Services Cory ny.won a. 19-0 gridiron victory
over the Yokchana American High School in Lou Gehrig Stadium last
night.
Long runs from a wcll cxecuted T-forration provided the Special
Services eleven with all three touchdowns, Bruno, ex-All Metropoli-
tan Nev York Halfback, setting up the first one with a 28-yard jaunt
in the first quarter. Crl. Chuek Saverine, Darien, Conn., tallied
"ith an off-tackle plunge for the score.
Hague, ex-All-State New Jersey quarterback, unablc. to find a
poss recciver in the second perioc, ran the ball 58 yards to pay
dirt. Bruno cut loose for 4ò yards and the final counter.at the
outset of the fourth quarter.
Pfc. Bill Braer, Hartforc, Conn., and S/Sgt. Bill De Long,
Johnsonburg, Pa., the. 12th Srecial Services ends, were standouts in
the winners' hard charging line, which rermitted the high school
youths to penetrate Special Servics tcrritory but once.
-0-
FED CROSS WORKERS HONORED AT REVITW
VITH THE EIGHTH ARMY IN TOKYO--Six American Red Cross girls,
and their Field Director, George R. Haines, 321 W. Leicester St.,
Winchester, Ve., today stood on the reviewing stand as guests of
honor with Maj. Gen. Charles V. Ryder, Acting Eighth Army.
Comnander, and reccived a tribute fron troopers of the 1st Cavalry
Division at Camp Drake.
(more).
-2-

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.97)
The honors were in appreciation of welfare and morale work
accomplished by the American Jed Cros's throughout the 1st Cavalry
Division and other units of the Eighth Arny curing the two
years of the Occupation of Japan, and, before. that, in the com-
bat areas of the Pacific.
All of the girls are veteran Red Cross workers and served
with the Armed Forces through the war years. They are the Misses:
Futh Thompson Brown, 918 Woodnont.Ave., Williamsport, Pa.;
Betty Jean Ervin, 4805 Upton Ave., Minneapolis, Minn.; Julianna
Fitch, 102 Aurora St., Hudson, Ohio; Norra Jones, 2364 Forbes
Ave., Jacksonville, Fia:, Cellie Yorkum, Foute 1, Beverly,
West Virginia, and Jrry F. Welch, 385 Seneca Parkway, Rochester,
New York.
Two officers of the Division were decorated at this morning's
ceremony. They were Capt. Howard V. Peak, El Paso, Texas, and
Copt. Warnock D. Harwell, 2319 N. W. 11th St., Oklahona City,
Okla. Both received the Bronze Ster Nedal from Maj. Gen.
William C. Chase, Commanding General of the Division.
-0-
COLONEL W. J. GLLSGO, J.DIES
Colonel Willinn Jefferson Glasgow, Jr., a member of the Joint
Strategic Plans and Op ratiens Group, GHQ, FEC, died suddenly
yesterday noon in Ishikahari, Hokk ido, a smail town near
Sapporo. Hc.was believed to have suffered a heart attack.
Colonel Glasgow hac been on temporary cuty in Hokkaido. At
the tine of his death he was ruturning fron a hunting trip with
a party hended by inj. Gen. Joseph Sving, corr ander of the 11th
Airborne Division, "hich occurics Hokkaido.
Before joining JSPOG in January, 1947, Colonel Glasgow held
one of the lcading planning posts in G-4, GHQ. He joined General
MncArthur's headquarters in 1945, and had been one of the chief
plonners for the detailed logistic support of the second of two
I rge scale projectec invasions of Honshu in "Operation Olympic":
Colonel Glasgaw also vas instrumental in the circction of the
program which supplied United Nations prisoners of war in Japan
and Korca with food and other vitrl nccessities.
After thc surrender Colonel Gl sgow was one of the principals
in planning postwar and post-occuption bases in the Pacific.
Before coming to the Pacific theater in 1945, Colonel Glasgow
had seen cuty in Africa, Sicily and Italy. In the last half of 1943
he served as assistant G-3, in the Hcadquarters of the 15th Army
Group in Italy, then moved to G-3, Headquarters Allicd Armies in
Itoly, under Ficld Mnrshal Sir Bernard L. Hontgonery.
For his service in Europe he was awarded the Legion of Merit,
the Order of the British Enpire, nd the Order of the Crown of
Italy Medal. He received the Ok Leáf Cluster to the Legion.of
Morit for his service with Goneral MacArthur's headquarters in
1945 and 1946.
(more)
-3-
(over)

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.97)
He wore battle stars for the Sicily, Naples-Foggic, Rome-
Arno, and Luzon compaigns. A gradunte of the U. S. Military
Academy in 1927, Colonel Glnsgow served in China with U. S.
Army Forces from 1929 to 1932.
He is survived by his wife, rs: Carlina S. Glasgow, formerly
of Santa Barbara, Calif., and one six-year-old caughter, Isabelle
both of whon were living with hin in Tokyo. A brother, Col, Joseph
M. Glasgow, is Ad jutant General of the Eighth Arny, stationed In
Yokohama.
Colonel Glasgow's address in the United States is at 1120
Magoffin Ave:, El Paso, Tox. His parents, Brig, Gen. and Mrs.
William J. Gl sgow, lso live in Ei Paso. General Glrsgow is
retired.
Funerel arrangcrénets will be announced later.
-0-
FEC POSTAL AUTHORITIES PREPARE FOR CHRISTLAS RUSH
Army postal cuthoritics of the Fer East Comrand completed
preporations this week for handling the Christnas rush, anc re-
ported that it coulc rensonably bc expected that delivery of,all
parcels and letter mail reaching the theater before Dec: 21
coulc be mace by Christmas Day.
The postal uthorities enphasized, however, that this cid
not reduce the urgency of carly dispatch of nrticles fron the
United States, since Post Office focilitics stateside vould be
taxed to capacity to process the anticipatet rush from now until
Christmas.
Instructirns have been issued by General Headquarters Arny
postal uthoritics to all Fer East Corrand major cormands outlining
preparations to be mnde to h-nale increascd volumes of. mail
enticipated.
Assignment of extre qualified rersonnel, as well as added
transrortation fecilities, hos been authorized, and plans for meet-
ing every erergeney have been madc.
Window services at Post Officcs will be extended over longer
nours during the rush pcriod, and methcds have been sct up to ex-
redite hanling of long lincs of moilers.
Authorities estimate thet a naximum of four days will be re-
cuired to'have letters or parcels in. the hands'of addressees from the
roment mail planes and ships arrive in Japan, even of addressees in
the remotest parts of the country.
Unlocding of mail planes and ships begins imnediately upon
arrival of these craft: · The heaviest loads are proce'ssed in the
Base Post Offices and are on their may to Arny post offices within
a maximum of 36 hours. APo's require not more than 24 hours to
sort, and deliver mail to the units, thereby getting it to individual
radressees within a cay.
Sirilar systcns are in operation throughout the Fer East
Comnand, which incluccs in addition to Japan, Koree, the Ryukyus
the Philippines, the Linrianas, cnd the Bonins, General Headquarters
Army postal cuthorities said.
Since all' mnil adcrcssed to Army post offices is handled and
supervised by Arny personnel, there will be no delays in deliveries
to U. S. occup tion personnel in Japan, because of work stoppeges
nd rbsenteeism reported in Japanese civilian post offices, nuthor-
ities stated.
-0-

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 8
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, Japan, January 2, 194.
Subject: Interim Agreement for the Sterling Financing of Private
Trade with Japan.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to this
Missionts despatch No. 1406 of November 20, 1947 on the ahove
subject and to enclose copies of this Headquarters' memorandum of
December 18, 1947 to the United Kingdom Liaison Mission in Japan
further concerning the interim agreement.
894.51/1-248
As indicated in the enclosed merorandum, prices quoted in
dollars are to be converted into sterling at the rate of 4.03, the
rate registered with the International Monetary Fund, in connec-
ACCLON
tion with sales to the sterling area. Furthermore, at the time of
LV
conversion of any sterling balance into dollars, presumably six
cor1
months after the coming into effect of the original agreement, con-
TU:6D
version is to take place at the rate then registered with the Fund.
The enclosed memorandum confirms the readineser of the Supreme
B
Commander for the Allied Powers to convert into dollars at the end
of six months any sterling credit held by the sterling area.
L
(TP)
Enclosure: 
Memorandum "Interim Agreement
OIVISION OF FINNCAL AFFARS
for Financing Private Trade
no actiin
Fi山.
FS
with Japan", December 18, 1947.
JAN 1 6 1948
AS
CS/A
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ogm for 3.8
Original and ozalid to Department.
gon19.
701.66
40 JAN 14 PM 3 08
DMBane/51c
Tau
UNCLASSIFIED
35
S
9
894.51
948 N 15
JAN 26 1948
FILID
EXR

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 8
dated January 2, 1948 from the
Office of the United States
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Interim
Agreement for the Sterling Financ-
ing of Private Trade with Japan".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 091.31 (18 Dec 47)ESS/FT
18 December 1947
MEMORANDUM FOR: United Kingdom Liaison Mission in Japan
SUBJECT:
Interim Agreement for Financing Private
Trade with Japan
1. Reference is United Kingdom Liaison Mission memorandum
number 94/301/47, dated 28 November 1947, on the subject of
financing private trade with Japan.
2. Reference paragraph 2 of the above memorandum. Prices
quoted in dollars should be converted into sterling at the rate
of 4.03, the rate registered with the International Monetary Fund.
This practice will be followed in connection with sales to the
sterling area.
3. Reference paragraph 3 of the above memorandum. It appears
reasonable that the rate applied to the conversion of sterling
should be formalized in a manner identical with that applied to
sales, namely, the rate registered with the International Monetary
Fund. In this connection it is understood that at the end of six
months after the coming into effect of the original agreement, con-
version of sterling into dollars may be accomplished at the option
of either party to the agreement upon call therefor. Conversion is
to take place at the rate registered with the International Monetary
Fund at the time of conversion.
4. Reference paragraph 4 of the above memorandum. This confirms
the readiness of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to
convert into dollars at the end of six months any sterling proceeds
of the account which may then stand to the credit of the sterling
area.
FOR THE SUPREE COMLANDER:
R. M. LEVY
Colonel, AGD
Adjutant General

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.93)
FORM DS-516
FILE NO.
3-19-47
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CHARGE SLIP
ENCLOSURE
CHARGE TO —
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
REMARKS
1-948
KR F-Hunc huger
3.7.4?
222
h - hyo.

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.93)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
.D99
No. 56
UNCLASSIFIED
FEB 9 1948
STATE
16
2
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OF
Sbject
Call for Payment of Capital Stock on all
2EN
NT
00
FACILITIES
Financial Institutions in Japan.
CEJ
3
R
1948 FE8
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to
enclose five copies of a directive issued by this Head-
quarters (SCAPIN 1848 of January 16, 1948) instructing
the Japanese Government to call for the payment in full
of all unpaid capital stock of all financial institutions
1/1-2648
in Japan. The call is to be completed within ninety days
AC
after January 16, 1948 and failure to meet the call will
EN
cause owners of such stock (except closed institutions,
United Nations nationals, and other non-Japanese nationals
IU:07D
residing outside of Japan) to lose all right, title and
benefits pertaining thereto.
OE
A
S
Enclosure:
L
E
General Headquarters
SCAP, directive (SCAPIN
OCD
1848, January 16, 1948)
concerning a call for
OFS
payment of unpaid capital
stock (five copies).
21
851
RHBushner:cs
RECEIVED
U1
18
C
STAT
UNCLASSIFIED
FEB 1.3 1948
SLIF
2
Dist

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 56 dated January 26, 1
of the United States Political Adviser for Japan
Call for Payment of Capital Stock on all Financial I
Japan".
GENERL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREE COMNDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AG 004.04 (16 Jan 48)ESS/FI
APO 500
(SCAPIN 1848)
16 January 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR: J.PNESE GOVERNMENT
T.LROUGH:
Central Liaison Office, Tokyo
SUBJLCT:
Call for Payment of Unpaid Capital Stock of All
Financial Institutions in Japan
1. The Japanese Government is directed to issue immediately
a call for the payment in full of all unpaid capital stock of all
financial institutionsin Japan including the Bank of Japan and
insurance companies. Aotual payment by the Bank of Japan may be
suspended until an appropriation of funds has been made by the
Diet. actual payment by a Speclal accounting Oompany will be sus-
pended until the approval of the reorganization plan, and will be
paid within thirty days thereafter.
2. The Japanese Government is direoted to complete this
call within ninety days from the date of this Memorandum. Failure
to meet the call will cause the owners of such stock to lose all
right, title, interests and benefits pertaining thereto.
3. Notwithstanding any provisions of the Financial Institu-
tions Reconstruction and Reorganization Law, the foregoing
procedures will be applicable to owners as of the date hereof,
and failure to meet the call will not relieve the liability of
owners of record as of 1l august 1946, and owners between that
date and 26 November 1947. Owners who acquire the stock on or
after the date of this Memorandum will likevise assume liability
for payment of the unpaid portion.
4. Paragraphs 2 and 3 will not be applicable to:
a. Closed institutions
b. United Nations Nationals
c. Other non-Japanese Nationals residing outside of Japan.
5. In order to implement the provisions of this memorandum,
direct communicatin betwee. the ministry of Finance and interested
staff sections of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
allied Powers, is hereby authorized.
FOR THE SUPRNE COMMLANDER:
agRehe
B./h. LEVY,
Adjutant Generál.

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.97)
FOR JAPAN
DOR
OF STATE
No. 82
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject:
: Economic Rehabilitation Occupied Areas (EROA) Estimate
i5
for Japan.
RECEIVED
894.51/2-1048
18
A
The Honorable
The ¿Secretary of State,
Washington.
11
Sir:
12
I have the honor to refer to the pending Economic Rehabilita-
tion Occupied Areas (EROA) estimate for Japan and to submit the
following comments of this Mission.
The EROA estimate for Japan for Fiscal Year 1948-1949 (15-month
period beginning April 1, 1948) amounts to $452,278,903, of which an
estimated 272,228,490 is to be financed through the medium of the
Occupied Japan Export-Import Revolving Fund (OJEIRF), available credits,
or barter on open account, and an estimated $180,050,413 is to be re-
quested of Congress. It is the understanding of this Mission that the
"recovery" or "rehabilitation program" as outlined above was prepared
in the Civil Affairs Division of the Department of the Army with thei
AS
assistance of representatives of General Headquarters of the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers and was predicated in part upon the
findings set forth in Possibility of a Balanced Japanese Economy pre
pared by the Research and Statistics Division, of the Economic and
Scientific Section of General Headquarters and transmitted to the
Department by this Mission's despatch No. 27/of January 9, 1948, en-
titled "Transmittal of a Report by the Economic and Scientific Section,
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, Concern-
ing the Possibility of Achieving a Balanced Japanese Economy." The
CSN
program as drafted indicates that, if funds in the approximate amount
referred to above are appropriated for the purpose of purchasing basic
commodities needed for Japan's industrial machine (Category II items)
as distinguished from purchases made with funds appropriated for Govern-
ment Aid and Relief in Occupied Areas (GARIOA) in order to maintain a
"disease and unrest" level (Category I items), the result ant stimulus
to Japan's economy will pennit the procurement of such basic commodities
through non-appropriated funding media, and will obviate the necessity
of appropriating funds in the future for rehabilitation purposes. This
stimulus to Japan's industrial machine in tum, according to the proposed
program, will reduce requirements for "diseaso and unrest" or Category I
appropriations to the extent that equilibrium will have been restored to
Japants balance of trade by the calendar year 1953.
Apart from the question of whether or not an appropriation approx
imating $180,000,000 might prove to be the determining factor in achieving
a possible balance of trade by 1953, it would seem that consideration should
be given to the attitude of other governments, particularly those in theo
Far East, toward such a rehabilitation program, and the possible undesirt
ability of linking an appropriation request to a balance of trade
projection
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Tokyo1s No. 82,
February 10, 1948.
-2-
projection in the event equilibrium is not restored in accordance
with the proposed timetable, particularly in view of the relative-
ly small amount involved in relation to Japan's economic condition.
With respect to the former consideration, there are enclosed as
examples of foreign criticism to the rehabilitation program, two
editorial comments taken from the Chinese Press Review for Jan-
1/2/
uary 28 and 29, 1948, prepared by the American Consulate General at
Shanghai, China. As might be imagined, the reaction indicated in
the edit orial comments is unfavorable, the theme being that the
United States intends to rehabilitate the Japanese economy in order
to open the Japanese market to American business and to provide a
check-point against Soviet expansion. One writer predicts a boycott
of Japanese goods by other Asiatic countries and that action taken
by the United States to assist Japan to regain its pre-war preeminent
industrial position in the Far East will only increase pro-Soviet
sentiment in Asia.
Assuming that approximately the same amount is to be financed
through OJEIRF, available credits, and barter, as indicated in the
EROA proposal, it is the opinion of this Mission, unless there are
overriding considerations unknown to us here, that possibly the
same objective in terms of funding could have been secured by
approving an increased GARIOA estimate rather than seeking Con-
gressional approval for a labelled "rehabilitation" program in the
amount of approximately $180,000,000. It is interesting to note
that the total of both the 1949 Fiscal Year Government Aid and
Relief in Occupied Areas (GARIOA) estimate for Japan of approximately
$435,000,000 (estimate for Japan and the Ryukyus $468,955,560), as
approved by the Department of Army, and the proposed $180,050,413
EROA appropriation request, is less than the original SCAP GARIOA
estimate of $684,753,054 (subsequently revised in August 1947 to
$685,850,876) for Category I, or, "disease and unrest" requirements.
Of those it ems included in the EROA estimate, $3,000,000 have
been earmarked under project 500 for the purchase of machinery,
motors, parts, et cetera, and $10,000,000 under project 540 for the
purchase of incentive goods and war surplus equipment. It is the
understanding of this Mission that these items would normally not
be considered Category I items for which GARIOA funds could be ex-
pended and hence, to provide funds in this regard, a Congressional
appropriation such as the proposed EROA, including such Category II
items, would be required, or, financing through the medium of OJEIRF,
available credits or barter. On the other hand, this Mission is of
the opinion that the 31,536,000 estimated for project 550-5,000,000
to be financed through OJEIRF or other media and $26,536,000 through
Congressional appropriation, to be used for the purchase of agri-
cultural supplies, namely, livestock feed, ammonium nitrate, and
phosphate rock-might possibly have been included as a GARIOA, or
Category I item. The original GARIOA estimate as submitted by SCAP
included a $3,825,000 item for phos phate rock and $20,400,000 for
livestock feed; however, these amounts were deleted by the Department
of the Army. The same conclusion might be reached with regard to a
substantial portion of the $58,300,000 estimated for project 560—
$23,400,000 to be financed through OJEIRF or other media, and
$34,900,000 through Congressional appropriation--to be used for the
transportation of civilian supplies. SCAP's original GARIOA estimate
for the transportation of civilian supplies amounted to $141,517,000;
however, this item was reduced to $85,566,019 by the Department of the
Army.
The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Tokyo's No. 82,
February 10, 1948.
一3-
The core of the proposed $452,278,903 EROA estimate is the
$349,442,903 estimated for project 530—$243,828,490 to be finaneed
through OJEIRF or other media, and $105,614,413 through Congression
al appropriation--to be used for the purchase of basic commodities.
In turn, of this total figure, Japan's textile fiber requirements,
estimated at $231,000,000--$214,056,000 to be financed through non
appropriated funds and $16,944,000 through Congressional appropria-
tion--constitute the major item. We believe that Japan's estimated
textile requirement s could possibly be met through GARIOA appropria-
tion as well as OJEIRF and other non-appropriated funds. In this
connection, it is interesting to note that SCAP's Fiscal Year 1949
GARIOA estimate, as originally submitted, included a textile fibers
requirement in the amount of $120,861,842 ($97,406,342 cotton) to
prevent "widespread disease and unrest". This estimate was predicated
upon a basic consumer ration of 2-1/2 pounds of textile fibers per
capita (77.98 per cent of ration cotton) and upon the assumption that
the only textile stocks available for household use would have to be
met from new production. This item was deleted from SCAP's GARIOA
estimate as being too difficult to justify, and it is presently
planned, as indicated in the above EROA estimate to meet the bulk
of Japan's textile requirements through other than appropriated fund
sources. The EROA estimate, as contrasted with the original GARIOA
estimate, provides for an estimated two pounds of cotton per capita
for domestic clothing use. By absorbing domestic clothing needs
under GARIOA, the quantity required to be financed through OJEIRF and
other media would be decreased thereby. Non-appropriated funds could
be directed in part to the purchase of that portion of Japan's raw
cotton requirements permitted to be procured from foreign sources,
whereas the GARIOA appropriation could be utilized in the procurement
of the stipulated share of Japan's raw cotton requirements secured to
the United States. By so doing, this Mission is of the opinion that
the $88,670,413 EROA estimate to be requested from Congress for the
purchase of raw materials such as metals and metallic ores, minerals,
chemicals, coal, pulp, et cetera, could be financed through the medium
of OJEIRF, available credits and barter.
As has been indicated above, no attempt has been made to discuss
whether or not a rehabilitation appropriation in the approximate
amount of $180,000,000 will so stimulate Japan's economy as to result
in a balanced foreign trade by 1953. Rather, the attention of the
Department has been invited to the desirability of achieving the
objectives of the EROA program in its present form through some other
medium more palatable perhaps to foreign governments and less diffi-
cult to justify by our own. It is believed that this approach to the
"rehabilitation program" merits some consideration in view of the
amount involved and the possibility of includ ing a part of the items
indicated within a GARIOA appropriation and financing the balance
through non-appropriated means, the difficulties involved in securing
Congressional approval for a "rehabilitation program" labelled as such,
criticism of such a program by other countries, particularly those in
the Far East, and the somewhat tenuous position taken that the injec-
tion of approximately $180,000,000 into Japan's distraught economy may
result in a trade balance by 1953. As a consequence, this Mission is
of the opinion that a more desirable course of action might have been
to increase the GARIOA estimate to approximately the original figure as
submitted, utilize OJEIRF, barter, and other available credits as
planned, and not submit the proposed EROA request in its present form
to
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL (Department Use Only)
Tokyots No. 82,
February 10, 1948.
-4-
to Congress. On the other hand, if a largescale rehabilitation
program is contemplated--one that is thought sufficiently sound
to risk unfavorable foreign criticism and Congressional diffioul-
ties, then it would seem that resort to a separate Congressional
rehabilitation appropriation request would be necessary.
This Mission realizes that the EROA program for Japan has tak
definite shape and is at present under consideration by the appro
priate individuals and agencies in Washington. It is believed, how
ever, that the above comments, predicated upon information available
to this Mission, are of possible interest to the Department, parti-
cularly in regard to the international aspects of the program as well.
as for reference should a similar situation arise in future requests for
appropriations relating to the economic rehabilitation of Japan.
Respectfully yours,
W.Be.
W. J. Sebald
Acting Political Adviser
Enclosures:
Editorial from Chinese Press
Review, January 28, 1948.
2.
Editorial from Chinese Press
Review, January 29, 1948.
Original and ozalid to Department.
850
DMBane/blc
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 468 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 82, dated February 10, 1948, from the
Office of the United States Political Adviser for Japan at Tokyo, on
the subject of: "Economic Rehabilitation Occupied Areas (EROA)
Estimate for Japan".
EDITORIAL COMMENT
(COPY)
We Oppose the U.S. Plan for Rehabilitating
the Japanese Economy
Ta Kung Pao (Independent, Political Science Group), Shanghai
January 28, 1948
The United States has worked out a naked and concrete plan for
helping Japan to rehabilitate her economy. The memorandum on this
plan has already been submitted to the Far Eastern Commission for
examination and has also been sent to the Chinese Ministry of
Foreign Affairs.
Although the contents of the plan have not yet been made public
by official quarters, yet judging by the fragmentary materials which
are already available, it is not difficult for us to see a general
outline of the plan. This is a big plan for economic rehabilitation;
it is a six or five year plan for reconstruction. Beginning from
July this year, the United States will lend US$500 million or US$650
million to Japan, and in addition, she will make free investments in
Japan totalling some US$2,O00 million. When the plan is completely
carried out, Japan will be restored to the industrial level which
existed during the period 1930-1934 (actually, this level will be
exceeded), and according to the plan, during the last year Japan will
export a tremendous quantity of commodities with a total value of
US$1,400 million.
Now on the basis of the above material we wish to point out
what the United States hopes to achieve. First, the large amount of
money required by the plan will, of course, be invested by the
United States. The latter wants to control Japan's industries by
exporting her capital, so that Japan's economic life will depend
entirely upon her. In this way, Japan will become the 49th State of
the U.S.A. The United States wants to include Japan in the Dollar
Bloc, and then to use her as a strategic base. Fundamentally, this
is a way of reviving Japan's traditional policy of having an
industrialized Japen and an agricultural Asia; it will enable the
"Greater East Asia Coprosperity Sphere" to revive in another form.
Naturally, the British bloc will be able to share in the advantages
of this plan, for with Indian cotton and Australian wool, it will
have capital with which to cooperate with Japan.
Secondly, the central purpose of the plan is to murture Japan's
iron and steel industry, so as to enable it to produce 3 million
tons of iron and steel annually, and also to develop her textile
industry and to develop and grab th: Asiatic market. At the same
time, the plan calls for the development of the chemical fertiliser
industry in Japan. Regarding these three industries, textiles are
a weapon to be used in the peacetime struggle, while iron and steel
and fertiliser are war materials. The American plan is very care-
fully worked out, for it is designed to enable Japan to dominate East
Asia both in peace-time and war-time. The objective is to enable
Japan to achieve domination rather than to solve the problem of the
livelihood of the Japanese people.
Thirdly,
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's No. 82
dated February 10, 1948.
-2-
Thirdly, the economic significance of the industrial level
which the plan is designed to achieve is to bring about an unbalanced
development of the Japanese economy, so that Japan will have to de-
pend upon the United States or the Anglo-American bloc for raw
materials and food supplies and will not become self-sufficient,
thus opening the Japanese market for American capitalists.
Fourthly, the different Asiatic countries will be placed under an
industrialized Japan. First of all, economic pressure will be
brought to bear upon these countries. An extremely sharp weapon in
the form of Japanese goods will be used against us for the purpose of
destroying the defense works of the industries of the different Asiatic
countries. This will then be followed by political and military
pressure. The industries of the different Asiatic countries, especially
those of China, will be unable to compete successfully with the Japan-
ese industries, which are supported by America's huge capital, so
that we shall never be able to raise our heads again.
Moreover, we should point out, solemnly point out, that this
policy of the United States towards Japan is self-contradictory, be-
cause according to the principles of the development of Capitalism,
Japan will doubtless eventually ask the United States for independence
for nationalistic reasons. What Japan lacks now is nothing but
capital, machinery and high-grade technical ability, so by the time
the United States has supplied Japan with enough of these things, the
Japanese ruling classes will want the United States to get out of
their country. Next, the United States feels that it will be worth-
while to seek control of the general situation in Asia by aiding
Japan, because it will require only a small capital but will yield
good profits. She is mistaken! Although Japan has had experience
in conquering or trying to conquer various Asiatic countries, yet the
United States should realize that in giving all-out aid to Japan, she
will be thoroughly antagonizing the people of other Asiatic countries.
Even if the Japanese goods bear U.S. trade marks, the people of other
Asiatic countries, we are sure, will launch a boycott movement against
such goods--a boycott which will. include U. S. goods as well. There-
fore, the Asiatic market for Japanese goods now envisaged by the
United States will be merely a nightmare and will be non-existent.
Even if Japan will be used only to check Soviet expansion, it will
only cause us to charge our hatred for Japan to the United States'
account and will, we are afraid, only make the different Asiatic
countries more pro-Soviet.
There is yet another reason why we oppose the United States'
plan for rehabilitating the Japanese economy, and that is, that since
the Japanese peace treaty has not yet been signed, Japan is still an
enemy of the Allied nations. As one of the Allied nations, the
United States is now so openly helping Japan, which is an enemy nation,
to recover. This has no moral and treaty basis whatsoever. Under no
circumstances must China endorse the United States' plan; she must
flatly reject any pleasing words or favors, and must strongly oppose
this plan. (Summary)
DMBane/hp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
CÓNFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 82, dated February 10, 1948, from the
Office of the United States Political Adviser for Japan at Tokyo, on
the subject of: "Economic Rehabilitation Occupied Areas (EROA)
Estimate for Japan".
(COPY)
EDITORIAL COMMENT
We Refute the View That Japan Should Be Made
the Factory of Asia
Tung Nan Jih Pao (KMT Southeast China Organ), Shanghai
January 29.1948
The United States' plan for rehabilitating Japan's industry and
economy has already been formally submitted to the Far Eastern Commission
and to China. While the contents of the plan have not yet been made
public, yet from the fact that the United States is ready to extend a
US$500 million loan to Japan and that Japan is now drafting a five-year
plan, we can see that the plan for rehabilitating Japan as proposed by
the United States indicates that the latter is determined to convert
Japan into a so-called "factory of Asia", just as she is trying to convert
Germany into a "factory of Europe". This is a matter of very great
significance.
Now, leaving aside the U.S. plan for rehabilitating Japan, let us
discuss the political significance of this plan first. The conclusion
reached by us is that China should strongly oppose this plan.
Generally speaking, the plan for rehabilitating Japan which the
United States has proposed has the same aim as her plan for rehabilitating
Germany, viz: on the one hand, she wants to consider the rehabilitation
of Japan as the backbone of the rehabilitation of the Far Eastern economy,
and on the other hand, she wants to use the rehabilitation of Japan as
the keystone in strengthening her anti-Soviet strategic bases. However,
we are more suspicious and uneasy about the plan for the rehabilitation
of Japan than are the people of Western Europe about the plan for the
rehabilitation of Germany. This is because according to the "five-year
plan" which Japan has drafted, the rehabilitation of that country will
be very beneficial to the United States alone (the British Empire can
also benefit from it to a certain extent), but will do great harm to
China and the other Asiatic countries. In carrying out the plan for the
rehabilitation of Japan, the United States may be able to convert that
country into a 49th State of the U.S.A., but at the same time, Japan
will be able to include the Asiatic countries in the "Great East Asia
Coprosperity Sphere" which she will rebuild. What a picture would that
be?
Any plan that is designed to convert Japan into the "factory of
Asia" again will not be tolerated by the Asiatic countries. History
must not be allowed to go backward. Today, most of the Asiatic countries
do not have a right to voice their views independently, and China is
the only Asiatic nation which has attained a high international position,
so we should express our views on this matter on behald of our sister
nations in Asia as well as ourselves. (Summary)
DMBane/bo
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.94)
MAR 291948
CONEIPEHTIAL
49
William J. Sebald, Require,
Acting United States Politieal Adviser for Japan,
894.
Tekyo, Japan.
5
siri
Ref erence is made to your despatak no. 82 ef Fehrwary 10, 1948
on the sabjest, "Eocmomie Rehabilitatiem Oesapied Areas (moa)
Estimate fer Japan". The Departmext of State appreciates your
views regarding the mammer of presonting to Cengress the Department
048
of the Army's $ls0 million rehabilitetiom apprepriatiem request fer
Japam. You suggest that sonsideration be givem to the attitude of
other govermmeats, particularly those in the Far East, towards such
a rehabilitation pregram, and the pessible undesirability of linking
this partisular apprepriatiom with the objective of Japan sekieving
a balanoed trade positien. The Department of State has had these
problems in mind througkout its eonsideratiom of this partioular
appropriatien, and in commeetiem with the broader problem of a
Longer range economic reeevery pregram fer Japan. As you may be
amare, the United States Represemtative on the Far Eastern Cosmission
has already ixfermed the Cemmission that the United States proposes
to endeaver to kring the Japensse scomomy to a comditien of self-
support by an import program somewkat greater than that required
for the prevention of disease and warest. This actiem was taken at
the initiative of the Department of the Army, and was coneurred im
by the Department of State as the best meams of informing the other
coustries represented on the Far Eastern Commission as to United
States peliey for Japam, and if possible, for seeuring their
S
essperation in this program. In view of this sstion, it is met cen-
sidered that the partieular fors ef the request to Congress for
V
appropriated funds to earry out the pregram (a separate rehabilite-
tiem requsst vs inoluding the ameust in the GARI0A pregram) will
materially affect the reaction af otker Far Eastern Cemmissien
coustries. Furthermere, since a prinsipal argumeat in faver of
the program is that it will materially reduee the meed fer future
GARIOA apprepriatiens fer Japan, it is comsidered that Congress will
probably resst more faverably if the rekabilitatiss request is
presented as a separate and distinet proposal. The pressst limite-
h
tiom on the uee of GanI0a funds to that of carrying out the respen-
sibilities of an cceupying pewer fer the preveation of wide-spreed
disease

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.89)
D-650
-2-
disssse and wrest, is an additienel ressce fer a seperate reabéitte
tiem pregran.
Regardiag your sooond point, nemely that the relativeky small
askiove the ebjoetive of ultimataly mmking appropriatione foe the
as GaRIoa rather than rehabilitation fands, emabling legialation is
mow being considered by Ceagress that will permit hreeder wes of
GARIOA fuads fer ecenesle recevery purposes and tans sabstantially
elimimate the distinction now prevailing. As to the adequsey of
these funds projected as 8300 williom for fiseal yeer 1950 and
declining at the rate of $l00 million per year thereafter, the
Departmeat of State does mot ecmtemplate eemmitting itself to thet
partieular sekedale. Furthermcre, the proposed appropriation
lasguage fer the $1s0,000,000 rehabilitation request provides that
the funds should remain available watil Jume 30, 1950.
The Department of State is most amxious to sesure intermational
oeoperatien in a sound problem for Japamese self-suppert. Axy
further suggestiens will be weleoms.
Very truly yours,
For the Searetary of State:
SHARLES E.SALT2
ChHA
MAR 26 1948 R M.
894.51
RNn
gwh
gM
/dE:OJMoDiarmid:mw
3/12/48

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.96)
C
0
JAPAN'S FOREIGN OBLIGATIONS
P
Y
Source:
The Oriental Economist, March 6, 1948
Together with the problem of reparations, the disposi-
tion of Japan's pre-war foreign currency loans will have an
Files
Central
RM/R
This Document Must Be
important beering upon the iuture of her economy. Japan's
relatively favored position in the international money mar-
ket in the past was due to the fact that she had never
defaulted, being thus almost unique among the nations of the
world. This makes it all the more important that, despite
our war-shatterea economy, the utnost care should be exer-
cised in upholding our international reputation through the
proper henaling of our obligations.
Japan's foreign debts total some ¥20,473 million as
shown in Table 1. This may appear small when compared with
the current national buaget, but the fact that it must be
backed eitner by gold or by goods cannot be overlooked.
Ana, furthermore, the figure is the result of conversion
into yen on the basis of the Occupation Forces rates of ¥50
to the aollar; ¥200 to the pound; and ¥42.25 to 100 francs.
Therefore, with the exchange rates revised, say, on the basis
8
of ¥l50 to the dollar in conjunction with the resumption of
394.5
normal trade, the foreign loan aggregate would become about
¥61,200 million.
1. Foreign Obligations, Principal & Interest
11
(In ¥1,000)
3
1
Principal
Interest
C
unredeemea
unpaid
Total
4.
0
United States
3,379,200
1,131,649
4,510,849
Britain
12,228,850
3,568,946
15,797,796
France
134,298
30,429
164,728
C
5
Total
15,742,348
4,731,024
20,473,373
F
Note:
Interest figures eggregute from outbreak of the
.ar to June, 1947 (Calculated at the conversion
rate of ¥50 to a dollar).
By the Foreign Loans Disposition Law of March 31, 1943,
bonas held by Japanese and friendly nationals were changed to
894.51/3-648
domestic currency issues, and interest payments were effected
either in yen or in Swiss francs. But since the greater part
of Japan's foreign bonas were held by enemy nationals, a
"Special Properties Custody ccount" was set up in the Yoko-
hama Specie Bank to which interest payments were credited in
yen. The amounts paia in are as shown in Table 2.
2. Interest

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
2. Interest on Foreign Loans Credited to the Special
Properties Custody ccount
Interest
Interest
in foreign currencies
in yen
Government Bonds
Dollar Bonds
1,494,588
6,352,002
Sterling Bonds
±2,640,809
44,471,233
Local Bonds
Dollar bonds
579,327
1,162,131
Sterling Bonds
712,985
6,960,879
土
Debentures
Dollar Deuentures
3,911,182
7,981,471
Sterling Debentures
L 271,396
2,649,644
Total
Doller Obligations
5,985,098
15,495,604
Sterling Obligations
13,625,191
54,081,757
Grend Total
69,577,361
Note: ¥4.25 to a ao1ler: ¥16.84 to a pound
The conversion retes adopted were: ¥4.25 to the dollar,
and ¥16.84 to the pouna. But for local bonas anā debentures,
these were later changed to ¥2.0on to the to the dollar, and
¥9,763 to the pound; and some ¥12 million were taken to lessen
the burden of the debts, and all payments into the Custody
ccount ceaseu as or January 1, 1943.
hat then is to vecome or these obli: ations with the con-
clusion of the peace treaty? In the case of Italy, roreign
loans were treated entirely apart irom reparations; and since
the same is inkxkext xmunkinx ko xome ¥xx9s miiiimn zrediked
kxkkexuxtoxyxxgx@unt expected with the Japanese treaty, pay-
ment of interest amountin to some ¥o.95 million creaited to
the Custody ccount will become a matter of immediate concern.
Naturally, this amount having been calculateu at parity rates,
re-evaluation will have to de wade; ana if recalculation is
made at ¥150 to the aollar, an aggregate or some ¥15,000 mil-
becomes

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.95)
一 3 -
becomes payable. But as stated above this sum must be
supported either by gold or by goods. Foreign loans are
pre-war obligations. And in order to recover our former
reputation and to obtain further credit advances, it will
be necessary to meet these debts in the cleanest possible
manner.

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO : Mr. Ness - OFD
DATE: March 10, 1948
FROM : Mr. Whitman - OE
sUBJECT: Proposed Cotton Credit for Japan.
1. Principal Features of Credit.
SCAP, through the CAD Division, Department of the Army,
and in partial coordination with the Department of State, has
been negotiating for a $60 million credit to purchase American
raw cotton for Japan. Present plans contemplated a $29 million
participation by the Export-Import Bank in this credit, remainder
to be taken up by consortium of private banks. Interest on notes
running for 10 months (maximum period of the credit) will be 3≈
with lesser rates for shorter period paper. Repayment is expected
to be primarily from textile exports supplemented by other Japan-
ese dollar exports, with the total credit secured on a one-to-one
basis by Japanese-owmed :precious metals made available for this
purpose by a policy decision of the FEC. Obligor under the credit
and administrator of the Revolving Fund (from which repayment will
894.51
be made and in which security is held) will be a controller
appointed by SCAP.
2. Interest of the Department of State.
The Department has prepared and is supporting a plan for
the economic recovery of Japan to be accomplished mainly by an
expansion of Japanese foreign trade. It is considered that ade-
quate financing of raw cotton imports is an essential feature of
w
the above-mentioned program as cotton textile exports have amounted
to about 60% of total Japanese exports during the occupation. The
-1048
absence of an explicit dollar sales requirement in this credit
should permit greater flexibility in the sale of textiles than
has heretofore been possible. The Department considers that all
responsibilities of SCAP to FEC in connection with the use of the
gold and silver have been met.
3. Controversial Features of the Credit.
a. Limits to Borrowing and the Rate of Interest. The
one-to-one ratio of borrowings to liquid security (precious metals
and cash) permitted in the agreement combined with the 32% interest
rate (plus fees) appears rather onerous. Offsetting considera-
tions are 1) the pressing need of SCAP for the cotton if produc-
tion is to be maintained, 2) physical location of the gold in
RM/R
Japan
nal-
'ev_
at

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
Japan and political difficulties of moving it except in emergency
or in event of forced liquidation, 3) lack of experience of the
borrower in financial and marketing aspects of the transaction,
4) apparent tightening of bank credit in general.
b. Why Borrow rather than Liquidate the Security? The
political considerations involved in using these assets that FEC
has designated for ultimate disposition as reparations, has prompted
the Department to support the proposed procedure. It is recognized
that some liquidation to repay the credits may eventually be
necessary unless dollar markets for Japanese textiles improve. This
latter consideration also gives some added justification to the
bankers insistence on one-to-one security.
4. Recommendation.
That the Department support favorable early action on the
matter by the Export-Import Bank and the NAC.
OE:OJMcDiarmid:mw

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.99)
The following comments pertain to features of the loan agree-
ment that appear questionable:
1. Page 2. Conditions Precedent to Lending
(a) Subparagraph (1). Desirable to add a provision that
"if such cash is not available to SCAP the obzigations of the
Fund will come due and payable out of other assets of the
Fund, to extent necessary to reinstate lo0% coverage in gold,
silver and cash."
(b) Subparagraph (3). Add "without consent of all parties."
2. Page 3. Expiry and Termination.
Subparagraph (2). Should not some notice (e.g. 3 months)
be required for withdrawal from participation?
OE:OJicDiarmid:mw

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.96)
D-9o6
UNITED STA?
POLITICAL ADVISER
OR JAPAN
De/R
No. 166
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, March 16, 1948.
SUBJEC:: Policy Agreement Reached by the Democratic,
Social-Democratic, and People's Cooperative
Parties.
The Honorable
PEIMED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose five copies of the
1/3-1648
text (in translation) of the policy agreement reached
by the Democratic, Social-Democratic, and People's
Cooperative parties or March 3, 1948 together with
five copies of an abstract of the agreement prepared
by the Government Section.
It will be noted that the agreement is broad
and generalized in scope and wording, as might be
expected from the coalition from which it has arisen.
The very fact that an agreement has been reached, how-
ever, is of significance from a practical point of view,
because it has allowed Prime Minister ASHIDA to form
his cabinet. Most of the controversial issues are
policies advocated by the Social-Democratic Party,
especially by the left wing faction of that party, and
are to be resolved later in some manner, mainly by
committees.
The following are the major issues on which
definite course of action has beer postponed:
CS/V
1. Suspension of interest on war honds.
2.
Fundamental revision of the Bank of
Japan law.
3.
Nationalization of such key industries
as fertilizer, iron-steel, and petroleum.
894.5
Certain proposed new taxes.
Further agrarian reform.
1214
1948
13-1648
k

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 166
March 16, 1948.
-2-
There is already noted a tendency on the part
of the members of the three parties to interpret
the various sections of the agreement in different
ways depending upon respective party interests. Some
of the differences of opinion seem relatively inconse-
quential, as for example the suspension of interest on
war bonds (this Mission's despatch 67, February 2,
1948), but other controversial questions such as the
nationalization of key industries are likely to be
more troublesome to the new cabinet.
Respectfully yours,
874.5161
2-248
XR 894.51
1 9- E
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
Abstract of the Official
Tripartite Policy Agreement,
(concluded on March 3, 1948 by
the Democrat, Social Democrat,
and People's Cooperative Parties)
Five copies.
Full text of policy agreement
reached by the Democratic, Social
Democratic, ard People's Cooperative
parties on March 3, 1948.
Original and ozalid to Department
800
WHLawrence,Jr.:mhp

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.99)
COVERNLENT SECTION
No. 9 (2)
THE NATIONAL DIET
5 March 1948
ABCTRACT OF THE OFFICIAL TRIPARTITE POLICY AGREMENT
(Concluded on 3 Larch 48 by the Democrat, Social
Democrat, and People's Cooperative Parties)
Tolitical
Reduction in income taxes for
laborers and farmers.
Faithful observance of the Potsdam
Reduction of corporation taxes.
Declaration.
Addition of property tax and other
Democratic readjustment of the nation's
new taxes.
internal position.
Democratization of banking institu-
More foreign loans.
tions.
More foreign capital.
Revisior of the Bank of Japan Law.
Acceleration of industrial rehabilita-
Democratization of the Reconstruc-
tion.
tion Finance Corporation'.
Stabilization of the people's liveli-
hood.
Measures for Production Expansion
Democratization of central and pre-
fectural administrative machinery.
Priority to vital industries.
Renovation of the government service.
State control of coal mines.
lection Iaw revision.
Overall land-and-sea transportation
Corrupt practices act..
plan.
Support of Irregular Property Trans-
Unitary operation of electric power
actions.Special Committee.
industry.
Elevation of ethical standards.
Possible state control of petroleum,
Education reform.
steel, fertilizer, etc.
Enforcement of the 6 - 3 system.
Abolition of inefficient bureaucratic
Workmen's education by part time schools.
controls.
Issuance of production bonds.
Economic
Encouragement of voluntary coopera-
tion of labor unions.
Two year plan for production increase.
Support of Labor Union Law, the
Sound finance.
Labor Administration Law and the
Labor Standard Law.
Counter-measures against Inflation
Rational wage system.
Administrative readjustment and
Curtailment of expenditures.
industrial reorganization.
Stronger tax collection machinery.
Public works for land conservation
Prevention of tax-evasion.
and flood control.
Possible suspension of interest payment
Increase of food production.
on war bonds.
Democratization of delivery control
Rationalization of special accounts for
system.
government railway and communications
Farmland reform.
systems.
State-operated farms for land
Equitable distribution of the tax
reclamation.
burden.

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.99)
Measures for Production Expansion
(con't)
Establishment of an Agriculture-Forestry
Rehabilitation Bank.
Fostering of agricultural cooperatives.
Establishment of a Small and Medium
Enterprises Board.
Promotion of democratic cooperative
unions.
Utilization of hoarded commodities.
Social
Large-scale housing construction at
state expense.
Utilization of idle grounds and houses,
high-class restaurants and big resi-
dences.
Establishment, of a Housing Board and a
Housing Committee.
Realization of the Consumer Tivelihood
Co-operative.
Repatriation of Japanese nationals.
Relief measures for war sufferers.
Public works for unemployment relief.
Extension of the unemployment insurance
system.
PARLIAMENTARY & POLITICAL DIVISION
(JW)
2

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.98)
Following is the text of the poliey agreement reached by the Democratio,
Social Democratic, and People's Cooperative parties en 3 March 1948:
POLITICAL
I. Efforts will be made to acquire foreign capital to realize the
independence of the national economy, facilitate the recovery of the nation's
productivity and stabilize the people's livelihoed through faithful observance
of the Potsdam Declaration and democratization of the domestio structures.
II. Further demooratization will be made in the administrative structuree.
central and provincial, thereby enhancing official efficiency, while the ad-
ministrative inspection system will be bolstered and official disciplino
strengthened.
III. Revision will be made in the olection law on the basis of publio
managoment of eloctions, measures for prevention of political corruption will
be lcgalized and furthor efforts will be made to "cleanse" political circlos
in cooperation with the Diet committoe for invcstigation of illegal property
transactions.
IV. Through tho popular roalization that tho people are individually
rosponsiblo for subduing the oxisting crisis, the spirit of social cooporation
shall bc dovoloped, public morality hoightcned, and cduoation renovated.
V. Spocial considcration will bo givon to tho perfoction of the 6-3
oducational systom and offorts will bo mado to roalize thc cducation of tho
working olass through the rogular highor school and other institutions.
ECONOHIC
I. Thc basic policy - In the light of the long-rango cconomio reoon-
struction program, a comprchonsivo two-ycar plan will bo ostablishcd to bolster
production.speodily,.lay the foundation for thc order of commodity oiroulation,
and thus maintain a substantially sound finenco.
II. Anti-inflation mcasuro — To prevent inflation in financc, rotrench-
mont in oxpendituros will bo cnforcod, tax-colloction orgens etrongthoned and
profits from tho inflation and tho black-market taxod drastically. In addition,
moasurcs to provont tax ovasion will be lcgalized and susponsibn of war bonds
intcrost paymont duly considered.
1. As for the special accounts of tho railways and communications, a
basio policy for rohabilitation will bo ostablished through rationalization in
the accounts to out oxpondituros. If doficits still porsist, thoy will be
covered by the general accounts, the hiking of feres, or 'somo othor moans.
2. Attompt will bo made to mako fair tho distribution of taxation
and revise tho taxation systom to bolstor the nation's produotion, thereby
making a drestio out in tho carned inoome taxes cf tho workors and farmars.
1

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.98)
Adjustmant will be made in the sources and the nature of taxes, centrel and
provincial, end corporate taxcs reduced.
After a caroful study, such new taxes as the national wealth
invostigation tax will be levied.
3. Domocratic managoment of tho financial institutione will be en-
forced to keop the flow of cepital and promoto the development end officienoy
of hoalthy loan-making from the standpoints of proventing inflationary finance
and maintaining currency crodit.
To mako a fundamontal revision of the Bank of Japen Law, an inquiry
committec will bo cstablished, and to mako a basio ronovation of the Recon-
struction Finance Bank, a domocratic stooring committee and an inspection organ
will be instituted.
III. Production measures:
1. In an ettempt to promoto cconomic rocovory end produotive
rohabilitation, priority policies will bo cstablished in industries. The
state managoment of the coal industry will be onforced thoroughly. Efforts
will bc made to perfect a comprohensive land-soa transportation progrem, and
to realizo uniformity in thc eloctric industry. Furthermore, demooratic stato
management will be oxtonded to such koy industries as fertilizer, iron-steel,
and petrolcum, if nooessary.
2. Tho oxisting control moasures will be given re-oxamination to
adjust tho domercation of control and froo cconomy and to improve or abolish
inofficiont and buroaucratic controls.
3. Production bonds will be floated to bolster production.
4. The following measuros will bo enforced to promote labor's
productive will:
a. Voluntary cooporation of tho labor unions in tho rohabilitation
of tho nation's will to produce will bo promoted and revisions that tend to
prevent tho hoalthy devolopmont of the labor union movement will not be made in
the labor union law, the labor rolations adjustment law, and the basio labor
standards law.
b. An efficient and logical wage system shell be established with
the objoct of guarantcoing real wages through proper rolationship between com-
modity and wages.
c. Administrativo readjustment and readjustment of industrial
onterprisos shall be carried cut with the object of realizing democratization
and furthoring officiency.
d. For improvomont, recovery, and repeir of ferm land, as well
as land development and soil-water conservation, a large-scale public works
ontorprise shall to aohieveds In this connection, priority shall be granted to
war-damage rehabilitation. The basic principles of food production shall be
2

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.98)
adjusted; tho quota delivery.system shall be demooratized; the supply o
essential materials for agriculture and fishery shall bo guaranteed; price
agrioulture and fishery prodicts shall be mado more equitable; land refor
be ccmpletely supported and pressed; Governmont-oporated farm land developme
projeots shall be established; gricultural production shall bo brought togeth
more closoly; facilities for agricultural technical guidanco shall be adjuste
and expandod.
7. For effecting rohabilitation and improvement of agriculturc,
forestry end fishory onterprises, an agriculture-forestry recovory financisl
orgen shall be sct up. This body shell be celled upon to work in close relutior
with rural cocperetivo organo of a financial nature for promcting the positivo
growth and dovolopmont of rurel cooporativo organisations and othor sinilar
ostablishmonts.
8. With the object of promoting increased industrial output and oxport
trado and positivoly assisting smell and modium-size enterprises, a board for
small and modium-size onterprisos and a finahcial organ ospocially for financing
such enterprises shall be set up. By such steps, special consideraticn shall be
given t ward distribution of raw material and toward promoting the growth of
coorerative associations.
9. Action against hoarded and idle matorial shall be complotely
effectivized.
SOCIAL
I. The following steps shall be undertaken with reference tr housing:
1. Large-scale c nstruction of simple, popular homes through the
ieeuance of government bonds.
2. Utilization of unused tracts, buildings, extravagant restaurants
and large mansions for public use.
3. Establishment f a housing board and a special housing committee.
II. Realizatin of a consumers livelihood cooperative system.
III. Stops shall be taken for promoting swift return of Japanese
stranded at red and for aiding the livelihood of war sufferers.
IV. Effectivaticn of ection to assist the unemployed along with
industrial recovery and expansion of the resent unemployment insurence system.
3

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.97)
RICHARD
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
EXECUTIVE
DUNCIL
SAUK CENTRE,MINN.
April 1, 1948
894.51/4-148
Hon. George C. Marshall, Secretary
State Department
Washington, D. C.
F.PR 81948
Dear Mr. Secretary:
page 3) that Japan is to receive a combined government-private bank
credit of $60 million to begin with and rising to $120 million
subsequently. Fifty percent of the original amount is to be extended
by National City, Dhase, and Bank of America and the rest is to be
taken'by the Export-Import Bank. The loan, which is to cover the
purchase of Ameriean cotton, will be secured by gold and certain
other securities held by Japan in the amount of $l20 million.
We have heard that the rate on this piece of business is very
satisfactory and we are wondering why the deal is consummated with
these very few great banks. Shouldn't smaller banks be permitted
to subscribe to this loan or that the big banks farm out part of
these loans to their correspondent banks? Perhaps in the future the
smaller banks could be circularized to find out whether they would
like to participate in an operation of this kind. Perhaps the Export-
Import Bank could circularize the smaller banks through The American
Bankers Association.
If we are to maintain a truly capitalistic system, the government
must see to it that the small banks have the same privileges to
participate in these government-arranged good loans as do the larger
banks. A democratio economy is essential to a democracy.
FILED
Yours very truly,
S
5Ai..
VV.L.
Ben DuBois
Secretary
BD:A
3

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.96)
DC/R
APR 19
In reply refer to
FN 894.51/4-148
894.51/4-148
My dear Mr. Cleveland:
In accordance with the telephone conversation
between you and Mr. Gordon Strong of this division,
I am forwarding copies of en interohange of correspon-
dence with The Independent Bankers Asscciation, Sauk
Centre, Minnesota, concerning the reported partici-
pated cotton loans to Japan secured by gold and other
assets held by Japan. Copies of this correspondence
are also being forwarded to the Export-Import Bank of
Washington.
Sinoeroly youras
SWO
Edward W. Doherty
Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs
Enclosures:
CS/V
1. Copy of letter from
Independent Bankers
Assooiation.
2. Copy of Department's
OFD Unit
reply.
Mr. Paul Cleveland,
Special Assistant to Chief,
Civil Affairs Division,
Special Staff,
Department of the Army,
APR 18
PM.
Pentagon Building.
95
FN:GStrong:mjt
X
4-12-48
OE

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.93)
ftE
APR191948
In reply refer to
 894.51/4-148
herewith to the
The Acting Seoretary of State tranamits/fasxtme President,0
attmnttonxofxthaxiutersstsdxmffisamaxet/the Export-
94.51/4-148
Import Bank of Washington, copies of an interehange
of correspondence with the Seoretary, The Independent
Bankers Association, Sauk Contre, Minnesota, conserning
the reported participated cotton loan for Japan, secured
by gold and other assets held by Japan. It is believed
that the Export-Import Bank is in a better position to
reply to the correspondent's inquiries than is the
Department of State.
Enclosures:
,1. Copy of letter from
Independent Bankers
Association.
2. Copy of Department's
reply.
CS/V
mh
gs
894.51/4
FN:GStrong:mjt
Ellb
4-12148
OE
APR 10
1946P.M.
1
ENDOS

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.98)
FEE
191948
reply refer to
94.51/4-148
My dear Mr. Dubois:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter dated
April 1, 1948 concerning reported cotton loans to
894.51/4-148
Japan secured by gold and other assets held by Japan,
theloans to be participated in by the Export-Import
Bank of Washington and certain other banks. Your
source of information is given as the Wall Street
Journal, issue of March 8, 1948.
It is believed that your question ahould be
addressed to the Export-Import Bank or to one or
more of the partioipating private banks. They are.
in a better position to advise you as to any arrange-
ments for underwriting or sub-participating loans of
this character than is the Department of State. There-
fore, I am taking the liberty of referring a copy of
your letter to the Export-Import Bank which, in the
event the reported financial arrangements are completed,
can inform you of the possibilities of broader partici-
pation in the loans referred to.
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting Secretary of State:
EWD
DOR
Edward  Doherty
Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affaira
RAm
CS/V
Mr. Ben DuBois,
894.
OE
Secretary,
The Independent
Bankers Association,
CA
Sauk Centre, Minnesota.
cc: Mr. Paul Cleveland, Special Assit
cc: Export-Import Bank,
to Chief, Civil Affairs Div. 
Washington, D. C.
Special Staff, U.S. Army
FN:GStrong:mjt
Pentagon Building.
4-12-48

=== Page 490 === (confidence 1.00)
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM
894.51/4-248
DESP.213
FILE NO.
RECORD COPY
FROM TOKYO
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
Confidential File
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
1948
FAP
M-184
9-23-48

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.95)
COPY
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
APR 19 1948
FE
FOR JAPAN
OCD
No. 213
FOR USE OF DEPARTENT ONLY
Takye, Apr1l 2, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
Subject: Sale of Securities Through Liquidatien Agancies.
35
RRANCH
SIVIS
3
THE HONBRABLE
C
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
A
WASHINGTON.
12
I have the honor to transmit herewith current information
with regard to progress in sales of securities by the respective
Japanese governmental Liquidation agencies, namely the Closed
Institutions Liquidating Commission (CILC), the Holding Company
Liquidation Commission (HCIc), and the Securities Coordinating
Liquidation Committee (SCLC).
The CIIC was organised for the purpose of liquidating the
assets of those concerns (principally certain control asseciations
and firms holding overseas assets) nominated for closure by the
Antitrust and Cartels Division of the Reonomic and Seientific
Sedtion of this Headquarters. The HCLC was organized for the pur-
pose of liquidating certain designated holding companies (as in
number) as well as the properties of certain individuals desig-
nated as holding exmessive economic control (54 in number); in
addition, sales of shares resulting from the reorganisation of
those companies desigaated as excessive sconomic consentrations
under the provisions of the Economio Deconcentration Law are to
be handled by this ageney. The SCLC was erganised to coordinate
the sales of securities made by the respective agensies concerned
with liquidation processes and to determine, for example, the men-
ner, time and place of sales, as well as price levels; but the
activities of this committee to date would indicate that it has
Confidential Fi
assmed functions in exmess of those narmally perforned by a co-
ordinating ageney.
1
There is enclosed a copy of a repert prepared by the Antitmpst
and Cartels Division indieating the sales of steek shares (by name
of issuing company) censmated by the abeve-mamed liquidation
21
agemcies up until February 21, 1948. The secend enelesure is a
cepy of a repert by the same Division centaining a reserd of shares
disposed of (including the mumber of buyers invelved in eash sale
where kmowm) by the SCIC between its initial meeting en June 18,
1947 and February 21, 1948, as well as a recerd of shares sold by
File
the GIIG

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.98)
Tekyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948.
2
the CILC prier to the establishment of SCIC and a record of shares
disposed of by the HCLC both prior to and after the establiskment
3/
of SCLC. There is also emelosed a copy of a statement by the
Division indicating the number and paid-in or face valme of sush
securities held as of Harch 20, 1948 by the Japanese Ministry of
Finance, HCLC, CILC, and the Bank of Japan.
The enclosed reports indicate that 9,292,148 shares of stock
had been sold by the SCLC, HCLC, and CILC as of February 21, 1948
registering a return of ¥623,442,816.78. Subsequent tabulations
made by the Antitrust and Cartels Divisien indieate that by Marsh
20, 1948 a total of 11,903,903 shares had been so1d mr 774,506,010.40.
With regard to other types of securittes, including bemds and deben-
tures, no sales have been consumated thus far although a mall num-
ber of bonds and debentures have been redeemed.
Stocks still held by the Japanese Ministry of Finanee, SCLC,
HCLC, CILC, and the Bank of Japan as of Mareh 20, 1948 totalled
249,965,949 shares with a face or paid-in value of *10,973,154,080.
This does not take into account, however, the substantial but as
yet undetermined number of shares to be sold by reasen of the
exchange of shares to be made upon completion of the reorganisation
of those companies designated under the Economic Desoncentration
Law. In addition, a considerable but unknown number of shares of
companies subsidiary to and affiliated with such desigmated compan-
ies are to be sold undartibe supervision of HCIC. The total face
value of other types of securities, ineluding bends and debentures,
held by the same agensies is listed at ¥9,897,094,292.61.
Thus far, securities have been sold by competitive bid (this
type of sale is usually handled by SCLC), negotiated sale, amd by
sale to the public at a fixed priee (the latter two types of sale
are usually handled by HCLC, CILC, and Bank of Japan). With res-
peet to competitive bid sales (approximately one-half of the shares
sold thus far have been disposed of by this methed), the offering
is usually made by public tender which is accomplished by pablish-
ing a list of securities offered for sale in newspapers in those
centers where the offering is to be made (seeurities allecated to
principal centers on a population basis) for a period of one week
as well as by posting sueh a list in the principal offices of the
SCIC for a similar period. Bids are opened twe days after the
expiration of the one week period, and ascppted in order beginning
with the highest. As a rule, bids are not accepted at a priee
below a predetermined level. Although this type sale is open to
the general public, exparience has indicated that dealers and bro-
kers are usually the purchasers, and as a consequence SCLC mmst await
their reports to ascertain the ultimate buyers of seeurities sold
by public tender. In this connection, the persons concemed with
such sales in the Antitrust and Cartels Division admit that it is
impossible to maintain any degree of effective control over the
ultimate disposition of stock shares sold in this fashion.
There are sales of a somewhat different nature made to employ-
ces of the issuing company and to persons residing in the comumity
in which the issuing company's principal plant is losated. These
are tormed
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.98)
Tekye's No. 213,
April 2, 1948.
3
are termed negotiated sales. Security efferings are brought te the
attention of the employees throughpthe seeperatien of cempamy effi-
cials, and the employees in turm assist in bringing the matter to
the attention of the lesal residemts. Employees are given prefer-
ence over local residents in making purshases, and any balanse remain-
ing is made available to the general publis. In this type ef sale,
the individuals eonserned in the abeve-mentiened Divisien have indi-
cated that no diffieulty has been eneountered in sesuring infermation
conceraing the ultimate buyer.
With respect to sales to the publie at a fixed prise, the sGLC
or other constituent agency, acting in effest as an undeririter,
determines the sales price and publisises the effering im the prinei-
pal centers. Sales in turn are accomplished in many iastanses
through brokers and dealers who take the steck frem the agensy at the
fixed price, less sommissiem. As in the case of negotiated sales,
information concerning the ultimate buyer has been obtained by the
Antitrust and Cartels Divisien without Miffieulty when sales have
been made in this manner.
As has been indicated above approximately fifty per ceat ef
those stock shares sold by liquidation agencies (shares seld seasti-
tute less than ten per cent of the total ear-marked fer liquidatien)
have been disposed of in such a manner (publie tender) as to make
it impossible to control their ultimate dispesitien. Individuals
concerned in the Antitrust and Cartels Divisien resogmise that bro-
kers and dealers are primarily concerned with their customers'
demands in consumating sales of stock shares purehased on publie
tender. In turn, inflationary pressures have resulted in purshases
of sesurities by individuals, many of whom have obtained yen funds
illegally and whe wish te exohange them for securities. In se far
as this Mission can determine, present methods of stock dispesal do
not eliminate the ultimate possibility that a relatively small group
of individuals may acquire ence again what may be deemed exsessive
economic control in terms of owmership of enterprises. The persoms
concerned in the above-named Divisien do not deny this pessibility,
but take the position that their objective will have been achieved
if a wider distribution of steck owmership is effected than existed
befere the war. In the absence of effective measures taken te con-
trol the ultimate disposition of stock shares, this Mission is of
the opinion that the securities liquidation program may result, in
part at least, in a transfer of esenomie omership from the hands of
one group, the Zaibatsu in the main, to another, primarily somprising
those persons who acquired yen wealth (in mapy instances illegally--
the "new yen" class) during the post-war era.
Respestfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Inclesurees
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo' Ne. 213,
April 2, 1948.
Enclesures:
1. Report of Sesurities
Dispesed (From July 1947
to February 21, 1948).
2. List of Stesks Disposed
of up to February 21, 1948.
3.
List of Amount of Securi-
ties held by Constituent
Agmcies.
Original and osalid te the Department.
851
DMBane/cjl
π
c!
CONPTDRITIAL

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.94)
Encleaure N0. 1 to Despatch No. 213 dated April 2, 1948 from the
REPORT OF SECURITIES
office of the Politicel "dviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Sales of Securities Through Liguidation Agencies".
(From July 1947 ...
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employees
Local residents
company
restricted
offered
6,30,'47
Howa Ind.
CILC
Nagoya
Special
2,870 shares
n
Hokkaido Colliery &
n
Tokyo
S.R.
484
Steamship
n
Toho Ges
1n
Nagoya
Special
2,901
Toyo Soda Ind.
1n
Tokuyama
n
3,960
Fur kawe Blec. Ind.
n
Tokyo
S.R.
2,013
n
Nippon Precision Ind. "
n
Special
10,000
n
Nicniro Fishery
7
20,000
n
Nippon Petroleum
n
n
20,000
7,5,'47
Nippon Metalic Ind.
n
n
4,050
n
Nippon Valve Mfg.
n
n
n
1,100
n
Nippon Precision Ind."
n
10,000
n
Tokyo Gas
n
n
π
3,990
n
Special Steel Mfg.
n
n
15,000
n
Nippon Petroleum
n
n
n
11,300
107,668

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.95)
ED
4948)
S.C.L.C.
To
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Gen, public
tender
shares
High
Low
Proceed
Remarks
2,870 shares 7, 7, '47
2,870 shares ¥43
-42.50
¥
122,575.00
484
n
484
45.10
21,828.40
2,901
n
2,901
55.10
- 55.
159,655.00
5,960
n
3,960
23.10
-22.60
90,496.00
2,013
n
2,013
56.10-
112,929.30
10,000
n
10,000
57.50 - 56.10
566,000.00
20,000
n
20,000
52.10 - 49.
1,001,100.00
20,000
n
20,000
48.50 - 46.50
956,200.00
4,050
7, 14, 147
50
35.50
1,775.00
1,100
100
30.00
3,000.00
10,000
7
10,000
54.00 - 52.00
530,300.00
3,990
n
3,990
47.80 - 47.00
188,530.00
15,000
1n
2,000
47.00 - 41.10
83,600.00
11,300
0
11,300
45.00 - 44.30
503,690.00
107,668
89,668
￥4,341,678.70

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo'a No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agenoy
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employses
local
company
restricted
offered
residents
7,8,'47
Oriental Photo. Ind.
CILC
Tokyo
Special
830 shares
n
Howa Ind.
7
Nagoya
n
10,000
n
Nichiro Fishery
fn
Tokyo
n
20,000
7, 14, '47
Senyo Steel Mfg.
n
Hime ji
n
10,000
n
Teikoku Precision Ind.
n
Osaka
n
25,880
Hoshi Medicines &
n
Tokyo
11
13,000
drugs Mfg.
7
Nichimon Coal-Mining
n
n
n
8,550
n
Nippon Precision Ind.
n
n
n
10,000
n
Nippon Elec.
Conorating & Trens
7
n
11
9,900
n
Nippon Petroleum
n
n
n
10,000
7,22,47
Kurimoto Iron Works
7
Osaka
n
11,035
n
Kanto Elec. Supply
n
Tokyo
n
2,324
n
Nippon Exploitation
n
Yokohama
n
1,700
Machine Mfg.
11
Nippon Petroleum
n
Tokyo
n
10,000

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.96)
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Prossed
Remarks
To
Gen. public
tender
shares
high
low
830 shares
7, 21, 47
830 shares ¥64.
¥
53,120.00
10,000
11
4,000
40.30-39.30
159,700.00
20,000
1n
20,000
46.50 - 42.80
901,600.00
10,000
7,28,47
10,000
26.50-26.00
262,500.00
25,880
25,880
31.
802,280.00
13,000
n
1,000
22.10
22,100.00
8,550
n
8,550
27.00
230,850.00
10,000
10,000
55.10 -54.10
544,500.00
9,900
n
9,900
41.60 - 39.10
396,490.00
10,000
n
10,000
45.20 -44.10
446,900.00
11,035
8, 4, '47
2,000
53.50 - 53.
106,500.00
2,324
n
2,324
44.10- 44.00
102,356.00
1,700
1,700
42.00 - 41.70
71,100.00
10,000
n
9,545
45.10 - 44.60
429,107.00

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.96)
To
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Proceed
Remarks
Gen. Public
tender
shares
high
low
10,000shares
8, 4, '47
10,000
25.30 - 23.50
244,000.00
10,000
n
10,000
43.30- 41.50
424,200.00
14,300
n
14,500
26.50 - 26.
373,950.00
7,500
11
7,500
59.00 - 58.00
440,750.00
400
n
400
83.00
33,200.00
3,350
π
3,350
35.80
119,930.00
530
8, 11, '47
530
26.40
13,992.00
13,900
11
900
25.
22,500.00
23,000
n
3,000
28.10 -26.60
82,000.00
20,000
n
20,000
41.50 - 39.50
805,400.00
18,000
n
1,000
37.70 - 37.30
37,500.00
50,000
n
1,000
21.20
21,200.00
810
n
810
33.
26,730.00
-3

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.97)
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Proceed
Remarks
To
Gen. public
tender
shares
high
low
20,000 shares
8, 11, '47
1,000
46.20 -
46,200.00
3,070
n
3,070
66.50 - 66.00
203,220.00
13,111
n
13,111
45.00 - 44.00
579,484.00
1,656
9
1,656
107. - 106.
176,536.00
22.000
8, 18, '47
1,000
42.10
42,100.00
200
200
68.
13,600.00
4,000
2,100
37.00 - 35.00
76,500.00
598
n
598
28.50
17,043.00
100
1n
100
31.
3,100.00
20,000
n
3,500
15.10 - 14.70
52,220.00
23,000
3,000
26.30 - 25.00
77,600.00
20,000
n
20,000
39.80 - 38.80
785,000.00
18,000
n
1,000
35.
35,000.00
50,000
n
1,500
20.50 - 20.
30,250.00

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.97)
To
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Proceed
Remarks
Gen. public
tender
shares
high
NOT
15,850 shares
8, 18, 47
3,000
21.
63,000.00
1,153
n
1,153
100.10 - 98.10
114,109.30
1,000
n
1,000
81.50
81,500.00
6,524
n
4,000
39.00 - 38.00
153,500.00
113
113
91.
10,283.00
70
8, 26, 47
70
70.
4,900.00
18,000
n
1,500
33.10 - 31.00
48,600.00
200
n
200
42.50
8,500.00
11,720
n
1,000
28.
28,000.00
9,210
n
2,650
39.00 - 37.00
100,150.00
10,400
8,000
5.60 - 4.80
41,400.00
60,000
23,600
20.20 - 15.10
417,750.00
23,000
n
14,600
23.60 - 20.00
304,510.00
-5

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.96)
To
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Proceed
Remarks
Gen. public
tender
shares
high
low
15,550
8,26,'47
13,600
51.50 -41.00
602,400.00
18,190
in
16,000
45.20-33.00
564,700.00
20,000
n
20,000
48.30 -38.80
788,620.00
160
R
160
45.
7,200.00
40
40
60.
2,400.00
3,500
9n
3,230
101.
95.00
311,113.00
1,000
n
1,000
63.
63,000.00
5,197
n
5,197
63.10
327,930.70
22,875
n
7,650
81.30-78.20
613,190.00
23,350
99
15,900
89.50-85.00
1,392,710.00
775
n
775
65.60
49,290.00
2,716
99
2,716
99.10
269,155.60
100
100
55.00 -55.20
5,410.00
70
9,1, 947
70
55.
3,850.00
29,280
n
4,350
31.50-29.50
131,425.00
-6

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.97)
To
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Procced
Remarks
en. public
tender
shares
high
low
21,000
9, 1, 47
4,500 shares
41.00 - 40.00
182,250.00
17,840
n
17,840
18.60 - 16.20
303,768.00
3,200
n
3,200
44.
140,800.00
20,000
5,000
32.00 - 30.00
154,100.00
50
n
50
52.
2,600.00
19,000
n
19,000
39.60 - 39.20
745,900.00
20,000
9
6,000
21.00 - 20.00
121,950.00
16,500
n
16,500
16.60 - 15.10
266,360.00
16,000
n
6,820
47.00 - 45.00
313,454.00
10,000
10,000
15.
150,000.00
4,520
n
4,520
88.60 - 84.10
391,532.00
1,200
1,200
85.
102,000.00
785
n
785
113.00 -110.50
87,642.50
2,500
n
2,500
68.20 - 64.20
165,500.00
-7-

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.96)
To
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Procaed
Remarks
Gen. public
tender
shares
nign
low
2,524
9, 1, 47
2,524 shares ¥
38.50 - 37.50
圣
95,150.00
6,317
n
6,317
39.20 - 38.50
243,904.50
1,110
n
1,110
41.00 - 38.70
43,577.00
17,500
n
9,300
44.50 - 31.30
398,340.00
23,000
”
23,000
80.00 - 77.50
1,806,460.00
600
9, 15, '47
600
70.50
42,300.00
263
n
263
38.
9,994.00
2,000
n
2,000
69.70 - 68.50
137,115.00
8,200
n
8,200
43.00 - 42.30
347,510.00
270
n
270
102.10 -100.00
27,105.00
7,450
n
7,450
88.00 - 87.30
651,869.00
6,562
11
6,562
100.00 - 98.00
645,648.00
382
7
382
97.60
37,283.20
15,225
n
15,225
96.80 - 77.40
1,190.182.00
-8

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.96)
To
By
Datc sold
No. of
Price
Proceed
Remarks
Gen. public
tender
shares
high
low
6,945
9, 15, 47
6,945 shares
￥41.20 - 39.80
281,019.50
1,643
n
1,643
41.20 - 40.10
66,549.30
€,330
1n
6,360
18.00 - 17.10
111,840.00
2,400
n
2,400
4.
9,600.00
35,941
n
35,941
13.50 - 8.70
358,970.80
300
n
300
113.
33,900.00
100
n
100
48.
4,800.00
90
n
90
48.30
4,347.00
13
n
13
55.
689.00
947,600
9, 22, '47
947,600
37.
35,061,200.00
300,000
n
300,000
32.
9,600,000.00
50
9, 30, '47
50
15.
750.00
9,650
4,700
23.00 - 17.00
89,250.00
-9

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.96)
To
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Proceed
Remarke
gen. public
tender
shares
high
low
23,880 shares
9, 30, '47
23,880
¥16.00 - 14.50
363,460.00
1,700
7
25
30.
750.00
450
n
450
28.10 - 27.10
12,550.00
251
n
251
41.
10,291.00
10, 21, '47
300
66.00 - 65.10
19,640.00
964
n
964
42.50 - 41.80
40,435.20
1,600
1,600
83.00 - 82.70
132,410.00
595
1"
595
78.00 - 77.00
45,985.00
5,500
n
5,500
27.00 - 26.00
145,850.00
2,400
n
2,000
41.00 - 36.00
72,500.00
26,200
4,250
38.00 - 36.30
159.720.00
10, 24, '47
3,000
27.
81,000.00
10, 30, '47
100,613
100.00-
10,061,500.00
-10-

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.96)
To
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Gen. public
tender
shares
high
low
Procced
Remarks
350 shares
11, 5, '47
350
关
18.
¥
6,300.00
250
n
250
67.50
16,875.00
4,166
7
4,166
14.10 - 14.
58,424.00
6,088
n
1,200
22.00 - 19.00
24,160.00
1,021
n
1,021
39.20
40,023.20
7,542
9
2,000
36.50
73.000.00
99,340
11, 5, 47
99,340
14.50 - 11.60
1,228,999.00
11, 7, '47
8,100
15.00
121.500.00
11, 14, '47
6,000
50.00
300,000.00
n
23,666
50.00
1,183,300.00
11, 21, '47
300
50.00
15,000.00
99
1,000
24.00
24,000.00
-11•

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.97)
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Proceed
Remarks
To
Gen. public
tender
shares
high
low
11, 28, '47
3,840 shares
¥75.00
288,000.00
n
1,980
40.00
79,200.00
11
3,960
55.00
217,800.00
3,150 shares
12,
2,'47
3,150
27.00
85,050.00
230
n
230
21.00
4,830.00
25
n
25
2.50
62.50
710
n
710
23.50 - 18.00
15,030.00
12,120
12,120
4.50 - 3.50
48,610.00
793
n
793
9.70
7,692.10
6,750
n
6,750
10.00 - 9.00
63,450.00
5,542
n
5,542
47.00 - 46.55
258,730.10
309
n
209
13.30
4,109.70
-12

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.98)
To
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Proceed
Remerks
Gen. public
tender
shares
high
low
500 shares
12,
2,47
500 shares
￥13.30
¥6,650.00
12,
5,47
8,000
30.00
240,000.00
n
1,000
100.00
100,000.00
n
4,000
70.00
280,000.00
12, 12, '47
32,360
35.00
1,132,600.00
n
14,240
95.00
1,352,800.00
Unsold
30,451 shares
4,000
65.00
260,000.00
2,100
50.00
105,000.00
n
10,000
50.00
500,000.00
12, 16, '47
46,000
44.00
2,024,000.00
12, 19, '47
12,600
17.00
214,200.00
2,000
70.00
140,000.00
1,600
50.00
80,000.00

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.97)
To
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Proceed
Remarks
Gen. public
tender
shares
high
low
12, 19, '47
5,000 shares
¥
12.50
62,500.00
n
4,000
55.50
222,000.00
n
2,900
50.00
145,000.00
265,292
32.00
8,489,344.00
1,486
32.00
47,552.00
n
5,400
50.00
270,000.00
5,000
100.00
500,000.00
3,900
25.00
97,500.00
1,200 shares
12, 23, '47
1,200
82.30
98,760.00
10
10
50.00
500.00
100
n
100
25.00
2,500.00
1,200
n
1,200
63.00 - 62.30
75,260.00
-14-

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.97)
To
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Proceed
Remarks
Gen. public
tender
shares
high
low
&
1,500
12, 23, 47
1,500
60.50-60.10
圣
90,550.00
375
n
375
72.50
27,187.50
50
n
50
156.60
7,830.00
50
50
121.60
6,080.00
90
n
90
43.50
3,915.00
30
11
30
65.00
1,950.00
300
n
300
123.20
36,960.00
900
n
900
60.00
54,000.00
1,000
n
1,000
30.50 - 29.90
30,170.00
300
300
20.00
6,000.00
21,950
n
21,950
47.10
1,033,845.00
30,451
ft
30,451
111.00 - 104.
3,192,504.00
105
n
106
9.00
954.00
-15-

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.97)
To
By
Dete sold
No. of
shares
high
Price
low
Proceed
Remarks
Gen. publio
tender
12, 26, '47
45,870 shares
¥41.00
￥1,880,670.00
221,000.00
3,400
65.00
n
190,000.00
n
5,000
38.00
1,247,600
shares
2,844,466 shares
￥113,125,621.40
1,497,603 hares

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.98)
To
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Proceed
Remarks
Gen. public
tender
shares
high
low
1, 9,48
120,010 shares
39.00 - 34.00
￥4,380,340.00
18,000
38.
684,000.00
1, 16, '48
1,000
100.
100,000.00
1,950
70.
136,500.00
785
40.
31,400.00
72,413 shares
1, 21, '48
72,413
25.00 - 15.00
1,297,595.00
1, 23, 48
2,000
13.50
27,000.00
1, 23, '48
2,278
16.
36,448.00
1,520
50.
76,000.00
6,480
20.
129,600.00
930
1, 28,48
930
16.
14,880.00
46,765
n
46,765
77.00 -57.50
3,180,337.50
e
834
2, 2, '48
634
70.00 - 45.00
41,130.00
-17

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.95)
till
To
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Proceed
Ramarks
Gn. publio
tender
shares
High
Low
, shares
2, 3, *48
5,420 shares
186.00-117.50
657,737.00
4,700
n
4,700
4
570,563.00
1,550
1,550
65.00- 63.00
99,207.00
640
0
640
40,963.00
775
775
33.00- 29.50
25,310.06
7,597
9,597
228,499.54
41,224
41,224
200.00-154.00
6,527,985.46
692
692
109,580.54
2,250
2,250
50.
112,500.00
100
100
100.
10,000.00
400
400
65.
85,000.00
946
940
61,100.00
1,000
1,000
46.50 -43.50
43,260.00
1,600
n
1,600
69,840.00
921
921
70.00- 66.80
62,482.80

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.92)
20
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Preseed
Romark
Gea, public
tender
ahares
high low
800 shares
2,3,48
200 shares 8386.00-570.00
74,998.43
6,150
3
6,150
2,898,701.87
200
200
120.
20,400.00
100
100
801.
30,100.00
17
17
65.
1,105.00
500
500
51.
15,300.00
7,000
7
7,000
121.00-120.00
842,000.00
3,850
R
5,360
91.10- 84.00
291,340.00
20
20
380.
7,600.00
2, 6,48
50,000
25.
750,000.00
49,450
40.
1,978,000.00
5,000
45.
315,000.00
0

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.97)
By
Date sold
No. of
Price
Preceed
Remarks
Gen publio
tender
shares
High
Low
2, 6, *48
2,800
50.
140,000.00
9,900
7.50
74,250.00
1,600
83.50
153,600.00
8,000
66.50
133,000.00
1,740
25.
43,580.00
1,000
20.
20,000.00
2,462
60.
147,780.00
2,000
65.
130,000.00
1,500
30.
45,000.00
20,000
140.
8,800,000.00
20,000
110.
2,200,000.00
18,881
2, 10, *48
18,881
170.58-143.00
2,747,733.00

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.92)
To
By
Ho of
Price
Prossed
Remarks
Gea. yublie
tender
Date seld
shares
high
low
8.971
2, 10,48
3,771 shares * 180.00-152.00
¥ 617,132.50
59,596
59,596
181.00-140.50
8,438,288.00
181,171
n
181,171
170.00-140.00
87,405,940.00
3,445
8,445
190.00-140.00
489,469,00
6,081
6,081
75.00- 65.00
485,855.00
6,436
6,436
125.00-120.00
789,500.00
22,247
à
22,847
80.00- 72.00
1,573,70400
17,867
17,867
359.00-285.90
5,883,895.,00
3,525
3,525
206.50-175.00
667,375,00
2,350
2,300
156.50-150.00
359,000.00
6,134
4,134
145.20-140.00
590,550.80
9,950
8
9,950
6.
59,700.00
50
50
70.
3,500,00

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.92)
To
By
Date seld
Bo. of
Priee
Preceed
Remarks
Gn. yablie
tender
shares
High
Lew
2,622
2, 10,'48
2,622
21.50- 30.00
53,190.00
99,966
99,966
225.80-200.00
21,874,200.00
90,014
90,014
825.00-110.80
10,256,682.00
19,620
19,620
116,00-100.00
2,067,000.00
20,155
20,155
145.00-125,00
2,585,875.00
21.295
u
21,295
60.00- 40.00
990,750.00
50
50
50.
2,500,00
85,993
85,995
800.00-640.00
57,909,480.00
110,854
110,854
900.000670.00
77,265,920.00
7,507
0
9,507
116.00- 56.50
707,055.50
400
400
461.00-451.00
182,400.00
1,776
1.776
205.00-165.50
327,048.00
280
9
850
296,00-370.80
71,900.00

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.90)
Gen pablie
to
By
Date seld
Ne. of
Prise
Preceed
Remarks
tender
shares
Righ
Low
100 shares
8. 10, *48
100 shares 50.
3,000.00
2,850
8,850
150.60-112.00
399,550.00
1,600
0
1,600
161.50-156.50
853,400.00
15,059
13,089
259.30
5,862,857.80
11,598
11,598
800.30
8,321,919.60
19,000
19,000
850.20
4,755,800,00
5,452
66.88
359,416.00
2,18,*48
20,800
s0.
1,000,000.60
8,456
40.
158,240.00
2,000
55.
110,000.00
50,000
33.
1,650,000.00
8, 16,*48
10
100.
1,000.00
0
400
160.00-190.50
58,050.00
457
35.
15,995.80
0
500
25.
12,800.00

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.87)
Bo
By
Uate seld
Mo.of
Price
Preceed
Remarks
Ga. yublie
tender
shares
Bigh
Low
2, 16, '48
300 shares
200.
24,000.00
950
20.
19,000.00
2
160.
3,200.00
900
52.
46,800.00
8
592
55.
21,560.00
550
50.
89,580.00
870
115.
51,050.00
1.00
52.
5,200.00
800
50.
15,000.00
5,000
16.
00,000.00
1,000
25.
25,900.00
1,100
85.
80,500.00
2, 10, 48
8,278
50.00-15.10
832,707,

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.92)
To
By
Bate seld
e. of
Price
Proceed
Remarks
Gem Publie
tender
shares
High
Low
8, 10, 48
1,099
32.00-50.00
35,100.00
2.20,48
29,341
31.50
924,241.80
9,400
.
066,000.00
20,000
50.
1,000,000,00

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Totel No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employees
local
company
restricted
offered
rosidents
7,8, '47
Oriental Photo. Ind.
CILC
Tokyo
Special
930 shares
n
Howa Ind.
n
Nagoya
n
10,000
n
Nichiro Fishery
Tokyo
1n
20,000
7, 14, '47
Senyo Steel Mfg.
Hime ji
n
10,000
Teikoku Precision Ind.
Osaka
n
25,880
啊
Hoshi Medicines &
n
Tokyo
n
13,000
drugs Mfg.
7
Nichimon Coal-Mining
n
n
n
8,550
n
Nippon Precision Ind.
n
n
n
10,000
n
Nippon Elec.
Conorating & Trens
n
11
9,900
n
Nippon Petroleum
n
n
n
10,000
7,22,47
Kurimoto Iron Works
n
Osake
n
11,035
n
Kanto Elec. Supply
Tokyo
n
2,324
n
Nippon Exploitation
n
Yokohama
n
1,700
Machine Mfg.
11
Nippon Petroleum
n
Tokyo
n
10,000

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
socurity
agency
of
acotg. or
shares to be
employees
lo0al
compeny
restricted
offered
residents
7, 22, 47
Nippon Metallurgical
CIIC
Tokyo
S. R.
10,000 shares
Ind.
Nichiro Fishery
n
n
Special
10,000
n
Sanyo Steel Mfg.
Himej1
14,300
Toyo Steel-Plate
n
Tokyo
n
7,500
n
Toppan Printing
7
n
400
n
Yodogawa Steel Mfg.
n
Osaka
n
3,350
7,25,47
Toto Steel Mfg.
n
Tokyo
n
530
n
Nippon Valve Mfg.
n
n
13,900
Nippon Sand Iron
91
Harima
No
23,000
Steel Mfg.
n
Nichiro Fishery
n
Tokyo
Special
20,000
n
Special Steel Mfg.
n
n
n
18,000
Toyo Bearing Mfg.
Osaka
50,000
Yodogawa Steel Mfg.
n
n
n
810

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employees
lo0al
company
restricted
offered
residents
7,25,47
Osaka Machine & Ind. CIIC
Osaka
Special
20,000
7, 23,47
Tokyo Elec. Express
HCLC
Tokyo
No
3,070
Railway
Kanto Elec. Supply
n
n
13,111
n
Toho K.K.
11
n
1,656
7,25,'47
Hakodate Bock Yard
CIIC
n
Special
22,000
n
Miyata Mfg.
n
n
n
200
Nippon Metalic Ind.
n
n
4,000
Nippon Express
n
n
n
598
n
Riken Optical Ind.
n
n
100
n
Iwato Mining Railway
n
n
No
20,000
n
Nippon Sand Iron
n
Harima
n
23,000
Steel Mfg.
Nichiro Fishery
n
Tokyo
Special
20,000
n
Special Steel Mfg.
0
n
18,000
n
Toyo Bearing
n
Osaka
50,000

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
To S.C.L.C.
security
agency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employees
local
company
restricted
offered
residents
7, 25, '47
Toyo Soda Ind.
CILC
Tokuyama
Speciel
15,850
7,23,'47
Chichibu Railway
HCLC
Kumagaya
No
1,153
n
Nagoya Railway
n
Nagoye
8
1,000
n
Tohoku Electric Supply"
Sendai
n
6,524
Meiji Confectionery
n
Tokyo
Special
113
7,25,47
Kokoku Rayon & Pulp
CILC
1n
n
70
n
Special Steel Mfg.
n
n
11
18,000
Kyushu Electric
1n
Fukuoka
No
200
Supply
9n
Kotobuki Ind.
n
Osaka
n
11,720
n
Howa Ind.
n
Nagoya
n
9,210
Chubu Electric Supply
91
n
No
10,400
(new)
n
Toyo Bearing
n
Osake
Special
60,000
n
Nippon Sand-Iron
t
Harima
No
23,000
Steel Mfg.

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agency
of
acotg. or
shares to be
employees
locel
company
restricted
offered
residents
7,25,47
Kurimoto Iron Works
CILC
Osaka
Special
15,550 shares
n
Osaka Machine Ind.
n
”
9
18,190
n
Nichiro Fishery
n
Tokyo
n
20,000
7, 23,'47
Hokuriku Elect. Supply HCIC
Toyama
No
160
n
Hanamaki Elect. Railway "
Hanamaki
40
n
Dai-Nippon Brewery
H
Tokyo
n
3,500
n
Sanyo Elec. Tramway
f1
Shimonoseki
1,000
11
Hakone Mountain Trolly
n
Odawera
n
5,197
n
Hanshin Elec. Railway
91
Amagaseki
22,875
n
Kinki Nippon Railway
n
Osaka
n
23,350
n
n
(new)
n
n
775
Keihanshin Elec.
n
Ikeda
n
2,716
Express Railway
Kyokuyo Whale Fishery
n
Tokyo
n
100
7, 25,'47
Osaka Machine Mfg.
CILC
Osaka
Special
70
n
Okamoto Ind.
n
Nagoya
n
29,280

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948.
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Speciel
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employees
local
company
restricted
offered
residents
7, 25, '47
Hakodate Dock Yerd
CILC
Tokyo
Special
21,000
n
Toyo Bearing
n
Osaka
17,840
Oriental Photo Ind.
ff
Tokyo
n
3,200
n
Special Steel Mfg.
n
t
n
20,000
n
Tentsuji Steel-Ball
1n
Oseka
50
Mfg.
Nichiro Fishery
n
Tokyo
n
19,000
n
Nippon Sand Iron
n
Harima
NO
20,000
Steel Mfg.
Iwata Mining Railway "
Tokyo
16,500
Kurimoto Iron Mfg.
n
Oseka
n
16,000
n
Daikyo Petroleum
n
Tokyo
24
10,000
7, 23,'47
Nishinippon Railway HCIC
Fukuoka
No
4,520
n
Enshu Reilway
n
Hamamatsu
1n
1,200
n
Iyo Railway
n
Matsuyama
n
785
Sakai Fibre
Fukui
n
2,500

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.92)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 8, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L. C.
security
agency
acctg. or
shares to be
employees
local
restricted
offered
residents
7, 23, '47
Tohoku Klectric Supply HCil
Sendai
No
2,524
n
Shikoku Elec. Supply
n
Matsuyama
n
6,317
93
Chugoku Elec. Supply
n
Hiroshima
1,110
n
Chubu Elec. Supply
n
Nagoya
n
17,500
n
Hanshin Elec. Railway
n
Amagasaxi
23,000
9, 2, 47
Tobu Railway (new)
11
Tokyo
n
600
n
Izumo Railway
n
Izumo
263
Tokyo Elec, Express
n
Tokyo
n
2,000
Railway
7, 23,47
Chubu &lec. Supply
Nagoya
n
8,200
Dai-Nippon Brewery
HCLC
Tokyo
n
270
Kinki-Nippon Railway
n
Osaka
7,450
9, 2, '47
Keihanshin Elec.
n
Ikeda
n
6,562
Express Railway
7, 23, '47
n
(new)
n
n
n
382
n
Hanshin Blec,
Anagasaki
15,225
Express Railway

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Late offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employees
local
company
restricted
offered
residents
9, 2, 47
Kanto Elec. Supply
HCLC
Tokyo
No
6,945 shares
8, 25, '47
Kanto Elec. Supply
CILC
n
n
1,643
9, 2,'47
Iwete Mining Railway
11
n
n
6,380
n
Chubu Elec. Supply
Nagoya
n
2,400
(new)
Kansai Elec. Supply
n
Osake
n
35,941
(new)
n
Nippon Gun Powder
Tokyo
n
300
8, 25, '47
Sugimure Warehouse
n
Osaka
n
100
n
Sharin Indust.
n
Tokyo
1n
90
n
Sunzu Railway
Mishima
n
13
8, 20,'47
Nippon Securit ies
State
Tokyo
n
947,600
Exchange
9, 22, '47
Japen Elec. Gen &
HCIC
n
n
300,000
Trans.
9, 8, '47
Nippon Carbon
CILC
n
n
50
n
Osaka Ceramics
n
Osaka
n
9,650

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
egency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employees local
company
restricted
offered
residents
9,8, 47
Takamori Mining
CILC
Tokyo
No
23,880 shares
8,25,'47
Tohoku Fertilizer Mfg.
n
Akite
n
1,700
7, 23,47
Ugo Railway
HCLC
n
n
450
n
Towada Railway
Aomori
n
251
9, 22, '47
Tokyo Elec. Express
n
Tokyo
n
300
Railway
n
n
Chubu Elec. Supply
Nagoya
n
964
Kinki-Nippon Railway
n
Osaka
n
1,600
n
Toho K.K.
n
Tokyo
595
Kaikon Salt Indust.
n
n
5,500
n
Japan Fishery
n
Tokyo
n
2,000
n
Sugimura Warehouse
n
Osale
n
26,200
9, 22, '47
Kanto Gelatine
n
Kanagawa
u
3,000
3,000
9, 2, '47
Tokyo Stee! Mfg.
Tokyo
100,615
100,615

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
egency
of
acotg. or
shares to be
employees
local
company
restricted
offered
residents
10, 16, '47
Iwate Mining Railway
CIIC
Tokyo
No
350 shares
w
Isetan
(new)
n
n
n
250
Hinode Steamship
n
8
4,166
(new)
n
Osaka Gas (2nd new)
11
Osaka
No
6,080
n
Tokai Steel Mfg.
n
Tokyo
1,021
0
Takasago Iron Ind.
1n
n
7,542
10, 14, '47
Shimazu Mfg. (new)
n
Kyoto
Special
99,340
9, 22, 47
Nichibi Trading
HCLC
Tokyo
No
8,100
8,100 shares
Teijin Textile &
n
Kenagawa
n
6,000
6,000
Cloth
9, 2,47
Yasukawa Elec. Machine "
Yahata
23,666
23,666
Mfg.
9, 22, '47
Jiji Press
n
Tokyo
300
300
n
(new)
n
n
n
1,000
1,000

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employees
local
company
restricted
offered
residents
9,8, 47
Kowa Wood-Working
CILC
Niigata
No
3,840 shares
3,840 shares
n
Kowa Aerial Wood-
n
Tokyo
n
1,980
1,980
Working
n
Kowa Aerial Ind.
n
n
3,960
3,960
11, 6, '47
Asahi Steel-Material
n
n
3,150
mfg.
4
Deishin Chuo Land
n
Nishinomiya
n
230
n
Hokuriku Elec.
n
Toyema
n
25
Supply (new)
Ichioka Land
n
Osaka
n
710
Japan Elec. Gen. &
n
Tokyo
12,120
Trans. (new)
Nippon Sulphur (new) 
7
9
793
n
Takamori Mining
n
n
6,750
10, 16, '47
Takasago Iron Ind.
n
n
5,542
11, 6, '47
Hokkaido Gas (new)
n
n
309

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.96)
Takyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Uffering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.c.L.C.
security
agency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employees
local
company
restricted
offered
residents
11, 22, '47
Hokkaido Gas.
HCLC
Tokyo
No
500 shares
9, 22, '47
Yoshizawa Plumber
n
n
n
8,000
8,000
10, 22, '47
Yokohama Fire-brick
CILC
Yokohama
n
1,000
1,000
(new)
n
n
4,000
4,000
12, 3, '47
Shin-Osaka Hotel
HCLC
Osaka
Not Special
32,360
32,360
Restricted
9, 2, '47
Toyo Elec. Mfg.
Tokyo
No
44,691
14,240
9, 22, '47
Nippon Pharmaceuticels "
Kyoto
n
4,000
4,000
9, 22, '47
Kokoku Chemical
n
Tokyo
n
2,100
2,100
11, 10, 37
12, 16, '47
Osaka Gas
HCLC
Osaka
n
46,000
9, 22, '47
Kurihara Railway
n
Miyagi
n
12,600
12,600
Kameyama Paper
n
Mie Pref.
n
2,000
2,000
11, 22, '47
Kotobuki Food Mfg.
n
Toyama
1,300
1,600

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948.
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employees
local
company
restricted
offered
residents
11, 22, 147
Nippon varbonic acid
HCLC
Tokyo
No
5,000shares
5,000 shares
n
Kanagawa Food
n
Yokohama
4,000
4,000
n
Shunwa Treding
n
Kobe
n
2,900
2,900
9, 2, '47
Jan Elec. Gen.& Trans. "
Tokyo
265,292
265,292
12, 3, '47
Jan Elec. Gen. &
Bank of
Tokyo
1,486
1,486
Trans.
Japan
9, 22, '47
Hakodate Cold-
HCLC
Hakodate
n
5,400
5,400
Storage
的
Niigata Cold-
n
Niigate
n
5,000
5,000
Storage Warehouse
10, 22, '47
Akita Wood-Working
CILC
Akita
5,900
3,900
11, 22, '47
Kyoto Textile
HCLC
Kyoto
n
1,200
Nippon Transport
n
n
n
10
Machine
Niigata Sulphuric
Niigata
n
100
Acid (new)
9
Kamiari-Miki Elec.
n
Hyogo
n
1,800
Railway

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agoncy
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employees
local
company
restricted
offered
residents
11, 22, '47
Tobu Railway
HCIC
Tokyo
No
1,500
shares
(Deferred)
n
Maruei
n
Nagoya
Special
375
n
Shochiku
n
Tokyo
No
50
(new)
n
n
n
50
n
Tohoku Elec. Supply
n
Sendai
n
90
n
Tokyo Elec. Express
Tokyo
30
Railway (new)
n
Nagano Elec. Railway
Nagano
n
300
n
Kinki Nippon Railway "
Osake
n
900
(new)
Hokuriku Elec. Supply "
Toyama
n
1,000
(new)
Koa Fobre
n
Eyogo
n
300
9, 22, '47
Sugimura Warehouse
n
Osake
21,950
9, 2, '47
Toyo Elec. Mfg.
n
Tokyo
n
30,451
9, 22, 47
Tohoku Elec. Supply
91
Sendai
n
106
(new)

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
. To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
enployees
local
company
restricted
offered
residents
9, 2, '47
Osaka Gas
HCLC
Osaka
No
91,870 shares
45,870
11, 22, '47
Toa Elec. Ind.
11
Tokyo
n
3,400
3,400
9, 22, '47
Sugimure Warehouse
n
n
5,000
5,000
3,459,553 shares
591,607 shares
46,000
shares

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Locetion
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employeos
local
company
restricted
offered
residents
9, 22, '47
Hokkaido Elec. Supply
HCLC
Sapporo
No
120,010 shares 60,010 shares 60,000 shares
12, 12, '47
Tokai Indastrial
CIIC
Tokyo
n
18,000
18,000
12, 26, '47
Shinwa Industrial
HCLC
n
n
1,000
1,000
11, 22, 47
Deiwa Agricultural
n
Shimane
n
1,950
1,950
Machinery Ind.
12, 26, '47
Naigai Cloth
n
Osaka
n
785
785
Manufacture
1, 14, '48
West-Nippon Railway
State
Fukuoka
n
72,413
(Right)
12, 26, '47
Marunouchi Garage
HCLC
Tokyo
n
2,000
2,000
11, 22, '47
Nanzu Garage
n
Shizuoke
n
2,278
2,278
11, 6, '47
Nichiman Shipping
CILC
Osaka
n
1,520
1,520
n
(new)
n
n
6,480
6,480
1, 21, '48
Wakodo (Right)
State
Tokyo
930
n
Nagoya Railway (Right)
Nagoya
n
46,765
1, 29, '48
Oriental Elec.
n
Tokyo
n
634
Machinery (Right)

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.93)
C
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Location
Special
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employees
looal
company
restricted
offered
residents
1, 28, '48
Koito Factory
HCLC
Tokyo
No
5,420 shares
1, 12, 48
n
CTIC
n
.4,700
1, 28, '48
Nitto Chemical Ind.
HCIC
n
Special Acctg.
1,550
not Restricted
1, 12, '48
n
CILC
n
n
640
1, 28, '48
(now)
HCIC
n
775
1, 12, '48
n
(old)
CIIC
n
n
7,597
1, 28, '48
Senkyo
n
41,224
1, 12, '48
n
CILC
n
n
692
Sawafuji Elec. Machine
n
n
R
2,250
1, 28, 48
Tsukishima Machinery
HCLC
n
n
100
(Paid-up ¥50.)
n
" (¥30.)
7
9
400
1, 12, '48
" (")
CIIC
n
940
1, 28, '48
" (new)
HCLC
n
n
1,000
1, 12, 43
(")
CIIC
1,600
Japan Paints (3rd new)
n
Osaka
921

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's No. 213,
April 2, 1948
Date offered
Neme of
Offering
Location
Spocial
Total No. of
To
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
agency
of
acctg. or
shares to be
employees
local
company
restricted
offered
residents
1, 28, '48
Oriental Rayon (New)
HCIC
Tokyo
Special Acctg.
not restricted
200 shares
1, 12.'48
(")
CILC
n
6,130
3
12, 26, 48
vojima Building
HuLa
Usake
No
200
Niigata Oil Mills
n
Niigata
n
100
n
Sado Steamship
n
n
17
Takahashi Kyuroku & Co.
n
Tokyo
7
300
n
Tokyo Express Eleo. Railwey
n
n
n
7,000
n
Chichibu Railway (New)
n
Kumagaya
3,360
12,26, 47
Sennichi Land & Building
n
Osaka
n
20
1, 19, '48
Toyohira Steel Mfg.
n
Tokyo
n
30,000
30,000 shares
n
Onuki Coal-Mining
n
to
kestricted
49,450
49,450
n
Sendai Marine Hard Ware Mfg. CIIC
Sendai
No
5,000
5,000

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.90)
pate effered
Kame of
Offering
Lecation
Special
Total No. of
to S.C.L.C.
security
ageney
of
acetg. er
shares to be
empleyees
lecal
pany
restricted
offered
resideats
2, 21, 948
Yokohaza Tally Work
OLO
Yokehama
No
2,800 shares
2,800 shares
1, 28, '48
Nichibi Trading (New)
HOLO
Tokye
9,900
9,900
Kewakami Paints
w
Hyege Pref.
1,600
1,600
Kante Trading
Tokye
n
2,000
2,000
Asame Life Iasurance
1,740
1,740
Agency
Kanto Yeriite Kegyo
n
n
1,000
1,000
Yugenkaisha
Helcaide Canned Goods
Hokkaido
2,462
2,462
n
Hyege Canned Geods
n
Hyage Pref.
2,000
2,000
Edegawa Machinery Werks
Tokye
1,800
1,500
1, 88, '48
Toyede Mutomatic Leom
n
Aleni Pref.
20,000
20,000
Werke (Old)
(Now)
20,000
20,000
1,80,'48
Tokye Bas
L.S.
Tokye
Special
18,881

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.90)
Date offored
Name of
offering
Location
Spocial
Total No. of
8
to S.G.L.C.
seourity
ageney
of
aoctg. or
shares to be
empleyees
lecal recsideats
company
restristed
offered
1,80,*48
Osake Gas
8.
Osaka
No
3,771 shares
Japan Elec, Gen &
R.C.S.
Tokye
57,596
2,20
Trans.
1,80,48
Kanto Elec. Supply
181,171
Chabu Elee. Supply
Stato
Nagoya
3,445
Tohekn Flee. Sapply
R
Sendai
0
6,081
Kyusks Elee. Supply
Fakuoka
6,456
Kansai Elec. Supply (Old)LC
Osake
28.267
Kinki-Nippon Railway
E. s.
17,867
Takyo Eles. Exgress
State
Tokyo
5,525
Railway
Keisei Elec. Railway
a
2,850
West-Japan Railway
Paksoka
4,154
1, 19,*48
Nichinan Miniag (Wew) CILS
Tokye
9,950
Ishii Irea Works
50

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.89)
Date offered
Hane of
Offering
Lecation
Special
Total No. of
To
to S.C.L.C.
security
ageney
of
asetg. er
shares to be
empleyees
leedl resident
cempary
restricted
offered
1, 19, 48
Ishil Iren Werks (New) OILO
Tokye
no
2,622 shares
1,30.48
Leceuotive Mfg.
H.C.S.
Special
99,966
Restristed
 (Hew)
BOLO
90,014
1, 19, 48
Oriental Steel Plate
(Now)
L.C.
n
19,620
Kurimete Iren Werks
(01d)
OILO
Osake
20,155
0
(w)
21,275
Imperial Precise Ind.
n
50
1, 30, 48
Laperial Rayon
0. Bank of
S.R.
85,995
Japan
n
(Hw)
警
110,854
0
Eyekuye Whale-Fishery State
Tokye
No
7,509
Wikkatsu
BOLO
0
400
Tohe
State
1,996
Sheshiku (New)
HOLC
850

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.91)
Date offered
Hame of
Offering Lecation
Spocial
Total Ho. of
To
To
to 8.0.L.0.
security
ageney
of
aootg er
shares to be
empleyees
leeal residents
ecmpary
restrieted
offered
1, 30,48
Nippen Manga Mevie
HCLC
Tokye
100 shares
Tayeke Movie
2,850
8
Kerabien Stadium
1,500
1, 21, 948
Imperial Hetel (Old)
H.S.
Restrieted
15,059
(New)
11,598
(01d)
HOLO
19,000
1,30,048
Japan Battery (Sab Right) State Osaka
Special
5,432
5,458
11, 21, 47
Taiye Printing Ind.
HDLO
Tokye
Ho
20,000
20,000
1, 28, 48
Asane Cesstrustion
Material Ind.
8,456
3,456
Kmmazawa Oil Mills
é
Mie Prof.
à
2,000
2,000
1. 80,48
Kitami General Lumber CILC
Hokicaide
50,000
50,000
Hokkai Papes Hfg.
Otare
10
10
Yemate Brewery
Fajisawa
9
400
Eyote Fibre Geods Trading
Eyeto
45T
Faji Elee. Chamical
Tokye

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.91)
Date offered
Name of
Offering
Lecation
Special
Total No. of
te B.C.L.C.
seourity
agenoy
of
asstg. er
shares to be
empleyees
lecal residents
ccmpany
restricted
offered
Temakemai BeanMash
Tokye
30e shares
390 shares
& Sey Browery
Saitama Pre Cetten &
Urawe
950
980
Steel Fibre Distribution
Tekye Orimene Kaikan
Tokyo
20
2
Kaiken Sangye Shoji
900
900
Yamaguoki Pref. Truck
Yamaguchi
392
392
Eachieji Meter-car Repairing
Hachieji
550
550
Rsadyvmade Cleths Central
Kyeto
270
270
the 5th Agont
Iskibashi Industrial
Yekohana
100
100
Ashibetsu Takane Ceal-Mining
Sapere
300
300
Shokesen Mining
Tokye
5,000
5,000
Kyuska Smekeless Geal Mine
Osaka
10000
2,000
Sasaki Trading
Sokye
1,100
1,300
Kejaka Railway (Seb. Right)
otse
8,878

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.91)
Bete effored
Hame of
Offering
Location
Special
Total Ho. of
to B.G,L.C.
security
agenoy
of
asetg. er
shares to be
empleyees
Local resident
eempary
restricted
offered
Keite Factery (Sab. Right)
Tokye
1,090 shares
1,099 shares
1, 81, 948
Tokye Marine Preducts State
27,572
29,341
1, 28, 48
ECLO
1,969
9, 2, 948
Tsada Eloc. Wires
B. E.
Kyete
9,400
9,400
2,17,48
Takasaki Artifidal
CILO
Takasaki
20,000
20,000
Leather

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.98)
Enelesure No. 2 to Despateh No. 213
dated April 2, 1948 frem the Office
of the Pelitical Adviser fer Japan,
Tekyo, on the subjest, "Sale ef
Sesurities Threugh Liquidation Agencies".
List of Stocks Disposed of Up to
February 21, 1948
S.C.L.O.
Methed of
Number of
Total face
Tetal precceds
disposition
Sheres
value
Shares
By S.C.L.C.
Publie sale
1,247,800
62,380,000
 44,661,200.00
Disposition
989,279
47,112,950
46,6h1;205.50
to employees
Disposition
2,013,308
95,933,590
288,276,229.50
by tender
Disposition
133,049
5,735,950
5,413,658.80
to local
residents
shares
Total
4,363,236
211,152,490384,992,193.80
Shares
By H.C.L.C.
Disposition
13,200
680,000
660,000.00
prior to
to employees
the establish-
ment of S.C.L.C.
By H.C.L.C.
Disposition
166,388
2,525,300.00
after the
by tender
establishment
of S.C.L.C.
shares
Total
179,588
680,000
3.185,300.00
shares
By C.I.L.C.
Disposition
1,1h7,382
￥57,730,850
 57,599,360.00
prior to
to securities
the establish-
dealers and
ment of S.C.L.
employses
C.
Disposition
2,601,942
177,043,610
177,665,942.98
by tender
shares
Total
4.749,324 234,774,480
235.265.322.98
shares
Grand Total
9.292,148446,586,950
623,442.816.78
COMPIDENTIAL

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.96)
i
Page No. 2
Meslesure No. 2 to Tokye's Despatsh No. 213
April 2, 1948
List of Stosks disposed of
by S.0.L.0.
Methed of Dispesition
Number of
Total face
Total presccds
shares
value
A. From July to December 31, 1947
shares
Public sale
1,247,600
62,380,000
44,661,200.00
Dispesition to
591,607
29,679,350
25,901,266,60
empleyess
Disposition by
959,259
47,861,420
37,539,155.60
tender
Disposition to
local residents
46,000
2,300,000
2,024,000.00
shares
Total
2,844,466
142,220,770
113,125,621.40
B. From Jan. 6 to February 21, 1948
Public sale
Disposition to
377,672
17,433,600
¥ 17,739,839.50
esployees
Disposition by
1,054,049
48,062,170
250,737,074.10
tender
Disposition to
lecal residents
87,049
3,435,950
3,389,658.80
shares
Total
1,518,770
68,931,720
 273, 066,572.40
shares
Grand Total
4.363,236
￥211,152.490
38h.992,193.80
COMFIDENTIAL

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.96)
Page No. 3
Enslesure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 213
April 2, 1948
SECURITIES SOLD BY S.C.L.C.
(from Juiy to Dec. 31, 1947)
S.C.L.C.
Total
Number
Method
Initial
number
Number
Total ansuat
Agency
Nase of Issue
of
of
date of
of
of
of
shares
dispo-
offer
shares
buyers
proseed
offered
sition
sold
(unsold)
CILC
Howa Ind.
2,870
T
July 2
2,870
1
122,575.00
Hokksido Colliery &
Steamship
484
484
1
21,828.40
Tohe Gas
2,901
2,901
2
159,655.00
8
Oriental Soda Ind.
3,960
3,960
6
90,496.00
Furukawa Elec. Ind.
2,013
68
2,013
1
112,929.30
Japan Precimion Ind.
10,000
10,000
45
566,000.00
Nichiro Fishery
20,000
20,000
53
1,001,100.00
8
Japan Petroleum
20,000
20,000
41
956,200.00
1
Japan Metal Ind.
4,050
Juiy 7
50
1
1,775.00
(4,000)
Japan Valve Mfg.
1,100
10
100
1
3,000.00
(1,000)
a
Japan Precision Ind.
10,000
18
10,000
16
530,300.00
Fe
Tokyo Gas
3,990
12
18
3,990
12
188,530.00
Special Steel Mfg.
15,000
2,000
7
83,600.00
(13,000)
Japan Petroleum
11,300
88
11,300
25
503,690.00
Oriental Photographic
830
July 山
830
1
53,120.00
Ind.
Howa Ind.
10,000
4,000
3
159,700.00
(6,000)
Nichiro Fishery
20,000
输
20,000
42
901,600.00
Sanyo Steel Mfg.
10,000
July 21
10,000
1
262,500.00
Imperial Precision Ind.
25,880
25,880
12
802,280.00
è
Hoshi Pharmacoutical
13,000
1,000
1
22,100.00
(12,000)
路
Nichiman Coal-Mining
8,550
8,550
1
230,850.00
0
Japan Precision Ind.
10,000
e
ea
10,000
2
544,500.00
COMPIDENTIAL
-2-

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.94)
Page No. 4
Enslesure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 213
April 2, 1948
CImC Ndapamakles. Con. &
9,900
T.
July 21
9,900
35
396,490.00
Trans.
0
Japan Petroleum
10,000
10,000
17
46,900.00
Kurimoto Iron Works
11,035
July 28
2,000
1
106,500.00
(9,035)
Kanto Elec. Supply
2,324
2,324
2
102,356.00
Japan Exploitation
1,700
1,700
2
71,100.00
Machine Mfg.
Japan Petroleum
10,000
10
n
9,545
2
429,107.00
(455)
Japan Metallurgical
Ind.
10,000
n
10,000
11
244,000.00
Nichiro Fishery
10,000
10,000
28
424,200.00
Sanyo Steel Mfg.
14,300
n
r8
14,300
1
373,950.00
的
Orimntal Steel-Plate
7,500
18
7,500
3
440,750.00
Toppan Printing
400
由
1
400
2
33,200.00
Todogawa Steel Mfg.
3,350
3,350
1
119,930.00
餘
Toto Steel Mfg.
530
Aug. 4
530
1
13,992.00
0
Japan Valve M.
13,900
2
900
1
22,00.00
(13,000)
Japan Iron-Sand
23,000
物
3,000
5
82,000.00
Steel Mfg.
(20,000)
物
Nichiro Fishery
20,000
物
20,000
33
805,400.00
Special Steel Mfg.
18,000
的
1,000
4
37,500.00
(17,000)
Oriental Bearing
50,000
1,000
1
21,200.00
(49,000)
68
Todogawa Steel Mfg.
810
re
810
1
26,730.00
Osaka Machine Ind.
20,000
钧
1,000
1
46,200.00
(19,000)
HCLB
Tokyo Express Elec.
3,070
铃
3,070
5
203,220.00
Railway.
Kanto Elec. Supply
13,111
物
馆
13,111
34
579,484.00
Tobo K. K.
1,656
t给
1,656
1
176,536.00
CILC
Hakodate Dockyard
22,000
Aug. 11
1,000
5
42,100.00
(21,000)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.96)
Page No. 5
Enslesure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 213
April 2, 1948
CILC Miyata Mfg.
200
T
Ang. 11
200
1
13,600.00
Japan Metalio Ind.
4,000
2,100
5
76,500.00
(1,900)
Japan Transportation
598
598
1
17,03.00
0
Riken Optical Ind.
100
100
1
3,100.00
Iwate Mining Railway
20,000
3,500
5
52,220.00
(16,500)
Japan Iron-Sand
23,000
1
3,000
4
77,600.00
Steel Mfg.
(20,000)
Nichiro Fishery
20,000
18
20,000
56
785,000.00
Special Steel Mfg.
18,000
赠
1,000
35,000.00
(17,000)
Oriental Bearing
50,000
1,500
3
30,250.00
(48,500)
Oriental Soda Ind.
15,850
3,000
1
63,000.00
(12,850)
HCLC
Chichibu Railway
1,153
1,153
1
114,109.30
Nagoya Railway
1,000
n
1,000
3
81,500.00
Tohoku Elec. Supply
6,524
4,000
6
153,500.00
(2,524)
Meiji Confectionery
113
9
113
1
10,283.00
CILC
Kokoku Rayon & Pulp
70
8
Aug. 18
70
4,900.00
Special Steel Mfg.
18,000
19
1,500
1
48,600.00
(16,500)
Kyushu Elec. Supply
200
18
200
1
8,500.00
19
Kotobuki Ind.
11,720
1,000
5
28,000.00
(10,720)
Howa Ind.
9,210
2,650
3
100,150.00
(6,560)
Chubu Elec. Supply
10,400
馆
8,000
27
41,400.00
(new)
(2,400)
Oriental Bearing
60,000
t8
23,600
11
417,760.00.
(36,400)
8
Japan Iron-Sand
23,000
2
14,600
11
304,510.00
(8,400)
Kurimoto Iron Works
15,550
13,600
5
602,400.00
(1,950)
COMPIDENTIAL
-3-

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.96)
Page No. 6
Enslosure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatoh No. 213
April 2, 1948
CILC
Osaka Machine Ind.
18,190
Ang. 18
16,000
3
.100.00
(2,190)
Nichiro Fishery
20,000
20,000
.12
778,680.00
HCLC
Hokuriku Klec. Supply
160
0
0
160
1
7,200.00
Mansmski Elec.Railway
40
馆
40
1
2,400.00
Dai-Mippon Brewery
3,500
3,230
21
311,113.00
(270)
Sanyo Elec.Tramway
1,000
1,000
1
63,000.00
Hakone Mountain
Railway
5,197
5,197
1
329,930.70
Hanahin Elec.
22,875
7,650
11
613,190.00
Railway.
(15,225)
Kinkdi-Nippon
23,350
18
15,900
8
1,392,710.00
Railway
(7,450)
(w)
775
775
1
49,290.00
0
Keihanahin Elec.
2,716
2,716
1
269,155.60
Express Railway
Kyokuyo Whale Fishery
100
2
100
1
5,410.00
CILC
Osaka Machine Mfg.
70
Aug. 25
70
1
3,850.00
8
Okamoto Ind.
29,280
n
4,350。
131,425.00
(24,930)
Hakodato Dockyard
21,000
4,500
182,250.00
(16,500)
Oriental Bearing
17,840
错
17,840
303,768.00
0
Oriental Photographic
Ind.
3,200
3,200
140,800.00
Special Steel Mfg.
20,000
5,000
154,100.00
(15,000)
Amagatsuji Steel-
50
n
50
2,600.00
Ball Mfg.
Nichiro Fishery
19,000
5e
19,000
745,900.00
Japan Iron-Sand
20,000
馆
6,000
121,950.00
Steel Mfg.
(11,000)
Iwate Mining Railway
16,500
16,500
10
266,360.00
Kurimoto Iron Works
16,000
路
6,820
313,454.00
(9,180)
88
Daikyo Petroleum
10,000
10,000
150,000.00
CONFIDENTIAL
-4

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.96)
1
Page No. 7
Enslesure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatoh No. 213
April 2, 1948
HOLO
West-Japan Railway
4,520
Aug. 25
4,520
391,532.00
Enshu Railway
1,200
1,200
102,000.00
Iyo Railmay
785
785
87,642.50
Sakai Textile
2,500
2,500
165,500.00
Tohoku Elec.Supply
2,524
2,524
95,150.00
Shikoku Elec.Supply
6,317
6,317
2h3,90h.50
Chugoku Eloc.Supply
1,110
1,110
43,577.00
Chubu Eloc. Supply
17,500
0
e
9,300
398,340.00
(8,200)
Hanshin Klec.Supply
23,000
23,000
1,806,460.00
Tobu Railway (New)
600
健
Sep. 8
600
2
42,300.00
Isume Railway
263
263
1
9,994.00
Tokyo Express Elec.
2,000
8
11
2,000
2
137,115.00
Railway
Chubu Klec.Supply
8,200
論
8,200
347,510.00
Dai-Nippon Bear
270
28
270
3
27,105.00
Kinki-Nippon Railway
7,450
7,450
15
651,869.00
論
Keihanshin Express
6,562
e
6,562
28
645,648.00
Elec. Railway
(New)
382
验
382
1
37,283.20
Hanshin Express
15,225
15,225
28
1,190,182.00
Elec. Railway
Kanto Elec. Supply
6,945
6,945
17
281,019.50
CILC
Kanto Elec. Supply
1,643
8
1,643
66,549.30
Ewate Mining Railway
6,380
6,380
15
111,840.00
Chubu Elec. Supply
2,400
2,400
6
9,600.00
(New)
Kansai Elec.Supply
35,941
ta
35,941
71
358,970.80
(New)
Japan Chemical Ind.
300
300
1
33,900.00
Sugimura Warehouse
100
100
1
4,800.00
Sharin Ind.
90
90
1
4,347.00
Sunsu Railwmy
13
8
13
1
689.00
Japan Coal
50
Sop. 22
50
1
750.00
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.96)
Page Nc. 8
Enalosure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 213
April 2, 1948
CILC
Osaka Ceramics
9,650
Sep. 22
4,700
5
89,250.00
(4,550)
Takemori Mining
23,880
論
23,880
3
363,460.00
Tohoku Fertiliser
1,700
25
2
750.00
(1,675)
HCIC
Uge Railway
450
8
450
1
12,550.00
Towada Railway
251
251
1
10,291.00
State
Japan Securities
947,600
GP
Aug. 20
947,600
3,728
35,061,200.00
Exchange
HCIC
Japan Elec.Gen. &
300,000
Sep. 22
300,000
839
9,600,000.00
Trans.
Tokyo Express Klc.
300
T
Oct. 13
300
19,640.00
Railway
8
Chubu Elec. Supply
964
n
964
40,435.20
Kinki-Nippon Railway
1,600
88
n
1,600
132,410.00
Toho
595
e
n
595
45,985.00
ce
Kaikon Salt Ind.
5,500
5,500
143,850.00
Japan Fishery
2,000
19
2,000
72,500.00
Sugimura Warehouse
26,200
4,250.
157,720.00
(21,950)
Kanto Gelatine
3,000
E
Oct. 11
3,000
6
81,000.00
Tokyo Rope Mfg.
100,613
13
Oct. 1
100,613
463
10,061,300.00
CIIC
Iwate Mining Railway
350
T
Oct. 27
350
6,300.00
Isetan (New)
250
a
250
16,875.00
Hinode Steamship (New) 4,166
4,166
58,424.00
Osaka Gas (2nd New)
6,080
1,200
24,160.00
(4,880)
Tokai Steel Mfg.
1,021
1,021
40,023.20
Takasago Iron Ind.
7,542
a
2,000
73,000.00
(5,542)
Shimasu Mfg. (New)
99,340
99,340
1,228,999.00
HBLC
Nichibi Trading
8,100
B
Oet. 25
8,100
11
121,500.00
Teijin Textile
6,000
Ost. 26
6,000
12
300,000.00
Yasukawa Klec.
23,666
Nov. 1
23,666
269
1,183,300.00
Machine Mfg.
CONFIEEMTIAL
-6-

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.95)
Page No. 9
Enelesure No. 2 to Takyo's Despatch No. 213
April 2, 1948
HCLC
Jiji Shimpo
300
B
Nov. 7
300
15,000.00
)
27
0
(New)
1,000
1,000
24,000.00
CIIC
Kown Wood-Hork
3,840
Nov. 15
3,840
46
288,000.00
0
Kowe Aircraft Wood-
1,980
1,980
1
79,200.00
Work
Kowa Aircraft Ind.
3,960
n
3,960
1
217,800.00
8
Asahi Steel-Material
3,150
T
Dec. 1
3,150
85,050.00
Ind.
Daishin Chuo Land
230
230
4,830.00
Hokuriju Elec.Supply
25
n
25
62.50
(New)
Ichioka Land
710
n
”
710
15,030.00
Japan Elec, Gen. &
12,120
1e
12,120
48,610.00
Trans. (New)
Japan Sulphur (New)
793
re
793
7,692.10
Takamori Mining
6,750
6,750.
63,450.00
Yakasago Iron Ind.
5,542
5,542
258,730.10
Hokkaido Gas (New)
309
n
e
309
4,109.70
HCLC
Hokkaido Gas
500
500
6,650.00
Ycshizawa Lead Ind.
8,000
E
Nov. 7
8,000.
33
240,000.00
CIIC
Yokohama Firebrick
1,000
1a
Nov. 18
1,000
4
100,000.00
(New)
4,000
4,000
8
280,000.00
HCLC
New Osaka Hotel
32,360
10
Dec. 8
32,360
259
1,132,600.00
18
Oriental Elec.
44,691
n
Nov. 24
14,240
151
1,352,800.00
Machinery Mfg.
(30,451)
e
Japan New Drug
4,000
Nov. 21
4,000
26
260,000.00
Kokoku Chemical Ind.
2,100
Hov. 25
2,100
17
105,000.00
CIIC
Kyosi Life Insurance
10,000
Nov. 22
10,000
55
500,000.00
HCLC
Osaka Gas
46,000
路
Dec. 5
46,000
685
2,024,000.00
Kurihara Railway
12,600
Dec. 19
12,600
209
214,200.00
Kameyana Silk
2,000
8
2,000
107
140,000.00
Kotobuki Fcodstuff
1,600
1,600
43
80,000.00
Japan Carbonic Acid
5,000
re
5,000
21
62,500.00
Kanagawa Foodstuff
4,000
4,000
25
222,000.00
COMFIDENTIAL
-7-

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.94)
Page No. 10
Enslesure No. 2 to Tekyo's Despatch No. 213
April 2, 1948
BOLC Shimwa Trading
2,900
B
Deo. 19
2,900
13
145,000.00
Japan Elec. Gen.
265,292
265,292
8,489,344.00
& Trans
) Nov. 10
4,896
Bank
of
1,486
8
1,486
47,552.00
Japan
HCLC
Hakodate Refrigara-
5,400
5,400
27
270,000.00
tion
Niigata Refrigera-
5,000
n
Nov. 18
5,000
47
500,000.00
tion Warahouse
CIC
Akita Wood-Work
3,900
Nov. 23
3,900
47
97,500.00
HCLC
Kyoto Textile
1,200
T
Dec. 15
1,200
98,760.00
Japan Transport
10
te
10
500.00
Machine
路
Niigata Sulphuric Acid
100
100
2,500.00
(New)
Shinyu-Mild Elec.
1,200
1
ta
1,200
76,260.00
Railway
n
Tobu Railway (Defer'd) 1,500
t2
馆
1,500
90,550.00
Maruei Dept. Store
375
18
n
375
27,187.50
8
Shoohiku
50
98
50
7,830.00
(New)
50
re
50
6,080.00
馆
Tohoku Elec. Supply
90
0
te
90
3,915.00
Tokyo Exprese Klec.
30
10
R
30
1,950.00
Railway (New)
Nagano Elec.Railway
300
tt
300
36,960.00
Kinkd-Nippon Railway
900
ea
18
900
54,000.00
(New)
Hokuriku Elec. Supply
1,000
18
t9
1,000
30,170.00
(New)
Koa Fibre
300
300
6,000.00
错
Sugimura Karehouse
21,950
8
21,950
1,033,845.00
Oriental Elec. Mfg.
30,451
0
30,451
3,192,504.00
18
Tohoku Elec. Supply
106
ta
106
954.00
(New)
Osaka Gas
91,870
E
Dec. 8
45,870
1,880,670.00
(46,000)
镜
Toa Elec. Ind.
3,400
Dec. 26
3,400
15
221,000.00
Sugimura Warehouse
5,000
Dec. 8
5,000
105
190,000.00
Shares
Shares
Total
3,459.553
2,844.466
￥ 113,125,621.40
(615,087)
Remarks:
E
indicates
"disposition to employees"
IR
e
"Disposition to local residents"
OP
"disposition to general public"
"disposition by tonder"
COMPIDENTIAL

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.96)
Page 11
Enolesure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatsh No. 213
April 2, 19k8
SECURITIES SOLD BY S.G.L.C.
(from Jam. 6, to Feb. 21, 19h8)
S.C.L.C.
Total
Number
Mothod Initial
Number
Humber
Total Amsunt
Ageney Name of Issue
of
of
date of
of
of
of
shares
dispo-
offer
shares
buyers
preesed
offered
sition
sold
shares
shares
BCLC
Hokkmido Eleo.Supply 120,010
E & LR
Dec. 15
120,010
472
,360,3h0.00
CIIC
Tokai Ind.
18,000
E
Bee. 26
18,000
32
68k,000.00
HCLC
Shimwa Ind.
1,000
8
Jan. 10
1,000
10
100,000.00
Daiwe Agricultural
1,950
Jan. 7
1,950
6
136,500.00
Machinery Ind.
Waigai Cloth Mfg.
785
785
4
31,400.00
State West-Japan Railway
72,413
T
Jan. 19
72,413
16
1,297,595.00
(Right)
HCIC
Marunouchi Garage
2,000
E
Jan. 16
2,000
12
27,000.00
Nansu Carriage
2,278
Jan. 15
2,278
22
36,448.00
CILC
Nichiman Shipping
1,520
n
Jan. 10
1,1520
1
76,000.00
2
(New)
6,480
6,480
3
129,600.00
State
Wakodo (Right)
930
T
Jan. 26
930
1
14,880.00
Nagoya Railway
46,763
re
46,765
7
3,180,337.50
(Right)
Oriental Elec.
634
Jan. 31
634
1
41,130.00
Machinery (Right)
HCLC
Koito Factory
5,420
Jan. 26
5,420
Under in- 657,737.00
vestigation
CILC
4,700
4,700
570,363.00
HCLC
Nitto Chemical Ind.
1,550
1,550
99,207.00
CILC
640
640
40,963.00
HCLC
(New)
775
775
23,310.06
CILC
(old)
7,597
e
7,597
228,499.54
HCLC
Sankyo
41,224
41,224
6,527,923.46
CIIC
692
t0
692
109,580.54
Sawafuji Elec.
2,250
2,250
112,500.00
Machine.
CONFIDRNTIAL
-1-

=== Page 557 === (confidence 0.94)
Page 12
Enalesure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despateh No. 213
April 2, 1948
HOLO
Tsukishima Machinery
100
Jan. 26
100
10,000.00
(Paid-up 50)
(30)
400
400
26,000.00
CIIC
()
940
e
940
61,100.00
HCLC
(New)
1,000
n
1,000
43,260.00
CIIC
()
1,600
n
1,600
69,540.00
Japan Paints (3rd New)
921
921
62,482.80
HCIC
Oriental Rayon (New)
200
n
n
200
74,998.43
CILC
()
6,130
n
6,130
2,298,701.57
CLC
Dojima Building
200
200
20,400,00
Miigata Oil Mills
100
e
100
30,100.00
Sado Steamship
17
e
17
1,105.00
Takahashi Kyuroku & Co. 300
n
300
15,300.00
Tokyo Express Elec.
7,000
R
7,000
842,000.00
Railway
Chichibu Railway (new) 3,360
n
3,360
291,340.00
Sennichi Land & Bldg.
20
68
e
20
7,600.00
n
Toyohira Steel Mfg.
30,000
Jan. 25
30,000
222
750,000.00
68
Oniki Coal-Mining
89,450
49,450
147
1,978,000.00
CILC
Sendai Marine Hard
5,000
e
te
5,000
30
215,000.00
Ware Mfg.
Yokohama Tally Work
2,800
8
2,800
9
140,000.00
HCLC
Nichibi Trading (new)
9,900
ts
9,900
24
74,250.00
Kawakami Paints
1,600
8
的
1,600
9
133,600.00
错
Kanto Trading
2,000
T
Jan. 25
2,000
10
133,000.00
Asano Life Insurance
1,740
t2
1,740
13
43,500.00
Agoney
Kanto Yoriito Kogyo
1,000
1,000
19
20,000.00
Yugenkaisha
Hokkaido Canned Goods
2,462
2,462
27
147,720.00
Hyogo Canned Goods
2,000
馆
2,000
28
130,000.00
Edogawa Machinery
1,500
1,500
10
45,000.00
Works
COMPIDENTIAL
-2-

=== Page 558 === (confidence 0.95)
Page No. 13
Eslesure Mo. 2 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 213
April 2, 1948
MOLC
Tayeda Automatic
20,000
T
Jan. 25
20,000
413
2,800,000.00
Loom Works (Old)
(w)
20,000
20,000
217
2,200,000.00
H.& S. Tokyo Gas
18,881
T
Feb. 2
18,881 Under in-2,747,733.00
vestigation
State Osake Gas
3,771
3,771
617.132.50
H., C. Japan Electrio
57,596
健
57,596
8,438,288.00
& S.
Gen. & Trans.
Kanto Klos. Supply
181,171
0
n
181,171
27,406,940.00
State
Chubu Elec.Supply
3,443
3,443
489,469.00
Tohoku Elec.Supply
6,081
1
6,081
425,265.00
Kyushu Elec.Supply
6,436
6,436
789,500.00
HCIC
Kansai Klec.Supply
22,247
2
22,247
1,673,784.00
H.& 8. Kinki-Hippon Railway
17,867
17,867
5,303,895.00
State
Tokyo Elec. Express
3,525
3,525
667,375.00
Railway
Keisei Elec. Railway
2,350
2,350
359,000.00
West-Japan Railwmy
4,134
0
4,134
590,530.00
CILC
Nichiman Mining (new)
9,950
9,950
59,700.00
Ishii Iron Works
50
ta
50
3,500.00
Ishii Iron Works (0ld) 2,662
2,622
53,190.00
H, C.
Locomotive Mfg.
99,966
0
物
99,966
21,07h,200.00
& S.
HCLC
(New)
90,014
健
90,014
10,236,622.80
B.& C.
Oriental Steel Plate
19,620
19,620
2,067,000.00
(New)
CILC
Kurimoto Iron Works
20,155
20,155
2,585,875.00
(2be)
(New)
21,275
21,275
990,750.00
Imperial Precise Ind.
50
50
2,500.00
C. &
Imperial Rayon
85,993
85,993
57,909,420.00
Bank of
Japan
2
(Now)
110,854
110,854
77,265,920.00
COMFIDENTIAL
-3m

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.95)
Page No. 1山
Enslasure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatah No. 213
April 2, 1948
State
Kyokuyo Whale-Fishery
7,507
T
Feb. 2
7,507
7
707,055.50
HCLC
Kikkatsu
400
0
400
182,400.00
State
Toho
1,776
è
1,776
327,08.00
HOLC
Shechiku (Now)
250
n
250
71,300.00
Nippon Manga Movie
100
100
3,000.00
Toyoko Movie
2,850
8
2,850
339,550.00
Korakuen Stadium
1,600
n
1,600
253,400.00
H. &
Imperial Hotel
13,039
13,039
3,262,357.80
State
(old)
(New)
11,598
11,598
2,321,919.60
State
Japan Battery (Right)
5,432
IR
1
5,432
2
359,416.00
HCLC
Taiyo Printing Ind.
20,000
5
Feb. 28
20,000
76
1,000,000.00
Asano Construction
3,456
Feb. 3
3,456
29
138,240.00
Material Ind.
0
Kumazawa Oil Wills
2,000
8
2,000
47
110,000.00
CILC
Kitami General Lumber 50,000
e
50,000
320
1,650,000:00
H.& 8. Tokyo Marine Products 29,341
Feb. 6
29,341
38
924,241.50
Tmuda Elec. Wires
9,400
Dec. 28
9,400
43
846,000.00
CIIC
Takasaki Artificial
20,000
Feb. 10
20,000
12
1,000,000.00
Leather
错
Hokkai Paper Mfg.
10
IR
Feb. 16
10 Under In-
1,000.00
vestigation
Yamato Brewery
400
400
58,050.00
12
Kyoto Fibre Goods
457
的
457
15,995.00
Trading
Fuji Elec. Chemical
500
路
500
12,500.00
Tomakomai Bean-Mash
300
300
24,000.00
& Soy Brewery
路
Saitama Pref. Cotton
950
物
950
19,000.00
& Staple Fibre Disbri-
bution
Tokyo Orimono Kaikan
20
的
路
20
3,200.00
Kaikon Sangyo Shoji
900
900
46,800.00
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-

=== Page 560 === (confidence 0.96)
Page No. 15
Enslesure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 213
April 2, 1948
CILC
Yamaguehi Pref. Truck
392
LR
Fob. 16
392
21,560.00
Hashioji Motor Car
550
0
n
550
27,500.00
Repairing
Ready-made Cloths Cen-
270
270
31,050.00
tral the 5th Agent
5,200.00
Ishibashi Industrial
100
100
Ashibetsu-Takane Coal-
300
0
300
15,000.00
mining
Shokosan Mining
5,000
5,000
80,000.00
HCLC
Imperial Hotel (0ld) 19,000
T
19,000 Under in- 4,753,800.00
vestigation
CILC
Kyushu Smokless
1,000
LR
Feb. 9
1,000
25,000.00
Coal Mine
HOLC
Sasakd Trading
1,100
1,100
38,500.00
Kojaku Railway (Right) 8,278
Feb. 14
8,278
3
232,787.80
Koito Factory (Right) 1,090
Feb. 16
1,090
3
33,100.00
Total
1,518,770 shares
1,518,770 shares ¥271,866,592.40
Remarks:
1.
indicates "disposition to employees"
IR
的
"disposition to Local residents"
T
"disposition by tender"
2.
Particulars of the stocks sold:
To employess
377,672 shares
To Local residents
87,049 shares
By tender
1,054,049 shares.
-5-
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 561 === (confidence 0.99)
Page No. 16
Enslomure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 213
April 2, 1948
List of Stocks disposed of by C.I.L.C.
(Prior to the establishment of SCLC)
Mthod of
Number of
Total
Total
disposition
shares
face valus
Preceeds
Disposition to
1,147,382 shares ¥ 57,730,850
57,599,380.00
securities
dealers and
employees.
Disposition by 3,601,942
177,043,610
177,665,902.98
tender.
Total
4,749,324 shares
234,774,460
235,265,322.98
The mumber and total proceeds of
shares disposed of by C.I.L.C.
Ey Tender
Aichi Watch
12,510
Akita Lamber (New)
32,710
Akita Lumber
11,550
Almite Ind.
1,828
Amagasaki Steel Mfg.
8,570
Amagatsuji Steel Ball
16,050
Asuma Steel Mfg.
2,140
Building Construction Promoting 16,512
Chichibu Railway
1
Chichibu Cement
1,550
Chichibu Cement (New)
10
Chubu Eleotris Supply
47,877
Chugoku Electric Supply
18,856
Dai-Nippon Machinery
114,881
Dai-Nippon Beer
889
Dai-Nippon Beer (New)
860
Dai-Nippon Beer (2nd New)
2,534
Dai-Nippon Printing
2,292
Dai-Nippon Printing (increased
Cap)
2,292
Dai-Nippon Cotton Spinning
260
Dai-Mippon Cotton Spinning
(lst new)
417
Dai-Nippon Cotton Spinning
(2nd new)
350
Dai-Nippon Paints
3,700
Dai-Nippon Celluloid
523
Dai-Nippon Motion Picture
1,598
(Daiei)
CONFIDENTIAL
-1-

=== Page 562 === (confidence 0.99)
Page Mo. 17
Enslosure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatah No. 213
April 2, 1948
Deinaru Dept. Store
8,060
Baito Ind
604
Daiwa Cotton Spinning
1,782
*(3rd new)
4,897
Dangansha
199
Rastern Railway (Tobu R)
1
Ebara Mfg. Works
81,110
Electric Chemistry
850
Engine Mfg.
9,960
Enoshima Electric Railway
760
Fuji Sanroku Elec. Railway
203
Fuji Klectric Machinery
40,189
Fuji Photo. Film
10,767
Furukasa Elec. Ind.
13,000
Gunse Silk
208
Hakodate Dookyard
104,590
Hanshin Elec. Railway
5,000
*(inereased cap.)
2,500
Hinode Steamship
2,250
Hiroshima Gas
24,360
Hokkai Gas
1,221
Hokkaido Agrioultural Ind.
4,451
Hokkaido Coal Mine
1,000
Hokkaido Elec. Supply
2,768
Hokuriku Elec. Supply
1,966
Howa Heavy Ind.
16,000
Howa Ind.
22,000
Ibikawa Eleo. Ind.
2,954
Ishii Iron Works
14,790
(new)
19,570
Isetan Dapt. Store
150
Iwaki Cament (new)
50
Imate Coal Mine
1,000
Imperial Chemical Ind.
12,620
Imperial Ind.
4,180
Imperial Hotel
250
(New)
71
Imperial New Fume Steel Pipe
4,270
Imperial Sewing Machine
240
Imperial Vehicles
2,880
Japan Battery
16,192
Japan Chemical Medicine
43,038
(new)
9,172
Japan Development Machine
3,000
Japan Estate
3,560
Japan Etanite Pipe (new)
10,290
Japan Electric Generation
120,763
& Transmission
Japan Elec. Metallurgy
4,209
Japan Furnace
150
Japan Flour Mill
50
Japan Hydrogen Ind.
16,940
Japan Internal Combustion Eng.
10,860
Japan Metal Ind.
20,000
Japan Metallurgy Ind.
3,810
Japan Mining
25,548
Japan Musical Instrument
14,750
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-

=== Page 563 === (confidence 0.98)
Page No. 18
Inalosure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 213
Apr1l 2, 1948
Japan Nickel
126,650
Japan Optical Ind.
4,717
Japan Paint
500
Japan Paper
1,021
Japan Paper Mfg.
200
Japan Petroleum
128,757
Japan Piston Ring
12,020
Japan Precision Ind.
155,703
"(Increased cap.-new)
33,000
Japan Pulp Ind.
450
Japan Sand Iron
13,270
Japan Securities Exchange
30,366
Japan Special Ceramics
20,590
Japan Steel Mfg.
16,020
Japan Sulphur
582
Japan Transportation
6,000
Japan Typewriter
15,857
Japan Woolen Textile
810
(New)
10,596
Japan Coal Mine
2,000
Kaikon Salt Ind.
1,720
Kaneal Elec. Supply
57,266
Kaneal Paint
18,710
Kanto Elec. Supply
181,601
Katakura Ind.
770
Kato Mfg. Works
5,230
Keihansin Express Railway
228
R
(Xmcreased cap.)
114
Keisei Elec. Railway
10,746
(with new)
510
Kirin Beer
260
Koito Factory
46,060
Kojima Iron Ind.
710
Kokko Chain Mfg.
19,430
Kokoku Rayon & Pulp
11,300
Komatsu Mfg. Works
64,130
(new)
11,000
Konishiroku Photographic Film
16,820
Korakuen
3,780
(increased cap.)
330
Kotobuki Ind.
23,000
Kotobuki Heavy Ind.
19,200
Kurashiki Silk
700
Kurimoto Lron Works
30,000
Kyokuyo Whale Fishery
930
Kyushu Elec. Supply
23,734
Locomotive Mfg.
401
Matsushita Eleo. Machine
5,710
Matsuya Dept. Store
2,710
Meidensha
21,681
Meiji Ind.
2,952
Meiji Leather Mfg.
203
Netal Ind.
33,550
Metallurgy Ind.
8,730
Mishima Paper Mfg.
100
Mitsubishi Warehouse (New)
1,080
Mitsukoshi Dept. Store
13,823
蹄
(new)
7,582
Mitsui Mine
3,000
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-

=== Page 564 === (confidence 0.98)
Page No. 19
Enalssure No. 2 to Tekyo's Despatch No. 213
April 2, 1948
Miyata Mfg. Works
16,705
Morinaga Feodstuff
700
(new)
610
(5th new)
50
Nagoya Railway
6
(now)
4
Nare Elec. Railway
2,530
Nichiman Ind.
13,486
Nichiro Fishery
129,570
(new)
3,170
Niigata Iron Works
102,866
(now)
10,301
Nisshin Flour Mill
470
Nisshin Cotton Spinning
2,530
Nitto Ammonium Sulphate
502
Nitto Chemicals
35,963
Nitto Cotton Spinning
940
(now)
4,060
Nitto Flour Mill
750
(new)
6,250
Okamoto Ind.
28,650
Okuma Ind.
38,400
Omi Silk
350
Oriental Brewing
300
Oriental Cotton Spinning
9,550
Oriental Klec. Machinery Mfg.
2,046
Oriental Foodstuff
6,925
Oriental Ind.
8,000
Oriental Steel
9,250
Oriental Textile
8,620
(New)
13,498
Osaka Chain Mfg.
25,510
Osaka Gas
69,617
Osaka Machinery Ind.
39,080
Osaka Machinery Mfg. Works
23,790
Osaka Nytrogenous Cement
13,560
Pacific Ocean Colliery
5,331
Riken Optical Ind.
13,440
Sagami Railway
19,376
Sakai Textile
3,360
Sakurada Machine Mfg. Works
26,880
Sanyo Electric Tramway
1,000
(increased cap.)
1,000
Sanyo Steel Mfg.
15,600
Seibu Railway
309
Sawafuji Electric Machinery
13,982
Shikishima Spinning
1,550
(new)
3,370
Shikoku Elec. Supply
997
Shimasu Mfg. Werks
43,340
Shinagawa White Brick
23,016
Shineteu Chemistry
636
(w)
1,000
Shirokiya Depastment Store
9,160
Sheehiku
3,683
Showa Agricultural Chomical Ind.24,400
Shewe Ind.
154
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 565 === (confidence 0.97)
Page Eo. 20
Enslesure No. 2 to Tekyo's Despatch No. 213
April 2, 1948
Shows Petroleum
11,773
Special Steel Mfg.
19,000
Sugimara Marebouse
10,460
Sumitomo Electricity
4,000
Sundtomo Heavy Ind.
1,528
Sunsu Railway
187
Susukishiki Loom
12,590
Takachiho Optical Ind.
1,100
Takasaki Paper Board
3,761
Takashimaya Department Store
2,570
館
(now)
1,130
Toa Harbour
1,123
Toa Spinning
3,810
Tobu Railway (new)
1
Tokai Electrodes
39,216
Tokai Shipping
6,417
(new)
1,679
Toho
21,340
"(increased cap.)
21,340
Toho Gas
21,000
Toheku Eleetric Supply
163
Tohoku Fertilizer
5,900
Tokuyama Iron Plate
2,550
Tokuyasa Soda
2,800
Tokyo Building
1,263
Tokyo Canal & Land
150
Tokyo Express Elec, Railway
11,137
Tokyo Gas
148,661
(new)
19,400
Tokyo Machinery
100
Tokyo Rope Mfg.
57,115
Toppan Printing
16,189
Toto Steel Mfg.
31,788
Toyoda Automobile
12,480
Vehicles Ind.
7,650
West-Japan Railway
560
Yoshisawa Lead Ind.
1,425
Yodogawa Steel Mfg.
1,000
Shares
Total
3,601,942
Total proceed
177,665.902.98
Disposition to Securities dealers and empleyses
Nitto Cotton
2,800
S.D.
Sakai Textile
3,440
Japan Elec. Oen. & Trans.
110,000
e
Kanto Elec. Supply
165,000
Chubu Elec. Supply
75,550
锦
Chugoku Elec. Supply
3,850
Hokurikm Elee. Supply
15,080
降
Kyushu Elec. Supply
15,750
路
COMPIOENTIAL
-5-

=== Page 566 === (confidence 0.95)
Page No. 21
Enelosure No. 2 to Tokye's Despatch No. 213
April 2, 1948
Shikoku Kleetrie Supply
550
S.D.
Tohoku Klestrie Supply
6,150
Hokkside Elee. Supply
13,790
8
Japan Marine Produets (new)
30,000
Kirin Beer
550
Japan Vehicles
16,950
Lecomotive Mfg.
24,300
8
(new)
5,300
10
Katakura Silk
4,970
Cunse Silk
4,300
Nisshin Flour Will
350
2,350
Tokyo Gas
45,000
Osaka Gas
2,250
Tobu Railway
6,550
Keisei Elec. Railway
18,550
West Japan
10,300
Sanyo Kles. Railway
2,330
Japan Express
6,800
健
(Japan Transportation Co.)
Fuji Photo Film
22,600
馆
Kyokuyo Whale Fishering
7,010
Konishiroku Photo
3,000
Imperial Special Steel
5,650
n
Showa Petroloum
84,110
a
Shin-Etsu Chemical Ind.
8,250
8
(new)
9,800
Japan Explitation Machinery
7,200
Shankyo
13,550
Meiji Leather
50
Japan Leather
1,850
Iwaki Cement
4,660
Tokyo Express Railway
33,250
(lst new)
7,500
馆
(2nd new)
7,700
(3rd new)
28,350
10
(4th new)
150
Japan Flour Mills
550
(new)
1,700
Japan Woolen Textile
11,200
18
*(new)
650
89
Onoda Cement
1,300
(new)
800
Dai Nippon Beer
8,950
"(new)
22,840
19
Chiohibu Cement (new)
2,150
Nagoya Railway
5,200
Nara Elec. Railway
2,530
(increased new)
Hanshin Elec.Railway
3,290
(new)
5,000
的
Kinki Nippon Railway
440
路
(lst new)
280
(2nd new)
1,550
(4th now)
1,070
(5th new)
150
四
(6th new)
1,160
COMFIDENTIAL

=== Page 567 === (confidence 0.95)
Pase No. 
Enslesure Ho. 2 to Tokyo's Despatah No. 213
April 2, 1948
Keihanshin Elec. Railway
6,305
S.D.
(now)
2,020
Shochika
2,800
Otsuka Mfg. Works
30,000
馆
Tanto Coal-aining
1,980
Manyo Transport.
2,000
n
Toa Chemical Ind.
3,293
踪
Oriental Steel
80,000
Fudo Marine Product
60,000
Maiji Asbestos Ind.
19,500
Shisuoka Matural Gas
14,000
馆
Mitsubishi Hq.
1,580
Imperial Bank (Teikoku Cinko)
2,780
(lst new)
1,200
0
(2nd new)
1,390
Kyokuyo Whale-fishery
2,800
(new)
200
Hitachi Mfg. Works
1,000
1
Mitsubishi Mining (new)
2,600
8
Kyushu Elec. Supply
240
Japan Elec. Gen. & Trans.
1,000
Chubu Klee. Supply
24
馆
Hitsubiehi Heavy Ind.
1,185
(new)
1,185
Total
1,147,382 shares
Total Proceed
57,599,380.
List of Stocks disposed of by H.C.L.C.
Mothod of
Number of
Total face
Total
disposition
shares
value
proceeds
A. Prior to the establishment of SCLC
Disposition to
13,200 shares  660,000
660,000
employees.
B. After the establishment of SCIC
Disposition by
166,388 shares
2,525,300
tender.
Total
179,588 Shares
660,000
3.185,300
CONFIDENTIAL
-7-

=== Page 568 === (confidence 0.98)
Page No. 23
Enslesare No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 213
April 2, 1948
The mumber and total proceed of
shares disposed of by H.C.L.C.
Disposition to Rmployse:
Kanto Foodstuff
13,200
Disposition by tender
Kyoto Textile (Right)
1,000
Japan Battery (Right)
165,388
Total mumber
179,588 Shares
Total Proceed
3,185,300
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 569 === (confidence 0.93)
Lisl of amount of Seaurities beld by Constituent Asencies
(00PY)
Emolosure No. 3 to Despatah No. 213
dated April 2, 1948 from the office
(Based on the report frem respective agencies)
of the Polisieal Adviser for Japen,
A of March 20, 1948-S.C.L.C.
Tokyo, an the subject, "Sales of
Soourities Through Liquidation
Agsmeies".
State
Stats
H.C.L.C.
C.I.L.C.
Bank of Japan
Grand Total
of shares
(yen)
Amoun't
Ramber
of shares
&mount
(yen)
of shares
Number
Amount
(yom)
of shares
Nomber
Amoun't
(yem)
of sheres
52,017.217.50 249.965.949 20.973.154.080
Stooks
paid-1n 26,220,699 1,306,612.415 1434337.890 6,258.277.117 79.296,566 3.256,247.330.50 1,110,794
389,149,100.00
370,111,800.00
Debanture
value
535,226
53,522,600
Jaticnal
Face
512,062.845.61
7,615,262,660.00
Bood
value
Loeal
232,302,900.00
1,397,500.00
9,479,094,29
Bond
270,247
27.024.755
Bank Boben-
52,410,002
Fartwerchip
4,901.520.00
Share
773,265.00
all Bond
134,915,145
Segurities
85,260,200.00
sreign
Sacuritics
Potel
1.582.074.915
66350.687.119
14695.6360962.11
8.226,042.377.50

=== Page 570 === (confidence 0.95)
Jとと
LEGATION OF SWITZERLAND
(x1-9
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
MEMORANDUM
47E
894.51
The Legation of Switzerland begs to
refer to its Memoranda of March 14, 24, August 22 and
October 1, 1947, transmitting to the Department of
894.51/4-948
State declarations drawn up by various Swiss banks
held by Swiss citizens.
A.PR161948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Legation is now submitting an
additional declaration dated February 13, 1948 from
the Banque Cantonale de Zurich and would appreciate
it if also this document could be forwarded through
the designated channels.
JUN 12 1951
FILED
CS/V
Washington, D. C.
9, 1948.
11.1
Encl.
H
th

=== Page 571 === (confidence 0.99)
Original
BANQUE CANTONALE DE ZURICH
Zurich, the 13th February, 1048.
GARANTIE DE L'ÉTAT
Swiss Bankers Association
Service des Dépôts
B a s l e
TÉLÉGRAMMES: KANTONALBANK
TÉLÉPHONE 231730
D. No 13634 w1/DF
à rappeler dans toute la correspondance
Dear Sir,
We take the liberty of referring to your circular letter
No. 1396 of the 8th January 1947 regarding Dollar bonds issued
by Japanese enterprises and herewith ask you kindly to inform the
Swiss Embassy in Washington that we are holding
.25.000.- 6 % 0riental Development Co. Ltd. Tokio 1923/53
which are deposited in our name with the Chase National Bank of
the City of New fork, New fork, and which are the property of a
person of Swiss nationality domiciled in Switzerland.
Up to a short time ago these securities were deposited
in New fork under the name of an Egyptian Bank . This is the reason
why they were not reported to you before the 3lst January 1947,
which was the time limit fixed by you in your above mentioned cir-
cular.
We hope that in spite of this delay the Swiss Embassy in
Washington will be able to include the above securities in its
reports to the Commander in chief of the llied Powers in Tokyo.
Yours faithfully,
BANUE CANTONALE DE ZURICH
Prière d'adresser toute correspondance à la Banque Cantonale de Zurich, Service des Dépôts.

=== Page 572 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
MAA31948
DEP OF STATE
Honorable George C. Marshall
271948
Secretary of State
OIVISION OF FANACIAL AFFARS
Dear Mr. Marshall:
In accordance with the action taken by the National
Advisory Council in connection with the proposed Japanese
cotton credit, negotiations were carried on yesterday with
894.51/4-2148
(OR)
representatives of the commercial banks. I have discussed
the matter previously with Governor Szymczak of the Federal
Reserve Board and Mr. Southard of the Treasury Department
us
inbrder to get their best advice.
The banks proposal, in effect, was for a 32% interest
rate and payment by SCAP of $50,000 in attorney's fees and
other expenses. It was evident that the banks would not
reduce the 3 interest rate under the conditions proposed
but the final outcome was a 3% rate with the banks' agree-
ment to reduce the rate to 22% until maturity if it should
later devetop that the so-called "gold pot" were transferred
into the United States.
It was also agreed that SCAP would not pay the $50,000
legal fees and expenses, but that if the credit was not
used once to the extent of half of the total, namely,
$30,000,000, then SCAP would pay half of the actual fees and
expenses, but with a ceiling of $25,000.
DEPARTMENI
It is believed that this was the best arrangement under
the circumstances that could be effected to make the credit
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
available to SCAP promptly, in accordance with the program
which both SCAP and the Department of the Army consider
important.
NTERNATIONAL RESOUNCES OIVISION
Wreeian H. Ahraper
Sincerely yours,
MAY 3 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
William H. Draper Jr.
Under Secretary of the Army
MAY 1:
FILED
1948

=== Page 573 === (confidence 0.77)
STANDARD  NO. 64
DATE:
to : W UR 
B
FROM :  M
men.
SUBJECT:
h .. h 
h. t lom
Fce

=== Page 574 === (confidence 0.94)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Retant NA
DUR
NA - Mr. AlI 
TO
DATE: April 22, 1948
File
FROM : NA - Mr. GreenG
SUBJECT:
Attached Despatch
Ma. Bare
This highly significant despatch on the sale of securities
through Liquidation Agencies reaches fwo important conclusions:
1) that as of March, 1948, only about 4% of the shares of liquidated
holding companies and properties heve been resold, and that none
of their bonds and debentures have been resold; 2) that in the
absence of effective measures to regulate the ultimate disposition
of theseshares, "the securities liquidation progrem may result,
in part at leest, in a transfer of economic ownership from the
hands of one group (mainly the Zaibatsu) to another, primarily
comprising those persons who acguired yen wealth (in many instances
illegally - the new yen' clase) during the post-war era."
According to Mr.. Bane, about 12 million shares of liquidated
companies, associations and properties had been sold as of March 20,
1948. About 250 million shares remained in the hands of the
Japanese Government (Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Japan and
the various liquidating agencies). At the same time, no sales of
00
bonds and debentures of these liquidated institutions had been
6
R
consummated; and there had, of course, been no sales of shares
of those companies designated under the Economic Decentralization
C
Law. Such is Mr. Bane's description of the delayed progress of
5
the deconcentration program. I do not think that SCAp Head-
1/4
quarters wouid take exception to any of the above assertions,
which are, after all, posited on the Heaaquarters tabulations
enclosed With Mr. Bane's despatch. However, Mr. Welch, Chief
1
of SCAP'e Anti-Trust and Cartels Division, pointed out to me that
2248
these securities are being disposed of at sn increasingly rapid
rate (this seems to be borne out by a cursory exemination of the
tabulations) wh ch will be further incressed as the price level
becomes more stebilized, as compeny reorgenizations approach com-
pletion, and upon the estaulishment of a stock exchange. But
even taking these end other arguments enumerated by Mr. Welch
into consideration, it seems improbable that all securities will
be disposed of within 20 months, es is claimed by SCAP.
Mr. Bare demonstrates that te most common method of dis-
posal of the securities is throun public tender and that although
this type of sale is open to the general public, experience has
shown that dealers end broxers are usually the curchasers. Even
the Anti-Trust and Cartels Division is said to edmit that no
effective control can be meintained over the ultimate disposition
5
of stock shares sold through these channels. According to
Mr. Bane,
S
9
2
工
24
8

=== Page 575 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Mr. Bane, there is every reason to suppose that most of the shares
are falling into the hends of the "new yen" class (black marketeers,
bosses, lebor contractors - which are the only groups having much
loose cash these days) andt in time Japen's corporate wealth
will merely have been trensferred from one class (the Zaibatsu)
to another (the "new yen"). While there is undoubted truth in
the first pert of Mr. Bare's argument, he should perhaps acknowledge
the fact that the Anti-Trust Lew's prohibition of inter-stock
ownerships in competing con snies and other similar regulations
should prevent excessive concentrations of economic power even
on the part of this ctas. His comperison, between the old
Zaibatsu and the new yen class may therefore not be entirely
jugt.
NA:MGreen/pm

=== Page 576 === (confidence 0.91)
United States Senate
4 May
山
Washinglon, D. C..
19.
Respectfully referred to
641
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
894.51/5-448
Will you kindly supply a reply
in regard to the point raised
in attached letter relative to
aid to Japan.
CFSTATE
End.nids/5/y
JUN-?
30
Respectfully,
CatlG
1343
U. S. S.
16
15102·1

=== Page 577 === (confidence 0.99)
C O P Y
C O P Y
Sodus, Michigan
(Ber rien Co.)
April 29, 1948
Denator Vandenberg:
Would you please tell me what money and why that has been
given to Japan?
As I just recently returned from a trip to the Orient, many
ask me why our Government is giving money to Japan? I do not know
I recently heard via radio that we were loaning Japan money
tngetker to get their textiles stated again. I am in favor of a
lagn to Japan as from what I saw they will repay it. ? I'm
definetely oppossed to this givings not only to Japan but to the
Changshi Sheck? Govt as no one over there has any good word for
the Chinese Govt.
And I am definately opposed to this Military Training program.
I think if in our schools there could be some form of training say in
High School - where respect would and could be taught- that is all
we need. Maybe it should be in our lower grades - say 6th and 7th
grade. We surely do not want to follow inthe foot-steps of the Foreig
Nations - and its time we the American pe/ople awakened to that
fact.
Now I'm speaking not only for myself but many people are wondering why
we Go and bomb countries or fight their war or them take our American
youth to save what??
Thank you
Ars. Jedd King
Sodus, Michigan
and I think we should close our ports to so many foreigners coming
here to live.

=== Page 578 === (confidence 0.94)
FN
DEIR
AY 22194
In reply refer to
FN 894.51/5-448
894.51/5-448
y dear Senator Vandenberg:
The receipt is aclmowledged of your note, dated
May 4, 1948 end its attachment consisting of a letter
addressed to you on April 29, 1948 by Mrs. Jedd King
of Sodus, Michigan, concerning appropriations by Congress
for tho recovery of Japan and other matters. Your note-
indiaates that you would liko tho Dopartment to propare
an appropriate roply to trs. King'a major question.
em
Accordingly, the following paragraphs are submitted fop
your consideration:
as yor fonor)
. reat deal of money has been advanced by the
United States for the maintenance of tranquil condi-
tions in Japan during the occupation of that country.
These expenditures have accounted for large shipments
of soveral types of civilian goods, including food, from
the United States to Japan in order to prevent "disease
and unrest" wthich would otherwise make an orderly
advance toward democratization in Japan an impossibility.
This extra financial load on the United Statea is
necessary because the war left Japan in desperate strsits
as reg:rds the essentials of life for her orowded mil-
CS/A
lions. Humanitarian consideration for a prostrate
enemy and practical considerations of United States
interests in the Far Bast dictated these policies.
Thus, if there is to be an end to Japanese aggression
in Asia, wo must try to assure that Japan will become
a peace-loving demooratic nation; the best way to ob-
tain this result is to maintain an orderly and efficient
military occupation in Japan until the seeds of demooracy
are firmly planted. This goal involves a heavy burden
upon the American tax eyer, but the alternative of
modiately withdrawing our forces from Japan might be
upore costly in the long run.
4
ToW
S
The Honorable
Arthur H. Vandenberg,
United States Senatel

=== Page 579 === (confidence 0.93)
-8-
w, In addition to the money we are providing
in order to provent 'disease and unrest' in Japan
which would be prejudioial to the attaining of the
ob'jectives of the occupation, thought is being given
to making available to Japan some minimm essentials
for the recovery of that country. Thus, it is felt
that if Japan is provided with quantities of materials
such as American raw cotton, she can put back to work
mush of her idle labor and factories with the result
of producing greater quantities of goods for export.
Eventually these exports should produce enough income
to make it possible for Japan to pay for her essential
imports, and thus relieve the United States of this
burden. "ithout such economic recovery in Japan, the
imports or credits required from the United States
might go on indefinitely, with little prospeot of
repayment.
If these policies of assuring the future peaceful
and democratic intentions of Japan are succeasful as
we all hope, the money expended for these purposes
will have been wisely spent. Then, at the ultimate
peace settlement with Japan we can examine various
other questions including Japan's over-all debt to the
United States.
It is hopod  anndans that the foregoing para-
graphs will supply an adequate response to Mrs. Kings
CM
letter.If any further material is required, the
Depart.ont will be happy to supply it. In the meantime.
Mrs. King's letter to you is being returned.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretery of State:
Charles E. Bohlen
Counselor
Enclosure:
2
5
otter from Mrs. fing,
dated April 29.
PCB
ys
CM+
FN:GStrong:mjt
P分m
5-5()
AR.
OE
CR
N
19 .048P.M.
MAI

=== Page 580 === (confidence 0.91)
SECURITIES SCLD BY CLOSED INSTITUTIONS LIQUIDATION COMMISSIN
CHRT
(From 28 May 1941 to 1 July 1947)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Netiated
Offering to
Cffering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (+. Employees
Public at
Name of Issue
gency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
& Local Residents
Fixed Price
Fuji Photograuhic Film Co., Ltd.
C.I.L.C.
2,350
28 May 146
X
Tokyo Express Electric Railway Co.
1st New
1,300
R
Tokyo Express Electric Railway c.
and New
H
410
n
X
X
Tokyo press Electric Railway Co.
3rd New
n
6,790
Tokyo Express Electric Railway Co.
4th New
150
X
X
Kiteubishi Mining Co., Ltc.
M
2,600
30 May 146
Kyushu Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
N
240
X
Japan Electricity Generate & Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
1,000
X
Chutu Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
24
n
X
Mitsubishi Heavy Industry Co., Ltd.
N
1,185
I June 146
X
X
Mitsubishi Heavy Industry Co., Ltd.
New
n
1,185
M
Mitsubishi Honsha, Ltd.
1,580
X
X
Hidachi Mfg. Co., Ltd.
1,000
Kinki Japan Railway Co., Ltd.
440
6 June 146
X
Kinki Japan Railway Co., Ltd.
lst New
280
xX
Kinki Japan Railway Co., Ltd.
2nd New
in
1,550
M
X
Kinki Japan Railway Co., Ltd.
4th New
1.07℃
H
7

=== Page 581 === (confidence 0.96)
CURITIES SOLD BY CLOSED INSTITUTICNS LIQUIDATION COMMISSION
(From 28 May 1946 to 1 July 1947)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Bid (By
Sale to Duployee
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
Public Tender)
& Locil Residents
Fixed Price
Buyers
Amount Sold
Amount Unsold
from Sales
b0
46
X
1
2,350
138,650.
78.000.
1,300
1
410
21,525.
X
1
X
1
6,790
319,130.
X
1
150
5.175.
46
X
1
2.600
57,200.
X
1
240
10,800.
48,000.
X
1
1,000
24
1,080.
X
1
46
X
1
1,185
33,180.
X
1
1,185
13,983.
61,620.
X
1
1,580
X
1
1,000
10,800.
440
50,160.
46
X
1
X
1
?80
29.120.
X
1
1,550
153.450.
X
1
1.070
105.930.

=== Page 582 === (confidence 0.87)
150
Kinki Japan Railway Co., Ltd.
6th New
1,160
n
X
Hanshin Electric Railway Co., Ltd.
3.290
x
Hanshin Electric Railway Co., Ltd.
New
n
5.000
n
X
Imperial Renk, Ltd.
1,780
12 June 146
X
Imperial Bank, Ltd.
lst New
H
500
n
X
Imperial Bank, Ltd.
2nd New
N
1,390
n
X
Imperial Bank, Ltd.
1st New
700
13 June 146
X
Imperial Bank, Ltd.
0lā
n
1,000
17 June 146
X
Folar Ocean Whaling Co., Ltd.
n
200
20 June 146
X
Tokyo Express Electric Railway Co., Ltd.
33.250
22 June 146
X
Tokyo Exprers Electric Railway Co., Ltd. 1st New
n
6,200
n
X
Tokyo Express Electric Railway Co., Ltd. 2nd New
7,290
n
X
Tokyo Express Electric Railway Co., Ltd. 3rd New
n
21,560
X
Showa Fetroleum Co., Ltd.
n
76.350
n
X
Japan Cultivating Machine Mfg. Co., Ltd.
6,600
n
X
Loconetive Mfg. Co., Ltd.
H
24.300
Loconotive Mfg. Co., Ltd.
New
n
5,300
Japan Cars Mfg. Co., Ltc.
n
15,950
Jacan Transportation Co., Ltd.
n
6,800
i
Nisshin Four Milling Co., Ltd.
n
350
Nitshin Flour Milline Co.. Ltd.
New
*
2,350
n
Japan Flour Milling Co., Ltd.
N
550
n
X
1
0

=== Page 583 === (confidence 0.94)
150
14,220.
X
1
1,160
98,600.
X
1
3.290
324.065.
X
1
5.000
400.000.
X
1
1,780
69,420.
X
1
500
8,000.
X
1
1,390
9.730.
X
1
700
11,200.
X
1
1.000
43.000.
X
1
200
13.200.
X
1
33.250
2.709.875.
X
1
6,200
382.900.
X
1
7.290
444,690.
X
1
21,560
1,315,160.
X
1
76,350
2,380,900.
X
1
6,600
310,200.
X
1
24.300
1,336,500.
X
1
5.300
143,100.
X
1
16,950
1,220,400.
X
1
6,800
4112.000.
x
1
350
36,750.
X
1
?.350
156,275.
X
1
550
51,975.
●

=== Page 584 === (confidence 0.90)
Method
f
Competitive
Hegotiat
Pering to
Offering
No. Sharer
Date of
Bid (by
Sale (to Em
ablic at
no.
Narf of Issue
gency
Cffered
Offcring
Public Tender)
& Local Rest
xed Price
Japen Flour Milline Co., Itd.
Nev
C.I.L.C.
1,700
?? June 146
X
1
kirin kecr Co., Lta.
550
x
1
Showa Fetroleux Co., Ltd.
7.760
29 June 146
x
1
Japan Ju.tivatice Macnine Mig. Co., Itd.
10,600
x
1
Grea. Jtan etr o., Lta.
7.050
X
1
Great Jaean Beer Co., Ltd.
New
n
5.850
X
1
S Jt Co., Ltd.
n
1,300
x
1
  ., L.
New
800
X
Japan Stainless Co., Ltd.
*
5.650
X
Sanyo Electric Failvay Go., Itd.
?,330
X
Iwaki Cement Co., Ltd.
600
n
X
Chichib. Cement Co., Ltd.
New
2,150
Y
Jabar Leather Co., Ltd.
1,850
X
Tocu Rai:way Co., Lti.
6,550
5 July 46
X
Shuzuka Mfg. Jo., Itd.
30.000
8 July 46
Sankyo Ltd.
13,550
12 July 46
Great Japan beer Co., Ltd.
1,900
15 July 146
Polar Ocean aling Co., Ltd.
500
17 July 146
Polar Ocean Whaling Co., Ltd.
1.350
19 July h6

=== Page 585 === (confidence 0.95)
Competitive
Negotiated
Cfferin= to
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Price
Buyers
mount Sold
amount Ur.sold
From Selee
6
X
1
1,700
92.650.
X
1
550
60,500.
46
X
1
7.760
240,560.
X
1
10.600
98,200.
X
1
7,050
730.925.
X
1
5,850
340,150.
X
1
1,300
82,800.
X
1
800
23,800.
X
1
5.650
37,300.
1
2,330
186,400.
X
1
600
41,400.
X
1
2,150
120.400.
X
1
1,850
123,950.
46
X
1
6,550
622,250.
146
30.000
30.000
1,500,000.
46
X
1
13,550
1,016,250.
146
X
1
1,900
196,650.
116
X
1
500
39,250.
146
X
1
1,350
105.975.

=== Page 586 === (confidence 0.92)
4.300
Gunze Silk Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Konishiroku Photographic Ind. Co., Ltd.
3,000
n
Shinetsu Chemical Ind. Co.. Ltd.
H
8,250
Shinetsu Chemical Ind. Co., Ltd.
New
n
9,800
H
Polar Ccean Whaling Co.. Ltd.
950
20 July 46
24 July 1146
Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd.
n
10.000
Jatan Electricity Generate & Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
25,000
n
Hokkaido Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
11.790
Japan Marine Products Co.. Ltd.
2,000
H
Shochiku, Ltd.
n
2,800
n
Katakura Silk Mfg. Co., Ltd.
4.970
Tohoku Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
6,150
n
Kyushu Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
11
10.00
Tokyo Gas Co., Lta.
10.000
25 July 126
Japan Eicctricity Generate & Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
20.000
Kento Mectricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
H
30.000
n
Japan Electricity Generate & Dist. Co., Ltd.
15,000
29 July 146
n
10.000
n
Kanto Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
5.000
n
Chaou Eirctricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
18,550
in
Eeisei Flectric Failway Co.. Ltd.
1i
5.750
n
Kyushu Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
Shikoku Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
550
N
10.300
n
West-Japan Failway Co., Ltd.
2

=== Page 587 === (confidence 0.94)
X.
1
4,300
365,500.
X
1
3.000
228,000.
X
1
8,250
519,750.
X
1
9,800
170,400.
X
1
950
74,575.
X
1
10.000
520.000.
X
1
25.000
1,250.000.
x
1
11,790
507.013.
X
1
2.000
136.000.
X
1
2,800
308.000.
X
1
4.970
293,230.
1
6,150
282,900.
X
1
10.000
455,0m.
X
1
10.000
520,000.
X
1
20,000
960.000.
X
1
30.000
1,484,000.
1
15.000
120.000.
495.000.
y
1
10.000
245,.000。
X
1
5,000
X
1
18,550
1,502,550.
X
1
5,750
201,625.
X
1
550
26,400.
X
1
10.300
1.030.000.
?

=== Page 588 === (confidence 0.91)
Method
C
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offerin to
Offering
No. Snares
Date of
Bid (By
(to Employees
Public at
Name of Issue
Agency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
al Residents)
Fixed Price
Chugoku El etricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
C.I.L.C.
3,850
29 July 146
X
Holruriku Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
11
15,080
It
X
Grat  r C., .
11
6,500
30 July 146
X
Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd.
n
25.000
x
Kanto Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
60.000
n
X
Chubu Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
f
70,550
H
X
hanto Flectricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
H
5.000
31 July 146
X
Nitto Cotton Spinning Co., Ltd.
n
2,800
X
Osaka us Co., Ltd.
2,250
N
X
Japan Woollen Tertilt Co., Ltd.
H
1,200
H
Japan Woollen Textile Co., Ltd.
New
N
650
n
F. Photographic Filn Co., Ltd.
n
20,250
? Aug.146
Nagoya Railway Co., Ltd.
n.
5.200
n
X
Japan Electricity Generate & Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
20.000
N
X
Great Japan Beir Co., Ltd.
New
n
10.490
5ug.146
Japan Electricity Generate & Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
30.000
Iwaki Cement Co.. Ltd.
11
4.060
M
Hokkaido Eectricity Dist. Co.. Ltd.
n
2.000
X
Japan Narine Products Co.. Ltd.
New
28,000
t

=== Page 589 === (confidence 0.94)
Method
of
Cffering
ompetitive
Negotiated
Offering to
t,
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
f.
Puslic Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Price
Buyers
Amount Sold
mount Unsold
from Sales
Ju
X
1
3,850
169,400.
11
754,000.
X
1
15,080
uly 116
X
1
6,500
403.000.
X
2
25,000
1,30.000.
n
X
2
60,000
2,985,000.
ff
X
2
70.550
3,522,775.
uly 46
X
1
5.000
245,000.
X
1
2,800
252,000.
M
X
1
?,250
132.750.
X
1
1,200
123,600.
n
X
1
650
50,050.
g.46
X
1
20,250
1,478,250.
X
1
5,200
613,600.
X
1
20.000
1,000.000.
X
1
10.490
666,115.
X
1
30.000
1,500,000.
X
1
4.060
?72,020.
x
1
2.000
89.400.

=== Page 590 === (confidence 0.91)
Meiji Tannery Co., Ltd.
50
n
X
Kanto lectricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
60,000
6 Aug.146
x
Keihan snin Express Eiectric Railway Co., Ltd.
I
6.305
n
X
Keihanshin Evoress Electric Railway Co., Ltd. New
2.020
X
Polar Ocean Whaling Co., Ltd.
7,01
12 Aug.146
X
Nara Eectric Railway Co., Ltd.
New
H
2,530
19 Aug.146
X
Sakai Textile Ind. Co., Ltd.
New
11
3.440
23 Aug.146
X
Danto Mining co., Ltd.
1,980
29 Jan.146
1,980
South Ceean Transportation Co., Ltd.
H
2,000
25 Fet.146
2.000
East asia Chenical Ina. Co., Ltd.
3,293
8 aue.146
3.293
Criental Steel Mir. Co., Ltd.
n
80.000
2 Sep.'46
80,000
Fuji Marine Products Co., Ltd.
M
60.000
5 Sep.146
60,000
Toho Co., Ltd.
Allotted New
21,340
16 Sen.146
21,340
Hanshin Eectric Railway Co., Ltd.
n
2.500
M
2.500
Sanyo Electric Railway Co., Ltd.
lí
1.000
1,000
keinanshin Epress Eectric Railway Co., Ltd.
H
114
n
114
Meiji asbestos Co., Ltd.
II
19.500
2? Sep.146
500
kita Lumber Co., Ltd.
10,850
P1 Oct.146
10.850
akita Lumber Co., Ltd.
lNew
4
12.100
12,100
Hokkaido aricultural Dev.Co., Ltd.
n
4.350
.n
4.350
Matsuya So., Ltd. (Department Store)
n
2.450
2,450
Meiji Industrial Co., Ltd.
2,950
n
2.950
Morinaga Food Stuff Co., Lta.
700
700

=== Page 591 === (confidence 0.95)
Competitive
Negotiated
Cfferin= to
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Price
Buyers
mount Sold
amount Ur.sold
From Selee
6
X
1
1,700
92.650.
X
1
550
60,500.
46
X
1
7.760
240,560.
X
1
10.600
98,200.
X
1
7,050
730.925.
X
1
5,850
340,150.
X
1
1,300
82,800.
X
1
800
23,800.
X
1
5.650
37,300.
x
1
2,330
186,400.
X
1
600
41,400.
X
1
2,150
120.400.
X
1
1,850
123,950.
46
X
1
6,550
622,250.
146
30.000
30.000
1,500,000.
46
X
1
13,550
1,016,250.
146
X
1
1,900
196,650.
116
X
1
500
39,250.
146
X
1
1,350
105.975.

=== Page 592 === (confidence 0.93)
Method
of
Offering
Commetitive
otiated
Offering to
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Sal.
.0 Employees
Public at
Name of Issue
gency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
& Lo l Residente)
Fixed Price
B
Morihaga Food Stuff Co., Ltd.
New
C.I.L.C.
600
21 Oct.146
600
26.470
M
26.470
Nichiro Fishery Co., Ltd.
Micniro Fishery Co., Ltd.
New
II
1,520
M
1,520
f
7.390
n
7.390
Shirokiya Co., Ltd. (Department Store)
Takasaki Coriboard Co., Ltd.
liew
3.630
M
3.630
22,000
n
?2,000
Toxyo Rope Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Nagoya Electric Railway Co., Ltd.
4
n
4
Keisei Electric Railway Co., Ltd.
n
2,500
28 Oct.146
?.500
8,300
H
8,300
Kokuku Rayon und Pulp Co., Ltd.
Korakuen Stadium Linited
3.450
3.450
940
940
Nitto Cotton Spinning Co., Ltd.
N
3.910
3.910
Nitto Cotton Spirning Co., Ltd.
New
ft
n
3,680
n
3.680
Shochiku Co., Ltd.
n
2,790
n
?,790
Osaka Geramics and Cement Co., Ltd.
Tokai
Steamship Co.. Ltd.
4,100
n
4,100
Tokai
Steamship Co., Ltc.
iew
250
250
1,550
4 Nov.146
1,550
Chichibu Cement Co., Ltd.
Chichibu Cement Co., Ltd.
New
10
n
10
Daiei Chinema Co., Ltd.
n
1,140
1.140
200
n
200

=== Page 593 === (confidence 0.98)
of
Offering
Commetitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Total Froceeds
Public Tender)
Bid (By
& Local Residents)
Sale (to Employers
Fixed Price
Public at
No. of
Buyers
Amount Sold
Amount Unsold
from Sales
500
27.780.
1
600
26,470
26.470
38,216.
1,520
1
1,520
658,344.
7,280
110
3
7.390
167.706.
3.630
1
3.630
2?,000
?2.000
100.
4
4
1
220,250.
2,500
2
2,500
6
390,100.
8,30
1
8,300
289,800.
3.450
2
3.450
91,650.
940
940
1
261,970.
3.910
1
3,910
480,260.
3,680
2
3.680
2,790
2,790
4,000
5.550.
1
100
4,100
8,875.
1
250
250
144,760.
1
1,550
46
1,550
10
10
71,934.
1,140
1
1,140
15.900.
1
200
200

=== Page 594 === (confidence 0.90)
Keisei Electric Railwey Co., Ltd.
n
3,246
n
8,246
Kirin beer Co., Ltd.
n
160
1I
160
N
10,350
n
16,350
Sagami Railway Co., Ltd.
2.090
2.090
Taxashimaya Department Store
Takashimaya Department Store
New
n
720
n
720
3,500
n
3.500
Teixoku New Hune Stetl Fipe Co., Ltd.
H
10.000
10,000
Toho Co., Ltd.
n
6.300
11
6,300
Tohoku Fertilizer Co., Ltd.
ff
300
300
Toyo Brewery Go., Ltd.
n
18.400
18,400
Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd.
1
7 Nov.146
1
Tobu Railway Co., Ltd.
i
8,060
12 Nov.146
8,060
Dainaru Department Store
11
889
889
Great Japan Beer Co., Ltd.
610
610
Great Japan Beer Co., Ltd.
New
n
Great Japan Beer Co., Ltd.
2nd New
n
2.53L
2,534
M
5.000
n
5.000
Hanshin Electr by.
n
330
930
Polar Ocean Whaling Co., Ltd.
M
13,823
n
13,823
Mit sukoshi Denartment Store
New
n
7.582
7.582
Mitsukoshi Department Store
16,940
n
16,940
apan Hydrogen Ind. Co., Ltd.
700
18 Nov.146
700
kita Lumber Co., Ltd.
New
8,350
n
8,350
kita Luncer Co., Ltd.

=== Page 595 === (confidence 0.94)
8.246
133.271.
19,840.
160
1
16.350
?.090
620
100
37.200.
1
75.500.
1
3.50
692,900.
6
10.000
400
189,390.
5.900
300
396.470.
18,400
1
15.
1
1
649.130.
8.060
1
92,278.20
889
1
39.5?8.
610
1
152.574.
2.534
1
5.00m
51,150.
1
930
2.018,158.
13.873
1
102,535.
7.582
2
16,940
49.14.
700
1
333.902.50
8,350
才

=== Page 596 === (confidence 0.97)
Method
Competitive
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Name of Issue
gency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
330
18 Nov.146
330
korakuen. Stadium Co., Ltd.
C.I.L.C.
22.100
22,100
Nichiro Fishery Co., Ltd.
1,650
n
1,650
Nichiro Fishery Co.. Ltd.
New
2,530
n
2,530
Nara Eectric Railway Co., Ltd.
482
N
48?
Shinetsu Chemical Ind. Co., Ltd.
1,154
1,154
New
Shinetsu Chemical Ind. Co., Ltd.
458
21 Nov.146
458
Daiei Cinema Co., Ltd.
4.451
4,451
Hokkaido gricultura! Development Co., Ltd.
228
228
Keihanshin Express Electric Railway Co., Ltd.
260
260
Matsuya Department Store
200
200
Japan Paper Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Nisshin Flour Milling Co., Ltd.
470
470
460
460
Nishi Nippon Railway Co., Ltd.
Nishi Nippos Railway Co.. Ltd.
New
n
100
100
1,770
1,770
Shirokiya Department Store
2.570
2,570
Takashimaya Department Store
410
410
Takashimaya Department Store
New
Bew
330
330
Korakuen Stadium llotted

=== Page 597 === (confidence 0.98)
f
Offering
Cffering to
Negotiated
S.le (to Employees
Public at
No. of.
Total Proceeds
& Local Residents)
Fixed Price
Buyers
mount Sold
mount Unsold
from Sales
19,866.
1
330
22,100
1,650
2,530
482
29.161.
1
1
1,000
154
20,000.
458
29.541.
1
4.451
268.395.30
3
228
260
16,562.
1
12,200.
1
200
470
31,850.
2
460
100
1
1,770
147,795.
2
2,570
179.586.
410
??.960.
1
9.471.
1
330

=== Page 598 === (confidence 0.90)
  .
OTO
New
3,500
50
Japan woolen. Co., Ltd.
n
3,810
n
Toa Spinning Co., Ltd.
Polar Ccean Whaling Co., Ltd.
Allotted New
n
1,820
n
14.000
4 Dec.146
Shizuoka Natural Gas Co., Ltd.
Cul:ivation Salt Industry Co., Ltd.
H
1,720
9 Dec.146
1,720
n
25,450
n
25.450
Japan Chemical and Medicine Co., Ltd.
New
n
3.450
n
3.450
Japan Chenical and Medicine Co., Ltd.
New
3.500
n
3.500
Japan Woollen co., Ltd.
M
309
H
309
Seltu Railway So., Ltd.
187
n
187
Sunto Hilway Co., Ltd.
n
760
morhim Alectric Reilway Ce., Ltd.
760
16 Dec.146
17.588
H
17,588
Japan Chemical ana Mecicint Co., Ltd.
5.722
Japen Chenical ma Meaicine Co., Ltd.
New
5.7??
n
New
3.596
n
Japan Wooller Totile Co., Ltd.
N
1,021
1,01
Jepan Puper Inaustry Co.. Ltd.
Takasai lerd-roard Co., Ltd.
New
131
n
11
Teikoxu Stcel Fint Co., Ltd.
4
770
77
Tol o Co., Lta.
11.3140
11,
1,325
Yoslirawa Lead Ind. So., Ltd.
n
560
n
こ
West Japan hailway Co., Ltc.
Allotted New
3.950
6 Jan.147
3.5
Tokai Steanship Co., Ltd.
8,620
8,620
Toyo Tertile Co., Ltd.
13.498
13,498
Toyo Textile Co., Ltd.
New

=== Page 599 === (confidence 0.97)
1
810
yo,199.
3,500
289,600.
1
296.370.
1
3,810
1,820
14,000
14,000
98,000.
36.292.
1
1,720
25,450
2,142,800.
2
3.450
1
3,500
273.375.
1
309
21,935.
187
7,854.
760
1.477.392.
1
17,588
5,722
1
3.596
?73.296.
1,021
131
14,245.
1
770
1
11,340
733.740.
64.925.
1
1,325
50.400.
1
560
1
3.950
209.350.
1
8,620
703.047.20
1
13.498
709.454.88
5

=== Page 600 === (confidence 0.89)
Method
of
Off rin
Competitive
egotiated
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
(to Employ: e
Name of Issue
Agency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
al Residents):
Toyo Focdstuff Co., Ltd.
C.I.L.C.
6,925
6 Jan.147
X
Chichibu Cement Co., Ltd.
New
n
10
M
x
Crichibu Railway Co., Ltd.
1
13 Jan.147
X
Fujicanroku Electric Railway Co., Ltd.
3
x
Hiroshima Gas Co., Ltd.
24.360
n
X
Meiji Industry Co., Ltd.
?
n
X
Morinaga Foodstuff Ind. Co., Ltd.
New
H
10
n
X
Nagoya Railway Co., Ltd.
11
6
X
Sagami Railway Co., Ltc.
19:376
n
X
Shochiku Co., Ltd.
3
n
X
Tobu Railway Co., Ltd.
H
1
n
X
Rehabilitation Building Estete
10,000
20 Jan.147
x
Keihanshin Express Electric Railway Co.
?28
m
x
Nara Dectric Railway Co., Ltd.
2,530
X
Eichiro Fishery Co., Ltd.
n
22,100
N
x
Nichiro Fishery Co., Ltd.
New
1.650
X
Japan Transportation Co., Ltd.
N
6,044
X
Osaka Ceramic and Cement Co., Ltd.
2.790
x

=== Page 601 === (confidence 0.98)
thod
of
Offering
etitive
Negot
ted
Offering to
d (By
Sale (to
ployees
Public at
No. of
Totel Proceede
c Tender)
& Local J
idents)
Fixed Price
Buyers
Amount Sold
Amount Unsold
from Sales
1
6.925
305.475.
760.
1
10
1
1
80.
1
3
?34.
24.360
1,707,636。
2.
1
106.
330.
1
10
420.
1
6
19.376
1,395.072.
1
1
3
39c.
1
1
70.
1
10.000
80,500.
1
228
23.940.
1
2.530
242,880.
22.100
1,650
6.044
1
2.790
146,475。

=== Page 602 === (confidence 0.89)
20.000
X
27 Jer.147
X
n
100
Kirin Beer Co., Ltd.
n
13.750
π
X
Japar. Musical Inetrument Mfg. Co., Ltd.
1
10,290
x
Japan Etermite Pipe Co., Ltd.
X
M
16,990
H
Japan Hydrogen Ind. Co., Ltd.
n
750
X
Nitto Milling Co., Ltd.
6,250
n
X
New
n
Nitto Milling Co., Ltd.
n
9.710
f
X
Osaka Ceramics Co., Ltd.
1f
3.360
H
X
Sakai Textile Inc. Co., Ltd.
H
2.400
H
X
Teikoku Cars Ini. (c.. Ltd.
b04
3 Feb.147
X
Daito Industry Co., Ltd.
160
X
11
Enoshim El ectric Railwey Co., Ltd.
18,710
n
X
Kansai Faint Co., Ltd.
N
16,820
X
Konishiroku Photograpric Ind. Co., Ltd.
n
14.050
n
X
Koito Mfg. Co.. Ltd.
H
2,950
11
X
Meiji Ind. Co.. Ltd.
X
500
n
Japan Paint Co., Ltd.
921
X
New
Japan Faint Co., Ltd.
H
1,550
n
X
Shikishim Cotton Spinning Co., Ltd.
ff
3,370
n
X
New
Shikichima Cotton Soinning Co., Ltd.
260
10 Fet.147
X
11
Great Japan Cotton Spinning Co., Ltd.
5.331
3 Feb.'47
X
Caihciyo Coal kining Co., Ltd.
417
10 Feb.147
X
let New
n
Great Jatan Cotton Spinning Co., Ltd.
x
350
n
and Bew
n
Great Japan Cotton Spinning Co., Ltc.

=== Page 603 === (confidence 0.98)
2
20,000
1
100
12,200.
13.750
192,745.
2
10.290
1,000
15,990
13,500.
1
30.750.
750
1
68,100.
1
6.250
9.710
3.360
1
2,400
118,200.
604
64,326.
1
41,876.
1
760
15,710
16,820
1,009,200.
1
44.00.
1
1,000
13,050
188.800.
1
2.950
35,500.
1
500
921
113,150.
1
1,550
166.445.
3.370
2
260
27,560.
1
5.331
417
31,692.
1
21,035.
1
350
6

=== Page 604 === (confidence 0.87)
Method
of
Offe:
Competitive
De otlated
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (to Dmploye
Bo. of
Memt of I ssue
gcrcy
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
& Local Resident:
Bayer
Great Jan Mne T. o.. L.
C.I.L.C.
23.1C1
10 Feb.147
X
 Frtoe Pilm , .
10.717
n
X
3
   .
150
X
Stove rcture. Shemical ine. Co.. Ltd.
21,1C0
X
Texor R L.
250
x
Teinoku H.tel c., L.
New
71
X
1
4
i  ., .
New
n
12,200
17 Feb.147
X
Kataxura Ine. C., Ltd.
770
X
1
J  & Min ., .
New
n
9.172
7
2
Jases Minute Ind. Co.. Ltd.
New
35.064
n
X
2
Criental perech. Ira. Co., It.
n
830
X
Showe l. o.. L.
n
154
X
Chutu Dlectr.ity Distributior Co., Lta.
14.900
2 reb.147
X
2
2
Deiw o or Stinring Co. .
*
1,782
X
Daiwe : Soinning Co.. .
lst New
700
X
Deiva Cotn. Spinning Co., Ltd.
and Bew
1,100
x
Daive Cotton. Spinning Co.. Ltd.
3rd New
4.897
X
Rehatilitation Building Estate Co.. Ltd.
6,512
x
hii Iror. works Co.. Ltd.
a
14.400
X
anil Iran worke co Ltd
19.570

=== Page 605 === (confidence 0.94)
Method
of
Offering
ompetitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
blic Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Price
Buyers
amount Sold
mount Unsold
from Sales
x
23.101
X
3
10.717
579,718.
X
150
X
?1,100
X
250
13.750.
X
1
71
1,171.50
X
4
12,200
488,260.
X
1
770
74.690.
9.172
328.006.
y.
2
X
2
15.000
20.064
296,200.
830
X
X
154
X
2
14,900
701,180.
X
2
1,782
111,302.
X
700
X
1,100
X
1
4,897
97.940.
X
1
6.512
56.003.20
X
1
1,400
13,000
57.680.

=== Page 606 === (confidence 0.88)
n
12,710
X
Koito works Co., Ltd.
Keisei Rectric
500
n
X
Mishiz Paper Mfg. Co., Ltd.
11
100
n
X
871
n
X
Nischin Cil Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Ceaka Gas Co., Ltd.
29.090
n
X
Csake .
5.380
X
Toka1 St eam Ship Co., Ltd.
n
2.317
n
X
Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd.
n
38,649
11
X
Tokyo us Co., Ltd.
New
H
?3.789
X
Chubu Eectricity Distribution Co., Ltd.
NEw
n
300
n
x
1
523
3 Mar.147
X
Great Japan Celluloic Co., Ltd.
Great Japan Celluloii Co., Ltd.
1st New
1I
720
H
X
Great Japan Geliuloid Co., Ltd.
and New
n
5.257
M
X
Kanto Eiectricity Dist. Co., Lta.
n
32,601
n
X
Kansai Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
11
13,836
n
X
New
n
10,821
n
X
Kansai Ficctricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
New
M
1,080
H
X
Mitsucishi rehouse Co., Ltd.
11
10.763
H
X
Nippon Elect. Generate & Dist. Co., Ltd.
New
?.020
N
x
Nippon Hlect. Generate & Dist. Co., Ltd.
32,310
n
x
Jepan Petroleun Co., Lta.
New
28,095
X
Japan Petroleun Co., Ltd.
H
22.100
n
X
Nichiro Fishery Co., Lta.
7

=== Page 607 === (confidence 0.91)
X
1
15,710
686,588.
X
1
500
44,000.
X
1
100
5,510.
871
3
16,000
13,090
723,700.
X
5.380
x
1
2,317
134.386.
(20,000
820,000.)
X
2
( 4,000
14,60g
166,100.)
X
1
1,000
??,789
16,100.
X
300
X
523
X
720
X
5.257
x
3
32,601
1.357.744.50
X
2
13.836
588,694.
X
10,821
46,548.
X
1
1,080
X
1
10.763
368,094.60
X
2,020
X
?
11,000
1.310
353.700.
X
28,095
22,100
X
7

=== Page 608 === (confidence 0.89)
Method
of
Offerin
Competitive
Nerotiated
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Name of Issue
gency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
& Locel Residents)
Nichiro Fishery Co., Ltd.
New
C.I.L.C.
1.650
3 Mar.147
X
Nitto Cotton Spinning Co., Ltd.
New
H
150
n
X
Sakai Textile Ind. Co.. Ltd.
n
3.360
n
X
Showe Iniustrial Co.. Itd.
n
154
ff
X
Tokyo Rope Mfg. Co., Ltd.
n
21,900
x
Toyo Electric Machine Co., Ltd.
1,200
n
X
Isuruni-rinko Railway Co., Ltà.
n
15,200
n
X
Yoshizawa Lead Industry Co., Ltd.
It
100
H
X
Great Japan Beer Co., Ltd.
New
250
10 Mar.147
X
Gunze Silk Mfg. Co., Ltd.
N
208
X
Kanto Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
30.000
X
Kansei Electricity Pist. Co., Ltd.
11
20.000
X
Kansei Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
New
10.000
X
Kurashiki Silk Textile Co., Ltd.
n
700
X
Kurashiki Silk Tertile Co., Ltd.
let New
1n
3.392
n
X
Kurashiki Silk Tertile Co., Ltd.
2nd New
?.213
n
X
Meiji Leather Mfg. Co., Ltd.
n
203
X
Japan Mour Milling Co., Ltd.
n
50
x
Japan Traneportation Co., Ltd.
6,044
x

=== Page 609 === (confidence 0.94)
Method
of
Offering
Offering to
Competitive
Negotiated
Bid (By
Sale (to Fmployees
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
Public Tender)
& Locel Residents)
Fixed Price
Buyers
Amount Sold
mount Unsold
from Sales
1,650
X
X
150
9,000.
1
3.360
204,600.
X
154
8,316.
X
1
2,868,550.
X
3
21,900
12,640.
X
1
1,200
X
15,200
X
1
100
3,000.
X
1
250
15,000.
933.464.
1
208
X
427,500.
X
2
30.000
844,500.
X
1
20.000
10.000
X
37.450.
X
1
700
3.392
X
2,213
X
x
1
203
8,93?.
2.750.
X
1
50
X
1
6.000
44

=== Page 610 === (confidence 0.88)
N
1,021
n
X
Jepen Faper Industry Co., Ltd.
Japan Real Estate Cc., Ltd.
3,560
X
Japan Hydrogen Iniustry Co., Lta.
15.940
n
X
Nichiro Fishery Co., Ltd.
1i
26,470
n
X
Osaka Gas Co., Ltd.
n
20.000
n
X
Showa agri. Pro. Chem. Ind. Co., Ltd.
n
21,100
H
X
Sugimure varchouse Co., Ltd.
n
10.460
n
X
Toneku Fertilizer Co., Ltd.
1.300
11
X
11
826
X
Toyo Mectric Machine Mis. Co., Ltt.
14,350
n
X
Toppan Frinting Co., Ltd.
New
60
17 Mar.127
X
Akita Lumber Co., Ltd.
20.000
n
X
Chubu Erectricity Dist. So., Lta.
1
16.936
X
Chugoku Blectricity Dist. Co., Lta.
15.000
n
X
Jiyo Petroleum Co., Ltd.
New
n
700
H
X
Daiwa CottonSpinning Co., Ltd.
New
11
1,100
11
x
Daiva Cotton Spinning Co., Lta.
2,954
n
X
Ibigawa Electric In². Co., Lta.
1,630
n
X
Joban Coal Minta Co., L.
New
11
7.387
M
X
Jotan Poul Mining Co., Lei.
22.734
11
X
Kyutha Electricity Dist. Co., Lta.
11
5.080
X
Mitsul Mining Co.,. Ltad.
New
n
13,680
H
X
Mitsui Mining Co.,. Li.
n
26,000
n
X
8
Japan Elect. Gencrate & Dist. Co., Ltd.

=== Page 611 === (confidence 0.94)
1,021
3.560
174,870.
15.9-0
1
26,470
901,600.
20,000
2
938,950.
21,100
2
10,400
1.300
4.838.
846
1,001, 010.
14.350
2
2,280.
60
1
294.700.
11,000
C
9.00
11.336
200.000.
5.000
1
15,000
700
1,100
2.954
1,630
387
9.700.
1
2.000
836,626.
22.734
1
4.080
52,500.
1,000
1
13.680
927,400.
25.000
3
8

=== Page 612 === (confidence 0.90)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
gotiated
Offering to
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
S
to Employees
Public et
Name of Issue
Agency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
(1 Residents)
Pixed Price
Japan Special Pottery Ind. Co., Ltd.
C.I.L.C.
18,800
17 Mar.147
X
Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd.
n
24,649
X
Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd.
New
n
22,789
n
X
Toho Gas Co., Ltd.
69
23,851
X
100
X
Takashimaya Dept. Store Co., Ltd.
New
n
8.790
24 Mar.147
X
Fujinagata Shipbuilding Co., Ltd.
Hakodate Dock Co., Ltd.
11
30,770
n
X
2.768
M
X
Eokkaido Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
Hokkaido Gas Co.. Ltd.
1,221
M
X
Hokkaido Gas Co., Ltd.
New
n
309
n
X
30,000
n
X
Kanto Eectricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
23.480
X
Kansai Dectricity Dist.Co., Ltd.
Kansai Paint Co., Ltd.
n
16,720
X
Kokoku Rayon Pulp Co., Ltc.
f
3.070
n
X
Loc∞motive Mfg. Co., Ltd.
401
n
X
New
50
n
X
Morinaga Foodstuff Co., Ltd.
2,200
n
X
Japan Pulp Industry Co., Ltd.
n
13.703
X
Japan Minute Industry Co., Ltd.
Japan Minute Industry Co., Ltd.
New
20.000
N
X
Ltd

=== Page 613 === (confidence 0.97)
"ering
Negotiate
Offering to
Sale (to Empi  Pes
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
& Local Resirnts)
Fixed Price
Buyers
Amount Sold
Amount Unsold
from Sales
2
18,800
1.139,800.
2L.649
2
1,024.884.50
??.789
1
5,000
18,851
208,000.
1
100
8,500.
8,790
2
3.770
27,000
134.835.
1
2.768
112,220.
1,221
309
30.000
1.208,200.
?
23.430
50
934.799.
16.720
1
3,000
70
125,000.
1
401
18,847.
1
50
2,550.
1
2,200
1
13.703
749.380.80
2
18.000
2.000

=== Page 614 === (confidence 0.87)
270292
X
Japan Fetroleum Co., Ltd.
New
n
3.601
n
X
Japan Musical Instruments Mfg. Co., Ltd.
N
13.750
n
X
Japan Securities Exchange
29,366
X
Osaka Ceramics & Cement Co., Ltd.
600
n
X
Tokai Steam Ship Co., Ltc.
New
n
1,429
H
X
Keisei Eiectric Railway Co., Ltd.
11
10
n
X
Chubu Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
H
23.000
31 Mar.147
X
Greet Japan Paint Co., Ltd.
H
3.700
n
X
Howa Industry Co., Ltd.
n
8,870
X
Ishii Iron vorks Co., Lta.
H
390
n
X
Ishii Iron vorks Co., Lta.
New
11
2.472
09
X
Koito Mfg. Co., Ltc.
14.050
X
Komatsu Mfg. Co., Ltd.
H
7.780
H
X
Komatsu Mfg. Co., Ltd.
New
1
11,285
n
X
Japan Electricity Generate & Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
34.000
H
X
Japan Crucirle Co., Ltd.
150
N
X
Japan Special Pottery Ind. Co., Ltd.
11
1,790
X
1,600
Japen Eeritr Pipe Co., Ltd.
New
11
n
X
Wichiro Fishery Co., Ltd.
n
22,100
M
X
ichiro Fishery Co., Ltd.
New
n
1.650
X
igata Iron works Co., Ltd.
11
20.496
H
X
gata Iron works Co., Ltc.
New
10,301
n
X
9

=== Page 615 === (confidence 0.92)
8,000
9,29?
3,601
x
X
13.750
X
1
7.000
22,366
233,800.
X
1
600
34,800.
X
1
1.429
59.303.50
1
10
800.
X
3
23.000
1,063,500.
3.700
X
8,870
X
390
X
2.472
X
X
1
14,050
699.010.
1
7,000
780
300,900.
X
X
1
11,000
285
233,200.
X
2
34,000
1,298,500.
X
150
X
1
1,790
139.620.
1,600
X
λ
3
22.100
1,122,730.
X
1
1,650
46,200.
20.496
1,042,550.80
X
2
238.450.10
X
2
10,301
9

=== Page 616 === (confidence 0.89)
Method
Offering
Competitive
"egotiated
offring t
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
e (to Emoloyees
Public at
Name of Issue
Agency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
cal Residents)
Fixed Pric
Osaka Machinery Engineering Co., Ltd.
C.I.L.C.
11,080
31 Mar.147
X
Osaka Machinery Engineering Co., Ltd.
New
25.642
X
Osaka Gas Co., Ltd.
n
23.090
X
Osake Gas Co., Ltd.
New
n
5.380
n
X
Riken Optical Industry Co., Ltd.
13,540
n
X
Showa Petroleum Co., Ltd.
3.443
X
Showa agr. Product working-up Co., Ltd.
3,300
M
x
Toyo Cotton Spinning Co., Ltd.
n
9.550
M
X
Tokyo Rope Mfg. Co., Ltd.
15.243
n
X
Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd.
40,012
X
Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd.
New
n
22.000
H
X
Teikoku Sewing Machine Co., Ltd.
240
X
Toppan Painting Co., Ltd.
1,839
n
X
jigawa Land Co., Ltd.
M
1,200
7 Apr.147
X
Daishin Chuo Land Co.. Ltd.
n
230
X
Fuji Electric Machine Ind. Co., Ltd.
26,000
x
Hanshin Electric Railway Co., Ltd.
5.000
n
x
Ichioka Land Co., Ltd.
710
x
Joto Iand Co., Ltd.
250
N
X

=== Page 617 === (confidence 0.93)
Method
of
ering
ompetitive
Fegoti
Offering to
Bi (By
Sale (to Fr
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
ublic Tender)
& Local Res
8)
Fixed Price
Buyers
amount Sold
mount Uneold
from Sales
X
11.080
25.642
X
X
2
4,000
19.090
185.600.
X
5.380
13.540
X
X
1
3.443
117.062.
X
1
3.300
199.050.
1.474.950.
X
3
9.550
X
3
6.000
9.243
608,500.
X
1
5.000
35.012
219,400.
X
22.000
240
X
X
2
1,839
148,861.50
X
1,200
X
230
X
1
12,000
14.000
590,000.
5.000
419.000.
X
2
x
710
X

=== Page 618 === (confidence 0.89)
Kurimoto Iron works Co., Ltd.
n
29.035
X
Kurimoto Iron works Co., Ltd.
New
21,000
n
X
Kizukawa Land Co., Ltd.
650
n
X
Kanto Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
20.000
n
X
Kyushu Electricity Dist.
n
1,000
11
Nippon Battery Co., Ltd.
n
16,192
X
Osaka Pottery Industry Co.. Ltd.
H
10.170
H
X
Oseka Machine Co., Ltd.
17.000
11
X
Suzuki System Weaving Machine Co., Ltd.
n
12,590
n
X
n
10,460
n
X
Sugimura arehouse Co., Ltd.
Shikoku Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
997
m
X
n
4,180
n
X
Imperial Industrial co., Ltd.
Imperial Industrial Co., Ltd.
New
4.270
M
X
Imperial Cars Inaustry Co., Ltd.
n
480
X
n
12.901
4
x
Toho Gas Co.. Ltd.
Tsukishima Machine Co., Ltd.
940
H
X
Tsukishina Machine Co., Ltd.
New
1,150
n
X
Chugoku Electricity Dist.Co., Ltd.
H
11,936
14 Aor.'47
A
f
31,780
n
X
Great Japan Machine Industry Co., Ltd.
Hakodate Dock Co., Ltd.
n
30.770
n
X
Kokko Chain Mfg. Co., Ltd.
N
6,200
X
目
12.650
n
X
Koito Mfg. Co., Ltd.
u
26,950
X
Komatsi Mfg. Co.. Ltd.

=== Page 619 === (confidence 0.92)
X
29.035
X
21,000
X
650
X
4
20,000
824,800.
1
1.000
45.000.
X
2
16,192
865,888.
X
1
1C,170
232,225.
x
1
17,000
997,600.
X
1
8,000
4.590
231,000.
X
2
8.000
2.460
253,500.
X
1
997
35.892.
X
1
4,180
229.900.
X
14,270
480
X
X
1
1,000
11,901
41,100.
940
x
X
1.150
11,936
A
X
1
31,780
1,114,376.
X
5
27,000
3.770
1,473,400.
6,200
X
X
2
10,650
859,015.
3
26,950
1,240,400.
X

=== Page 620 === (confidence 0.89)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Putlic a
Name of Issue
gency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Pri
Japan Metal Inaustry Co., Ltd.
C.I.L.C.
20.000
14 Apr.147
X
Japan Mimute Industry Co., Ltd.
n
50.000
X
Japan Eccurities Exchange
N
??,366
n
y
Japan Fetroleun co., Ltd.
n
20.465
X
Nichire Fishery Co., Ltd.
n
56.470
n
X
Imperial Sewing Machine Co., Ltd.
11
240
x
Niigata Iron orks Co., Ltd.
n
47.145
n
X
Sakurada Macnine Industry Co., Ltd.
t1
19,200
M
X
Sawafuji Electric Machine Co., Ltd.
11
10.460
n
X
Wheel Industrial Co., Ltd.
7.650
X
Shimazu Kf. Co., Ltd.
M
20.240
X
Tokye s Co., Ltd.
11
30.000
X
Tokyo Express Electric Kailway Co., Lta.
1
4.817
X
Tokai Electrode Iniustry Co., Ltd.
25.900
X
Takachiho Cptical Industry Co., Ltd.
n
1,100
It
X
Tokyc Rope Mfg. Co.. Ltd.
1
9.215
H
X
Ebara Mie. Co., Itd.
n
26,490
21 Aor.147
X
Puji Electric Machine Hfg. Co., Ltd.
11
13.649
x
Furukawa Electric Irdustry Co., Ltd.
n
15.013
X

=== Page 621 === (confidence 0.93)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
of
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Putlic at
No. of.
Total proccede
ring
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Price
Buyers
mount Sold
Amount Unsold
from Sales
pr. 47
X
1
20,000
700.000.
M
X
1
50.000
3.587,500.
2
7,000
15.366
243,100.
X
c
2n.465
829.367.50
n
X
3
56,470
3,868,931.
n
X
1
245
14,616.
n
X
4
47.15
2,825,000.
X
1
19,200
525,900.
n
X
1
8,210
2,250
215,797.
X
2
7.650
272.900.
X
2
20,240
902.420.
H
X
4
30.000
1,637,000.
11
X
1
4,817
397.558.70
X
1
25,900
1,421,370.
11
X
1
1,100
29,700.
H
X
3
9.215
995.082.50
or.147
X
1
15.000
11,490
929,500.
n
x
?
13.649
786,963.20
X
2
13.000
2.013
606.000

=== Page 622 === (confidence 0.89)
ff
10.020
n
X
Engine Mig. Co., Ltd.
25.340
n
X
n
Howe Induetry Co., Ltc.
n
13.000
n
X
Ishii Iron works Co.. Ltd.
H
30.000
n
X
Kanto Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
25.721
X
Meidensha Electric Machine Co., Lti.
4,080
H
X
1"
Mit sui Mining Co., Ltd.
11
13,350
n
x
Japen Va Mfg. Co., Ltc.
n
50.000
11
X
Japan Electricity Generate Diet. Co., Ltd.
4,700
n
X
Japen Cultivating Machine Co., Ltd.
n
25.548
H
X
Janan Mining Co., Ltd.
26,190
n
X
Osaka Machinery Engineering Co., Ltd.
6.85
1I
X
n
Osaka Machine Co., Ltd.
n
21,330
X
Okamoto Industry Co., Ltd.
1,000
H
X
Sanyo Electric Railway Co., Ltd.
131
11
X
Rke saki Cardboar ., it.
H
?.29?
28 Anr.147
X
Great Jacan Printing Co., Ltd.
199
X
n
Deneyosra Motor Mfg. Co., Ltd.
11
850
11
X
Electric Chemical Industry k., Ltd.
11
43.201
X
Great Japan Machine Industry Co., Ltd.
121.540
n
X
Puji Electric Machine Co., Ltd.
25,820
n
X
Rakodate Dock Co., Ltd.
N
1,484
n
X
Hokkaido Coal Mining & Steamshin Co., Ltd.
n
1,966
H
X
11
Hokuriku Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.

=== Page 623 === (confidence 0.91)
X
10.020
25.340
X
X
13.000
X
7
30.000
1,358,600.
X
1
10,721
648,499.50
X
1
1,000
3,080
57,000.
x
13.350
X
4
50.000
1,914,400.
X
1
3.000
1,700
85.000.
x
2
25.548
724,522.
26.190
X
X
?
6.790
65
350,290.
21,330
X
X
1
1,000
65,000.
X
1
131
6,157.
147
X
2
2,292
202.896.
X
1
199
8,159.
X
1
80
51,425.
X
3
43.201
1,764,640.
X
3
14.540
868,890.
4
25,820
1,55?,280.
X
1.484
x
X
?
1,966
98,300.
11

=== Page 624 === (confidence 0.90)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public a
Name of Issue
Agency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
& Locel Residents)
Fixed Pri
Ibigaw Electric Industry Co., Ltd.
C.I.L.C.
2.954
23 aor.147
x
Joten Coal Mining Co., Ltd.
"
1,630
11
X
Xonateu Mf. Co., Ltd.
!1
30.530
M
X
Koito Mfg. Co., Ltd.
H
?,650
X
Kanto Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
n
34.000
M
x
Kurinoto Iron works Co., Ltd.
29.035
X
Miyata Mfg. Co., Ltd.
16.705
X
Meidensha Electric Co., Ltd.
10.960
N
X
Japan Securitics Exchange
n
16,366
H
x
Japan Fetroleun co., Ltd.
11
39,292
X
Japan Mimute Irdustry C.. Ltc.
H
22.799
n
x
Japen Metallurgical Industry Co., Ltd.
n
8,730
11
X
Japan Metal Industry Co., Ltd.
19,550
n
X
Japan Nickel Co., Ltd.
46.500
x
Niigata Iron Works Co., Ltd.
11
20,000
n
X
Ckamoto Industrial Co., Ltd.
n
6,650
n
X
Sakurada Kachine Industry Co., Ltd.
H
7.680
n
X
Sawafuji Machine Industry Co., Ltd.
5.77?
X
Shinagawe White Brick Co., Ltd.
23.016

=== Page 625 === (confidence 0.94)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Legotiated
Offering to
f
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
ng
Public Tender)
& Locel Residents)
Fixed Price
Buyers
Amount Sold
Amount Unse!
from Sales
147
X
2.254
X
1,630
X
7
30,180
350
1,614,889.50
X
1
2.650
180.375.
X
8
34.000
1,538,000.
X
29.305
X
16.705
X
1
10.960
635.680.
X
16.366
9
X
39.292
X
5
20.000
9,799
1.364,100.
X
2
8,730
226,218.
X
4
19.550
923.010.
X
2
46,500
759,650.
11
X
3
18,000
2.000
1,096.000.
n
X
1
6,650
317.520.
n
X
1
7.680
195,840.
N
X
1
5.772
147,200.

=== Page 626 === (confidence 0.86)
4
Shimazu Mfg. Co., Ltd.
n
23.150
n
X
Sumitemo Electric Industry Co., Ltd.
5.548
n
X
Tokuyama Soda Mfg. Co., Ltd.
n
2,800
X
Toyode utomobile Industry Co., Ltd.
n
12,480
n
X
Toroku Fertilizer Co., Ltd.
11
1,300
n
X
Tohoku Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd.
163
H
X
Great Japan Printing Co., Ltd.
allotted New
H
2.292
M
X
matsuji Steel Ball Mfg. Co., Ltd.
H
16.050
5 May 147
X
azuma Steel Mfg. Co., Ltd.
2.140
X
Chigoku Electricity Dist. ., Ltd.
14.264
n
X
Ebara Mfg. Co., Ltd.
f
24.720
X
Moter Mfg. Co., Ltd.
11
25.020
11
X
Howe Industry Co., Lta.
19
18,870
n
X
Holkaido Gas Co.. Ltd.
N
1,71
n
X
Kotobuki Industry Co., Ltd.
H
19,200
M
X
Kansai Paint Co., Ltd.
n
16,720
X
hatsushita Electric Machine Industry Co., Ltd.
5.710
n
X
Japan Nickel Cc., Ltd.
n
40.000
n
X
Japan Internal Cont. Din Co., Ltd.
H
20,600
n
X
Japan Iron-Sanc Industry Co., Ltd.
n
13,270
H
X
Nichia Steel Mfg. Co., Ltd.
N
16.020
ff
X
Nichizen Trading Co., Ltd.
M
13,330
n
X
Ceaka Machine Co., Lti.
1
11,080
X
.2

=== Page 627 === (confidence 0.93)
23,010
X
2
23.100
50
1,231,250,
X
2
4,000
1,548
202,000.
X
2,800
X
12,480
X
1,300
X
1
163
6.112.50
X
1
2.292
80,220.
147
X
16,050
X
1
2.140
58,122.
X
1
13.856
208
555.855.21
X
24.720
1,11,10.
X
9.960
60
507,880.
X
3
16,000
2.870
547,200.
X
1
1,221
54,945.
X
2
19,200
511,100.
X
2
16,720
522.000.
X
5.710
X
1
40.000
948,000.
X
10,600
X
2
13.270
432,880.
X
1
16,020
617.760.
X
2
13.330
540.738.
X
1
11,080
648,720.
12

=== Page 628 === (confidence 0.89)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (to Emloyees
Public at
Name of Issue
Agency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Price
C.I.L.C.
20,000
5 May 47
X
Criental Photogruphic Industry Co., Ltd.
N
830
X
Shove klectrode co., Ltd.
n
7.090
11
X
Taihei Mining Co., Ltd.
ñ
18,080
n
X
Tokuyana Steel Plate Co., Ltd.
tf
2.550
H
X
Tokai Electrode Mfg. Co., Ltd.
H
13,316
11
X
Oriental Stenship Co., Ltd.
1,127
M
X
Critntal Inuustrial Co., Ltd.
N
9.010
X
Orientel r . c., Ltd.
f
12,750
M
X
Tsurumi harbour Railway Co., Ltd.
n
15.300
n
x
Great Japan Machine Industry Co., Ltd.
20.000
12 My 147
X
Great Japan Paint Co., Ltd.
3.700
H
X
Ebara Mfg. Co., Ltd.
21,490
n
X
Hakodate Dock co., Ltd.
20.000
X
Ishii Iron works Co., Ltd.
N
13.000
n
X
Keto Mfg. Co., Ltd.
5,250
n
X
Kokko Chain Mfg. Co., Ltd.
n
6,200
n
X
Kurimoto Iron vorks Co., Ltd.
29.035
n
X
anto Electricity Dist. Co., Ltd
20.000

=== Page 629 === (confidence 0.93)
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Futlic at
No. of
Total Proceeds
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Price
Buyere
Amount Sold
Ancunt Unsold
from Sales
X
2
20.000
934.000.
X
830
X
7.090
X
18,08C
X
1
2,550
136,150.
X
1
13.316
915.477.60
X
1,127
X
9.020
X
12,750
X
15,300
X
1
20.000
920,000.
X
1
3.700
185,000.
X
3
21.490
1,311,355.
X
1
2x.000
1,265,000.
X
1
13,000
708,000.
X
2
5.250
222,800.
X
1
2.000
4,200
77,600.
X
2
8,000
21,035
437,100.

=== Page 630 === (confidence 0.88)
15.230
n
X
Kiyata Mfg. Co., Ltd.
N
20.000
X
Japan Minute Industry Co., Ltd.
13.350
n
X
Japan Valve Mfg. Co., Ltd.
45,600
X
Japan Nickel Co., Ltd.
n
3.450
n
X
Japan Real Estate Co., Ltd.
11
20.000
n
X
Japan Metal Iniisti co., Ltd.
9.292
n
X
Japan Fetroleum Co., Ltd.
13.750
X
H
Japan Musical Industry Co., Ltd.
n
20.000
X
Nitto-Shemical Inaustry Co., Ltd.
11
20.000
n
X
Niigata Iron voks Co., Ltc.
n
10.527
n
X
Osaka Jas Co., Ltd.
n
5.000
n
X
Ckuma Industry Co., Ltd.
19,640
fi
Shimurtva White Brick Co., Lt.
n
12,480
n
X
Toyoda autonobile Industry Co., Ltd.
19.760
n
X
Orieatal Soda Co., Ltd.
27,770
X
Toto Steel Mfg. Co., Ltd.
n
1,263
X
Pokyo Building Co., Lti.
N
150
11
X
Tokyo Canal ant Land Co., Ltd.
1,123
X
n
Criental Harbour Industrial Co., Lté.
35.012
n
X
Tokyo Gs Co., L.
14.709
n
X
1f
Imverial sutonobile Inaustry ., Ltd.
1.9 May 147
x
H
20.000
Great Japan Machine Indu stry Co., Lti.
523
à
X
11
13
Great Japan Celluloid Co., Ltd.

=== Page 631 === (confidence 0.93)
15.000
217.000.
X
1
15,230
1,020,180..
X
5
20.000
1.342,700.
13,350
X
X
?
40,150
450
978.600.
3.450
X
X
3
14.000
6,000
647,700.
404.556.
4
9,292
X
X
3
13.750
1,040,775.
X
1
20,000
1,233,000.
17,225
?,775
1,096,597.50
X
2
1
10.527
552,667.50
x
1
5.000
284.000.
X
19,640
1,166,100.
X
2
12,480
725,600.
X
19.760
X
1
14,000
13,770
357,000.
X
1,263
67,007.50
2
X
150
X
1
1,127
32,567.
X
8
35.012
2.025.388.80
X
14,709
X
865.000.
1
20.000
X
1
523
39.748.
X
13

=== Page 632 === (confidence 0.89)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offe
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (to Fmployees
Pub
Name of Issue
Agency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
& Local Residente)
Fixe
Howa Industry Co., Ltd.
C.I.L.C.
20.000
19 May 1117
X
Hokkaido Coal Mining & Steamship Co., Ltd.
1,484
X
Hakodate Dock Co., Ltd.
n
25.000
Isetan Department Store Co., Ltd.
n
150
M
X
Joban Coal Mining Co., Ltd.
n
1.630
X
utomobile Parts Mfg. Co., Ltd.
3.160
M
X
Kurimoto Iron vorks Co., Lta.
n
25,000
X
Miyata Mfg. Co., Ltd.
n
1.475
n
X
Japan Petroleum Co., Ltd.
1
20.000
11
X
Japan Sani-Iron Industry Co., Ltd.
20,000
n
X
Japan Faper Industry Co., Lti.
n
1,021
n
X
Japan Securi ties Exchange
n
16,366
n
X
Japan Valve Manufacturing Co., Lti.
H
14.450
n
X
Japan Crucible Co., Ltd.
150
X
Japar Sulphur ., Ltd.
450
n
X
Japan Minate Ind. Co., Ltd.
20.000
N
X
Nitto Chemical Industry Co., Ltd.
16,053
n
X
kamoto Industry Co.,
Ltd.
n
20,000
n
X

=== Page 633 === (confidence 0.91)
一
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Bid (By
Sale (to Fmnloyees
Fublic at
No. of
Total Froceeds
g
Public Pender)
& Local Residente)
Fixe! Frice
Buyers
amount Sol
Anoun: Unsola
fro Sale
1117
X
4
12,000
8,000
502.100.
X
1
1,000
484
49.000.
X
1
25,000
1,560,000.
X
1
1x
23.250.
X
7
1,530
65.526.
X
3.160
X
2
7.000
18,000
354.500.
X
2
1,475
112.172.
X
14
20,020
895.700.
X
20.000
X
1
1,021
51,266.
X
1
10,360
664,576.60
14,450
X
X
1
150
8,500.
X
1
450
16,11c.
X
3
20.000
1,333,100.
Y
3
15.963
30
952,105.30
X
1
2,000
18,000
96,000.

=== Page 634 === (confidence 0.83)
Craca Machine Co., Lti.
H
20.000
11
X
Pacific Ocean Coal Mining Co., Ltd.
11
5.331
n
X
Criental Inanstry Co., Ltd.
H
3.000
11
X
Tohoku Fertilizer Co., Ltd.
n
1,300
11
X
Snecial Steel Mfe. Co., Ltd.
11
16.596
n
X
Yodogave Steel Mig. Co., Ltd.
11
5.160
H
X
Ckuna Inaustry Co.. Lta.
20,000
11
X
Tosyo Erpress Hlectrie Railuay Co., Ltd.
11
6.320
11
X
aateai Ste-ll Mfr. ., Lt.
11
16,050
26 May 147
X
Chubu Electricity Dist. C., Ltà.
977
H
X
Delyo retroln ., Ltd.
25.000
X
E M. ., .
H
19,900
11
Hoi Pharmcutrcal Co., Lt.
II
20.500
N
X
Hinode Stc-shio Co.,. Lt.
11
2.750
11
X
b  n  y C.. L.
13,280
X
Itigtn s trie Inaustry Co.. Ltd.
2.954
n
X
Kototai I stry Co., Lt..
H
20.000
X
nokusan Elcctric Machinc Ircastry Co., Lta.
11
6.754
11
y
Ke n . ., .
17,530
H
X
Mat susjite Electric Ma hine Intustry Co., Lta.
5.710
11
X
Jape. Internal Combustion Encine Co., Lta.
10,600
M
X
Jepan Cultivation Machine Mfg. Co., Ltd.
11
4.700
x
Japan Electr Ketallurgy Co., Lta.
11
4.209
11
X
Japan Typewriter Co., Lté.
6.457
n
14

=== Page 635 === (confidence 0.90)
X
20.000
X
5.331
X
20.200
X
1,300
x
2
6,000
10,596
272,400.
X
1
1,000
4,150
30.000.
X
2
x.000
1,146,200.
X
2
6.30
511, 260.
47
X
?
10.050
609,900.
X
1
977
40,850.
X
10.000
19.900
1,169.980.
X
20.500
X
?
2.250
65.625
X
15,280
X
2
2.954
119.573.80
X
1
20,000
641,000.
y
6,76
X
1
3.000
14.530
123,000.
X
2
5.710
286.82.
X
10,600
x
4.700
X
4,209
y
14
6,457

=== Page 636 === (confidence 0.87)
Method
of
Offering
Commetitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
Name of Issue
Agency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Price
apan Optical Intustry Co., Ltd.
C.I.L.C.
4.717
26 May 47
X
Osaka Chain & Machine Mig. Cc., Ltd.
11
17,560
M
X
Osaka Gas Co., Lta.
n
19,090
n
X
Okamoto Machine Tool Co., Ltd.
n
1,130
n
X
Osaka Mechine Co., Ltd.
H
20.000
n
X
Oriental Photographic Industry Co., Ltd.
n
2,680
11
X
Rikken Optical Industry Co., Ltd.
H
13.440
x
Showe El ectrone Co., Lta.
n
8,890
M
X
Sugimura warehousc Co., Ltd.
n
2.460
n
X
Shirokiya (Department Store) Co., Ltd.
H
110
X
Suzuko-systen weaving Machine Co., Ltd.
n
4.590
n
X
Shinagawa hfg. Co., Ltd.
11
8.450
X
Toho Gas Co., Ltd.
n
10,000
M
y
Tsuruni harbour Railway Co.. Ltd.
11
15,300
11
X
Criental Steam-ship Co., Ltc.
N
1,127
n
X
Takuyama Soda Co., Ltc.
n
2,800
X
utomobile Parts Mfg. Co., Ltd.
H
2.900
2 June 47
X
Hove Industry Co., Ltd.
f
20.000
n
X
Kurimoto Iron works Co., Ltd.
n
21,035
X

=== Page 637 === (confidence 0.89)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offe
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (to Fmployees
Pub
Name of Issue
Agency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
& Local Residente)
Fixe
Howa Industry Co., Ltd.
C.I.L.C.
20.000
19 May 1117
X
Hokkaido Coal Mining & Steamship Co., Ltd.
1,484
X
Hakodate Dock Co., Ltd.
n
25.000
Isetan Department Store Co., Ltd.
n
150
M
X
Joban Coal Mining Co., Ltd.
n
1.630
X
utomobile Parts Mfg. Co., Ltd.
3.160
M
X
Kurimoto Iron vorks Co., Lta.
n
25,000
X
Miyata Mfg. Co., Ltd.
n
1.475
n
X
Japan Petroleum Co., Ltd.
1
20.000
11
X
Japan Sani-Iron Industry Co., Ltd.
20,000
n
X
Japan Faper Industry Co., Lti.
n
1,021
n
X
Japan Securi ties Exchange
n
16,366
n
X
Japan Valve Manufacturing Co., Lti.
H
14.450
n
X
Japan Crucible Co., Ltd.
150
X
Japar Sulphur ., Ltd.
450
n
X
Japan Minate Ind. Co., Ltd.
20.000
N
X
Nitto Chemical Industry Co., Ltd.
16,053
n
X
kamoto Industry Co.,
Ltd.
n
20,000
n
X

=== Page 638 === (confidence 0.86)
Kotobuki Industry Co., Ltd.
n
20.000
X
Mitrui Mining Co., Ltd.
n
3.190
n
X
Japan Reel Estate Co., Ltd.
H
3.560
X
Nishimen Traiing Co., Ltd.
1
156
H
X
Japan Sulphur Co., Ltd.
H
132
n
X
Nichiro Fishery Cc., Ltd.
11
20.000
11
X
Japan retroleum Cc., Ltd.
n
20,000
x
Japer. Musiral Irstruments Mfg. Co., Ltd.
n
1,960
x
Jepan Iron-sand Industry Co., Ltd.
n
15.000
X
Japan Internal Combustion Co., Ltd.
n
10,860
n
X
Japan Metallurgicel Industry Co., Ltd.
H
20.000
n
X
Shineteu Cheaical Industry Co., Ltd.
n
154
H
X
Sakura Metal Industry Co., Ltd.
N
6.050
X
Sanyo Stsel Mig. Co., Ltd.
15,600
11
X
Sumitomo Electric Inustry Co., Ltd.
11
1,548
X
Cricntal Soda Co., Ltd.
H
19.760
X
Toto Steel Mfg. Co., Lid.
17,798.
n
x
Tokyo Net Mfg. Co.. Ltd.
n
1.42m
1
y
Tokyo Canal & Land Co., Ltd.
n
150
X
Imperial Chemical Industry Co., Ltd.
11
12.620
x
2480
Imperial Cers Industry Co., Lta.
n
x
14.559
Imperial autouobile Industry Cc., Ltd.
n
n
X
riental Icry o., .
20.000
n
X
15

=== Page 639 === (confidence 0.89)
X
1
2,000
13,000
66,000.
1,000
?,190
45.100.
x
2,560
110,360.
X
1
155
9.048.
X
1
4,224.
x
1
132
624,200.
X
11,c00
9.000
20,000
832.400.
x
1
1,000
960
88.000.
x
10.000
x
X
1
10.860
293,220.
20.000
x
X
1
154
5,390.
6,050
15.600
x
1
1,548
89,390.80
x
19.760
X
17.788
10
429.912.
x
2
1,420
3.750.
x
1
150
x
1
4.000
8,620
132,000.
480
30,240.
x
2
14.559
X
20.000
X
15

=== Page 640 === (confidence 0.88)
Method
C.
nE O: IESUE
Offering
Agency
Offered
No. Sheres
Date of
Offering
Public Tend er)
Competitive
Bid (By
& Local Residents)
Sale (to Dmlyeee
Negotiato.
Fized
Offer
Publ
of
Tohoku Fertilizer ., Lta.
C.I.L.C.
1,300
2 Jure'47
x
Pu   o.. Lt.
n
20.000
x
2
laite lauetry ., Lt.
0
1.828
9 June'47
1
i cut ., .
13,870
x
Ishil Iren works Co., Ltd.
4
390
X
1
Ite Sol mining & ilay Co., Ltd.
3.280
X
1
Lokusan Electric Machine Co., Ltd.
26.494
X
Kojtm Iron ork. Cc., Ltd.
710
X
1
Kokko rain Mfe. Co., Lta.
14.430
u
x
Laneai Faint ., Ltd.
1,990
n
X
Japan Fetreleum c.. Ltd.
20.000
r
X
Japan Electric Metallurgy Co.. Ltd.
4,209
X
Japan Minute Inaustry Co., Ltd.
15.000
X
Michiro Fishery .. Ltd.
20.000
x
Japan Tpevriter Co.. Ltd.
15.857
x
Nitto Sulunate Soda Co., Ltd.
502
x
Ckanoto achine Tool Mfe. Co., Ltd.
1.130
x
Om Chain & Macnine dfg. Co., Ltd.
16,810
x
Skum Induetry c., c.
13.400
X

=== Page 641 === (confidence 0.93)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
f
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public et
No. of Buyers
Total Proceeds
ng
Public Tend er)
& Local Residents)
Fixd Frice
amount Sold
mount Uneold
from Sales
147
X
1,300
X
1
10.000
10.000
520.000.
47
X
1
1,828
89,572.
13,870
X
X
1
390
2?,620.
X
1
1,000
2.280
21,000.
29.494
x
1
710
23.856.
X
14,430
537.243.
X
2
1
1,990
121,390.
X
X
3
20.C00
814,100.
4
4.209
1山，L34.30
4
15.000
9?1,200.
X
4
20.000
1,089.70.
X
1
15.857
445.796.20
X
1
502
15.963.60
x
1,130
X
X
3
2,000
8,810
293.400.
X
2
13.400
901,300.

=== Page 642 === (confidence 0.84)
5.331
X
n
Pacific vcean CotL Mining Co., Ltd.
300
π
11
Criental Brovey co.. Ltd.
8,570
16 June L7
X
n
mgasasl Minute Industry Co., Ltd.
12.510
11
X
1
aichi atch & Electric mgine Co., Ltd.
50
11
X
Puji Photographic Film Co., Lta.
8,283
H
X
11
Diesel autonobile Industry Co., Ltd.
11
2.530
n
X
Nissin Jetton Soinnin Co., Ltd.
20.000
H
X
Nichire Fichery Co., Lti.
20.000
H
X
Japan Minute Inlustry Co., Ltd.
12,00
X
Japan listorring o., Lti.
11
20.000
X
Osus Machine Itustry Co., Ltd.
350
X
11
Cai silk Spinning Co., Ltd.
15,500
n
X
11
saye Steel Mfg. 0., Lti.
“
2.220
X
s rie hine , .
8,330
n
X
Snows Petreleum Co., Lta.
3.376.
II
X
1
Shagee Thite brick Co., Lta.
380
X
i
Inserial Mining -evelopment Co., Ltc.
II
20.000
X
F ental Intustry co., Ltd.
50
1"
7
11
Pat Steachip Co., Lt.
20.000
X
Seccial strl Mr. S., Ltd.
20.000
X
Criental Iustry Co.. Lt.
1,420
11
x
15
Tekye Meter Mfs. So., Itd.

=== Page 643 === (confidence 0.89)
X
1
5.331
167,094.
X
1
300
28,500.
X
1
8,570
343.201.
x
6
12.510
437.683.
X
1
50
5.205.
X
8,283
x
2
2.530
442,590.
x
4
20.000
1,065,800.
X
6
10,000
10.000
609.900.
4
12.020
413.350.
X
X
2
8.000
12,000
430.700.
x
1
350
27.720.
x
1
15.600
430,200.
X
2.25
X
3
8.330
351.661.
X
3
3.376
266,616.
380
X
X
2
8,00℃
12.000
505,200.
1
50
5.255.
y
4
13,000
7.000
720,800.
X
20.000
X
1.420
6
x
15

=== Page 644 === (confidence 0.89)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Ciferim
Offerire
No. Shere:
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
Name of Issue
Agency
Off ered
Offering
Public Tender)
& Local Resicents)
Fixed Fric
P.xy, Machine Mfg. Co., Ltd.
C.I.L.C.
100
16 June' 47
x
Iwaki Crment Co., Ltd.
11
20
H
X
Hakdate Dek .. Lté.
11
20.000
25 June 47
X
Hewa Industry Cc., Lta.
t
13,310
"
X
luate Goal Mining & kailway Co., Ltd.
11
4,000
n
X
Joto Estate Co., Lta.
11
250
X
Kurimoto Iron vork Co., Ltd.
11
20.000
tt
X
Kotorukl Industry Co., Ltd.
11
4,700
n
X
Japan Fetroleun Co., Ltd.
20.000
H
X
Japan Mttallurgy Inaustry Co., Ltd.
n
15,810
X
Japan Sana-Iren & Steci Inaustry
15.000
11
X
Japan Valve Mar acturing Co., Ltd.
11
12.450
M
X
Japan Metallic Industry o., Ltd.
4.050
X
Jepan Precise Industry Co., Ltd.
11
7.000
il
X
Japan-Russo Fishing Co., Ltd.
11
20.000
H
X
Ckanoto Industry Co., Lta.
19.200
n
X
Oriental Photographic Industry
11
1.850
11
X
Sakura Iron orks Co., Ltd.
H
5.300
n
X
Tokyo as Co., Ltd.
20.000
n
X
Criental Iron Plate Co., Ltd.

=== Page 645 === (confidence 0.93)
Method
of
offering
Competitive
Nego tiated
Cifering to
of
Bid (By
Sale (to Emol.yees
Putlic at
Total Procicis
ing
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fiyed Frice
No. of Euyers
amount sola
ount Unsold
from Sules
e' 47
X
1
100
6,220.
X
1
50
2.000.
ne'L?
X
1
5.000
17,000
165.000.
X
13.320
x
14.000
X
250
X
2
2.000
15.000
255.600.
X
1
1,000
3.700
33,000.
X
5
20.000
991,200.
X
1
3.810
12.000
104.465.
X
15,020
X
1
450
12.000
13,500.
X
4.050
X
2
7.000
405.100.
X
20,000
X
19,200
X
1,850
X
5.300
X
5
20.000
964,700.

=== Page 646 === (confidence 0.89)
Tokuyama Soda Co.. Ltd.
11,000
n
X
Toho Gas Co., Itl.
H
5.000
x
Tokyo Nachine Mig.
n
4,650
n
X
Toyo Soda Go., Ltd.
15,800
X
8,620
Imperial Chemical Industry Co., Ltd.
n
X
Total
7.057.788
5.910,406
210.773
(9)

=== Page 647 === (confidence 0.90)
6.000
7.500
.405.300.
x
11.000
x
1
5.020
260.000.
x
4.650
X
15,800
X
1
8.620
c12.820.
5.910.406
210.773
936.603
.749.32
2.308.464
8235.265.322.98
17

=== Page 648 === (confidence 0.95)
SECURITIES SCLD BY SECURITIES COORDINATING LIQUID. ING CUOMMITTEE
(From 1 July 1947 to 21 February 104n)
CHART No. 2
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Cffering to
Name of Issue
OfferinE
Agency
No. Shares
Offered
Date of
Oritring
Public Tender)
Bid (By
 Local Residents)
Sale (to Employees
Fiv Frice
Puolic at
NO.
Buye
Eowa Ind.
CILC
2,870
2 July
X
CILC
484
? July
X
Hokkaido Colliery & Steamship
CILC
2.901
? July
X
Toho Gas
CILC
3.960
? July
X
Criental Soda Ind.
CILC
2,013
2 July
X
Furukawa Elec. Ind.
CILC
10.000
2 July
X
Japan Precision Ind.
CILC
20.30
2 July
X
Nichiro Fishery
CILC
20,000
? July
X
Japan Petroleum
CILC
4.050
7 July
X
Japan Metal Ind.
CILC
1,100
7 July
X
Japan Valve Mfg.
CILC
10.000
7 July
X
Japan Frecision Ind.
CILC
3.990
7 July
X
Tokyo Gas
CILC
15,000
7 July
X
Special Steel Mfg.
CILC
11,300
7 July
X
Japan Petroleum
CILC
830
14 July
X
Criental Photographic Ind.
CILC
10,000
14 July
X
Howa Ind.
CILC
20.000
14 July
X
Nichiro Fishery
CILC
10.000
21 July
X
Sanvo Steel ife

=== Page 649 === (confidence 0.96)
SECURITIES SCID BY SECURITIES COORDINATING LIQUIDATING COMMITTEE
(From 1 July 1947 to 21 February 1948)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
ate of
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
No. of
Total Froceeds
ritring
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixd Frice
Buyers
mount Sold
amount Unsold
From Sales
2 July
X
1
2,870
Y
122,275.
? July
X
1
484
21,828.40
? July
X
2
2,901
159,655.
2 July
X
6
3.960
90.496.
2 July
X
1
2.013
112,929.30
2 July
X
45
10,000
566,000.
2 July
X
53
20,000
1,001,100.
2 July
X
41
20,000
956,200.
7 July
X
1
50
4,000
1.775.
7 July
X
1
100
1,000
3,000.
July
X
16
10.000
530,300.
July
X
12
3.290
188,530.
July
X
7
2,000
13.000
83,600.
July
X
25
11,300
503,690.
July
X
1
830
53,120.
July
X
3
4.000
6,000
159,700.
July
X
42
20,000
901,600.
July
X

=== Page 650 === (confidence 0.93)
CILC
25,880
21 July
X
Imperial Precision Ind.
CILC
13.000
21 July
X
Hosii Pharmaceutical
CILC
8,550
21 July
X
Fichiman Coal-kining
CILC
10.000
?1 July
X
Jeran Precision Ind.
CILC
9.900
21 July
X
Japan Elec. Gen. & Trnas.
CILC
10,000
21 July
X
Japan Petroleum
CILC
11.035
28 July
X
Kurimoto Iron Works
CILC
2.324
28 July
X
Kanto Elec. Supply
CILC
1,700
28 July
X
Japan lploitation Machine Mfg.
GILC
10,000
28 July
X
Japan Fetroleum
CILC
10.000
28 July
x
Japan Metallurgical Ind.
CILC
10,000
28 July
x
Nichiro Fishery
CILC
14,300
28 July
X
Sanyo Steel Afg.
CILC
7.500
28 July
X
Oriental Steel-Plate
CILC
400
28 July
X
Toppan Printing
CILC
3.350
28 July
X
Yodogawa Steel Mfg.
CILC
530
4 Aug.
x
Toto Steel Mfg.
CILC
13,900
4 Ang.
X
Japan Valve Mfg.
CILC
23.000
4 Aug.
X
Japan Iron-Sand Steel Mfg.
CILC
20,000
4 4cg.
x
Nichiro Fishery
CILC
18,000
4 Aug.
x
Special Steel Mfg.
CILC
50,000
4 sug.
x
Oriental Bearing

=== Page 651 === (confidence 0.95)
July
X
12
25,880
802,280.
July
X
1
1,000
12,000
22,100.
July
X
1
8,550
230,850.
July
X
2
10,000
544,500.
July
X
35
9.900
396,490.
July
X
17
10.000
446,900.
July
X
1
2,000
9.035
106,500.
July
X
2
2.324
102.356.
July
X
2
1,700
71,100.
July
X
2
9.245
455
429,107.
Juiy
X
11
10,000
244.000.
July
X
28
10,000
424,200.
July
X
1
14,300
373,950.
July
X
3
7.500
440.750.
July
X
2
400
33,200.
July
X
1
3.550
119.930.
ug.
X
1
530
13.992.
ng.
X
1
900
13.000
22,500.
ng.
X
5
3,000.
20,000
82,000.
sug.
X
33
20,000.
805,400.
ng.
X
4
1,000
17,000
37,500.
ug.
X
1
1,000
49,000
21,200.

=== Page 652 === (confidence 0.89)
X
1
5.331
167,094.
X
1
300
28,500.
X
1
8,570
343.201.
x
6
12.510
437.683.
X
1
50
5.205.
X
8,283
x
2
2.530
442,590.
x
4
20.000
1,065,800.
X
6
10,000
10.000
609.900.
4
12.020
413.350.
X
X
2
8.000
12,000
430.700.
x
1
350
27.720.
x
1
15.600
430,200.
X
2.25
X
3
8.330
351.661.
X
3
3.376
266,616.
380
X
X
2
8,00℃
12.000
505,200.
1
50
5.255.
y
4
13,000
7.000
720,800.
X
20.000
X
1.420
6
x
15

=== Page 653 === (confidence 0.95)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
ate of
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
ffering
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Price
Buyers
Amount Sold
Amount Unsold
From Sales
4 dug.
X
1
810
26,730.
4 Aug.
X
1
1,000
19,000
46,200.
4 aug.
X
5
3,070
203,220.
4 Aug.
X
34
13.111
579,484.
4 sug.
X
1
1,656
176,536.
11 Aug.
X
5
1,000
21,000
42,100.
11 aug.
X
1
200
13.600.
1 g.
X
5
2,100
1,900
76,500.
11 aug.
X
598
17,043.
1l Aug.
y
1
100
3,100.
11 Aug.
X
5
3.500
16,200
52,220.
11 Aug.
X
4
3.000
20,000
77.600.
Aug.
X
56
20,000
785,000.
sug.
X
1
1,000
17,000
35,000.
àug.
X
3
1,500
48,500
30,250.
Aug.
X
1
3.000
12,850
63,000.
dug.
X
1
1.153
114,109.30
àug.
X
3
1,000
81,500.
aug.
X
6
4,000
2.524
153,500.
X

=== Page 654 === (confidence 0.94)
Ackoku Rayon & Pulp
CILC
70
18 aug.
X
Special Steel Mfg.
CILC
18,000
18 aug.
X
Kyushu Elec. Supply
CILC
200
18 aug.
X
Kotobuki Ind.
CILC
11,720
18 Aug.
Howa Ind.
CILC
9.210
18 aus.
X
Chubu Elec. Supply (New)
CILC
10,400
18 sug.
X
Criental Bearing
CILC
60.000
18 Aug.
X
Japan Iron-Sand Steel Mfg.
CILC
23.000
18 aug.
X
Kurimoto Iron Works
CILC
15,550
18 Aug.
X
Osaka Machine Ind.
CILC
18,190
18 Aug.
X
Nichiro Fishery
CILC
20.000
18 Aug.
X
Hokuriku Elec. Supply
FCLC
160
18 Aug.
X
Hanamaki Elec. Railway
MCLC
40
18 Aug.
X
HCLC
3,500
18 nug.
X
Dai-Nippon Brevery
Sanyo Flec. Tramway
HCLC
1.30
18 Aug.
X
HCLC
5.197
18 aug.
X
Hakone Mountain Railway
Hanshin Fiec. Railvay
HCLC
22,875
18 Aug.
X
HCLC
23,350
18 aug.
X
Kinki-Fippor Railway
HCLC
775
18 Aug.
X
Kinki-Nippon Railway (New)
HCLC
2.716
18 Aug.
X
Keihansmin Elec. Express Railway
HCLC
100
18 Avg.
x
Kyokuyo Whale Fishery
CILC
70
25 aug.
X
Csaka Machine Afg.

=== Page 655 === (confidence 0.93)
X
1
70
4.900.
X
1
1,500
16,500
48,600.
X
1
200
8,500.
5
1,000
10,720
28,000.
X
3
2.650
6.560
100,150.
X
27
8,000
2,400
41,400.
X
11
23,600
36,400
417.760.
X
11
14,600
8,400
304.510.
x
5
13.600
1,950
602,400.
X
3
16,000
2,190
564,700.
X
12
20.000
788,620.
x
1
160
7.200.
X
1
40
2,400.
X
21
3.230
270
311,113.
X
1
1,000
63,000.
x
1
2.197
329.930.70
X
11
7.650
15,225
613.190.
X
8
15.900
7.450
1,392,710.
X
1
775
49.290.
2.716.
x
1
269.155.60
x
1
100
5.410.
X
1
70
3,850.
- 2-

=== Page 656 === (confidence 0.95)
Method
of
offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
No
Name of Issue
agency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
: Local Residents)
Fixed Price
Bu
Ckamoto Ind.
CILC
29.280
25 Aug.
X
Hakodate Dockyard
CILC
21,000
25 Aug.
X
Oriental Fearing
CILC
17,840
25 Aug.
X
Criental Photographic Ind.
CILC
3,200
25 Aug.
X
Special Steel Mfg.
CILC
20.000
?5 Aug.
X
magatsuji Steel-Fall Mfg.
CILC
50
25 Aug.
X
Nichiro Fishery
CILC
19,000
25 Aug.
X
Japan Iron-Sand Steel Mfg.
CILC
20.000
25 Aug.
X
Iwate Mining Railway
CILC
16,500
25 sug.
X
1
Kurimoto Iron Works
CILC
16,000
25 Aug.
x
Daikyo Fetroleum
CILC
10,000
25 ug.
X
West-Japan Railway
HCLC
4,520
25 Aug.
X
Enshu Railway
HCLC
1,200
25 aug.
X
Iyo Railway
HCLC
785
25 aug.
X
Sakai Textile
HCLC
2,500
25 Aug.
X
Tohoku Elec. Supply
HCLC
2,524
25 aug.
X
Shikoku Elec. Supply
HCLC
6,317
25 Aug.
X
Chugoku Elec. Supply
HCLC
1,110
25 Aug.
X
Chubu Elec. Supply
HCLC
17,500
25 Ang.
X
Hanshin Elec. Railway
HCLC
23,000
?5 Ang.
X

=== Page 657 === (confidence 0.95)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Cffering to
late of
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
Iffering
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Price
Buyers
mount Sold
mount Unsold
From Sales
25 Aug.
4,350
24,930
131,425.
25 Aug.
X
4,500
16,500
182,250.
25 Aug.
X
17,840
303.768.
25 Aug.
X
3.200
140,800.
25 Aug.
X
5,000
15,000
154,100.
25 Ang.
X
50
2,600.
25 Aug.
X
19,000
745.900.
25 Aug.
X
6,000
14,000
121,950.
25 aug.
X
10
16,500
266,360.
25 dug.
X
6,820
9,180
313.454.
25 ug.
X
10,000
150,000.
25 sug.
X
4,520
391,532.
25 aug.
X
1,200
102,000.
25 aug.
X
785
87.642.50
25 sug.
X
2,500
165,500.
2,524
95,150.
25 sug.
X
6.317
243.904.50
25 Aug.
X
25 Aug.
X
1,110
43.577.
25 Ang.
X
9.300
8,200
398,340.
1,806,460.
25 Ang.
X
23,000

=== Page 658 === (confidence 0.94)
Tobu Railway (New)
HCLC
600
8 Sep.
X
Izumo Railway
HCLC
263
8 Sep.
x
Tokyo Eypress Elec. Railway
HCLC
2,000
8 Sep.
X
Chubu Elec. Supply
HCLC
8,200
8 Sep.
X
Dai-Nippon Bear
HCLC
270
8 Sep.
X
Kinki-Nippon Railway
HCLC
7.450
8 Sep.
X
Keihanshin Express Elec. Railway
HCLC
6,562
8 Sep.
X
Keihanshin Express Elec. Rallway (New)
HCLC
382
8 Sep.
X
Hanshin Express Elec. Railway
HCLC
15.225
8 Sep.
X
Kanto Elec. Supply
HCLC
6.945
8 Sep.
X
Kanto Elec. Supply
CILC
1.643
8 Sep.
X
Iwate Mining Railway
CILC
6,380
8 Sep.
X
Chubu Elec. Supply (New)
CILC
2.400
8 Sep.
x
Kansai Elec. Supply (New)
CILC
35.941
8 sep.
X
Japan Chemical Drug
CILC
300
8 Sep.
X
Sugiaura Varehouse
CILC
100
8 Sep.
X
Sharin Ind.
CILC
90
8 Sep.
X
Sunsu Railway
CILC
13
ε Sep.
X
Japan Coal
CILC
50
22 Sep.
X
Osaka Ceramics
CILC
9,650
22 Sep.
x
Takamori Mining
CILC
23,880
22 Sep.
x
Tohoku Pertilizer
CILC
1.700
22 Sep.
X
-3-

=== Page 659 === (confidence 0.91)
Bep.
X
2
600
42,300.
Beo.
X
1
263
9.954.
Eep.
X
2
2,000
137.115.
Bep.
X
8,200
347.510.
Sep.
X
3
270
27.105.
sep.
X
15
7.450
651.869.
Sep.
X
28
6.562
645.648.
ep.
X
1
382
37.283.20
ep.
I
28
15,225
1,190,182.
Bep.
X
17
6.945
261,019.50
1.643
66.549.30
Bep.
X
ep.
x
15
0.380
111,840.
6
2,400
9.600.
ep.
X
op.
X
71
35.941
358,970.80
ep.
X
1
300
33,900.
op.
1
100
4,800.
p.
x
1
90
4.347.
p.
x
1
13
689.
1
50
750.
pp.
X
5
4.700
4.950
89.250.
x
3
23.880
363,460.
x
1
25
1.675
750.
3
X
p.
-3-

=== Page 660 === (confidence 0.95)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (by
Sales (to Employees
Public at
No. 
Name of Issue
agency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Price
Buyer
Ugo Railway
HCLC
450
22 Sep.
X
1
Towada Railway
HCLC
251
?2 Sep.
X
1
Japan Securities Exchange
State
947,600
20 ug.
x
3.728
Japan Elec. Gen. & Trans,
HCLC
300,000
22 Sep.
X
839
Tokyo Express Elec. Railway
HCLC
300
13 Oct.
X
Chubu Elec. Supply
HCLC
964
13 Oct.
X
Kizhi-Nippon Railway
HCLC
1,600
13 Oct.
X
Toho
HCLC
595
13 Oct.
X
Kaikon Salt Ind.
HCI.C
5,500
13 Oct.
X
Japan Fishery
HCLC
2,000
13 Cct.
X
Sugimura Warehouse
FCLC
26,200
13 Oct.
X
Kanto Gelatine
HCLC
3.000
11 Oct.
X
6
Tokyo Rope Mfg.
HCLC
100.613
1 Oct.
X
463
Iwate Mining Railway
CILC
350
27 Oct.
X
Isetan (New)
CILC
250
27 Oct.
X
Hinode Steamship (New)
CILC
4,166
27 Oct.
x
Osaka Gas (2nd New)
CILC
6,080
27 Oct.
X
Tokai Steel Mfg.
CILC
1,021
27 Oct.
X
Takasago Iron Ind.
CILC
7.542
27 Oct.
X

=== Page 661 === (confidence 0.95)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Bid (by
Sales (to Employees
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
pg
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Price
Buyers
amount Sold
Amount Unsold
From Sales
X
1
450
y
12,250.
X
1
251
10,291.
X
3.728
947,600
35,061,200.
X
839
300.000
9,600,000.
X
300
19,640.
X
964
40.435.20
X
1,600
132,410.
X
595
45.985.
X
5,500
143,850.
X
2,000
72,500.
X
4,250
21,950
157.720.
X
6
3.000
81,000.
X
463
100,613
10,061,300.
X
350
6,300.
X
250
16,875.
x
4,166
58,424.
X
1,200
4,880
24,160.
X
1,021
40.023.20
X
2,000
5.542
73,000.

=== Page 662 === (confidence 0.96)
CILC
99.340
27 Oct.
X
Shimazu Mfg. (New)
HCLC
9,100
25 Oct.
X
Kichibi Trading
HCLC
6,000
26 Oct.
X
Teijin Textile.
HCLC
23.666
1 Nov.
X
Yasukava Elec. Machine Mfg.
HCLC
300
7 Nov.
X
Jiji Shimpo
ECLC
1,000
7 Nov.
X
Jiji Shimpo (New)
CILS
3.840
15 Nov.
X
Kowa food-York
CILC
1,980
15 Nov.
X
Kowa nircraft Wood-Vork
CILC
3.960
15 Ncv.
X
Kowa aircraft Ind.
CILC
3.150
1 Dec.
X
Asahi Steel-Material Ind.
CILC
230
1 Dec.
X
Daishin Chuo Land
CILC
25
1 Dec.
X
Hokuriku Elec. Supply (New)
CILC
710
1 Dec.
X
Ichioka Land
CILC
12,120
1 Dec.
X
Japan Elec. Gen. & Trans (New)
CILC
793
1 Dec.
X
Japan Sulphur (New)
CILC
6,750
1 Dec.
X
Takamori Mining
CILC
5.542
1 Dec.
X
Takasago Iron Ind.
CILC
309
1 Dec.
X
Hokkaido Gas (New)
HCLC
500
X
Eokkaido Gas
HCLC
8,000
7 Nov.
X
Yoshizava Lead Ind.
CILC
1,000
18 Nov.
X
Yokohama Firebrick
4.000
18 Nov.
X
CILC
Yokohama Firebrick (New)
32.360
8 Dec.
X
HCLC
Eew Csake Hotel

=== Page 663 === (confidence 0.95)
7 Oct.
X
99.340
.1,228,999.
5 Oct.
X
11
8,100
121,500.
6 0Oct.
X
12
6,000
300,000.
1 Nov.
X
269
23,666
1,183,300.
7 Nov.
X
)
300
15,000.
27)
7 Nov.
X
)
1,000
24,000.
5 Nov.
X
46
3,840
288,000.
NOv.
X
1
1,980
79,200.
Ncv.
X
1
3.960
217,800.
Dec.
X
3,150
85.050.
Dec.
X
230
4,830.
Dec.
X
25
62.50
Dec.
X
710
15,030.
Dec.
X
12,120
48,610.
Dec.
X
793
7,692.10
Dec.
X
6,750
63.450.
Dec.
X
5,542
258.730.10
Dec.
X
309
4.109.70
X
500
6,650.
Nov.
X
33
8,000
240,000.
Nov.
X
4
1,000
100,000.
Nov.
X
8
4.000
280,000.
Doc.
X
259
32,360
1,132,600.
1

=== Page 664 === (confidence 0.93)
Method
of
offerin
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering t
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Sa e (to Employees
Fublic at
Name of Issue
Agency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
x Local Residents)
Fixed Fric
Criental Elec. Machinery Mfg.
FCLC
44.691
24 Nov.
X
Japan New Drug
HCLC
4.c0c
21 ov.
x
Kokoku Chemical Ind.
FCLC
9,100
25 Nov.
X
Kyoei Life Insurance
CILC
10,000
?? Nov.
X
Csaka Gas
HCLC
46,00
5 Dec.
X
Kurihara Railway
ECLC
12,600
19 Dec.
X
Kameyma Silk
HCLC
2,000
19 Dec.
X
Kotobuki Foodstuff
HCLC
1,600
1y Dec.
x
Japan Carbonic acid
HCLC
5.000
19 Dec.
x
Kanagawa Foodstuff
HCLC
+,000
19 Dec.
X
Shinwa Trading
nCLC
2.900
19 Dec.
X
Japan Elec. Gen. & Trans.
HCLC
265,292
10 Nov.
X
bank of
Japan Elec. Gen. & Trans.
Japan
1,486
10 Nov.
x
Hakodate Refrigeration
HCLC
5.400
10 Nov.
X
Niigata kefrigeration Varehouse
HCLo
5,000
18 Nov.
X
Akita Wood-Work
CILC
3.900
23 Fov.
X
Kyoto Textile
HCLC
1,200
15 Dec.
X
Japan Tranaport Machine
HCLC
10
15 Dec.
X
Fiigata Sulphuric acid (Nev)
HCLC
100
15 Dec.
X

=== Page 665 === (confidence 0.94)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
of
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
o. of
Total Proceeds
ring
Public Tender)
& Local Residents)
Fixed Frice
Buyers
amount Sold
Amount Unsold
From Sales
Nov.
X
151
14,240
30.451
￥ 1,352,800.
Rev.
X
26
4,000
260.000.
Nov.
X
17
2,100
105.000.
Nov.
X
55
10.000
500,000.
Dec.
X
685
46,000
2,024,000.
Dec.
X
2C9
12,600
214,200.
Dec.
X
107
2,000
140,000.
Dec.
X
43
1,600
80,000.
Dec.
X
21
2.000
62,500.
ec.
X
25
4,000
222,000.
ec.
X
13
?,900
145,000.
ov.
X
)
265,292
8.+89,344.
4.896)
ov.
X
)
1,486
47.252.
ov.
X
27
5,400
270,000.
v.
X
47
5.000
500,000.
v.
X
47
3.900
97,500.
ec.
X
1,200
98,760.
c.
X
10
500.
X

=== Page 666 === (confidence 0.95)
Shinyu-Miki Elec. Failway
HCLC
1,200
15 Dec.
X
Tobu Railway (Deferred)
HCLC
1,500
15 Dec.
x
Maruei Dept. Store
HCLC
375
15 Dec.
X
Shochiku
HCLC
50
15 Dec.
X
Shochiku (New)
HCLC
う0
15 Dec.
X
Tohoku Elec. Supply
HCLC
90
15 Dec.
X
Tokyo Express Elec. Railway (Few)
HCLC
30
15 Dec.
X
Dagano Elec. Railway
HCLC
300
15 Dec.
X
kinki-Nippon Railway (New)
HCLC
900
15 Dec.
x
Hokuriku Elec. Supply (New)
HCLC
1,000
12 Dec.
X
Koa Fibre
HCLC
300
15 Dec.
x
Sugimura Yarehouse
HCLC
21,950
15 Dec.
X
Oriental Elec. Mfg.
HCLC
30,451
15 Dec.
X
Tohoku Elec. Supply (New)
HCLC
106
15 Dec.
X
Osaka Gas
HCLC
91,870
8 Jec.
Toa Elec. Ind.
HCLC
3.400
26 Dec.
Sugimura Varehouse
HCLC
5.000
8 Dec.
Hokkaido Elec. Supply
HCLC
120,010
15 Dec.
Tokai Ind.
CILC
18,000
26 Dec.
X
Ehinwa Ind.
HCLC
1,000
10 Jan.
X
Daiwa Agricultural Machinery Ind.
HCLC
1,950
7 Jan.
x
jaigai Cloth Manufactures
HCLC
785
7 Jan.
3
State
72,413
19 Jan.
8

=== Page 667 === (confidence 0.94)
100
00.
5 Dec.
X
1,200
75.260.
5 Dec.
X
1,500
90.550.
5 Dec.
X
375
27,187.50
5 Dec.
X
50
7,830.
5 Dec.
X
50
6,080.
5 Dec.
X
90
3.915.
5 Dec.
X
30
1,950.
Dec.
X
300
36,960.
Dec.
X
900
54,000.
Dec.
X
1,000
30,170.
Dec.
X
300
6,000.
Dec.
x
21,950
1,033,845.
Dec.
X
30.451
3.192,504.
Dec.
X
106
954.
Dec.
X
45.870
46,000
1,880,670.
Dec.
X
15
3.400
221,000.
Dec.
X
105
5.000
190,000.
Dec.
X
492
120.010
4.380.340.
Dec.
X
32
18,000
684,000.
Jan.
X
10
1.000.
100,000.
Jan.
x
6
1.950
136,500.
an.
X
4
785
31.400.
X
16
72.413
1,297.595.

=== Page 668 === (confidence 0.96)
Method
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Fid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
:0. 0
Name of Issue
Agency
Offered
Offering
Public Tender)
 Local Residents
Fixed Price
Buyer
Marunouchi Garage
HCLC
2,000
16 Jan.
X
12
Nanzu Carriage
HCLC
2,278
15 Jan.
X
2?
Nichiman Shipping
CILC
1,520
10 Jan.
1
Nichiman Shipping (New)
6,480
10 Jan.
X
3
Wakodo (Right)
State
930
26 Jan.
X
1
hagoya Railway (Right)
State
46,765
26 Jan.
X
7
Oriental Elec. Machinery (Right)
State
634
31 Jan.
X
1
Koito Factory
HCLC
5.420
26 Jan.
X
Koito Factory
CILC
4.700
26 Jan.
X
Nitto Chemical Ind.
HCLC
1,550
26 Jan.
X
Fitto Chemical Ind.
CILC
640
26 Jan.
X
Nitto Chemical Ind. (New)
HCLC
775
26 Jan.
X
Nitto Chemical Ind. (Old)
CILO
7.597
26 Jan.
X
Sankyo
HCLC
41,224
26 Jan.
y.
Sankyo
CILC
692
26 Jan.
X
Sawafuji Elec. Machine
CILC
2,220
26 Jan.
X
Tsukishima Machinery (Paid-up ¥50)
HCLC
100
26 Jun.
X
Tsukishima Machinery (Paid-up ¥30)
HCLC
400
26 Jan.
X
Tsukishima Machinery (Faid-up ¥30)
CILC
940
26 Jan.
X
Tsukishima Machinery (New)
HCLC
1,000
26 Jan.
X
Tsnkishima kachinery (lex)
CILC
1.600
26 Jan

=== Page 669 === (confidence 0.96)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Date of
Fid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
Offering
Public Tender)
& Local Residents
Fixed Price
Buyers
Amount Sold
amount Unsold
From Sales
16 Jan.
X
12
2,000
27,000.
15 Jan.
X
22
2,278
36,448.
10 Jan.
X
1
1,520
76,000.
10 Jan.
X
3
6,480
129,600.
26 Jan.
X
1
930
14,880.
26 Jan.
X
7
46,765
3,180,337.50
31 Jan.
X
1
634
41,130.
26 Jan.
X
5,420
657.737.
26 Jan.
X
4.700
570,363.
26 Jan.
X
1,550
99.207.
26 Jan.
X
640
40,963.
26 Jan.
X
775
23,310.06
26 Jan.
X
7.597
228.499.54
26 Jan.
y
41,224
6.527.923.46
26 Jan.
X
692
109.580.54
26 Jan.
X
2,250
112,500.
26 Jun.
X
100
10,000.
26 Jan.
X
400
26,000.
26 Jan.
X
940
61,100.
26 Jan.
X
1,000
43.260.
26 Jan
X
1.600

=== Page 670 === (confidence 0.96)
CILC
921
26 Jan.
X
Japan Paints (3rd New)
HCLC
200
26 Jan.
X
Criental Rayon.(New)
CILC
6,130
26 Jan.
X
Criental Rayon (New)
HCLC
200
26 Jan.
X
Dojima Building
FCLC
100
26 Jan.
X
Niigata Cil Mills
HCLC
17
26 Jan.
X
Sado Steamship
HCLC
300
26 Jan.
X
Takahashi Xyuroku & Co.
HCLC
7.000
26 Jan.
X
Tokyo Express Elec. Railway
HCLC
3.360
26 Jan.
X
Chichibu Railway (New)
HCLC
20
26 Jan.
X
Sennichi Land & Juilding
HCLC
30,000
25 Jan.
X
Toyohira Steel Mfg.
HCLC
49.450
25 Jan.
X
Cniki Coal-Mining
X
CILC
5,000
22 Jan.
Sendai Marine Hard Ware Mfg.
X
CILC
2,800
25 Jan.
Yokohama Tally Work
HCLC
9.900
25 Jan.
x
Nichibi Trading (New)
1,600
25 Jan.
X
HCLC
Kawakami Paints
HCLC
2,000
25 Jan.
X
Kanto Trading
HCLC
1,740
25 Jan.
X
asano Life Insurance agency
HCLC
1,000
25 Jan.
X
Kanto Yoriito Kogyo Yugenkaisha
2.462
25 Jan.
X
HCLC
Hokkaido Lanned Goode
HCLC
2,000
25 Jan.
X
Hyogo Canned Goods
- 6-

=== Page 671 === (confidence 0.94)
X
921
62,482.80
X
200
74,998.43
X
6,130
2,298,701.57
200
20.400.
X
100
30,100.
X
17
1,105.
X
300
15,300.
X
7.000
842,000.
X
3.360
291,340.
X
20
7,600.
X
222
30,000
750,000.
X
147
49.450
1,978,000.
X
30
5,000
215,000.
X
9
2,800
140,000.
X
24
9,900
74,250.
X
9
1,600
133,600.
X
10
2,000
133,000.
X
13
1.740
43,500.
X
19
1,000
20,000.
27
2.462
147.720.
X
28
2,000
130,000.
6
X
- 6 -

=== Page 672 === (confidence 0.94)
Nethod
Offering
Competitive
Hegotiated
Offering to
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Pid (By
Sale (to Laployees
Public at
:0. of
Name of Issue
gency
Offered
offering
Public Tender)
: Local Residents
Fixed Price
Buyers
Marunouchi Garage
HCLC
2,000
16 Jan.
X
12
Nansu Carriuge
HCLC
2,278
15 Jan.
X
22
Nichiman Shipping
CILC
1,520
10 Jan.
X
1
Nichiman Shipping (htw)
6,480
10 Jan.
X
3
Wakodo (Right)
State
930
26 Jan.
X
1
bagoya Railway (Right)
State
46,765
26 Jan.
X
7
Criental Elec. Machinery (Right)
State
634
31 Jan.
X
1
Koito Factory
HCLC
5.420
26 Jan.
X
Koito Pactory
CILC
4.700
26 Jan.
X
Nitto Chemical Ind.
ECLC
1,550
26 Jan.
X
Eitto Chemical Ind.
CILC
640
?6 Jan.
X
yitto Chemical Ind. (New)
ECLC
775
26 Jan.
X
Nitto Chemical Ind. (Cld)
CILS
7.597
26 Jan.
X
Sankyo
HCLC
41.224
26 Jan.
y.
Sankyo
CILC
602
26 Jan.
X
Sawafuji Elec. Machine
CILC
2.250
26 Jan.
x
Tsukishi Machinery (Paid-up ¥50)
HCLC
100
26 Jun.
X
Tsukishima Machinery (Paid-up ¥30)
HCLC
400
26 Jan.
X
Tsukishima Machinery (Faid-up ¥30)
CILC
940
26 Jan.
X
Tsukishima Machinery (New)
HCLC
1,000
26 Jan.
X
Tenkichim Machinar ()
CILC
1.600
26.J0n

=== Page 673 === (confidence 0.95)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
offering
Public Tender)
& Local Residents
Fixed Price
Buyers
Amount Sold
amount Unsold
From Sales
一
25 Jan.
X
10
1,500
y
45,000.
25 Jan.
X
413
20,000
2,800,000.
25 Jan.
X
217
20,000
2,200.000.
2 Feb.
X
18,881
2,747,733.
2 Feb.
X
3.771
617.132.50
57.596
8,438,288.
2 Feb.
x
2 Feb.
X
181,171
27.406,940.
489,469.
3.443
2 Feb.
x
6,081
425,265.
2 Feb.
X
6.436
789,500.
? Feb.
X
22,247
1,673.784.
2 Feb.
X
17,867
5,303,895。
2 Feb.
X
667.375.
3.525
2 Feb.
X
2,350
359,000.
? Feb.
X
4.134
590.530
2 Feb.
X
9.950
59.700.
2 Feb.
X
50
3,500.
2 F9).
X
2,662
53,190.
2 Feb.
X
99.966
21,074,200.
2 Feb.
X

=== Page 674 === (confidence 0.94)
Locomotive Mfg. (New)
HCLC
90.014
2 Feb.
X
Criertal Steel Plate (New)
HCLC & CILC
19.620
2 Feb.
X
Kurimoto Iron Works
(01d)
CILC
20.155
2 Feb.
X
Kurinoto Iron Works (New)
CILC
21,275
2 Feb.
X
Imperial Precise Ind.
CILC
50
2 Feb.
X
CILC & Bank of
Imperial Rayon
Japan
85.993
2 Feb.
X
CILC & Bank of
Imperial Rayon (New)
Jupan
110.854
2 Feb.
X
Kyokuyo Whale-Pishery
State
7.507
2 Feb.
X
Nikkatn
HCLC
400
2 Feb.
x
Toho
State
1.776
? Feb.
X
Shochiku (New)
HCLC
250
2 Feb.
x
Nippon Manga Movie
HCLC
100
2 Feb.
X
Toyoko Movie
HCLC
2,850
? Feb.
X
Korakuen Stadium
HCLC
1,600
2 Feb.
X
Imperial Hotel
(01d)
HCLC & State
13.039
2 F.0.
x
Imperial Hotel
(New)
HCLC & State
11,598
? Feb.
X
Japan Battery (Right)
State
5.432
2 eb.
X
Taiyo Printing Ind.
HCLC
20,000
28 Feb.
X
Asano Construction Material Ind.
HCLC
3.456
3 Feb.
x
Kumazawa Cil Mills
HCLC
2.000
3 Feb.
X
Kitami General Lumber
CILC
20.000
3 Feb.
X
Tokyo Marine Products
HCLC. & State
29.341
6 Feb.
x
Tsuda Elec. Wires
HCLC & Ste
9.400
28 Dec.
X

=== Page 675 === (confidence 0.89)
90,014
10.236,622.80
X
19,620
2,067,000.
X.
20,155
2.585.875.
x
21,275
990.750.
X
50
2,500.
X
85.993
57.909.420.
X
110,854
77.265.920.
X
7.507
707.055.50
X
400
182,400.
x
1.776
327.048.
x
250
71,300.
x
100
3.000.
x
2,850
339.550.
x
1,600
253.400.
13.039
3.262,357.80
X
11.598
2,321,919.60
x
5.432
359.416.
x
2
1,000,000.
76
20,000
X
X
29
3.456
138,240.
47
2.30
110,000.
X
1,650,000.
320
50,000
X
38
29.341
924,241.50
X
43
9.400
846,000.
X

=== Page 676 === (confidence 0.95)
Method
of
offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Offering
No. Shares
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (to Imployees
Public at
No. 0
Name of Issue
Agency
Offered
offering
Public Tender)
& Local Residente)
Fixed Price
Bayer
Takasaki artificial Leather
CILC
20.000
10 Feb.
X
12
Hokkai Paper Mfg.
CILC
10
16 Peb.
X
Yamato Brewery
CILC
400
16 Feb.
X
Kyoto Fibre Goods Trading
CILC
457
16 Feb.
x
Fuji Elec. Chemical
CILC
500
16 Teb.
X
Tomakomai Bean-Hash & Soy Brewery
CILC
300
16 Feb.
X
Saitame Pref. Cotton & Staple Fibre Distribution
CILC
950
16 Feb.
X
Tokyo Orimono Kaikan
CILC
20
16 Feb.
X
Kaikon Sangyo Shoj1
CILC
900
16 Feb.
X
Yamaguchi Pref. Truck
CILC
392
16 Feb.
x
Hachioji Motor-Car Repairing
CILC
550
16 Feb.
X
Ready-made Cloths Central the 5th agent
CILC
270
16 Feb.
X
Ishibashi Industrial
CILC
100
16 Feb.
X
ashibetsu Takane Coal-mining
CILC
300
16 Feb.
X
Shokosan Mining
CILC
5,000
16 Feb.
X
Imperial Hotel (Old)
HCLC
19.000
16 Feb.
x-
Kyushu Smokless Coal Mine
CILC
1,000
9 Feb.
X
Sasaki Trading
HCLC
1,100
9 Feb.
x
Kojaku Railway (Right)
HCLC
8,278
14 Feb.
x
3
Koito Factory (Right)
HCLC
1,090
16 Peb.
3
TOTAL
4.978,323

=== Page 677 === (confidence 0.95)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
ring
of
Public Tender)
Bid (By
& Local Residents)
Sale (to Imployees
Fixed Price
Public at
No. of
Buyers
mount Sold
mount Unsold
Total Proceeds
From Sales
Feb.
X
12
20.000
¥ 1,000,000.
X
10
1,000.
Feb.
400
58,050.
X
Teb.
457
15.995.
X
Feb.
000
12,500.
X
Feb.
24,000.
300
x
Feb.
950
19.000.
X
Feb.
20
3,200.
X
Feb.
-6,800.
900
Feb.
X
392
21,560.
Feb.
x
550
27,500.
Feb.
X
270
31.050.
Feb.
X
2,200.
100
Feb.
X
300
15,000.
eb.
X
5.000
80,000.
eb.
X
19,000
4.723,800.
eb.
X-
eb.
X
1,000
25.000.
38,200.
eb.
X
1,100
b.
X
3
8,278
232.787.80
b.
X
3
1.090
33.1Cc.
4,363,236
615.087
¥384.992.213.80

=== Page 678 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTION
is assigned to
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
SPECIAL STAFF, UNITED STATES ARMY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
14 May 1948
Ir. Walter C. ulin
Department of State
DHISION OE
Room 4210, Nev State bldg.
ashington 25, J. C.
This replies to your communication dated
JU171948
DEPAKI
There is inclosed for your temporary use, for a period not. to
exceed
days, the material listed below:
894.51/5-1448
The following material is inclosed for your information and retention:
Sale of sec ritiee by the Holdin Company Liguid tion Commission
en tse Closed Lnstitrtions Lbaba tin Comatssion
Remarks:
it is repmer ted thae  homiuy or hn ohe ce  or this report
A/FLH
anote t  k orbem So is i b atined ant r. Arnold Nestel,
wo ws wrench tr sud et  u neer n.
Inquiries with reference to the above described material should be
directed to the Civil Affairs Division, Reports and Analysis Branch,
Pentagon Building, Washington 25, D. C., telephone REpublic 6700,
extension 71749.
J01 23 1948
FL1
DK Levvis for
Inclosures:
WT.GREAVES
(As listed ab ve)
Uhtef, Keperte : analysis Branch
47 23731

=== Page 679 === (confidence 0.92)
mos
il new
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COLMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
apo 500
AG 018(5 Apr 48)ESS/AC
5 April 1943
SUBJECT: Sale o: Securities by the iolding Company Liquidation Commission
and tie Closed Institutions Liquida tion Commission
TO:
Chief, Civil Affairs Jivision, Special Stafr, United States Army,
Machington 25, D. C.
1. teferences ar: the following radios:
a. -9326 from  vil Affair: Division to General Headquarters,
upreme Com an ler for the Allie1 Povers, 21 February 1948.
b. C-5ol17 from General Heaiuartors, Suprme Commander for the
Alliel Pors, to Department of the Anmy, Attention: Divil Affairs Division,
arc .
2. In cor liance with r furence ralio paragr ph la, above, attached
horeto ar. charts choin the orferings of securities made througn the
Securities Joordinatin: Lijuidation Comaittee and the Closei Institutions
Liau d tien Com is ion. All securities at the present time are being sold
throu h the Securities Coor linati ipuideticn Committee. This includes
the securities hel4 by the Closed Institutions Liquidotion Commiscion (CILc),
the Hol lin" Company Ligutl tien Comaission (HcLc), bank of Japan and the
Jupanose oy pmient (ot te.).
3. prior to the activ:tion on 1 July 1947 of the Securities Coordinating
iquid ui Co. vtee, socurities wr: sola by the Closed Institutions Liquida-
tion Conmiscion. (af. Chart Ho. !). hart Ho. 2 shows the securities sold
from 1 July 1947 to 21 February 1942.
4. The followin ar te amcunt. o: securitie soli and to be sold:
(Hote c rrection of i ures enewm in paragra n 2b, r ference radio paragraph
1b, above).
a.,112, S s 1 toe: sol botm 2 y 1946 and 21 February
124 for ¥ 2, 2:7,530.78.
b. 12s, 037,177 share vith a face vo1ue e ¥ ,050,730,323.00 remain
to be sold.
c. onds and debentures in the amount of ¥ 9,476,518,129.00 remain
to be sold.
5. Flans fir disposal of renaining securities are similar to methods
indicated in Chert o. 1 and No. 2. uture plans call for a repidly accelerated
rtof offerins.
T SUPRE COAD
2 1.cls.
/S/ Rehe
I. CLc sJer prite to Jul 47
2. .lo. fron. 1 Ju1 47-21 Feb 48

=== Page 680 === (confidence 0.90)
D
n0
ACTION
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
is assigned to
No. 334
DaR
oly0, June 8, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
Subject: Curreney Arran ement  etween Japan and the Sterling Area.
I - q actin
PAR
RECEIVED
JUN 2 3 1948
THE HOHORALE
13
or
UD SACSTATE,
3
111
894.51/6-848
Sirt
2
C
I have the honor to enclose copies of a Henorandum of the
United Kingdom Liaison ission in Japan to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers: lated ay ?2, 19lhe, entitled "Payment Ar-
rangements for Trade Fetween Japan and the Sterling Area", and
23/
Kemoranda in reply from the Suprems, Jommander for the Allied Pow-
ers to the Head of the nited Kingdon Liaison Tission in Japan,
dated Tay ?? and Yay ??, respectively, on the same subject. These
momoranla constitute the overall payments ereement, effective
ay 31, 1oh3, governing the conduet of trade between Japan, the
United Mingdom and Colonies (exeluding lHong Kong), Australia,
Turna, Mire, the Paree Tolanis. Teeland, Iraa, New Zealand, Pa-
kistan, the Persian Julf Sheikdoms, South Africa and such other
portions of the sterling Area as may desire to participate.
This arrangement supersedes the interim sterling agreement, ap-
plica le only to private trade, adopted last November and refer-
red to in this Mission's despatchs 1lo. 1h06 of Novemher 20, 1947, en-
titled, "Interim Agreement Cor the Sterling Financing of Private
Trade wa th Japan", and No. 8 of danuary 2, lplhs on the same subject.
 the torms of the A greoment, all trade between Japan and
CS/A
the speeified Sterling Area comuntries shall be conducted on a ster-
ling basis with the exeeption of experts of cotton textiles manu-
factwed in Jaoan from raw cotton procured in tre United States.
Convertil le sterling reccivel therefrom is to be deposited in ac-
counts to le ostablished y the Hony Kong and Shanghai Tanking
Comporation and the Uhartered  ank of Tndia, Australia and China.
Althongh the agreenent stipulates that the Supreme Commander
may convert sterling balances to dollars at any time that he finds
十
st necessary for the protectior of Jepan's foreign exehange posi-
894.51
tion or for me conduct of Japan's foreign trade, it is agreed
that the Suprome Corwander wiil only convert sterling balances to
Eue
dollars at six month intervals unless he acquires a surplus of ster-
ling which be cannot reasonakly be expected to utilize within the
Sterling Area for an apprecialle period of time, or other exception-
al circunstences occur necessitating such action. Furthermore, the
Con
Supreme Commander agrees to retain on conversion dates (June 30th
Tra
OFD UNIT
and
JUN 29 1940
Tai
FRB
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 681 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 334
June 8, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
and December 3lst of each year) sufficient sterling to meet esti-
mated short-term sterlin commitments. It is also understood
that the Supreme Conmander will not exercise his right of conver-
tibility to the extent that credits granted by a Sterling Area
participant, and utilized by the Supreme Commander, remain out-
standing. Ly the terms of the agreement, sterling conversion is
to be effected at the Lank of England's middle rate for dollars
on the date of such transactions, as are sterling purchases by
the Supreme Commander to meet sterling commitments, which, it
is stipulated, may only be made fron the Lank of England.
Provision is also made in the Agreement for the early set-
tlement of all outstanding onen accounts between Japan and the
participating countries to be accomplished through the medium
of the bank accounts referred to in the second paragraph above.
Not only does the above Agreement permit dollar-short Ster-
ling Area countries to buy Japanese exports for sterling, but it
also indicates considerable pro ress tovard the reestablishment
of normal trade relationshirs, an important part of Japan's pre-
war trade having leen condueted on a sterling basis.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Acting Political Adviser
Enclosures: 7
1. Hemo United Hingdom Liaison
Mission to SCAP, Nay 22, 1948,
subj: "Payments Arrangements
for Trade Letween Japan and the
Sterling Area".
2.
Hemo from SCAP to Head of United
Kingdom Liaison Mission, May ?7,
1248, subj: (Same as 1 above).
3。
Hemo from Seap to Head of United
Kingdom Liaison Mission, lay 29,
1948, subj: (Same as 1 above).
Original and ozalid to Department.
851
DI.Fane/dph
CONFIDENTIAL
0.3.1

=== Page 682 === (confidence 0.89)
n0
D
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
ACTION
FOR JAPAN
is assigned to
No. 334
DaR
CONFIDENTIAL
olg0, June 8, 1948.
Subject: Curreney Arran ement  etween Japan and the Sterling Area.
I - q action
RECEIVED
JUN 2 3 1948
THE HOHORALE
18
HE SRO ARC STATE,
0r
3
111
894.51/6
Sirt
2
C_
,in
I have the honor to enclose copies of a Henorandum of the
United Kingdom Liaison Mission in Japan to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers: lated Mhy ?2, 19lh?, entitled "Payment Ar-
rangements for Trade Fetween Japan and the Sterling Area", and
283/
Vemoranda in reply from the Supreme Jommander for the Allied Pow-
ors to the Head of the nited Kingdon Liaison Tission in Japan,
dated Tay ?? and Hay ??, respectively, on The same subject. These
-848
nomoranla constitute the overall payments greement, effective
ay 31, 1oh3, governing the ponduet of trade between Japan, the
United Mingdom and Celonies (exeluding lHong Kong), Australia,
j0
Turna, Mire, the Faree Tolanis. Teeland, Iraa, Hew Zealand, Pa-
kistan, the Persian Julf Sheikdoms, South Africa and such other
portions of the sterling Area as may desire to participate.
this arrangement supersedes the interim sterling agreement, ap-
plica le only to mrivate trade, adopted last November and refer-
red to in this Mission's despatchs No. 1h06 of Novemher 20, 1947, en-
titled, "Interiw A reement Cor the Sterling Financing of Private
Trade wi th Japan", and No. 8 of danuary 2, lphs on the same subject.
y the torms f the A reoment, all trade retween Japan and
CS/A
the speeified Sterline krea cmuntries shall be conducted on a ster-
ling tasis with the exeeption of experts of cotton textiles manu-
factaued in Jaoan from raw cotton procured in tre United States.
Convertil le sterling reccivel therefrem in to be depesited in ac-
counts to le ostallished y the Hong Kong and Shanghai Tanking
Gouporation and the Shartered  ank of Tndia, Australia and China.
101
Althou h the agreenent stipulates that the Supreme Commander
may convert sterling balances to dollars at any time that he finds
十
it necessary for the pretectior of Jepan's foreign exehange posi-
tion or for e conduct of Japan's foreign trade, it is agreed
894.51
that the Suprome Corwander wil only convert sterling ralances to
Eue
dollars at siv month intervals unless he acquires a surplus of ster-
ling which be cannot reasonatly be expected to utilize within the
Sterling Area for an apprecialle period of time, or other exception-
al circunstences occur necessitating such action. Furthermore, the
Con
Supreme Commander agrees to retain on conversion dates (June 30th
Tra
OFD UNIT
and
JUN 2 9 1940
Tai
FRR
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 683 === (confidence 0.88)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 334
June 8, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-?-
England's middle rate for dollars against sterling on the date of such
transactions. Any sterliny pmurchased by SCAp for deposit in the accounts
against dollars or other currencies would be credited to the account at
the an' of En land's midlle rate fo sueh currencies on the date of such
transactions.
d. It woult te underetood thut Soup could exercise the right of
convertin sterling Ialances to dollars as provided in c above at any
time that  concidered sueh conversion poeessary for the protection
of the forei  vehan  assets of Jan or for the conduet of Japanese
forei un trede. oweror, it weuld te unde stood that, except when SoAP
ac pujred a surpl us oo steclin weh there apoeared to be no reasonable
prospeet  i vin  Stling r for a substantial period,
or whr o  nees ccurred, soAP would convert
sterlin lmoe  e eemte int lallars at six month intervals.
Sph comereion l pely   onies on leposit in the accounts
at e t  conrsion arless f wher or where acquired and re
rdless ow nderstood however,that
Sont vold, unless o maient ministration of Japanese foreign ex-
chan e assets ceuns lled otherwise, retain in sterling on the conversion
dates a sum sufficient to meet cstimatel near-term commitments in the
Sterling Area. T is proposed that conversion dates of June 3oth and
Jocena or Plst le estel lished.
e. Shouli either party Snl it neeessary to terminate the above,
arrangements peeh terwwPeetive after three months
notaee in wadcang an'  lipublatin of eny balance would be carried
out in the sace anner  n  came dates as the semi-annual con-
verai ns rovi led shove, tt iei unleestood, hewever, that the provi-
sien in as e -see sl in ne way te taken ns overriding
stAp's parat  a coysion us le fined in the first sentence
s-seet1.
.w eneesee n paagraphthis
Maesien seeke an mierstanadtine from Siat that any sale of dollars that
may le necescary in rler  moet hio storline commitments vill be
erfeeted  means ? o trensaen wth e Fank of England and
not  pess elrre.
i. mis Passton simtlarly nooks an undertaving from SoAp that in no
spounstenees woull he poreise vis ri bt o? conceptavility under sub-
section d as long as, and to  mtent t' at, any eredits that might
have leen ranted y Sterline Lren partteipents in the agreement re-
mained putstumaine. ry "eredits rarte" is meant credits actually
utilisnd i stat ane not lines  yHt thet ave not been taken up.
5. As regards sub-seetion e is woul i, af course, be understood that
all Sterliag Ares countries which nay participate in these arrange-
ments would cach have indivilunlly the right to secede from these
arrangements on three months' notice to SoAP in writing.
6. It is part of these arrangoments that immediately they come into
operation steps will le taken to arrange the eettlement of all out-
standing oren accounts between SCAP and those Sterling Area countries
participating
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 684 === (confidence 0.91)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 331
June 8, 1948
COLFEDENTIAL
--
particinating in these prrmgements through the bank accounts refer-
red to in sub-seetien t, which Soap will put in funds as necessary
for this purpose.
7. In addition tn me niten Mingdon ani lalonies (exeluding Hong
Kong), it has als  Leen aureed that Austrelie, Turma, Bire, the Faroe
Islands, Ieeland, Trm, Mew Zealand, Palistan, the Persian Gulf Sheik-
doms and South Africa will particapate und they are accordingly here-
by ineluded than te   tee arrangenents.
8. The tenus ant condatiums of these arran aments shall le binding
on SeAP or his successor.
?. These arrangevents shall terminat, vrnlecse the parties stipulate
in writing to the contuary, woon the proelamation of a peace treaty
between and among the e Towers, o ny of them, and the Japanese
Government and, in sueh eveni, the li puidation of any sterling balance
shall he carried out in the same manner and at the same dates as the
seni-annual conversions prevs le' lerein, it leing understood, however,
that the provisions in this mragraph shall, in no way, be taken as
over-riding SoAp's pararrunt right o conversion as defined in sub-
seetien d phove.
1o. It is suscested that this comunication and the reply confirming
the understanding of SoaP on the Soregoing noints shall constitute the
agreement, and that the paymarts preangements herein specified for the
conduct a trade letween dapan, the Tn ted Kingdom and Colonies (ex-
cluling Hong on), Australia,  umua, Tire, the Faroe Islands, Iceland,
Iral, New Zealand, Pelistan, the Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, South Africa
and such other porti one o? the Sterling Area es may desire to partici-
pate chall thereupon he introduced.
.. THS
Pinancial Adviser
(for Head of Mission)
P/Ey
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 685 === (confidence 0.95)
Method
of
Offering
Competitive
Negotiated
Offering to
Date of
Bid (By
Sale (to Employees
Public at
No. of
Total Proceeds
offering
Public Tender)
& Local Residents
Fixed Price
Buyers
Amount Sold
amount Unsold
From Sales
一
25 Jan.
X
10
1,500
y
45,000.
25 Jan.
X
413
20,000
2,800,000.
25 Jan.
X
217
20,000
2,200.000.
2 Feb.
X
18,881
2,747,733.
2 Feb.
X
3.771
617.132.50
57.596
8,438,288.
2 Feb.
x
2 Feb.
X
181,171
27.406,940.
489,469.
3.443
2 Feb.
x
6,081
425,265.
2 Feb.
X
6.436
789,500.
? Feb.
X
22,247
1,673.784.
2 Feb.
X
17,867
5,303,895。
2 Feb.
X
667.375.
3.525
2 Feb.
X
2,350
359,000.
? Feb.
X
4.134
590.530
2 Feb.
X
9.950
59.700.
2 Feb.
X
50
3,500.
2 F9).
X
2,662
53,190.
2 Feb.
X
99.966
21,074,200.
2 Feb.
X

=== Page 686 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch
No. 334 dated June 8, 1948,
from the Office of the Poli-
tical Adviser for Japan, To-
lyo, on the subject, "Curren-
cy Arrangement Between Japan
and the Sterling Area".
(COPY)
COPY:s1
APO 500
22 May 1948
A3 003 (22 Yay 46)ESS/T
:WHORANDU FoR: The Yead of the United Kingdom Liaison Mission in
Japan
SUF JECT:
Payments Arrangements for Trade between Japan and
the Sterling Area
. References:
a. Memorandun from the United Kingdom Liaison Iission in
Japan to the Supreme Uoamander for the Allied Powers, Reference No.
EA 2h/hso/he dated 2o  h, ma geet, same as above.
. Hemorandum m the Suprene Commander for the Allied
Powers to the Head  E nited Yin dom Liaison Lission in Japan,
file Ae 03 (27 Yey h)Ess, Pms, sub jeet, sare as ahove, dated 27
Yay 1948.
2. Pursuant to the terms of peference memoranda paragraph la
and It above, agreement having been reached regarding the acceptance
and convertibilit  sierline wi ich mey acerue to the accounts of the
Suprene Conmander Cor the Allied Powers Thereinafter referred to as
SoAP) as a result of trade retween the J erliny Area and Japan,
StAP coneurs in the supersession of the Interin Arrangement for the
conduct of private tra le Letmmon residents in the United Kingdom and
certain other specified parts of the Sterling area and dapan by an
overall payments agreement overning the conduet of trade between
Japan, the United Kingdom and Jolonies (exeludiny Hong Kong), and
such other portions of the Sterlin: ares as may desire to participate,
on the collowing terms:
a. With the exceptior of exports of cotton textiles manu-
factared in Japan in whole or in art crom raw cotton of U. S. origin,
all trade between Japan, United Kingdom and Colonies (excluding Hong
Kong) and such other portions of the Sterliny Area as may desire to
participate shall be conduated on a sterling basis. Any sterling ac-
quired 1y SeAP in connection with such trade shall be fully utilizable
for payments within the Sterling Area or for conversion to dollars in
aecordance with paragraphs 2e and 2l below.
Y. The Hong Kong and Shanghai Panking Sorporation and the
Chartered Lank of India, Australia and China shall, at the request of
SCAP, establish accounts with appropriate desinations and convertible
sterling
CONPIDENTIAL

=== Page 687 === (confidence 0.95)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 334
June 8, 1948
COFFIDENTIAL
-2-
sterling received 1y SoAP from whatever source acquired will be held
in those accounts frou  ich out payment would re made for Japanese
purchases from the Sterling Area.
e. The sterline Ielanees in the above accounts shall be
available, on demand Iy BoAp, for the purchase of dollars at the
Tank of England's middle rate for tollars against sterling on the
date of sueh transactions. Anm sterlin purchased by SCAP for de-
posit in the accounts against dollars or cther currencies will be
credited to the accounts at the ank o En land's middle rate for
such currencics on the date of sueh transactions.
d. It is understood that SoAP could exercise the right
of converting sterliny Ialar es to dollars as provided in paragraph
2c above at any time tit bo censidered such conversion necessary for
the proteetion of te orei n ouehange assets of Japan or for the
conduct of Japanese forei m trvie. Fowever, it is understood that,
except when SCAP acpuired a surplus of sterling which there appeared
to be no reasonaile prospeet of utilising within the Sterling Area
Cor a substantial period, or where other exceptional circunstances
occurred, SoAP would convert sterliny balances in his accounts into
dollars at six-month intorvals. Juch conversion would apply to all
monies on deposit in the accounts at he time of conversion, regard-
less of when or where aeguiret and repardless of how long on deposit.
It is understood, however, that ScAP would, unless the prudent ad-
ministration of Japanese forein exchange assets counselled other-
wise, retain in sterling on the conversion dates a sum sufficient to
meet estimated near-term conmitments in the Sterling Area. It is
agreed that the conversion dates shall be June 30th and December
31st each year.
c. Should either party finl it necessary to terminate the
above arrangements, steh terrination would be effective after three
months' notice in writi ond the li pui lation of any balance would
be carried out in the same panner and upon the same dates as the semi-
annual conversions provided ahove, it heiny understood, however, that
the provision in this sub-pma manh should in no way be taken as over-
riding SoAP's paramoimt right of conversion as defined in the first
sentence of paragraph 2d alove.
3. With reference to para ranh c above, it is the understand-
ing of SoAp that any sale of dollars that may be necessary in order to
meet his sterling oo rritments will be effected ly means of a direct
transaetaon with e ant of England and not by purehasing sterling
elsewhere.
h. SCAP undertakes that, in no cireunstanees, will he exercise
his vight of convertibility under pararranh 2d ahove as long as, and
to the extent that, any credits that might have heen granted by Ster-
ling Area participants in the agreement renained outstanding. Py "cre-
dits ranted" is meant credits actually utilized by SCAP and not lines
of credit that have not been taken up.
. As
CONTAL

=== Page 688 === (confidence 0.87)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tolgo's No. 334
June , 191
CONFTDEUTIAL
-3-
. As  ards para raph e alove, it is understood that all
Sterlin, krea coun ries which may participate in these arrangements
woald each Iave indivi lually the right to secede frem these arrange-
ments orn three monthd notice to 30AP in writing.
4. It is part of these arrar ements t at, immediately they come
into oporation, steos will le taken to arran e the settlement of all
ontstandin: oren accouts letveen SCAP and those Sterling Area coun-
tries particioatin in t ese arrangements thro h the rank accounts
pefereel to in pare rarh 2b above, which Soal vill put in funds as
neces r for  is purpose.
  n dom and olonies (excluding
Ton on ),  lee Len apeed that Australie, Purma, Eire, the
Faroe Tolanda, T lyd. Trau, Hew Realand, Pakistan, and the Persian
Sls Shoilktons u t Aftee wll participate and they are accord-
ingly hevely inelule wi thin the scope of these orrangements.
9. The terue an? mnaiti ons ef these moranaenents shall be
in n SA h e.
. Thece arran pemonis shall erriraie, unless the parties stip-
ulate in writing to the contuury, wen the proclamation of a peace
treety betweer and ameng the Allind Powers, or any of then, and the
Japan se o vernnent, and in such event, the liqpuidation of any ster-
liny alamee shall Le caveiei out in the sane manner and on the same
dates as the seni-annual conversions provi led herein, it being un-
Sorstood however, that tho provisions in this paragraph shall, in
no way, lo tahen as over-ritiny SiAr's peramount right of conver-
sion as define l in pare pech 24 above.
1). e a ments prran ements herein specified for the conduct
of trade etreen Japan, he nited Tingdom and Golonies (excluding
"ons Yongs), Australia, me, Pire, the Faroe Islands, Iceland, Iraq,
Hey Kealand, Paltistan, the Porsian ulf Sheiklons, South Africe and
seh ather porti ns o the Sterliny area as may desire to participate
a all le effective n and after 31 ay 124?.
OREA
 . CON
Colonel, A. . D.
Asst. Adjutant leneral.
COMFIDENTIAL
A  S
of the rigned

=== Page 689 === (confidence 0.92)
100t
ACTION
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
is assigned to
FOR JAPAN
f
No. 400
OVIION 0. FINANCIAL ATAIRS
Fib- noacton
DC/
JUL131948
CONFIDENTIAL
Subject:
Currency Arran ement between Japan and the Sterling
Area.
1.070
THE HOHORABLE
THE SECRETARI OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No.
334 of June 3, 1948 on the above subject and in that connection
1/
to enclose a copy of a United Kingdom Liaison lission memorandum
of May 31, 1948 confimain, the desire of the Government of India
to participate in the sterling payments arrangement, and a copy
894.51/6-3048
2/
of an Economic and Scientific Section memorandum of June 17,1948
acknowledging the receipt thereof; and, a copy of a United King-
3/
don Liaison Mission nemorandum of June 12, 1948 confirming the
desire of the Government of Ceylon to participate in the ar-
OCD
4/
rangement, together vith the Economic and Scientific Section's
memorandun o1 June 21, 1748 acknovledging the receipt thereof.
As is indicated in the enclosed memoranda, India's and
Ceylon's participation will date from Lay 31, 1948, the effec-
tive date of the sterling payments arrangement. The attention
of the Department is invited to the fact that the provisions
fre
of paragraph six of the arrangement to the effect that, immedi-
ate steps will le taken by the participants to settle all out-
standing open accounts, do not apply to the present Indian
ELe
open account established as the result of a contract betreen
the Governor General of India and the Japanese Foard of rade
Cla
(Doeli Cho) on October 28, 1947.
12
Con
Respectfully yours,
2
C
Treas
.eac
CS/A
C
Hes
57
W. J. Sebald
Tao
894.3048
Enclosures
JUL 16 1948
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 690 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 400
June 30, 1948.
at.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Encloşures:
Meno from UK Liaison Lission,
Lay 31, 1948 of Indian Govt.'s
acceptance of Sterling Arrangenent.
Memo fron ESS ackmowledging re-
ceipt of above Lemo.
3.
Memo from UK Liaison Lission,
June 12, 1948 of Ceylon's ac-
ceptance of Sterling Arrangement.
ceipt of Ceylon's notice.
Original and ozalid to Department.
Copies to:
American Embassy, London.
American Embassy, Canberra.
American Embassy, Karachi.
American Enbassy, New Delhi.
American Embassy, Colombo.
American Embassy, Rangoon
American Embassy, Eanghdad.
Arerican Legation, Pretoria.
American Legation, Reykjavik.
American Legation, Wellington.
Anerican Consulate General, liong Kong.
American Consulate General, Singapore.
631
DMBane/dph
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 691 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 400
dated June 30, 1948 from the Office
of the Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Currency Ar-
rangement between Japan and the
Sterling Area."
(COPY)
UNITED KINGDOM LIAISON MISSION N JAPAN,
BRITISH ELBASSY,
TOKYO.
Ref. EA. 36/450/48.
31st May, 1948.
TO
General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
(Attention: Economic and Scientific Section.)
THROUGH
: G-2 Forein Liaison.
SUBJECT
Payments Arrangenents between Japan and the
Sterling Area : Participation of India.
1.
Reference is made to this Lission's memorandum
EA. 24/450/48 of the 22nd May, 1948.
2.
The Government of India have confirmed their desire to
participate in the payments arrangements, on the understanding
that such participation vill be without prejudice to any matters
arising out of or overned by the existing Indian contract with
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. The participation
of India is hereby notified accordingly. The provision in
paragraph 6 of the memorandum under reference will therefore not
apply to the Indian open account.
H. H. THOMAS
Financial Adviser.
(for Head of Mission).
HHT/EI
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 692 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 400
dated June 30, 1948 from the Office
of the Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Currency
Arrangement between Japan and the
Sterling Area".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE COLGIANDER FOR THE ALLIED POIERS
Economic and Scientific Section
Forein Trade and Conmerce Division
FEP/WJK/mr
091.31(17 June 48)ESS/FTC
APO 500
17 June 1948
LEMORADU: FOR:
The liead of the United Kingdom Liaison Mission
in Japan
SUBJECT:
Payments Arrangements between Japan and the
Sterling Area.
1.
References:
a. Memorandum from the United Kingdom Liaison Mission in
Japan to General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
(Attention: Economic and Scientific Section), Ref. No. 36/450/48,
dated 31 May 1948, subject: Payments Arrangements between Japan and
the Sterling Area : Participation of India.
b. Memorandum to the Head of the United Kingdom Liaison
Mission in Japan, file AG 603(29 May 48)ESS/FTC, dated 29 May 1948,
subject: Payments Arrangements for Trade between Japan and the
Sterling Area.
2.
Receipt of reference memorandum, paragraph la above, is
acknowledged and the participation of the Government of India in the
sterling payments arrangements between Japan and the Sterling Area ac-
complished by the exchange of memoranda between the United Kingdom
Liaison lission in Japan and te Supreme Conmander for the Allied
Powers, effective as of 31 May 1948, is acceptable. It is understood
that such participation by the Government of India is without prejudice
to any matter arising out of, or governed by, the existing contract by
and between the Governor General of India and Loeki Cho, dated the
28th day of October 1947 and approved by the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Poers. It is further understood that the provisions of para-
graph 6 of memorandum, reference paragraph 1b above, will not apply to
the Indian open account.
FOR THE CHDEF, ECONOMIC AND SCTENTIFIC SECTION:
F. E. PICKELLE
Chief
Foreign Trade and
Commerce Division.
No Memo for Record Necessary. F.E.P.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 693 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 400
dated June 30, 1948 from the Office
of the Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Currency
Arrangement between Japan and the
Sterling Area".
(COPY)
UNITED KINGDOM LIAISON LISSION IN JAPAN
BRITISH ELBASSY, TOKYO
Ref: EA. 60/450/48
12th June, 1948
TO
: General Headquarters
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
(Attention: Economic  Scientific Section)
THROUGH
: G-2 Foreign Liaison
SUBJECT
: Payments Arrangements between Japan and the Sterling
Area. Participation of Ceylon
1. Reference is made to this ission's memorandum EA. 24/450/48 of
22nd May, 1948.
2. The Government of Ceylon have confirmed their desire to partici-
pate in the payments arran ements. The participation of Ceylon is
herely notified accordingly, as retroactive fron 31st May, 1948.
s/
E. R. LINGEMAN
Economic Adviser
(for Head of lission)
AJG/EW
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 694 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 400
dated June 30, 1948 from the Office
of the Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Currency
Arrangement between Japan and the
Sterling Area".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREE COMANDER FOR HE ALLIED POWERS
Econonic and Scientific Section
FEP/JK/s1
APO 500
003 (21 Jun 48)ESS/FTC
21 June 1948
LEMORANDU: FOR:
The Head of the United Kingdom Liaison Wission in
Japan
SUEJECT:
Payments Arran ements between Japan and the Sterling
Area
1.
References:
a. Miemorandun from the United Kingdom Liaison Mission in
Japan to General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
(Attention: Econonic and Scientific Section), Ref. No. 60/450/48
dated 12 June 1948, subject: Payments arrangements between Japan and
the Sterling Area: Participation of Ceylon.
b. Menorandum to the Head of the United Kingdom Liaison
Lission in Japam, AG 003 (29 May 48)ESS/FTC dated 29 May 1948, sub-
ject: Payments Arran gements for Trade between Japan and the Sterling
Area.
2.
Receipt of reference memorandun, paragraph la above, is
acknowledged, and the participation of the Government of Ceylon in
the sterling payments arrangenents between Japan and the Sterling
Area, reference paragraph 1b above, retroactive from 31 Lay 1948, is
acceptable.
FOR THE CHIEF, ECOHOMIC AHD SCTENTIFIC SECTION:
F. E. PICKELLE
Chief
Foreign Trade and Commerce Division
No Memo for Record necessary. F. E. P.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 695 === (confidence 0.95)
7-2024
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
DE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
D0R
1948 JUL 14 PH 3 51
for Japan
Tokyo, July 8, 1948
DIVISIONCCUPIED AREAS
No. 424
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
7/20/48
SUBJECT:
Transmission of General Headquerters Staff Memorandum
Regarding Jepanese Government Financing.
074
The Acting Politieel Adviser has the honor to transmit a
894.51/7-848
FE
copy of Staff Hemorandum Ho. 8 of this Headquarters, dated
February 18, 1948, on the sut jeet of Japanese Government Finan-
cing.
Althouh this staff memorandun is not of recent issue, the
OCD
files of this Mis ion indicute that it may not previously have
OFS
1094
been Torwarded to the Departnent.
Coml
Enclosure:
Treas
Copy of Staff Lemorandun
FRB
No. 8, dated February 18,
1948.
Bidget
CS/A
Originel and ozalid to Department
950
JDEdwards: emn
JUL 80 1948
FILED
894.51/7-848
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 696 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 424 dated
July 8, 1948 from the Acting Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled
"Transmission of General Headquarters
Staff Memorandum Regarding Japanese
Government Financing".
UNCLASSIFIED
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME CONTANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AND
FAR EAST COMMAND
AG 319 (10 Jan 48)ESS
APO 500
18 February 1948
STAFF ELIORANDUM
.8
(SCAP & FEC)
JAPANESE GOVARN UT FINANCING
1. As a restraint on the current inflationary trend in Japan,
expenditures by the Japanese Government will be kept to the absolute
minimum ccnsistent with the objectives of the Occupation. Effective
implementation of this policy is essential to the ultimate stabilization
of the economy of Japan.
2. With the purpose of reducing yen expenditures to the minimum,
each staff section of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers and Far East Command, will review present and proposed
Japanese Government revenues and expenditures on programs in which it
has primery interest. Availability of funds within budgeted amounts
under which the Japanese Government is operating will be considered
prior to final action on any new program.
3. The Economic and Scientific Section is assigned the primary
responsibility for the implementation of the provisions of this staff
memorandum. All actions by other staff sections affecting the expenditures
or reveuues of the Japanese Government will be referred to the Economic
and Scientific Section for concurrence prior to submission to the Chief
of Staff.
DY COMAND OF GENERAL LaCARTHUR:
PAUL J. MUELLER,
Major General, General Staff Corps,
Chief of Staff.
OFFICLAL:
/signed/
R. M. LEVY
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 697 === (confidence 0.96)
INCOMINGAIRGRAM
AUR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE: DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
1017
OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AND
FROM: LOIIDON
UNRESTRICTED
DATED: AUG. 3,1948
DEVELOPMENT POLICY
REC 'D: August 9, 10:22 8.m.
MAUG-I1948
2
Secretary of State
Hashington
DW
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG1U1946
ACTION:DC/L
A-1554
INFO:
CEPARTMENT OF STATE
DC/R
EUR
FOR STATE AIL TREAS RY AID OTHER INTERESTED
FE
AUENCIES
ITP
OFD
OLA
Contemplated Sterling Loan to Japan
CIA
Ihe following written quostion and answer re
the abovo subject appeared in AilSARD, House of Comnons,
July 27, 1948, Columns 1116-1117:
68
"ir. Teeling asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer
4
how far we have proceeded with the ranting of a sterling
loan to Japan; and how far will this be affected by
e
Marshall Aid to this country.
ope
"The Economic Secretary to the Treasury (Lir. Dou las
8-18-48
Jay): The proposal referred to in my ri ht hon. Friend's
answer of 17th June was in general terms. iy present ex-
CN
pectation is that no final decision will be reached until
48
more specific proposals have been receivod and considered
reas
by the commercial banks. The fact that we aro receiving
agho
E.R.P. aid in United States dollars would not in itself
affect the question of allowing a sterling loan to
Cdm
another country.
ECA
"Ir. Teeling: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that in
the Harshall Aid to other countries, notably Italy and
Tar
Southorn Ireland, a moat-favoured-nation clause is now
1MF
boing put in for Japar. and accepted? Is he quite certain
that no moneys from this sterling loan will in any way
affect our exports to those countries?
AUG
FILED
"Ir. Jay: There is nothing in our E.R.P. agreenent
which will affect cormcrcial credits which are enviseged
25 1948
here.
/r. Walter Fiotcher;
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—-This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
DNR

=== Page 698 === (confidence 0.96)
UNRESTRICTED
A-1554
- 2 -
AUG.3,1948
"Ir. Walter Fletcher: Will the hon. Gentleman bear
in mind, before making any loan to Japan, the very con-
siderable claims for commodities and goods which have
been found in Japan and which were robbed from British
territory Juring the war, and that proper reparations
should be mado for those beforo money is loaned to Japan?
"Ilr. Jay: e have that very much in mind.
"Iir. Asshoton: And will the hon. Gentleman remember
the interest on our past loans?"
DOUGLAS
IR.BLISS
IR。HEBBARD
IISS CAMPBELL
KACaapbell:ank
UNRESTRICTED

=== Page 699 === (confidence 0.93)
.DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
ugust 4, 1948
r. Hulick
Hr. Saltzman
This is a trivial matter on which
Ex-I Sank wants an exchange of
letters. State and arimy have no
objection to releasing this agreement
to FEC menbers.
二
PIC

=== Page 700 === (confidence 0.97)
8/1:/48
Mr. Claxton:
Phil: Attached is the
proposed letter to Mr. Martin
of the Ex-Im Bank, for Ur.
Saltzman's signature; also
the background papers,
attached. 1f this lcoksall
right to you I would appreciate
your pausing along the attach-
monte 'o Mr. Hulick.
C.C.I.

=== Page 701 === (confidence 0.98)
AUG" 51948
Dear Mr. Martin:
The purpose of this letter is to outline to you, in confirmatien
of informal convereations between representatives of thie Depertment
and your bank, the present situation with respect to requests reseived
recently by the Secretariat of the Far Eastern Commission frem member
nations of the Commission. This request is for the release to the
member FEC nations of copies of the Agreement of May 13 betwsen the 0
Occupied Japan Export-Import Revolving Fund and the Controller thereefO
on the one hand, and, on the other, a consortium of American banks, 4
headed by your institution.
5
The above mentioned request has been considered within the Depart-
ment of State, and conversations have also taken place thereon betwmen
Department of the Army, as well as with representatiwes of your bank. I
Mr. Sexton of your staff and Mr. Bachman of the Department of the AnmyO
are among those who have participated in these conversations. The4
resulting consensus is to the effect that, subject to a poliey docisio
by the Department of State, there is no objection by the interested
10
U.S. agencies to the distribution, by the Secretariat of the Far
Eastern Commission to member nations of the Commission, of the above
mentioned Agreement, and Exhibits, now printed in booklet form.
The document in question is, as you know, unclassified and is
based on FEC documents which have been fully distributed to the
member nations of the Commission. As a matter of policy, therefore,
it is the view of this Department that the above mentioned Agresment
should be made available to the member nations of the Commission.
Although I am informed that a large part of the information contained
in the Agreement has appeared in the press, all records of this
nature are issued to the member nations of the FEC under "restricted"
classification.
C
It is understood informally from r. Sexton that, in view of the
S
policy
894.57
Mr. m. McC. Martin, Jr.,
111+
Chairman, Export-Import Bank
of Washington,
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 702 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-
poliey decision reached by the Depariment of State in this matter,
your bank is agresable to the release of coples of the Agreement by
the Secretariat of the Far Eastern Commission, as indieated above,
with the proviso that there be & prior interchangs of letters betwesm
the Department of State and your bank, as a matter of record.
An early reply would be appreciated. In the meantime, amthorise-
tion for the above roleass by the Seeretariat of the Commission of
copies of the Agreement, and pertinent Exhibits, is bsing held in
abeyance.
Tours sincerely,
Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant Secretary
Cleared, in substafice, wi th:
Mr. Stencer, ED -
Mr. Smith, Er
Lir. Heeker, L
,-(fe texf clcaredt)
Mr. , AD. Arm
eex.
0:cchllllard:cg
8/3/1.3
AUG 5 1948P.M.
B1A

=== Page 703 === (confidence 0.96)
4033
DATE: 16 July
To : Mr. Claxton
F. Turner, FEC ecretariat
FROM :
SUBJECT :
Enclosed document
Phe Indian delegation is pressing
us to release this document which contains
the 60 million loan agreement of May 13.
I wonurred what your view would be
since we are anxious to make it available
to the FEC delegations, provided, of course,
it would not embarrass tate and Army.
F. Turner
8/23/48.
Tocument returned
To niss Eugle, FEC
by B. Ruffin -o"

=== Page 704 === (confidence 0.91)
STARAARD FORM NO. 64
TO
: Q - Mr. Charles E. Saltzman
DATB:
pgA
FROM : OFLC - Anson . Bartlett
sUBJECT: Letter from Baar, Bennett & Fullen dated 17 Augus
The attached letter is forwarded for consideration by your
division pursuant to conversation this date with Mr. Noel Hemmendinger.
SEP
DLE
6

=== Page 705 === (confidence 0.97)
29828
LAW OFFICES
BAAR, BENNETT & FULLEN
EMIL N. BAAR
29 BROADWAY
WILLIAM G. FULLEN
JOHN P. HURLEY
NEW YoRK 6, N. Y.
TELEPHONE
DAVID E. WINER
4-6350
LAWRENCE J. LIEBERMAN
ADDRESS
"BARBENFUL"
SCHILLING
August 17, 1948
Office of Foreign Liquidation Commission
894.51/8-1748
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Sirs:
One of our clients is the owner of shares as
1
indicated in the following Japanese industries:
Name of Association
Face Value
Japanese Cotton Textile Export Association 250 yen
Japanese Silk & Cotton Fabric Manufacturer
Association
250 yen
Kobe General Merchandise Export Association
for North America
100 yen
Japan South America Export Association
1000 yen
Will you ploase be good enough to advise us as
to what disposition has been made of the assets of these
associations, as to the current value of these securities
and as to the appropriate channel to be used for the
CS/A
liquidation of same.
Very truly yours,
Boar, Bennett r Fuller
Reply drafted
DIVISTON OF OCCUPIED ARSAS
S/2 ECOXONIC AFFATRS
AUG948
6.T
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 706 === (confidence 0.93)
SEP
UNCLASSIFIED
14
5o.
894.51/8-
To the
Chief, United States
Reparations ead Restitutiom Delegation,
Care of USPOLAD,
Takye.
1748
The Secretary of State tranamits herewith a copy of a letter
dated August 17, 1948, received from the law offices of Bear, Bennett
& Fullen, 29 Breadway, New York 6, Now York, requesting informtion
as to the disposition nade of the assete of certaim spesified assssis-
tions in Japan, the ourrent valms of the shares of sueh assosiations,
and the appropriate channal to be used for the liquidation of sach
shares.
CS/A
It will be appreciated if the Delegation will iuvestigate the mat-
ter and furnish the Department with the informmtion requested fer
transmittal to the law offices of Baar, Benmett & Fullen.
CH
SEP 3 1948
A. e coy of
the sitngd origt-
Enclosure:
Letter (Copy) from Baar, Bennett &
Fullen dated August 17, 1948.
Jma
SUD
OFD:OE:RBParke:ewl
8/25/48
FN
EP
NA
RA
27

=== Page 707 === (confidence 0.94)
2081
894.51/8-1748
In reply refer to
0E
Messrs. Baar, Bennett & Fullen,
29 Broadway,
New York 6, New York.
Sirs:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of August 17, 1948,
in which you request information as to the disposition made of the
assets of certain specified associations in Japan, the current value
of the shares of such associations, and the sppropriate channel to
be used for the liquidation of such shares.
This is to inform you that the Department of State has raised
the matter with the United States Reparations and Restitution Dele-
gation, Tokyo, Japan, and will communicate further with you in
respect thereto upon the receipt of a reply from the Delegation.
Very truly yours,
For the Socretary of State:
CS/A
Roswell H. Whitmen
Acting Chief
Division of Occupied Areas
Economic Affairs
A true copy of
SEP 8 1948 
the signed origi-
nal.
4.5
ogom 
BBn gra HR
/27/43
Peake:owl
lus

=== Page 708 === (confidence 0.94)
ec/k
Auguet 18, 1948
894.51/8-1848
Dear ür. Johnson:
Mr. Frank Turner of your secretariut has inquired
whether the U. S. Government has any objeotion to the dis-
tribution by the Far Eastern Canmission ssoretariat of the
Agreemant of May 13, 1948 between Occupied Japan Expert-
Import Hevolving Fund, the Controller thereof, and & con-
sortiun of American banks, & copy of which had been furnisbed
r. Turner by the Civil Affairs Diviaion of the Department of
the Army.
The U. S. Government has no objoction to the distribution
of this document to the members of the Far Eastern Cowmissien
as a restricted document.
Yours nincerely,
Philander P. Claxton, Jr.
Special Assistant to the
Assistant Secretary for
CC/A
Occupied Areas
Kr. Nelson T. Johnson,
Secretary General,
Far astern Comission,
2516 Massachusette Avenue, N
Washington, D. C.
OPPQ1akton:br
8/23- U greement s/13/48
2324

=== Page 709 === (confidence 0.98)
August 18, 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE:
894.51/8-1848
Subject: Attached letter to Mr. Nelson Johnson,
Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission
Mr. Frank Turner asked me whether the U. S. Government had
any objection to the distribution of the document referred to in
the attached letter. This document is not classified and a opy of
it was given to Mr. Turner by the Civil Affairs Division of the
Department of the Army. Mr. Bachman of the Civil Affairs Division,
the officer directly responsible for this matter in the Department
of the Army, has stated firmly and repeatedly that there is no objec-
tion on the part of the Department of the Army to the distribution
of this document in the PEC. He has stated that he fesls it unneces-
sary to refer the matter to SCAP-OJEIRF. Mr. Hilliard has cleared
the distribution of the document with all interested offices of the
Department of State which have no objection. The Export-Impert Bank
officials have indicated they have no objection but have requested a
letter from the Department of State. This has been sent and a reply
received stating that the Export-Import Bank has no objection. Export-
Import Bank has stated, however, that private bankers should be con-
sulted. Mr. Stenger of ED has talked further with Export-Import Bank
CS/A
representatives and has expressed his own opinion, that it is unneces-
sary to consult private bankers. Mr. Bachman of CAD has made the same
statement to Mr. Koch. Under the circumstances I feal there can be no
objection whatever to the distribution of this document as a restricted
FEC document and have so informed Mr. Johnson by the attached letter.
filt
894.51
Philander P. Claxton, Jr.
Special Assistant
Attachment
8-1848
O:PPClaxton:br
232

=== Page 710 === (confidence 0.95)
Du#
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER FOR JAPAN
No. 535
Tokyo, August 19, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject:
Currency Arrangement between Japan and the Sterling Area.
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
ReC/L
Sir:
OFD
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No. 334
894.51/8-1948
of June 8, 1948 on the above subject and in that connection to en-
clos copies of this Headquarters' Memorandum of August 17, 1948 to
FE
the Head of Jne United Kingdom Liaison Mission in Japan amending the
Overall Paymants Arrangement to provide for the sale of Japanese cot-
P 0
ton extileato sterling area purchasers on a one hundred per cent
ELl
sterling bs, regardless of the source of the raw cotton.
FACIITI
1T1
Respectfully yours,
1948 SEP
.rBecace.
W. J. Sebald.
Enclosure:
Memorandum of August 17, 1948
DIVIS. N OF OCCUPIED AR AS
to Head of UKIM on the subject,
"Payments Arrangements for Trade
ELONOMIC AFFAIRS
between Japan and the Sterling
SEP 7 1948
Covu
Area."
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tor
Original and ozalid to Department.
Thear
CS/A
Copies to:
American Embassy, London.
American Embassy, Canberra.
PRD
American Embassy, Karachi.
American Embassy, New Delhi.
American Embassy, Colombo.
American Embassy, Rangoon.
American Embassy, Baghdad.
American Legation, Pretoria.
American Legation, Rehkjavik.
American Legation, Wellington.
891/8-10
American Consulate General, Hong Kong.
American Consulate General, Singapore.
851
DMBane/dbs
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 711 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 535 dated
August 19, 1948 from the Office of
the Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo
on the subject, "Currency Arrangement
between Japan and the Sterling Area."
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
WFM/FEP/WJK/s1
AG 003(22 May 48)ESS/FT
17 August 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR:
The Head of the United Kingdom Liaison Mission in
Japan.
SUBJECT:
Payments Arrangements for Trade between Japan and
the Sterling Area
1.
References are:
a. Memorandum from the United Kingdom Liaison Mission in
Japan to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, reference No.
EA 24/450/48 dated 22 May 1948, subject same as above.
b. Memorandum from the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers to the Head of the United Kingdom Liaison Mission in Japan,
file AG 003(27 May 48)ESS/FTC dated 27 May 1948, subject same as
above.
c. Memorandum from the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers to the Head of the United Kingdom Liaision Mission in Japan,
file AG 003(29 May 48)ESS/FTC dated 29 May 1948, subject same as
above.
2. In conformity with the understanding reached in the course
of the Sterling Area Trade Conference, paragraph 2a of reference ,
.paragraph lc above, is hereby amended to read as follows:
"All trade between Japan and the United Kingdom and Colonies
(excluding Hong Kong) and such other parties of the Sterling Area as
may desire to participate shall be conducted on a sterling basis.
Any sterling acquired by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
in connection with such trade shall be fully utilizable for payments
within the Sterling Area or for conversion to dollars in accordance
with paragraphs 2c and 2d below."
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
/s/
Rehe
for
R. M. LEVY
Colonel, AGD
Adjutant General
(COPY)
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 712 === (confidence 0.95)
+1728
ACTION
is assigned to
UNITED STATES
TOKYO, JAPAN
EuE
23 September 1948
V/1
Mallions
No. 17
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject: Need for further information before investi-
gation into disposition of certain assets -
894.51/9-2348
Attorneys: Baar, Bennett & Fullen, 29 Broad-
way, New York 6, N. Y.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
Unclassified Despatch No. 14 of September 7, 1948,
concerning an enquiry from the law offices of Baar,
Bennett & Fullen, 29 Broadway, New York City 6, New
York, in which certain information as to the dispo-
sition of assets of Japanese concerns was requested.
Preliminary enquiry here has indicated that the
following information will be required before the
requested investigation can be made:
The names of the Association should be
furnished in Romanji spelling and in
Japanese characters;
2.
The date on which the securities were
CS/V
obtained and the name of the registered
owner, if the securities were registered.
Respectfully yours,
1948 06  49
DIVIS'ON OF OCCUPIED AR_AS
The 1 Bel
.
Homer L. Baker
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Deputy Chief
46

=== Page 713 === (confidence 0.97)
37
OCT161948
UNCLASSIFIED
16
No.
894.51/
To the
Chief,/United States
Rep&rations and Restitution Delegation,
5
Care of USPOLAD
-2348
Tokyo.
The Acting Secretary of State acknowledges the
receipt of the Del egation's despatch No. 17 dated
September 23, 1948, transmitting a request for further
informtion in conneotion with an inquiry by Baar,
Bennett & Fullen, 29 Broadway, New York 6, New York with
respect to the assets of certain Japanese associations.
There is enclosed for information a copy of a
CS/A
letter transmitting the points on which further informa-
tion is required and suggesting that such information as
may be developed be communic ted direotly to the
Delegation.
594.51
A true copy of
the signed srigt-
nal.
Enclosure:
9-2348
OCT 15 1948 P.M.
Letter to Baar, Bennett & Fuller,
dated October 16, 1948.
CFJ:AP:F/11iams:mcm 10/13/48

=== Page 714 === (confidence 0.94)
OCT161948
Messrs. Baar, Bennett & Fullen
894.51/9-2348
29 Broadway
New York 6, New York
Sirs:
Reference 1s made to your letter of August 17, 1948
concernin the  ssets of certain Japanese aasocistions
in which your client had an interest prior to the war
and to the Department's reply dated eptember 7, 1948.
The United States Reparations and Restitution
3
Delegation, to whom your request was directed, has
advised tht the following information will be required
before a full investigtion can be made:
1.
The names of the ssociation should
be furnished 1n Romanji spelling and
in Japanese cheracters;
2.
The date on which the securities were
C
obteined  nd the name of the regis-
S
tered owner, if the seourities were
registered.
It is suggested thet to the extent you can do so,
this inform tion be communio ted direotly to the Delega-
tion in Tokyo whose address is:
United States Repertions
5
and Restitution Delegation,
h
Fore1gn Liaison, CPC-GHQ-SCAP.
5
APO 500, c/o Postmaster
Sen Francisco, California.
Very truly yours,
For the Acting Secretary of State:
Nis
R. Burr Smith
OCT 15 1948 P.M.
Chief
Reperations and Property Branch
Divisdon of Economic Property Policy.
OFD:EP:RWi111ams:mcm 10/13/48
olux

=== Page 715 === (confidence 0.97)
37
OCT161948
UNCLASSIFIED
/6
No.
894.51/9
To the
Chief,/United States
Reperations and Rest itution Delegation,
Care of USPOLAD
-2348
Tokyo.
The Acting Secretary of State acknowledges the
receipt of the Del egation's despatch No. 17 dated
September 23, 1948, transmitting a request for further
inform:tion in conneotion with an inquiry by Baar,
Bennett & Fullen, 29 Broadway, New York 6, New York with
respect to the assets of certain Japanese associations.
There is enclosed for information a copy of a
CS/A
letter transmitting the points on which further informa-
tion is required and suggesting that such information as
may be developed be communicted direotly to the
Delegation.
4
594.51
A true copy of
the signed grigt-
nal.
Enclosure:
OCT 15 1948P.M.
Letter to Baar, Bennett & Fuller,
9-2348
dated 0ctober 16, 1948.
CFJ:EP:Fn/11iams:mcm 10/13/48
2241

=== Page 716 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 636,
September 28, 1948.
-2-
owners in Japan who were compensated in yen. The memorandum does
not explicitly cover what appear to be the facts of the current case,
that of bonds physically located outside of Japan and owned by a
United Nations national outside of Japan.
wich
Enclosures:
ang
1. Single copy of undated
report by the Japanese
Government.
2. Copy of memorandum dated
March 25, 1948 to the
United Kingdom Liaison
Mission in Japan.
350
RBFinn:cgf
Original and ozalid to the Department
cc: American Legation, Pretoria, Transvaal
(with enclosures)
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 717 === (confidence 0.86)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's No. 636,
September 28, 1948.
"Information and Inventory ?eport"
on the -cperty own d in Japen by
Mrs.G.E..Hutchinson (jouth Africa)
Ref: No. BI/th
at 17 June 1348.
(1)
In the Memorendur in roference we were reguested to in-
vestigate the itorling Bonds owned by  rs. ... Hutchinson
and safe depestt  in he Yokoname peete "enk, Ltd. Howeger.
the said bent ans cesi nased ss closed inatitusien and at
tresent is being Ii mic ted by the losed nsti tutions' Liauida-
tion ommitt e. hus the Pen' of rokave,  td, the cecond bank
of the Yokohame neci nk,  t on 1 Jenuery 1947, took
over e part of b o or the liebilities there
of. in other words, rt   neas crorted in eren by
respective breuehes Yoket meie Benk vere teken over
by branohes of the tn of okrvo pop wetively ene the other part
of the ness opr e  twereeiness
overser or poup rs  rokehee peet Benk are.
et prosent, bi le r-tuolusiveay by the Yokobeme Bpeele
Bank. the losee no t on, locetes mit in the Benk of Tokyo.
(2)
 ince oou lyt the heed-orrice
and the Yokoh m o  thee aid not
oxist theterlinon
n
(3)
Next, the Yokohame ete ank, Me losed n titution.
(throueh Tomove hihere o t a tion) wes Investigat
ed end inpuiries were mede an wes iveoveped thet the terling
Bonds owned by lra. utahinson are not safe denosit d in any of
the braneh of the Yokeeme toet ank and they nover hed been
or ny other reasen.
(4)
ot all the reeoras ant doeumoats o tho ovopaee branehes
7

=== Page 718 === (confidence 0.92)
of the Yokoheme pecie Bank were permitted to be brought back
to Japan and therefore, though full information is not availe-
ble, it could be said in the leas: that there is no mention of
the terling Ponds owned by the seid person in the reoords sent
back from the oversea branches of the sai: bank and at present
in the cu tody of the fokohm cie n.., the losed Institution.
(5)
The  i tsui,  itsubi sti, uri tomo, ond the Yasuda Trust
Co., Ltd. respectively as never t ken t property of the said
person into enemy pro erty cu tody durin tha wer.
(6)
Fur ther, there is no derosit peeount in the name of the
said person in the proial opty umini r tion sccount of
the Bank of Japan.
nd enin toe hes never existed a feot
thet any or the enemy preprt ut u a d taken the property
of the said per ion inte t dy.
(7)
Accordine to the aste p vide by the civil roperty Cus-
tod len the saia meraen had safe esit  5 terl ing Bonds,
, init,London Branch.
(8)
In resard vit  ie  uestion the Yokohame
pecie Benk, thelo netit. purther investigation
but there is no montton 
onds owned by the said
person in the reecra,
1945, of the safe depo
sited seeuri ties fouwerdes  e  oreiee or the Yokohama
pecie bank, ta. prer the
orhusiis
considered thet the seio torr
onit have been drawn
prior to the afore-mention.
(9)
The records of dene it ona trem of the sria sterling
Bonds by the said person, the owner, at the  ondon Branch of
the Yokohame specie Bank, Ltd., muat be remaining in London
but these doeurants are not pllowed to b. brought beck to

=== Page 719 === (confidence 0.92)
Japan and thus it is not known here.
(10)
Thus we heve used every means for investigation es
mentioned above but the perticulers of the property owmed
by Mrs. Hutehinsen are ret krown.
ertificste - nformetion supplied above
through personel inspeotion
esd i warranted to he true end correot.
The Tokyo Trust & Banking Co., Ltd.
K.Simura
inod
Insnccting Official

=== Page 720 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 636
dated September 28, 1948 from the
Office of the United States Political
Adviser at Tokyo, on the subject of:
"Interests in Japanese Enterprises of
South African Nationals--Property of
Mrs. G. E. W. Hutchinson."
GNERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COAMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
CIVIL PROPERTY CUSTODIAN
APO 500
DHB/WRFS/ee
095 (25 Mar 1948)CPC/FP
25 March 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR:
The Head of the United Kingdom Liaison Mission in
Japan
SUBJECT:
Japanese Pre-War Foreign Currency Bonds
1. Reference is made to the following memoranda to General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, Civil Proper-
ty Custodian, from the United Kingdom Liaison Mission, subject,
"Japanese Pre-War Foreign Currency Bonds":
a. No. EA 3/221/48, 14 January 1948;
b. No. EA 7/221/48, 27 February 1948.
2. With reference to paragraph 2 of reference lb, no plan is
now under consideration for the repayment of debts in depreciated yen.
Resunption of service of pre-war bonds is not contemplated until an
over-all policy is adopted for the handling of foreign currency bonds.
Monies on deposit in the Special Property Administration Account repre-
senting irterest on foreign currency bonds will be so held pending
establishment of such policy and the determination of the ownership
of bonds.
3. A sunmary of information upon foreign currency bonds fur-
nished by the Japanese Government follows:
a. There was an amount of ¥69,638,156.53 in the Special
Property Administration Account in the Yokohama Specie Bank earmarked
"Fund for Interest on Foreign Obligations" which is now deposited
with the Bank of Japan. The Japanese Government has submitted de-
tails of this amount which represents the conversion into yen of
interest payments on Japanese Government, municipal and corporate
foreign currency obligations, sterling and U.S. dollars. The con-
version rate from dollars and sterling into yen varies from a little
under 10 to the pound to 16.84 to the pound and in the case of
dollars conversion from ¥4.25 to a little over ¥2 to the dollar.
These figures are set forth in Exhibit "A" enclosed. Exhibit "A"
gives the breakdown of each bond as to the dollar interest dates.
Exhibit "" gives the total interest payment in each series of bonds.
b. All of the payments made into this fund, with one ex-
ception, represented interest only and not sinking fund payments. The
exception is set forth opposite the figure 48 on the left side of the
Exhibit "A" which states "Sinking Fund for Redemption of Lottery Cer-
tificate" and the total of these two figures, namely £6,227 1/8 being
payment

=== Page 721 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's 636,
September 28, 1948.
- 2 -
payment of principal of the Osaka 4% Harbor Construction Loan Bonds
which were redeemed by lot. In this connection see third page of
Exhibit "E".
c. On March 15, 1943 the Japanese Diet passed a law, No.
60, entitled "Law Relating to the Treatment of Foreign Bonds," a
translation of which is enclosed and marked Exhibit "B".
d. Also enclosed is a statement which goes into details as
to how these bonds and debentures were treated under this law (Ex-
hibit "C").
4. Briefly, the procedure was as follows and can be divided in-
to the following categories:
a. The Japanese Government called in for conversion all
Japanese external dollar and sterling bonds and issued in place there-
of yen obligations of the Japanese Government. This phase of conver-
sion covered all bonds physically located in Japan, but may not have
applied to foreien currency bonds owned by United Nations nationals
in Japan. It has been impossible to ascertain in detail to what ex-
tent this latter exemption applied.
b. The Japanese Govemment also converted into yen bonds
the sterling and dollar bonds which were located outside of Japan but
owned by persons in Japan. This conversion was made on the basis of
certification of the owners in Japan of such ownership and of the lo-
cation thereof out side Japan.
5. There is inclosed a schedule (xhibit "") which shows for
each series of bonds the bonds out standing at the outbreak of the war
and the bonds purchased or redeemed in accordance with the law re-
ferred to in 3c above and also the bonds outstanding after the con-
version into yen bonds was made.
6. The Japanese Government 4 sterling bonds of 1910 and the
Tokyo 5% sterling loan of 1912 contained a provision that the inter-
est could be paid in Swiss francs in Switzerland. Enclosed is a
schedule, Exhibit "F", showing the remittances made in Switzerland.
The officials of the Japanese Government state that these remittances
were made on the certification by the Japanese Minister in Switzerland
that the coupons or bonds owned by a neutral or a national whose
government was friendly to Japan during the war. They further stated
that so far as they know coupons which were paid in Switzerland have
not been returned to Japan nor does the Japanese Government have a
record of the owners of the coupons or bonds. Regarding 4b above, the
Japanese Government has been instructed to supply details of the
numbers and owners of bonds which were not in Japan during the war but
which the Japanese Government converted or paid to the owners in Japan
in yen. Attention of the Ainistry of Finance officials was called
to the fact that it was quite possible that Japanese foreign currency
bonds could be situated in New York or London and have been taken pos-
session of by the Alien Property Custodians in those countries and
yet the owners in Japan long since received yen for these bonds. The
Japanese Government officials admitted that this was so and when we
called

=== Page 722 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure. No. 2 to Tokyo's No. 636,
September 28, 1948.
-3-
called their attention to the possibility that an agency of the
Yokohama Specie Bank in America may have had some of these bonds
the Japanese officials referred to their records and stated that
the agency of the Yokohama Specie Bank in San Francisco owned ap-
proximately $3,000,000 face value of 6-1/2% dollar bonds which were
on deposit in the New York Agency of the Yokohama Specie Bank and
that the bank had received yen in Japan for these bonds.
7. Of all the Japanese foreign currency obligations issued,
according to the figures supplied by the Japanese Government the
following are now outstanding:
Foreign Currency Bonds
67,592,000
L
61,144,253
Fcs 648,057,559
Divided into Japanese
Government Bonds
中
21,354,000
L
51,550,780
Fcs 400,238,000
Local Government Bonds
6,342,000
L
6,585,797
Fcs 247,819,559
Corporation Bonds
3
39,896,000
L
3,007,676
These figures may be qualified if the actions of the Japanese Govern-
ment set forth in 3b above are set aside.
8. There is to be added to these figures unpaid interest during
the war.
PATRICK H. TANSEY
Brig Gen, USA
Custodian
6 Incls
1.
Exhibit
"A"
2.
Exhibit
"B"
3.
Exhibit
"C"
4.
Exhibit
"D"
5.
Exhibit
""
6。
Exhibit
"F"
Note:
nclosures not available.

=== Page 723 === (confidence 0.80)
I ciscuesea tais metter uith
Er. Guy de Rhem ef the Swise Leation
ple to him therocedure the
Det follwe in th t of ircuirics
from  rle holiere. e ceemea cuite
satisried to neve vll of there sent to
to Foreign Eonanel ere Cauncil in y
ut coid the t ue Lesior bee cent them
 tne Det por inetruction of the
For-in Coriee nr uakea that ve cend
him a eao on vur vsuel  roce lur-e so
thot ne couae tro soit it to the Foreir
C??1c
 necuest ev irstruetisns
slthese les.
FN-J0

=== Page 724 === (confidence 0.96)
H&DS
62-t
MEMORANDUM
The Department of State refers to the memoranda
from the Swiss Legation dated Mareh 14 and 24, 1947,
August 22, 1947, Cotober 1, 1947, and April 9, 1948
ragarding Japanese securities held by Swiss nationals,
CO
whioh the Legation desired to be transmitted to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, at Tokyo,
894.51/9
Japan, pursuant to the Department's Press Release of
August 1, 1946, and which the Department, in 1ts Hemo-
9-2848
randum of December 1. 1946, stated that 1t would forward
to the United States Political Adviser to the Supreme
Commander.
In view or cartain facts of which the Legation may
not have knovledge, the Department suggests an alterma-
CS/JEC
tive cource, desoribed below, vhioh it recommends to
American oitizmns holding similar obligations.
The Depertment has observed that all of the secur
ities listed in the various memoranda from the Swiss
DCF- C:D UNIT
Legation
2848

=== Page 725 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Legation mentioned above are dollar bonds issmed er
guaranteod by the Japanese Government. The Department's
Press Release of August 1, 1946, was intended, hovever,
to refer to equity participations, rather than to bonds
or other evidenees of indebtedness, and American holders
of Japanese utility dollar bonds have consistently been
informed by the Department of this fact.
The Department considers that 1nvestment in foreign
securities is primarily a private transaotion into which
the purchaser enters after oaloulation of the rieks in-
volved. In case of default on dollar obligations isaed
or guaranteed by foreign governmental entities, as were
all of these listed in the various declarations submitted
by the Legation, it is not the usual praotice of the
Department to negotiate directly for Amerioan holders but
it does endeavor to render to suoh holders or their
representatives such assistance as it properly can. In
this conneotion the Department takes oocaeion to call
attention to the Foreign Bondholders Proteotive Counoil,
Incorporated, 90 Broad Street, New York, New York, a non-
profit

=== Page 726 === (confidence 0.95)
一3-
profit organisation establishod several years ago to
serve as a central representative body. Although the
Couneil was oreated with the enoouragement of the
Department, it operates on its own responsibility. The
Department frequently suggests to Ameriean inquirers
that they may wish to write to the Counoil and ask that
1t keep them informed of any important developments
affecting their holdings.
Some time ago, at the request of the Counoll, the
Department transmitted to the United States Political
Adviser to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
at Tokyo, a complete statement of the Japanese dollar
bonds whioh were direet or guaranteed obligations of the
Japanese Government, or of Japanese Munioipalities, for
such consideration as might be appropriate in.the protee-
tion of the interests of the holders. The statement made
no distinetion between holders on the basis of national-
1ty. Subsequently the Department tranemitted another
request of the Counoil that mortgages previously seouring
6o11ar

=== Page 727 === (confidence 0.97)
dellar bends of the Japanese utility cempanies, which
had been cancelled by the Japanese Gevernment during
the war, be reinstated. In transmitting this request,
the Department recuested its representatives to seoure
the views of the United St tes Reparations end Restitution
Delegation regarding the matter. No reply hes yet been
received, but when one reaches the Department, a copy
will be sent to the Foreign Bendholders Protective Counell.
The Department hes suggested to inquirers that they write
to the Council and roquest it to inform them of any
developments relatiye to this aspect of the situation.
It will be appreciated that the Department is not
in a position at present to indicate what provisions, if
any, affecting euch obligations may be conteined in the
Treaty of Peace with Japan, or vhat arr ngements may be
made for payment of obligstions arising frem the wer.
Helders of these obligations are doubtless aware that
there will be many claims end demands against Japan, and
against persons and municipalities of thst country, of
which

=== Page 728 === (confidence 0.93)
whish sush obligations as these under diseussion will
probably oonstitute only a small part.
The Depertment would suggest, therefore, that
instead of sending the various deolarations to Japan,
they be sent to the Foreign Bondholders Proteotive
Counoil, Incorporated, for appropriate consideration at
suah time as the Counoil may mot with respect to similar
obligations held by American citizens, by whom the great
majority of tie dollar obligatlons of the Japanese Goverm-
ment and Jepanese utility coupanies are held.
Department of State,
Washington,
SEP 28 1948
20
7narch11947
ngb
FN:JCC0F11s8:gwe.
7/20/48 0F0L2/C
WE
S/S-CR

=== Page 729 === (confidence 0.91)
4176
EW
C
LEGATION OF SWITZERLAND
ACTION
is assigned to
PROTECTIV
.CU
trpb
wited Sw
OCT 1 2 1948
no
OCT131948
DEPARTMLIFTATE
FN:JCcolers
Mem
nd u m
IRTMENT OF STATE
The Legation of Switzerland acknowledges receipt
89451/9-2844
of the State Department 's memorandum dated September 28,
894.5
DS FN OFD LC WE
1948, regarding Japanese securities held by Swiss natio-
nals. The Legation has informed the Swiss Authorities
1/10-748
and wishes to thank the State Department for its report.
2
Washington, D.C.,
October 7, 1948.
JUN 12 1951
FILAD
2
111
r
1948 0C1
894.51
CS/
DEN UNIT
V
-748
X
WE
B.B.

=== Page 730 === (confidence 0.98)
I disoussed this matter with
Mr. Guy de Rham of the Swiss Legation
and explained te him the precedure the
Dept follows in the case of inquiries
frem Amerloan holders. He seemed quite
eatisfied to have ahl ef these sent to
the Foreign Bondhelders Council in NY
but said that the Legatien had sent them
in to the Dept upon instructien of the
Foreign Office and asked that we send
him a meme on eur usual procedures so
that he could tranemit it to the Foreign
Office and request new instruotions
along these lines.
JCC

=== Page 731 === (confidence 0.94)
MEMORANDUN
The Department of state refors to the msmorands
from the Swlas Legation dated Mareh 14 and 24, 1969,
August 22, 1947, Ootober 1, 1947, and Apr1l 9, 1968
regarding Japanese seourities held by Swlss nationals,
whion the Legation desired to be tranamitted to the
Supreme Commander for the Allled Powers, at Tokye,
Japan, pursuant to She Department's Press Helease of
August 1, 1948, and whioh the Department, in its Neme-
randum of December 1, 1946, stased shet it would forwerd
So the United States Politioal Adwleer So She Supreme
Commander.
In viow of certain fects of whien the Legatiom may
not have knowledge, the Department suggeste an alterma-
tive sourse, deeoribed below, whieh it resomesnds to
Amerioan cltisems holding similnr obligations.
The Department has observed that all of she seour-
ities lleted in the Various memorandm from the Swise
Logation

=== Page 732 === (confidence 0.90)
一 8 -
Legatien mentioned above ars dollar bonds issued er
guaranteed by the Japenese Gevernment. The Department's
Press Release of August 1, 1946, was intemdsd, hovovar,
to refer to equity partieipatlone, rasher than so bonds
or other evidenees of indebtedness, and Amsrioan keleers
of Japanese utility dollar bonds have eonalstently beem
informed by the Department of thls faet.
The Department considers tat investment in foreign
seeurities is primarily a private transmetion fmso which
the purokaeer entere after caloulation of the risks in»
volved. In case of default on dollar obligations issed
or guaranteed by foreign governmental antisies, as were
all of these llsted in the various deolarasions submitted
by the Legation, it is not the usual praotiee of the
Depertment to negotiate direetly for Ameriean holders but
it does endeavor to render so such holders or theiy
repreeantatives much masietance as is properly ean. In
this sonneetiom the Department takes cceasion to sall
attention to the Poreign Hondholders Proteetive Counsil,
Incorporated, 9o Brond Street, Hev York, Wew York, a non-
pror1

=== Page 733 === (confidence 0.93)
一
prorit orgamisation established several years ago so
serve as a central representative body. Altbsough the
Counell was sroated with the ancouregemsns of the
Department, it operates on its own responsibility. The
Department froquently suggests to Ameriean inquirers
that they may wish so write to the Counoll and ask that
it keep them informed of any important developments
affeoting thoir holdings.
Some time ago, at the request or the Coumeil, the
Department tranemitted to the United States Polisieal
Advleer to the Supreme Commander for the Allies Powers,
et Tokyo, a somplete etotement of tho Japanese doller
sonde whieh were direet or guaranteed obligations of the
Japanese Government, or of Japenese Munieipalities, for
sush consideration as might be appropriate in the proses-
tiom of the interests of the holdere, The statoment made
no distinetion between holders on the basis of matiomel-
1ty. Subeequently the Department tranemitted another
request of the Coumeil that mortgages previoualy seeuring
dollas

=== Page 734 === (confidence 0.80)
一4 -
dollur bends or the Jap nese mtility sempamies, wal
nad pren cancelled by the Japhmese Gevermment during
the war, be reinstoted. In trr mitting thle roruest,
l-  ri nt reruested e reprenttive to r
the virwe of the I'nited t ter 'eper tione nd Restiwtie
Delewntion regraing e matter. No roply no yet bo
rolved, ut hen on  ohe the beprment,  o
vill oe ent to in- Por-in ondheliere Pretetive Comell.
The ert nt ni istod to In-uirere that thoy wit
to tne ounoll nrouft it to inform th of
Jev lo,n. rI liv i: ii , ct of the ituatim.
It will be u reci, ted tnrt the Jeportmont le not
in  opition t prseni to iniin te hat rovinions, if
any, freotine ul stllgotione y  cont ined in the
roty er  e ich J an, or t arr ngemont may no
mude for  yment of obligstiens  ri  ng free the var.
Helnere of thee oblig"tione  r a ubtless anre that
there vill or m ny clalm -pà dom nie geinrt Jrn, nd
ufsinnt ersene nd munici,alitien of th t country, of
咖1ch

=== Page 735 === (confidence 0.91)
- 5 -
whieh sesk obligatione as those under dissuseien will
probably constitute only a amall part.
The Department would suggess, therefore, thms
Instead of sonding the varlous deslarations to Japan,
it send them to the Foreigm Bondholders Preteetive
Counell, Ineorperated, for appropriate coassderation at
such tine as the Coumsil may aot with respeet so similar
obligations held by Amerlsan oitixons, by whon she gremt
majority of the dollar obligatlons of the Japanese Goverm-
ment and Japanese utllity companles are hold.
Department of State,
Washington, SSEP 28198
FN:J00orlis0:gwe
7/20/48
B/S-OR

=== Page 736 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
DATE: November 22, 1948
suJecT: Summary of Attached Report o London MFN Conference
The attsched report contain a considerable amount of
694.0031
interesting material not merely on the question of MFN for
questions of Japan policy. I suggest thet you read Mr. Barneftis
1mmediately underlying 2-page memorandum of November 9 to
Mr. Nitze and look through the Agreed Summary at Tab A. Thd
following is an abbreviated presentation of the U.S. and U.K.
08
positions at the conference derived from the Agreed Summary
6
and the U.S. Minutes, followed by quoted highlights from
Mr. Barnett's memoranda of private conversations with British
officials.
The essential American position as expressed by Ambassador
Douglas at the opening session was that the U.S. taxpayer 1s
bearing a heavy burden in Japan, that this burden reduces our
resources available for other purposes in the world, that the
drain in Jupen could only be reduced through expanded Japanese
trade, and th t MFN for Jepan would be of material assistance
25
toward that end.
€：
8
British questioning of the necessity or advisability of
according reciprocal MFN treatment to Japan at this time was
based on four main arguments:
1. MFN for Japan at this time is of purely academic im-
portance. The recently concluded sterling arrangement provides
for the maximum expansion of British Commonwealth-Japenese
trade now possible in the light of present and prospective
currency availabilities, and MFN could not increase that trade.
2. Japan wes recently a brutal enemy and is still hated
in Commonwealth countries. Any attempt to secure MFN now would
be popularly interpreted as a move for Japan's benefit (even
though it was appreciated by those present that it would really
Confid
be more for U.S. than Japanese benefit for some time to come)
and would be cxplosive politically.
3. It would be dangerous to grant MFN to Japon until the
Japanese price structure and cost factors have become better
len
known. Japan's expanded and expanding population and difficult
economic situation create a serious danger that before very long
after the occupation Japen will again be forced to resort to
工
HH
dumping
ile
CONFIDENTIAL
2248

=== Page 737 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
dumping and other predatory trade practices to survive. British
industry's fear of revived Japenese competition of this type
should not be underestimated.
4. It would be difficult if not entirely impractical to
accord MFN to Japn under its present "multiple exchange rate"
system. Establishment of & commercial exchange rate for the
yen must be considered a virtual prerequisite to the grenting
of yFN by the Commonwealth countries.
The U.s. Deleg tion's counter-arguments to these points,
correspondinvly numbered, were essentislly as follows:
1. While it mi ht be true that MFN will produce no immediate
increcce in trace over that expected under the sterling arrange-
ment, it is of immediate practicsl importance for the following
reacons: (a) it would elininate existing discriminations (the
only one cited at the conference was a do percent discriminatory
tax a ainst Ju nece imperts levied by the Egyptian Government)
 revent te estsblishment of any new discriminations; (B)
it would prevent the use of threatened diseriminations as a
berminine ea on i. future trede negotiations with Japon; (c) it
would revide a basir for greduelly moving away from trade
pal neing aa nts such as the Sterline Agreement toward a
fuller ueeree ? muit laterai trade; and (D), the argument most
empheslzed, it woula provi e a deeree of certainty, which would
otherwise be l ckine beceuss of the possibility of major dis-
crimilutlens, us to the availebility of future export markets,
which is necsssary for intelligent lorg-range plenning for
Ja se rery.
2. While, it was stated, the politic:1 factor of popular
oppositien to fi wes appreci:ted, it seemed unjust that the
Amerlcan people, who hed equal reason with the Commonwealth
countries to hate the Jr  hene, should have to bear all the
res ene milities prs seerificee invelved in Japen's support.
S. as re cvas Jepan's future cost-price structure and fear
of a rer evel ef redet ry trede practices, it scems unlikely
in ii ht of Joyn's sreetly strengthened labor movement, the
power which cnoeratie reforns heve aiven the Japanese masces
to secure theip juss proportien of the national product, and
lifting of the burden of armaments from the national economy,
thet Jap: nese export prices will be unduly low in future or
that there will be a revival of predatory trade practices.
The proposed FN agreement wou d in any event operate only until
the peece conference, then the whole matter would be reviewed
in the light of Ja  nese performarce. (The British response to
this point wes that it wotle be sifricult for them to withdraw
F h unte.)
4. S0AP
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 738 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
4. SCAP and the U.S. Government are agreed that an exchange
rate should be established as soon as possible, and the matter
is now under intensive study in Washington and Tokyo.
Although other considerations and counter-arguments were
advanced, the above represented the main divisions of opinion,
Which remained unreconciled when the conference broke up.
It is pparent that the Eritish are, and will probably remain,
most reluctant to commit themselves to MFN treatment for Japan
(even though theoretically free to reverse that position at the
peace conference) until it has become much clearer than it is
now that t ey will not sgain have to face cut-throat competition
from the textile, shipbuilding and metal-working induetries of
an overpopuleted and economically desperate Japan. Although it
is fully unuerstancable Wiy we should wish the added sssurance
of en MFk eyreement in cur planning for Japtnese recovery, the
possibilities of our persuading the almost equally straightened/
British te co.clude such an a reement in the immediately fore-
seeable future seem remote. In connection with Mr. Barnett's
reconmendatior. thet we raise the question of MFN for Japen during
the d1plometic dircussiens based on Ns0 15/2, it would seem
unwise to emphasize the issue, in view of the probable lack of
response and the poor bare aining position we will be in due to
the unvelcome cherecter ef most o our other pronouncements and
proposals from Nsc le/a, notably those on reparations.
Perhaps the nort important expression of opinion at the
conference from a practical point of view vas the unenimous position
of the Commonwoalth countrics that the ahsenee of en exchange
rate for the yen had elready proved to be a serious obstecle
to the development of trede with Japan, and thet this situation
must be remedied before there could be any real possibility of
an KEN egreenent. It is difficult to see how the Army and SCAP
cen hele but be impressed by thie position in their consideration
of our lon ctandine proposals on this question.
The agreed concluslons of the conference regarding further
action on the MFN prol lem wes thet the substance of the dis-
cussions would be re orted to sovernments, ind that it was assumed
thet further consultations on the matter would be held through
normel diplomatic c ennels before the next AfT meeting in
April, 1949. The U.S. representatives stated that the U.S.
Government wou d at un esrly date prepare, elther alone or in
consultstion witn ohe or two of the other Governments represented,
a draft agreevent which could serve as s basis of further con-
sideratien ene discussion, and would communicte the draft to
the other governments represented at the conference.
Following
CONFIDENTIAL
